1. Neurobiol Dis. 2021 Jul;154:105359. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2021.105359. Epub 2021 
Mar 30.

Stimulation of mTOR-independent autophagy and mitophagy by rilmenidine 
exacerbates the phenotype of transgenic TDP-43 mice.

Perera ND(1), Tomas D(1), Wanniarachchillage N(1), Cuic B(1), Luikinga SJ(1), 
Rytova V(1), Turner BJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of Melbourne, 
Parkville, Victoria 3052, Australia.
(2)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of Melbourne, 
Parkville, Victoria 3052, Australia; Perron Institute for Neurological and 
Translational Science, Queen Elizabeth Medical Centre, Nedlands, Western 
Australia 6150, Australia. Electronic address: bradley.turner@florey.edu.au.

Autophagy, which mediates the delivery of cytoplasmic substrates to the lysosome 
for degradation, is essential for maintaining proper cell homeostasis in 
physiology, ageing, and disease. There is increasing evidence that autophagy is 
defective in neurodegenerative disorders, including motor neurons affected in 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Restoring impaired autophagy in motor 
neurons may therefore represent a rational approach for ALS. Here, we 
demonstrate autophagy impairment in spinal cords of mice expressing mutant 
TDP-43Q331K or co-expressing TDP-43WTxQ331K transgenes. The clinically approved 
anti-hypertensive drug rilmenidine was used to stimulate mTOR-independent 
autophagy in double transgenic TDP-43WTxQ331K mice to alleviate impaired 
autophagy. Although rilmenidine treatment induced robust autophagy in spinal 
cords, this exacerbated the phenotype of TDP-43WTxQ331K mice, shown by truncated 
lifespan, accelerated motor neuron loss, and pronounced nuclear TDP-43 
clearance. Importantly, rilmenidine significantly promoted mitophagy in spinal 
cords TDP-43WTxQ331K mice, evidenced by reduced mitochondrial markers and load 
in spinal motor neurons. These results suggest that autophagy induction 
accelerates the phenotype of this TDP-43 mouse model of ALS, most likely through 
excessive mitochondrial clearance in motor neurons. These findings also 
emphasise the importance of balancing autophagy stimulation with the potential 
negative consequences of hyperactive mitophagy in ALS and other 
neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright Â© 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2021.105359
PMID: 33798740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
