1. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2023 Feb;143(2):847-855. doi: 
10.1007/s00402-021-04171-w. Epub 2021 Oct 8.

A nomogram to predict postoperative infection for older hip fracture patients.

Peng X(#)(1), Hao X(#)(1), Zhu T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, National Clinical Research Center for 
Geriatrics, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 610041, China.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, National Clinical Research Center for 
Geriatrics, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 610041, China. 
739501155@qq.com.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Postoperative infection is one of the most common postoperative 
complications in hip fracture surgery. It is related with increased morbidity 
and mortality. This study aimed at developing a nomogram to predict the 
individual probability of postoperative infection to facilitate perioperative 
decision-making.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this retrospective study, we included all patients 
over 65 years old admitted for hip fracture in West China Hospital of Sichuan 
University from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2019. Univariate and multivariate 
logistic regression analyses were used to identify significant predictors. We 
used all-subsets regression to screen an optimal model, and visualized the model 
through drawing nomogram. To evaluate the model performance, we applied receiver 
operating characteristic curve and calibration curve.
RESULTS: We enrolled 677 older patients. 136 (20.1%) patients developed 
postoperative infection during hospitalization. Variables retained in the final 
model were albumin [odds ratio (OR) 0.90, 95% confidence interval (CI) 
0.84-0.96], cholesterol (OR 1.49, 95% CI 1.04-2.15), blood phosphorus (OR 0.16, 
95% CI 0.05-0.48), high-density lipoprotein (OR 0.42, 95% CI 0.19-0.89), surgery 
type (OR 2.27, 95% CI 1.35-3.90), smoking (OR 1.95, 95% CI 1.02-3.66), American 
Society of Anesthesiologists classification [class III (OR 1.02, 95% CI 
0.55-1.93); class IV (OR 1.93, 95% CI 0.76-4.82)], and chronic pulmonary disease 
(OR 2.16, 95% CI 1.25-3.68). The C-index of the nomogram was 0.752 (95% CI 
0.697-0.806). Calibration curve showed good agreement between predicted value 
and observed outcome. In the validation group, our nomogram showed an area under 
the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.723 (95% CI 0.639-0.807).
CONCLUSION: Our nomogram showed good discrimination ability in predicting 
individual probability of postoperative infection among older patients with hip 
fracture surgery. The nomogram could help clinicians identify patients at high 
risk of postoperative infection before surgery.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00402-021-04171-w
PMID: 34625815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
