1. Angiology. 2023 Feb;74(2):159-170. doi: 10.1177/00033197221098288. Epub 2022
May  5.

Prognostic Value of Different Versions of the Model for End-Stage Liver Disease 
Score in Patients Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary Intervention.

He HM(1)(2)(3), He C(1)(2)(3), You ZB(4), Zhang SC(1)(2)(3), Lin XQ(1)(2)(3), 
Luo MQ(1)(2)(3), Lin MQ(1)(2)(3), Zhang LW(1)(2)(3), Lin KY(1)(2)(3), Guo 
YS(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology,117861Shengli Clinical Medical College of Fujian 
Medical University,Fujian Provincial Hospital,Fuzhou, China.
(2)Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Disease, Fujian 
Cardiovascular Institute, Fujian Provincial Center for Geriatrics, Fujian 
Clinical Medical Research Center for Cardiovascular Diseases, Fuzhou, China.
(3)Fujian Heart Failure Center Alliance, Fuzhou, China.
(4)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Shengli Clinical Medical College of Fujian 
Medical University,117861 Fujian Provincial Hospital, Fujian Provincial Center 
for Geriatrics, Fuzhou, China.

The model for end-stage liver disease (MELD) score, which can reflect liver and 
renal function, is associated with poor prognosis. However, the prognostic 
performance of the modified MELD score in patients undergoing elective 
percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has not been fully evaluated and 
compared. This study retrospectively enrolled 5324 patients. During a median 
follow-up of 2.85 years, 412 patients died. Time-dependent receiver operating 
characteristic curves at 3 years indicated that the MELD including albumin 
(MELD-Albumin) score had the highest prognostic performance (AUC = .721) than 
the MELD score (AUC = .630), the MELD excluding the international normalized 
ratio (MELD-XI) score (AUC = .606), and the MELD including sodium (MELD-Na) 
score (AUC = .656) (all P < .001). The MELD-Albumin score, the MELD score, and 
the MELD-Na score were independent predictors of long-term mortality; however, 
the MELD-XI score was not when treated as a categorical variable (P = .254). 
Adding the MELD-Albumin score to the model of clinical risk factors could 
improve the prognostic performance. For the subgroup analysis, the association 
between the MELD-Albumin score and long-term mortality was more pronounced in 
patients ≤75 years (interaction P value = .005). The MELD-Albumin score showed 
the strongest prognostic performance than the other versions of the MELD score 
in patients undergoing elective PCI.

DOI: 10.1177/00033197221098288
PMID: 35511114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
