1. Fundam Clin Pharmacol. 2021 Oct;35(5):892-905. doi: 10.1111/fcp.12648. Epub
2021  Feb 27.

Centrally acting antihypertensives change the psychogenic cardiovascular 
reactivity.

Mendonça MM(1), Costa AN(1), Moraes GCA(1), Martins GM(1)(2), Almeida AF(1)(2), 
Rincon GCN(1)(2), Siqueira JPR(1)(2), Padilha DM(1)(2), Moya MI(1)(2), 
Ferreira-Neto ML(3), Gomes RM(1), Pedrino GR(1), Fontes MAP(4), Colombari E(5), 
Crestani CC(6), Fajemiroye JO(1), Xavier CH(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biological Sciences, Federal University of Goias, Goiania, 
Brazil.
(2)School of Medicine, Federal University of Goias, Goiania, Brazil.
(3)Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Federal University of Uberlandia, 
Uberlandia, Brazil.
(4)Institute of Biological Sciences, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo 
Horizonte, Brazil.
(5)School of Dentistry, São Paulo State University (UNESP), Araraquara, Brazil.
(6)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, São Paulo State University (UNESP), 
Araraquara, Brazil.

Clonidine (CL) and Rilmenidine (RI) are among the most frequently prescribed 
centrally acting antihypertensives. Here, we compared CL and RI effects on 
psychogenic cardiovascular reactivity to sonant, luminous, motosensory, and 
vibrotactile stimuli during neurogenic hypertension. The femoral artery and vein 
of Wistar (WT - normotensive) and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were 
catheterized before (24 h interval) i.p. injection of vehicle (NaCl 0.9%, 
control - CT group), CL (10 µg/kg), or RI (10 µg/kg) and acute exposure to 
luminous (5000 lm), sonant (75 dB sudden tap), motor (180° cage twist), and 
air-jet (10 L/min - restraint and vibrotactile). Findings showed that: (i) CL or 
RI reduced the arterial pressure of SHR, without affecting basal heart rate in 
WT and SHR; (ii) different stimuli evoked pressor and tachycardic responses; 
(iii) CL and RI reduced pressor response to sound; (iv) CL or RI reduced pressor 
responses to luminous stimulus without a change in peak tachycardia in SHR; (v) 
cage twist increased blood pressure in SHR, which was attenuated by CL or RI; 
(vi) air-jet increased pressure and heart rate; (vii) CL or RI attenuated the 
pressor responses to air-jet in SHR while RI reduced the chronotropic reactivity 
in both strains. Altogether, both antihypertensives relieved the psychogenic 
cardiovascular responses to different stimuli. The RI elicited higher 
cardioprotective effects through a reduction in air-jet-induced tachycardia.

© 2021 Société Française de Pharmacologie et de Thérapeutique.

DOI: 10.1111/fcp.12648
PMID: 33465820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
