1. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2021 Apr 15;701:108817. doi: 10.1016/j.abb.2021.108817. 
Epub 2021 Feb 21.

Protein kinase C-mediated calcium signaling as the basis for cardiomyocyte 
plasticity.

Maltsev AV(1), Evdokimovskii EV(2), Kokoz YM(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Theoretical and Experimental Biophysics, Russian Academy of 
Sciences, Moscow Region, Pushchino, Institutskaya, 3, 142290, Russia; Institute 
of Higher Nervous Activity and Neurophysiology, Russian Academy of Sciences, 
Moscow, Butlerova 5А, 117485, Russia. Electronic address: 
alex.v.maltsev88@gmail.com.
(2)Institute of Theoretical and Experimental Biophysics, Russian Academy of 
Sciences, Moscow Region, Pushchino, Institutskaya, 3, 142290, Russia.

Protein kinase C is the superfamily of intracellular effector molecules which 
control crucial cellular functions. Here, we for the first time did the 
percentage estimation of all known PKC and PKC-related isozymes at the 
individual cadiomyocyte level. Broad spectrum of PKC transcripts is expressed in 
the left ventricular myocytes. In addition to the well-known 'heart-specific' 
PKCα, cardiomyocytes have the high expression levels of PKCN1, PKCδ, PKCD2, 
PKCε. In general, we detected all PKC isoforms excluding PKCη. In cardiomyocytes 
PKC activity tonically regulates voltage-gated Ca2+-currents, intracellular Ca2+ 
level and nitric oxide (NO) production. Imidazoline receptor of the first type 
(I1R)-mediated induction of the PKC activity positively modulates Ca2+ release 
through ryanodine receptor (RyR), increasing the Ca2+ leakage in the cytosol. In 
cardiomyocytes with the Ca2+-overloaded regions of > 9-10 μm size, the local 
PKC-induced Ca2+ signaling is transformed to global accompanied by spontaneous 
Ca2+ waves propagation across the entire cell perimeter. Such switching of Ca2+ 
signaling in cardiac cells can be important for the development of several 
cardiovascular pathologies and/or myocardial plasticity at the cardiomyocyte 
level.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.abb.2021.108817
PMID: 33626379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
