1. Front Genet. 2023 Mar 17;14:1136763. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2023.1136763. 
eCollection 2023.

Identification of the cuproptosis-related hub genes and therapeutic agents for 
sarcopenia.

Zhu Y(1)(2), Chen X(1)(2), Geng S(1)(2), Li Q(1)(2), Li Y(1)(2), Yuan H(1)(2), 
Jiang H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Shanghai East Hospital, Tongji University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of General Medicine, Shanghai East Hospital, Tongji University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.

Background: Along with acceleration of population aging, the increasing 
prevalence of sarcopenia has posed a heavy burden on families as well as 
society. In this context, it is of great significance to diagnose and intervene 
sarcopenia as early as possible. Recent evidence has indicated the role of 
cuproptosis in the development of sarcopenia. In this study, we aimed to seek 
the key cuproptosis-related genes that can be used for identification and 
intervention of sarcopenia. Methods: The GSE111016 dataset was retrieved from 
GEO. The 31 cuproptosis-related genes (CRGs) were obtained from previous 
published studies. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and Weighed gene 
co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) were subsequently analyzed. The core hub 
genes were acquired by the intersection of DEGs, WGCNA and CRGs. Through 
logistic regression analysis, we established a diagnostic model of sarcopenia 
based on the selected biomarkers and was validated in muscle samples from 
GSE111006 and GSE167186. In addition, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes 
(KEGG) and Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis were performed on these genes. 
Furthermore, the gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and immune cell 
infiltration were also conducted on the identified core genes. Finally, we 
screened the potential drugs targeting the potential biomarkers of sarcopenia. 
Results: A total of 902 DEGs and WGCNA containing 1,281 significant genes were 
preliminarily selected. Intersection of DEGs, WGCNA and CRGs yielded four core 
genes (PDHA1, DLAT, PDHB, and NDUFC1) as potential biomarkers for the prediction 
of sarcopenia. The predictive model was established and validated with high AUC 
values. KEGG pathway and Gene Ontology biological analysis indicated these core 
genes may play a crucial role in energy metabolism in mitochondria, oxidation 
process, and aging-related degenerative diseases. In addition, the immune cells 
may be involved in the development of sarcopenia through mitochondrial 
metabolism. Finally, metformin was identified as a promising strategy of 
sarcopenia treatment via targeting NDUFC1. Conclusion: The four 
cuproptosis-related genes PDHA1, DLAT, PDHB and NDUFC1 may be the diagnostic 
biomarkers for sarcopenia, and metformin holds great potential to be developed 
as a therapy for sarcopenia. These outcomes provide new insights for better 
understanding of sarcopenia and innovative therapeutic approaches.

Copyright Â© 2023 Zhu, Chen, Geng, Li, Li, Yuan and Jiang.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2023.1136763
PMCID: PMC10063920
PMID: 37007946

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.
