1. Signal Transduct Target Ther. 2023 Apr 10;8(1):152. doi: 
10.1038/s41392-023-01400-z.

Diabetic vascular diseases: molecular mechanisms and therapeutic strategies.

Li Y(#)(1), Liu Y(#)(1)(2), Liu S(#)(3), Gao M(3), Wang W(1), Chen K(4), Huang 
L(5), Liu Y(6).

Author information:
(1)National Clinical Research Center for Chinese Medicine Cardiology, Xiyuan 
Hospital, Chinese Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, 100091, China.
(2)The Second Department of Gerontology, Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of 
Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, 100091, China.
(3)Department of Nephrology and Endocrinology, Wangjing Hospital, China Academy 
of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, 100102, China.
(4)National Clinical Research Center for Chinese Medicine Cardiology, Xiyuan 
Hospital, Chinese Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, 100091, China. 
kjchenvip@163.com.
(5)China Center for Evidence-based Medicine of TCM, China Academy of Chinese 
Medical Sciences, Beijing, 100010, China. Huangluqi01@126.com.
(6)National Clinical Research Center for Chinese Medicine Cardiology, Xiyuan 
Hospital, Chinese Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, 100091, China. 
liuyueheart@hotmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Vascular complications of diabetes pose a severe threat to human health. 
Prevention and treatment protocols based on a single vascular complication are 
no longer suitable for the long-term management of patients with diabetes. 
Diabetic panvascular disease (DPD) is a clinical syndrome in which vessels of 
various sizes, including macrovessels and microvessels in the cardiac, cerebral, 
renal, ophthalmic, and peripheral systems of patients with diabetes, develop 
atherosclerosis as a common pathology. Pathological manifestations of DPDs 
usually manifest macrovascular atherosclerosis, as well as microvascular 
endothelial function impairment, basement membrane thickening, and 
microthrombosis. Cardiac, cerebral, and peripheral microangiopathy coexist with 
microangiopathy, while renal and retinal are predominantly microangiopathic. The 
following associations exist between DPDs: numerous similar molecular 
mechanisms, and risk-predictive relationships between diseases. Aggressive 
glycemic control combined with early comprehensive vascular intervention is the 
key to prevention and treatment. In addition to the widely recommended 
metformin, glucagon-like peptide-1 agonist, and sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 
inhibitors, for the latest molecular mechanisms, aldose reductase inhibitors, 
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ agonizts, glucokinases agonizts, 
mitochondrial energy modulators, etc. are under active development. DPDs are 
proposed for patients to obtain more systematic clinical care requires a 
comprehensive diabetes care center focusing on panvascular diseases. This would 
leverage the advantages of a cross-disciplinary approach to achieve better 
integration of the pathogenesis and therapeutic evidence. Such a strategy would 
confer more clinical benefits to patients and promote the comprehensive 
development of DPD as a discipline.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41392-023-01400-z
PMCID: PMC10086073
PMID: 37037849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.
