1. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2023 Jun;200:110692. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2023.110692. Epub 2023 May 6.

Metformin use before COVID-19 vaccination and the risks of COVID-19 incidence, 
medical utilization, and all-cause mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus.

Yen FS(1), Wang SI(2), Lin SY(3), Wei JC(4).

Author information:
(1)Dr. Yen's Clinic, No. 15, Shanying Road, Gueishan District, Taoyuan 33354, 
Taiwan.
(2)Center for Health Data Science, Department of Medical Research, Chung Shan 
Medical University Hospital, No. 110, Sec. 1, Jianguo N. Rd., South District, 
Taichung 40201, Taiwan; Institute of Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, 
No. 110, Sec. 1, Jianguo N. Rd., South District, Taichung 40201, Taiwan.
(3)Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology, Taichung Veterans General Hospital, 
No. 1650 Taiwan Boulevard, Sect. 4, Taichung 40705, Taiwan; Department of 
Medicine, School of Medicine, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, No. 155, 
Sec.2, Linong Street, Taipei 11221, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
sylin@vghtc.gov.tw.
(4)Institute of Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, No. 110, Sec. 1, 
Jianguo N. Rd., South District, Taichung 40201, Taiwan; Department of Allergy, 
Immunology & Rheumatology, Chung Shan Medical University Hospital, No. 110, Sec. 
1, Jianguo N. Rd., South District, Taichung City 40201, Taiwan; Graduate 
Institute of Integrated Medicine, China Medical University, No. 91, Hsueh-Shih 
Road, Taichung 40402, Taiwan. Electronic address: jccwei@gmail.com.

AIMS: We designed this study to determine whether metformin use before COVID-19 
vaccination influences the risk of COVID-19 infection, medical utilization, and 
mortality.
METHODS: We used the US collaborative network of TriNetX to identify 123,709 
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus fully vaccinated against COVID-19 between 
January 1, 2020, and November 22, 2022. The study selected 20,894 pairs of 
metformin users and nonusers by propensity score matching. The Kaplan-Meier 
method and Cox proportional hazards models were used to compare the risks of 
COVID-19 infection, medical utilization, and mortality between the study and 
control groups.
RESULTS: No significant difference was noted between metformin users and 
nonusers in the risk of COVID-19 incidence (aHR = 1.02, 95% CI = 0.94-1.10). 
Compared to the control cohort, the metformin cohort exhibited a significantly 
lower risk of hospitalization (aHR = 0.85, 95% CI = 0.81-0.89), critical care 
services (aHR = 0.81, 95% CI = 0.70-0.94), mechanical ventilation (aHR = 0.75, 
95% CI = 0.60-0.95), and mortality (aHR = 0.75, 95% CI = 0.63-0.89). The 
subgroup analyses and sensitivity analysis showed similar results.
CONCLUSION: The present study showed that metformin use before COVID-19 
vaccination could not reduce COVID-19 incidence; however, it was associated with 
significantly lower risks of hospitalization, intensive care service, mechanical 
ventilation, and mortality in fully vaccinated type 2 diabetes mellitus 
patients.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2023.110692
PMCID: PMC10163786
PMID: 37156428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.
