1. Ir J Med Sci. 2023 May 30. doi: 10.1007/s11845-023-03380-z. Online ahead of 
print.

Prophylactic administration of metformin reduces gestational diabetes mellitus 
incidence in the high-risk populations: a meta-analysis : Metformin for 
gestational diabetes prevention.

Yu H(1), Sun J(2), Hu H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Zibo Central Hospital, Zibo, 255000, Shandong, 
China.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, Zibo Central Hospital, No. 54 West Gongqingtuan 
Road, Zibo, 255000, Shandong, China. sjl328855@163.com.

Metformin exerts a good efficacy for gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) 
treatment by regulating gluconeogenesis and insulin resistance, while no 
consensus about its preventive effect on GDM is reached yet. Thus, this 
meta-analysis aimed to comprehensively investigate the prophylactic 
administration of metformin in pregnant women at high risk of GDM. Databases 
(EMBASE, PubMed, Cochrane, CNKI, Wanfang, CQVIP) were searched to screen papers 
concerning the GDM prevention using metformin in women at high risk of GDM 
(polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), obese, and pregestational insulin resistance 
patients) until January 2023. Our study showed that five cohort studies and 
fifteen randomized controlled trials (RCTs) involving 3911 women were included. 
Pooled analysis showed that prophylactic metformin treatment (vs. control 
treatment) greatly reduced GDM rate (relative risk (RR) = 0.59, 95% confidence 
intervals (CI): 0.43-0.80). Subgroup analyses also revealed that prophylactic 
metformin treatment (vs. control treatment) decreased the GDM rate in the 
following patients' types: (1) in Asians (RR = 0.31, 95% CI: 0.23-0.41), (2) in 
PCOS patients (RR = 0.42, 95% CI: 0.26-0.68), and (3) in patients receiving high 
dose of metformin (mean dose > 1000 mg) (RR = 0.59, 95% CI: 0.42-0.83). 
Concerning the quality of involved studies, the overall risk of bias was low. 
Egger's test implied that no publication bias existed in the findings. Moreover, 
sensitivity analysis suggested the pleasing robustness of the results. In 
conclusion, prophylactic metformin reduces GDM incidence in high-risk pregnant 
women, indicating its early-application benefits.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Royal Academy of Medicine in 
Ireland.

DOI: 10.1007/s11845-023-03380-z
PMID: 37248332
