1. ACS Nano. 2023 Sep 12;17(17):16573-16586. doi: 10.1021/acsnano.3c02407. Epub 
2023 Aug 14.

Polydopamine-Mediated Immunomodulatory Patch for Diabetic Periodontal Tissue 
Regeneration Assisted by Metformin-ZIF System.

Gong J(1)(2), Ye C(1)(2), Ran J(3), Xiong X(2), Fang X(1)(2), Zhou X(1)(2), Yi 
Y(1)(2), Lu X(3)(4), Wang J(2), Xie C(3), Liu J(1).

Author information:
(1)Lab for Aging Research and National Clinical Research Center for Geriatrics, 
West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Oral Diseases and National Center for Stomatology and 
National Clinical Research Center for Oral Diseases and Department of 
Orthodontics, West China Hospital of Stomatology, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
Sichuan 610041, China.
(3)Institute of Biomedical Engineering, Haihe Laboratory of Cell Ecosystem, 
College of Medicine, Southwest Jiaotong University, Chengdu, Sichuan 610031, 
China.
(4)Affiliated Dongguan Hospital, Southern Medical University, Dongguan, 
Guangdong 523059, China.

An essential challenge in diabetic periodontal regeneration is achieving the 
transition from a hyperglycemic inflammatory microenvironment to a regenerative 
one. Here, we describe a polydopamine (PDA)-mediated ultralong silk microfiber 
(PDA-mSF) and metformin (Met)-loaded zeolitic imidazolate framework (ZIF) 
incorporated into a silk fibroin/gelatin (SG) patch to promote periodontal soft 
and hard tissue regeneration by regulating the immunomodulatory 
microenvironment. The PDA-mSF endows the patch with a reactive oxygen species 
(ROS)-scavenging ability and anti-inflammatory activity, reducing the 
inflammatory response by suppressing M1 macrophage polarization. Moreover, PDA 
improves periodontal ligament reconstruction via its cell affinity. Sustained 
release of Met from the Met-ZIF system confers the patch with antiaging and 
immunomodulatory abilities by activating M2 macrophage polarization to secrete 
osteogenesis-related cytokines, while release of Zn2+ also promotes bone 
regeneration. Consequently, the Met-ZIF system creates a favorable 
microenvironment for periodontal tissue regeneration. These features 
synergistically accelerate diabetic periodontal bone and ligament regeneration. 
Thus, our findings offer a potential therapeutic strategy for hard and soft 
tissue regeneration in diabetic periodontitis.

DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.3c02407
PMID: 37578444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
