1. Exp Gerontol. 2023 Nov 15;184:112331. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2023.112331. Online
 ahead of print.

Metformin attenuates inflammation and boosts autophagy in the liver and 
intestine of chronologically aged rats.

Kuai Z(1), Chao X(1), He Y(1), Ren W(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 
200032, China.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 
200032, China. Electronic address: Ren.weiying@zs-hospital.sh.cn.

BACKGROUND: Our previous studies found that autophagy levels in liver and 
intestinal segments of naturally aging rats were downregulated, and the 
expression of pro-inflammatory factors was increased. The increased expression 
of pro-inflammatory factors might be related to the downregulation of autophagy. 
AMPK is the most critical upstream targeting and regulating molecule of 
autophagy, and Metformin, as an agonist of AMPK, has the effects of 
anti-inflammation and anti-aging. We pretreated 29-month-old naturally aging 
rats with Metformin for a short period and observed the changes in autophagy 
levels and pro-inflammatory factors in the liver, ileum, and colon after 31 days 
of intervention and preliminarily investigated the mechanism of its action.
METHODS: 29-month-old SPF male Wistar rats were divided into three groups: The 
control group, the Metformin 100 mg/kg intervention group, and the Metformin 
250 mg/kg intervention group, with eight rats in each group. At 29 months, 
different concentrations of Metformin (100 mg/kg, 250 mg/kg) were given by 
gavage once a day until 30 months, and the control group was kept generally 
until 30 months. Western Blot was used to assess the expression levels of AMPK, 
P-AMPK, LC3, and P62 proteins in the liver and intestinal tissues. Intestinal 
and liver tissues were immunofluorescence labeled for LC3 and P62 proteins. 
Moreover, RT-qPCR was conducted to detect the expression levels of 
pro-inflammatory factors IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and MMP-9 mRNA in liver and 
intestinal tissues.
RESULTS: Short-term Metformin pretreatment (31 days) in naturally aging rats 
(29 months old) increased autophagy levels and down-regulated the expression of 
various pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, TNF-α, MMP-9, and IL-6) in various 
intestinal segments and the liver-the expression of LC3II protein enriched with 
the increase of Metformin concentration. The level of P62 protein decreased with 
the accumulation of Metformin concentration. And a higher concentration of 
Metformin was associated with increased expression of P-AMPK protein.
CONCLUSIONS: Metformin intervention can boost the autophagy level in the liver 
and intestine and reduce the expression of aging-related inflammatory factors in 
aged rats, and these effects may be related to the increase of the AMPK 
phosphorylation level.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2023.112331
PMID: 37967593

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.
