1. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2023 Jan;104:104828. doi:
10.1016/j.archger.2022.104828.  Epub 2022 Oct 4.

Cathepsin L was involved in vascular aging by mediating phenotypic 
transformation of vascular cells.

Pan X(1), Yu Y(1), Chen Y(1), Wang Y(1), Fu G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gerontology, Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, Tongji 
University School of Medicine, No.301, Middle Yan Chang Road, 200072, Shanghai, 
China.

Vascular media and adventitia-induced remodeling plays an important role in 
vascular aging. However, the mechanism remains unclear. This study aims to 
investigate the mechanisms underlying vascular aging. Transcriptome analysis 
revealed that the expression of cathepsin L (CTSL) significantly decreased in 
arteries of old mice (24 months old) compared with that in arteries of young 
mice (4 months old), which was confirmed by immunohistochemistry and Western 
blot. The expression of CTSL in adventitia fibroblasts (AFs) and vascular smooth 
muscle cells (VSMCs) of aged mice was lower than that of young mice. Compared 
with wild-type control mice, CTSL knockout (CTSL - /-) mice had increased 
collagen deposition (fibrosis) and decreased telomerase activity and LC3Ⅱ/ 
LC3Ⅰratio. The expression of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and 
osteopontin (OPN) increased in aortas of CTSL-/-mice compared with that in 
aortas of wild-type control mice. In vitro, lentivirus-mediated CTSL knockdown 
induced VSMCs senescence and AFs transformed into myofibroblasts (MFs). 
Rapamycin, a mTOR inhibitor, inhibited CTSL deficiency induced VSMCs senescence, 
osteopontin (OPN) secretion and AFs migration. In conclusion, the decreased 
level of CTSL with age may participate in vascular aging by promoting the 
phenotypic transformation of vascular cells.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2022.104828
PMID: 36206719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
report no conflict of interest.
