1. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2023 Mar 1;78(3):397-406. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glac221.

Early or Late-Life Treatment With Acarbose or Rapamycin Improves Physical 
Performance and Affects Cardiac Structure in Aging Mice.

Herrera JJ(1), Pifer K(2), Louzon S(1), Leander D(2), Fiehn O(3), Day SM(4), 
Miller RA(2)(5), Garratt M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan, USA.
(3)Genome Center, University of California Davis, Davis, California, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(5)Geriatrics Center, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(6)Department of Anatomy, School of Biomedical Sciences, University of Otago, 
Dunedin, New Zealand.

Pharmacological treatments can extend the life span of mice. For optimal 
translation in humans, treatments should improve health during aging, and 
demonstrate efficacy when started later in life. Acarbose (ACA) and rapamycin 
(RAP) extend life span in mice when treatment is started early or later in life. 
Both drugs can also improve some indices of healthy aging, although there has 
been little systematic study of whether health benefits accrue differently 
depending on the age at which treatment is started. Here we compare the effects 
of early (4 months) versus late (16 months) onset ACA or RAP treatment on 
physical function and cardiac structure in genetically heterogeneous aged mice. 
ACA or RAP treatment improve rotarod acceleration and endurance capacity 
compared to controls, with effects that are largely similar in mice starting 
treatment from early or late in life. Compared to controls, cardiac hypertrophy 
is reduced by ACA or RAP in both sexes regardless of age at treatment onset. ACA 
has a greater effect on the cardiac lipidome than RAP, and the effects of 
early-life treatment are recapitulated by late-life treatment. These results 
indicate that late-life treatment with these drugs provide at least some of the 
benefits of life long treatment, although some of the benefits occur only in 
males, which could lead to sex differences in health outcomes later in life.

Â© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glac221
PMCID: PMC9977253
PMID: 36342748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
