1. Food Funct. 2023 Feb 21;14(4):2149-2161. doi: 10.1039/d2fo02800j.

Puerarin extends the lifespan of Drosophila melanogaster by activating 
autophagy.

Kang AW(1), Sun C(2)(3), Li HT(1), Zhong K(1), Zeng XH(1), Gu ZF(2), Li BQ(1), 
Zhang XN(1), Gao JL(2), Chen TX(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical School, Institute of Reproductive Medicine, Nantong University, 
Nantong 226001, Jiangsu, P. R. China. zhangxn@ntu.edu.cna.
(2)Research Center of Gerontology and Longevity, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong 
University, Nantong University, Nantong 226001, China. JL4486@ntu.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Geriatrics, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, Nantong 
University, Nantong 226001, China.

Lifespan longevity has attracted increasing attention with societal development. 
To counter the effects of aging on longevity, we focused on the natural 
chemicals of plants. In this study, we investigated the effects of puerarin 
supplementation on the lifespan of Drosophila melanogaster. Puerarin 
supplementation significantly extended the lifespan of D. melanogaster at 60 μM 
and 120 μM by upregulating proteasome subunit beta 5 (prosbeta5) and sirtuin-1 
(Sirt1). However, puerarin-induced longevity of male flies (F0 generation) may 
not be passed on to descendants. Additionally, a puerarin diet for 10 and 25 
days did not influence the body weight and food intake of male Canton-S flies. 
Puerarin significantly improved the climbing ability, starvation resistance, and 
oxidation resistance of male flies by upregulating the expression of Shaker, 
catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), and Methuselah, and 
downregulating poly [ADP-ribose] polymerase (PARP-1) and major heat shock 70 kDa 
protein Aa (HSP70). Moreover, 120 μM puerarin supplementation for 25 days 
significantly increased adenosine 5' triphosphate (ATP) content by increasing 
adenosine 5'-monophosphate (AMP)-activated protein kinase (AMPK) levels. 
Additionally, the puerarin diet for 25 days suppressed male fecundity in male 
flies by decreasing the levels of Bam and Punt. Mechanistically, puerarin 
enhanced lysosome-involved autophagy by promoting the expression of lysosome 
markers [β-galactosidase and lysosomal associated membrane protein 1 (LAMP1)], 
and elevating the levels of autophagy-related genes, including 
autophagy-associated gene 1 (ATG1), ATG5, and ATG8b. However, puerarin decreased 
the phosphorylation of the target of rapamycin (TOR) protein. In conclusion, 
puerarin is a promising compound for improving the longevity of D. melanogaster 
by activating autophagy.

DOI: 10.1039/d2fo02800j
PMID: 36752212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
