1. Rejuvenation Res. 2023 Jun;26(3):116-124. doi: 10.1089/rej.2022.0061. Epub
2023  May 5.

Alginate Oligosaccharides Enhance Autophagy to Rejuvenate H(2)O(2)-Induced 
Senescent IEC-6 Through the AMPK/mTOR Signaling Pathway.

Zhao X(1)(2), Zhou S(1)(2), Huang S(1)(2), Wang P(1)(2), Mou J(3), Gong C(1)(2), 
Zhang X(1)(2), Zhang Q(1)(2), Yang Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, School of Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Diagnosis and Treatment of Aging and Physical-Chemical 
Injury Diseases of Zhejiang Province, School of Medicine, The First Affiliated 
Hospital, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(3)Department of Infectious Disease, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Chengdu 
Medical College, China National Nuclear Corporation 416 Hospital, Chengdu, 
China.

Intestinal epithelial cellular senescence contributes to the physiological 
decline of intestine and induces age-associated intestinal diseases. Therefore, 
the intestine is a vital target to delay intestinal epithelial cellular 
senescence and extend healthy lifespan. Alginate oligosaccharides (AOSs) have a 
wide range of biological and pharmacological activities. However, there are no 
related reports of AOSs on intestinal epithelial cellular senescence. Our study 
aimed to investigate the effect of AOSs on hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced 
senescent intestinal epithelial cells (IEC-6) and its antiaging mechanism. A 
senescent model was successfully constructed by H2O2 (200 μmol/L) treatment on 
IEC-6 for 4 hours. Different concentrations of AOSs (10, 50, 100 μg/mL) were 
used to intervene in H2O2-induced senescent IEC-6. The number of β-galactosidase 
staining-positive cells was significantly reduced by AOS intervention. The 
expression levels of p21 and p16, known as the senescent biomarkers, were also 
decreased. In addition, AOSs alleviated oxidative stress by reducing reactive 
oxygen species and improving antioxidative ability. To understand how AOSs 
rejuvenate H2O2-induced senescent IEC-6, we detected the expression level of 
genes in autophagy process. The results indicated that AOSs restored the 
expression level of Beclin 1, Atg7, and LC3 to enhance autophagy process by 
activating activated protein kinase (AMPK) and inhibiting mammalian target of 
rapamycin in H2O2-induced senescent IEC-6. Compound C, an AMPK inhibitor, 
abolished the effect of AOSs on activating autophagy and rejuvenating senescent 
IEC-6. Altogether, our study suggests that AOS is a promising drug for delaying 
intestinal epithelial cellular senescence.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2022.0061
PMID: 36943260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
