1. Phytother Res. 2023 Aug;37(8):3467-3480. doi: 10.1002/ptr.7820. Epub 2023 Jun
8.

Thymoquinone induces apoptosis and protective autophagy in gastric cancer cells 
by inhibiting the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway.

He P(1)(2), He Y(1)(2), Ma J(3), Liu Y(1)(2), Liu C(1)(2), Baoping Y(1), Dong 
W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, 
Hubei Province, China.
(2)Central Laboratory, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, Hubei 
Province, PR China.
(3)Department of Geriatrics, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, Hubei 
Province, PR China.

Gastric cancer (GC) is often diagnosed in the advanced stages with a poor 
prognosis. Thymoquinone (TQ) is known for its antitumor activity; however, the 
specific mechanism in GC remains unknown. In our study, TQ inhibited GC cell 
proliferation and induced apoptosis and autophagy in a concentration-dependent 
manner. Transmission electron microscopy showed increased autophagosome 
formation in GC cells treated with TQ. Meanwhile, the LC3B puncta and LC3BII 
protein levels were significantly increased in GC cells, while p62 expression 
was significantly decreased. The autophagy inhibitor, Bafilomycin A1 enhanced 
TQ-inhibited proliferation and TQ-induced apoptosis, suggesting that TQ-induced 
autophagy has a protective effect on GC cells. Furthermore, TQ decreased the 
phosphorylation levels of phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3 kinase (PI3K), 
protein kinase B (Akt), and mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR). The PI3K 
agonist partially rescued TQ-induced autophagy and apoptosis. Finally, in vivo 
experiments showed that TQ could inhibit tumor growth and promote apoptosis and 
autophagy. This study provides new insights into the specific mechanism for the 
anti-GC effect of TQ. TQ inhibits the proliferation of GC cells and induces 
apoptosis and protective autophagy by inhibiting the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway. The 
results suggest that the combination of TQ and autophagy inhibitors might be a 
potential chemotherapeutic strategy for GC.

Â© 2023 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.7820
PMID: 37288949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
