1. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2023 Jul 26. doi: 10.1007/s12010-023-04569-9. Online 
ahead of print.

Protective Autophagy Attenuates the Cytotoxicity of MTI-31 in Renal Cancer Cells 
by Activating the ERK Pathway.

Zang Y(1), Yang C(1)(2), Dai MS(3), Zhang W(1)(2), Zou L(1)(2), Hu J(1)(2), Hu 
Y(1)(2), Xu C(1)(2), Liu R(1)(2), Wang H(4), Xiong Z(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, 12 Middle Urumqi Road, Shanghai, 200040, 
China.
(2)Institute of Urology, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200040, China.
(3)Department of Geriatrics, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
200040, China.
(4)Teaching Center of Experimental Medicine, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan 
University, 138 Yixueyuan Rd, Shanghai, 200032, China. fdshmuwh@fudan.edu.cn.
(5)Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, 12 Middle Urumqi Road, Shanghai, 200040, 
China. zuquanxiong2021@126.com.
(6)Institute of Urology, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200040, China. 
zuquanxiong2021@126.com.

The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a key regulatory molecular target to 
treat cancer, and MTI-31 is a potent mTOR inhibitory agent for the 
therapeutically target of the renal cell carcinoma (RCC). However, the 
therapeutic efficacy of MTI-31 is limited by multiple factors, including 
autophagy. MTI-31 can activate cells to generate autophagy, which may in turn 
indirectly affect cell proliferation and apoptosis. We aimed to observe changes 
in cell protective autophagy via the ERK pathway and explore the potential 
mechanism underlying drug resistance of RCC cells to MTI-31. Different 
concentrations of 786-O and RCC4 cells were co-cultured with MTI-31 for distinct 
durations. The result of autophagy marker detection by Western blot showed that 
MTI-31 could induce RCC cells to produce autophagy in a dose and time-dependent 
manner. After treating the RCC cells with the autophagy inhibitor chloroquine 
(CQ), CCK8 and Western blot assays demonstrated that CQ could effectively 
enhance cell apoptosis induced by MTI-31 and that the autophagy induced by 
MTI-31 was cytoprotective. In addition, CCK8 and Western blot demonstrated that 
MTI-31 exerted its effect by activating the ERK pathway rather than the JNK or 
p38 pathway. The use of the ERK inhibitor AZD6244 to block the ERK pathway could 
effectively promote cell apoptosis induced by MTI-31. AZD6244 attenuated the 
autophagy induced by MTI-31 and increased the cytotoxicity of MTI-31. Western 
blot also demonstrated that MTI-31-induced autophagy was mediated by the 
downstream regulators of ERK pathways, including Beclin-1 and Bcl-2. It 
demonstrated that the MTI-31 mediated activation ERK pathway is associated with 
the induction of autophagy, and autophagy can attenuate the cytotoxicity of 
MTI-31 on RCC cells. In summary, inhibition of ERK pathway-mediated autophagy 
can rectify drug resistance to MTI-31 effectively.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-023-04569-9
PMID: 37493819
