1. Clin Exp Hypertens. 2023 Dec 31;45(1):2271186. doi: 
10.1080/10641963.2023.2271186. Epub 2023 Oct 25.

RGS10 inhibits proliferation and migration of pulmonary arterial smooth muscle 
cell in pulmonary hypertension via AKT/mTORC1 signaling.

Hu S(1), Zhang Y(2), Qiu C(3), Li Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, The General Hospital of 
Western Theater Command, Chengdu, China.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, The General Hospital of Western Theater Command, 
Chengdu, China.
(3)Department of Burn, The General Hospital of Western Theater Command, Chengdu, 
China.

Objective: Excessive proliferation and migration of pulmonary arterial smooth 
muscle cell (PASMC) is a core event of pulmonary hypertension (PH). Regulators 
of G protein signaling 10 (RGS10) can regulate cellular proliferation and 
cardiopulmonary diseases. We demonstrate whether RGS10 also serves as a 
regulator of PH.Methods: PASMC was challenged by hypoxia to induce proliferation 
and migration. Adenovirus carrying Rgs10 gene (Ad-Rgs10) was used for external 
expression of Rgs10. Hypoxia/SU5416 or MCT was used to induce PH. Right 
ventricular systolic pressure (RVSP) and right ventricular hypertrophy index 
(RVHI) were used to validate the establishment of PH model.Results: RGS10 was 
downregulated in hypoxia-challenged PASMC. Ad-Rgs10 significantly suppressed 
proliferation and migration of PASMC after hypoxia stimulus, while silencing 
RGS10 showed contrary effect. Mechanistically, we observed that phosphorylation 
of S6 and 4E-Binding Protein 1 (4EBP1), the main downstream effectors of 
mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) as well as phosphorylation of 
AKT, the canonical upstream of mTORC1 in hypoxia-induced PASMC were negatively 
modulated by RGS10. Both recovering mTORC1 activity and restoring AKT activity 
abolished these effects of RGS10 on PASMC. More importantly, AKT activation also 
abolished the inhibitory role of RGS10 in mTORC1 activity in hypoxia-challenged 
PASMC. Finally, we also observed that overexpression of RGS10 in vivo 
ameliorated pulmonary vascular wall thickening and reducing RVSP and RVHI in 
mouse PH model.Conclusion: Our findings reveal the modulatory role of RGS10 in 
PASMC and PH via AKT/mTORC1 axis. Therefore, targeting RGS10 may serve as a 
novel potent method for the prevention against PH."

DOI: 10.1080/10641963.2023.2271186
PMID: 37879890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
