1. Lebensversicher Med. 1975 Sep;27(5):115-9.

[Life expectancy after pacemaker treatment].

[Article in German]

Wiessmann B, Schneider KW.

PMID: 2825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1975 Sep 19;125(28):535-9.

[Drug and surgical therapy of angina pectoris].

[Article in German]

Thiede D.

PMID: 3894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Br J Psychiatry. 1976 Oct;129:384-7. doi: 10.1192/bjp.129.4.384.

Personality, expectancies and group psychotherapy.

Caine TM, Wijesinghe B.

The paper reports an extension of work into the relevance of personality and 
pre-treatment expectancies for allocation and response of patients to group 
psychotherapy. The results show that subjects who are internally directed in 
interest and who have a liberal attitude to a variety of social issues and a 
"psychological" set to treatment are more responsive to group psychotherapy as 
seen by their therapists as well as by themselves. Those who are externally 
directed in interest and who have a conservative attitude to life and a more 
"medical-physical" set to treatment are more likely to be referred for behaviour 
therapy; if referred for group psychotherapy they are likely either to drop out 
or to show very limited response to treatment.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.129.4.384
PMID: 10039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Lebensversicher Med. 1976;Spec No:36-9.

[Life expectancy of melanoma patients].

[Article in German]

Pfister R.

PMID: 10499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Lebensversicher Med. 1976 Nov;28(6):137-40.

[Development, possibilities and limitations of heart surgery].

[Article in German]

Zenker R.

PMID: 12428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Lebensversicher Med. 1976 Nov;28(6):156-60.

[Radiation exposure and life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Flemming K.

PMID: 12432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Lebensversicher Med. 1977 Jan;29(1):25-31.

[Improvement of the life expectancy through antiepileptic agents and preventive 
medicine].

[Article in German]

Diehl LW.

PMID: 13254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Aktuelle Gerontol. 1976 Mar;6(3):103-10.

[Assessment of the biological age in the animal-experiment (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Hofecker G.

Experimental investigations of internal and external factors presumably 
influencing the aging process require an objective assessment of the biological 
age or vitality respectively by means of as many age parameters as possible. 
Using the rat, a valuable test animal in experimental gerontology, whose life 
expectancy of about 40 month allows longitudinal studies, a standard test 
programm for the estimation of the biological age has been developed. The age 
parameters used originate from investigations of 1. the tail tendon collagen, 2. 
the skin, 3. the aorta, 4. the ECG, 5. the lipofuscin content of brain and 
heart, 6. the tissue respiration of various organs, 7, the motor activity and 8. 
learning and memory. Using the above-mentioned age parameters a statistical 
measure for the biological age will be calculated by means of multivariate 
analysis and will allow the comparison of differeent age-and 
experimental-groups.

PMID: 14523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Blood. 1977 Apr;49(4):511-33.

One hundred patients with acute leukemia treated by chemotherapy, total body 
irradiation, and allogeneic marrow transplantation.

Thomas ED, Buckner CD, Banaji M, Clift RA, Fefer A, Flournoy N, Goodell BW, 
Hickman RO, Lerner KG, Neiman PE, Sale GE, Sanders JE, Singer J, Stevens M, 
Storb R, Weiden PL.

One hundred patients, 54 with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and 46 with acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), considered to be in the end stages of their 
disease, after combination chemotherapy were treated by marrow transplantation. 
All patients were given a marrow graft from an HLA-identical sibling after 
receiving 1000-rad total body irradiation (TBI). One group of 43 patients was 
given cyclophosphamide (CY), 60 mg/kg on each of 2 days, 5 and 4 days before 
TBI. In a second group of 31 patients, additional chemotherapy was given before 
CY and TBI. In a third group of 19 patients, BCNU was given before CY and TBI. A 
fourth group of 7 patients received other chemotherapy regimens before TBI. Six 
patients died 3-17 days after marrow infusion without evidence of engraftment. 
Ninety-four patients were engrafted and only one patient rejected the graft. 
Thirteen patients are alive with a marrow graft, on no maintenance antileukemic 
therapy, and without recurrent leukemia 1-4 1/2 yr after transplantation. Three 
have chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Four patients are alive 1 1/2 - 3 
1/2 yr after grafting but have had a relapse of their leukemia. Of 93 evaluable 
patients, 19 did not develop GVHD and 24 developed very mild GVHD. Fifty 
patients developed moderate to severe GVHD, and 40 of these were treated with 
antithymocyte globulin. Interstitial pneumonia occurred in 54 patients and was 
the primary cause of death in 34. Interstitial pneumonia often occurred in 
association with GVHD and the most common etiologic agent was cytomegalovirus. A 
total of 31 patients have had a relapse of leukemia. There was no definite 
correlation between relapse of leukemia and the presence or absence of GVHD. The 
relapse rate appeared to be relatively constant over the first 2 yr and was 
extremely low after that time. Neither survival nor leukemic relapse appeared to 
be influenced by the type of leukemia nor by the preparative chemotherapy 
regimen given before TBI. Patients in fair clinical condition at the time of 
transplantation showed significantly longer survival times than patients in poor 
condition (p = 0.001). This observation, coupled with the observation that some 
patients may be cured of their disease, indicates that marrow transplantation 
should now be undertaken earlier in the management of patients with acute 
leukemia who have an HLA-matched sibling marrow donor.

PMID: 14751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Lebensversicher Med. 1977 Mar;29(2):33-9.

[Medical insurance and technical insurance fundamental concepts].

[Article in German]

Menn S.

PMID: 17039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Lebensversicher Med. 1977 May;29(3):73-7.

[Developmental trends in mortality].

[Article in German]

Neumann G, Paulus R.

PMID: 17045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Urologe A. 1977 Sep;16(5):283-5.

[Urologic symptoms in the abdominal muscle deficiency syndrome (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

Uehling DT, Baum√ºller A, Chesney R.

The abdominal muscle deficiency syndrome ("prune belly syndrome"(, a symptom 
triad of aplasia of the abdominal wall musculature, malformations of the urinary 
tract, and cryptorchism, is described from the urologist's point of view, citing 
nine cases. With modern diagnostic procedures the early detection of the correct 
diagnosis in the usually very young patients is possible. While the urologic 
symptomatology is due to the malformations in the urinary tract, the life 
expectancy depends mainly on the degree of renal function impairment. Combat of 
infection together with proper operative repairs are the treatments of choice to 
date. Instrumental procedures should be limited as much as possible. The 
survival changes following kidney transplantation appear promising.

PMID: 20684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Aktuelle Gerontol. 1977 Jul;7(7):343-61.

[Education: a theme in gerontology (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Lehr U.

The paper presents a review of the history of educational gerontology 
("andragogy" or "gerontagogy") which has a special role within the field of 
gerontology. Whereas gerontological sciences such as biology, medicine, 
psychology, and sociology in (frequently interdisciplinary) approaches study the 
process of aging, educational gerontology makes use of the findings of these 
research areas, intending to influence the process of aging. There is a need for 
education in old age - provided this is not restricted to the acquisition of 
knowledge and skills or the extension of academic training into old age. It is 
stressed that an offer of "education for the aged" or even of "help for the life 
in age" very ofter is rejected by old people as they are induced to feel 
incompetent when invited to school and training courses of that kind. Future 
"gerontagogy" will have to notice and to respect resistance of that kind and 
will have to endeavour to increase the motivation to learn in old age in 
adequate ways. A first goal of educational gerontology should be to develop 
programs going beyond those developed for children and realized in traditional 
institutions of pedagogy. Referring to results of differential gerontology 
programs for "educating" and "stimulating" aged persons will have to be rather 
variable to fit individual goals and motivations of the old. The differential 
approach necessary to meet individual and rather specific demands will require a 
more thorough "training of trainers" than is realized today in the Federal 
Republic of Germany.

PMID: 20795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Lebensversicher Med. 1977 Nov;29(6):141-14, 146.

[Life expectancy in sarcoidosis].

[Article in German]

Tanner E.

PMID: 22002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Aktuelle Gerontol. 1977 Oct;7(10):535-8.

Long-term tryptophan restriction and aging in the rat.

Segall P.

Growth-retarded rats fed a tryptophan deficient diet at 21 days for periods of 
6-22 months were shown to reach normal body weight when subsequently fed Purina 
Rat Chow. They demonstrated an increased ability over similar aged controls to 
recover from hypothermia induced by 3-minute whole-body ice water immersion, 
were able to bear litters at 17--28 months of age, showed a delay in the age of 
onset of visible tumors, and indicated an increase in their average lifespan at 
late ages. Animals fed on this diet from 3 months of age revealed a similar 
ability to reproduce at advanced ages, but not as marked as those placed on the 
diet earlier. The average lifespan (in months +/- the standard error of the 
mean) of the rats recovering from the long-term tryptophan-deficient diets was 
36.31 +/- 2.26 while the control rats survived an average of 30.5 +/- 1.90 
months. The last of 8 rats surviving the period of tryptophan-deficiency died at 
45.50 months (1387 days) while the last of 14 control rats died at 41.75 months 
(1266 days). It is hypothesized that some kind of subtle mechanism exerts its 
influence on the rats during the period of tryptophan deficiency which caused an 
accelerated morbidity and mortality as they approached senescence approximately 
1 to 2 years after refeeding. This is parallel to the situation with immature 
animals subjected to long-term caloric restriction and then fed on normal diets.

PMID: 22255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Ann Anesthesiol Fr. 1977;18(5-6):475-80.

[Age and other factors in the prognosis and operative indications for brain 
surgery].

[Article in French]

Campan L, Zadeh J.

Attempt at evaluation of the operative risk depending on seven factors. 1--For 
benign tumours (Example: meningiomas): 1--greater than 65 years; 2--functional 
insufficiency, depending on the type of tumour; 3--the volume of the tumour; 
4--site of the tumour; 5--foreseeable operative difficulties; 6--the importance 
of intra-cranial hypertension and the level of pre-operative consciousness; 
7--life expectancy, quantitative and qualitative. II--Extrapolation of the 
previous equation to malignant tumours, chronic sub-dural hematoma, 
intra-cerebral hematoma and surgery of pain.

PMID: 23039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Ann Anesthesiol Fr. 1977;18(5-6):481-5.

[Geriatric surgery at the Geneva University Surgical Clinic].

[Article in French]

Marti MC.

PMID: 23040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Lebensversicher Med. 1978 Jan;30(1):1-2.

[Trends in German life insurance medicine].

[Article in German]

Graulich J.

PMID: 23471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Lebensversicher Med. 1978 Jan;30(1):10-4.

[Prognosis of plasmacytoma].

[Article in German]

Hartwich G.

PMID: 23472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Lebensversicher Med. 1978 Jan;30(1):15-20.

[Effect of radiotherapy on life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Kahr E.

PMID: 23473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Lebensversicher Med. 1978 Mar;30(2):34-40.

[Life and life expectancy following surgery of the pancreas].

[Article in German]

K√ºmmerle F, Mangold G, R√ºckert K.

PMID: 24790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Am Heart J. 1978 Jun;95(6):716-24. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(78)90501-x.

Involvement of the cardiac conducting system in panarteritis nodosa.

Thiene G, Valente M, Rossi L.

Histopathological observations on the conduction system of the heart were 
carried out in three cases of panarteritis nodosa. This specialized tissue was 
involved in each case secondary to ischemia and/or periarterial extension of the 
inflammatory process affecting the nutrient arteries of the conducting system. 
The high risk of disturbances in impulse formation and conduction in patients 
with panarteritis is emphasized as well as the need for appropriate clinical 
investigation (protracted cardiac monitoring and control by catheter recording 
and stimulation) in order to secure early detection and prevention of 
life-threatening arrhythmias.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(78)90501-x
PMID: 26214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Aktuelle Gerontol. 1978 Jan;8(1):27-36.

[Trends in modern international gerontological research. Epidemiological 
aspects].

[Article in German]

Paul HA.

Using the methods of comparing statistical data from the population in different 
countries on should have in mind that the age distribution could differ very 
much according to her biological and social structure. As example serves the 
system of social indicators applied by several supranational bodies in order to 
develop an instrument for measure the "quality of life". Life expectancy and and 
disability rates in different age groups are among those methods. National 
statistics do not use only mortability rates and to some extend also morbidity 
rates but also scaled values about the amount of activities in daily living. 
Sociomedical figures like the number of restricted-activity, bed-disability, 
school-loss, and workloss days per person per year seem to give more appropriate 
data for this purpose than the biomedical counts of the past. On would 
recognize--at least in the angloamerican countries--that there is a newer trend 
to find indicators for epidemiological studies and statistics applicable by 
non-medical personnel as disability components for an index of health in age.

PMID: 26240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Aktuelle Gerontol. 1978 Jan;8(1):7-25.

[Trends in modern international gerontological research. Morphological aspects].

[Article in German]

Lindner J.

Ageing develops during the whole life with differences on cells, tissues and 
organs, and begins if their capacities for adaptations and compensations 
decrease. Theories about ageing are insufficiently. That results from the 
further development of ageing research in morphology also. Parenchymal cells are 
reduced in all organs, in favour of an enhanced connective tissue content, the 
function of the single parenchymal and mesenchymal cell is not diminished 
coincidently in ageing. In the most organs are young and old cells in every age 
stage (but more old cells in senile age). The most cells don't live endless, but 
they can be regenerated. Their organelles possess own biological half life 
times, which are very shorter than their cell life times. Ageing-typical 
increase of the total content of connective tissue, esp. of collagen in many 
organs is combined with alterations of the proteoglycan and collagen metaoblism 
rates and patterns (collagen types included), and are thereby connected with age 
dependent changes of the several functions of the cells, tissues and organs. 
Everybody, and esp. the physician has to know that the mean age of the 
population (and of the patients) becomes higher. So we need the morphological 
research in gerontology also, as demonstrated and summarized in this review.

PMID: 26244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Aktuelle Gerontol. 1978 Jul;8(7):387-94.

[On postoperative azotemia in geriatric surgery: significance, risk groups, 
possibilities of prophylaxis (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Magistris F, Khaffaf H.

1032 Interventions on geriatric patients beeing more than 70 years old between 
1966 and 1975 demonstrate the significance of azotemia in the postoperativ stage 
of the disease appears as well as its dependence upon prehospital factors, type 
and localisation also on the extension and duration on the intervention in each 
single case. Since it is hardly possible to exert an influence on the 
preliminary stress due to the old age and on the dysfunction determined by 
involution of the parenchymatose organs important for the course of the 
postoperative stage, a particular emphasis should be laid upon the prophylactic 
aspekt to the purpose of an appropriate screening against vegetativ-visceral, 
renally effective shock reflexes (hepatorenal syndrome) and on the other, 
usually extra-renal factors (PH 203R, splanchnic block). Further possibilities: 
considerate elimination of pain and general anesthesia, purpuseful and quick 
operative technique, improvement of the apparatus and instruments, 
after-treatment specific for the given case so as one consisting of a 
prophylaxis against pneumonia through a rapid reactivation of the operated 
person. However, regardless to all the professional advance made in this field, 
the primary human approach to the aged patient and to his life expectancy should 
be made due allowance for.

PMID: 27119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Clin Haematol. 1978 Jun;7(2):275-94. doi: 10.1016/s0308-2261(78)80006-x.

Immunotherapy of human acute leukaemia.

Alexander P, Powles R.

Conclusions are difficult to draw. In the six studies of immunotherapy of AML 
discussed, all the three employing BCG and cells showed a prolongation of 
survival and the major contributing factor to this prolongation of survival was 
extension of life after relapse. In the three studies using BCG alone only one 
shows a beneficial effect, but some more time must be allowed to elapse before 
this can be concluded with confidence.

DOI: 10.1016/s0308-2261(78)80006-x
PMID: 28191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Z Lebensm Unters Forsch. 1978 Jun 28;166(5):284-6. doi: 10.1007/BF01127654.

Influence of sodium tripolyphosphate and citric acid on the shelf life of 
thornback ray (Raja clavata L.).

Vyncke W.

Sodium tripolyphosphate dips (5 min in 12% solution) extended shelf life of 
thornback ray wings by about 2 days, improved the appearance and eliminated 
weight losses. With citric acid dips (5 min in 0.5% solution) a 3 day extension 
of storage life was obtained but the treatment had a slight bleaching effect and 
caused weight losses of about 5%. Both compounds were effective in retarding the 
breakdown of urea with formation of ammonia in thorback ray.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01127654
PMID: 28615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Lebensversicher Med. 1978 Sep;30(5):112-4.

[Development of life expectancy].

[Article in German]

H√∂hn C.

PMID: 29176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Aktuelle Gerontol. 1978 Aug;8(8):419-21.

Correlation between DNA repair of embryonic fibroblasts and different life span 
of 3 inbred mouse strains.

Paffenholz V.

Primary mouse fibroblast cultures were established from 10 day old embryos of 3 
inbred strains with a genetically determined different life expectancy. The 
capacity for unscheduled DNA synthesis following u.v. irradiation was studied in 
these cells at various passage levels. The mouse fibroblasts show considerable 
repair synthesis corresponding to the duration of exposure time. The capacity 
for induction of unscheduled DNA synthesis was different in the cells of each 
strain and correlated to the natural life span of the animal; in each case, 
however, the ability to perform repair synthesis was subjected to an 
age-associated decline.

PMID: 29506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Lebensversicher Med. 1979 Jan;31(1):14-6.

[What sequelae in accidents can impair life expectancy?].

[Article in German]

Heipertz W, Zichner L, K√ºnzel J.

PMID: 32448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Lebensversicher Med. 1979 Jan;31(1):6-11.

[Life expectancy and work capacity in modern infarct rehabilitation].

[Article in German]

K√ºhns K, Cartsburg R, Nazerian I, Suermann T.

PMID: 32451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Proc R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 1978 Dec 4;203(1151):191-208. doi: 
10.1098/rspb.1978.0100.

Observations on the vegetation of northeastern Mato Grosso II. Forests and soils 
of the Rio Sui√°--Missu area.

Ratter JA, Askew GP, Montgomery RF, Gifford DR.

The vegetation of the well drained soils along the Sui√°--Missu road in the Serra 
do Roncador region of NE Mato Grosso is Evergreen Seasonal forest of Amazonian 
type. The area lies close to the meeting place of the Amazonian forest (the 
hylaea) and the cerrado (savanna) formation of Central Brazil. The structure of 
the forest is simple: the canopy is at about 18--23 m, and is exceeded by a few 
scattered emergents; no recognizable strata can be distinguished among the 
understorey trees and the shrub and herb layers are sparse. Table 1 lists the 
most important species and gives information on stratification and general 
distribution. Most of the species appear to have a hylaean centre of 
distribution but extend into other vegetation types. The forest differs from 
related communities which lie closer to the cerrado/forest boundary in its 
greater height and luxuriance, the presence of additional tall tree species, and 
the great reduction in abundance of a cerrado floristic element. A survey on the 
Xavantina--S√£o Felix road allowed us to extend previous observations on the 
distance to which the cerrado tree Pterodon pubescens extends into the forest. 
The results obtained indicate a considerable extension of forest into cerrado 
during the life of an individual tree. A characteristic low forest occurs in the 
flood plain of the Rio Sui√°--Missu while Swampy Gallery forests occur on 
permanently waterlogged soils around the headwaters of streams. The well drained 
soils of the Sui√°--Missu forest are very uniform, deep latosols (oxisols) of 
very dystrophic nature with pH (in water) between 4.0 and 5.0 (see table 2, p. 
203).

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.1978.0100
PMID: 33391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Aktuelle Gerontol. 1979 Mar;9(3):111-4.

[Patient survival with pacemaker (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Golling FR, Leutschaft R.

The survival rate for age groups from 50--59, 60--69, 70--79, 80--89 was worked 
out from 1065 patients with implanted pacemakers form 1963 to the end of 1977. 
In all age groups the life expectancy was under the survival of the general 
population in the Federal Republic of Germany. Analysing the data it seems that 
two groups of different longevity superimpose in all age groups; the first group 
shows an unproportional high mortality rate in the first 12 months while the 
other has an almost identical survival to the tenth year. The initial high 
mortality rate respective to the increasing age probably results in accompaning 
diseases; in this aspect further studies are required.

PMID: 35021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Aktuelle Gerontol. 1979 Apr;9(4):167-77.

[Theories of longevity (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Franke H.

Any modern theory of longevity has to take into account the multifactorial 
combined effect of biological-medical, social and psychological factors and of 
factors pertaining to molecular biology, each with their different weighting. 
For this reason research into greater-than-average life expectancy and longevity 
is only possible on an interdisciplinary basis. Many theories of longevity 
despite convincing arguments also have their weak points. Critical analysis of 
the theories available to date reveals that longevity rests on an optimal 
combination of two major factors: 1. on a genetic predisposition in people with 
longevity in the family--this is the case in most instances. 2. on additional 
exogenous factors of a social, psychological, ecological and medical kind.

PMID: 36001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Lebensversicher Med. 1979 May;31(3):59-65.

[Influence of various causes of death on life expectancy in Austria].

[Article in German]

Gredler B, Kunze M.

PMID: 36525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 1979 Sep-Oct;17(2):128-30. doi: 
10.1002/j.1879-3479.1979.tb00133.x.

The midwife in Indonesia.

Wiknjosastro H.

In Indonesia, where a large percentage of the population lives in rural areas, 
the traditional midwife or dukun is essential in the field of obstetrics. Means 
to further her knowledge and improve her skills so that the population at large 
may benefit are discussed.

PIP: Indonesia consists of more than 3000 islands. The population is 136.6 
million with an annual growth rate of 2.4%. The birth rate is between 
30-40/1000; 51.5% of the population is under 20. Average life expectancy is 50 
years; the infant mortality rate is 137/1000. 19% of the population is urban; 
80% is rural. There are 11,000 people per doctor. There are 14,500 midwives and 
150,000 traditional midwives called "dukuns." Of the traditional midwives, 
130,000 have completed a course in sepsis and asepsis, which gave the technical 
knowledge to handle certain complications in pregnancy during labor and the 
puerperium. Kits are supplied by UNICEF to the dukun who has completed the 
course. Most births are home deliveries. In Jakarta, 40% deliveries are by 
dukuns; 20% are by midwives or auxiliary midwives. The art of communication is 
better managed by traditional midwives who live in the same region with the 
people they serve. There are about 7000 Maternity and Child Health centers where 
antenatal care is carried out by midwives. Normal deliveries are attended by the 
midwives. The duties and tasks of the midwives were outlined by the 7th National 
Congress of the Indonesian Midwives Association in June, 1975 which recommended 
that midwives should supervise care of lactating mothers and children up to age 
5.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1879-3479.1979.tb00133.x
PMID: 41756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Lebensversicher Med. 1979 Nov;31(6):159-62.

[Life expectancy in liver injuries from alcohol abuse].

[Article in German]

Bode JC.

PMID: 44338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Lebensversicher Med. 1979 Nov;31(6):162-4.

[Life expectancy after lung resection].

[Article in German]

Wassner UJ.

PMID: 44339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Lebensversicher Med. 1979 Nov;31(6):164-7.

[Has life expectancy in chronic obstructive airway diseases improved?].

[Article in German]

Ulmer WT.

PMID: 44340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Zentralbl Bakteriol Orig A. 1979 Dec;245(4):549-52.

Quantitative determination of the disintegration of nerve cells in the cortex 
caused by viral encephalitis (17 D-yellow fever) (Preliminary communication).

Museteanu C, Stiens R, Haase J, Henneberg G.

The counting of nerve cells give an answer to the question whether there is a 
significant loss of cells in the cortex in the course of viral encephalitis. For 
normal animals, average cell numbers of 275.42 were counted; for infected 
animals divided into two groups depending on the severity of illness, 144.95 and 
192.87 cells, respectively (p = 0.0001).

PMID: 44949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Lancet. 1975 Feb 1;1(7901):266-7. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(75)91156-3.

Life expectation of Italian Renaissance artists.

McManus IC.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(75)91156-3
PMID: 46401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Lancet. 1975 Jun 7;1(7919):1282-3.

Editorial: Eternal youth.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 48903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. MMW Munch Med Wochenschr. 1975 May 9;117(19):813-6.

[Transurethral electroresection of prostatic adenoma (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Hertel E.

The affliction of disturbances of the voidance of urine in aging men is becoming 
an ever more frequent medical problem because of the rising life expectancy of 
our population. The cause of the urinary obstruction is fibromyoadenomatosis of 
the paraurethral glands which may develop at any time after the age of 40. 
Transurethral electroresection ist the ideal method for the complete removal of 
a small to medium sized prostatic adenoma. Once the technique of resection has 
been mastered, complications are always absolutely avoidable and rare.

PMID: 49013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Lancet. 1975 Jul 19;2(7925):95-7. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(75)90003-3.

The curability of breast cancer.

Brinkley D, Haybrittle JL.

Results are presented of a long-term follow-up of patients with breast cancer 
seen in the Cambridge area from 1947 to 1950. After 21 years the survival curve 
of the breast-cancer patients runs parallel to the expected survival curve of a 
similar normal population. This suggests that 18% of all the breast-cancer 
patients may be regarded as cured of their disease in the sense defined by 
Easson and Russell. An analysis of the causes of death in the study group after 
20 years' follow-up shows an excess of deaths from breast cancer. The number is 
16 times more than would be expected in the normal population, although the 
overall death-rates in the two groups are the same. This questions the concept 
of cure.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(75)90003-3
PMID: 49738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Br J Prev Soc Med. 1976 Mar;30(1):40-53. doi: 10.1136/jech.30.1.40.

Screening for spina bifida cystica. A cost-benefit analysis.

Hagard S, Carter F, Milne RG.

The costs and economic benefits are examined of introducing a programme for the 
mass-screening of pregnancies for the detection and abortion of fetuses with 
spina bifida cystica. A benefit-cost index is derived, and the possible effects 
on it of making different input assumptions are discussed. It is considered 
that, on economic grounds, screening may be worthwhile only in populations in 
which the incidence of spina bifida is high.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.30.1.40
PMCID: PMC478937
PMID: 59616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Lancet. 1976 Oct 9;2(7989):784-6. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(76)90612-7.

Mortality and morbidity in Jamaican adults with sickle-cell trait and with 
normal haemoglobin followed up for twelve years.

Ashcroft MT, Desai P.

An epidemiological survey of adults aged 35--64 years living in a rural area of 
Jamaica was started in 1962--63 and continued until 1975. Information was 
available on 856 subjects with AA and 119 subjects with AS haemoglobin 
genotypes. The mortality-rates over 12 or 13 years and the number of clinic 
attendances in 10 years did not differ significantly between subjects with AA 
and those with AS haemoglobin. The patterns of disease as well as the life 
expectancy of the two groups appeared to be the same.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(76)90612-7
PMID: 61453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1976 Mar 12;126(11-12):147-51.

[Prolonged life--shortened dying].

[Article in German]

Bockelmann P.

PMID: 62457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Osterr Z Onkol. 1976 May;3(1-2):30-40.

[On the radio-surgery of the carcinoma of the tongue (n = 1,000) (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

Alth G, Kolbabek H, Boltz A, Koren K.

In the period 1931 to 1976 1,116 patients were admitted to our department--1,000 
were treatable. The 5 year survival rate is 26.7% out of 975 cases with 
follow-up. There is a marked difference between the regions of the corpus and 
the radix linguae which present with different symptoms and--in relation to 
these--have a very different prognosis. The Ca linguae and sublinguale are 
without symptoms--after treatment--in 29.15%, the Ca radicis linguae in 10.5% 
only. The method of choice was in case of circumscribed invasion radio-surgery, 
in case of Radix Ca or diffusion or involvement of fixated lymphnodes 
irradiation with external beams: Radium, Cobalt, Betatron. 20 years ago, 
Wasserburger, the late leader of our departement, published the results of his 
investigations on data of 628 patients with Ca of the tongue. The good results 
which are due to a methodical approach and meticulous treatment were not 
equalled by another method, neither irradiation alone nor surgery. To preserve 
the unique homogeneity of this material we stuck to this therapy which consists 
in the coagulation of the tumor, interstitial implants of radium-needles in the 
layers adjacent to the electrocoagulation and in external radiation of the 
regional lymphnodes and additional chemotherapy if indicated. On january, 21st., 
1976, the thousandst patient with Ca of the tongue was admitted to our 
departement to be treated and so continues the chain of patients which were 
extensively documented and are followed up in coordinative work with the ENT 
departement in our hospital. In summary there were 1,116 cases, 116 were too 
progredient to be treated.

PMID: 63110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Lancet. 1977 May 21;1(8021):1069-72.

The pattern of food and mortality in Belgium.

Joossens JV, Brems-Heyns E, Claes JH, Graffar M, Kornitzer M, Pannier R, Van 
Houte O, Vuylsteek K, Carlier J, De Backer G, Kesteloot H, Lequime J, Raes A, 
Vastesaeger M, Verdonk G.

Belgians have been gradually shifting from a low ratio of 
polyunsaturated/saturated fat in their food to a higher one with lower total fat 
and cholesterol. This has occurred predominantly in the north, where the most 
obvious change is a decrease in butter consumption and an increase in margarine 
consumption. The northerners have a four to five times smaller intake of butter 
than the southerners and nearly double the intake of margarine. Evidence 
gathered over the past ten years reveals in the north a decreasing 
serum-cholesterol and in the south a significantly higher serum-cholesterol, 
associated with higher coronary morbidity and mortality. Life expectancy of 
males in the north is 2-4 years higher at birth and 2-2 years higher at the age 
of 30. It is concluded that the food habits of a population can be changed, with 
great benefit.

PMID: 68179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. J Neurol. 1977 Oct 7;216(3):147-53. doi: 10.1007/BF00313615.

Mortality of patients with Parkinson's disease treated with levodopa.

Marttila RJ, Rinne UK, Siirtola T, Sonninen V.

The effect of levodopa on the mortality of patients with Parkinson's disease was 
investigated in 349 patients treated with levodopa or levodopa combined with 
decarboxylase inhibitor during 1969-1975 inclusive. During the study period, 61 
patients died. The expected mortality was 32.99 resulting in a ratio of actual 
to expected deaths of 1.85. The excess mortality was accounted for by patients 
with a severe disease at entry and especially, by the less favorable effect of 
levodopa treatment than in the living patients. In comparison with the 
prelevodopa era, the reduction of mortality and the increase of life expectancy 
of patients with Parkinson's disease during levodopa treatment possibly reflect 
the decrease of the early mortality due to Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00313615
PMID: 72132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Lancet. 1977 Dec 17;2(8051):1243-5. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(77)92659-9.

Effect of coronary bypass surgery on longevity in high and low risk patients. 
Report from the V.A. Cooperative Coronary Surgery Study.

Detre K, Murphy ML, Hultgren H.

There is considerable uncertainty about the effects of bypass surgery on the 
longevity of patients with coronary-artery disease and angina. The Cleveland 
Clinic has reported improved survival after surgical treatment; the Duke 
University study indicated improvement in a high-risk subgroup only. The 
Veterans Administration (V.A.) randomised study initially reported improved 
survival only for patients with significant left main artery (L.M.) disease. 
Further analysis of the V.A. study shows that survival in the high-risk subgroup 
was 87% for the surgically treated patients and 74% for those treated 
medically--a highly significant difference after four years of follow-up. 
However, exclusion of the L.M. group reduced the difference to a non-significant 
one of 84% versus 79%. For patients not in the high-risk subgroup, survival at 
four years (with L.M. excluded) was 93% for those treated surgically and 96% for 
those treated medically. For all patients the rates were 85% and 86%, 
respectively. These findings indicate that in the evaluation of the effects of 
bypass surgery on longevity the characteristics of the coronary-artery disease 
are critical.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(77)92659-9
PMID: 73949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. SSO Schweiz Monatsschr Zahnheilkd. 1977 Dec;87(12):1181-96.

[Selection of therapy in precanceroses and malignomas in the maxillofacial 
region: surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy immunotherapy?].

[Article in German]

Sailer HF.

PMID: 74093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1978 Jun 17;108(24):903-6.

[Tonsillar neoplasms].

[Article in German]

Wey W, H√ºnig R.

While it is generally accepted that the treatment of choice in carcinoma of the 
tonsil is transcutaneous radiotherapy (including lymphatic drainage), opinion on 
additional surgical interventions is still divided. The possible operations are 
extended tonsillectomy followed by radical neck dissection or the composite 
operation with partial mandibulectomy. The importance of the composite operation 
for T3 stage tumors is emphasized. Chemotherapy (bleomycin) was rarely used in 
our patients, and only initially in extensive carcinoma.

PMID: 78519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1978 Jul 28;103(30):1210-1. doi:
10.1055/s-0028-1129231.

[Open prostatic surgery in patients over 80 years (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Klosterhalfen H.

The fact that a patient needing prostatic surgery is over 80 years old need no 
longer be a reason why open surgery should not be considered in the treatment 
programme of the general practitioner or internal physician. Out of 45 men aged 
between 80 and 92 only two died as a result of surgery. Life expectancy is not 
reduced by the operation.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1129231
PMID: 78792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. MMW Munch Med Wochenschr. 1979 Jul 13;121(28):937.

[Onclogic definitions. Objectives of therapy].

[Article in German]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 90337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1979 Jul 1;34(13):173-6.

[Therapy of non-Hodgkin lymphomas].

[Article in German]

