Fleischer J.

The survey is introduced by references to the relations between special 
diagnostic findings and life expectancy. Also the contribution of the clinician 
to the diagnostics of the non-Hodgkin-lymphomas is dealt with. Five standpoints 
are to be regarded in the new management of chemotherapy: 1. The 
polychemotherapy is more effective than the monotherapy. 2. Massive-dose 
therapies of middle degree are more favourable than frequent, low-dosed 
cytostatic dosages. 3. Connection of the polychemotherapy with the radiotherapy 
in stage III and IV. 4. Particularly in the lymphomas with a high degree of 
malignancy polychemotherapy already in stage II following the radiation. 5. 
Especially intensive polychemotherapy in the lymphomas with a high degree of 
malignancy. The hitherto got findings in the polychemotherapy of the 
non-Hodgkin-lymphomas are reported. Here particularly the COP-scheme proved to 
be favourable, if necessary in connection with bleomycin, adriamycin or 
methotrexat; also BCNU or dakarbacin are possible. Own propositions, separated 
for lymphomas for low and high malignancy, respectively, take into consideration 
also the GDR-preparation Cytostasan.

PMID: 94197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. J Clin Lab Immunol. 1979 Apr;2(1):23-6.

The value of islet cell antibody in predicting secondary failure of oral 
hypoglycaemic agent therapy in Diabetes mellitus.

Irvine WJ(1), Sawers JS, Feek CM, Prescott RJ, Duncan LJ.

Author information:
(1)Endocrine Unit/Immunology Laboratories, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh.

The sera of 160 diabetics who were well controlled by oral hypoglycaemic agents 
(OHA) for at least three months after diagnosis were tested for pancreatic islet 
cell antibodies (ICAb) either at diagnosis or within two years after diagnosis. 
129 were non-obese at diagnosis and of these ICAb was detected in the sera in 20 
(16%). 31 were obese at diagnosis and of these ICAb was detected in the sera in 
three (10%). All of the 160 diabetics were insulin independent at the time of 
testing the serum for ICAb. The presence of ICAb was associated with a high 
probability of becoming insulin dependent, calculated from actuarial statistics. 
86% of ICAb positive patients initially controlled on OHA may be expected to be 
insulin dependent at five years from diagnosis as compared to 18% of ICAb 
negative patients. Obesity at diagnosis did not significantly affect the 
probability of becoming insulin dependent. ICAb positive diabetes controlled by 
OHA can be regarded as a less severe form of insulin-dependent (Type I) 
diabetes.

PMID: 95802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Radiat Res. 1978 Apr;74(1):170-8.

The repair of radiation damage in Drosophila melanogaster.

Hollingsworth MJ, Webb JV, Mill AJ, Davies RW.

PMID: 97729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Exp Gerontol. 1978;13(3-4):189-96. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(78)90012-8.

On the relationship between senescence and age-related changes in two wild-type 
strains of Drosophila melanogaster.

Ganetzky B, Flanagan JR.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(78)90012-8
PMID: 99324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Strahlentherapie. 1978 Oct;154(10):703-8.

[Radiobiological bases and clinical aspects of radiation therapy with heavy 
particles (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Kaufmann H.

Our present radiobiological knowledge gives rise to the hope of an amelioration 
of the local results in radiation therapy by means of new categories of 
radiations. Neutrons are clinically used to a larger extent already, protons 
occasionally. The physical characteristics of pi-meson beams are especially 
favorable. Even considerable ameliorations, however, of the percentage of local 
healing would increase the survival rate by some few per-cent only.

PMID: 99847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Zentralbl Chir. 1978;103(16):1062-6.

[Therapeutic problems in the "short-bowel-syndrome" (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

BÃ¼hrdel P, Beyreiss K, Scheerschmidt G, Hoepffner W, Keller E, Bennek J.

The authors report on 6 children with short-bowel-syndrome. The expectancy of 
life of the patients depends on the mucosal surface of the residual intestine 
and on the degree of adaption. After removal of larger proportions of the 
intestine, nutrition should be started parenterally and followed by an early but 
cautious oral feeding. The administration must be distributed continuously over 
the day. At first carbohydrates are given as monosaccharides, fats as M. C. T. 
and proteins as amino acid mixtures. Carrot soup has proved useful as a 
water-binding substance for the improvement of stool consistency. An anabolic 
condition of the metabolism should be maintained. Therapy with cholestyramin is 
indicated in chologenic diarrhoea. Substitution of vitamins, especially vitamin 
B12 is very important after resection of the ileum.

PMID: 100986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. MMW Munch Med Wochenschr. 1978 Oct 20;120(42):1364.

[Women physicians die earlier].

[Article in German]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 101783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. J Stud Alcohol. 1978 Sep;39(9):1633-9. doi: 10.15288/jsa.1978.39.1633.

The economic returns to employment-based alcoholism programs: a methodology.

Swint JM, Decker M, Lairson DR.

A model for the estimation of the economic returns to a firm's investment in an 
occupational-based alcoholism rehabilitation program is described.

DOI: 10.15288/jsa.1978.39.1633
PMID: 104095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Australas Nurses J. 1978 Nov;8(3):25-9.

Where do we go from here?

Vimpani GV.

PMID: 105705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1979 Apr;132(4):631-5. doi: 10.2214/ajr.132.4.631.

Intraventricular hemorrhage and hydrocephalus in premature newborns: a 
prospective study with CT.

Burstein J, Papile LA, Burstein R.

In a prospective study, 100 premature infants were studied with computed 
tomography (CT) brain scans within the first week of life. In 44 of 
these,hemorrhages originated from the subependymal germinal matrix, and ranged 
in severity from isolated germinal matrix hemorrhages to blood-filled, dilated 
ventricles with extension of hemorrhage into the brain parenchyma. A system of 
grading the severity of hemorrhage was developed. Grades I and II hemorrhages 
resolved spontaneously and grades III and IV were associated with progressive 
hydrocephalus. Asymptomatic hemorrhages that would not have been diagnosed on 
clinical grounds were detected by CT. This study offers a clearer understanding 
of the true incidence and natural history of cerebroventricular hemorrhage and 
associated hydrocephalus in premature neonates and may clarify etiologic factors 
and identify children at risk for subsequent neurologic abnormalities.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.132.4.631
PMID: 106697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Med Care. 1979 Apr;17(4):430-4. doi: 10.1097/00005650-197904000-00011.

Cost effectiveness analysis: some problems of implementation.

Watts CA, Jackson M, LoGerfo JP.

Cost benefit analyses in the health sector frequently deal with situations in 
which the money value of the benefits is either difficult or impossible to 
measure. This paper asserts that the use of cost effectiveness analysis as a 
means of escaping the need to place a dollar value on benefits does not escape 
the need for appropriately discounting these benefits when they accrue in 
different periods over time. The choice of an appropriate discount rate is 
discussed, and the benefits of elective hysterectomy are used to demonstrate 
that a serious bias can result from ignoring the need for discounting.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-197904000-00011
PMID: 107371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. MMW Munch Med Wochenschr. 1979 Apr 6;121(14):468.

[Essential hypotension: "anti-risk factor"?].

[Article in German]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 107429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Fed Proc. 1979 May;38(6):1989-92.

Inverse correlation between species life span and capacity of cultured 
fibroblasts to metabolize polycyclic hydrocarbon carcinogens.

Schwartz AG, Moore CJ.

Many investigators have hypothesized that the aging process may result from an 
accumulation of DNA damage, and, if valid, this necessitates a means by which 
this accumulation can be related to the potential life span of an organism. 
Using an assay for cell-mediated mutagenesis, we have tested multiple diploid 
fibroblast strains from six mammalian species of widely differing life spans, 
and found a very good inverse correlation between species life span and ability 
to activate 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) to mutagenic forms. We have 
also found a very good inverse correlation between species life span and ability 
to activate DMBA to forms capable of covalent binding to DNA. Since the 
polycyclic hydrocarbon carcinogens such as DMBA and benzo(a)pyrene (BP) are 
chemically non-reactive in their native forms and must be metabolically 
activated by mixed-function oxidases to their biologically active forms, these 
data indicate that the capacity of fibroblasts to activate polycyclic 
hydrocarbon carcinogens to DNA-damaging forms is a species property related to 
potential life span. To determine the role of carcinogen metabolism in this 
phenomenon the capacity of diploid fibroblasts from eight mammalian species to 
convert BP and DMBA to water-soluble metabolites was then determined. This rate 
of conversion varies widely among different species and shows a very good 
inverse correlation with species life span. As a whole, these findings suggest 
that the ability of cultured cells to metabolize the polycyclic hydrocarbon 
carcinogens is related to species life span, and may be important in the 
occurrence of spontaneous cancer.

PMID: 108138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. JAMA. 1979 May 25;241(21):2290-2.

Congenital hypothyroidism control programs. A cost-benefit analysis.

Layde PM, Von Allmen SD, Oakley GP Jr.

Comprehensive screening programs to control congenital hypothyroidism (CH), a 
preventable form of mental retardation, are being considered by some public 
health agencies. The proposed programs would test neonates' blood for thyroxine 
and, if warranted, provide follow-up testing and therapy. The estimated cost of 
detecting a single case of CH is $9,300, which includes specimen collection, 
laboratory analysis, and retesting of border-line cases. The present value of 
the treatment costs of CH adds $2,500 per case, a total cost of $11,800 per case 
detected and child treated. The economic benefits (averted costs of 
institutionalization and special education and increased productivity of the 
affected person) are estimated to have a present value of $105,000 per case, 
yielding a cost-benefit ratio of 1:8.9.

PMID: 108409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Dokl Akad Nauk SSSR. 1979;246(2):465-9.

[Determination of the specific duration of life].

[Article in Russian]

Gavrilov LA, Gavrilova NS.

PMID: 111909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Am J Public Health. 1979 Sep;69(9):950-3. doi: 10.2105/ajph.69.9.950.

Cost-effectiveness evaluation of a home visiting triage program for family 
planning in Turkey.

Bertera RL, Green LW.

Graduate Turkish midwives were trained in triage rules for determining family 
planning home visit frequency based on risk of couples. In a sample of 542 
couples followed for six months, modern contraceptive use increased 22 per cent 
among high-risk and about 15 per cent among moderate- and low-risk couples. 
After making assumptions about the fecundity, contraceptive success, and 
pregnancy complications, the estimated average cost per complication averted was 
$61 for high-risk, $177 for moderate-risk and $526 for low-risk couples.

PIP: The Population and Development Project in Egypt is a 3-tiered program, 
designed in 1977, to coordinate development and family planning policy at the 
village, governate, and central levels. The village committee is comprised of 
both elected and social members and includes the physician, social worker, 
schoolteacher, Imam of the Mosque, Bank Director, and other village 
representatives. 1425 villages out of 4066 are managed by 27 village councils. 
The program emphasizes rural areas and rural governments. Rural female extension 
workers have been recruited, trained, and deployed by the villagers. They 
promote family planning by home visits. A Regional Council for Population and 
Family Planning (RCPFP) has been organized in each of the 12 governates. At the 
central level the Department of Population and Development (DPD) has been 
created to evaluate and monitor the program. Indications of progress are intense 
involvement of village councils; increased awareness of quality of life 
improvement by rural populace; performance of local government; and decreased 
birth rates.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.69.9.950
PMCID: PMC1619215
PMID: 112875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1979 Oct;133(4):695-7. doi: 10.2214/ajr.133.4.695.

CT findings in retinoblastoma.

Danziger A, Price HI.

Computed tomographic (CT) findings in 38 patients with surgically proven 
retinoblastomas are described. CT is of value in accurately and rapidly 
assessing the extraocular and intracranial spread of clinically diagnosed 
retinoblastomas. This information is of prognostic value as patients with tumors 
that have spread beyond the confines of the globe have a life expectancy of only 
a few months. Calcification was present in 11 of 23 tumors confined to the 
globe, but was seen in only two of 15 tumors that had extended beyond the globe. 
Therefore, the presence of calcification may be a favorable prognostic sign.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.133.4.695
PMID: 114015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Experientia. 1979 Sep 15;35(9):1193. doi: 10.1007/BF01963281.

Superoxide dismutase and life span of Drosophila melanogaster.

Bartosz G, Leyko W, Fried R.

Comparison of superoxide dismutase activity in homogenates of wild and vestigial 
strains of D. melanogaster revealed a lower enzyme activity in the short-living 
vestigial strain.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01963281
PMID: 114412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. J Am Dent Assoc. 1979 Oct;99(4):774-80. doi: 10.14219/jada.archive.1979.0367.

The economics of health in a postindustrial society.

Fuchs VR.

DOI: 10.14219/jada.archive.1979.0367
PMID: 117040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Acta Biotheor. 1979;28(2):135-44. doi: 10.1007/BF00046809.

[Why do the very aged become so old?].

[Article in German]

Bloch KF.

Some men can obtain hundred years or more, but the grounds are as yet unknown. 
Till now medical research has given no specific clues. Intensive consideration 
shows that life under quite natural (no longer found), not too hard social and 
climatic conditions (more maritime than arid) and in mountainous regions is 
decisive. It is clear that few territories of the earth come into consideration. 
The specific mental situation of mountain dwellers which contrasts in important 
points to that of the inhabitants of flat country, plays a decisive part.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00046809
PMID: 119391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Australas Nurses J. 1979 Nov;9(1):27-8, 32.

The changes in life style and funding patterns.

Swift WD.

PMID: 119536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1976 Jan-Feb;(114):116-33.

The mucopolysaccharidoses and mucolipidoses.

Kelly TE.

The mucopolysaccharidoses and mucolipidoses are recessively inherited lysosomal 
storage diseases. Each of the disorders can now be specifically identified in 
cultured fibroblasts. As a group these disorders clinically present with a 
Hurler-like phenotype. Genetic heterogeneity and variable expression of the same 
enzyme deficiency require a combined clinical and laboratory approach to the 
diagnosis of these disorders. This feature is demonstrated by 
mucopolysaccharidosis I. This diagnosis refers to a specific deficiency of the 
lysosomal enzyme alpha-L-iduronidase. Further characterization requires clinical 
assessment to determine whether the final diagnosis is the Hurler syndrome, the 
Scheie syndrome or the Hurler-Scheie compound. Clinically each of these three 
disorders may be difficult to distinguish from other mucopolysaccharidoses or 
mucolipidoses. There is no specific treatment currently available for any of 
these disorders. However, a specific diagnosis should be established in each 
case to insure an accurate prognosis (some of these disorders are compatible 
with near normal life expectancy and normal intelligence), appropriate genetic 
counseling for the family and timely use of prenatal diagnosis by amniocentesis 
which is available for each of these disorders.

PMID: 131015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Zdravookhr Ross Fed. 1975 Jun;(6):26-8.

[Average life expectancy of the population of Stavropol country (according to 
materials of 1959-1970)].

[Article in Russian]

Alabovskii IuI, Vakhrameeva NA.

PMID: 131451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Laryngol Rhinol Otol (Stuttg). 1976 Aug;55(8):631-6.

[The Cannula-free tracheostoma after total exstirpation of the larynx].

[Article in German]

Jatho K.

An operative modification of the design of a tracheostoma which uses no cannula 
is described. This modification considerably simplifies follow-up care and the 
requisite speech therapy is more successful. The extension of the tracheostoma 
is achieved by means of an parallel incision which widens the trachea with the 
acid of 2 tough threads on each side, which are fastened to the clavicle. The 
threads are left in place for a considerable time. Among other advantages, the 
patient is relieved of bearing foreign material for the rest of his life. The 
voice returns better and faster according to our experience. Rehabilitation 
problems are noticeably simpler to solve, since the feeling, that one must bear 
a cannula, which would be in constant need of care, is absent, Thereby one is 
not as aware that he is indeed suffering and the desire for extra retirement 
benefits is not present. The fifteen patients successfully treated by us, show 
clearly less dependence on the physician and other hospital personal

PMID: 134227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Inquiry. 1976 Sep;13(3):215-27.

Maximizing health system output with political and administrative constraints 
using mathematical programming.

Chen MM, Bush JW.

Decisions about delivery programs to improve health status are characterized by 
indivisibilities or "lumpiness," interdependencies between case types with 
varying health output, high fixed costs, administrative constraints, and 
qualitative quity and political considerations. The nature of the constraints 
and the goal of health services strongly suggest a mathematical programming 
model to maximize a comprehensive measure of health status. In a previously 
unreported development, binary integer programming can be extended to consider 
shared fixed costs, a widespread problem in optimizing effectiveness measures 
such as health status. The model proposed here applies conceptually across all 
target populations and health programs and could be used to optimize the output 
of a total health system. The effects of such optimization would be 
appropriately reflected in the weighted life expectancy computed as a social 
indicator.

PMID: 135728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Klin Med (Mosk). 1976 Jul;54(7):48-53.

[Occupational prognosis and the longevity of persons engaged in intellectual 
work who have had a myocardial infarct].

[Article in Russian]

Gurevich TZ, Kazarina RF, Ospina LI, Smirnova MV.

PMID: 135876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Klin Med (Mosk). 1976 Jul;54(7):88-91.

[Longevity in liver cirrhosis patients treated conservatively and with the use 
of organ anastomoses].

[Article in Russian]

Afanas'eva KA.

PMID: 135879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Zahn Mund Kieferheilkd Zentralbl. 1976;64(6):597-600.

[The number of teeth in persons who died within a 5-year period in comparison 
with survivors].

[Article in German]

TÃ³th A.

In reliance on dental records taken in 1965 it was examined whether or not 
examinees with a higher number of teeth display a better survival rate for the 5 
years' periode 1965-1970 than examinees of the same age and sex but with a lower 
number of teeth; in other words, whether or not, the number of teeth is a 
suitable index for biological age, at least in the higher age-groups.

PMID: 137620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Zahn Mund Kieferheilkd Zentralbl. 1976;64(7):700-5.

[Foundations of modern chemotherapy of malignant tumors].

[Article in German]

Rieche K.

Position of tumour chemotherapy among tumour treatment. Cytostatics as a 
systemic active means of tumour management. Adjuvant application of chemotherapy 
in the postoperative period. Achievements of nowadays chemotherapy in some 
tumours. Rules of chemotherapy action on tumours, tumour biological 
considerations. Cytokinetic aspects of tumour chemotherapy. Critics on partial 
synchronization. Specialties of the chemotherapy in the field of head and neck 
tumours. Some dosage recommendations for a few drugs to be systematically or 
locally administered. Possibilities for potentiating of cytostatic action--by 
using the oncobiogram, anticoagulation or defibrination and immunostimulation, 
respectively. Clinical evaluation of cytostatic effectivity applying the method 
of randomized clinically controlled study.

PMID: 137626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Zdravookhr Ross Fed. 1976 Nov;11:13-6.

[Study of the effect of mortality in childhood on the median longevity of the 
population].

[Article in Russian]

Dmitriev VI.

PMID: 137630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Allerg Immunol (Leipz). 1976;22(3):253-5.

[Aging and tumor immunity].

[Article in German]

Pasternak L.

PMID: 139087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Zdravookhr Ross Fed. 1977;(1):22-5.

[Infant mortality in towns of the Kalinin region and its influence on the 
average duration of the future life of the population].

[Article in Russian]

Krasnenkov VL.

PMID: 139798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Clin Perinatol. 1977 Mar;4(1):201-9.

Ethical aspects of care of the newborn with serious neurological disease.

Hemphill M, Freeman JM.

PMID: 140034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Milbank Mem Fund Q Health Soc. 1977 Winter;55(1):3-24.

The failures of success.

Gruenberg EM.

PMID: 141009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. N Engl J Med. 1977 Oct 20;297(16):863-9. doi: 10.1056/NEJM197710202971605.

The potential impact of sexual equality on health.

Lewis CE, Lewis MA.

There are major differences between the sexes in morbidity and mortality rates. 
At all ages males have higher death rates and are more frequently afflicted with 
the chronic diseases associated with considerable reductions in longevity. Trend 
data indicate that males have become relatively more disadvantaged during a 
period characterized by major advances in medicine and increased access to care. 
In contrast, rates of disability and use of services are higher among females. 
There is some evidence that these differences are associated more with 
behavioral than with biologic factors. Certain shifts in age-specific mortality 
rates reflect sex-role-related changes in behavior--e.g., increased consumption 
of tobacco by women and a reversal in sex mortality ratio for cancer of the 
lung. Changes in sex roles may affect directly, or indirectly through family 
dynamics, the health status of both sexes.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM197710202971605
PMID: 143616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Rofo. 1978 Jan;128(1):66-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1230791.

[Cranial metaphysial dysplasia (Jackson) (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Wemmer U, BÃ¶ttger E.

The typical development of the radiological and clinical features of cranial 
metaphyseal dysplasia were observed over a period of nine years in one patient. 
This condition is most commonly confused with metaphyseal dysplasia (Pyle), but 
differs from the latter in showing pronounced changes in the skull leading to 
blindness, deafness and facial paralysis as well as club-shaped metaphyses. 
Cranial metaphyseal dysplasia, particularly in its autosomal recessive form, 
leads to reduced intelligence and life expectancy of the patients. The diagnosis 
can usually be made in early childhood.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1230791
PMID: 146664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Fortschr Med. 1978 Mar 30;96(12):625-30.

[Malignant tumors of the gastrointestinal tract and their early diagnosis].

[Article in German]

Riemann JF.

Malignant tumors of the gastrointestinal tract belong to the main causes of 
death. The overall 5-years-survival rate is low. Systematic investigations of 
early gastric cancer and polyps of the colon revealed that asymptomatic 
carcinomas are detectable and have a definite chance for curative treatment. 
Mass survey of the population by means of endoscopic or radiological procedures 
are impossible due to high financial expense. Therefore, other diagnostic tools 
have to be inaugurated. Besides a maximum diagnostic effort in each individual 
with gastrointestinal complaints, high risk groups with a significantly 
increased incidence rate of malignant tumor development have been established. 
Thorough observation of those persons is necessary as are simple, inexpensive 
and practicable methods for screening examinations.

PMID: 147228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Sov Zdravookhr. 1978;(3):51-4.

[Socioeconomic shifts and the health of the population of the Udmurt ASSR].

[Article in Russian]

Ezhova NN.

PMID: 148105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Offentl Gesundheitswes. 1978 May;40(5):278-85.

[Development of public health conditions in Yugoslavia as shown by means of a 
few parameters (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Sikora I, Burany B.

PMID: 149273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1978 Aug 12;108(32):1241-6.

[Hodgkin's disease: classification, staging, therapy].

[Article in German]

Wewerka JR.

Our present knowledge of Hodgkin's disease is briefly reviewed and the 
prognostic importance of histologic subtype and stage is demonstrated. Today's 
staging methods and the indications for laparoscopy and laparotomy with 
splenectomy are discussed. The indications and results of radiotherapy and/or 
chemotherapy are summarized. Roughly half the patients in stages III B, IV A and 
IV B survive 5 to 10 years after diagnosis without evidence of disease.

PMID: 150029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Ciba Found Symp. 1978;(59):3-16. doi: 10.1002/9780470720417.ch2.

Main causes of major mental handicap: prevalence and epidemiology.

Alberman E.

The prevalence of educational subnormality of a severe form (between 3 and 3.6 
per thousand children of school age) and the prevalence of cerebral palsy 
(between 2 and 2.4 per thousand) have been fairly stable up to recent years. 
This stability has also applied to the relative proportions of the different 
major causes contributing to the handicaps. Where the ascertainment of such 
conditions is good, their prevalence monitored and the life expectancy of 
affected individuals estimated, any changes in prevalence can be used to measure 
the effectiveness of new forms of prevention, or alternatively to indicate the 
existence of new environmental hazards. Only a multi-pronged campaign against 
many of the recognized causes will have a substantial impact on prevalence.

DOI: 10.1002/9780470720417.ch2
PMID: 152702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. J S Afr Vet Assoc. 1978 Sep;49(3):179-82.

The effect of germfree and SPF maintenance conditions on the lifespan and 
diseases of small laboratory animals.

Deerberg F, Pittermann W.

The mortality rates and spontaneous diseases defining the course of natural 
mortality graphs in colonies of Han: NMRI mice kept under conventional, SPF and 
germfree maintenance conditions are reported. A specific problem in SPF colonies 
is caused by ubiquitous germs. The lesions and possible reasons for such types 
of infections are discussed.

PMID: 154573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Adv Intern Med. 1979;24:311-29.

The athlete's heart.

Crawford MH, O'Rourke RA.

In summary, we have discussed the anatomical and physiologic effects of physical 
training and how they alter the physical examination, thoracic roentgenogram, 
ECG, and echocardiogram of the athlete. The importance of recognizing these 
deviations from "normal" findings is to avoid considering them evidence of 
cardiac disease. On the other hand, it is important to exclude cardiovascular 
disease in those pursuing vigorous athletics because of the potential for sudden 
cardiac death in those with coronary artery, valvular, or myocardial disease. 
Unfortunately, the first manifestation of coronary artery disease may be sudden 
death during athletic performance, a disease not easily detected in asymptomatic 
individuals. Finally, improper training, excessive trauma, and extreme 
environmental conditions may contribute to cardiovascular accidents in the 
competing athlete.

PMID: 154831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Acta Genet Med Gemellol (Roma). 1978;27:67-74. doi:
10.1017/s0001566000009521.

Double trisomy as a mosaic. Case history (48, XYY, + 21/47,XY, +21) and survey 
of the literature of mixed autosomal-gonosomal trisomies.

Schwanitz G, Hagner M.

The case of a boy is reported showing the typical symptoms of Down's syndrome, 
in whom the chromosome analysis revealed a mosaic karyotype: 50% 48,XYY,+21/50% 
47,XY,+21. Findings of 92 cases from the literature are summarized to show the 
frequencies of double gonosome-autosome aneuploidies compared with single 
trisomies. Referring to the different chromosomes involved, the aneuploid cell 
formation, the frequencies of combinations, as well as the tendency to mosaic 
formation are analyzed. The age of parents at the time of birth and the life 
expectancy are described as well as the clinical symptoms. Theories concerning 
the origin of double aneuploidies are discussed.

DOI: 10.1017/s0001566000009521
PMID: 155969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Zdravookhr Ross Fed. 1979;(5):17-9.

[Health and demographic analysis of mortality indices].

[Article in Russian]

Levin SM.

PMID: 157034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Arch Toxicol Suppl. 1979;(2):403-7. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-67265-1_46.

Lifespan studies on male and female mice and rats under SPF-laboratory 
conditions.

Suter P, Luetkemeier H, Zakova N, Christen P, Sachsse K, Hess R.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-67265-1_46
PMID: 157120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Virchows Arch A Pathol Anat Histol. 1979 Aug 23;383(3):293-317. doi: 
10.1007/BF00430248.

Non-Hodgkin lymphomas of the thyroid. A clinico-pathological review of 29 cases 
applying the Lukes-Collins classification and an immunoperoxidase method.

Maurer R, Taylor CR, Terry R, Lukes RJ.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00430248
PMID: 158873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Jpn Heart J. 1979 Sep;20(5):752. doi: 10.1536/ihj.20.752.

The blood pressure, life span, body weight in both sexes of SHRSP during 55 
weeks under specific pathogen free system [proceedings].

Ueda H, Saito N, Suganuma Y, Matsuo H.

DOI: 10.1536/ihj.20.752
PMID: 159373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Immunology. 1979 Sep;38(1):75-83.

Restoration of impaired immune functions of aged animals by chronic bestatin 
treatment.

Bruley-Rosset M, Florentin I, Kiger N, Schulz J, MathÃ© G.

An attempt to correct the state of immunodeficiency in old age was made by 
repeatedly injecting a chemically defined immunostimulating agent, bestatin, to 
16 month old (C57Bl/6 x BALB/c) F1 mice. Aged mice were found to have depressed 
T-cell and B-cell responses but increased ADCC activity. Weekly injections of 
bestatin over a period of 6 months resulted in varying effects depending on the 
dose administered. Small doses (10 microgram per injection) were more effective 
in restoring humoral responses to SRBC rather than delayed-type hypersensitivity 
reactions, whereas large doses (100 microgram per injection) acted in the 
opposite way. Macrophage activation was only obtained after the administration 
of the high doses of bestatin. Continuous treatment with bestatin did not 
prevent the appearance of suppressor cells induced by ageing. It led to a 
significant reduction of ADCC activity in aged animals near to the base line 
value of young animals. Animals were examined for the presence of spontaneous 
tumours from the end of the treatment until the age of 28 months. A significant 
reduction of spontaneous tumour incidence was observed in mice given repeated 
injections of 100 microgram bestatin when compared to untreated aged mice and to 
mice given the low doses of bestatin.

PMCID: PMC1457901
PMID: 159863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. J Med Genet. 1979 Oct;16(5):379-83. doi: 10.1136/jmg.16.5.379.

Years of life lost through Down's syndrome.

Jones MB.

A congenital genetic condition does not act either as a cause of death or at the 
time of death only. Hence, years of life lost through such a conditon cannot be 
calculated in the same way as for a conventional cause of death. The main 
difference is that a cause of death acting at age x cuts off as many years of 
life as the dead person might otherwise have expected to live (life expectancy 
at age x), whereas a congenital genetic condition exposes an affected person to 
a different schedule of life-threatening risks from birth onwards. In the latter 
case, years of life lost is calculated as the difference in life expectancy at 
birth for affected and non-affected persons. This reasoning is worked out in 
algebraic form and then applied to Down's syndrome. The data base is provided by 
two large and recent studies, one in Massachusetts and the other in Denmark, of 
mortality rates among all cases of Down's syndrome, whether in an institution or 
not, born during a given period of years or living at a given point in time in a 
fixed geographical area. So calculated, years of life lost through Down's 
syndrome relative to the United States general population in 1970 was 53.6 years 
per 1000 livebirths. Prenatal mortality is also discussed.

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.16.5.379
PMCID: PMC1012614
PMID: 159951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Zdravookhr Ross Fed. 1979;(12):10-5.

[Median life expectancy and the prospects for its change in Leningrad].

[Article in Russian]

Poliakov IV.

PMID: 160162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Am J Hum Genet. 1979 Nov;31(6):711-7.

Years of life lost due to Huntington disease.

Jones MB.

Many genetic diseases shorten the lives of people who have them. Hence, it makes 
sense to speak of years of life lost due to cystic fibrosis or sickle-cell 
anemia or numerous other genetic disorders. In conventional practice, years of 
life lost is calculated for causes of death only, but a genetic disease is 
better understood as a risk-altering state or condition: it acts not at the time 
of death only but from birth onwards. Therefore, we must reformulate the concept 
of years of life lost before applying it to genetic conditions. This has already 
been done for congenital genetic diseases. This paper extends the reformulation 
to diseases with delayed onset. Huntington disease (HD) is used as an example.

PMCID: PMC1686040
PMID: 160199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Br J Exp Pathol. 1979 Oct;60(5):493-8.

Thiamphenicol and lupus nephritis. II. The effects of giving the drug from 
weaning to NZBxOUW F1 hybrid female mice.

Simpson LO, Aarons I, Howie JB.

Thiamphenicol at the rate of 50 mg/kg/day given to female NZBxOUW F1 hybrid mice 
from weaning and continuing throughout life resulted in a considerable extension 
of lifespan, although this was less than in mice given the same drug dosage from 
first antinuclear antibody (ANA) positivity (Simpson, Aarons and Howie, 1979). 
Assessment of the changes in renal dysfunction and renal histology shows that 
thiamphenicol treatment did not prevent the development of immune complex 
glomerulonephritis although the rate of progression of the disease was slower 
than in untreated controls. Thiamphenicol failed to influence greatly the 
progressive anaemia which develops in these mice or to alter the pattern of ANA 
production. Although azotaemia developed in treated mice it was a terminal 
event. It was concluded that the action of thiamphenicol was to depress but not 
prevent immune complex formation possibly by impairing immunoglobulin formation 
although why immunofluorescent ANA formation remained unaffected is not 
understood.

PMCID: PMC2041506
PMID: 160240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Cancer Lett. 1979 Dec;8(2):133-7. doi: 10.1016/0304-3835(79)90006-5.

Carcinogenic activity in Sprague-Dawley rats of 
2-[3-(2-chloroethyl)-3-nitrosoureido]-D-gluco-pyranose (chlorozotocin).

Habs M, Eisenbrand G, SchmÃ¤hl D.

Sprague--Dawley rats of both sexes received 2 mg/kg body wt (group 1) or 0.4 
mg/kg body wt (group 2) of 2-[3-(2-chloroethyl)-3-nitrosoureido]-D-glucopyranose 
(chlorozotocin) intraperitoneally in weekly injections for life. A 
dose-dependent carcinogenic effect of chlorozotocin was found (animals with 
malignant tumors in group 1: males 88%, females 89%, in group 2: males 83%, 
females 63%, in controls: males 10%, females 24%). Chlorozotocin reduced the 
life expectancy of treated animals significantly, compared to solvent controls. 
Histologically, the chlorozotocin-induced tumors were shown to be mesotheliomas 
or sarcomas of the peritoneal cavity (undifferentiated type, fibrosarcomas, 
myosarcomas).

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3835(79)90006-5
PMID: 162366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. MMW Munch Med Wochenschr. 1975 Feb 21;117(8):293-300.

[Diagnosis and surgical treatment of bronchial carcinoma - a report on 1000 
cases (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

SchÃ¶nleben K, Wittrin G, Krebs C.

One thousand cases of bronchial carcinoma, which had been treated in the 
Chirurgische UniversitÃ¤tsklinik Erlangen in 17 years, are reported. 63,2% were 
either primarily inoperable or found to be so after an exploratory laparotomy; 
Only 32,4% of all patients were admitted in the first 3 months, 17,6% after more 
than 12 months, Squamous epithelial carcinoma was the most frequent histological 
type (51,2%), then came small cell carcinoma (16,4%), dedifferentiated carcinoma 
(5,1%) and adenocarcinoma (4,1%). The best results of operative treatment were 
obtained with lobectomy in Stage I with a five year survival rate of 45%. In 
Stage II, pneumonectomy is the satisfactory operation (no five year cure with 
lobectomy, but 25,2% with pneumonectomy). Exploratory thoracotomy does not 
shorten the life expectancy and it should therefore be performed in doubtful 
cases.

PMID: 164622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. J Reprod Med. 1975 Jun;14(06):231-40.

Clinical diagnosis of breast cancer.

Leis HP Jr.

Breast cancer is the most common malignant neoplasm in women, and 6% will 
develop it during their normal life expectancy. There is a group who have a high 
risk of developing breast cancer. The recent improvement in cure rates seems to 
be jue chiefly to earlier diagnosis rather than to improved methods of therapy. 
The physician, by careful periodic breast examinations and by the judicious use 
of diagnostic aids such as mammography and thermography, especially in the high 
risk group, has a golden opportunity to pick up cancer in a localized stage 
where the prognosis for cure with appropriate therapy is excellent. A tentative 
diagnosis of breast cancer (Table XI) can be made with a fair degree of accuracy 
by taking a careful history, utilizing and combining available statistics about 
the frequency, median age, characteristic symptom complexes of the common breast 
lesions and factors related to a high mammary carcinoma risk, and by a 
systematic and thorough breast examination supplemented with diagnostic aids 
when appropriate. However, biopsy and histologic examination is mandatory in all 
patients with a) true, three dimentional, dominant lumps even if diagnostic aids 
are negative except for cysts which can be safely aspirated under controlled 
conditions; b) suspicious lesions found by diagnostic aids even though there are 
no clinical findings; c) serous, serosanguineous, bloody, or watery nipple 
discharge; and d) other signs of cancer, i.e. eczema of the nipple, axillary 
adenopathy, etc., in order to determine with absolute accuracy whether the 
lesion is benign or malignant.

PMID: 168376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

