
112. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1975 Jul;55(1):37-45. doi: 10.1093/jnci/55.1.37.

Aging changes in CD-1 HaM/ICR mice reared under standard laboratory conditions.

Homburger F, Russfield AB, Weisburger JH, Lim S, Chak SP, Weisburger EK.

Three hundred CD-1 HaM/ICR mice were observed for 2 years, and useful necropsies 
were done on 99 males and 102 females. Mortality was 50% at 16 months in the 
males and 18 months in the females. Among mice that came to autopsy, total tumor 
incidence was 54% for males and 75% for females, with most neoplasms occurring 
after 18 months. Adenomas or adenocarcinomas of the lung were the most frequent, 
followed by lymphoreticular tumors, vascular tumors, hepatomas, subcutaneous 
fibrosarcomas, and adenocarcinomas of the mammary glands. Some degree of 
amyloidosis was seen in half the mice of both sexes, beginning at 8 months in 
males and 12 months in females. Variability in tumor incidence among small 
groups if mice emphasized the need for adequate samples.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/55.1.37
PMID: 169366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Med Klin. 1975 Jul 11;70(28-29):1209-13.

[Frequency and distribution of types of hyperlipoproteinemia with 
life-shortening risk factors among ambulant patients (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Mertz DP, Hohneck A.

It is reported of 726 patients incidentally elected and mainly with 
life-shortening risk factors. 341 (47.1p.c.) showed an increased concentration 
of neutral fats and/or total cholesterol in the serum. Type IV (49.8 p.c.) 
according to Fredrickson was observed most frequently, followed by type IIb 
(31.1 p.c.) and by type IIa (19.1 p.c.). Most of the patients with 
hyperlipoproteinemia were overweight (53.1 p.c.), 33.6 p.c. suffered from 
arterial hypertension, 25.3 p.c. from diseases of the liver, 10.9 p.c. from 
coronary heart diseases, and 8.7 p.c. from manifest diabetes mellitus. The 
distribution of different types of hyperlipoproteinemia among the various 
diseases deviates from that of the total number of patients observed in this 
study. Cases of hyperlipoproteinemia were observed most frequently in diseases 
of the kidney with arterial hypertension (62.7 p.c.), coronary heart diseases 
(60.8 p.c.), manifest gout (60.0 p.c.), manifest diabetes mellitus (58.7 p.c.), 
and hyperuricemia without symptoms (55.8 p.c.). Type-IV-hyperlipoproteinemia was 
observed most frequently within the different groups of patients with 
life-shortening risk factors. An exception was the group of patients suffering 
from malignancies. Type IIb was found most frequently within the group of 
patients suffering from malignancies.

PMID: 170497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. J Neurosurg. 1975 Aug;43(2):142-9. doi: 10.3171/jns.1975.43.2.0142.

Cerebral dynamic studies for early detection of recurrent anaplastic 
intracranial gliomas.

Witherspoon LR, Mahaley MS Jr, Leonard JR, Tyson JW, Harris CC, Goodrich JK.

The authors compared radionuclide cerebral dynamic studies, brain scans, and 
clinical evaluation as indicators of recurrence of intracranial anaplastic 
gliomas and found cerebral dynamic studies more sensitive to tumor growth than 
static brain scans. The former may show changes prior to clinical evidence of 
tumor progression.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1975.43.2.0142
PMID: 171351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Metabolism. 1975 Nov;24(11):1243-65. doi: 10.1016/0026-0495(75)90063-3.

Familial hyper-alpha-lipoproteinemia: studies in eighteen kindreds.

Glueck CJ, Fallat RW, Millett F, Gartside P, Elston RC, Go RC.

A newly recognized familial hyperlipoproteinemia, familial 
hyper-alpha-lipoproteinemia, is described in 18 kindreds. Affected probands and 
relatives had distinctive elevations of alpha-lipoprotein cholesterol (C-HDL), 
slight elevations of total cholesterol, no elevation of LDL and VLDL 
cholesterol, and normal triglyceride levels. The proband and at least one 
additional first degree relative had distinctive elevations of C-HDL in 16 of 18 
kindreds. Simple segregation analysis involving 84 offspring of 22 hyper-alpha X 
normal-alpha matings from these 16 kindreds revealed a ratio of hyper-alpha to 
normal of 37:47, a ratio not significantly different from 1:1 (chi 2(1) = 1.2), 
the ratio consistent with autosomal dominant transmission. Despite the 
suggestion of a major gene effect by this analysis, evaluation of the C-HDL 
distribution in kindred members failed to reveal bimodality, and familial 
correlation analysis revealed no parent-offspring correlation. The present data 
suggest that an environmental cause common to sibships is possibly important in 
causing the disorder. Longevity analysis demonstrated elongation of life 
expectancy for kindred members, and there was an apparent rarity of premature 
cardiac events.

DOI: 10.1016/0026-0495(75)90063-3
PMID: 171539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Krankenpflege (Frankf). 1975 Sep;29(9):355-6.

[Increased life expectancy--superannuated population. Will measures for directed 
geriatric care be sufficient?].

[Article in German]

Weinrich A.

PMID: 172727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. J Urol. 1976 Jun;115(6):750-2. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)59363-5.

Neoplasia at the site of ureterosigmoidostomy.

Carswell JJ 3rd, Skeel DA, Witherington R, Otken LB Jr.

An increased incidence of neoplasia at the site of ureterosigmoidostomy must be 
considered in patients being evaluated for or who have undergone this procedure. 
A case of mucinous adenocarcinoma 24 years following bilateral 
ureterosigmoidostomy is reported. This patient had bilateral 
hydroureteronephrosis, which led to left nephroureterectomy and right cutaneous 
ureterostomy. Mucinous adenocarcinoma was diagnosed only after the edematous, 
protruding and inflamed cutaneous ureterostomy stoma was biopsied. To our 
knowledge this is the first reported case of transfer of such a malignancy to 
the skin at the time of cutaneous ureterostomy. We recommend that 
ureterosigmoidostomy be performed only in patients with a limited life 
expectancy who agree to long-term followup. This followup should be frequent, 
complete and continue for the remainder of the patient's life. We consider the 
tendency for development of neoplasia at the ureterosigmoid anastomosis to be a 
relative contraindication to ureterosigmoidostomy. However, with proper patient 
selection and followup, ureterosigmoidostomy is still a remarkably satisfactory 
method of urinary diversion.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)59363-5
PMID: 181600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Lab Invest. 1976 Sep;35(3):221-34.

Assessment of skeletal aging using the 3H-proline topographic labeling method.

Tonna EA.

The present report represents an extension of initial 3H-proline 
autoradiographic studies designed to provide, at both the cytologic and 
histologic levels, an indelible topographic record of skeletal events in aging 
mice. 3H-proline was administered in multiple time-spaced doses and the animals 
were serially killed between 6 and 14 days later. Whole femora sectioned in 
longitudinal and three cross-sectional planes were prepared for autoradiography 
and subsequent grain count and micrometric analysis of the silver topographic 
bands which form over mineralizing surfaces. These bands, coincidental with the 
cellular uptake and turnover of radiotracer, allowed for the assessment of 
cellular rates of labeled matrical precursor production and deposition from 
which the processes of bone growth and remodeling and the effects of aging on 
the skeletal system can be evaluated. In addition, composite tracings of 
topographic data derived from multiple sections prepared at different geometric 
planes allowed for three-dimensional mapping of skeletal events. The results 
showed that the matrical rates of bone production in micrometers per day varied 
considerably from one surface to the next and decreased significantly with 
increasing age. The rates at posterior periosteal surfaces were twice those 
observed at the anterior periosteal surfaces of 5-week-old mice. By 26 weeks the 
rates decreased to 1/8 times, respectively. Between 52 and 104 weeks of age, no 
significant matrix production occurred at the periosteal surfaces. Endosteal 
activity was greater than twice the posterior periosteal rate at 5 weeks, 1/4 
times at 26 weeks, and 1/8 times at 104 weeks of age. It was concluded that 
endosteal matrix production continued throughout life via active remodeling 
processes, but periosteal activity was turned-off by 52 weeks. Furthermore, the 
study unexpectedly showed that in old animals, subendosteal bone formation 
exhibiting hematopoietic activity is activated at 52 weeks in focal areas...

PMID: 183055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Q Rev Biophys. 1976 May;9(2):283-308. doi: 10.1017/s0033583500002420.

Free radicals and the action of inhibitors of radical processes under 
pathological states and ageing in living organisms and in man.

Emanuel NM.

DOI: 10.1017/s0033583500002420
PMID: 183233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. J Assoc Off Anal Chem. 1977 May;60(3):583-9.

Sensitive silica gel-packed flowcell for fluorometric detection of aflatoxins by 
high pressure liquid chromatography.

Panalaks T, Scott PM.

Aflatoxins B1, B2, G1, and G2 were quantitatively detected by high pressure 
liquid chromatography on a 5 micronm Lichrosorb column, using a 
Lichrosorb-packed flowcell in the fluorometric detector. The relationship 
between peak height and the amount injected was linear only up to about 2 ng but 
showed a linear loglog relationship. Methods for constructing and packing the 
flowcell are given. A guard column and venting valve were used to minimize 
deterioration of the analytical column and the adsorbent-packed flowcell. The 
method was applied to a peanut butter extract, although with the cleanup 
procedure used, the life expectancy of the flowcell is limited.

PMID: 192707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Cancer. 1977 Sep;40(3):1037-44. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(197709)40:3<1037::aid-cncr2820400311>3.0.co;2-9.

Immunotherapy with autologous white cell infusions ("lymphocytes") in the 
treatment of recurrrent glioblastoma multiforme: a preliminary report.

Young H, Kaplan A, Regelson W.

Autologous leukocytes (10(7) to 10(9)), obtained with the Haemonetic's 
Leukaphoresis apparatus, were inoculated directly into recurrent glioblastoma 
tumors via indwelling catheters or by direct intratumoral injection through 
existing craniotomy openings. The rational use for autologous leukocyte 
(lymphocyte) infusions was based on in vitro autologous lymphocyte cytotoxicity 
to glioblastoma cells in the absence of serum inhibitory factors. Seven of 17 
patients treated had life expectancy under 1 month; all patients had received 
definitive surgery, and all but two received radiation, nitrosourea chemotherapy 
and/or dexamethasone, and showed evidence of clinically recurrent disease. 
Following autologous leukocyte infusion (lymphocyte/granulocyte ratio 1:1), 
eight patients sustained clinical improvement and were alive up to 17 months 
later. No neurotoxicity ascribable to the procedure has been observed. One 
patient, who was comatose at the time of single leukocyte infusion, returned to 
full activity and lived for 17 months without an increase in tumor mass by brain 
scan. These results suggest that infusions of autologous leukocytes 
(lymphocyte-monocytes) directly into glioblastoma may be a viable additional 
treatment for glioblastoma and certainly warrants further evaluation.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(197709)40:3<1037::aid-cncr2820400311>3.0.co;2-9
PMID: 198084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Krankenpflege (Frankf). 1977 Dec;31(12):398.

[Superannuation, a problem of the future].

[Article in German]

Paillat P.

PMID: 202787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Am J Surg. 1978 May;135(5):664-6. doi: 10.1016/0002-9610(78)90131-9.

The treatment of operable breast cancer in the elderly female.

Kesseler HJ, Seton JZ.

The treatment of operable breast cancer in eighty-two patients older than 
seventy years was analyzed. The cancers were treated at an advanced stage and 
the axilla was involved as frequently as in younger women. The factors 
influencing survival differ because of competing mortalities from heart disease 
and stroke. The risks are discussed in relation to life expectancy and treatment 
method.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9610(78)90131-9
PMID: 206162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Krankenpflege (Frankf). 1978 Apr;32(4):120-1.

[Is long term treatment with antihypertensive agents hazardous?].

[Article in German]

Losse H.

PMID: 206765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1978 Mar;75(3):1260-4. doi:
10.1073/pnas.75.3.1260.

Detection and kinetic behavior of preproinsulin in pancreatic islets.

Patzelt C, Labrecque AD, Duguid JR, Carroll RJ, Keim PS, Heinrikson RL, Steiner 
DF.

Newly synthesized rat islet proteins have been analyzed by polyacrylamide slab 
gel electrophoresis and fluorography. A minor component having an apparent 
molecular weight of 11,100 was identified as preproinsulin by the sensitivity of 
its synthesis to glucose, the pattern of NH2-terminal leucine residues, and the 
rapidity of its appearance and disappearance during incubation of islets or 
islet cell tumors. A small amount of labeled peptide material which may 
represent the excised NH2-terminal extension of preproinsulin or its fragment 
was also detected. The kinetics of formation and processing of the preproinsulin 
fraction were complex, consisting of a rapidly turning over component having a 
half-life of about 1 min and a slower minor fraction that may have bypassed the 
normal cleavage process. The electrophoretic resolution of the preproinsulin and 
proinsulin fractions into two bands each is consistent with the presence of two 
closely related gene products in rat islets rather than intermediate stages in 
the processing of these peptides.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.75.3.1260
PMCID: PMC411450
PMID: 206890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. JAMA. 1978 Jul 7;240(1):47-8. doi: 10.1001/jama.240.1.47.

Familial hypobetalipoproteinemia. Absence of atherosclerosis in a postmortem 
study.

Kahn JA, Glueck CJ.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.240.1.47
PMID: 207903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. JAMA. 1978 Jul 7;240(1):58.

Shades of Methuselah.

Vaisrub S.

PMID: 207905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1978 Oct 6;103(40):1537-40. doi:
10.1055/s-0028-1129296.

[HDL cholesterol, a protective factor against coronary disease].

[Article in German]

Berchtold P, Berger M.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1129296
PMID: 212261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Major Probl Clin Surg. 1979;5:157-96.

Cancer of the breast. Gross and histologic pathlogy.

Perez-Mesa CM.

Increased demands are made upon the pathologist to work closely with the surgeon 
and the mammographer in the interest of early detection. The smallest of cancers 
and the very earliest phases of neoplastic development are being detected, 
necessitating fine discriminations between cancer and noncancer. Agreement is 
not always uniform at these new frontiers of diagnosis, and accuracy is 
paramount. Tumors are populations of heterogeneous cells. Their morphology lends 
itself poorly to simple categorization, and their biology is not always 
accurately reflected in their gross and histologic appearances. Clearly evident 
to the pathologist are the limitations of morphology, of the light microscope 
and of routine techniques for examining surgical specimens. Paradoxically, 
"noninvasive" cancers occasionally metastasize, and lymph nodes originally 
"free" of cancer are found to contain metastases on more meticulous 
re-examination. Notwithstanding these limitations a prognostic statement can be 
made with relative confidence with regard to certain morphologic types of 
carcinoma. Pure intraductal carcinoma and lobular carcinoma in situ entail 
negligible threat to normal life expectancy if the breast is thoroughly removed. 
Other types with a favorable prognosis are intracystic papillary carcinomas and 
pure mucinous carcinomas. Tumors classified as well differentiated or tubular 
adenocarcinoma infrequently metastasize and have excellent prospects for cure. 
Unfortunately, these and other favorable histologic types comprise less than one 
quarter of all mammary carcinomas. Most carcinomas are without such distinctive 
features. In this category the degree of anaplasia and the nature of the tumor 
borders, as well as the presence or absence of blood vessel invasion, dermal 
lymphatic invasion and metastases in regional lymph nodes, are of major 
importance in arriving at an estimate of prognosis.

PMID: 222970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. MMW Munch Med Wochenschr. 1979 Jul 13;121(28):934-5.

[Tumor after care from a gynecological viewpoint].

[Article in German]

Geier G.

PMID: 225663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1979 Nov;51(4):579-87. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.1330510410.

New approaches to the pre- and post-contact history of Arctic peoples.

Laughlin WS, Harper AB, Thompson DD.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330510410
PMID: 229734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Southeast Asian J Trop Med Public Health. 1979 Dec;10(4):592-9.

Recent trend of environmental pollution in Japan.

Shigematsu I.

PMID: 231843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Rev Interam Radiol. 1979 Jan;4(1):21-7.

[Breast cancer in men].

[Article in Spanish]

Alexander LL, Benninghoff DL, Camiel MR, Solisio EO, Medina A.

Carcinoma of the breast is relatively uncommon in men. Represents somewhere 
between 0.9 to 1.5 of all tumors of the breast. Most patients are within the 7th 
to 8th decade of life. The most common symptoms at the time of presentation are 
a tumor mass in either breast, ulceration of the nipple or nipple retraction or 
fixation of the skin. Extension to the axiliar nodes takes place early in the 
course of the disease. The presence of nipple discharge should be considered 
expression of carcinoma of the breast unless otherwise proven. The final 
diagnosis is established by biopsy. The most common form of carcinoma of the 
breast is the ductal carcinoma. The surgical management takes basically that 
followed in carcinoma of the breast in the female patient. Also orquiectomy has 
been used which is equivalent to ovariectomy in woman. In the presence of 
metastasis both estrogens and androgens have been used. Hypophysectomy and 
post-op radiation therapy has been used. Most recently chemotherapy has been 
widely used in those cases with widespread metastasis. However, in spite of all 
these efforts carcinoma of the breast in the male still carries a very serious 
prognosis. We present our experience in 16 cases.

PMID: 232766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Lebensversicher Med. 1975 Jan;27(1):15-20.

[Life expectancy of tuberculoous alcoholics].

[Article in German]

Prokop H.

PMID: 234560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Lebensversicher Med. 1975 Jan;27(1):7-12.

[Prolongation of life expectancy of dialysis].

[Article in German]

Schoeppe W.

PMID: 234562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. ASDC J Dent Child. 1975 May-Jun;42(3):191-3.

Dental treatment for the child with acute lymphocytic leukemia 1974.

Carey JA, Chilcote RR.

PMID: 239034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. J Stud Alcohol. 1975 Sep;36(9):1107-23. doi: 10.15288/jsa.1975.36.1107.

Changes in ethanol consumption by C3H and CF1 mice with age.

Kahn AJ.

Water or a 3% alcohol solution was offered for 4 weeks to groups of male C3H 
mice initially aged 3, 13, 20 and 60 weeks, and to male CF1 mice from age 10 
weeks until they died. Differences in the consumption depended on age and the 
rate at which response patterns to the solution develop.

DOI: 10.15288/jsa.1975.36.1107
PMID: 240967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Ciba Found Symp. 1977;(49):155-68. doi: 10.1002/9780470715406.ch9.

Health and disease in unacculturated Amerindian populations.

Neel JV.

The stereotype of uncontacted tribal populations is that they must reproduce at 
near capacity to maintain or slightly increase their numbers. This paper argues 
that the health of minimally contacted Amerindians, as judged by the results of 
physical examinations and life tables for the Yanomama of Southern Venezuela and 
Northern Brazil, is relatively good, with population control a feature of the 
Indian culture. It is further argued that the usual deterioration in health with 
contacts with western culture probably does not result so much from special 
innate susceptibilities to certain epidemic diseases and to the diets and 
'stresses' of civilization as from the epidemiological characteristics of newly 
contacted peoples.

DOI: 10.1002/9780470715406.ch9
PMID: 244408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Soins. 1978 Apr 20;23(8):3-5.

[Psychosocial aspects of the menopause].

[Article in French]

de Lignières B.

PMID: 249029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Can Nurse. 1978 Oct;74(9):8-9.

Focus on Native health.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 249673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Nurs Res. 1978 Sep-Oct;27(5):316-24.

Generalized expectancy, situational perception, and morale among 
institutionalized aged.

Chang BL.

This article was based on a larger study which sought to identify selected 
personality and situational variables that contribute to high morale of the 
institutionalized elderly. The relationship of generalized expectancy of control 
and perceived situational control to morale of the institutionalized aged was 
examined within a framework developed for the study. Locus of control, 
self-report, trust, self-rated health, and the Revised Philadelphia Geriatric 
Morale scales as well as a situational control of daily activities (SCDA) 
interview schedule were administered individually to 30 residents, aged 65 to 
96, in four skilled nursing facilities. Congruence between internal orientation 
and self-determined SCDA resulted in higher morale than incongruence; however, 
congruence between external orientation and other-determined situations resulted 
in lower morale than incongruence.

PMID: 249951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Infirm Fr. 1979 Dec;(210):24.

[Aging is not an unavoidable process].

[Article in French]

Hatano S.

PMID: 261078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Rev Bras Enferm. 1978 Jan-Mar;31(1):32-8.

[Advanced campus as a university extension].

[Article in Portuguese]

Costa Mendes IA, Trevizan MA, da Cunha AM.

PMID: 261383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Trans Assoc Life Insur Med Dir Am. 1979;62:135-53.

Health and aging in our society: perspectives on mortality and the emergence of 
geriatrics.

Birren JE, Bernstein L.

PMID: 262339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Gerontologist. 1978 Aug;18(4):363-71. doi: 10.1093/geront/18.4.363.

The underutilization of nursing home facilities by Mexican-American elderly in 
the Southwest.

Eribes RA, Bradley-Rawls M.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/18.4.363
PMID: 263482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Gerontologist. 1979 Feb;19(1):83-9. doi: 10.1093/geront/19.1.83.

Discriminating between survivors and nonsurvivors among working class aged 
living in the community.

Harel Z.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/19.1.83
PMID: 263580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Prim Care. 1977 Sep;4(3):513-28.

Anesthesia in the patient with parkinsonism.

Brindle GF.

Medical control of parkinsonism has resulted in a longer life expectancy and 
better quality of life for these patients, who are now presenting for surgical 
treatment of a variety of conditions. In addition to the risks associated with 
age, these patients are more prone to restrictive pulmonary problems. General 
anesthesia should be avoided when possible.

PMID: 264227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Blood. 1977 Apr;49(4):559-62.

Treatment of juvenile chronic myeloid leukemia with sequential subcutaneous 
cytarabine and oral mercaptopurine.

Lilleyman JS, Harrison JF, Black JA.

Three cases of the juvenile type of chronic myeloid leukemia are described, all 
of which have shown a clinical and hematologic response to repeated cycles of 
sequential subcutaneous cytarabine and oral mercaptopurine. It appears that this 
regime, as described, may afford some control of a disease process previously 
supposed to be unresponsive to chemotherapy. This control, however, is likely to 
be reflected in an improvement in well-being, rather than overall survival time. 
Patient 1 survived 26 mo from diagnosis, and patients 2 and 3 are alive and well 
12 and 9 mo from diagnosis, respectively.

PMID: 265178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1977 Apr;74(4):1338-40. doi:
10.1073/pnas.74.4.1338.

Nonidentifiability in stochastic models of illness and death.

Clifford P.

The interpretation of animal survival experiments in which disease incidence is 
determined at death or following sacrifice is shown to involve certain 
ambiguities. In particular, quantities of interest such as the expected duration 
of life for an animal contracting a specific disease at a specific age are found 
to be nonidentifiable. An example is constructed in which two populations of 
animals will appear similar to the experimenter but in which animals contracting 
a particular disease in one population may have double the life expectancy of 
similarly afflicted animals in the other population.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.74.4.1338
PMCID: PMC430749
PMID: 266175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. N Z Med J. 1977 Mar 9;85(583):195-8.

Presidential address.

Elliot RF.

PMID: 266666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1977 Nov 12;121(46):1843-7.

[Treatment of acute myelogenous leukemia in adults; an account of the years 1968 
to 1975].

[Article in Dutch]

Willemze R, den Ottolander GJ, Heering KJ, Brand A, Zwaan FE, Haak HL, 
Hartgrink-Groeneveld CA, Jansen J, Eernisse JG.

PMID: 270615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1977 Nov;74(11):4977-81. doi:
10.1073/pnas.74.11.4977.

Synapse turnover: the formation and termination of transient synapses.

Puro DG, De Mello FG, Nirenberg M.

Neurons dissociated from chick embryo retina form synapses with cultured rat 
striated muscle cells in 35-90 min when neurite extension is uncoupled from 
later steps in synapse formation. The results suggest that a reaction is 
required for synapse formation after neurons adhere to muscle cells. All 
synapses between retina neurons and muscle cells are terminated in 3-10 days 
depending on the developmental age of the neurons. The half-lives of synapses 
between muscle cells and retina neurons from 8-, 12-, or 13-day embryos are 36, 
26, and 5 hr and mean synapse life-times are 53, 37, and 7.1 hr, respectively. 
The results show that synapses turn over and that the rate of turnover increases 
during development. The results suggest that both synapse formation and 
termination rates are regulated and that the specificity of synaptic connections 
can be increased by selective termination of synapses.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.74.11.4977
PMCID: PMC432081
PMID: 270733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Br J Haematol. 1977 Sep;37(1):25-33.

Refractory anaemia with excess of myeloblasts in the bone marrow: a clinical 
trial of androgens in 90 patients.

Najean Y, Pecking A.

In a cooperative trial, 90 patients with refractory anaemia with an excess of 
blast cells in the marrow were evaluated and treated with androgens. The 
clinical presentation was very similar to previously published observations: 
features of medullary insufficiency were less marked than in primary aplastic 
anaemia; bone marrow blastic infiltration varied from case to case, and remained 
stable until death or until an acute leukaemic change. All the patients were 
treated with high doses of androgens as for aplastic anaemia. The efficacy of 
this therapy was poor. The average life expectancy was 13 months, 64% of deaths 
being associated with a change to acute myeloid leukaemia. A severe bone marrow 
deficiency foreshadowed early death, but myeloblastic transformation was 
observed whatever the initial degree of blastic infiltration of the bone marrow. 
A comparison with the literature suggests that androgen therapy may accelerate 
the change to acute leukaemia.

PMID: 271013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Med Klin. 1978 Jan 6;73(1):23-7.

[Influence of remission induction therapy on the further outcome of acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia in children (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Ritter J, Oehme J, Miehe G.

An analysis of 66 children with ALL treated during the last 10 years shows an 
increase in medium survival time from 27.1 +/- 17.8 months to so far 39.3 +/- 
15.1 months after the introduction of preventive CNS therapy. In the group with 
preventive CNS therapy both CNS relapses and hematological relapses are markedly 
reduced. Furthermore, in the group with preventive CNS therapy, patients 
initially treated with 3 drugs obviously survive longer than patients initially 
treated with only 2 drugs. Thus our study shows the importance of the quality of 
first remission for the further outcome of a patient with leukemia.

PMID: 271759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Nor Tannlaegeforen Tid. 1978 Mar;88(3):106-8.

[Dentists analyze themselves 10 years after certification. I. The dentist's 
everyday life in relation to expectancy and education].

[Article in Norwegian]

Dahl E, Korto I.

PMID: 273203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1978 Sep 2;108(35):1350-5.

[Bone and soft tissue sarcomas].

[Article in German]

Jungi WF.

Great progress has been made both in the treatment of metastatic sarcomas and in 
adjuvant treatment of Ewing's, rhabdomyo- and osteogenic sarcomas. This is due 
partly to new and more effective cytostatic drugs and combinations, but to a 
greater extent to an improved systematic multimodal approach. In patients with 
metastatic sarcoma, better and longer remissions can be achieved, whereas real 
cures are possible in Ewing's, rhabdomyo- and osteosarcoma if properly managed 
using an interdisciplinary approach. Patients with these rare malignancies 
should be referred to specialized cancer centers, in view of the problems and 
possible complications of their necessarily intensive therapy.

PMID: 278226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Radiologe. 1978 Oct;18(10):401-7.

[Aseptic necrosis of the femoral head in lymphogranulomatosis and chronic 
myeloic leukemia treated intermittently with cytostatic agents and steroids 
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Grub R, Heni N, Baumeister L.

Four male patients with the age from 31--43 years with lymphogranulomatosis and 
a 23 year old patient with chronic myeloic leukemia developed aseptic necrosis 
of the femoral head 15 to 69 months after treatment with a combination of 
cytostatic substances and steroids. In a patient who received maximal prednisone 
applications aseptic necrosis of the humeral head has been observed also. With 
increasing life expectancy asceptic bone necrosis due to treatment can appear as 
a late complication. The early recognition is important. The advancing of this 
irreversible bone destruction and the associated morbidity can be avoided by 
immediate cessation of the steroid application. Conservative treatment is 
indicated.

PMID: 279939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Ann Chir Gynaecol Suppl. 1978;193:3-43.

Renal adenocarcinoma clinical features and factors correlating to survival in 
173 patients. A clinical investigation.

Juusela H.

PMID: 280280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1978 Nov;61(5):1357-61. doi: 10.1093/jnci/61.5.1357.

Survival and cause of death in aging germfree athymic nude and normal inbred 
C3Hf/He mice.

Holland JM, Mitchell TJ, Gipson LC, Whitaker MS.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/61.5.1357
PMID: 280717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Bull N Y Acad Med. 1979 Mar;55(3):357-66.

Communities with unusually short life-spans: the effects of life-style 
modification.

Alderman MH.

PMCID: PMC1807604
PMID: 283871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. J Maxillofac Surg. 1979 Feb;7(1):15-31. doi: 10.1016/s0301-0503(79)80007-7.

Carcinoma of the oral cavity: on the prognostic significance of the primary 
tumour site (by levels and areas).

Fries R, Platz H, Wagner R, Strickler A, Grabner H, Kränzl B, Krekeler G, Kriens 
O, Leijhanec J, Mennert H, Scharf F, Schroll K, Schulz P, Vinek G, Waldhart E, 
Wepner F, Zisser G.

The prognostic significance of primary tumour site in carcinomas of the oral 
cavity was investigated in a series of 585 cases. For the subsamples (levels and 
areas of oral cavity) studied, the numerical distribution of TNM categories, 
life tables and life table comparisons were computed. This produced the 
following results: Given an identical extension and analogous metastazising 
rate, there is no computationally demonstrable difference in prognosis between 
primary tumours sited at different levels and areas of the oral cavity. The 
exception are the T1Nx categories, for which a difference exists between 
precanine and retromolar sites. These results should be re-examined on the basis 
of a larger series.

DOI: 10.1016/s0301-0503(79)80007-7
PMID: 285996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Bol Asoc Med P R. 1979 Apr;71(4):142-6.

[Health priorities in Puerto Rico: towards a refinement of measuring 
instruments].

[Article in Spanish]

Ramírez de Arellano AB.

PMID: 288474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Acta Neurochir Suppl (Wien). 1979;28(1):203-4.

Brain injuries--causes of death, and life expectancy.

Sekulović N, Ceramilac A.

PMID: 290150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. J Oral Rehabil. 1979 Oct;6(4):385-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2842.1979.tb00419.x.

Cervical enamel: a danger zone.

Davis WB.

The British Standards Institutions's document (1974) recommending toothpaste 
specifications states that 'There is no evidence that any toothpaste ever 
produces a level of abrasion causing harm to dental enamel'. This paper 
questions the assumption that the enamel crown, especially at the cervical 
margin, is able to cope with modern dietary insult and a 'good' oral hygiene 
regimen, regardless of the enamel abrasivity of the dentifrice used. Once the 
enamel crown is breached the underlying dentine is sensitive and vulnerable to 
physical damage. In this work the potential rates of erosive and abrasive loss 
are related to the thickness of the protective enamel and to the relevance of 
fluoride treatments for adults. It is suggested that improvements in dental care 
and an increased tooth life expectancy now make the loss of tooth tissues at the 
cervical margin more important than is apparent at first sight.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2842.1979.tb00419.x
PMID: 291708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1979 Sep 15;34(18):527-30.

[Acute mature myelocytic leukemia as a form of the myeloproliferative syndrome].

[Article in German]

Mey U, Franke A, Fuchs R.

On the basis of five observations of adult patients with the clinical feature of 
mature cellular leukaemia which proved to be therapy-refractory and which was 
characterized by a rapid course is referred to the necessity of the 
differentiation of such cases from the classical myeloic leukaemia. The cardinal 
symptoms of this type of disease, which probably is identified with the cases 
described in literature as atypical chronic myelosis, as paraneutrophil 
leukaemia or as acute myelofibrosis, and also shows common features with the 
juvenile chronic myelosis, are, apart from the mature cellular differential 
blood picture a short life expectancy (less than 1 year), an initial 
thrombocytopenia, a normal or increased activity of the alkaline granulocyte 
phosphatase, the lack of Ph1-chromosome as well as the bad therapeutic reaction 
to busulfan. The observation of the simultaneously existing fibroses of the bone 
marrow as well as of the final increase of immature blasts induced the 
classification of the clinical picture as a special form of the 
myeloproliferative syndrome.

PMID: 293099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Kokubyo Gakkai Zasshi. 1979 Sep;46(3):234-5.

[Average life expectancy of teeth].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakamura S.

PMID: 293373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Acta Derm Venereol Suppl (Stockh). 1979;59(85):85-9.

Public health aspects of cancer deaths.

Horwitz O.

In 1976, the toll of cancer in Denmark (5 million inhabitants) was 12,481 
deaths, or 23% of deaths from all causes. Seven manifestations accounted for 
more than half of the cancer deaths, namely lung (19%), breast (9%), stomach 
(7%), colon (9%), rectum (5%), pancreas (6%) and prostate (5%). The median age 
of the cancer patients was 70 years, ranging from 65 years for breast cancer 
patients to 75 years for those with prostate cancer. Cancer caused a reduction 
in the patients' normal life-span; it totalled 182,486 years for all the dead 
patients, 37% of which were in productive age. The future caseload was projected 
from the time trend for the years 1968-76. During the following five years an 
annual increase by 200 deaths is expected. The trend differs between the seven 
major manifestations, since some will increase and others will stabilize or 
decrease. When case reports are combined with mortality data, survival tables 
can be produced. Follow-up surveys of the patient's health, combined with modern 
data processing, can produce a detailed description of the impact of cancer on 
the patient's life. These health tables, which illustrate the natural history of 
the disease, can also be used to assess new therapeutic regimens.

PMID: 294101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Shikai Tenbo. 1979;53(1):141-53.

[Life expectancy of the Japanese and causes of death among dentists].

[Article in Japanese]

Yatsu M.

PMID: 295937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Am J Cardiol. 1977 May 26;39(6):925-34. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(77)80048-9.

Effect of aortocoronary saphenous vein bypass grafting on death and sudden 
death. Comparison of nonrandomized medically and surgically treated cohorts with 
comparable coronary disease and left ventricular function.

Hammermeister KE, DeRouen TA, Murray JA, Dodge HT.

The effect of saphenous vein bypass grafting on the incidence of sudden cardiac 
death and total cardiovascular death was studied by comparing the survival of 
subsets of surgically and medically treated patients with coronary disease who 
were similar in two major prognostic variables: extent of coronary disease and 
ejection fraction. Significant differences in some baseline variables existed 
between medical and surgical subgroups with similar ejection fraction and extent 
of coronary disease. Medically treated patients tended to be in a lower 
functional class, to have more extensive ventricular contraction abnormalities, 
to have a larger end-diastolic volume, and to have fewer distal vessels feasible 
for grafting. Surgically treated patients with two vessel disease and normal or 
moderately reduced election fraction had improved survival when compared with 
medically treated patients with two vessel disease and similar ejection 
fraction. Improved survival of borderline statistical significance was also seen 
in surgically treated patients with three vessel disease and moderately reduced 
ejection fraction. When categorized according to end-diastolic volume, 
surgically treated patients with two vessel disease and normal or moderately 
increased end-diastolic volume also had improved survival over similarly defined 
medically treated patients. The sudden death rates for subgroups of mecically 
treated patients were 1.8 to 10.9 times higher than the rates in subgroups of 
surgically treated patients with a comparable extent of coronary disease and 
ejection fraction.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(77)80048-9
PMID: 300986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
