

170. Lille Med. 1977 Feb;22(2):85-91.

[Life expectancy of the cirrhotic after digestive hemorrhage as a function of 
the etiology of the bleeding].

[Article in French]

Paris J, Gerard A, Paris JC, Roger J, Claerbout JF, Walkowiak F.

PMID: 301222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Fortschr Med. 1977 Jun 2;95(21):1404-8.

[Immunologic development disorders and disease incidence].

[Article in German]

Dutz W, Rossipal E, Vessal K.

Interference with any organ system during development leads to permanent damage. 
Severe disease or starvation during the first four months of extrauterine life 
lead to a persistent deficiency of cell mediated immunity, which changes the 
life expectancy and later disease patterns in population groups. Severe 
intercurrent disease, starvation or trauma later in life lower cell mediated 
immunity only temporarily.

PMID: 301497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Kardiologiia. 1977 Aug;17(8):32-42.

[Prognosis of life expectancy of patients with ischemic heart disease detected 
during mass screening].

[Article in Russian]

Kokurina EV, Metelitsa VI, Zhukov VN, Ostrovskaia TP.

Prospective 5-year follow-up was accomplished among males ranging in age between 
50 and 59 and forming four random samples from the respective population of the 
Bauman region in Moscow subjected to primary cross-sectional epidemiologic 
survey. The results show that in primary survey general mortality and the 
mortality of ischemic heart disease were significantly higher among males with 
ischemic heart disease than among the rest of the individuals examined. The 
mortality of ischemic heart disease proved to be particularly high among 
individuals with a history of myocardial infarction (relative death risk 5.8) 
and among those with typical anginal pectoris (relative death risk 4.4). 
Ischemic heart disease mortality was lower (relative death risk 2.1) in the 
group of males who had suffered from silent myocardial infarction or had silent 
ischemic heart disease than among those who had had myocardial infarction or 
with angina pectoris, but higher among males who did not have these diseases. To 
study the prognostic value of atypical chest pain in angina pectoris, it is 
necessary that prospective follow-up be continued.

PMID: 303722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. J La State Med Soc. 1978 Feb;130(2):39-44.

Relief of angina pectoris and improved life expectancy following coronary bypass 
surgery.

Weichert RF 3rd, Pearce CW, Gibson WE 3rd.

PMID: 305456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. MMW Munch Med Wochenschr. 1978 Mar 31;120(13):445-8.

[Hypertension in old age (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Holzgreve H.

At the present time there are certain hints, but no definitive evidence, that 
hypertension in old age raises mortality and morbidity. No proof has yet been 
advanced that antihypertensive therapy improves the prognosis of senile 
hypertension. For this reason it is quite conceivable that hypertension in old 
age merely indicates arteriosclerotic changes but does not essentially cause 
them, so that senile hypertension is an indicator of risk but not a risk factor. 
Antihypertensive drug therapy for persons over the age of 65 is consequently 
only justifiable at present on the grounds of analogy. It is to be recommended 
if hypertensive complications are already present in organs, if additional risk 
factors are demonstrable or if additional risk factors are demonstrable or if 
there is a markedly increased blood pressure. A treatment already begun in 
earlier years which is effective and has few side effects should be continued. 
Antihypertensive treatment in old age must be initiated with low doses and 
carefully increased so that in patients who are often symptomless at first, the 
reduction in blood pressure does not create more problems in a short time than 
the untreated hypertension does in the course of years.

PMID: 306035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Ann Surg. 1978 Jun;187(6):653-7. doi: 10.1097/00000658-197806000-00011.

Vascular reconstructive surgery following myocardial revascularization.

Edwards WH, Mulherin JL Jr, Walker WE.

Survivors of successful coronary bypass have a life expectancy close to normal. 
Myocardial infarction has been the major cause for morbidity and mortality in 
patients requiring surgery. Current data suggests that patients who have 
undergone CAB are not only acceptable risks for subsequent surgery, but may in 
fact have a lesser cardiac risk than the routine patient. The selection of the 
proper sequential surgical procedures is critical for patient survival. We 
reviewed 74 major vascular reconstructive procedures in 53 patients. Twenty-nine 
cerebrovascular procedures, 20 femoro-popliteal bypasses, aneurysmectomy nine 
times, and aortic bypass in 16 patients were the procedures performed. 
Twenty-two abdominal operations were performed with no significant morbidity or 
mortality. Two patients died during the postoperative period and three have 
subsequently died. The 48 survivors continue to do well.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-197806000-00011
PMCID: PMC1396462
PMID: 306228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. G Ital Cardiol. 1978;8(2):145-52.

[Aorto-coronary by-pass: pre and post-operative ergometric evaluation of 95 
patients (author's transl)].

[Article in Italian]

Nidasio GP, Rossi L, Zanini S, Peretti L, Conti F, Menegatti G, Poppi A.

95 angina patients surgically treated by aortocoronary saphenous vein by-pass, 
have been studied by comparing the factors limiting the exercise (i.e. muscular 
exhaustion, angina, electrocardiographic changes), the total work performed, the 
O2 consumption and the heart rate-arterial pression product. After surgery the 
incidence of positive effort tests (effort angina and/or ecg evidence of 
myocardial ischemia) decreased from 79% to 27,4% (p less than 0,001), and the 
average amount of work performed increased from 2718 to 3504 Kgm (p less than 
0,01), the MVO2 from 13,9 to 15,6 cc/min/Kg. (p less than 0,01) and the heart 
rate-arterial pression product from 206 to 243 (p less than 0,001). The patients 
who preoperatively were more invalidated (that is able to performe a lasser 
amount of physical work) presented a more pronounced improvement in comparison 
with those who had a greater tolerance to exercise. It seems therefore that for 
these latter patients the bypass grafting surgery should be justified only if a 
significant increase of life expectancy and reduction of myocardial infarction 
incidence could be definitely proved. The exercise performance improvement after 
surgery was statistically significant only in the patients with post infarction 
or with unstable angina not in those with chronic angina. The perioperative 
infarction (present in 8,4% of cases) did not show any unfavorable correlation 
with the result of the late postoperative effort test.

PMID: 306358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1978 Jun 20;67(25):927-9.

[Indications for aorto-coronary bypass (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Gr√§del E.

PMID: 307246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Int J Radiat Biol Relat Stud Phys Chem Med. 1978 Jun;33(6):541-9. doi: 
10.1080/09553007814550451.

Changes in pheromone production, release, mating behaviour and reproductive 
ability of the gamma-irradiated cockroach Nauphoeta cinerea (Olivier).

Menon M.

Mature males of Nauphoeta cinerea produce a sex pheromone 'seducin' which has 
short-range effects in attracting mature females of the same species. Exposure 
of newly-emerged adult males to 3.5, 7, 14 or 21 krad of gamma-radiation 
decreased their life expectancy and affected their mating behaviour. Bioassay of 
dichloromethane extracts of males showed that radiation doses (14 krad) 
sufficient to induce sterility did not affect the ability to produce pheromone 
but significantly reduced the release of pheromone by inhibiting wing-raising. 
The sterile-male technique using males sterilized by ionizing radiation in air 
may not be the method of choice for control of Nauphoeta cinerea.

DOI: 10.1080/09553007814550451
PMID: 308052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Ariz Med. 1978 Jun;35(6):414-6.

Indications for coronary bypass surgery.

Desser KB, Diethrich EB.

PMID: 308363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. MMW Munch Med Wochenschr. 1978 Sep 1;120(35):1107-9.

[Extending the scope of indications for gastric cancer surgery].

[Article in German]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 308603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. MMW Munch Med Wochenschr. 1978 Sep 1;120(35):1119-22.

[Sport and prolongation of life (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Biener K, Ritter R.

In a retrospective study a group of 80-year-old men (114) were compared with 
regard to their living habits with a group of men from the same firm (131) who 
had died before the age of 65. The aim of the study was to present factors which 
could possibly affect the limitation of life expectancy. By means of electronic 
data processing the findings of the investigation and historical data (family 
history, personal history, risk factors, physical activity, occupational and 
social status) were evaluated and possible correlations looked for. The cause of 
death was particularly included in the interpretation. The risk factors of 
greatest importance were: cigarette smoking, adiposity, little physical 
activity.

PMID: 308607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Thorax. 1978 Aug;33(4):411-7. doi: 10.1136/thx.33.4.411.

Direct myocardial revascularisation: experience with 9364 operations.

Cooley DA, Wukasch DC, Bruno F, Reul GJ Jr, Sandiford FM, Zillgitt SL, Hall RJ.

Between July 1968 and December 1976, 9364 consecutive patients with coronary 
insufficiency underwent direct myocardial revascularisation using aortocoronary 
bypass (ACB). Among these patients 8017 had ACB alone, and the remaining 1347 
had ACB in addition to correction of other cardiac and vascular lesions. In the 
series of patients having ACB alone the hospital (early) mortality was 3.9%, but 
for 2383 surgical patients in 1976 this figure was 2.2%. Operative mortality was 
higher for women (6.85%) than for men (3.5%), but late survival was about the 
same for both sexes. Among surviving patients 88% were improved or symptom-free 
after undergoing ACB. According to our data, at the end of eight years 80% of 
the patients will be survivors. These results, when compared with other series 
of patients treated medically, indicate the superiority of surgical treatment 
both in terms of symptomatic relief and also in increased life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1136/thx.33.4.411
PMCID: PMC470906
PMID: 308709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Acta Med Scand. 1978;204(5):345-51. doi: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1978.tb08452.x.

Natural history and life expectancy in severe alpha1-antitrypsin deficiency, Pi 
Z.

Larsson C.

Clinical data from 246 adult Swedish individuals with severe alpha1-antitrypsin 
deficiency, Pi Z, diagnosed in 1963--77, were analyzed. Primary emphysema was 
present in 109 cases. Of 75 Pi Z patients with other types of chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), all but 7 showed signs of emphysema. 
Median age at onset of dyspnoea in Pi Z smokers was 40 years, compared to 53 in 
non-smokers (p less than 0.001). Of the Pi Z individuals over the age of 50, 19% 
had a diagnosis of liver cirrhosis and 15% signs of glomerular renal damage. Of 
91 deceased patients, 56 died from COPD and 12 from liver disease. A greatly 
reduced survival was demonstrated in Pi Z individuals, regardless of sex. 
Smoking Pi Z individuals had a significantly lower life expectancy than Pi Z 
non-smokers (p less than 0.01).

DOI: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1978.tb08452.x
PMID: 309708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1978 Nov 28;67(48):1774-82.

[Indications of coronary arteriography and of aorto-coronary bypass graft 
surgery (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Gurtner HP.

PMID: 310118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Albrecht Von Graefes Arch Klin Exp Ophthalmol. 1978 Nov 8;208(1-3):177-91.
doi:  10.1007/BF00406992.

Histological and ultrastructural studies on the ringbands in human extraocular 
muscles.

M√ºhlendyck H, Ali SS.

Ringbands are a typical finding in the extraocular muscles of individuals of 
twenty years and older. The number of these structures increases distinctly 
after the 60th year of life. In optimally fixed muscles the ringbands are 
separated from the sarcolemma by a space containing the so-called sarcoplasmic 
masses. These masses were composed of vaculated mitochondria, dilated tubules of 
the sarcoplasmic system and, in some fibers, of fragments of myofibrils. 
Structures from which a neoformation of myofibrils as the origin of the 
ringbands could be concluded (as proposed by Jonecko, 1967), were never observed 
in this hypolemmal area. In contrast, the formation of the ringbands seems to be 
correlated to the ultrastructural alterations of the myofilaments and the looser 
arrangement of the myofibrils which can first be observed in extraocular muscles 
of 10-year-old patients and increasingly in older patients (M√ºhlendyck, 1977). 
These alterations lead to continous and repeated changes in the orientation of 
the myofibrils during the extension and contraction processes of the muscle 
fiber. Thus, the myofibrils undergo a constant mechanical stress which they 
cannot resist indefinetly, leading to disruption of some of the fibrils. The 
disrupted free end contracts, deviates almost at a right angle from its former 
course and, while the sarcolemma forms thread-like folds during the contraction 
of the muscle fiber, it is coiled around the longitudinal undisrupted fibrillar 
core. This leads to a disfunction of the muscle fiber and aids in explaining the 
steady decrease of the excursion of the eye after about 30 years of age.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00406992
PMID: 310260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Zentralbl Chir. 1978;103(23):1531-7.

[Coronary heart disease; surgical aspects (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Warnke H, Bohm J, Lindenau KF.

Aspects of indication, of the surgical technique as well as long-term results 
are discussed on the basis of own experiences in 279 coronary artery operations. 
Patients suffering from unstable angina pectoris should be operated on as soon 
as possible. In cases with stable angina pectoris due to a triple vessel disease 
the long-term results are better with surgery than without.

PMID: 310607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1979 Feb 10;109(6):183-5.

[The effect of coronary surgery on the prognosis of angina pectoris].

[Article in German]

Rothlin ME.

The literature on the influence of aortocoronary bypass surgery is reviewed with 
respect to life expectancy and symptoms. Preliminary results of the European 
prospective randomized coronary study are also presented. There was no 
significant difference in clinical or angiographic criteria as between the 
medically and surgically treated patient groups. For the total cohorts, survival 
did not significantly differ, though in patients with 3-vessel disease, 
mortality was significantly higher in the medically treated group. This 
observation requires confirmation before it is allowed to influence our 
decisions. In the same prospective trial, surgery improved symptoms in 4/5 of 
the patients and eliminated angina in half. With medical treatment, fewer than 
half of the patients experienced further improvement during the same time period 
and only 15% became symptom-free.

PMID: 311515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. South Med J. 1979 Apr;72(4):393-6. doi: 10.1097/00007611-197904000-00007.

Late results of myocardial revascularization.

Mistrot JJ, Dalton ML Jr, Parker TM, Bricker DL.

Data are presented on 1,400 consecutive patients who had myocardial 
revascularization at our institution. The patients ranged in age from 33 to 80 
years. Coronary bypass was done with an associated noncardiac procedure in 70 
patients and with an associated cardiac procedure in 73 patients. The hospital 
mortality was 2.0%. Left ventricular function was a primary determinant of 
hospital mortality. With a 98% follow-up, survival was 93.1% at a mean of three 
years (range, six months to seven years). Ventricular function was the prime 
determinant of the overall long-term survival. These data indicate that 
myocardial revascularization, either alone or with an associated cardiac or 
noncardiac procedure, can be done with a low operative mortality. Because of the 
excellent five-year survival in our group of patients followed up for this 
length of time, we believe these data support the hypothesis that myocardial 
revascularization extends the life expectancy of patients with coronary artery 
disease.

DOI: 10.1097/00007611-197904000-00007
PMID: 311949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Chirurg. 1979 May;50(5):313-7.

[A new therapeutic concept for the selection of liver cirrhotics with recurrent 
bleeding esophageal varices for selective shunt].

[Article in German]

Paquet KJ, Thelen M, Koischwitz G, Biersack HJ.

Analysis was made of almost 600 patients who received shunt operations between 
January 1, 1952 and January 1, 1975 because of liver cirrhosis and repeated 
bleeding from gastroesophageal varices. The emergency portosystemic shunt was 
abandoned owing to its 50% lethality; the portocaval shunt was also 
discontinued, because of an encephalopathy rate of 25%. The splenorenal shunt 
(Linton) and coronary-caval shunt (G√ºtgemann) gave comparatively satisfactory 
results. A more recent introduction was the mesocaval interposition shunt 
(Drapanas). We also developed new criteria of indication for a shunt operation: 
elective shunt, liver volume 1000--2500 ml, portal vein perfusion 15%--40%, 
avoidance of celiac trunk and hepatic artery stenosis. Using only the types of 
shunt operation and criteria of indication here recommended, lethality among 65 
patients operated on between January 1, 1975 and July 1, 1978 was only 6%, 
delayed lethality only 3%. The rate of encephalopathy was reduced to 5%. The 
5-year life expectancy should increase to more than 70%. Thus, support is 
provided for the proposed therapy concept and criteria for shunt indication.

PMID: 313324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Am J Cardiol. 1979 Aug;44(2):195-201. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(79)90304-7.

Atherosclerosis of the left main coronary artery: 5 years results of surgical 
treatment.

Loop FD, Lytle BW, Cosgrove DM, Sheldon WC, Irarrazaval M, Taylor PC, Groves LK, 
Pichard AD.

Three hundred consecutive patients received coronary arterial bypass grafts as 
treatment for stenosis of the left main coronary artery. Ostial stenosis was 
more prevalent among women (P less than 0.001). Operative (hospital) mortality 
was 4 percent (12 of 300). Among 148 survivors who underwent recatheterization 
after a mean interval of 16.5 months, the graft patency rate was 88 percent. 
After a minimal follow-up period of 49 months and a mean interval of 69 months, 
75 percent of the survivors were asymptomatic and 94 percent were employed or 
fully active. The actuarial 5 year survival rate was 88.2 percent. The presence 
of right coronary artery disease, abnormal preoperative ventricular function and 
incomplete revascularization adversely affected survival, but the differences 
did not reach statistical significance. Comparison of this long-term follow-up 
study with controlled and noncontrolled studies of nonsurgical treatment of 
obstructions of the left main coronary artery indicates that myocardial 
revascularization alleviates cardiac symptoms and increases life expectancy in 
patients with severe atherosclerosis of this artery.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(79)90304-7
PMID: 313646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1979 Aug 24;104(34):1183-7. doi:
10.1055/s-0028-1129066.

[Aortocoronary bypass. Results, indications and demand].

[Article in German]

Roskamm H, Schmuziger M.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1129066
PMID: 316380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Trans Am Clin Climatol Assoc. 1980;91:1-15.

Presidential address. Coronary bypass surgery: status 1979.

Ross RS.

Coronary bypass surgery is highly effective in relieving angina pectoris. Early 
results of several well controlled studies show a small, but definite positive 
effect of surgery on life expectancy. The effect on prognosis is greatest in 
patients with the most severe arterial and myocardial disease. The discrepancy 
between the large effect on symptoms and the small effect on survival is best 
explained by postulating more than one mechanism of action for the operation.

PMCID: PMC2279444
PMID: 317874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Geriatrics. 1977 Jan;32(1):127-36.

Do free radicals and dietary antioxidants wage intracellular war?

Kent S.

PMID: 318628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Nouv Presse Med. 1977 Feb 5;6(5):357-61.

[Actuarial method for the statistical analysis of clinical and experimental 
results].

[Article in French]

Fabiani JN, Carpentier A.

PMID: 319425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Prev Med. 1977 Mar;6(1):30-51. doi: 10.1016/0091-7435(77)90003-2.

A century of epidemiologic transition in the United States.

Omran AR.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-7435(77)90003-2
PMID: 322119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 1977 Mar;37(3):242-51.

[Endometrial cancer and extraglandular oestrogen biosynthesis (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

Schindler AE.

An increasing incidence of endometrial cancer caused by a higher life expectancy 
and a number of other facters (i.e. obesity, diabetes, hypertension, lower 
pregnancy rate) as well as the unfavorable location for early detection when 
compared with cervical cancer has initiated this review in order to single out 
women with increased risk. Clinical characteristics of patients with endometrial 
cancer represented by age, menstrual disorders, reduced fertility, obesity, 
diabetes, hypertension, hirsutism, hyperplasia of the ovarian stroma or hilus 
cells in connection with an increased oestrogen effect in the vaginal smear and 
proliferative changes of the endometrium can be explained by extraglandular 
respectively peripheral aromatization of androgens to oestrogens, particular by 
the conversion of androstenedione to oestrone. This is supported by an increased 
plasma oestrone/oestradiol-ratio and increased conversion rate with age and 
overweight. In vivo- and in vitro-investigations have demonstrated the 
participation of adipose tissue in peripheral oestrogene production. The 
compiled data point towards the importance of the extraglandular oestrone 
production for the etiology of endometrial cancer by effecting the endometrium 
over a long period of time. The counter action of the normally cyclic changes of 
oestradiol and progesterone is lacking. Therefore, a dysoestrogenic effect of 
oestrone upon the endometrium can be fully effective, depending on the hormone 
receptor content of the respective endometrium. Based upon these data including 
recent publications, pre- and postmenopausal oestrogen therapy has to be 
critically reevaluated.

PMID: 323098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. J Med Microbiol. 1977 May;10(2):245-7. doi: 10.1099/00222615-10-2-245.

The effect of Treponema pallidum on mouse survival.

Wright DJ, Wharton FP.

Intraperitoneal infection with Treponema pallidum did not shorten the lives of 
inbred CBA mice. One hundred and fifty infected mice survived to a mean age of 
41-24 months and 60 uninfected mice to a mean age of 41-38 months.

DOI: 10.1099/00222615-10-2-245
PMID: 323491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Mayo Clin Proc. 1977 May;52(5):335-6.

End-stage renal disease in the diabetic.

Johnson WJ.

PMID: 323588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Am J Cardiol. 1977 May 26;39(6):919-24. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(77)80047-7.

Improved longevity due to reduction of sudden death by aortocoronary bypass in 
coronary atherosclerosis.

Vismara LA, Miller RR, Price JE, Karem R, DeMaria AN, Mason DT.

To evaluate the efficacy of coronary bypass surgery in reduction of sudden 
death, the prognosis of 286 similar patients with multivessel coronary stenosis 
was studied prospectively and the results of medical therapy (Group I, 114 
patients) were compared with those of surgical therapy (Group II, 172 patients) 
after cardiac catheterization and coronary arteriography. During 39 months' 
evaluation of both groups, mortality from congestive heart failure and 
noncardiac causes did not differ (Group I, 14 percent; Group II, 8 percent) (P 
greater than 0.05). Sudden was evaluated in the remaining 217 patients (Group I, 
96; Group II, 121 patients) who were matched for age (Group I, 52 years; Group 
II, 51 years); duration of overt coronary disease (Group I, 3.8 years; Group II, 
4.0 years); angina pectoris (Group I, 83 percent; Group II, 95 percent); prior 
myocardial infarction (Group I, 77 percent; Group II, 74 percent); and 
congestive heart failure (Group I, 30 percent; Group II, 23 percent) (all P 
greater than 0.05). In addition, the prevalence of coronary risk factors was the 
same (P greater than 0.05) in both groups (hypertension, cigarette smoking, 
diabetes mellitus, lipid abnormalities and family history of coronary disease). 
Importantly, arteriography and catheterization established a similar extent and 
location of major coronary arterial stenoses and of ventricular dysfunction; two 
vessel disease (Group I, 32 percent; Group II, 33 percent) and three vessel 
disease (Group I, 68 percent; Group II, 67 percent); left ventricular 
end-diastolic pressure (Group I, 13; Group II, 14 mm Hg);cardiac index (Group I, 
2.85; Group II, 2.91 liters/min per m2); and coronary collateral vessels (Group 
I, 58 percent; Group II, 61 percent) (all P greater than 0.05). Fifty-six 
percent of patients in Group II had multiple bypass grafts and a late patency 
rate (average 21 months) of 87 percent of one or more grafts. During subsequent 
prospective evaluation of over 3 years, bypass surgery provided greater 
symptomatic benefit of improved functional capacity (Group I, 12 percent; Group 
II, 69 percent) (P less than 0.05) and complete anginal relief (Group I, 30 
percent; Group II, 60 percent) (P less than 0.05). Moreover, bypass surgery was 
associated with marked reduction in sudden death (Group I, 24 percent; Group II, 
6 percent) (P less than 0.05). Thus, in patients with multivessel coronary 
disease carefully matched for clinical factors, hemodynamics, atherogenic 
precursors and coronary pathoanatomy, effective aortocoronary bypass surgery 
appeared to prolong survival by decreasing the incidence of sudden death, 
possibly by a decrease of unexpected fatal arrhythmias.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(77)80047-7
PMID: 324259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Annu Rev Psychol. 1977;28:225-49. doi: 10.1146/annurev.ps.28.020177.001301.

Psychological perspectives on death.

Kastenbaum R, Costa PT Jr.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.ps.28.020177.001301
PMID: 324377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Theor Popul Biol. 1977 Apr;11(2):182-238. doi: 10.1016/0040-5809(77)90025-9.

Mathematical models for the control of pests and infectious diseases: a survey.

Wickwire K.

DOI: 10.1016/0040-5809(77)90025-9
PMID: 325679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Comput Biomed Res. 1977 Jun;10(3):205-12. doi: 10.1016/0010-4809(77)90037-4.

The random introduction of patients into a clinical trial: various aspects of 
estimates and probabilities of survival.

Tallis GM, Sarfaty G, Leppard P.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-4809(77)90037-4
PMID: 326473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1977 May 17;66(20):593-601.

[The chemotherapy of morbus hodgkin (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Obrecht JP.

PMID: 329268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 1977-1978;8(2):139-54. doi:
10.2190/wvt4-a9kh-mjp4-mc21.

The age old question of old age: was it really so much better back when?

Hendricks J, Hendricks CD.

The belief that the elderly in pre-industrial societies fared considerably 
better than the elderly in modern mass societies has received nearly universal 
acceptance. Utilizing literary, historical and archaeological reports from early 
Greece to the present, the present paper offers data which challenges popular 
conceptions. Close examination of evidence dealing with societal evaluation, 
family and kin support reveals prejudicial stereotypes as pervasive as those 
associated with modern urban industrialized societies. While a gradual 
transition of the basis of authority and esteem is noted from nomadic and 
agrarian to industrial societies, there is substantial correspondence in the 
dominant cultural imagery of old age, life expectancy notwithstanding.

DOI: 10.2190/wvt4-a9kh-mjp4-mc21
PMID: 330415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Lab Anim Sci. 1977 Aug;27(4):494-9.

The meadow vole (Microtus pennsylv anicus) as a laboratory animal.

Dieterich RA, Preston DJ.

PMID: 333179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Lab Anim Sci. 1977 Aug;27(4):500-6.

The tundra vole (Microtus oeconomus) as a laboratory animal.

Dieterich RA, Preston DJ.

PMID: 333180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Lab Anim Sci. 1977 Aug;27(4):507-11.

The red-backed vole (Clethrionomys rutilus) as a laboratory animal.

Dieterich RA, Preston DJ.

PMID: 333181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1977;86B:579-602. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4757-9113-6_33.

Some therapeutic implications of the crosslinkage theory of aging.

Bjorksten J.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4757-9113-6_33
PMID: 333873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Ann Ophthalmol. 1977 Jun;9(6):799-801.

Corneal perforation in Wegener's granulomatosis treated with corneal 
transplantation: case report.

Biglan AW, Brown SI, Cignetti FE, Linn JG.

A 46-year-old man with Wegener's granulomatosis developed corneal ulceration and 
descemetocele. He was treated with a penetrating keratoplasty which has remained 
clear for 22 months. With the increased life expectancy of this disease corneal 
rehabilitation is increasingly important and possible.

PMID: 334019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1977;301:561-78. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1977.tb38230.x.

The relationship of physical activity to coronary heart disease and life 
expectancy.

Leon AS, Blackburn H.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1977.tb38230.x
PMID: 337875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. CRC Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 1977 Jan;8(3):229-336. doi: 
10.1080/10408397709527224.

Role of gut bacterial flora in nutrition and health: a review of recent advances 
in bacteriological techniques, metabolism, and factors affecting flora 
composition.

Brown JP.

DOI: 10.1080/10408397709527224
PMID: 338249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. N Engl J Med. 1978 Feb 16;298(7):372-8. doi: 10.1056/NEJM197802162980705.

Predicting treatment costs and life expectancy for end-stage renal disease.

Stange PV, Sumner AT.

To estimate the cumulative 10-year direct medical costs and life expectancy 
associated with different methods of treatment for end-stage renal disease, we 
assessed predictively three treatment transition options. It is predicted that 
if 1000 patients shift from facility to home dialysis for each of 10 years, life 
expectancy of the cohort will not be reduced, but there will be a reduction of 
$241 million in total costs. The same number shifting from facility dialysis to 
cadaveric transplantation are predicted to have a $279 to $330 million reduction 
in total costs but a reduction of 7 to 17 per cent in life expectancy. Shifting 
from home dialysis to transplantation is predicted to reduce total costs by +103 
to $142 million, and life expectancy by 10 to 20 per cent. As new program 
policies for treatment of end-stage renal disease are developed, their effect on 
both costs and life expectancy needs to be considered.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM197802162980705
PMID: 340947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Am J Clin Nutr. 1978 Feb;31(2):310-21. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/31.2.310.

Dietary goals-a skeptical view.

Harper AE.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/31.2.310
PMID: 341685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Compr Ther. 1978 Feb;4(2):58-64.

Current treatment of acute leukemia.

Mauer AM.

For patients with ALL we must be able to identify clearly both standard and 
high-risk patients. For standard-risk patients in whom life expectancy is long, 
therapy regimens must be designed to provide optimal control with minimal short- 
and long-term toxicity. For patients with high-risk ALL, methods must be found 
to circumvent the problem of early acquisition of drug resistance by the 
leukemic lymphoblasts. For patients with AML, more work must be done to improve 
the results of remission induction. But the major problem for these patients is 
the maintenance of a remission once it is obtained. Perhaps one of the critical 
factors in AML is the interrelationship of normal and leukemic marrow elements 
in therapy response. Disease-free survival time must be improved before 
considerations of CNS prophylaxis and cessation of therapy can be approached.

PMID: 342180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Can Med Assoc J. 1978 Mar 18;118(6):663-4, 669.

Pregnancy in patients with chronic renal disease.

Bear RA.

Pregnancy is not invariably contra-indicated in patients with pre-existing renal 
disease. Clinical data now exist that permit the clinician to distinguish such 
patients who are likely to experience difficulty during pregnancy from those in 
whom pregnancy can be undertaken with high expectation of success. Patients 
suffering from systemic lupus erythematosus, active or inactive, with or without 
lupus nephritis, should avoid pregnancy. Patients with other forms of chronic 
renal disease in whom the serum creatinine concentration prior to pregnancy is 
less than 1.5 mg/dL are not exposed to increased maternal or fetal risk. On the 
other hand, patients with serum creatinine values exceeding 1.6 mg/dL experience 
a high incidence of maternal and fetal complications and should avoid pregnancy. 
The life expectancy of recipients of a renal transplant is uncertain, and these 
patients should receive counselling as to the advisability of undertaking 
pregnancy. The maternal risk in such patients is not inordinately high, but the 
fetal risk is considerable.

PMCID: PMC1818041
PMID: 350371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Compr Ther. 1978 Jun;4(6):40-8.

Potentially lethal complications of diabetes mellitus.

Maman A, Sussman KE.

A case can be made that life expectancy has been prolonged in the diabetic, and 
some disabling symptoms have been ameliorated by the more recent procedures 
employed in the management of coronary artery disease and nephropathy. At the 
same time, the procedures described admittedly present problems and may not be 
generally available to the vast majority of diabetics. The definitive answer 
lies in attempting to control diabetes to prevent the development of these and 
other complications. A number of laboratories are attempting to develop an 
artificial pancreas or islet transplantation to substitute for the insulin 
secretory capacity that has been lost or impaired. This is an area of research 
that demands the highest priority. One cannot be confident that present 
therapeutic programs can be altered to provide the type of diabetic control 
necessary for the prevention of complications.

PMID: 352605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Tumori. 1978 Apr 30;64(2):143-9. doi: 10.1177/030089167806400204.

High dose medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) treatment in metastatic carcinoma of 
the breast: a dose-response evaluation.

Cuna GR, Calciati A, Strada MR, Bumma C, Campio L.

The results of controlled clinical trial that used high doses of 
medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer 
are reported. Two treatment reigmens were used: regimen A, 500 mg daily with a 
total dose of 30 g; regimen B, 1,000 mg daily with a total dose of 60 g. The 
overall response rates were similar, with no statistically significant 
difference between the two treated groups. Regimen A (lower dosage group) 
reached a remission rate of 44%, whereas regimen B (higher dosage group) had a 
remission rate of 41%. The mean duration of response was 8 months with regimen A 
and 9 months with regimen B. The advantages of the lower dosage regimen as 
opposed to the higher dosage regimen of MPA in the treatment of advanced breast 
cancer are discussed.

PIP: A controlled clinical trial that used high doses of medroxyprogesterone 
acetate (MPA) in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer was conducted. 
Therapy consisted of 2 treatments: regimen A, 500 mg daily with a total dose of 
30 g; regimen B, 1000 mg daily with a total dose of 60 g. From June 1975 to 
September 1976, 101 patients entered into the study and were randomly allocated 
into the 2 treatment groups. Both treatment groups were comparable in terms of 
age, menopausal status, free interval, and dominant site of lesions. Selection 
of patients was done according to the following criteria: histologically proved 
progressive metastatic carcinoma of the breast, without any treatment for at 
least 2 months; no prior hormonal manipulation; performance status 50 or more, 
and life expectancy longer than 3 months; measurable disease. Overall response 
rates were similar, with no statistically significant difference between the 2 
treated groups. Regimen A reached a remission rate of 44%; regimen B had a 
remission rate of 41%. The mean duration of response was 8 months with regimen A 
and 9 months with regimen B. Both regimens were well tolerated. Clinical 
toxicity was mild with both dosages of MPA. The main side effect was gluteus 
abscess, with a higher incidence in group B. This was probably due to the 
greater amount of injected drug suspension in the 1000 mg/day regimen. The 
incidence of thrombophlebitis and vaginal bleeding was negligible.

DOI: 10.1177/030089167806400204
PMID: 354147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Clin Haematol. 1978 Jun;7(2):245-58. doi: 10.1016/s0308-2261(78)80004-6.

Treatment of acute leukaemia in children.

Mauer AM.

As can be seen, there are many problems yet to be solved in the development of 
optimal therapy for acute leukaemia in children. For patients with ALL we must 
be able to identify clearly the standard and the varieties of high risk 
patients. For the patient with standard risk features life expectancy is long 
and therapy regimens must be designed to provide optimal control of the disease 
with minimal short and long-term toxicity. For patients with the high risk 
features of those varieties of ALL associated with poor prognosis methods must 
be found to circumvent the problem of early acquisition of drug resistance by 
the leukaemic lymphoblasts. For children with AML the results of remission 
induction regimens must still be improved to match those obtained in ALL. The 
major problem awaiting solution, however, is the maintenance of remission once 
obtained. As disease-free survival in AML is improved then consideration of CNS 
prophylaxis and the timing of cessation of therapy must be considered.

DOI: 10.1016/s0308-2261(78)80004-6
PMID: 354831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1978 Jun 1;33(11):362-6.

[Possibilities and limits of kidney transplantation].

[Article in German]

Erdmann T, Templin R.

Chronic haemodialysis and renal transplantation are mutually supplementing 
methods for the treatment of patients with terminal renal lesion. The two 
methods have proved their worth in clinical practice. The expectance of life of 
patients with chronic renal insufficiency could essentially be improved during 
the last years. In last consequence the successes of the transplantation of 
kidneys depend on the solution of immunobiological problems, which are not yet 
cleared up nowadays. 1. In the determination of genotypical determinants 
possibly not all are known or recognizable. 2. The at present clinically usable 
examination methods do not yet allow to recognize rejections so early that by an 
aimed immunosuppressive treatment irreversible damages on the graft may be 
prevented. After a transplantation of kidneys of relatives a long survival time 
of transplanted patients is better than after a transplantation of kidneys taken 
from dead bodies. The rejection is still the main factor of the failure of the 
graft, the sepsis is the most frequent cause of death. It is neccessary, to 
develop less toxical remedies for the adaptation of the graft. Nevertheless, 
thousands of optimally transplanted patients prove the usefulness of the 
allogenic transplantation of the kidney.

PMID: 356441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Am J Cardiol. 1978 Aug;42(2):308-29. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(78)90917-7.

Value of coronary bypass surgery. Controversies in cardiology: Part I.

Hurst JW, King SB 3rd, Logue RB, Hatcher CR Jr, Jones EL, Craver JM, Douglas JS 
Jr, Franch RH, Dorney ER, Cobbs BW Jr, Robinson PH, Clements SD Jr, Kaplan JA, 
Bradford JM.

The value of coronary bypass surgery has been studied carefully during the last 
decade. Four methods, none perfect, have been used to compare the results of 
such surgery with the results of medical therapy. New data are likely to be 
merely supportive rather than the outcome of a definitive study with a new and a 
acceptable experimental design. It is therefore time to analyze the available 
data in light of the treacherousness of the disease and to determine if a clear 
trend is evident. There appears to be sufficient evidence to state that properly 
performed coronary bypass surgery will increase coronary blood flow and relieve 
angina pectoris in 90 percent of patients; total relief of angina can be 
expected in 60 percent and partial relief in 30 percent. Compared with modern 
medical therapy, properly performed coronary bypass surgery appears to prolong 
the life of patients who have obstruction of the left main coronary artery or 
triple or double vessel disease. There is not adequate evidence to state that 
the procedure will prolong the life of patients with single vessel obstruction. 
However, patients with single vessel obstruction and unacceptable angina 
pectoris should be considered for bypass surgery (especially patients with 
obstruction of the left anterior descending coronary artery). In practice, at 
Emory University Hospital, Atlanta, bypass surgery is recommended for young 
people with few symptoms if compelling obstructing lesions are present and in 
older patients only if their symptoms require it. Medical therapy is given 
before and after bypass surgery. When bypass surgery is performed in an 
excellent fashion (operative risk 1 percent) a great deal of "controversy" about 
this problem vanishes.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(78)90917-7
PMID: 356572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Internist (Berl). 1978 Jul;19(7):393-8.

[Biological aspects of aging].

[Article in German]

Platt D.

PMID: 357323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Kidney Int Suppl. 1978 Jun;(8):S91-4.

Selection of hemodialysis versus cadaveric transplantation.

Kreis H.

The records of 272 recipients of cadaver allografts and of 650 dialyzed patients 
(440 center dialysis and 210 home dialysis) were reviewed in an attempt to 
determine whether hemodialysis or transplantation is the best treatment for 
