end-stage renal failure. Home dialysis patient survival is slightly better than 
that of cadaver kidney recipients and far better than center dialysis patient 
survival. When considering the quality of life assumed by the degree of social 
and professional rehabilitation, cadaver kidney transplantation appears the 
optimal choice. Finally, the life expectancy of a patient is higher if he 
embarks upon an integrated program where hemodialysis is a complementary adjunct 
to cadaver kidney transplantation.

PMID: 357819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Ann Clin Res. 1978 Aug;10(4):235-41.

Coronary bypass surgery. An overview.

Frick MH.

During the ten year history of coronary bypass surgery the initially 
unacceptable high operative mortality has dropped to 1--2%. Of the twin targets 
of the procedure, alleviation of disabling angina and improvement in the 
prognosis, the former seems to have been achieved and is universally accepted. 
Several series with repeated exercise tests show that about 70% of the patients 
gain definite benefit; a high proportion of these patients become entirely 
asymptomatic. Reestablishment of effective coronary perfusion via the grafts 
seems to be the key factor in this response. However, several other factors, 
such as perioperative infarction, psychogenic effects, cardiac denervation, and 
changes in left ventricular function, are also involved. There is still 
disagreement about the effect of bypass surgery on life expectancy. It is not, 
in fact, known with certainty whether prognosis is improved, although coronary 
bypass surgery does not appear to be inferior to medical management in terms of 
prolonging life span. It has also been established that there is an improvement 
in prognosis after bypass surgery for patients with obstruction of the left main 
coronary artery, while the fairy favourable prognosis of patients with single 
vessel disease can hardly be improved. Available data from randomized series 
consisting of the whole range of patients with coronary heart disease are either 
quantitatively or qualitatively insufficient by present standards. Accordingly, 
new data will eventually afford the evidence needed for drawing firm conclusions 
about the final value of coronary bypass surgery in improving the prognosis of 
coronary heart disease.

PMID: 360958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 1977 Sep;1(2):211-37. doi:
10.1016/0147-6513(77)90037-9.

Color chemistry and the environment.

Anliker R.

Dyes, and by extension the various organic compounds used for coloration, 
including organic pigments and fluorescent whitening agents (FWAs), are among 
the organic chemicals which we encounter as technological and functional 
necessities in nearly every sphere of our daily lives. They also greatly 
influence our mood and thus contribute enormously to the very quality of the 
lives we lead. At the same time we have come to realize that our achievements 
and continuing technological progress are only worthwhile provided they pose no 
hazard to the environment. Tremendous efforts have been undertaken on a 
worldwide scale to identify, measure, evaluate, and eliminate the undesirable 
effects of chemicals and, hence, dyes on man and the environment. The present 
paper deals in particular with the environmental problems associated with the 
manufacture and use of dyes, problems so complex and so varied in impact that 
only a discerning appraisal can put them into proper perspective. An attempt is 
made to define and evaluate these problems and to show, with reference to 
selected examples, what measures have been and are being implemented to overcome 
them. Various aspects of the relevant legal regulations, the obligation on 
manufacturers to take due care in their operations, and product liability are 
touched upon. This much is certain: A good deal of creative, interdisciplinary 
effort and meticulous attention to minor detail will be necessary to master 
existing and future environmental problems in this area. That is the challenge 
facing all scientists engaged in color chemistry.

DOI: 10.1016/0147-6513(77)90037-9
PMID: 361372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Am J Public Health. 1978 Oct;68(10):1023-5. doi: 10.2105/ajph.68.10.1023.

Smoking and life expectancy among U.S. veterans.

Rogot E.

Life expectancies were estimated for selected groups of smokers, ex-smokers, and 
nonsmokers based on the results of a 16-year mortality follow-up of 198,820 U.S. 
veterans. Life expectancy varied inversely with number of cigarettes smoked per 
day. The most pronounced differences were between nonsmokers and heavy cigarette 
smokers (40+ per day). These differences in life expectancy were greatest at the 
younger ages--nearly 9 years at ages 35 and 40. Life expectancies for cigarette 
smokers varied directly with age began smoking. For all ages, differences in 
life expectancy between nonsmokers and ex-cigarette smokers who stopped for 
other than doctor's orders were less than those between nonsmokers and current 
cigarette smokers. Results in the present study clearly confirmed Hammond's 
earlier findings.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.68.10.1023
PMCID: PMC1654084
PMID: 362949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. J Prosthet Dent. 1979 Feb;41(2):124-8. doi: 10.1016/0022-3913(79)90292-0.

The maxillary complete denture opposing the mandibular bilateral 
distal-extension partial denture: treatment considerations.

Saunders TR, Gillis RE Jr, Desjardins RP.

The dentist should approach the treatment of the complete maxillary denture 
opposing the mandibular bilateral distal extension partial denture cautiously, 
and the institution of correct treatment initiatives is essential. Every patient 
must be aware from the outset that the longest possible life of any prosthesis 
with the least possible harm to the remaining tissues can only be ensured by 
regular recall and maintenance care.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-3913(79)90292-0
PMID: 366110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Practitioner. 1978 Oct;221(1324):588-94.

Advances in rehabilitation. Rehabilitative medicine in a more sustainable 
society.

Aitken C, Loraine J.

PMID: 368750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Demography. 1979 Feb;16(1):121-9.

Family formation and the life cycle.

Krishnamoorthy S.

Mathematical expressions are developed for certain life cycles when only the 
age-specific birth and death rates are known. The probability at birth that a 
woman will have a specified number of children and the expected length of time 
spent before the first birth, between the first and the last child, and between 
the last child and the time of the woman's death are shown to be calculable. 
Expressions for the probability of at least one child outliving the mother and 
for the expected number of children outliving the mother are also developed and 
are evaluated for three selected countries with different birth and death rates 
to show how these life cycles depend on birth and death rates.

PMID: 371997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. JAMA. 1979 Apr 6;241(14):1469-73.

Analysis of costs and outcomes of renal transplantation at one center. Its 
implications.

Salvatierra O Jr, Feduska NJ, Vincenti F, Duca R, Potter D, Nolan J, Cochrum KC, 
Amend WJ.

A cost increase of more than 900% for medical services to dialysis patients and 
transplant recipients has been projected during the decade 1974 to 1984. To 
evaluate the role of renal transplantation in the End-Stage Renal Disease 
Program, we analyzed direct costs and patient outcomes in 466 consecutive 
transplants at our center. A successful transplant from either a living related 
or cadaver donor cost less than +7,000 per year for two years of graft function. 
The cost of transplants rejected during the second year also proved 
cost-effective when compared with the yearly costs of maintenance-facility 
hemodialysis. Patient survival was 100% at two years for recipients of a 
transplant from a living related donor and 84% at two years for recipients of a 
transplant from a cadaver. Renal transplantation can reduce the rising costs for 
end-stage renal disease patient care, without reducing life expectancy.

PMID: 372589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Med Care. 1979 May;17(5):501-25.

Health status index: category rating versus magnitude estimation for measuring 
levels of well-being.

Kaplan RM, Bush JW, Berry CC.

Levels of Well-Being are social preferences, or weights that members of society 
associate with time-specific states of function. A Weighted Life Expectancy, 
which can be used to measure program outputs, is created by summing the levels 
across diverse cases and multiplying them by probable transitions (prognoses) 
among the states and levels. This operation requires however, that the Levels of 
Well-Being be measured on underlying metric scale. The present analysis compares 
preference measurements from a simple category rating procedure with those 
obtained using the more complex and difficult magnitude estimation method which 
has been claimed to yield ratio level measures. In a randomly counterbalanced 
design, 65 college students rated 30 case descriptions representing the range of 
the Well-Being continuum. The results exhibit the classical logarithmic relation 
observed for a prothetic continua. When transformed to a meaningful 0-1 unit 
scale, however, the magnitude responses are compressed at the lower end of the 
scale near death. Such results are inconsistent not only with category rating, 
but also with intuitive notions of the relative importance of the function 
states, with the results of rating procedures that simulate social choice, and 
with evidence that confirms the interval properties of the category ratings 
themselves. Furthermore, the ease of administration of category rating means 
that multiple attributes of cases can be considered jointly, avoiding the need 
to aggregate scale values for different attributes by arbitrary rules. In sum, 
magnitude estimation is inappropriate as a measurement method for a Health 
Status Index and is probably also inappropriate for other measures of utility 
and social choice.

PMID: 372692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Acta Orthop Scand. 1979 Apr;50(2):129-38. doi: 10.3109/17453677908989747.

Allogeneic transplantation in low-grade malignant bone tumours. A new operative 
technique to avoid amputation.

Koskinen EV, Salenius P, Alho A.

A massive allografting of deep-frozen cadaver bone or hemi-joint was performed 
in 11 patients with tumours which were diagnosed as aggressive, low-grade 
malignancies. One patient died from a pre-existing hepatic insufficiency. The 
other 10 patients have been followed up from 1 to 8 years. These patients 
received two bone grafts and eight hemi-joint grafts around the knee joint. The 
operative procedure consisted of fixation of the graft by stable osteosynthesis, 
surrounding the graft-host junction with an autogeneic iliac chips cuff and, in 
cases of hemi-joint grafts, reconstruction of the ligaments. X-ray, scintigraphy 
and biopsy were used to judge the incorporation of the graft. The patients had 
to be prepared to face a considerable morbidity with long non-weight-bearing 
periods and possibly further operations. A full restitution of function was 
achieved in the bone graft cases. The patients with hemi-joint grafts were also 
able to retain their limb with a good or satisfactory function. No metastases or 
recurrences were experienced. The allograft procedure appears to be useful for 
younger adults, whose long life expectancy makes this operation justifiable, 
although the fate of cartilage still is unpredictable.

DOI: 10.3109/17453677908989747
PMID: 373366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Mech Ageing Dev. 1979 Jan;9(1-2):7-17. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(79)90116-7.

Control of immunologic abnormalities associated with aging.

Makinodan T.

In an attempt to encourage more intensive studies on the control of immunologic 
abnormalities associated with aging, the six different approaches which have 
been attempted are reviewed briefly. They are as follows: (a) internal body 
temperature control, (b) tissue ablation, (c) dietary manipulation, (d) genetic 
manipulation, (d) genetic manipulation (e) cell therapy and (f) chemical 
therapy. The first four are preventive and the latter two are restorative in 
approach. Many of these studies are very preliminary, but overall, the findings 
are most encouraging. These studies should resolve the extent to which decline 
in immunologic vigor with age influences the disease pattern of aging 
individuals and on their life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(79)90116-7
PMID: 374888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Mech Ageing Dev. 1979 Feb;9(3-4):337-54. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(79)90110-6.

Evolution of human longevity: a critical overview.

Cutler RG.

Evolution of longevity of the ungulates, carnivores and primates is reviewed. 
Special emphasis is focused on recent evolutionary history of longevity along 
the hominid ancestral-descendant sequence leading to modern man. Maximum life 
span potential (MLP) or the change in MLP is predicted in extinct species by (1) 
a phylogenetic analysis of the MLP of present living species and (2) an 
empirical equation using brain and body weight estimates from fossils. Both of 
these methods indicate MLP generally increased during mammalian evolution and at 
an extremely fast rate during the appearance of the hominid species. These 
results suggest that relatively few genetic alterations were necessary during 
the recent evolutionary history of man to significantly extend his innate 
ability to maintain mental and physical health. Much evidence indicates these 
genetic alterations principally involve regulatory genes, which control a 
conserved set of structural genes. Evolution of longevity in man could therefore 
be a result of simple changes in temporal and quantitative expression. Whether 
these genetic alterations result from mutational changes and/or chromosomal 
rearrangement cannot yet be evaluated.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(79)90110-6
PMID: 374900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Cancer. 1979 Jun;43(6):2248-53. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(197906)43:6<2248::aid-cncr2820430615>3.0.co;2-2.

Anaplastic carcinoma of the thyroid following external irradiation.

Gétaz EP, Shimaoka K, Rao U.

Two patients with anaplastic carcinoma of the thyroid following irradiation for 
Hodgkin's disease are presented, and the previously reported cases briefly 
reviewed. The risk of late development of thyroid carcinoma is life-long and 
high-dose irradiation in patients with prolonged life expectancy may result in 
anaplastic carcinoma as well as less malignant histological forms.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(197906)43:6<2248::aid-cncr2820430615>3.0.co;2-2
PMID: 378351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Z Plast Chir. 1979 Mar;3(1):1-11.

[Success of treatment of total burns- experiences from the Peoples' Republic of 
China].

[Article in German]

Müller FE.

PMID: 382667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1979 May 15;34(10):122-4.

[Long-term course of aortic arch syndrome caused by arteriosclerosis].

[Article in German]

Heinemann L, Heine H, Schmidt H, Norden C, Heinemann G.

The course of the extracranially conditioned cerebrovascular disease is 
characterized by a worse prognosis in comparison with the average population of 
the GDR (11 years older) and by increased cardiovascular complication rate 
(every fifth patient suffered a myocardial infarction, every fourth patient 
suffered an apoplexy). Younger age of manifestation and increasing number of 
concomitant diseases form the basis of a course which is altogether endangered 
by complications, which, however, compared with peripheral and coronary 
arteriosclerosis, is more favourable. Operative reconstruction of the path of a 
vessel leads to an enduring improvement of the picture of the complaint. The 
total prognosis corresponds to the so-called spontaneous course. Under permanent 
treatment with anticoagulants a retardation of the general progressing of 
arteriosclerosis and improvement of the survival rates is to be proved.

PMID: 384691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Stomatol DDR. 1979 Jun;29(6):488-96.

[Impression taking in the edentulous mouth with special regard to closed mouth 
impression with simultaneous determination of the jaw relation].

[Article in German]

Musil R.

In view of the increase in mean life expectancy and in the need for care in the 
gerostomatological sphere, more attention must be paid to such methods which 
optimize the construction of full dentures from the anatomico-pathological 
viewpoint, exert a rationalizing effect, and are likely to improve the success 
rate in the treatment of edentulous patients. The method of closed mouth 
impression and simultaneous determination of the jaw relation refers to 
well-proved principles of impression making, considers new findings concerning 
the determination of the jaw relation, incorporates modern materials and 
instruments, and forms the system character of clinico-technological measures.

PMID: 386578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Zentralbl Gynakol. 1979;101(11):689-97.

[Radiation-borne changes to vaginal and portio epithelium (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Bettendorf U.

Radiotherapy of cervix carcinoma may cause radiation-borne reactive cell changes 
to epithelial cells of the vagina and portio which are sizeable but harmless. 
However, postradiation dysplasia with damage to the DNA and RNA is a genuine 
dysplasia and may be a precancerous condition. It is cytologically characterised 
by impairment of the nucleocytoplasmatic ratio as well as by hyperchromia and 
heterochromia of nuclei. Statistically secured correlation with recurrent 
carcinomas was established only for severe types with aneuploid DNA in the 
nuclei.

PMID: 386648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Maturitas. 1979 Feb;1(3):145-51. doi: 10.1016/0378-5122(79)90001-x.

La menespausie--the birth of a syndrome.

Wilbush J.

The prevalent assumption that climacteric disturbances appeared when the 
expectation of life of women assured survival past the menopause cannot be 
supported demographically. These disorders are largely conditioned by 
sociocultural factors and, therefore, may be expected to have been initiated 
when these factors became stressful. Historical examination shows that medicine, 
or its marginal practitioners, were always involved in the postponement of 
ageing whenever the status of women depended more on their attractiveness than 
other social determinants, a logical "geriatric" extension of its traditional 
cosmetic activities. No menopausal disturbances are however recorded until the 
social convulsions of the French Revolution, and the regimes which followed, 
seem to have crystalized the various complaints of the climacteric into a 
disease-expression, which reified the social stress to which women were subject. 
This is dramatically reflected, both in the medical writings published in France 
around the year 1800, and in the naming, for the first time, of this phase of 
woman's life: La Menespausie, soon shortened to Menopause.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-5122(79)90001-x
PMID: 388153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Zdravookhr Ross Fed. 1979;(11):11-7.

[Education and demographic indices].

[Article in Russian]

Tomin VP.

PMID: 388926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Rev Med Liege. 1979 Jun;34 Suppl 1:5-13.

[Epidemiology and natural history of coronary insufficiency].

[Article in French]

Boland J, De Landsheere C.

PMID: 390668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Arq Bras Cardiol. 1979 Jul;33(1):1-3.

[Present status of heart transplants].

[Article in Portuguese]

Stolf NA.

PMID: 393217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Trans Stud Coll Physicians Phila. 1977 Apr;44(4):165-78.

Two hundred years of children.

Baumgartner L.

PMID: 394416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Prog Exp Tumor Res. 1979;24:222-34. doi: 10.1159/000402099.

The use of the Syrian hamster in toxicology studies, with emphasis on 
carcinogenesis bioassay.

Arnold DL, Grice HC.

DOI: 10.1159/000402099
PMID: 395570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1979 Sep 18;27(2):133-52.

[Indicators of health and "sanometrie": conceptual aspects of recent research on 
measuring the state of health of a population. 2].

[Article in French]

Goldberg M, Dab W, Chaperon J, Fuhrer R, Grémy F.

PMID: 395590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Clin Neurosurg. 1979;26:513-28. doi: 10.1093/neurosurgery/26.cn_suppl_1.513.

Microsurgical approach to the anterior cervical spine and spinal cord.

Hoff JT, Wilson CB.

When the cervical spine is affected by disease that is predominantly anterior, 
we prefer to take an anterior operative approach. Whether or not fusion is 
indicated depends largely upon the case. In general, we do not fuse the spine 
unless it is unstable. Widening of the spinal canal and the neural foramina can 
be done effectively by the anterior route, with or without anterior fusion. When 
the spine is unstable from disease affecting the vertebral bodies, we routinely 
fuse with bone graft or provide mechanical stability with a vertebral body 
prosthesis if life expectancy is short.

DOI: 10.1093/neurosurgery/26.cn_suppl_1.513
PMID: 397019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol. 1977 Feb;43(2):218-26. doi: 
10.1016/0030-4220(77)90159-1.

Oral manifestations of secondary hyperparathyroidism related to long-term 
hemodialysis therapy.

Fletcher PD, Scopp IW, Hersh RA.

Patients on long-term hemodialysis therapy may develop secondary 
hyperparathyroidism with oral symptoms. As the life expectancy of the dialysis 
patient increases, the dentist is seeing these manifestations with increasing 
frequency. A review of the subject is presented along with a case illustrating 
dramatic roentgenographic changes in a patient who was placed on hemodialysis 
when the technique was in its infancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0030-4220(77)90159-1
PMID: 401975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Crit Care Med. 1977 Jan-Feb;5(1):36-42. doi:
10.1097/00003246-197701000-00007.

Acute renal failure in the newborn.

Aschinberh LC, Zeis PM, Hageman JR, Vidyasagar D.

Recent advances in prenatal and neonatal care have increased the number of live 
births and extended the life expectancy of critically ill premature infants. 
These infants represent a formidable therapeutic challenge in that multisystem 
involvement and previously uncommon conditions, such as intravascular 
coagulation, acute tubular necrosis, and acute cortical necrosis are now seen 
with increased frequency. This review begins with a discussion of the 
development of renal function in the neonate followed by a description of the 
more common causes of acute renal failure (ARF) in this age group. Finally, the 
pathophysiology, diagnosis, and management of this condition are discussed.

DOI: 10.1097/00003246-197701000-00007
PMID: 402250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. N Engl J Med. 1977 Mar 31;296(13):716-21. doi: 10.1056/NEJM197703312961304.

Foundations of cost-effectiveness analysis for health and medical practices.

Weinstein MC, Stason WB.

Limits on health-care resources mandate that resource-allocation decisions be 
guided by considerations of cost in relation to expected benefits. In 
cost-effectiveness analysis, the ratio of net health-care costs to net health 
benefits provides an index by which priorities may be set. Quality-of-life 
concerns, including both adverse and beneficial effects of therapy, may be 
incorporated in the calculation of health benefits as adjustments to life 
expectancy. The timing of future benefits and costs may be accounted for by the 
appropriate use of discounting. Current decisions must inevitably be based on 
imperfect information, but sensitivity analysis can increase the level of 
confidence in some decisions while suggesting areas where further research may 
be valuable in guiding others. Analyses should be adaptable to the needs of 
various health-care decision makers, including planners, administrators and 
providers.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM197703312961304
PMID: 402576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. N Engl J Med. 1977 Mar 31;296(13):732-9. doi: 10.1056/NEJM197703312961307.

Public-health rounds at the Harvard School of Public Health. Allocation of 
resources to manage hypertension.

Stason WB, Weinstein MC.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM197703312961307
PMID: 402577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. CA Cancer J Clin. 1977 Mar-Apr;27(2):66-87. doi: 10.3322/canjclin.27.2.66.

Screening for breast cancer in younger women: life expectancy gains and losses. 
An analysis according to risk indicator groups.

Seidman H.

DOI: 10.3322/canjclin.27.2.66
PMID: 402989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Acta Haematol. 1977;57(5):310-20. doi: 10.1159/000207896.

Loss of the Y chromosome from bone marrow cells of males with myeloproliferative 
disorders. Report of two cases and review of the literature.

Dileo PE, Müller HJ, Obrecht HP, Speck B, Bühler EM, Stalder GR.

Two additional cases of myeloproliferative disorders are described showing as 
the only chromosome abnormality a loss of the Y chromosome. Comparing these 
cases with cases reviewed from the literature indicates that a loss of the Y 
chromosome in Ph1-positive and Ph1-negative CML may cause only a somewhat longer 
life expectancy following diagnosis. The exact role of the Y chromosome, 
however, in the initiation or progression of a malignant disorder cannot be 
stated at this time.

DOI: 10.1159/000207896
PMID: 403735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Gerontology. 1977;23(5):325-33. doi: 10.1159/000212204.

Influence of sex on the radiation-induced life span modifications in Drosophila 
melanogaster.

Giess MC, Planel H.

Drosophila melanogaster is exposed to 0, 25, 50, 75 kr of 60Co gamma-irradiation 
at 1,000 r/min, on the 4th day of its imaginal life. As a result, the life span 
of the flies is reduced for both sexes. Females, however, are more 
radiosensitive than males. In females, the radiation-induced life span 
shortening does not vary with the doses administered; in males, on the contrary, 
the life expectancy decreases as the dose is increased.

DOI: 10.1159/000212204
PMID: 404213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. J Pediatr. 1977 Aug;91(2):204-10. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(77)80813-5.

Endocrine studies in cystinosis: compensated primary hypothyroidism.

Lucky AW, Howley PM, Megyesi K, Spielberg SP, Schulman JD.

Children with nephropathic cystinosis exhibit marked growth retardation. 
Improved medical management and renal transplantation have increased their life 
expectancy beyond the second decade. We have studied endocrine function in seven 
patients with cystinosis and reviewed autopsy findings of four patients and 
medical records of 24 others. One 10-year-old boy was overtly hypothyroid. The 
six other patients had normal studies of peripheral thyroid function but two had 
borderline and two had frankly elevated serum TSH levels. Stimulation tests of 
cortisol and growth hormone secretion and basal levels of serum NSILA-s were 
normal. Postmortem histology of the thyroid glands revealed extensive 
destruction and infiltration of the epithelium with cystine crystals. Despite 
the presence of cystine crystals in other endocrine tissues, there was no 
destruction of epithelium in glands other than in the thyroid. We conclude that 
in nephropathic cystinosis "compensated" primary hypothyroidism occurs 
frequently and early and may be diagnosed by measurement of serum TSH 
concentrations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(77)80813-5
PMID: 406375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1977 Sep 15;129(2):117-23. doi: 
10.1016/0002-9378(77)90730-x.

Elective hysterectomy.

Cole P, Berlin J.

Hysterectomy is the most frequently performed major operation. Its frequency is 
increasing due to greater use of elective indications such as uterine cancer 
prophylaxis, contraception, and menopausal problems. The effects of elective 
simple hysterectomy are evaluated in terms of morbidity and mortality rates and 
costs. Among 35-year-old women operated upon, the average over-all gain in life 
expectancy is only 0.2 years. This is due to the saving of 1.3 per cent of women 
who would have died from cancer of the cervix or endometrium; they gained 14.3 
years of life. In addition, 3 per cent of women are spared the development of 
and treatment for these two conditions. All women operated upon would be 
relieved of some undesirable aspects of the menopausal years such as irregular 
uterine bleeding. There are also economic gains. However, the operation has 
adverse health effects which could offset any gains from cancer prevention. In 
addition, each year of life saved would cost about $12,800 and most of the added 
years would be lived in old age. Delaying the operation to age 45 and including 
oophorectomy would result in a lower cost per year of life saved-about 
$9,800-but the risk of adverse health effects probably would be increased very 
much. Cancer prophylaxis cannot justify elective hysterectomy; we cannot assess 
whether quality-of-life considerations do.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(77)90730-x
PMID: 409291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Transfusion. 1977 Sep-Oct;17(5):454-9. doi: 
10.1046/j.1537-2995.1977.17578014583.x.

Studies on 4 C stored frozen-reconstituted red blood cells. I. Bacterial growth.

Myhre BA, Nakasako YY, Schott R.

A knowledge of the growth rates of various organisms at the storage temperature 
of 4 C in the different suspending media used for red blood cells would aid the 
extension of the thawed storage time of frozen-reconstituted blood beyond the 24 
hours allowed by the Food and Drug Administration. Knowing these rates, a 
prediction could be made that the growth rate would be sufficiently slow and the 
unit (sterile or minimally contaminated) could be given safely after a longer 
storage period. The studies reported show that the pathogenic organisms S. 
aureus, Ps. aeruginosa, E. coli, Klebsiella sp. and Enterobacter sp. grow at 
such a slow rate at 4 C that they do not represent any great hazard to the 
recipient unless introduced in great numbers. The studies further show that in 
the process of washing frozen blood the number of organisms is reduced by 
between one and two orders of magnitude (base 10). Therefore, extension of 
frozen red blood cell storage life to at least 72 hours should be considered.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.1977.17578014583.x
PMID: 410123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Exp Cell Res. 1977 Oct 15;109(2):448-50. doi: 10.1016/0014-4827(77)90026-x.

Inverse correlation between species life span and capacity of cultured 
fibroblasts to bind 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene to DNA.

Schwartz AG, Moore CJ.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-4827(77)90026-x
PMID: 410649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Int J Health Serv. 1977;7(4):663-80. doi: 10.2190/YU77-T7B1-EN9X-G0PN.

You are dangerous to your health: the ideology and politics of victim blaming.

Crawford R.

This article describes the emergence of an ideology which blames the individual 
for her or his illness and proposes that, instead of relying on costly and 
inefficient medical services, the individual should take more responsibility for 
her or his health. At-risk behavior is seen as the problem and changing 
life-style, through education and/or economic sanctions, as the solution. The 
emergence of the ideology is explained by the contradictions arising from the 
threat of high medical costs, popular expectations of medicine along with 
political pressures for protection or extension of entitlements, and the 
politicization of environmental and occupational health issues. These 
contradictions produce a crisis which is at once economic, political and 
ideological, and which requires responses to destabilizing conditions in each of 
these spheres. These ideological initiatives, on the one hand, serve to reorder 
expectations and to justify the retrenchment from rights and entitlements for 
access to medical services, and, on the other, attempt to divert attention from 
the social causation of disease in the commercial and industrial sectors.

DOI: 10.2190/YU77-T7B1-EN9X-G0PN
PMID: 410739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Pediatrics. 1977 Nov;60(5):756-9.

Cost-effective clinical decision making.

Neuhauser D.

PMID: 411106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. MMW Munch Med Wochenschr. 1977 Oct 28;119(43):1397-1400.

[Multiple carcinomas (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Keller HP, Forster B, Klaue P.

Of the patients at the Chirurgische Universitätsklinik Würzburg, 29 were treated 
for multiple carcinomas in the period from 1970 to 1976. Reports in the 
literature confirm this relatively high figure. The generally greater life 
expectancy and increasing survival rate in treated first carcinomas suggest a 
further increase in this figure for the future. This possibility should 
therefore be borne in mind for every carcinoma patient, particularly since a 
second carcinoma has the same prognosis as the first and not the unfavorable 
prognosis of a metastasis or a recurrence.

PMID: 412077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1978 Apr;59(4):175-81.

Stroke rehabilitation: a reconsideration of some common attitudes.

Anderson TP, Kottke FJ.

Some common, yet erroneous, attitudes and perceptions about stroke still 
persist. These warrant reconsideration: (1) benefits of stroke rehabilitation 
(including validity of its basis, life expectancy, adequacy in nursing homes, 
outcome prediction, cost benefits, and vocational outcome); (2) gait training 
(including evaluation methods, gait patterns, hand supports, sensory deficits, 
and types of braces); (3) effects of training on regaining balance; (4) 
spasticity (as a negative factor, enhancement by spring-action brace, benefit of 
inhibition training, and importance of antispasmotic drugs); (5) danger of early 
activity; (6) depression; (7) effects on patients' sexuality; (8) effects of 
communication impairments on learning abilities as well as effectiveness of 
speech therapy; (9) application of neurphysiological principles (regarding 
decreasing synaptic resistance, applications of principles from cerebral palsy 
training, and benefits of training for percept-concept-motor function deficits); 
and (10) research including reliability of past reports and paucity of 
facilities for new research.

PMID: 417697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Clin Radiol. 1979 Jan;30(1):87-94. doi: 10.1016/s0009-9260(79)80055-0.

Hyperostosis generalisata with striations of the bones, a further report in two 
related families.

Jones DN.

Hyperostosis generalisata with striations of the bones falls within the large 
group of sclerotic bone dysplasias and is characterised by a marked widening of 
cortical bone, sclerosis of the base of the skull, and dense striations in the 
cancellous bone. All the bones of the skeleton, with the possible exception of 
the vault of the skull, may be involved to some extent. A milder form exists in 
which thickening of cotrical bone occurs, mainly in the long bones of the limbs 
and striations are absent. The disorder has never been described in the female. 
Apart from a slight elevation of the serum alkaline phosphatase in some 
patients, no significant biochemical changes and no impairment of intelligence, 
growth, or life expectancy have been found. The diagnosis is made entirely on 
its radiological features. Its occurrence in four members, covering two 
generations, and three members, covering three generations, of two related 
families is described. A possible relationship to progressive diaphyseal 
dysplasia (Camurati--Englemann disease) is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0009-9260(79)80055-0
PMID: 421429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Int J Health Serv. 1979;9(1):77-85. doi: 10.2190/P427-YFTV-86LR-GVG6.

Demographic growth and health needs in Latin America.

Behm H.

The net effect of the rapid population growth in Latin American countries is an 
increase in the needs for health services. Nevertheless, the demographic factor 
is not the only nor the most important consideration in determining how to 
satisfy these demands in the region. The main contradiction lies between the 
magnitude of needs for services generated by the adverse living conditions 
prevalling among the majority of the population, together with a restricted 
supply of health services, the availability of which varies according to social 
class. The problem of the increasing demand for medical care, generated by the 
rapid population growth, should be recognized as originating in the 
socioeconomic structural conditions prevailing in Latin American countries today 
which determine, simultaneously, low health levels, deficiencies in the 
provision of health services, and rapid population growth.

PIP: Unfavorable living conditions prevailing in Latin America are exacerbated 
by rapid population growth. Where the socioeconomic level is very low the need 
for health care services is very severe. 71% of the high per capita income 
population in Chile (1.00 and more) satisfied their demand for annual medical 
visits, compared to 39% of the low income (.0-.19) in 1968. A health policy 
which delivers medical services to the population sector which most needs them 
and does not discriminate by social class would reduce the present high rates of 
population growth. Population projections by the Latin American Demographic 
Center anticipate increases by an average of 50% between 1975-1990. Estimated 
growth will exceeded 60% in Honduras, Nicaragua, Mexico, and the Dominican 
Republic. Since life expectancy is lowest in Nicaragua and Honduras, demographic 
increase will occur where health needs are the greatest. By contrast, Argentina 
and Uruguay, where life expectancy is the highest, anticipate 20% growth.

DOI: 10.2190/P427-YFTV-86LR-GVG6
PMID: 422299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 1979 Feb;42(2):151-3. doi:
10.1136/jnnp.42.2.151.

Vocal cord paralysis in the Shy-Drager syndrome.

Williams A, Hanson D, Calne DB.

Eight out of 12 unselected patients with Shy-Drager syndrome were found to have 
severe bilateral paresis of vocal cord abduction by fibre-optic laryngoscopy. 
This commonly presented as increased snoring followed by episodes of inspiratory 
and expiratory stridor and sometimes by sleep apnoea. Respiratory failure 
eventually developed in four cases and was reversed by tracheostomy. In another 
patient tracheostomy relieved severe attacks of sleep apnoea. This complication 
was not necessarily associated with advanced disease, and it should be 
considered in all patients with Shy-Drager syndrome as appropriate treatment can 
lead to a useful extension of life.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.42.2.151
PMCID: PMC490180
PMID: 422962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Science. 1979 Mar 16;203(4385):1115-7. doi: 10.1126/science.424739.

DNA repair and longevity assurance in Paramecium tetraurelia.

Smith-Sonneborn J.

At given doses and clonal ages, ultraviolet irradiation-induced DNA damage 
reduced clonal life-span, but when followed by photoreactivation, extension of 
clonal life-span was observed. If photoreactivation preceded the ultraviolet 
treatment, no significant beneficial effect was detected. Because studies of 
others have shown that photoreactivation repair monomerizes the 
ultraviolet-induced cyclobutane dimers in DNA, but does not affect the other 
photoproducts, these results indicate that DNA damage can influence the duration 
of clonal life-span unless that damage is repaired. Repeated treatment with 
ultraviolet and photoreactivation resulted in significant mean and maximal 
clonal life-span extension when compared with untreated controls, and it is 
assumed that the rejuvenation effect was due to the correction or prevention of 
some age damage.

DOI: 10.1126/science.424739
PMID: 424739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Demography. 1979 Feb;16(1):131-5.

Bias in graduated life table functions.

Pollard JH.

Survival proportions and expectations of life estimated directly from observed 
crude mortality rates are usually unbiased. Estimates of survival proportions 
and expectations of life obtained from graduated mortality rates at individual 
ages tend to be positively biased, although the actual bias is small for 
reasonably large experiences.

PMID: 428604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Demography. 1979 Feb;16(1):137-56.

A close look at the demography of Afghanistan.

Trussell J, Brown E.

The first survey designed to allow estimates of the demographic characteristics 
of Afghanistan's sedentary population was conducted during the period 1972-1974. 
Our analysis of these data, based on recently developed techniques for handling 
imcomplete or inaccurate data, suggests that this population lives under 
conditions that are extreme when judged by modern standards. Marriage is early, 
especially for females, and universal. Marital fertility conforms to a pattern 
of natural fertility and total fertility is high. The birth rate is among the 
highest in the world today, and the expectation of life at birth is among the 
very lowest. Mortality is lower in urban areas than in rural areas, whereas 
total fertility is approximately the same in both. Our estimates of fertility 
and mortality imply stable populations which match closely the observed age 
distributions for both the rural and urban areas.

PMID: 428605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Orv Hetil. 1979 Mar 18;120(11):644-6.

[Significance and effect of correction of metabolic disorders on the life 
expectancy of elderly diabetics].

[Article in Hungarian]

Mucza E, Velösy G, Molnár I, Nagy S.

PMID: 431925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Public Health Rep. 1979 Mar-Apr;94(2):119-23.

The gross national health product: a proposed population health index.

Chen MK.

A population health status index designated as the gross national health product 
(GNHP) is proposed as a general measure of the health of nations or population 
groups. The GNHP integrates mortality and disability data into a single number 
in units of disability-free life years lived per 100,000 population. It is based 
primarily on mortality ratios and life expectancies of component age groups of 
the population, modified by their respective disability experiences. A 
computational example with data currently available on U.S. geographic regions 
from publications of the National Center for Health Statistics shows that the 
GNHP was highest in the West, indicating the highest number of disability-free 
years lived. Because of simplicity in its computation and interpretation, the 
GNHP can be used by health systems agencies (HSAs) in monitoring their 
performance or in conducting comparative studies.

PMCID: PMC1431794
PMID: 432403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. South Med J. 1979 Apr;72(4):391-2. doi: 10.1097/00007611-197904000-00006.

Treatment of cholelithiasis in patients with sickle cell anemia.

Gibson TJ, O'Dell RF, Cathcart RS 3rd, Rambo WM.

The incidence of cholelithiasis and surgical risk of cholecystectomy in patients 
with sickle cell anemia is reviewed. Records of all patients with sickle cell 
disease currently attending the Medical University of South Carolina Hematology 
Clinic were reviewed. An oral cholecystogram has been part of the initial 
evaluation for the past year. The records of 16 patients having cholecystectomy 
from 1968 to 1977 were reviewed with regard to diagnostic studies, preoperative 
preparation, morbidity, and mortality. When the status of the gallbladder is 
known, the incidence of cholelithiasis is 67%. The morbidity of elective 
cholecystectomy was high (37%); there was one death. Cholecystectomy is not 
recommended for the discovery of asymptomatic gallstones because of the 
relatively poor surgical risk and short life expectancy of these patients.

DOI: 10.1097/00007611-197904000-00006
PMID: 432676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1979 Jan-Mar;60(1):3-9.

Longevity of prominent women.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 432885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Am J Public Health. 1979 May;69(5):514-5. doi: 10.2105/ajph.69.5.514.

Increased life expectancy offsets energy gains from dieters.

Hull AP.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.69.5.514
PMCID: PMC1619123
PMID: 434286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 1979 Jan-Feb;28(1):31-4.
