
[Borderline hypertension. Physiopathological mechanisms (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Safar M, Simon A, Tzincoca C, Aboras N, Milliez P.

PMID: 434756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Dokl Akad Nauk SSSR. 1979;245(4):1017-20.

[Kinetic patterns of human mortality in historical perspective].

[Article in Russian]

Gavrilov LA, Gavrilova NS.

PMID: 436576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Fed Proc. 1979 May;38(6):1956-61.

Analysis and exploration of age-related changes in mammalian structure and 
function.

Masoro EJ, Bertrand H, Liepa G, Yu BP.

Although there is a large body of data showing an age-associated decline in the 
physiological systems of mammals, there is a great need for more descriptive 
information on the morphological and functional changes that occur with age. A 
powerful approach for ascertaining the extent to which age-related physiological 
changes limit the functional capacity of mammals is to study the effects of age 
on the response to challenges. Food restriction that markedly increases the mean 
life span of rodents also provides a potentially effective experimental probe of 
the aging process. Results are reported from our current research on morphologic 
and functional changes during the total life span of rats and on the influence 
of food restriction on these age-related changes. The data from our study of the 
lean body mass, adipose tissue mass, and adipose tissue structure indicate that 
current dogmas need to be reexamined; moreover, they clearly show the need for 
and the power of life-long descriptive studies. Our research on the influence of 
food restriction on age-related changes in functional activity supports the 
hypothesis that one mechanism by which food restriction increases the life span 
of rats relates to the delay in time of onset and a change in chronologic course 
of physiologic decline.

PMID: 437139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Fed Proc. 1979 May;38(6):2007-16.

Influence of controlled dietary restriction on immunologic function and aging.

Weindruch RH, Kristie JA, Cheney KE, Walford RL.

The underfeeding regimens tested in rodents for life span prolongation and/or 
immunologic effects result in a complex blend of protein and energy restriction 
while offering at least adequate amounts of all other essential nutrients. 
Underfeeding started at weaning and continued throughout life represents the 
only proved way of slowing the rate of aging in homeotherms. Mounting evidence 
indicates that underfeeding initiated later in life may also influence life span 
favorably. Old mice after lifelong restriction, or moderately aged mice (16.5 
months) after 4.5 months of restriction, display "younger" immune systems than 
do age-matched, normally fed controls, as judged by response to mitogens, the 
mixed lymphocyte reaction, and other determinants. The immunologic effects of 
underfeeding, when measured quite early in life, are strain-dependent in the 
mouse. Diets designed to restrict the intake per week of energy (but not 
protein) produce the same effects on immune response capacity in very young mice 
as do energy restricted, protein unbalanced regimens. Underfeeding early in life 
drastically dampens thymic growth and alters the timing of involution. Early 
restriction also produces a profound lowering of body temperature in young 
(C57BL/10Sn x C3H/HeDiSn)F1 females. On the other hand, temperature lowering was 
not observed in males of this hybrid fed normally for the first year of life and 
restricted for 3 months prior to measurement. The mechanisms behind these 
various effects of controlled dietary restriction (i.e., undernutrition without 
malnutrition) are poorly understood at present.

PMID: 437143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. JACEP. 1979 May;8(5):211. doi: 10.1016/s0361-1124(79)80134-3.

Life expectancy gains with disease reduction.

Hughes JH.

DOI: 10.1016/s0361-1124(79)80134-3
PMID: 439564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Pediatrics. 1979 Jan;63(1):18-23.

Increased muscularity of the pylmonary circulation in victims of sudden infant 
death syndrome.

Williams A, Vawter G, Reid L.

It has recently become apparent that some victims of sudden infant death 
syndrome (SIDS) are chronically hypoxemic before death. In this study, the 
structural alterations in the pulmonary circulation of 15 victims of SIDS were 
examined using precise quantitative morphometric techniques applied to the 
injected and inflated lung. Increased muscularity of the pulmonary circulation 
has been demonstrated, as evidenced by the extension of muscle into arteries not 
usually muscularized during the first year of life, and by an increased 
thickness of the medial wall in some patients. This confirms the findings of 
Naeye and further justifies the shift of investigative efforts from the events 
immediately surrounding death to a search for chronic abnormalities.

PMID: 440797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Cancer. 1979 Apr;43(4):1201-10. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(197904)43:4<1201::aid-cncr2820430407>3.0.co;2-0.

Solid tumor models for the assessment of different treatment modalities: VIII. 
The scheduling of treatment for a chemotherapeutically resistant experimental 
solid tumor.

Looney WB, Hopkins HA, MacLeod MS.

Single, large doses of adriamycin, cyclophosphamide and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) 
have been compared to the same amount of drug given in divided doses daily over 
a 3 or 5 day period in a solid tumor model which metastasizes to the regional 
lymph nodes and lungs. No significant increase in life expectancy occurred 
following adriamycin or cyclophosphamide. However, a significant reduction in 
life expectancy occurred after 5 fractionated doses of 5-FU but not after the 
large single dose. The increase in mortality following fractionated doses of 
5-FU is attributed to the prolongation of the onset of recovery of bone marrow. 
Tumor volume reduction following a single dose of each agent was equal to or 
greater than the fractionated doses. The results of these studies on this 
chemotherapeutically resistant solid tumor indicate that small daily 
fractionated doses of adriamycin, cyclophosphamide or 5-FU result in increased 
morbidity and mortality without therapeutic benefit in tumor control. The time 
sequence of recovery of the limiting organ of the host (i.e., bone marrow) is 
similar to the time sequence of recovery of the tumor. Large intermittent single 
doses of chemotherapeutic agents given following recovery of the host from a 
previous treatment would be expected to be less toxic to the host and equally 
effective in control of tumor growth. None of the 3 chemotherapeutic agents was 
successful in tumor eradication. Previous studies of this series have shown that 
the utilization of sequential chemotherapy combined with radiotherapy can be 
successfully used for eradication of another solid tumor which did not 
metastasize. A similar therapeutic strategy using sequential combined modality 
therapy should also be effective in the control of the primary H-4-II-E tumor as 
well as its metastatic dissemination. Information gained from these experimental 
studies should eventually provide information which should be helpful in the 
clinical management of chemotherapeutically resistant solid tumors in man.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(197904)43:4<1201::aid-cncr2820430407>3.0.co;2-0
PMID: 445323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Cent Afr J Med. 1979 Mar;25(3):45-51.

The Shona generation.

Beach DN.

PMID: 445574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. J Gerontol. 1979 Jul;34(4):497-501. doi: 10.1093/geronj/34.4.497.

Effects of the antioxidant butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) on mortality in BALB/c 
mice.

Clapp NK, Satterfield LC, Bowles ND.

Butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) was given in the feed to determine its effect on 
life span in genetically well-defined, barrier-derived BALB/c mice. Both sexes 
received 0.75% BHT for three different treatment periods: (A) 8 to 11 weeks of 
age; (B) for life, beginning at 11 weeks; (C) for life, beginning at 8 weeks of 
age. The control group (D) was untreated. All BHT treatment groups had mean 
survival times which exceeded that of controls. The order of survival was B 
greater than C greater than A greater than D (Males: 890, 832, 726, 684 days; 
Females: 875, 798, 759, 701 days). Most of the increases in mean survival time 
were related to a reduction in early deaths (350--600 days) in BHT-treated mice. 
The reason for the life-lengthening effect on BHT was not identified, but it may 
relate to alterations in specific disease incidences.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/34.4.497
PMID: 448040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. JAMA. 1979 Aug 3;242(5):442-4.

Improved life expectancy for children with exstrophy of the bladder.

Macfarlane MT, Lattimer JK, Hensle TW.

Life-table techniques demonstrate a 98% ten-year survival, a 96% 20-year 
survival, and 91% 35-year survival of children with exstrophy of the bladder. 
These figures represent a vast improvement over the earlier figures, due in 
large part to technical advances that have been made in areas of surgery, 
anesthesia, and antibacterial and metabolic therapy.

PMID: 448960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Radiat Res. 1979 Apr;78(1):122-61.

Life shortening in RFM and BALB/c mice as a function of radiation quality, dose, 
and dose rate.

Storer JB, Serrano LJ, Darden EB Jr, Jernigan MC, Ullrich RL.

PMID: 451140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. South Med J. 1979 Jul;72(7):788-94. doi: 10.1097/00007611-197907000-00008.

Pathologic fractures of long bones.

Vaughn PB, Brindley HH.

Sixty-two cases of pathologic fractures occurring in 53 patients treated at 
Scott and White Memorial Hospital from 1966 to 1976 are reviewed and analyzed 
with regard to type of neoplastic lesion, location, mode of therapy initiated, 
functional stability of therapy selected, and average length of survival after 
orthopedic procedure. Pertinent literature is reviewed, and our results are 
compared with those of other series.

DOI: 10.1097/00007611-197907000-00008
PMID: 451683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Vrach Delo. 1979 Mar;(3):1-3.

[In a united family].

[Article in Russian]

Gamachek VA.

PMID: 452515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Am J Public Health. 1979 Aug;69(8):782-3. doi: 10.2105/ajph.69.8.782.

Mortality and the business cycle: how far can we push an association?

Lew EA.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.69.8.782
PMCID: PMC1619245
PMID: 453410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Ann Thorac Surg. 1979 Feb;27(2):104-11. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)63249-3.

Survival and probability of cure without and with operation in complete 
atrioventricular canal.

Berger TJ, Blackstone EH, Kirklin JW, Bargeron LM Jr, Hazelrig JB, Turner ME Jr.

Actuarial analysis based on postmortem examination of patients who had been 
treated nonsurgically for complete atrioventricular (A-V) canal defect shows 
that only 54% survive to 6 months of age, 35% to 12 months, 15% to 24 months, 
and 4% to 5 years of age. Our surgical experience since 1975 in 39 patients 
confirms the idea that primary repair is feasible in small infants. The highest 
risk of hospital death is when the operation is done in the early months of 
life; it falls to 17% by age 12 months. Between 1967 and October, 1976, the 
five-year survival rate among patients leaving the hospital alive after repair 
was 91%. The age-specific probability of "surgical cure" of patients operated 
upon for complete A-V canal (alive five years later with mean pulmonary artery 
pressure less than 25 mm Hg) is maximal at 73% when the operation is done at 
about 14 months of age. Urgent earlier repair is frequently necessitated by the 
life history of the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)63249-3
PMID: 453968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Ann Thorac Surg. 1979 Jul;28(1):14-21. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)63384-x.

Clinical experience with the isotopic cardiac pacemaker.

Smyth NP, Keshishian JD, Garcia JM, Kelly LC, Proctor D.

Clinical experience with isotopic pacemakers in 59 patients is compared with 
that in 77 control patients having conventional chemical battery-powered pulse 
generators. The review covers a 51/2-year period. Statistical analysis of the 
two series is impossible because of the numerous variables such as age, type of 
disease, number of controls, types of test and control pulse generators, dates 
of insertion, and protocol regulations. However, there were pulse generator 
failures in the control group, but not in the test group. Though not proven in 
this study, the isotopic cardiac pacer is likely to last longer than 
conventional chemical battery-powered units, and could provide lifetime pacing 
for many patients. The risk of carcinogenesis is minimal and seems negligible in 
older patients. The isotopic cardiac pacer, in spite of restrictions of the 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission, should be considered for any patient with a life 
expectancy of 10 or more years. Paradoxically, it might be indicated in older 
rather than younger patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)63384-x
PMID: 454038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Chirurg. 1979 May;50(5):297-307.

[Natural course of a disease: computations and possibilities of error].

[Article in German]

Devroede GJ, Taylor WF, Greenstein AJ, Janowitz HD.

PMID: 456175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Demography. 1979 May;16(2):329-38.

Relations between demographic parameters.

Demetrius L.

The mean life-expectancy e describes the average prospective life-time of an 
individual aged zero. This parameter can be explicitly described in terms of the 
survivorship distribution of the population. The Malthusian parameter r 
represents the asymptotic growth rate of a population. This parameter can be 
implicitly expressed in terms of the net-maternity distribution. The parameters 
e and r incompletely incorporate the age-specific fertility and mortality 
pattern of a population; distinct populations may have the same growth rate but 
different net-maternity functions; distinct populations may be characterized by 
the same mean life expectation but may have different survivorship 
distributions. This article analyzes a class of parameters called the entropy of 
a population (Demetrius, 1974a) which distinguishes between net-maternity 
functions with the same growth rate and also mortality distributions with the 
same mean life expectation. This class of parameters measures the convexity of 
the fertility and mortality distributions. This paper analyzes the relations 
between the entropy parameter and the standard demographic parameters.

PMID: 456708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. IARC Sci Publ (1971). 1979;(25):9-19.

Tobacco--current French legislation.

Denoix P.

A recent French campaign to bring about a reduction in tobacco consumption is 
described. A number of factors were used to convince the public that smoking is 
dangerous: it was pointed out that, of all cancers, those in which tobacco plays 
an important role are increasing the most rapidly; another is that smoking 
reduces life expectancy. A study of the smoking habit in France showed that it 
is acquired earlier and earlier; another study showed that 60,000 deaths a year 
can be linked to smoking; the cost of medical services related to smoking was 
calculated to be 22 thousand million francs. By comparison, the budget of the 
anti-smoking campaign was 3 million francs, but this was sufficient to reduce 
the risk by 7%. The second objective of the programme was to give non-smokers 
the possibility to assert their rights. The main target of the campaign was 
young people. The social pressure on them to begin smoking could be reduced if 
the number of smokers were reduced, if non-smokers asserted their rights and if 
the image of the smoker were debunked. The campaign was supported by 
anti-smoking legislation which came into effect in July 1976. Smaller campaigns 
were planned to follow annually. The main targets of the law were advertising 
and publicity; in addition, smoking was prohibited in public places, public 
means of transport and educational establishments. The effectiveness of the 
campaign was measured by sampling changes in behaviour and in sales volume: 
there was a 5% decrease in the number of smokers and a 15% decrease in 
consumption of those who continued to smoke.

PMID: 457169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. J Med Chem. 1979 May;22(5):575-7. doi: 10.1021/jm00191a022.

Platinum and palladium derivatives for chemotherapy studies.

Bahner CT, Patterson TC, Rives LM, Harmon HD.

Analogues of cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum(II) were prepared in which substituted 
pyridines (A), 1-(4-aminobenzylidene)indene (B), or 
DL-3,5,3'5'-tetraoxo-1,2-dipiperazinopropane (ICRF-159) was used in place of 
ammonia, and in some cases platinum(IV) or palladium(II) was used in place of 
the platinum(II). Both platinum complexes with ICRF-159 were active against 
leukemia 1210, but none of the others produced significant life extension 
following a single ip dose of 400 mg/kg. Attempts to prepare complexes of 
ICRF-159 with Zn(II), Mn(II), and Cr(III) were unsuccessful, but there were 
indications of complex formation with CuCl2 and with NiCl2.

DOI: 10.1021/jm00191a022
PMID: 458809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Prax Klin Pneumol. 1979 Apr;33 Suppl 1:633-9.

[Clinical aspects and prevention of pneumoconiosis caused by inorganic dusts 
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Ulmer WT.

Anthracosilicosis and asbestosis are the most important types of pneumoconioses 
induced by inorganic dust. They produce entirely different damage to the 
broncho-pulmonary system. Anthracosilicosis graded B or C roentgenographically 
is very often accompanied by obstructive respiratory disorders; in asbestosis 
restrictive disturbances predominate. The question whether obstructive lesions 
also tend to occur remains to be solved. Dyspnoea often accompanied by 
bronchitis is the main clinical feature. Anthrocosilicosis is amenable to 
therapeutic measures which have resulted in a considerable prolongation of the 
life span of these cases. Improved dust control is the most rational 
prophylactic measure. Abstention from smoking also plays a part.

PMID: 461359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Health Phys. 1979 Jun;36(6):707-22. doi: 10.1097/00004032-197906000-00007.

A catalog of risks.

Cohen BL, Lee IS.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-197906000-00007
PMID: 468542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 1979 Mar;16(2):122-8. doi: 
10.3143/geriatrics.16.122.

[Conception of health and its estimation in the aged (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Owada K.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.16.122
PMID: 470200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Klin Wochenschr. 1979 Jul 15;57(14):747-8. doi: 10.1007/BF01477557.

[Unusually long survival times in patients with advanced Hodgkin's disease 
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Hiller E, Wilmanns W, Wilms K.

Of 18 patients with advanced Hodgkin's disease who obtained a complete remission 
with a modified De Vita treatment protocol 15 maintained their complete 
remission for an average of 76 months till the end of the observation time.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01477557
PMID: 470336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Med J Aust. 1979 Jun 2;1(11):520, 522.

Cost containment or cost consciousness.

Smibert J.

PMID: 470704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Prosthet Orthot Int. 1979 Apr;3(1):20-5. doi: 10.3109/03093647909164696.

Revascularization or amputation.

Boontje AH.

The factors which determine the choice, revascularization or amputation of an 
ischaemic leg are very numerous, variable and sometimes also related. They are 
concerned with the extent and course of the gangrene, the general condition of 
the patient and the risk of operation, the technical operability in terms of 
arterial reconstruction, the skill and judgement of the vascular surgeon, the 
motivation and life expectancy of the patient, as well as the facilities at the 
limb-fitting centre. In principle, arterial reconstruction should be the primary 
consideration in all patients with severe ischaemia of a leg, and threatened 
with loss of the limb. This implies the need for evaluation by a vascular 
surgeon. If arterial reconstruction is impossible or undesirable and if lumbar 
sympathectomy is not indicated either, then if amputation is necessary it must 
be decided, when is it necessary, and whether a below-knee or an above-knee 
amputation is possible. The patient with severe arterial circulatory disorders 
is best served when the vascular surgeon who is responsible for the arterial 
reconstruction, also assumes responsibility for determining the timing and the 
level of an amputation, and in some hospitals even for doing the amputation. In 
other words, the same doctor, preferably the vascular surgeon, has to be 
responsible for the selection of the patients and the judgement whether the 
patient is a candidate for revascularization or amputation.

DOI: 10.3109/03093647909164696
PMID: 471701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Scand J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1979;13(2):111-8. doi: 
10.3109/14017437909100975.

Congenital heart disease in the first month of life.

Laursen HB, Lomholt P.

During the years 1963--73, 276 children with congenital heart disease were 
admitted to this hospital during their first month of life. Ventricular septal 
defect was the most common cardiac anomaly and this lesion, together with 
transposition of the great arteries, comprised 35% of all cardiovascular 
malformations. Extracardiac malformations were found in 86 patients. The 
cumulative survival rate for all patients was 66% in the first month of life and 
33% in the first year. Forty-three patients were operated upon, but it is 
estimated from necropsy reports and available clinical data that another 74 
patients, who died without operation, would have been suitable candidates for 
total corrective surgery.

DOI: 10.3109/14017437909100975
PMID: 472669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Urologe A. 1979 Jul;18(4):228.

[Comments on the article by P. Hermanek and H. Klosterhalfen: "Distant 
metastasizing through biopsy and surgery?" [This journal 18, 49 (1979)].

[Article in German]

Krokowski E.

PMID: 473458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Urologe A. 1979 Jul;18(4):229.

[Final word on the comments by K. Krokowski on the article by P. Hermanek and H. 
Klosterhalfen: "Distant metastasizing through biopsy and surgery?" [This journal 
18, 49 (1979)].

[Article in German]

Hermanek P, Klosterhalfen H.

PMID: 473459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Vestn Akad Med Nauk SSSR. 1979;(5):3-10.

[Social and hygienic problems of public health protection in the light of 
decisions of the XXVth Congress of the CPSU].

[Article in Russian]

Serenko AF.

PMID: 473881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Arthritis Rheum. 1979 Sep;22(9):945-53. doi: 10.1002/art.1780220901.

Does corticosteroid therapy affect the survival of patients with systemic lupus 
erythematosus?

Albert DA, Hadler NM, Ropes MW.

The hypothesis that corticosteroid therapy is responsible for the striking 
improvement in survival of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) was 
investigated with two approaches: Of 250 published papers on SLE, 52 were chosen 
for the first analysis because they included sufficient information on 
diagnostic criteria and survival but were not limited to patients selected for a 
particular target organ. From each article percent survival by series, average 
duration to death, and 1 and 5 year survival curves were abstracted. Each 
statistic showed linear improvement in survival since the 1930s without a 
significant change (P greater than 0.10) in slope for the time period following 
the introduction of corticosteroids. The second analysis examined the effect of 
corticosteroid therapy on 142 patients with SLE followed at the Massachusetts 
General Hospital between 1922 and 1966. Although the steroid use was 
conservative, the patients' survival, from year of entry, was comparable to the 
52 abstracted series. A prognostic index was used to stratify patients admitted 
in the steroid era (after 1950) for life table analysis of survival with and 
without steroids. Steroids had no discernible effect on overall survival in low 
and medium risk groups. Use of steroids was associated with improved survival 
among high rish patients (P less than 0.05).

DOI: 10.1002/art.1780220901
PMID: 475873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Br J Cancer. 1979 Jul;40(1):56-61. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1979.140.

Results of treatment of female breast cancer in the Cambridge area 1960-71.

Haybittle JL.

The results of treatment of female breast cancer in the Cambridge area during 
the period of 1960-71 are presented and compared with an earlier series treated 
in the period of 1947-50. It is estimated that about 29% of the patients treated 
in the later period are cured, in the sense that they have a life expectancy 
similar to that of the normal population, compared with just under 20% in the 
earlier period, but this improvement is mainly due to an increased proportion of 
Stage I cases in the latter period. The percentage cured is discussed in 
relation to the ratio of deaths to registrations in the East Anglian Region and 
it is suggested that under-registration of deaths from cancer of the breast may 
occur.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1979.140
PMCID: PMC2009944
PMID: 475961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Diabete Metab. 1979 Jun;5(2):149-58.

Diabetic mortality in Edinburgh.

Shenfield GM, Elton RA, Bhalla IP, Duncan LJ.

A prospective study of mortality in 3,113 diabetics was carried out in Edinburgh 
over a period of eight years; 1,272 patients (41 %) died. Death rates for 
females equalled those for males and, in relation to the general population, 
there was a considerable excess mortality which was greater for females. 
Statistical analysis indicated that the important mortality risk-factors are 
age, duration of diabetes of greater than ten years and treatment. The risk of 
oral therapy or insulin were approximately equally greater than that of diet 
therapy and probably reflected severity of disease. Using international coding 
for diagnosis, 27 % of deaths were classified as directly due to diabetes and 49 
% to vascular disease. Reclassifying the terminal cause of death left only 26 
patients (2 %) recorded with diabetes as the direct cause of death. Three 
hundred and thirty five males (66 %) and 561 females (73 %) died of vascular 
disease. There was a predominance of myocardial infarction in males and 
cerebrovascular disease in females. These percentages were a little lower when 
post-mortem information was available. These results provide additional evidence 
that diabetes reduces life expectancy by inducing premature vascular disease and 
that the effect is greater in women than in men.

PMID: 478085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Mech Ageing Dev. 1979 Jun;10(5):355-67. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(79)90047-2.

Influence of diet on chromatin organization in insect mid-gut cells, and its 
implications for the understanding of aging in this model system.

Davies I.

Female Sarcophaga bullata were fed on three different dietary combinations: 
liver/water; sugar/water; and sugar/liver/water. These diets resulted in 
different survival patterns for the insect, with the longest lifespans being 
expressed on the last treatment. The Feulgen-DNA values for mid-gut cell nuclei 
were determined using a scanning and integrating microdensitometer. The cell 
nuclei of the mid-gut reacted to the presence of nutrients by an increase in the 
extinction values for Feulgen-DNA when compared to the unfed state. There were 
also significant differences between the various treatments in the extent of the 
activation shown by the mid-gut cells. The dietary regimes resulting in the 
longest lifespan showed a complete and uniform activation of the mid-gut 
epithelium, whereas other treatments did not. These observations suggest that 
changes in the chromatin organization occur with diet, and that maximum 
Feulgen-DNA extinctions occur (i.e. chromatin uncoiled and supporting 
transcription) on the sugar/liver/water diet. Nuclei showing maximum extinctions 
do not show an age-related change between 3 and 12 days of life. However, if the 
nuclear activation is partial, or incomplete, then age-related reversals in 
chromatin condensation take place.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(79)90047-2
PMID: 480996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Ned Tijdschr Gerontol. 1979 May;10(2):62-6.

[We all will age].

[Article in Dutch]

Goedhard WJ.

In 1977/78 the American Research-plan toward understanding aging 'Our future 
selves' was published. In this article the report of the panel on biomedical 
research is reviewed. The report appears to be very comprehensive and to give a 
carefully detailed research plan. It will certainly take many years to realise 
all the plans. Part of the research could very well be done in the Netherlands 
although only to a limited extent. The governmental planning-group, which is 
developing a research plan for gerontology in the Netherlands, should make a 
sensible selection out of the many items mentioned in the American plan. After 
all, it is of vital importance to all of us, our future selves.

PMID: 481822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Scand J Soc Med. 1979;7(2):55-62. doi: 10.1177/140349487900700202.

Mortality among Finnish doctors, 1953-1972.

Asp S, Hernberg S, Collan Y.

The mortality with respect to the total population of Finnish physicians during 
the period 1953 to 1972 has been analysed and compared with the corresponding 
statistics for the general Finnish population, for Finnish foundry workers, and 
for American physicians. It was found that the overall mortality was lower for 
male physicians than that for the general population or for foundry workers, but 
was clearly higher than that for American physicians. Male physicians did not 
exhibit any major differences from the general population with regard to 
cardiovascular diseases and suicide, but had a lower mortality from malignant 
neoplasms, accidents and "other diseases" (including infectious diseases). The 
explanation of cancer mortality being lower than expected among male physicians 
was mainly to be found in a deficit in lung cancer. Although female physicians 
had higher life expectancy than male physicians and the female general Finnish 
population, they did not show any clear deficit for cancer. In respect of all 
specialists, surgical specialists had the lowest mortality; general 
practitioners had the highest mortality. Most of these variations were 
attributable to differences in coronary mortality, but mortality from lung 
cancer was also remarkably low among surgeons. Differences of a similar type 
were also found between occupational sub-categories; private practitioners had 
the highest, and research workers and central hospital physicians the lowest 
mortality figures. The lower cancer mortality among male physicians, as 
contrasted with the general population, is probably attributable to differences 
in smoking habits; about 22% of male physicians smoked in 1973, whereas earlier 
studies by others have indicated that the corresponding proportion was about 50% 
in the general population. In contrast, the differences in mortality between 
different specialist categories probably arises from other factors, since 
Finnish physicians reportedly display a relatively homogeneous smoking pattern.

DOI: 10.1177/140349487900700202
PMID: 482898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Southeast Asian J Trop Med Public Health. 1979 Mar;10(1):106-14.

Life expectancy in an aboriginal Malaysian population.

Dobbins JG.

A life table for an aboriginal Malaysian population, the Semelai, living in West 
Malaysia, was constructed using censuses from 1965, 1969, and 1974; and 
interview data from 1974. The life expectancy at birth for this population, 54.0 
years, was compared to that of other Malaysian populations and selected Asian 
populations. This comparison indicated that the Semelai were at a disadvantage 
compared to the Malaysian populations, but in a favorable position when compared 
with the other Asian populations.

PMID: 483006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1979 Apr-Jun;60(2):14-5.

Patterns of regional longevity.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 483325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. ZFA (Stuttgart). 1979 Sep 30;55(27):1457-63.

[Cytostatic therapy of malignant tumors. Clinical and practical aspects].

[Article in German]

Queisser W.

PMID: 483987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Aust Fam Physician. 1979 Jul;8(7):719-30.

The management of intermittent claudication.

King RB.

Many patients with intermittent claudication improve due to development of 
collateral vessels. Only a small proportion worsen, and few progress to severe 
ischaemia with the risk of amputation. Accordingly, most patients can be 
reassured and treated expectantly. Those patients have a reduced life expectancy 
compared with the population at large. Thus, surgical treatment should be 
reserved for patients who are severely restricted by claudication. The early 
technical results of arterial reconstruction for claudication are excellent. 
However, the late results are much worse in patients who continue to smoke. 
Nowadays, the complication rate from surgery is low.

PMID: 485960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Aust Fam Physician. 1979 Jul;8(7):733-45.

Management of the severely ischaemic leg.

Myers KA.

Ischaemic rest pain or tissue necrosis in the foot requires arterial 
reconstruction or lumbar sympathectomy if major amputation is to be avoided. 
Arterial reconstruction is preferred but if it is not possible, lumbar 
sympathectomy frequently is adequate. Conservative treatment is rarely 
successful. Arterial reconstruction is a relatively safe procedure, even in the 
elderly. The long-term survival rates are reasonably good, though appreciably 
less than for the general community. Many amputees have a short life expectancy 
and do not regain independence.

PMID: 485961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Can J Psychiatry. 1979 Aug;24(5):431-6. doi: 10.1177/070674377902400510.

Geropsychiatry in Indian culture.

Rao AV.

Geriatric psychiatry will be increasingly important in years to come as the care 
of the elderly becomes a health problem in India. Those aged 60 and over 
contribute to 6% of the country's population at present. The life expectancy of 
an average Indian has increased from 24 years in 1900 to 53 in 1971. Improved 
health care promises longevity, but social and economic conditions like poverty, 
breakup of the joint family system and poor services, specifically for the aged, 
pose a psychiatric threat to them. Organic diseases and effective disorders form 
the bulk of psychiatric illness in the aged. Suggestions for research in areas 
such as social, cultural and changing attitudes, and national economics, have 
been suggested as a promising field for preventive geriatric services. Adding 
life to years is more important than adding years to life. The paper offers some 
references to the studies on geriatric psychiatry in India and discusses 
cultural factors affecting the aged.

DOI: 10.1177/070674377902400510
PMID: 487337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Environ Health Perspect. 1979 Feb;28:199-204. doi: 10.1289/ehp.28-1637490.

Mortality and cancer morbidity among cadmium-exposed workers.

Kjellström T, Friberg L, Rahnster B.

Preliminary data are reported from a study of 269 cadmium-nickel battery factory 
workers and 94 cadmium-copper alloy factory workers. The target group comprises 
all workers with more than 5 years exposure to cadmium at any time since the 
factories started production. An internal reference group of 328 alloy factory 
workers without cadmium exposure was also studied. The expected number of deaths 
and cancers was calculated with the "life-table" method by using national 
average incidence rates for men in different age groups and at different 
calendar years. It was found that among the workers in the battery factory who 
started work before 1948 there was an increased general mortality in the 1950's 
mainly due to respiratory disease. The same group had an increased renal disease 
mortality. There was no increase in general cancer mortality or in general 
cancer incidence. The risk ratio for nasopharyngeal cancer incidence was 10 (two 
cases), which was statistically significant. For some other sites like prostate, 
lung and colon-rectum the risk ratios were also greater than 1 but not 
statistically significant. In the alloy factory there was a tendency for an 
increased mortality in prostatic cancer (four cases). After correction for the 
"healthy worker effect" using the reference group, the risk ratio for prostatic 
cancer deaths was calculated as 2.4, but this was not statistically significant. 
The findings in this study support the earlier reports of an association between 
human cadmium exposure and increased risk for prostatic cancer.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.28-1637490
PMCID: PMC1637490
PMID: 488034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. JAMA. 1979 Nov 9;242(19):2093-5.

A positive strategy for the nation's health.

Breslow L.

PMID: 490789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Monogr Endocrinol. 1979;12:341-55. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-81265-1_19.

Glucocorticoid receptors and actions in rat thymocytes and immunologically 
stimulated human peripheral lymphocytes.

Munck A, Crabtree GR, Smith KA.

After reviewing briefly our earlier studies on glucocorticoid receptors and 
mechanisms in thymus cells, we have outlined results from the following two 
areas of current interest in our laboratories: the "life-cycle" of 
glucocorticoid receptors and complexes in thymus cells, and the levels of 
glucocorticoid receptors and sensitivity in immunologically stimulated human 
peripheral lymphocytes. Several of our results on energetics and kinetics of 
hormone binding to glucocorticoid receptors in rat thymus cells seem to require 
extension of the simplest model of hormone-receptor transformations in intact 
cells. ATP-depletion experiments suggest the existence of a nonbinding form of 
the receptor; "chase" experiments suggest reaction of hormone directly with 
nuclear-bound receptor; experiments on depletion and replenishment of 
cytoplasmic receptor using cortisol and dexamethasone suggest the existence of 
at least two subpopulations of nuclear-bound hormone-receptor complex. We have 
found that mitogen or immunologic stimulation of human peripheral lymphocytes in 
culture leads within 24 h or so to a striking increase in the number of 
glucocorticoid receptor sites per cell. We believe this increase may be due to 
partial synchronization of the cell population in a phase of the cell cycle in 
which receptor content is high. Contrary to the widely held view that 
mitogen-stimulated cells become insensitive to glucocorticoids, our experiments 
show that with respect to inhibition of thymidine and uridine incorporation and 
glucose uptake, the cells are highly sensitive to dexamethasone at 24, 48, and 
72 h after stimulation with concanavalin A.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-81265-1_19
PMID: 492174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Science. 1979 Nov 30;206(4422):1101-3. doi: 10.1126/science.493997.

Inbreeding and juvenile mortality in small populations of ungulates.

Ralls K, Brugger K, Ballou J.

Juvenile mortality of inbred young was higher than that of noninbred young in 15 
of 16 species of captive ungulates. In 19 of 25 individual females, belonging to 
ten species, a larger percentage of young died when the female was mated to a 
related male than when she was mated to an unrelated male.

DOI: 10.1126/science.493997
PMID: 493997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. World Health Stat Q. 1979;32(2):138-53.

Working life of health professionals.

[Article in English, French]

Adlakha AL, Hall TL, Muller S.

A comparison was made between the indirect method of preparing a 
profession-specific working-life table and the direct method. The former uses 
data on the number of physicians per 1,000 population by age and assumes that 
the mortality rate for the profession is equal to that of the population as a 
whole. The latter method makes use of information on profession-specific 
mortality and on active and inactive status of living physicians. These two 
approaches were applied to physician data for the United States of America and 
it was noted that the direct method gives estimates of working life and total 
life expectancy that are significantly higher than by use of the indirect 
method. The likely magnitude and directions of the biases inherent in each of 
the methods are then discussed. A comparison is then made of the estimated 
working life for Colombian, French and US physicians using the indirect method.

PMID: 494653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Am J Community Psychol. 1979 Aug;7(4):453-68. doi: 10.1007/BF00894386.

Personal versus situational determination of anticipation and control of the 
occurrence of stressful life events.

Dohrenwend BS, Martin JL.

A wide variety of laboratory and clinical studies have indicated that stressful 
events are most harmful when they are perceived as uncontrollable. However, 
these studies diverge on the question of whether perceptions of control of 
stressful events are determined by environmental contingencies associated with 
the events or by a stable expectancy of the perceiver. In a community study 118 
respondents were asked to report stressful life events experienced in the last 
year and were then asked to what extent they anticipated and controlled the 
occurrence of each event. Data were collected in two waves 1 year apart. 
Analysis of the reliability, within each wave, of perceptions of control does 
not indicate a strong personal expectancy effect. It does show some evidence of 
environmental determination of perceptions, but this result is not consistent on 
the two waves. These results are interpreted in relation to the issue of ways of 
reducing harmful effects of stressful life events.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00894386
PMID: 495586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Br Med J. 1979 Sep 15;2(6191):675. doi: 10.1136/bmj.2.6191.675-a.

Social factors in marital pathology.

Jennings D.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.2.6191.675-a
PMCID: PMC1596375
PMID: 497795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Cardiovasc Clin. 1979;10(1):27-51.

Postpediatric congenital heart disease: natural survival patterns.

Perloff JK.

PMID: 498180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Cardiovasc Clin. 1979;10(1):365-81.

Transposition of the great arteries in the adult.

Kidd L, Humphries JO.

PMID: 498185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Gen Hosp Psychiatry. 1979 Jul;1(2):150-5. doi: 10.1016/0163-8343(79)90061-6.

Psychotherapeutic intervention in acute medical situations.

Kimball CP.

Psychotherapy in the extreme medical situation is an extension of the 
interviewing process. The interviewer must expeditiously and sometimes briefly 
assist the patient in elaborating his complaint, obtain information about the 
development of the complaint, and assess the patient's reactions to it. Past 
history, developmental patterns, reactions to previous illness and crises, the 
patient's present life situation, and past and present relationships may all be 
relevant and require evaluation. The interactive process requires that the 
therapist call upon specific knowledge as he engages with the patient, 
facilitates the expression of concern, appropriately reassures, instructs, and 
prepares, clarifies, and leads the patient to some insight about his altered 
state. Attention to the affective correlates of acute illness can enhance 
convalescence and the rehabilitative process.

DOI: 10.1016/0163-8343(79)90061-6
PMID: 499785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. J Neurosurg. 1979 Nov;51(5):677-84. doi: 10.3171/jns.1979.51.5.0677.

Anterior fibular strut graft in neoplastic disease of the cervical spine.
