
Conley FK, Britt RH, Hanbery JW, Silverberg GD.

An anterior operative procedure using a strut of fibular graft material was 
performed either alone or in combination with a posterior stabilization in five 
patients with cervical spine instability secondary to neoplastic disease. 
Osseous tumor was present in four of the five patients (osteoblastoma, 
metastatic adrenal carcinoma, metastatic renal cell carcinoma, multiple myeloma) 
and the fifth had spine instability as a result of a posterior decompression for 
cervical spinal cord glioma. The anterior approach using fibula to replace 
diseased vertebrae and provide axial support for the neck was a valuable 
therapeutic modality in this group of patients, all of whom had a limited life 
expectancy. Cervical spine stability obtained by operative intervention led to a 
reduction of neck pain and maintenance of ambulation until the neoplastic 
condition became terminal.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1979.51.5.0677
PMID: 501408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Monogr Soc Res Child Dev. 1979;44(3-4):1-120.

Secular trends in human growth, maturation, and development.

Roche AF.

Rates of growth during childhood have increased considerably during the past 
50-100 years. Because they are associated with increased rates of maturation, 
these size increases are maximal at ages when recently measured groups are 
pubescent but those measured in the past had not reached pubescence. Large 
secular increases in rates of growth and maturation have occurred in all 
developed countries but not in many other countries. There have been secular 
increases in recumbent length at birth in Italy and France but little change in 
the United States. The secular increase in childhood stature is much more 
obvious, being about 1.5 cm/decade for 12-year-old children, although for young 
adults the secular increase in stature has been about 0.4 cm/decade in most 
developed countries. In the United States these trends have been similar for 
blacks and whites during childhood but greater for black men than white men. 
Similarly, secular trends in birth weights have been small, but there have been 
large trends for children (about 1.5 kg/decade for 12-year-olds). These secular 
changes in size have been associated with an acceleration of maturation that is 
most evident in the 0.3 years/decade advancement in age at menarche. This 
advancement has now ceased in Norway and England. The changes in body 
proportions during recent decades are less marked than those in body size. Leg 
length, particularly the length of the thigh, seems to have increased more than 
stature in men but not women; chest circumference has increased more rapidly 
than stature in each sex. The relationships between stature and weight have 
changed in different ways in various national groups. Similarly, the relative 
changes in head length and head breadth vary with the groups studied. Few sets 
of data allow conclusions about possible secular trends in body composition, but 
subcutaneous fat thicknesses have increased, especially at the upper 
percentiles. Also strength, which reflects muscle mass, has increased 
absolutely, although it has decreased relative to stature. Undoubtedly the 
secular trend is due to various factors; the identification of causes is 
necessarily speculative. Changes in nutrition alone could not account for the 
trends which exceed the original socioeconomic differentials. In the United 
States, there have been per capita increases in the intake of protein and fat 
from animal sources, decreases in carbohydrates and fat from vegetable sources, 
and little change in caloric intake. It is not clear that these changes 
constitute better nutrition. The secular trends could reflect environmental 
improvements, specifically changes in health practices and living conditions 
leading to improvements in mortality rates and life expectancy. These factors 
are interrelated with those concerning family size. Also genetic factors, 
especially heterosis, may have played a small role in causing the secular 
trends...

PMID: 503084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Strahlentherapie. 1979 Sep;155(9):596-600.

[Results after split-course irradiation of bronchial carcinoma (2 series) 
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Bohndorf W, Richter E.

This report concerns 1092 patients with bronchial carcinoma, exclusively 
irradiated by means of the split-course method. Only squamous cell carcinomas 
have a chance to survive the 5-year limit: all stages in 9/328 = 2.7%, T1 and T2 
in 5/48 = 10%. The dependence of the effect on the radiation dose can be 
confirmed for squamous cell carcinoma but not for anaplastic tumors. Doses 
higher than 4500 rad do not bring about a longer survival for the latter. 
Advantages of the split-course method are: The treatment is better tolerated, 
operability of questionably operable cases can be checked once again after the 
first irradiation, series, the dose may be determined from the therapy effect in 
every individual case.

PMID: 505465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Strahlentherapie. 1979 Sep;155(9):628-36.

[Are the actual criteria of tumor classification and therapy valuation 
sufficient for the tumor therapy? (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Krokowski E.

The classical notions of tumor diagnosis (classification and diagnostic 
accuracy) as well as the generally accepted criteria for evaluating the success 
of the tumor therapy (mortality graphs, survival time and remission) are 
submitted to a critical examination. It is found that the actual version of 
these notions and criteria can cause serious errors in diagnosis and valuation. 
It seems therefore indispensable to complete and correct these generally used 
notions. However important scientifically founded and precisely defined 
parameters for tumor therapy and its valuation may be, one must never forget on 
the other hand that the treatment of a tumor patient is an individual problem 
and that the most important task of the oncologist remains to give psychological 
guidance to every single patient.

PMID: 505469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1979 Jul 15;73(13-14):667-8.

[Contents and methodological aspects in the early diagnosis of leukemia and 
malignant lymphomas].

[Article in German]

Stobbe H.

PMID: 506317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Z Gerontol. 1979 Jul-Aug;12(4):258-65.

[Sociological aspects of widowhood].

[Article in German]

Zimmermann RE.

The process to become a widow or a widower and the analysis of the social 
situation of widowed persons is getting an increasing attention in gerontology. 
Of special concern are older widows, who have quite a time to live. Hereby are 
their situation within their family-life cycle and the event of the spouse's 
death especially analyzed. The overtaking of the role as a widow is much 
dependent of capacities which are learned in an earlier life span. Many widows 
have problems in newly learning role elements which are traditional dominated by 
men. Concerning loneliness and social contacts of older widows, different 
studies show only few widows much lonely and an only small reduction of social 
contacts after becoming a widow.

PMID: 506368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Am Sociol Rev. 1979 Feb;44(1):126-46.

Possible causes of the apparent sex differences in physical health: an empirical 
investigation.

Gove WR, Hughes M.

PMID: 507571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Demography. 1979 Aug;16(3):425-38.

Population growth, life-cycle saving, and international differences in 
steady-state optimal saving rates.

Conroy ME.

Life-cycle savings theories have been a seminal development in analyses of the 
relationship between rational savings patterns for individuals and the 
accumulation of wealth or capital at the level of the society as a whole. 
Applications of the theories in industrialized countries never investigated the 
significance of large differences in birth and death rates across societies. The 
strong demographic components of life-cycle saving analysis are here the center 
of focus. Illustrative general numerical applications of a modified version of 
the life-cycle approach suggest that mortality differentials comparable to those 
presently encountered among nations are consistent with very large differentials 
in steady-state optimal ratios of wealth-to-income. Specific application to Peru 
of the model estimated by Tobin for the United States indicates that high levels 
of mortality, current Peruvian birth rates, and Peruvian age-income profiles 
imply optimal rational savings rates far below those of the United States.

PMID: 510637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Demography. 1979 Aug;16(3):439-54.

The impact of heterogeneity in individual frailty on the dynamics of mortality.

Vaupel JW, Manton KG, Stallard E.

Life table methods are developed for populations whose members differ in their 
endowment for longevity. Unlike standard methods, which ignore such 
heterogeneity, these methods use different calculations to construct cohort, 
period, and individual life tables. The results imply that standard methods 
overestimate current life expectancy and potential gains in life expectancy from 
health and safety interventions, while underestimating rates of individual 
aging, past progress in reducing mortality, and mortality differentials between 
pairs of populations. Calculations based on Swedish mortality data suggest that 
these errors may be important, especially in old age.

PMID: 510638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. J Gerontol. 1979 Nov;34(6):803-7. doi: 10.1093/geronj/34.6.803.

Dietary factors affecting rats used in aging research.

Cohen BJ.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/34.6.803
PMID: 512300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Lijec Vjesn. 1979 May;101(5):274-6.

[PQLI--physical quality of life index (author's transl)].

[Article in Croatian]

BenciÄ‡ Z.

PMID: 513926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Radiobiologiia. 1979 Sep-Oct;19(5):780-3.

[Dose absorption in the body and a shortening of the life expectancy of animals 
after the intratracheal administration of 144Ce and supplementary external 
irradiation].

[Article in Russian]

Borisova VV, Zapol'skaia NA, Fedorova AV, Mazhorov VI.

PMID: 515377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1979 Oct 13;109(39):1465-71.

[Mortality trends in Switzerland 1951-1977. Principal categories of the causes 
of death].

[Article in French]

GubÃ©ran E.

Analysis of age-standardized death rates for the main categories of deaths, over 
the period 1951--1977, shows a three-quarter fall in mortality from infectious 
diseases, a reduction of mortality from cardiovascular disease more accentuated 
in women (-46%) than in men (-23%) and a decrease in mortality from tumors in 
women only (-21%). Suicide rates slightly increased and mortality from accidents 
started to decrease in 1971, more markedly in men than in women. As regards the 
last category including all other causes of deaths, a decline in mortality of 
approximately a half in both sexes was observed. Calculation of the potential 
years of life lost between ages 1 and 70 (PYLL) reveals that in men, for the 
year 1977, 25% were due to accidents, 23% to tumours and 22% to cardiovascular 
diseases, whereas in women tumours came first (36%) and preceded cardiovascular 
disease (17%). Analysis of PYLL by individual cause of death shows, in 
decreasing order of importance, for men: motor accidents, suicide, ischaemic 
heart disease, other accidents, cancer of lung, cerebrovascular disease and 
cirrhosis of liver, and for women: suicide, breast cancer, motor accidents, 
other accidents, cerebrovascular disease, ischaemic heart disease and uterine 
cancer. Finally, life expectancy at birth increased, over the period 1951--1977, 
from 66.4 to 71.8 years in men and from 71.0 to 78.4 years in women, which ranks 
Switzerland third among the 10 industrialized countries studies.

PMID: 515712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Surgery. 1979 Dec;86(6):836-51.

Autogenous vein grafting in femoropopliteal atherosclerosis: the limits of its 
effectiveness.

Szilagyi DE, Hageman JH, Smith RF, Elliott JP, Brown F, Dietz P.

PMID: 515951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1979 Jul-Sep;60(3):6-8.

Life expectancy among diabetics in the United States.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 516088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Stud Fam Plann. 1979 Oct;10(10):282-9.

Population processes in rural Yemen: temporary emigration, breastfeeding, and 
contraception.

Myntti C.

PIP: North Yemen's 5.5 million people have a life expectancy of 42 years, and a 
crude birth rate of 46/1000 with a natural increase of 2.4%/year. A study was 
conducted from 1977-78 in 3 different ecological and cultural zones to determine 
the effects of 3 fertility variables: 1) temporary emigration; 2) breastfeeding; 
and 3) contraception usage. Spousal separation due to Yemeni males working 
outside the country may not be as important a factor to family size as the 
attitudinal changes toward family size and contraception the men bring back. 
Bottlefeeding is an accepted way of feeding infants even in remote villages. 
Powdered milk is readily available and Yemeni women can afford to purchase the 
milk, which may cause shorter birth intervals. Contraception usage is increasing 
due to decreased infant mortality levels, reevaluation of family size, and 
increased availability of contraceptives. The increase in contraceptives may 
offset the effects of breastfeeding.

PMID: 516122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Am Surg. 1979 Nov;45(11):684-99.

Aortic valve replacement and the senior citizen.

Jones TW, Thomas GI, Stavney LS, Manhas DR.

The elderly patient, regardless of age, faces an early demise from progressive 
cardiac decompensation secondary to aortic valve disease. Aortic valve 
replacement can be carried out at a reasonable operative risk and extend the 
longevity to very close to that of normal life expectancy. It is our feeling, 
based on these results, that patients with significant symptoms secondary to 
aortic valvular disease, regardless of age and without other major organ 
problems, should be given the choice of aortic valve replacement to enhance the 
quality and quantity of their lives.

PMID: 517867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Bull Pan Am Health Organ. 1979;13(3):253-6.

Life expectancy trends in Costa Rica.

Villegas H, Valverde CA.

PMID: 519078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Can Med Assoc J. 1979 Nov 17;121(10):1331-2.

Who's for living longest?

Walker AR.

PMCID: PMC1704500
PMID: 519555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Clin Genet. 1979 Oct;16(4):269-76. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1979.tb00999.x.

The Aarskog (facio-digito-genital) syndrome.

Hoo JJ.

A kindred with the Aarskog Syndrome (facio-digito-genital syndrome) is 
presented. The favorable outcome of this syndrome in terms of final height, 
intelligence and life expectancy is emphasized. It is pointed out that cleft lip 
and cleft pastic dermatoglyphic pattern includes simian creases and distal axial 
tiriradii. The pedigree analysis from 14 known kindreds strongly suggests an 
X-linked recessive mode of inheritance. It is noteworthy that the female 
carriers frequently showed varying and milder expression of the syndrome, 
especially in their facies and hands.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1979.tb00999.x
PMID: 519896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Dev Med Child Neurol. 1979 Aug;21(4):488-91. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.1979.tb01653.x.

Development of flexion pyramidal signs in preterm infants.

LesnÃ½ I, ProskovÃ¡ M, Mydlil V.

Forty-two babies (20 boys, 22 girls) with birthweights from 800g to 2000g and 
gestational ages between 25 and 40 weeks were followed-up for several weeks with 
developmental tests and a conventional neurological examination. Here, only the 
flexion pyramidal signs are evaluated, i. e. downward flexion of the toes after 
percussion over the base of the metatarsals (Rossolimo's sign) and of the cuboid 
bone (Mendel-Bechterew's sign). These reflexes are signs of severe upper motor 
neuron lesion in children and adults, but also appear in normal newborns and 
disappear again until the 12th week of life. This study shows that the early 
response of FPS is abduction of the toes and extension of the great toe from the 
25th up to the 34th to 36th gestational weeks, when it becomes the normal 
downward flexion of all toes. This developmental course seems to be the same in 
healthy preterm babies and in small-for-dates babies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.1979.tb01653.x
PMID: 520696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Yonsei Med J. 1979;20(1):39-51. doi: 10.3349/ymj.1979.20.1.39.

Measurement of cause-specific death rate from civil registration in Korea: 
1970--1974.

Lee D.

DOI: 10.3349/ymj.1979.20.1.39
PMID: 524920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Exp Aging Res. 1979 Dec;5(6):509-22. doi: 10.1080/03610737908257225.

Life span and pathology in offspring following nicotine and methamphetamine 
exposure.

Martin JC, Martin DD, Radow B, Day HE.

Seventy-nine primiparous Sprague-Dawley rats received s.c. injections of either 
3.0 mg/Kg of pure nicotine, 5.0 mg/Kg of methamphetamine HCL, 5.0 MG/Kg of 
saline vehicle, or received no injections during the 21 day gestational and 19 
day nursing period. Male offspring were divided into 3 groups at weaning. The 
autopsy animals (n = 80) were sacrificed at selected periods during the life 
span, the aging animals (n = 60) were weighed monthly until death, and the 
behavioral rats (n = 48) were monitored on a variety of behavioral tasks 
throughout their life span. Measures reported here include life span data, organ 
pathology and tumor formation. Significant differences among the four offspring 
groups were found for tumor incidence, gross pathology, and age at death in the 
autopsy group; and weight maintenance in the aging group.

DOI: 10.1080/03610737908257225
PMID: 527620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Isr J Med Sci. 1979 Dec;15(12):959-64.

Demography, morbidity and mortality in Israel: changes over 30 years.

Davies AM.

The last 30 years have seen vast changes in the size and composition of the 
Jewish and Arab populations of Israel. The Jewish population has increased 4 1/2 
times but the proportion of aged has increased 10-fold. Infant mortality has 
decreased considerably and life expectancy has increased for both sexes and both 
populations. Patterns of morbidity and mortality have changed from those 
characteristic of the Middle East to those commonly seen in developed countries, 
with ischemic heart disease, cancer and stroke the leading causes of death.

PMID: 528185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. J Toxicol Environ Health. 1979 Nov;5(6):1095-118. doi: 
10.1080/15287397909529817.

Interspecies comparison of carcionogenic potency.

Crouch E, Wilson R.

For guidance in decisions on how to safeguard humans from carcinogens, it is 
necessary to use data on carcinogenesis in animals. This paper disucsses how 
such data, combined with human experience, may be used quantitatively in such 
decisions. It is demonstrated empirically that good correlations exist between 
different species for suitably defined carcinogenic potencies for various 
chemicals. This allows sufficient accuracy in extrapolating form animal data to 
human risk to support a logical scheme for the evaluation of such risks. Some 
recommendations for future research are given.

DOI: 10.1080/15287397909529817
PMID: 529342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. J Theor Biol. 1979 Oct 7;80(3):333-54. doi: 10.1016/0022-5193(79)90098-5.

The exponential increase in mortality rate with age attributed to wearing-out of 
biological components.

Abernethy JD.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-5193(79)90098-5
PMID: 529808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Pathol Res Pract. 1979 Dec;165(4):411-21. doi:
10.1016/s0344-0338(79)80033-3.

Duct elastosis in infiltrating carcinoma of the breast.

Anastassiades OT, Bouropoulou V, Kontogeorgos G, Tsakraklides EV.

Duct elastosis was studied in 219 patients subjected to radical mastectomy for 
infiltrating carcinoma of the breast, with a 10-year follow-up. Duct elastosis 
is a frequent finding in infiltrating breast cancer (65% of our cases). It 
develops in tumors of all three grades of malignancy, but it is more frequent in 
tumors of low grade malignancy (76% and 74% in grades I and II, respectively, 
and 47% in grade III tumors). In spite of their greater incidence in low 
malignancy tumors, the elastotic cases have a greater metastatic ratio than the 
non-elastotic cases (66% vs 45%). The elastotic cases also contain a 
significantly greater proportion of scirrhous tumors than the non-elastotic 
cases (86% vs. 32%). Duct elastosis and scirrhous reaction are two processes 
which develop in parallel, but are not related etiologically. They seem to be 
correlated with more advanced stages of the neoplastic disease. The influence of 
duct elastosis upon the ten year survival of the patients is unfavorable. this 
influence is not direct, and it is particularly evident in the metastatic cases. 
It seems to be related to the greater duration of the neoplastic disease and to 
the slow clinical course of tumors of low degree of malignancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0344-0338(79)80033-3
PMID: 530894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Salud Publica Mex. 1979 Jan-Feb;21(1):95-101.

[Life expectancy tables for the City of Guadalajara].

[Article in Spanish]

GarcÃ­a de Alba JE, Soto Mancilla JL.

PMID: 531641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Theor Popul Biol. 1979 Aug;16(1):13-24. doi: 10.1016/0040-5809(79)90003-0.

A general method for constructing increment-decrement life tables that agree 
with the data.

Oechsli FW.

DOI: 10.1016/0040-5809(79)90003-0
PMID: 531762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Neurosurgery. 1979 Oct;5(4):507-18. doi: 10.1227/00006123-197910000-00020.

Management of cancer pain: an overview.

Black P.

This paper provides an overview of the current status of the management of 
cancer pain. The concept of "total care" of the patient with cancer incorporates 
an effort to eradicate or suppress the underlying malignancy, but when this is 
no longer feasible emphasis is shifted to symptom control to maximize the 
quality of remaining life. Even though the malignancy cannot be eradicated, an 
important first step in pain control is the diagnostic identification of the 
source of pain because it is preferable to treat the pain specifically rather 
than symptomatically. Alleviation of the patient's "total agony" requires 
treatment of the emotional as well as the physical component of pain. In 
addition, successful management is facilitated by attention to the social needs 
of both patient and family. Pharmacological therapy is the keystone of pain 
management; this includes the use of psychotropic agents and narcotic analgesics 
given orally on a regular schedule to prevent pain, rather than treating the 
pain after it has appeared. The hospice approach embodies the principles of 
pharmacological therapy and social, spiritual, and emotional support for the 
patient and family. These noninvasive methods have been shown to be effective in 
an increasing proportion of patients with advanced cancer, resulting in a 
decline in the need for neurosurgical intervention. However, in some patients 
conservative management fails and neurosurgical intervention should be 
considered. For those who are candidates for neurosurgical intervention, a wide 
variety of procedures is available. The selection of specific procedures depends 
on the source and severity of the pain and on the life expectancy and general 
condition of the patient.

DOI: 10.1227/00006123-197910000-00020
PMID: 534057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Indian J Public Health. 1979 Apr-Jun;23(2):61-2.

The problem of the aged.

Seal SC.

PMID: 535988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Indian J Public Health. 1979 Apr-Jun;23(2):63-70.

Geriatrics.

Narain B.

PMID: 535989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. J Chir (Paris). 1979 Aug-Sep;116(8-9):513-8.

[Tactical approach to tumours of the sacro-coccygeal region. Report of five 
cases (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Lajat Y, Mainard R, Lebatard-Sartre R, Rival JM, Robert R, Ravily G, Resche F.

The name of sacro-coccygeal tumors is used generally for various tumors 
embryologically different in their origin. Rare, but not exceptional in number, 
these sacro-coccygeal tumors may have various locations and different sizes 
which make diagnosis more or less difficult. Benign in the first months of life, 
risks of malignancy will increase with age. Systematical intrarectal exploration 
will help not to overlook pelvic forms and will recognize pelvic extension in 
other types. Once found out, the extension of these sacro-coccygeal tumors 
should be estimated by complementary examination choosen according to the 
presumed type of tumor and it is to be regretted that myelography should be so 
often neglected. Treatment should always be surgical with one piece aphotesis if 
possible; good preparation and exact reanimation of the child are necessary 
because sometimes surgical treatment may be a very severe aggression for small 
babies. Constant surgical and biological overall should be maintained for many 
years in order to discover as early as possible any local relapse or metastasis.

PMID: 536401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Prog Exp Tumor Res. 1979;24:108-17. doi: 10.1159/000402088.

Survival distribution of Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus, Sch:SYR) used 
during 1972--1977.

Redman HC, Hobbs CH, Rebar AH.

DOI: 10.1159/000402088
PMID: 538238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Z Gesamte Hyg. 1979 Oct;25(10):780-4.

[Environmentally determined risk factors from the aspect of their geriatric 
hygiene control].

[Article in German]

Eitner S.

PMID: 538980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Z Gerontol. 1979 Sep-Dec;12(5-6):383-7.

[Cossio syndrome: above average life expectancy of a patient with congenital 
large atrial septal defect].

[Article in German]

Grosskopf E.

Cossio's syndrome is demonstrated in a patient with a congenital large atrial 
septal defect who died at the age of 72. The clinical and pathomorphological 
findings as well as the pathophysiological implications on pulmonary circulation 
are described. The probable genesis of this interauricular defect is discussed.

PMID: 539049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Acta Chir Scand. 1979;145(8):529-33.

Abdominal aortic aneurysms. II. Long-term follow-up of operated and unoperated 
patients.

Liljeqvist L, EkestrÃ¶m S, Nordhus O.

Survival rate, causes of late death, employment, general health, walking 
capacity and sexual activity were investigated in 87 patients operated on for 
abdominal aortic aneurysms and 44 unoperated patients. The life expectancy was 
higher in the operated patients. The higher mortality for the non-operated 
patients was mainly due to aneurysmal rupture. Both groups of patients succumbed 
to atherosclerotic diseases, which before death had restricted their physical 
activity. More non-operated than operated patients left their employment due to 
the aneurysm disease. Eleven of 31 still living male operated patients had lost 
ability of erection postoperatively and 18 had abnormal or absent ejaculation. 
For the 12 still living non-operated patients indication for surgery was again 
considered and 3 of these patients will be recommended operation.

PMID: 539338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Environ Health Perspect. 1979 Oct;32:19-20. doi: 10.1289/ehp.793219.

Role of mathematical concepts in cancer research.

Yamamoto S.

The role of mathematics in cancer research is not confined to epidemiology 
(population level). The expected contribution of it in various levels is 
exemplified stepwise. At the individual level, prediction of life expectancy of 
a cancer case or psychological analysis of life-threatened patient; at the 
tissue level, stochastic estimation of future metastases; at the cellular level, 
model contruction for abnormal metabolic processes in malignant cell; at the 
molecular level, elucidation of carcinogenetic mechanism from a thermodynamic 
standpoint of view.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.793219
PMCID: PMC1637939
PMID: 540592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Harefuah. 1979 Mar 1;96(5):244-8.

[Surgical vs. medical treatment in angina pectoris: expectancy and quality of 
life].

[Article in Hebrew]

Kishon Y, Miller H, Neufeld HN.

PMID: 540814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Int J Epidemiol. 1979 Dec;8(4):383-8. doi: 10.1093/ije/8.4.383.

Potential-years-life-lost from motor vehicle crashes in Israel: an epidemiologic 
analysis.

Richter ED.

Motor Vehicle Crashes (MVC) were the 7th ranking specific cause of mortality 
(Israel 1975) after ischaemic heart disease (ISHD), cerebrovascular disease, 
respiratory disease, various types of cancer, and accidents other than MVC, but 
were the top ranking single cause (in males, next to accidents of all kinds) of 
Potential-Years-Life-Lost (PYLL) ages 1-65 among men and women and men 1-70 and 
2nd ranking cause of PYLL age 1-75 among men. Many young male deaths from MVC 
and few from non-traumatic causes below age 40 account for these high PYLL 
rankings for MVC. Israeli age-specific death rates from MVC below age 40 were 
lower than those of USA, but higher among the elderly (reason: pedestrian 
deaths). Both Israel's PYLL rate (PYLL per 100 000 persons) from MVC and crude 
mortality rates are only slightly lower than those of USA. Trends in Israel 
point to a growing number of drivers among young and poorer groupings, who have 
been shown elsewhere to be at high-risk for MVC mortality. PYLL from MVC in 
Israel can be expected to increase, even if crude death rates remain stable or 
decline. Swift low-cost preventive measures could arrest or reverse these 
predicted trends.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/8.4.383
PMID: 541162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Langenbecks Arch Chir. 1979 Nov;350(1):33-42. doi: 10.1007/BF01232093.

[Primary carcinoma of the extrahepatic bile ducts (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Neugebauer W, Durst J, Mayer HR.

From 1957--1977 193 patients were treated at the surgical clinic of the 
University of TÃ¼bingen for carcinoma of the extrahepatic bile ducts. Gall 
bladder carcinoma made up 139 cases; 54 were of bile duct carcinoma. The tumors 
were no longer operable in two-thirds of the patients with extrahepatic bile 
ducts cancer. The life expectancy rate of five years for patients with gall 
bladder carcinoma held for 7%. Up to now only one patient with a bile duct 
malignancy has survived longer than five years. In the last decade essentially 
no improvement of median life expectancy has occurred despite improved operating 
techniques. Due to uncharacteristic, misleading upper abdominal symptoms, 
patients who suffer gall bladder or bile duct cancer are unfortunately 
accurately diagnosed only after the carcinoma has overcome organ borders or is 
already metastatic. There is reasonable hope for improved early prognosis of 
extrahepatic bile duct carcinoma with ERCP (Endoscopic Retrograde 
Cholangio-Pancreaticography) and computer-tomography. Because the possibility of 
a relationship between gall bladder stones and/or the chronic inflammation of 
gall bladder and bile ducts and the development of cancer is not out of the 
question, widespread prophylactic cholecystectomy and gall passage cleansing 
should be employed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01232093
PMID: 542060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1979 Oct-Dec;60(4):11-3.

Life expectancy among diabetics-II.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 542961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1979 Dec 15;129(23):682-5.

[Results of partial duodenopancreatectomies (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Sellner F, Jelinek R.

The results of 36 partial duodenopancreatectomies (1956-1976) are reported. The 
operative mortality was 25%, during the last 5 years 12.5%. The lowest operative 
mortality and the best prognosis was found in carcinomas of Vater's ampulla, 
with 14.2% mortality and 50% 5 years survival time, followed by carcinomas of 
the distal bile duct. The most infavorable result was found in the carcinomas of 
the head of the pancreas with an operative mortality of 36% and the shortest 
survival times.

PMID: 543154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Cancer Lett. 1979 Jan;6(1):57-60. doi: 10.1016/s0304-3835(79)80021-x.

Carcinogenicity of di(N-nitroso)-perhydropyrimidine (DNPP) after intraperitoneal 
application to rats.

Bertram B, Habs M, Wiessler M, Braun H, Kretzer H.

Male Sprague-Dawley rats received 30 mg/kg body wt. (group I) or 15 mg/kg (group 
II) di(N-nitroso)-perhydropyrimidine (DNPP) by the intraperitoneal route once a 
week for life. The DNPP treatment significantly reduced the life expectancy in 
both groups. DNPP induced tumors of the esophagus (27% incidence in group I, 33% 
in group II) and possibly also of the liver (4% incidence in group I, 8% in 
group II).

DOI: 10.1016/s0304-3835(79)80021-x
PMID: 544012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Theor Popul Biol. 1979 Dec;16(3):315-22. doi: 10.1016/0040-5809(79)90020-0.

The effects of extra chances to live on life table functions.

Mitra S.

DOI: 10.1016/0040-5809(79)90020-0
PMID: 545734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Acta Med Acad Sci Hung. 1979;36(2):231-2.

Diet and atherogenesis.

Seely S.

PMID: 545984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1979 Nov;175(5):654-63.

[Tumor metastases of the choroid: clinical picture and histology (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

Meythaler H, Herold M.

This paper is based on 21 patients with metastases of the choroid from 
extraocular tumors, observed over a period of 25 years (1952--1977) at Erlangen 
University Eye Clinic. Approximately 70% of these relatively rare metastases of 
the choroid are caused by cancer of the breast. Ophthalmoscopically, they are 
usually localized to the left of the posterior pole and are yellowish. In about 
20% of the cases both eyes are affected. Since breast cancer is the most 
frequent cause of the primary tumor, women in the 40 to 60 age group are the 
most common sufferers. On the other hand, it is worth mentioning that in 2 cases 
the metastases were the first signs of any type of malignancy. Typical is the 
relatively flat, shell-like growth. In cytological specimens the portion of the 
retina covering the tumor normally shows no evidence of cystic degenerative 
change, in contrast to malignant melanoma. In view of the short average life 
expectancy of about 9 months, therapy should consist in preserving the eye and 
thus some degree of vision. Radiotherapy, chemotherapy or cytostatic therapy 
whould be tried. Enucleation is only indicated where there is severe pain, 
secondary glaucoma, amaurosis or if it is impossible to differentiate from a 
malignant melanoma.

PMID: 547092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Z Alternsforsch. 1979;34(3):211-23.

[Partnership and sexuality in the latter half of life. The partnership situation 
and sexual behavior of the working woman in the change of life].

[Article in German]

Rentzsch W, Eitner S.

The problem of partnership and sexuality is of great importance also in the 
second half of life. It is necessary for the consultation centres on marriage 
and sexuality to take these facts into account, both with respect to 
organisation and content.

PMID: 547504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Arch Belg Med Soc. 1979 Apr;37(4):201-29.

[Abridged cohort or birth and death tables applied to a human population. 
Illustrated by the Louvain population born 1875-1876 and 1925-26].

[Article in Dutch]

Soeharno H, van de Voorde H.

PMID: 547890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Medicina (B Aires). 1979 Nov-Dec;39(6):848-51.

[Comments on therapeutic clinical trials in cancer].

[Article in Spanish]

Pavlovsky S.

PMID: 550049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Psychother Psychosom. 1979;32(1-4):6-15. doi: 10.1159/000287368.

Social learning theory and behavioral health care.

Burns KL.

DOI: 10.1159/000287368
PMID: 550188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Arch Ophthalmol. 1979 Feb;97(2):359. doi:
10.1001/archopht.1979.01020010195026.

Possible pineal-suprachiasmatic claock regulation of development and life span.

Lehrer S.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.1979.01020010195026
PMID: 550812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1979 Nov 15;73(22):1068-70.

[Problems in the early diagnosis of mucoviscidosis (cystic fibrosis].

[Article in German]

Szibor R, Gedschold J, Thal W.

PMID: 551588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1979 Dec;175(6):754-9.

[Prognosis of basal cell carcinoma of the eyelids in relation to histologic 
differentiation and thoroughness of resection].

[Article in German]

Tost M.

As life expectancy increases the diagnosis and treatment of basal cell carcinoma 
of the lids is assuming ever greater importance. While there is still some 
debate as to whether conservative or surgical treatment is preferable, the 
emphasis in conservative treatment varies. Our own view is based on an analysis 
of 531 surgically treated patients. For histologic differentiation we used the 
data of Lever (1958). Considering that our recidivity rate was only 6.2%, we 
recommend primary surgical treatment. After localization of the tumor the inner 
canthus in particular should be kept under observation for recurrences. 
Histologic differentiation showed the sclerodermiform basal cell carcinoma to be 
especially dangerous.

PMID: 551999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Herz. 1978 Dec;63(36):347-56.

[Management of patients after pacemaker implanation (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Petri H, Rudolph W.

Although pacemaker therapy is characterized by a high degree of reliability, 
follow-up of pacemaker patients is necessary to provide early detection of 
pacemaker failure and optimal setting of programable pacemakers as well as to 
render adequate treatment of underlying disease. The most common cause of 
pacemaker failure is battery depletion. In spite of the available data on the 
mean life-expectancy of the various batteries, the individual time of depletion 
cannot be predicted with accuracy. Furthermore, a defect in the electronic 
circuitry and/or electrode may still be rarely encountered even though technical 
standards are high and, occasionally, threshold elevation or lead dislocation 
may occur in spite of conscientious implantation technique. For patients with 
programable pacemakers, follow-up monitoring also enables adjustment for optimal 
pacemaker function. Thus, through lowering of the current or narrowing of the 
pulse width, the life of the battery can be prolonged or, on incrementation of 
these 2 parameters, an increasing threshold can be compensated for within 
certain limits. More important, however, is the possibility of inductive 
pacemaker rate changes through external programing to yield the most favorable 
pulse interval with respect to the underlying disease. Since, in addition to 
impairment of the cardiac conduction system, other disease processes are 
frequently presented--approximately one in three patients has coronary artery 
disease and almost half of the patients have congestive heart failure--follow-up 
visits not only serve the purpose of monitoring pacemaker function but also 
provide an opportunity to insure an optimal clinical condition of the patient. 
Accurate interpretation of pacemaker function prerequisites knowledge of the 
type of stimulation (fixed rate, synchronized, hysteresis, magnet rate, 
interference frequencies), of the battery (mercury-zinc, lihium, nickel-cadmium, 
isotope), of the programability (rate, current, pulse width) as well as the 
location of impulse capture and detection and through ascertainment of secured 
position of the lead and generator. While the pacemaker rate enables 
interpretation of the state of charge of the battery, evaluation of capture and 
tracing threshold permit assessment of the presence of a threshold elevation, 
lead dislocation, an electrode fracture or a defect in the electronic circuity. 
Stimulation of extracardiac muscle areas may be indicative of improper 
positioning and inadequate isolation of the generator, lead dislocation or lead 
perforation.

PMID: 554856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Am J Epidemiol. 1979 Dec;110(6):747-52. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a112856.

Methods for determining long-term survival in a population based study.

Austin MA, Berreyesa S, Elliott JL, Wallace RB, Barrett-Connor E, Criqui MH.

A 98.8% response rate was achieved in a follow-up study of a community based 
health survey. The follow-up methodology used in contacting the residents of 
1700 households in a suburban upper-middle class community is presented. Study 
subjects, who were predominantly white, older adults, participated in the 
