original health survey during 1972 and 1973. When the follow-up study was 
conducted three years later to determine the vital status of study participants, 
30% of the households had moved. Follow-up response of two sets of mailings 
totaled 76.1%. An additional 12.1% response was obtained by calling residents at 
their last known address. The final 10.5% of the contacted households were 
located by intensive telephone tracing. A wide variety of sources of 
information, both local and non-local, were used to locate these "hard to trace" 
households. They were different from all other contacted households with respect 
to mobility rate, household size, and death rate. A 15.5% underestimate of the 
three-year death rate would have occurred if the hard to trace group had not 
been contacted. These results emphasize the importance of complete follow-up in 
prospective studies.

PIP: The authors examine methods for determining long-term survival in a 
population based study. The follow-up methodology used in a health survey begun 
in 1972 in a suburban U.S. upper middle class community is presented. The 
various local and nonlocal sources of information used in locating participants 
are described

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a112856
PMID: 555594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Int J Chronobiol. 1979;7(1):17-64.

Schedule shifts, life quality and quantity--modeled by murine blood pressure 
elevation and arthropod life span.

Halberg J, Halberg E, Hayes DK, Smith RD, Halberg F, Delea CS, Danielson RS, 
Bartter FC.

During the span from 50 to 100 days and beyond, the male stroke-prone Okamoto 
rat develops systolic blood pressure measures in excess of 200 mm Hg. In the 
course of developing such a marked elevation in systolic blood pressure mean, 
this intermittently handled male Okamoto rat exhibits a statistically 
significant circadian rhythm with large amplitude. This amplitude may represent, 
at least in part, a response to intermittent handling; it is several times 
larger than the amplitude for spontaneously mesor-hypertensive (but not 
stroke-prone) female animals of the same age.

PMID: 555765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1977 Dec;58:6-7.

Geographic differences in survival after age 65 among nonwhites.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 556416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. J S Afr Vet Assoc. 1977 Oct;48(3):151-4.

The life-span of mammals.

Petrick SW.

Various parameters in the life cycle of mammals were investigated to find a 
possible correlation between these parameters and the life-span. Twenty-two 
factors were calculated to determine the true life-span of any mammal. In 
addition a single formula, by means of which the life-span could be determined, 
was constructed. The life-spans of certain species, as calculated by means of 
the formula, are compared with authorative estimates.

PMID: 563913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Strahlentherapie. 1978 Feb;154(2):75-80.

[Radiotherapy of the soft tissue sarcomas (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Hellriegel W.

Although 82,5% of the total body weight consist of mesenchymal tissues, only 
1%--3% of all malignant tumors are soft tissue sarcomas. The necessary 
irradiation dose can only be determined after an exact histopathological 
diagnosis; therefore this diagnosis has to be made prior to the radiotherapy. 
Except the fibro- and liposarcomas, all sarcoma form very early lymphogenic 
metastases. All sarcomas show a remarquable tendency to form recurrences. 
Surgery is the primary therapy. After that, an irradiation of the tumor region 
and the regional lymph nodes should be effected under all circumstances. We have 
treated and checked up 749 patients. After this therapeutic method, the 
five-year survival rate in the stages T1 and T2 is 60% for the myxosarcoma, 67% 
for the angiosarcoma, 41% for the fasciculated sarcoma, 40% for the 
globocellular sarcoma, 30% for the polymorphous sarcoma, 69% for the 
fibrosarcoma, and 61% for the leiomyosarcoma.

PMID: 564561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. ZFA (Stuttgart). 1978 Oct 10;54(28):1422-5.

[Balneological management of the aging man].

[Article in German]

Schoger GA.

PMID: 567905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Exp Pathol (Jena). 1979;17(9):539-45. doi: 10.1016/s0014-4908(79)80076-9.

Increase in lifespan of rats following polypeptide pineal extract treatment.

Dilman VM, Anisimov VN, Ostroumova MN, Khavinson VK, Morozov VG.

The 20 month-long treatment of female rats with daily doses of 0.1 or 0.5 mg of 
polypeptide pineal extract (PPE) per animal increased their lifespan by 10 and 
25%, respectively, as compared with controls. At the age of 16--18 months, 38% 
of control rats exhibited persistent disturbances in estral function (constant 
estrus or repeated pseudogestations), whereas these disorders were observed in 
7% of experimental animals only. After administration of PPE to 16--18 month-old 
female rats checked for sterility by a two-week mating, a second mating period 
resulted in gestation development in four out of 16 animals and deliveries, 
accordingly. While chronic treatment with PPE did not affect the rate of 
neoplasm incidence, the mean age of tumour detection in the control group was 
697 days and in experimental groups it was 811 and 868 days, respectively. 
Certain aspects of the interrelationship of rate of ageing, lifespan and 
specific age pathology are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-4908(79)80076-9
PMID: 575333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Arch Gynakol. 1977 Jan 27;222(1):73-93. doi: 10.1007/BF00670857.

[Major gynecological operations on women of 80 years of age or more (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

Jal≈Øvka V.

Because of the greater life expectancy of women, the length of the 
post-menopausal period has also been constantly increasing. Since there is no 
generally accepted definition of the late post-menopause and senium in women, we 
submit a suggestion of how these periods of life may be deliminated. During the 
years 1960--1969 6662 female patients aged 60 years or more, were operated on in 
17 different Westberliner departments of gynecology. Of these 3.9% (i.e. 261 
cases) were major gynecological operations on women of 80 years or more: 155 
were malignant and 37 benign tumors, 59 were due to displacement of the uterus 
(11 cases of minor descended uterus and 48 cases of fully prolapsed uterus) and 
10 other diseases. The postoperative death rate was 13.4% (36 cases). In spite 
of such mortality these major operations were generally considered necessary and 
beneficial in women of this age group. Among other reasons, cancer-screening 
examinations of old women should be done more regularly than at present because 
of the multi-morbidity occurring at this age.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00670857
PMID: 576387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. JAMA. 1977 Nov 14;238(20):2159-62. doi: 10.1001/jama.238.20.2159.

Cystic fibrosis. An expanding challenge for internal medicine.

Warwick WJ, Pogue RE.

The number of adults with cystic fibrosis (CF) receiving care from the US Cystic 
Fibrosis Centers has been increasing at an average rate of about 200 patients 
each year. A model based on the continuation of this rate of increase predicts 
that almost 4,000 adults will be receiving care at the centers by the end of 
1985. Four other models developed are based on continuation of a steady state 
with two variations: a 50% reduction in mortality and universal newborn 
screening. These models show the boundaries of an equilibrium population to be 
between 24,000 and 64,000 patients, with 7,000 to 18,000 adults.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.238.20.2159
PMID: 578827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. JAMA. 1977 Nov 21;238(21):2272-6.

Corticosteroid treatment in systemic lupus erythematosus. Survival studies.

Urman JD, Rothfield NF.

Survival rates of two groups of corticosteroid-treated patients with systemic 
lupus erythematosus (SLE) have been compared using life-table analysis. Group 1 
consists of 209 SLE patients studied in New York City between 1957 and 1968; 
group 2 consists of 156 SLE patients studied in Connecticut between 1968 and 
1976. A similar percentage of patients in each group was followed up closely by 
one of us. The five-year survival rate for group 1 was 70%, compared with 93% 
for group 2. The improved survival could not be explained by differences in 
racial composition, incidence of CNS manifestations, or incidence of severe 
renal disease. The markedly improved survival may be due to several factors, 
including a generally better understanding of the disease and the recent use of 
newer antibiotics. The management of the two groups was similar, except that 
group 2 patient's conditions were managed not only on the basis of clinical 
evidence of disease activity but also on the basis of the serum complement (C3) 
level and on the basis of the level of antibody to native DNA. The data suggest 
that the use of such serologic values may lead to improved survival.

PMID: 578847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Nurs Mirror Midwives J. 1977 Jan 27;144(4):42.

How lucky we are!

Watkin B.

PMID: 584395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Perspectives (Montclair). 1977 Apr;2(1):16-21.

Update on aging: its problems, its promises.

Kellet A.

PMID: 587910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Experientia. 1977 Dec 15;33(12):1612-4. doi: 10.1007/BF01934028.

Changes of hormonal status in young mice by restricted caloric diet. Relation to 
lifespan extension. Preliminary results.

Pierpaoli W.

The maintainance of mice on a reduced caloric diet for 6 weeks starting from 
weaning time produces persistent changes in their hormonal status as reflected 
by differences in blood levels of gonadal and adrenal steroids. The changes 
might express a permanently different hypothalamic regulation. This might 
account for a prolongation of their life span.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01934028
PMID: 590451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Gig Tr Prof Zabol. 1977 Dec;(12):8-12.

[State of health, mortality and longevity of copper-smelting shop workers after 
retirement on pension because of age].

[Article in Russian]

Sterekhova NP, Kursakov NK, Zeleneva NI, Khalevina SN, Kolbina LA.

PMID: 590834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Klin Wochenschr. 1977 Dec 15;55(24):1197-207. doi: 10.1007/BF01682285.

[The environment of man in the light of a theory of medicine (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Schaefer H.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01682285
PMID: 592684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. J Tenn Med Assoc. 1977 Dec;70(12):894-6.

New directions in preventive medicine.

Fowinkle EW.

PMID: 592782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Phys Med Biol. 1977 Nov;22(6):1168-79. doi: 10.1088/0031-9155/22/6/009.

The assessment of late effects on a population exposed to activity released into 
the environment.

Reissland JA, Kay P.

The long term effects resulting from an accidental release of radioactive 
material are considered. The magnitude of the release is defined in terms of the 
percentage of total excess cancer mortalities relative to the number that would 
have been expected in the same population had the accident not occurred. The 
increased risk is expressed as the change in life expectancy as a function of 
age at the time of exposure. Loss of life-years per person is calculated for an 
increase of 0.1, 1, 10 and 100% in cancer deaths and are quoted for ages 1, 10, 
20, 30, 40 and 50 years at time of exposure. The variation of the effect with 
age may be summarised using the ratio of the reduced life expectancy to the 
reduced life expectancy for a person aged zero at the time of the accident. For 
the initial external dose, this ratio exhibits a linear decrease up to about age 
45 years at the rate of about 2% per year so, for example, the increased risk 
for a person aged 40 at exposure is 20% of the increased risk of a child just 
born. Similar estimates are made for a dose which is prolonged over 50 years, to 
represent doses from internally incorporated radionuclides.

DOI: 10.1088/0031-9155/22/6/009
PMID: 594146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Arch Dermatol. 1977 Dec;113(12):1691-2.

Hyperkeratosis of nipple and areola.

Mehregan AH, Rahbari H.

Hyperkeratosis of the nipple and areola is a rare condition that may occur in 
association with various forms of ichthyosis or as the result of extension of an 
epidermal nevus. The nevoid form is extremely rare and appears most commonly in 
women in their second or third decade of life. It is characterized by verrucous 
thickening and brownish discoloration of both nipples and areolae. Thirteen 
cases of this type have been reported. We are describing two additional cases to 
bring the total to 15 instances.

PMID: 596899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Br J Prev Soc Med. 1977 Dec;31(4):231-7.

Social group and mortality in Finland.

N√§yh√§ S.

Morality rates for various social groups within the population of Finland were 
compared, using 179 919 death certificates for the period 1969-72. Morality was 
generally lowest in the highest social groups and highest among unskilled 
workers. Male mortality from coronary heart disease was also high among lower 
salaried employees. In the less developed area of northern Finland, female 
mortality from coronary heart disease and vascular lesions of the central 
nervous system was highest among the agricultural population. Cancer of the 
breast, cancer of the intestine, and suicides among women were apparently 
concentrated in the higher classes. Life table analysis showed that the social 
group differences in life expectancy at birth could be as great as 7.2 years. It 
is considered indispensable for a national health policy to improve on the 
recording of occupational data and to give regularly the occupation of the 
deceased when publishing mortality rates.

PMCID: PMC479033
PMID: 597676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Cor Vasa. 1977;19(4-5):299-309.

Long-term prognosis of juvenile hypertension.

Widimsk√Ω J, Jandov√° R.

A longitudinal study of juvenile hypertension made possible to investigate after 
20 years 73% of a group of young hypertensives (original age 14--29 years, 
arterial blood pressure 170/100 and higher 20 years ago), which was originally 
investigated in 1952--1954. The surprising result was that 35.5% had a normal 
blood pressure without treatment in the interval, 40.2% showed the same level of 
hypertension, 5.7% showed higher blood pressure levels but without any new 
organic changes, 1.5% had the same blood pressure as 20 years earlier, but now 
required drug therapy as opposed to previously. Only 17.1% of the patients 
showed any convincing evidence of progression of the disease, i.e. the 
development of new organic changes. The prognosis of moderate hypertension at a 
young age is significantly correlated with: a) the occurence of hypertension in 
the parent; b) the life expectancy of the parents; and c) the initial values of 
blood pressure. There was no correlation between prognosis and over-weight, 
weight gain in the past 20 years, original or present heart rate, smoking, 
alcohol intake or physical activity, participation in sports or the living 
standard of the given individual.

PMID: 598203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1977 Nov 1;71(21):1029-38.

[Health status in the German Democratic Republic and various international 
trends in health development].

[Article in German]

Winter K.

PMID: 602281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Arch Tierernahr. 1977 Nov;27(11):661-6. doi: 10.1080/17450397709434273.

[Mode of action of proteinase inhibitors in rats. 2. Effect of leupeptin on 
N-balance and biological half-life in ad lib feeding].

[Article in German]

Bergner H, M√ºnchmeyer R, Simon O, Bohley P.

During a 15-day period, growing Wistar rats (75 g) were fed ad lib. a whole-egg 
diet containing 10% crude protein (control group) and the same diet + a daily 
subcutaneous injection of 1 mg of leupeptin per animal (experimental group), 
respectively. To investigate the influence of the peptide aldehyde leupeptin on 
the M-metabolism, N-balance trials were carried out between the 1st and the 6th, 
and the 10th and the 15th experimental days. Leupeptine was not found to 
influence the true N-digestibility. However, the intermediary N-utilization, 
characterized by the biological value of the dietary protein, deteriorated in 
comparison with the control group. The peptide aldehyde under study resulted in 
an extension of the biological half-life of the proteins in the tissue of the 
small and large intestine. It was measured via the decline of radioactivity in 
protein following application of L-guanidino-14 C-arginine and 
L-(4,5-3H)-leucine. The amino acid utilization appears to have been increased as 
well. In connection with previous studies (SIMON et al., 1976) i, which, under 
somewhat different experimental conditions, leupeptine resulted in a higher 
intermediary N-utilization, the mentioned agent is supposed to be able to 
influence N-utilization. However, additional studies are required to make 
statements regarding the influence of dosis and metabolic situation.

DOI: 10.1080/17450397709434273
PMID: 603394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Growth. 1977 Dec;41(4):337-48.

Effects of life-long dietary protein restriction on mortality, growth, organ 
weights, blood counts, liver aldolase and kidney catalase in Balb/C mice.

Stoltzner G.

Certain types of nutritional restriction can prolong life in mammals. This 
investigation documents life long effects of five protein diets in 1,000 Balb/c 
male mice. Balb mice subjected to 4% protein (lowest) diet had life expectancy 
that was marginally significantly prolonged when compared with control mice fed 
24% protein (highest) diet. Body and organ weights of protein restricted mice 
generally were less than control mice. No significant differences among diets 
were found with blood counts, protein concentrations of liver and kidneys, or 
kidney catalase activity. Kidney catalase activity fell with age. Liver aldolase 
was induced by dietary sucrose, and aldolase fell with age in protein restricted 
mice, but not in controls.

PMID: 604178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Postepy Hig Med Dosw. 1977 Nov-Dec;31(6):741-76.

[Health conditions in Poland].

[Article in Polish]

Sawicki F, Wojtyniak B, Cha≈Ñska M.

PMID: 604982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Arch Latinoam Nutr. 1977 Dec;27(4):445-50.

[Median age of mortality as an indicator of economic-social and nutritional 
status].

[Article in Spanish]

Enderica R.

Mean age of mortality as an indicator of economic development and nutritional 
state. After a short discussion of nutritional indicators the mean age of 
mortality of the population of a country is proposed. This is defined as the age 
as 50% mortality is observed. It is an indicator for social-economic 
development. There exists a correlation between the proposed indicator and 
others used in the evaluation of nutritional conditions.

PMID: 614819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Trans Am Assoc Genitourin Surg. 1977;69:135-8.

Malignant hypertension in children secondary to chronic pyelonephritis: 
laboratory and radiologic indications for partial or total nephrectomy.

Poutasse EF, Stecker JF Jr, Ladaga LE, Sperber EE.

Severe renin-mediated hypertension was noted in 2 children as a result of 
selective renal damage from vesicoureteral reflux during the early years of 
life. In each case the reflux had been corrected successfully long before 
hypertension developed. In 1 case the late damage involved only 1 kidney and 
nephrectomy resulted in immediate relief of the hypertension. In the second 
case, even though both kidneys showed segmental scarring from calicectasis and 
chronic pyelonephritis, removal of the atrophied lower pole of 1 kidney made 
hypertension amenable to medical treatment and reduced excessive renin output to 
a fraction of the original high levels. The mechanism of renin-mediated 
hypertension in kidneys with segmental scars of chronic pyelonephritis is 
believed to be ischemia of the relatively normal renal cortex in proximity to 
areas of interstitial fibrosis, within which are tortuous interlobular and 
smaller arterioles with severe intimal thickening. Hypertrophy of normal renal 
segment occurs in young patients with segmental chronic pyelonephritis. To 
accommodate this enlargement the original calix develops an extension or 
elongation readily distinguishable from other dilated calices.

PMID: 617906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Circulation. 1978 Jan;57(1):64-70. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.57.1.64.

The role of the exercise test in the evaluation of patients for ischemic heart 
disease.

McNeer JF, Margolis JR, Lee KL, Kisslo JA, Peter RH, Kong Y, Behar VS, Wallace 
AG, McCants CB, Rosati RA.

A cohort of 1472 patients who underwent both exercise stress testing and 
coronary angiography within six weeks was examined. The data indicated that a 
combination of exercise parameters is both diagnostically and prognostically 
important. Almost all patients (greater than 97%) who had positive exercise 
tests at Stage I or Stage II had significant coronary artery disease. More than 
half of these (greater than 60%) had three vessel disease and over 25% had 
significant narrowing (greater than 50%) of the left main coronary artery. 
Patients who achieved Stage IV or greater exercise durations with either 
negative or indeterminate ST-segment response had less than a 15% prevalence of 
three vessel disease and less than a 1% prevalence of left main coronary artery 
disease. A low risk subgroup (75% of all non-operated patients) was identified 
with a twelve month survival greater than 99%. A high risk subgroup (11% of all 
nonoperated patients) was identified with a twelve month survival of less than 
85%. The exercise test is a noninvasive, reproducible method to assess the 
presence and extent of anatomic disease and the prognosis when significant 
disease has been defined. It should be used in conjunction with other 
noninvasive tests to determine optimal management in patients evaluated for 
ischemic heart disease.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.57.1.64
PMID: 618399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Obstet Gynecol. 1978 Jan;51(1):16-24.

New observations on the physiology of menstruation.

Flowers CE Jr, Wilborn WH.

Endometrium was studies histologically, histochemically, and ultrastructurally 
in a series of biopsies taken from 3 normal, ovulating patients on Days 1-9 of 
the cycle. The occurrence of ovulation and the adequacy of progesterone were 
determined by radioimmunoassay. The most striking feature of menstruating 
endometrium was its vigorous attempt to survive. This was manifested by 
lysosomal activity, lipid accumulation, expulsion of glycoproteins, and the 
uptake of stromal debris by epithelial cells for passage to the uterine cavity. 
Regression, rather than cell death, was the chief event of menstruation. While 
some cells of the spongiosa underwent necrosis, the vast majority remained 
viable and underwent remodeling to participate in the new cycle. These studies 
may lead to further understanding of the process of menstruation and the 
pathophysiology of anovulatory bleeding and irregular shedding of the 
endometrium.

PIP: To understand the differences between menstruation and the pathophysiology 
of anovulatory bleeding and irregular shedding of the endometrium, a series of 
biopsies were taken from 3 normal ovulating patients on Days 1-9 of the cycle. 
Occurrence of ovulation and the adequacy of progesterone were determined by 
radioimmunoassay. Findings are discussed and illustrated in detail. The most 
striking feature of the menstruating endometrium was its vigorous attempt to 
survive. Regression, rather than cell death, was the chief characteristics and 
was accompanied by lysosomal activity, lipid accumulation, expulsion of 
glycoproteins, and uptake of stromal debris by epithelial cells for passage to 
the uterine cavity. While some cells of the spongiosa underwent necrosis, 
electron microscopy showed that most of the cells r and participated in a new 
cycle. These studies dispel the theory that inadequate lymphatic drainage causes 
tissue destruction. There is no accumulation of catabolic products. The only 
cells which die or become detached from the endometrium are from the compact and 
upper spongy layers. Some were sufficiently viable to grow on surfaces where 
they could implant and receive nourishment. However, if they were stimulated to 
secretory exhaustion by an oral contraceptive or deprived of physiologic 
estrogen stimulation by gonadotropin inhibitors, their survival would be limited 
to the life expectancy of the cell. Thus, endometriosis caused by retrograde 
menstruation would respond to oral contraceptives and gonadotropin inhibitors 
while endometriosis from metaplasia of the pelvic peritoneum to a Mullerian type 
of epithelium and stroma would be adversely affected by progestins. 
Endometriosis with a basalis endometrium must be treated by conservative surgery 
and/or hysterectomy and extirpation of the ovaries. No findings supported the 
theory of menstrual toxin. It is probable that some of the presently accepted 
concepts of menstruation developed from the study of anovulatory or inadequate 
ovulatory endometrium which is associated with varying degrees of necrosis and 
sloughing to the basalis.

PMID: 619333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Br J Cancer. 1978 Jan;37(1):76-80. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1978.11.

Life span, leukaemia and amyloid incidences of untreated and polycation-treated 
AKR mice.

Ebbesen P.

AKR mice, which have a short mean survival time and usually die with leukaemia, 
were studied from one month of age for correlation between these two parameters. 
For untreated animals we found the same mean survival time whether or not 
leukaemia occurred. By treating sucklings with the polycations 
diethylaminoethyl-dextran or hexadimethrine bromide the leukaemia incidence was 
significantly reduced. However, the mean survival time was unchanged, and 
remained the same in leukaemic and non-leukaemic animals. It is therefore 
suggested that the early death of AKR mice results from an ageing process and 
does not require leukaemia for implementation. Our prophylactic polycation 
treatment was furthermore found to induce spleen amyloid in some but not all of 
the mice that remained non-leukaemic.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1978.11
PMCID: PMC2009506
PMID: 619959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Gerontology. 1978;24(3):220-4. doi: 10.1159/000212252.

Effect of sulfamerazine and exercise on life span of rats and hamsters.

Sperling GA, Loosli JK, Lupien P, McCay CM.

Rats and hamsters of both sexes were divided into exercise and non-exercise 
groups with and without small amounts of sulfamerazine in the diet. In every 
case rats on exercise lived longer than their controls. The females outlived the 
males while hamster males lived slightly longer than females. Sulfamerazine had 
a significantly beneficial effect on life span of rats and apparently increased 
that of male hamsters. All rats fed sulfamerazine attained higher maximum 
weights than their controls. There was no consistent change in bone densities.

DOI: 10.1159/000212252
PMID: 620944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. J Agric Food Chem. 1978 Jan-Feb;26(1):274-6. doi: 10.1021/jf60215a067.

Extension of shelf life in refrigerated ground beef stored under an atmosphere 
containing carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide.

Gee DL, Brown WD.

DOI: 10.1021/jf60215a067
PMID: 621334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Mech Ageing Dev. 1978 Feb;7(2):131-50. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(78)90059-3.

Correlation between DNA repair of embryonic fibroblasts and different life span 
of 3 inbred mouse strains.

Paffenholz V.

Primary mouse fibroblast cultures were established from 10 day old embryos of 3 
inbred strains with a genetically determined different life expectancy. The 
capacity for unscheduled DNA synthesis following u.v. irradiation was studied in 
these cells at various passage levels of the in vitro ageing process. The mouse 
fibroblasts show considerable repair synthesis corresponding to the duration of 
exposure time. The capacity for induction of unscheduled DNA synthesis was 
different in the cells of each strain and correlated to the natural life span of 
the animal. In each case, however, the ability to perform repair synthesis was 
subjected to an age-associated decline, although semiconservative DNA synthesis 
and proliferative potential of the cells was not changed until the cultures 
entered phase III passages.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(78)90059-3
PMID: 621967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Nature. 1978 Feb 9;271(5645):492. doi: 10.1038/271492a0.

Saccharin: the risks and benefits.

Cohen BL.

DOI: 10.1038/271492a0
PMID: 622183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Science. 1978 Mar 3;199(4332):983. doi: 10.1126/science.622580.

Relative risks of saccharin and calorie ingestion.

Cohen BL.

The risk of a person getting cancer from ingesting saccharin is compared with 
the risk of ingesting additional calories which cause excess body weight. It is 
found that, for a person who is 10% overweight, the risk of ingesting one diet 
soft drink, which would cause a decrease in life expectancy of 9 seconds, is 
approximately equal to the risk of ingesting one additional kilocalorie; that 
is, if ingesting a diet drink inhibits ingestion of more than 1 kilocalorie, its 
benefits exceed its risks.

DOI: 10.1126/science.622580
PMID: 622580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Bibl Nutr Dieta. 1978;(26):91-4. doi: 10.1159/000401136.

Problem of obesity in Japan.

Fujiwara M.

DOI: 10.1159/000401136
PMID: 623638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Mech Ageing Dev. 1978 Jan;7(1):33-52. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(78)90051-9.

A look at the basic correlates of longevity: is longevity a superficial trait?

Todd HJ.

Nature appears to have distributed life spans, whether long or short, entirely 
upon the possession or non-possession of a few physiologically superficial 
characteristics, namely, immunity of mature, full-sized specimens from the 
effects of: (1) predation, (2) competition, (3) fire, (4) disease, and (5) the 
existence of a definite usefulness for long life spans in bridging lengthy 
periods unfavorable to the reproduction and/or maturation of offspring. 
Extremely strong correlations are presented in proof of the above relationships. 
Since longevity mechanisms can closely correlate to superficial traits, it is 
unlikely that they comprise an integral part of basic structural or biochemical 
processes. In the case of trees, all five of the above traits are apparently 
required for the achievement of potential life spans in excess of 1000 years. By 
contrast, the longest live animal species appear to fully possess only (1) and 
(3) of the five prerequisite traits above. This observation may fully account 
for the fact that maximum life spans of trees are 30-40 times greater than those 
of the longest lived animals.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(78)90051-9
PMID: 625149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Am J Psychiatry. 1978 Mar;135(3):371-2. doi: 10.1176/ajp.135.3.371.

Mortality of patients with tardive dyskinesia.

Mehta D, Mallya A, Volavka J.

DOI: 10.1176/ajp.135.3.371
PMID: 626235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Izv Akad Nauk SSSR Biol. 1978 Jan-Feb;(1):87-96.

[Use of growth equations for determining the maximal life span of mammals and 
man].

[Article in Russian]

Zotin AI, Zotina RS, Profkof'ev EA, Konoplev VA.

PMID: 627682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. JAMA. 1978 Mar 13;239(11):1036-7.

Suppose we die young, late in life?

[No authors listed]

PMID: 628048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Radiology. 1978 Mar;126(3):581-7. doi: 10.1148/126.3.581.

Benign blood vascular tumors of the mediastinum. Report of four cases and review 
of the literature.

Davis JM, Mark GJ, Greene R.

The authors present 4 new cases and review 77 previously reported cases of 
benign blood vascular tumors of the mediastinum. The vast majority are 
hemangiomas (90%), occur in the first four decades of life (75%), and arise in 
the anterior mediastinum (68%). Compression and/or invasion of adjacent 
structures is not uncommon. Concomitant extrathoracic extension (2%) and 
multiple sites of involvement (2%) are rare. The tumors are smoothly outlined, 
occasionally lobulated and can be accurately identified when phleboliths are 
present (10%).

DOI: 10.1148/126.3.581
PMID: 628723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Strahlentherapie. 1978 Feb;154(2):81-4.

[The place of radiation therapy in the treatment of giant cell tumors of bone 
(osteoclastomas): results from 32 cases (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Glanzmann C, Horst W.

Radiotherapeutic results of giant-cell tumors of the bone in 32 own cases are 
presented. The frequency of local recurrency was 30%, the 10-year survival rate 
was somewhat about 70% and in nearly 12% of primary benign giant-cell tumors 
there appeared malignant transformations (inclusive two fibrosarcomas in 
irradiated tissue). In other radiotherapeutic series, the frequency of malignant 
transformation is between 14 and 19%, in series with primary surgical therapy 
the rate of secundary malignant transformation is between 3 and 10%. Despite of 
the limited comparability of the surgical and radiotherapeutic material, we 
recommend in accordance with most authors in operable lesions surgical 
treatment. In inoperable lesions or when the lesion is not radically operable, 
radiation therapy has a definite place in the treatment of giant-cell tumors of 
the bone with a curative rate of about 80%.

PMID: 628937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Am J Epidemiol. 1978 Mar;107(3):216-25. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a112528.

A fetal-infant life table based on single births in Norway, 1967--1973.

Bakketeig LS, Seigel DG, Sternthal PM.

The study is based on 440,452 single births occurring in Norway, 1967--1973, 
with known gestational age. The information was collected through a notification 
system known as "Medical Registration of Births," covering all births occurring 
in Norway, and the data are made available through the Medical Birth Registry of 
Norway, which allows for linkage between births and infant deaths. The life 
table describes the experience of women still pregnant at a gestational age of 
16 completed weeks, and states for each subsequent week the number of pregnancy 
terminations, the outcome, and the number of women still pregnant. Seven 
outcomes of pregnancy are considered: fetal death prior to labor, fetal death 
during labor, death within 24 hours, death 1--6 days, death 7--27 days, death 28 
days--1 year, and survival of one year or more. The data in the life table 
provide information on the probability of pregnancy termination in each week of 
gestation (after 16 completed weeks), and the probabilities of the various 
outcomes. The fetal-infant life table is considered as an extension of 
descriptive perinatal statistics and is of value in monitoring health changes 
and in comparing perinatal mortality between populations. It also provides 
information on time of pregnancy termination and outcome, which has some 
clinical applications.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a112528
PMID: 629259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Int J Health Serv. 1978;8(1):123-44. doi: 10.2190/TKUW-J59L-YHMF-3W5Q.

Social justice and the demographic transition: lessons from India's Kerala 
State.

Ratcliffe J.

Kerala is a small, densely crowded state in South India. It is a poor state, 
even by Indian standards. Its per capita income of US$80 lies well below the 
all-India average of US$120, and it suffers from the lowest per capita caloric 
intake in India. Nevertheless, Kerala has managed to achieve the demographic 
transition from high (premodern) to low (modern) birth and death rates-something 
no other Indian state has been able to attain. Indeed, the magnitude of Kerala's 
fertility decline-the birth rate fell from 39 in 1961 to 26.5 in 1974-has never 
before been observed in a nation with comparable levels of income and 
undernutrition. Other indices of Kerala's soical development are equally 
surprising: levels of literacy, life expectancy, female education, and age at 
marriage are the highest in India, while mortality rates, including infant and 
child mortality, are the lowest among Indian states. But Kerala's anomalous and 
unexpected demographic trends and levels are not the result of the direct 
interventions designed to influence health and fertility levels elsewhere in 
India-conventional strategies of population control and health services delivery 
that thus far are notable for their failure to generate such positive results. 
Instead, Kerala's demographic levels evidently reflect a broad social response 
to structural reforms in its political economy.

PIP: Kerala State in India is 1 of the areas in which the demographic transition 
from high to low birth and death rates have occurred. The demographic transition 
has taken place despite the fact that Kerala is a poor state with a per capita 
income of United States $80, an income well below the all-India average. Kerala 
also has the lowest per capita caloric intake in India. The birthrate in Kerala 
declined from 39 in 1961 to 26.5 in 1974. Such a decline has never been 
previously observed in a nation with comparable levels of income and 
undernutrition. Levels of literacy, life expectancy, female education, and age 
at marriage are the highest in India, while mortality rates, including infant 
and child mortality, are the lowest among the Indian states. Direct 
interventions designed to influence health and fertility levels are not 
responsible for Kerala's demographic trends and levels. Kerala's experience 
differs from that of the rest of India because of a particular set of mutually 
supporting and reinforcing factors. Mass education has contributed to a 
heightened political consciousness and more effective political participation. 
The widespread political participation has in turn resulted in a more equitable 
distribution of land, income, and services, including education. Finally, more 
equitable distribution of resources has reinforced political activism and worked 
to make schools and health services more accessible. Development was achieved 
through implementation of development strategies based on equity considerations.

DOI: 10.2190/TKUW-J59L-YHMF-3W5Q
PMID: 631960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Arch Surg. 1978 Apr;113(4):364-7. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.1978.01370160022002.

Carcinoma of the breast. A clinical study.

Meyer AC, Smith SS, Potter M.

An analysis of 1,686 surgically treated carcinomas of the breast in one 
community showed no statistically significant differences in five- and ten-year 
survival for simple, modified radical, or radical mastectomy. Further 
confirmation was obtained by computation of relative survival which in addition 
showed that older women more nearly approach normal life expectancy than younger 
ones. Bilaterality was found to be a decreasing function of age. Patients with 
medial and lateral tumors did not have significantly different rates of survival 
or sites of distant metastases.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1978.01370160022002
PMID: 637705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1978 Apr 14;103(15):648.

[Average life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Mikat B.

PMID: 639705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Hospitals. 1978 May 16;52(10):105-7.

The bed you shrink may be your own.

Cunningham RJ Jr.

PMID: 640601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Med Klin. 1978 Apr 21;73(16):583-9.

[Results of screening for risk factors in a rural community (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Walter J, Strik WO, Kircher S, Dietz A, Rauter C.

515 women and 372 men from a rural community of 2862 inhabitants over 14 years 
volunteered to participate in a screening test for risk factors. We found an 
exceptionally high percentage of hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia as well 
as overweight. Women were more frequently affected than men except for smoking, 
which occurred 3,6 times more often in men than in women. Since the life 
expectancy of men in this community was clearly lower than that of women, 
smoking seems to have the most weight as a risk factor for cardiovascular 
diseases.

PMID: 642859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Minerva Cardioangiol. 1978 Jan-Feb;26(1-2):21-30.

[Actuarial data and economic losses in arterial hypertension].

[Article in Italian]

Fiandaca S.

PMID: 643176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Scand J Haematol. 1978 Mar;20(3):280-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.1978.tb02458.x.

Prognostic value of in vitro bone marrow culture in refractory anaemia with 
excess of myeloblasts.

Faille A, Dresch C, Poirier O, Balitrand N, Najean Y.

Bone marrow from 17 patients with refractory anaemia with excess of myeloblasts 
(RAEM) was cultured in methylcellulose semi-solid medium. Compared with normal 
bone marrow, 3 patterns of growth occurred corresponding with different clinical 
stages of the condition. Patients whose bone marrow grew normal colonies and 
those who produced a predominance of microclusters had the longest life 
expectance, while those who produced a predominance of macroclusters had the 
shortest life expectancy with a high rate of acute leukaemic transformation. 
Colony culture appears to be a useful prognostic tool in the condition.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.1978.tb02458.x
PMID: 644256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Strahlentherapie. 1978 Apr;154(4):245-8.

Five-year survival of patients with larynx carcinoma treated with irradiation.

Nordman EM, Kytt√§ JT.

182 cases of laryngeal carcinoma treated with irradiation alone or combined 
surgery and radiotherapy are presented. The five-year survival of the whole 
series was 56%. 109 (60%) of the cases had a glottic, and 73 (40%) a 
supraglottic tumour. Of the patients with glottic tumour 58% and of those with 
supraglottic tumour 53% survived five years. There was no significant difference 
between cases treated with conventional X-rays and cobalt therapy except in T1 
cases which were treated with radiotherapy alone: of the 21 cases treated with 
X-rays eleven (52%), and of 29 treated with cobalt 24 (83%) survived five years.

PMID: 644598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1978 Mar 15;128(5):130-3.

[The problem of colonic neoplasms in a regional hospital].

[Article in German]

G√∂tzinger H.

PMID: 645079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Z Urol Nephrol. 1978 Feb;71(2):131-6.

[Tasks and problems in gerontology].

[Article in German]

Kalbe I, Schmidt UJ.

PMID: 645247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Br Med J. 1978 May 27;1(6124):1377-9. doi: 10.1136/bmj.1.6124.1377.

Intermittent claudication: factors determining outcome.

Hughson WG, Mann JI, Tibbs DJ, Woods HF, Walton I.

Two groups of patients were followed up for four to eight years after first 
referral or admission to hospital for intermittent claudication (IC) in a study 
