of the natural history of the disease and of factors determining its outcome. In 
one series of 60 patients, those who stopped or reduced smoking after referral 
had a much improved prognosis. Thus even after the diagnosis of IC it is 
extremely important that patients should be encouraged to stop smoking, since 
this correctable factor appears to be of greater importance in determining 
outcome than other medical risk factors for the disease that are less amenable 
to treatment. In the second study, 160 patients were followed up for eight years 
after first hospital admission. They had a total of 480 hospital admissions and 
had spent 11 190 days in hospital; their life expectancy after the age of 60 was 
about half that of the general population. Age, coronary artery disease, 
cerebrovascular disease, and diabetes were associated with an adverse outcome.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.1.6124.1377
PMCID: PMC1604795
PMID: 647300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Can Med Assoc J. 1978 Apr 22;118(8):941-2, 944.

Malignant hypertension.

Rabin EZ.

Malignant or accelerated hypertension is a life-threatening disease whose 
complications may be prevented by rapid reduction of the blood pressure. 
Diazoxide is presently regarded as the preferred therapeutic agent, but drugs 
such as trimethaphan, sodium nitroprusside, phenoxybenzamine and hydralazine may 
be useful in particular situations. Treatment is best carried out in an 
intensive care unit, where appropriate monitoring and study of the patient can 
be done. Since the introduction of antihypertensive agents the life expectancy 
of these patients, even those with renal insufficiency, has increased.

PMCID: PMC1818240
PMID: 647566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Jpn J Surg. 1978 Mar;8(1):19-27. doi: 10.1007/BF02469331.

Thyroid cancer in childhood.

Uchino J, Hata Y, Kasai Y.

Thyroid cancer in childhood is a relatively rare condition. Often it shows 
biological characteristics different from those seen in adults. Based upon 10 
cases in our clinic and 57 cases collected from the Japanese literatures, 
clinical features, pathology, treatment and prognosis of thyroid cancer in 
childhood are discussed. Pathogenesis is most likely to be related to hormonal 
changes during adolescence and previous radiation of the neck region. Cervical 
lymph nodes swelling was the chief complaint in 84.6 per cent of the cases. On 
the other hand, pulmonary metastases were recognized in the early stages in 33.5 
per cent of the cases. Radical excision of the tumor with modified radical neck 
dissection is the treatment most frequently employed even in the presence of 
lung metastases. However, hypoparathyroidism and recurrent nerve injuries should 
be avoided at all cost in view of long life expectancy and the difficulty in 
treating them satisfactorily. Prognosis could be as good for children as it is 
for adults except in cases with early lung metastases.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02469331
PMID: 651022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Monatsschr Kinderheilkd (1902). 1978 Apr;126(4):184-90.

[Incidence of iron deficiency in a sample-population of Frankfurt children 
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Bergmann KE, Bergmann RL, Jung G.

Using customary hematological and biochemical criteria, peripheral iron 
deficiency was observed, depending on age, in 12-51% and anemia in up to 6%, in 
a sample of 337 children (age: 4 4 months to 10 years). The majority of children 
were well nourished. Since iron deficiency occurs even in these children, it 
appears to be important to study this situation in underpriviledged German 
children as well. Even after peripheral iron deficiency was excluded, hemoglobin 
concentration varied significantly with age. This has to be considered in order 
to avoid unnecessary iron medication, that, according to recent findings, could 
cause adverse effects. The data presented here, do not as yet justify a general 
iron fortification program for all infants in Germany. Iron research should be 
directed toward the relationship of iron nutrition and iron-related blood 
chemistry of children on the one hand, and general criteria of functional 
capacity, morbidity, and longivity on the other. It will only be possible to 
give rational definitions of what are normal iron and hemoglobin concentrations 
in childhood, when we know more about these relationships.

PMID: 651893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Rontgenblatter. 1978 May;31(5):272-5.

[The surgical treatment of cerebral ischaemia due to vertebral artery and 
subclavian artery insufficiency (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Carstensen G.

Results of reconstructive vascular surgery in 86 patients with vertebral artery 
and subclavian artery insufficiency are reported. 1. The neurologic 
symptomatology can be improved effectly and persistend by an astonishing small 
risk of operation. 2. The basic disease remains untreated and reduces 
life-expectancy. 3. The The valuation of reconstructive vascular surgery for the 
human rehabilitation is missing biometric facts. The advantage can't be 
described according to the statistics, it helps patients to a worth living life.

PMID: 653247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Science. 1978 Jun 9;200(4346):1124-30. doi: 10.1126/science.653358.

Macroeconomics of disease prevention in the United States.

Gori GB, Richter BJ.

DOI: 10.1126/science.653358
PMID: 653358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Z Kardiol. 1978 Apr;67(4):248-55.

[Clinical and hemodynamic results after combined mitral and aortic valve 
replacement (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Haerten K, Seifert D, LÃ¼ck J, Schulte HD, Seipel L, Loogen F.

PMID: 654408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Zentralbl Chir. 1978;103(6):321-8.

[Surgery of old age (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Taubert E.

The importance of surgery in the aged is based on the increased life expectancy 
of the population. Besides the multimorbidity of geriatric people psychological 
and social aspects must be taken into consideration. In old age the danger of 
shock is increased therefore the indication for urgent surgery permits no delay. 
In 1975 649 patients over 60 years out of a total of 2532 operations underwent 
surgical procedures; 349 were urgent cases. Mortality rate below 10%.

PMID: 654640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Br Med J. 1978 Jun 10;1(6126):1548. doi: 10.1136/bmj.1.6126.1548.

So we'll go no more a-jogging . .

Apley J.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.1.6126.1548
PMCID: PMC1605007
PMID: 656790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Can J Public Health. 1978 Mar-Apr;69(2):113-20.

Cancer patterns in Canada.

Wigle DT.

PMID: 657065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Gerontology. 1978;24(5):381-5. doi: 10.1159/000212275.

Ageing does not change blood granulocyte bactericidal capacity and levels of 
complement factors 3 and 4.

Palmblad J, Haak A.

The bactericidal capacity of blood polymorphonuclear granulocytes and the plasma 
levels of complement factors 3 and 4 did not differ between 15 aged patients and 
15 young control subjects, nor did these important antimicrobial functions 
predict morbidity and mortality in the next 6 months.

DOI: 10.1159/000212275
PMID: 658676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Hosp Pract. 1978 Apr;13(4):127-37. doi: 10.1080/21548331.1978.11707319.

Aging: biologic or pathologic?

Blumenthal HT.

If disease is only case casually related to aging, the prevailing strategy of 
dealing with each disease category is appropriate; if they are linked causally, 
the current strategy may not only be inappropriate but prove futile. The extent 
to which optimal gerontologic care can delay the onset of biologic 
deterioration, together with the use of short-lived animal models for research, 
may eventually resolve this issue.

DOI: 10.1080/21548331.1978.11707319
PMID: 658946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1978 Jul;26(7):318-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1978.tb01342.x.

Our elderly. Who are they?

Gelperin A.

Why are today's elderly remarkable? They are the small minority who represent 
the survivors of Americans and immigrants born during the period 1870-1913. The 
mortality experience during that period shows the dramatic changes that have 
occurred. The future populations of the elderly are developing with an 
ever-increasing number of people kept alive by the mass use of vaccines, the 
application of new medical, surgical and psychologic diagnoses and therapies, 
effective antibiotics, rapid communication, proper nutrition, safe water, a high 
level of health insurance coverage, and available education at all levels for 
those who want to participate.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1978.tb01342.x
PMID: 659776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1978 Jun 17;108(24):893-7.

[General orientation of the treatment of mouth and pharyngeal neoplasms].

[Article in French]

Cachin Y.

The treatment of carcinomas of oropharynx and oral cavity has changed rapidly 
over the last 15 years due to the progress of surgical technics and of 
oncological knowledge. As far as natural history and therapy are concerned, 
there are two opposing types of cancer: 1. Carcinomas developing from a mucous 
membrane covering a lymphoid tissue (cancers of the tonsil, some cancers of the 
palate and the base of tongue). Treatment is usually by radiotherapy, and 
surgery is mainly resorted to if radiotherapy fails. Therapeutic trials of 
chemotherapy are in progress. 2. Carcinomas developing from a mucous membrane 
covering muscles (cancers of the tongue, floor of the mouth and interval cheek) 
or bone of the mandible (carcinomas of the gingiva, floor of the mouth and 
gingiva, and retro-alveolar area). The therapy is described. The principles of 
treatment of the regional lymph nodes are also described.

PMID: 663575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1978 May 20;98(14):720-5.

[Lost years of life: the significance of single causes of death].

[Article in Norwegian]

Waaler HT, Hjort PF.

PMID: 663906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1978 May 26;90(11):377-80.

[The EEG in multiple sclerosis (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Danielczyk W.

An abnormal EEG was obtained in altogether 76% of cases in a series of 172 
patients with multiple sclerosis. Among the patients with minor neurological 
defects and a shorter duration of illness, only 26% of the EEGs were abnormal, 
whereas abnormal recordings were found in a high percentage of bedridden 
patients with severe neurological disturbances, irrespective of the duration of 
the illness, i.e. in 83% and 85% of these patients, subdivided according to 
illness of under or over 10 years' duration, respectively. Hence, severity of 
multiple sclerosis rather than length of the disease appears to be reflected in 
an abnormal EEG. Definite prognostic information concerning life expectancy 
cannot be otained from the EEG. Organic brain syndrom were closely correlated 
with the severity of EEG changes. Epileptic manifestations were clinically 
observed in 5.23% of the patients, all of whom manifested pathological EEG 
recordings.

PMID: 664703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Geriatrics. 1978 Aug;33(8):88-9.

Prolonging life span: present and future possibilities.

Greulich RC.

PMID: 669276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Q Med Rev. 1977 Oct-1978 Jan;28-29(4-1):1-4.

Critical review of our track record.

Crosby P.

PMID: 674553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1978 Aug 5;108(31):1182-9.

[Drug induced agranulocytosis. Improved prognosis due to better supportive 
care].

[Article in German]

Honegger HP, Graf M, von Felten A, LÃ¤mmli J, Imbach P, GmÃ¼r J.

A retrospective study of 61 episodes of agranulocytosis observed in 56 patients 
between 1958 and 1977 is reported. The diagnosis was based on peripheral 
granulocyte counts below 500/mm3 and further documented by bone marrow analysis. 
The aim of this study was to determine whether the new guidelines for supportive 
care introduced in January 1973 led to an improvement in overall prognosis in 
this disease. Therefore, the patients were divided into two groups: the first 
group included 39 episodes of agranulocytosis observed between 1958-1972 and the 
second group 22 episodes observed between 1973-1977. Standard supportive care 
administered in the latter group included reverse isolation (hand-disinfection 
and gown-change before patient contact, conventional hospital single room), the 
immediate initiation of an appropriate combination of antibiotics in infectious 
states and additional granulocyte transfusions in selected cases. The two groups 
compared were similar as to the extent of neutropenia and the frequency of 
severe infectious complications. On the other hand, patients of the first group 
showed more advanced recovery of myelopoiesis as compared to the second group at 
the time of hospital admission. Death due to infection was observed in 36% of 
episodes in the first group, but only in 9% in the second group. The supportive 
care introduced in 1973 thus appears to improve the prognosis of agranulocytosis 
to a substantial extent.

PMID: 675212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Sov Zdravookhr. 1978;(6):35-9.

[Experience in assessing the effect of a cerebral insult on median life 
expectancy and the economic consequences of this disease].

[Article in Russian]

IasinskiÄ­ TsV.

PMID: 675292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1978 Jun 15;72(11-12):589-92.

[Changes in the spectrum of morbidity and in the symptoms of diseases, their 
meaning for medical practice].

[Article in German]

Winter K.

PMID: 676377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1978 May 15;72(10):487-94.

[Contribution of social hygiene to the current discussion on obesity in the 
German Democratic Republic].

[Article in German]

Kreuz B, Kiehl H, Kirsch KI, Neumann H, Radoschewski M, Schmohl M, Schott J.

PMID: 676455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Acta Chir Belg. 1978 May-Jun;77(3):143-54.

[Surgical treatment of pulmonary metastases (author's transl)].

[Article in Dutch]

Lecluyse A, Lacquet LK, Jongerius CM.

From April 1954 till February 1976, pulmonary resections for metastases of 
primary extrapulmonary malignancies have been done on 35 patients, 21 men and 14 
women with average age of 49 years 7 months. In about half of the cases the lung 
opacities were discovered occasionally. Three patients have undergone a second 
thoracotomy for a recurrent metastasis. Of the 48 resected metastatic lesions, 
31 were located in the right and 17 in the left lung. Thirty were on resection 
unilateral and solitary. There was no operative mortality and the postoperative 
morbidity was neglectable. The cumulative 3- and 5-years survival percentages as 
obtained by the life-table method were 44.6 and 31.2. Better survival rates were 
found in the age group of 0-40 years and in the group of the sarcomas. Worse 
results were obtained when the primary tumor was invasive or associated with 
regional metastases. Resection of metastatic lung lesions larger than 5 cm 
diameter and especially the resection of multiple lesions gave poorer results. 
The time-interval between the primary operation and the pulmonary resection had 
no clear prognostic value. The factors determinating the palliative character of 
the pulmonary resection had a negative influence on the survival. None of the 9 
patients with pulmonary metastasis and secondary intrathoracic lymphatic 
metastases did survive longer than 3 years. All these patients had a primary 
carcinoma. Out of this study no conclusions can be made as to the extension of 
the pulmonary resection.

PMID: 676634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Ann Neurol. 1978 Jun;3(6):559-61. doi: 10.1002/ana.410030620.

The malignancy of dementias.

Go RC, Todorov AB, Elston RC, Constantinidis J.

Sruvival times were determined for 982 patients admitted over a ten-year period 
to the Geneva Psychiatric Clinic. Patients with dementia had one-third the life 
expectancy of controls. Among patients classed as having Alzheimer disease, the 
longest survival times were in those with neurofibrillary tangles involving the 
neocortex, while those lacking this anatomical abnormality had the shortest 
survival times. Except for women with Alzheimer disease, patients with dementia 
had less than 10% life expectancy from the time of their admission to the clinic 
compared to the life expectancy of Geneva's population.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410030620
PMID: 677821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Cas Lek Cesk. 1978 Jun 9;117(22-23):702-11.

[Determination of the life prognosis of treated middle-age hypertensive 
patients. I. Family and personal history, subjective complaints, physical 
findings].

[Article in Czech]

Hofman O, Reisenauer R.

PMID: 679243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Cas Lek Cesk. 1978 Jun 16;117(24):746-57.

[The life span of treated middle-aged hypertonics. Fundus oculi, x-ray, ECG 
findings cardiovascular complications].

[Article in Czech]

Hofman O, KomancovÃ¡ E, Reisenauer R.

PMID: 679250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Gan. 1978 Apr;69(2):167-77.

Late effects of fetal mice x-irradiated at middle or late intrauterine stage.

Sasaki S, Kasuga T, Sato F, Kawashima N.

Mice of F1 hybrids of (C57BL/6xWHT) strains were exposed in utero to 200 R of 
X-rays at 12 or 16 approximately 18 days post coitum. Mice of both sexes were 
allowed to liver through their life span, and the induction of tumors, growth 
retardation, and induction of degenerative diseases were examined. A significant 
enhancement of lung, pituitary gland, and ovary tumorigenesis was observed in 
mice irradiated at the late intrauterine stage. Also, incidence of liver and 
skin tumors was increased slightly in this group, whereas thymic lymphomas were 
not induced. Persistent growth retardation, several congenital malformation, and 
amyloid degeneration were found in mice irradiated at the middle intrauterine 
stage. However, no increases incidence of tumors was seen in this group. 
Moreover, incidnece of lymphoreticular tissue tumors, lung tumors, and 
leiomyosarcomas of uterus was significantly decreased by irradiation at the 
middle intrauterine stage from the unirradiated control and the late 
intrauterine irradiated group.

PMID: 680461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Int J Biomed Comput. 1978 May;9(3):215-28. doi:
10.1016/0020-7101(78)90035-1.

Robustness of life table methods in large populations--a study by computer 
simulation.

Mode CJ, Littman GS.

The robustness of the product life table estimator of the survival function was 
studied for large populations under perturbations in the age distribution, 
changing levels of mortality and changing patterns of fertility. A 
macrosimulation system, based on a class of stochastic population models called 
generalised age-dependent branching processes, was used to carry out the 
numerical investigations. Aside from drastic perturbations in the age 
distribution and changes in levels of mortality, the product life table 
estimator of the survival function was found to be robust in large populations, 
under a variety of conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/0020-7101(78)90035-1
PMID: 681009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. J Clin Psychol. 1978 Apr;34(2):419-20. doi: 
10.1002/1097-4679(197804)34:2<419::aid-jclp2270340234>3.0.co;2-v.

Death fantasies and future time perspective.

Allen SS, Heckel RV.

Explored death fantasies of young adults through use of life scripts and future 
time perspective questionnaires. Results indicated a significantly younger age 
of death from disease and accident as opposed to natural causes. Type of death 
fantasied was markedly at variance from health statistics, with most projecting 
a benign end for themselves (old age).

DOI: 10.1002/1097-4679(197804)34:2<419::aid-jclp2270340234>3.0.co;2-v
PMID: 681518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. JAMA. 1978 Sep 29;240(14):1542-7. doi: 10.1001/jama.240.14.1542.

A modern view of the surgical treatment of peripheral arterial disease.

Miller DC, Griepp RB.

As life expectancy increases, more patients will harbor atherosclerotic 
conditions that portend disability and death. Due basically to a communication 
gap, sizable numbers of these patients who stand to benefit from vascular 
reconstruction are not being referred or are being referred too late to vascular 
surgeons. Vascular surgery currently can save limbs, extend productivity and 
life expectancy, ameliorate hypertension, and prevent stroke more reliably and 
with less risk than ever before. As the subspeciality of vascular surgery has 
matured, has incorporated additional fellowship training, and now approaches 
potential recognition in some yet to be determined form by The American Board of 
Surgery, it is incumbent on general physicians and vascular surgeons alike to 
develop appropriate channels that can transmit clinical concepts, educational 
information, and clinical results, as well as refer patients.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.240.14.1542
PMID: 682363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1978 Jul 29;122(30):1087-91.

[Life expectancy following surgical treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysm].

[Article in Dutch]

Tilanus HW, van Vroonhoven TJ.

PMID: 683355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Radiat Res. 1978 Jul;75(1):138-201.

Studies of the mortality of A-bomb survivors: 6. mortality and radiation dose, 
1950--1974.

Beebe GW, Kato H, Land CE.

PMID: 684164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Thorax. 1978 Jun;33(3):275-82. doi: 10.1136/thx.33.3.275.

Total anomalous pulmonary venous connection (surgical technique, early and late 
results).

Di Eusanio G, Sandrasagra FA, Donnelly RJ, Hamilton DI.

Between March 1970 and October 1977, 36 patients underwent correction of total 
anomalous pulmonary venous connection. The ages ranged from 5 days to 16 years; 
27 (75%) were under 1 year and 19 were under 3 months of age at the time of 
surgery. The overall mortality was 33%. Supracardiac connection was the 
commonest type and was associated with the lowest hospital mortality (30%). The 
highest mortality occurred in the mixed and infracardiac types and was related 
in part to the presence of associated intracardiac anomalies. The use of 
hypothermia and circulatory arrest in infancy has resulted in a considerably 
lower hospital mortality compared with cases operated on under conventional 
cardiopulmonary bypass. The mortality in 23 infants (under 1 year of age) was 
26% using circulatory arrest and was lowest when correction was performed within 
the first three months of life (18%). All four infants operated on with standard 
cardiopulmonary bypass died, whereas this technique was found to be safe in 
older children. The surgical technique using a left anterolateral thoractomy 
with a trans-sternal extension is described. This technique gives an excellent 
exposure for fashioning a long anastomosis and has been associated with a low 
incidence of postoperative pulmonary complications. There have been no late 
deaths and all survivors, who are in excellent condition up to seven years after 
correction, have a normal exercise tolerance.

DOI: 10.1136/thx.33.3.275
PMCID: PMC470885
PMID: 684663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Soz Praventivmed. 1978 Jun;23(2):104-7. doi: 10.1007/BF02075234.

[Health insurance as a regulating instrument. Report of a work group].

[Article in German]

Bruppacher R, Reinhardt HC.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02075234
PMID: 685482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Am J Cardiol. 1978 Sep;42(3):458-66. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(78)90941-4.

Life expectancy without surgery in tetralogy of Fallot.

Bertranou EG, Blackstone EH, Hazelrig JB, Turner ME, Kirklin JW.

All published autopsy cases of patients with tetralogy of Fallot who died 
without surgical treatment were studied to determine the life expectancy of such 
persons. In addition, the data from a study of persons with tetralogy alive in 
Denmark in 1949 were reanalyzed. The survival data from these two sources were 
remarkably similar, indicating that 66 percent of persons with tetralogy of 
Fallot not treated surgically live to age 1 year, 49 percent to age 3 years and 
24 percent to age 10 years; thereafter, the hazard function (or instantaneous 
risk of death) remains constant. The chance of survival is significantly less 
when pulmonary atresia, rather than stenosis, is present.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(78)90941-4
PMID: 685856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Exp Gerontol. 1978;13(3-4):125-40. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(78)90005-0.

Fish in studies of aging.

Woodhead AD.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(78)90005-0
PMID: 689110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Hum Biol. 1978 May;50(2):137-49.

A method for life expectancy analysis applied to examine the adaptive variations 
of previous skeletal populations.

Wright DG.

PMID: 689643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Rontgenblatter. 1978 Jul;31(7):429-34.

[Endocrinal and chemotherapy of the metastasising mastocarcinoma (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

Maass H.

Treatment of the metastasising mastocarcinoma is based on endocrinal and 
cytostatic treatment methods arranged systematically in parallel and in series. 
With endocrinal therapy alone, remission rates of around 30% are achieved, 
whereas with polychemotherapy the remission rates are 50 to 60%. For a large 
proportion of the patients, the systematic application of both methods leads to 
definite increase in life expectancy at a tolerable quality of life level. The 
determination of steroid hormone receptors in the tumorous tissue allows better 
selection of the patients and hence better on-target therapy.

PMID: 694376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Scand J Haematol. 1978 Jul;21(1):60-71.

Hairy cell leukaemia. Clinical features and effect of splenectomy.

Jansen J, Hermans J, Remme J, den Ottolander GJ, Cardozo PL.

Hairy-cell leukaemia (leukaemic reticuloendotheliosis) is a well-defined 
clinical entity. Most of the recent reports are almost entirely concerned with 
the pathological and functional aspects of the disease. In the present 
retrospective study the clinical features and laboratory data of 12 patients 
were analyzed together with a series of 123 adequately clinically documented 
cases from the literature. The Hb level and the sex of the patient proved to be 
the only parameters having some prognostic value for the survival time after 
diagnosis. The effect of splenectomy was assessed in two comparable groups of 24 
splenectomized and 51 non-splenectomized patients. The operation seemed to be 
beneficial, but after 2 years the difference was not significant(.05 less than P 
less than .10). Analysis of subgroups showed that splenectomy was definitely 
beneficial in women, in patients with a Hb level over 8.0 g/dl or a platelet 
level above 50 X 10(9)/1, in patients with leucocytes below 3 X 10(9/1, , and 
also in patients with hepatomegaly (P less than .05 in all cases). These 
findings suggest that splenectomy is beneficial in cases where anaemia and 
thrombocytopenia are not very severe; in severe cytopenia the operation does not 
increase the life expectancy.

PMID: 694419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1978 Apr 15;72(8):398-404.

[Developmental trends of world health conditions].

[Article in German]

Winter K.

PMID: 695735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Bull Pan Am Health Organ. 1978;12(2):154-67.

Facts and figures on health in the Americas: a review of major trends.

[No authors listed]

It is highly desirable, from time to time, to review important long-term trends 
in the health conditions of our Region. The account that follows provides a 
brief general overview of such trends as they have evolved over the last 20 
years.

PMID: 698453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Fortschr Med. 1978 Sep 28;96(36):1809-15.

[Plasmacytoma].

[Article in German]

Hartwich G.

Plasmocytoma is generally a systemic disorder and has to be differentiated from 
solitary plasmocytoma of bones and connective tissue. Diagnosis is based on the 
typical bone marrow findings, the demonstration of monoclonal paraprotein and 
the radiological skeletal changes. Prognosis is poor, life expectancy limited to 
about 18 months. Specific therapy with cytotoxic drugs leads in many cases to 
marked improvement of the general condition, relative freedom of pain and a 
decreased complication rate.

PMID: 700558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. J Neurol Sci. 1978 Aug;38(1):23-37. doi: 10.1016/0022-510x(78)90242-3.

A clinical study of chronic childhood spinal muscular atrophy. A review of 141 
cases.

Pearn JH, Gardner-Medwin D, Wilson J.

The case histories and clinical details of 141 children (67 males and 74 
females) with chronic childhood spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) have been 
reviewed. Hundred of these children were alive at the time of the study. The 
cases comprise a consecutive unselected series of all with this disease who 
presented to two large English neurological centres over a 10-year tracing 
period. Chronic childhood SMA is defined here as a progressive disease of 
anterior horn cells with initial proximal selectivity, which does not of itself 
cause death before 18 months of age. Clinical signs are first manifest between 
birth and 8 years of age, but in 95% before 3 years. Cumulative frequency tables 
for motor skills are presented; 46% of children never walked, even with 
orthopaedic aids; 37.6% were able to walk unaided at some stage. No child was 
able to run after 12 years of age. Late-presenting sporadic cases retain motor 
skills longer than do familial cases. A sex influence on the clinical course of 
the disease has been demonstrated, males being more severely affected. 
Cumulative frequency curves for age-at-onset and age-at-presentation have been 
compiled. A sib of an affected index case, still clinically normal at 2 years of 
age, has passed 90 percent of his risk period; the use of such cumulative 
frequency curves for studies of carrier-frequency and incidence is discussed. 
The median age at death for this disease exceeds 10 years. The range encompassed 
by the clinical spectrum is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-510x(78)90242-3
PMID: 702181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. JAMA. 1978 Nov 17;240(21):2273-5.

Determinism and humanism in modern medicine.

Robin ED.

PMID: 702752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1978 Oct 3;67(40):1467-70.

[New epidemiological problems of consumption of tobacco (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Biener K.

PMID: 704537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Schweiz Z Sportmed. 1978;26(3):101-16.

[Life expectancy and sports].

[Article in German]

Biener K, Ritter R.

PMID: 705316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1978;128(16):520-1.

[Austria's longest surviving patient following "extended" pneumonectomy].

[Article in German]

ZÃ¤ngl A.

PMID: 706409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Z Alternsforsch. 1978;33(2):107-17.

Preparing for old age: necessity, possibilities, contents, limits.

Eitner S, Eitner A, Schmidt UJ.

International findings and our own results in gerohygienic sociogerontological, 
geriatric, medical epidemiological and psychogerontological research have 
positively confirmed the need for preparing for old age. Demographic data in the 
GDR has brought to light the growing need to put the preparation for an active 
old age into practive making use of research data and of the existing resources. 
The means of implementing the programme life in the overall resources of our 
developed socialist society, in our laws, in our well-organized public health 
system and above all in the industrial health protection service. It is shown 
that the society's potentials and the industrial health protection service, 
which operates on a country-wide scale, can have a positive influence on ageing 
and on life of old people. The ways in which this can be achieved are described. 
These ways are based on the main medical, psychological and social aspects of 
preparing for old age. The existing limits must be taken into account when 
translating the schemes of preparation for old age into practice of socialist 
health protection. It is indispensable to concentrate on problems of focal 
importance. The preparation must first benefit factory workers exposed to health 
hazards. Medical preparation should come first, followed by psychological and 
social preparation. In the long term, preparation for old age must be integrated 
into the overall process of education and it must start at school, where it 
should be integrated into biology and civicx classes. Such a process corresponds 
to the life-long process of ageing, to socialist principles and to the efforts 
of the public health system to preserve health, working capacity and joy of 
living up to a ripe old age.

PMID: 706444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 1978;43(3-4):217-27. doi: 10.1007/BF01587957.

Supratentorial recurrences of gliomas. Results of reoperations on astrocytomas 
and oligodendrogliomas.

Afra D, MÃ¼ller W, Benoist G, SchrÃ¶der R.

On the basis of our previous investigation regarding histological transformation 
of recurrent astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas we report the clinical results 
of reoperations. The present observations deal with 121 cases: grade 1 
astrocytomas (45), oligodendrogliomas (12), grade 2 astrocytomas (47), and 
oligodendrogliomas (17), respectively. In all these a second reoperation was 
performed in 14 cases. Operative mortality was relatively high, but without 
significant difference in the two groups of maligancy: 24.5% and 29.6%. Survival 
times in both groups showed striking individual differences. We achieved 
post-reoperation survivals exceeding one year in 18 and 14 cases, respectively. 
The results of second reoperations were generally poor. We find no remarkable 
differences in survival time following reoperations in primary grade 1 and grade 
2 tumours. Similarly, malignant change proved to be not decisive for survival 
times. On the contrary, most of our patients with unchanged grade 1 
astrocytomas, reoperated on after a longer interval, achieved a short second 
survival only. Prolongation of life expectancy by radiotherapy is doubtful. 
Irradiation seems to be necessary with malignantly transformed tumours if the 
patient did not have any treatment before reoperation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01587957
PMID: 707178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Cancer. 1978 Oct;42(4):1943-51. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(197810)42:4<1943::aid-cncr2820420437>3.0.co;2-l.

Cancer and total mortality among active Mormons.

Enstrom JE.

Based on Church records for 15,500 California Mormons during 1968 to 1975 and 
for 55,000 Utah Mormons during 1970 and 1975, the ratio of age-adjusted death 
rates for religiously active Mormon males compared with U.S. white males is 38% 
for ages 35 to 64 years and 50% for ages 35 years and above. The remaining life 
expectancy for active Mormon men at age 35 is about 44 years, over 7 years 
greater than for U.S. white males. Their standardized mortality ratio is 50% for 
all cancer, being 23% for smoking-related cancer sites and 68% for all other 
sites. Active Mormons, defined here to be High Priests and Seventies, abstain 
almost completely from the use of tobacco, alcohol, coffee, and tea, but appear 
to be fairly similar to other white males with regard to socioeconomic status, 
urbanization, and diet. Active Mormons are healthier than Mormons as a whole and 
rank among the lowest in mortality when compared with other groups of healthy 
males.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(197810)42:4<1943::aid-cncr2820420437>3.0.co;2-l
PMID: 709540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Gastroenterology. 1978 Dec;75(6):1055-60.

Survival in peptic ulcer.

Bonnevie O.

The present study of the prognosis in peptic ulcer comprises (1) an analysis of 
deaths caused by the disease itself, and (2) an independent actuarial analysis 
of life expectancy. The computations are based on 235 deaths that occurred among 
1905 patients with peptic ulcer who constituted a random sample of the 
occurrence of ulcer disease in an area of Denmark comprising half a million 
inhabitants. The two methods of analysis both showed that peptic ulcer does 
influence the survival, but the excess of deaths was small and, in the case of 
solitary peptic ulcer, was present only in the first year or two after the 
diagnosis. The prognosis tended to be more serious in gastric ulcer than in 
duodenal ulcer, but the difference was not significant. In duodenal ulcer the 
survival tended to be better when only a deformed bulb was present. The life 
expectancy was not significantly different for men and women. Patients with 
combined gastric and duodenal ulcers had a fatality twice as great as those with 
solitary ulcers. No excess of deaths was found in patients under the age of 50 
years at diagnosis. The duration of prediagnostic symptoms was not predictive 
for the prognosis.

PMID: 710858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Fortschr Med. 1978 Nov 9;96(42):2157-63.

[An old man and a child. Biological differences and similarities].

[Article in German]

Halikowski B.

PMID: 711108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Ir Med J. 1978 Oct 27;71(14):475-80.

The male/female differential in life expectancy in Ireland--a note.

Walsh B, Walsh D.

PMID: 711430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Helv Paediatr Acta. 1978 Aug;33(3):187-93.

[Problems in the treatment of children with myelomeningocele. Changes in the 
indications for surgery during the last 30 years].

[Article in German]

Rickham PP.

PMID: 711486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. J Am Vet Med Assoc. 1978 Sep 1;173(5 Pt 1):478-80.

Age and milk production data of cattle culled from a dairy herd with 
paratuberculosis.

Buergelt CD, Duncan JR.

Statistical assessment of age and milk production data revealed a significantly 
shorter life expectancy and reduced milk production of Mycobacterium 
paratuberculosis-infected dairy cows, when compared with non-infected herdmates. 
High producing cows were frequently culled after their 1st or 2nd gestation, 
contributing to an undetermined economic loss with regard to their potential 
breeding value. Cows with subclinical infection frequently had problems of 
infertility and of mastitis.

PMID: 711590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. J Chronic Dis. 1978;31(6-7):433-44. doi: 10.1016/0021-9681(78)90007-3.

A changing pattern of causes of death in Japanese diabetics. Observations over 
fifteen years.

Sasaki A, Kamado K, Horiuchi N.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9681(78)90007-3
PMID: 711835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Naturwissenschaften. 1978 Aug;65(8):435-6. doi: 10.1007/BF00405371.

Entropy and the life table.

Demetrius L.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00405371
PMID: 714174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Psychosom Med. 1978 Aug;40(5):365-7. doi: 10.1097/00006842-197808000-00001.

Psychosomatic medicine and aging research.

Butler RN, Engel BT.

DOI: 10.1097/00006842-197808000-00001
PMID: 715140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Zh Obshch Biol. 1978 Sep-Oct;39(5):734-42.

[Basic patterns of aging and death in animals from the standpoint of reliability 
theory].

[Article in Russian]

