Gavrilov LA, Gavrilova NS, IaguzhinskiÄ­ LS.

PMID: 716614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Am J Public Health. 1978 Oct;68(10):954-6. doi: 10.2105/ajph.68.10.654.

Improving life expectancy: an uphill road ahead.

Deyfitz N.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.68.10.654
PMCID: PMC1654068
PMID: 717603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Am J Public Health. 1978 Oct;68(10):966-71. doi: 10.2105/ajph.68.10.966.

The effect of a reduction in leading causes of death: potential gains in life 
expectancy.

Tsai SP, Lee ES, Hardy RJ.

The potential gains in total expectation of life and in the working life ages 
among the United States population are examined when the three leading causes of 
death are totally or partially eliminated. The impressive gains theoretically 
achieved by total elimination do not hold up under the more realistic assumption 
of partial elimination or reduction. The number of years gained by a new-born 
child, with a 30 per cent reduction in major cardiovascular diseases would be 
1.98 years, for malignant neoplasms 0.71 years, and for motor vehicle accidents 
0.21 years. Application of the same reduction to the working ages, 15 to 70 
years, results in a gain of 0.43, 0.26, and 0.14 years, respectively for the 
three leading causes of death. Even with a scientific break-through in combating 
these causes of death, it appears that future gains in life expectancies for the 
working ages will not be spectacular. The implication of the results in relation 
to the current debate on the national health care policy is noted.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.68.10.966
PMCID: PMC1654082
PMID: 717606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Biometrics. 1978 Sep;34(3):367-75.

A likelihood ratio statistic for testing goodness of fit with randomly censored 
data.

Turnbull BW, Weiss L.

A likelihood ratio statistic is proposed for testing goodness of fit with 
grouped data which are subject to random right censoring. It is shown that, 
under appropriate conditions, this statistic has an asymptotic chi-square 
distribution which is non-central under contiguous alternatives. A formula is 
given for the non-centrality parameter. Two examples are given. The first 
concerns data from a large scale animal survival study with serial sacrifice 
where it is attempted to fit the Weibull, Gompertz and exponential power 
distributions to life length. The second example concerns marijuana usage and 
this needs an extension of the test to the doubly censored case. Another use of 
the statistic is to provide a quantitative method of ranking the fit of various 
proposed models to survival or reliability data.

PMID: 719120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1978 Dec 15;103(50):2003-7. doi:
10.1055/s-0028-1129385.

[Radiotherapeutic aspects of testicular tumours: results and problems (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

Eibach E, Voss AC, Junker A.

The five-year survival rate of patients with seminoma (61 cases) of all stages 
was 81% (seven-year survival rate 67%). Within this group the T1-2N0M0 stage had 
a five-year survival rate of 100%. Patients with tumours other than seminoma (52 
cases) of all stages had a five-year survival rate of 54% (seven-year survival 
rate 47%). These results and those reported by others are the basis for not 
advocating routinely total radiation of the lymphatic pathways in the early 
tumour stages.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1129385
PMID: 720238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Fed Proc. 1978 Dec;37(14):2837-40.

Senile dementia.

Terry RD.

The Alzheimer type of senile dementia (SDAT) accounts for more than 50% of such 
cases, and is a very common disorder as well as being very costly in emotional, 
economic, and medical terms. It carries a markedly shortened life expectancy. 
Gray-to-white-matter ratios change and the brain shrinks slightly in the course 
of normal aging, but SDAT brains may not be significantly more atrophic than are 
normal controls. Cortical neurons are diminished in number in normal aging, but 
counts from frontal and midtemporal regions of SDAT specimens are not different 
from age-matched controls. There is loss of dendrites and of dendritic spines in 
both normal and abnormal aged specimens. Neurofibrillary tangles are made up of 
paired helical filaments that appear to be chemically and immunologically 
related to normal neurofibers. Neuritic plaques are made up of an amyloid core 
surrounded by abnormal axonal endings. Both plaques and tangles are to be 
correlated with the presence of senile dementia. There is some evidence for an 
infectious etiology of SDAT. Choline acetyltransferase is markedly reduced in 
cortical tissue of these patients, but the muscarinic receptors of acetylcholine 
are normal.

PMID: 720637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Herz. 1978 Jun;3(3):158-65.

[Current status of pacemaker technology (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Holper K, Zink RA, Heimisch W.

Since the first cardiac pacemaker was implanted twenty years ago, advances 
rendered have provided patients with increased reliability and therapeutic 
efficiency as well as subsequent incrementation in their life expectancy. 
Technological developments have yielded improvement in the main components such 
as electrode, the energy source and the electronic circuitry. A variety of leads 
are available to effect pacing requirements at ventricular and, in part, atrial 
levels. The introduction of lithium energy sources has prolonged the useful life 
of pacemakers to more than 8 years. Consumption of current has been reduced by 
decreasing electrode surface area, shortening of pulse duration and employment 
of hybrid circuits. Microprocessing of the electronic components have enabled 
reduced size of pulse generators while providing increased reliability and 
capabilities for additional functions. Amelioration of electrophysiologic 
disturbances has been specifically approached through increasing use of atrial 
and bifocal pacemakers, external programmability and overdrive pacing.

PMID: 721047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Herz. 1978 Aug;3(4):229-34.

[Incidence, natural history and complications of chronic arterial hypertension 
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Holzgreve H.

Representative studies in Switzerland and the Federal Republic of Germany show 
that 12 to 25% of the adult population have elevated blood pressure values of 
160/95 mm Hg or above. The incidence of hypertension increases with age. 
Approximately 2 to 6% of high school students have hypertension whereas 30 to 
50% of persons older than 60 years may be found to have elevated blood pressure. 
In consideration of selected epidemiologic studies, it is apparent that even 
mild degrees of hypertension increase mortality and the risk of development of 
cardiovascular disease. The superimposition of hypertension on additional risk 
factors renders the probability of disease excessively high. However the 
rationale for antihypertensive treatment is not based on the relation between 
blood pressure levels and life expectancy or morbidity risk, but on controlled 
therapeutic trials showing that blood pressure reduction at all levels of 
hypertension leads to decreased incidence of cardiovascular disease and 
reduction of mortality.

PMID: 721051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Hawaii Med J. 1978 Oct;37(10):297-302.

Ninety-seven years of mortality in Hawaii.

Gardner RW, Schmitt RC.

PMID: 721443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Monatsschr Kinderheilkd (1902). 1978 Nov;126(11):652-4.

[Interim results of the SIOP study (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Bloom HJ, Neidhardt MK.

Since 1975, the International Society of Paediatric Oncology has been carrying 
on a cooperative therapeutic trial, the aim of which is to find out whether 
adjuvant chemotherapy with vincristine and CCNU, added to standarized 
radiotherapy of the whole central nervous system, can improve life expectancy in 
medulloblastoma and high-grade ependymoma. Up to 1st July, 1977, 164 patients 
from 14 different countries had been entered into the trial. Up to now, results 
do not yet permit a statistically valid conclusion as to the superiority of one 
method of treatment over the other.

PMID: 723874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. No Shinkei Geka. 1978 Oct;6(10):975-9.

[Craniolacunia in newborns with myelomeningocele and encephalocele (author's 
transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Tajima M, Yamada H, Kageyama N, Nakamura S.

Craniolacunia is characterized by clusters of deep pits with steep edges in the 
cranial vault of newborn infants. And also craniolacunia is anomaly of the skull 
of the newborn infants usually associated with spinal meningocele, 
myelomeningocele and occasionally with encephalocele. The purpose of this paper 
is to report the results of the skull roentgenologic study of 34 newborn infants 
with myelomeningocele and 11 newborns with encephalocele who were treated within 
7 days after birth, and, to discuss the correlations with the head 
circumference, level of myelomeningocele, location of encephalocele, 
Arnold-Chiari malformation and hydrocephalus. Roentgenograms of the skull were 
obtained at the time of admission and were examined regarding the presence and 
the degree of craniolacunia. The radiographic changes were classified according 
to the extension of the craniolacunia, from grade 0 to grade 3. Among 34 cases 
of myelomeningocele, 28 cases (82%) were observed to have craniolacunia and 
among 11 cases of encephalocele, 4 cases (36%) had findings of craniolacunia. In 
our cases, the coincidence of craniolacunia with myelomeningocele was 82% and 
this is higher than in previous reports. But the coincidence of craniolacunia 
with encephalocele was same as in previous reports. There has been no report 
about the incidence of craniolacunia within 7 days of life.

PMID: 724060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Rev Neurol (Paris). 1978 May;134(5):341-54.

[Long-term prognostic factors in Parkinson's disease (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Guillard A, Chastang C.

Acturial methods are used to study the correlation between the initial condition 
and early therapeutic results, and the present condition of 164 parkinsonian 
patients treated with L. dopa for 4 to 8 years. There is an ineluctable 
deterioration in motility. There is a lower risk in patients who are autonomous 
and only slightly akinetic at the beginning of treatment. Intellectual 
deterioration is seen in some patients only. The risk factors are: males, the 
clinical forms of Parkinson's disease in which tremor is not predominant, onset 
of the disease before 60 years of age, and depression and transitory psychotic 
disorders during the first year of treatment. This deterioration appears 3 to 5 
years after starting dopatherapy, which could be the cause. Life expectancy is 
still reduced by the disease at the present time. It is longer in patients in 
whom the disease started with isolated tremors, absence of Babinski's sign, and 
no loss of autonomy, and those in whom a good initial therapeutic result was 
obtained.

PMID: 725403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Tex Rep Biol Med. 1978;36:185-96.

Potential gains in life expectancies by partial elimination of leading causes of 
death in Texas.

Tsai SP, Lee ES.

Potential gains in life expectancies among Texas population by partial 
elimination of 3 major causes of death are examined on the basis of the 
available statistics from the population census and mortality statistics for 
1970. Contrary to the popular anticipation of longer potential gains, the 
results are not particularly encouraging. The number of years of life that would 
be gained during the working ages by 50% elimination of major cardiovascular 
diseases is less than 1/2 of 1 year, about 1/4 of 1 year by 50% elimination of 
malignant neoplasms, and less than 1/4 of 1 year by 50% elimination of motor 
vehicle accidents. Even with a scientific breakthrough in combating those causes 
of death it appears that future gains in life expectancies for working ages will 
not be spectacular. The implications of the results in relation to the current 
debate on the national health policy are discussed.

PMID: 725791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Strahlentherapie. 1978 Dec;154(12):861-8.

[Thermoradiotherapy in animal experimentation: tumor growth and tumor cure 
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Dietzel F, Linhart G, Kovacs G.

PMID: 725973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Urologe A. 1978 Nov;17(6):377-81.

[The prognostic significance of cytologic differentiation grades of 
estrogen-treated prostata carcinoma. Progress control of 496 prostate carcinoma 
patients treated with estrogen for five years (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Faul P, Schmiedt E, Kern R.

The morphologic differentiation grade of cytologic smear preparations proved to 
be a reliable gradation measurement for the prognosis of 496 patients suffering 
from prostate cancer and treated with estrogen. Compared with that of other 
cancer patients, the life expectancy of low-differentiated and anaplastic cancer 
patients undergoing estrogen treatment is so poor that the rationale of using 
antiandrogenous treatment in this carcinoma group seems extremely questionable 
to us. This is why, in view of the predictable prognosis, the differentiation 
grade of the tumor should be considered when undertaking therapeutic measures.

PMID: 726160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. World Health Stat Q. 1978;31(2):110-9.

An estimation of the impact of smallpox eradication on the expectation of life 
in selected less developed countries.

[Article in English, French]

Namfua P, Kim YJ, Mosley WH.

PMID: 726504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1978 Dec 15;40(1):17-25. doi: 
10.1007/BF00420985.

The effect of age and activity level on simple and choice fractionated response 
time.

Clarkson PM.

Simple and choice knee extension response time was measured on four groups of 
subjects: Old Active, Old Inactive, Young Active, and Young Inactive. Each 
response measure consisted of total reaction time plus movement time. Total 
reaction time was further fractionated into premotor time, which represents the 
central processing component, and motor time, which represents the peripheral 
muscular component. All simple and choice fractionated response components 
demonstrated an age-related lengthening with motor time showing the least amount 
of lengthening. Although activity level enhanced the speed of all components in 
aged subjects, movement time was affected to the greatest extent and motor time 
was affected the least. It is particularly noteworthy that (1) motor time is so 
little influenced by age and level of activity and (2) the deterioration in 
speed of movement with age is almost completely negated in Old Active subjects. 
The results suggest that a life style of regular physical activity has a 
beneficial effect on several aspects of performance, especially in regard to 
speed of movement.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00420985
PMID: 729567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. J S Afr Vet Assoc. 1978 Jul;49(2):143-5.

The life-span of mammals: estimates for the dassie (Procavia capensis).

Fourie PB.

PMID: 731662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Nurse Pract. 1978 Jul-Aug;3(4):10, 18.

What price equality?

Wolber T.

PMID: 733119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Scand J Work Environ Health. 1978 Dec;4(4):265-74. doi: 10.5271/sjweh.2699.

Clinical features, mortality and survival of patients with asbestosis.

Huuskonen MS.

This paper describes the characteristic clinical features, mortality and 
survival rate of 202 patients diagnosed as having asbestosis by the Institute of 
Occupational Health between 1934 and 1976. One hundred and thirty-three patients 
were subjected to a clinical reexamination. Major findings included 
breathlessness in 118 (88.7%), persistent sputum in 95 (71.4%), crepitations in 
77 (58.0%) and finger clubbing in 43 (32.3%). Of the 95 patients with persistent 
sputum, 19 (20.0%) were nonsmokers. Of the 174 men registered as having 
asbestosis, 56 had died, whereas the expected number of deaths among men of the 
same age in the Finnish general population was only 23.4. The respective figures 
for lung cancer were 19 observed and 2.1 expected. No excess mortality was found 
for other malignomas. Among men with asbestosis, the life expectancy was shorter 
for smokers than for non- and exsmokers.

DOI: 10.5271/sjweh.2699
PMID: 734387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Soc Sci Med (1967). 1978 Nov;12(6A):451-7.

The demographic transition in Japan.

Kuroda T.

PMID: 734464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Z Alternsforsch. 1978;33(3):195-212.

[Gerontology in the USSR--results and prospects (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Tschebotarew DF.

PMID: 735171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Z Alternsforsch. 1978;33(3):259-65.

[The indication to neuro-surgical intervention in higher age (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Weickmann F, Wagner D, Linde I.

Higher life expectancy has entailed the necessity of treating syndromes in the 
age group over 60 more frequently. Therapy also includes surgical intervention 
in general and neurosurgery in particular. References in literature and cases 
from our own hospital showed that the necessity of performing surgery was 
extended to include persons of advanced age. Growing life expectancy during the 
last few decades was accompanied by an improvement in surgical techniques, in 
the substitution therapy of age-dependent dysfunctions, and the development of 
careful up-to-date anaesthesia. Good interdisciplinary cooperation resulted in a 
decisive reduction of the intra- and post-operative mortality rate, even if 
patients of higher age groups who underwent the selected major neuro-surgical 
interventions yet have twice the mortality rate (24 per cent) of patients under 
60 (11.4 per cent). Early diagnosis is the weakest link in this chain. Cerebral 
and spinal symptoms in older people are often attributed to age-dependent 
factors of the vascular system. The space--occupying process is often recognized 
too late. Once the function of the CNS has failed, even risky interventions 
cannot bring about a favourable change in the disease.

PMID: 735175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. ZFA (Stuttgart). 1978 Nov 20;54(32):1674-5.

[Physical training and coronary disease].

[Article in German]

Kleinmann D.

PMID: 735323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Soz Praventivmed. 1978 Dec;23(5-6):332-4. doi: 10.1007/BF02074218.

[Ethical aspects in prevention. Prevention as a moral obligation].

[Article in German]

Ringeling H.

The principle of avoiding or reducing unnecessary suffering belongs to the 
ethics of our culture. According to the concepts of the World Health 
Organization (WHO), this means an extension of preventive medicine to the realm 
of education and biopolitics. Education has priority, and it is recommended to 
adopt as a definition of health the same concept that has been suggested as the 
aim of education by the Swiss Scientific Council: namely an "ability of action" 
which encompasses man in his biological, intellectual, ethical and emotional 
aspects.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02074218
PMID: 735420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Soz Praventivmed. 1978 Dec;23(5-6):398-401. doi: 10.1007/BF02074242.

[Insurance system. Prevention from viewpoint of the insurer].

[Article in German]

BrechtbÃ¼hl P.

The purpose of an insurance must not be restricted to the payment of claims to 
those insured persons who suffered a loss, for loss prevention is much 
preferable to claim settlement. A whole range of different institutions and 
measures has been established by the Swiss insurers, in which many insurance 
branches participate. The loss preventing activities can be listed as 
follows:--Activities of the fire insurers to prevent and fight fires. This is 
the prevailing duty of the Consulting Agency for Fire Prevention (BfB) as well 
as the Fire Prevention Service for Industry and Trade (BVD).--Activities of the 
accident insurers to prevent accidents. The fight against accidents, mostly 
traffic accidents, in sports and at home is the foremost task of the Swiss 
Council for the Prevention of Accidents (BfU), an institution created by the 
Conference of Accident Insurance Managers (UDK) and the Swiss National Accident 
Insurance Fund (SUVA).--The Health Service in life insurance, after all the 
periodical medical examinations and consultations granted by many insurers to 
their insured persons, as well as the pamphlets aiming at health education 
published by several Companies and finally institutions and measures to promote 
fitness, e.g. VITA-Parcours.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02074242
PMID: 735439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Am J Med Sci. 1978 Sep-Oct;276(2):173-83. doi:
10.1097/00000441-197809000-00004.

Smoking and its effect on mortality of the elderly.

Gentleman JF, Brown KS, Forbes WF.

The effects of smoking on the mortality experience of elderly populations are 
considered by comparing the mortality rates for elderly smokers, ex-smokers and 
nonsmokers. This question arose since a recent study, using similar data, 
suggested that there was no health benefit for elderly cigarette smokers who 
discontinue cigarette smoking. Although ultimately in the latter part of the 
life-span, the benefit which might be gained by giving up smoking would not 
increase life-span significantly, the present study shows that for all of the 
older age groups investigated, a lower mortality from all causes of death is 
observed for nonsmokers and ex-smokers compared with elderly smokers. 
Consequently, even though no direct evidence is available, from this or other 
studies, as to whether it is desirable for elderly smokers to discontinue 
smoking, because of the general consistency of the data for the younger and 
older age groups, it seems probable that giving up smoking represents a health 
benefit for most older smokers.

DOI: 10.1097/00000441-197809000-00004
PMID: 736054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Arch Gynecol. 1978 Nov 30;226(3):277-88. doi: 10.1007/BF02108909.

[The adenocarcinoma of the cervix: study of 81 cases (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Spinelli A, Fleiner JR, Engeler V, Genton C.

The present study deals with 81 primary adenocarcinomas of the uterine cervix 
diagnosed and treated in the departement of gynecology and obstetrics of the 
University of ZÃ¼rich from 1950 through 1977. Clinical and morphological data 
such as patients age, character and duration of symptoms, clinical and 
anatomical stage, histological differentiation of the tumor and therapy were 
recorded and analysed in relation to patients survival. Of all these factors the 
stage of the tumor at time of diagnosis proved to have the highest prognostic 
significance.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02108909
PMID: 736626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Brain. 1978 Dec;101(4):591-606. doi: 10.1093/brain/101.4.591.

A clinical and genetic study of spinal muscular atrophy of adult onset: the 
autosomal recessive form as a discrete disease entity.

Pearn JH, Hudgson P, Walton JN.

A clinical and genetic study of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) of adult onset is 
reported. A genetic analysis of all cases of SMA occurring over a ten-year 
period in North-east England (48 index cases) has shown that chronic proximal 
SMA of adult onset is a distinct clinical and genetic entity, and is not a 
variant of the more common and relatively benign late juvenile cases. Nine cases 
of SMA of adult onset have been studied, occurring in 6 families. The median age 
of clinical onset was 35 years and the mean age at initial medical presentation 
was 37 years. The sex ratio was 5:4 (males:females). The condition is relatively 
benign and there is no evidence to date that life expectancy is shortened; there 
is usually no premonitory evidence of muscular weakness in early adult life. The 
muscular involvement is relatively symmetrical and the distal musculature is 
well preserved; clinical progression of the disease is interrupted by periods of 
apparent arrest. No patient was able to walk completely unaided twenty years 
after the initial clinical onset; the median age of patients in the study was 61 
years but only one was confined to a wheelchair. In the early stages the 
recessive form of familial motor neuron disease must be excluded. A segregation 
analysis of sibs born after index cases was undertaken (segregation ratio of 
0.20). This finding is consistent with autosomal recessive inheritance with an 
extended period during which the disease might initially present. The presence 
of new dominant mutations cannot be excluded, but is unlikely to account for 
more than 10% of cases. The carrier rate in the English population is estimated 
to be 1 in 300, with a gene frequency q = 0.00165. Prevalence is 0.32 per 
100,000 in the general population. Empirical risks for genetic counselling are 
presented.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/101.4.591
PMID: 737522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Exp Aging Res. 1978 Oct;4(5):389-409. doi: 10.1080/03610737808257163.

Age, isometric knee extension strength, and fractionated resisted response time.

Kroll W, Clarkson PM.

The relationship of age and a life style of physical activity with isometric 
knee extension strength and a simple and choice resisted response time was 
examined in 60 male subjects divided into four equal groups: Old Active, Old 
Inactive, Young Active, Young Inactive. Each response measure consisted of a 
visual reaction time followed by a movement to a target. Reaction time was 
further fractionated into premotor and motor time components. Resistance was 
applied in reaction time trials via an electromagnet placed below the subject's 
heel. Although knee extension strength was lower in old groups, the Old Actives 
were 7.7 kg stronger than Old Inactives. Simple and choice total reaction time 
for all groups lengthened in the resisted condition due to an increased motor 
time component. Even though the resistance applied was a fixed 10% of maximum 
strength the increase in resisted motor time was greatest for the young groups 
and unrelated to physical activity level.

DOI: 10.1080/03610737808257163
PMID: 738318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Demography. 1978 Nov;15(4):621-3.

A short note on the Taeuber paradox.

Mitra S.

When the force of mortality is reduced by a constant fraction delta at every 
age, the relative increase in life expectancy e(0) can be measured by deltaH, 
where H is determined by the l(a) values of the life table. Although H is not 
easily reducible in terms of the well-known life table parameters, it has been 
shown that it can be approximately estimated by 2 - e(0)/a in which a is the 
average age of the stationary population. It has been found that, for a given 
value of delta, the relative gain in life expectancy is less appreciable in 
countries with larger values of e(0).

PMID: 738485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Demography. 1978 Nov;15(4):625-35.

Calculating life tables by estimating Chiang's a from observed rates.

Schoen R.

A simple, accurate method of life table construction is advanced based upon a 
new way to estimate Chiang's nax (the average number of years lived in the x to 
x + n age interval by those dying in the interval). The estimate for nax leads 
immediately to an expression for lx+n (the survivors to age x + n) in terms of 
lx and the known mortality rates for the interval x to x+n and the two adjacent 
intervals. The complete solution for the basic life table is given. The proposed 
method and five other easily applied methods are then compared against the 
standard provided by the U.S. life tables for 1969-1971. The results attest to 
the excellent performance and high degree of accuracy of the proposed method. 
Finally, extensions of the method to multiple decrement and associated single 
decrement life tables are briefly described.

PMID: 738486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Med J Aust. 1978 Jan 14;1(1):6-7. doi: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1978.tb112420.x.

Health and illness in primitive societies.

Furnass B.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1978.tb112420.x
PMID: 739929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. S Afr Med J. 1978 Oct 7;54(15):593.

Smoking and insurance policies.

Muller H.

PMID: 741257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Z Alternsforsch. 1978;33(4):359-61.

[Methodological problems in the determination of biological age based on a world 
standard analysis].

[Article in German]

PÃ¶thig D.

PMID: 741794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1978;108:5-56. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4757-4460-6_2.

Chronobiologic optimization of aging.

Halberg F, Nelson W.

Chronobiologic facts, concepts and methods are relevant to gerontology and 
geriatrics. Circadian and other rhythms are prominent sources of predictable 
variation requiring a reassessment of the "normal range" at all ages. Changes in 
the characteristics (e.g., the amplitude) of these rhythms during aging 
emphasize the need for careful evaluation of time dependency in research and 
clinical practice. Manipulation of periodic environmental factors that 
synchronize circadian rhythms can affect lifespans in plants and animals, 
further supporting the suggestion of an interaction between rhythms and 
senescence.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4757-4460-6_2
PMID: 742533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1978;108:97-9. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4757-4460-6_4.

Phase shifting and life span in the codling moth, Laspeyresia pomonella (L).

Hayes DK, Cawley BM.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4757-4460-6_4
PMID: 742535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. J Anat. 1978 Dec;127(Pt 3):589-93.

Energy absorbing capacity of rat tail tendon at various ages.

Nathan H, Goldgefter L, Kobyliansky E, Goldschmidt-Nathan M, Morein G.

Fibres from tail tendons of male rats aged 1--18 months were stretched to 
breaking point by an 'Instron' tensile apparatus. The energy absorbed during 
stretching of the tendon was calculated. A sharp increase was found in the 
energy value during the first 6 months of postnatal life. The following 
components of this energy were also evaluated: (1) energy absorbed during the 
period of linear relationship between force and extension; (2) energy absorbed 
during the period of non-linear relationship. Both components showed rapid 
increases in value during the first 6 months after birth, after which they 
levelled off.

PMCID: PMC1235743
PMID: 744751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. J Med Genet. 1978 Dec;15(6):414-7. doi: 10.1136/jmg.15.6.414.

Genetic studies of acute infantile spinal muscular atrophy (SMA type I). An 
analysis of sex ratios, segregation ratios, and sex influence.

Pearn J.

An analysis of segregation and sex ratios, and of sex influence, was undertaken 
in a series of 78 index patients with acute infantile spinal muscular atrophy 
(SMA type I). The sex ratio of index patients was 2.0, and the excess of males 
was shown to occur principally among sporadic cases. The sex ratio of familial 
cases did not differ significantly from 1.0. The implications of this are 
discussed. No sex influence on age at onset, or on life expectancy, was present. 
The segregation ratio (Weinberg Proband method) was 0.29 for all index cases, 
and 0.26 for all cases excluding those referred specifically to a genetic 
counselling clinic. Autosomal recessivity is confirmed for this disease, with 
the probable inclusion of unrecognised male phenocopies in clinical series.

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.15.6.414
PMCID: PMC1013754
PMID: 745212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1978 Oct-Dec;59(4):5-7.

Survival and the life cycle.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 746569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Health Phys. 1978 Oct;35(4):563-5.

Estimation of life shortening resulting from radiogenic cancer per rem of 
absorbed dose.

Gotchy RL.

PMID: 748261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Lijec Vjesn. 1978 Nov;100(11):700-2.

[Increase in the average life-span in Yugoslavia from 1964 to 1975 (author's 
transl)].

[Article in Croatian]

LukoviÄ G.

PMID: 748694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1978;26(1):97-115.

[The development of potential years of life lost as an indicator of premature 
mortality (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Romeder JM, McWhinnie JR.

The indicator of potential years of life lost between ages 1 and 70 (PYLL) is 
proposed with the primary objective of ranking major causes of premature 
mortality. This proposal is based on a review of existing mortality indicators 
and indices and of the history of the concept of potential years of life lost. 
The method of calculation along with the corresponding rate and the age-adjusted 
rate are discussed and presented with applications to canadian data and 
interpretation. Several methodological aspects are discussed, particularly the 
comparison with more sophisticated approaches based on life tables, which do not 
appear to alter the ranking of major causes of premature death. This indicator 
fits well into the category of social indicators and can help health planners 
define priorities for the prevention of premature deaths. Epidemiological 
studies could also make use of this indicator of premature mortality. The 
simplicity of calculation and ease of comprehension should facilitate its use.

PMID: 749055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1978 Dec 9;108(49):1958-61.

[Curability of advanced malignant lymphoma under conditions of modern 
combination chemotherapy].

[Article in German]

Viollier AF, Senn HJ, Obrecht JP.

102 patients from the same oncologic center with malignant lymphomas (52 with 
Hodgkin's disease, 50 with non-Hodgkin lymphomas) have been analyzed. One 
population received monochemotherapy only and the other polychemotherapy: the 
first remission and survival results were published in 1975 on the basis of 
calculated life expectancy. Now, 3 years later, the same populations are again 
analyzed and "real" survival data are compared with those calculated. All 
patients now have a minimal observation time of 6 years. Even if our first 
published data were too optimistic, polychemotherapy still appears to offer the 
better life expectancy.

PMID: 749192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Biometrics. 1978 Dec;34(4):662-4.

The effect of accessing medical records by date of death on estimates of 
survival.

Tallis GM, Leppard P, Sarfaty G.

An inefficient, but quickly and easily calculated, estimate of a survival-time 
distribution is described. Conditions for the estimate to be unbiased specify 
bounds on the length of time a study has been in progress and the way in which 
people must enter a study. These appear to be frequently met when a large 
medical registry is examined with a view to establishing base line survival 
experience for a selected class of patients.

PMID: 749949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Clin Toxicol. 1978 Dec;13(5):611-21. doi: 10.3109/15563657808988266.

Basic principles in selecting animal species for research projects.

Hughes HC Jr, Lang CM.

One of the most important facets of biomedical research is selecting the species 
of laboratory animal best suited for a particular purpose. The four major 
categories of animal models are experimental, spontaneous, negative, and orphan. 
The experimental model is the one most frequently used, but each category has a 
place in medical research. Once the investigator has decided which type of model 
the project calls for, numerous other factors must be considered: ease of 
handling and surgical manipulation; size, docility, and body conformation; cost 
of the animal and its related supplies (food, bedding, and caging); the 
accessibility of superficial blood vessels; and the investigator's familiarity 
with the various species which are available. Among the biologic factors which 
should be considered are resistance to natural diseases, nutritional 
requirements, genotype, anatomy, physiology, and biochemistry.

DOI: 10.3109/15563657808988266
PMID: 750165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Salud Publica Mex. 1978 Jul-Aug;20(4):413-23.

[Indicator of potential life years lost as related to deaths in the city of 
Guadalajara, Jalisco].

[Article in Spanish]

GarcÃ­a de Alba JE, MorÃ¡n GonzÃ¡lez R, CÃ¡rdenas Romero C, Orozco MejÃ­a S, Delgado 
Becerra A.

PMID: 754302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Prev Med. 1978 Dec;7(4):464-75. doi: 10.1016/0091-7435(78)90257-8.

Progress in prevention of cardiovascular disease.

Levy RI.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-7435(78)90257-8
PMID: 755998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Prev Med. 1978 Dec;7(4):486-97. doi: 10.1016/0091-7435(78)90259-1.

Prevention: some future perspectives.

Doll R.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-7435(78)90259-1
PMID: 756000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Prev Med. 1978 Dec;7(4):564-640. doi: 10.1016/0091-7435(78)90269-4.

Special report: a program for prevention in Massachusetts.

Fielding JE, Hyde JN Jr, Russo PK.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-7435(78)90269-4
PMID: 756006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Soc Biol. 1978 Winter;25(4):279-87. doi: 10.1080/19485565.1978.9988349.

Navajo tribal mortality: a life table analysis of the leading causes of death.

Carr BA, Lee ES.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1978.9988349
PMID: 757304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Compr Psychiatry. 1979 Jan-Feb;20(1):1-14. doi:
10.1016/0010-440x(79)90054-3.

Interfaces between medicine and psychiatry.

Eisenberg L.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-440x(79)90054-3
PMID: 759097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. N Engl J Med. 1979 Mar 1;300(9):507. doi: 10.1056/NEJM197903013000925.

A life-insurance bargain.

Singer K.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM197903013000925
PMID: 759950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 1979 Mar;25(3):372-9. doi: 10.1002/cpt1979253372.

The biologic half-life of heparin.

McAvoy TJ.

Half-lives (t1/2s) varying from 23 min to 2.48 hr have been reported for 
heparin. It is shown that much of the discrepancy between authors can be 
attributed to methods used to analyze data. It is suggested that three terms 
should be carefully used, the t1/2 of bioassayed heparin concentration, the t1/2 
of the extension of the clotting time, and the t 1/2 of the clotting time to 
differentiate among the various methods of analyzing the raw data.

DOI: 10.1002/cpt1979253372
PMID: 761447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Duodecim. 1979;95(3):103-12.

[Finland: the sick man of Europe?].

[Article in Finnish]

Poikolainen K.

PMID: 761561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Practitioner. 1976 Mar;216(1293):288-96.

The cardiovascular risks and benefits of exercise.

Noakes TD, Opie LH.

PMID: 772663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Doc Ophthalmol. 1976 Apr 28;41(1):43-128. doi: 10.1007/BF00144713.

Tumors of the optic nerve.

Eggers H, Jakobiec FA, Jones IS.

This is a review of primary and secondary tumors of the optic nerve. The 
emphasis is an optic nerve gliomas and meningiomas. Optic nerve gliomas are 
slowly growing astrocytic neoplasms of the anterior visual pathways, the 
majority of which occur within the first two decades of life, with equal sex 
incidence in about 1 of 200,000 patients presenting with eye complaints. The 
incidence is greater in neurofibromatosis. The typical presentation is visual 
impairment in a verbal pre-school child with optic canal enlargement and optic 
atrophy. An intraorbital location of the tumor leads to axial, irreducible, 
non-pulsatile proptosis. An intracranial location may disturb hypothalamic and 
pituitary function and produce hydrocephalus. Ocular findings may also include 
limited motility on a mechanical-restrictive basis, a pupillary relative 
afferent defect, nystagmus, and variable, non-specific visual field defects. 
Roentgenographic studies may show concentric unilateral enlargement of the optic 
canal with preservation of a well corticated margin, a fossa under the anterior 
clinoid process in continuity with the optic canal ('J'-shaped sella), and 
findings of increased intracranial pressure. On pathologic examination the tumor 
is a smooth, fusiform, intradural enlargement of the optic nerve. Histologically 
there is proliferation of elongated (pilocytic) astrocytes in reticulated 
