patterns with intervening microcystic spaces containing mucosubstance and 
surrounding reactive hyperplasia of the arachnoid. Mitoses are not found. The 
diagnosis is clinical X-ray studies and brain scan should be performed. The 
differential diagnosis is that of unilateral proptosis in a child and includes 
acute ethmoiditis, hyperthyrobidism, craniostenosis, other neoplasms, 
Hand-Schuller-Christian disease, and orbital hemorrhage due to trauma. Surgical 
resection is performed in cases with unilateral optic nerve involvement, the 
surgical approach being determined by tumor location. Bilateral or chiasmal 
cases are treated with radiotherapy when progression occurs. Malignant optic 
nerve gliomas and optic nerve hyperplasia are also discussed. Optic nerve 
meningiomas arise from the nerve sheath and are to be distinguished from orbital 
meningiomas arising from ectopic arachnoidal cells or those secondarily 
involving the orbit by extension from adjacent sites. Up to 80% of orbital 
meningiomas occur in females, in two age peaks, 25% in the first decade, and the 
rest in the 5th decade. Meningiomas present with visual loss and may produce 
proptosis, papilledema and/or optic atrophy, retinal striae, opticociliary 
shunts, limitation of extra-ocular movements, and lid edema, Signs of von 
Recklinghausen's disease should be sought. X-rays are the mainstay of diagnosis. 
Orbital meningiomas are composed of cells in sheets or in whorls with some 
spindle shaped cells. Calcifications are typical. Usually the dura is penetrated 
and the orbit invaded. Primary orbital meningiomas are locally infiltrating but 
do not metastasize. Complete local excision en bloc is recommended...

DOI: 10.1007/BF00144713
PMID: 773617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Med J Aust. 1976 Mar 13;1(11):356.

Three score and ten.

O'Rourke DA.

Excluding infant and child mortality, the average "natural" life span seems to 
be about 70 years. It has remained so for several thousand years. It shows 
little sign of change. Hard work and stress appear to increase rather than 
decrease longevity.

PMID: 775266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1975 Dec;56:2-25.

Longevity of New York City mayors.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 775685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1976 Feb;57:2-4.

Longevity in the thirteen original states.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 775686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Usp Fiziol Nauk. 1976 Apr-May;7(2):116-29.

[Molecular and hormonal changes during experimental prolongation of life].

[Article in Russian]

Moroz IuA, Nikitin VN, Stavitskaia LI.

PMID: 779309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Nahrung. 1976;20(4):339-42. doi: 10.1002/food.19760200402.

Cancer and nutrition (review).

McLean AE.

DOI: 10.1002/food.19760200402
PMID: 781541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1976 Apr;57:2-4.

Longevity of signers of the Declaration of Independence.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 781915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Basic Life Sci. 1976;7:247-62.

Population trends and policies in Latin America.

Araica H.

PMID: 782425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Rev Prat. 1976 Jun 11;26(33):2313-28.

[Tobacco].

[Article in French]

Hirsch A.

PMID: 788126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Ital J Orthop Traumatol. 1975;Suppl 1:127-61.

Pathological fractures due to metastases.

Fares GC, Pisani PC, Quaini L, Solini A.

The authors review the literature and report on the treatment of metastatic 
pathological fractures, on the basis of their own experience of 51 operations. 
They review the radiological and pathological aspects of the lesions, and the 
methods of investigation. They stress the need for close collaboration between 
oncologists, radiologists and orthopedic surgeons, and emphasize the role of 
surgical treatment in the restoration of function and the relief of pain, by 
stable synthesis of the affected part. The methods employed are those used in 
traumatology, together with arthroprosthetic replacement. The importance of 
ensuring a stable synthesis, for the patients' limited life expectancy, 
justifies the use of acrylic cement, which often establishes continuity that 
otherwise would not be attainable. The indications for operation are not related 
to prolonging life but only to improvement in the quality of remaining life as 
measured by absence of pain and recovery of function. The results should be 
assessed primarily from the patient's point of view, the aim being to restore 
his mode of living before the fracture occurred. This has psychological as well 
as functional value.

PMID: 789286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. JAMA. 1976 Nov 1;236(18):2082-4.

Rehabilitation after cardiac transplantation.

Christopherson LK, Griepp RB, Stinson EB.

The physical, occupational, and social status of 56 patients who survived six or 
more months after cardiac transplantation at Stanford University Medical Center 
was reviewed. Fifty-one (91%) were classified as successfully rehabilitated. 
Four (7%) retained substantial physical disability, and one (2%) experienced 
psychiatric disability. These results demonstrate the therapeutic usefulness of 
cardiac transplantation in carefully selected recipients.

PMID: 789925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Stomatol DDR. 1976 Aug;26(8):517-25.

[Tasks and problems of geriatric dentistry].

[Article in German]

Breustedt A.

The health and social policy of the German Democratic Republic as well as the 
programs of numerous medical specialties pay special attention to the problems 
of citizens advanced in years. But stomatology too must contribute to preserve 
or restore the well-being of citizens advanced in years. For this reason, a 
purpose-oriented research must realize the scientific advance which is necessary 
to preserve the functional performance of the masticatory organ till old age in 
spite of the incomplete dentitions which prevail at present. In the next few 
years, research should be focused on the prevention and control of diseases of 
the mucosa of the denture foundation and on the correction elimination of 
somatopsychic factors which are detrimental to the functional performance of 
dentures.

PMID: 790658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Adv Cardiol. 1976;18(0):243-8. doi: 10.1159/000399528.

Sports and longevity.

Karvonen MJ.

The mortality of 396 Finnish champion skiers born from 1845 to 1910 was followed 
up to the end of 1967. Their median life expectancy was 73.0 years, ie.e 4.3 
years longer than that for the Finnish male population during the same period. 
Former skiers have low blood pressure, seldom smoke and are physically active. 
Increased longevity has been reported also for American college oarsmen and 
baseball players.

DOI: 10.1159/000399528
PMID: 790903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Hamatol Bluttransfus. 1976;19:305-10. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-87524-3_32.

Perspectives and prospectives in the management of acute leukemia.

Henderson ES.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-87524-3_32
PMID: 795745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Bull Hist Med. 1976 Winter;50(4):536-52.

"As healthy a place as any in America": revolutionary Portsmouth, N.H.

Estes JW.

PMID: 797418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Cancer Lett. 1976 Nov;2(2):93-100. doi: 10.1016/s0304-3835(76)80017-1.

Influence of five different postnatal lifelong treatments on the transplacental 
carcinogenicity of ethylnitrosourea in Sprague-Dawley rats.

Habs M, Schm√§hl D.

Sprague-Dawley rats received in 10 mg/kg body weight (group I) or 30 mg/kg body 
weight (group II) ethylnitrosourea (ENU) orally on the 19th day of pregnancy. 
Their offspring were treated with Bacille Calmette-Guerin, human albumin, 
hydrocortisone, cyclophosphamide or nicotine starting on the 6th day of life. 
The ENU treatment significantly reduced the life expectancy of all offspring. 
Treatment of the offspring did not influence tumor frequency, induction time or 
localization of neurogenic malignant tumors. Cyclophosphamide treatment of group 
II offspring increased the number of females bearing mammary carcinomas.

DOI: 10.1016/s0304-3835(76)80017-1
PMID: 797445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Drug Alcohol Depend. 1975 Sep;1(1):27-50. doi: 10.1016/0376-8716(75)90005-8.

Heavy alcohol consumption and physical health problems: a review of the 
epidemiological evidence.

Schmidt W, Popham RE.

A review of morbidity and mortality studies bearing on the hazards to physical 
health of chronic heavy alchol use indicates that such use carries a risk of 
premature death greatly exceeding normal expectancy. While the life style 
typical of many heavy drinker contributes to this risk, the effects of alcohol 
per se account for a substantial part of the excess mortality. The lowest level 
of consumption at which there is a significant increase in the death rate has 
yet to be determined. It is certainly below 120 g/day- the lower limit of 
consumption of most clinical alcoholics-and quite possibly below 35-60g: levels 
which appear to carry an increased likelihood of cirrhosis and certain cancers. 
On the other hand, the mortality experience of drinkers commonly identified as 
'moderate' in the literature does not seem to differ notably from that of 
life-long abstainers. The relationship between heavy drinking and elevated 
mortality is exhibited in populations at large by the generally close 
covariation of cirrhosis death rates and per capita alcohol sales. There are 
also indications of co-variation between the latter and the excess of male over 
female general mortality in the middle age range.

DOI: 10.1016/0376-8716(75)90005-8
PMID: 797560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Acta Med Austriaca. 1976;3(5):154-60.

[Course of disease and prognosis of diabetes mellitus].

[Article in German]

Schatz H.

In potential diabetics, environmental factors, especially overweight, appear to 
be more significant for the prognosis than genetic factors. The frequency of 
overt diabetes is higher in females than in males. Mean life expectancy amounts 
to about 70%, compared with the whole population. Mean survival after 
manifestation is more than 18 years. Diabetic coma has almost disappeared as 
cause of death. Today, approximately 75% of diabetics die from vascular 
complications, mainly from coronary heart disease. The coronaries are affected 
with same frequency in diabetic males and females. Renovascular complications 
are the leading cause of death only in young diabetics. Diabetic macro- and 
microangiopathy is correlated with the duration, not with the severity of 
diabetes. It should be imperative to physicians to control diabetes very 
strictly, especially during the first years following manifestation, in order to 
reduce frequency and/or severity of vascular complications.

PMID: 798463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Verh Dtsch Ges Inn Med. 1976;82 Pt 1:206-14.

[Internal therapy of portal hypertension].

[Article in German]

D√∂lle W.

PMID: 800909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. J Am Optom Assoc. 1975 Sep;46(9):900-4.

Reginald C. Augustine. Apostle of optometry.

Overton R(1), Parks B, Rodgers B, Rodgers D, Walters D.

Author information:
(1)Southern College of Optometry, Memphis, Tennessee 38104.

This paper concerns itself with the personal life and professional contributions 
of one of the great men in optometry, R. C. Augustine. This short biography 
includes discussions on his childhood, his introduction to the field of 
optometry, his early contributions in his community, his book, his achievements 
during the presidency of the American Optometric Association and also his 
extension work the following two years. In summation, a discussion of his 
professional philosophy will follow.

PMID: 802934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Public Health Rep. 1975 Jan-Feb;90(1):10-4.

The functions of medical care.

Childs AW.

Medical care has several important functions other than restoring or maintaining 
health. These other functions are assessment and certification of health status, 
prognostication, segregation of the ill to limit communication of illness, and 
helping to cope with the problems of illness--the caring function. Medical care 
serving these "paracurative" functions may legitimately be given indepedently, 
without associated curing or preventive intent of the provider of care. Although 
such services do not result in benefits to health, such as extension of life or 
reduction of disability, they do have other valued outcomes, outcomes not 
measurable as a gain in personal health status. For example, caring activities 
may result in satisfaction, comfort, or desirable affective states, even while 
the patient's health status deteriorates during an incurable illness. The 
physician's approach to patients, the economist's analysis of the benefits of 
health services, the planner's decisions about health programs, the evaluator's 
judgments about the quality of care, or the patient's expectations about 
treatment are strongly influenced by his assumptions about the purpose of 
medical care or the proper outcome of the process. When the health worker 
assumes that the only useful outcome is health, he may consider the paracurative 
services to be ineffective, inefficient, or undesirable. In contrast, when he 
recognizes and understands the paracurative functions of medical care, he may 
better perform his function in the medical care system.

PMCID: PMC1434713
PMID: 803689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. J Gerontol. 1975 May;30(3):289-93. doi: 10.1093/geronj/30.3.289.

Life extension in the rotifer Mytilina brevispina var redunca by the application 
of chelating agents.

Sincock AM.

Extensions of life-span and reproductive period were achieved in the rotifer 
Mytilina brevispina var redunca by regular brief immersions in solutions of one 
of the following chelating agents, sodium citrate, sodium tartrate, EDTA, and 
EGTA. It was shown by means of radiolabelling with 45 calcium that the rate of 
calcium accumulation in chelation-treated rotifers was markedly lower than in 
the untreated controls. Furthermore, significant quantities of calcium, which 
increased throughout the life-span, were withdrawn from rotifers at chelation. 
These results add further evidence to a mechanism of aging in this organism that 
is related to a detrimental accumulation of calcium during the life period.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/30.3.289
PMID: 804507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Am J Public Health. 1975 May;65(5):525-6. doi: 10.2105/ajph.65.5.525.

Letters to the editor: Will health services take the rap for inflation?

Rosenblum M.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.65.5.525
PMCID: PMC1775846
PMID: 805544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. MMW Munch Med Wochenschr. 1975 Mar 28;117(13):537-42.

[Survival time of patients with cardiac pacemakers (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Soots G, Laurens P, Lespinasse P, Lefebvre ML.

A comparison between the life expectancy of patients with pacemakers and that of 
a control population of similar structure shows a parallel course, although 
originally, after a postoperative phase of 2 months, the mortality rate of the 
patients with pacemakers was higher. Today the results are considerably better. 
Implantation of pacemakers is one of the greatest cardiological advances in the 
last 10 years for the effective treatment and prevention of cardiac arrest in 
atrioventricular block. The significance of this type of therapy becomes 
understandable if the fact that the mortality of Adams-Stokes attacks used to be 
about 50% is taken into consideration. In France, about 5000 persons each year 
have Adams-Stokes attacks.

PMID: 805919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. J Can Assoc Radiol. 1975 Mar;26(1):25-34.

Animal experiments in radiotherapy II: large animals.

Probert JC.

PMID: 806597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Vox Sang. 1975;28(6):422-37. doi: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.1975.tb02791.x.

Undegraded human immunoglobulin for intravenous use.

Stephan W.

A report is presented on the development and the properties of a nondegraded 
human immunoglobulin preparation suitable for intravenous administration. 
Intravenous tolerance is achieved by elimination of anticomplementary activity 
through modification with beta-propiolactone. The natural antibody 
characteristics, such as antibody activity, molecular weight, and half-life, are 
retained. The findings presented open up new perspectives for an extension of 
the range of indication for intravenous immunoglobulin.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.1975.tb02791.x
PMID: 807036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. MMW Munch Med Wochenschr. 1975 Sep 26;117(39):1571-6.

[Life expectancy in acquired vitium cordis after operative treatment (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

von der Emde J, Rein J, Hacker R.

Indications and results of operative treatment of acquired heart diseases are 
presented with reference to our experience with over 1500 operations on the 
heart valves and over 800 coronary surgical operations. The risk in timely 
operation for prosthetic substitution of aortic and mitral defects is less than 
5%. An essential condition is, however, that no irreversible changes have 
developed and that the defect could be completely corrected. Surgical treatment 
of coronary heart disease is superior to conservative therapy and carries a risk 
of under 2% on strict indication. Timely operation on segmental stenoses before 
the ischemic myocardium is fibrosed is an essential. 70% of patients operated on 
can count on freedom from complaint for the time being after these palliative 
operations.

PMID: 809702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Med Welt. 1975 Oct 3;26(40):1802-3.

[Long-term problems in diabetes].

[Article in German]

Constam GR.

PMID: 810635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Br Med J. 1975 Dec 20;4(5998):671-5. doi: 10.1136/bmj.4.5998.671.

Census of mental hospital patients and life expectancy of those unlikely to be 
discharged.

Bewley T, Bland JM, Ilo M, Walch E, Willington G.

A census in a London mental hospital was performed so that the numbers of 
patients requiring permanent care for the next 20 to 40 years could be 
estimated. Of 1467 resident patients 20% had been admitted in the preceding five 
months and 15% in the year before that. Of the 65% who had been in hospital for 
over 17 months 1% (16 patients) had been in hospital for over 5o years. 
Altogether 257 (18%) patients would probably be discharged, 339 (23%) might 
possibly be discharged if there were adequate community facilities, but 871 
(59%) were not likely to be discharged; 239 patients under the age of 65 who had 
been admitted between 1950 and 1973 were unlikely to be discharged. There were 
about 10 new younger long-stay patients from each year's admissions. Three 
conditions--schizophrenia, organic brain syndrome, and affective 
illness--affected 79% of the population. Fourteen per cent had been employed on 
admission and 28% were considered employable or possibly employable. Half of 
those who might be considered for discharge (296) would need a hostel. No 
rehabilitation was needed or possible for 40% of the patients; 299 (20%) 
patients were chairbound or bedridden and 400 (27%) were totally dependent on 
nursing and 587 (40%) partly dependent. Twenty months after the census 361 (25%) 
patients had left (59 had been readmitted), 284 (19%) had died, and 822 (56%) 
had remained as inpatients. The most realistic future prediction was that 210 
(14%) of these patients would still be in the hospital in 20 years and 43 (3%) 
in 40 years. In the light of these findings and the scarceness of resources 
current Department of Health and Social Security plans for phasing out mental 
hospitals must be challenged.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.4.5998.671
PMCID: PMC1675812
PMID: 812584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Med Klin. 1975 Nov 28;70(48):1947-53.

[Long term therapy with the pacemakers].

[Article in German]

Kleinert M.

PMID: 813103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Exp Gerontol. 1975;10(6):351-7. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(75)90025-x.

Age related differences in the water content of normal and irradiated Drosophila 
melanogaster.

Lamb MJ.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(75)90025-x
PMID: 814011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Strahlentherapie. 1975 Nov;150(5):449-55.

[Results of ortho- and megavolt therapy of inoperable bronchial carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Rey G, Voss A, Rey H, Untucht HJ, W√∂llgens P.

Survival rates of patients with inoperable, histologically verified bronchial 
carcinoma are compared as to orthovoltage or megavoltage radiation therapy. With 
megavoltage therapy, better survival rates are obtained after one or two years; 
later on, an approximation of the comparison groups is to be observed with 
regard to life expectancy. The improvement in one-year and two-year survival 
rates does justify the application of megavoltage therapy.

PMID: 814655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Arch Environ Health. 1976 Mar-Apr;31(2):108-12. doi: 
10.1080/00039896.1976.10667201.

Health effects of atmospheric sulfur dioxide and dietary sulfites. The fallacy 
of typology.

Hickey RJ, Clelland RC, Bowers EJ, Boyce DE.

Some animal studies have shown that exposure to low levels of sulfur dioxide and 
dietary bisulfite is relatively harmless. To the contrary, sulfite oxidase 
deficiency is known in man, bisulfite is mutagenic for several test organisms, 
and the atmospheric SO2 level is positively correlated with death rates for 
several chronic diseases among some human populations. The studies reporting 
harmlessness for animals may be misleading because of the fallacy of typology.

DOI: 10.1080/00039896.1976.10667201
PMID: 816262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Rev Inst Med Trop Sao Paulo. 1976 May-Jun;18(3):191-201.

[Survival of decompensated chronic Chagas' myocardiopathy].

[Article in Portuguese]

Pugliese C, Lessa I, Santos Filho A.

PMID: 821133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1976 May;69(5):547-52.

[Disorders of sino-atrial and auriculo-ventricular conduction in Steinert's 
disease. Apropos of one case].

[Article in French]

Meilhac B, Fleury G, Caspi G, d'Arcy FF, Heulin A, Di Matteo J.

The authors report a case of Steinert's disease with disordered sino-atrial and 
atrio-ventricular conduction. The presence of sudden syncopal attacks and the 
absence of a cardiomyopathy (excluded by right- and leftsided haemodynamic 
studies and coronary arteriography) indicated the insertion of a definitive 
intra-cavitary pacemaker, especially as the life expectancy of this 54 year old 
patient did not seem to have been significantly reduced by his disease.

PMID: 821425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1976 Jul;69(7):721-9.

[Long-term results in the isolated replacement of mitral and aortic valves].

[Article in French]

Humblet L, Collignon P, Joris H, Kulbertus H, Primo G.

This is a study of 85 valve replacements by mechanical prostheses, 41 of which 
were in the aortic position and 44 in the mitral position. The results were 
analysed from the standpoint of the immediate and late mortality, the morbidity, 
and thrombo-embolic complications. The influence of the severity factors (NYHA 
classification) on the operative risk and the late mortality has been evaluated. 
The maximum follow-up period was 8 years for the aortic replacements and 7 years 
for the mitral replacements. Actuarial graphs show that there is a 78.3% 
survival for aortic valve replacement and a 66% survival for mitral valve 
replacement. We feel that the shape of the survival curves is greatly influenced 
by the size of population studied. As soon as a plateau appears, the 
significance of the analysis is in doubt. It seems to us that calculation of the 
degree of confidence is essential if the good quality of the long-term results 
is not to be overestimated. The results of surgery must be assessed by comparing 
the survival curves of the operated patients with those of non-operated patients 
with the same risk factors. The conclusion emerges that prosthetic replacement 
of the mitral and aortic valves markedly improves the life expectancy of stage 
IV patients. We can see no indication for early surgery on the aortic valve. On 
the other hand, mitral valve replacement should be undertaken on stage III 
patients so that those with a poor life expectancy can be offered a better 
outlook. The way in which the mitral and aortic valve disorders carry a much 
greater mortality after the 6th decade should induce us to bring forward the 
indications for surgery in this age group in spite of the slightly greater 
immediate and late risk from operating on patients of this age.

PMID: 821443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Public Health Rep. 1976 Mar-Apr;91(2):141-5.

On the decrease in the life expentancy of black males in Michigan.

Gorwitz K, Dennis R.

The 1970 census reported that there were slightly more than 1 million nonwhites 
among Michigan's 8,875,000 residents. Ninety-five percent of these nonwhites are 
black, and 75 percent live within the city limits of Detroit, compared with 10 
percent of the State's white residents. Between 1959-61 and 1969-71, life 
expectancy at birth increased about 1 year for black and white females, 
essentially remained unchanged for white males, and decreased more than 3 years 
for black males. In 1969-71, life expectancy was 61 years for black males, 68 
years for white males, 69 years for black females, and 75 years for white 
females. Much of this growing disparity noted resulted from a dramatic rise in 
deaths of black males in the 15-44 year age group. Two-thirds of this increase 
was caused by a major rise in mortality from two causes--accidents and 
homicides. While death rates for black males decreased for a number of other 
leading causes, these generally remained higher than similar figures for each of 
the other three race-sex groups. Given current rates, one of eight black males 
in Michigan ultimately will die from an accident or from homicide. This 
probability is 1 of 17 for white males, 1 of 30 for white females, and 1 of 26 
for nonwhite females. Homicides reduced the life expectancy of black males by 
2.3 years, compared with 0.2 year for white males, less than 0.005 year for 
white females, and 0.5 year for black females. More than three-quarters of all 
homicides of black males in Michigan in 1973 were caused by handguns.

PMCID: PMC1438510
PMID: 822463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. J Med Educ. 1976 Oct;51(10):791-805.

U.S. health manpower policy: will the benefits justify the costs?

Morrow JH, Edwards AB.

The United States is now training and importing new physicians at a rate that 
will increase the ratio of physicians-to-population by nearly 50 percent over 
the next 25 years. Similar increases in the supply of other health manpower will 
also result from current enrollment levels. The added costs associated with 
these increased health-manpower-to-population ratios will equivalent to 
diverting another 4 percent of more of GNP--roughly $50 billion annually in 
today's frame of reference--from other purposes into health care. But only 
marginal, if any, improvements in the overall health of the American people are 
likely to result. Therefore, current policies need to be reexamined and serious 
consideration given to reducing the rates at which the health manpower pool is 
increasing.

PMID: 823337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Acta Biotheor. 1976;25(2-3):111-29. doi: 10.1007/BF00047322.

Life cycle patterns and their genetic control: an attempt to reconcile 
evolutionary and mechanistic speculation.

Manning JT.

A model is proposed which implicates molecular recognition systems as the major 
controlling factors in life cycle expression. It is envisaged that such systems 
are important in immune functioning and catabolic, metabolic molecule 
recognition at both inter- and intra-cellular level. These recognition systems 
have the following characteristics: 1) Specific recognition molecules 
(recognisers), e.g. vertebrate antibodies, invertebrate agglutinins and plant 
agglutinins may recognise specific substances, e.g. antigens, catabolic and 
metabolic molecules. 2) The range of possible recognisable substances is very 
wide and variable. 3) The recognisers may themselves be recognised by other 
recognisers. 4) Recognisers are usually produced in large amounts only on 
presentation of the appropriate recognisable molecule. 5) The progressive 
introduction of new recognisable molecules increases the recogniser interaction, 
this interaction causing depression of some recogniser types (immune depression) 
and facilitation of other types among which may be recognisers specific for self 
components (e.g. auto-immunity). 6) Low juvenile viability is associated with a 
restricted range of available recognisers, high adult viability with increasing 
recogniser range and some auto-immunity/immune depression, senescence with a 
wide range of available recognisers and extensive auto-immunity/immune 
depression. Life cycle patterns and their control are discussed. It is suggested 
control mechanisms may include: 1) Dietary restriction and in some periods 
complete nutritional abstinence. 2) Specific recogniser depression, genes 
implicated here are the various antigens (species and polymorphic) found on cell 
surfaces, in the serum and in various body fluids of vertebrates, e.g. ABO, 
MNSs, P, Rh, Le and other blood groups, the ABO and Le secretor antigens and the 
HL-A antigens. In addition the immune response and mixed lymphocyte culture loci 
are implicated. Finally life cycle control is discussed with relation to sexual 
selection.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00047322
PMID: 823744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Behav Genet. 1976 Oct;6(4):391-406. doi: 10.1007/BF01065697.

Issues in the genetics of social behavior.

Fuller JL, Hahn ME.

The genetics of social behavior presents special difficulties because the 
phenotype is the product of an interaction between two or more individuals. 
Social interactions are of two kinds: (1) cooperative, in which the 
probabilities of transmission of the genes of all participants are similarly 
affected by the outcome, and (2) agonistic, in which the probabilities for the 
participants are affected in opposite directions. The latter are of particular 
interest for evolutionary theory. Three major types of designs for measuring 
social behavior in genetic experiments are available: (1) homogeneous sets, (2) 
standard tester, and (3) tester panel representing a reference population. The 
advantages and limitations of each method are discussed. Important areas for 
future development include the relationship of genetic and experiential factors 
in early life to social status as an adult and the extension of the genetic 
analysis of social behavior to natural populations.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01065697
PMID: 825092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Cancer Lett. 1976 May;1(5):281-4. doi: 10.1016/s0304-3835(75)97774-5.

Carcinogenicity in rats of high oral doses of N-nitroso-carbaryl, a nitrosated 
pesticide.

Eisenbrand G, Schm√§hl D, Preussmann R.

N-Nitrosocarbaryl was administered orally to 31 male Sprague-Dawley rats at 
doses of 130 mg/kg body weight (b.w.) twice weekly. Of the treated animals 29% 
died with squamous cell carcinomas of the forestomach after an average inductiom 
time of 167 days. The first carcinoma was observed as early as 63 days after the 
beginning of the experiment. In addition, 19% of the treated animals died with 
hyperkeratoses and 6% with papillomas in the forestomach. In contrast to the 
untreated controls, which had a normal life expectancy, treated animals had a 
very short life span due to high cumulative toxicity and the early appearance of 
tumors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0304-3835(75)97774-5
PMID: 828075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Gerontology. 1977;23(2):77-86. doi: 10.1159/000212176.

Strain of rat skin at constant load (creep experiments): influence of age and 
desmotropic agents.

Vogel HG.

Creep experiments were performed on skin strips of rats of various ages (4 weeks 
to 2 years) and of rats treated with prednisolone acetate or D-penicillamine for 
10 days. In one specimen of back skin the ultimate load and tensile strength was 
measured at an extension rate of 5 cm/min. 50 or 25% of the ultimate load was 
applied to other specimens of the same skin area. Strain (% extension), time 
until break, and ultimate extension rate were measured in these samples. The 
constant load was applied either in a continuous or an intermittent manner. The 
maturation process (up to an age of 1 year) induced an increase of tensile 
strength and of ultimate strain followed by a decrease due to the ageing 
process. Time until break was increased and ultimate extension rate was 
decreased during the whole life span. These values did not show a maximum or 
minimum. D-Penicillamine decreased tensile strength, decreased the ultimate 
strain, shortened the time until break at constant load and increased the 
ultimate extension rate. Prednisolone increased tensile strength and induced 
some decrease of ultimate strain and time until break. It was concluded that 
phenomena like creep indicating the viscosity of connective tissue do not 
resemble those parameters indicating elasticity behaviour.

DOI: 10.1159/000212176
PMID: 830251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Radiology. 1977 Jan;122(1):163-7. doi: 10.1148/122.1.163.

Gallium-67 scintigraphy in multisystem malignant melanoma.

Jackson FI, McPherson TA, Lentle BC.

In a prospective study of the value of gallium-67 scintigraphy in cases of 
multisystem malignant melanoma, 69 scans were obtained for 36 patients. No 
abnormality was found in 18 scans; in only 3 was there other evidence of 
disease. Of 54 sites of disease demonstrated by scintigraphy, 40 were correlated 
with other investigations: biopsy (5), surgery (7), autopsy (7), radiographic 
(13), or clinical (8). Metastatic melanoma was found in 37 (69%) of the sites; 
no such disease was found in 3 (5.7%). The life expectancy of patients with an 
abnormal scan was shorter than that of patients with a normal scan. Gallium 
studies reliably indicated the extent of multisystem melanoma, and are of value 
in clinical management.

DOI: 10.1148/122.1.163
PMID: 830327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. J Gerontol. 1977 Jan;32(1):38-45. doi: 10.1093/geronj/32.1.38.

Effects of dimethylaminoethanol upon life-span and behavior of aged Japanese 
quail.

Cherkin A, Exkardt MJ.

The lysosome hypothesis of aging predicts that membrane stabilizers will extend 
life-span. Stabilizers containing the dimethylaminoethanol moiety (DMAE) have 
been reported to extend the life-span of drosophila and mice. We tested the 
prediction in Japanese quail (N = 15) by administering DMAE bitartrate (18.4 
mg/kg/day) in the drinking water for 69 weeks, starting at 195 weeks of age. A 
matched control group (N = 14) received tartaric acid (4.0 mg/kg/day) in the 
water. Contrary to the prediction, the DMAE-treated group has a shorter 
life-span after start of treatment (49 weeks) than the controls (69 weeks). No 
significant differences between the groups were observed in body weight or daily 
fluid intake. Three behavioral studies were carried out on survivors at 243-249 
weeks of age, namely; activity response to light-flash; sexual mounting response 
to a female quail; and classical conditioning of the heart rate. Aged quail 
differed from young-adults in changes in motor activity in response to light 
flashes. Aged quail appeared less responsive initially to reinforced 
conditioning trials and demonstrated extinction when light flash was not 
followed by electric shock. There were no detectable differences in latency to 
mount or in basal heart rate, either as a function of age or as a function of 
DMAE treatment.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/32.1.38
PMID: 830732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Ann Surg. 1977 Jan;185(1):122-7. doi: 10.1097/00000658-197701000-00020.

Factors influencing survival of patients with permanent cardiac pacemakers.

Nolan SP, Crampton RS, McGuire LB, McGann RC, Holz HC, Muller WH.

With the advent of permanent cardiac pacing, technology has produced power 
sources that will last two, four, and even 20 years. The cost of these devices 
is proportional to their complexity and expected life. Therefore, the selection 
of an appropriate pulse generator should be based on the patient's prognosis. An 
actuarial analysis of 319 consecutive patients receiving permanent cardiac 
pacemakers was performed in order to determine whether prepacing factors 
influenced prognosis. The survival probability at 5 years was not influenced by 
sex, race, type of conduction defect, or antecedent disease. Survival rate 
decreased only slightly for each decade of life, but even in the ninth decade 
there was an acceptable prognosis.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-197701000-00020
PMCID: PMC1396255
PMID: 831631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Cancer. 1977 Jan;39(1):303-13. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(197701)39:1<303::aid-cncr2820390147>3.0.co;2-u.

Survival with inoperable lung cancer: an integration of prognostic variables 
based on simple clinical criteria.

Lanzotti VJ, Thomas DR, Boyle LE, Smith TL, Gehan EA, Samuels ML.

The objectives are to identify and integrate through regression analysis those 
fundamental clinical variables predicting survival of patients with inoperable 
lung cancer managed in a modern setting. Median survival time from first 
treatment in 129 patients with limited disease and 187 patients with extensive 
disease was 36 and 14 weeks, respectively. Within the proposed survival model 
for limited disease, weight loss was the major prognosticator followed by 
symptom status, supraclavicular metastases, and age. Within extensive disease, 
symptom status and age were dominant variables followed by weight loss and 
metastases to liver, opposite hemithorax, brain, and bone. Survival by cell type 
was similar within the limited and extensive disease groups. The data identify 
the essential factors which must be controlled or accounted for in studies 
analyzing survival as a dependent variable.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(197701)39:1<303::aid-cncr2820390147>3.0.co;2-u
PMID: 832246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Pahlavi Med J. 1977 Jan;8(1):65-74.

Gains in life expectancy by elimination of specified causes of death in Shiraz 
1967-72.

Khan MM.

PMID: 834469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Pneumonol Pol. 1977;45(1):1-7.

[Mean life expectancy of tuberculous patients in Poland. I. Morbidity and 
mortality (according to the stationary population model)].

[Article in Polish]

Klonowicz S.

PMID: 834571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Public Health Rep. 1977 Jan-Feb;92(1):3-8.

Research programs of the National Institute on Aging.

Butler RN.

PMCID: PMC1431960
PMID: 834840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1977 Feb 12;107(6):211-2.

[The bronchial alveolar carcinoma as a solitary coin lesion].

[Article in German]

Grunner A, Brunner W.

Bronchiolo-alveolar carcinoma is a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma which 
starts as a peripheral solitary nodule and gradually spreads via the bronchi to 
give rise to a disseminated, diffusely infiltrative tumor. A series of 17 cases 
presenting with solitary nodules is reported. A long interval before operation 
did not adversely affect prognosis, provided the nodule remained relatively 
small and there were no lymph node metastases. Radical cure by resection was 
possible only with solitary nodules, but not with multinodular or infiltrative 
tumors. Prognosis was worse if lymph nodes were involved but not if there was 
intrapulmonary lymphatic invasion without spread to lymph nodes. Large solitary 
nodules shortened survival, especially if the radiographic diameter was greater 
than 5 cm. On the other hand, in four cases where evaluation was possible, the 
rate of growth had no effect on prognosis. Patients with positive cytology had 
shorter life expectancy since the tumor had already spread to the bronchi. 
Unexpectedly, cellular signs of malignancy had no influence on prognosis. 
Invasion of blood vessels, however, was a poor prognostic sign and was not 
observed in early cases or in patients with prolonged survival.

PMID: 834997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Science. 1977 Feb 11;195(4278):591-2. doi: 10.1126/science.835017.

Evolution in a time-varying environment.

Armstrong RA, Gilpin ME.

A simple model of competition in a time-varying environment was developed and 
used to discuss the evolution of life-history strategies.

DOI: 10.1126/science.835017
PMID: 835017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Hosp Top. 1977 Jan-Feb;55(1):52-5. doi: 10.1080/00185868.1977.9950376.

The life expectancy of anti-static textiles.

Belkin NL, Williams MJ.

DOI: 10.1080/00185868.1977.9950376
PMID: 838506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. J Occup Med. 1977 Mar;19(3):220-2.

Further criticisms on epidemiological methodology in occupational studies.

Wong O.

PMID: 839298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Med Care. 1977 Feb;15(2):147-57. doi: 10.1097/00005650-197702000-00004.

An analysis of selected blood service policy changes.

Pegels CC, Seagle JP, Cumming PC, Kendall KE, Shubsda JF.

Prinicipal national goals for a blood service system are concerned with 
shortage, quality, acessibility, and efficiency. Since regional blood service 
operating objectives based on these goals are in partial conflict, a single 
policy does not exist. Using a computer-based planning system, four policies are 
examined and tested for their effects on these objectives. [corrected] The 
policies are: use of frozen red cells ( a technological alternative); extension 
of the useful life of fresh blood (a legal alternative); improved collection 
planning (a planning alternative), and improved inventory management (a 
management alternative). Model projections of the effects of each policy and 
comparative performance of each policy with respect to the principal objectives 
are discussed.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-197702000-00004
PMID: 839869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Med Klin. 1977 Mar 11;72(10):406-9.

