[Diagnosis of breast cancer metastatic to the chest (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Matthiessen W, Pochhammer KF.

The records of 100 patients with morphologically proven breast cancer metastatic 
to the chest retrospectively were analysed. The following manifestations were 
found by evaluating roentgenographs of the chest and available results of 
endoscopy and biopsy which were carried out in most of the cases: solid 
pulmonary coin lesion, multiple pulmonary coin lesions, lymphangiosis 
carcinomatosa, bronchostenosis caused by cancer, mediastinal lymph node 
metastases. Since life expectancy in approximatively 70 per cent can be 
increased by chemotherapy the authors put emphasis on the importance of early 
diagnosis of metastatic breast cancer disseminated to the chest.

PMID: 840112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Pneumonol Pol. 1977 Feb;45(2):73-81.

[Mean life expectancy of tuberculous patients in Poland between the years 1960 
and 1972. II. Analysis and comparative estimation of basic biometric functions].

[Article in Polish]

Klonowicz S.

PMID: 840727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Plast Reconstr Surg. 1977 Mar;59(3):411-7. doi: 
10.1097/00006534-197703000-00017.

The pathology of congenital localized gigantism.

Gonzalez-Crussi F, Lee SC, McKinney M.

Two cases of congenital localized gigantism are described. They illustrate a 
form of segmental limb disproportion, characterized pathologically by an 
excessive linear growth of the skeletal structures and by soft tissue 
lipomatosis. The gigantism was confined to bones of the right great toe and 
adjacent metatarsus in one case; it affected the long bones of a lower extremity 
in the second case. Case 2, followed for over 7 years, developed a fibrovascular 
hamartomatous neoplasm of rapid growth and some cytological atypia in 
infancy--but this was well controlled by conservative surgery. This type of 
gigantism of the limb appears to be compatible with a normal life expectancy, 
and it is conceptually useful to distinguish it from hemihypertrophy. The number 
of cases reported is insufficient to support a significant association of 
gigantism with malignant tumors or with other life-jeopardizing anomalies.

DOI: 10.1097/00006534-197703000-00017
PMID: 840942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1977 Jan;58:10-11.

Current patterns of dependency.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 841596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Trop Doct. 1977 Jan;7(1):25-7. doi: 10.1177/004947557700700115.

Health in Belize--an emerging country.

Mason-Browne NL.

DOI: 10.1177/004947557700700115
PMID: 841686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Ugeskr Laeger. 1977 Feb;139(8):481-5.

[Nursing homes are not normal forms of existence for old people. Age dependent 
frequency of nursing homes and local authority extension plans for geriatric 
service].

[Article in Danish]

Andersen KE.

PMID: 841740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Vnitr Lek. 1977 Jan;23(1):36-42.

[Demographic aspects of aging in the population of Czechoslovakia].

[Article in Czech]

Zaremba V.

PMID: 841878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Vnitr Lek. 1977 Jan;23(1):81-4.

[New data on the endocrine system in old age].

[Article in Czech]

Tvaroh F.

PMID: 841884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Am J Clin Nutr. 1977 Mar;30(3):326-33. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/30.3.326.

Endurance training and body compostition of the elderly.

Sidney KH, Shephard RJ, Harrison JE.

Body composition was studied in subjects from the seventh decade of life (13 M, 
25F), observations being made on recruitment and at selected points over a 
1-year program of endurance training. As at younger ages, the women initially 
had more subcultaneous fat than the men, particularly over the limbs. In both 
sexes, excess weights (9.3 kg. M; 8.1 kg, F) and average skinfold radings (16.2 
mm, M; 21.1mm, F) were greater than in younger adults. Edurance training (1 hr 
of supervised exercise, 150-200 kcal persession, nominal four sessions per week) 
progressively reduced skinfold readings, by an average of 1.6 mm at 7 weeks, by 
2.4 dependent upon the intensity and the frequency of exercise undertaken by the 
individual. Total body potassium (40K determinations) agreed well with previous 
studies of older subjects. Body fat estimated form 40K showed a fair correlation 
with skinfold estimates of body fat (r=0.69, M; 0.93, F), but absolute 
precentages were higher by 40K(36.6%, M; 48.7%, F) than by subcutaneous fat 
measurements (20%, M;32% F). Body potassium increased by 4% over the year of 
training, 70% of this change, occurring between the 14th and the 52nd week of 
conditioning. Small gains were also recorded in arm circumference, grip strenght 
(R but not L) and knee extension force. Neutron activation data showed that both 
sexes had lower initial bone calcium counts than sedentary middle-aged adults. 
The sample as a whole showed no calcium loss over the year of training, but the 
group taking the least exercise did show a significant loss (P less than 0.05). 
Modest endurance training of an elderly population seems not only to correct 
loss of cardiorespiratory condition, but also to induce favorable changes in 
body fat and lean mass.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/30.3.326
PMID: 842485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Geriatrics. 1977 Mar;32(3):39, 41.

Nutrition and aging: the time has come to move from laboratory research to 
clinical studies.

Barrows CH.

PMID: 844686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Gerontologist. 1977 Feb;17(1):12-22. doi: 10.1093/geront/17.1.12.

Life expectancy: comparison of national levels in 1900 and 1974 and variations 
in state levels, 1969-1971.

Brotman HB.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/17.1.12
PMID: 844703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. J Biosoc Sci. 1977 Jan;9(1):1-11. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000000419.

The Tokelau Island migrant study: fertility and associated factors before 
migration.

Stanhope JM, Prior IA.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000000419
PMID: 845186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. J Human Stress. 1977 Mar;3(1):22-32. doi: 10.1080/0097840X.1977.9936079.

Recent trends in sex mortality differentials in the United States.

Johnson A.

Since 1920, American men, to an increasing degree, have experienced higher 
levels of mortality than American women for virtually all causes of death at 
almost every age. Recently, several authors have asserted that there is evidence 
of a change in these trends, caused primarily by rises in the levels of female 
mortality. Using age-adjusted death rates and data for the most recent years 
available (1960-1974). This paper shows that most female death rates are either 
stable or falling, and that the sex mortality differential for all causes except 
lung cancer is either stable or increasing.

DOI: 10.1080/0097840X.1977.9936079
PMID: 845428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1977 Mar 22;66(12):365-8.

[Cancer of the hypopharynx. a study based on 67 cases treated at the "clinique 
orl de l'hôpital cantonal de genève" (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Sacoun A.

PMID: 846954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1977 Apr;144(4):504-6.

Carcinoma of the cecum.

Gennaro AR.

During the ten year period of this retrospective study, 66 of 1,451 patients 
with carcinoma of the colon and rectum had carcinoma of the cecum. The most 
frequent symptoms were nonspecific and caused by anemia which, in some 
instances, were treated without adequate investigation. The standard and most 
appropriate treatment for carcinoma of the cecum is a right hemicolectomy with 
ileotranversostomy and, when necessary and feasible, en bloc resection of 
involved parts of the abdominal wall. In the absence of nodal disease or distant 
metastases, extension to the abdominal wall does not adversely influence the 
prognosis. The surgeon must remain aware of the possibility of coexisting 
carcinoma of the cecum and appendicitis. Any patient with a mass or a persistent 
draining sinus after an appendectomy or drainage of an appendical abscess should 
be suspected of having carcinoma of the cecum. The over-all five year survival 
rate in this series is 33%, and if curative resections alone are considered, it 
is 44%, with an operative mortality of 3%. More recent evidence indicates that 
there has been a shortening of the delay in treatment, and we believe future 
studies will show an improvement in these figures.

PMID: 847603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1977 Apr;144(4):537-46.

Ths significance of metastases to the adrenal glands in adenocarcinoma of the 
colon and rectum.

Cedermark BJ, Blumenson LE, Pickren JW, Holyoke DE, Elias EG.

A study to determine the frequency of metastases to the adrenal glands following 
carcinoma of the colon and rectum was undertaken. Patients with, or without, 
adrenal spread were compared regarding age, sex, race and survival time. The 
over-all metastatic pattern was analyzed to determine its usefulness for 
predicting the presence of metastases to the adrenal glands. Autopsy reports and 
clinical records of patients with adrenal spread were reviewed regarding the 
extent of tumor involvement in the glands and possible adrenal insufficiency. Of 
457 patients with adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum who underwent autopsy, 
63 or 14% had metastasis to the adrenal glands. Of these, 29 had bilateral 
involvement. Patients with bilateral metastases had a lower median age than did 
those without adrenal spread. No correlation was found between adrenal 
metastatic status and sex or race. Although survival time was found to be 
shorter for patients with bilateral metastases of the adrenal glands, adrenal 
insufficiency did not seem to be the reason for this shorter survival time. In 
retrospect, however, the presence of adrenal insufficiency could not be ruled 
out in several of these patients. Eight sites were studied with regard to 
whether or not metastatic involvement in a specific site might indicate a higher 
risk for simultaneous metastases to the adrenal glands. It was found for all 
sites that, when involved, there was a higher frequency of metastases to the 
adrenals than if free of tumor. Metastases especially above the diaphragm 
indicated a considerable risk for adrenal involvement. Different sites were 
combined in groups and studied in the same way. It was found that the more sites 
involved, the higher the relative chance of metastases to the adrenals. It was 
suggested that the results presented may be useful in predicting the relative 
chance of adrenal metastases in patients with advanced carcinoma of the colon 
and rectum.

PMID: 847609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1977 Apr;144(4):563-6.

Assessment and resection of carcinoma at the gastroesophageal junction.

Sefton GK, Cooper DJ, Giddings AE, Grech P.

In a five year retrospective study of 70 patients, the roentgenologic and 
surgical assessments of carcinoma at the gastroesophageal junction have been 
compared to the histologic findings of the resected specimens. Although the 
lesion was demonstrated roentgenologically in all patients, no reliable 
indication of its limits could be obtained, and spread was seriously 
underestimated by both preoperative barium studies and direct examination at 
operation. It is suggested that the lack of roentgenologic evidence may have 
encouraged an inadequate surgical approach and, thus, contributed to incomplete 
resection and the high immediate mortality. There is, at present, no 
satisfactory method by which spread can be defined, either before or at 
operation, and neither the preoperative barium studies nor his operative 
assessment should influence the surgeon to limit the resection.

PMID: 847612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Arch Ophthalmol. 1977 Apr;95(4):617-23. doi: 
10.1001/archopht.1977.04450040083012.

Bilateral choroidal melanomas. Case report and incidence.

Shammas HF, Watzke RC.

A 55-year-old woman had bilateral choroidal melanoma. To our knowledge, this is 
the second reported case in the United States. To calculate the incidence of 
bilateral cases, we determined the incidence of unilateral choroidal and ciliary 
body melanomas among the white population in Iowa. We also studied the incidence 
of these melanomas by different age and sex groups. One of 2,500 whites will 
develop a choroidal melanoma during his or her lifetime. Based on these values 
and those of life expectancy in patients harboring a choroidal melanoma, we 
calculated the risks of developing a second primary melanoma in the other eye. 
In a population of 50 million whites, 1 person will develop a bilateral 
choroidal melanoma during his or her lifetime. In other words, a bilateral case 
is expected to occur once every 18 years in the United States.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.1977.04450040083012
PMID: 849184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Exp Parasitol. 1977 Apr;41(2):314-28. doi: 10.1016/0014-4894(77)90104-7.

Taeniidae: modification to the life span of the egg and the regulation of 
tapeworm populations.

Gemmell MA.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-4894(77)90104-7
PMID: 849765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Surgery. 1977 May;81(5):551-5.

Life expectancy following aortofemoral arterial grafting.

Malone JM, Moore WS, Goldstone J.

The existence of symptomatic aortoiliofemoral occlusive vascular disease would 
appear to result in approximately a 10 year decrease in life expectancy compared 
to that of the "normal" population. However, a significant proportion of the 
cumulative mortality rate appears to be due to both coronary artery disease and 
diabetes mellitus, as patients with peripheral vascular disease had a near 
"normal" life expectancy in the absence of either coronary artery disease or 
diabetes mellitus. Neither the presence nor the anatomical location of occlusive 
disease distal to the comon femoral bifurication by itself decreased life 
expectancy compared to those patients with aortoliofemoral disease but without 
similar distal occusive disease. Low operative mortality rate, excellent 
long-term patency, and potentially "normal" life expectancy all encourage an 
aggressive operative approach in patients with symptoms of peripheral vascular 
disease but without either diabetes mellitus or coronary artery disease. 
Revascularization in those patients with diabetes mellitus should be directed at 
limb salvage rather than at relief of minor symptoms of ischemia.

PMID: 850871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Surgery. 1977 May;81(5):583-7.

Melanoma of skin of the breast: therapeutic considerations based on six cases.

Jochimsen PR, Pearlman NW, Lawton RL, Platz CE.

Melanomas of the skin of the breast are uncommon lesions which are amenable to 
cure with standard mastectomy techniques, even when lymphatic spread has 
occurred. Of six patients treated at the University of Iowa, two have died of 
metastatic melanoma, one treated by wide excision and subsequent axillary 
dissection and the other by radical mastectomy initially. Of the remaining 
patients, one with positive axillary nodes at the time of mastectomy died 28 
years following operation of unrelated causes, one with axillary nodes involved 
is 5 years without evidence of recurrence, and two who have been followed for 
less than 2 years, are without evidence of recurrent disease in spite of having 
had positive nodes at the time of initial treatment. All six patients had had 
pigmented lesions of the skin of the breast for many years, suggesting that such 
lesions in this location should be considered premalignant.

PMID: 850874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Ther Ggw. 1977 Mar;116(3):446-50, 455-70.

[Premature aging resulting from exogenous factors and endogenous 
predisposition].

[Article in German]

Schenck EG.

PMID: 850890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1977 Mar;58:5-7.

Expectation of life among nonwhites.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 850924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Am Heart J. 1977 May;93(5):556-9. doi: 10.1016/s0002-8703(77)80003-3.

Factors affecting the 5 year survival rate of men following acute coronary heart 
disease.

Mulcahy R, Hickey N, Graham IM, MacAirt J.

A total of 213 male patients who survived an initial episode of acute coronary 
inusfficiency or myocardial infarction for 28 days have been followed for 5 
years. The effect of age, weight, severity of infarction diastolic blood 
pressure, serum cholesterol, and cigarette smoking at the time of the initial 
attack on postinfarction morbidity and death was examined. Only severity of 
infarction adversely influenced the long-term mortality rate; none of the 
factors studied was related to subsequent morbidity. The effect of subsequent 
cigarette smoking on morbidity and death was noted over the 5 year period. 
Smoking did not affect subsequent morbidity but there was an increased death 
rate among those who continued to smoke. This effect of smoking was independent 
of the severity of infarction. Improved long-term survival may be predicted for 
patients who stop or markedly reduce cigarette smoking.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-8703(77)80003-3
PMID: 851053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Can Med Assoc J. 1977 Apr 23;116(8):897-900.

Colloid osmotic pressure: its measurement and clinical value.

Morissette MP.

Plasma colloid osmotic pressure (COP) is an important determinant in the 
appearance of edema. The development of a simple technique for COP measurement, 
based on an electronic pressure transducer and a semipermeable membrane system, 
has led to an appreciation of the value of COP determinations in clinical 
practice. In a steady state the measured COP replicates the value computed from 
serum proteins. In pathologic sera a derived value is unreliable. The normal 
human plasma COP averages 25.4 mm Hg. This value tends to decrease with age, is 
lower in females and is also lower in subjects at bed rest. As a clinical tool 
COP measurement represents an unduplicated contribution to the differential 
diagnosis of pulmonary edema. In critically ill patients COP measurement 
represents a reliable predictor of survival.

PMCID: PMC1879402
PMID: 851930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Diabetes. 1977 May;26(5):434-8. doi: 10.2337/diab.26.5.434.

Estimated life expectancy of diabetics.

Bale GS, Entmacher PS.

Life expectancy among diabetics in Iowa was estimated by using mortality data 
for the state. The Iowa general population had a higher life expectancy than the 
diabetic population at every age, except at ages 80 and over for men and ages 75 
and over for women. The estimated life expectancy of 59.7 years at birth for 
diabetic males and of 69.8 years for diabetic females was lower than that for 
the Iowa general population by 9.1 years among males and 6.7 years among 
females. This difference narrowed with increasing age. The Iowa figures were 
similar to the estimates of life expectancy for the diabetic popullation of 
Pennsylvania.

DOI: 10.2337/diab.26.5.434
PMID: 852628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. J Natl Med Assoc. 1977 Apr 1;69(4):205-6.

Immortality, aging, and differentiation.

Cobb WM.

PMCID: PMC2538384
PMID: 853533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1977 Apr 23;121(17):697-9.

[Passive euthanasia in utero].

[Article in Dutch]

Huisjes HJ.

PMID: 854115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Eur Neurol. 1977;15(2):109-15. doi: 10.1159/000114797.

Wernicke's disease. A catamnestic study of 50 patients.

Groen RH, Hoff HC.

A catamnestic study of 50 patients with Wernicke's disease showed that nearly 
all patients retained residual symptoms and that the prognosis as to life 
expectancy and social functioning was poor, even after early institution of 
vitamin B-complex medication. It is advisable to give vitamin B-complex 
prophylactically in cases of chronic alcoholism combined with insufficient 
nutrition.

DOI: 10.1159/000114797
PMID: 856590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Fortschr Med. 1977 Apr 28;95(16):1054-8.

[Surgical treatment of radiation injuries of the intestinal tract after 
radiotherapy of malignant tumors].

[Article in German]

Kindhäuser V, Boettcher I, Badziong U, Stauch G.

From 1962-1975 in our hospital 44 patients were operated because of 
complications of the bowel after irradiation of malignant tumors. 3 patients 
were operated in the region of subsequent irradiation. While at the small 
intestine stenoses were the most frequent complication, at the great gut fistula 
of rectum, colon sigmoideum or vagina besides stenoses were frequent. The time 
between irradiation and operation differed between 5 weeks and 22 years. The 
peak of frequency in the region of the great gut was seen about the first year 
after termination of irradiation, in the region of the small intestine about the 
second year. Among the operations of the small intestine resection predominates, 
at the great gut colostomy. Half of the patients were without complications in 
the postoperative course. 10 patients died postoperatively, 4 of them of 
peritonitis. In 3 cases suture insufficiency was verified, in 2 further cases 
this was doubtful. 36 of 44 patients were without carcinoma at the time of 
operation or control examination. 16 patients survived 5 years or more.

PMID: 856700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1977 May;25(5):193-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1977.tb00298.x.

Mental impairment in the elderly: medical-legal assessment.

Gunn AE.

As life expectancy has lengthened, research has been increasingly directed 
toward improving the quality of life in old age. Social agencies work in the 
field of socioeconomic factors, and medical research seeks the causes and 
remedies for mental deterioration. It is time to review the legal status of the 
mentally impaired elderly and to ensure that our lawmakers are cognizant of the 
changing situation. Before any characterization of mental capacity is made, a 
comprehensive investigation should be carried out to make sure that no 
potentially correctable physical disorder underlies perceived mental 
disabilities. In the past, the law has taken a global view of mental capacity. A 
person was adjudged either competent for all purposes or incompetent on a 
similar universal basis. A system is suggested to change this outdated approach 
and to assess separately the divisible components of mental capability. This 
would permit the courts to delineate their judgments and allow persons with 
partial mental incapacities to live a fuller life than if they had been declared 
totally incompetent.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1977.tb00298.x
PMID: 856905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Urologe A. 1977 Mar;16(2):107-9.

[Life expectancy in penile carcinoma (statistical evaluation of 150 penile 
carcinomas in the period 1912-1970)].

[Article in German]

Gregl A, Heitmann D, Truss F.

In the period 1912-1970 in the Göttingen area, 150 patients suffering from penis 
carcinoma were investigated and/or treated. With regard to method of treatment, 
three periods can be distinguished: 1912-1930, 1931-1948, and 1949-1970. During 
the first period, treatment was chiefly radiotherapy, in the second chiefly 
surgery, and in the third combined radiotherapy and surgery. Independent of the 
type of therapy and period of observation, the 3-, 5-, and 10-year survival 
rates were 52.5%, 46.7%, and 31.4%, respectively. The greatest life expectancy 
was that following combined surgical and high-voltage therapy. The importance of 
lymphography is emphasized.

PMID: 857366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1977 Apr 29;89(9):298-301.

[Therapeutic results in sarcoma of the uterus (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Kucera H, Kubista E, Kupka S, Michalica W, Weghaupt K.

60 cases of sarcoma of the uterine body were treated at the Ist Department of 
Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Vienna University, during the period 1960 to 1971. 
Treatment consisted of combined surgery and irradiation (37 cases), surgery 
alone (8 cases) and irradiation only (14 cases). The 5-year survival rate was 
53.3%.

PMID: 857435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Can Med Assoc J. 1977 May 7;116(9):966.

The Badgley report on the abortion law.

Thomas WD.

PIP: The General Council of the Canadian Medical Association approved an 
extension of the basis for the legal termination of pregnancy. Abortion is now 
allowed if pregnancy continuation would endanger the life or health of the 
woman, if there is substantial risk that the child may be born with a grave 
mental or physical disability, or if there are reasonable grounds to believe 
that the pregnancy resulted from a rape. The Council additionally recommended 
that such abortions be performed in active public-treatment hospitals accredited 
by the Canadian Council on Hospital Accreditation. Acting largely on these 
recommendations, the Canadian government in 1969 altered the Criminal Code to 
make provision for an abortion to be lawfully performed by a qualified medical 
practitioner in an accredited hospital if the therapeutic abortion committee of 
the hospital determined that pregnancy continuation would endanger the woman's 
life or health. Within months physicians throughout Canada were beset by 
requests for therapeutic abortions in numbers they had never faced before. By 
1971 the era of liberal abortion had arrived, and more than 30,000 legal 
abortions were performed in Canada that year. Thereafter, it became more and 
more apparent to all involved with therapeutic abortion that gross inequities 
existed in the availability of therapeutic abortion to the women of Canada. As a 
consequence, the federal government appointed a 3-member committee headed by 
Professor Robin Badgley. The committee's task was to determine whether the 
procedure provided in the Criminal Code for obtaining therapeutic abortions was 
operating equitably across canada. The committee concluded that the procedures 
set out for the operation of the abortion law are not working equitably. A major 
cause of the inequity in the working of the law is the requirement that 
applications for therapeutic abortion be approved by a hospital abortion 
committee. Additionally, some Canadian women face a financial deterrent to 
obtaining an abortion.

PMCID: PMC1879055
PMID: 858113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Experientia. 1977 Mar 15;33(3):285-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02002783.

Parthenogenetic reptiles: new subjects for laboratory research.

Cole CJ, Townsend CR.

Problems preventing establishment of laboratory colonies of parthenogenetic 
lizards have been solved. Now, productive colonies of these lizards, which have 
remarkably little genetic variation, can be readily established and used not 
only for research on parthenogenesis but also for many kinds of experiments for 
which reptile systems are desirable. Research colonies can provide valuable 
specimens while reducing the exploitation of natural populations.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02002783
PMID: 858345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Med J Aust. 1977 Mar 12;1(11):357-62. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1977.tb130729.x.

Are health and medicine in conflict?

Sax S.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1977.tb130729.x
PMID: 859481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. N Engl J Med. 1977 Jun 9;296(23):1354-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM197706092962315.

Zones of excess mortality in Massachusetts.

Jenkins CD, Tuthill RW, Tannenbaum SI, Kirby CR.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM197706092962315
PMID: 859537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. S Afr Med J. 1977 Mar 12;51(11):338-40.

Levodopa in parkinsonism.

Slome R.

In 20 patients suffering from parkinsonism, L-dopa produced maximal benefit 
after 3 years. A decline in the response then occurred, but considerable benefit 
was still derived after 5 years by patients who had improved initially. The 
effect of the drug on the symptomatology is reviewed. Whether the mortality rate 
in parkinsonism is improved by L-dopa is undecided, but recent publications and 
the present study indicate that the life expectancy is prolonged.

PMID: 860164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Comput Programs Biomed. 1977 Jun;7(2):63-70. doi:
10.1016/0010-468x(77)90013-7.

A computer program for multiple decrement life table analyses.

Poole WK, Cooley PC.

Life table analysis has traditionally been the tool of choice in analyzing 
distribution of "survival" times when a parametric form for the survival curve 
could not be reasonably assumed. Chiang, in two papers [1,2] formalized the 
theory of life table analyses in a Markov chain framework and derived maximum 
likelihood estimates of the relevant parameters for the analyses. He also 
discussed how the techniques could be generalized to consider competing risks 
and follow-up studies. Although various computer programs exist for doing 
different types of life table analysis [3] to date, there has not been a 
generally available, well documented computer program to carry out multiple 
decrement analyses, either by Chiang's or any other method. This paper describes 
such a program developed by Research Triangle Institute. A user's manual is 
available at printing costs which supplements the contents of this paper with a 
discussion of the formula used in the program listing.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-468x(77)90013-7
PMID: 862393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Geriatrics. 1977 Jun;32(6):101-2.

Aging through the ages.

Greenblatt RB.

PMID: 863261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1977 Jun;25(6):259-63. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1977.tb00411.x.

Some risk factors in pathologic aging.

Zdichynec B, Stransky P, Hartmann M, Holas V, Konrad J, Hogen J, Svatos Z, Sabl 
J.

A clinico-epidemiologic prevalence survey was conducted in the sub-mountainous 
area of Northern Bohemia, which is distinguished by the highest proportion of 
aged people in Bohemian countries. It involved 6057 persons of the 70-79 age 
group, 1718 persons of the 80-89 age group and 139 persons of the 90+ group, 
plus control subjects in various other groups. In this study an attempt was made 
to find an effective measure of the presumed risk factors of pathologic aging in 
persons of the 70-105 age group. The data were analyzed by the method of 
coincidence of two parameters of binomial decomposition on the computer Odra. 
The quantity dependence of the signs was determined, and an index of the 
compound-risk factor of pathologic aging was calculated. When the numerical 
value of the index is lower than 56.9 +/- 4.36 for a group of males or 50.3 +/- 
3.55 for a group of females, the probability is that a given person in those 
groups will survive to an advanced age. The total risk is higher for the male 
sex. Of considerable importance are the genetic burden, external environmental 
causes, harmful habits, certain "civilization" diseases, and other factors such 
as disturbed social contacts and defective nutrition.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1977.tb00411.x
PMID: 864172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Percept Mot Skills. 1977 Apr;44(2):527-32. doi: 10.2466/pms.1977.44.2.527.

Time estimation and total subjective time.

Walker JL.

Techniques for estimation of magnitude were used in a questionnaire given to 100 
university students to test the hypothesis that the subjective duration of an 
interval of actual time decreases in proportion to total subjective time rather 
than total chronological age. The results supported the subjective time 
hypothesis for retrospective reports of perceived duration of a year at both 
one-half and one-quarter of the subject's present age. In both cases the 
subjective time hypothesis provided a better fit to the data than the 
chronological age model. The hypothesis of the subjective time model that 
subjective life-span is equal to the square root of the statistically expected 
life-span was also tested but was not confirmed.

DOI: 10.2466/pms.1977.44.2.527
PMID: 866058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Nouv Presse Med. 1977 Apr 30;6(18):1573-8.

[Aging. Considerations on its demographic consequences].

[Article in French]

Veylon R.

PMID: 866150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Prax Pneumol. 1977 Mar;31(3):144-52.

[Assessment of the severity of pneumoconiosis (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Ulmer WT.

PMID: 866289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Recent Results Cancer Res. 1977;(60):110-9. doi:
10.1007/978-3-642-81095-4_12.

On the classification of penis carcinoma and its 10-year survival.

Lichtenauer P, Scheer H, Louton T.

With respect to the primary tumor there is no difference between the proposal of 
the UICC and the Heidelberg version for TNM classification of the penis 
carcinoma. Clinically the Heidelberg scheme seems more practical, but there were 
no statistical differences between them. With respect to the prognosis for the 
patient, the size and localization of the primary tumor are of secondary 
importance. What is important is the degree of tumor spreading in the lymph 
system. From this point of view, one needs only to differentiate between T1 
(tumor restricted to the penis) and T2 (tumor extending the bounds of the 
penis). On the other hand, size, localization, and degree of infiltration of 
penis carcinoma do have different therapeutic consequences, so from this point 
of view the differentiation of the primary tumor from T1 up to T4 should be 
retained. With respect to the classification of the state of the corresponding 
lymph system it is our opinion that the UICC proposal is too differentiated and 
has little meaning. In its stead, the Heidelberg scheme is clear and simple. Any 
examiner can complete it. With the help of life tables extending beyond 10 years 
after diagnosis we were able to determine that 5 years is not a sufficiently 
long time to clsoe a case of penis cancer. Even with proper treatment, the 
patient may suffer up to 10 years or more from the disease. In patients aged 
between 50 and 59 years of age the cancer seems to grow faster; in spite of 
proper and intensive treatment those patients had a clearly limited life 
expectancy. In patients aged 60-69 and more so in those between 70 and 79 years 
of age the tumor seemed to grow slowly and often had no effect on the survival 
rate.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-81095-4_12
PMID: 866784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Rev Med Suisse Romande. 1977 Mar;97(3):151-2.

[Life expectancy in the year 2,000].

[Article in French]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 866859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Tijdschr Diergeneeskd. 1977 May 15;102(10):630-7.

[Productive life-span of dairy cows and its economic significance. I. Disposal 
of dairy cows: the current situation (author's transl)].

[Article in Dutch]

Renkema JA, Stelwagen J.

The current situation regarding the replacement of dairy cows is discussed. 
Attention is successively paid to the duration of herd life and the replacement 
rate, the reasons for disposal and the relationship between age and the 
probability of disposal. Little research including all the required elements at 
the same time has been done in this field. Therefore, the literature can offer 
only a rough idea of the current situation regarding the replacement of dairy 
cows (Tables 1 and 2). Further research along a few lines presented in this 
paper is advocated. However, the findings derived from the literature may be 
used in an economic model to quantify the economic significance of differences 
in the herd life of dairy cows. This subject will be elaborated in two 
subsequent papers.

PMID: 867396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Angiology. 1977 Mar;28(3):160-8. doi: 10.1177/000331977702800304.

Long-term results of the medical treatment of coronary artery disease.

Oberman A, Kouchoukos NT, Holt JH Jr, Russell RO Jr.

The natural history of patients with ischemic heart disease varies widely 
depending upon the anatomic lesion and extent of left ventricular dysfunction. 
Several clinical variables may also be used to help determine the likelihood of 
long-term survival. Individuals with high-grade isolated disease of the left 
anterior descending coronary artery, without significant impairment of 
ventricular function, have little morbidity and mortality for the 2-year period 
after arteriography. At the other end of the spectrum, medically treated 
patients with stenosis of the left main coronary artery or three-vessel disease 
without such involvement have a reduced life expectancy compared with patients 
treated surgically. Global judgments on long-term results of the medical 
treatment of coronary artery disease are meaningless. Efforts should be made to 
delineate optimal treatment for various subgroups of patients under the broad 
rubric of ischemic heart disease.

DOI: 10.1177/000331977702800304
PMID: 869279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 1977 Jun;35(2):139-45. doi:
10.1590/s0004-282x1977000200006.

[Isaacs' syndrome. Report of a case and review of the literature].

[Article in Portuguese]

da Silva AB, Japp HH, Saldanha A, Henriques FG.

The case of a 17-year-old boy who had been well until the age of four when 
progressive stiffness of lower limbs developed is reported. Soon walking became 
difficult and on on his thighs, buttocks and calves one could notice the 
appearance of myokymia. Painful and intermittent spasms were often present 
specially after physical strain. This was followed by profuse sweating. Strength 
was normal but muscle relaxing was slow mainly in the quadriceps. The familiar 
history for neuromuscular pathology was negative. Muscle enzymes, thyroid 
function tests were within normal limits and muscular biopsy showed no 
abnormalities. The EMG disclosed a permanent spontaneous activity, more evident 
in the quadriceps, which was normal in shape, amplitude and duration. In 
association to this activity multiplets discharges and low motor units were also 
observed; in interferencial pattern appeared at maximum contraction but the 
multiplets and low motor units potentials kept on showing even though voluntary 
muscular activity ceased. The therapeutic essay with carbamazepin had a dramatic 
effect upon the course of the patient's conditions. He showed a great 
improvement with this drug and today leads a normal life being able even to play 
soccer and ride a bicycle. An interesting remark which should be done is the 
fact that the flexion of the neck inhibits the quadriceps myokymia whereas the 
extension makes them to appear and even worsen. Unfortunately is was not 
possible to carry out a more accurate investigation concerning 
electropharmacology and hystopathology as the patient was uncooperative and 
refused to undergo such examinations. However the authors believe that this 
clinical picture can be considered as a case of "continuous muscle-fibre 
activity" due to the great similarity it bears to the cases related by Isaacs in 
1961. An extensive review concerning the pertinent literature has been done.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-282x1977000200006
PMID: 869737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Br J Haematol. 1977 Mar;35(3):419-27. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2141.1977.tb00602.x.

Clinical course and survival after elective splenectomy in 19 patients with 
primary myelofibrosis.

Mulder H, Steenbergen J, Haanen C.

Nineteen patients with primary myelofibrosis and myeloid metaplasia (MMM), who 
fulfilled well-defined criteria, underwent elective splenectomy as soon as the 
diagnosis was confirmed. Nine patients developed postoperative complications 
such as intra-abdominal bleeding (three), rupture of the inferior vena cava 
(one), ascites (two), Australia antigen-positive hepatitis (three), mesenteric 
artery thrombosis (one) and pneumonia (one). One patient died within a month of 
the operation due to secondary intra-abdominal infection. The mean age of the 
patients at splenectomy was 56 years and the mean duration of their disease 2.4 
years. The median actuarial survival after operation was 51 months. Although the 
series of patients is small, it seems that splenectomy did not have an adverse 
effect on life expectancy. The haematological status and the quality of life 
improved after splenectomy in 17 of 19 patients. The results warrant a further 
trial with elective splenectomy in an early stage of MMM.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.1977.tb00602.x
PMID: 870005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. J Immunol. 1977 May;118(5):1524-9.

Effects of neonatal thymectomy and splenectomy on survival and regulation of 
autoantibody formation in NZB/NZW F1 mice.

Roubinian JR, Papoian R, Talal N.

NZW F1 (B/W) mice were subjected to sham surgery or neonatal thymectomy and/or 
splenectomy and studied for immunoglobulin class of antibodies to 
double-stranded DNA and polyadenylic acid (Poly A) at 4 to 13 months of age. 
These antibodies occur spontaneously during the course of autoimmune disease in 
B/W mice. Sera were fractionated by sucrose density gradient ultracentrifugation 
and assayed for antibodies by a filter radioimmunoassay method. IgM was 
recovered in the 19S region and IgG in the 7S region as demonstrated by 
immunodiffusion. In sham-operated controls, at all ages studied, anti-DNA 
antibodies were both IgM and IgG, with the former predominating in males, and 
the latter in females. In both sexes, anti-Poly A antibodies were primarily IgM 
in young mice. There was a sequential switch from IgM to either enhanced or new 
IgG production in the following sequence: female anti-DNA and anti-Poly A (6 
months), male anti-DNA (9 months), and male anti-Poly A (11 months). Both 
thymectomy and splenectomy caused earlier death in male mice, whereas females 
lived significantly longer after thymectomy. Neonatal thymectomy in males caused 
a premature switch from IgM to IgG antibodies to DNA, but it had a transient 
effect in females. Thymectomy almost completely prevented the late switch to IgG 
antibodies to Poly A in both sexes. By contrast, splenectomy promoted the 
formation of IgG antibodies to Poly A in male mice. These results suggest that 
the newborn B/W thymus and spleen contain regulatory cells and/or factors 
exerting different controlling influences on spontaneous antibodies to DNA and 
Poly A. Male B/W mice appear to be under the regulatory influence of suppressor 
cells, whereas the predominant regulation in female B/W mice appears to be a 
helper effect.

PMID: 870559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Z Exp Chir. 1977 Apr;10(2):84-9.

[The effect of thoracic duct drainage in acute pancreatitis in the animal 
experiment].

[Article in German]

Konstantinov B, Jantschulev J.

In animal experiments the effect of lymph drainage from the thoracic duct on 
acute pancreatitis was studied. Experimental animals were dogs. Drainage was 
performed by inserting a catheter into the thoracic duct. Compared with control 
animals without drainage, values of amylase and lipase in blood, urine, and 
peritoneal exudate were lowered, the enzyme activity in lymph was elevated. The 
dogs with drainage survived for a longer time, the macroscopic and microscopic 
changes of the pancreas were less expressed.

PMID: 871055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Gerontologist. 1977 Jun;17(3):242-9. doi: 10.1093/geront/17.3.242.
