
Impact of improved living environment on health and life expectancy.

Carp FM.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/17.3.242
PMID: 873263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. J Theor Biol. 1977 May 7;66(1):137-45. doi: 10.1016/0022-5193(77)90316-2.

A unifying biochemical theory of cancer, senescence and maximal life span.

Duchesne J.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-5193(77)90316-2
PMID: 875413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Med Pediatr Oncol. 1977;3(2):169-98. doi: 10.1002/mpo.2950030210.

Estimation of risks due to environmental carcinogenesis.

Cranmer MF.

Several Federal agencies share responsibility for enforcing laws designed to 
control human exposures to carcinogens. This enforcement activity often has 
immense effects on other factors of our environment. Absolute safety is not 
possible, but increased protection is obtainable. Improvements are urgently 
needed in our ability not only to detect but also to quantify relative risk. 
Resources should be directed for maximum overall effect. Relative risk must be 
quantified if we are to reasonably compare risk and benefit. Examples of the 
inexactness of current toxicological, epidemiological, and mathematical models 
for estimating risk due to exposures to DDT, aflatoxinb1, DES, and benzidine are 
presented. The impact of different laws and regulations applicable to the 
control of these agents is compared. Reference is made to major programs in 
toxicological methods for risk estimation.

DOI: 10.1002/mpo.2950030210
PMID: 875896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Nature. 1977 Jun 16;267(5612):610-1. doi: 10.1038/267610a0.

Natural selection for energetic efficiency and the relationship between activity 
level and mortality.

Priede IG.

DOI: 10.1038/267610a0
PMID: 876379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1977 Jun 4;121(23):944-9.

[The size of groups in the comparison of 2 percentages or 2 probabilities].

[Article in Dutch]

Rümke CL, With C.

PMID: 876423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Prev Med. 1977 Jun;6(2):242-51. doi: 10.1016/0091-7435(77)90051-2.

A policy assessment of preventive health practice.

Breslow L.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-7435(77)90051-2
PMID: 877011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Radiobiol Radiother (Berl). 1977;18(1):5-8.

[Experiences in the treatment of corpus sarcoma].

[Article in German]

Németh G.

PMID: 877251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Trans Sect Ophthalmol Am Acad Ophthalmol Otolaryngol. 1977
Mar-Apr;83(2):347-50.

Syposium: low vision. Retinal care.

Freeman HM, Schepens CL, Friedman GR.

PMID: 878143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1977 Aug;58(8):345-52.

Stroke rehabilitation: maintenance of achieved gains.

Anderson E, Anderson TP, Kottke FJ.

Gains made during rehabilitation following stroke were maintained or improved by 
the majority of rehabilitants when assessed 2 to 12 years later. Five measures 
of rehabilitative activity studied were self care, mobility, amount of time 
spent at the rehabilitant's major daily activity, vocational status, and 
over-all rehabilitative status. Independent variables that correlated positively 
with these rehabilitative functions were living at home, rather than in a 
nursing home, and the rehabilitant's having an accepting, rather than 
non-accepting, attitude about his present status. The functional levels of 
rehabilitation are maintained as well through education of the rehabilitant and 
his family as through the use of public health nursing and community resources. 
The interviewed rehabilitants in this study maintained the gains in function 
achieved during stroke rehabilitation throughout the long survival time, 
averaging seven to eight years; and functional loss, when it did occur, was 
usually secondary to a superimposed health problem. This study shows that the 
gains in the level of functioning achieved during stroke rehabilitation presist 
in long-surviving stroke patients and that the quality of life is enhanced from 
the perspectives of the patient and his family.

PMID: 880012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Scand J Respir Dis. 1977 Jun;58(3):170-80.

Chronic respiratory disease, smoking and prognosis for life. An epidemiological 
study.

Huhti E, Ikkala J, Hakulinen T.

A population group, comprising 653 men and 823 women aged 40-64 years, was 
surveyed in 1961 to determine the prevalence of chronic respiratory disease. 
Questionnaire, simple spirometry and thoracic radiography were used. The 10-year 
mortality of the population has been related to the initial findings. After 
standardization for age and smoking, men in each of the disease or symptom 
groups had a higher risk of dying during the 10-year period than men without 
lung disease; for the total group of men with chronic non-specific lung disease 
(CNSLD) the standardized risk ratio was 1.3. After standardization for age and 
presence of CNSLD, men in all smoking groups had a higher risk of dying than 
male non-smokers. For the total before the age of 15 therisk was 4.1-fold. When 
men with and without CNSLD were analysed separtely in different smoking groups, 
the excess mortality of men with CNSLD varied from 10 to 110% (risk ratios from 
1.1 to 2.1), being highest among the heaviest smokers. In men without lung 
disease, the smokers had a 1.8-fold mortality as compared with non-smokers. In 
women, the CNSLD did not increase mortality, but in female smokers the risk of 
dying was roughly twice that of female non-smokers although the difference was 
not significant. It appears from the findings that, as far as the prognosis for 
life is concerned in the male population surveyed, smoking is more important 
than CNSLD. The effect of CNSLD seemed to be stronger in men who smoked at least 
25 g of tobacco daily, than in men who smoked less. The ex-smokers resembled 
non-smokers more than smokers in mortality experience which suggests that the 
deleterious effects of smoking may disappear after smoking has been 
discontinued.

PMID: 882855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. J Gerontol. 1977 Sep;32(5):554-61. doi: 10.1093/geronj/32.5.554.

Follow-up 15 years after a geronto-psychiatric prevalence study. Conditions 
concerning death, cause of death, and life expectancy in relation to psychiatric 
diagnosis.

Nielsen J, Homma A, Biorn-Henriksen T.

In relation to a follow-up 15 years after a geronto-psychiatric prevalence 
investigation of the population aged 65+ in a rural population, analysis has 
been made of the type of death certificate, residence at time of death, place of 
death, cause of death and life-expectancy in relation to psychiatric diagnoses 
prevalent in 1961.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/32.5.554
PMID: 886161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. N Engl J Med. 1977 Sep 8;297(10):531-8. doi: 10.1056/NEJM197709082971004.

Violent death in a metropolitan county. Changing patterns in homicide (1958-74).

Rushforth NB, Ford AB, Hirsch CS, Rushforth NM, Adelson L.

Analysis of homicide patterns in Cuyahoga County, Ohio (metropolitan Cleveland), 
for 1958-1974 discloses the following major trends: a dramatic rise in overall 
homicide rates in the city (320 per cent) and suburbs (200 per cent); an 
increase in justifiable homicide; a doubling of the percentage of homicides 
incident to other felonies; a markedly increased incidence of homicide among 
younger persons; a conspicuous rise in firearm killings (now 81 per cent of all 
homicides); and a continued preponderance of intraracial homicide, with the 
highest rates among nonwhite males in the city. The trends in Cuyahoga County 
are consistent with those in other United States metropolitan counties. Homicide 
is responsible for a major part of the decreased life expectancy among young, 
urban, non-white men. The factor most consistently associated with these trends 
is the increased use of handguns.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM197709082971004
PMID: 887105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. S Afr Med J. 1977 Jul 2;52(1):19-20.

The clinical presentation of Gilbert's disease in 26 patients.

Gitlin N.

Twenty-six patients with Gilbert's disease (congenital, non-haemolytic 
unconjugated hyperbilirubinaemia) were analysed regarding their clinical 
presentation, age at onset of symptoms, sex, frequency of symptoms, family 
history, race and religion. Seventy-three per cent were men, the mean age at 
onset of symptoms was 21 years, and frequency of symptoms ranged from 4 times a 
year to once every 5 years. The symptoms, which were extremely vague, included 
the following: recurrent asymptomatic jaundice in 74%, malaise in 66%, asthenia 
in 65%, and vague abdominal distension in 52% of patients. Eight per cent of 
patients were totally asymptomatic. There did not appear to be any particular 
race or religious group with a higher incidence of the disorder. No abnormal 
clinical features apart from mild jaundice were detected. The entirely benign 
nature of the syndrome is stressed, and a normal life expectancy is the rule. 
The avoidance of prolonged fasting is the best therapeutic measure, although 
enzyme induction by phenobarbitone therapy may have some place in the management 
of symptoms.

PMID: 888039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Tijdschr Gastroenterol. 1977;20(1):43-56.

[Results of surgical treatment of 334 rectal, rectosigmoid and anal canal 
tumors].

[Article in Dutch]

Detournay GL, Vanderlinden E, Verbeke W, Kerremans R, Beckers J.

PMID: 888132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1977 Jul-Aug;58:2-3.

Survival after midlife.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 888154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1977 May;58:9-11.

Longevity in the United States at new high.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 888159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Ann Surg. 1977 Aug;186(2):177-83. doi: 10.1097/00000658-197708000-00009.

Fifteen year experience with subcutaneous bypass grafts for lower extremity 
ischemia.

Eugene J, Goldstone J, Moore WS.

A 15-year experience with 92 subcutaneous arterial bypass grafts for lower 
extremity revascularization has been reviewed. Fifty-nine AF and 33 FF bypass 
operations were performed on 89 patients whose average age was 66 years. The 
overall five-year survival was 33% compared to an expected survival of 80%. 88% 
of the AF, and 76% of the FF operations were performed for limb salvage, bypass 
of an aortic aneurysm, or replacement of an infected aortic graft. The remainder 
were performed for intermittent claudication on patients who were too ill to 
withstand an intra-abdominal operation. 75% of the patients with AF grafts and 
64% of those with FF grafts experienced complete relief of lower extremity 
ischemia, including all of the patients with claudication. Graft patency was 
analyzed by the life table method. In the FF series, 74% of the grafts remained 
patent for one year; 73% for two years; 66% for three years; and 53% for four 
years. A 50% incidence of thrombosis occurred at the end of two years in the AF 
group. The patency rate of the AF grafts was also studied with regard to the 
type of graft material employed: a 50% incidence of thrombosis was reached at 36 
months with knitted Dacron; at 18 months with weave-knit Dacron; and at 9 months 
with woven Dacron. THESE DATA INDICATE THAT: (1) contrary to our previous 
report, weave-grafts provide adequate blood flow to the lower extremities but do 
not remain patent as long as more conventional types of reconstruction; (2) 
subcutaneous grafts should be performed only when an intra-abdominal procedure 
is contraindicated or life expectancy is limited.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-197708000-00009
PMCID: PMC1396697
PMID: 889358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 1977 Apr-Jun;17(2):66-72.

[Importance and limitations of health status indices in the field of planning].

[Article in French]

Letourmy A.

PMID: 890538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1977 Aug 5;102(31):1111-3. doi:
10.1055/s-0028-1106713.

[Hiroshima--then and today].

[Article in German]

Fliedner TM.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1106713
PMID: 891396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Int J Epidemiol. 1977 Jun;6(2):143-51. doi: 10.1093/ije/6.2.143.

Potential years of life lost between ages 1 and 70: an indicator of premature 
mortality for health planning.

Romeder JM, McWhinnie JR.

The indicator of Potential Years of Life Lost between ages 1 and 70 (PYLL) is 
proposed with the primary objective of ranking major causes of premature 
mortality. This proposal is based on a review of existing mortality indicators 
and indices and of the history of the concept of potential years of life lost. 
The method of calculation along with the corresponding rate and the age-adjusted 
rate are discussed and presented with applications to Canadian data and 
interpretation. Several methodological aspects are discussed, particularly the 
comparison with more sophisticated approaches based on life tables which do not 
appear to alter the ranking of major causes of premature death. This indicator 
fits well into the category of Social Indicators and can help health planners 
define priorities for the prevention of premature deaths. Epidemiological 
studies could also make use of this indicator of premature mortality. The 
simplicity of calculation and ease of comprehension should facilitate its use.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/6.2.143
PMID: 892979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. J Tenn Med Assoc. 1977 Aug;70(8):585-6, 588.

Aging: a challenge to medicine.

Butler RN.

PMID: 895135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Lakartidningen. 1977 Jul 20;74(29-30):2556-7.

[Life satisfaction of older women].

[Article in Swedish]

Melin AL.

PMID: 895254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Soc Biol. 1977 Summer;24(2):158-65. doi: 10.1080/19485565.1977.9988276.

Levels and patterns of infant and child mortality in Bangladesh.

Kabir M.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1977.9988276
PMID: 897703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Am Ind Hyg Assoc J. 1977 Jul;38(7):338-46. doi: 10.1080/0002889778507627.

Chronic inhalation of cobalt oxide and cigarette smoke by hamsters.

Wehner AP, Busch RH, Olson RJ, Craig DK.

Exposure of hamsters to CoO aerosol (10 g/L, 7 hrs./day, 5 days/week) caused 
pneumoconiosis but affected neither the life span nor the incidence of other 
than pneumoconiotic lesions. No carcinogenic effects of CoO were observed. While 
cigarette smoke exposures significantly increased the incidence of certain types 
of other than pneumoconiotic lesions including tumors, they also increased the 
life span of the smoke-exposed animals significantly. The latter phenomenon may 
account for the higher tumor incidence in the smoke-exposed animals. No effect 
of the smoke exposures on incidence and degree of pneumoconiosis was observed. 
The mean body weights of the smoke-exposed groups were significantly reduced.

DOI: 10.1080/0002889778507627
PMID: 900017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Am J Public Health. 1977 Sep;67(9):834-40. doi: 10.2105/ajph.67.9.834.

Age-adjusted mortality indexes for small areas: applications to health planning.

Kleinman JC.

This study compares four age-adjusted mortality indexes and their standard 
errors among United States counties using 1969-1971 mortality data. It is shown 
that the direct and indirect methods of age adjustment give nearly identical 
results (correlation coefficients over .97). Two other indexes which indirectly 
adjust for age are then compared with the usual indirect method: one is the 
relative mortality index and the other an index of productive years of life 
lost. The three indirect indexes are substantially different in the are groups 
emphasized. This results in substantial differences in those counties identified 
as having "excess" mortality. Implications of the results for health planning 
applications are discussed.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.67.9.834
PMCID: PMC1653718
PMID: 900322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. J Chronic Dis. 1977 Sep;30(9):585-97. doi: 10.1016/0021-9681(77)90057-1.

Estimating the expectation of life in cancer survival studies with incomplete 
follow-up information.

Hakama M, Hakulinen T.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9681(77)90057-1
PMID: 903390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1977 Oct 15;121(42):1646-9.

[The aged heart (proceedings)].

[Article in Dutch]

Dunning AJ.

PMID: 904720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Padiatr Grenzgeb. 1977;16(3):183-7.

[Important factors affecting life expectancy in neuroblastoma].

[Article in German]

Borgwardt G.

PMID: 904934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. R Soc Health J. 1977 Aug;97(4):167-76. doi: 10.1177/146642407709700409.

Smoking and disease: prospects for control.

Doll R.

DOI: 10.1177/146642407709700409
PMID: 905523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Cancer Res. 1977 Nov;37(11):3939-44.

Influence of a chronic environmental stress on the incidence of 
methylcholanthrene-induced tumors.

Baker DG.

The influence of a chronic environmental stress, living in a 2 degrees 
environment, on the incidence of methylcholanthrene-induced tumors in albino 
female Simonsen rats, a Sprague-Dawley-derived strain, was studied. The results 
indicated that the metabolic rate was double for rats kept at 2 degrees, 
compared with those kept at 25 degrees. Exposure to 2 degrees for life, with no 
other treatment, reduced median life expectancy to 560 days compared with 686 
days for rats kept at 25 degrees. Transfer to a 2 degrees environment after 250 
days at 25 degrees reduced the incidence of spontaneous tumors, while transfer 
to 25 degrees after 250 days at 2 degrees increased the incidence of tumors 
compared to that for rats always kept at 25 degrees. Exposure to an 
environmental temperature of 2 degrees immediately following a carcinogenic 
stimulus (3-methylcholanthrene, 2 mg s.c.) significantly reduced the incidence 
of tumors compared to that in rats kept at 25 degrees but did not change tumor 
induction time. The reduced tumor incidence may have resulted from inhibition of 
the carcinogenic transformation by chronic stress. The survival time of rats 
with 3-methylcholanthrene induced tumors was not significantly less in a 2 
degrees environment than it was at 25 degrees.

PMID: 908033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. J Trauma. 1977 Oct;17(10):797-801. doi: 10.1097/00005373-197710000-00008.

Traumatic rupture of the right hemidiaphragm.

Meads GE, Carroll SE, Pitt DF.

Six cases of traumatic rupture of the right hemidiaphragm are reviewed with 
emphasis on diagnostic features and operative treatment. In one (Case 6), a mass 
lesion was seen in the chest 2 years after the initial injury and was repaired 
through a right thoractomy incision. There were no deaths. Of the five cases 
operated on soon after the initial injury, two were approached initially via 
right thoracotomy incisions and both required second incisions for injuries 
below the diaphragm. Three ruptures of the right hemidiaphragm were successfully 
repaired through laparotomy incisions without extension of the incision into the 
chest. Laparotomy is the preferred approach for rupture of the right 
hemidiaphragm during the acute phase, because exposure is adequate and 
life-threatening injuries below the diaphragm can usually be dealt with through 
the same incision.

DOI: 10.1097/00005373-197710000-00008
PMID: 909121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1977 May 15;71(10):502-4.

[Relationship of biological and social factors in man].

[Article in German]

Winter K.

PMID: 910473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Arch Dermatol. 1977 Oct;113(10):1367-71.

Dermatologists for the nation. Projections of supply and demand.

Krasner M, Ramsay DL, O'Sullivan VJ Jr, Weary PE.

Because inappropriate supply of physician specialists involves unnecessary human 
suffering or waste of human resources and because free market forces are 
ineffective in the medical sector, deliberate planning of supply is necessary. A 
model projecting the future supply of dermatologists was formulated on the basis 
of current residency capacity, which produces 250 dermatologists annually, and 
current experience regarding life expectancy and retirement. The model implies 
that an equilibrium supply of 8,800 dermatologists, or three per 100,000 
population, will be realized early in the 21st century. A number of methods were 
used to estimate the demand for care, and, under conditions of general access, 
three dermatologists per 100,000 appear to be appropriate. Thus, maintaining 
current training capacity seems to be prudent, but because of many unknown and 
unpredictable factors, periodic reassessment is necessary.

PMID: 911163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Biometrics. 1977 Sep;33(3):463-70.

On the treatment of grouped observations in life studies.

Thompson WA Jr.

Assuming a model of proportional failure rates, Cox (1972) presents a systematic 
study of the use of covariates in the analysis of life time. The treatment of 
tied observations is a particularly troublesome point in both theory and 
application. It appears that grouping rather than discrete time is the right way 
to handle ties. This paper studies methodology for grouped observations. A 
logistic model, which makes explicit use of Cox's earlier binary data methods, 
is introduced and illustrated with a numerical example. The model leads back to 
Cox's proportional failure rates when the lengths of the grouping intervals 
approach zero. This limiting process provides some enlightenment on 
controversial issues such as ignoring intervals in which no failures occur, 
determining whether the covariates may be functions of time, and treating ties.

PMID: 911970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Child Care Health Dev. 1977 May-Jun;3(3):213-24. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2214.1977.tb00042.x.

Dimensions of parental involvement in pre-school programmes.

Deitchman R, Newman I, Walsh K.

This report describes an approach towards the clarification of the role of 
parent involvement in the decision-making process and assessment of preschool 
programmes. A model-placing involvement on a continuum is developed using as its 
endpoints high and low levels of parent involvement. The implications of this 
distinction in the decision-making process are examined from the viewpoint of 
practical consequences for all those concerned with maximizing the effects of 
various pre-school programmes. Finally, an example of a case of programme 
evaluation which actively sought high levels of parent involvement in the 
development of a behaviour rating scale is presented and an extension of the 
model to other aspects of a child's life is suggested.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2214.1977.tb00042.x
PMID: 912826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Demography. 1977 Nov;14(4):411-8.

What difference would it make if cancer were eradicated? An examination of the 
Taeuber paradox.

Keyfitz N.

The immediate effect of discovering a way to cure cancer would be a reduction in 
the number of deaths in the United States by the number of people now dying from 
that cause. Within a short time, however, deaths from other causes would 
increase, and the net long-term effect would be relatively small. A parameter is 
derived that measures how much the expectation of life is increased by a 
marginal reduction in any cause of death. That parameter is additive in the 
several causes and has other advantages, though it does not avoid the assumption 
of independence.

PMID: 913728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Fortschr Med. 1977 Sep 22;95(25):2157-61.

[Idiopathic fibrosing alveolitis].

[Article in German]

Cegla UH.

The prognostic features of the disease are summed up. The leading symptom of the 
disease is the dyspnoe followed by a dry hacking cough, loss of weight and 
fever. Clinically we find rales, cyanosis clubbing and signs of right heart 
insufficiency. Lung function data point to a decreased vital capacity and 
diffusing capacity; residual volume and functional residual capacity are about 
normal. Corticosteroid monotherapy is not an efficient treatment. The 
combination of prednisolon + azathioprine improves vital capacity but not 
working capacity. Prednisolone and d-penicillamine improve all parameters 
including working capacity. This can be enhanced by still adding azathioprine or 
cyclophosphamide to prednisolone and d-penicillamine.

PMID: 914141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Fortschr Med. 1977 Nov 17;95(43):2598-602.

[Pharmacotherapy in old age, gerontological studies. Report on the XI. congress 
of the German Society of Gerontology, 30 September-1 October 1977 at Koln; 
partial proceedings, conclusion (proceedings)].

[Article in German]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 914216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. N Engl J Med. 1977 Dec 15;297(24):1332-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM197712152972406.

Clinical research on aging: strategies and directions.

Bleich HL, Boro ES, Rowe JW.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM197712152972406
PMID: 917089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Nervenarzt. 1977 Sep;48(9):494-9.

[The occurrence of multiple sclerosis in Southern Lower Saxony: results of a 
12-year field study (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Wikström J, Ritter G, Poser S, Firnhaber W, Bauer HJ.

PMID: 917160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Prakt Anaesth. 1977 Jun;12(3):176-83.

[Indications for and results of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

Falke K, Schulte HD.

Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is a new and, in the hands of an 
experienced team, safe method for treating severe acute respiratory 
insufficiency. It protects the patient against the risk of hypoxia and 
respiratory acidosis and, provided there is a chance of survival, allows the 
repair of the damaged lung tissue. The chances of success depend on whether the 
lung damage is reversible since, so far as is known, ECMO has not, or only very 
rarely, any effect on the actual lesion. Reliable prognostic criteria are 
therefore needed in the choice of suitable cases. Persons with acute 
non-infectious lung disease who receive this treatment within a few hours or 
days after the onset of the disease have the best chances of survival.

PMID: 917970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1977 Nov 5;107(44):1580-1.

[Prognosis for coronary patients with low ejection fraction. Comparison between 
a medically and a surgically treated group].

[Article in French]

Bopp P, Fournet PC, Bloch A, Mérier G.

Two groups of coronary patients whose ejection fraction was depressed (less than 
or equal to 0.30) were studied. Twelve patients received drug treatment only and 
25 others underwent surgery. Life expectancy appears to be slightly improved in 
the surgical group, but the differences are not statistically significant. Since 
operative mortality is relatively low (8%) and clinical improvement following 
surgery may be impressive, a revascularization procedure should be considered 
even in patients with markedly impaired ventricular function.

PMID: 918620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Vopr Onkol. 1977;23(6):82-3.

[Effect of single-stage hyperthermia on life expectancy of rabbits with 
Brown-Pearce carcinoma].

[Article in Russian]

Nikolaev VG, Uzhva NN.

PMID: 919413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1977 Jul 15;71(14):675-83.

[Life expectancy of diabetic patients].

[Article in German]

Kreuz B, Radoschewski M, Schmohl M.

PMID: 919593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Ann Hum Genet. 1977 Jul;41(1):99-102. doi:
10.1111/j.1469-1809.1977.tb01965.x.

Inbreeding effect on precocious mortality in Japanese communities of Brazil.

Freire-Maia N, Takehara N.

Data on precocious mortality (from abortions up to the age of 20) are presented 
for three Japanese communities in Brazil. The inbreeding load (B approximately 
1-5) is estimated on the basis of these data. B/A lies between 7 and 30. Three 
general working hypotheses are presented.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-1809.1977.tb01965.x
PMID: 921222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Biomed Tech (Berl). 1977 May;22(5):106-14.

[A contribution for the selection of cardiac pacemakers with different batteries 
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Irnich W, Gebhardt U, Effert S.

PMID: 922105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Can Med Assoc J. 1977 Dec 3;117(11):1306-7.

Arteriosclerotic femoral artery aneurysms.

Baird RJ, Gurry JF, Kellam J, Plume SK.

Arteriosclerotic aneurysms of the femoral artery are uncommon lesions that occur 
in elderly men. In 30 patients 36 aneurysms were repaired at the Toronto Western 
Hospital from January 1965 to June 1977. Half of the patients presented with 
ischemia and one quarter with an enlarging mass, and one quarter had no 
symptoms. Two thirds had other aneurysms and one third had suffered from 
cerebral or myocardial ischemia. The technique of repair changed from 
reconstructive aneurysmorrhaphy before 1970 to use of an interposition arterial 
prosthesis thereafter. Minimal groin dissection, internal control of blood flow 
in the deep femoral artery, and use of an appropriate arterial prosthesis 
provided excellent results. Surgical repair is recommended for most symptomatic 
ones when the patient's life expectancy is more than 2 years.

PMCID: PMC1880336
PMID: 922623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Forensic Sci. 1977 Nov-Dec;10(3):177-84. doi: 10.1016/0300-9432(77)90018-8.

[Passive euthanasia].

[Article in German]

Trube-Becker E.

After having been acquainted with the historical development of euthanasia, the 
following steps for assitance in dying, called passive euthanasia are being 
discussed. a) Assistance during dying without speeding up death is the 
self-evident duty of a doctor. b) Assistance during death and speeding up the 
same as an unavoidable result of therapeutical treatment, more or less desired 
or more or less unavoidable. c) Assistance through letting the patient die by 
abandoning all therapeutical means, when these would only lead to a short 
extension of life time. No doctor is compelled to take measures to extend life 
if it is against the will of the patient. He is not even entitled to do so. A 
special problem is the abandoning of extended operative treatment, this borders 
on the so called active enthanasia. The dying patient always has the same right 
of treatment by a docter as well as nursing like all other suffering human 
beings. The decision to let a patient die should not result in leaving him by 
himself and to abandon all nursing as well. Such steps would include letting him 
lie in dirty linen, not sucking off the mucous secretion from the trachea, 
refusal to assist during mealtimes, non-assistance during cathetering, and the 
removal of the dying person to the bathroom, or any other remote orner of the 
hospital. No dying person should stay without help Loneliness especially is the 
greatest pain of a dying patient.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-9432(77)90018-8
PMID: 924314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Indian J Med Res. 1977 May;65(5):664-71.

A comparative study of the exponential model and life table methodology in 
estimation of retention rates in IUCD research.

Gupta HD.

PIP: A comparative study of the exponential medel and the life table methodology 
in the estimation of retention rates in IUD research is presented. 581 women who 
accepted the copper-T IUD from November 1971 to June 1974 at the Postgraduate 
Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, India, provided the 
data for this study. The analysis was confined to the period of 1st insertion of 
an IUD to 1st termination, or to the cut-off date of the study, whichever was 
earlier. The risk of being lost to follow-up was treated as 1 of the risks 
competing with withdrawal for bleeding or pain. The exponential rate gave 
retention rates comparable to those of the life table, but is a more compact, 
simpler method. If the condition of constant rate of termination is satisfied, 
the exponential model can help estimate IUD retention rates beyond the period of 
observation. The exponential model is also more reliable for comparing 2 
studies. Cumulative retention rates/100 women for life table and exponential 
model were: 66.3 and 63.1, respectively, for 12 months, 54.5 and 50.2 for 18 
months, 42.5 and 39.9 for 24 months, 28.9 and 31.7 for 30 months, and 21.8 and 
25.2 for 36 months. The low retention rate resulted because many of the women 
were put on other contraceptives after completion of about 2 years with the 
copper-T.

PMID: 924563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. J Clin Psychol. 1977 Oct;33(4):1154-6. doi: 
10.1002/1097-4679(197710)33:4<1154::aid-jclp2270330452>3.0.co;2-n.

Death expectancies in alcoholic and nonalcoholic persons.

Lowe WC, Thomas SD.

The Do-It-Yourself Death Certificate (DIYDC) was administered to a group of 
alcoholic inpatients (N = 39) and to a group of university employees (N = 39). 
The groups were matched on age, sex, and race. Both alcoholics and nonalcoholics 
projected unrealistic expectations about their deaths when compared with 
actuarial cause of death data, but this was somewhat more true of those in the 
alcoholic group, who expected to live longer than would be expected and who only 
infrequently attributed their deaths to drinking. Strong preferences were 
expressed for a quick death, and some differences were observed between the 
groups with regard to seasonal expectations of time of death and attitudes 
toward life-prolonging techniques. The DIYDC appears to be a useful adjunct to 
existing methods of death research, and it may have practical applications with 
some clinical groups, provided that certain ethical considerations are observed.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-4679(197710)33:4<1154::aid-jclp2270330452>3.0.co;2-n
PMID: 925178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Laryngoscope. 1977 Dec;87(12):1995-9. doi: 10.1288/00005537-197712000-00003.

Conservation laryngeal surgery in the elderly patient.

Tucker HM.

In the 100 years since Bilroth first undertook a total laryngectomy, general 
improvements in the prevention and management of childhood and adult disease 
have led to continuing increase in life expectancy to the point that, in many 
developed countries, 25% or more of the population is over the age of 65. 
Although many of these individuals are in otherwise reasonable health, major 
head and neck procedures are often not performed in favor of radiation therapy 
for cure, even for lesions that would otherwise be considered amenable to 
surgery in younger patients, on the grounds that the patient is too old to 
tolerate the necessary procedure. The same argument has been employed in 
favoring total laryngectomy over subtotal procedures in the older patient. 
Review of the author's experience (27 cases) with conservation laryngeal surgery 
in patients over the age of 65 at the time treatment was undertaken reveals that 
such procedures are well tolerated in this age group. There were no mortalities 
and an overall complication rate of 11.1% resulted. These findings compare 
favorably with complication rates reported for similar patients and surgery in 
the under 65 age group and strongly suggest that chronologic age alone need not 
be a contraindication to such surgery.

DOI: 10.1288/00005537-197712000-00003
PMID: 926963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Med Parazitol (Mosk). 1977 May-Jun;46(3):355-9.

[Population density and survival of the fleas in different types of burrows of 
small suslik].

[Article in Russian]

Medzykhovskiĭ GA, Poliakov VK, Shevchenko VL, Ezhova VA.

PMID: 927362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Nurs Times. 1977 Oct 27;73(43):1670-4.

The elderly: a challenge to nursing-2. The elderly in our society.

Burrows J.

PMID: 928110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1977 Sep 6;66(36):1138-40.

[Maximal human life span. A pathological study (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Scheidegger S.

PMID: 928299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Soc Biol. 1977 Fall;24(3):192-9. doi: 10.1080/19485565.1977.9988282.

A eugenic effect of medical care.

Hartung J, Ellison P.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1977.9988282
PMID: 929233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1977 Oct;58:10-2.

Survival after midlife among nonwhites.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 929632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1977 Oct;58:7-9.

Cancer survival among women.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 929634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. World Health Stat Rep. 1977;30(3):227-42.

Outline on international comparison of public health, based on data collected by 
the World Health Organization.

[Article in English, French]

Gilliand P, Galland R.

PMID: 930112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1977 Jul 1;32(13):297-300.

[Prognosis in diabetes mellitus].

[Article in German]

Meyer H.

PMID: 930185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Zdravookhr Ross Fed. 1977;(9):38-43.

[Basic principles of the dynamics of mortality and average life expectancy in 
various economically developed capitalistic countries and developing countries].

[Article in Russian]

Tret'iakova MV.

PMID: 930456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Zh Nevropatol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova. 1977;77(10):1497-503.

[Rate of excitation spread along a peripheral nerve in healthy infants in the 
1st year of life and in infants who have had intrauterine hypoxia and asphyxia 
at birth].

[Article in Russian]

Badalian LO, Skvortsov IA, Petrukhin AS.

The velocity in the extension of excitation through the peripheral nerves was 
studied in 99 normal babies of the first year and in 135 children with 
intrauteral hypoxia and asphyxia during delivery. In children with perinatal 
lesions of the CNS there were changes in the absolute volumes of the velocity of 
excitation and the rate of its increase compared with the group of normal 
children. The data correlate with the results of histological studies of the 
peripheral nerve.

PMID: 930498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. N Engl J Med. 1976 Jul 29;295(5):264-8. doi: 10.1056/NEJM197607292950509.

Public-health rounds at the Harvard School of Public Health. Elective 
hysterectomy: pro and con.

