Bunker JP.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM197607292950509
PMID: 934191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Br J Soc Clin Psychol. 1976 Jun;15(2):157-65. doi: 
10.1111/j.2044-8260.1976.tb00021.x.

The measurement of expressed emotion in the families of psychiatric patients.

Vaughn C, Leff J.

In a series of studies of the influence of family life on the course of an 
established schizophrenic illness, it has been shown that the level of emotion 
expressed by relatives shortly after a schizophrenic patient is admitted to 
hospital is strongly associated with symptomatic relapse during the nine months 
following discharge (Brown et al., 1962, 1972). This paper states the case for 
an abbreviated version of the primary research instrument used in these studies, 
the Camberwell Family Interview Schedule. In the 1972 study the single most 
important measure contributing to the overall expressed emotion index proved to 
be the number of critical remarks made about the patient by the relative when 
interviewed alone. An analysis of 15 tape-recorded interviews from this study 
showed that the majority of critical comments were produced within the first 
hour and there was virtually no relationship between total number of critical 
comments and length of interview (r = 0.08). This analysis supported the use of 
a shortened interview in which the areas most likely to produce any criticism 
were given priority in the sequence of questioning. This abbreviated version has 
been used successfully in a replication and extension of the 1972 study. A group 
of 37 schizophrenic patients is being compared with a group of 31 depressed 
neurotic patients. Patterns of emotional response of these patients' relatives 
are discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2044-8260.1976.tb00021.x
PMID: 938822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Tsitol Genet. 1976 Jan-Feb;10(1):64-72.

[The relationship between genetic and stochastic damage during the process of 
cell and bodily aging].

[Article in Russian]

Berdyshev GD.

The paper deals with the conception formulated by the author concerning the dual 
nature of the ageing process determined by genetic and random factors which 
manifest their action at the molecular, cellular and organism level. The review 
is given of the author's own studies in the ratio of programmed and stochastic 
mechanisms of ageing in different organisms and cells in the tissue culture. A 
conclusion is made that genetic factors are the leading ones in determining the 
main mechanisms of ageing.

PMID: 941265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1976 Mar-Apr;(115):169-71.

Normal pregnancy and delivery following total hip joint replacement.

Reckling FW.

Total joint replacement procedures should be restricted to older individuals or 
persons with limited physical activities or life expectancy. However, on 
occasion a total joint replacement may be the only means to avoid serious 
disability in a young, otherwise healthy individual. This report of a 
19-year-old woman who underwent a total hip joint replacement following 
unsuccessful treatment of a severely comminuted intracapsular hip fracture. 
Subsequent to the total hip joint replacement the patient experienced a normal 
pregnancy and delivery.

PMID: 943256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. JAMA. 1976 Mar 29;235(13):1324. doi: 10.1001/jama.235.13.1324b.

Letter: Stress electrocardiograms.

Harnes JR.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.235.13.1324b
PMID: 946242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Med Interne. 1976 Jan-Mar;14(1):17-24.

Coronary arteries in children up to the age of ten years II. Intimal thickening 
and its role in atherosclerotic involvement.

Velican C, Velican D.

The frequency, histologic feature and topographic distribution of the first foci 
of intimal thickening were investigated in the coronary arteries of 40 fetuses, 
40 neonates and 90 children up to the age of ten years. Particular hemodynamic 
and mechanical stresses seem to be involved in the precocious development of 
these isolated foci of intimal thickening which appeared in the early fetal life 
as well as in their progressive extension and fusion which give rise to diffuse 
thickened intima. After birth the stressed areas with thickened intima might 
evolve toward fibrosis and the "protected" ones toward degenerative and necrotic 
processes. These processes were detected in approximately 8% of the 5-10 
year-old children and appeared before the development of fatty streaks or other 
forms of lipid accumulation.

PMID: 946692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Eur J Biochem. 1976 Jul 1;66(2):405-12. doi:
10.1111/j.1432-1033.1976.tb10530.x.

Preferential stimulation of the plant mRNA synthesis by gibberellic acid.

Wasilewska LD, Kleczkowski K.

1. Treatment of the etiolated maize seedlings with the plant hormone, 
gibberellic acid results in a significant enhancement of heavy polyribosome 
formation. 2. This is accompanied by highly increased incorporation of the 
labelled RNA precursors into RNA engaged in the polyribosomal complex, as well 
as by an increased rate of protein synthesis in vivo. 3. Determination of the 
specific radioactivity of particular RNA classes isolated from polyribosomes 
reveals that gibberellic acid stimulates mostly the synthesis of the rapidly 
labelled, non-ribosomal RNA fraction. 4. A considerable amount of this rapidly 
labelled RNA fraction, whose synthesis is preferentially stimulated by exogenous 
gibberellic acid contains poly(A) sequences, as shown by affinity chromatography 
on oligo (dT)-cellulose indicating that phytohormone causes an increased 
transcription of mRNA in etiolated maize seedlings. 5. When [3H]adenosine served 
as the RNA precursor it was found that the ratio between the heteropolymeric and 
polyadenylic parts of the poly(A)-RNA chain markedly changed under gibberellin 
treatment, suggesting that, in addition to an increased rate of mRNA synthesis, 
the plant hormone also affects the process of post-transcriptional 
polyadenylation of the newly made mRNA precursors. Possible extension of the 
polyadenylate segment in the presence of gibberellin may account for a longer 
functional half-life of the mRNA synthesized in plants treated with the 
phytohormone, and may explain significantly enhanced heavy polyribosome 
formation, as well as a higher efficiency of protein synthesis in plants treated 
with gibberellic acid.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-1033.1976.tb10530.x
PMID: 947755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Rev Biol Trop. 1976 Jun;24(1 Suppl):41-8.

[Quality of the water and public health in the Central American isthmus].

[Article in Spanish]

Donato C.

As of December 1970 the population of the Central American Isthmus was 
16,436,723; 6,225,447 (37.9%) urban and 10,210,946 (62.1%) rural. Of the urban 
population, 63.3%, or 3,964,611 had water in the home, while 2,283,836 (36.7% 
had no adequate water supply. The problem is even worse in the rural population 
where only 732,150 inhabitants (7.17%) had water in the home; the rest, 
9,500,000 were using water from contaminated rivers, streams, wells, etc. These 
low percentages do not meet the standards proposed at Punta del Este, Uruguay in 
1961 of providing drinking water to 70% of the urban population and to 50% of 
those of rural areas. Nor do the very low figures for sanitary disposal of 
wastes meet these standards (31.4% in urban areas and 19.5% in rural areas). As 
a logical consequence, water-bourne morbility in the Central American Isthmus is 
very high. The rates per 100,000 inhabitants are 0.4 to 18.8 for typhoid fever; 
0.7 to 13.0 for paratyphoid fever; 0.5 to 786.2 for bacillary dysentery; and 
17.9 to 555.6 for amebiasis. Although it would be hard to evaluate the benefits 
of sanitary water and waste disposal systems, the damage caused by water-bourne 
illnesses is well known, especially their effect on the individual human being 
since they sap his energy, lower his life expectancy and productivity, and thus 
indirectly affect the national economy. It is a well known fact that the cost of 
optimum water supply and waste disposal systems will more than amply be paid for 
by the savings in medication and lost time through illness.

PMID: 948644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. J Urol. 1976 Aug;116(2):139. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)58722-4.

Editorial: Chemotherapy of cancer of the prostate.

Scott WW.

PIP: In the treatment of advanced prostatic cancer, hormonal therapy has been 
only palliative. A significant increase in life expectancy has been rare. 
Chemotherapeutic agents have been used only in far advanced disease refractory 
to hormonal therapy. Chemotherapy should be tried 1st. Protocols have been 
designed in which comparisons are to be made between combined chemotherapy and 
hormonal therapy and with hormonal therapy alone in newly diagnosed patients 
having clinical Stage D cancer of the prostate. Next chemotherapeutic agents 
given singly or in combination should be compared with hormonal therapy alone. 
Carefully c ontrolled studies of prostate cancer are needed if future progress 
is to be achieved.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)58722-4
PMID: 950691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1976 Jun 1;70(11):599-602.

[Problem of the cost analysis of transmissible diseases. I. Importance of the 
cost analysis in the health care].

[Article in German]

Stähr R, Müller H, Klapper W.

PMID: 952026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Cancer. 1976 Sep;38(3):1087-94. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(197609)38:3<1087::aid-cncr2820380308>3.0.co;2-x.

Skin ulcers due to adriamycin.

Rudolph R, Stein RS, Pattillo RA.

Local skin necrosis at the site of intravenous or intra-arterial adriamycin 
infusion is an infrequent, but serious complication. Ulcers secondary to 
adriamycin have insidious beginnings, but progress to a much deeper extent than 
would be expected from their initial appearance. Deep structures, such as tendon 
or bone, may become exposed. The ulcers are indolent and do not develop a 
granulation tissue response or epithelialization, as might be expected from 
their early appearance. Injections of adriamycin in the dorsum of the hand 
should be avoided when possible, since tendons have little skin cover and the 
area is difficult to cover with local tissue if there is skin loss. While 
prevention is important, early surgical treatment may prevent progressive deep 
involvement and seems warranted when the patient has a life expectancy of months 
or years. Wide excision of all inflamed tissue is the treatment of choice, with 
split-thickness skin grafting or flap coverage.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(197609)38:3<1087::aid-cncr2820380308>3.0.co;2-x
PMID: 953958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Gerontology. 1976;22(6):428-37. doi: 10.1159/000212155.

Concerning the estimation of biological age.

Brown KS, Forbes WF.

The conditions which must be satisfied by an index of biological age are 
discussed, and a high correlation with chronological age is shown to be neither 
a necessary nor a sufficient condition to be satisfied by any such index.

DOI: 10.1159/000212155
PMID: 955423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Int J Epidemiol. 1976 Jun;5(2):179-85. doi: 10.1093/ije/5.2.179.

Survival experience of a cohort of carbon disulphide exposed workers from an 
eight-year prospective follow-up period.

Nurminen M.

A cohort of 343 men from a viscose rayon factory in Finland with at least five 
years of exposure in carbon disulphide (CS2) was followed from 1967 to 1975 with 
respect to coronary heart disease (CHD) mortality. The exposed cohort had over 
twofold excess death rate from CHD relative to a matched reference group. 
Statistical separation of causes other than CHD revealed a difference of two 
years in the life expectancies of the two populations for the age interval of 25 
to 54 years. The coronary mortality had, however, decreased since protective 
measures were instituted at the plant after the fifth year of follow-up, leaving 
only one-fifth of the original group exposed and reducing the level of CS2 
exposure for them to less than 10 ppm. This trend, although tentative due to the 
limited experience after the intervention, seems to suggest that the risk of 
coronary death for the formerly excessively exposed workers can be influenced 
and lessened to a normal level.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/5.2.179
PMID: 955768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. HNO. 1976 Feb;24(2):48-59.

[Secondary radiogenic cancer of the larynx (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Glanz H, Kleinsasser O.

Based on a series of 32 cases of late recurrence of early stage vocal cord 
cancer, the question of the pathogenesis of these lesions is discussed. Late 
recurrence, 5 to 18 years after treatment of the first tumour was observed in 3 
cases after a laryngofissure procedure only and in 29 cases after laryngofissure 
combined with postoperative irradiation or after pure irradiation therapy. The 
clinical and statistical data and the histological picture of the second tumour 
show with a high degree of certainty that these second tumours are caused by the 
cancerogenic side-effect of the primary irradation, which destroyed the primary 
tumour. The danger that a patient, cured from his first cancer by irradiation, 
develops a second radiogenic cancer rises from year to year that the patient 
survives and certainly is much higher than had been suspected. Irradiation of a 
vocal cord cancer in a young patient with a relatively high life expectancy 
should no longer by used. Irradiated patients must be reviewed until the end of 
their lifes.

PMID: 955992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1976 Aug;58(3):287-90. doi:
10.1302/0301-620X.58B3.956243.

Patello-femoral joint mechanics and pathology. 1. Functional anatomy of the 
patello-femoral joint.

Goodfellow J, Hungerford DS, Zindel M.

Cadaver knee joints were mounted so that life-like forces of weight-bearing were 
simulated. The patello-femoral contact areas were defined under load throughout 
the range of movement by the dye method. During movement from extension to 90 
degrees of flexion a band of contact sweeps across the patella from inferior to 
superior pole, but the odd facet makes no contact. At about 135 degrees of 
flexion separate medial and lateral contact areas form, the medial one limited 
to the odd facet. From extension to 90 degrees of flexion the patella holds the 
quadriceps tendon away from the femur, but in further degrees of flexion an 
extensive "tendo-femoral" contact area forms. Between 90 degrees and 135 degrees 
of flexion the patella rotates and the ridge between the medial and odd facets 
engages the femoral condyle. The odd facet is shown to be a habitual non-contact 
area and the ridge to be subject to high load, observations which correlate with 
cartilage lesions described in Part 2 of the paper.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.58B3.956243
PMID: 956243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. J Urol. 1976 Sep;116(3):332-4. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)58805-9.

Factors influencing sexual activity after prostatectomy: a prospective study.

Zohar J, Meiraz D, Maoz B, Durst N.

Between 16 and 30 per cent of all prostatectomy patients become impotent after 
an operation for benign prostatic hyperplasia. Since the surgical technique does 
not seem to be the factor responsible for such a serious problem, more 
accentuated by the fact that this operation is becoming increasingly frequent 
with the increase in life expectancy, an assessment of 15 patients before and 
after prostatectomy is presented. With a statistical analysis of a structured 
interview (including a mini-Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory test 
before and after the operation) 3 main differentiating factors emerged between 
the potent and the impotent group: 1) the level of anxiety exhibited by the 
patient, 2) whether the patients received an explanation about the surgery and 
its outcome prior to the operation and 3) the patient's general satisfaction 
with life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)58805-9
PMID: 957502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. J Theor Biol. 1976 Aug 7;60(2):301-35. doi: 10.1016/0022-5193(76)90062-x.

Life histories as adaptive strategies.

León JA.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-5193(76)90062-x
PMID: 957718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. S Afr Med J. 1976 Jul 3;50(28):1110-4.

Ageing in a plural society.

Cilliers SP.

The differential position and involvement of the aged in each population group 
in the Republic of South Africa are illustrated on the basis of an analysis of 
the age structure of the population, sex ratios, life expectancy, degree and 
nature of urbanisation and industrialisation and family structure. It is 
concluded that the problems and needs of the aged in modernising plural 
societies differ for each population group, and that there thus exists a need 
for a flexible and non-dogmatic approach to the needs of the aged.

PMID: 959919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. S Afr Med J. 1976 Jul 17;50(31):1189-90.

Eeditoria:The threescore and ten lifespan: can it be prolonged?

[No authors listed]

PMID: 959932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1976 May;57:2-4.

Expectation of life, by state, 1969-71.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 960121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1976 Jun;57:4-6.

Geographic differences in survival after age 6k.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 960122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. World Health Stat Rep. 1976;29(4):220-7.

Mortality and the life cycle of the family. Some implications of recent 
research.

[Article in English, French]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 960724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Am J Ment Defic. 1976 May;80(6):650-62.

Life expectancy of mentally retarded persons in Canadian institutions.

Balakrishnan TR, Wolf LC.

Data obtained from Statistics Canada were presented on the mortality level and 
expectancy of life for profoundly retarded and severely and moderately retarded 
persons in Canadian institutions for the years 1966 through 1968. Previous 
studies of mortality statistics were reported in mortality rates, average age at 
death, and crude death rates which are affected by the age distribution of the 
population involved. The very young and the very old are underrepresented in 
institutions, and thus these measures are not as accurate as life expectancy 
tables, which present the number of years expected to live, are independent of 
age distribution, and provide a reliable statistical measure for future 
replication and international comparisons. Retarded persons in institutions are 
living longer than previously, but their life expectancy does not meet that of 
the general population. Estimates of life expectancy for this population are 
vital for planning purposes.

PMID: 961730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Ann Hum Biol. 1976 Jul;3(4):303-15. doi: 10.1080/03014467600001531.

Antenatal events and postnatal growth and survival of children in a rural 
Guatemalan village.

Mata LJ, Kronmal RA, Urrutia JJ, Garcia B.

The biological features of all pregnant women and newborn infants in a typical 
rural village of Guatemala have been studied form 1964 to the present; 458 
pregnancied have been analysed. The mothers averaged 143.1 cm in height 52.9 kg 
in weight and 9 mm in triceps skinfold. The diet of most was adequate in 
percentage protein but inadequate in iron and other nutrients. Infection was 
common, two or more episodes occurring in 40 per cent of pregnancies. The 
newborn population had a birthweight averaging 2533 g and length 45.6 cm. 
Thirty-four per cent were less than 2501 g at 37 weeks gestation or over; seven 
per cent were pre-term. The infants' growth was followed till age six years. 
Survival correlated strongly with birth weight and gestational age. Pre-term 
infants showed the poorest survival in neonatal and postneonatal infancy; but 
the survivors thrived therafter. The term-small-for-gestational age infants had 
poor survival in infancy and during the second and third years. Term infants 
with adequate weight-for-gestational age had the best survival rate. Postnatal 
physical growth correlated with birth weight and gestational age but pre-term 
adequate-for-gestational age infants showed a rate of growth as good as that of 
term infants.

DOI: 10.1080/03014467600001531
PMID: 962308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Arch Dis Child. 1976 Aug;51(8):645. doi: 10.1136/adc.51.8.645-a.

Letter: Life tables for cystic fibrosis.

Lacroix J.

DOI: 10.1136/adc.51.8.645-a
PMCID: PMC1546090
PMID: 962378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Biometrics. 1976 Sep;32(3):587-97.

Life tables with concomitant information.

Holford TR.

A regression model for the analysis of survival data adjusting for concomitant 
information is developed. The model presented can lead to the log linear 
exponential model (Glasser [1967]) and the life table regression model of Cox 
[1972]. In addition, the model described can be used to analyze data from the 
commonly employed actuarial life table. A discussion of the special case where 
one is comparing two survival curves is presented. The methods developed are 
illustrated using data from a clinical trial investigating treatments for lung 
cancer.

PMID: 963172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Br J Psychiatry. 1976 Aug;129:125-37. doi: 10.1192/bjp.129.2.125.

The influence of family and social factors on the course of psychiatric illness. 
A comparison of schizophrenic and depressed neurotic patients.

Vaughn CE, Leff JP.

This study is a replication and extension of past work carried out by Brown, 
Birley and Wing (1972) concerning the influence of family life on the course of 
schizophrenia. In the original research the index of emotion expressed by a key 
relative about the patient at the time of key admission proved to be the best 
single predictor of symptomatic relapse in the nine months after discharge from 
hospital. In the present study this main finding of Brown et al has been 
replicated for two clinically different groups of psychiatric patients. The 
expressed emotion of the relative again seems to be associated with relapse 
independently of all other social and clinical factors investigated. In 
addition, important additive effects between various social influences and 
pharmacological treatments have been revealed which make it possible to predict 
relapse patterns in schizophrenia with considerable precision. The patterns of 
these relationships with relapse are different for the two clinical groups 
studied, patients with schizophrenic psychosis and with depressive neurosis.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.129.2.125
PMID: 963348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Br J Sports Med. 1976 Jun;10(2):44-6. doi: 10.1136/bjsm.10.2.44.

Exercise and live longer.

Pedoe DS.

DOI: 10.1136/bjsm.10.2.44
PMCID: PMC1859476
PMID: 963373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Fortschr Med. 1976 Mar 4;94(7):354-7.

[Diabetes mellitus and microcirculation. Significance of diabetic angiopathy for 
the prognosis and course of diabetes mellitus, possibilities and bases of 
angiologic therapy].

[Article in German]

Semler P, Werner U.

The importance of diabetic angiopathy for prognosis and course of diabetes 
mellitus, possibilities and basis of angiological therapy Complications 
originating from the vascular system determine life expectancy of the diabetic 
patient. He is particularly endangered by apoplexy, heart attack, 
arteriosclerosis of the lower extremities, retino- and nephropathy. 
Microangiopathy is a specific diabetic problem, the development of which shows a 
clear dependency on the quality of metabolism. Conventional therapy of 
circulatory problems today is less concerned with the vascular system than with 
the qualities of blood viscosity. In this context, viscosity is of main concern. 
Particularly in microcirculation viscosity is dependent on blood factors such 
as: haematocrit, plasmaviscosity, erythrocytes and thrombocytes. Their changed 
behaviour results, in the case of diabetes mellitus, in an increase in viscosity 
partly dependent on metabolism. A promising concept of treatment is available by 
pharmaceutically influencing the alteration of erythrocytes.

PMID: 964891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. J Genet Hum. 1976 Jun;24(2):119-42.

[Contribution to the anatomoclinical and genetic study of tuberous sclerosis in 
infancy (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Mentenopoulos G.

A case of Bourneville's disease is described, which is unusual because of the 
absence of clinical symptomatology until death occurred in the ninth month of 
life. Moreover, the post-mortem examination revealed the presence of cortical 
plaques of tuberous sclerosis which were in number, size and extension much more 
pronounced than in any previously published cases. On the basis of extensive 
topographical preparations of continuous sections taken from two cerebral 
hemispheres, the author provides an exact spatial representation of the tuberous 
sclerotic lesions and demonstrates the almost complete integrity of the central 
grey nuclei and the rhinencephalic complex. From data collected on numerous 
published infantile cases, in which he records the date of the onset of 
epilepsy, and, in addition, making use of neuropediatric and 
electrophysiological studies, he attempts to demonstrate that the appearance of 
the first neurological symptoms is related to certain stages of the cerebral 
corticalisation. So far as genetic factors are concerned, the family histroy did 
not provide any evidence of disease in ancestors, and a clinical examination of 
the parents did not disclose any stigmata of Bourneville's disease. This case 
can thus be considered as sporadic, due to a new mutation.

PMID: 965950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Padiatr Padol. 1976;11(2-2):423-7.

[Manifestation of diabetes in the first to third year of life. Later fates of 43 
patients (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Fischer F.

Life expectancy of diabetics since early childhood is differently judged. Out of 
43 own patients with diabetes started between the first and third year of life, 
no less than 33 have passed their twentieth year of life; 16 patients are aged 
between 25 and 46 years; one woman patient lived to the age of 64! In all cases 
the duration of diabetes is more than 10 years, in 26 cases 20 years or more. In 
24 cases angiopathy developed chiefly in the form of retinopathy, nephroapthy 
and arterial hypertension (none in 19 cases). 7 patients died of uraemia. While 
there is hardly any difference between the two groups (with or without 
angiopathy) as far as duration and quality of diabetes-control are concerned, in 
the angiopathy-group hereditary taint clearly prevails. The early beginning of 
diabetes does not at all represent an absolutely unfavourable symptom, rather 
the reverse (O. Imerslund).

PMID: 967507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Am J Epidemiol. 1976 Oct;104(4):457-62. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a112316.

Discussion of: "Epidemiology of cardiovascular diseases: current perspectives".

Feinleib M.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a112316
PMID: 970402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Am J Public Health. 1976 Oct;66(10):968-74. doi: 10.2105/ajph.66.10.968.

The mortality of Swedish and U.S. white males: a comparison of experience, 
1969-1971.

Tomasson RF.

The life expectancy of males in the United States is lower than that of males in 
most of the developed countries and in some of the not-so-developed ones. U.S. 
females, by contrast, do much better in international ranking. This study 
compares the mortality of U.S. white males with that of Swedish males who have 
had the highest reported male life expectancies in the world since the early 
1960s. Life expectancy at birth in 1969-71 was 67.9 for U.S. white males 
compared with 71.9 for Swedish males. Greater U.S. white male mortality is found 
at all ages from birth through ages 75-79. At the upper ages there is a reversal 
of the differential with U.S. white males having lower mortality than their 
Swedish counterparts. The greatest relative differentials between the two male 
populations is found at ages under 1, ages 20-24, and ages 50-59. At ages under 
1 the greater U.S. white male mortality is accounted for mainly by higher death 
rates from infectious diseases, at ages 20-24 by higher rates from the external 
causes of death (specifically accidents and homicide), and at ages 50-59 from 
most of the major organic causes of death.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.66.10.968
PMCID: PMC1653436
PMID: 970513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Rev Med Chil. 1976 Apr;104(4):243-5.

[Life spain in the human species (author's transl)].

[Article in Spanish]

Vargas L.

PMID: 973065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. S Afr Med J. 1976 Sep 4;50(38):1475-8.

The Cornelia de Lange syndrome: a study of 9 affected individuals.

Begeman G, Duggan R.

Nine children with the Cornelia de Lange syndrome have been examined and 
investigated. Prominent among the clinically important features are retarded 
physical and mental development, limb malformation and limited life expectancy. 
Early diagnosis is important for prognostication and management, and is based on 
the recognition of the combination of the stigmata and typical facial 
characteristics.

PMID: 973167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Circulation. 1976 Nov;54(5):756-61. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.54.5.756.

ST-segment variations after acute myocardial infarction. Relationship to 
clinical status.

Kronenberg MW, Hodges M, Akiyama T, Roberts DL, Ehrich DA, Biddle TL, Yu PN.

The degree of vectorcardiographic ST-segment elevation was employed as an index 
of myocardial ischemic injury in a study of 27 patients after acute myocardial 
infarction (AMI). The ST-segment vector magnitude (STVM) was derived from the 
continuously recorded modified Frank vectorcardiogram and was plotted serially 
by hours after onset of AMI. The STVM in normal subjects was 51.1 +/- 7.1 muV 
(mean +/- SE). A standard deviation of the pooled variance of 15.2 muV was 
obtained in a group of control patients and a change of more than 2 SD (greater 
than 30 muV) in an individual STVM was considered to be significant. The STVM 
progressively decreased in patients who survived without clinical complications 
while it remained elevated in those with congestive heart failure. A modest, 
sustained re-elevation of STVM was observed in patients who developed 
pericarditis, and a significant late average increase of 64 muV occurred in 
survivors with infarct extension. In contrast, STVM underwent a major increase 
in patients who died. In five of these six patients without associated 
pericarditis a mean increase of 164 muV was recorded in the last 5-12 hours of 
life. While death was clinically predictable in two patients with cardiogenic 
shock, it was not so for the four other patients who died. Thus, major increases 
in STVM frequently suggested significant new ischemic injury and were often 
premonitory to sudden death after AMI. The increases preceding death implied 
that not only ventricular extopy but also lethal conduction abnormalities after 
AMI might be ischemia-related.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.54.5.756
PMID: 975471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Duodecim. 1976;92(18):993-9.

[Normal senescence].

[Article in Finnish]

Hirsjarvi E.

PMID: 976148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Infect Immun. 1976 Nov;14(5):1179-83. doi: 10.1128/iai.14.5.1179-1183.1976.

Bacterial decontamination and antileukemic therapy of AKR mice.

Srivastava KK, Pollard M, Wagner M.

Four nonabsorbable antibiotics (streptomycin, neomycin, bacitracin, and 
amphotericin B) and a germicidal dip solution (Zephiran chloride/water) were 
used to eliminate all the detectable bacteria from conventional AKR mice. 
Control mice were not decontaminated and were used as such. When 
antibiotic-decontaminated and control mice developed clinical manifestations of 
spontaneous lymphatic leukemia, each was treated for the disease with an 
antitumor drug (cyclophosphamide [CP]) at weekly intervals. With the 
decontamination procedure, mice of each of the two groups became bacteria-free 
after 16 weeks of continuous oral administration of the antibiotics and two 
separate germicidal dippings. All decontaminated mice remained free of bacteria 
throughout the experiment. The bacterial flora of the control mice remained 
unaltered. With CP therapy, the mean survival time of the female decontaminated 
mice was 65 days, whereas that of male mice was 218 days. The average survival 
time of the CP-treated control leukemic mice was 51 days. Untreated 
decontaminated or control mice usually died of leukemia within 7 days after the 
onset of symptoms of leukemia. Although CP therapy was not curative, it did 
prolong the life expectancy of the decontaminated mice significantly.

DOI: 10.1128/iai.14.5.1179-1183.1976
PMCID: PMC415511
PMID: 977125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. J R Coll Physicians Lond. 1976 Oct;11(1):5-20.

Some failures of Modern Medicine. The Milroy Lecture 1976.

Pemberton J.

PMCID: PMC5368765
PMID: 978593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Lab Anim. 1976 Oct;10(10):419-42. doi: 10.1258/002367776780956917.

Lifespan, age changes and tumour incidence in an ageing C57BL mouse colony.

Rowlatt C, Chesterman FC, Sheriff MU.

Detailed data from a colony of C57BL mice kept for research into ageing 
processes are given on weights of 13 organs between the ages of 6 and 30 months; 
pathological findings and x-ray results from animals aged 6, 24 and 30 months; 
age-specific tumour incidences in 24 organs in 3-month period up to 36 months of 
age. Results of previously published age-related studies of reproductive 
capacity, dental abnormalities and brain changes are summarised.

DOI: 10.1258/002367776780956917
PMID: 979138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Med J Aust. 1976 Jun 19;1(SP4):11-2. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1976.tb76707.x.

Obesity as a risk factor.

Woodhouse SP.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1976.tb76707.x
PMID: 979778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. N Engl J Med. 1976 Dec 2;295(23):1302-8. doi: 10.1056/NEJM197612022952308.

The cell biology of human aging.

Hayflick L.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM197612022952308
PMID: 980063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1976 May 25;65(21):646-51.

[Thyroid neoplasms. Study on a series of cases from 1947-1974].

[Article in French]

Buffat JD.

PMID: 981180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1976 Jun 15;65(24):737-41.

[Epidemiology and risk factors in cardio- and cerebrovascular disease (author's 
transl)].

[Article in French]

Delachaux A.

PMID: 981188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Radiobiol Radiother (Berl). 1976;17(3):365-8.

[The importance of survival quota and of mean expectance of life for late 
metastases of mamma carcinoma (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Baldauf K, Möpert S, Nährig G, zur Horst-Meyer H, Schicke B.

PMID: 981541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Scand J Rheumatol. 1976;5(3):167-73. doi: 10.3109/03009747609165457.

Follow-up study of synovectomies of the knee joint in patients suffering from 
rheumatoid arthritis.

Pätiälä H.

Synovectomies of the knee joint that were performed during the years 1960-65 at 
the Rheumatism Foundation Hospital because of rheumatoid arthritis have been 
re-examined after the lapse of 9.5 years in 156 patients and 202 knee joints and 
110 non-operated knee joints of the same patients. Track of motion was helped 
both in synovectomized and in control knees. Deficiency of extension decreased 
only in the synovectomized knees; track of motion of the knee was improved by 
the operation. Swelling and pain appeared less often in operated than in control 
knees. The patient's own assessment of the operating results was good in 71% and 
poor in 12% of the cases. Radiological deterioration continued during the 
follow-up period both in the operated and in the control knees, though it was 
more severe in the latter. There is a distinct negative correlation between 
severity of disease and the patients's ability to work. Within the limits of 
this survey it is not possible to prove that synovectomy halts the radiological 
destruction of the knee joint; it is mainly a question of a measure that retards 
the rate of deterioration. One of the chief advantages of synovectomy of the 
knee is that it helps the patient to live a normal life and makes it possible 
for him to participate in working life.

DOI: 10.3109/03009747609165457
PMID: 981993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1976 Apr 10;106(15):507-13.

[Prognostic factors concerning the survival time of Hodgkin's disease stage III 
and IV, treated with cytostatic agents].

[Article in German]

Stoller U, Brunner K.

On the basis of a retrospective study of 79 well-documented cases of Hodgkin's 
disease it has been possible to determine the prognostic significance of several 
factors in regard to 3-year survival. All patients evaluated were in stage III 
or IV and receiving polychemotherapy. According to the survival curves, the 
following factors adversely affected the prognosis to a significant extent: 
clinical stage IV, the presence of systemic symptoms, male sex, and failure to 
receive maintenance therapy. Also, patients treated by polychemotherapy only on 
relapse following other prior treatment, had a somewhat worse prognosis, though 
in out patient material this was not statistically significant. Other criteria 
significantly affecting the probability of 3-year survival in a negative sense 
were: decreased activity index, anemia, lymphopenia, elevated alkaline 
phosphatase values, low serum albumin and high serum globulin values. Elevated 
sedimentation rate, leukocytosis and leukopenia had no statistically significant 
influence upon survival.

PMID: 982004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Science. 1976 Nov 12;194(4266):732-4. doi: 10.1126/science.982039.

Sleep in mammals: ecological and constitutional correlates.

Allison T, Cicchetti DV.

The interrelationships between sleep, ecological, and constitutional variables 
were assessed statistically for 39 mammalian species. Slow-wave sleep is 
negatively associated with a factor related to body size, which suggests that 
large amounts of this sleep phase are disadvantageous in large species. 
Paradoxical sleep is associated with a factor related to predatory danger, which 
suggests that large amounts of this sleep phase are disadvantageous in prey 
species.

DOI: 10.1126/science.982039
PMID: 982039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Z Alternsforsch. 1976;31(3):203-14.

[Preparing for old age, necessity, ways, content, limits (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Eitner S, Eitner A, Schmidt UJ, Schulz FH.

International findings and our own results in gerohygienic sociogerontological, 
geriatric, medical epidemiological and psychogerontological research have 
positively confirmed the need for preparing for old age. Demographic data in the 
GDR has brought to light the growing need to put the preparation for an active 
old age into practive making use of research data and of the existing resources. 
The means of implementing the programme life in the overall resources of our 
developed socialist society, in our laws, in our well-organized public health 
system and above all in the industrial health protection service. It is shown 
that the society's potentials and the industrial health protection service, 
which operates on a country-wide scale, can have a positive influence on ageing 
and on life of old people. The ways in which this can be achieved are described. 
These ways are based on the main medical, psychological and social aspects of 
preparaing for old age. The existing limits must be taken into account when 
translating the schemes of preparation for old age into practice of socialist 
health protection. It is indispensable to concentrate on problems of focal 
importance. The preparation must first benefit factory workers exposed to health 
hazards. Medical preparation should come first, followed by psychological and 
social preparation. In the long term, preparation for old age must be integrated 
into the overall process of education and it must start at school, where it 
should be integrated into biology and civics classes. Such a process corresponds 
to the life-long process of ageing, to socialist principles and to the efforts 
of the public health system to preserve health, working capacity and joy of 
living up to a ripe old age.

PMID: 983146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Z Alternsforsch. 1976;31(3):241-8.

[Problems associated with variable retirement age (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Brännström M, Eitner S.

Problems associated with variable retirement age are very topical in all 
developed industrial countries, both capitalist and socialist ones. Roughly 15 
per cent of the population are over 60 and according to statistics, they can 
expect to live another 15 to 20 years. We cannot fashion the content and the 
method of varying retirement age by copying them from the capitalist world 
without a critical analysis. We must give variable retirement age a new content 
that would correspond to our socialist society. We must give variable basically 
aimed at enabling people to stay active at old age rather than just retire. In 
fixing the time at which working life is to end, disposition and exposure 
criteria must be taken into consideration. Our views on varying retirement age 
are presented on the basis of recent studies in this field. Their objectives are 
in full conformity with the fundamental socialist aim fully to integrated the 
aged and the ageing into normal community life and to make sure that they are 
given an opportunity to lead a useful life in the economic or social sphere if 
they wish to do so. This aim is fully in keeping with the fundamental right to 
work and to a place of work and with the right to integration into social or 
intellectual and cultural life of the community.

PMID: 983148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Life Sci. 1976 Jul 15;19(2):183-91. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(76)90389-1.

Reproduction function in mice exposed to neonatal irradiation.

Nash DJ, Ragin JF.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(76)90389-1
PMID: 986523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Science. 1976 Oct 15;194(4262):335-7. doi: 10.1126/science.987617.

Synchronization of periodical cicada emergences.

Hoppensteadt FC, Keller JB.

Synchronized insect emergences are shown to be a possible consequence of 
predation in the presence of a limited environmental carrying capacity through a 
mathematical model for cicada populations that includes these two features. 
Synchronized emergences, like those observed in 13- and 17-year cicades, are 
predicted for insects with sufficiently long life-spans. Balanced solutions, in 
which comparable emergences occur each year, are found for insects having 
sufficiently short life-spans, such as 3-, 4-, and 7-year cicadas. For the 
values used here, synchronized emergences occur for insects with life-spans of 
10 years or more, and balanced emergences occur for life-spans of fewer than 10 
years.

DOI: 10.1126/science.987617
PMID: 987617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


