765. J Lab Clin Med. 1976 Nov;88(5):732-44.

Oxygen-dependent circulation of sickle erythrocytes.

Castro O, Osbaldiston GW, Aponte L, Roth R, Orlin J, Finch SC.

The effects of in vivo hyperoxia and hypoxia on the intravascular survival of 
51Cr-labeled human sickle erythrocytes (SS RBS's) were studied after transfusion 
into rats and guinea pigs. The function of these animals' reticuloendothelial 
and complement systems had been previously inhibited by ethyl palmitate and 
cobra venom factor, thus allowing extension of the survival of the heterologous 
human RBC's. In the blood of rats breathing ambient air the 51Cr half-life 
survival of RBC's from 11 patients with sickle-cell anemia (mean, 7.1 hours; 
range, 2.0 to 16.5 hours) was significantly shorter (p less than 0.001) than 
that of five control subjects (mean, 17.5 hours; range, 12.0 to 26.5 hours). 
When rats transfused with sickle RBC's were exposed to 100 per cent O2, a mean 
increment of 16.5 per cent blood 51Cr activity was observed within the first 15 
to 60 minutes of hyperoxia. Subsequent oxygen deprivation (7 to 8 per cent O2) 
resulted in an equally rapid decrease (mean, 35.6 per cent) in blood 51Cr 
activity. Continuation of hypoxia for up to 17 hours did not cause further 
acceleration of 51Cr activity. Continuation of hypoxia for up to 17 hours did 
not cause further acceleration of 51 Cr RBC clearance. Under these conditions 
the slope of the sickle RBC survival curve was similar to that in animals kept 
in ambient air. After hypoxic rats were allowed to breate room air again, mean 
51Cr blood activity increased by 41.7 per cent. Sickle RBC's transfused to 
guinea pigs exhibited similar oxygen-dependent survival characteristics. The 
survival of 51Cr RBC's from four adult control subjects and of unlabeled fetal 
RBC's from three human cord blood samples was unaffected by oxygen changes. When 
rats that had been transfused with sickle reticulocytes labeled in vitro with 
59Fe were made hypoxic, a decrease in blood 59Fe activity was observed. The 
extent of this decrease was comparable to that in rats transfused with 51Cr 
labeled RBC's from the same patients. There was increased liver and spleen 51Cr 
activity in animals transfused with 51Cr SS RBC's and killed during hypoxia when 
compared to that of hyperoxic animals. These studies suggest that a minor 
population of sickle cells is removed from circulation during hypoxia and 
circulates again upon reoxygenation of the animals. Erythrocyte aging does not 
appear to be responsible for this phenomenon. The oxygen-depdendent circulation 
of a population of SS RBC's in this animal system is probably due to reversible 
sickling and trapping of sickled cells in the microcirculation.

PMID: 988104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Cancer. 1976 Oct;38(4):1862-6. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(197610)38:4<1862::aid-cncr2820380467>3.0.co;2-8.

Lymphoma of the spinal extradural space.

Haddad P, Thaell JF, Kiely JM, Harrison EG, Miller RH.

Ninety-four patients with lymphoma involving the extradural space with spinal 
cord compression proven at the time of laminectomy were reviewed. There were 
about three times as many patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma than with 
Hodgkin's disease. The majority of those with Hodgkin's disease had a proven 
histologic diagnosis before the onset of the spinal cord compression syndrome, 
whereas only 15% of those with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma had previously been so 
diagnosed. Plain roentgenograms of the spine were suggestive of tumor 
involvement in less than one-third of the patients, whereas myelograms were 
invariably abnormal. As noted by others, the outlook for functional recovery and 
extended life expectancy is relatively good for patients with this type of 
cancer, in contrast to reports in the literature regarding prognosis for 
patients who have metastatic carcinoma with extradural spinal cord compression.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(197610)38:4<1862::aid-cncr2820380467>3.0.co;2-8
PMID: 991100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Demography. 1976 Nov;13(4):513-9.

Influence of instantaneous fertility decline to replacement level on population 
growth: an alternative model.

Mitra S.

If age-specific birth rate mx of a stable population drop abruptly to mx/Ro, 
where Ro is the net reproduction rate, then, according to Keyfitz, the size of 
the ultimate stationary population relative to that at the beginning of the 
process is given by I = beoo(Ro - 1)/(rmuRo), where b and r are the birth rate 
and the rate of growth, respectively, of the stable population, eoo the life 
expectancy at birth, and mu the average age at childbirth in resulting 
stationary population. Noting that the decline in mx need not necessarily be 
uniform, investigation has veen carried out to examine the effect on I when 
fertility decline is more rapid at higher ages. In particular, the effect of the 
reduced age-specific rates such as mxe-rx (which also produces a stationary 
population) has been analyzed, and simplifications of the results carried out 
separately for three different models of the net maternity function. It has also 
been shown the when mx drops abruptly to some m* x, where the form of m*x need 
not be specified except for the restriction that the resulting population will 
be stationary, the value of the index can be approximately obtained from I* = 
beoo (1 - rmu/2), where mu is the average age at childbearing of theinitial 
stable population.

PMID: 992174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Demography. 1976 Nov;13(4):541-64.

Life table techniques for multiple-cause mortality.

Manton KG, Tolley DH, Poss SS.

A lethal defect-wear model of mortality is presented which rationalizes the 
assumption of independent risks when death may be due to more than a single 
condition. Under this model, it is shown how competing risk theory and standard 
categorical data methods may be merged in a unified approach to the analysis of 
multiple-cause mortality data. The methodology is used to analyze linkages among 
diseases in the mortality data and evaluate the implication of the elimination 
of patterns of morbid states for multiple-cause mortality data from deaths 
occurring in 1969 in North Carolina.

PMID: 992176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Fortschr Med. 1976 Nov 11;94(32):1852-7.

[Pacemaker implantation data registry. Supervision of the function of pacemaker 
and longevity].

[Article in German]

Lampadius MS, Pr√§uer HW, Werber K, Wirtzfeld A.

To prolong the expected lifetime of pacemakers, more and more pulse generators 
with reduced output and electrodes with high impedance are used nowadays. 
Therefore it becomes necessary to measure carefully the physiological parameters 
as threshold, intracradial potential or the electrode-myocard impedance. When 
evaluating the threshold it is important to know the output properties of the 
pacemaker to be used and to take into consideration that the pacemaker itself 
also will influence the size of the intracardial potential. As no reliable data 
about the longevity of pacemaker electrodes is available, the total electrode 
impedance should be measured. Thus at least insulation defects can be detected 
and impending pacemaker failure be avoided. To observe long term changes in 
those parameters it is advisable to keep a comprehensive implantation protocol.

PMID: 992548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Prev Med. 1976 Dec;5(4):483-95. doi: 10.1016/0091-7435(76)90025-6.

The high cost of self-deception.

Berg RL.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-7435(76)90025-6
PMID: 995876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1976 May 29;106(22):730-42.

[Curative aspects of modern combination chemotherapy in generalized malignant 
lymphomas].

[Article in German]

Viollier AF, Senn HJ.

102 patients with disseminated stage III B and IV malignant lymphoma (52 with 
Hodgkin's disease and 50 with non-Hodgkin lymphoma) at the same hospital center 
were analysed with respect to remission rate, quality and duration of remission, 
survival, and therapeutic toxicity. The patient group was subdivided into two 
consecutive 3-year groups (1966-1968 and 1969-1971). While the 1966-1968 group 
was mainly treated by "simple", individually tailored monochemotherapy, 
supplemented if necessary by local irradiation, the 1969-1971 group was 
systematically treated by intensive combination-chemotherapy programs based on 
multiinstitutional studies. The following conclusions could be drawn: 1. 
Remission rate, especially the percentage of complete remissions, and remission 
duration greatly increased in a comparable group of patients and in both types 
of lymphoma during the period 1969-1971 as compared to earlier experience from 
1966-1968. 2. An increasing proportion of patients with disseminated Hodgkin's 
disease and non-Hodgkin lymphoma experienced (partly calculated) longterm 
survival of 5 or more years after the start of chemotherapy or after widespread 
dissemination of the disease. 3. The probability of longterm survival of females 
with Hodgkin's disease in our patient group was significantly better than for 
male patients. This prognostic sex-dependence was not found in the patients with 
non-Hodgkin lymphoma. 4. Quality and duration of the first induced remission 
seems to have an important bearing on longterm survival and correlates 
positively with the life expectancy of the patients with all forms of lymphoma.

PMID: 996491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1976 Jul 3;106(27):922-4.

[Early diagnosis of bronchial cancer: its usefulness].

[Article in French]

Favez G.

Incidence of and mortality from bronchial carcinoma are reviewed. The advantages 
of early recognition of the disease and the favourable role of early recognition 
as a factor in the therapeutic outcome are stressed. Etiologic factors and 
diagnostic procedures are summarized. The need for a public education program is 
emphasized.

PMID: 996513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1976 Jul 31;106(31):1029-34.

[Diabetic retinopathy; facts and speculations].

[Article in German]

Fankhauser F.

Our knowledge of the etiology of diabetic retinopathy is very limited. 
Correlation of the time interval between onset of diabetes and diabetic 
retinopathy as a function of age makes it possible to estimate the degree of 
resistance of the small vessels to the microangiopathy-inducing agent for the 
various age groups. Epidemiologic data reveal that, viewed statistically, 
malignant diabetic retinopathy is relatively rare, and that the life expectancy 
of blind diabetics is longer than is commonly assumed.

PMID: 996525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Adv Prostaglandin Thromboxane Res. 1976;1:417-24.

Prostaglandins: a possible regulator of muscle tone in the ductus arteriosus.

Coceani F, Olley PM, Bodach E.

We have shown that E-type prostaglandins are potent relaxant of the lamb ductus 
arteriosus at low, but not high, oxygen tensions, and that their effect is 
possibly controlled by the rate of endogenous PG synthesis. These findings, 
together with the demonstration of the contractile effect of PG synthesis 
blockers on the hypoxic ductus in vitro and in vivo and of the relaxant effect 
of GSH in vitro, strongly suggest that E-type prostaglandins are responsible for 
maintaining ductus patency during fetal life. The endoperoxide intermediates may 
act in concert with PGEs. While our findings argue against the idea that 
PGF2alpha mediates the oxygen-induced constriction, they suggest that 
suppression of PGE activity in a high oxygen environment might be important to 
the initiation of ductus closure at birth. An extension of this concept is that 
continued patency of the ductus after birth results from either the excessive 
formation of PGEs or from the persistence of a "fetal-like" response of ductal 
muscle to endogenous or bloodborne PGEs, or both. The present scheme of PGE 
action is amenable to practical applications. Our work and that of Elliott et 
al. (15) prove that PGEs can be used to reopen a constricted ductus in children 
with cyanotic congenital heart disease, thus improving their change of survival 
during subsequent corrective surgery. Conversely, treatment with blockers of PG 
synthesis is envisaged as an alternative to surgery for closing a persistent 
ductus.

PMID: 998435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Ann Thorac Surg. 1976 Dec;22(6):584-7. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)64477-3.

Permanent cardiac pacemakers in children: technical considerations.

Donahoo JS, Haller JA, Zonnebelt S, Neill C, Gott VL, Brawley RK.

Placement of permanent cardiac pacemakers in children presents technical 
problems that are not encountered in the adult. Problems unique to pacemaker 
implantation in children are related to the patient's size, the relative 
bulkiness of pulse generators, the lack of subcutaneous tissue, and the child's 
growth and long life expectancy. Based on our experience with implantation of 27 
permanent cardiac pacemakers in 13 children, we have found that the use of small 
pulse generators, placement of epicardial leads, insertion of properitoneal 
pulse generators, and use of recharabeable pacemakers are satisfactory methods 
in children.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)64477-3
PMID: 999384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Helv Chir Acta. 1976 Dec;43(5-6):615-9.

[What has the current therapy for breast cancer achieved].

[Article in German]

Mutzner F, Amgwerd R, Gessner U, Fischl F, Raiber M.

PMID: 1002523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Med Welt. 1976 Nov 12;27(46):2201-5.

[Risk factors of atherosclerosis in relation to the life expectancy of today and 
life prospects of tomorrow].

[Article in German]

Schettler G, M√∂rl H.

PMID: 1004158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Prog Food Nutr Sci. 1976;2(4):143-91.

Food requirements and food supplies in classical times in relation to the diet 
of the various classes.

White KD.

PMID: 1005733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Sov Med. 1976 Aug;(8):109-11.

[Life expectancy of patients after stomach resection by the Bilroth I method, 
depending on the morphology of the tumor].

[Article in Russian]

Soinov NN.

PMID: 1006407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Surgery. 1976 Dec;80(6):748-55.

Lymphangioplasty: a ten year evaluation.

Silver D, Puckett CL.

Sixteen patients with refractory primary and secondary lymphedema have had 
multifilament Teflon wick lymphangioplasties during the past 10 years. There 
were no operative deaths or operative complications. All patients experienced an 
early reduction of their edema, with objective improvement lasting 6 months to 5 
years. The average duration of benefit was 13 months. Subjective improvement has 
lasted to 7 years. Lymphangioplasty is simple, virtually free of complications, 
and offers periods of control of edema and cellulitis that compare favorably 
with those obtained by other operative procedures. It should be considered for 
the management of patients with incapacitating lymphedema, especially those 
patients with a limited life expectancy.

PMID: 1006523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1976 Nov 12;88(21):685-9.

[Prognosis in primary malignant melanoma based on histological assessment (a 
comparative study between two groups with different length of survival)].

[Article in German]

Kokoschka EM, Niebauer G.

In this retrospective study, sixty patients with primary malignant melanoma 
running a highly variable course (long- and short-term survivors) were reviewed 
histologically. In contrast to reports by other workers, a constant histological 
reaction pattern was selected, whereas the host reaction was the variable factor 
studied. In the majority of long-term survivors the tumour was surrounded by a 
dense lympho-histiocytic infiltrate, which was minimal or even absent in 
patients with a short-term survival rate. In the patients with long-term 
survival the peritumour connective tissue was definitely increased, whereas in 
the group in which the disease ran a short course there was destruction of 
peritumour connective tissue. The importance of these findings as an additional 
parameter for histological prognosis is discussed.

PMID: 1007278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Z Gastroenterol. 1976 Nov;14(7):722-3.

[Carcinoma in the operated stomach--diagnostic consequences for the practice].

[Article in German]

Kobler E, S√§uberli H, N√ºesch HJ, Ammann R, Deyhle P.

PMID: 1007354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Br J Prev Soc Med. 1976 Dec;30(4):231-2. doi: 10.1136/jech.30.4.231.

Survival of healthy older people.

Anderson F, Cowan NR.

The purpose of this study was to discover any relationships which might exist 
between measurable variables recorded when a healthy group of men and women, 
aged 70 years and over, were examined and their subsequent survival time. It was 
found that height, body weight, systolic and diastolic blood pressures, 
haemoglobin, hand grip power, cardiothoracic ratio, and pulse rate are of no 
predictive value in the estimation of survival time. Survival is not influenced 
by marital status or occupational class. For both sexes the degree of kyphosis 
and age are useful predictive criteria in respect of survival time. However, 
much research work requires to be done to explain why many people die at the 
time they do.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.30.4.231
PMCID: PMC478971
PMID: 1009273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Growth. 1976 Dec;40(4):343-67.

A phenomenological approach to the growth of the winter stonefly, Taeniopteryx 
nivalis (Fitch) (Plecoptera:Taeniopterygidae).

Knight AW, Simmons MA, Simmons CS.

The growth and respiration of a univoltine winter stonefly, Taeniopteryx nivalis 
(Fitch) was evaluated over a period which encompassed both the nymphal and adult 
life stages. A simple allometry did not describe the relation found between 
weight and respiration during the evaluated growth period. The relation between 
growth and respiration of T. nivalis was described by an extension of the 
stochastic growth model of Zotina and Zotin, which enables one to determine the 
biological age of an organism by utilizing only weight and respiration. From a 
comparison of the general Bertalanffy growth model with the extended stochastic 
model, the growth of T. nivalis up to the last instar could be ascribed entirely 
to anabolic processes; differentiation probably accounts for the observed 
relation between weight and respiration during the last nymphal instar.

PMID: 1010390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. J Am Vener Dis Assoc. 1976 Dec;3(2 Pt 2):148-52.

Treatment of cardiovascular syphilis.

St John RK.

The English literature on the treatment of cardiovascular syphilis with 
penicillin was reviewed. To date there have been no controlled randomized 
clinical trials to demonstrate that penicillin therapy prolongs life expectancy, 
alleviates symptoms, or arrests the disease process. In spite of many 
shortcomings in the published data, penicillin is safe and free of severe 
reactions. Most authors agree that significant subjective improvement in the 
patient's status occurs following penicillin treatment. Once the patient has 
become symptomatic penicillin may have little efficacy. The optimal dosage and 
duration of therapy have never been established. Because of its low cost, ease 
of administration, and lack of toxicity, it should be given to all patients with 
cardiovascular syphilis in hope of arresting the effects of the disease on the 
heart and great vessels.

PMID: 1010781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. J Chronic Dis. 1976 Dec;29(12):747-58. doi: 10.1016/0021-9681(76)90049-7.

A theoretical approach to the evaluation of the mortality effects of a 'low tar' 
cigarette.

Herson J, Simpson C, Kennedy J, Kapoor S.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9681(76)90049-7
PMID: 1010869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. J Radiol Electrol Med Nucl. 1976 Nov;57(11):771-81.

[Seminoma of the ovary. Clincopathological study. The role of radiotherapy in 
treatment based upon a series of 31 cases (author's tranls)].

[Article in French]

Papillon J, Chassard JL, G√©rard J, Bonnevie R, Baudot A.

The authors collected a series of 31 cases of seminoma of the ovary over a 
period of 12 years. Statistical data, including the results of of lymphography, 
indicate that the prognosis is good, the application of strict rules in 
treatment being an essential condition. Certain patients with a pure seminoma of 
the ovary (20% of cases) die despite early and appropriate treatment. Such a 
fatal outcome occurs usually during the first 18 months. The prognosis in such 
cases may be explained in part by the degree of extension initially but the 
course in certain patients, fortunately rare, is quite dramatic. This can be 
explained neither on the basis of the histological type nor any inadequacy in 
therapy. Some special unknown factor must be involved. In general combined 
surgery and radiotherapy, adapted to the degree of extension of the disease, 
give the best change of definitive cure and, for the majority of patients, an 
entirely normal life from a feminine and maternal standpoint. This possibility 
of combining cure with conservation remains the basis of treatment of seminoma 
of the ovary in favourable cases.

PMID: 1011176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1976 Dec 4;120(49):2166-8.

[Oral contraception and hypertension].

[Article in Dutch]

Janssens J, Dijkstra JC.

PIP: Oral contraceptive (o.c.) use has been observed to cause increases in blood 
pressure. The increases are not markedly great among normotensive users during 
the first year of o.c. use, but the increase in systolic and, later, diastolic 
pressure are greater with the length of o.c. use. This o.c. induced hypertension 
has been shown to be reversible. The estrogen component is responsible for the 
increase in blood pressure, but the exact mechanism is unknown. O.c.s affect the 
renin-angiotensin system, kidney function, pituitary gland and adrenal gland 
function, and cause hemodynamic changes, all of which could be involved in the 
hypertension. Family history of hypertension, kidney disorders, age, and weight 
are all predisposing factors to o.c. induced hypertension. O.c. use is 
contraindicated for patients with preexistent hypertension or who show a 
substantial increase in blood pressure during o.c. use, except under exceptional 
circumstances.

PMID: 1012375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1976 Nov 6;106(45):1538-40.

[The spontaneous course of coronary disease].

[Article in German]

Steinbrunn W, Lichtlen P.

The natural history of coronary atherosclerotic heart disease was studied in a 
retrospective analysis of 160 patients, who underwent coronary arteriography 
from 1965 to 1969. All had at least one angiographically documented significant 
stenosis of more than 50%; the survivors were followed for at least 5 years and 
a maximum of 9 years. For the entire group, 5-year survival was 81%. Subdivided 
into single, double or triple vessel disease categories, the 5-year survival 
rates were 91, 85 and 63% respectively.

PMID: 1013668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1976 Dec 18;106(51):1871-7.

[Course and therapy of malignant melanoma].

[Article in German]

Storck H, Ott F.

The 3-, 5- and 10-year survival rates in 353 well documented cases of malignant 
melanoma in stages I, II and III are discussed in relation to condition of the 
patient when the disease was diagnosed, methods of treatment and the 
histological classes of CLARK and MIHM. The different forms of therapy (X-ray 
followed by excision, excision followed by X-ray, X-ray alone, excision alone) 
produce similar recovery rates. Significant differences observable are due to 
variations in the patients' condition (differences in the malignancy index). 
Histological classification confirms the benign nature of lentigo maligna 
melanoma (LMM) and superficial spreading melanoma (SSM) in comparison with 
nodular melanoma (NM).

PMID: 1013717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. World Health Stat Rep. 1976;29(12):682-97.

World health-related indicators.

[Article in English, French]

Logan WP.

Many of the statistics given in this report are estimates based on tentative 
data and on that extent are not reliable in a strict sense. But the picture they 
present of gross differences in demographic and social characteristics, in vital 
statistics, and in resources of medical manpower and hospital beds between major 
areas of the world is real. More than half of the people of the world live in 
South Asia and East Asia; population density is highest in Western Europe; and 
highest rates of population growth are in Middle America and Tropical South 
America. In Europe less than one-third of the population are aged under 20 
years, whereas more than half the population are aged under 20 im Middle and 
Tropical South America and the Carribbean, in Africa and in South Asia. 
Urbanization is high in Temperate South America, Northern America, Northern and 
Western Europe, and Oceania. The daily dietary energy supply per person is 50% 
higher in Northern America, Europe, USSR, and Ocenia than in Africa (excluding 
Southern Africa, South and East Asia. The Gross National Product in Northern 
America is 10 times higher than in Tropical South America and 30 to 40 times 
higher than in Western Middle and Eastern Africa and in Middle South and South 
East Asia. Crude birth rates are close to three times higher in Africa, Middle 
America and South Asia than in Europe, North America and USSR. Differences in 
crude death rates are less--rates in Western, Middle and Eastern Africa are 
double these of America Europe, USSR and Oceania. The Expectation of Life is 
over 70 years for Northern America, Europe, USSR and Oceania. It is under 50 
years for Western, Middle and Eastern Africa. In all areas the expectation of 
life at birth has increased--by up to 10 years--in the past quarter century. 
Infant mortality is less than 20 per 1 000 in Northern and Western Europe and 
Northern America. It is over 100 in Africa and South Asia. Number of physicians 
range from 25 per 10 000 population in USSR to less than 1 per 10 000 in 
Western, Middle and Eastern Africa. There are over 100 hospital beds per 10 000 
population in USSR and in Northern and Western Europe, less than 10 per 10 000 
in Western Africa, Middle South Asia and South East Asia.

PMID: 1014713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Acta Med Scand. 1976;200(6):469-73. doi: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1976.tb08267.x.

Mortality pattern among initial survivors of acute myocardial infarction using a 
life-table technique.

Helmers C, Lundman T, Maasing R, Wester PO.

The 5-year pattern of mortality among 475 immediate survivors of acute 
myocardial infarction (AMI) (mean age 65 years on entry) is described by a 
life-table technique. The risk of death was highest during the early part of the 
follow-up. After 3-4 years, the prognostic influence of the AMI seemed to be 
overshadowed by the age effect. Special attention was paid to the incidence of 
sudden death, a fictive elimination of which was shown to reduce the risk of 
death by 9-22% during the different years of the investigation period. The 
absolute number of sudden deaths was highest during the early part of the 
follow-up period but the relative importance of this mode of death was 
approximately the same during the entire 5-year period after the AMI.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1976.tb08267.x
PMID: 1015356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Ann Hum Genet. 1976 Nov;40(2):253-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1469-1809.1976.tb00188.x.

The fitness of human translocation carriers.

Bengtsson BO, Bodmer WF.

A simple method to estimate the mean fitness of human translocation carriers is 
described. The method is based on information about the inheritance pattern of 
the translocations. This kind of data can be obtained from the surveys of the 
chromosome constitutions of new-born babies. The following fitness estimates are 
obtained: D/D translocation carriers, 0-94; D/G translocation carriers, 0-83; 
and reciprocal translocation carriers, 0-67. The estimates are rather uncertain 
due to the scarcity of information, but they are consistent with the expected 
results. More accurate estimates will be obtained in the future when more data 
on translocation carriers are available and the cytological classification of 
the different translocations becomes more exact.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-1809.1976.tb00188.x
PMID: 1015819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Aust Vet J. 1976 Nov;52(11):496-501. doi:
10.1111/j.1751-0813.1976.tb06983.x.

Congenital bovine epizootic arthrogryposis and hydranencephaly in Australia. 
Distribution of antibodies to Akabane virus in Australian Cattle after the 1974 
epizootic.

Della-Porta AJ, Murray MD, Cybinski DH.

At the end of the 1974 epizootic of bovine congenital arthrogryposis and 
hydranencephaly in south-eastern New South Wales, an Australia-wide serological 
survey (about 4,000 serums) was made to determine the ditribution of cattle 
possessing serum neutralising antibodies against Akabane virus. Eighty per cent 
of the serums from cattle in northern Australia (Western Australia, Northern 
Territory, and Queensland) were positive. A detailed study in the epizootic area 
in New South Wales (particularly around Bega) showed that 80 to 100% of serums 
from cows in herds in this area possessed neutralising antibodies. The animals 
possessing antibodies extended as far south as Genoa in north-eastern Victoria, 
and as far west as Darlington Point on the Murrumbidgee River. There were no 
positive herds along the Murray River, where an outbreak of the mosquito-borne 
disease Murray Valley encephalitis occurred in 1974. Serums tested from cows in 
the rest of Victoria, South Australia, south-western Western Australia, and 
Tasmania were negative. Arthrogrypotic calves born in Tasmania and south-western 
Western Australia were not associated with the presence of Akabane virus. In 
Papua New Guinea, serums collected from cattle at Boroka, Lae, and Goroka did 
not possess neutralising antibodies. The distribution of cattle possessing 
antibodies in Australia would fit a spread of the virus by Culicoides 
brevitarsis, a biting midge from which Akabane virus had been isolated on three 
occasions. The possibility of other vectors, as well as C. brevitarsis, was 
suggested by the presence of cows possessing antibodies at Alice Springs, where 
this biting midge has not been found. Possibly most cattle in northern Australia 
become infected early in life. The epizootics in New South Wales could occur 
when seasonal conditions allow a southerly extension of virus-infected C. 
brevitarsis which feed on susceptible pregnant animals. C. brevitarsis also 
bites sheep, and both neutralising antibodies to Akabane virus and congenitally 
deformed lambs have been observed in the epizootic area. An understanding of the 
distribtuion of Akabane virus and C. brevitarsis, a possible Australian vector 
for bluetongue virus, may prove useful if bluetongue should enter Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1751-0813.1976.tb06983.x
PMID: 1016149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Cutis. 1976 Sep;18(3):359-62.

Skin changes and lesions in our senior citizens: incidences.

Tindall JP.

One hundred and sixty-three community volunteers were interviewed and examined. 
After a decade, the 69 survivors were again interviewed and examined. The 
incidences of their skin changes and lesions were recorded and 
interrelationships sought relative to internal and external signs of aging. 
Asteatosis of moderate or severe degree, large numbers of scrotal angiomas in 
men, and retention of nevi appeared to be associated with a relatively shortened 
life expectancy and may be signs of decline and approaching death in older 
individuals.

PMID: 1017303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Oncology. 1976;33(4):179-82. doi: 10.1159/000225138.

Survival data from a multiphasic mobile cancer detection unit.

Lynch HT, Brodkey FD, Guirgis HA, Swartz MJ, Lynch JF, Lynch PM.

Individuals with early cancer rarely have symptoms, through it is at this state 
that the best prognosis can be afforded. 22 out of 5,232-patients screened in a 
Mobile Cancer Detection Unit (MCDU) received cancer diagnosis (exclusive of skin 
cancer). These patients have enjoyed much greater survival than expected. For 
instance, only three have died versus and expected 7.5. Calculations show that 
if all cancer patients in the United States had a similar increase in survival, 
then the lives of at least 120,000-persons could be extended each year. These 
limited data must be interpreted cautiously. Nevertheless, they do hold promise 
since only a few percentage points increase in survival when measured against 
the full impact of the cancer problem will show significant patient benefit.

DOI: 10.1159/000225138
PMID: 1018882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1976 Nov 1;70(21):1133-5.

[Life expectancy in humans].

[Article in German]

Radoschewski M.

PMID: 1020320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1976 Oct 15;31(20):856-9.

[The primary gallbladder neoplasm].

[Article in German]

Voigtsberger P, Neupert V, Pothe H.

From 1960 to 1975 in the Surgical Clinic of the Medical Academy Erfurt 
altogether 77 patients with a primary malignoma of the gall-bladder were 
observed. Symptomatology and findings are non-characteristic. 64 times a 
laparotomy was carried out, whereby in 51 cases the intervention had to be 
finished as test laparotomy. 13 times a cholecystectomy or a biliodigestive 
anastomosis was carried out. The average survival time of the patients with test 
laparotomy was 53 days. A survival time of more than one year could nertainty. 
Issuing from this the author adopts a definite attitude to carcinogenesis and 
the importance of lithiasis.

PMID: 1020384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1976 Dec 15;31(24):1009-16.

[Long-term results in electric pacemaker therapy].

[Article in German]

Trenckmann H, Hofmann M, Emmrich K.

It is reported on experiences and results in 317 patients with altogether 690 
implantations of pacemakers from 1963 to 1974 and under comparison and with 
reference to the up to now existing long-term results published in literature 
state and tendency of the medical and technical development of the electric 
heart stimulation are discussed. The average age of outpatients was 62.9 years 
with a peak of age of 46% in the 7th decade of life. 60% were male patients, 40% 
female ones. With about 50% the constant total atrioventricular block was the 
most frequent indication. 63% of the familiar types of pacemakers were biotronic 
apparatuses, 36% of them with fixed frequency. The average duration of the 
function of all apparatuses was calculated with 20.1 months. Hereby the 
biotronic types had the longest average function times of 26.7 months (frequency 
fixed) or 26.3 months (regulated). In 373 reimplantations is shown that 2.17 
apparatuses were implanted in each patient. The total number of complications 
was 21.2% related to the total number of implantations. With 8.9% breaks of the 
cable were in the first place in myocardial electrodes. Dislocations of 
transvenous electrodes were observed only in 4.5% of our cases. With 5.8% 
pressure necroses and infections were the cause of complications stood in the 
second place concerning frequency. The total lethality was 23.7% with an age 
peak of 38% in the 8th decade of life. 13.4% of the cases of death belong to an 
early lethality with a prevailing part of epicardial implantations. In our 
patients the cumulative survival rate was after 1 year 89.3%, after 5 years 
62.3% and after 8 years 47.7%. The 50% survival rate was ca. 7.3 years. In 
comparison to the population of the same age the average expectance of life is 
transgressed by about 6 years. The prolongation of the survival time by 
electrostimulation compared with the conservative treatment of the total 
atrioventricular block with Adams-Stokes-syndrome is the essential result of the 
pacemaker therapy.

PMID: 1020405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Dtsch Z Verdau Stoffwechselkr. 1976;36(3-4):223-4.

[Chronic gastritis and life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Wolff G.

PMID: 1021398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Cancer Treat Rep. 1976 Dec;60(12):1749-60.

Effects of surgery on the cell kinetics of residual tumor.

Simpson-Herren L, Sanford AH?, Holmquist JP.

Noncurative excision of a primary sc Lewis lung tumor performed on Day 7 or 
later results in an increase in the thymidine index and growth rate with minimal 
changes in the cell cycle parameters of the lung metastases. The stimulation of 
the lung nodules is accompanied by a small but consistent decrease in median 
lifespan. Sham surgery performed on Day 3 or later also results in a decrease in 
median lifespan and an increase in the thymidine index of the undisturbed 
primary tumor. Artifical metastases (10(6) cells iv) are inhibited by the 
presence of a second (sc) implant and the median lifespan of the doubly 
implanted mice exceeds that of mice bearing iv implants only. In mice bearing 
widely metastasized Lewis lung carcinoma, surgery alone may have a detrimental 
effect on life expectancy, but the residual tumor foci, stimulated to more rapid 
growth, should be appropriate targets for adjuvant chemotherapy.

PMID: 1026333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Hosp Pract. 1976 Jul;11(7):65-71. doi: 10.1080/21548331.1976.11706968.

Surgical management of the elderly.

Ferris P.

DOI: 10.1080/21548331.1976.11706968
PMID: 1026635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Hosp Pract. 1976 May;11(5):51-97. doi: 10.1080/21548331.1976.11706932.

Circadian systems in man and their implications.

Aschoff J.

DOI: 10.1080/21548331.1976.11706932
PMID: 1027696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Hosp Med Staff. 1976 Feb;5(2):12-8.

The legal aspects of a patient care classification system.

Annas GJ.

PMID: 1028764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Verh Dtsch Ges Inn Med. 1976;82 Pt 2:2009-24.

[Diet therapy of diabetes mellitus].

[Article in German]

Gries FA.

PMID: 1030160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Health Serv Res. 1976 Winter;11(4):478-507.

Health status: types of validity and the index of well-being.

Kaplan RM, Bush JW, Berry CC.

The concept of validity as it applies to measures of health and health status is 
examined in the context of a set of standard, widely accepted definitions of 
validity. Criterion validity is shown to be irrelevant to health status measures 
because of the lack of a single specific, directly observable measure of health 
for use as a criterion. To overcome this problem, the Index of Well-being has 
been constructed to fulfill the definition of content validity by including all 
levels of function and symptom/problem complexes, a clearly defined relation to 
the death state, and consumer ratings of the relative desirability of the 
function levels. Data from a two-wave household interview survey provide 
convergent evidence of construct validity by demonstrating an expected positive 
correlation of the Index of Well-being with self-rated well-being and expected 
negative correlations with age, number of chronic medical conditions, number of 
reported symptoms or problems, number of physician contacts, and dysfunctional 
status. Discriminant evidence of construct validity is demonstrated by predicted 
differences in correlation between concurrent Index of Well-being scores and 
self-assessed overall health status, and between the Index of Well-being scores 
and self-rated well-being on different days. A simple method of estimating a 
currently usable comprehensive population index of health status, the Weighted 
Life Expectancy, is described.

PMCID: PMC1071947
PMID: 1030700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1976 May 28;88(11):337-41.

[Primary malignant tumours of the small intestine (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

G√∂ber I, Wayand W.

In the years between 1936 and 1973 19 patients with malignant tumours of the 
small intestine were admitted to the 2nd Department of Surgery, University of 
Vienna. Analogous to the findings of large-scale investigations adenocarcinomas 
(7 cases) preponderate in the upper small intestine in our case material, while 
lymphosarcomas and carcinoids mainly occur in the ileum. A radical surgical 
procedure was possible in 11 cases. The adenocarcinomas have the most 
unfavourable prognosis, whilst survival times of up to 10 years were found with 
lymphosarcomas and carcinoid tumours.

PMID: 1036639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Milbank Mem Fund Q Health Soc. 1975 Summer;53(3):353-75.

The longevity and mortality of American physicians, 1969-1973.

Goodman LJ.

This paper analyzes the mortality experience of male and female physicians 
during the five-year period 1969 through 1973 in terms of age, sex, geographic 
location, and medical specialty. Physician mortality and longevity are then 
compared with the experience prevailing among the U.S. white population of the 
same age and sex. Relationships between socioeconomic status and mortality 
suggest that physicians should have a better mortality experience than the 
general population and as such have a greater overall expectation of life. 
Previous studies of physician mortality in the United States using data from the 
records of the American Medical Association, have examined physician mortality 
relative to comparable groups of white males. No studies of physician mortality 
utilizing a population-based approach have been reported since that of the 1949 
to 1951 population of physicians, and previous studies may have been subject to 
certain limitations in the data. Empirical findings are presented which 
demonstrate the improvement in physician longevity since 1925. The relationship 
between age- and sex-specific mortality and geographic location and medical 
specialization is also discussed.

PMID: 1041511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Image (IN). 1975;7(3):10-21. doi: 10.1111/j.1547-5069.1975.tb01611.x.

Update on aging: its problems, its promises.

Kellett A.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1547-5069.1975.tb01611.x
PMID: 1041954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Thai J Nurs. 1975 Jul;24(3):283-6.

[How to perceive a long life].

[Article in Thai]

Holabut W.

PMID: 1051724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Ciba Found Symp. 1976;(44):185-95. doi: 10.1002/9780470720264.ch12.

Government needs and public expectations.

Rogers P.

The priorities for research which emerge from looking at the health needs of 
patients collectively are examined here. Priorities, however imperfect, are 
discernible when the five indices of where the main burdens on the health 
services lie are examined; those indices are inpatient days, outpatient 
referrals, general practitioner consultations, sickness-benefit days, and loss 
of life expectancy. Housing, employment, nutrition, etc., are equally relevant 
to health and to the question of priorities in medical research. It is important 
in dealing with government needs and public expectations to be clear what health 
and social services cannot do and what people must do for themselves.

DOI: 10.1002/9780470720264.ch12
PMID: 1052064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 1975 Jan-Mar;15(1):28-36.

[Professional life table in medicine (1968)].

[Article in French]

Bui-Dang-Ha Doan J.

PMID: 1052956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Can J Surg. 1975 Nov;18(6):519-28.

Experience with surgical salvage in pulmonary tuberculosis: application to 
general thoracic surgery.

Delarue NC, Pearson FG, Henderson RD, Cooper JD, Nelems JM, Gale G.

The diminishing incidence of pulmonary tuberculosis and the increasing 
effectiveness of drug therapy have resulted in an almost complete disappearance 
of surgical problems in the management of patients with this disease. However, 
the lessons learned from the management of such problems should not be 
forgotten, for they are equally applicable to the management of disabling and 
life-endangering problems in general thoracic surgical practice. "Salvage" 
situations develop when therapeutic requirements for control of disease are 
combined with factors affecting a patient's health so as to increase the 
surgical risk beyond the range usually considered acceptable. Attempts to 
salvage patients are indicated when treatment has failed to arrest disease, when 
life expectancy is threatened, or when return to normal activity is imperiled. 
Risk may be increased because of age, inadequate cardiopulmonary reserve, or 
chronic toxemia; in tuberculosis, risk may be increased because of positive 
sputum culture or resistance of organisms. Experience with 146 tuberculous 
patients has provided a basis for evaluation of the indications for resection, 
prophylactic and therapeutic thoracoplasty, and closure of bronchopleural 
fistulas in general thoracic surgical salvage. Both infection in residual spaces 
and bronchopleural fistulas are serious complications that can be controlled by 
thoracoplasty and pedicled muscle grafts. Prophylactic use of osteoplastic 
