thoracoplasty and intercostal muscle grafts warrant more serious consideration. 
In established complications a "tailored" thoracoplasty can also be combined 
with an intercostal muscle graft.

PMID: 1053561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Bull N Y Acad Med. 1975 Jan;51(1):75-9.

Primary prevention of cancer.

Cole P.

PMCID: PMC1749637
PMID: 1054280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Cancer Res. 1975 Dec;35(12):3596-8.

Survival of mice with metastatic osteosarcoma treated by cyclophosphamide or 
radiotherapy.

Shaeffer J, El-Mahdi AM, Constable WC.

Dunn osteosarcoma cells injected i.v. into tumor-free isogeneic C3H/He mice 
resulted in artificial pulmonary metastases, which were treated by 
cyclophosphamide (100 mg/kg/day i.p. for 3 days) or single thoracic X-ray doses 
of 1500 rads either 1 or 14 days after tumor cell injection. Compared to 
untreated controls, reduction in lung colony number and increase in life-span 
for the 1-day metastases were 56 and 46% for radiated mice, and 100 and greater 
than 367% for cyclophosphamide-treated mice. Corresponding values for 14-day 
metastases were 42, 26, 85, and 98%, respectively. Nine of 44 mice bearing 1-day 
metastases treated by cyclophosphamide are surviving greater than 340 days after 
treatment. Both treatments resulted in the extension of life-span and reduction 
of the number of lung colonies, and, in both modalities, there was a reduced 
antitumor effectiveness when treatment was withheld until the disease was more 
advanced.

PMID: 1059504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. N Y State J Med. 1975 Oct;75(12):2135-7.

Stress, aging, and mental health.

Nordlicht S.

PMID: 1059916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Nihon Shika Ishikai Zasshi. 1975;28(6):611-3.

[Simplified life expectancy chart--1974].

[Article in Japanese]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1061741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1976 Jun 11;101(24):915-20. doi:
10.1055/s-0028-1104187.

[Differential diagnosis of atypical chronic myeloid leukaemia].

[Article in German]

Klein UE, Schwarze EW, Schwalbe P, Tolksdorf ME.

Observations in six adult patients with leukaemic differential white counts, 
predominantly mature-celled, and with hepatosplenomegaly show that the 
mature-celled but fulminant (para-)neutrophil leukaemia must be differentiated 
from Ph1-positive chronic myeloid leukaemia. This (para-)neutrophil leukaemia is 
probably identical with the previously described atypical chronic myelosis of 
the adult, chronic myeloid leukaemia of childhood and the Pelger-like chronic 
myeloid leukaemia. Cardinal signs are a mature-celled differential count, short 
life expectancy (1 year), initial platelet deficiency, increased activity of 
granulocyte alkaline phosphatase, absence of Ph1-chromosome, and poor 
therapeutic response to busulfan. This curious and yet apparently not uncommon 
disease has been observed in the adult age group predominantly in men. The 
frequently high HbF level observed in juvenile chronic myeloid leukaemia could 
not be demonstrated in adults. Some of these neutrophil leukaemias are 
characterized by medullary fibrosis and terminal increase of immature blast 
cells (blast crises?) of which the diagnostic reliability is still disputed.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1104187
PMID: 1064523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. TIC. 1975 Apr;34(4):11-2.

Measure your life expectancy--in one minute!

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1065109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Aust N Z J Psychiatry. 1976 Mar;10(1):3-6. doi: 10.3109/00048677609159478.

Good death: responsible choice in a changing society.

Saclier AL.

Revolutionary advances in social and medical knowledge and technology have 
radically changed the conditions which precede death for an increasing number of 
people. The fear of death is being replaced by the dread of too-prolonged life, 
a feature of which is a widely documented incidence of both pain and physical 
and mental distress. This situation has produced the accelerating social demand 
for euthanasia (a painless inducement of death, preferably by medical means) to 
be legally available to a suffering person earnestly desiring it. The attitudes 
of medical workers are ambivalent, trapped as they are between a changing 
society and intransigent law. Psychiatry, however, and its concern for the whole 
person, is potentially an ally of those who desire to educate the community to a 
healthier view of death, even a planned death, as a part of life and a 
responsible conclusion to it.

DOI: 10.3109/00048677609159478
PMID: 1065312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Nouv Rev Fr Hematol (1978). 1976 Jun;16(1):67-80.

[Refractory anemias with partial myeloblastosis. Analysis of a protocol 
comprising 79 cases. 1. Clinical characteristics and evolution under androgen 
therapy].

[Article in French]

Najean Y, Pecking A, Broquet M.

Seventy-nine patients with a refractory anemia and partial myeloblastic 
medullary infiltration have been studied, according to a prospective common 
protocol. All the patients have been treated with androgens, at high dosage and 
for at least 10 months if surviving. This study enables to precise the natural 
history of the disease and to define some criteria valuable for the prognosis. 
It demonstrates that the classification of this clinical entity as a smoldering 
or pre-leukemia is justified: 63% of the patients died from acute myeloblastic 
leukemia. The disease is very severe: the median of survival from the diagnosis 
is only 13 months. Androgen therapy appears to have little if any effect on the 
anemia, granulocytopenia and thrombocytopenia; it does not seem to increase the 
patients' life expectancy.

PMID: 1065863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 1976 Jul;39(7):705-10. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp.39.7.705.

High cervical commissural myelotomy in the treatment of pain.

Papo I, Luongo A.

High cervical myelotomy was carried out on 10 patients. Commissurotomy was 
performed at the C1-3 level by a combined procedure of deep electrocogulation 
and sharp splitting of the posterior columns. The immediate results were 
excellent in all patients, but relapse of pain took place shortly in six of 
them; there was apparently no relation with the location of pain. No long-term 
favourable results were observed in this series. Only three patients exhibited a 
well-defined band of mild hypalgesia from C2 to T 10 dermatome, but it lasted 
for only three to four weeks. Transient lower or four limb ataxia was observed 
in seven patients. Different pain conducting systems seem to be affected by 
commissural myelotomy, but not to a sufficient extent to give permanent or 
long-lasting relief of pain. The indications for high cervical myelotomy are 
very limited: this procedure should be considered only in patients with 
unilateral or bilateral arm and/or upper chest pain, respiratory impairment, and 
short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.39.7.705
PMCID: PMC492409
PMID: 1069098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. J Fla Med Assoc. 1976 Nov;63(11):900-1.

Stereotactic percutaneous cordotomy.

Rydell RE.

PMID: 1069834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1976 Dec;73(12):4604-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.73.12.4604.

Group selections among laboratory populations of Tribolium.

Wade MJ.

Selection at the population level or group selection is defined as genetic 
change that is brought about or maintained by the differential extinction and/or 
proliferation of populations. Group selection for both increased and decreased 
adult population size was carried out among laboratory populations of Tribolium 
castaneum at 37-day intervals. The effect of individual selection within 
populations on adult population size was evaluated in an additional control 
series of populations. The response in the group selection treatments occurred 
rapidly, within three or four generations, and was large in magnitude, at times 
differing from the controls by over 200%. This response to selection at the 
populational level occurred despite strong individual selection which caused a 
decline in the mean size of the control populations from over 200 adults to near 
50 adults in nine 37-day intervals. "Assay" experiments indicated that selective 
changes in fecundity, developmental time, body weight, and cannibalism rates 
were responsible in part for the observed treatment differences in adult 
population size. These findings have implications in terms of speciation in 
organisms whose range is composed of many partially isolated local populations.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.73.12.4604
PMCID: PMC431563
PMID: 1070012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. J Am Soc Psychosom Dent Med. 1976;23(3):99-107.

""The multitherapeutic approach to premature aging''.

Popov IM, Panjwani HK, Goldwag EM.

PMID: 1071446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Ter Arkh. 1976;48(8):61-7.

[Analysis of the factors affecting life expectancy in myelocytic leukemia].

[Article in Russian]

Volkova MA.

PMID: 1071498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Ter Arkh. 1976;48(8):67-73.

[Determination of life expectancy of patients with acute leukemia].

[Article in Russian]

Kovaleva LG.

PMID: 1071499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. JAMA. 1975 Mar 24;231(12):1245-7.

Status of coronary bypass surgery.

Corday E.

PMID: 1078858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Albrecht Von Graefes Arch Klin Exp Ophthalmol. 1975;195(1):17-26. doi: 
10.1007/BF02390026.

Carbohydrate metabolism of the lens depending on age. V. Problems of 
mathematical approach and graphical presentation.

Hockwin O, Fink H, Schallenberg H, Rast F.

For investigations on age-dependent changes of lens metabolism, longitudinal 
studies are requisite. Graphic representation of such findings should be based 
on a proper arithmetic age scale. Using the lens weight for representing the age 
leads to distortion of the curves, whereby certain periods of life are liable to 
be overemphasized. In longitudinal studies, data on concentrations should never 
be given per unit weight, but rather for the whole lens. Absolute values of the 
whole, intact lens may be referred to a reference value, a percental 
representation of the curves is possible. With regard to the expectancy of life 
of test animals one may already state that longitudinal studies including the 
senile phase will only be feasible with rats.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02390026
PMID: 1080019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Mech Ageing Dev. 1975 May-Aug;4(3-4):231-9. doi:
10.1016/0047-6374(75)90025-1.

The late effects of selected immunosuppressants on immunocompetence, disease 
incidence, and mean life-span. I. Humoral immune activity.

Perkins EH, Peterson WJ, Gottlieb CF, Halsall MK, Cacheiro LH, Makinodan T.

The effect of different immunosuppressive treatments during young adulthood or 
humoral immune competence late in life was determined. It was found that the 
marked reduction in humoral immune competence in aged mice is further 
compromised when severe insults are administered early in life. Thus, 
thymectomy, splenectomy, and sublethal X-irradiation produced lasting 
immunodepression as measured (1) in situ and (2) by the hemolysin, direct and 
indirect plaque forming cell responses of adoptively transferred spleen cells. 
In contrast, treatment with cyclophosphamide and cortisone acetate were without 
effect, indicating that drug-damaged cells of the immune system were replaced by 
competent cells during the course of time. Decrease in immune competence of aged 
thymectomized animals could not be correlated with a decrease in numbers of 
theta-bearing T or immunoglobulin receptor-bearing B lymphocytes. The 
significance of the observed unequal effects of these immunosuppressants on 
immune competence, as they relate to disease incidence and life expectancy, are 
dealt with in the third paper in this series.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(75)90025-1
PMID: 1081633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Thoraxchir Vask Chir. 1975 Dec;23(6):538-45. doi: 10.1055/s-0028-1097025.

[Mitral valve surgery: 10 years follow-up of 501 patients (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Rothlin M, Bardos P, Messmer BJ.

The results of mitral surgery between 1961 and 1971 are presented. Pure or 
predominant mitral stenosis outnumbered combined mitral valve disease and mitral 
incompetence by two to one. Surgical treatment comprised 291 closed mitral 
commissurotomies, 145 open reconstructions and 81 replacements of the mitral 
valve. One month mortality was 2,4% for commissurotomy, 4,8% for reconstruction, 
and 25% for replacement. Early mortality of the latter operation decreased to 7% 
since 1971. For patients with no more than slight preoperative symptoms life 
expectany remained unaffected for 10 years after closed commissurotomy. For 
patients with significant preoperative limitation or symptoms at rest 5 and 10 
years life expectancy after successful surgery was 93 and 79% resp. for 
commissurotomy, 94 and 73% for reconstruction and 79 and 53% resp. for mitral 
valve replacement. In spite of a higher rate of reoperations and late 
deterioration of valve function the reparative operations deserve preference to 
the replacement of the mitral valve whenever feasible.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1097025
PMID: 1082661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Radiologe. 1976 Mar;16(3):119-24.

[Surgical treatment of occlusive coronary artery disease. Methods and results 
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Kalmár P, Bantea C, Rödiger W, Polonius MJ, Rodewald G.

A brief history of the development of coronary heart surgery is presented. 
Modern methods include the aorto-coronary bypass using saphenous vein graft or 
the thoracic internal artery, and the resection of ventricular aneurysm. The own 
experience with a group of 262 patients revealed a total mortality of 11,4%. 
Selected indication, improved surgical technique and postoperative care changed 
coronary surgery during the recent years into a routine method. The operative 
risk is characterized by the anatomical location of the occlusive artery disease 
as well as by the left ventricular function. But even in the group with high 
surgical risk the operative treatment is justified since life expectancy under 
conservative therapy is limited. In a group with 17 late death the main cause 
was due to cardiac insufficiency. In the group of survivors approximately 84% of 
the bypass were patent after an average period of 18 months.

PMID: 1083542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Am J Cardiol. 1976 May;37(6):885-9. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(76)90114-4.

Coronary artery bypass surgery for left main coronary artery disease.

McConahay DR, Killen DA, McCallister BD, Arnold M, Reed WA, Crockett JE, Bell 
HH.

The course of 146 consecutive patients with significant occlusive disease of the 
left main coronary artery who underwent coronary artery bypass surgery during a 
4 year period is reviewed. Preoperatively, 11 patients were in New York Heart 
Association functional class II, 57 in class III and 78 in class IV. Seventy 
patients had progressive angina and 12 unstable angina. There were two operative 
deaths (surgical mortality rate 1.4 percent). Seven patients (4.8 percent) had a 
perioperative acute myocardial infarction. Complete follow-up has been achieved 
in the surgical survivors over an average period of 18.1 months; 77 percent of 
the surviving patients are completely asymptomatic and 19 percent are in 
functional class II. Four patients (2.8 percent) had a nonfatal late 
postoperative myocardial infarction and five (3.5 percent) died during the late 
postoperative period (3.3 percent annual mortality rate during a 2 to 47 month 
follow-up period). Postoperative cardiac catheterization studies performed in 35 
patients an average of 12.1 months postoperatively revealed 78 percent of 80 
grafts and patency of at least 1 graft in 93 percent of patients. Results of 42 
(89 percent) of 47 near maximal treadmill stress tests were abnormal 
preoperatively compared with results of 14 (26 percent) of 54 postoperatively; 
in 74 percent of patients having both a preoperative and postoperative stress 
test, abnormal preoperative test results converted to normal after surgery. This 
study suggests that direct myocardial revascularization may offer an effective 
means of improving both the quality and duration of life in a patient with 
significant occlusive disease of the left main coronary artery.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(76)90114-4
PMID: 1083669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Albrecht Von Graefes Arch Klin Exp Ophthalmol. 1976 Apr 1;199(1):11-20. doi:
 10.1007/BF00660811.

[The disjunction zone in the slit-image-photograph of the human aging lens 
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Niesel P, Kräuchi H, Bachmann E.

Standardised slit-image-photographs of 178 clear lenses were evaluated by 
microdensitometry. The mean distance of the disjunction zone from the anterior 
capsule and the density of the disjunction zone remain constant during life. Its 
thickness will be reduced and its extension into deeper layers increases with 
age. In contrast to these findings the thickness of the whole lens according to 
the increasing thickness of the cortex increases with age. Its density increases 
too in a not linear manner probably on behalf of the increasing number of 
reflecting zones (Alterskernstreifen). The density of the nucleus of the lens 
increases with age, whereas its densitometrically defined thickness remains 
constant during life. The disjunction zone behaves independently from age in 
contrast to other parts of the lens.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00660811
PMID: 1083680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Diabetes. 1976 Jul;25(7):566-73. doi: 10.2337/diab.25.7.566.

Diabetes mellitus: incidence, prevalence, survivorship, and causes of death in 
Rochester, Minnesota, 1945-1970.

Palumbo PJ, Elveback LR, Chu CP, Connolly DC, Kurland LT.

The incidence and prevalence of diabetes mellitus in residents of Rochester, 
Minnesota, for 25 years (1945 to 1970) were determined from available medical 
records. The over-all incidence rate for diabetes is 133 new cases per 100,000 
population per year (age-adjusted to 1970 U.S. white population). The rate 
increased with age for both men and women and was higher among men over 30 years 
of age. The average annual incidence rates per five-year period for 
juvenile-onset diabetes mellitus were low and variable and showed little change. 
Polyuria, polydipsia, glycosuria, lean habitus, loss of weight, and high levels 
of fasting hyperglycemia at initial diagnosis occurred more frequently in 
younger than in older patients. The peak incidence in 1960 through 1964 and the 
decrease in the following five years may be a reflection of the introduction of 
the AutoAnalyzer method for blood glucose in 1958. The average annual incidence 
rates for 1955 through 1959 and 1965 through 1969 were essentially the same. The 
over-all prevalence for diabetes mellitus is 1.6 per cent, with a higher rate 
among men than among women over 40 years of age; among school children the rate 
is 0.1 per cent. Survivorship in the diabetic population is lower than that in 
the general population. The leading cause of death was coronary heart disease, 
the death rate from it being higher than for the general population.

DOI: 10.2337/diab.25.7.566
PMID: 1084308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Ann Intern Med. 1976 Jul;85(1):8-18. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-85-1-8.

Coronary artery surgery: the use of decision analysis.

Pauker SG.

The choice between coronary by-pass surgery and medical therapy in patients with 
angiographically documented coronary artery disease was examined. This decision 
analysis included consideration of patient preferences, severity of disease, 
prognosis with medical therapy, surgical mortality rate, graft patency rate, the 
probability that surgery will provide both short-term and long-term pain relief, 
and the probability that surgery will alter long-term survival. Coronary surgery 
was found to be the preferred therapy in many patients with disabling angina; it 
was rarely found to be the preferred therapy in asymptomatic patients, even 
those with proximal obstruction of the left anterior descending coronary artery. 
The therapeutic decision was strongly affected by differences in patient 
attitudes and differences in the past results of the prospective surgeon. This 
paper presents both a data base and a methodology that allow the physician to 
apply decision analysis to individual patients with coronary artery disease.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-85-1-8
PMID: 1084723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Bull World Health Organ. 1975;52(3):369-75.

Evaluation of the impact of various diseases on mortality.

Kjeldsen K.

The scarcity of resources within the health sector creates serious allocation 
problems. If it were legitimate to allocate the available means to the various 
diseases according to their impact on the length of human life, how should this 
impact be evaluated? That is the purpose of this study, which compares and 
evaluates methods for measuring the importance of various diseases from the 
point of view of their lethal effects and significance for life expectancy.THREE 
METHODS OF EVALUATION HAVE BEEN USED: the percentage of all deaths due to the 
disease (method A); the gain in life expectancy that would occur if the disease 
were eradicated as a cause of death (method B); and the change in the ratio 
between productive and nonproductive groups that would result from eliminating 
the disease as a cause of death (method C). The analyses are based on the total 
number of deaths in Denmark in 1969 and 1971. According to (A), one-third of all 
deaths was caused by heart diseases, one-fourth by cancer, and one-tenth by 
stroke. The results of method (B) were in agreement with those of method (A); 
the greatest gain in life expectancy was obtained by eliminating cardiac 
diseases; cancer ranked second, and accidents third for men and fourth for 
women. Method (C) yielded contrasting results. The result of eliminating most 
diseases would be a decrease in the proportion of persons of productive age. 
This was most distinct for cardiac diseases. The most important exception to 
this rule was accidents: if these were eliminated, the distribution of the 
population in the productive and nonproductive age groups would remain stable.

PMCID: PMC2366385
PMID: 1084807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Bull World Health Organ. 1975;52(4-6):651-63.

Lassa virus infection in Mastomys natalensis in Sierra Leone. Gross and 
microscopic findings in infected and uninfected animals.

Demartini JC, Green DE, Monath TP.

Pathological examinations of 28 wild-caught Mastomys natalensis from Sierra 
Leone, 14 of which were positive for Lassa virus by tissue culture, are 
reported. The high frequency of neoplastic and degenerative diseases observed 
among older animals in closed colonies of M. natalensis were not observed in the 
wild animals studied. This is probably a reflection of the age distribution of 
the study population, since the life expectancy of wild Mastomys is less than a 
year. Inflammatory lesions were nonetheless identified, some of which were 
similar to those described in laboratory colonies. Frequent lesions were 
myocarditis (54%), myositis (32%), interstitial pneumonitis (50%), 
intercapillary glomerulosclerosis (36%), and acute nephrosis (14%). Follicular 
and nodular lymphoid hyperplasia were evident in the spleen (74%) and Peyer's 
patches (64%). Lymphoid cell accumulations were prominent in the salivary glands 
(36%), periportal hepatic region (25%), lungs (32%), perivascular regions (36%), 
and kidney (21%). Cytomegalic inclusion body sialoadenitis was common (25%). 
Coccidiosis was evident in the intestinal tract (25%), kidney (25%), and muscle 
(21%). One neoplasm, a parahepatic haemangioma, was observed histologically.Mean 
body weights and lengths for virus-positive animals (33 g and 9.2 cm) and 
virus-negative animals (54 g and 12.2 cm) showed that virus-positive animals 
were smaller in weight and shorter in length. Since the age of the animals could 
not be determined, these differences remain unexplained.In comparison with 
virus-negative animals, virus-positive Mastomys had higher frequencies of 
splenic follicular hyperplasia (82% against 50%), myocarditis (79% against 29%), 
perivascular lymphoid cell accumulation (57% against 7%), myositis (50% against 
14%), and cytomegalic inclusion body sialoadenitis (36% against 14%). The 
frequency of lymphoid hyperplasia of Peyer's patches was high in both groups of 
animals (71% and 57%).The presence of Lassa virus, small size, myocarditis, and 
lymphoid perivasculitis appeared to be interrelated, but larger and better 
controlled studies are required to elucidate the relationship.

PMCID: PMC2366654
PMID: 1085221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1976 Nov 6;106(45):1546-8.

[Life expectancy and frequency of infarct after aorto-coronary bypass].

[Article in German]

Nagel J, Fischer E, Angehrn W, Meier W, Senning A, Rothlin M.

Survival rate and incidence of myocardial infarction after aortocoronary bypass 
operation in 274 patients are presented. Mortality was 5.1% within the first 
postoperative month and the 5-year-survival rate was 86%. There were 24 
perioperative myocardial infarctions and another 21 infarctions over the next 5 
years. Comparison of these data with the natural history of coronary heart 
disease suggests a possible prolongation of survival after bypass surgery. The 
incidence of myocardial infarction appears to be unchanged.

PMID: 1087750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Vasc Surg. 1976 Nov-Dec;10(5):300-14. doi: 10.1177/153857447601000507.

Surgical versus medical treatment of coronary artery disease: long-term 
survival.

Wukasch DC, Hall RJ, Cooley DA, Reul GJ Jr, Oglietti JM, Kyger ER, Sandiford FM, 
Hallman GL.

In an attempt to answer the question as to whether or not aortocoronary bypass 
(ACB) does increase life expectancy of patients with coronary artery occlusive 
disease (CAOD), 4,766 consecutive patients undergoing ACB at the Texas Heart 
Institute from October, 1969 through June, 1975, were reviewed and followed for 
five and one half years. Overall early mortality was reduced from 9.7 percent 
during the first full year (1970) of the study to 3.3 percent during the last 
full year (1974). Early mortality in males (86.5 percent) was reduced to 3 
percent during 1975, but in females only to 8.4 percent. However, late mortality 
in females was only 2.6 percent as compared to 3.4 percent in males. Long-term 
survival was similar for both males and females at five and one-half years when 
early mortality was considered. Males also experienced better symptomatic 
results than females with 90.3 percent of males remaining asymptomatic, while 
only 86.6 percent of females remained in this category. Early mortality 
increased as more vessels were bypassed, but late mortality decreased and 
symptomatic results improved as more complete revascularization was performed. 
Only 55 percent of late deaths were cardiac related. Actuarial comparison of 
this surgical series with the most comparable series in the literature of 
patients treated medically, demonstrated significant (P less than 0.001) 
increased survival in the surgical group as compared to medically treated 
patients at every year up to five and one-half years, for patients with double 
and triple vessel disease and for the entire series. In those patients with 
single vessel disease, the survival curves were similar to four years, following 
which survival was increased in the surgical patients at the end of the fifth 
and sixth reporting years. In summary, these data appear to suggest that 
surgical treatment of coronary artery occlusive disease does provide a favorable 
effect upon life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1177/153857447601000507
PMID: 1088023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Gegenbaurs Morphol Jahrb. 1976;122(6):941-52.

[Position and bony structures of the vestibular apparatus in the guinea pig].

[Article in German]

Samandari F.

The study of the inner ear of the guinea pig intended to give an explanation to 
what extent there are differences discernible in relation to the human 
labyrinth. Additional histological research should clarify the question, if 
structural differences exist in the osseous labyrinth capsule of the same 
animal. It has turned out that in normal headbearing the position of the 
semicircular canals deviates from the human vestibular apparatus. The 
semicircular canals are nearly vertical to each other, but in comparison to the 
human labyrinth they are shifted around the longitudinal axis of the utriculus 
caudal by ca. 30 degrees. In general the position of the vestibulo-cochlear 
organ is fixed to a great extent by the inclined course of the petrosal pyramid. 
This different position of the semicircular canals in man and animal is supposed 
to be due to the phylogenetic evolution and the adjustment to upright walk. Size 
and extension of the single semicircular canals are very different within the 
same animal. These differences in size indicate causalities of form and 
function. The relations in the build of the osseous labyrinth are extremely 
complicated. Compared to the other corporal regions the static parts of the 
petrosal pyramid are exceptional massive and of remarkable hard consistency. In 
the inner capsule of the ear there are three different bone strata to be seen. 
The characteristic lamel structure is most solid nearest to the semicircular 
canals. The fetal characteristics in the maturing process of the petrosal bone 
were traced a long while in the postnatal life. The typical building of the 
labyrinthal bone structures contributes to the mechanical stability of the 
capsule.

PMID: 1088136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Life Sci. 1975 Jan 1;16(1):31-44. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(75)90206-4.

A time to die.

Denckla WD.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(75)90206-4
PMID: 1089184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Science. 1975 Feb 28;187(4178):713-21. doi: 10.1126/science.1090000.

The limitation of human population: a natural history.

Dumond DE.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1090000
PMID: 1090000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Med Care. 1975 Apr;13(4):283-93. doi: 10.1097/00005650-197504000-00001.

A review of the research on general health status indexes.

Balinsky W, Berger R.

During the mid-1960's, recognition of the spiraling cost of health care 
motivated Congress to enact several major pieces of legislation designed to 
underwrite efforts to improve the delivery of health services. The increased 
level of federal fiscal participation in the health service system has forced 
greater consciousness of the need for better accountability of the effectiveness 
and efficiency of the allocation of the dollar. Demands were articulated for 
precision tools which could evaluate the imput to output linkage between need 
and response; however, the tools were nascent and had limited applicability. 
Cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit analysis are two procedures that have since 
been applied with varying levels of success. A third tool, also developed as an 
outgrowth of the desire for a more accurate characterization of the planning 
concerns of an efficient/effective health service system, is the general health 
status index. The purpose of this article is to provide the reader with a 
comprehensive review of the literature on general health status indexes. Common 
objectives and constraints are presented, as well as a discussion of the 
expanding role of general health status indexes.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-197504000-00001
PMID: 1091787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1975 Jun;23(6):258-64. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1975.tb00315.x.

Management of gallstones in the aged.

Ratner JT, Rosenberg GM.

Calculous gallbladder disease is the most common indication for intra-abdominal 
surgery in the elderly. Feeding bile salts may possibly increase the solubility 
of cholesterol in bile and may cause diminution in the size of radiolucent 
gallstones, the principal ingredient of which is cholesterol. However, 
indications for such treatment are still not clear, and long-term effectiveness 
and safety still have to be evaluated. If the aged patient with gallstones has 
severe symptoms, is a good medical risk and is not demented, surgical treatment 
should not be denied because of advanced age. If the patient has "silent" or 
"dyspeptic" gallstones and is a poor risk or demented, surgical therapy should 
be postponed at least temporarily, in the hope that medical methods for 
dissolving gallstones soon will be perfected.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1975.tb00315.x
PMID: 1092748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Urol Clin North Am. 1975 Feb;2(1):163-79.

Management of stage C prostatic carcinoma.

Flocks RH, O'Donoghue EP, Millerman LA, Culp DA.

PMID: 1093058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Br Dent J. 1975 Jun 17;138(12):473-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4803483.

. . .in a good old age.

Fish SF.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4803483
PMID: 1095029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Gerontologia. 1975;21(3):129-75. doi: 10.1159/000212041.

Special issue on athero-arteriosclerosis. An iconoclastic view of current 
concepts concerning genesis, prevention, and control.

Blumenthal HT, Alex M.

DOI: 10.1159/000212041
PMID: 1098958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Br J Psychiatry. 1975;Spec No 9:100-9.

The epidemiology of senile dementia.

Bergmann K.

PMID: 1102007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Gerontologia. 1975;21(4):184-202. doi: 10.1159/000212044.

Immune function and survival in a long-lived mouse strain subjected to 
undernutrition.

Gerbase-DeLima M, Liu RK, Cheney KE, Mickey R, Walford RL.

Functional immune changes were monitored in populations of the long-lived 
C57BL/6J strain of mice which were subjected to dietary restriction from time of 
weaning or subjected to such restriction both before and after weaning, along 
with the appropriate control populations. Responses to T and B cell mitogens 
(PHA, Con-A, pokeweed, bacterial lipopolysaccharide, and PPD), to injected sheep 
red blood cells, and measurement of skin allograft rejection rates were 
followed. Early in life, restricted mice appear immunosuppressed, as judged by 
all these parameters. Skin allograft rejection remained suppressed until 
relatively late in life. Other responses tended to reverse from the earlier 
pattern; by mid-life restricted mice responded better than controls. Dietary 
restriction profoundly affects the immune system. Mice on such regimes display 
anatomic and certain immune functional changes which suggest that the immune 
system may mature less rapidly and stay "younger" longer than in the controls. 
Furthermore, dietary restriction results in prolongation of life span.

DOI: 10.1159/000212044
PMID: 1102395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Med Klin. 1975 Nov 14;70(46):1851-7.

[Risk factor and constitution].

[Article in German]

Schneider JA.

PMID: 1102897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Am J Cardiol. 1975 Oct 6;36(4):496-505. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(75)90901-7.

Ischemic heart disease: an overview.

Ross RS.

The studies on natural history of ischemic heart disease are reviewed and the 
major predictors of mortality identified. The severity of the coronary 
atherosclerosis and the status of ventricular function are found to be more 
important predictors of survival than the clinical presentation. The objectives 
of therapy in patients with ischemic heart disease are (1) to improve the 
quality of life by reducing symptoms, (2) to improve ventricular function, and 
(3) to increase survival time. The results of surgical therapy are examined in 
relation to these three objectives. Symptomatic improvement is present in 85 to 
95 percent of patients after surgery, but convincing evidence for improved 
ventricular function is lacking and controlled studies of natural history have 
failed to show that surgery increases survival time. Analysis of the mechanism 
of symptomatic improvement after surgery suggests that increased blood flow to 
the ischemic area as well as infarction of ischemic myocardium and the 
nonspecific effects of surgery may account for the improvement. The prevention 
of coronary atherosclerosis is viewed as an attainable long-term solution to the 
problem of ischemic heart disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(75)90901-7
PMID: 1103603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Am Surg. 1976 Feb;42(2):138-41.

Acute torsion of the gallbladder: review of the literature and report of a case.

Wetstein L, Attkiss M, Aufses AH Jr.

A case report is presented, and the literature reviewed, of acute torsion of the 
gallbladder. Originally described as a rare pathological entity, it is being 
witnessed more frequently as a probable concomitant of increasing life 
expectancy. Because it is a benign condition if diagnosed rapidly and treated 
surgically, it should be considered in differential diagnostic possibilities. 
When encountered intraoperatively, prompt recognition of the process should lead 
to detorsion of the organ and cholecystectomy as the procedure of choice.

PMID: 1108723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Fed Proc. 1975 Jan;34(1):5-8.

Implications of aging research for society.

Strehler BL.

PMID: 1109355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Ohio State Med J. 1975 Jan;71(1):58-9.

A half century of health progress.

Schwartz H.

PMID: 1109473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Gerontologist. 1975 Feb;15(1 Pt 1):42-3. doi: 10.1093/geront/15.1_part_1.42.

Planning for tomorrow's urban aged: a policy analyst's reaction.

Binstock RH.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/15.1_part_1.42
PMID: 1110003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Gerontologist. 1975 Feb;15(1 Pt. 2):4-9. doi: 10.1093/geront/15.1_part_2.4.

The future and the young-old.

Neugarten BL.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/15.1_part_2.4
PMID: 1110022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Sov Zdravookhr. 1975;(1):23-8.

[Data on the social-hygienic characteristics of a present-day village].

[Article in Russian]

Goliachenko AM, Obukhov AT.

PMID: 1111121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Ann Ophthalmol. 1975 Jan;7(1):79-82.

A follow-up of blind diabetic patients.

Berkow JW, Patz A, Fine S.

This report concerns the subsequent fate of 95 blind diabetics who were using a 
Seeing Eye guide dog in 1964. In 1973, 9 years later, 40 were known to be dead, 
31 were known to be alive, and no data were available on 24. The average 
interval from onset of severe blindness to death in 37 of the 40 who had died is 
9.4 years. The mean age at death was 43.2 years for the group. This compares 
favorably to our original study which showed an average survival from onset to 
blindness to death of 5.8 years, and an average age at death of 35.9 years. 
Because follow-up data are incomplete for the 1964-1973 interval, the true 
figures may be poorer than the ones reported now. In any case, it is apparent 
that the life expectancy of the blind diabetic is still poor after the onset of 
blindness from severe retinopathy.

PMID: 1111419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. West J Med. 1975 Feb;122(2):177-80.

Health hazard appraisal in patient counseling.

LaDou J, Sherwood JN, Hughes L.

A program of annual health examinations was expanded to include counseling based 
on a computerized appraisal of individual patients' specific health hazard 
factors. Data obtained from a specially designed questionnaire, laboratory tests 
and a physical examination yielded a printout showing a number of weighted risk 
factors and their relation to ten leading causes of death as determined for that 
patient. From all of this information, a risk ("apparent") age was developed for 
the patient. The results were reviewed with each patient, and methods of 
correcting health hazards were stressed. A total of 488 persons were appraised, 
and 107 were randomly reappraised in less than a year, with the finding that the 
net risk age was reduced by 1.4 years. Such a reduction in risk age is 
significant; it indicates that appraisal-based counseling is an effective method 
of altering priorities of health practices.

PMCID: PMC1130323
PMID: 1114813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Med Clin North Am. 1975 Mar;59(2):459-70. doi:
10.1016/s0025-7125(16)32047-8.

Cancer of the thyroid.

Bell GO.

These relatively infrequent tumors intrigue both clinican and researcher. Each 
histologic type posesses its own distinctive natural history, controversy 
surrounds therapeutic programs, and prognosis is influenced by multiple factors, 
varying from a fatal outcome within a few months to a nearly normal life 
expectancy. Since fatalities do occur in patients with well differentiated 
cancers, a more aggressive approach to all thyroid nodules would improve current 
survival rates.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7125(16)32047-8
PMID: 1117774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. South Med J. 1975 Mar;68(3):271-8. doi: 10.1097/00007611-197503000-00005.

Massive orbital invasion by small malignant lesions.

Callahan A, Wilkins RB, Dowling EA.

In diagnosing and treating small malignant lesions of the eyelids, physicians 
should be alert for possible extension of the cancer into the orbit, endangering 
not only the patient's sight but his life as well. Important signs and symptoms 
include bone thickening, disturbances of ocular motility, intermittent epiphora, 
and positive results of radiologic studies. From histopathologic study of the 
resected carcinomatous tissues, it is apparent that the creeping, cicatrizing, 
ulcerated, and invasive patterns of basal cell carcinoma predominate in this 
group of eyelid tumors, all of which are aggressive lesions; however, the 
histologic type is quite variable and no definite trends can be established.

DOI: 10.1097/00007611-197503000-00005
PMID: 1118765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Am J Cardiol. 1975 Feb;35(2):228-33. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(75)90006-5.

Long-term follow-up of isolated replacement of the aortic or mitral valve with 
the Starr-Edwards prosthesis.

Barnhorst DA, Oxman HA, Connolly DC, Pluth JR, Danielson GK, Wallace RB, McGoon 
DC.

Review of 1,684 cases of isolated aortic or mitral valve replacement with a 
Starr-Edwards prosthesis demonstrated that the procedure provides improved life 
expectancy over that found in the natural history of valvular heart disease. 
Further improvement in results depends on continued reduction in operative and 
late mortality and in the incidence of thromboembolism. Advanced preoperative 
functional class, atrial or ventricular enlargement, a history of prior heart 
surgery, advanced age at operation and untreated valvular disease were among the 
factors related to increased early or late mortality. The data suggest that 
adequate anticoagulation, earlier performance of valve replacement and more 
complete repair of valvular dysfunction may increase survival rates.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(75)90006-5
PMID: 1119382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Arch Otolaryngol. 1975 Jan;101(1):29-32. doi: 
10.1001/archotol.1975.00780300033008.

The short arm deletion syndrome of chromosome 4 (4p- syndrome).

Zellweger H, Bardach J, Bordwell J, Williams K.

Partial deletion of the short arm of chromosome 4 (4p-) represents another 
(rare) cause of cleft lip and cleft palate. Further characteristic 
manifestations of the syndrome (also called Wolf or Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome) 
are growth failure, microcephaly, prominent glabella, hypertelorism, beaked 
nose, poorly differentiated and low set ears, cardiac and renal malformation and 
hypospadias. Life expectancy is often shortened. The 4p- syndrome has many 
features in common with another deletion syndrome, the cri-du-chat syndrome, and 
also with the Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome. The latter is a hereditary condition 
with normal karyotype. The cri-du-chat syndrome is characterized by a peculiar 
high-pitched, mewing cry and can be differentiated from the Wolf syndrome by the 
different staining characteristics (banding) of chromosomes 4 and 5.

DOI: 10.1001/archotol.1975.00780300033008
PMID: 1119985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Cancer Res. 1975 May;35(5):1168-74.
