
Chemotherapy of the transplantable acute leukemia L5222 in rats.

Zeller WJ, Ivankovic S, Schm√§hl D.

This study presents results of single-drug and combination chemotherapy of the 
transplantable acute leukemia L5222 in BD IX rats. In leukemia L5222 there is a 
direct relationship between the number of transplanted cells and mean life 
expectancy. After single-drug therapy with L-asparaginase, 
1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU), cyclophosphamide, cytosine 
arabinoside, daunomycin, 6-mercaptopurine, methylglyoxal bis(guanylhydrazone) 
dihydrochloride, prednisolone, or vincristine, the best therapeutic effect was 
observed with BCNU and cyclophosphamide. A massive-dose therapy with BCNU 
repeated twice or a conbination of vincristine with cyclophosphamide or BCNU 
with cyclophosphamide yielded a high percentage of cures. Morever, leukemia 
L5222 seems to be suitable for studying the influence of drugs on the 
proliferation kinetics of leukemia cells.

PMID: 1120307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Lab Anim Sci. 1975 Feb;25(1):48-54.

The collared lemming (Dicrostonyx stevensoni Nelson) in biomedical research.

Dieterich RA.

The collared lemming, Dicrostonyx stevensoni Nelson, possesses special 
characteristics which make it a useful animal model for the study of 
hypercholesteremia, atherosclerosis, breast cancer, kidney disease, and other 
biomedical research problems. Hematologic values for the lemming were similar to 
those for the laboratory white mouse except for smaller erythrocytes and fewer 
leukocytes. Organ weights, when compared as a percent of total body parts, 
differed only slightly from those of white mice. The basal metabolic rate, 
measured between 25-30 degrees C, was 40% higher than the standard metabolic 
rate for a mammal of similar size. Litter size at birth averaged 2.8 in 
captivity. The mean life span of 254 colony-reared lemmings dying from natural 
causes was 189 da. Growth rate was rapid during the first 2 mo of life, with 
moderate increases thereafter to an adult weight of approximately 70 g. 
Husbandry requirements included the use of shavings as litter and facial tissue 
as nesting material, all of which was changed weekly. Oats, wheat germ, rabbit 
pellets, carrots, and lettuse were offered as food.

PMID: 1121164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1975 Apr 25;100(17):919-23. doi:
10.1055/s-0028-1106315.

[Carcinogenesis due to mustard gas exposure in man, important sign for therapy 
with alkylating agents].

[Article in German]

Weiss A, Weiss B.

Sulphur-mustard and nitrogen-mustard are known to act as carcinogens in animal 
experiments. A similar effect in humans was demonstrated in 245 workers 
previously exposed occupationally to mustard gas and followed for over 20 years. 
There was a statistically significant increase in malignant tumours, especially 
bronchial carcinoma, bladder carcinoma and leukaemia. These findings underline 
the need for using alkylating agents of the mustard type exclusively in the 
treatment of malignant neoplasms. Immunosuppression with alkylating agents in 
the treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases associated with a long life 
expectancy is no longer justified.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1106315
PMID: 1122860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1975 May;23(5):200-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1975.tb00185.x.

The longevity of gerontologists.

Freeman JT.

The forces of mortality are the prime determinants of longevity. Longevity is a 
basic consideration of gerontology and includes the life expectancy of the 
species, the average expectancy of survival at birth, and the average of 
lifespan. In the history of the study of old age, for which the modern period 
began about 1930, there are no reports of the average lifespan for the students 
of aging. A survey revealed that the average lifespan of 28 special groups 
(15,000 individuals) was 68 years; this included an average of 68.01 years for 
394 gerontologists during the same eras. These figures are comparable because 
the attainment of a particular status in a profession or vocation is evidence of 
survival to maturity. Comparison could not be made with data for the general 
population whose vital statistics begin at birth. The average duration of life 
for men whose work in part or in whole prior to the 20th century was in 
gerontology falls midway between the high level of 77 years for classical Greek 
authors and the low level of 51 years for revolutionary statesmen, and exactly 
between the levels of life duration for eunuchs and physical and medical 
scientists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1975.tb00185.x
PMID: 1123514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. N Engl J Med. 1975 May 29;292(22):1197.

Letter: Stressed musicians.

Davis SD.

PMID: 1124122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Nutr Rev. 1975 Feb;33(2):38-40. doi: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.1975.tb07092.x.

Obesity, jejuno-ileal bypass and death.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.1975.tb07092.x
PMID: 1124154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Clin Pediatr (Phila). 1975 May;14(5):437-8. doi: 10.1177/000992287501400501.

Pediatrics as the care and feeding of (future) adults.

Stitt PG.

DOI: 10.1177/000992287501400501
PMID: 1126096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 1975 Jan;35(1):10-20.

[Basic pathology of sigma and rectum in geriatric-gynaecological laparotomies].

[Article in German]

Jaluvka V, Felshart KI.

This is a report on 49 women with sigmoiditis and 66 women with sigmoido-rectal 
carcinoma. These cases were collected in 18 women hospitals in West-Berlin over 
a period of 10 years, from 1960 until 1969. All patients were at least 60 years 
old. In most of these cases laparotomy was performed for gynaecological reasons. 
The post-operative mortality was 40.9%. It is pointed out that the whole 
spectrum of diagnostic procedures was not fully utilized; today laparoscopies 
and ultrasound are added when indicated. Inflammatory processes of the sigma as 
well as sigmoido-rectal carcinoma are typical geriatrical diseases that will 
increase with rising life expectancy thus constituting an important part of the 
differential-diagnostic section of geriatric gynaecology.

PMID: 1126609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1975 Apr;56:5-7.

Expectation of life in the United States at new high.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1129826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1975 May;111(5):573-7. doi: 10.1164/arrd.1975.111.5.573.

The competing risks of tuberculosis and hepatitis for adult tuberculin reactors.

Comstock GW, Edwards PQ.

DOI: 10.1164/arrd.1975.111.5.573
PMID: 1130750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Br J Ind Med. 1975 May;32(2):119-39. doi: 10.1136/oem.32.2.119.

A comparison of concentrations of lead in human tissues.

Barry PS.

This postmortem study of lead concentrations in the tissues of 129 subjects is 
an extension to a report by Barry and Mossman (1970). Lead concentrations in 
bone greatly exceeded the concentrations in soft tissues and were highest in the 
dense bones. Bone lead concentrations increased with age in both sexes, more 
especially in male subjects and in dense bone, varying between mean values of 
2-16 ppm in the ribs of children to over 50 ppm in the dense petrous temporal 
bones of elderly male adults. Male adults contained over 30% more lead in their 
bones than females. Mean concentrations of lead in the soft tissues varied from 
less than 0-1 ppm in organs such as muscle and heart to over 2 ppm in the aorta. 
In most tissues with lead values in excess of 0-2 ppm the male concentrations 
exceeded female values by about 30%. With the exception of the aorta, spleen, 
lung, and prostate, lead concentrations did not increase with age in the soft 
tissues of either sex after about the second decade of life. Children showed 
concentrations of lead in their soft tissues comparable to female adults, but 
the concentrations in bone were much lower. It is suggested that children do not 
possess the same capacity as adults to retain lead in bone. In male adults 
occupationally exposed to lead the concentrations of lead in bone exceeded the 
concentrations in unexposed male adults within the same age group by two-to 
three-fold. Soft tissue lead concentrations between the two groups were less 
divergent. An assessment of the total body burden of lead revealed higher levels 
in adult male subjects than in females at mean values of 164-8 mg compared to 
103-6 mg, respectively. Over 90% of the total body burden of lead in adults was 
in bone, of which over 70% was in dense bone. Male adults occupationally exposed 
to lead had mean total body burdens of 566-4 mg Pb, of which 97% was in bone. 
The release of lead from bone in conjunction with calcium was not considered to 
be of physiological significance. Lead concentrations of hair and nails were 
higher than soft tissue lead concentrations and varied widely. Hair lead 
measurements were not considered to provide a reliable assessment of lead 
absorption. The concentrations of lead in tissues of a mixed group of subjects 
with no known occupational exposure to lead have been shown to be comparable to 
the findings in earlier studies. Present levels of lead in the environment are 
not considered to be a hazard to the health of the population in general.

DOI: 10.1136/oem.32.2.119
PMCID: PMC1008038
PMID: 1131339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Exp Gerontol. 1975 Feb;10(1):27-9. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(75)90012-1.

The effect of prednisolone phosphate on the life-span of DBA/2J mice.

Forbes WF.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(75)90012-1
PMID: 1132444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Med J Aust. 1975 Apr 19;1(16):490.

Editorial: Life expectancy.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1134404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. J Med Educ. 1975 May;50(5):475-8. doi: 10.1097/00001888-197505000-00008.

The Do-It-Yourself Death Certificate in evoking and estimating student attitudes 
toward death.

Simpson MA.

DOI: 10.1097/00001888-197505000-00008
PMID: 1138088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Ann Thorac Surg. 1975 Jun;19(6):659-69. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)63827-1.

Twelve-year experience with mitral valve replacement.

Rubin JW, Ellison RG, Moore HV, Harp RJ, Hitch WS.

Between 1962 and 1974, 203 mitral prostheses were implanted in 201 patients. Of 
the 102 survivors, 29 have Beall, 25 Kay-Shiley, 22 Starr-Edwards (SE) 6000, and 
27 SE 6320 valves. Full rehabilitation was achieved in 25 patients with Beall 
and 23 with SE 6320 valves. Sixteen with SE 6000 valves remain normally active. 
Only 8 with Kay-Shiley prostheses have resumed normal activities. Systemic 
embolization occurred with the following frequencies per 1,000 patient-months: 
13.7 for those receiving the Kay-Shiley valve; 7.2 in the SE 6000 group; 4.3 
after SE 6320 implantations; and 3;1 for the Beall group. Other 
prosthesis-related complications that were much less frequent included 
detachment (10), bacterial endocarditis (5), and hemolysis (10). Three 
Kay-Shiley valves malfunctioned. Life table analyses reveal the following 
survival rates: 33% after 11 years in the SE 6000 patients, 50% after 7.5 years 
in the Kay-Shiley group, 69% 2.5 years after SE 6320 implantation, and 65% 3.5 
years after replacement with a Beall valve. Evidence is presented to support the 
extension of operative treatment to patients with less advanced valvular heart 
disease. Postoperative anticoagulation remains an unresolved issue despite lower 
rates of thromboembolism. More cumulative analyses of survival and morbidity and 
follow-up hemodynamic data are needed to assess the Beall and SE 6320 prostheses 
now employed in our valve replacement program.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)63827-1
PMID: 1138645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Circulation. 1975 Mar;51(3):414-20. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.51.3.414.

Relation between contractile reserve and prognosis in patients with coronary 
artery disease and a depressed ejection fraction.

Cohn PF, Gorlin R, Herman MV, Sonnenblick EH, Horn HR, Cohn LH, Collins JJ Jr.

Postextrasystolic potentiation (PESP) and 1-epinephrine infusion have previously 
been shown by the ventriculographic technique to augment left ventricular wall 
motion in patients with coronary artery disease. The present study relates the 
magnitude of this augmentation to short-term prognosis in 56 patients with 
coronary artery disease and a factor already identified with reduced life 
expectancy, i.e., an abnormal ejection fraction (EF less than .50). Forty-two 
patients received PESP and 14 1-epinephrine infusion. Based on severity of 
symptoms and technical suitability, 37 were treated surgically and 19 medically. 
Mean follwo-up times were 11.7 and 14.3 months, respectively. The mean increase 
in EF induced by PESP or 1-epinephrine infusion was significantly greater in 
patients who subsequently had good results from either surgical or medical 
therapy than in those who died or had progressive cardiac deterioration. In 
addition, those patients with an increase in EF of .10 or greater had a 
statistically greater chance of doing well than patients with less augmentation. 
Evaluation of change in ejection fraction after inotropic stimulation in 
patients with depressed ejection fractions is helpful in identifying those 
patients with greatest contractile reserve and hence better short-term prognosis 
with eigher medical or surgical therapy. Because of its ease of performance and 
greater enhancement of contractility, PESP is preferred to 1-epinephrine 
infusion as the inotropic stimulus of choice.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.51.3.414
PMID: 1139754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1975 Jun 6;100(23):1282, 1285-8. doi: 
10.1055/s-0028-1106373.

[Complications in pacemaker treatment caused by electrodes (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Nordeck E, Buckesfeld R, Kirchhoff PG, Neubaur J.

A total of 531 transvenous and 240 thoraco-abdominal electrodes were implanted 
into 624 patients, the latter as part of a thoracotomy. The complication rate 
was 35% for transvenous and 33% for epicardial implantations. The most common 
complication with transvenous electrodes was dislocation (17%), followed by 
myocardial (5%) and skin perforation (2%). With epicardial electrodes the 
complications were exit blocks (9%), disconnections (5.5%) and wire breaks 
(14%). These complication occurred in 1.5%, 2% and 4.5%, respectively, with 
transvenous electrodes. Electrode dislocations were particularly common in the 
first year after implantation, while wire breaks became more common as the 
interval sinceimplantation increased. Overall there was, therefore, no 
significant difference in complication rate between the two types of electrodes. 
But the surgical and early mortality ratewas higher after epicardial implanation 
(with thoracotomy)than transvenous implantation (11% and 6%, respectively). 
Transvenous implantation is recommended not only for old but also foryoung 
patients (with a long life expectancy), in combination with long-life 
pacemakers.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1106373
PMID: 1140085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. J Can Assoc Radiol. 1975 Mar;26(1):15-24.

Animal experiments in radiotherapy I -- small animals.

Kallman RF.

This is a brief review of the contribution that the small laboratory animal, in 
particular the mouse, has made to experimental radiotherapy. Despite the great 
differences between mouse and man (e.g. size and life span), there are 
similarities of tissue cell kinetics and radiation response which greatly aid in 
the mouse-to-man extrapolation. The crucial advantage of being able to perform 
experiments with spontaneous tumors transplanted into syngeneic hosts is 
discussed. Examples are given of work using the tumor control dose (TCD50) 
endpoint, the endpoint dilution assay, two different clone-counting assays, and 
the tumor regrowth system. The sophistication that can be achieved with an 
animal as small as a mouse is illustrated by two studies: one of prolonged 
intra-arterial catheterization, the other of blood flow measurements in an 
irradiated limb.

PMID: 1141370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. J Occup Med. 1975 Feb;17(2):100-7. doi: 10.1097/00043764-197502000-00012.

Mortality of lead workers.

Cooper WC, Gaffey WR.

The mortality of 7,032 men employed for one or more years in lead production 
facilities or battery plants was followed over a 23-year period, 1947 to 70. 
Lead absorption in many of these men was greatly in excess of currently accepted 
standards based upon urinary and blood lead concentrations available for a 
portion of the group. There were 1356 deaths reported; death certificates were 
obtained for 1267. The standardized mortality ratio (SMR) for all causes was 107 
for smelter workers and 99 for battery plant workers. Deaths from neoplasms were 
in slight excess in smelters, but not significantly increased in battery plants. 
There were no excess deaths from kidney tumors. The SMR for cardiovascular-renal 
disease was 96 for smelter workers and 101 for battery plant workers, i.e. 
roughly the same as for the general population, but not as good as would be 
expected in a population that had been employed. There was definitely no excess 
in deaths from either stroke or hypertensive heart disease. However, deaths 
classified as "other hypertensive disease" and "unspecified nephritis or renal 
sclerosis" were higher than expected. The actual numbers of deaths in these 
last-named categories combined (41 where 19.5 were expected) represented about 
3% of all certified deaths. The life expectancy of lead workers was calculated 
to be approximately the same as that of all U.S. males. Considering the high 
levels of exposure in this population of workers and the small deviations from 
expected mortality, one can be optimistic in predicting no detectable effect on 
the mortality of male adults from occupational exposures to lead controlled in 
conformity to currently recommended environmental and biologic standards.

DOI: 10.1097/00043764-197502000-00012
PMID: 1142019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Mech Ageing Dev. 1975 Jan-Feb;4(1):19-28. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(75)90004-4.

Lysosomal enzymes and aging in vitro: subcellular enzyme distribution and effect 
of hydrocortisone on cell life-span.

Cristofalo VJ, Kabakjian J.

The acid phosphatase and beta glucuronidase activities of four subcellular 
fractions (nuclear, mitochondrial-lysosomal, microsomal, supernatant) of WI-38 
cells were compared during in vitro aging. All of the fractions showed an 
age-associated increase in activity. The increase in the lysosomal fraction was 
sufficient to account for the increase in the whole homogenate. The supernatant 
fraction showed a consistent and pronounced increase suggesting a decrease in 
latency. Hydrocortisone stabilized the lysosomes to some extent. However the 
presence of hydrocortisone (5 mug/ml) in the growth medium consistently extended 
the life-span of the culture 20-30%. The magnitude of the extension seemed to be 
directly proportional to the amount of time the cultures were exposed to the 
added hormone.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(75)90004-4
PMID: 1142849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1975 May;140(5):743-6.

The surgical treatment of coarctation of the aorta.

Figuera DA, Juff√© A, Tellez G, Rufilanchas JJ, Agosti J, Villagr√° F.

Patients with coarctation of the aorta have a significantly decreased life 
expectancy. Surgical correction is curative and involves a low mortality rate 
which increases with coexisting cardiovascular abnormalities. In our series, 
there were no operative deaths in patients with pure coarctation of the aorta. 
Age is an important factor and postoperative complications were more frequent in 
older patients. Re section of the narrowed area with end-to-end anastomosis is 
the technique of choice. If theis is not possible, a Dacron tube is a good 
alternative. Early diagnosis and early intervention are of utmost importance, 
even in asymptomatic patients.

PMID: 1145409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Theor Popul Biol. 1975 Apr;7(2):229-45. doi: 10.1016/0040-5809(75)90018-0.

A population model based on a life table that includes marriage and parity.

Oechsli FW.

DOI: 10.1016/0040-5809(75)90018-0
PMID: 1145507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 1975;6(1):29-41. doi: 10.2190/31LW-101Q-0PWX-VV9J.

Being single in old age.

Gubrium JF.

The routine, everyday life of single elders differs from that of other old 
people. On the basis of interview date both about themselves and some aspects of 
the quality of their everyday lives, it is proposed that single elders 
constitute a distinct type of social personality in old age. Interviews provide 
subjective and methodological evidence to support this. The "normal", 
taken-for-granted social world of single elders is: relatively isolated; but not 
perceived in terms of loneliness, at present or anticipated; and considered an 
ordinary extension of their past. Death is conceived as "just another" event of 
their ongoing experiences.

DOI: 10.2190/31LW-101Q-0PWX-VV9J
PMID: 1150333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1975 Sep;23(9):385-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1975.tb00424.x.

Management of primary hyperparathyroidism in the elderly.

Block MA, Xavier A, Brush BE.

Of 166 surgical patients for whom the diagnosis of primary hyperparathyroidism 
was established over a 20-year period, about one-third were over 60 years of 
age. For an additional 9 patients, or operation was advised, usually because of 
other life-endangering disease and the presence of only a mild degree of 
hypercalcemia without complications. In recent years, nearly 50 per cent of the 
patients did not have renal calculi or osteitis fibrosa cystica; this was 
unrelated to age. Most of the patients with management problems were seen since 
1965. Age alone was not a dominant factor in relation to serious complications 
from hypercalcemia, the presence of other critical disease increasing the risk 
of operation, or the development of major postoperative complications. The only 
death from primary hyperparathyroidism occurred in a 74-year old patient who 
refused re-operation and died from an acute hypercalcemic crisis. A liberal, but 
selective, policy of surgical treatment is justified for primary 
hyperparathyroidism in the elderly. Patients for whom the diagnosis of primary 
hyperparathyroidism is established may be separated into three groups: those for 
whom early operation is indicated, those for whom operation should be delayed to 
permit recovery from other life-endangering acute disease, and those for whom 
operation is unjustified because of minimal uncomplicated hypercalcemia and 
other serious disease greatly limiting life expectancy. These categories 
encompass all age groups and are not restricted to the elderly. All patients 
require periodic re-evaluation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1975.tb00424.x
PMID: 1151037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1975 Jul;70(1):2-8.

In vivo study of a new radioisotope-powered cardiac pacer.

Smyth NP, Magovern GJ, Ramirez RG, Diaz MH, Dixon CM, Fecht DC, Johnson A.

A new radioisotopic pulse generator has been developed. It is 6 cm. long, 4.7 
cm. high, 1.92 cm. wide, and weighs 61 Gm. (2 oz.). It is the smallest pulse 
generator made and has a life expectancy of over 20 years. The circuit is a 
conventional ventricular-inhibited (V.V.I.) type. In vitro testing has passed 
all Atomic Energy Commission requirements. The present study is concerned with 
in vivo testing of the complete pacemaker system, by means of both myocardial 
and endocranial electrodes, in 20 dogs with and without induced heart block. 
Extensive testing for electromagnetic compatability was carried out on 1 animal 
with induced heart block and a special, fast-rate pulse generator. Based on 
studies to date, the Atomic Energy Commission has issued a license for limited 
clinical trial which has already begun at the collaborating institutions.

PMID: 1152502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Demography. 1975 May;12(2):313-24.

Constructing increment-decrement life tables.

Schoen R.

A life table model which can recognize increments (or entrants) as well as 
decrements has proven to be of considerable value in the analysis of marital 
status patterns, labor force participation patterns, and other areas of 
substantive interest. Nonetheless, relatively little work has been done on the 
methodology of increment-decrement (or combined) life tables. The present paper 
reviews the general, recursive solution of Schoen and Nelson (1974), develops 
explicit solutions for three cases of particular interest, and compares 
alternative approaches to the construction of increment-decrement tables.

PMID: 1157991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. J Med Chem. 1975 Sep;18(9):917-21. doi: 10.1021/jm00243a012.

Potential bioreductive alkylating agents. 5. Antineoplastic activity of 
quinoline-5,8-diones, naphthazarins, and naphthoquinones.

Lin AJ, Lillis BJ, Sartorelli AC.

A number of 2-chloromethyl and 2-bromomethyl derivatives of naphthoquinones, 
quinolinediones, and naphthazarins were designed and synthesized as potential 
bioreductive alkylating agents, and the antitumor activity of these compounds 
was assessed in mice bearing Sarcoma 180 ascites cells. The results indicated 
that, with the exception of 3-benzamido-2-chloromethyl-1,4-naphthoquinone, which 
was inactive, all newly synthesized naphthoquinones possessed strong antitumor 
activity against this neoplasm. 6,7-Bis(bromomethyl)quinoline-5,8-dione had 
moderate inhibitory activity against Sarcoma 180 at its optimal daily dosage 
level of 15 mg/kg. 3-Bromo-2-bromomethyl- and 3-bromo-2-chloromethylnaphthazarin 
produced a moderate extension of the life span of tumor-bearing mice; whereas, 
in contrast, 6,7-dimethyl analogs of these agents were inactive when employed in 
daily doses up to 40 mg/kg body weight.

DOI: 10.1021/jm00243a012
PMID: 1159713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1975 Jul 26;119(30):1181-7.

[Experimental basis of gerontology].

[Article in Dutch]

Hijmans W, Knook DL, Hollander CF.

PMID: 1161099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Ann Med Sect Pol Acad Sci. 1975;20(2):123-4.

Changes in the structure of wool fibers with particular reference to the first 
year of life.

Soroczy≈Ñska M.

Summing up the above results, we may say that the differentiation of cells is a 
continuous function and proceeds together with the growth of the animal, but, 
probably it does not involve all fibers at the same time. It also depends on the 
type of bulb the fiber grows out of, and on the time of the fiber's growth. The 
results obtained may be treated as preliminary. The extension of the 
investigations must take into consideration the differences in fiber diameter.

PMID: 1163131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Biometrics. 1975 Mar;31(1):209-22.

A review and critique of some models used in competing risk analysis.

Gail M.

We have introduced a notation which allows one to define competing risk models 
easily and to examine underlying assumptions. We have treated the actuarial 
model for competing risk in detail, comparing it with other models and giving 
useful variance formulae both for the case when times of death are available and 
for the case when they are not. The generality of these methods is illustrated 
by an example treating two dependent competing risks.

PMID: 1164533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Biometrics. 1975 Mar;31(1):49-57.

A step-up procedure for selecting variables associated with survival.

Krall JM, Uthoff VA, Harley JB.

Multivariate concomitant information on a subject's condition usually 
accompanies survival time data. Using a model in which each subject's lifetime 
is exponentially distributed, this paper suggests a method which utilizes a 
step-up procedure for choosing the most important variables associated with 
survival. Maximum likelihood (ML) estimates are utilized, and the likelihood 
ratio is employed as the criterion for adding significant concomitant variables. 
An example using multiple myeloma survival data and sixteen concomitant 
variables is discussed in which three variables are chosen to predict survival.

PMID: 1164538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Demography. 1975 Aug;12(3):471-89.

Contraceptive practice required to meet a prescribed crude birth rate target: a 
proposed macro-model (TABRAP) and hypothetical illustrations.

Nortman D, Bongaarts J.

TABRAP (TArget Birth Rate Acceptor Program) is a computer programmed model that 
provides a direct solution to the problem of determining the total annual 
numbers of contraceptive acceptors required to achieve a prescribed crude birth 
rate target path. Applied to an initial population for which age structure, the 
fertility schedule, and expected trends in life expectancy and age-specific 
proportions of females married are known, TABRAP incorporates the following 
factors: age at acceptance, with acceptors drawn from currently married 
nonusers; age-method-specific attrition rates of users; a potential fertility 
schedule of acceptors that allows for aging and sterility; and allowance both 
for postpartum anovulation and nine months for gestation to time properly the 
averted births. TABRAP generates annual data on acceptors, couple-years of use, 
births averted and age-specific fertility rates that meet the crude birth rate 
target. Resulting changes in population size, age structure and crude vital 
rates, also yielded, are invariant with respect to acceptor age and method mix. 
Assuming a target to reduce the crude birth rate from 45 to 30 in ten years, 
TABRAP is illustrated for seven mixes of acceptor age-method combinations 
applied to a population approximately that of Thailand, circa 1965.

PMID: 1164942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Am J Cardiol. 1975 Sep;36(3):410-1. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(75)90500-7.

Letter: Life expectancy and marathon running.

Bassler TJ.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(75)90500-7
PMID: 1166846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. J Occup Med. 1975 May;17(5):308-12.

Women in the work environment.

Watkeys JD.

PMID: 1167246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Nihon Eiseigaku Zasshi. 1975 Apr;30(1):199.

[Symptoms of senility and life expectancy-"comprehensive index of aging" based 
on component analysis and cumulative mortality].

[Article in Japanese]

Tanaka H, Ueda Y, Date C, Tsue H, Owada K.

PMID: 1169528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Sud Med Ekspert. 1975 Apr-Jun;18(2):33-5.

[Establishing the duration of extrauterine life of newborn infants by the 
inorganic makeup and nucleic acid level of the bone marrow].

[Article in Russian]

Protsenkov MG.

PMID: 1169830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Arch Environ Health. 1975 Jul;30(7):333-9. doi:
10.1080/00039896.1975.10666716.

Vinyl chloride exposure in a controlled industrial environment. A long-term 
mortality experience in 594 employees.

Ott MG, Langer RR, Holder BB.

Vinyl chloride has been associated recently with findings of angiosarcoma in 
animals and man. The present study examines the mortality experience of 
individuals occupationally exposed to vinyl chloride and lesser amounts of 
vinylidene chloride and other compounds. Employees were grouped into four 
exposure categories according to the highest levels of vinyl chloride exposure 
experienced for at least one month. Although no angiosarcomas were found and 
there were no deaths due to any liver malignancy, the observed malignancy deaths 
exceeded the expected among workers in the high-exposure category. Fewer than 
expected malignancy deaths were observed in the remaining exposure catergories.

DOI: 10.1080/00039896.1975.10666716
PMID: 1170818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. JAMA. 1975 Jul 21;233(3):280-1.

The quality of survival in response to treatment.

Patterson WB.

PMID: 1173844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Circulation. 1975 Nov;52(5):901-8. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.52.5.901.

Attributable risk, population attributable risk, and population attributable 
fraction of death associated with hypertension in a biracial population.

Deubner DC, Tyroler HA, Cassel JC, Hames CG, Becker C.

In 1961, blood pressure was measured in the 40-69-year-old segment of the 
population of Evans County, Georgia. Mortality was monitored for up to ten 
years. The relationship found between hypertension and mortality is 
characterized in this report by four parameters: attributable risk, prevalence, 
population attributable risk, and population attributable fraction. Attributable 
risk of death, a measure of the over-all impact of hypertension on those in each 
race-sex group with hypertension, is high in white males, black males, and black 
females, and is lowest in white females. Population attributable risk, a measure 
of the impact of hypertension on each entire race-sex group, is highest in black 
males and females due to the high prevalence of hypertension in blacks. It is 
somewhat lower in white males and lowest in white females. The fraction of all 
deaths attributable to hypertension (population attributable fraction) is 
highest in black females and lower in the other three groups. The population 
attributable fraction (ranging from 0.26 to 0.54 for systolic hypertension) is 
of such magnitude that if the 50% reduction in mortality achieved in the Veteran 
Administration Cooperative Study could be repeated in the general population, 
life expectancy after 40 years of age could be substantially increased.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.52.5.901
PMID: 1175273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. J Surg Oncol. 1975;7(5):355-65. doi: 10.1002/jso.2930070506.

Carcinoma of the esophagus.

Rambo VB, O'Brien PH, Miller MC 3rd, Stroud MR, Parker EF.

Life tables were computed from the Tumor Registry at the Medical University of 
South Carolina on 486 patients with histologically proven squamous cell 
carcinoma of the esophagus. The 5-yr follow-up was available in only 394 
patients, or 81% of the total sample. For purposes of comparison with published 
literature, the traditional crude 5-yr survival percentages in the life-table 
analyses figures are presented. The life-table calculation utilizes all 
follow-up information available, in that patients observed for less than 5 yr 
still may contribute to the estimate of the true 5-yr survival rate in contrast 
to the past when all patients lost to follow-up were presumed to have died. In 
this method, patients not observed for the full time of the study are assumed to 
have had the same risk of dying as patients followed to the end of the fifth 
year experienced in their fifth-year analyses. The group with the most favorable 
prognosis in this series was that receiving preoperative irradiation. This 
operation. They were given 4,500 rads of supervoltage X ray over a period of 3 
weeks prior to operation. The differences in surgical or radiation techniques 
employed by various reporters make comparative data difficult, if not 
impossible, to evaluate. Supervoltage irradiation has proved itself in some 
hands equal to surgery. A randomized prospective study would seem appropriate to 
conclude the best means of managing epidermoid carcinoma of the esophagus.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.2930070506
PMID: 1177468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Am J Occup Ther. 1975 Nov-Dec;29(10):601-5.

Female and married: damaging to the therapy profession?

Mathewson M.

The first half of this paper describes the socialization process of women to 
their role in life. An examination is made of the literature and the lessons 
female children are taught about their place in the adult world in relationship 
to men. This "place" is typified by the hospital structure where the majority of 
therapists are employed. The second half of the paper looks into four aspects of 
professionalism--motivation, autonomy, commitment, and a sense of community--and 
examines each with the added dimension that membership in the therapy 
professions is predominantly female and married. Criteria for professionalism 
are defined on a continuum. Female occupational therapists fit much of this 
criteria, but conflicts of motherhood and career have a negative effect on their 
professional life and thus on their profession as well.

PMID: 1181935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Circulation. 1975 Dec;52(6):1132-7. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.52.6.1132.

Long-term survival after aortic valve replacement using Smeloff-Cutter 
prosthesis.

Lee SJ, Barr C, Callaghan JC, Rossall RE.

The long-term prognosis of 187 consecutive patients who received single aortic 
valve replacement using Smeloff-Cutter prosthesis was studied. Of the 163 
patients who survived the operation, a long-term follow-up (up to eight years) 
was obtained in 153 patients (95%). A total of 34 patients (22%) died during the 
follow-up period. Including the hospital mortality, the actuarial survival rate 
of our patients with Smeloff-Cutter prosthesis was 0.69 after the fifth year and 
0.611 after the eighth year of follow-up. This is similar to the actuarial 
survival rate of patients with Starr-Edwards prosthesis but it appears 
significantly better than the expected survival rate of symptomatic patients 
with aortic stenosis treated without surgery. Thus, this result supports the 
contention that aortic valve surgery in properly selected patients can prolong 
life expectancy in addition to relieving symptoms in patients with aortic valve 
disease. The majority of surviving patients reported to have improved (88%) 
since the operation and to be symptom free (82%).

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.52.6.1132
PMID: 1182959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Circulation. 1975 Dec;52(6 Suppl):III16-7.

Changes in life expectancy since 1900.

Feinleib M.

PMID: 1182968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Exp Gerontol. 1975 Aug;10(3-4):185-8. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(75)90030-3.

Effect of beta-aminopropionitrile or prednisolone on survival of male LAF/J 
mice.

LaBella FS, Vivian S.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(75)90030-3
PMID: 1183494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Geriatrics. 1975 Nov;30(11):142-4.

Continued sexual activity depends on health and the availability of a partner.

Kent S.

PMID: 1183837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Indian J Public Health. 1975 Jan-Mar;19(1):1-2.

Editorial: Measures of health status.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1184133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Indian J Public Health. 1975 Jan-Mar;19(1):11-33.

Impact of partial elimination of specific causes of death on the human 
survivorship: an Indian situation.

Gupta RB.

PMID: 1184134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Indian J Public Health. 1975 Jan-Mar;19(1):3-8.

Abridged life tables for rural West Bengal, 1969.

Mukherjee SP, Das SK.

PMID: 1184135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Indian J Public Health. 1975 Jan-Mar;19(1):9-10.

A note on the relation between expectation of life at birth and life table 
mortality rate for the age group 0-4 years.

Pachal TK.

PMID: 1184141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Orig Life. 1975 Jul;6(3):407-11. doi: 10.1007/BF01130342.

Polymerization of amino acid methyl esters via their copper complexes.

Brack A, Louembe D, Spach G.

Polymerization of glycine methyl ester catalyzed by cupric ions in organic 
solvents yields oligoglycines with a degree of polymerization up to none. With a 
trifunctional amino acid, the yield and degree of polymerization were much 
lower. Extension of this reaction to an aqueous medium was not successful even 
when copper ions were complexed with substances like montmorillonite or fatty 
acids. The prebiotic significance of this reaction is discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01130342
PMID: 1187103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Surgery. 1975 Dec;78(6):776-86.

Clinical experience with nuclear pacemakers.

Parsonnet V, Myers GH, Gilbert L, Zucker IR.

Approximately 1,400 nuclear pacemakers have been implanted in patients since 
April, 1970, without a single battery failure; 64 of these have been implanted 
at the Newark Beth Israel Medical Center. All except four of the 64 pulse 
generators were attached to transvenous electrodes, 39 to pacing wires already 
in place. Fifty-nine of the 64 units are in service and continue to function 
normally in a follow-up period of up to 2 years. In the total worldwide 
experience, 70 pacemakers are out of service, approximately half because of the 
patient's death, and the rest for infection or lead problems, and only three or 
four because of difficulties with components. The first 15 ARCO pacemakers 
implanted 2 years ago continue to function well. Of the 15 control pacemakers 
implanted at the same time, one unit has failed. We have concluded that a 
nuclear pacemaker should not be used in a patient with limited life expectancy 
or in an infant, but for the otherwise healthy young or middle-age individual, 
it should be the unit of choice.

PMID: 1188620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1975 Sep;56:8-10.

Potential gains in longevity after midlife.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1188968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Zentralbl Allg Pathol. 1975;119(1-2):3-14.

[On pathology of the diffuse pachygyria (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Goertchen R.

A case report on a 4 year old boy with physical and mental retardation noted 
since the age of 7 months is presented. In the 10th month a hydrocephalus 
internus was diagnosed. The autopsy showed a cerebral dystrophy with diffuse 
pachygyria presumably caused by a disturbance in the neuroblast migration during 
the 2nd and the 5th month of gravidity. The 33 cases of diffuse pachygyria 
hitherto described in the literature are compared with our own one. In more than 
80% of the cases pachygyria is associated with oligophrenia or idiotism, resp., 
and 75% with epilepsy. Paralysis is rarely observed. The average life expectancy 
is about 5 years. Etiologic factors are intrauterine hypoxemia and infectious 
diseases during the early pregnancy period as well as hereditary afflictions. In 
the case described here the teratogenic action of a drug probably was the 
etiologic factor.

PMID: 1189668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Acta Anat (Basel). 1975;92(4):595-606. doi: 10.1159/000144472.

Cartilage canals in the human spheno-occipital synchondrosis during fetal life.

Moss-Salentijn L.

Spheno-occipital synchondroses were studied histologically in eight human 
fetuses ranging from 100 mm CRL to term. Cartilage canals were present in all 
seven specimens over 110 mm CRL. With age the canals grew longer and wider and 
the larger ones developed some branching. The histologic structure, external 
morphology and spatial arrangement of these cartilage canals were described. 
Some attributes of cartilage canals were reviewed from available data in the 
literature and their significance for the present findings discussed. It was 
suggested that the canals, containing blood vessels and connective tissue 
elements, actively invade the cartilage of the synchondrosis. It was suggested 
further that they probably serve as a source of nutrition or as an extension of 
the perichondrium (and a source of prospective chondroblasts) or both.

DOI: 10.1159/000144472
PMID: 1189888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Basic Life Sci. 1975;5B:801-4. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4684-2898-8_59.

DNA repair and life span of mammals.

Hart RW, Setlow RB.

The ability of fibroblasts to perform unscheduled synthesis (a measure of 
excision-repair) after UV irradiation was measured autoradiographically for 
seven mammalian species at several times after UV irradiation. The initial rate 
and the maximum incorporation of [3H]dThd increased with the life span of the 
species.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4684-2898-8_59
