PMID: 1191200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Br Heart J. 1975 Sep;37(9):978-81. doi: 10.1136/hrt.37.9.978.

Effect of coexistent coarctation of pulmonary trunk in natural history of 
complete absence of pulmonary valve with ventricular septal defect.

Peter T, Harper R, Vohra J, Hunt D.

A case of complete absence of the pulmonary valve in association with a 
ventricular septal defect and a pulmonary artery coarctation is described. 
Despite these defects the patient had minimal symptoms, probably because the 
pulmonary artery coarctation acted as a natural banding and limited the 
pulmonary regurgitant flow and reduced the left-to-right shunt across the 
ventricular septal defect. The patient was operated on at the age of 40 and the 
ventricular septal defect was closed but the pulmonary artery coarctation was 
left alone. In view of the long-term survival in this case, it is suggested that 
pulmonary artery banding would reduce the symptoms and increase the life 
expectancy of patients with congenital absence of the pulmonary valve and a 
ventricular septal defect.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.37.9.978
PMCID: PMC482906
PMID: 1191457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1975 Sep 19;100(38):1910-14.

[Biology of aging. 59th conference of the German Society for Pathology].

[Article in German]

Kracht J, Altenähr E, Dhom G.

PMID: 1192954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Infect Immun. 1975 Nov;12(5):1173-83. doi: 10.1128/iai.12.5.1173-1183.1975.

Intrauterine infection of mice with St. Louis encephalitis virus: immunological, 
physiological, neurological, and behavioral effects on progeny.

Andersen AA, Hanson RP.

Intravenous injection of pregnant mice with St. Louis encephalitis (SLE) virus 
at 8 days of gestation resulted in infection of the fetus. Progeny developed no 
antibody or tolerance to SLE virus since the viral antigen was cleared by 
maternal antibody before antibody-forming competence developed in the young. 
Temporary growth retardation was observed in a number of young at 3 weeks of 
age. After the initial setback the growth rate increased, indicating that early 
runting was due to an inability to adjust adequately to extrauterine life, which 
was subsequently overcome. In most other young there were no significant effects 
on growth, reproduction, or life expectancy. A few young died at or shortly 
after birth; in these, neurological changes ranging from gross defects such as 
encephaloceles and hydrocephalus to histological evidence of necrosis and 
congestion were observed. Neurologically related behavioral changes were 
detected by using the open field test and the rotating-rod test, which indicated 
neurological damage and memory impairment in the surviving intrauterinely 
infected animals.

DOI: 10.1128/iai.12.5.1173-1183.1975
PMCID: PMC415413
PMID: 1193727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. HNO. 1975 Dec;23(12):369-74.

[Must therapy be continued at all costs (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Fritsche P.

In acknowledging the remarkable progress of medicine, the possible consequential 
harmful effects should not be overlooked. Judgement should be based on the total 
welfare of the patient and not on the ease with which technical procedures can 
be executed. The prolongation of life per se by any means is not the only 
principal of conduct, especially when it results in extension of the patient's 
misery. In some situations it may be necessary to renounce any form of treatment 
from the beginning or to abandon any already in progress. This apparent 
harshness however does not imply that the terminally ill must be abandoned in 
his suffering.

PMID: 1194089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1975 Sep-Oct;16(5):526-34.

Comparative analysis of prosthetic heart valve replacement on the basis of 300 
cases.

Moll JW, Dziatkowiak AJ, Tracz WD, Kinast W.

1. The 224 patients have been followed-up for postoperative intervals of 1 to 8 
years after operation, and the average duration of the follow-up has been 4 
years. 2. Six types of heart valve prostheses have been utilized and evaluated 
with the longest (9 years) period of follow-up (a Starr-Edwards prothesis) and 
the shortest a Björk-Shiley valve. The best clinical hemodynamic 
characteristics, no thromboembolic complications were observed with the 
Lillehei-Kaster valve. Evaluation of longterm wear and thrombosis require 
further follow-up studies. 3. All patients, but 21, improved in functional 
capacity and are NYHA class I and II. Most of the patients had heart failure at 
the time of operation. These patients would have had a life expectancy of about 
two years from the onset of symptoms. Seventy two patients with heart failure as 
a prime symptom have thus outlived their anticipated life expectancy. 4. 
Systemic embolization was the most common postoperative complication in spite of 
the anticoagulant therapy.

PMID: 1194337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. J Clin Psychol. 1975 Oct;31(4):729-32. doi: 
10.1002/1097-4679(197510)31:4<729::aid-jclp2270310439>3.0.co;2-g.

The use of psychotherapy with dying patients: an exploratory study.

Zuehlke TE, Watkins JT.

A group of terminally ill patients received six sessions of psychotherapy. A 
second group of six patients served as nontreated controls. At the conclusion of 
the treatment sessions, psychotherapy patients reported a significantly greater 
increase in death-related anxiety and in their perceived purpose in life than 
did the nontreated group. Clinical impressions indicated that patients who 
participated in psychotherapy perceived their treatment experience positively 
and appreciated the opportunity to explore their feelings about imminent death. 
These results offer considerable support for the usefulness of psychotherapy to 
help such patients cope with the emotional stress generated by their limited 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-4679(197510)31:4<729::aid-jclp2270310439>3.0.co;2-g
PMID: 1194435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. J Occup Med. 1975 Nov;17(11):716-21.

Mortality factors in diabetes. A 20 year mortality study.

Goodkin G.

The life expectancy of well controlled diabetics has been considered to be 
approximately that of the normal individual. A 20 year prospective study of the 
mortality of diabetics who applied for life insurance to the Equitable Life 
Assurance Society did not confirm this. The study population comprised 10,538 
individuals with an average exposure of 7.9 years. During the period of the 
study 1,478 deaths were recorded, giving a mortality ratio of 335%. Mortality 
decreased with increasing age at diagnosis of diabetes. Mortality increased with 
increasing duration of the disease. Mortality was lowest in cases treated by 
diet only. Mortality in cases with poor control was two and one-half times that 
of cases with good control. Albuminuria on examination was an extremely 
unfavorable prognostic factor. Hypertension had a particularly adverse effect on 
the diabetic as compared to the non-diabetic, especially at ages under 40.

PMID: 1195031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. J Theor Biol. 1975 Sep;53(2):253-61. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5193(75)80002-6.

A model for ageing.

Kanungo MS.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5193(75)80002-6
PMID: 1195761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Nouv Presse Med. 1975 Oct 18;4(35):2503-6.

[The deterioration of patients with parkinsonism treated with L-dopa].

[Article in French]

Guillard A.

A progressive deterioration in clinical state was noted in more than half of a 
group of 87 patients with parkinsonism treated with dopa for 4 to 6 years. The 
pattern of this deterioration is often quite particular: frequency of troubles 
with walking, falls, predominance of akinesia in certain motor functions, 
inconstant recurrence of tremor or rigidity. Some intellectual deterioration is 
sometimes seen, more common in those patients who had suffered episodes of 
mental confusion. 11 patients died. It may, however, be hoped that the average 
life expectancy will increase.

PMID: 1196872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Prog Clin Cancer. 1975;6:73-7.

Present accomplishments of cancer chemotherapy.

Zubrod CG.

PMID: 1197759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1975 Oct;56:5-9.

Progress in Canadian longevity.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1198619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Biometrics. 1975 Dec;31(4):889-99.

An improved life table method.

Keyfitz N, Frauenthal J.

A life table estimates probabilities of surviving and of dying as well as death 
rates, as these would apply in a stationary population with the same underlying 
continuous mortality curve as the observed population. We have derived 
approximations to the probability of surviving that require no iteration, do not 
depend on graduation or interpolation, and appear to give as precise results as 
interpolated or iterated tables. On the side of theroy we show that methods due 
to T.N.E. Greville and to Reed and Merrell are special cases of our formula (3). 
The new approach is extended to cause-deleted tables and to multiple decrement.

PMID: 1203430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Biometrics. 1975 Dec;31(4):957-61.

Remarks on the conservatism of sigma(0 -- E)2/E in survival data.

Crowley J, Breslow N.

This note presents theoretical and numerical calculations which investigate the 
adequacy of the sigma(0 -- E)2/E approximation (Peto and Pike [1973]) when 
applying the Mantel/Haenszel summary chisquare statistic to the comparison of r 
life tables in the manner suggested by Mantel [1966], Peto and Peto [1972], and 
Cox [1972]. These indicate that conservatism is mild unless there are marked 
differences in the withdrawal patterns in the r tables. Such differences may, 
however, be anticipated in the case of a generalization of the life table 
procedure suggested by Crowley [1973], Mantel and Byar [1974], and Turnbull, 
Brown, and Hu [1974], wherein individuals are moved from one life table to 
another according to changes in their treatment (or other) statuses.

PMID: 1203436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Health Serv Res. 1975 Spring;10(1):82-96.

Livelihood benefits of small improvements in the life table.

Cohen JE.

This article proposes and illustrates a new lower bound on the economic benefits 
of reducing the number of deaths due to a particular cause and specifies the 
underlying economic and demographic assumptions. Unlike previous estimates of 
the increase in a population's output due to the extension of working lives, 
this new bound includes the present value to the existing population of avoiding 
future deaths from the cause. The estimated lower bound of $20 billion benefit 
from eliminating U.S. male deaths due to kidney and related diseases exceeds by 
an order of magnitude a previous estimate that considers only current deaths.

PMCID: PMC1071833
PMID: 1205867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Klin Wochenschr. 1975 Dec 1;53(23):1107-13. doi: 10.1007/BF01614278.

Comparative studies of the electroencephalogram and the cerebral oxidative 
metabolism in patients with liver cirrhosis.

Papenberg J, Lanzinger G, Kommerell B, Hoyer S.

In two groups of patients with liver cirrhosis and normal EEG (Group A) and with 
pathological EEG (Group B) it was possible to demonstrate a correlation between 
the severity grade of the EEG changes, the livertypical deviations of serum 
chemistry and alterations in cerebral oxidative metabolism. The metabolism of 
the brain showed a reduced oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide output in the 
patients with pathological EEG changes. All patients showed a raised glucose 
uptake, an increased lactate release, a raised ammonia uptake and glutamine 
output. These findings in patients with liver cirrhosis indicate a disturbance 
of the oxidative energy metabolism of the brain with secondary intensification 
of glycolysis. Pathological changes in the EEG only appear if the oxygen 
consumption of the brain is limited (as in the patients of Group B). These EEG 
changes have a poor prognosis in respect to life expectancy. With consideration 
of the data from animal experiments and the reported results of cerebral blood 
flow and oxydative metabolism in patients with liver cirrhosis it might be 
assumed that liver insufficiency with elevated serum ammonia results in a 
deranged oxydative cerebral metabolism which might explain hepatic 
encephalopathy.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01614278
PMID: 1206968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Mo Med. 1975 Dec;72(12):689-91.

Cancer control: intervention or prevention?

Spratt JS Jr.

PMID: 1207664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Nord Med. 1975 Nov;90(11):265-7.

[Medical insurance estimation of risks].

[Article in Swedish]

Dunér H.

The purpose of insurance medicine is to make a prognostic estimate of medical 
risk-factors in persons who apply for life, health, or accident insurance. 
Established risk-groups with a calculated average mortality and morbidity form 
the basis for premium rates and insurance terms. In most cases the applicant is 
accepted for insurance after a self-assessment of his health. Only around one 
per cent of the applications are refused, but there are cases in which the 
premium is raised, temporarily or permanently. It is often a matter of rough 
estimate, since the knowlege of the long-term prognosis for many diseases is 
incomplete. The insurance companies' rules for estimate of risk are revised at 
intervals of three or four years. The estimate of risk as regards life insurance 
has been gradually liberalised, while the medical conditions for health 
insurance have become stricter owing to an increase in the claims rate.

PMID: 1208195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Prev Med. 1975 Dec;4(4):482-90. doi: 10.1016/0091-7435(75)90034-1.

Forum on cardiovascular disease epidemiology. Introduction: opportunities for 
primary prevention of coronary artery disease.

Borhani NO.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-7435(75)90034-1
PMID: 1208361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1975 Nov 1;30(21):701-6.

[Late fate of patients with pernicious anemia].

[Article in German]

von Knorre G, Pechau KG.

In a retrospective study is reported on 271 cases of pernicious anaemia which 
were observed for 30 years. 2 groups of patients could be significantly 
differed. In the first group the disease appears familiarly and/or is combined 
with a diabetes mellitus or a disease of the thyroid gland. Its manifestation is 
7 years earlier than in the 2nd group, in individual cases without genetic 
relation. In this a heterologous etiology of the pernicious anaemia is to be 
seen. On principle in therapy was treated only parenterally and relatively small 
quantities of vitamin B12 were given. In these cases the results were good. 
Recidivations appeared only quite infrequently. The life expectancy obtained is 
altogether high, but it is, however, somewhat under the average of a healthy 
population of the same age. Despite careful control and early operation the 
gastric carcinoma more frequently appeared as cause of death than in the average 
population of the same age, whereas all other tumours were more rarely found.

PMID: 1210469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1975 Nov 15;30(22):721-7.

[Clinical aspects and therapy of Sheehan's syndrome and its special forms].

[Article in German]

Kaiser W, Oravec D, Schmidt GA.

Sometimes the Sheehan-syndrome appears in form of a partial insufficiency and 
sometimes also with atypical symptomatology. From this result diagnostic and 
therapeutic consequences, the peculiarities of which are exhibited. The acute 
form of the course is dangerous. It makes necessary the use of a specific 
emergency treatment, whereby the result of the highly threatening condition 
depends on its consequent application. When a competent therapy is carried out 
the life expectancy of female patients suffering from the Sheehan-syndrome is no 
more to be regarded as reduced.

PMID: 1210473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Bull Pan Am Health Organ. 1975;9(4):345-52.

Formulation of goals for life expectancy at birth in Costa Rica (report of one 
experience).

Sáenz Jiménez L.

Costa Rican authorities have finished a national adaptation of the goals of the 
Hemisphere's Ten-Year Health Plan for the Americas and have formulated a 
National Health Plan for 1974-1980. This work was coordinated by the Health 
Sector Planning Unit and was assisted by various multidisciplinary and 
multi-institutional working groups. The methodology set forth in this article 
was developed by a group responsible for formulating goals with regard to life 
expectancy--the last of five health-related subjects analyzed, and one regarded 
as dependent on the rest. In brief, this methodology was as follows: Birth 
rates, death rates, and life expectancy at birth in the other countries of the 
Region and in a developed country (Sweden) were compared with those prevailing 
now and in the past in Costa Rica. This served as a basis for projecting Costa 
Rica's future prospects if no changes were made, or if certain changes were made 
through implementation of new programs. This was followed by analysis of leading 
caused of death in the country--by age group and vulnerability of those dying, 
and by probably reductions in mortality that would result from achieving the 
goals established for other programs. On this basis, various alternative 
reductions in mortality for each age groups were considered. Using these 
alternative, abridged life tables were devised, and these in turn were used to 
draw up a table showing the life expectancy at birth that would result from 
realization of each alternative. This made it possible to derive life expectancy 
goals that were consistent with the goals for reducing mortality in each age 
group that were formulated during the sectoral planning process. It is hoped 
that this general procedure, illustrated here with data from the Costa Rican 
case, may prove useful to others engaged in health planning work.

PMID: 1212543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Ontogenez. 1975;6(1):20-30.

[The morphofunctional condition of the basic organ systems, life span and 
fecundity of the domestic cricket, Acheta domestica, during normal imaginal 
development and following allatectomy].

[Article in Russian]

Chudakova IV, Bocharova-Messner OM, Romashkina MP.

3 main periods of imaginal development: juvenility, reproduction, ageing, were 
established in Acheta domestica and characterized by morphological and 
functional features of some organs (integument, wings, fat body, wing muscles, 
ovaries, and body proportions). Allatectomized crickets remain in the first 
period up till the day of death; this allowed to suggest that the hormone of 
corpora allata in imago controls the normal correlated development of different 
organs and tissues and ensures the transition to subsequent periods of imaginal 
ontogenesis. In allatectomized crickets of both the sexes, the duration of 
imaginal life is markedly longer and the fecundity of females is much lower. It 
is suggested that the hormone of corpora allata controls the life span and the 
fecundity independently.

PMID: 1214983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Rev Roum Med Intern. 1975;13(1):19-24.

Coronary arteries in infants up to the age of ten years. I. Chronology of 
adaptive intimal changes.

Velican C, Velican D.

In the coronary arteries of old fetuses the presence of musculo-elastic and 
elastic hyperplastic layers was firstly detected in the branching pads of aortic 
ostia and the emergence of the left anterior descending branch. These layers 
appeared constantly more developed in the left than in the right coronary bed. 
During the first six months of the extrauterine life the coalescence of pads 
revealed a passage from localized to diffuse adaptive changes in the main 
branching sites and in their immediate vicinity. Then, in the first decade of 
life, a progressive extension of the musculo-elastic and elastic hyperplastic 
layers was observed, leading to the well known aspect of diffuse intimal 
thickening.

PMID: 1215799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1975 Sep 13;105(37):1184-7.

[The care of the hemophiliac--our contribution to the prevention of his 
invalidism].

[Article in German]

Meili E.

In view of the normal present-day life expectancy of the hemophiliac, our main 
task is to prevent disability. The chief cause of disability is joint and muscle 
hemorrhages, though these are not in themselves life-threatening. Their early 
and proper treatment serves to avoid disability through replacement of the 
deficient coagulation factor, careful immobilization of the affected limb and 
early physical therapy. Optimum treatment calls for close cooperation between 
the hemophilia specialist, the general practitioner or pediatrician, and the 
hemophiliac.

PMID: 1215900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1975 Nov 1;105(44):1459-62.

[Proceedings: Results of the surgical treatment of valvulopathies and ischemic 
heart disease in patients older than 65 years].

[Article in French]

Sadeghi H, Papaioannou J, Mazzoni S, Essinger A, Reymond C, Jaeger M, Rivier JL.

53 patients aged from 65 to 76 years underwent surgery for valvulopathies (23 
patients), atherosclerotic heart disease (24 patients) or both diseases combined 
(6 patients). All these cases were in NYHA fonctional classes III and IV except 
for one patient in class II. Hospital mortality after surgical treatment of 
these cardiopathies was 3.8% (2 deaths). The late mortality of 19% (10 deaths), 
though high, was of non-cardiac origin in 7 of these patients. The clinical and 
hemodynamic findings in the two patients who died in the postoperative period 
were compared with those in the others. These two patients were more severely 
ill and had a greater degree of cardiomegaly than the average patient in the 
surviving group. The satisfactory clinical improvement in these elderly cardiac 
patients suggests that surgery can be recommended at least up to 75 years of age 
if there are no obvious contraindications. Life expectancy of 13-16 years for 
patients aged 65 and 8-9 years for patients aged 75 is a further reason for 
advocating surgical intervention.

PMID: 1215926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1975 Sep 15;30(18):603-7.

[Epidemiology of myocardial infarction from the obductor's view].

[Article in German]

Grosse H.

Fibroses of the myocardium are more frequent in both sexes than acute 
infarctions. Men and women with microinfarctions or fibroses of the myocardium 
reach an older age than patients with a macroinfarction. Fresh necroses after 
infarction (as primary infarction or reinfarction) are less frequent in men than 
old scars after macroinfarctions, but not in women. With 20-30% the number of 
the quiescent myocardial infarctions is larger than generally is assumed. Men as 
well as women with old scars after infarction or with old aneurysms of the 
cardiac wall do not reach an older age than those with a fresh necrosis after 
infarction. This is explained by the fact that the chance of survival and also 
the further life expectancy are more favourable for younger patients with 
infarction than for older ones.

PMID: 1216940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Verh Dtsch Ges Pathol. 1975;59:110-8.

[The genetic regulation of the aging of cells, organs, and organisms (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

Bayreuther K.

PMID: 1217005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Verh Dtsch Ges Pathol. 1975;59:150-9.

[The influence of nutritional factors on the life-span and ageing (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

Platt D.

PMID: 1217009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Verh Dtsch Ges Pathol. 1975;59:160-80.

[The meaning of circadian rhythmicity with regard to aging man (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

Wever R.

PMID: 1217010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Verh Dtsch Ges Pathol. 1975;59:252-4.

[Population-statistical and clinical-epidemiology comments on geriatrics].

[Article in German]

Oberwittler W.

PMID: 1217014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Arch Dis Child. 1975 Dec;50(12):962-5. doi: 10.1136/adc.50.12.962.

Life tables for cystic fibrosis.

Robinson MJ, Norman AP.

The past 5 years have seen a continuing improvement in life expectancy in cystic 
fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1136/adc.50.12.962
PMCID: PMC1545852
PMID: 1220613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Parazitologiia. 1975 Jul-Aug;9(4):354-8.

[Life expectancy of Ctenophthalmus wladimiri Is.-Gurv., 1948 (Siphonaptera, 
Ctenophthalmidae) under laboratory conditions].

[Article in Russian]

Talybov AN.

Laboratory studies have shown that at 75% humidity fleas, Ct. wladimiri, are 
less viable than at 100% humidity. At 100% humidity at a temperature from 0 to 
10 degrees and without feeding newly born imagos survived up to 363 days, at a 
higher temperature from 18 to 30 degrees-from 44 to 163 days. At a temperature 
from 7 to 10 degrees imagos, which fed one time, lived up to 355 days and at 0 
to 2 degrees-up to 287 days. Maximum life duration (1133 days) for periodically 
feeding fleas was at 100% humidity at a temperature from 7 to 10 degrees. Under 
such conditions 50% of fleas survived up to 114 days. Hungry but previously 
"prepared" for winter fleas lived at a temperature from 0 to 2 degrees not more 
than 376 days.

PMID: 1221339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. J Chir (Paris). 1975 Nov;110(5):451-76.

[Development of treatment of severe thoracic injuries].

[Article in French]

Le Brigand H.

About 25 p. 100 of cases of closed trauma of the thorax may be classified as 
severe, for they rapidly endanger life. Their treatment has made considerable 
progress since the report of J. Dor and H. Le Brigand in 1960. However, when 
severe trauma is treated, the mortality has remained unchanged over the last ten 
years. The treatment of fractures of the sternum includes respiratory assistance 
and internal fixation of the fractured bones, these two methods together, when 
correctly applied, give good results. Endothoracic lesions are now better 
recognised. Hemothorax and pneumothorax are now treated by a well recognised 
method. Visceral lesions, such as bronchial rupture, or major vascular ruptures, 
e.g. aorta, and heart lesions may be diagnosed at an early stage and be operated 
on more often. On the other hand, it is now better recognised that diffuse 
pulmonary lesions, e.g. pulmonary contusions or "shock lung", which is usually 
treated by artificial respiration alone, still may have a poor prognosis in some 
cases. From this it results that many surgical teams have enlarged the 
indications for early thoracotomy in the same way as laparotomy is more often 
carried out in abdominal trauma. In fact, these indications require 
circumspection and thoracotomy should only be carried out in specialised 
thoracic surgery units. If this is not available, aspiration, drainage, 
tracheotomy, continuous extension, are still applicable, but it is also 
necessary for them to be carried out correctly; if not, failures and 
complications of these minor measures are frequent. The use of these methods has 
shown the existence of therapeutic failures, including major bilateral bony 
lesions, diffuse severe lung injuries with resistant anoxia, complex multiple 
injuries with thoracic involvement and, finally, combined thoracic and cranial 
lesions, the mortality of which is about 50 p. 100. These facts explain why 
treatment of severe thoracic trauma gives variable results. The mortality varies 
from 12 to 15 p. 100, in some series up to 50 or 60 p. 100 These discrepancies 
may be explained by different modes of recruitment of the services, some of 
which receive a large number of very severe cases of multiple injury with a high 
mortality. However, over the last 15 years, one may consider that the general 
prognosis of severe thoracic trauma has improved considerably.

PMID: 1223132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Rev Saude Publica. 1975 Dec;9(4):555-7.

[Indicators of life expectancy, quality of life and health care. Preliminary 
report].

[Article in Portuguese]

Tinôco A.

PMID: 1224176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Z Alternsforsch. 1975;30(1):45-7.

[Correlation between median heart rate and survival of various organsims].

[Article in German]

Beier W, Arnhold J.

PMID: 1224656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Z Mikrosk Anat Forsch. 1975;89(2):207-18.

[Contribution on the physiological heart growth. (Experimental autoradiographic 
studies in mice)].

[Article in German]

Kranz D, Fuhrmann I, Keim U.

After injections of 3H thymidine or 3H proline, the physiological hearth growth 
in mice of the CBA strain belonging to various age groups was studied by means 
of autoradiography. The most important results are the following: The duration 
of the postnatal growth period is determined by the degree of maturity of the 
heart at the time of birth. It varies from species to species. 2. In the 
perinatal developmental phase the percentage of the 3H thymidine-labelled 
connective-tissue nuclei is higher than that of the muscle nuclei. In this 
period the connective supporting tissue is considerably strengthened. 3. During 
the postnatal developmental phase the DNA synthesis in the muscle nuclei aids 
the preparation of mitoses. After the postnatal duplication of cells the mitotic 
genes are repressed. The further growth is effected by the increase in weight of 
the individual fibres. 4. The process of growth is substantially determined by 
the intracardiac or intramyocardiac pressure and thus by the extension of the 
muscle fibre. Prior to birth the percentage of the labelled nuclei of muscle 
cells and connective tissue cells in the right ventricle was higher than in the 
left ventricular wall. In the postnatal period we observed a shift in the 
percentage of the labelled cells towards the left ventricular wall. The basis 
and the median section of the ventricular wall. The basis and the median section 
of the ventricular wall contain a higher percentage of labelled cells than does 
the apex cordis. During the first two weeks of live most of the DNA synthesising 
nuclei of muscle and connective tissue cells are localized in the two inner 
muscle shells. Later in life no clear distinctions can be demonstrated between 
the individual ventricular layers.

PMID: 1224759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Monatsschr Kinderheilkd (1902). 1975 Dec;123(12):780-6.

[A special brain tumor in the early babyhood (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Bettendorf U.

A case of "mixed glioma" in early infancy is reported with characteristic 
histology and extension causing elevated cerebro spinal pressure. Incidence and 
problematic nature of these brain tumors are discussed briefly. Possibly a tumor 
inducing irritation in utero stimulates embryonic pluripotent cells of glia to 
proliferate, which differentiate during further life to form various tumor 
cells. In this way they produce the picture of a "mixed glioma". The term 
"congenital tumors of the brain" is examined critically.

PMID: 1226203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Recent Adv Stud Cardiac Struct Metab. 1975;7:231-6.

Effect on myocardial metabolic pattern of local complete and incomplete 
ischemia.

Isselhard W, Geppert E, Menge M, Lauterjung KL, Vogel W, Witte J, Heugel E.

After local complete ischemia at normothermia of 60, 100, 140, and 180 min 
duration the status of the adenylic acid-creatine phosphate system in the canine 
myocardium recovered to 98, 85, 74, and 30 percent of the control values, 
whereas glycogen was restored even more. In the infarcted myocardium the extent 
of alterations of the metabolic status was a function of the residual blood 
flow. Deviations from a regular metabolic status developed if the blood flow 
dropped below about 35 ml/min/100 gm. This critical flow rate is expected to 
vary with the energy requirement of the heart, but it is in keeping with results 
obtained by Rudolph and coworkers (personal communication) who found that 
patients with a myocardial blood flow below 30 ml/min/100 gm had a life 
expectancy of less than 1 month. In the nonaffected myocardium, both in 
experiments with local complete ischemia and in experiments with infarction, the 
metabolic status was always within normal ranges. This is in contrast to results 
published by Gudbjarnason (1971/1972) and Gudbjarnason, Puri, and Mathes (1971), 
who found that in noninfarcted myocardium tissue levels of ATP and creatine 
phosphate decreased to about 50 percent of the control values and that there was 
no restoration to normal values within 10 days after infarction.

PMID: 1226439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Acta Med Austriaca. 1975;2(1):15-8.

[Long-term results in pacemaker therapy].

[Article in German]

Steinbach K, Stellwag F, Unger F.

The range of age, life expectancy and problems of functional control in 
pacemaker patients, are reported. The results demonstrate the dependability of 
pacemaker treatment, provided that there is an adequate functional control. The 
life expectancy, in comparison with total population, was found to be similar.

PMID: 1227226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Birth Defects Orig Artic Ser. 1975;11(2):3-17.

Mulibrey nanism: review of 23 cases of a new autosomal recessive syndrome.

Perheentupa J, Autio S, Leisti S, Raitta C, Tuuteri L.

Mulibrey (muscle, liver, brain, eye) nanism is probably an autosomal recessive 
condition characterized by progressive growth failure of prenatal onset, 
triangular face with hydrocephaloid skull, general thinness and muscular 
hypotonicity, peculiar voice, venous congestion caused by pericardial 
constriction, and pigment dispersion and yellowish dots in ocular fundi. Two 
thirds of the patients had cutaneous nevi flammei and one third cystic fibrous 
dysplasia of the tibia. Probably a substantial portion of the affected are lost 
by early abortion and others by infantile death. The physical capacity and life 
expectancy seem to vary depending on the degree of the cardiac affection.

PMID: 1227534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Mech Ageing Dev. 1975 Sep-Dec;4(5-6):361-9. doi:
10.1016/0047-6374(75)90036-6.

On the regeneration of aortic endothelium at different ages.

Kunz J, Keim U.

In order to study the physiological regeneration of the endothelium, "Hautchen", 
preparations of aortic endothelium were produced from 15 rabbits of different 
ages and studied autoradiographically. By determining the number of 
3H-thymidine-labelled cells, the mitotic rate and the total number of cells per 
0.12 mm2, we arrived at the following conclusions: (1) The mean generation time 
of endothelial cells increases with advancing age. The extension of the mean 
generation time of the endothelial cells, as deduced from the decrease in the 
3H-thymidine labelling index and in the mitotic rate, mainly occurs during the 
first four months of life. (2) Neither between topologically different aortic 
segments nor between such portions of the aorta as are exposed to different 
flow-mechanical stresses could any considerable differences with regard to the 
reproduction rate of their endothelial cells be detected. The raised endothelial 
turnover in the area of the iliac bifurcation requires further studies.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(75)90036-6
PMID: 1228335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Acta Chir Acad Sci Hung. 1975;16(3):245-58.

[Bladder stimulation of patients with spinal injuries].

[Article in German]

Magasi P, Novoszel Z.

Electric stimulation of the bladder through eight electrodes was performed in 7 
patients suffering from innervation disturbances of various origin. In one case 
the device had to be removed because of endocarditis and sepsis after 8 months. 
In 6 cases the result was satisfactory as the patients were capable of emptying 
their bladder without catheterization. By abolishing vesico-ureteral reflux, 
recurrent pyelonephritis is eliminated, consequently life expectancy greatly 
improves. The method is believed to be suitable mainly in cases of peripheral 
bladder paralysis. In cases of central paralysis, the fibrosis of the bladder 
neck calls for additional interventions such as transurethral resection.

PMID: 1229801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Confin Psychiatr. 1975;18(2):61-72.

[Delirium and ecstasy. The phenomenon of toxic ecstasy in young men].

[Article in German]

Bron B, Ruttenberg BA.

In the whole history of mankind, hallucinogenic drugs have played a big part in 
religious and cult practices and have transmitted special religious experiences 
during a drug-induced ecstasy. The present extension of drug consumption with a 
view to solving personal conflicts and transitory experience of happiness, as 
well as the unsuccessful 'quest for God' of many young drug consumers should be 
understood in the context of the specific drug effects, of the technological 
developments of our times, as well as of the change and breakdown of religious 
and cult traditions. This desperate quest for happiness and religious experience 
calls for a critical reflection about the present sociocultural developments and 
raises the question of the necessity of an authentic religious life.

PMID: 1233152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Soc Biol. 1975 Winter;22(4):338-43. doi: 10.1080/19485565.1975.9988190.

Suicide and homicide as causes of death and their relationship to life 
expectancy: a cross-cultural comparison.

Vigderhous G.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1975.9988190
PMID: 1233734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Mech Ageing Dev. 1975 May-Aug;4(3-4):251-61. doi:
10.1016/0047-6374(75)90027-5.

The late effects of selected immunosuppressants on immunocompetence, disease 
incidence, and mean life-span. III. Disease incidence and life expectancy.

Peter CP, Perkins EH, Peterson WJ, Walburg HE, Makinodan T.

The effect of various immunosuppressive treatments on mean life-span and disease 
incidence have been studied. Significant life shortening was seen only in mice 
which recieved X-irradiation early in life and can be ascribed primarily to an 
increased incidence of certain malignancies. Marginal life shortening was seen 
in cyclophosphamide-treated animals, however, survival patterns between those 
and control animals did not differ until 30 months of age and the magnitude of 
life-shortening never approached that seen in X-irradiated animals. Thymectomy, 
splenectomy or cortisone treatment did not alter survival. All immunosuppressive 
treatments enhanced mortality due to non-neoplastic diseases, however, only a 
small percentage of animals die with these disease entities. With the exception 
of cortisone all immunosuppressive treatments increased the incidence of 
neoplastic disease. However, their effects on various neoplastic processes were 
variable and unpredictable. Four primary patterns in terms of relative immune 
competence, disease incidence and life expectancy were seen. Thus, 
immunodepression may of may not correlate with increased disease incidence, 
which in turn may or may not have a life-shortening effect. These findings are 
discussed in terms of the marked reduction of both humoral and cell-mediated 
immunity normally seen in aged mice and the significance of postulated immune 
surveillance mechanisms to survival.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(75)90027-5
PMID: 1238880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. J Chronic Dis. 1975 Dec;28(11-12):609-22. doi: 10.1016/0021-9681(75)90074-0.

Survival patterns in cyctic fibrosis.

Warwick WJ, Pogue RE, Gerber HU, Nesbitt CJ.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9681(75)90074-0
PMID: 1239460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Verh Dtsch Ges Pathol. 1975;59:52-66.

[The cellular basis of biological aging (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Hayflick L.

PMID: 1240706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Neurochirurgie. 1975 Nov;21(6):425-34.

[Microsurgical experiments in 12 cases of intramedullary hemangioblastomas].

[Article in French]

Yasargil MG, De Preux J.

12 patients (8 males and 4 females) operated on for intramedullary 
hemangioblastomas, using microsurgical techniques are presented. Special 
consideration is given to the clinical and pathological aspects. The results of 
surgery are discussed. The family history is positive in 4 cases. Clinical 
aspect : a) the initial symptoms is usually pain (9 patients) motor deficits 
were present in 2 cases. Only 1 patient presented visual disturbances at the 
beginning of the disease. b) the interval of time between the first symptom and 
the fully developped clinical picture is shorter than 1 year in 4 patients and 
longer (up to 18 years) in 8 patients. c) the full clinical picture consists of 
motor deficit, sensory disturbances (especially dorsal columns), cerebellar 
signs, raised intracranial pressure, sphincter disturbances, retinal angiomas, 
arterial hypertension and psychoorganic syndrome in decreasing order of 
frequence. Pathological findings at opsurgery : There are. a) 3 cases of 
hemangioblastomas at the bulbo-cervical junction b) 5 cases of 
cerebello-medullary hemangoblastomas. c) 4 cases of medullary hemangioblastomas. 
1 patient had renal and pancreatic cysts. 2 patients had pheochromocytomas with 
arterial hypertension. Operative technique. Microsurgical techniques, bipolar 
coagulation, and continuous irrigation of the operative field are of primordial 
importance. The tumor must be approached from the periphery and never from the 
center. One should coagulate the afferent vessels first and the efferent vessels 
only at the end. Results of surgery. In 1 case, only a partial removal was 
possible and the patient did not improve. A complete removal was possible in 11 
patients with the following results : -- 4 patients are in excellent condition 
and have a normal socio-professional life. -- 5 patients improved and are 
independant. The are able to perform partial time-work. -- 1 patient, with 
bulbar extension of the tumor improved from the motor point of view, but he 
presents a permanent. deficit of the IX, X, XI cranial nerves. He has a 
permanent tracheal canula. -- 1 patient improved following surgery, but he died 
12 months later (stress ulcer and cardiac decompensation). The autopsy revealed 
a recurrence of the cerebellar tumor.

PMID: 1241711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. JAMA. 1975 Dec 1;234(9):960.

Editorial: No mandatory retirement from therapy.

Vaisrub S.

PMID: 1242500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. N Engl J Med. 1976 Feb 19;294(8):449. doi: 10.1056/NEJM197602192940827.

Letter: Facts of life--and death.

Schneiderman MA.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM197602192940827
PMID: 1246327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Am J Cardiol. 1976 Feb;37(2):322-4. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(76)90330-1.

Cardiac valve replacement: an unanswered question.

Selzer A.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(76)90330-1
PMID: 1246960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. J R Coll Surg Edinb. 1976 Jan;21(1):1-14.
