
Cancer as a community problem.

Godber G.

PMID: 1249788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. S Afr Med J. 1976 Jan 3;50(1):19-21.

Pulmonary embolism in the Rhodesian Black.

Gelfand M, Ross M.

Pulmonary embolism is less frequent in Blacks than in Whites. Deep vein 
thrombosis is probably not uncommon in Blacks, but relatively few of them 
develop pulmonary embolism. Postoperative pulmonary embolism in Blacks is 
probably far less common than in Whites. We are dealing with a relatively young 
Black population, compared with the White one, and therefore more cases might be 
expected among the Black population as its life expectancy improves.

PMID: 1251267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Transplant Rev. 1976;28:43-61. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-065x.1976.tb00192.x.

The nude mouse vs. the hypothesis of immunological surveillance.

Rygaard J, Povlsen CO.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-065x.1976.tb00192.x
PMID: 1251462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Br Heart J. 1976 Jan;38(1):32-8. doi: 10.1136/hrt.38.1.32.

Congenital heart disease in Down's syndrome.

Laursen HB.

Eighty cases of Down's syndrome were found among 1504 children with congenital 
heart disease under the age of 15 years. The most common cardiac anomaly, 
ventricular septal defect, was found in 49 per cent of the 80 cases studied, 
while the second most frequently encountered anomaly, common atrioventricular 
canal, was found in 15%. Haemodynamic investigations of 24 cases of ventricular 
septal defect showed Eisenmenger's syndrome to be present in 10 cases; this 
seemed to appear at an earlier age in mongoloid children than in other children 
with ventricular septal defect. Right-to-left shunt was found in 5 out of 9 
cases of common atrioventricular canal. Pulmonary hypertension was found in all 
of 24 cases of ventricular septal defect and in 7 of 9 cases of common 
atrioventricular canal. The cumulative survival up to 10 years was 64% for girls 
and 49% for boys. Death was most commonly the result of pulmonary complications 
which occurred in 22 out of the 34 patients who died.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.38.1.32
PMCID: PMC482966
PMID: 1252293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Br Med J. 1976 Feb 21;1(6007):439-42. doi: 10.1136/bmj.1.6007.439.

The curability of breast cancer.

Baum M.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.1.6007.439
PMCID: PMC1638922
PMID: 1252784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Compr Ther. 1976 Feb;2(2):65-74.

The crosslinkage theory of aging: clinical implications.

Bjorksten J.

PMID: 1253543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. J Occup Med. 1976 Mar;18(3):157-60. doi: 10.1097/00043764-197603000-00007.

A critique of the standardized mortality ratio.

Gaffey WR.

DOI: 10.1097/00043764-197603000-00007
PMID: 1255274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. J Pediatr. 1976 Apr;88(4 Pt 1):614-20. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(76)80021-2.

Persistent fetal circulation: Newly recognized structural features.

Haworth SG, Reid L.

Three infants died with pulmonary hypertension of unknown cause during the first 
three months of life. Their lungs were examined using quantitative morphologic 
techniques. In all three cases the intra-acinar pulmonary arteries were more 
muscular than normal, as shown both by an increase in thickness of the muscle 
coat in arteries which are normally muscular, and by extension of muscle into 
smaller and more peripheral intra-acinar arteries not normally muscular at this 
age. It is suggested that "persistent pulmonary hypertension" of the newborn 
infant is, in some infants, due to a structural abnormality of the pulmonary 
circulation which is present at birth.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(76)80021-2
PMID: 1255323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Ann Intern Med. 1976 Apr;84(4):466-76. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-84-4-466.

Geriatric care in the United Kingdom: an American perspective.

Somers AR.

Geriatric care is a complex and challenging aspect of health care. The United 
Kingdom, with 13.6% of its population over 65 years of age, compared to 10.1% in 
the United States, has given special attention to this field. Characteristics of 
the British system include financing through the National Health Service, 
existence of a specialty of geriatrics, absence of "nursing homes," emphasis on 
home care, and avoidance of "heroics" for the terminally ill. While British life 
expectancy at birth is longer than that for Americans, the opposite is now true 
for those over 65. The British have made efforts to maximize efficiency in a 
high-demand, comparatively low-resource context. But there are limits to which 
professional dedication and patient manipulation can be pushed. Some new policy 
directions-primarily aimed at prevention and other methods of reducing demand, 
other than reimposing financial barriers-may have to be explored.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-84-4-466
PMID: 1259293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Cesk Gynekol. 1976 Mar;41(1):22-4.

[Analysis of the causes of premature births in the medical district of Sumperk. 
Resulting conclusions from the aspect of maternal morbidity (author's transl)].

[Article in Czech]

Antos J, Valnoha F, Jager V, Krticka J.

PMID: 1260883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1976 Jan-Feb;(114):31-45.

The lethal chondrodysplasias.

Maroteaux P, Stanescu V, Stanescu R.

The lethal chondrodysplasias are a complex group of diseases of which little is 
known. Three disorders have been well characterized; achondrogenesis, 
thanatophoric dwarfism, and the lethal chondrodysplasias with polydactyly. 
Pathological studies of epiphyseal cartilage confirm the separateness of these 
diseases but further work is necessary to specify the limits of variations. In 
achondrogenesis, relatively minor forms differ greatly from the usual 
description. In the chondrodysplasias with polydactyly, skeletal involvement 
appears to vary from one case to another. Furthermore, we must pursue the 
genetic studies in thanatophoric dwarfism where the exact mode of inheritance is 
known.

PMID: 1261128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Clin Radiol. 1976 Jan;27(1):33-8. doi: 10.1016/s0009-9260(76)80011-6.

Calculation of survival rates by the life table and other methods.

Mould RF.

The last few years have seen the introduction of medical statistics into the 
curriculum for MB, BS and for the FFR. Also, an increasing number of clinical 
trials have considered statistics at the planning stage of the trial, rather 
than only at the end point. However, there is one particular aspect of medical 
statistics which has consistently been neglected, namely, technique in 
calculating survival rates for cancer patients. All too often, a direct method 
of calculation, see section 3.1, is used when a life table method would provide 
a better estimate. The life table, or actuarial method, was first described in a 
medical context by Greenwood (1926), and later by Merrell and Shulman (1955) and 
Cutler and Ederer (1958). It has however, not been explained in detail in a 
British journal. The objective of the present paper is to remedy, this fact so 
that it can be used more widely in the future in preference to a direct method.

DOI: 10.1016/s0009-9260(76)80011-6
PMID: 1261198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Med J Aust. 1976 Feb 7;1(6):160-5.

Treatment with the artificial kidney (dialysis).

Farrell PC, Stewart JH.

For patients with chronic renal disease, haemodialysis can provide reasonable 
rehabilitation and, in most cases, a life expectancy in excess of 10 years. 
However, dialysis is unable to provide for any loss of the kidneys' endocrine or 
metabolic activities and the kidneys' excretory capacity is only replaced 
suboptimally. Recent well controlled studies on the frequency, time and 
techniques of dialysis, instigated mostly as a consequence of recent hypotheses, 
such as the "middle molecule" theory and consideration of the potential 
importance of residual renal function, have resulted in a complete reassessment 
of the nature of adequate dialysis. Developments such as sorbent-based dialysis 
are leading to a wearable dialyser. Theoretical and hardware developments are 
providing not only more adequate treatment, but improved rehabilitation for 
those patients on chronic dialysis therapy.

PMID: 1263970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1976 Apr;57(4):174-80.

Exercise effect on contractile properties of skeletal muscle in mouse muscular 
dystrophy.

Taylor RG, Fowler WM Jr, Doerr L.

The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of a high repetitive 
exercise program, treadmill running, on the tetanic tension and rate of tension 
development of the slow twitch soleus muscle of normal plus dystrophic mice and 
their littermates. The exercise program used would be considered to be of mild 
intensity since it failed to produce any detectable histochemical or biochemical 
changes. In the noninvolved normal and littermate mice, there was no difference 
in maximum tetanic tension between the exercised and nonexercised control 
groups. In the normal mice (eight weeks of age), there was a significant 
decrease in rate of tension development for those exercised for five weeks 
compared to nonexercised controls. In littermate mice (seven weeks old) 
exercised for a four-week period, there was also a significantly lower rate of 
tension development compared to their nonexercised controls. In dystrophic mice 
(seven weeks old) exercised for only one to two weeks, there was significantly 
lower tension as well as rate of tension developed for the exercised mice when 
compared to nonexercised dystrophic mice. In dystrophic mice (six weeks old) 
exercised for one to two weeks, there was no difference in tension or rate of 
tension development when compared to nonexercised controls. In both six and 
seven-week-old littermate mice, also exercised for one to two weeks, this 
reduction in tension and rate of tension development did not occur. The average 
life span for the dystrophic mice used in this study is about 30 weeks. Of the 
nine exercised dystrophic mice scheduled for study at eight weeks, only one 
survived, suggesting that even the mild exercise used might have shortened their 
life expectancy.

PMID: 1267593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Environ Health Perspect. 1976 Feb;13:91-4. doi: 10.1289/ehp.761391.

Assessment of environmental carcinogen risks in terms of life shortening.

Albert RE, Altshuler B.

An approach is presented to the assessment of carcinogen risks in which the 
dominant effect of carcinogen exposure is life shortening and the impact falls 
both on those individuals who would have gotten cancer without the carcinogen 
exposure as well as the new cancer cases. This analysis is based on the 
interaction of age-specific tumor incidence rates and population survival in 
terms of age-specific mortality rates without the induced risk from carcinogen 
exposure. The analysis yields estimates for lifetime probability of developing 
cancer, average lifespan lost by the entire population, the average age of 
cancer occurrence, and the average lifespan loss of cancer cases. The approach 
utilizes the animal response data to assign, to the existing human cancer 
occurrence, and equivalent dose of the same carcinogen which is under 
consideration in terms of risk evaluation. The approach has the advantages of 
keying the estimates of carcinogen risks to those which already exist in the 
environment, advoiding large extrapolations from animal data, and encompassing 
the variability in susceptibility and carcinogen exposure in humans.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.761391
PMCID: PMC1475006
PMID: 1269512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Klin Med (Mosk). 1976 Feb;54(2):25-30.

[Life expectancy and work capacity after myocardial infarct].

[Article in Russian]

Volkov VS, Kursakov NK, Kukhto LM.

PMID: 1271712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Lab Anim Sci. 1976 Apr;26(2 Pt 2):320-8.

Current experience using the laboratory rat in aging studies.

Hollander CF.

The breeding and maintenance conditions for 2 strains of inbred rats, the 
WAG/Rij and BN/Bi rats, were described. The survival characteristics of these 2 
strains were compared with those of 2 other experiments in which rats were kept 
for longevity studies under different environmental conditions of microbiologic 
status and diet. Data were provided on the rate and types of spontaneous tumors 
found in these 2 rat strains. It can be concluded that in order to obtain rats 
of good quality and in sufficient numbers for aging studies, breeding and 
raising the animals under strict SPF conditions is warranted. It is also 
necessary to maintain them under "clean conventional" conditions for long-term 
studies.

PMID: 1271744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Pneumonol Pol. 1976 May;44(5):421-8.

[Mortality from tuberculosis and the average life expectancy in Poland].

[Article in Polish]

Klonowicz S.

PMID: 1272890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Scand J Soc Med. 1976;4(1):1-6. doi: 10.1177/140349487600400101.

Increase in years of life after eliminating causes of death: significance for 
health priorities.

Hemminki E, Hemminki K, Hakulinen T, Hakama M.

The theory of competing risks of death has been applied in this study for the 
construction of two indices: (1) increase in the expectation of life as a 
function of age, and (2) increase in the average number of years to be lived by 
a newborn up to various ages, when selected causes of death are eliminated. The 
indices have been applied to the 1970 mortality in Finland. Vascular diseases 
comprise the most important cause of death in both sexes, when the first index 
is applied. According to the second index, considering ages up to 65 years, 
violent deaths emerge as the most important cause of death among men and 
neoplasms appear equally important as vascular diseases among women. The 
magnitude of a health problem was found to be dependent on the index selected, 
which should be considered in health planning.

DOI: 10.1177/140349487600400101
PMID: 1273545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1976 Mar;57:2-4.

Longevity of presidents of the United States.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1273870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1976 Feb;57:4-7.

Likelihood of a golden wedding anniversary.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1273871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1976 Mar;57:5-7.

Population growth in the United States and Canada.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1273873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. World Health Stat Rep. 1976;29(1):37-9.

Mortality patterns and trends. Introduction.

[Article in English, French]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1274365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Biomed Eng. 1976 Apr;11(4):121-3.

Home care: a biomedical engineering challenge.

Rushmer RF.

The contributions of biomedical engineering to health care delivery have focused 
on techniques for acquiring and processing patient data, primarily in the high 
technology setting of modern hospitals. The increased sophistication of 
hospitals is responsible in large measure for the soaring costs of health care. 
The current trend toward both ambulatory and home care provides new and 
challenging opportunities for biomedical engineering to bear on problems of 
great social and economic consequence in facilitating safe and effective care of 
the chronically ill in the security and comfort of their own homes. Techniques 
which are refined for use by the expanding population of both aged and 
handicapped individuals are also of potential value for the home care of younger 
patients with broader life expectancy. Projections into the future prospects for 
home care elicit a wide diversity of opportunities of great significance to the 
future of the health professions and society as a whole.

PMID: 1276333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Can J Surg. 1976 May;19(3):254-8.

Technique for cardiopulmonary bypass in the goat.

Williams WG, Kent G, Gunning AJ, Salt R, Spratt EH.

The goat is an ideal animal for intracardiac surgical investigation. The animal 
is docile and easy to care for; it has an ideal heart size, a high cardiac 
output and a long life expectancy. The animal tolerates cardiopulmonary bypass 
well and does not require blood transfusion. Anoxic cardiac arrest is tolerated 
for up to 35 minutes. Initial experience in 36 animals with operations on the 
right side of the heart resulted in a 72% long-term survival.

PMID: 1277020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Demography. 1976 May;13(2):259-72.

A technique for estimating life expectancy with crude vital rates.

McCann JC.

This paper describes a method of estimating life expectancy at birth on the 
basis of crude vital rates. The method is derived from stable population theory 
and it furnishes good estimates insofar as the current crude vital rates of a 
population are close to its intrinsic rates. This condition is generally met in 
closed populations which have not experienced sharp movements in fertility. The 
method is useful for estimating life expectancy in developing nations with good 
sample registration systems but for which information on age is of poor quality. 
It is also useful for estimating the movement of life expectancy in certain 
European nations in the period prior to regular census taking. There are a 
number of nations and regions in Europe for which long series of birth and death 
rates are available but for which census age counts are widely spaced.

PMID: 1278584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Demography. 1976 May;13(2):287-90.

Increment-decrement life tables: a comment.

Rogers A, Ledent J.

PMID: 1278586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Int J Cancer. 1976 Apr 15;17(4):429-35. doi: 10.1002/ijc.2910170403.

The increase in working years due to elimination of cancer as a cause of death.

Hakulinen T, Teppo L.

The relative significance of various forms of cancer in terms of causing death 
is analysed by estimation of the increase in person-years of working age (20-64 
years) following elimination of the disease. Methods based upon the theory of 
competing risks are applied to the statistics on causes of death in Finland 
during the years 1966-70. It is estimated that if there were no lung cancer (the 
commonest type of cancer in both morbidity and mortality statistics in males in 
Finland) the annual deaths saved would yield 5,900 working years (both sexes 
combined). Leukaemia and cancer of the stomach would be next in rank order, with 
figures of respectively 4,000 and 3,900 working years more. Female cancer with 
the highest incidence, that of the breast, would be characterized by 2,900 
additional working years. The significance of types of cancer that affect young 
people is stressed in these calculations: leukaemia, brain tumours and lymphomas 
(both sexes combined) are 6th, 12th and 11th respectively in the statistics of 
cancer causes of death, but 2nd, 4th and 6th respectively in the list of 
additional working years to be gained by elimination of the disease. On the 
other hand, cancer of the prostate, 3rd in males according to the annual numbers 
of cancer deaths, would take the 15th position for the increase in working years 
in males. If no risk of cancer existed, the annual deaths saved would produce 
36,000 working years, a figure exceeded only by those for cardiovascular 
diseases (55,000 working years) and accidents (51,000 working years). The 
results indicate that no practical differences exist between the results derived 
under the assumptions of various models for competing risks, but that the 
exclusion of competing risks may result in considerable degrees of bias in 
estimation if the population has a high general mortality.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910170403
PMID: 1279036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Arch Esp Urol. 1992 Sep;45(7):621-37.

[Controversy regarding the therapeutic management of stage B2, C and D1 
adenocarcinoma].

[Article in Spanish]

Escudero Barrilero A(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología, Hospital Ramón y Cajal, Madrid, España.

In Spain most prostate cancers are detected once they have already disseminated. 
The tumor, however, is localized to the prostate gland for a period of time 
before spreading to other structures. It is therefore important to underscore 
the value of early diagnosis. And if we take into account that the complications 
of radical prostatectomy have diminished and life expectancy of the general 
population has increased, undoubtedly an increased number of patients can 
benefit from surgery. Radical prostatectomy combined with pre and postoperative 
hormone therapy may enhance the quality of life of some patients with tumors 
extending beyond the capsule (clinical stage B2-C), including those with 
microscopic dissemination to the regional lymph nodes. Surgery should aim at 
complete removal of the pelvic tumor. Although a statistical relationship exists 
between blood PSA levels and tumor grade and size, elevation of PSA levels is 
not sufficient to predict malignancy or tumor spread and is of little value in 
predicting response to hormone therapy.

PMID: 1280071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Obstet Gynecol. 1992 Dec;80(6):961-5.

Abnormal labor and infant brain damage.

Rosen MG(1), Debanne SM, Thompson K, Dickinson JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, College of Physicians & Surgeons, 
Columbia University, Sloane Hospital for Women, Columbia Presbyterian Medical 
Center, New York, New York.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether arrest disorders result in increased neurologic 
abnormalities in infancy or childhood.
METHODS: Four hundred thirteen infants with arrest disorders as defined by 
Friedman criteria were matched to a similar population without arrest disorders. 
The median length of follow-up was 6 years for the study infants and 5.07 years 
for the controls. The numbers of children with abnormalities in the groups with 
and without arrest disorders, as well as the specific abnormalities encountered, 
were stratified by method of delivery.
RESULTS: Thirty neurologic abnormalities were found in the arrest group and 37 
in the control group; thus, the null hypotheses could not be rejected. In 
addition, although the control group was not followed as long as the study 
population, the diagnosis of abnormalities was more frequent in the later years 
in the controls. This suggests that had the follow-ups been equal, there would 
have been stronger proof that arrest by itself was not associated with infant 
brain damage.
CONCLUSION: Our study confirms that labor diagnoses of prolonged active phase, 
protractions or arrests, and failure to descend are not associated with 
increased neurologic abnormalities. Delivery by cesarean or vaginal birth and 
use of oxytocin are not factors in the etiology of major brain damage.

PMID: 1280353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Neurol Med Chir (Tokyo). 1992 Sep;32(10):739-46. doi: 10.2176/nmc.32.739.

Preliminary results of interstitial 192Ir brachytherapy for malignant gliomas.

Matsumoto K(1), Nakagawa M, Higashi H, Maeshiro T, Tsuno K, Mishima N, Furuta T, 
Ohmoto T, Taguchi K, Nakagawa T, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Okayama University Medical School.

Twenty-six patients with recurrent or unremovable malignant gliomas were treated 
by interstitial brachytherapy with iridium-192 seeds. Stereotactic implantation 
of the afterloading catheters using the Brown-Roberts-Wells computed tomography 
(CT)-guided stereotactic system was performed in 24 patients and surgical 
implantation in two patients with pontine glioma. The response to therapy was 
measured by serial CT, magnetic resonance imaging, and clinical examination. 
Tumor regression was seen in 17 patients 1-3 months after implantation. Tumor 
progression was seen in only three patients. After interstitial brachytherapy, 
the most commonly observed CT finding was central low density. Median survival 
time was 18 months after implantation. Autopsies in five patients revealed the 
delayed effects of radiation injury such as typical vascular changes, 
microcalcification, and coagulative necrosis in the implant area and tumor 
recurrence at the periphery. The results suggest that brachytherapy is not 
curative but prolonged the median survival time by 6 months.

DOI: 10.2176/nmc.32.739
PMID: 1280775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 1992;31 Suppl:S77-81. doi: 10.1007/BF00687111.

Analysis of prognostic factors in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma treated 
by transcatheter arterial embolization.

Yamamoto K(1), Masuzawa M, Kato M, Okuyama T, Tamura K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Osaka National Hospital, Japan.

We studied 240 cases of unresected hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) using Cox's 
proportional hazard model to elucidate which factors would be closely related 
with the survival period after treatment by transcatheter arterial embolization 
(TAE) in the presence or absence of iodized oil. The results were as follows. 
The cumulative survival values obtained after TAE were 67.5% for 1 year, 32.0% 
for 2 years, and 20.5% for 3 years. The most significant prognostic factor was 
the degree of extension of tumor embolus in the portal vein or its branch. The 
tumor extension and the tumor type were also important factors. Age, sex, and 
AFP, HBsAg, and HCV Ab values were not useful as prognostic factors. This study 
provides a rational background for the selection of treatment for HCC. 
Furthermore, knowledge of the prognostic factors is useful for the management of 
patients, particularly in maintaining their good quality of life.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00687111
PMID: 1281047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1992 Nov;17(11):1400-4. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-199211000-00022.

Posterior decompression and stabilization for multiple metastatic tumors of the 
spine.

Shimizu K(1), Shikata J, Iida H, Iwasaki R, Yoshikawa J, Yamamuro T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Kyoto University, 
Japan.

Although the value of surgical decompression and stabilization for solitary 
spinal metastasis is well documented, indication for surgery for advanced 
multiple metastatic tumors of the spine is controversial. In this study, the 
clinical effect of posterior decompression and stabilization was investigated in 
11 patients with advanced multiple spinal metastases with unfavorable 
conditions. Mean blood loss during surgery was 3000 g. Disseminated 
intravascular coagulation occurred in three patients. Neurologic improvement was 
observed in nine patients. There was no neurologic deterioration due to surgery 
in any patients. A measure of pain relief was obtained in all patients. However, 
the postoperative longevity was short and the patients died 2.5 months (on 
average) after operation, except in cases of breast cancer. The effect of the 
posterior surgery on multiple spinal metastases depended on primary diseases. In 
cases of short life expectancy, the effect of the surgery was limited only to 
the short duration of neurologic improvement, pain relief, and ease of nursing 
care while confronted with grave surgical morbidity. In cases of long life 
expectancy with tumors like breast cancer, however, posterior decompression and 
stabilization were expected to exert long-term therapeutic effect. Therefore, 
the posterior surgery for multiple spinal metastases is cautiously indicated 
considering the nature of the primary tumor.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-199211000-00022
PMID: 1281341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Transplant Proc. 1992 Dec;24(6):2510-1.

Posttransplant donor-specific T-lymphocytotoxic antibody in liver transplant 
patients with a positive crossmatch.

Kobayashi M(1), Yagihashi A, Manez R, Takaya S, Noguchi K, Konno A, Kita Y, 
Yoshida Y, Terasawa K, Starzl TE, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pennsylvania.

PMCID: PMC3005770
PMID: 1281570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Acta Oncol. 1992;31(6):645-51. doi: 10.3109/02841869209083847.

General condition of asymptomatic patients with advanced colorectal cancer 
receiving palliative chemotherapy. A longitudinal study.

Glimelius B(1), Graf W, Hoffman K, Påhlman L, Sjödén PO, Wennberg A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Akademiska sjukhuset, University of Uppsala, Sweden.

A Nordic multicenter study in asymptomatic patients with advanced colorectal 
cancer compared initial chemotherapy with sequential methotrexate-5-FU with 
leucovorin rescue (MFL) for 6 months versus primary expectancy with chemotherapy 
only after the appearance of symptoms. The study (183 patients randomized 
between January 1985 and February 1990) showed that symptom-free survival, 
progression-free survival and survival respectively were about 6 months longer 
in the group of patients randomized to initial MFL. Whether these prolongations 
could be achieved without an impaired 'quality of life' was studied in an 
associated study. Between January 1985 and March 1987, 43 patients were 
randomized at one of the hospitals, 36 of which were interviewed with a 
questionnaire at randomization. Even if all these patients were considered, by 
the physician, to be 'free of symptoms from their disease', 16/36 (44%) had 
symptoms that could be referred to the disease. In spite of this, the patients 
were in a good general condition, and considerably better off than patients 
considered to have 'symptoms from the disease' who were interviewed with the 
same questionnaire when randomized in a parallel study of symptomatic patients. 
Patients randomized to initial chemotherapy and interviewed longitudinally 
maintained their good condition throughout treatment. Toxicity was mild, 
although the patients expressed more adverse effects than the physicians 
recorded. Since symptom-free survival, progression-free survival and survival 
were statistically significantly longer in the group of patients randomized to 
MFL also in this associated study, it is concluded that initial chemotherapy can 
prolong symptom-free survival and survival without reduced 'quality of life' 
during the treatment period.

DOI: 10.3109/02841869209083847
PMID: 1281650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Br J Dermatol. 1992 Nov;127(5):485-91. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2133.1992.tb14845.x.

Prenatal diagnosis in a subset of trichothiodystrophy patients defective in DNA 
repair.

Sarasin A(1), Blanchet-Bardon C, Renault G, Lehmann A, Arlett C, Dumez Y.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics, Institut de Recherches Scientifiques sur le 
Cancer, Villejuif, France.

Trichothiodystrophy (TTD) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by 
brittle hair with reduced sulphur content, and mental and physical retardation. 
Numerous additional clinical features may be present, producing a very 
heterogeneous syndrome. Many cases exhibit ichthyosis and photosensitivity. 
Cells from photosensitive TTD patients show reduced DNA repair levels similar to 
those found in xeroderma pigmentosum. TTD patients have a short life expectancy, 
and no treatment is known or envisaged. We report the prenatal diagnosis of TTD 
in two French families, based on DNA repair measurements in trophoblasts or 
amniotic cells, with later confirmation by microscopic analysis of the fetal 
hairs. Although the DNA repair defect was less marked in the fetal cells when 
compared with fibroblasts from the index case, measurement of DNA repair by 
unscheduled DNA synthesis provided unambiguous evidence of defective DNA repair 
in the fetal cells. This method is therefore a suitable prenatal diagnostic test 
for those TTD families in which a DNA repair defect has been identified.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.1992.tb14845.x
PMID: 1281671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Int J Biol Macromol. 1992 Dec;14(6):326-32. doi:
10.1016/s0141-8130(05)80073-x.

Effects of N-terminal extension peptides on the structure and stability of 
bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor studied by 1H n.m.r.

Lauritzen C(1), Skovgaard O, Hansen PE, Tüchsen E.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Life Sciences and Chemistry, University of Roskilde, Denmark.

Four N-terminal extended species of the wild-type bovine pancreatic trypsin 
inhibitor (WT-BPTI), Arg-BPTI (1-BPTI), Met-Glu-Ala-Glu-BPTI (4-BPTI), 
Ser-Ile-Glu-Gly-Arg-BPTI (5-BPTI) and Gly-Ser-Ile-Glu-Gly-Arg-BPTI (6-BPTI) have 
been studied by 1H n.m.r. The overall structure of the protein is largely 
unaffected by the addition of extension peptides. pH titration effects on the 
C-terminal Ala 58 H beta chemical shift indicate that the structure of 1-BPTI at 
neutral pH is very similar to that of the WT protein, with a salt bridge between 
the main chain terminal charges. A salt bridge interaction is prevented by 
addition of the longer extension peptides. Temperature stabilities are measured 
by high temperature hydrogen isotope exchange and by microcalorimetry. The 
stability of 1-BPTI is equal to that of WT-BPTI. A slight decrease in stability 
is observed for longer extensions, following the order WT-BPTI = 1-BPTI < 5-BPTI 
= 6-BPTI < 4-BPTI. Small changes in chemical shift are observed for 30 invariant 
resonances in 4-, 5- and 6-BPTI and for a subset of this group in 1-BPTI. These 
protons are distributed over about half of the BPTI molecule. The size of the 
chemical shift changes for many resonances follow the same ranking as the 
temperature stability. The chemical shift effects are attributed to charge and 
dielectric effects from extension peptides that probably share a common 
orientation on the surface of BPTI.

DOI: 10.1016/s0141-8130(05)80073-x
PMID: 1282363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Med Clin (Barc). 1992 Nov 28;99(18):685-9.

[Economic evaluation of prophylaxis with recombinant granulopoiesis stimulating 
factor].

[Article in Spanish]

Antoñanzas F(1), Rovira J, Garuz R, Antón F.

Author information:
(1)Universidad de La Rioja.

BACKGROUND: The aim of the study was to economically evaluate the prophylactic 
use of the recombinant factor of the stimulation of granulocyte colonies 
(rG-CSF) for the prevention of episodes of febrile neutropenia (EFN) following 
antineoplasic chemotherapy.
METHODS: The methods of economic evaluation used were those of cost analysis and 
cost-effectivity analysis. The probability of occurence of EFN was estimated by 
the application of the Delphi method and the costs were calculated.
RESULTS: The costs of EFN for the patients with solid tumors is situated between 
236,000-377,000 pesetas according to hospitalary centers. For patients with 
acute leukemia the value was estimated as between 391,000-667,000 pesetas. The 
results of the cost analysis indicate that the net cost per patient 
prophylactically treated is between 4,000-64,000 pesetas. The results of the 
cost-effectivity analysis indicate that the cost per case of no incidence of EFN 
is between 20,000-320,000 pesetas.
CONCLUSIONS: Episodes of febrile neutropenia carry expansive hospital and 
antibiotic clinical treatment. The prophylactic use of new medication for 
patients between the first and second cycle of chemotherapy, in agreement with 
the estimates calculated, does not save health care costs but may improve the 
quality of life in these patients and permit the continuation of a therapeutic 
schedule without interruption which may improve the life expectancy of the 
patient.

PMID: 1282638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Pol Tyg Lek. 1992 Jun 15-29;47(24-26):523-4.

[Palliative methods of the treatment of prostatic adenoma].

[Article in Polish]

Dutkiewicz S(1).

Author information:
(1)Kliniki Urologii Instytutu Medycyny Klinicznej MSW, Warszawie.

Semi-conservative therapies in prostatic adenoma are discussed. They may be used 
in patients with non-operational prostatic adenoma. Besides permanent 
catheterization, there are the following possibilities: extension of the 
prostatic tube with a balloon, application of the urologic coil, commissurotomy, 
therapy with cryosurgery or hyperthermia. ++Palliative therapy markedly prolongs 
and improves the life of patients with systemic diseases, which make radical 
surgery impossible.

PMID: 1282710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Br J Urol. 1992 Dec;70(6):643-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410x.1992.tb15835.x.

Rectal obstruction secondary to carcinoma of the prostate treated by transanal 
resection of the prostate.

Chen TF(1), Eardley I, Doyle PT, Bullock KN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge.

Rectal obstruction caused by carcinoma of the prostate is uncommon. If the 
disease does not respond to either hormonal treatment or radiotherapy, the only 
surgical means of relieving the obstruction has been the formation of a 
colostomy. We present an alternative treatment, since many of these patients are 
elderly with a short life expectancy and they may have difficulty coping with a 
stoma. Seven transanal endoscopic resections of the prostate (TARP) have been 
performed on 5 patients. The procedure is not without complications, but it does 
offer simple surgical palliation of the rectal obstruction and obviates the need 
for a colostomy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410x.1992.tb15835.x
PMID: 1283104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Rev Invest Clin. 1992 Jul-Sep;44(3):363-8.

[The role of radiotherapy in the early stages of Hodgkin's disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Avilés A(1), Guzmán R, García EL, Talavera A, Díaz-Maqueo JC.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Hematología, Hospital de Oncología, Centro Médico Nacional, 
I.M.S.S., México, D.F.

The outcome of treatment for a first relapse in early stages (IA and IIA) of 
Hodgkin's disease after primary radiotherapy was analyzed in 86 patients. They 
received total nodal radiotherapy (TNR) as the primary treatment. Survival was 
used as the major endpoint. Median follow-up was 13.1 years. Duration of first 
complete remission was 60% for patients in stage IA and 39% for patients in 
stage IIA (p < .01). At 10-years, the survival for patients in stage IA was 78% 
and only 55% for patients in stage IIA (p < .01). A risk factor analysis showed 
that the presence of stage IIA and bulky disease (adenopathy > 7 cm) were 
associated with a worse prognosis. We believe that the use of TNR as initial 
treatment in early stages of Hodgkin's disease should be considered in patients 
in stage IA and without bulky disease. Patients in stage IIA and risk factors, 
such as bulky disease, should be treated with more aggressive therapeutic 
regimens.

PMID: 1283225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Leuk Lymphoma. 1992 Oct;8(3):213-20. doi: 10.3109/10428199209054907.

Treatment of AIDS-related non-Hodgkin's lymphoma with a twelve week chemotherapy 
program.

Sawka CA(1), Shepherd FA, Brandwein J, Burkes RL, Sutton DM, Warner E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Toronto-Bayview Regional Cancer Centre, 
Ontario, Canada.

Current treatment options for acquired-immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)-related 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) are unsatisfactory because of excessive toxicity 
rates and frequent recurrence of lymphoma. In this phase II study, we evaluated 
a novel 12 week chemotherapy program with respect to feasibility, toxicity and 
therapeutic results. Thirty HIV-seropositive patients with intermediate grade or 
small non-cleaved cell NHL received a 12 week program of weekly intravenous and 
oral chemotherapy consisting of etoposide, adriamycin, cyclophosphamide, 
bleomycin, vincristine, methotrexate and prednisone as well as biweekly 
intrathecal cytosine arabinoside. Prophylaxis against Pneumocystis carinii 
pneumonia (PCP) and candida were given routinely. The overall objective response 
rate was 73% with 33% complete responders. The time to progression for those 
stable or responding was 9.4 months. Five of 10 complete responders are well and 
free of disease 13.2 to 24.5 months from diagnosis. Median survival for the 30 
patients was 8.1 months. NHL was the most common cause of death (13/22); 
opportunistic infection caused only one death (cryptococcal meningitis). Only 1 
case of PCP occurred. The major toxicity was neutropenia. In conclusion this 
regimen resulted in response rates similar to other reports with acceptable 
toxicity and a very low incidence of PCP. Relapse of NHL remains a major 
challenge, however, and further studies are needed. Routine PCP prophylaxis 
should be incorporated into new trials of therapy for AIDS-related NHL.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199209054907
PMID: 1283356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1992;324:255-68. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4615-3398-6_28.

Radiation treatment of prostate bone metastases and the biological 
considerations.

Bagshaw MA(1), Kaplan ID, Valdagni R, Cox RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Stanford University, California 94305.

This contribution on the biology and management of bone metastases from 
prostatic cancer is divided into three parts. The first details a study 
conducted at Stanford University on the prevention of bone metastases in the 
lumbar spine, in patients in whom the lumbar spine has been irradiated 
coincidental to the radiation treatment of the paraaortic lymph nodes. The 
incidence of metastases was significantly reduced in 71 patients in whom the 
apparently normal lumbar spine was irradiated, as compared to the incidence of 
metastases in 65 patients who received no lumbar irradiation. The implications 
of these observations on developing strategies for early, or preemptive, 
irradiation for bone metastases are discussed. In the second part, the optimum 
radiation dose and fractionation scheme for the palliation of overt bone 
metastases is addressed. Drawing largely from the work of Arcangeli et al., a 
total dose of 40-50 Gy*, fractionated at 2 Gy per day, seems to be the regimen 
of choice for enduring pain relief for most patients with prostatic metastases 
to bone. Finally, the recent utilization of strontium-89 in the palliation of 
advanced bone metastases is addressed. *The Gy is the current international unit 
of radiation. 1Gy = 100 Rad; 1cGy (centigray) = 1 Rad.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-3398-6_28
PMID: 1283500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl Kongressbd. 1992:180-5.

[Conservative, palliative therapy of malignant pleural mesothelioma].

[Article in German]

Kaukel E(1), Koschel G, Schulz P.

Author information:
(1)AK Harburg, Lungenabteilung, Hamburg.

No effective conventional therapy for malignant pleural mesothelioma has yet 
been described. Radiotherapy does not increase median survival, but there is a 
palliative analgesic benefit. Chemotherapy with a different regimen in 182 
patients led to a median survival time of 12 months. In comparison to an 
untreated historical group of 142 patients, there is an advantage in survival of 
5 months. Additional surgical treatment has not prolonged the life expectancy. 
The percentage of long-time survivors was 5.5%.

PMID: 1283538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Beitr Infusionsther. 1992;30:464-8.

[Secondary hemochromatosis in polytransfused patients with myelodysplastic 
syndromes].

[Article in German]

Jaeger M(1), Aul C, Söhngen D, Germing U, Schneider W.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Hämatologie, Onkologie und Klinische Immunologie, 
Heinrich-Heine-Universität, Düsseldorf, BRD.

In a retrospective analysis we assessed the data of 46 patients with 
myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), who had received more than 50 blood 
transfusions during the course of disease. The number of units given ranged from 
50 to 155 (mean 79). 20 patients (RA n = 4, RARS n = 12, RAEB n = 1, RAEB/T n = 
2, CMML n = 1), followed up between 8 and 108 months (mean survival time 39.4 
months), developed a secondary hemochromatosis. More than 40% of the patients 
showed signs of heart failure, in some cases accompanied by cardiac arrhythmias. 
11 patients also suffered from hepatopathy and 5 developed diabetes mellitus. 
Secondary hemochromatosis was particularly common in patients with RARS. 
Refractory congestive heart failure secondary to hemochromatosis was the cause 
of death in 14 patients, whereas none died from hepatic insufficiency. We 
conclude that the risk of secondary hemochromatosis should not be neglected in 
polytransfused patients with MDS. In some cases, particularly those with 
favorable prognostic features of MDS, it may shorten life expectancy. The 
availability of a new oral iron chelator (1,2-dimethyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one or 
L1) offers a promising and practicable approach to prevent this complication.

PMID: 1284762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Ann Ital Chir. 1992 Nov-Dec;63(6):783-9; discussion 789-90.

[The treatment of advanced gastric cancer: total gastrectomy "extended" as 
needed].

[Article in Italian]

D'Amico D(1), Ranzato R, D'Amico C, Busato T, Erroi F.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinica Chirurgica II, Università degli Studi di Padova.

Extended resections do play a definite role in the surgical approach to advanced 
