gastric malignancy. Local extension of distant spread of the tumor is no longer 
to be considered as a contraindication to aggressive surgery based on the 
evidence that even for palliation, extensive operations, when feasible, have 
proved to be beneficial in preventing complications related to the natural 
history of the disease. Over a nine-year period 105 patients with gastric cancer 
were surgically treated. Out of the 88 patients undergoing tumor excision, 53 
were submitted to total gastrectomy (there were 35 males and 18 females, mean 
age 63 years). This procedure was considered potentially curative in 37 cases 
and palliative in 16. In 8 of the patients treated with palliation. An extensive 
procedure, including splenectomy in 7 cases (1 of which with concomitant distal 
pancreatic resection) and a colonic resection in 1 case, was undertaken. 
Alimentary continuity following total gastrectomy was restored by jejunal 
interposition (Mouchet-type reconstruction) in 3 cases, Roux-en-Y 
esophagojejunostomy in 7 and simple: end-to-side esophagojejunostomy (Sweet and 
Allen-type) in 6. No postoperative complications have occurred and mean survival 
time was 8 months with a maximum of 20 months in a patient with a good 
nutritional status and quality of life (Karnofsky index 78%) who developed no 
complications related to tumor recurrence.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1284812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Surg Laparosc Endosc. 1992 Sep;2(3):241-3.

Endolaparoscopic palliation of pancreatic cancer.

Mouiel J(1), Katkhouda N, White S, Dumas R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Digestive Surgery/Laparoscopic Surgery, St. Roch Hospital, 
University of Nice, School of Medicine, France.

Two patients with advanced pancreatic cancer were palliated for both duodenal 
and biliary obstruction without laparotomy. The techniques of endoscopic biliary 
stent and laparoscopic gastrojejunostomy are described. This combination 
achieved rapid palliation with minimum morbidity. Patients with advanced 
pancreatic cancer and a limited life expectancy benefit greatly from the 
shortened hospital stay and convalescence this manner of treatment offers.

PMID: 1285222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Rev Med Chil. 1992 Dec;120(12):1376-82.

[Dissection of the ascending aorta (type A): diagnostic aspects, surgical 
treatment and long-term follow-up].

[Article in Spanish]

Larraín E(1), Irarrázaval MJ, Zalaquett R, Morán S, Maturana G, Navarro M, Urzúa 
J, Ríos G, Braun S, Chamorro G.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Enfermedades Cardiovasculares, Hospital Clínico de la 
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile.

Aortic replacement is the treatment of choice and improves the natural history 
of dissections involving the ascending aorta. Forty patients (23 male), aged 
49.4 years, have been operated at the hospital Clínico de la Universidad 
Católica. Twenty six presented with acute dissections. Angiography conformed the 
dissection in 63.3% and computed axial tomography in 84.6% of patients; lately, 
transesophageal echocardiography has become the most sensitive diagnostic 
method. Twenty three patients (57.5%) were subjected to emergency operations and 
17 to semielective procedures. In 24 patients (60%) ascending aorta was replaced 
and in 16 a composite graft was used. Operative mortality was 27.5%. Univariate 
analysis showed that the period in which the operation was performed and the 
presence of limb ischemia were the only independent predictors of operative 
mortality. Long term follow up was achieved in 26 patients (89.6%). Actuarial 5 
year survival without considering operative mortality was 87.9%. It is concluded 
that patients with acute dissections involving the ascending aorta should be 
operated as soon as the imaging diagnosis is complete and, since this is a 
palliative procedure, a close follow up is required for early detection of 
complications.

PMID: 1285307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Can J Public Health. 1992 Nov-Dec;83(6):413-6.

The impact of the decreased prevalence of smoking in Canada.

Mao Y(1), Gibbons L, Wong T.

Author information:
(1)Bureau of Chronic Disease Epidemiology, Health and Welfare Canada, Ottawa, 
ON.

Comment in
    Can J Public Health. 1992 Nov-Dec;83(6):397-9.

Using data on the prevalence of smoking among different age and gender groups, 
we estimated the impact of the prevalence of smoking on the present and future 
mortality of Canadians. In 1989, the life expectancy of male smokers at the age 
of 45 was 7 years less than non-smokers, among female smokers life expectancy 
was 4 years less than non-smokers. The total number of smoking-attributable 
deaths from all causes was estimated for every decade from 1969 to 2019. A 
decrease in smoking prevalence from 1989 levels to 10% overall in 1999 would 
result in 15,000 and 6,000 fewer smoking-attributable deaths among women and 
men, respectively. Continuing the existing pattern of smoking among men and 
women will result in an increase in the total number of smoking-attributable 
deaths among women and an increase in the smoking-attributable deaths from lung 
cancer in both sexes.

PMID: 1286440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Chemotherapy. 1992;38(5):350-7. doi: 10.1159/000239025.

Experimental evaluation of preventive and therapeutic potentials of lysozyme.

Das S(1), Banerjee S, Gupta JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Leukaemia, Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute, 
Calcutta, India.

Therapeutic efficacy and preventive role of egg white lysozyme was evaluated in 
three types of murine ascitic tumours, namely sarcoma 180, Ehrlich's carcinoma, 
and Dalton's lymphoma. Lysozyme treatment produced regression of tumour growth 
and improved the life expectancy of the host. Growth of tumour cells treated in 
vitro with lysozyme prior to transplantation was also affected. In addition, 
lysozyme was found to have a preventive effect when administered to normal mice. 
The antitumour activity, therapeutic and preventive, of lysozyme seems to be due 
to its action on the tumour cell surface as well as on the host-mediated immune 
response.

DOI: 10.1159/000239025
PMID: 1286577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. J Ark Med Soc. 1992 Dec;89(7):333-5.

The relationship between life expectancy and socioeconomic status in Arkansas: 
1970 and 1990.

Swanson DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Arkansas Institute for Economic Advancement, University of Arkansas.

Life Expectancy at Birth is estimated for county populations in Arkansas in 
1970, 1980 and 1990. Counties are grouped into quintiles at each time point 
according to the percent of persons below the poverty level. Comparisons are 
made between mean life expectancy in the highest and lowest socioeconomic group 
at each point in time as well as between the same group at 1970 and 1990. It is 
hypothesized that the high socioeconomic populations will experience an increase 
in mean life expectancy over the low socioeconomic populations between 1970 and 
1990. Statistical analysis supports the hypothesis. These findings conform to 
those from earlier research in Ohio and may reflect a continuing deterioration 
in the relative standard of living of lower income groups in the United States 
subsequent to 1970.

PMID: 1286984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1992 Nov-Dec;33(6):650-9.

An algorithm for the surgical management of chronic abdominal aortic occlusion 
and occluded aortofemoral grafts.

Bowes DE(1), Youkey JR, Franklin DP, Benoit CH, Pharr WF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Geisinger Medical Center, Danville, PA 
17822-1343.

An algorithm for the surgical management of chronic abdominal aortic occlusion 
is presented based upon experience of treating 60 consecutive patients. Of 33 
patients with juxtarenal aortic occlusion, 17 underwent aortofemoral bypass 
(AFB), 10 descending thoracic aortofemoral (DTAF), 5 axillofemoral (AxF) bypass, 
and 1 ascending thoracic aortofemoral bypass. Of 11 patients with mid or distal 
aortic occlusion, 8 underwent AFB, 2 DTAF and 1 AxF. Of 16 patients with aortic 
graft occlusion, 1 underwent AFB, 10 DTAF and 5 AxF. Acceptable risk patients 
were selected for AFB (26). DTAF (22) was frequently preferred for patients with 
occluded aortic grafts or other hazardous intraabdominal pathology. AxF (11) was 
used for patients with severe cardiopulmonary risk, limited life expectancy from 
malignancy, or when emergency procedures were required for salvage of severely 
ischemic limbs in debilitated patients with chronic aortic occlusion. In the 
AFB, DTAF and AxF groups the perioperative mortality was 8%, 5% and 36% 
respectively, the late mortality was 15%, 36% and 45%, and the 5-year primary 
cumulative graft patency was 92%, 89% and 15%.

PMID: 1287001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Ann Trop Med Parasitol. 1992 Oct;86(5):557-62. doi: 
10.1080/00034983.1992.11812707.

The effect of exposure to selected numbers of Schistosoma mansoni miracidia on 
survival of cohorts of Biomphalaria pfeifferi.

De Kock KN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Potchefstroom University for Christian Higher 
Education, South Africa.

Cohorts of 25 specimens of Biomphalaria pfeifferi were each exposed to batches 
of one, three, five, seven and 10 Schistosoma mansoni miracidia per snail. The 
effect on survival was evaluated by calculating the weekly per capita mortality 
rates and the mean life expectancy of the exposed snails. No statistically 
significant difference could be demonstrated between the mean per capita 
mortality rates of cohorts exposed to one and three miracidia per snail. 
Likewise there was no significant difference between the values obtained for 
cohorts exposed to five, seven and 10 miracidia per snail. In general, however, 
survival of the cohorts showed an inverse relationship with the number of 
miracidia to which each individual snail was exposed.

DOI: 10.1080/00034983.1992.11812707
PMID: 1288439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Implant Dent. 1992 Spring;1(1):11-21. doi: 10.1097/00008505-199200110-00002.

Bone physiology and metabolism in dental implantology: risk factors for 
osteoporosis and other metabolic bone diseases.

Roberts WE(1), Simmons KE, Garetto LP, DeCastro RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthodontics, Indiana University School of Dentistry, 
Indianapolis.

Placing a dental implant elicits a time-dependent bone response controlled by 
wound-healing factors (cytokines, bioelectrical signals), biomechanics 
(gravitational, functional, and therapeutic loads), and mineral metabolism 
(hormones, diet, excretion). The osseous response to an implant involves four 
physiological stages: (1) endosteal and periosteal callus formation; (2) 
compaction and remodeling of the callus; (3) remodeling (turnover) of the 
nonvital interface and adjacent bone; and (4) maturation (secondary 
mineralization) of new bone. Long-term maintenance of a rigid implant interface 
is related to continual bone remodeling. Common metabolic bone disorders 
affecting potential implant patients are osteopenia ("osteoporosis"), renal 
osteodystrophy, osteomalacia, and Paget's disease. The most prevalent problem is 
a long-term negative calcium balance leading to a compromise in bone strength. 
Symptomatic osteoporosis (usually wrist, hip, and/or spine fractures) affects 4 
to 50 percent of the population depending on age, race, sex, endocrine status, 
and life-style. Postmenopausal white and Asian females present the greatest 
risk. The jaws of "osteoporotic" adults are variably affected because of the 
moderating influence of mechanical function. Management of metabolic bone 
disorders is an important consideration in diagnosis, treatment planning, and 
long-term monitoring of dental implants. Bone metabolic counseling, a natural 
extension of preventative dentistry, is an unexpected benefit readily 
appreciated by patients and their families.

DOI: 10.1097/00008505-199200110-00002
PMID: 1288794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Curr Probl Cardiol. 1992 Oct;17(10):609-90. doi:
10.1016/0146-2806(92)90023-h.

Cardiovascular disease in the elderly.

Wenger NK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine (Division of Cardiology) Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia.

The current worldwide explosive increase in the numbers of older persons is 
unprecedented in history. In the 1990s and beyond, the preponderance of patients 
with cardiovascular illness will be elderly, with a substantial subset among the 
frail elderly, 85 years old and older. Cardiovascular disease remains the 
leading cause of death and disability in this population, and cardiovascular 
risk increases steadily with age. Pascal defined old age as "just a time that is 
farther from the beginning and nearer to the end." Elderly persons, with and 
without cardiovascular disease, vary widely in their physical, behavioral, 
cognitive, and emotional functioning; severity of illness; and expectations from 
medical care. The challenge to the clinical and research communities alike is to 
delineate the appropriate components of preventive, diagnostic, and therapeutic 
care for elderly cardiac patients in our society, interventions that are likely 
to relieve suffering, restore function so as to limit disability and dependency, 
and maintain a dignified and meaningful life-style for the end years of life. 
Major societal strides have been made in redefining both the onset of old age 
and its limitations. The eighteenth century poet, Robert Burns, wrote of his 
fears that he would be 45 years old at a time when life expectancy was 40 years; 
he saw himself as being weary, wrinkled, creeping, and joyless. For, ance that 
five-and-forty's speel'd, See crasy, weary, joyless Eild, Wi' wrinkled face, 
Comes hostin', hirplin', owre the field, Wi' creepin' pace. Burns died at the 
age of 37 years. A more attractive option is offered by Abraham Joshua Heschel, 
1907-1972. According to all the standards we employ ... the aged person is 
condemned as inferior. ... Conditioned to operating as a machine for making and 
spending money, with all other relationships dependent upon its efficiency, the 
moment the machine is out of order and beyond repair, one begins to feel like a 
ghost without a sense of reality. ... Regarding himself as a person who has 
outlived his usefulness, he feels as if he has to apologize for being alive. May 
I suggest that ... old age be regarded not as the age of stagnation but as the 
age of opportunities for inner growth. ... The years of old age ... are indeed 
formative years, rich in possibilities to unlearn the follies of a lifetime, to 
see through inbred deceptions, to deepen understanding and compassion, to widen 
the horizon of honesty, to refine the sense of fairness.

DOI: 10.1016/0146-2806(92)90023-h
PMID: 1288959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Adv Contracept. 1992 Dec;8(4):275-80. doi: 10.1007/BF02042585.

Evaluation of the performance of the copper T380A IUD up to ten years. Is this 
IUD a reversible but potentially permanent method?

Díaz J(1), Bahamondes L, Díaz M, Marchi N, Faúndes A, Marini M.

Author information:
(1)Universidade Estadual de Campinas UNICAMP.

The clinical experience of a cohort of 340 women using a TCu380A IUD for up to 
10 years at the Family Planning Clinic of the State University of Campinas, 
Brazil was evaluated by life-table analysis. Removals for medical reasons were 
more frequent during the first year of use, while from the third year on, 
removals for personal reasons were more frequent. Expulsions were concentrated 
in the first two years of use, and none were detected after the fourth. Gross 
pregnancy rate accumulated to 2.0, 2.8 and 5.3 and continuation rate was 64.2, 
43.4 and 27.8 per 100 women at three, six and ten years of use, respectively. 
The effectiveness of the device did not decrease significantly after the eighth 
year of use and it could be considered a reversible but potentially permanent 
method.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02042585
PMID: 1290329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Adv Contracept. 1992 Dec;8(4):281-90. doi: 10.1007/BF02042586.

Immediate postpartum intrauterine device insertion--a report on the Chinese 
experience.

Xu JX(1), Connell C, Chi IC.

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Municipal Family Planning Commission, People's Republic of China.

Immediate postplacental insertion (IPPI) of the intrauterine device (IUD) has 
been practiced in China for at least 17 years. This presentation reviews and 
integrates the clinical experiences of IPPIs at five Chinese centers. The 
stainless-steel ring IUD was the most commonly used device for this procedure. 
Our review indicates that: (a) IPPIs-both after vaginal delivery and at cesarean 
section-are medically safe and effective in preventing accidental pregnancies 
(given careful patient selection), and (b) the one-year life-table expulsion 
rates of IUDs inserted at cesarean section are lower than the rates for vaginal 
insertions after normal delivery. This review also discusses other issues, such 
as factors influencing expulsion rates. Generally, IPPIs, whether performed via 
vagina or cesarean section, seem to be a method of choice for postpartum 
contraception. Some findings are, however, tentative; thus, further studies are 
needed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02042586
PMID: 1290330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Adv Contracept. 1992 Dec;8(4):291-301. doi: 10.1007/BF02042587.

Comparative assessment of two low-dose oral contraceptives, Lo-Femenal and 
Lo-Estrin, in Mexican women.

Garza-Flores J(1), Martínez M, Valles De Bourges V, Vázquez-Estrada L, McMullen 
S, Dunson R, Pérez-Palacios G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, National Institute of Nutrition S. 
Zubirán, Mexico City.

This trial was designed to determine the differences in effectiveness, clinical 
acceptability, and one-year discontinuation rates of two low-dose oral 
contraceptives: Lo-Estrin (norethindrone acetate 1.5 mg plus ethinyl estradiol 
0.030 mg) and Lo-Femenal (norgestrel 0.30 mg plus ethinyl estradiol 0.030 mg) in 
148 Mexican women. In addition, the effects of both oral contraceptive 
preparations on blood lipids were prospectively evaluated in a subgroup of 41 
women. The results indicated that there were no differences in pregnancy rates, 
discontinuation or clinical acceptability between the two groups. The lipid 
changes observed were minimal for the Lo-Femenal subgroup and somewhat greater 
for the Lo-Estrin group, mainly an increase in serum triglycerides. These 
changes were interpreted as estrogen induced effects of norethindrone-containing 
oral contraceptives. Overall, the data indicate that both Lo-Femenal and 
Lo-Estrin are effective and safe combined oral contraceptives.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02042587
PMID: 1290331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Adv Contracept. 1992 Dec;8(4):327-30. doi: 10.1007/BF02042591.

A multicenter clinical trial in Nigeria with Multiload-Cu250 (MLCu250) and 
Multiload-Cu375 (MLCu375) intrauterine devices.

Van Dierendonck B(1), Ladipo OA, Ekwempu CC, Giwa-Osagie OF, Ulasi JN.

Author information:
(1)Organon International bv, Oss, The Netherlands.

A multicenter study was conducted in Nigeria, comparing the Multiload-Cu250 
(MLCu250) with the Multiload-Cu375 (MLCu375). The two intrauterine devices were 
studied on aspects of effectiveness and acceptability. Parameters were observed 
and analyzed, using the life-table method of Tietze and Lewit. Continuation 
rates were excellent. Overall results were in line with studies done elsewhere 
in the world with Multiload devices, showing a slight superiority of the MLCu375 
over the MLCu250.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02042591
PMID: 1290334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1992 Sep;85(9):1353-6.

[Right atrioventricular metastasis of myxoid liposarcoma. Prolonged course after 
repeated surgery and chemotherapy].

[Article in French]

Langlard JM(1), Lefévre M, Fiche M, Chevallier JC, Godin O, Bouhour JB.

Author information:
(1)Clinique cardiologique, hôpital G. et R. Laennec, Nantes.

The authors report a case of cardiac metastasis of a myxoid liposarcoma of the 
thigh in a 54 year old woman. The treatment associated repeated surgical 
ablation and chemotherapy. The drugs used induced some cardiotoxicity which 
limited their prescription but nevertheless, the patient survived 5 years. 
Previous reported cases do not describe survival lasting more than 2 years and 
associated chemotherapy would therefore seem to be a valuable adjuvant, 
increasing the life expectancy of such patients.

PMID: 1290400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Leuk Lymphoma. 1992 Nov;8(4-5):361-4. doi: 10.3109/10428199209051015.

Comparison of the survivals between bone marrow transplantation and chemotherapy 
for acute leukemia in first remission--a Japanese single institution study.

Tamura S(1), Takemoto Y, Kanamaru A, Fujiwara H, Miyazaki E, Fujimori Y, Inoue 
N, Okamoto T, Kohsaki M, Kakishita E, et al.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Hyogo College of Medicine, Japan.

The outcome of sixty-four patients with acute leukemia in first remission who 
had been treated with either bone marrow transplantation (BMT) or conventional 
chemotherapy was retrospectively evaluated (a median follow-up of 37 months). 
Among them, 26 patients (age range; 14-42 years) received allogeneic BMT from 
HLA-identical siblings and 38 patients (age range; 13-43 years) who had no 
HLA-identical donors undertook the continued combination chemotherapy. 
Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimate of actuarial survival of acute myelogenous 
leukemia (AML) patients was 48.9% for the BMT group and 15.7% for the 
chemotherapy group (p = not significant, NS). For acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
(ALL) patients, the survival following BMT was 80.2% and was significantly 
higher than that of the chemotherapy group of 33.3% (p < 0.05). The disease-free 
survival of AML and ALL for the BMT group was 34.3% and 36.5%, respectively, 
which was higher than that of the chemotherapy group (16.7% and 23.4%, 
respectively (p = NS)). These findings in our Japanese single institution study 
suggested that BMT may be the treatment of choice for adult patients with acute 
leukemia in first remission if they had suitable donors and that more effective 
therapeutic regimens were necessary for patients without compatible donors in 
order to obtain the longer remission duration.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199209051015
PMID: 1290960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Leuk Lymphoma. 1992 Nov;8(4-5):371-9. doi: 10.3109/10428199209051017.

Prognostic value of the histologic classification of peripheral T-cell lymphoma: 
a clinico-pathologic study of 71 HTLV-1 negative cases.

Remotti D(1), Pescarmona E, Burgio VL, Gastaldi R, Guglielmi C, Martelli M, 
Mandelli F, Baroni CD.

Author information:
(1)II Cattedra di Anatomia ed Istologia Patologica, Università La Sapienza, 
Roma, Italia.

The histologic and clinical features of 71 cases of peripheral T-cell lymphoma 
(PTCL) have been studied. All patients were HTLV-1 negative. The T-cell 
phenotype was demonstrated by immunohistochemistry on cryostat sections (41 
cases) and paraffin-embedded sections (30 cases). All cases were histologically 
classified according to the updated Kiel classification of non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma (low and high-grade) and according to a Working Formulation (WF)-based 
classification (predominantly small cells, mixed small and large cells, and 
predominantly large cells). Most cases were in the high-grade group according to 
both classifications. The prognostic value of these two classifications was 
comparatively assessed. The analysis of the actuarial survival curves showed 
that, by using the updated Kiel classification, low-grade PTCL had a survival 
probability higher than high-grade PTCL although the difference was not 
statistically significant. Similar results were obtained when the WF-based 
classification was applied: furthermore, actuarial survival curves of mixed 
small and large cell PTCL, and of large cell PTCL were rather similar, thus 
indicating that differentiating these two categories has a limited prognostic 
value.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199209051017
PMID: 1290962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 1992 Dec;11(12):1181-5. doi: 
10.1007/BF01961142.

Influence on survival of p24 antigen levels in patients with AIDS or advanced 
AIDS related complex treated with zidovudine.

Zamora L(1), Gatell JM, Barrera JM, Ercilla G, Gil C, Buira E, Miro JM, Soriano 
E.

Author information:
(1)Infectious Disease Unit, University Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, Barcelona, 
Spain.

In a prospective study sixty-eight patients consecutively diagnosed as having 
AIDS or advanced ARC who were started on zidovudine therapy were followed up for 
a median period of 725 days. In the 20 patients who had a baseline p24 antigen 
level above 20 pg/ml, there was a statistically significant trend towards 
reduction of the p24 antigen levels after the first month of treatment. The 
median time of survival of the 68 patients was 702 days and the median 
symptom-free period was 510 days. Treatment with zidovudine significantly 
reduced the p24 antigen levels. However, the life expectancy and the 
symptom-free period were not statistically different in the patients with p24 
antigen levels always below or with levels always above two arbitrarily chosen 
cut-off points of 20 pg/ml and 50 pg/ml, respectively.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01961142
PMID: 1291319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Neuroepidemiology. 1992;11(4-6):190-5. doi: 10.1159/000110931.

Stroke subtype is an age-independent predictor of first-year survival.

Brainin M(1), Seiser A, Czvitkovits B, Pauly E.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Stroke Research and Stroke Prevention, Niederösterreichische 
Landesnervenklinik, Gugging, Austria.

The short-term outcome after acute stroke is known to be strongly dependent on 
stroke subtype, especially favoring patients having suffered a lacunar stroke. 
The value of stroke subtypes as long-term predictors of survival has not been 
firmly established. We therefore examined the 1-year survival from acute stroke 
in the Klosterneuburg Stroke Data Bank, which since 1988 systematically collects 
data on acute stroke patients treated in one center in Lower Austria. The 
cumulative survival of 398 consecutive patients (mean age 67.7 +/- SD 11.6) 1 
year after a first-ever stroke was not only adversely related to age but also 
appeared to be age independent when compared according to stroke subtypes. The 
cumulative survival rates (CSR) ranged from 88.7 [95% confidence interval (CI): 
82-92] for lacunar strokes (n = 107) to 68.1 (CI: 50-79) for atherothrombotic 
strokes (n = 69). Cardiogenic embolism (n = 68) showed a CSR of 72.1 (CI: 61-83) 
similar to the group of cryptogenic strokes (n = 121, CSR: 74.4, CI: 67-82). The 
CSR for primary intracerebral hemorrhage (n = 33) was 68.8 (CI: 53-85). It is 
concluded that the comparatively favorable prognosis of lacunar strokes must be 
recognized in trials designed to evaluate efficacy in terms of 1-year mortality. 
Furthermore, as cryptogenic stroke has an almost identical survival rate when 
compared to strokes caused by cardiogenic embolism it may be assumed that a 
considerable number of strokes for which no cause can be found are, in fact, 
cardiogenic embolic.

DOI: 10.1159/000110931
PMID: 1291882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Drugs Exp Clin Res. 1992;18(8):355-65.

Controlled study on L-carnitine therapeutic efficacy in post-infarction.

Davini P(1), Bigalli A, Lamanna F, Boem A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Santa Chiara Hospital, U.S.L., Pisa, 
Italy.

A controlled study was carried out on 160 patients of both sexes (age between 39 
and 86 years) discharged from the Cardiology Department of the Santa Chiara 
Hospital, Pisa, with a diagnosis of recent myocardial infarction. L-carnitine 
was randomly administered to 81 patients at an oral dose of g 4/die for 12 
months, in addition to the pharmacological treatment generally used. For the 
whole period of 12 months, these patients showed, in comparison with the 
controls, an improvement in heart rate (p < 0.005), systolic arterial pressure 
(p < 0.005) and diastolic arterial pressure (NS); a decrease of anginal attacks 
(p < 0.005), of rhythm disorders (NS) and of clinical signs of impaired 
myocardial contractility (NS), and a clear improvement in the lipid pattern (p < 
0.005). The above changes were accompanied by a lower mortality in the treated 
group (1.2%, p < 0.005), while in the control group there was a mortality of 
12.5%. Furthermore, in the control group there was a definite prevalence of 
deaths caused by reinfarction and sudden death. On the basis of these results, 
it is concluded that L-carnitine represents an effective treatment in 
post-infarction ischaemic cardiopathy, since it can improve the clinical 
evolution of this pathological condition as well as the patient's quality of 
life and life expectancy.

PMID: 1292918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. J Androl. 1992 Nov-Dec;13(6):534-42.

Androgen-induced prevention of the outgrowth of cranial gonadal suspensory 
ligaments in fetal rats.

van der Schoot P(1), Elger W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Reproduction, Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Erasmus University--Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Normal and disturbed testicular descent is frequently approached exclusively 
through a consideration of the caudal testicular suspensory apparatus. This is 
surprising, because embryonal gonads develop with both cranial and caudal 
suspensory ligaments, and the sexes differ with respect to the persistence and 
development of both the cranial and the caudal ligaments. The current study 
examined the possible role of fetal testicular androgens in male-specific 
failure of the development of the cranial gonadal suspensory apparatus in rats. 
Normal male fetuses were studied, as well as fetuses exposed to the 
anti-androgen flutamide from day 10 after conception. Females were given daily 
injections of methyl-testosterone alone or in combination with the anti-androgen 
cyproterone acetate from day 15 after conception, and were studied on day 22. 
The cranial ligaments remained of minor extension in normal males but developed 
considerably in females. They developed in female fashion in males exposed to 
flutamide, and persisted throughout postnatal life. Cranial ligaments did not 
develop in females that had been exposed to methyl-testosterone. Simultaneous 
treatment with a large dose of cyproterone acetate effectively counteracted this 
effect. Fetal testicular testosterone thus appears to play a key role in the 
prevention of the outgrowth of the cranial gonadal/genital ligament in rats. The 
supposed function of this suspensory apparatus makes it likely that its 
persistence in males, as the consequence of inappropriate androgen action during 
fetal life, facilitates disturbance of testicular descent. This finding may 
contribute to understanding developmental disorders underlying disturbed testis 
descent in humans.

PMID: 1293133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Sangre (Barc). 1992 Oct;37(5):331-6.

[Non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. I. Clinico-biological features of 307 cases].

[Article in Spanish]

García Zueco JC(1), Delgado MP, Giraldo MP, Perella M, Torres M, Valero MI, Ríos 
MJ, García Julián G, Giralt M.

Author information:
(1)Servicio Regional de Hematología y Hemoterapia, Hospital Miguel Servet, 
Zaragoza.

PURPOSE: To assess the clinico-biological features appearing in 307 patients 
with non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The clinical records of 338 patients diagnosed of NHL 
between January 1975 and December 1988 were revised in retrospect. All cases 
with histologic diagnosis of NHL aged over 14 years were included, and 
classified in accordance with the Working Formulation criteria. The following 
data were analysed: age, sex, first complaints, time elapsed since onset, 
histologic type, number of sites involved, bulky disease, anaemia, 
thrombocytopenia, LDH, stage, type of treatment and initial response, survival, 
and cause of death. The statistical evaluation was performed by actuarial 
analysis (Kaplan and Meier) and comparison (log-rank test) of survival.
RESULTS: According to the three categories of the malignancies, the NHL were 
distributed into low-grade (37.8%), intermediate (36.1%) and high-grade (26.9%). 
The mean age of the series was 56.6 years and the M/F ratio was 1.3. Lymph node 
enlargement was the commonest finding; 36.4% of the patients had symptoms 
related with the disease, and 26.7% had bulky disease. Anaemia was present in 
37.7% of the cases and thrombocytopenia in 14.3%, with similar distribution 
among the three grades. High LDH levels were found in 44% of the patients. At 
diagnosis, 85% of the patients were in advanced stages (III+IV) already. 
Complete response was attained in 51.1% of the cases, with median survival of 48 
months.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinico-evolutive data found here are similar to other reports 
in the literature. In one-half of the patients the cause of the first visit is 
lymph node enlargement. Complete remission is achieved by one out of two 
patients, this figure being similar for each of the histologic groups. The 
Working Formulation is useful in determining the different prognostic groups 
with respect to survival.

PMID: 1293771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Sangre (Barc). 1992 Oct;37(5):337-44.

[Non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. II. Analysis of the prognostic factors in a series of 
307 patients].

[Article in Spanish]

García Zueco JC(1), Delgado MP, Giraldo MP, Perella M, Rubio-Félix D, Giralt M.

Author information:
(1)Servicio Regional de Hematología y Hemoterapia, Hospital Miguel Servet, 
Zaragoza.

PURPOSE: To analyse different clinico-biologic data in order to assess their 
prognostic value in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The series comprises 307 patients with NHL diagnosed and 
treated between 1975 and 1988. The histopathologic diagnosis was revised in 
accordance with the working formulation system, three prognostic groups being 
thus considered: low-grade (LGL), intermediate-grade (IGL) and high-grade (HGL) 
lymphomas. Age, sex, clinical course prior to diagnosis, presence of B symptoms, 
histologic type, number of lymph-node areas involved, bulky disease, anaemia, 
thrombocytopenia, LDH, stage and response to therapy were all evaluated for the 
study. Survival curves were drawn with the Kaplan-Meier method, and the log-rank 
test was used for comparison of median survival. Whenever the univariate 
analysis achieved statistical significance, a multivariate analysis was 
performed by means of a multiple correlation and regression study in accordance 
with the Cox's model, in which the variables were expressed in a binary model.
RESULTS: The following 8 values were found significant in the univariate study 
of low-grade lymphomas: age, number of involved areas, bulky disease anaemia, 
thrombocytopenia, LDH, stage, and initial response to treatment. In 
intermediate-grade lymphomas, the significant findings were age, number of 
affected areas, bulky disease, thrombocytopenia, LDH, stage, and initial 
response. For high-grade lymphomas, number of affected areas, thrombocytopenia, 
LDH, stage and initial response were found statistically significant. Although 
no significant differences were found for survival within each of the three 
grades, such differences were significant between them. In the multivariate 
analysis, age was significant only in the LGL (p < 0.0001) in IGL, age (p < 
0.07) and initial response to therapy (p < 0.0001) achieved significant value, 
and in HGL, stage (p < 0.02) and initial response to treatment (p < 0.0001) 
attained significance.
CONCLUSIONS: The univariate analysis provides various prognostic factors of 
statistically significance, as reported in the literature, but these after the 
multivariate analysis was applied, were reduced to age, stage and initial 
response to treatment.

PMID: 1293772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Sangre (Barc). 1992 Oct;37(5):351-4.

[Cause of death, survival, and prognostic factors in a series of 98 patients 
with chronic myeloid leukemia].

[Article in Spanish]

Jonte F(1), Fernández-Fuertes F, Cecchini C, Luño E, Ordóñez A, Fernández C, 
Suárez P, Lausín A, Fernández J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Hematología, Hospital Central de Asturias, Oviedo.

PURPOSE: To analyse the survival from diagnosis to blastic crisis, as well as 
the causes of death and the significance of different features in patients 
diagnosed of chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The series includes 98 patients who died of CML in 
Asturias Central Hospital and other nearby hospital between 1970 and 1990. The 
CML diagnosis had been established according to conventional criteria. The 
blastic crisis was diagnosed in accordance with morphologic and cytochemical 
studies, complemented in some cases with the assay of TdT or other markers. The 
Kaplan-Meier curves and long-rank test were applied to the statistical analysis 
of survival. The prognostic factors were evaluated by univariate correlation.
RESULTS: The series' mean age was 48.57 years (range: 6-90) and the M/F ratio 
was 56/42. Cytogenetic study had been performed in 35 patients, of whom 33 had 
the Ph' chromosome. Death occurred in the blastic crisis in 67 cases (72%), in 
the accelerated phase in 14 cases (15%) and in the chronic phase in 12 cases 
(13%). The cause of death could be determined in 47 cases; of them, 24 (51%) 
died of infection, 11 (23.4%) of haemorrhage, and the remaining 12 (25.6%) of 
different complications. The median survival of the group as a whole was 32 
months (range: 4-137). For the blastic crisis this figure was reduced to 2.5 
months (range: 1-14), the lymphoid forms doing better, 5 months, than the 
non-lymphoid ones; 1.5 months (p < 0.03). Out of the data evaluated at 
diagnosis, only haemoglobin and the percentage of blast cells in peripheral 
blood showed any correlation with survival (r = +0.28, p < 0.05 for haemoglobin, 
and r = -0.30, p < 0.01 for blast cells).
CONCLUSIONS: (1) Although most patients die from infection or haemorrhage during 
the blast crisis, CML increases the risk of death in the accelerated and chronic 
stages as well. (2) Non-lymphoid blastic crisis has poorer prognosis than the 
lymphoid form. (3) The concentration of blast cells and haemoglobin in 
peripheral blood at diagnosis acquire prognostic significance in the present 
study.

PMID: 1293774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Sangre (Barc). 1992 Dec;37(6):439-47.

[Acute lymphoblastic leukemias off therapy: course of 80 cases after treatment 
cessation].

[Article in Spanish]

Sánchez Fayos J(1), Bernacer M, Olavarría E, Outeiriño J, Prieto E, Román A, 
Pacho E, Villalobos E, Pérez A, Myric A, et al.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Hematología, Fundación Jiménez Díaz, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad Autónoma, Madrid.

PURPOSE: To retrospectively analyse all the patients diagnosed and treated in 
the same hospital for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in whom therapy was 
suppressed after sustained complete remission (CR) for a variable period.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eighty cases of ALL treated at the Jiménez Díaz Foundation 
between 1968 and 1991 were revised. Treatment had been suppressed after 60 
months of maintained CR (1968-1974) or after 28 months (1986-1991), with a 
median follow-up after suppression of 6 years. All the patients had been treated 
with several protocols (FJD-68, FJD/BFM, APO, BFM-83, BFM-86 and BFM-90). 
Maintained CR, relapses and course after therapy cessation were analysed. 
Actuarial curves of RC duration and survival were drawn according to the Cutler 
and Ederer life tables.
RESULTS: The age at diagnosis ranged from 1.5 to 68 years. Childhood (< 15 
years) ALL presented in 49 cases; 25 were young adults (15-30 years), and 6 
others were over 30 years of age. Two of the 80 patients (2.5%) died in CR 
(astrocytoma and demyelinating leukoencephalopathy). Fifty-eight patients 
(72.5%) are living in maintained CR; 20 others relapsed (25%), 14 of them (70%) 
attaining a second CR. Allogenic BMT was carried out in 4 such cases. Four 
patients are out of any treatment after the second CR. The actuarial curves of 
CR duration after suppression of therapy gave a stable plateau at 73% for 
children, at 75% for young adults and at 22% for patients over 30 years. The 
survival after suppression of therapy showed a plateau at 75% for children and 
at 86% for young adults.
CONCLUSIONS: 1) Relapse was seen in 25% of the patients after cessation of 
therapy. 2) Relapse occurred in the first two years after therapy cessation in 
75% of the instances. 3) At this writing, 78.7% of the patients keep up the CR. 
4) Adults over 30 years of age comprise the poorest prognosis. 5) The course of 
young adults in this series after cessation of therapy is as good as that of 
children.

PMID: 1293795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Eur J Epidemiol. 1992 Nov;8(6):875-7. doi: 10.1007/BF00145336.

Influence of different upper age limits on the "Years of Potential Life Lost" 
index.

Ortega A(1), Puig M.

Author information:
(1)Basic Medical Sciences Department, School of Medicine, Universidad de 
Barcelona, Reus, Spain.

The use of 65, 70 or 75 years as upper age limits for the "Years of Potential 
Life Lost" index (YPLL) could influence the relative importance assigned to 
different causes of premature death. Data from a representative year (1987) in 
Catalonia (Spain), show that health priorities and comparability among studies 
are not affected by the use of these upper age limits.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00145336
PMID: 1294396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. J Exp Anim Sci. 1992 Dec;35(3):125-35.

Life expectancy, its relation to sexual activity and body weight in male inbred 
mice.

Gärtner K(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Laboratory Animal Science, Medical School Hannover, Germany.

Body weight of male mice of five inbred strains caged in groups of five was 
determined three times between the ages of 80 and 100 days, representing the 
individual fully grown body weight. Sexual activity of each mouse (number of 
ejaculations and intromissions) was estimated under competitive conditions 
between the ages of 120 and 150 days in eleven repetitions. Within all inbred 
strains only about half of the males displayed sexual activity when confronted 
with an estric female. The other do not. The animals remained in their cage 
groups until natural death after 727 +/- 215 days (C57BL/6), 638 +/- 260 days 
(BALB/c), 630 +/- 187 days (CBA), 560 +/- 230 days (DBA/2) and 317 +/- 62 (AKR) 
days. Only amongst the sexually active animals did individual life span 
correlate with the number of ejaculations. This was seen in C57BL/6, CBA and 
DBA/2. Particularly sexually successful animals, carrying out the most 
ejaculations, live 10-20% longer than their (subdominant) competitors displaying 
less sexual success. Sexually inactive males (characterised by no ejaculations 
and less other sexual activities) show that this characteristic of their 
personalities imposes no limitation upon their life expectancy. Fully grown body 
weight and the individual life span correlates within the strains DBA/2, C57BL/6 
and BALB/c. Medium-sized animals have a greater life expectancy than small or 
large ones.

PMID: 1295578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Invest Clin. 1992;33(3):101-6.

[Acute early rejection in renal transplantation].

[Article in Spanish]

García R(1), Rubio L, Henríquez-La Roche C, Herrera J, Rodríguez-Iturbe B, 
Salgado O, Marín C.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Nefrología, Hospital Universitario, Universidad del Zulia, 
Maracaibo, Venezuela.

Erratum in
    Invest Clin 1992;33(4):following 177.

The incidence of early acute rejection (first two months after surgery) was 
evaluated in a group of 150 kidney transplants, receptors, who were followed for 
more than three months. Ninety nine were transplanted with kidney from a cadaver 
donor and 51 with living donor. One hundred forty two patients were treated with 
triple immunosuppression therapy (cyclosporine, prednisone and azathioprine). 
The incidence of early acute rejection was significantly higher in cadaver 
kidney receptors (34% vs 19.6%, p = 0.04. Fisher exact test). However, early 
rejection did not have demonstrable influence in graft or patient survival or in 
the follow-up graft function. Graft and patient survival were not affected by 
the severity of the rejection episode.

PMID: 1295580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Gac Sanit. 1992 Sep-Oct;6(32):229-30. doi: 10.1016/s0213-9111(92)71120-0.

[A proposal to use the median and percentiles vs. the mean in the analysis of 
PYLL].

[Article in Spanish]

del Valle Gómez MO, López González ML, Cangas Icaza B, Arcos González PI, Cueto 
Espinar A.

DOI: 10.1016/s0213-9111(92)71120-0
PMID: 1295845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Nouv Rev Fr Hematol (1978). 1992;34(5):389-97.

Burkitt's lymphoma in adults: a retrospective study of 46 cases.

Ostronoff M(1), Soussain C, Zambon E, Ibrahim A, Bosq J, Bayle C, Pico JL, 
Gilles E, Moran A, Droz JP, et al.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hématologie, Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France.

The prognosis of Burkitt's lymphoma is generally considered to be poor, 
particularly in the advanced stages of the disease. Although recent chemotherapy 
protocols have given high rates of cure in children, there are few such reports 
concerning adults. We therefore conducted a retrospective analysis of the 
results for treatment of 46 adults in the Institut Gustave Roussy (IGR) between 
1978 and 1987, in order to establish an effective treatment strategy for use in 
a prospective trial. The median age of the patients was 31 years and the 
majority were Caucasians of European origin. The clinical symptoms and course of 
the disease were similar to those in the pediatric situation and corresponded to 
the so-called non endemic forms observed in Europe and the United States. 
Presentation was generally extra-nodal, usually with abdominal manifestations. 
As a rule, the disease progressed rapidly and showed a high affinity for the 
central nervous system in the absence of specific prophylaxis, despite systemic 
therapy with highly active agents, particularly in the advanced stages. 
According to Murphy's classification, there were 6 stage I, 11 stage II, 19 
stage III and 10 stage IV patients (3 of whom had CNS involvement). Treatment 
was heterogenous, although all the patients received polychemotherapy including 
anthracyclins. The best results were obtained from eleven patients treated 
according to the French Multicenter Protocols for pediatric Burkitt's lymphoma 
(LMB-84 and LMB-86). Kaplan-Meier 5-year relapse free survival rate among the 46 
patients was 42% (stage I: 83%; stage II: 67%; stage III: 30%; stage IV: 30%). 
In order to standardize our therapeutic approach, we started a prospective study 
in 1988 using the unmodified pediatric protocol for our adult patients.

PMID: 1296192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1992;142(23-24):539-43.

[Quality of life--demands and reality as a medical parameter versus quality of 
life as individual reality].

[Article in German]

Meran JG(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Hämatologie und Onkologie des Zentrums Innere Medizin, 
Medizinischen Hochschule Hannover, Deutschland.

Quality of life (QL) is a term, whose definition extends beyond scientific 
methods. Even the most accurate description will only be able to represent a 
part of the reality due to the proviso of only a limited view. For that reason 
the abandonment of this term, described as "utopical" and "principally remaining 
in dissent", was called for. This could be countered by the possibilities to use 
QL as a therapeutic aim, as well as an aid towards finding an individual 
indication. Alone the demand staged by QL, to take the individuality seriously, 
and to be the motor for patient oriented medicine, make this term valuable. The 
definition itself will remain a called instruments have been developed and 
tuned, their evaluation has not yet been concluded. The acceptance of 
QL-registration within clinical studies is low, since the individual integration 
of values compared to the biometric difficulties can hardly be generalized. The 
aims of QL-research are: the individual focus on the field of projection of QL; 
a motivation-oriented mode of record; the involvement of QL-registration in form 
of information and accompaniment; adequate modular techniques including 
dialogical methods (nondirective interviews); the establishment of a 
QL-anamnesis towards an extension of the clinical picture; the observance of a 
possible conflict of roles, the danger of linguistic inaccuracies and 
misunderstandings, the consideration of a person's privacy.

PMID: 1296398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1992 Oct;85 Spec No 3:67-72.

[Should men aged 20 to 30 years with hypercholesterolemia be managed in the same 
way as older men?].

[Article in French]

Delahaye F(1), Emmerich J, Bruckert E, Thomas D, Richard JL.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital cardiologique, BP Lyon Montchat.

Serum cholesterol intervention studies have been mainly performed in middle-aged 
men. Is the extrapolation of these results to men aged 20 to 30 years justified? 
Atherosclerosis is a process which continues throughout life. It is clear that 
increased serum cholesterol levels are associated with a higher coronary risk. 
In addition, serum cholesterol levels increase with age up to 60 years old. Do 
