young men obtain the same benefits from medical intervention as older men? 
Therapeutic trials have been performed in middle-aged men. The increase in life 
expectancy associated with a 6.7% lowering of the serum cholesterol by life-long 
dietary restrictions would only be 4 months in 20 year old subjects at high risk 
(hypertension, smokers, low HDL cholesterol). With a 20% reduction in serum 
cholesterol, the gain would be 12 months. There is no reason for not 
extrapolating acquired data in the over 30s to 20 to 30 year old subjects. Due 
to the fact that young subjects are exposed to the risk for longer periods, it 
is advisable to treat their hypercholesterolaemia even more seriously than that 
of older patients.

PMID: 1296547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1992 Oct;85 Spec No 3:79-82.

[Hyperlipidemia in patients over 60 years old].

[Article in French]

Bruckert E(1), Delahaye F, Richard JL, Emmerich J, Thomas D.

Author information:
(1)Service d'endocrinologie métabolisme, hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, Lyon.

The management of hyperlipidemia in individuals aged 60 or over is a serious 
problem, given the frequency of metabolic abnormalities in this age group. The 
decision to treat must take into account a number of uncertainties. 
Hypercholesterolemia is a risk factor in the elderly and, in general, its 
importance varies like the other major risk factors (hypertension and smoking): 
the relative risk decreases with age but this decrease in relative risk is 
associated with an increase in the absolute risk because the prevalence of 
cardiovascular disease greatly increases with age. The serum cholesterol level 
increases with age but the physiopathological mechanism os this increase is 
poorly understood (reduction in the number of LDC receptors?). In the over 70s, 
serum cholesterol levels decrease, probably because of a selection due to the 
deaths of subjects at higher risk. No therapeutic trials have been performed to 
evaluate the effects of lowering the serum cholesterol in the over 60s. In 
addition, strict application of international recommendations in this age group 
would result in a large number of therapeutic interventions, the value of which 
would be questionable. Under these conditions, practical clinical advice is 
based on reasoned extrapolation of epidemiological data obtained in middle-aged 
men. Treatment should therefore be reserved for sever forms of hyperlipidemia, 
taking into consideration the life expectancy of the individual.

PMID: 1296549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Prog Cardiovasc Nurs. 1992 Jul-Sep;7(3):6-14.

Caring for a Marfan patient with cardiovascular complications.

Rebeyka DM, Bailey CR.

The Marfan syndrome is a heritable disorder of connective tissue associated with 
characteristic abnormalities of the skeletal, ocular and cardiovascular systems. 
Common cardiovascular manifestations of this syndrome are mitral valve prolapse 
with mitral regurgitation and dilatation of the ascending aorta resulting in 
aortic insufficiency, dissection, aneurysm and/or rupture. Although the 
prognosis for a patient with the Marfan syndrome is significantly more favorable 
than it was ten years ago, the cardiovascular complications continue to greatly 
reduce life expectancy. This article presents an overview of the Marfan syndrome 
including: history and epidemiology, clinical manifestations, diagnostic 
criteria, surgical intervention and follow-up. A case study is outlined which 
focuses on priority nursing diagnoses and a plan of care.

PMID: 1297143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Vopr Med Khim. 1992 Nov-Dec;38(6):39-42.

[Modification of the body's resistance to acute ionizing radiation by synthetic 
beta-carotene].

[Article in Russian]

Beliaev IK, Zaraĭskiĭ AV, Limberg VK, Vakulova LA.

Radiomodifying efficiency of short-term and chronic medicinal and 
treatment-prophylactic enrichment of rations with artificial beta-carotene, 
administered at single doses of 0.1-10.0 mg, were studied after acute external 
gamma-irradiation of adult nonlinear and Wistar rats (0.029 Gy/s) or female SBA 
mice (0.0037 Gy/s), where the absorbed dose was equal to 8-3 Gy or 9.9-9.5 Gy, 
respectively. Suspension of beta-carotene paste in olive oil accelerated death 
of rats irradiated at doses of 8 and 7 Gy (P = 0.04), and shortened their 
lifespan. At a dose of 6 Gy single and long-term enrichment of rations with 
beta-carotene decreased the rate of rat death within 30 days from 33.3% to 16.7% 
(P = 0.14) and 3.3% (P = 0.01), while their life time was increased from 48 days 
to 67 days (P = 0.05) and 508 days (P = 0.01). beta-Carotene was found to affect 
favourably the radiation-induced (5 Gy) leukocytopenia, and decreased thymus 
mass (6 Gy) and body weight (8 Gy). In treatment-prophylactic enrichment with 
beta-carotene of mice (9.9 Gy) ration their survival was increased from 15% to 
30% and lifespan from 14.4 days to 28.9 days (P = 0.05). During medicinal or 
treatment-prophylactic courses of beta-carotene death of mice (9.7 Gy) was 
decreased from 75% to 35% (P = 0.01) or 60% and life time was increased from 
16.7 days to 22.17 days or 39.9 days (P = 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

PMID: 1298128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1992 Sep;26(5):278-80.

[Application of multistate model to the analysis of relationship between 
cumulative occupational exposure and occurrence of disease].

[Article in Chinese]

Yi QL(1).

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Medical University.

The relationship between cumulative exposure and response used to be estimated 
by using the two state life table method. But since the occurrence of the 
response is related to the time factor after exiting exposure, this method may 
not provide correct description of this relationship. Based on multiple state 
model, this paper put forward a new method which modifies the effect of the time 
after exiting exposure on this relationship. The data from a cohort of 1113 
underground male workers in a tin mine was taken as an example to illustrate the 
merit of this method.

PMID: 1298604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. J Health Polit Policy Law. 1992 Winter;17(4):763-82. doi: 
10.1215/03616878-17-4-763.

On being old and sick: the burden of health care for the elderly in Canada and 
the United States.

Barer ML(1), Hertzman C, Miller R, Pascali MV.

Author information:
(1)University of British Columbia.

The debate over health care reform in the United States has drawn Canada under 
the microscope. Canada's health care system is frequently offered as a model for 
American national health insurance. Curiously absent from this policy discussion 
is any talk about the relative out-of-pocket costs of alternative models. In 
this paper, we provide data on these costs for American and Canadian elderly for 
medical, hospital, and ambulatory pharmaceutical use. Despite the fact that the 
elderly in America are generally viewed as facing fewer problems with access and 
out-of-pocket costs than younger Americans, their direct costs far exceed those 
of their Canadian counterparts. We also present data suggesting that, despite 
these greater costs, rates of growth in use of these services by American 
elderly have followed roughly the same pattern as those found in Canada. If 
Uncle Sam retired north of the border, being old and sick would also mean being 
wealthier and happier.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-17-4-763
PMID: 1299689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Vopr Onkol. 1992;38(2):195-204.

[Carcinogenesis induced by the neonatal administration of 
5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine and subsequent exposure to N-nitrosomethylurea in rats].

[Article in Russian]

Osipova GIu, Anisimov VN.

Shorter life span, higher frequency and multiplicity of tumor, and shorter 
latency period as compared with intact controls were observed in LIO rats, which 
were injected, sc, 3.2 mg 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU)--a synthetic analog of 
thymidine--at days 1, 3, 7 and 21 after birth. Single intravenous injection of 
50 mg/kg N-nitrosomethylurea (NMU) into 3 month-old rats treated neonatally with 
BrdU was followed by a significant increase in the frequency and multiplicity of 
tumors of certain localizations matched by a shorter latency period as compared 
with rats pretreated with either BrdU or NMU alone. It is suggested that 
BrdU-induced damage to DNA is sufficient for initiation and development of tumor 
growth and raising the level of sensitivity to other carcinogenic agents.

PMID: 1300706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Vopr Onkol. 1992;38(3):320-7.

[Carcinogenesis induced by the neonatal administration of 
5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine and subsequent exposure to estradiol benzoate in female 
BALB/c mice].

[Article in Russian]

Osipova GIu, Anisimov VN.

Female BALB/c mice were given 1 mg 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BDU) subcutaneously 
on days 1, 3 and 7 after birth or 5 mg estradiol benzoate (EB) 15 times weekly 
starting at the age of 3 months or both. Combined application of BDU and EB 
potentiated the carcinogenic effect of each agent on breast tissue: breast 
cancer occurred in 80.6% of animals as compared to 15.8, 9.7 and 0% in groups 
treated with EB or BDU alone and controls, respectively (p < 0.001). Treatment 
with BDU induced a slightly (but significantly, p < 0.02) higher overall tumor 
occurrence as well as higher occurrence of primary multiple and malignant tumors 
and breast cancer as compared to controls. It is suggested that BDU-induced 
accumulation of DNA errors contributes to initiation of neoplastic changes in 
the cell and cancer development which is further stimulated by EB.

PMID: 1300722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Vopr Onkol. 1992;38(4):451-8.

[The effect of the synthetic immunomodulator thymogen on radiation-induced 
carcinogenesis in rats].

[Article in Russian]

Anisimov VN, Miretskiĭ GI, Morozov VG, Pavel'eva IA, Khavinson VKh.

Five month-old female rats were given a mixture of Sr-90 and Cs-137 in drinking 
water in the dose of 0.1 and 0.2 microCi/day per animal over 12 months. Some 
animals received 12 monthly courses of a synthetic immunomodulating 
dipeptide--thymogen in the dose of 5 micrograms/animal for 5 consecutive days. 
Radionuclide-treated rats showed higher occurrence of tumors on the whole and of 
breast adenocarcinoma, in particular. Thymogen was shown to inhibit Sr-90- and 
Cs-137-induced radiation carcinogenesis, namely, a decrease in the total tumor 
and cancer occurrence was observed. The animals receiving thymogen alone showed 
longer life span, slower rate of aging and lower overall tumor and cancer 
occurrence. In this study, the ability of a synthetic peptide 
immunomodulator--thymogen to inhibit spontaneous and radionuclide-induced 
carcinogenesis in female rats was first established.

PMID: 1300740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Qual Life Res. 1992 Jun;1(3):187-201. doi: 10.1007/BF00635618.

Methods for assessing quality of life in the cardiac arrhythmia suppression 
trial (CAST).

Willund I(1), Gorkin L, Pawitan Y, Schron E, Schoenberger J, Jared LL, Shumaker 
S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Göteborg, Ostra Hospital, Sweden.

The CAST was a randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled multicentre trial of 
antiarrhythmic medications designed to suppress ventricular arrhythmias in 
patients after an acute myocardial infarction (MI). A collection of 21 items 
derived from established scales was used to assess aspects of quality of life in 
CAST. The questions focused on symptoms, mental health, physical functioning, 
social functioning, life satisfaction, and life expectancy. Additional aspects 
included exposure to major stressful life events, and perceived social support 
and social integration. Work status was also recorded. Using the baseline values 
of 1465 (98%) out of 1498 patients enrolled in the CAST main study between 15 
June 1987 and 19 April 1989, the reliability and validity of the scales used in 
CAST were computed. High internal consistency reliability (> or = 0.70) was 
found for Symptoms, Mental Health, and Physical Functioning. The discriminative 
validity, in particular for Symptoms, Mental Health, Physical and Social 
Functioning, showed that patients with heart failure and previous MI, as well as 
those suffering from angina and dyspnea, had a worse quality of life than those 
patients who were not experiencing these symptoms. It was concluded that the 
scales selected to form the CAST quality of life questionnaire were both 
reliable and clinically valid for this patient population and therefore could be 
used to detect disease progression and treatment effects.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00635618
PMID: 1301128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 1992 Aug;13(4):221-5.

[Prospective epidemiological study on the efficacy and safety of female tubal 
sterilization by chemical instillation].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)National Research Institute for Family Planning, Beijimg.

This is a prospective study on clinical efficacy and safety of female 
sterilization by chemical agents. A total number of 1705 subjects were randomly 
divided into two groups. Phenol mucilage (PM) was used in group 1 (834 cases) 
and phenol-atabrine paste (PAP) was used in group 2 (871 cases). All the 
characteristics of the subjects were proportionate and comparable to two groups. 
The follow-up rate was 98.5% at the end of 2 years. Using life table analysis, 
the results show that the cumulative success rate per 100 women of two groups 
using PAP and PM was 97.4% and 91.1% respectively. There was significant 
difference between the two groups. The efficacy of the methods was related with 
the developed length of roentgenographic shadow after instillation. Multiple 
discriminatory analysis showed the same results as above. There was no severe 
complication in all cases. The post-instillation fever rate was 8% in group PAP 
and 4.4% in group PM, respectively. Our results indicate that female 
sterilization with the use of chemical agents mentioned is a simple, safe and 
reliable method in preventing pregnancy.

PMID: 1301267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Prog Urol. 1992 Dec;2(6):987-92.

[Vesico-ureteral reimplantation on psoas bladder in lesions of the pelvic 
ureter. Review of 50 patients].

[Article in French]

d'Acremont B(1), Gattegno B, Tchala K, Lukacs B, Thibault P.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Tenon, Paris.

Between 1979 and 1991, the authors performed 50 psoas bladder ureterovesical 
reimplantations for lesions of the pelvic ureter. 90% of very good results were 
obtained with this technique at the cost of a low morbidity. This series 
confirms the influence of previous pelvic radiotherapy on the postoperative 
complication rate. On the basis of the excellent results in this series, 
confirmed by those reported in the literature, this technique can be proposed as 
treatment of choice for lesions of the pelvic ureter when suture-resection or 
simple reimplantation cannot be performed after failure of endoluminal 
dilatation in patients with a life expectancy greater than 6 months to one year.

PMID: 1302130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 1992-1993;36(3):171-86. doi:
10.2190/7wqj-h9v3-8qpx-ba6r.

Modernization and status change among aged men and women.

Clark R(1).

Author information:
(1)Rhode Island College, Dept. of Sociology, Providence 02908.

This study investigates the differences between the relationship between elderly 
occupational status and modernization for men and women. Consonant with previous 
findings, it finds that economic development is associated with relative losses 
of elderly men in professional and technical occupations. Augmenting those 
findings, however, it finds an even stronger association between development and 
such losses for women. In accounting for the differences, several explanations 
are advanced and tested, using data from fifty-one nations.

DOI: 10.2190/7wqj-h9v3-8qpx-ba6r
PMID: 1302242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Australas J Dermatol. 1992;33(3):135-40. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-0960.1992.tb00101.x.

Congenital inclusion dermoid cysts of the scalp.

Sinclair RD(1), Darley C, Dawber RP.

Author information:
(1)Skin and Cancer Foundation, Melbourne.

The natural history of congenital inclusion dermoid cysts of the scalp is 
unknown. We report three cases of this condition, which has been followed from 
birth for up to ten years. Dermoids are congenital subcutaneous cysts, which 
gradually flatten and scar over a number of years. The lesions are covered with 
skin showing focal alopecia but they may be surrounded by a collar of 
hypertropic hair. Later in life flattened cysts may be mistaken for aplasia 
cutis, but the history of a cyst at birth allows the clinician to distinguish 
these two conditions. As these cysts have a potential for intracranial 
extension, this is an important clinical entity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-0960.1992.tb00101.x
PMID: 1303073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. J Postgrad Med. 1992 Jul-Sep;38(3):103-5.

Geriatric services--need of the hour.

Meisheri YV(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept of Medicine, Seth GS Medical College, Parel, Bombay, Maharashtra.

PMID: 1303405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. J Indian Med Assoc. 1992 Dec;90(12):306.

Thirsting for the fountain of youth: myth and reality.

Banerjee DK.

PMID: 1304011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Natl Med J India. 1992 Jul-Aug;5(4):182-4.

Population growth, development and family planning in India.

Banerji D(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Social Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, India.

PMID: 1304306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Acta Physiol Hung. 1992;79(2):119-24.

Extension of lifespan in mice treated with Dinh lang (Policias fruticosum L.) 
and (-)deprenyl.

Yen TT(1), Knoll J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Semmelweis University Medical School, Budapest, 
Hungary.

The effect of Dinh lang root extract (DLRE) and (-)deprenyl on memory function 
and lifespan was examined in OFA-1 male mice. Treatments of either DLRE, 
(-)deprenyl or their combination were carried out 3 times a week starting at 12 
months of age and following to the end of life. DLRE and (-)deprenyl 
significantly increased the memory function as well as surviving time of aged 
mice. The drug-treated animals showed a lower rate of loss of body weight than 
saline treated ones. It suggested that DLRE and (-)deprenyl did not prolong 
lifespan of mice by suppressing food intake. The combined treatment of DLRE and 
(-)deprenyl proved to be the most effective.

PMID: 1304677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. BMJ. 1992 Nov 14;305(6863):1205-9. doi: 10.1136/bmj.305.6863.1205.

Quality of life measures in health care. III: Resource allocation.

Spiegelhalter DJ(1), Gore SM, Fitzpatrick R, Fletcher AE, Jones DR, Cox DR.

Author information:
(1)MRC Biostatistics Unit, Institute of Public Health, Cambridge.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1993 Feb 6;306(6874):395.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.305.6863.1205
PMCID: PMC1883819
PMID: 1304741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Rom J Endocrinol. 1992;30(1-2):3-19.

Therapeutic methods in endocrinology. General considerations.

Dumitrache C(1).

Author information:
(1)C. I. Parhon Institute of Endocrinology, Bucharest, Romania.

The integrative character of the endocrine system and its regulation ways 
generate and motivate the specificity of endocrine therapy. The latter tries, by 
its methods and means, to restore hormonal homeostasis, to imitate the biologic 
rhythms of secretion, to respond to the stress needs, in fact it ensures the 
dynamics of the normal integration of an individual in the daily life with all 
its changes. This requirement is ensured by the methods of stimulation and 
suppression, hormonal substitution or depression of hormone bio-synthesis, 
blockade of enzymatic activation or desensitivation of the receptors to the 
hormonal message, etc. The association of the therapeutic means and methods has 
the purpose of bringing relief and the expectancy of a decent, controlled 
survival in inevitable iatrogeny. Endocrine therapy also ensures a normal growth 
and development, an acceptable IQ, a reasonable degree of sexualization, 
responds to the most important demand of life: perpetuation of the species. The 
range of endocrine therapy is perhaps the widest in medicine, starting with the 
disease and ending with the esthetic aspects of the individual. A good knowledge 
of the methods, means and especially their dynamics and specificity gives the 
endocrinologist the pragmatic outlook measured only by its efficiency.

PMID: 1305518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Pharmacogenetics. 1992 Dec;2(6):344-9. doi: 10.1097/00008571-199212000-00014.

Evolutionary aspects of human cancer.

Ramel C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetic and Cellular Toxicology, Stockholm University, Sweden.

Evolutionary aspects of human cancer can be dealt with at two levels--on the one 
hand long-term evolution involving hereditary effects between generations; and 
on the other hand evolutionary processes operating within the organisms between 
tissues, cells and cell constituents, which also comprise genetic alterations, 
selection and adaptation. These two levels of evolution can be designated as 
phylogenetic and ontogenetic evolution, respectively. Concerning phylogenetic 
evolution there must have been a strong selection against neoplastic diseases 
occurring at reproductive age and a variety of protective mechanisms against 
carcinogenic agents have been developed. Cancer is therefore primarily a disease 
of old age, which does not constitute a significant risk in natural populations 
for the simple reason that the life length is too short. The development of an 
individual comprises selection forces between cells and tissues, which are 
particularly striking for the multistage development of tumours. The 
accumulation of several genetic alterations in the same cells, as illustrated by 
the analysis of colorectal tumours, must require a pronounced clonal expansion 
between each event. Such selective growth effect has recently been demonstrated 
for the tumour suppressor gene p53 in brain tumours. Cancer often implies a 
break down of between balanced systems antagonistic forces, such as oncogenes 
and suppressors of oncogenes. Examples of this are provided by the genetic 
regulation of metastasis, involving metalloproteinase as well as the inhibitor 
of metalloproteinase. The immortalization of cells by transformation points to 
the fact that programmed cell death and the balance between suicide genes and 
suppressors of such suicide genes is affected.

DOI: 10.1097/00008571-199212000-00014
PMID: 1306136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Med Sect Proc. 1992:29-50.

Geriatrics: what you don't know can hurt you.

Battis G(1).

Author information:
(1)Minnesota Mutual Life Insurance Company.

PMID: 1306562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1992;59(4):217-20. doi: 10.1159/000156664.

Aging and social behaviour in captivity in Microcebus murinus.

Picq JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'Ethologie, Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris, France.

DOI: 10.1159/000156664
PMID: 1307078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Gac Med Mex. 1992 Jul-Aug;128(4):483-96.

[The price of health].

[Article in Spanish]

Fajardo Ortiz G(1), Manuel Sotelo J, Laguna J, Gómez Leal JL, Alonso Concheiro 
A.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad 
Nacional Autonoma de México.

PMID: 1308001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Am J Surg. 1992 Jun;163(6):572-6. doi: 10.1016/0002-9610(92)90559-a.

Results of colectomy in elderly patients with colon cancer, based on Medicare 
claims data.

Whittle J(1), Steinberg EP, Anderson GF, Herbert R.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Program for Medical Technology and Practice Assessment, Center 
for Hospital Finance and Management, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, 
Maryland.

Comment in
    Am J Surg. 1993 Jul;166(1):83.

Currently available estimates of outcomes following colon resection in elderly 
patients with colon cancer are based on series collected at academic medical 
centers. We used Medicare Part A claims and enrollment records of a 5% 
nationally random sample of elderly Medicare beneficiaries from 1983 to 1985 to 
estimate how patient age and sex affected perioperative mortality and 1- and 
2-year survival rates among elderly patients undergoing a colon resection 
procedure for colon cancer. Among the 5,586 individuals in our data set, the 
overall perioperative mortality rate was 5.0%, ranging from 3.3% in 
beneficiaries 66 to 69 years of age to 9.3% in those 85 years of age and older. 
Men had a 31% higher perioperative mortality rate than women (5.8% versus 4.4%, 
p less than 0.05). The overall postoperative survival rates at 1 and 2 years 
were 72% and 63%, respectively, decreasing with increasing age, but were similar 
in men and women. This analysis provides age- and sex-specific estimates of 
outcomes following surgery for elderly patients with colon cancer that are more 
precise and have more potential for generalization than those that were 
available previously.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9610(92)90559-a
PMID: 1308654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Gen Hosp Psychiatry. 1992 Jan;14(1):61-8. doi: 10.1016/0163-8343(92)90027-8.

Coping styles, psychopathology and intellectual performance in patients with 
familial adenomatous polyposis.

Levitt AJ(1), Rodin G, Cohen Z, Berk T.

Author information:
(1)Mood Disorders Program, Clarke Institute of Psychiatry, Toronto, Ontario.

Thirty-eight patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) were compared 
with 19 patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) for differences in illness-related 
variables, coping styles, psychiatric symptomatology, and intellectual 
performance. Patients with FAP had significantly less education, longer time 
since recent surgery, less psychiatric illness, and evidence of less 
preoccupation with their illness, as compared with UC patients. FAP patients 
with a positive family history (N = 28) scored significantly lower on both 
verbal and performance intellectual tests, even when taking education into 
account, compared with FAP patients without a family history (N = 9). The 
relevance of these findings to the ongoing monitoring and surveillance of 
patients with FAP is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0163-8343(92)90027-8
PMID: 1309713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Baillieres Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1992 Jan;6(1):217-28. doi: 
10.1016/s0950-351x(05)80339-8.

APUDomas: acute complications and their medical management.

Philippe J.

APUDomas are rare tumours originating from a variety of endocrine cells 
localized in different organs. Acute complications from APUDomas usually result 
from the increased biosynthesis and release of bioactive amines or polypeptide 
hormones by the tumour. Less frequently, bleeding or compression by the tumour 
can occur requiring emergency surgery. Increased gastrin production by 
gastrinomas is the cause of ZES (peptic ulceration and diarrhoea) by gastrin 
effects on gastric acid secretion. Volume depletion, hypokalaemia, severe 
bleeding, duodenal perforation, oesophageal stricture and pyloric stenosis are 
the most dramatic complications. Treatment of these complications and their 
prevention has been facilitated by the availability of antagonists to H2 
receptors and H(+)-K+ proton pump. These medications should control acid output 
in every patient with ZES. Frequent manifestations of carcinoid tumours, VIPomas 
and medullary thyroid carcinomas are flushing and diarrhoea. Octreotide, a 
long-acting somatostatin analogue, has markedly changed the management of these 
patients, their symptoms decreasing in severity or disappearing in most cases. 
Octreotide has also been used with success in the prevention and treatment of 
the carcinoid crisis, a dreaded complication of carcinoid tumours. A better 
understanding of the pathophysiology of APUDomas has enabled new treatment 
designs which have considerably ameliorated the quality of life of patients 
affected by these tumours; efforts must be continued to affect their life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-351x(05)80339-8
PMID: 1310847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Ital J Gastroenterol. 1992 Mar-Apr;24(3):148-50.

Medical treatment of hepatocarcinoma.

Buzzoni R(1), Bajetta E, Colleoni M.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Oncologia Medica B, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura dei 
Tumori, Milano, Italy.

Primary hepatocellular carcinoma is a rare malignancy but its incidence has 
increased over the last decade. Only a few patients have resectable tumours at 
presentation. The prognosis in the large majority of the cases is poor with a 
life expectancy of a few months. In this article we have reviewed the different 
medical approaches tested in this neoplasm. The results are disappointing. Over 
the next ten years much effort will be needed to improve both treatment and 
prognosis while investigations need to be carried out in collaboration with 
experimental laboratories. We are therefore presenting the possible pathways for 
future research.

PMID: 1314117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Cir Pediatr. 1992 Jan;5(1):42-5.

[Neoplasms during the 1st year of life: a study of 116 cases treated during the 
last 10 years].

[Article in Spanish]

Martínez Ibáñez V(1), Pérez Martínez A, Marqués Gubern A, Lloret Roca J, Sánchez 
de Toledo J, Pérez Lacasta P, Escarre Jaume M, Roset Sánchez L, Pons Rodríguez 
R.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cirugía Pediátrica, Hospital Materno-Infantil Valle de 
Hebrón, Barcelona.

116 infants under one year of age (14 per 100) with malignancies including 35 
neuroblastomas, 23 retinoblastomas, 14 Wilm's tumours, 10 hepatoblastomas, 10 
brain tumours, 9 germ cell tumours, 8 histiocytic and 7 soft tissue sarcomas, 
were treated in the last ten years. Hepatoblastoma is the highest relative 
incidence tumor in the first year of life and with brain tumours has the worst 
prognosis (50 and 40 per 100, respectively). The disease-free survival rate is 
most than 80 per 100 in neuro and nephroblastoma with medical and surgical 
treatment. Familiar incidence in Wilm's tumor is 42 per 100 and chemotherapy 
side effects are 23 per 100. Familiar incidence in neuroblastoma is 20 per 100 
and chemotherapy side effects 21 per 100. In conclusion, in children with 
malignancies under one year of age have good prognosis (75 per 100 survival at 
five years), with lower surgical complications rate. Early diagnosis and 
response to chemotherapy, the side effects of which are considerable and should 
be strictly controlled, are key factors in the better prognosis and increased 
life expectancy in this group of patients.

PMID: 1314638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Gut. 1992 Mar;33(3):357-60. doi: 10.1136/gut.33.3.357.

Epidemiology of familial adenomatous polyposis in Finland: impact of family 
screening on the colorectal cancer rate and survival.

Järvinen HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.

The incidence and prevalence rates of familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) in 
Finland between 1961 and 1990 were estimated from Finnish polyposis registry 
data comprising 81 FAP families, including 251 affected patients. In addition, 
the effect of family screening on the occurrence of colorectal carcinoma was 
evaluated by comparing the call up and proband groups and calculating the 
proportion of FAP among all patients with colorectal carcinoma. The incidence of 
FAP was 0.62 to 2.38 per million and the prevalence increased steadily from 0.88 
to 26.3 million during the study period suggesting improving prognosis. 
Altogether 76 of 116 probands (65.5%) had colorectal carcinoma compared with 
only five of 76 call up patients (6.6%). Consequently, the life expectancy of 
the call up patients was significantly better than that of the probands from the 
age of 31 years and above. However, at most, 0.53% of all colorectal carcinomas 
were associated with FAP in 1966-70, and the diminishing frequency of this 
proportion was more a result of an increase in sporadic colorectal carcinomas in 
Finland than of family screening for FAP. Family screening is very effective in 
FAP and must always be undertaken when a new proband is diagnosed.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.33.3.357
PMCID: PMC1373827
PMID: 1314763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1992;7(3):181-90. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.ndt.a092103.

Epidemiology of end-stage renal disease in patients with diabetes mellitus: from 
the dark ages to the middle ages.

Catalano C(1), Marshall SM.

Author information:
(1)Centro di Fisiologia Clinica del Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche e 
Divisione Nefrologica, Reggio Calabria, Italy.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.ndt.a092103
PMID: 1314987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Eur J Pediatr Surg. 1992 Feb;2(1):56-9. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1063403.

Wilms' tumor with intracardiac extension.

Martinez-Guerra G(1), Ruano-Aguilar J, Rivera-Luna R, Cardenas-Cardos R, 
Avila-Ramirez E, Braun-Roth G, Altamirano-Alvarez E, Moreno-Hidalgo A, 
Flamand-Rodriguez EL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Oncology, Instituto Nacional de Pediatria, Mexico.

Intracardiac tumor extension from nephroblastoma is a rare event. We report on 
two cases with this peculiar condition who presented with a different set of 
signs and symptoms. Both were diagnosed in life but only one could be properly 
managed on time. Emphasis is made upon the most reliable methodology for early 
detection and the surgical approach as the only plausible way to solve this 
particular complication.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1063403
PMID: 1315156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1992 Apr;18(2):156-61.

Hepatic chemoinfusion of 5-FU in metastasis of gastrointestinal cancer and 
advanced primary hepatocellular carcinoma.

Paquet KJ(1), Kalk JF, Cuan-Orozco F, Siemens F, Koussouris P, Mercado MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Medicine, HEINZ-KALK-Hospital, Bad Kissingen, 
Germany.

From 1 January 1983 to 1 January 1988, 38 patients were treated for hepatic 
cancer in the HEINZ-KALK-Hospital. Thirty-one of these had liver metastases due 
to gastrointestinal cancer and seven had advanced primary hepatocellular cancer. 
In all patients more than 50% of the liver volume was involved with the tumour 
or the metastases. Eleven patients with liver metastases of gastrointestinal 
cancer (excepting colorectal cancer) were treated by intra-arterial hepatic 
bolus infusion of 750-1000 mg 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) by selective catheterisation 
of the hepatic or superior mesenteric artery after puncture of the right or left 
femoral artery. The median survival was 13.4 months. In seven patients with 
advanced primary hepatocellular carcinoma the same therapeutic regime was used. 
The median survival was 10 months. In the 21 patients with disseminated 
metastases of previously resected colorectal cancer a catheter was inserted into 
the gastro-duodenal artery and connected to a subcutaneously placed port. Brief 
infusions of 750-1000 mg 5-FU were administered for 14 days with a day 
interruption and thereafter 2 month interruption. There were few side effects 
and 80% of the patients continued to work or carry on a normal life. The median 
survival was 14.4 months. Based on this experience we consider hepatic 
chemoinfusion with 5-FU in gastrointestinal cancer and advanced primary 
hepatocellular carcinoma is capable of improving quality of life and possibly 
expectancy.

PMID: 1316289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Acta Med Austriaca. 1992;19(1):25-34.

[Prevention of pulmonary embolism].

[Article in German]

Minar E(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Angiologie, Universitätsklinik für Innere Medizin II des 
Allgemeinen Krankenhauses der Stadt, Wien.

Pulmonary embolism (PE) is one of the most common causes of death in 
hospitalized patients. Several groups of patients at high risk of developing 
venous thromboembolic complications have been identified. The effect of primary 
prophylaxis on the incidence of fatal PE has been demonstrated only in a few 
studies, while evidence for a benefit of pharmacologic and physical modalities 
of prophylaxis in preventing venous thrombosis has been documented in many 
prospective randomized clinical trials. The preventive measures differ according 
to the type of patient at risk, and in some groups of patients at risk several 
prophylactic regimen can be used. Application of low-dose heparin is the best 
documented prophylactic modality. General primary prophylaxis in 100 patients at 
risk could save one life. However, low-dose heparin is of limited efficacy in 
patients at high risk for thromboembolism. The following anithrombotic regimens 
are recommended in these patients: adjusted - dose heparin; oral anticoagulants 
with low intensity of anticoagulation; dextran; heparin in combination with 
dihydroergotamine; low-molecular-weight heparin fractions (LMWH). It is likely 
that prevention with LMWH will become the most important prophylactic modality 
in the near future. Mechanical methods of prophylaxis should be used primarily 
in combination with pharmacologic prevention. In low-risk patients mechanical 
methods alone offer sufficient prophylaxis. Low-dose heparin which is effective 
for primary prevention is not effective in secondary prophylaxis to prevent 
extension or embolization of established thrombosis. Inadequate anticoagulant 
therapy results in increased risk of recurrent thromboembolism. The general 
application of primary prophylaxis in patients at risk is superior to secondary 
prophylaxis with treatment of established thromboembolism.

PMID: 1316706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Acta Oncol. 1992;31(1):1-10. doi: 10.3109/02841869209088258.

Trends in childhood and adolescent cancer survival in Sweden 1960 through 1984.

Adami HO(1), Glimelius B, Sparén P, Holmberg L, Krusemo UB, Pontén J.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Epidemiology Unit, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

The temporal changes in childhood and adolescent cancer survival in Sweden 
1960-1984 were analyzed. Complete follow-up through 1986 of 6,262 patients 
younger than 20 years at diagnosis revealed that the overall 5-year survival 
rates increased from 36.1 to 65.7% in males and from 43.6 to 73.6% in females. 
The temporal trends differed markedly between age groups and tumour sites and 
types. Over the study period, 5-years, survival for testicular cancer increased 
from 46.9 to 87.2%, kidney cancer, predominantly Wilms' tumour from 35.5 to 
77.1% (with a higher rate of 89.1% in 1975-1979), Hodgkin's disease from 61.2 to 
91.9%, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma from 32.5 to 76.6%, and all leukemias from 8.9 to 
58.7%. Only a moderate improvement was noted for tumours of the bone, muscle and 
connective tissue, and survival rates for tumours of the nervous system remained 
largely unchanged. Our data reflect the remarkable therapeutic improvements that 
have occurred for cancer in the young and indicate that these improvements have 
rapidly become available in Sweden.

DOI: 10.3109/02841869209088258
PMID: 1316769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 1992;111(3):183-6. doi: 10.1007/BF00388097.

Fibrous dysplasia with locally aggressive malignant change.

Latham PD(1), Athanasou NA, Woods CG.

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre, 
Headington, Oxford, UK.

This is a case report of a tumour which showed all the histological features of 
fibrous dysplasia without any features of high-grade malignancy, yet had become 
locally aggressive, causing cortical erosion and extension into soft tissue. 
Fibrous dysplasia is a well-recognised entity that encompasses monostotic 
lesions, polyostotic involvement and Albright's syndrome [6, 8]. Lesions in bone 
usually spare the epiphysis before puberty, but often involve the epiphyseal 
area after maturity and can progress during adult life [3]. Unless cystic [6, 
10] or malignant change [7, 10, 11] occurs, fibrous dysplasia usually remains 
contained within bone.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00388097
PMID: 1316773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand. 1992 Apr;71(3):207-14. doi: 
10.3109/00016349209009920.

Reproductive patterns among Swedish women born 1936-1960.

Högberg U(1), Sandström A, Nilsson NG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Umeå University, Sweden.

An analysis was made of a cross-sectional survey of 4,299 women born in Sweden 
in the period 1936-1960, regarding their reproductive performance. Fecundability 
was only 12% lower for women in the 30-39 year age interval than for women up to 
29 years of age. Cumulative pregnancy rates for individual years fell in the 
range 93-96%. No difference in fecundability could be discerned between women 
born in 1936-45 vis-à-vis 1946-60. Primary and secondary infertility were noted 
for 6.6% and 11.0% respectively of the entire population surveyed. Primary 
infertility, more prevalent among those born in 1946-60, was found to be related 
to a higher level of education, an urban life style and low age at first coitus. 
The risk of suffering a spontaneous abortion increased with advancing maternal 
age.

DOI: 10.3109/00016349209009920
PMID: 1317644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Arch Insect Biochem Physiol. 1992;19(4):261-70. doi: 10.1002/arch.940190405.

Generation of superoxide anion radical by alpha-terthienyl in the anal gills of 
mosquito larvae Aedes aegypti: a new aspect in alpha-terthienyl phototoxicity.

Nivsarkar M(1), Kumar GP, Laloraya M, Laloraya MM.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya, Vigyan Bhawan, Indore, 
India.

The present study documents that the secondary plant metabolites, especially 
alpha-terthienyl, exert phototoxic action through inhibition of certain enzymes 
and generation of singlet oxygen. Some of the reports have emerged exhibiting 
involvement of free radical generation in vitro by alpha-terthienyl. We provide 
evidence for the generation of a free radical viz., superoxide anion radical, by 
alpha-terthienyl employing spin-trapping techniques, probably due to the 
extension of the latter reaction. On the basis of this observation the 
phototoxic action of alpha-terthienyl on Aedes aegypti larvae is explained.

DOI: 10.1002/arch.940190405
PMID: 1318115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Lab Anim Sci. 1992 Apr;42(2):119-26.

Survival curves, reproductive life span and age-related pathology of Mus caroli.

Zitnik GD(1), Bingel SA, Sumi SM, Martin GM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle 98195.

Although Mus caroli is being used in a number of laboratories as an experimental 
animal, basic information concerning its life span, reproductive ability, and 
age-related pathologies has been unavailable. Here we present this basic 
information, and discuss the similarities to and differences from the laboratory 
mouse, Mus musculus domesticus [strains A/StTrWo and (A/StTrWo x C57BL/6NNia)F1] 
and, from published data, wild-type Mus musculus.

PMID: 1318441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Lab Anim Sci. 1992 Apr;42(2):127-31.

Life-shortening and causes of death in mice following exposure to ionizing 
radiation.

Maisin JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.

Erratum in
    Lab Anim Sci 1992 Jun;42(3):326.

PMID: 1318442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am. 1992 Jun;21(2):237-79.

The good, the bad, and the ugly in diabetic diets.

Vinik AI(1), Wing RR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk.

In this article we have focused on the evolving pattern of nutritional 
management of the person with diabetes. Before the advent of insulin in 1922, it 
was sufficient to identify a meal plan that would keep people alive until they 
could be rescued from mortality due to diabetic ketoacidosis (the major killer 
of the era) by pharmacologic means. Now, the life expectancy of people with 
diabetes is close to that of the general population and focus has turned to 
combating the new threats of macrovascular disease and kidney failure. Over 
recent years the susceptibility of NIDDM patients to macrovascular events has 
been established and the twofold increase in risk of a heart attack in diabetic 
men is outshadowed by the four- to fivefold risk in diabetic women and the 13- 
to 17-fold greater risk in diabetics under the age of 30 years compared with 
their nondiabetic counterparts. The mechanism behind the susceptibility to 
macrovascular disease has generated a veritable plethora of investigations 
focusing on the atherogenic profile of diabetic dyslipidemia. Hyperinsulinemia, 
