insulin resistance, and overtreatment of the diabetic with insulin have been 
claimed as contributors to the development of premature atherosclerosis. The 
hallmark of the diabetic dyslipidemia is the tendency to elevated VLDL 
triglyceride levels and the closely linked reduction in HDL cholesterol. 
Although there is some controversy on the relationship between triglyceride 
levels and the incidence of CAD, there is no doubt that HDL is an independent 
risk factor. It can now be safely said that elevated triglycerides are a risk 
factor in women and that in men elevated triglycerides constitute a risk factor 
if accompanied by a reduced HDL level. For these reasons, any approach to 
nutritional management of the diabetic must attempt not only to normalize 
glycemia but to make every effort to reduce the atherogenic profile. In the 
accompanying algorithm (Fig. 4), we consider the risk factors conducive to a 
reduction in life expectancy and offer a meal plan that is appropriate for the 
individual with diabetes. For the 80% of NIDDM patients who are obese, a diet 
with a reduction of 500 to 1000 kcal is in order and this may be achieved by a 
periodic VLCD. We examined carefully the controversy related to yo-yo dieting 
and support the notion that its effects in humans are not all that harmful. 
Ingestion of simple sugars in the high carbohydrate diet has negative effects 
both on carbohydrate and lipid metabolism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 1319332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1992 May;200(5):431-5. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1045785.

[Treatment of eye tumors by accelerated proton beams. 7 years experience].

[Article in French]

Zografos L(1), Bercher L, Egger E, Chamot L, Gailloud C, Uffer S, Perret C, 
Markovits C.

Author information:
(1)Clinique ophtalmologique universitaire, Lausanne Hôpital Jules Gonin.

The therapeutic results of 1070 cases of intraocular tumors treated with an 
accelerated proton beam at the University Eye Clinic of Lausanne and at the Paul 
Scherrer Institute of Villigen are analysed. This total is composed of 981 cases 
of uveal melanomas treated by proton beam as first treatment modality, 42 cases 
of recurrent choroidal melanomas, 16 cases of conjunctival melanomas, 8 cases of 
choroidal hemangiomas, 18 cases of uveal metastases and of 5 other ocular 
tumors. The mortality rate at 5 years for tumors treated with an accelerated 
proton beam as first treatment modality was 13%, and the mortality rate of 
recurrent melanomas was 23%. The risk factor for life expectancy analysed with 
the Cox model pointed out that the largest tumor diameter, the width of the 
tumor, the presence of an extrocular extension and the age of the patient were 
the most significant parameters. The conclusions of this study are compared with 
those found in available literature.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1045785
PMID: 1319524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. J Natl Cancer Inst Monogr. 1992;(11):117-20.

The Scottish trial of adjuvant tamoxifen in node-negative breast cancer. 
Scottish Cancer Trials Breast Group.

Stewart HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)The Medical School, University of Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.

This paper presents results, 5 years after closure, of a randomized trial 
comparing adjuvant with postrelapse tamoxifen in 747 women with histological 
node-negative breast cancer. Two hundred thirty-six disease-free patients on 
adjuvant therapy were secondarily randomly assigned at 5 years to stop or to 
continue tamoxifen until relapse. Adjuvant tamoxifen, taken for a median 
duration of 60 months, has significantly prolonged disease-free survival overall 
(P = .0001), in the 214 premenopausal group (P = .018), in the 533 
postmenopausal group (P = .0026), and for the 246 patients with estrogen 
receptor levels greater than 19 fmol/mg of protein (P = .0032); distant relapse 
has also been delayed overall (P = .029). Total survival comparison by 
Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis shows a nonsignificant trend in the same 
direction (P = .07). Adjuvant tamoxifen has also reduced the incidence of 
contralateral breast cancer and of death from myocardial infarction. No increase 
in the incidence of endometrial cancer has been found.

PMID: 1320920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. J Clin Oncol. 1992 Aug;10(8):1305-9. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1992.10.8.1305.

Outcomes in low-risk babies treated with half-dose chemotherapy according to the 
Third National Wilms' Tumor Study.

Corn BW(1), Goldwein JW, Evans I, D'Angio GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia 19104.

PURPOSE: To determine whether the 50% dose reduction of all chemotherapeutic 
agents recommended for babies (less than or equal to 12 months of age) by the 
Third National Wilms' Tumor Study (NWTS-3) produced acceptable toxicity without 
sacrificing any survival benefit.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The 365 babies enrolled in NWTS-3 had tumors of varying 
histologies and stages. The present analysis was restricted to the 256 infants 
who had tumors of favorable histology, were free of metastasis at diagnosis, and 
received treatment according to NWTS-3 guidelines.
RESULTS: Despite the recommended attenuation of drug doses observed in 75% of 
the chemotherapy courses received, outcomes for these babies were comparable to 
those obtained in older children given full doses of chemotherapy. Four-year 
survival rates for 256 babies with stages I (n = 199), II (n = 38), and III (n = 
19) favorable-histology tumors were 96%, 95%, and 90%, respectively. The figures 
for 498 stage I, 342 stage II, and 373 stage III older children with 
favorable-histology lesions were 92%, 94%, and 91% in that order. There were no 
deaths from hematologic toxicity or infection among babies who received 
half-dose chemotherapy. The death rates for their older NWTS-3 counterparts was 
1%.
CONCLUSION: Less aggressive therapies advocated for babies in NWTS-3 provide 
acceptable levels of morbidity without compromising the excellent results 
previously reported for low-risk patients of all ages.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1992.10.8.1305
PMID: 1321894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. J Hepatol. 1992 May;15(1-2):207-10. doi: 10.1016/0168-8278(92)90037-p.

Hepatitis C virus testing in primary biliary cirrhosis.

Bertolini E(1), Battezzati PM, Zermiani P, Bruno S, Moroni GA, Marelli F, Villa 
E, Manenti F, Zuin M, Crosignani A, et al.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Medicine, School of Medicine S. Paolo, University of 
Milan, Italy.

We retrospectively investigated anti-HCV prevalence in a series of 160 
consecutive patients with primary biliary cirrhosis who presented between 1980 
and 1989. Of these, 19 (12%) were positive for anti-HCV by C-100 ELISA. Serum 
IgG levels were significantly higher in anti-HCV-positive patients and 
correlated to optical density values. A serum sample was again collected from 
all the patients from the same series who were seen in 1990 for follow-up, after 
a median period of 32 months. Anti-HCV positivity was found to be substantially 
unchanged in this subgroup of patients when the freshly drawn blood samples were 
retested with C-100 ELISA, while it increased from 10% to 17% when second 
generation ELISA was used. Three of the C-100 ELISA positive samples were C-100 
RIBA reactive, and six of the second generation ELISA positive samples were 
4-RIBA reactive. The HCV genome was not detected in any of the seven anti-HCV 
C-100 ELISA and second generation ELISA positive sera which were studied by 
polymerase chain reaction, including four cases confirmed by 4-RIBA. Life 
expectancy, as determined by survival analysis, did not differ significantly 
between anti-HCV-positive and -negative patients. These findings suggest that 
anti-HCV positivity does not influence the clinical presentation and course of 
primary biliary cirrhosis.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8278(92)90037-p
PMID: 1324271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Semin Hematol. 1992 Jul;29(3 Suppl 2):89-95.

Risk factors for cytomegalovirus pneumonia following allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation after prophylaxis with intravenous immunoglobulin.

Krischer J(1), Elfenbein G, Babington R, Hong R, Jansen J, Lazarus H, Winton E, 
Rand K.

Author information:
(1)University of Florida, Gainesville.

PMID: 1324530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. J Mol Biol. 1992 Aug 20;226(4):943-57. doi: 10.1016/0022-2836(92)91044-p.

RNA processing modulates the expression of the arcDABC operon in Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa.

Gamper M(1), Ganter B, Polito MR, Haas D.

Author information:
(1)Mikrobiologisches Institut, Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule, Zürich, 
Switzerland.

Anaerobic growth of Pseudomonas aeruginosa on arginine depends on the arcDABC 
operon encoding the enzymes of the arginine deiminase pathway. The co-ordinate, 
anaerobic induction of these enzymes requires the FNR-like regulatory protein 
ANR, which activates the arc promoter lying upstream from arcD. By Northern 
hybridization experiments, three abundant arcA, arcAB and arcABC transcripts and 
three minor arcDA, arcDAB and arcDABC transcripts could be detected. The 5' ends 
of the arcA, arcAB and arcABC mRNAs were determined by S1 and primer extension 
mapping. These 5' ends appear to be generated by endonucleolytic cleavage 
(processing) in arcD mRNA rather than by a second promoter; this was concluded 
from the effects of insertion and deletion mutations in arcD. Intergenic 
inverted repeats between arcA and arcB as well as between arcB and arcC were 
shown to be involved in the formation of 3' ends of arc transcripts. Deletion of 
either intergenic region in the P. aeruginosa chromosome led to the loss of the 
arcA or arcAB transcript, respectively. Dot blot experiments revealed that arc 
mRNAs extracted from the wild-type strain had similar chemical half-lives in the 
arcA, arcB and arcC regions, ranging from 16 to 13 minutes. The half-life of 
arcD mRNA, by contrast, was significantly shorter, suggesting that this mRNA 
segment may be destabilized by the processing cuts within arcD. Deletion of the 
putative intergenic stem-loop structures did not result in a dramatic loss of 
arc mRNA stability. Thus, the intergenic hairpin structures do not contribute 
importantly to the overall mRNA stability; they might act primarily as partial 
transcription terminators and locally protect the 3' ends from exonuclease 
action. The expression levels of the four Arc proteins correlated approximately 
with the relative abundance of the corresponding mRNA segments. In conclusion, 
mRNA processing and, presumably, partial termination of transcription contribute 
to differential gene expression within the arc operon.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-2836(92)91044-p
PMID: 1325563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. J Clin Oncol. 1992 Nov;10(11):1781-7. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1992.10.11.1781.

Metastatic spinal cord compression secondary to lung cancer.

Bach F(1), Agerlin N, Sørensen JB, Rasmussen TB, Dombernowsky P, Sørensen PS, 
Hansen HH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University Hospital Herlev, Copenhagen, Denmark.

PURPOSE: Metastatic spinal cord compression (MSCC) is a disabling complication 
to cancer, the optimal treatment for which is not settled. An analysis was 
performed for all patients with MSCC secondary to lung cancer in East Denmark 
from 1979 to 1988.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The total series included 102 cases with small-cell 
carcinoma (SCLC; 40%), adenocarcinoma (ACL; 26%), squamous cell carcinoma (SQLC; 
18%) and large-cell carcinoma (LCC; 9%). Symptoms, clinical presentations, and 
therapeutic results are described.
RESULTS: The outcome of treatment depended fundamentally on the patient's 
neurologic condition at the time of the diagnosis. All patients with SCLC who 
were able to walk at the time of MSCC remained ambulatory, whereas 15% of the 
nonambulatory SCLC patients regained walking ability. In non-SCLC, 95% of 
patients continued to be able to walk, whereas 22% regained the ability to walk. 
No major differences in the immediate outcome of treatment between the various 
histologic types of lung cancer and the different treatment modalities were 
observed; however, 82% of the patients with non-SCLC benefited from treatment 
with laminectomy followed by radiotherapy (RT) compared with either laminectomy 
(47%) or RT (39%) alone (P = .03, chi 2 test). The group of patients who were 
treated with laminectomy followed by RT had a better survival (median value, 
3.5; range, 0 to 132 months) than patients who were treated with either 
laminectomy (median value, 1.5; range, 0 to 32 months) or RT (median value, 1; 
range, 0 to 59 months) alone (P = .03, log-rank test). No significant difference 
was observed in survival between the various histologic types of lung cancer (P 
= .18, log-rank test).
CONCLUSION: Despite a short survival, early diagnosis and immediate treatment is 
crucial because it may preserve the gait function in 97% of lung cancer patients 
who develop malignant spinal cord compression.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1992.10.11.1781
PMID: 1328552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Obstet Gynecol. 1992 Nov;80(5):827-30.

Incidence of breast cancer in a 22-year study of women receiving 
estrogen-progestin replacement therapy.

Nachtigall MJ(1), Smilen SW, Nachtigall RD, Nachtigall RH, Nachtigall LE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, New York University-Bellevue Medical 
Center, New York.

Comment in
    Obstet Gynecol. 1993 Mar;81(3):477-8.

OBJECTIVE: To review the incidence of breast cancer in a continuous 22-year 
study of conjugated estrogen-medroxyprogesterone acetate hormone replacement 
therapy.
METHODS: Eighty-four pairs of continuously hospitalized postmenopausal women who 
were matched for age, smoking history, and medical diagnosis were treated with 
estrogen-progestin hormone replacement therapy or placebo in a prospective and 
double-blind manner for 10 years. In the subsequent 12 years, the women were 
offered the choice of starting, stopping, or continuing hormone replacement 
therapy.
RESULTS: After the initial 10 years, the incidence of breast cancer in the 
placebo group was 4.8%, whereas no cancers were found in the hormone replacement 
therapy group (P = .12). After an additional 12 years of follow-up, the overall 
incidence of breast cancer in the women who had never taken hormone replacement 
therapy was 11.5%, whereas no breast cancers had developed in the women who had 
ever taken hormone replacement therapy (P < .01).
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that the 22-year administration of 
estrogen-progestin hormone replacement therapy did not increase the incidence of 
breast cancer in a small group of continuously hospitalized postmenopausal 
women.

PMID: 1328978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1992 Aug;40(4):185-9. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1020145.

Indication for surgery in small-cell carcinoma of the lung.

Kaiser D(1), Fritzsche A, Matthiesen W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Zehlendorf Hospital, Berlin, Germany.

While the development of chemotherapeutic agents has lead to progress in the 
treatment of small-cell carcinomas of the lung, the number of local recurrences 
still remains high. Surgery in tumors stage I and II followed by postoperative 
chemotherapy is the treatment of choice and has been accepted worldwide. In 
tumors stage IIIa, especially in T1-3 N2 we obtained good results in the 
projected 3-year survival using a multimodality therapeutic regime consisting of 
neoadjuvant chemotherapy (3 cycles preoperative) and surgery as well as 
postoperative chemotherapy and irradiation of the mediastinum. Projected 3-year 
survival was 67% in stage I tumors, 42% in stage II and with our multimodality 
therapeutic regime 38% in stage III a tumors.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1020145
PMID: 1329265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Eye (Lond). 1992;6 ( Pt 1):28-34. doi: 10.1038/eye.1992.4.

Management of retinal detachment associated with CMV retinitis in AIDS patients.

Chuang EL(1), Davis JL.

Author information:
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, University of Miami 
School of Medicine, FL 33136.

In patients with AIDS, the most important ocular opportunistic infection, CMV 
retinitis, can now be treated effectively with virostatic agents. Associated 
retinal detachment is encountered frequently, and its management has become 
increasingly significant to quality of life as improvements in medical care have 
helped to preserve vision and extend life expectancy. Although retinal 
detachment in these eyes is typically rhegmatogenous, the pathophysiology is 
distinctive due to the association with CMV retinitis which, even in remission, 
is characterised by atrophic changes at all levels of affected retina and 
alterations of the vitreous. Despite initially successful surgical reattachment, 
multiple, small, often posterior holes may develop because of progressive CMV 
infection. For these reasons, vitrectomy and silicone oil injection with scleral 
buckling may currently provide the best overall means of maintaining retinal 
reattachment and restoring visual function. Nevertheless, management must be 
individualised in each case, with the realisation that progressive visual loss 
frequently ensues from retinitis progression.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.1992.4
PMID: 1330757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1992 Nov;19(13):2213-7.

[Repeated arterial infusion chemotherapy for inoperable hepatocellular carcinoma 
using implantable drug delivery system].

[Article in Japanese]

Iwamiya T(1), Sawada S, Morioka N, Tanigawa N, Kobayashi M, Nakamura K, Okuda Y, 
Hashimoto M, Ohta Y, Kawasaki H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Tottori University School of Medicine, Yonago, 
Japan.

We performed a clinical evaluation of repeated arterial infusion chemotherapy 
using an implantable drug delivery system for 41 patients with inoperable 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). About half of our patients could not undergo 
transcatheter arterial embolization (TAE) because of extreme tumor extension 
and/or accompanying advanced cirrhosis. In most patients we implanted a 5 Fr. 
catheter non-surgically and connected it to an implanted injection port through 
a subcutaneous tunnel. The treatment schedule was weekly or biweekly 
intrahepatic one-shot administration of mitomycin C, adriamycin, 5-fluorouracil 
and epirubicin. The response rate (CR + PR) was 24.4%. The median survival 
period was 401.1 days. The 6 month, 1-year and 2-year survival rates were 73%, 
48% and 24%, respectively. There were no severe side effects nor complications. 
The implantable drug delivery system will contribute not only to improved 
therapeutic efficacy for inoperable HCC but also improve the quality of life for 
patients.

PMID: 1332626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Gene. 1992 Nov 16;121(2):343-6. doi: 10.1016/0378-1119(92)90141-b.

Structure of the Drosophila melanogaster gene encoding cyclin A.

Takahisa M(1), Togashi S, Ueda R, Mikuni M, Tsurumura S, Kondo K, Miyake T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cell Biology, Mitsubishi Kasei Institute of Life Sciences, 
Tokyo, Japan.

A P element (PE)-induced Drosophila melanogaster mutation, hari, affects the 
formation of the bristle mechanosensory organ in the adult fly. In this 
mutation, the site of PE insertion is in the first intron of the gene (CycA) 
encoding cyclin A (CycA). In order to analyze the hari mutant at the molecular 
level, we cloned and sequenced the cDNA and genomic DNA encoding CycA. CycA has 
seven exons and six introns, and its transcription unit spans 6 kb. All 
exon-intron junctions are compatible with the GT/AG consensus. Results of primer 
extension analysis and RNase protection assay indicate that CycA has major and 
minor transcription start points (tsp). To our knowledge, this is the first 
report on the CycA genomic sequence from a multicellular organism.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-1119(92)90141-b
PMID: 1332913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Obstet Gynecol. 1992 Dec;80(6):944-8.

A formula for predicting the risk of a positive second-look laparotomy in 
epithelial ovarian cancer: implications for a randomized trial.

Morgan MA(1), Noumoff JS, King S, Mikuta JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Pennsylvania Medical 
Center, Philadelphia.

OBJECTIVE: To develop a formula to predict the risk of a positive second-look 
laparotomy.
METHODS: A retrospective review was performed on 89 patients who underwent 
second-look surgery following a complete clinical remission after cis-platin- or 
carboplatin-based chemotherapy. Logistic regression was used to develop a 
formula to predict the probability of a positive second look based on age, 
stage, grade of tumor, residual disease after initial surgery, and histologic 
type.
RESULTS: We identified three groups based on estimated probabilities: low 
probability (0.25 or less), intermediate probability (0.26-0.74), and high 
probability (0.75 or more). The low-probability group had an 8% chance of a 
positive second look, the high-probability group had an 82% chance of a positive 
second look, and the intermediate-probability group had the correct outcome 
predicted only 61% of the time. Survival curves paralleled these results and 
were significantly different for each group.
CONCLUSIONS: Using known prognostic factors, a formula can aid in implementation 
of a randomized clinical trial to test the efficacy of second-look laparotomy. 
This formula could exclude patients not suitable for randomization and give the 
investigator a better idea of the expected survival of various subgroups.

PMID: 1333064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. EXS. 1992;62:20-30. doi: 10.1007/978-3-0348-7460-1_3.

The rate of DNA damage and aging.

Simic MG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, School of Pharmacy, University of 
Maryland, Baltimore 21201.

A new theory of aging based on the rate of DNA damage is presented, and the 
relationship between the rate of oxidative DNA damage and maximum life span 
(MLS) of mammalian species is explored. In humans the level of oxidative DNA 
damage, as measured by urinary biomarkers, can be modulated by caloric 
restriction and dietary composition. Consequently, longevity may depend not only 
on the basal metabolic rate but also on dietary caloric intake and the type of 
diet. The theory may provide the basis for a practical approach for reduction of 
degenerative diseases in general, extension of life expectancy, and optimization 
of individual lifestyles.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-0348-7460-1_3
PMID: 1333308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Arch Virol Suppl. 1992;4:205-9. doi: 10.1007/978-3-7091-5633-9_43.

Antibodies to hepatitis C virus in primary biliary cirrhosis.

Bertolini E(1), Marelli F, Zermiani P, Battezzati PM, Zuin M, Moroni GA, Podda 
M.

Author information:
(1)Blood Transfusion Center, Ospedale S. Paolo, Milan, Italy.

We investigated the prevalence of anti-HCV in 160 consecutive patients with 
primary biliary cirrhosis. By ELISA, 19 (12%) were positive, as compared to a 
68% prevalence in 135 patients with chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis. Serum IgG 
levels were significantly higher in the anti-HCV positive group. By RIBA, 
seropositivity was confirmed for 4 patients, whereas 7 were indeterminate. A 
slight, non-significant reduction of life expectancy was found in anti-HCV 
positive patients. Until reliable and independent confirmatory tests become 
available, definitive conclusions on the importance of anti-HCV positivity in 
primary biliary cirrhosis are improper.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-7091-5633-9_43
PMID: 1333323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. J Nurs Educ. 1992 Oct;31(8):361-6. doi: 10.3928/0148-4834-19921001-08.

Caring between nursing students and physically/mentally handicapped children: a 
phenomenological study.

Beck CT(1).

Author information:
(1)Florida Atlantic University College of Nursing, Boca Raton.

Advanced technology has increased the life expectancy to age 20 for most 
chronically ill children. Consequently, nurses will be encountering an 
increasing number of physically and mentally handicapped children. Nursing 
students' discovery of the meaning of caring with exceptional children will help 
prepare them for interactions with these special children during their nursing 
careers. A phenomenological study was undertaken to explore 36 nursing students' 
caring experiences with physically and mentally handicapped children. Van Kaam's 
phenomenological methodology was used to analyze the data. Sharing the findings 
of this phenomenological study with nursing students is one approach faculty can 
use to help reduce their anxiety regarding upcoming clinical rotations with 
exceptional children.

DOI: 10.3928/0148-4834-19921001-08
PMID: 1335490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1992;7(11):1111-5.

Vascular access surgery: a 2-year study and comparison with the Permcath.

Mosquera DA(1), Gibson SP, Goldman MD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, East Birmingham Hospital, UK.

The results of a 2-year prospective study of primary and secondary vascular 
access surgery for haemodialysis have been compared with a retrospective study 
of central venous access via a flexible silicone catheter (Permcath). Cumulative 
patency for 61 primary fistulae in 57 patients was 64.8% at 1 year and 57.7% at 
2 years. The patency of 55 secondary procedures in 43 patients was 48.1% at 1 
and 2 years. Cumulative survival of 64 Permcaths inserted into 51 patients was 
74% at 1 year and 43% at 2 years. Surgical complications included explorations 
for bleeding (2), haematomas (4), swollen arms (4), and inadequately dilated 
veins (4). Permcath complications included explorations for bleeding (3) and a 
temporary recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy (1). Exit site infection and 
septicaemia rates were 4.95 and 3.36 per 1000 catheter days respectively, but 
20.6% of septicaemic episodes occurred in a patient who refused catheter 
removal. For haemodialysis, the Permcath is comparable with secondary vascular 
access. The Permcath may have a primary access role in patients with limited 
life expectancy.

PMID: 1336138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Med Lab Sci. 1992 Dec;49(4):271-82.

Senescence and pathology in ageing.

Mera SL(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health and Social Care, Leeds Metropolitan University, England, 
UK.

The life expectancy of people living in the UK has been extended over the last 
century due to changes in the principal causes of death. Nowadays, people are 
more likely to die of diseases related to the ageing process rather than the 
infectious diseases which hitherto were more common causes of death in younger 
people. Ageing is associated with the degeneration of functional capacity in all 
parts of the body, and at all levels of organisation from molecules to complete 
organ systems. These functional changes are referred to as senescence. Both 
genetic and environmental factors govern senescence, although the precise 
mechanisms and the extent of their involvement are largely unknown. Senescence 
changes may themselves be responsible for certain diseases and disabilities 
associated with old age, or they may be a contributory factor and increase a 
person's susceptibility to particular diseases. The latter is the case with the 
most commonly encountered causes of morbidity and mortality today, namely 
atherosclerosis and cancer.

PMID: 1339931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Soc Biol. 1992 Fall-Winter;39(3-4):292-8. doi:
10.1080/19485565.1992.9988824.

Age at return marriage and timing of first birth in India's Uttar Pradesh and 
Kerala states.

Singh KK(1), Suchindran CM, Singh V, Ramakumar R.

Author information:
(1)Carolina Population Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 27516.

The study investigates the relationship between age at marriage and the length 
of first birth interval in two states of India: Uttar Pradesh and Kerala. Life 
tables of first-birth intervals and median first-birth intervals are computed 
for several subgroups of the study population. Multivariate hazards modelling 
technique is used to study the net effect of age at marriage, controlling for a 
multiple of socioeconomic factors. The result shows that the average first-birth 
interval varies by age at marriage and is much longer in Uttar Pradesh than in 
Kerala.

PIP: Data from the Uttar Pradesh Rural Development and Population Growth Survey 
in 1978, the Determinants of Fertility Survey in Eastern Uttar Pradesh in 1987, 
and the 1980 Kerala Fertility Survey were used to examine the demographic and 
socioeconomic characteristics of fertility. Specifically, attention focused on 
the timing of first births in Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Kerala and its relationship 
with age at first marriage as well as the determinants of the fertility decline. 
Controls were indicated for religion (Hindu, Muslim, and Christian), education 
(illiterate or literate for husband and wife), year of marriage (before or after 
1970), work status (working or nonworking), and birth cohort ( or 25 years). 
Women were grouped into those aged up to 13 years of age, 14-15 years, 16-18 
years, and 19 and over years. The mean age at marriage increased by .9 from 1978 
to 1987 in UP, which was 2 years lower the mean age at marriage in 1980 in 
Kerala. In both states, mean age of marriage was lower when both husband and 
wife had little education, and in Kerala when women married before 1970, were 
nonworking, and were Muslims. The average time of first birth, without a 
correction for age at marriage, decreased with the increase in age from 
preadolescent to postadolescent in both states. The median first birth interval 
was 2 times as long in UP as in Kerala in every age group. Between 1978 and 
1987, the median first birth interval varied by .3 months but was greater than 
in Kerala by 23.6-23.9 months. The overall mean birth interval in Kerala was 
20.3 months. The proportion of women not conceiving within 10 years was 3% in 
Kerala and 10% in UP. In the proportional hazards models, the relative risk of 
first birth in 1978 in UP was .38, .60, and .68 for the age at marriage groups 
13 years, 14-15 years, and 16-18 years. The relative risk in Kerala as almost 
the same. A number of reasons were given to explain the average delay in the 
first birth interval according to age at first marriage and the length of first 
birth interval. One reason was the joint family system prevalent in rural areas, 
where marriages are arranged and residence within the joint family limits 
chances for coitus.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1992.9988824
PMID: 1340047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Mech Ageing Dev. 1992;66(1):115-6. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(92)90078-r.

Arteriosclerosis.

Karnauchow PN, Steele AA.

Comment on
    Mech Ageing Dev. 1991 Feb;57(2):139-44.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(92)90078-r
PMID: 1340512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Surg Oncol. 1992 Oct;1(5):363-9. doi: 10.1016/0960-7404(92)90037-l.

Significance of local recurrence after mastectomy for breast cancer.

Havenga K(1), Welvaart K, Hermans J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, University Hospital Leiden, The Netherlands.

In a retrospective study 678 patients who underwent (modified) radical 
mastectomy between 1970 and 1986 were analysed. By comparing the groups of 
patients who experienced local recurrence, regional recurrence or distant 
metastasis during follow-up with patients who remained free of disease, we have 
tried to gain some insight into the significance of local recurrence. By looking 
at the prognostic factors and the disease-free period there is hardly any 
difference between the patients with either a local, regional or distant 
recurrence. Actuarial survival of patients with local recurrence is slightly 
better than the survival of patients with distant metastasis (P = 0.009). From 
our results and from the literature we conclude that an isolated local 
recurrence after mastectomy for breast cancer is, in most cases, a first 
manifestation of metastatic disease. Probably only a minority of the local 
recurrences is caused by tumour cells left behind in the operation field.

DOI: 10.1016/0960-7404(92)90037-l
PMID: 1341272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Stat Methods Med Res. 1992;1(1):3-25. doi: 10.1177/096228029200100102.

Graphical displays.

Wilkinson L(1).

Author information:
(1)SYSTAT, Inc., Evanston, IL.

This paper selectively reviews the field of scientific and medical graphics. 
Examples are provided using world health statistics and several new methods of 
presenting multivariate data are introduced.

DOI: 10.1177/096228029200100102
PMID: 1341651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Rev Med Chil. 1992 Jul;120(7):735-40.

[Paleodemography in mummies of prehispanic populations from Africa].

[Article in Spanish]

Moreno R(1), Rothhammer F, Aspillaga E.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Dr Exequiel Gonzaléz Cortés, Departamento de Biología Celulary 
Genética, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Chile, Santiago.

Mummies' demographic information of 10 prehispanic cultures that developed in 
the Arica region of Chile about 7000 years ago is analyzed and related to the 
present population structure. A paleoepidemiological analysis supports a 
relationship between cultural development and demographic structure. In 
chronological sequence, 4 demographic patterns can be distinguished: 1) archaic, 
a mature population with the highest life expectancy and the lowest dependence 
from prehispanic populations; 2) later archaic, a population in demographic 
explosion with its larger fraction under 15 years of age, elevated fertility 
rates and the greatest prehispanic dependence; 3) andean, a transition 
population with moderate fertility rates and dependence index; and 4) modern, an 
aging population with the highest proportion over 45 years of age and the 
highest life expectancy. The present demographic analysis may help to understand 
the relationships among disease, individual and culture from the perspective of 
genetic epidemiology.

PMID: 1341812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Ann Epidemiol. 1992 May;2(3):177-94. doi: 10.1016/1047-2797(92)90052-r.

A dose-response analysis and quantitative assessment of lung cancer risk and 
occupational cadmium exposure.

Stayner L(1), Smith R, Thun M, Schnorr T, Lemen R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Standards Development and Technology Transfer, National Institute 
for Occupational Safety and Health, Bethesda, MD.

Comment in
    Ann Epidemiol. 1992 May;2(3):335-7.

We performed a quantitative assessment of the risk of lung cancer from exposure 
to cadmium based on a retrospective cohort mortality study of cadmium-exposed 
workers. The study population consisted of white male workers who were employed 
for at least 6 months at a cadmium smelter between January 1, 1940, and December 
31, 1969, and who were first employed at the facility on or after January 1, 
1926. The study findings were analyzed using a modified life-table analysis to 
estimate standardized mortality ratios (SMRs), and various functional forms 
(i.e., exponential, power, additive relative rate, and linear) of Poisson and 
Cox proportional hazards models to examine the dose-response relationship. 
Estimates of working lifetime risk (45 years) were developed using an approach 
that corrects for competing causes of death. An excess in mortality from lung 
cancer was observed for the entire cohort (SMR = 149, 95% confidence interval 
(CI) = 95, 222). Mortality from lung cancer was greatest among non-Hispanic 
workers (SMR = 211, 95% CI = 131, 323), among workers in the highest cadmium 
exposure group (SMR = 272, 95% CI = 123, 513), and among workers with 20 or more 
years since the first exposure (SMR = 161, 95% CI = 100, 248). A statistically 
significant dose-response relationship was evident in nearly all of the 
regression models evaluated. Based on our analyses, the lifetime excess lung 
cancer risk at the current Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
standard for cadmium fumes of 100 micrograms/m3 is approximately 50 to 111 lung 
cancer deaths per 1000 workers exposed to cadmium for 45 years.

DOI: 10.1016/1047-2797(92)90052-r
PMID: 1342271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Ann Epidemiol. 1992 May;2(3):273-82. doi: 10.1016/1047-2797(92)90060-4.

Do coronary heart disease risk factors measured in the elderly have the same 
predictive roles as in the middle aged. Comparisons of relative and attributable 
risks.

Benfante R(1), Reed D, Frank J.

Author information:
(1)Honolulu Heart Program, Kuakini Medical Center, HI 96817.

Risk factors for the 12-year incidence of definite coronary heart disease (CHD) 
among 3440 men who were middle-aged (51 to 59 years old) and 1419 men who were 
elderly (65 to 74 years old) at baseline examination were examined for 
differences in predictive values in terms of both relative risk and attributable 
(excess) risk of the highest versus the lowest quartile or appropriate 
categories. In multivariate models using Cox life-table regression procedures, 
serum cholesterol level, cigarette smoking, systolic blood pressure, and history 
of treatment for diabetes were significant predictors of incident CHD for both 
age groups. Alcohol consumption when modeled as drinker versus nondrinker showed 
a protective effect in both younger and older men. There was no dose 
relationship, however, among elderly drinkers. While the relative risks for the 
variables studied were similar between the two age groups, the excess risk was 
typically between 1.5 to 2.0 times higher for the older than the middle-aged 
men. In contrast, the detrimental effect of adiposity as measured by body mass 
index appeared to decline after age 65 for both measures of risk. This may 
partly be attributed to diminished adiposity overall in the older age group. The 
implications of these results are that serum cholesterol level, smoking, 
hypertension, diabetes, and possibly alcohol consumption continue to be 
important predictors for CHD when measured after age 65, and that the public 
health impact of these risk factors, in terms of excess risk, may be more 
important in the elderly.

DOI: 10.1016/1047-2797(92)90060-4
PMID: 1342278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Health Econ. 1992 Apr;1(1):53-60. doi: 10.1002/hec.4730010108.

Cost savings in mass population screening for colorectal cancer resulting from 
the early detection and excision of adenomas.

Whynes DK(1), Walker AR, Hardcastle JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Nottingham, United Kingdom.

The widely-accepted hypothesis of a development sequence from colorectal adenoma 
to carcinoma is felt by clinicians to legitimate adenoma excision during routine 
colonoscopic investigation. Using published data on adenoma development, and 
adenoma prevalence data derived from the Nottingham colorectal cancer screening 
trial, the number of carcinomas prevented by early excision as a result of 
screening is predicted. The cost-effectiveness of early excision is then 
evaluated with reference to the expected treatment costs saved. These cost 
savings are found to represent a discount on the overall costs of mass 
population screening for colorectal cancer.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.4730010108
PMID: 1342630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Southeast Asian J Trop Med Public Health. 1992;23 Suppl 3:69-76.

Urban nutritional problems of Korea.

He KS(1), Yoon KA, Kim WK, Park OJ.

Author information:
(1)Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Korea.

Rapid economic development resulted in urbanization of Korea, since 1960s. Seoul 
is the center of politics, finance, education and culture of Korea. Mostly young 
people have migrated to large cities, such as Seoul and Pusan. For instance, the 
population in Seoul city was 2.5 million in 1960 but increased to 10 million in 
1990. Presently, total population of Seoul and Pusan, second largest city, 
composed of approximately 50% of whole national population. The economic 
distribution among urban people became extremely uneven creating a large gap 
between low and high income group. As a consequence, both under and over 
nutritional problems coexist. According to the national nutrition survey data, 
animal food, such as meat, fish and dairy products have been consumed about 6 
times more, and cereal consumption was far less in higher income group. In terms 
of nutrients intake, 28% of total caloric intake comes from lipids and 15-17% of 
total caloric intake from protein. This was found in higher income group, while 
low income group consumed more than 80% of total caloric intake from 
carbohydrate. The trends of major causes of death in Korea have changed. The 
degenerative diseases, cerebral disorder, high blood pressure became leading 
cause of death in recent years. Malignant neoplasm and diabetes followed second 
leading cause of death in Korea. Undernutrition and nutritional insufficiencies, 
anemia and low growth rate continue to exist among low income group. According 
to the annual death rate by age group, the age between 34-54 was the highest in 
the world.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1342761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Lijec Vjesn. 1992 Jan-Apr;114(1-4):48-9.

Improved life expectancy after coronary artery bypass grafting in elderly.

Pasić M(1), Turina J, Turina M.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Cardiovascular Surgery, University Hospital Zurich, Switzerland.

From 1981 to 1990, 204 patients (165 male, 35 female) aged 70 years and older 
(mean 72.4 +/- 2.4 years [+/- SD], range, 70 to 81 years) underwent isolated 
coronary artery bypass surgery with an average of 3.8 +/- 1.2 grafts per 
patient. Seven patients (3.5%) were in NYHA functional class I, 52 (25.5%) were 
in class II, 1237 (62%) were in class III, and 18 patients (9%) were in class IV 
preoperatively. The operative mortality (30-day mortality) was 6.8% (14 
patients). The NYHA class improved in these patients from a mean preoperative 
value of 2.8 +/- 0.65 to 1.4 +/- 0.6 postoperatively (p < 0.0001). The actuarial 
survival (+/- SD) of the entire group was 92 +/- 2% and 86 +/- 4% at 1 and 5 
years, respectively, and of the patients surviving operation, excluding those 
who died in the hospital, it was 98.5 +/- 1.0% and 93 +/- 3.5% at 1 and 5 years, 
respectively. We concluded that coronary artery bypass grafting in elderly 
patients can be performed with acceptable operative mortality and good late 
results.

PMID: 1343026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Vopr Onkol. 1992;38(10):1164-73.

[The socioeconomic losses associated with the mortality of children from 
malignant neoplasms].

[Article in Russian]

Aksel' EM, Dvoĭrin VV.

PMID: 1343141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Chirurgie. 1992;118(8):448-52; discussion 453.

[Recurrence of cervical lymph node involvement in surgically treated thyroid 
cancer. Uselessness of routine cervical lymph node excision (medullary carcinoma 
excluded)].

[Article in French]

Proye C(1), Carnaille B, Vix M, Gontier A, Franz C, Goropoulos A.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie générale et endocrinienne, hôpital Huriez, Lille.

From 1966 throughout September 1990, 753 patients underwent surgery for thyroid 
carcinoma, in the same institution, covering all pathological types. Complete 
follow-up was achieved in 96% of them, being at least 7 years in 50% of cases. 
599 (80%) are currently alive. Neck dissection was not routinely done, except 
for medullary thyroid carcinoma, but rather selectively, if nodes were palpable 
either pre or intraoperatively, and also (since oct. 1983 i.e. the last 400 
cases) if, after routine sampling of mid jugular nodes, frozen sections assessed 
nodal invasion. On the grounds of this policy, 205 patients underwent unilateral 
or bilateral neck dissection; 17% of them died during follow-up whereas 5.9% (12 
cases) exhibited a cervical nodal recurrence, 6 of them occurring less than two 
years post-operatively, including 3 medullary thyroid carcinomas. 548 had no 
neck dissection; 9% died during follow-up whereas 0.9% (5 cases) exhibited a 
cervical nodal recurrence, 3 of them occurring less than two years 
post-operatively. Routine neck dissection seems not to be justified in the 
surgery of non medullary differentiated thyroid carcinoma, in as much as late 
occurrence of cervical node metastases is uncommon and does not obviously impair 
life-expectancy.

PMID: 1343987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Rev Laryngol Otol Rhinol (Bord). 1992;113(4):375-6.

[Hearing aids and AIDS: apropos of a case].

[Article in French]

Sanguy C.

Aids carriers must be fitted with hearing aids early due to their life 
expectancy. Hearing aids of which the electro-acoustic specificities make it 
possible to lessen the successive aggravations must be foreseen.

PMID: 1344558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Arch Latinoam Nutr. 1992 Sep;42(3 Suppl):92S-95S.

[Nutrition and aging: a commentary and conclusions].

[Article in Spanish]

Caballero B(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Salud Internacional, Escuela de Salud Pública, Universidad de 
Johns Hopkins, Baltimore.

PMID: 1344635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. J Natl Cancer Inst Monogr. 1992;(11):151-8.

Prognostic factors in NSABP studies of women with node-negative breast cancer. 
National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project.

Fisher ER(1), Redmond C, Fisher B.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, Shadyside Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA 19104.

Twenty-two pathologic (including estrogen and progesterone receptor status) and 
four clinical features of 950 node-negative stage I invasive breast cancers from 
950 women enrolled in the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project 
protocol B-06 were analyzed for their possible prognostic significance. 
Univariate analyses revealed 10 characteristics that were significant at the 1% 
level. Only three of these--notably nuclear grade, histologic tumor type, and 
race--were found to be significant when entered into a Cox regression model. 
Patients whose tumors exhibited a good nuclear grade fared significantly better 
than those whose tumors were scored as poor. Similarly, a significantly better 
prognosis was noted when the histologic type of cancer was found to be 
"favorable" (mucinous, tubular, or papillary) than when it was "intermediate" 
(NOS, "Not Otherwise Specified," combination; typical medullary; and lobular 
invasive) or "unfavorable" (NOS pure and atypical medullary). Blacks exhibited a 
worse prognosis than whites. Survival was 94% at 8 years when the nuclear grade 
was good and the tumor type favorable, but only 54% when the nuclear grade was 
poor and tumor type unfavorable. Patients with one favorable and one unfavorable 
feature exhibited an intermediate survival. A brief overview as well as our own 
preliminary experience indicates that the combined use of these two prognostic 
pathologic parameters may be as good as and in some instances a better predictor 
of survival in node-negative patients than information derived from more 
"objective" methodologies such as flow cytometry, receptor analyses and tumor 
labeling indices or the demonstration of oncogene overexpression. Assessment of 
the pathologic parameters is simple, universally available, and quick and 
requires only modest training to be reproducible.

PMID: 1344974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Acta Chir Hung. 1992-1993;33(3-4):335-46.

Loco-regional renewal of malignant skin melanomas. II. Regional lymph node 
metastases and regional recurrence.

Lukács L(1).

Author information:
(1)1st Department of Surgery, University Medical School of Pécs, Hungary.

The strategy of surgical therapy to treat regional disease in melanoma remains 
still controversial. The author analyzed 154 of 183 melanoma patients, who could 
be studied for the usefulness of surgery directed against regional tumour 
spread. Radical tumour excision combined with elective lymph node dissection 
(E+eRND) in medium or high risk tumour patients was found superior to 
therapeutic dissection (tRND) inasmuch 5-year-survival rates were significantly 
different (p < 0.001). Life expectancy seemed to be further impaired when 
postdissectional renewal appeared following tRND (5-year-survival rates 31.8 per 
cent --> 12.7 per cent) or tRND was incomplete.

PMID: 1345393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Asia Pac J Public Health. 1992-1993;6(4):188-94. doi: 
