10.1177/101053959200600403.

Prevalence of cardiovascular diseases in rural area of Hmawbi and urban Yangon 
city.

Myo Thet Htoon(1), Thein Ngwe, Nyan Tun, May Mon Kyaw.

Author information:
(1)Yangon General Hospital.

With improvements in life expectancy and as more and more people have access to 
modern medicine, non-communicable diseases are emerging as a health problem in 
both urban and rural communities in Myanmar. Of all non-communicable diseases, 
cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are known to be the major health problem. Since 
many studies that have been conducted in both developed and developing countries 
have shown a difference between rural and urban communities with regard to 
cardiovascular diseases, our study had the objective of finding out the 
prevalence of ischemic heart disease, hypertensive heart disease and rheumatic 
heart disease in a rural and urban community. The risk of obesity and smoking in 
the occurrence of CVD was also studied. A cross-sectional survey was conducted 
in three urban townships of Yangon City (Sanchaung, Latha and Pabedan) and one 
rural township of Hmawbi. The results showed that CVD were a health problem in 
both the urban and rural communities. Coronary heart disease was seen to be more 
prevalent in the urban townships than in the rural Hmawbi Township, but 
hypertension (HT) and rheumatic heart diseases (RHD) were more prevalent in the 
rural township of Hmawbi. Obesity which has been blamed as the major risk factor 
for CHD and HT in the developed countries was not found to be a risk factor in 
the study townships, but smoking was.

DOI: 10.1177/101053959200600403
PMID: 1345445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Lancet. 1992 Jan 25;339(8787):200-5. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(92)90004-m.

Combined chemotherapy with ABCM versus melphalan for treatment of myelomatosis. 
The Medical Research Council Working Party for Leukaemia in Adults.

MacLennan IC(1), Chapman C, Dunn J, Kelly K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, University of Birmingham Medical School, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1992 Apr 18;339(8799):992.

Both melphalan and cyclophosphamide increase life expectancy in patients with 
myelomatosis, but few large randomised studies have compared combination 
chemotherapy regimens with these single agents. In the Vth MRC myelomatosis 
trial, the survival of 314 patients randomised to receive ABCM (adriamycin, 
BCNU, cyclophosphamide, and melphalan) as first-line treatment was significantly 
longer than that of 316 patients given intermittent melphalan (M7) (p = 0.0003). 
The 75%, median, and 25% survivals were 7, 24, and 42 months, respectively, with 
M7 and 10, 32, and 56 months, respectively, with ABCM. Stable disease with few 
symptoms (plateau) was achieved by 61% of patients given ABCM and 49% of those 
given M7 (p = 0.004). Myelotoxicity was comparable between regimens. Cross-trial 
analysis suggests that M7 is comparable to melphalan and prednisone or 
melphalan, prednisone, and vincristine; that the efficacy of ABCM in the Vth 
trial and VIth MRC trials is comparable; and that ABCM gave better survival than 
intermittent melphalan regimens in the prognostic groups analysed. The results 
indicate that ABCM is an acceptable regimen that is more effective than 
melphalan, with or without prednisone, for first-line treatment of myelomatosis.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(92)90004-m
PMID: 1346171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Gynecol Oncol. 1992 Mar;44(3):245-53. doi: 10.1016/0090-8258(92)90051-j.

NEU protein overexpression in benign, borderline, and malignant ovarian 
neoplasms.

Kacinski BM(1), Mayer AG, King BL, Carter D, Chambers SK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Therapeutic Radiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut.

In situ hybridization (ISH) analysis of 24 benign, borderline, and malignant 
ovarian tumor specimens revealed NEU transcript expression by epithelial 
elements in approximately two-thirds of the samples and high-level expression in 
3 grade 3 adenocarcinomas. Immunohistochemical staining (IHC) of a total of 86 
specimens (including 17 of those studied by ISH) localized NEU antigen 
expression to epithelial cells in 36 of 86 samples with strong membrane staining 
observed in 12, including 1 benign, 1 borderline serous carcinoma, 3 clear 
cell/endometrioid carcinomas, and 7 predominantly papillary serous carcinomas 
with areas of clear cell/endometrioid histology. Clinical correlation of the IHC 
results for the 72 Stage I-IV invasively malignant neoplasms revealed no 
statistically significant association of the intensity of NEU IHC staining with 
either relapse-free or overall survival. However, more of the patients whose 
tumors showed strong membrane staining for NEU antigen suffered relapses of 
disease by 3 and 4 years than did patients whose tumors showed weak or no 
membrane staining. These results suggest a role for the NEU gene product in the 
physiology of benign ovarian surface epithelium and the neoplastic epithelium of 
preinvasive borderline and some invasively malignant adenocarcinomas.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-8258(92)90051-j
PMID: 1347282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Lancet. 1992 Apr 11;339(8798):913-5. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(92)90940-5.

Avoidance of emergency surgery in newborn infants with trisomy 18.

Bos AP(1), Broers CJ, Hazebroek FW, van Hemel JO, Tibboel D, Wesby-van Swaay E, 
Molenaar JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Surgery, Sophia Children's Hospital, Erasmus 
University Medical School, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1992 Apr 11;339(8798):904.
    Lancet. 1992 May 16;339(8803):1235.
    Lancet. 1992 Jun 6;339(8806):1416.
    Lancet. 1992 Aug 22;340(8817):495.

Trisomy 18 (Edwards' syndrome) presents with characteristic external features as 
well as life-threatening abnormalities; many of these abnormalities require 
surgical correction during the neonatal period. Children with trisomy 18 have a 
very short life expectancy, and all long-term survivors have severe mental 
retardation. Difficult medical and ethical issues arise over whether or not to 
institute treatment when a newborn infant with suspected trisomy 18 has a 
life-threatening anomaly. We studied the policy of treatment in seven patients 
with clinical Edwards' syndrome. For three, the period of uncertainty was 
shortened because trisomy 18 was rapidly diagnosed by karyotyping of a 
bone-marrow aspirate. Four of the patients underwent surgery before the 
diagnosis of trisomy 18 was confirmed by routine karyotyping in lymphocytes; 
karyotyping in bone marrow might have allowed invasive treatment to be avoided 
in three of these. Rapid confirmation of clinically suspected Edwards' syndrome 
is very important because surgery may then be withheld. A newborn infant with 
trisomy 18 should be considered as a patient with a hopeless outlook who ought 
not to be subjected to invasive procedures. The decision to withdraw or withhold 
treatment should be discussed frankly with the parents. The period of 
uncertainty can be reduced to a minimum by the use of karyotyping in bone 
marrow.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(92)90940-5
PMID: 1348308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Int J Radiat Biol. 1992 May;61(5):567-76. doi: 10.1080/09553009214551381.

In vivo protection by the aminothiol WR-2721 against neutron-induced 
carcinogenesis.

Carnes BA(1), Grdina DJ.

Author information:
(1)Biological and Medical Research Division, Argonne National Laboratory, IL 
60439-4833.

The ability of the compound S-2-(aminopropylamino)ethylphosphorothioic acid, 
designated WR-2721, to protect against neutron-induced carcinogenesis was 
investigated. Both sexes of the B6CF1 mouse were injected i.p. with 400 mg/kg of 
WR-2721 30 min prior to being irradiated by 10 cGy of neutrons. Neoplastic 
mortality in the groups receiving thiol was either reduced or delayed relative 
to irradiated mice not given protector. However, the time at which the 
protective effect of WR-2721 was expressed depended on the sex of the animal. 
Thiol-related shifts in the time of neoplastic death in females occurred only in 
the first half of the lifespan. Once a female survived to the mean age at death, 
no difference in the pattern of mortality could be detected between control and 
WR-2721-treated mice exposed to neutrons. Irrespective of thiol treatment, the 
timing of tumour-related death was nearly identical during the first half of 
life for males exposed to neutrons. In the last half of the lifespan, survival 
of thiol-protected males was enhanced relative to saline-injected males and even 
exceeded that observed in the control population.

DOI: 10.1080/09553009214551381
PMID: 1349621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Lancet. 1992 May 23;339(8804):1268-78. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(92)91600-d.

Mortality from tobacco in developed countries: indirect estimation from national 
vital statistics.

Peto R(1), Lopez AD, Boreham J, Thun M, Heath C Jr.

Author information:
(1)Imperial Cancer Research Fund Cancer Studies Unit, University of Oxford, 
Radcliffe Infirmary, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1992 Jun 13;339(8807):1484.
    Lancet. 1992 Jun 13;339(8807):1484.
    Lancet. 1992 Jul 11;340(8811):121.
    Lancet. 1992 Sep 12;340(8820):666.
    Lancet. 1992 Sep 12;340(8820):666-8.

Prolonged cigarette smoking causes even more deaths from other diseases than 
from lung cancer. In developed countries, the absolute age-sex-specific lung 
cancer rates can be used to indicate the approximate proportions due to tobacco 
of deaths not only from lung cancer itself but also, indirectly, from vascular 
disease and from various other categories of disease. Even in the absence of 
direct information on smoking histories, therefore, national mortality from 
tobacco can be estimated approximately just from the disease mortality 
statistics that are available from all major developed countries for about 1985 
(and for 1975 and so, by extrapolation, for 1995). The relation between the 
absolute excess of lung cancer and the proportional excess of other diseases can 
only be approximate, and so as not to overestimate the effects of tobacco it has 
been taken to be only half that suggested by a recent large prospective study of 
smoking and death among one million Americans. Application of such methods 
indicates that, in developed countries alone, annual deaths from smoking number 
about 0.9 million in 1965, 1.3 million in 1975, 1.7 million in 1985, and 2.1 
million in 1995 (and hence about 21 million in the decade 1990-99: 5-6 million 
European Community, 5-6 million USA, 5 million former USSR, 3 million Eastern 
and other Europe, and 2 million elsewhere, [ie, Australia, Canada, Japan, and 
New Zealand]). More than half these deaths will be at 35-69 years of age: during 
the 1990s tobacco will in developed countries cause about 30% of all deaths at 
35-69 (making it the largest single cause of premature death) plus about 14% of 
all at older ages. Those killed at older ages are on average already almost 80 
years old, however, and might have died soon anyway, but those killed by tobacco 
at 35-69 lose an average of about 23 years of life. At present just under 20% of 
all deaths in developed countries are attributed to tobacco, but this percentage 
is still rising, suggesting that on current smoking patterns just over 20% of 
those now living in developed countries will eventually be killed by tobacco 
(ie, about a quarter of a billion, out of a current total population of just 
under one and a quarter billion).

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(92)91600-d
PMID: 1349675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Lancet. 1992 May 23;339(8804):1279-81. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(92)91601-4.

Randomised comparison of olsalazine and mesalazine in prevention of relapses in 
ulcerative colitis.

Courtney MG(1), Nunes DP, Bergin CF, O'Driscoll M, Trimble V, Keeling PW, Weir 
DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, St James's Hospital and Trinity College, 
Dublin, Ireland.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1992 Aug 22;340(8817):486-7.
    Lancet. 1992 Dec 12;340(8833):1468.

Sulphasalazine extends remissions and lessens disease activity during relapses 
of ulcerative colitis, but it also causes many adverse side-effects. The adverse 
reactions are mostly attributable to the sulphapyridine carrier moiety rather 
than the active principle 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA), so agents to deliver 
5-ASA to the colon by other means have been designed. We have compared the 
efficacy and tolerability of two such agents, olsalazine and mesalazine, in 
maintenance therapy of ulcerative colitis. 100 patients with ulcerative colitis 
in remission were recruited at one centre and assigned randomly to treatment 
with olsalazine (Dipentum; 1.0 g daily) or mesalazine (Asacol, with Eudragit-S 
coating; 1.2 g daily). Compliance, biochemical and haematological variables, and 
clinical evidence of disease activity were assessed every 3 months for 12 months 
by observers unaware of treatment allocation. In intention-to-treat analysis, 
which included as treatment failures patients withdrawn for protocol violations, 
adverse reactions, intercurrent illness, or non-compliance as well as those with 
relapses of ulcerative colitis, the olsalazine group had a significantly lower 
rate of treatment failure than the mesalazine group (12/49 [24%] vs 23/50 [46%]; 
p = 0.025). Analysis restricted to 64 patients still in remission at 1 year and 
18 with relapses also showed a significant difference in relapse rate 
(olsalazine 5/42 [12%] vs mesalazine 13/40 [33%]; p = 0.024). Both drugs were 
well tolerated; only 9 patients reported substantial side-effects. Olsalazine 
was clearly superior to mesalazine in prevention of relapses in ulcerative 
colitis, especially in patients with left-sided disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(92)91601-4
PMID: 1349676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Cleve Clin J Med. 1992 Mar-Apr;59(2):193-200. doi: 10.3949/ccjm.59.2.193.

The hemodynamic effects of adrenergic blocking agents.

Lund-Johansen P(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Cardiology, Haukeland Hospital, Bergen, Norway.

The various antihypertensive agents reduce blood pressure by different 
mechanisms. Alpha-1 receptor blockers reduce vascular resistance and maintain 
cardiac output. Chronic treatment with beta blockers without intrinsic 
sympathomimetic activity produces a fall in blood pressure which is associated 
with a fall in cardiac index and heart rate. Beta blockers with strong intrinsic 
sympathomimetic activity showed reduced heart rate during exercise. Labetalol 
reduces cardiac output and peripheral vascular resistance with little or no 
reduction in peripheral blood flow. Alpha-1 blockers are suitable for patients 
with active life-styles, with peripheral vascular disorders, or with high 
blood-cholesterol levels. Beta blockers are useful in patients who have 
tachycardia, palpitation problems, or angina pectoris, or who have survived a 
heart attack. They should not be used in patients with bronchial asthma, reduced 
peripheral blood flow, or heart failure. Labetalol reduces blood pressure in a 
somewhat larger fraction of patients than the pure alpha- or beta-blocking 
agents. It is hoped that its long-term results will include regression of 
cardiovascular damage, improved quality of life, and increased life expectancy.

DOI: 10.3949/ccjm.59.2.193
PMID: 1350235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1992 Jun 1;89(11):5181-4. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.89.11.5181.

The gene for an inherited form of deafness maps to chromosome 5q31.

Leon PE(1), Raventos H, Lynch E, Morrow J, King MC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Research in Molecular and Cell Biology, University of Costa Rica, 
San Jose.

Primary--i.e., nonsyndromal-postlingual deafness is inherited as an autosomal 
dominant phenotype in a large kindred in Costa Rica. Genetically susceptible 
individuals begin to lose hearing at low frequencies at about age 10 years, 
after language and speaking are learned. Deafness inevitably progresses by age 
30 years to bilateral hearing loss of all frequencies. Intelligence, fertility, 
and life expectancy are normal. The family traces its ancestry to an affected 
founder born in Costa Rica in 1754. We have mapped the gene for deafness in this 
kindred to chromosome 5q31, between the markers IL9 and GRL, by linkage analysis 
involving 99 informative relatives.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.89.11.5181
PMCID: PMC49253
PMID: 1350680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Stat Med. 1992 May;11(7):939-52. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780110711.

Estimation of time since exposure for a prevalent cohort.

Muñoz A(1), Carey V, Taylor JM, Chmiel JS, Kingsley L, Van Raden M, Hoover DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, Baltimore, 
MD 21205.

In natural history studies of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) 
infection a substantial proportion of participants are seropositive at time of 
enrollment in the study. These participants form a prevalent subcohort. 
Estimation of the unknown times since exposure to HIV-1 in the prevalent 
subcohort is of primary importance for estimation of the incubation time of 
AIDS. The subset of the cohort that tested negative for antibody to HIV-1 at 
study entry and was observed to seroconvert forms the incident subcohort that 
provides longitudinal data on markers of maturity (that is, duration) of 
infection. We use parametric life table regression models incorporating 
truncation to describe the conditional distribution (imputing model) of the 
times since seroconversion given a vector of the markers of maturity. Using the 
fitted model and the values of the markers of maturity of infection provided by 
the seroprevalent subcohort at entry into the study, we can impute the unknown 
times since seroconversion for the prevalent subcohort. We implement multiple 
imputation based on a model-robust estimate of the covariance matrix of 
parameters of the imputing model to provide confidence intervals for the 
geometric mean of the time since seroconversion in the prevalent subcohort, and 
to compare maturity of infection of cohorts recruited in different cities. The 
accuracy of imputation is further validated by comparisons of imputation-based 
estimates of AIDS incubation distribution in the seroprevalent subcohort with 
more direct estimates obtained from the seroincident subcohort.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780110711
PMID: 1351308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. J Gen Intern Med. 1992 May-Jun;7(3):261-72. doi: 10.1007/BF02598081.

Optimal management strategies for HIV-infected patients who present with cough 
or dyspnea: a cost-effective analysis.

Freedberg KA(1), Tosteson AN, Cotton DJ, Goldman L.

Author information:
(1)Section of General Internal Medicine, Boston City Hospital, Boston University 
School of Medicine, Massachusetts 02118.

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 1992 May-Jun;7(3):369-70.
    J Gen Intern Med. 1994 Jun;9(6):356.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness and costs of alternative management 
strategies for patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) who 
present with pulmonary symptoms.
DESIGN: Decision analysis comparing initial testing (arterial blood gas 
analysis, induced sputum analysis, or bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage) 
with empiric antibiotics (trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or erythromycin). 
Subsequent steps in management are detailed based on the results of initial 
management. Patients were stratified by initial CD4 lymphocyte count (less than 
200/mm3, 200-500/mm3, or greater than 500/mm3) and results of chest radiography.
SETTING: Hypothetical.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The estimated levels of effectiveness among 
strategies were relatively similar, but costs varied markedly. If potentially 
reasonable strategies are defined as those that have incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios below $50,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY), 
the recommended strategies would be: for patients at highest risk for 
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP), with a probability of PCP above 30% (CD4 
less than 200/mm3 and abnormal chest radiograph or prior history of PCP), begin 
with induced sputum analysis ($34,174/QALY); for intermediate-risk patients, 
with a probability of PCP between 6% and 30% (CD4 less than 200/mm3, regardless 
of chest radiograph; or CD4 200-500/mm3, regardless of chest radiograph 
findings), begin with arterial blood gas analysis ($4,593 to $8,310/QALY); for 
low-risk patients, with a probability of PCP below 6% (CD4 greater than 500/mm3, 
regardless of chest radiograph findings), begin with one week of erythromycin, 
followed by induced sputum examination if symptoms persist ($675 to 
$3,306/QALY). For highest-risk patients, if empiric 
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole was considered entirely to be outpatient therapy, 
it was preferred management if the probability of PCP was above 38%.
CONCLUSIONS: The authors conclude that preferred management strategies are 
determined more by differences in costs than by differences in levels of 
effectiveness, and that they vary depending on the probability of PCP in 
definable patient subgroups.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02598081
PMID: 1351940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Lancet. 1992 Aug 29;340(8818):520-3. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(92)91717-m.

Should patients with Björk-Shiley valves undergo prophylactic replacement?

Birkmeyer JD(1), Marrin CA, O'Connor GT.

Author information:
(1)Program in Medical Information Science, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, 
New Hampshire 03756.

About 85,000 patients have undergone replacement of diseased heart valves with 
prosthetic Björk-Shiley convexo-concave (CC) valves. These valves are prone to 
fracture of the outlet strut, which leads to acute valve failure that is usually 
fatal. Should patients with these valves undergo prophylactic replacement to 
avoid fracture? The incidence of strut fracture varies between 0% and 1.5% per 
year, depending on valve opening angle (60 degrees or 70 degrees), diameter 
(less than 29 mm or greater than or equal to 29 mm), and location (aortic or 
mitral). Other factors include the patient's life expectancy and the expected 
morbidity and mortality associated with reoperation. We have used decision 
analysis to identify the patients most likely to benefit from prophylactic 
reoperation. The incidence of outlet strut fracture was estimated from the data 
of three large studies on CC valves, and stratified by opening angle, diameter, 
and location. A Markov decision analysis model was used to estimate life 
expectancy for patients undergoing prophylactic valve replacement and for those 
not undergoing reoperation. Prophylactic valve replacement does not benefit 
patients with CC valves that have low strut fracture risks (60 degrees aortic 
valves and less than 29 mm, 60 degrees mitral valves). For most patients with CC 
valves that have high strut fracture risks (greater than or equal to 29 mm, 70 
degrees CC), prophylactic valve replacement increases life expectancy. However, 
elderly patients with such valves benefit from prophylactic reoperation only if 
the risk of operative mortality is low. Patient age and operative risk are most 
important in recommendations for patients with CC valves that have intermediate 
strut fracture risks (less than 29 mm, 70 degrees valves and greater than or 
equal to 29 mm, 60 degrees mitral valves). For all patients and their doctors 
facing the difficult decision on whether to replace CC valves, individual 
estimates of operative mortality risk that take account of both patient-specific 
and institution-specific factors are essential.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(92)91717-m
PMID: 1354284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Int J Fertil. 1992;37 Suppl 2:98-103.

Effects of hormone replacement therapy.

Crosignani PG(1).

Author information:
(1)III Clinica Ostetrico e Ginecologica, Università degli Studi, Milan, Italy.

According to the World Health Organization, the global life expectancy at birth 
was 55 years in 1974, will be 63 years in 2000, and will be close to 70 years in 
the year 2025. By the year 2025, approximately 20% of the world's population 
will be more than 60 years old, and the problems associated with hormonal 
changes become significant with more than one third of a woman's expected life 
concentrated in the postmenopausal years. Much evidence suggests that the use of 
postmenopausal estrogen substantially reduces the morbidity and mortality of 
coronary heart disease, and to date, low-dose estrogen therapy is the single 
most effective method for prevention of osteoporosis. However, only 
hysterectomized women can use estrogen alone because of the risk of endometrial 
cancer associated with unopposed estrogen therapy. Thus, women with an intact 
uterus must use estrogen in combination with progestogen to avoid this risk, but 
the different progestogens may variously modify the beneficial effects of 
estrogen on lipoproteins, and, ultimately, coronary heart disease. Although 
hormone replacement therapy during menopause soon will be one of the major areas 
of preventive medicine, the effects of estrogen in combination with different 
progestins on coronary heart disease, blood pressure, blood coagulation, bone 
density, and the central nervous system have not been investigated adequately. 
This paper reviews the current knowledge of known or suspected effects.

PMID: 1354665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. N Engl J Med. 1992 Oct 8;327(15):1056-61. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199210083271504.

Response to 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia resistant to fludarabine.

Juliusson G(1), Elmhorn-Rosenborg A, Liliemark J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Huddinge Hospital, Sweden.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1993 Mar 18;328(11):812; author reply 813.
    N Engl J Med. 1993 Mar 18;328(11):812-3.

BACKGROUND: Patients with untreated B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia have a 
high rate of complete remission when given the halogenated nucleoside analogue 
fludarabine. However, patients in whom the disease has proved refractory to 
primary treatment have a reduced life expectancy and a dismal outcome.
METHODS: We treated four consecutive patients who had unsatisfactory responses 
to second-line or subsequent treatment with fludarabine with another halogenated 
nucleoside analogue, 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine.
RESULTS: One patient with progressing lymphocytosis, anemia, and 
thrombocytopenia despite 10 courses of fludarabine entered a complete remission 
when treated with 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine. Two patients who had less-than-partial 
remissions after six courses of fludarabine had good partial remissions when 
treated with 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine. One patient with Coombs-positive hemolytic 
anemia who had no response to three courses of fludarabine had a partial 
remission, with resolution of hypogammaglobulinemia, when treated with 
2-chlorodeoxyadenosine.
CONCLUSIONS: There was no evidence of cross-resistance between fludarabine and 
2-chlorodeoxyadenosine despite their similar structures. 2-Chlorodeoxyadenosine 
may induce a complete remission in chronic lymphocytic leukemia that is highly 
resistant to chemotherapy, and it deserves wider clinical evaluation in patients 
with this condition.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199210083271504
PMID: 1355853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Neurol Res. 1992;14(2 Suppl):85-8. doi: 10.1080/01616412.1992.11740018.

Flow separation in the carotid bulb: prognostic significance.

Nicholls SC(1), Phillips DJ, Primozich JF, Bergelin RO, Strandness DE Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle 98195.

It has been previously shown that boundary layer or flow separation occurring in 
the carotid bulb and detected by duplex scanning denotes minimal or no carotid 
atherosclerotic disease as demonstrated by angiography and reliably predicts 
aetiology other than carotid artery disease in symptomatic patients. To evaluate 
outcome at long-term follow-up we prospectively studied 94 patients (48 males, 
46 females) who demonstrated bilateral flow separation. Mean age was 61.2 years 
(27 to 86 years). Mean follow-up was 57 months (5 to 113 months). There was one 
death during follow-up at 69 months. It was stroke related. Using age and sex 
specific death rates for the general population 14.3 deaths would be expected 
for the same average period. By life table analysis, survival was 98.7% at five 
years compared to a general population expected 5 year survival of 85.9%. There 
were no strokes at 5 years of follow-up. (Age and sex specific stroke-free 
survival for Rochester, MN 1970-1974 is 98% at 5 years). TIA-free survival was 
99% at one year (n = 87) and 96% at five years (n = 46). It is concluded that 
the presence of boundary layer separation in the carotid bulb not only indicates 
absent or minimal atherosclerotic disease, but is predictive of a favourable 
long-term outcome with respect to mortality and neurological events.

DOI: 10.1080/01616412.1992.11740018
PMID: 1355896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. World J Surg. 1992 Jul-Aug;16(4):611-8; discussion 618-9. doi: 
10.1007/BF02067335.

Pancreatic tumors in multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1: clinical presentation 
and surgical treatment.

Grama D(1), Skogseid B, Wilander E, Eriksson B, Mårtensson H, Cedermark B, Ahrén 
B, Kristofferson A, Oberg K, Rastad J, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

Among 33 patients with endocrine pancreatic tumors due to multiple endocrine 
neoplasia type 1 (MEN-1), 19 (58%) patients had hypergastrinemia, 7 (21%) 
patients had hyperinsulinism, and 7 (21%) patients had clinically 
non-functioning lesions. At least one gross tumor was found in all patients 
undergoing pancreatic surgery, including those with negative localization 
studies prior to operation. The patients also had additional macroscopic tumors 
as well as numerous microadenomas, and the lesions frequently were positive for 
immunostaining with multiple hormones, mainly pancreatic polypeptide, insulin, 
glucagon, and somatostatin. Duodenal endocrine lesions were found in 4 of 5 
investigated patients and stained with gastrin and somatostatin antibodies. 
Distal, mainly subtotal pancreatic resection, was performed in 18 patients, 
eventually combined with caput tumor enucleation or duodenotomy, while a few 
patients underwent only tumor enucleation or a Whipple procedure. The long-term 
outcome of operation was most favorable in patients with hyperinsulinism; only 1 
patient had clinical recurrence. Patients with hypergastrinemia experienced only 
transitory lowering of serum gastrin values after pancreatic surgery and 47% of 
them had or developed metastases. Such tumor spread was seen in 57% of the 
patients with non-functioning lesions. Nine patients died from progressive tumor 
disease during follow-up. Consistent with previous studies, we found that 
surgery is indicated in MEN-1 patients with hyperinsulinism even if a lesion is 
not visualized by radiology. In addition, these indications should be extended 
to also include patients with only biochemical markers of disease, including 
elevations of gastrin, as these indicate the presence of gross tumors.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF02067335
PMID: 1357827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Am J Surg. 1992 Oct;164(4):348-53. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(05)80903-1.

Treatment of adenocarcinoma of the pancreas with somatostatin and gonadoliberin 
(luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone). The French Associations for Surgical 
Research.

Huguier M(1), Samama G, Testart J, Mauban S, Fingerhut A, Nassar J, Houry S, 
Jaeck D, De Mestier P, Favre JP, et al.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Tenon, Paris, France.

Experimental studies have shown a significant inhibition of adenocarcinoma of 
the pancreas by gonadoliberin (luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone [LH-RH]) 
and somatostatin. The aim of this prospective randomized study was to compare 
the potential value of somatostatin (250 micrograms every 8 hours), LH-RH (3.75 
mg monthly), or combined, to a control group. One hundred sixty-three patients 
with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas who did not undergo resection for cure were 
divided into 4 groups that did not differ in terms of clinical, biologic, or 
pathologic data. The mean survival times were 6 months in the LH-RH plus 
somatostatin group, 5.5 months in the LH-RH group, 4.3 months in the control 
group, and 3.8 months in the somatostatin group. However, the life-table 
analyses for all randomized patients, and separately according to sex, the lymph 
node extension, and metastatic spread were not different between groups. 
Improvement of patient status was observed in 20% of the patients receiving 
hormone therapy without any difference noted between the treatment regimens. 
These disappointing results may be explained by the degree of extension of 
pancreatic carcinoma in the patients studied. The results suggest that different 
hormone therapy regimens might be considered according to the age and the sex of 
patients, as well as to the presence or absence of hormone receptors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(05)80903-1
PMID: 1357998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Comp Biochem Physiol Comp Physiol. 1992 Nov;103(3):551-4. doi: 
10.1016/0300-9629(92)90287-z.

Diet restriction: a tool to prolong the lifespan of experimental animals. Model 
and current hypothesis of action.

Pieri C(1), Falasca M, Recchioni R, Moroni F, Marcheselli F.

Author information:
(1)Cytology Center, Gerontological Research Department, I.N.R.C.A., Ancona, 
Italy.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-9629(92)90287-z
PMID: 1358509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Lancet. 1992 Nov 14;340(8829):1183-8. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(92)92891-i.

Pulsed excimer laser versus continuous-wave Nd:YAG laser versus conventional 
angioplasty of peripheral arterial occlusions: prospective, controlled, 
randomised trial.

Lammer J(1), Pilger E, Decrinis M, Quehenberger F, Klein GE, Stark G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Karl-Franzens University of Graz, Austria.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1993 Jan 23;341(8839):238.

Early clinical studies of coronary and peripheral laser angioplasty showed that 
arterial occlusions could be recanalised by continuous-wave lasers delivered 
with contact probes and by pulsed lasers applied with multifibre catheters. 
However, whether laser-assisted angioplasty improves success rates in reopening 
occlusions and in long-term patency rates is unclear. We have compared the 
primary recanalisation and long-term patency rates after laser-assisted and 
conventional percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) of femoropopliteal 
artery occlusions in 116 consecutive symptomatic patients (excimer laser 37, 
Nd:YAG laser 40, PTA 39). Primary recanalisation was achieved in 81 patients 
(70%). The primary recanalisation rate achieved with the excimer laser was 
significantly lower than that with the Nd:YAG laser (49% vs 78%, p < 0.01) or 
with PTA (82%, p < 0.003). The overall angiographic recanalisation rate (primary 
and secondary recanalisation) after laser and PTA was 89%. After 3 months, 
clinical improvement was recorded in 76% of patients. Clinical long-term results 
were available in 94 (91%), and angiographic long-term results in 77 (75%), of 
103 successfully recanalised patients. Life-table analysis of the long-term 
results revealed no significant difference of the restenosis rate between the 
three treatment groups. The 12-month patency rate was 60% as assessed clinically 
and 39% as judged by angiography. Primary and secondary recanalisation rates and 
long-term patency rates were significantly correlated with length of the 
occlusion. Our results suggest that PTA of femoropopliteal artery occlusions is 
only indicated if the occlusion is short (< 8 cm) and that laser-assisted 
angioplasty should only be used after failure of conventional PTA.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(92)92891-i
PMID: 1359260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Comp Biochem Physiol C Comp Pharmacol Toxicol. 1992 Oct;103(2):249-53. doi: 
10.1016/0742-8413(92)90003-p.

The allometric approach for interspecies scaling of pharmacokinetic parameters.

Ritschel WA(1), Vachharajani NN, Johnson RD, Hussain AS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmaceutics and Drug Delivery Systems, College of Pharmacy, 
University of Cincinnati Medical Center, OH 45267-004.

A long standing problem in pharmacokinetics and toxicology is the extrapolation 
and correlation between results obtained in different animal species and man. 
Animal data may be scaled-up to predict PPs in man using the allometric 
approach. The allometric approach is empirical, but easy, and is based on the 
fact that the underlying physiological processes such as blood flow, heartbeat 
duration, breath duration etc. are essentially physical and related to B. This 
approach is generally applicable to compounds that are essentially renally 
excreted. For substances that are highly extracted by the liver, Cltot is a 
function of the LBF among various species. Based on the concept of neoteny, use 
of brain weight affords a more correct approach to the scaling of Cl(int) of low 
extraction ratio drugs. By using the invariant pharmacokinetic time, the 
superficial differences in concentration-time profiles due to chronological time 
among different species are removed. Finally, as Boxenbaum (1984) has said 
"parameters to be scaled, independent variables, and the mathematical 
relationships used in the scaling process are all at the discretion of the 
investigator. There are no proper or improper approaches; the only limitations 
are those imposed by the investigator."

DOI: 10.1016/0742-8413(92)90003-p
PMID: 1360380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Aktuelle Traumatol. 1992 Oct;22(5):189-96.

[Double plate compound osteosynthesis. A procedure for primary stress-stable 
management of problem injuries of the subtrochanteric to supracondylar femoral 
area].

[Article in German]

Friedl W(1).

Author information:
(1)Sektion Unfallchirurgie, Chirurgische Universitätsklinik Heidelberg.

Full loading capacity cannot be achieved with standard implants in reversed 
trochanteric, subtrochanteric and supracondylar femur fractures. A full loading 
capacity is essential for elderly patients because a load free mobilisation is 
not possible and in pathological and impending pathological fractures because of 
the short life expectancy of these patients. On the basis of a proposal by Ganz 
we developed a double plate compound osteosynthesis (DPCO) with very high 
loading capacity for all these types of fractures. The technique is presented.

PMID: 1361708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Adv Perit Dial. 1992;8:65-70.

Urea kinetics has limited relevance in assessing adequacy of dialysis in CAPD.

Blake PG(1), Balaskas E, Blake R, Oreopoulos DG.

Author information:
(1)Toronto Hospital.

The application of urea kinetics to CAPD is controversial. Additional data is 
presented from our recent study on this topic. Different methods of calculating 
KT/V and normalized protein catabolic rate (PCRN) are compared and KT/V is shown 
to be on average 6.5% higher when V is calculated by Watson's formulae instead 
of by body weight alone. This discrepancy increases with time. It is also shown 
that standard methods may overestimate KT and underestimate PCRN. KT/V and PCRN 
by these different methods do not correlate with clinical outcomes. However, if 
V is calculated by Watson's formulae, there is a significant excess of deaths 
when KT/V is under 0.5 (weekly KT/V under 1.5). Survival curves show that 
neither initial KT/V nor PCRN predict failure on CAPD.

PMID: 1361855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Community Dent Health. 1992 Dec;9(4):369-79.

The relative importance of reasons for tooth extraction in terms of potential 
tooth years of life lost (PYLL).

Haugejorden O(1), Klock KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Dentistry, University of Bergen, Norway.

The aim of the present study was to introduce the potential tooth years of life 
lost (PYLL) approach to the analysis of data showing the incidence of tooth 
extraction according to the reason for extraction and to illustrate its use. Six 
sets of data from prospective nationwide questionnaire surveys of patients 
treated by systematic random samples of dentists in five European countries were 
translated into PYLL. Response rates ranged from 25 to 81 per cent and the 
number of extracted teeth from 959 to 29,397, according to the study. PYLL in 
Norway 1988 was calculated using the ages of 85 and 80 as cut-off points, or the 
average sex-specific remaining life expectancy at the age of extraction; 
otherwise the age of 85 was used. Mean PYLL for all reasons varied from 40.6 to 
46.3 years for Norway in 1988 depending on the cut-off point used. For patients 
aged 21 and older PYLL85 ranged from 35.7 years for France in 1984 to 42.3 years 
for Sweden in 1959-61. Employing PYLL changed the rank order of the reasons for 
extraction based on the number of extracted teeth in some instances. It combined 
the two dimensions 'incidence of 'potential years of tooth function lost' into a 
continuous quantitative variable which was easy to understand and simple to 
handle analytically.

PMID: 1362522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Ann Chir. 1992;46(8):694-9.

[Place of the right gastro-epiploic artery in coronary revascularization by 
exclusive arterial grafts].

[Article in French]

Bergeron P(1), Rudondy P, Rosario R, Chiche G, Duport G, Courbier R.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Thoracique et Cardiaque, Fondation Hôpital St-Joseph, 
Marseille.

From March 1990 to July 1991, 35 patients underwent coronary artery bypass 
grafts using the right gastro-epiploic artery (GEA). Twenty-nine patients had 
exclusively arterial grafts using a combination of GEA and internal mammary 
artery (IMA) in situ. The selection criteria for this group of 29 patients 
included a life expectancy exceeding ten years to avoid the need for reoperation 
due to deterioration of the grafts. This group consisted of 27 men and two women 
under the age of 70 years (mean age: 58 years, range: 36 to 70), 11 patients 
(38%) were under the age of 50 years and 15 (52%) were under the age of 60 
years. Cardiac status was relatively well preserved. The mean ejection fraction 
was 58% (range: 25-70%). Fourteen patients (48%) had had a preoperative 
myocardial infarction. Fifty-five p. cent were smokers, 41% suffered from HT and 
31% had a dyslipidaemia. Six patients (20%) had respiratory failure, 6 others 
(20%) were severely overweight and 2 patients were diabetic. According to the 
NYHA classification, 14 patients (48%) were stage IV, 9 patients (31%) were 
stage III and 6 patients (20%) were stage II. The mean number of bypass grafts 
per patient was 2.8 and 8 sequential bypass grafts (27%) were performed. The GEA 
was used in 29 cases, the left IMA was used in 28 cases, the right IMA was used 
in 13 cases and the epigastric artery was used as a free graft in 3 cases. 
Associated lesions included a resected left ventricular aneurysm. No associated 
valve procedures were performed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1363029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Magy Traumatol Orthop Helyreallito Seb. 1992;35(2):93-101.

[Femoral neck fracture--selection of treatment method].

[Article in Hungarian]

Laczkó T(1), Cserháti P, Vendégh Z, Kazár G, Manninger J.

Author information:
(1)Országos Traumatológiai Intézet.

Authors followed for 4 months the life of 753 patients with femoral fractures of 
the hip and state, that with an extension of the operative indication the 
hospital mortality was decreased to the half during 15 years in spite of the 
further rise of the age. It is contributed first of all to the inadequacy of the 
rehabilitation that the later mortality is high and it is the double of that in 
the hospital: not more than 3 of 4 injured reaches the 4 months control.

PMID: 1363612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Lik Sprava. 1992 Jan;(1):120-3.

[The average life expectancy of the population: the regional social hygiene 
determinants].

[Article in Russian]

Medchuk IK.

Results are reported of a socio-hygienic study of a very important biometric 
parameter--reproduction of the population on a regional level. Changes are 
analyzed of the average life span (ALS) during the period of three postwar 
censuses. The ALS in women tended to increase as compared with men and was more 
pronounced in the rural localities. The main causes of mortality are analyzed. 
Reduction of ALS due to circulatory diseases which tended to increase during the 
intercensus periods. Recommendations are given for optimization of population 
reproduction and increase of ALS.

PMID: 1364594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Arctic Med Res. 1991;Suppl:177-80.

Health care in crisis: understanding nursing turnover in northern Canada (1).

Canitz B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioral Science, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

For decades nurses have provided 24 hour comprehensive health care in isolated 
communities of Canada. As the only health care personnel in most communities of 
the north, nurses must meet all health care needs ranging from veterinary 
assistance to health education, emergency care to mental health counselling. 
This paper will focus on the structural and psychosocial factors affecting 
isolated post workers. Considering the intense nature of professional 
responsibility in these isolated settings, it is not surprising that there is 
frequent turnover of nurses. The constant change in staff results in poor 
community and staff morale, limited success of programs and increased 
expenditures for government due to the high costs of additional relief staff, 
travel, and orientation. Utilizing a mailed survey (N = 55) and on-site 
interviews (N = 17) collected in two regions of northern Canada, this paper will 
outline key issues which produce nursing dissatisfaction and ultimately decrease 
the effectiveness of health care programs. The paper will conclude with 
suggestions to increase nursing satisfaction and ultimately improve the 
provision of health care in northern areas. Native health care is in crisis. 
Health status indicators such as infant mortality and life expectancy lag far 
behind national statistics. Death due to accidents and violence are almost six 
times the Canadian rate. Incidence of suicide is three times the national 
statistics (1-6). The rate of nursing staff turnover in northern communities is 
high, and most nurses stay less than 2 years in the north (7,8). Native health 
demands are increasing and it is becoming more difficult for find nurses to 
provide health care service.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1365093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Duodecim. 1992;108(1):76-81.

[Incidence, course and prognosis of MS disease].

[Article in Finnish]

Wikström J(1), Panelius M.

Author information:
(1)HYKS:n kuntoutustutkimusyksikkö, Helsinki.

PMID: 1365987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Duodecim. 1992;108(14):1235-7.

[What do mortality studies teach about the treatment of arthritis?].

[Article in Finnish]

Isomäki H.

PMID: 1366078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Am J Surg. 1992 Feb;163(2):208-12. doi: 10.1016/0002-9610(92)90102-w.

Choice of palliation for malignant hilar biliary obstruction.

Lai EC(1), Chu KM, Lo CY, Fan ST, Lo CM, Wong J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Hong Kong, Queen Mary Hospital.

Clinical data from 50 consecutive patients with unresectable hilar tumors 
situated at or proximal to the common hepatic duct were retrospectively analyzed 
to aid in the selection of appropriate palliative measures. Thirty-four patients 
had cholangioenteric bypass (CEB) to either left (28 patients), right (3 
patients), or both (3 patients) intrahepatic ductal systems. Sixteen patients 
had nonoperative drainage (NOD) established either endoscopically (4 patients), 
percutaneously (9 patients), or using a combined endoscopic-percutaneous 
approach (3 patients). When compared with patients with CEB, patients with NOD 
had more frequent medical problems (p less than 0.03) and lower serum albumin 
levels on admission (p less than 0.03). While comparable postprocedural 
complications (13 CEB patients versus 4 NOD patients) were observed, patients 
with NOD had a significantly higher hospital mortality (9 CEB patients versus 9 
NOD patients, p less than 0.05). Excluding the 12 patients (6 CEB patients 
versus 6 NOD patients) who died within 30 days after drainage, the quality of 
survival of the remaining 38 patients was analyzed with reference to 6 objective 
parameters. Although patients with NOD had significantly more frequent 
admissions relating to their catheters (p less than 0.02), there was no 
qualitative difference in the survival rate between the two groups of patients. 
For selected high-risk patients with limited life expectancy, NOD should be 
offered. However, additional prospective studies are required to decide the best 
choice of palliation for patients who are not at such high risk.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9610(92)90102-w
PMID: 1371206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Laryngorhinootologie. 1992 Jan;71(1):53-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-997245.

[Adjuvant and drug therapy of chronic pain in the head and neck area].

[Article in German]

Roos UM(1), Kempf HG, Zenner HP.

Author information:
(1)Universitäts-HNO-Klinik Tübingen.

Head and neck pain caused of benign or malignant disease reduces remarkable the 
patient's quality of life. In the following are presented adjuvant and 
medicamentous methods for pain control. Surgery, irradiation and chemotherapy 
aim to diminish the tumor extension and reduce algesic transmitting substances 
in the periphery. Nerve blocs, cryoanalgesia and transcutaneous electrical nerve 
stimulation lead to an interruption of the painful spinal reflex arc. Active, 
passive and relaxation exercises prevent from dolorific muscular tensions. 
Psychological treatment, so as relaxation techniques in connection with behavior 
therapy, helps to develop coping strategies. The mainstay of pain relief is 
effective use of analgetics which should be given orally if possible, on a 
regular schedule and on an individualized basis according with the WHO 
guidelines.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-997245
PMID: 1371922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
