

153. Med J Aust. 1992 Mar 16;156(6):417-20. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1992.tb139847.x.

Who needs a hospice?

Briggs PG(1).

Author information:
(1)Charitas Christi Hospice, Kew, Vic.

OBJECTIVE: Rapid evolution of palliative care programs in Australia over recent 
years has brought the role of traditional inpatient hospices under review. This 
study attempts to define the clinical characteristics of patients referred for 
inpatient palliative care.
DESIGN: A retrospective chart survey was performed of 432 consecutively referred 
patients.
SETTING: The study was undertaken in a 60-bed hospice providing intensive 
nursing and medical care to patients with terminal illness.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Demographic characteristics, diagnosis, length of stay, 
outcome and use of analgesics are presented. Patients not using regular 
analgesia at admission were studied to determine their major symptom complexes 
and their use of medication.
RESULTS: Public hospitals referred 67.6% of patients and 25% came from home. 
While 83.8% of patients died in hospice care, 16.2% were discharged, usually to 
home or a nursing home. At admission, 16.9% of patients could walk unassisted, 
20.6% were chair-bound and 62.5% were bed-bound. The median length of stay in 
the hospice was 16 days. Ambulant status, female sex, non-use of opioids and a 
diagnosis of brain or breast cancer were all associated with longer stay. At 
admission, 39.1% of patients were taking potent opioids regularly, 22.9% were 
taking mild analgesics and 38.0% were taking no regular analgesia. Of those 
taking no analgesia, cachexia (55.9%), confusion (35.4%), impaired conscious 
state (19.9%) and impaired motor neurological function (21.7%) were the major 
clinical problems.
CONCLUSIONS: The data show that patients selected for hospice care were highly 
dependent, with major functional impairments and short life expectancy. The 
medical, social and economic implications of these findings are discussed.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1992.tb139847.x
PMID: 1372079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Arch Surg. 1992 Mar;127(3):290-4. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.1992.01420030052010.

Lymphadenectomy in gastric carcinoma. A prospective and prognostic study.

Jaehne J(1), Meyer HJ, Maschek H, Geerlings H, Burns E, Pichlmayr R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Medical School Hannover, Federal Republic of Germany.

In 193 gastric resections for adenocarcinoma, lymphadenectomy was prospectively 
evaluated to quantify the number of lymph nodes and to identify prognostic 
factors. Overall, 7112 nodes (median, 36.8 per patient) were resected with 27.2% 
showing metastases. Most nodes were found in the perigastric region. The 
histologic type and site of the tumor did not influence the number of invaded 
nodes, but tumor stage and quality of the resection (curative/palliative) did. 
By multivariate analysis the tumor stage, curative vs palliative resections, and 
the number of metastatic lymph nodes in curative resections were independent 
prognostic factors. Patients with less than six metastatic nodes showed a 
survival not significantly different from that of patients with normal nodes. 
These patients may be well treated by surgery alone, but the other patients may 
require multimodal therapy to improve their prognosis.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1992.01420030052010
PMID: 1372495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Strahlenther Onkol. 1992 Mar;168(3):154-61.

[The percutaneous-endocavitary irradiation of esophageal carcinomas].

[Article in German]

Fritz P(1), Schraube P, Oberle J, Wannenmacher M, Friedl P.

Author information:
(1)Radiologische Klinik, Universität Heidelberg.

In a prospective, nonrandomized study 43 patients with inoperable oesophageal 
carcinoma were treated with a combined therapy of external and intracavitary 
irradiation according to the Heidelberg protocol adjusted to tumor stage, 
general condition and age. The proportion of external beam to afterloading doses 
was 2/3:1/3. The reference doses were between 50 and 75 Gy. Intracavitary 
radiotherapy was carried out with a HDR-afterloading device in single doses of 5 
Gy. In a median follow-up of 23 months 46% had a complete remission and 42% had 
a partial remission. Within ten months 17 patients (39.5%) showed local tumor 
progression or recurrence. Presently the estimated median survival time of the 
whole collective is eleven months. The median survival was significantly 
influenced by achievement of complete remission (17.7 months in comparison to 
8.7 months by missing complete remission). After completion of therapy 90% had 
sufficient oral nutrition. During long-term follow-up in 44% of the cases 
repeated measures had to be taken to eliminate initial or recurrent dysphagia. 
Almost all postradiogenic stenoses were caused by tumor progression. Radiogenic 
side-effects caused by HDR-afterloading boosts, exceeding the acceptance, were 
not found. The combined therapy reduces the period of hospitalisation and has 
the same palliative effects as an exclusively external radiotherapy.

PMID: 1372768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Urologe A. 1992 Jan;31(1):48-51.

[Incidental prostatic cancer--"wait and see" or radical prostatectomy?].

[Article in German]

Würnschimmel E(1), Lipsky H.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Abteilung, Landeskrankenhaus Leoben, Osterreich.

In a comparative and retrospective study, outcome was examined in two groups of 
patients with incidental carcinoma of the prostate (stage T1a). In the 47 
patients in the first group the carcinoma was kept under observation for 2-10 
years without the administration of any treatment. During the mean follow-up of 
5 years, the disease progressed in 11 (23.4%) of these patients, and 4 of them 
died. The other group was made up of 20 patients who underwent radical 
prostatectomy. The clinical and pathological staging were quite different in 
this group than in the other: more advanced stages and higher grades were seen 
in 10 patients, and the specimens taken from 6 were found not to contain any 
tumour. After a mean follow-up period of 4.5 years, all these 20 patients are 
alive with no evidence of disease. The management of patients with T1a tumour is 
still a problem. Observation only will be followed by progression in 23% of 
cases, while radical prostatectomy actually constitutes overtreatment in 30%. In 
conclusion, we prefer to perform prostatectomy in all patients with T1a 
carcinoma who are young and have a good life expectancy.

PMID: 1372774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 1992 Mar;4(2):114-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0936-6555(05)80981-1.

The role of radiotherapy in carcinoma of the thoracic oesophagus: an audit of 
the Mount Vernon experience 1980-1989.

Leslie MD(1), Dische S, Saunders MI, Grosch E, Fermont D, Ashford RF, Maher EJ.

Author information:
(1)Mount Vernon Centre for Cancer Treatment, Mount Vernon Hospital, Northwood, 
Middlesex, UK.

All 244 patients with carcinoma of the thoracic oesophagus registered at the 
Mount Vernon Centre for Cancer Treatment during the decade from 1 January 1980 
to 31 December 1989 have been audited. We have made a detailed analysis of 110 
(45%) with localized disease considered unsuitable for surgery, who completed 
treatment solely by radiotherapy. The median survival of this group of patients 
was 8.2 months (range 0.2-54 months). Dysphagia was improved by radiotherapy in 
77.3% of cases, the median duration of relief was 24 weeks (range 0-208 weeks) 
and was maintained until death in 40%. Life table analysis showed that radical 
compared with less than radical regimens of radiotherapy gave significantly 
superior relief of dysphagia. This result is unlikely to be due to case 
selection.

DOI: 10.1016/s0936-6555(05)80981-1
PMID: 1372818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Hum Pathol. 1992 Mar;23(3):211-22. doi: 10.1016/0046-8177(92)90102-9.

Early detection of prostate cancer.

Scardino PT(1), Weaver R, Hudson MA.

Author information:
(1)Scott Department of Urology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030.

Prostate cancer is unique among the potentially lethal human malignancies in the 
wide discrepancy between the high prevalence of histologic changes recognizable 
as cancer and the much lower prevalence of the clinical disease. Despite the 
availability of effective tests for early detection and of effective treatment 
for cancers so detected, the diagnosis usually is not established until the 
tumor is locally advanced or metastatic. Yet, physicians hesitate to use these 
tests for fear that many cancers found would be latent, of little threat to the 
life or health of the host, and treatment could introduce inappropriate 
morbidity. Latent or "clinically unimportant" cancers can be distinguished from 
those that are clinically important by the larger volume, higher grade, and 
greater invasiveness of the latter. The available tests can detect only those 
cancers large enough to be palpable, visible on ultrasound, or capable of 
elevating the serum level of prostate-specific antigen. Such cancers are 
clinically important and should be treated for cure if the life expectancy of 
the patient is sufficiently long and the morbidity rate of therapy is low. Early 
detection of prostate cancer using the tests that are available today may widen 
the window of opportunity so that treatment indeed becomes possible in those for 
whom it is necessary.

DOI: 10.1016/0046-8177(92)90102-9
PMID: 1372877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Orv Hetil. 1992 Mar 22;133(12):731-4.

[Treatment of carcinoid syndrome with a somatostatin analogue].

[Article in Hungarian]

Döbrönte Z(1), Stöckert A, Végh G, Varga L.

Author information:
(1)Vas Megyei Markusovszky Kórház, Szombathely.

Octreotide, a long-acting somatostatin analogue has recently been introduced in 
the therapy of gastroenteropancreatic endocrine tumors, but home experience has 
been lacking. With the aim of drawing attention to this therapeutic possibility, 
a case of malignant carcinoid syndrome treated with octreotide for 18 months is 
reported. Despite the therapeutic attempts preceding the octreotide 
administration a gradual progression in clinical symptoms was observed and 
cardiac failure due to fibrotic and valvular heart disease developed. Cytotoxic 
chemotherapy, serotonin antagonists or repeated selective embolisation of the 
hepatic artery only resulted in a short transitional improvement. Octreotide in 
a dose of 100 micrograms three times daily by subcutaneous injection provided 
effective and rapid relief from episodic flushing and serious diarrhoea. Plasma 
level of serotonin and 24-hour urinary excretion of 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid 
decreased from 6 micrograms/ml to 2 micrograms/ml and from 800 mumol/day to 70 
mumol/day, respectively. No changes in the number and extension of liver 
metastases could be seen after introducing the octreotide treatment. The 
patient's compensated cardiac status could be preserved and continuous therapy 
provided an acceptable quality of life.

PMID: 1372969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Dig Dis Sci. 1992 May;37(5):659-62. doi: 10.1007/BF01296419.

Prospective controlled trial with antiestrogen drug tamoxifen in patients with 
unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma.

Farinati F(1), De Maria N, Fornasiero A, Salvagnini M, Fagiuoli S, Chiaramonte 
M, Naccarato R.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Gastroenterologia R. Farini, Istituto di Medicina Interna, 
Policlinico Universitario, Padova, Italy.

Clinical and experimental evidence indicates that estrogens are involved in the 
control of hepatocyte proliferation both in normal and in neoplastic conditions. 
Thirty-two cirrhotic patients with unresectable or otherwise untreatable 
hepatocellular carcinoma were allocated to receive either tamoxifen (30 mg/day) 
or no treatment. The patients in the two groups were matched for age, 
male/female ratio, Child-Pugh class, approximate tumor volume (US and CT scan), 
and etiology of the underlying cirrhosis. Survival of the tamoxifen-treated 
patients (life-table, Wilcoxon-Breslow) was significantly prolonged (P = 
0.0038), with 35% (vs 0%) survival at 12 months. No difference was observed 
between males and females or between alcoholic and nonalcoholic cirrhosis. In 
40% of tamoxifen-treated patients, the levels of alpha-fetoprotein declined. In 
conclusion, the antiestrogen tamoxifen appears to be effective in the palliative 
treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. An initial decline in alpha-fetoprotein 
levels may represent an early favorable prognostic sign.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01296419
PMID: 1373360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Mol Cell Biol. 1992 May;12(5):2043-9. doi: 10.1128/mcb.12.5.2043-2049.1992.

Guide RNAs for transcripts with developmentally regulated RNA editing are 
present in both life cycle stages of Trypanosoma brucei.

Koslowsky DJ(1), Riley GR, Feagin JE, Stuart K.

Author information:
(1)Seattle Biomedical Research Institute, Washington 98109.

RNA editing of several mitochondrial transcripts in Trypanosoma brucei is 
developmentally regulated. The cytochrome b and cytochrome oxidase II mRNAs are 
edited in procyclic-form parasites but are primarily unedited in bloodstream 
forms. The latter forms lack the mitochondrial respiratory system present in 
procyclic forms. Editing of the NADH dehydrogenase 7 (ND7) and ND8 transcripts 
is also developmentally regulated but occurs preferentially in bloodstream 
forms. Other transcripts, cytochrome oxidase III and ATPase 6, are edited in 
both life forms. We have identified many minicircle-encoded guide RNAs (gRNAs) 
for ATPase 6, ND7, and ND8. The characteristics of these gRNAs reveal how 
extensively edited RNA can be edited in the 3'-to-5' direction. Northern (RNA) 
blot and primer extension analyses indicate that gRNAs for transcripts whose 
editing is developmentally regulated are present in both procyclic and 
bloodstream form parasites. These results suggest that the developmental 
regulation of editing in these transcripts is not controlled by the presence or 
absence of gRNAs.

DOI: 10.1128/mcb.12.5.2043-2049.1992
PMCID: PMC364375
PMID: 1373804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1992;23(1):217-21. doi: 
10.1016/0360-3016(92)90565-y.

A review of local radiotherapy in the treatment of bone metastases and cord 
compression.

Bates T(1).

Author information:
(1)St. Thomas' Hospital, London, England.

Local radiotherapy plays an important role in the management of bone metastases. 
Because it is given with palliative intent to patients with limited, if 
variable, life expectancy, radiotherapy schedules need to be identified which 
give maximum patient benefit (short and long term) with minimum associated 
morbidity and minimum disruption of the patients' remaining life. For localized 
bone pain, a single fraction of radiotherapy, repeated if necessary, appears to 
fulfill these criteria in patients with a short life expectancy. There are, 
however, unanswered questions regarding fraction size and the adequacy of one 
fraction for long-term control and for all pathological tumor types. Only 
randomized trials can answer these questions. Uncertainties also exist regarding 
the precise indications for radiotherapy to prevent and treat pathological 
fractures and the optimal dose schedule which will provide adequate local tumor 
control without inhibiting bone healing or interfering with bone integrity. 
Because of the many variables, guidelines on selection of cases of spinal cord 
compression for decompression by surgery or radiotherapy are likely to be of 
more value than randomized prospective studies in this condition. Experimental 
work and clinical experience to date suggest an advantage for a few large 
fractions of radiotherapy, at least initially, to achieve a rapid response, but 
this too needs confirmation. Treatment decisions based on past teaching and 
local custom rather than on valid clinical trial data have led to considerable 
differences in clinical practice among radiotherapists. Bone metastases are 
common and warrant a great deal more experimental and clinical study than they 
have received to date.

DOI: 10.1016/0360-3016(92)90565-y
PMID: 1374063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Surgery. 1992 Jul;112(1):56-67.

Enteral nutrition with supplemental arginine, RNA, and omega-3 fatty acids in 
patients after operation: immunologic, metabolic, and clinical outcome.

Daly JM(1), Lieberman MD, Goldfine J, Shou J, Weintraub F, Rosato EF, Lavin P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia 19104.

Comment in
    Surgery. 1993 Sep;114(3):631-2.

The individual nutrients arginine, RNA, and omega-3 fatty acids improve immune 
function, but prospective trials have not demonstrated their effects on clinical 
outcome. Patients (n = 85) who underwent operation for upper gastrointestinal 
malignancies were randomized to receive the supplemental diet or a standard 
enteral diet after surgery. Clinical patient characteristics were similar 
between the two groups. Mean caloric intakes (1421 vs 1285 kcal/day) were 
similar between groups. Mean nitrogen intakes (15.6 vs 9.0 gm/day) and nitrogen 
balances (-2.2 vs -6.6 gm/day) measured in the first 20 patients were 
significantly greater in the supplemented group than in the standard group (p = 
0.05). In vitro lymphocyte mitogenesis was measured in the first 31 patients and 
was decreased on postoperative day 1 in both groups, but normal levels were 
regained only in the supplemented group. In the cohort of 77 eligible patients, 
infectious and wound complications occurred significantly less often (11% vs 
37%) in the supplemented group than in the standard group (p = 0.02). Linear 
logistic models for infectious/wound complications with control for the amount 
of nitrogen suggested (p = 0.10) dietary treatment as the major factor. Mean 
length of stay in the hospital was significantly shorter (p = 0.01) for the 
supplemented group (15.8 +/- 5.1 days) than for the standard group (20.2 +/- 9.4 
days). These results suggest that postoperative enteral nutrition with 
supplemental arginine, RNA, and omega-3 fatty acids instead of a standard 
enteral diet significantly improved immunologic, metabolic, and clinical 
outcomes in patients with upper gastrointestinal malignancies who were 
undergoing major elective surgery.

PMID: 1377838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Urology. 1992 Jul;40(1):1-6. doi: 10.1016/0090-4295(92)90426-w.

Cutaneous ureterostomy in adults.

Kearney GP(1), Docimo SG, Doyle CJ, Mahoney EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts.

In the patient with metastatic carcinoma, urinary diversion is usually achieved 
with indwelling ureteral stents or placement of a percutaneous nephrostomy tube. 
Most forms of surgical diversion carry an unacceptable morbidity rate, 
especially in the debilitated patient. Over a fifteen-year period (1974-1989), 
29 adult patients with pelvic malignancy (32 ureters) underwent palliative 
cutaneous ureterostomy. This previously reported technique involves transverse 
nephropexy and construction of a stoma using a small skin flap. Indications 
included ureteral obstruction or severe urinary tract symptoms. Hydroureter, 
often considered a precondition for this procedure, was not present in several 
patients and was not a prerequisite to success. Complications related to the 
procedure included one postoperative death due to stroke, one death due to 
uremia and sepsis, and one instance of severe renal arterial stenosis resulting 
in renal failure. Preservation of renal function was possible in the 10 patients 
known to have survived from one to thirteen years postoperatively; only 3 
patients eventually required stomal revision. By adherence to the surgical 
techniques described, the usually high incidence of stomal stenosis was avoided. 
Our experience reveals that although the indications for cutaneous ureterostomy 
are limited, this procedure can provide an alternative to permanent nephrostomy 
drainage or to a higher risk intestinal urinary diversion in carefully selected 
patients with a reasonable life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-4295(92)90426-w
PMID: 1377844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1992 May;96(5):677-82.

[The natural history of serous retinal pigment epithelial detachment].

[Article in Japanese]

Shirakashi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Niigata University School of Medicine, Japan.

The natural history of 25 eyes of 21 patients with serous retinal pigment 
epithelial detachment (PED) within the vascular arcade was retrospectively 
studied to clarify the risk factors for development of choroidal neovascular 
membranes (NVM) from PED (mean age 55.8 +/- 10.4 years; mean follow-up 18.8 +/- 
10.3 months). During the follow-up period, 6 eyes (24%) developed NVM. The 
significant risk factors for NVM development at the first visit were: older 
patient age (greater than 60 years): larger PED size (greater than 1 disc 
diameter): presence of PED in the fovea. Eyes with sensory retinal detachment 
that did not decrease during the follow-up had a significant high risk for NVM 
development. Eyes with NVM development showed significantly worse visual 
prognosis as compared to those with no NVM development. Life-table analysis 
(Kaplan-Meier method) showed that the incidence of developing NVM was 8% at 3 
months, 16% at 6 months, and 24% at 9 months. These results suggested that the 
size and location of PED and clinical course of sensory retinal detachment in 
addition to the patient age may be important determinants of the prognosis of 
PED.

PMID: 1377868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1992 Jul 14;81(29-30):914-6.

[Bile duct endoprostheses in tumor disease: when is the expense justified?].

[Article in German]

Brambs HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Radiologische Universitätsklinik, Abteilung Röntgendiagnostik, Tübingen.

Percutaneous transhepatic catheters should be reserved for the minority of 
palliatively treated tumor patients because of the chronic complications and the 
discomfort to the patients. Plastic biliary endoprostheses relief malignant 
obstructive jaundice in most patients sufficiently. Late complications such as 
occlusion and displacement occur relatively often. The major advantages of 
expandable metal stents are the relative ease and the low rate of complications 
during the insertion procedure. The wide lumen and the small surface ensure good 
flow of bile and reduce the risk of occlusion and cholangitis. However, further 
development is necessary and the very expensive devices should be restricted to 
those patients with long life expectancy.

PMID: 1378643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Acta Gastroenterol Belg. 1992 May-Jun;55(3):285-94.

Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy.

Gay F(1), el Nawar A, Van Gossum A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hôpital Erasme, Brussels, Belgium.

From March 87 to March 92, fifty eight patients were referred to our department 
for percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG). The modality of the feeding tube 
insertion is described. The most common indications for placement were 
neurologic disorders in 62% of the cases (n = 36) and malignant diseases in 32% 
(n = 19). The success rate of the technique was 98.3% (n = 57). No 
procedure-related mortality was observed. A low rate of major complication 
(1.7%) and minor complication (10.5%) was noted. Feeding tubes were removed in 
21% of patients (n = 12); none of them with malignant disease. Survival curve 
analysis demonstrated that 50% of patients died within 3 months of PEG 
placement. Such results raise questions about the selection of patients 
undergoing PEG. Our experience of patients undergoing PEG. Our experience 
suggests that PEG is easy and safe, even in debilitated patients, having an 
acceptable life expectancy.

PMID: 1378677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Arch Biochem Biophys. 1992 Aug 15;297(1):35-41. doi: 
10.1016/0003-9861(92)90637-c.

The effects of catalase gene overexpression on life span and resistance to 
oxidative stress in transgenic Drosophila melanogaster.

Orr WC(1), Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, 
Texas 75275.

Oxygen free radicals and hydroperoxides have been postulated to play a causal 
role in the aging process, implying that antioxidant enzymes may act as 
longevity determinants. Catalase (H2O2:H2O2 oxidoreductase; EC1.11.1.6) is the 
sole enzyme involved in the elimination of H2O2 in Drosophila melanogaster; 
glutathione peroxidase being absent. A genomic fragment containing the 
Drosophila catalase gene was used to construct transgenic Drosophila lines by 
means of P element-mediated transformation. Enhanced levels of catalase (up to 
80%) did not prolong the life span of flies, nor did they provide improved 
protection against oxidative stress induced by hyperoxia or paraquat treatment. 
However, enhanced resistance to hydrogen peroxide was observed in the 
overexpressors.

DOI: 10.1016/0003-9861(92)90637-c
PMID: 1379030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Ann Intern Med. 1992 Sep 1;117(5):364-70. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-117-5-364.

Treatment of angioimmunoblastic lymphadenopathy (AILD)-type T-cell lymphoma 
using prednisone with or without the COPBLAM/IMVP-16 regimen. A multicenter 
study. Kiel Lymphoma Study Group.

Siegert W(1), Agthe A, Griesser H, Schwerdtfeger R, Brittinger G, Engelhard M, 
Kuse R, Tiemann M, Lennert K, Huhn D.

Author information:
(1)Klinikum Rudolf Virchow, Freie Universität Berlin, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the clinical course of patients with angioimmunoblastic 
lymphadenopathy (AILD)-type lymphoma with a sequential treatment with prednisone 
and COPBLAM/IMVP-16.
DESIGN: A multicenter, prospective, nonrandomized trial.
SETTING: University medical centers and community hospitals.
PATIENTS: Sixty-seven patients were registered, 28 were excluded, and 39 
patients were evaluable for response (median age, 59 years; range, 25 to 82 
years) (stages I and II, 10%; stages III and IV, 90%; B symptoms, 74%).
MEASUREMENTS: Response, survival, and relapse.
INTERVENTION: Patients initially received prednisone and no further treatment if 
a complete remission was achieved. Relapsing or refractory patients were treated 
with COPBLAM/IMVP-16. Patients with life-threatening tumor progression or 
extension received COPBLAM/IMVP-16 initially. Treatments were chosen in 
accordance with tumor extension and response to prednisone. Treatment modalities 
were not compared.
RESULTS: Twenty-eight patients received primary prednisone, 18 received 
secondary prednisone, and 11 received primary chemotherapy. The complete 
response rates (with 95% CIs) were 29% (CI, 12% to 46%), 56% (CI, 33% to 79%), 
and 64% (CI, 36% to 92%), respectively. The median observation time of surviving 
patients was 28 months (range, 7 to 53). The median overall survival time was 15 
months. The probabilities (with 95% CIs) of overall survival, event-free 
survival, and relapse at 36 months were 40.5% (CI, 24% to 56%), 32.3% (CI, 17% 
to 47%), and 34.6% (CI, 14% to 56%), respectively. At the time of evaluation, 22 
of 39 patients had died, 7 of noninfectious complications and 14 of infections.
CONCLUSIONS: Prednisone with or without COPBLAM/IMVP-16 treatment in AILD-type 
lymphoma leads to complete remissions in about half of the patients and in 
long-term, disease-free survival for one third.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-117-5-364
PMID: 1380221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. J Calif Dent Assoc. 1992 Jun;20(6):33-41.

HA-coated dental implants: long-term consequences.

Johnson BW.

Comment in
    J Calif Dent Assoc. 1992 Sep;20(9):8.

PMID: 1383466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1992 Jul;20(1):147-56.

Long-term treatment with trandolapril opposes cardiac remodeling and prolongs 
survival after myocardial infarction in rats.

Richer C(1), Mulder P, Fornes P, Domergue V, Heudes D, Giudicelli JF.

Author information:
(1)Département de Pharmacologie, Faculté de Médecine Paris-Sud, Le 
Kremlin-Bicêtre, France.

Long-term treatment with angiotensin I converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) 
prolongs survival in rats developing congestive heart failure after myocardial 
infarction (MI). In this experimental model, we investigated at regular 
intervals the effects of a 1-year oral treatment with trandolapril, a new ACEI, 
on (a) survival rate and duration and (b) hemodynamic, biological, and cardiac 
and vascular histomorphological parameters. Control MI rats and sham-operated 
trandolapril-treated and control rats were simultaneously studied. In MI rats, 
trandolapril significantly increased the survival rate and duration, increasing 
the life expectancy by approximately 6 months. It also significantly decreased 
the arterial blood pressure and increased diuresis. These effects occurred as 
soon as the treatment was started and persisted throughout the study. 
Trandolapril significantly limited the development of myocardial hypertrophy, 
decreasing the heart weight and left ventricular hypertrophic area and 
increasing the left ventricular myocyte nuclear density, but these effects, 
starting after 3-6 months, were delayed compared to the hemodynamic ones. 
Finally, trandolapril limited the development of myocardial (both subendocardial 
and subepicardial) and aortic fibrosis. It is concluded that the early pre- and 
afterload effects of trandolapril are initially responsible for its beneficial 
action on survival, whereas later the drug's antihypertrophic and antifibrotic 
properties together with persistent hemodynamic effects account for the 
prolonged survival improvement.

PMID: 1383624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Minerva Pediatr. 1992 Jul-Aug;44(7-8):337-43.

[Neuropsychiatric development of children with acquired immunodeficiency].

[Article in Italian]

Piazza F(1), Maccabruni A, Comelli D, Caselli D, Degioanni M.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Neuropsichiatria Infantile, Università di Pavia.

The Authors describe the neuropsychological evolution of 88 children (86 born 
from HIV infected mothers and, 2 infected by blood products) followed up at the 
Institute of Infectious Diseases of the University of Pavia. All patients had a 
clinical, serological and immunologic evaluation done by a pediatric 
infectivologist and a neurological assessment (Amyeli-Tison and Towen) done by a 
pediatric neurologist every three months. The Mental Development was examined 
using the Griffith scales. Electroencephalographic, TC scan, liquor test and 
other invasive tests were done only in symptomatic patients when indicated. The 
incidence of Central Nervous System involvement by HIV virus was 24% in infected 
patients and 37% in children with symptomatic HIV infection; neurological 
symptoms were observed in coincidence with worsening of AIDS disease. Fifty-five 
percent of the patients had a serious developmental delays. The Authors stress 
the importance of an early psychological care of these patients done by a 
specialist physician in order to reduce the onset of developmental problems in 
children facing a life expectancy longer than before due to the continuous 
improvement in the therapeutic management of AIDS.

PMID: 1383681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Mutat Res. 1992 Nov 16;270(2):103-14. doi: 10.1016/0027-5107(92)90121-h.

The load of genetic and partially genetic disease in man. IV. Severe visual 
handicaps and profound childhood deafness in Hungarian school-age children.

Czeizel A(1), Skirpeczky K, Mester E, Sankaranarayanan K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics and Teratology, National Institute of Hygiene, 
WHO Collaborating Centre for the Community Control of Hereditary Disease, 
Budapest, Hungary.

In Hungary, the school-age prevalences of severe visual handicaps and of 
profound childhood deafness have been estimated to be about 6/10(4) and 
10/10(4), respectively. Most of these conditions have onset at birth or in early 
childhood and are aetiologically heterogeneous. Severe visual handicaps are 
grouped under 11 aetiological categories, their relative contributions to the 
prevalence being: perinatal damage syndrome (20%; half of this is due to 
retinopathy of premature infants), cataracts (15%), choroidoretinal 
degenerations (15%), congenital abnormalities of the eye (15%), syndromes (10%), 
high myopia +/- retinal detachment (7%), postnatal causes (5%), nystagmus (5%), 
optic atrophy (4%), bilateral retinoblastoma (2%) and prenatal causes (2%). 
Overall, Mendelian conditions (included under many of the above) account for 
about 50% with relatively more autosomal dominant than autosomal recessive and 
sex-linked entities, and acquired causes account for about 40% of the cases 
studied. No aetiology could be assigned in 10% of the cases. For profound 
childhood deafness, the rank order of the aetiological categories is: autosomal 
recessive entities (34%), postnatal causes (22%), perinatal causes (19%), 
autosomal dominant entities (17%), prenatal causes (5%) and unknown causes (3%). 
Severe childhood visual handicaps are responsible for about 60 years of loss of 
life per 10(4) live births and about 400 years of impaired life per 10(4) live 
births. Genetic causes account for one-quarter of lost life years and 
three-quarters of impaired life years. The comparable estimates for profound 
childhood deafness are: about 240 years of life loss per 10(4) live births 
(again, about one-quarter due to genetic causes) and about 640 years of impaired 
life per 10(4) live births (about one-half due to genetic causes). In all these 
calculations, it has been assumed that the average life expectancy at birth for 
an individual in the population is 70 years.

DOI: 10.1016/0027-5107(92)90121-h
PMID: 1383727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Mutat Res. 1992 Sep;275(3-6):257-66. doi: 10.1016/0921-8734(92)90030-s.

Free radical theory of aging.

Harman D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Nebraska College of Medicine, Omaha 
68198-4635.

Free radical reactions are ubiquitous in living things. Studies on the origin 
and evolution of life provide a reasonable explanation for the prominent 
presence of this unruly class of chemical reactions. These reactions have been 
implicated in aging. This phenomenon is the accumulation of changes responsible 
for the sequential alterations that accompany advancing age and the associated 
progressive increases in the chance of disease and death. Aging changes are 
attributed to the environment and disease, and to an inborn process, the aging 
process. The latter produces aging changes at an exponentially increasing rate 
with advancing age. Past improvements in general living conditions have 
decreased the chances for death so that they are now near limiting values in the 
developed countries. In these countries the intrinsic aging process is the major 
cause of disease and death after about age 28. The free radical theory of aging 
postulates that aging changes are caused by free radical reactions. The data 
supporting this theory indicate that average life expectancy at birth may be 
increased by 5 or more years, by nutritious low caloric diets supplemented with 
one or more free radical reaction inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1016/0921-8734(92)90030-s
PMID: 1383768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Mutat Res. 1992 Sep;275(3-6):295-304. doi: 10.1016/0921-8734(92)90033-l.

Mitochondrial production of pro-oxidants and cellular senescence.

Sohal RS(1), Brunk UT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX 
75275.

Mitochondria are the major intracellular producers of O2- and H2O2. The level of 
oxidative stress in cells, as indicated by the in vivo exhalation of alkanes and 
the concentration of molecular products of oxy-radical reactions, increases 
during aging in mammals as well as insects. In this paper, we discuss the 
relationship between mitochondrial generation of O2- and H2O2, and the aging 
process. The rate of mitochondrial O2- and H2O2 generation increases with age in 
houseflies and the brain, heart and liver of rat. This rate has been found to 
correspond to the life expectancy of flies and to the maximum life span 
potential (MLSP) of six different mammalian species, namely, mouse, rat, guinea 
pig, rabbit, pig and cow. In contrast, the level of antioxidant defenses 
provided by activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase 
and glutathione concentration neither uniformly declines with age nor 
corresponds to variations in MLSP of different mammalian species. It is argued 
that the rate of mitochondrial O2- and H2O2 generation rather than the 
antioxidant level may act as a longevity determinant.

DOI: 10.1016/0921-8734(92)90033-l
PMID: 1383771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Mutat Res. 1992 Sep;275(3-6):305-15. doi: 10.1016/0921-8734(92)90034-m.

Oxidative and other DNA damages as the basis of aging: a review.

Holmes GE(1), Bernstein C, Bernstein H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, College of Medicine, Howard University, 
Washington, DC 20059.

DNA damages occur continuously in cells of living organisms. While most of these 
damages are repaired, some accumulate. In particular, there is evidence for DNA 
damage accumulation in non-dividing cells of mammals. These accumulated DNA 
damages probably interfere with RNA transcription. We consider that the decline 
in the ability of DNA to serve as a template for gene expression is the primary 
cause of aging. Oxidative DNA damages are among the best documented and 
prevalent DNA damages and are likely to be a prominent cause of aging.

DOI: 10.1016/0921-8734(92)90034-m
PMID: 1383772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1992 Nov;159(5):1091-4. doi: 10.2214/ajr.159.5.1384298.

Self-expanding metal stents for palliative treatment of malignant ureteral 
obstruction.

Lugmayr H(1), Pauer W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, General Hospital, Wels, Austria.

OBJECTIVE: We studied the immediate and long-term efficacy of the Wallstent 
device in the treatment of ureteral obstruction caused by malignant disease.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: In 23 patients (30 ureters), self-expanding metal stents 
were implanted endoscopically (n = 23), percutaneously (n = 5), or 
bidirectionally (n = 2) because of extrinsic malignant ureteral obstruction. 
Patients who met the following criteria were selected for stent implantation: 
(1) life expectancy of at least 6 months, (2) current polychemotherapy, (3) 
increasing levels of serum creatinine, and (4) severe clinical signs and 
symptoms associated with hydronephrosis. Obstruction was diagnosed by using 
sonography and excretory urography. After radiologic localization and dilatation 
of the stenosis, the Wallstent device was inserted. For 4 weeks, a double-J 
catheter inserted through the stent was kept in place in order to prevent 
obstruction by reversible hyperplastic reaction of the urothelium. Patients were 
followed up for 31 weeks (range, 3-75 weeks). Follow-up included sonography, 
excretory urography, and determination of serum levels of creatinine in all 
cases and furosemide scintigraphy and the Whitaker test in selected cases.
RESULTS: Implantation of the Wallstent device was successful in 30 (97%) of 31 
cases attempted. The survival rate was 81% after 6 months and 61% after 8 
months. The primary patency was 83% after 30 weeks. Complications were 
macrohematuria (one patient) and incrustation (two patients). No infection and 
no migration or compression of the stent were observed.
CONCLUSION: Implantation of a Wallstent device is a safe and effective 
alternative to double-J catheter placement in tumor-associated ureteral 
obstruction.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.159.5.1384298
PMID: 1384298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Haematologica. 1992 Jul-Aug;77(4):322-5.

CEOP/PEB alternating chemotherapy in advanced intermediate and high-grade 
non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.

Abate G(1), Tafuto S, Romano A, Gailli E, Corazzelli G.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia Oncologica, Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Napoli, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND METHOD: From February, 1987 to July, 1990, 28 patients (M/F = 
16/12; median age = 60.5 yrs) affected by intermediate (22) or high-grade (6) 
advanced stage (III = 8; IV = 20) NHL were given a median (range 4-10) of 8 
cycles of CEOP (Cyclophosphamide, Epirubicin, Vincristine and Prednisone), 
alternated every 21 days with PEB (Cisplatin, Etoposide, Bleomycin).
RESULTS: Nineteen (68%) pts. achieved a CR, 5 (18%) a PR, and 4 (14%) 
experienced progressive disease (PD); 11/19 CRs subsequently relapsed within a 
median (range 3-15) time of 8 mos.. After a follow-up ranging from 6 to 42+ 
(median 18) mos., the 3-year actuarial overall survival (OS) was 51% and shifted 
to 18% at 42 mos. After 7-42+ (median 19) mos., 14/19 (73%) Crs were still alive 
with 63% of them predicted to survive at 3 years. The projected 3-year 
disease-free survival (DFS) for these pts. after 1-36+ (median 8) mos. was 28%.
DISCUSSION: CEOP/PEB alternating chemotherapy failed to improve the therapeutic 
results we obtained in a previous study with CEOP alone. Toxicity was moderate, 
but higher than expected.

PMID: 1385277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Dan Med Bull. 1992 Jun;39(3):258-61.

Does increased life expectancy imply active life expectancy?

Schroll M(1).

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Department HL, Kommunehospitalet, Copenhagen.

From Danish results, it is argued that longer life need not imply worse health. 
If we as individuals and society will prevent the "pawnbroker-diseases," 
increase access to geriatric rehabilitation, and supply necessary services in an 
individualised way, most added years can be active years. The following 
conclusions are drawn: In the first decades after the year 2000, morbidity, 
disability and mortality will be postponed, but treatment will be more important 
for prolongation of life than prevention. Therefore, the net result will be 
extension of morbidity. The next question is how severe disability will be among 
the increased number of people who have a disease, but are not dying from it. 
The elderly will be more healthy in the future, but the prevalence of chronic 
disabling diseases may not change, or may even increase. That is because healthy 
men and women can postpone disability and death until higher ages (successful 
aging), but some elderly persons live with premature disabling diseases, which 
might have killed them some decades ago. When elderly people make the transition 
from autonomy to dependence in the course of a disease, it is possible by early 
geriatric intervention and rehabilitation to restore them to functional levels 
and provide them with more active years. It is possible to disseminate geriatric 
rehabilitation to a much wider population of elderly with multipathology and 
social problems. In this way, disability can be overcome in a higher fraction of 
diseased elderly.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1386302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. J Gerontol. 1992 Sep;47(5):S253-60. doi: 10.1093/geronj/47.5.s253.

Estimating the prevalence of long-term disability for an aging society.

Kunkel SR(1), Applebaum RA.

Author information:
(1)Scripps Gerontology Center, Miami University, Oxford, Ohio 45056.

Using information from two national data sets, this report provides projections 
of disability rates for the U.S. population age 65 and above. The research 
develops a series of projections based upon alternative sets of assumptions 
about mortality and disability. Using 1986 baseline disability data, estimates 
by single year of age are projected through the year 2040. The social policy 
implications of these projections are discussed in the final section.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/47.5.s253
PMID: 1387411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Ross Med Zh. 1992;(4):16-9.

[Survival in esophageal cancer in high altitude].

[Article in Russian]

Igisinov SI.

Records of 5474 esophageal cancer patients treated in 1959-1983 have been 
analyzed. The patients came from various climatic and geographical zones of the 
high-mountain region. A correlation has been found between the survival of the 
patients, scope of the disease-oriented aid and hypoxia of high mountains. Total 
cumulative values are presented for survival of esophageal cancer patients by 
five-year intervals in various medico-geographical zones of high mountains and 
according to methods of treatment.

PMID: 1387825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Arch Surg. 1992 Jul;127(7):841-5; discussion 845-6. doi: 
10.1001/archsurg.1992.01420070105019.

Treatment and outcome of right colon cancers adherent to adjacent organs or the 
abdominal wall.

Landercasper J(1), Stolee RT, Steenlage E, Strutt PJ, Cogbill TH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Gundersen/Lutheran Medical Center, La Crosse, WI.

Fifty-four (4%) of 1284 patients treated for adenocarcinoma of the colon and 
rectum during a 10-year period ending in 1989 underwent potentially curative 
resection of right colon lesions found during surgery to be adherent to adjacent 
organs, abdominal wall, or retroperitoneum. Final pathologic staging was as 
follows: modified Dukes' class B1 (n = 2), B2 (n = 24), C1 (n = 1), and C2 (n = 
27). Thirteen (24%) patients had postoperative complications, including two 
(3.7%) with sepsis. One patient died after surgery (mortality, 1.9%). Survival 
rates at 1, 3, and 5 years were 74%, 52%, and 37%, respectively. Only one (11%) 
of nine patients with pancreatic or duodenal adherence treated with limited 
resection was free of disease during follow-up. Adjuvant radiation therapy and 
chemotherapy did not improve survival. Histologic depth of tumor penetration 
could not be predicted by intraoperative assessment, and therefore radical 
resection is recommended whenever possible.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1992.01420070105019
PMID: 1388015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Am Heart J. 1992 Oct;124(4):924-32. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90974-z.

Assessment of the efficacy and safety of antiarrhythmic therapy for chronic 
atrial fibrillation: observations on the role of trial design and implications 
of drug-related mortality.

Reimold SC(1), Chalmers TC, Berlin JA, Antman EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115.

The findings in clinical trials of antiarrhythmic drug efficacy and safety are 
frequently difficult to compare, since study design often has an important 
effect on trial outcome. To explore this problem further, we compared three 
designs--randomized control, nonrandomized control, and 
uncontrolled--collectively enrolling 2415 patients in 21 trials reporting on the 
role of quinidine in the prevention of chronic atrial fibrillation. The 
proportion of patients remaining in sinus rhythm at 3, 6, and 12 months after 
cardioversion was calculated by means of Kaplan-Meier techniques, and the data 
were pooled for each trial design. For the randomized control trials the 
difference in the absolute percentage of patients remaining in sinus rhythm in 
the quinidine and control groups was 24% at each of the three follow-up 
intervals. Contrary to findings in the randomized control trials, the magnitude 
of the treatment benefit in nonrandomized trials was smaller and declined 
markedly over time. The percentage of patients remaining in sinus rhythm in the 
uncontrolled trials was intermediate to the percentages in the other two trial 
designs. When the data from all three trial designs were pooled, the crude 
mortality rate was 2.0% in quinidine-treated patients and 0.6% in control 
patients. Sudden cardiac death or ventricular fibrillation was the cause of 
death in 13 of 19 patients for whom the cause of death was known, highlighting 
the potential risk of quinidine-induced proarrhythmia. Although quinidine is 
effective in maintaining sinus rhythm, estimates of the treatment effect vary 
among trial types.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90974-z
PMID: 1388328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Blood Purif. 1992;10(1):13-21. doi: 10.1159/000170069.

Dose of dialysis: what index?

Charra B(1), Calemard E, Chazot C, Terrat JC, Vanel T, Ruffet M, Laurent G.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Rein Artificiel, Tassin-la-Demi-Lune, France.

Wider patient acceptance criteria in hemodialysis (HD) programs do not seem to 
completely explain the increasing mortality reported in the United States at a 
time characterized by reduced treatment time and dose. This raises the question 
of HD standard and adequacy. It stimulated us to analyze patient survival with 
unchanged 'old-times' methods. 445 unselected patients have been treated for 22 
years by the same unchanged methods (24 m2/week, flat-plate dialyzers, 
cuprophane membrane, acetate buffer). Their survival data were compared to major 
HD registries and series. Survival was also evaluated as a function of mean 
arterial pressure (MAP), urea fractional clearance (Kt/V), and middle-molecule 
dialysis index (DI). Kaplan-Meier (with log-rank test) analysis and Cox 
proportional hazard model were used. Survival at short and long term was better 
in our series. This favorable survival difference was more obvious for older 
patients at the start of HD. It could not be accounted for by selection bias, 
but correlated with good MAP control without medication and with higher than 
usual Kt/V (1.67 +/- 0.41) and DI (1.47 +/- 0.38). Cox analysis including five 
covariates confirmed that survival was linked to MAP. It suggested that survival 
improvement might be expected from a DI increment of over 1.38 but not from a 
Kt/V increment of over 1.60. Adequate dialysis cannot be reduced to numbers; it 
should include both sufficient small- and middle-molecule diffusion and 
ultrafiltration with arterial pressure control without need for antihypertensive 
medication. The long-term satisfactory survival remains the best index of 
overall dialysis adequacy.

DOI: 10.1159/000170069
PMID: 1389007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


