185. Br Heart J. 1992 Aug;68(2):241-5. doi: 10.1136/hrt.68.8.241.

Cost effectiveness of the implantable cardioverter defibrillator: a preliminary 
analysis.

O'Brien BJ(1), Buxton MJ, Rushby JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: An implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) may be effective in 
reducing the risk of sudden cardiac death. The high cost of ICD treatment, 
however, compared with alternatives raises the question of whether this new 
technology is an efficient use of scarce health care resources.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the incremental cost effectiveness of the implantable 
cardioverter defibrillator compared with drug treatment with amiodarone in the 
management of patients at high risk of sudden cardiac death.
DESIGN: A cost effectiveness model was constructed from data already published 
and other secondary sources. Differences in patient survival were calculated 
from life tables for comparable ICD and amiodarone patient series. Costs were 
based on typical patient management protocols derived from current United 
Kingdom practice and interviews with physicians.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost effectiveness of ICD treatment was computed over 20 
years; all future costs and effects were discounted at 6% per year.
RESULTS: Estimated life expectancy was 11.1 and 6.7 years with ICD and 
amiodarone respectively; the discounted 20 year difference lies in the range 1.7 
to 3.7 years. Discounted 20 year treatment costs were 28,400 pounds for the ICD 
and 2300 pounds for amiodarone. Cost effectiveness of ICD treatment lies in the 
range of 15,400 pounds to 8200 pounds per life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost effectiveness of ICD treatment is similar to some existing 
cardiac programmes funded under the NHS but uncertainty exists due to 
limitations of the data. Costs of ICD treatment may fall in the future as the 
life of the device increases and less invasive implantation methods are needed. 
The effectivess of ICD compared with amiodarone is currently being studied by a 
randomised controlled trial.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.68.8.241
PMCID: PMC1025025
PMID: 1389748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Epidemiol Bull. 1992 Sep;13(3):4-8.

Mortality in the Americas 1950-1990.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1389981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Ann Vasc Surg. 1992 Jul;6(4):321-4. doi: 10.1007/BF02008787.

Carotid endarterectomy in the elderly.

Treiman RL(1), Wagner WH, Foran RF, Cossman DV, Levin PM, Cohen JL, Treiman GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, California.

The records of 146 patients 80 years of age or older who underwent 183 carotid 
endarterectomy operations from 1964 through 1990 were reviewed to determine 
surgical risk. The indications for operation were asymptomatic patients with 
carotid stenosis (n = 36); ipsilateral transient ischemic attacks (n = 46); 
ipsilateral stroke (n = 28); ipsilateral retinal embolus (n = 15); 
nonlateralizing symptoms (n = 40); and asymptomatic side in patients with 
contralateral symptoms (n = 18). Postoperatively, three patients (1.6% of 
operations) had a stroke with a residual deficit and three (1.6%) died. All 
deaths were from myocardial infarction. For comparison, during the same time 
period, the combined stroke with residual deficit and death rate for patients 
less than 80 operated upon for similar indications was 3.5%. Since 80-year-old 
patients have a life expectancy of at least five years, the authors conclude 
that elderly patients should be evaluated for carotid endarterectomy using 
criteria similar to that used for younger patients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02008787
PMID: 1390018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Ann Vasc Surg. 1992 Jul;6(4):325-33. doi: 10.1007/BF02008788.

Early results of infrainguinal arterial reconstruction with a modified 
biological conduit.

Wagner WH(1), Levin PM, Treiman RL, Cossman DV, Foran RF, Cohen JL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, 
California.

We implanted 112 glutaraldehyde-fixed bovine carotid artery grafts (BioPolyMeric 
[BPM]) for infrainguinal reconstruction in 107 legs of 98 patients. Indications 
for surgery were disabling claudication in 28%, rest pain in 33% and tissue loss 
in 39%. In 32%, BPM bypass followed failed ipsilateral reconstruction. 
Autologous vein was either absent or inadequate in 60% of cases. BPM was used 
preferentially over vein in above-knee bypasses. The distal anastomosis was to 
the above-knee popliteal artery in 40%, to the below-knee popliteal artery in 
35%, and to the tibial arteries in 25%. Follow-up was available from one to 25 
months, with a mean of nine months. Wound complications developed after 9% of 
operations, including seven (6%) graft infections. Both patent grafts that 
became infected were salvaged. Four patients (4%) died within 60 days of surgery 
due to cardiac complications. Life-table primary and secondary patencies of all 
grafts were 64% and 65% at one year, and 48% and 62% at two years, respectively. 
The only factor significantly affecting graft patency was the location of the 
distal anastomosis (p < .01). Primary patencies at one and two years to the 
above-knee popliteal artery were 90% and 80%, to the below-knee popliteal artery 
were 56% and 37%, and to the infrapopliteal arteries were 34% and 26%. Bypass to 
16% of extremities resulted in amputation, including 5% that were amputated with 
patent grafts. No limb loss occurred as a result of operation for claudication. 
In conclusion, BPM grafts provide early results comparable to saphenous vein 
above the knee.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF02008788
PMID: 1390019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Br J Haematol. 1992 Jul;81(3):391-4. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2141.1992.tb08245.x.

Malignant transformation and life expectancy in monoclonal gammopathy of 
undetermined significance.

Blade J(1), Lopez-Guillermo A, Rozman C, Cervantes F, Salgado C, Aguilar JL, 
Vives-Corrons JL, Montserrat E.

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate School of Haematology Farreras-Valentí, Hospital Clínic i 
Provincial, University of Barcelona, Spain.

The actuarial probability of malignant transformation and the impact on expected 
survival were analysed in a series of 128 persons diagnosed with monoclonal 
gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) over a 20-year period. At a 
median follow-up of 56 months the M-component remains stable in 101 patients 
(78.9%), 14 patients (10.9%) have died from non-related disorders and 13 (10.2%) 
have developed malignant transformation of MGUS (multiple myeloma, 10; primary 
amyloidosis, two; Waldenström's macroglobulinaemia, one). The actuarial 
probability of malignant transformation at 5 and 10 years was 8.5% and 19.2%, 
respectively. When different presenting features were analysed for predictive 
value of the malignant transformation, the IgA type of MGUS was the only 
variable associated with a higher probability of such an event (P less than 
0.025). Although no significant difference was observed between the survival 
probability of persons with MGUS and that of the control population, the 
development of malignant transformation was associated with a shorter survival 
(P less than 0.001).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.1992.tb08245.x
PMID: 1390212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin. 1992 Jun-Jul;10(6):323-7.

[AIDS: descriptive study and survival analysis of the 1st 40 cases].

[Article in Spanish]

Redondo C(1), Martínez-Ros C, Galera C.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario Virgen de la Arrixaca, Murcia.

AIM: To analyze the epidemiologic and clinical features, the survival as well as 
length of stay of the first 40 AIDS cases seen at the internal Medicine 
Department of the Virgen de la Arrixaca Hospital (Murcia, Spain).
METHODS: Prospective study from September 1988 through July 1991. AIDS criteria 
used were the CDC (1987) ones. The survival analysis was performed using the 
Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: Thirty-four patients were male (85%) and six female (15%), with a mean 
age of 39 years. Eighteen (45%) were homo or bisexual, 11 drug addicts (27.5%), 
8 (20%) had sexual contacts with prostitutes and/or drug addicts. Two patients 
were recipients of blood products and in one case no risk could be determined. 
Opportunistic infections were the first AIDS criteria in 75% of cases. Among the 
most frequent are P. carinii pneumonia (17.5%), CNS toxoplasmosis (15%) and 
cryptosporidiosis (12.5%). In 20% of cases a Kaposi's sarcoma developed. The 
probability of survival after three months was 91% +/- 9.6, at 7 months 79.5% 
+/- 15.0 and at 15 months 72.5 +/- 18. Overall, 90% of patients had at least one 
hospital admission, and 27.7% were hospitalized for 50% of more of their 
survival time.
CONCLUSIONS: We recorded an increased number of AIDS cases since 1988, being 
most of them homo-bisexual male patients, with opportunistic infections as first 
manifestation. We noticed also high proportion of cases of heterosexual 
transmission.

PMID: 1391013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Health Rep. 1992;4(1):67-72.

Development of health expectancy indicators: meeting of the International 
Network on Health Expectancy (REVES).

[Article in English, French]

Adams OB(1), Wilkins R.

Author information:
(1)Canadian Medical Association, Ottawa.

PMID: 1391654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1992;21(1):55-62. doi: 10.1007/BF01811964.

Racial differences in cancer of the male breast--15 year experience in the 
Detroit metropolitan area.

Simon MS(1), McKnight E, Schwartz A, Martino S, Swanson GM.

Author information:
(1)Wayne State University School of Medicine, Division of Hematology and 
Oncology, Detroit MI 48201.

Characteristics of cancer of the male breast were evaluated in a population 
based review of 244 cases identified retrospectively through the Metropolitan 
Detroit Cancer Surveillance System (MDCSS) between 1973 and 1987. The mean age 
at diagnosis was 65 years and median survival time, 44 months. There were no 
apparent time trends in incidence for either white or black men from 1973 
through 1987. Modified radical mastectomy was the most common surgical 
procedure, while simple and radical mastectomy declined in popularity over time. 
Cox's proportional hazards regression model was used to test the simultaneous 
effects of age, race, stage, and treatment on survival. Men older than 65 at 
diagnosis had a greater risk of dying than men under 65 (RR 1.52, 95% confidence 
interval, 1.01-2.28). Survival was significantly worse for men who presented at 
a more advanced stage; regional versus localized (RR 2.19, 95% confidence 
interval, 1.39-3.45) and remote versus localized (RR 4.31, 95% confidence 
interval 2.26-8.23). Race had no significant effect on survival in men with 
breast cancer in the Detroit Metropolitan Area.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01811964
PMID: 1391975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 1992 Apr;32(4):430-5.

[Wallenberg's syndrome due to vertebral artery dissection following minimal neck 
injury--report of two cases].

[Article in Japanese]

Shimizu J(1), Nakagawa Y, Fuji Y, Nakase H, Mannen T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo.

We described two cases of the lateral medullary syndrome (Wallenberg's syndrome) 
due to vertebral artery dissection following minimal neck injuries. The first 
case was a 45-year-old man, who hit his head and often rotated his head because 
of posterior neck discomfort. Two years after the injury, he suffered from 
sudden sharp neck pain, nausea, and vertigo, which was followed by left hand 
numbness and difficulty in walking due to the right lateral medullary syndrome. 
Angiography showed right vertebral artery dissection at the fourth segment. The 
second case, a 48-year-old man, suffered from neck pain immediately after he 
hyperextended his neck for painting a wall. Within several hours, he experienced 
left hand numbness and difficulty in walking due to the lateral medullary 
syndrome. Angiography showed a saccular aneurysm and dissection of the right 
vertebral artery at the fourth segment. In both cases, minor traumas were 
thought to be the causes of vertebral artery dissection. We surveyed previously 
reported 84 cases (men: 50, women: 34) of the vertebral artery dissection due to 
minor traumas. Seventy per cent of patients were in their third or fourth decade 
of life. The main causes of trauma preceding the dissection were neck 
manipulation especially chiropractics (52%). The third segment was most 
vulnerable. Delay in onset following neck trauma could be more than a week, but 
in most cases the delay was less than 24 hours. Cervical rotation and extension 
were thought to precipitate dissection.

PMID: 1395331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Health Psychol. 1992;11(4):262-6. doi: 10.1037//0278-6133.11.4.262.

Trait humor and longevity: do comics have the last laugh?

Rotton J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Florida International University, North Miami 
33181.

Four sets of biographical data were analyzed in order to test the hypothesis 
that the ability to generate humor is associated with longevity. Although steps 
were taken to ensure that tests had high levels of statistical power, analyses 
provided very little support for the idea that individuals with a well-developed 
sense of humor live longer than serious writers and other entertainers. In 
addition, a subsidiary analysis revealed that those in the business of 
entertaining others died at an earlier age than those in other lines of 
endeavor. These findings suggest that researchers should turn their attention 
from trait humor to the effects of humorous material.

DOI: 10.1037//0278-6133.11.4.262
PMID: 1396495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Eur Heart J. 1992 Sep;13(9):1251-8.

A multicentre, randomized trial on the benefit/risk profile of amiodarone, 
flecainide and propafenone in patients with cardiac disease and complex 
ventricular arrhythmias. Antiarrhythmic Drug Evaluation Group (A.D.E.G.).

[No authors listed]

The long-term benefit/risk profiles of amiodarone, flecainide and propafenone 
were compared in 141 patients with complex ventricular arrhythmias and cardiac 
disease, in a trial designed to mimic the clinical decision-making process. The 
patients were randomized to various sequences of the three drugs, at two dose 
levels and followed for 2 years. Drug or doses were changed to deal with 
insufficient reduction of arrhythmias at 24 h ECG or severe adverse drug 
reaction (ADR). At 2 years 18 patients had died (9/18 suddenly), 19 had 
withdrawn because of major clinical events or severe ADR, 13 had dropped out, 
seven had been non-responders throughout the entire sequence of drugs, whereas 
eight were non-responders only at the last visit. Thus, 76 patients (54%) were 
responders after 2 years. Of these, 57 were responders for 2 years with the 
first drug. Median exposure time to amiodarone, 518 days.patient-1, was higher 
than for flecainide and propafenone, 218 and 178, respectively, indicating 
better overall response to amiodarone (P less than 0.01). A total of 50 ADRs led 
to drug withdrawal, with cardiovascular ADR being less frequent (P less than 
0.03) for amiodarone (2/11) than for flecainide (13/16) and propafenone (16/23). 
In conclusion, with sequences of amiodarone, flecainide and propafenone, an 
overall response rate of 79% could be obtained in the short-term (7-28 days) and 
54% at 2 years. Amiodarone has a more favourable therapeutic profile than 
flecainide and propafenone in these patients, having less tendency to worsen 
heart failure.

PMID: 1396837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Dent Clin North Am. 1992 Jul;36(3):783-95.

Fixed prosthodontics in the elderly population. Life expectancy of fixed 
restorations, failures, and retreatment methods.

Gordon SR(1), Lloyd PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Boston University Goldman School of Graduate 
Dentistry, Massachusetts.

The restorative needs of older dental patients challenge the ingenuity, anatomic 
knowledge, artistic skills, occlusal philosophies, and material knowledge of the 
clinician. Achieving the most secure foundation while simultaneously eliminating 
imperfections and incorporating a design that promotes good oral hygiene and a 
natural and attractive appearance are significant contributors to a patient's 
welfare. The treatment decision regarding fixed prosthodontics for elderly 
patients requires the balancing of two opposing arguments: 1. In patients who 
are older, and who are perhaps medically or physically compromised, and, in 
addition, who may be on a limited budget (or perceived limited budget), it is 
important to fabricate dental prostheses that are as good as possible to 
minimize the likelihood that the prosthesis will need to be remade in the future 
when the patient is likely to be even more compromised financially, medically, 
or physically, and also to minimize the stress on the patient of accommodating 
to something that is less than an optimal dental solution. 2. Patients in this 
age group often anticipate financial strain in the future, perhaps realistically 
in view of the increasing percent of older adults who are institutionalized (5% 
of persons 65 years old or older, 20% of persons 80 years old or older). Also, 
many are reluctant to invest large amounts of money in their teeth when they are 
already quite elderly and realize they may not live long enough to make the 
investment "worthwhile." Educating the patient regarding average life expectancy 
is sometimes helpful, but the experience of many clinical dentists is that many 
elderly persons either do not believe the numbers, require greater certainty in 
their "investments," or do not place as high a value on their dental health as 
they do other aspects of their lives (in a context in which there are more needs 
than resources to pay for them). Finally, many older adults, contrary to the 
popular bumper sticker, are trying to preserve as many resources for their 
children and grandchildren as possible. The final decision should be made with 
sensitivity to the overall needs of the patient, and with the assistance of a 
well-informed patient or other responsible party.

PMID: 1397434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Dent Clin North Am. 1992 Oct;36(4):841-55.

Diagnostic considerations for the medically complex patient.

D'Ambrosio JA(1), Raborn GW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Diagnosis, School of Dental Medicine, University of 
Connecticut Health Center, Farmington.

As advances in medical diagnostic and treatment modalities continue to increase 
the life expectancy of the population, the likelihood of encountering patients 
in dental practice with concomitant medical problems will also rise. Thus it 
will become increasingly important for practicing dentists to take thorough 
medical histories, recognize signs of systemic disorders, and work closely with 
their medical colleagues to ensure that safe dental care is rendered to these 
medically complex patients. Although acutely ill or severely compromised 
individuals may be best treated in a hospital setting by those with special 
training, all dental practitioners should possess the diagnostic and 
communicative skills needed to manage those who are receiving out-patient 
medical care.

PMID: 1397437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. J Int Med Res. 1992 Jun;20(3):279-88. doi: 10.1177/030006059202000310.

Results of long-term follow-up after compensated fixed-dose therapy for 
thyrotoxicosis.

Zaini A(1), Khir A, Doi SA, Chan SP, Paramsothy M, Khoo BH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital, University of Malaya, Kuala 
Lumpar.

To evaluate the effects of simple compensated fixed-dose iodine-131 therapy for 
thyrotoxicosis, the long-term results for 74 patients treated with a fixed dose 
of iodine-131 ranging from 5 to 12 mCi (185 to 444 MBq) were evaluated in the 
first 2 years of a trial. The dose selected was loosely based on the gross size 
of the thyroid gland. Routine antithyroid drug therapy was given for a minimum 
of 3 months after iodine-131 therapy. The mean (+/- SD) duration of follow-up 
was 74.5 +/- 42 months. The results indicated that roughly 25% of patients 
treated in this way will become hypothyroid after 5 years and that 85% are cured 
(need no further therapy during the follow-up period) using a single dose of 
iodine-131. Of those cured using a single iodine-131 dose, 81% were no longer 
receiving drugs after 6 months and 85% after 1 year. Such a regimen seems 
currently to be among the best available where prolonged periods of 
medication-free euthyroidism after therapy are sought.

DOI: 10.1177/030006059202000310
PMID: 1397673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Haematologica. 1992 Jan-Feb;77(1):16-20.

M-BCR breakpoint location does not predict survival in Philadelphia 
chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia.

Zaccaria A(1), Martinelli G, Buzzi M, Zuffa E, Zamagni MD, Testoni N, Russo D, 
Guerrasio A, Saglio G, Tura S.

Author information:
(1)Centro di Genetica Oncologica, Università di Bologna, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Some reports in the recent literature have shown that the site of 
molecular rearrangement within the M-BCR area may have a prognostic value in Ph1 
+ CML patients. A number of studies have, however, failed to demonstrate this 
finding. Here we report the molecular rearrangements of 107 patients and their 
clinical follow-up.
METHODS: Localization of the breakpoints was determined according to 
conventional criteria, after digestion with 2 to 4 restriction endonucleases and 
hybridization with 1 or 2 molecular probes.
RESULTS: Sixty two patients were rearranged in the 5' area and 45 in the 3' 
area: there was no difference between the survival curves of the two groups, at 
least not after 3 years of follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: The site of the breakpoint within the M-BCR has no prognostic 
significance in our series.

PMID: 1398276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Haematologica. 1992 Jan-Feb;77(1):84-6.

Prognostic relevance of ploidy and proliferative activity evaluation by flow 
cytometry in poor prognosis non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.

De Lena M(1), Barletta A, Marzullo F, Lorusso V, Berardi F, Tommasi S, Mangia A, 
Paradiso A.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Oncologia Medica, Istituto di Oncologia, Bari, Italy.

The DNA content and S-phase fraction (SPF) of pathological paraffin-embedded 
lymph node tissue from 47 patients with poor prognosis non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 
(NHL) were analyzed by flow cytometry (FCM). Fifteen of 42 evaluable cases 
proved to be aneuploid. The DNA aneuploidy was not correlated with age, 
histology, stage, presence of systemic symptoms, clinical response or overall 
survival (OS) of patients. Mean SPF evaluated in 35 cases was 22.9%. After 78 
months of follow-up, nine patients with diploid low SPF tumors had a 
significantly longer disease-free survival (DSF) with respect to the group of 
patients (33 cases) with aneuploid or diploid high SPF tumors (100% vs 59%; log 
rank test, p = 0.04).

PMID: 1398287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Haematologica. 1992 Jan-Feb;77(1):87-8.

Age as a prognostic factor in primary non Hodgkin lymphoma of the stomach.

Ferrari M(1), Landonio G, Majno M, Porretta T, Scanzi F.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Oncologia Medica G.E. Falck, Ospedale Niguarda Ca' Granda, 
Milano, Italy.

We present 20 cases of primary non-Hodgkin lymphoma of the stomach. Histological 
classification, staging, age of patients and therapeutical approach were 
evaluated. Median overall survival was 30 months, and 5-year survival was 44%. 
In our small series, the age of the patients plays an important role: median 
overall survival is 18 months in patients greater than 60 y.o. (compared to 90 
months in patients less than 60 y.o.) and 5-year survival 12.5% (compared to 
62%).

PMID: 1398288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Haematologica. 1992 Mar-Apr;77(2):151-5.

B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL): a report of 17 pediatric cases.

Rosanda C(1), Cantù-Rajnoldi A, Invernizzi R, Castagni M, Di Cataldo A, Fenu S, 
Forni M, Frappampina V, Granchi D, Miano C, et al.

Author information:
(1)Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Genova, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND METHODS: B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) presents FAB 
L3 morphology and surface Ig, CD19, CD20, CD24. This pattern may show some 
morphological and immunological heterogeneity. Seventeen pediatric cases of 
B-ALL at onset, treated in twelve AIEOP Centers (Italian Association for 
Pediatric Hematology and Oncology), are presented.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Clinical and hematological features were characterized 
by low WBC counts at presentation, high M/F ratio, older age and association 
with extramedullary involvement. The overall survival curve at 78 months is 40%. 
All patients showed blasts positive for surface Ig (sIg), DR, CD19, and CD24. 
Ten/17 cases presented the classical features of B-ALL: FAB L3 morphology, sIg+ 
restricted to light chains, CD20+, cytoplasm mu (c mu)-, CD10-, TdT-. The 
remainder showed some differences in this pattern, such as non-L3 morphology (3 
cases), absence of CD20 (3 cases), CD10+ (4 cases), TdT+ (3 cases), c mu+ (1 
case), lack of surface light chains (1 case). This rare ALL subset seems to be 
characterized by a high phenotype heterogeneity, indicating various degrees of 
differentiation.

PMID: 1398300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Haematologica. 1992 Mar-Apr;77(2):156-61.

Primary gastrointestinal lymphoma: a clinicopathological study of 58 cases.

Cirillo M(1), Federico M, Curci G, Tamborrino E, Piccinini L, Silingardi V.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra e Divisione di Oncologia Medica, Università di Modena, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Primary non Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) of the gastrointestinal tract 
(GI) is the most frequent extranodal lymphoma accounting for approximately 40% 
of all extranodal primary NHL. The role of surgery and other treatment 
modalities in the management of these patients is still controversial.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We reviewed the records of 68 patients with primary 
GI-NHL. Ten patients had incomplete records and were excluded from further 
evaluation. The records of 58 patients were considered, and all were available 
for analysis and follow-up.
RESULTS: The most frequent site of involvement was the stomach (47 patients), 
followed by ileum (7 patients), large bowel (3 patients) and duodenum (1 
patient). Malignant lymphomas of follicular center cell origin represented the 
most prevalent histologic types, accounting for 58% (34 of 58) of all cases. 
Stage, evaluated according to the criteria of Musshoff, was Ie in 15 cases, IIe 
in 16, IIIe in 7, and IV in the remaining 20 cases. The median survival for the 
entire group of 58 patients was 54 months, with 46% of patients surviving at 5 
years. The median survival was 71 months for patients in stage I-II, 60 for 
patients in stage III, and 25 for patients in stage IV (p = 0.016). Moreover, we 
found significantly improved survival in patients undergoing surgical tumor 
resection (p = 0.003).
CONCLUSIONS: Even if at the present time the optimal management of primary 
GI-NHL is difficult to assess, our data suggest that it is prudent to advise 
resection followed by adjuvant CT in most patients, whereas CT alone should be 
considered only when surgery cannot be performed.

PMID: 1398301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Int J Health Serv. 1992;22(4):583-601. doi: 10.2190/B2TP-3R5M-Q7UP-DUA2.

Has socialism failed? An analysis of health indicators under socialism.

Navarro V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins University School 
of Hygiene and Public Health, Baltimore, MD 21205.

Erratum in
    Int J Health Serv 1993;23(2):407.

This article analyzes the widely held assumption in academia and the mainstream 
press that capitalism has proven superior to socialism in responding to human 
needs. The author surveys the health conditions of the world's populations, 
continent by continent, and shows that, contrary to dominant ideology, socialism 
and socialist forces have been, for the most part, better able to improve health 
conditions than have capitalism and capitalist forces. In the underdeveloped 
world, socialist forces and regimes have, more frequently than not, improved 
health and social indicators better than capitalist forces and regimes, and in 
the developed world, countries with strong socialist forces have been better 
able to improve health conditions than those countries lacking or with weak 
socialist forces. The socialist experience has, of course, also included 
negative developments that have negated important components of the socialist 
project. Still, the evidence presented in this article shows that the historical 
experience of socialism has not been one of failure. To the contrary: it has 
been, for the most part, more successful than capitalism in improving the health 
conditions of the world's populations.

DOI: 10.2190/B2TP-3R5M-Q7UP-DUA2
PMID: 1399170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. J Bacteriol. 1992 Oct;174(20):6548-53. doi:
10.1128/jb.174.20.6548-6553.1992.

Molecular characterization of the Zymomonas mobilis enolase (eno) gene.

Burnett ME(1), Liu J, Conway T.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska, Lincoln 68588-0118.

The Zymomonas mobilis gene encoding enolase was cloned by genetic 
complementation of an Escherichia coli eno mutant. An enzyme assay and sodium 
dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis confirmed the overexpression 
of enolase in E. coli clones carrying the Z. mobilis eno gene. The eno gene is 
present in a single copy of the Z. mobilis genome. Nucleotide sequence analysis 
of the eno region revealed an open reading frame of 1,293 bp that encodes a 
protein of 428 amino acids with a predicted molecular weight of 45,813. 
Comparison of the sequence of Z. mobilis enolase with primary amino acid 
sequences for other enolases indicates that the enzyme is highly conserved. 
Unlike all of the previously studied glycolytic genes from Z. mobilis that 
possess canonical ribosome binding sites, the eno gene is preceded by a modest 
Shine-Dalgarno sequence. The transcription initiation site was mapped by primer 
extension and found to be located within a 115-bp sequence that is 55.7% 
identical to a highly conserved consensus sequence found within the regulatory 
regions of highly expressed Z. mobilis genes. Northern RNA blot analysis 
revealed that eno is encoded on a 1.45-kb transcript. The half-life of the eno 
mRNA was determined to be 17.7 +/- 1.7 min, indicating that it is unusually 
stable. The abundance of the eno message is proposed to account for enolase 
being the most prevalent protein in Z. mobilis.

DOI: 10.1128/jb.174.20.6548-6553.1992
PMCID: PMC207621
PMID: 1400207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1992 Sep;74(8):1217-28.

Long-term results after Russe bone-grafting: the effect of malunion of the 
scaphoid.

Jiranek WA(1), Ruby LK, Millender LB, Bankoff MS, Newberg AH.

Author information:
(1)New England Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02120.

Twenty-five patients had Russe anterior corticocancellous bone-grafting between 
1973 and 1984 for twenty-six symptomatic established non-unions of the scaphoid. 
The mean duration of follow-up was eleven years (range, seven to eighteen 
years). Twenty-one (81 per cent) of the twenty-six scaphoid bones united. We 
developed two rating scales to evaluate the results of the operation. One scale, 
based on objective findings, included the radiographic appearance of the wrist, 
the range of motion, and strength; the other scale, based on subjective 
findings, comprised function, pain, perception of a decrease in performance 
because of limitation of motion or strength, and satisfaction. These scales were 
used to compare the objective and subjective results in patients who had a 
malunion of the scaphoid in which the lateral intrascaphoid angle was more than 
45 degrees convex dorsally between the proximal and distal poles (a so-called 
flexion or humpback deformity, which results in extension of the proximal 
fragment of the scaphoid at the radiocarpal joint) with the results in patients 
who had no such deformity. The lateral intrascaphoid angle was more than 45 
degrees in thirteen (50 per cent) of the twenty-six wrists. Although the 
difference in the objective results between the wrists that had a malunion and 
those that did not have a malunion was highly significant (p = 0.001), there was 
no significant difference in the subjective results between the two groups, 
including satisfaction of the patient (p = 0.39). Twenty-three patients (92 per 
cent) returned to full-time employment and twenty-two (88 per cent), to sports 
activities. Twenty-three patients (92 per cent) reported that they had 
pronounced relief of pain and that the procedure had improved their quality of 
life. The presence of this deformity of the scaphoid after bone-grafting for a 
symptomatic non-union was not predictive of a poor long-term subjective outcome.

PMID: 1400550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1992 Oct;27(4):553-9. doi: 10.1016/0190-9622(92)70221-z.

Malignant lymphoma and leukemia with prominent ulceration: clinicopathologic 
correlation of 33 cases.

Helm KF(1), Su WP, Muller SA, Kurtin PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905.

BACKGROUND: The clinical and pathologic findings in patients with malignant 
lymphomas who presented with prominent cutaneous ulcers are described.
OBJECTIVE: Our purpose was to determine the histologic findings, type, and 
prognosis of lymphomas with cutaneous ulcers.
METHODS: Thirty-three patients (20 with cutaneous T-cell lymphomas, 10 with 
other non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, and 3 with leukemia) were retrospectively 
studied.
RESULTS: All patients had a poor prognosis; 23 died within 9 months after the 
onset of the ulcers. Patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma had a worse prognosis, 
had a higher incidence of systemic involvement, and more often had ulcers as an 
initial manifestation of lymphoma than did the patients with cutaneous T-cell 
lymphoma. The histopathologic findings ranged from a nonspecific inflammatory 
infiltrate to ulcers with marked adjacent epidermal epidermotropism to ulcers 
with an angiocentric infiltrate.
CONCLUSION: A variety of lymphomas may cause cutaneous ulceration. Adequate 
sampling of these ulcers is necessary for diagnosis. The average life expectancy 
after ulcer formation is 21 months.

DOI: 10.1016/0190-9622(92)70221-z
PMID: 1401306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1992 Nov 1;20(5):1156-9. doi:
10.1016/0735-1097(92)90372-t.

Surgical treatment of adult atrial septal defect: early and long-term results.

Horvath KA(1), Burke RP, Collins JJ Jr, Cohn LH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study is to determine the early and late results 
of the surgical repair of atrial septal defect in adults.
BACKGROUND: Progressively limiting, untreated atrial septal defect can lead to 
the early death of middle-aged adults. Recently it has been suggested that the 
closure of atrial septal defects might be accomplished with interventional 
cardiac techniques. Although the long-term results of the transcatheter closure 
are as yet unknown, the outcome of surgical therapy has been shown to be 
beneficial for almost 40 years.
METHODS: Between 1971 and 1991, 166 consecutive patients underwent surgical 
repair of a secundum or sinus venosus atrial septal defect, or both, at the 
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston. There were 120 women and 46 men in this 
group; the mean age was 44 years and 58 (35%) of the patients were > or = 50 
years old. The average pulmonary to systemic flow ratio was 3.0, and 57 patients 
had a peak systolic pulmonary artery pressure > 30 mm Hg.
RESULTS: There were two operative deaths (early mortality rate 1.2%), and 13% of 
the patients had a perioperative complication. One hundred fifty-three of the 
164 survivors were followed up for a mean of 90 months (range 2 to 247). There 
were eight late deaths (late mortality rate 4.9%) and a late morbidity rate of 
12.4% (in most cases due to arrhythmias). The 5- and 10-year survival rates are 
98% and 94%, respectively, and the probability of event-free survival (with no 
morbidity or mortality) at 5 years is 97% and at 10 years is 92%.
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that the surgical correction of atrial septal 
defect in adults is safe and efficacious as confirmed by 20 years of follow-up.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(92)90372-t
PMID: 1401616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1992 Oct;40(10):1047-54. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1992.tb04485.x.

Morbidity, disability, and health status of black American elderly: a new look 
at the oldest-old.

Miles TP(1), Bernard MA.

Author information:
(1)University of Illinois School of Public Health, Chicago.

Comment in
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 1992 Nov;40(11):1183-4.

There are over 2.5 million black Americans aged 65 and over living in the United 
States today, including some 258,000 persons aged 85 years and over. The 
post-World War II baby boom within the US black population should ensure that 
the numbers of persons aged 65 and over will increase into the 21st Century. If 
present trends continue, it is projected that the current population of black 
elders will also age. This means that the numbers of black persons aged 85 and 
over will also increase. Data from both national surveys and population-based 
community studies concerning the health and well-being of black elders are now 
becoming available. This report presents information concerning self-reported 
health status, chronic disease prevalence, disease-risk-factor prevalence, 
measures of physical functioning, and nursing home utilization rates for age 
groups within the black population aged 65 years and over. The availability of 
such data should lead to the development of targeted interventions designed to 
lessen impairment and prolong independent living.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1992.tb04485.x
PMID: 1401680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Int Angiol. 1992 Apr-Jun;11(2):94-105.

Results of femoropopliteal and femorotibial greater saphenous vein in situ 
bypass. Life table analysis.

Gruss JD(1), Hiemer W.

Author information:
(1)Department for Vascular Surgery, Kurhessisches Diakonissenhaus, Kassel, 
Germany.

Five-hundred-ninety-four nonselected "in situ" reconstructions were analysed 
retrospectively using the life table method. Especially after immediate 
occlusion cumulative patency is very unsatisfactory. After 5 years cumulative 
patency rate in these cases is 39.5% vs. 64.9% in all cases. Patency rates are 
influenced by the anastomotic site and the run-off quality. While statistically 
not significant, popliteal anastomoses perform a little better after 5 years 
than peripheral anastomoses (67% vs. 51% cumulative patency rate). The number of 
patent tibial arteries seems to be the most important determinant. In 
non-occluded run-off cases (three patent tibial vessels) the cumulative patency 
rate after 5 years is 82.2% vs. 56% in cases with only one patent tibial artery. 
The difference is statistically significant.

PMID: 1402221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 1992 Sep;55(9):762-7. doi:
10.1136/jnnp.55.9.762.

A longitudinal assessment of seizure outcome and overall benefit from 100 
cortectomies for epilepsy.

Rougier A(1), Dartigues JF, Commenges D, Claverie B, Loiseau P, Cohadon F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hôpital Pellegrin, Bordeaux, France.

Results of 100 cortical resections for 76 temporal, 23 frontal and one parietal 
lobe epilepsies were studied in terms of seizure relief and overall benefit. A 
non-homogenous Markov chain model was used to take into account both the 
intravariability of post-surgical outcome and the differences in duration of 
follow-up in a group of patients consecutively operated. The seizure free (SF) 
state was defined as no seizure in the previous five months at first follow up 
visit and none in the preceding 12 months at subsequent annual visits. For the 
whole of the population the SF probability was 82%, 66%, 61%, and 62% at six 
months, one year, two and five years respectively. A better outcome was found 
for temporal lobe epilepsy (SF probability: 68% at the fifth postoperative year) 
than for frontal lobe epilepsy (SF probability: 42% at the fifth postoperative 
year) with a statistically significant difference. Pre- and postoperative 
interictal signs and symptoms were classified according to their clinical 
significance: (a) mild handicap--symptoms recognisable but no interference with 
usual life, and (b) moderate or severe handicap--interference with some or all 
daily activities. The interictal state was considered more impaired after 
surgery than before in two situations: (a) either symptoms, absent before 
surgery, appeared in the postoperative period involving a moderate or severe 
handicap, or (b) symptoms present before surgery and answerable for a mild or 
moderate handicap that increased to involve a moderate or severe handicap 
respectively in the postoperative period. Surgery was considered a major benefit 
when two conditions were fulfilled-namely, a SF state and no deterioration of 
the interictal stage when compared with the preoperative period. The probability 
of obtaining such a benefit was 58%, 51%, 48% and 56% at six months, one year, 
two and five years respectively. The results suggest that surgery is an 
effective treatment for more than 50% of long lasting medically intractable 
epilepsies.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.55.9.762
PMCID: PMC1015098
PMID: 1402965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. J Gen Intern Med. 1992 Sep-Oct;7(5):475-80. doi: 10.1007/BF02599446.

Achieving consensus on withdrawing or withholding care for critically ill 
patients.

Miller DK(1), Coe RM, Hyers TM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, St. Louis Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
MO 63104.

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 1992 Sep-Oct;7(5):563-5.
    J Gen Intern Med. 1993 Mar;8(3):169.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the decision-making process to withhold or stop life 
support.
DESIGN: Survey.
SETTING: Medical intensive care unit of a tertiary care center.
PARTICIPANTS: Physicians and families of 15 critically ill patients; in seven 
cases patients also participated.
MEASUREMENTS: Meetings between physicians and family members concerning a 
decision to withhold or stop treatment of a critically ill family member were 
tape-recorded. Transcriptions of the meetings were analyzed for 1) process: how 
the physician introduced the need for a decision, framed the likely outcomes of 
options, and closed on a decision; 2) what decision was made; and 3) the 
outcome; died, discharged home, or discharged to another institution.
RESULTS: The concept of "patient's wishes" was a central orientation point for 
the negotiation of consensus regarding withholding or withdrawing therapy even 
when the patient was not a participant. Physicians tended to provide a direct 
and unambiguous introduction, give equal weights to options during decision 
framing, but narrow the options during decision closure to correspond to their 
judgments. Not every decision was consistent with the physician's judgment.
CONCLUSIONS: Decision making to withhold or withdraw life-support therapy from 
critically ill persons involves complex, difficult processes. Successful 
management of the tension among life extension, quality of life, patient 
autonomy, and social justice requires better understanding of these processes.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02599446
PMID: 1403201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. J Psychosom Res. 1992 Oct;36(7):609-24. doi: 10.1016/0022-3999(92)90051-3.

The psychological costs of screening for cancer.

Wardle J(1), Pope R.

Author information:
(1)Imperial Cancer Research Fund Health Behaviour Unit, University of London, 
U.K.

The benefits of cancer screening programmes accrue to those who have cancer or 
identifiable precancerous conditions, and in whom the disease progression is 
slowed or halted by earlier intervention. The costs accrue to the rest of the 
population for whom there is no direct benefit to health. Attention has been 
given to the medical risks of screening procedures and to the economic costs, 
but there has been very little regard paid to the psychological costs. The aim 
of this paper is to evaluate the psychological impact of screening. Screening 
participants who are found to have untreatable disease, or for whom the 
interventions prove ineffective, have a greater proportion of their life as a 
cancer patient with all the associated psychological (and perhaps physical) 
distress, but no increase in their life expectancy. Those who receive false 
positive results may experience acute psychological distress produced by the 
prospect of a grave diagnosis before they are found to be free from serious 
disease. Even the procedure of screening itself, with the disturbance of the 
invitation, the discomfort of the tests and the wait for the diagnosis, can have 
a significant impact upon some patients. This paper evaluates the psychological 
costs which may be involved across the whole screening procedure, from the 
possible alarm of receiving an invitation to participate in screening, to the 
trauma of a cancer diagnosis for someone who had been unaware of any symptoms.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-3999(92)90051-3
PMID: 1403996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Oct;16(4):575-85; discussion 585-7.

CHAT analysis of the influence of specific risk factors on late results after 
carotid endarterectomy.

Bernstein EF(1), Kaplan JH, Scala TE, Koziol JA, Dilley RB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Thoracic Surgery, Scripps Clinic and Research 
Foundation, La Jolla, CA 92037.

The CHAT classification separates various current and historical presentations 
of cerebrovascular disease in an effort to determine important prognostic clues 
for management and prognosis. To evaluate known risk factors for late stroke and 
death, we followed up for an average of 44 months 633 patients who had undergone 
714 carotid operations. We analyzed the indication for surgery (by CHAT) and the 
effect of preoperative risk factors (age, hypertension, cardiac disease, tobacco 
use, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, renal disease, pulmonary disease, and total risk 
factor score) on the end points of late stroke and death. Ipsilateral stroke was 
uncommon after carotid endarterectomy: with life-table analysis, the probability 
of late stroke at 5 years after carotid endarterectomy was 3%. Among the 127 
patients with amaurosis fugax, the incidence of late stroke and of mortality was 
a combined total of 1% per year, and the 17 patients who had been first seen 
with permanent ocular stroke (blindness) fared equally well. The 28 patients who 
were first seen with vertebrobasilar symptoms and were treated by carotid 
endarterectomy also fared particularly well, with no late strokes or deaths 
within the first 5 years. Logistic regression analyses revealed that the various 
indications for carotid endarterectomy were associated with differing patterns 
of risk factors as significant predictors of late stroke or death. For patients 
first seen with asymptomatic lesions, only diabetes was an important predictor 
for late stroke (p = 0.05) and renal disease was the only marker for early death 
(p = 0.05). On the other hand, those factors were not significant risk factors 
for patients first seen with amaurosis fugax, for whom tobacco use was a 
negative predictor for stroke (p = 0.06) and male gender a negative predictor 
for early death (p = 0.03). After cortical transient ischemic attacks and 
carotid endarterectomy, there were no risk factors predictive of late stroke or 
of death. For patients with prior stroke, age was a very strong predictor of 
stroke (p = 0.01) and both age and a history of cardiac disease were significant 
risk factors for early death (p = 0.007). In contrast to the results in reports 
of patients treated medically for transient ischemic attacks and stroke, we 
found that several risk factors appeared to play relatively minor roles. In 
conclusion, stroke after carotid endarterectomy was uncommon, least common after 
ocular symptoms, and most likely after permanent cortical stroke. Specific risk 
factors were less important for patients after carotid endarterectomy than for 
the medically treated stroke patient.

PMID: 1404678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. JAMA. 1992 Oct 21;268(15):2029-30.

National health care reform: the aura of inevitability intensifies.

Wade TP.

Comment on
    JAMA. 1992 May 13;267(18):2521-4.

PMID: 1404731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Sangyo Igaku. 1992 Sep;34(5):432-9. doi: 10.1539/joh1959.34.432.

[Epidemiologic study on physical conditions related to work among the elderly].

[Article in Japanese]

Ueno M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology.

The present study was conducted in order to examine the epidemiologic factors 
related to work capacity among the elderly. As study area, Ogimi Village in 
Okinawa Prefecture was selected by reason of the long life expectancy of the 
inhabitants. Medical examination and interview were conducted on 756 inhabitants 
aged 65 yr and older. Working status was classified into two groups, that is, 
working group and non-working group. The association between working status and 
related factors was examined by using multiple logistic regression analysis. The 
examined factors were as follows: sex, age, history of apoplexy, history of 
being down, history of falls, history of fracture, chewing ability, pain, 
