exercise habit, hobby, education, number of family members, alcohol, smoking, 
food intake frequencies and medical indicators (blood pressure, ECG, Quetlet 
index, skinfold thickness, grip strength, one-leg test with eyes opened, 
albumin, total cholesterol, hemoglobin and HDL-cholesterol). The results of the 
analysis revealed that grip strength and one-leg test with eyes opened had a 
statistically significant correlation with working status (p < 0.01). From the 
results, maintenance of muscle strength and equilibrium function were found to 
be the physical conditions related to work among the elderly in the agricultural 
area.

DOI: 10.1539/joh1959.34.432
PMID: 1405003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1992 Oct;104(4):1013-24.

Use of the Carpentier-Edwards porcine bioprosthesis: assessment of a patient 
selection policy.

Louagie Y(1), Noirhomme P, Aranguis E, Eucher P, Vanruyssevelt P, Buche M, Dion 
R, Jaumin P, Schoevaerdts JC, Chalant CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery, Catholic University of 
Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.

The Carpentier-Edwards bioprosthesis was implanted in 369 patients (414 valves) 
between May 1977 and December 1987 (age 67.2 +/- 0.5 years); 242 had aortic 
valve replacement, 80 had mitral valve replacement, 44 had multiple valve 
replacement, of which 41 were aortic and mitral valve replacement, 2 had 
isolated tricuspid valve replacement, and 1 had a pulmonary valve replacement. 
The selection criteria were the following: shorter life expectancy (253 
patients) or contraindications to anticoagulants for organic (113 patients) or 
psychologic (38 patients) reasons, or both. The early mortality rate was 11.1% 
(aortic valve replacement, 9.1%; mitral valve replacement, 12.4%; aortic and 
mitral valve replacement, 23.1%). Total cumulative follow-up was 1456 pt-yr 
(mean 4.4 years, range 1 to 148 months), and the patient evaluation was 99.5% 
complete. Late mortality was 4.9%/pt-yr. Five-year survival was 70.4% +/- 2.7% 
overall, 74.3% +/- 3.2% after aortic valve replacement, 60.9% +/- 6.2% after 
mitral valve replacement (p < 0.03), and 60.7% +/- 8.1% after aortic and mitral 
valve replacement. Eight patients were reoperated on for primary tissue failure, 
and freedom from reoperation for structural valve deterioration was 97.5% +/- 
1.2% at 5 years and 95.6% +/- 1.8% at 8 years. Failing aortic bioprostheses were 
explanted in four patients (0.4%/pt-yr) and mitral bioprostheses in seven 
(1.6%/pt-yr). No patient whose valve was inserted after the age of 70 had to be 
reoperated on for structural valve dysfunction. The probability of freedom from 
thromboembolism after 5 and 8 years of follow-up was 93.1% +/- 1.6% and 92.2% 
+/- 1.8%, respectively. The prevalence of anticoagulant-related hemorrhage was 
0.8%/pt-yr (major 0.6%, minor 0.2%). Anticoagulants had to be maintained in 
16.3% of the patients: 5.9% after aortic valve replacement, 35.7% after mitral 
valve replacement, and 45.8% after aortic and mitral valve replacement, while 
80.0% were on a regimen of antiplatelet drug therapy. Prosthetic valve 
endocarditis happened in five patients (0.3%/pt-yr). Freedom from all 
valve-related morbidity and mortality, including hospital deaths, was 71.0% +/- 
2.7% at 5 years and 58.6% +/- 4.6% at 8 years and was significantly better in 
the aortic valve replacement group (61.3% +/- 6.6% at 8 years) compared with the 
mitral valve replacement group (54.4% +/- 7.7% at 8 years; p = 0.04). This study 
confirms the satisfactory performance of the Carpentier-Edwards valve after 
aortic valve replacement in elderly patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 1405658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Mayo Clin Proc. 1992 May;67(5):485-92. doi: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)60400-5.

Prognostic features in patients with congestive heart failure and selection 
criteria for cardiac transplantation.

Edwards BS(1), Rodeheffer RJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, MN 55905.

Cardiac transplantation can be a highly successful therapeutic option for 
patients with end-stage congestive heart failure. Successful results, however, 
depend on the appropriate selection of patients for the procedure. Patients 
whose survival or quality of life would be compromised without cardiac 
transplantation and who are likely to benefit from this intensive type of 
treatment are potential candidates. Each patient should undergo a thorough 
assessment to identify any medical or psychologic contraindications to cardiac 
transplantation. In this review, we discuss the important predictors of survival 
in patients with congestive heart failure: the cause of heart failure, the 
patient's symptomatic and functional status, the hemodynamic and pathologic 
findings, the evaluation of neurohumoral activity, and the presence of cardiac 
arrhythmias. Once a patient with congestive heart failure has been identified as 
having a limited life expectancy and severely impaired quality of life, cardiac 
transplantation should be considered.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)60400-5
PMID: 1405777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Minerva Pediatr. 1992 Jul-Aug;44(7-8):371-6.

[Celiac disease in Piedmont. An epidemiological-clinical study].

[Article in Italian]

Ansaldi N(1), Dell'Olio D, Tavassoli K, Bonzano L, Guaraglia L, Norelli MT, 
Quazza G, Guala A, Zannino L, Bracone A, et al.

Author information:
(1)Instito Discipline Pediatriche, UniversitÃ  di Torino.

Erratum in
    Minerva Pediatr 1993 Jul-Aug;45(7-8):X.

The incidence of coeliac disease (CD) was calculated on 304 patients under 
eighteen who were born in the city of Turin and its province in the years 
1975-1989; the prevalence on 494 patients who live in the Piedmont Region. The 
mean crude yearly incidence was 0.511/1000 (1:1957 live birth). It varied from 
year to year, reaching minimum values in the years 1984-1987. In a contemporary 
epidemiological study, the mean crude incidence of CD in Italy was 1.2/1000 
(1:833 live birth) twice the rate observed in Turin. The prevalence of 
paediatric CD in Piedmont was 113 per million inhabitants. Since CD has a normal 
life expectancy, its prevalence may be expected to increase. In the provinces of 
Novara, Alessandria and Asti CD prevalence was lower than in the others. Mean 
age at onset was 6 mos in 1975 and increased to 34 mos in 1989. Mean age at 
diagnosis was 15 mos in 1981, and 7 yrs in 1989. Symptoms were more numerous and 
severe in patients under 12 mos of age, and became fewer and often atypical in 
older children. We can therefore speculate that the trend towards a decreasing 
incidence of CD in recent years my be due to delayed diagnosis.

PMID: 1406512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Nephrol News Issues. 1992 May;6(5):3, 36.

How will wonder drugs impact the aging ESRD population of the future?

Neumann ME.

PMID: 1407044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1992 Aug 15;136(33):1587-9.

[Sharp increase in the number of deaths due to tobacco in The Netherlands].

[Article in Dutch]

van Reek J(1), Adriaanse HP.

Author information:
(1)Vakgroep Medische Sociologie, Rijksuniversiteit Limburg, Maastricht.

Erratum in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd 1992 Dec 26;136(52):2600.
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd 1992 Sep 5;136(36):1792.

PMID: 1407088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Neuroepidemiology. 1992;11(3):113-20. doi: 10.1159/000110920.

Parkinson's disease in Taiwan: an analysis of 215 patients.

Chia LG(1), Liu LH.

Author information:
(1)Neurology Section, Veterans General Hospital-Taichung, Taiwan, Republic of 
China.

215 Chinese Parkinson's disease (PD) patients on levodopa therapy were followed 
up between 1982 and 1991. The ratio of males to females was 2.4 to 1. The mean 
durations from onset of the illness to stages I and II of Hoehn and Yahr (mild 
disability) were 4.0 and 6.5 years, to stage III (moderate) 7.9 years, and to 
stages IV and V (severe) 9.8 and 11.8 years. The mean duration of illness for 
living patients was 8.6 years. The mean duration of illness before death for the 
46 patients who died was 8.9 years. The mean age at death was 68 years (4.4 
years less than the normal life expectancy in Taiwan). The fate of this disease 
showed that patients with unilateral symptoms initially had a better prognosis 
than those with bilateral symptoms. The symptoms at onset were unilateral in 70% 
of the patients, of whom 91% had a spread of symptoms to the opposite side after 
a mean of 3.4 years. Familial PD occurred in 2.8% of our patients. The 
occurrence of blood ABO groups was not significantly different between the PD 
patients and the general population of Taiwan. Our findings differed from those 
in Western series by having a predominance of males, and a relatively shorter 
duration of unilateral symptoms before spread to the opposite side. In addition, 
the duration of illness and the survival time under levodopa treatment were 
shorter in Taiwanese and Japanese than in Western series.

DOI: 10.1159/000110920
PMID: 1407246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Nutr Health. 1992;8(2-3):165-75. doi: 10.1177/026010609200800312.

Nutrition for the Japanese elderly.

Shibata H(1), Nagai H, Haga H, Yasumura S, Suzuki T, Suyama Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology, 
Japan.

The present paper examines the relationship of nutritional status to further 
life expectancy and health status in the Japanese elderly based on 3 
epidemiological studies. 1. Nutrient intakes in 94 Japanese centenarians 
investigated between 1972 and 1973 showed a higher proportion of animal protein 
to total proteins than in contemporary average Japanese. 2. High intakes of milk 
and fats and oils had favorable effects on 10-year (1976-1986) survivorship in 
422 urban residents aged 69-71. The survivors revealed a longitudinal increase 
in intakes of animal foods such as eggs, milk, fish and meat over the 10 years. 
3. Nutrient intakes were compared, based on 24-hour dietary records, between a 
sample from Okinawa Prefecture where life expectancies at birth and 65 were the 
longest in Japan, and a sample from Akita Prefecture where the life expectancies 
were much shorter. Intakes of Ca, Fe, vitamins A, B1, B2, C, and the proportion 
of energy from proteins and fats were significantly higher in the former than in 
the latter. Intakes of carbohydrates and NaCl were lower.

DOI: 10.1177/026010609200800312
PMID: 1407826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Nutr Health. 1992;8(2-3):97-105. doi: 10.1177/026010609200800305.

Nutritional improvement, cardiovascular diseases and longevity in Japan.

Mizushima S(1), Yamori Y.

Author information:
(1)WHO Collaborating Center for Research on Primary Prevention of Cardiovascular 
Diseases, Department of Pathology, Shimane Medical University, Izumo, Japan.

1. Nutritional conditions have improved remarkably for the past 40 years in 
Japan; major improvements are increases in protein intake (69.7 in 1955 to 
79.2g/day per capita in '88), and fat intake (20.3 in '55 to 58.3 g/day per 
capita in '88), both of which are significantly related statistically to the 
gradual reduction of stroke mortality (r = -0.74, not significant; r = -0.78, p 
< 0.05) and to a remarkable extension of average life span (r = 0.91, p < 0.01; 
r = 0.98, p < 0.001) in the Japanese. 2. Average heights of 12-year old male and 
female children, correlating significantly with these nutritional improvements, 
are significantly positively correlated with average life spans (men and women 
respectively; r = 0.97, p < 0.001). 3. Thus, general nutritional improvements 
among the Japanese are regarded as the major contributory factor to the recent 
achievement of top-ranked position for longevity in the world.

DOI: 10.1177/026010609200800305
PMID: 1407832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol. 1992 Sep;74(3):386-92. doi: 
10.1016/0030-4220(92)90083-3.

Evaluation of prognosis and survival of the HIV-infected patient.

Glick M(1).

Author information:
(1)Infectious Disease Center, Temple University School of Dentistry, 
Philadelphia, Pa.

HIV disease, once considered an acute disease with a 100% mortality rate but a 
very short symptomatic stage, has begun to emerge as a preventable, treatable, 
chronic disease. Interactions between patients, dentists, and physicians are 
essential to gain the information necessary to provide appropriate dental care 
for both short-term and long-term survivors. The prognosis and survival time of 
the dental patient may influence treatment protocols and necessitate modified 
dental procedures. Certain clinical and laboratory parameters, which may be 
useful indicators of disease progression, need to be recognized by the dental 
clinician. These parameters include systemic signs, symptoms, and serologic data 
as well as intraoral manifestations associated with HIV disease. Although a 
perfect classification system for progression of HIV disease does not exist, 
trends among larger cohorts may enable health care providers to estimate the 
prognosis and survival of HIV-infected patients on an individual basis. This 
article presents clinical and laboratory parameters that indicate HIV disease 
progression. Providers who care for HIV-infected patients need to consider these 
parameters to establish an appropriate and flexible treatment plan based on 
changes in the patient's medical status.

DOI: 10.1016/0030-4220(92)90083-3
PMID: 1408007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Prosthet Orthot Int. 1992 Aug;16(2):124-8. doi: 10.3109/03093649209164324.

Rehabilitation after amputation for vascular disease: a follow-up study.

De Luccia N(1), Pinto MA, Guedes JP, Albers MT.

Author information:
(1)Limb Fitting and Preservation Centre of SÃ¥o Paulo, Brazil.

Rehabilitation of one hundred and twenty eight patients with lower limb 
amputation performed for vascular disease from 1979 to 1987 was assessed. 
Arteriosclerotic occlusive disease was the most frequent cause of amputation 
(85.9%). Sixty seven patients (52.3%) were diabetic. Early and late results were 
analysed. For long-term follow-up evaluation, Univariate method of Kaplan-Meyer 
product limit was employed. Multifactorial analysis was used to assess factors 
influencing mortality. On immediate evaluation of rehabilitation with a 
prosthesis 85.2% of patients were successfully fitted. On long term evaluation 
47.8% of below-knee and 22.1% of above-knee amputees were alive and using the 
prosthesis full time at five years of follow-up (p = 0.0026). Opposite limb 
preservation at five years was 69.5% for diabetics and 90.2% for non-diabetics, 
respectively (p = 0.0013). Survival rate at five years was 42.4% for diabetics, 
and 85.0% for non-diabetics (p = 0.0002). On multifactorial analysis diabetic 
patients showed a risk of late mortality six times greater than non-diabetics. 
In conclusion rehabilitation after vascular amputation is feasible in a large 
number of patients, despite a limited life span. Diabetes represents a major 
risk factor both for life and for the opposite limb. Knee preservation is an 
important factor for better rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.3109/03093649209164324
PMID: 1408671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Presse Med. 1992 Jul 22;21(26):1238-45.

[Normal and pathological renal aging in animals].

[Article in French]

Corman B(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Biologie Cellulaire, Centre d'Etudes de Saclay, Gif-sur-Yvette.

Ageing of the kidneys has long been associated with a fall in the number of 
functioning nephrons resulting in a reduction of renal blood flow and glomerular 
filtration. This narrow concept of age-related changes in renal function has 
been developed chiefly during the last few years by Brenner et al. on the basis 
of experimental studies conducted on rodents. According to these authors, the 
size and frequency of segmental and focal lesions of glomerulosclerosis increase 
regularly with age, and in its final phase this pathology results in occlusion 
of glomerular capillaries. Renal ageing, therefore, can be assimilated to the 
nephron reduction models obtained by surgical ablation. The hypothesis that 
hypofiltration in certain nephrons is compensated by hyperfiltration in healthy 
glomerulis, leading to a vicious circle of self-destruction, was then applied to 
both ageing and experimental renal impairment: the smaller the number of 
nephrons, the greater the filtration achieved by the remaining nephrons, a 
process that accelerates the probability of their destruction. Conversely, any 
attempt to reduce intracapillary pressure or glomerular filtration slows down 
the progression of renal failure. This hypothesis is supported by experiments 
showing that reduction of protein intake or chronic inhibition of angiotensin 
I-converting enzyme activity are truly capable of limiting the progression of 
glomerulosclerosis induced in rats by partial renal mass ablation. Similarly, 
prolonged food restriction increases the life expectancy of rodents and almost 
totally prevents the occurrence of glomerulosclerosis. The experimental finding 
that degenerative renal lesions do not necessarily develop with age raises the 
problem of normal and pathological ageing. With an adequate choice of rats' 
food, strain and sanitary surroundings it is possible to obtain very old animals 
devoid of occluded glomerular capillaries and loss of nephron. What about the 
functional and structural changes due to ageing and not to pathology? This 
question has given rise to numerous studies which concluded, on the whole, that 
there exists a normal ageing of the kidneys without loss of nephron and that 
ageing is expressed by the fact that the kidneys have difficulties in adjusting 
themselves to disturbances in the inner environment. As regards renal functional 
reserve, response to the antidiuretic hormone in case of water restriction, or 
stimulation of the renin-angiotensin system in response to decrease of sodium 
intake, it is clear that the renal cells responsible for glomerular filtration, 
tubular transport or synthesis and release of peptidic hormones exhibit 
functional alterations that are age-related. The cellular and molecular 
mechanisms underlying these physiological changes are little known.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 1409479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Presse Med. 1992 Jul 22;21(26):1250-5.

[Cardiovascular pathology related to aging. Role of prevention].

[Article in French]

Chatellier G(1), Lang T.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Informatique mÃ©dicale, CHU PitiÃ©-SalpÃªtriÃ¨re, Paris.

During the last 50 years the increase of life expectancy has been dramatic in 
all Western countries. In France, the life expectancy in 1988 was 80.6 years for 
women and 72.3 years for men. In 1980, the life expectancy at the age of 60 was 
more than 20 years in women and 16 years in men. Side by side with this increase 
of life expectancy there has been a change in the structure of the causes of 
death. Cardiovascular diseases accounted for 15.6 percent of all causes in 1930, 
31 percent in 1950 and 37.4 percent in 1980. Cardiovascular diseases therefore 
rank very high among the causes of mortality, and one of the principal reasons 
for this is ageing of the population. Studying the epidemiology of 
cardiovascular ageing is tantamount to determining the part played by prevention 
in these diseases. There are wide fluctuations in cardiovascular mortality rate 
according to some demographic variables: men are more affected than women, the 
poorer subjects more than the richer subjects, and people living in the North of 
France more than those living in the South. These disparities are real, 
irrespective of age, and they can be explained, at least partly, by differences 
in the prevalence of well-known risk factors. Cardiovascular ageing plays a 
role, probably important, in the genesis of physical and mental disabilities, 
but markers that would measure them precisely are lacking. The development of 
such indicators is a major line of research which should make it possible to 
evaluate the prospective results of a policy of prevention in a segment of the 
population where people aged 60 or more accounted for 19.1 percent in 1990 and 
will account for 25 percent in the year 2020.

PMID: 1409481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Rehabilitation (Stuttg). 1992 Aug;31(3):143-6.

[Clinical rehabilitation of the spinal cord injury patient--is the Guttmann 
concept still valid?].

[Article in German]

Gerner HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Zentrum fÃ¼r RÃ¼ckenmarkverletzte, Werner-Wicker-Klinik, Bad Wildungen.

The focus of Guttmann's treatment concept had been to set up a comprehensive 
rehabilitation system, aimed not only at saving the life of a person with 
paraplegia or tetraplegia but at giving it meaning as well. Progress made in the 
fields of rescue services, anaesthesia, intensive medicine, in spinal surgery, 
neurourology and diagnostics (CT, MRI) as well as in pharmacology, have 
decisively enhanced the possibilities of clinical rehabilitation, and have in 
some respects entailed deviations from Guttmann's classical treatment 
principles. Moreover, the patient population has changed in profile in the 
course of time, due to better chances of survival also in high-level 
tetraplegia, greater numbers of higher-age SCI patients and of patients with 
non-traumatic SCI (tumours, metastases, infections). A higher life expectancy 
achieved by better possibilities as regards prevention and treatment of 
SCI-related complications, new challenges for the future emanate from 
age-related diseases occurring in addition to the spinal lesion.

PMID: 1410774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Scand J Prim Health Care. 1992 Sep;10(3):198-205. doi: 
10.3109/02813439209014061.

The Butajira rural health project in Ethiopia: epidemiological surveillance for 
research and intervention in primary health care.

Shamebo D(1), SandstrÃ¶m A, Wall S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Faculty of Medicine, Addis Ababa University, 
Ethiopia.

Ten study populations sampled from a total of 86 communities in a rural 
Ethiopian area, have been registered and followed for a period of four years. A 
baseline census revealed a median age of 15 years, a literacy rate of 24%, poor 
housing and environmental conditions, and low utilization of the existing health 
care facilities. A surveillance system was established which made it possible to 
estimate the occurrence of vital events. This showed a crude birth rate of 
40.3/1000, a crude death rate of 16.4/1000, a life-expectancy at birth of 48 
years, an infant mortality rate of 114/1000, a yearly child (1-4 years) 
mortality rate of 36/1000, and an under-five mortality rate of 210/1000. The 
implications of these data in terms of the planning and operations of research 
and health services are discussed, and on-going and projected studies are 
outlined emphasizing the methodological potentials of this epidemiological study 
base.

DOI: 10.3109/02813439209014061
PMID: 1410950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Science. 1992 Oct 16;258(5081):457-61. doi: 10.1126/science.1411540.

Slowing of mortality rates at older ages in large medfly cohorts.

Carey JR(1), Liedo P, Orozco D, Vaupel JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis 95616.

Comment in
    Science. 1992 Oct 16;258(5081):398-9.
    Science. 1993 Jun 11;260(5114):1565; author reply 1567-9.
    Science. 1993 Jun 11;260(5114):1565-7; author reply 1567-9.
    Science. 1993 Jun 11;260(5114):1567; author reply 1567-9.
    Science. 1993 Jun 11;260(5114):1664-5; author reply 1665-6.
    Science. 1993 Jun 11;260(5114):1665; author reply 1665-6.

It is generally assumed for most species that mortality rates increase 
monotonically at advanced ages. Mortality rates were found to level off and 
decrease at older ages in a population of 1.2 million medflies maintained in 
cages of 7,200 and in a group of approximately 48,000 adults maintained in 
solitary confinement. Thus, life expectancy in older individuals increased 
rather than decreased with age. These results cast doubt on several central 
concepts in gerontology and the biology of aging: (i) that senescence can be 
characterized by an increase in age-specific mortality, (ii) that the basic 
pattern of mortality in nearly all species follows the same unitary pattern at 
older ages, and (iii) that species have absolute life-span limits.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1411540
PMID: 1411540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Science. 1992 Oct 16;258(5081):461-3. doi: 10.1126/science.1411541.

Demography of genotypes: failure of the limited life-span paradigm in Drosophila 
melanogaster.

Curtsinger JW(1), Fukui HH, Townsend DR, Vaupel JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis 55455.

Comment in
    Science. 1992 Oct 16;258(5081):398-9.
    Science. 1993 Jun 11;260(5114):1565; author reply 1567-9.
    Science. 1993 Jun 11;260(5114):1565-7; author reply 1567-9.
    Science. 1993 Jun 11;260(5114):1664-5; author reply 1665-6.

Experimental systems that are amenable to genetic manipulation can be used to 
address fundamental questions about genetic and nongenetic determinants of 
longevity. Analysis of large cohorts of ten genotypes of Drosophila melanogaster 
raised under conditions that favored extended survival has revealed variation 
between genotypes in both the slope and location of age-specific mortality 
curves. More detailed examination of a single genotype showed that the mortality 
trajectory was best fit by a two-stage Gompertz model, with no age-specific 
increase in mortality rates beyond 30 days after emergence. These results are 
contrary to the limited life-span paradigm, which postulates well-defined, 
genotype-specific limits on life-span and brief periods of intense and rapidly 
accelerating mortality rates at the oldest age.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1411541
PMID: 1411541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. S Afr Med J. 1992 Oct;82(4):237-40.

The level of mortality in South Africa in 1985--what does it tell us about 
health?

Bradshaw D(1), Dorrington RE, Sitas F.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Epidemiological Research, South African Medical Research Council, 
Parowvallei.

South African mortality data are inadequate for health planning. Estimates of 
mortality levels in blacks for 1985, derived using indirect demographic 
techniques, have provided an opportunity to analyse South African mortality in a 
health context. The infant mortality rate (IMR) for the population as a whole 
was 64/1,000 live births in 1985, which is high when compared with those of 
other countries. The IMR varied between population groups and was highest in 
blacks (males 73, females 68) and lowest in whites (males 11, females 7). Adult 
mortality rates, measured in terms of the chance of a 15-year-old dying before 
reaching the age of 60, ranged from 42.8% for black males and 29.4% for black 
females, to 21.8% and 11.5% for white males and females respectively. Life 
expectancy at birth of black males and females was 55 and 61 years respectively, 
while for white males and females it was 68 and 76 years respectively. 
Infectious diseases are a leading cause of death in blacks under 5 years of age, 
while trauma, poverty-related diseases and chronic diseases related to lifestyle 
all contribute to the high levels of adult mortality in this group. Prevention 
and health promotion strategies focusing on these as well as HIV/AIDS must be 
incorporated in a primary health care strategy to reduce premature mortality. 
Most importantly, it is crucial to improve the registration system that is vital 
to facilitate ongoing evaluation.

PMID: 1411819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1992 Jul-Sep;73(3):10-5.

International longevity comparisons.

[No authors listed]

Japan leads the world in life expectancy with an average future lifetime of 78.9 
years. Iceland is next, followed by Sweden and Switzerland. The United States 
ranks 11th at 75.4 years. In the past decade, United States' men generally 
narrowed the expectation of life gap among other industrialized nations, but for 
the country's women the experience was uneven. These international longevity 
disparities for men and women in the United States narrowed considerably at 
later years of age. For instance, the United States-Japan expectancy gap is 
currently 2.0 years at age 45 and declines to about 0.9 years at age 65.

PMID: 1411909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1992 Jul-Sep;73(3):2-9.

U.S. longevity at a standstill.

[No authors listed]

Life expectancy in the United States did not increase during 1991, remaining at 
the 1990 level of 75.4 years. For boys, it was 72.0 years and for girls, 78.8 
years. On the other hand, the infant mortality rate continued downward when a 
new benchmark was achieved--an all-time low, 8.9 per 1,000 live births. Also 
encouraging was a marked improvement in longevity among black Americans that 
significantly narrowed the white-nonwhite differential.

PMID: 1411911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Surgery. 1992 Oct;112(4):670-9; discussion 679-80.

Internal carotid artery occlusion: operative risks and long-term stroke rates 
after contralateral carotid endarterectomy.

Mattos MA(1), Barkmeier LD, Hodgson KJ, Ramsey DE, Sumner DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Springfield 62794-9230.

BACKGROUND: To determine the short- and long-term benefits of carotid 
endarterectomy (CEA) contralateral to an occluded internal carotid (ICA), we 
reviewed our experience since 1976.
METHODS: In 66 (13.8%) of 478 patients undergoing 544 CEAs, the contralateral 
ICA was occluded. Mean follow-up was 50.1 months (range, 1 to 165 months). 
Complete follow-up was available in 83.0% of patients.
RESULTS: Operative death occurred in one (1.5%) of 66 patients with 
contralateral occlusion and six (1.3%) of 478 patients without contralateral 
occlusion (p = 0.99). Operative strokes occurred in two (3.0%) of 66 patients 
with contralateral occlusion and 14 (2.9%) of 478 without contralateral 
occlusion (p = 0.99). Life-table stroke-free rates at 1, 3, 5, and 8 years were 
96.8%, 93.0%, and 93.0% in patients with contralateral occlusion and 95.9%, 
94.2%, 91.1%, and 88.0% in patients without contralateral occlusion (p = 0.36). 
Five- and 8-year stroke-free rates were 100% and 100% in the asymptomatic 
subgroup with occlusion, 95.9% and 92.2% in the asymptomatic subgroup without 
occlusion (p = 0.45), 91.2% and 91.2% in the symptomatic subgroup with 
occlusion, and 89.7% and 86.8% in the symptomatic subgroup without occlusion (p 
= 0.47). Life-table survival rates at 5 and 8 years were 72.5% and 56.0% in 
patients with contralateral occlusion and 81.8% and 69.0% in patients without 
contralateral occlusion (p = 0.15).
CONCLUSIONS: CEA performed in patients with and without symptoms with a 
contralateral ICA occlusion produces short- and long-term mortality and stroke 
morbidity rates comparable to those of similar patients without contralateral 
ICA occlusion. The indications for CEA in patients with contralateral ICA 
occlusion should not differ from those applied to patients without contralateral 
occlusion.

PMID: 1411937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Stroke. 1992 Oct;23(10):1416-9. doi: 10.1161/01.str.23.10.1416.

Impact of unruptured intracranial aneurysms on public health in the United 
States.

Wiebers DO(1), Torner JC, Meissner I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn. 55905.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Unruptured intracranial aneurysms constitute a 
significant public health problem that has not been quantified. The purpose of 
this study is to document the magnitude of this problem in the United States.
METHODS: National Hospital Discharge Survey data from 1979, 1984, and 1989 
served as the basis for calculating patient numbers and frequency distributions. 
Cost estimates included the direct costs of hospitalization and surgery for 
those who had surgery, disability and lost income from morbidity, and lost 
income from mortality.
RESULTS: The estimated lifetime cost (including hospitalization, surgery, 
morbidity, and mortality) for annual cases of patients hospitalized with 
unruptured intracranial aneurysms in the United States is $522,500,000 compared 
with $1,755,600,000 for patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.
CONCLUSIONS: These data underscore the need to better understand unruptured 
intracranial aneurysm as a risk factor for subarachnoid hemorrhage, to define 
other subarachnoid hemorrhage risk factors, and to optimize the management of 
patients with these conditions.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.23.10.1416
PMID: 1412577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. West J Med. 1992 Jul;157(1):71-3.

Global health leadership. A continuing US challenge.

Sommer A(1).

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, Baltimore, MD 21205-2179.

Comment in
    West J Med. 1992 Jul;157(1):84.

PMCID: PMC1021915
PMID: 1413753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. World Health Stat Q. 1992;45(1):15-28.

The evolving demography of aging in the United States of American and the former 
USSR.

Kingkade WW(1), Torrey BB.

Author information:
(1)Center for International Research, United States Bureau of the Census, 
Washington, D.C.

In the United States of America and in the republics of the former USSR, the 
elderly (persons aged 60 and over) will comprise the same proportion of their 
respective societies by the year 2000, namely 17%. In both countries, this 
population subgroup is growing at a faster rate than the rest of the population 
and living longer, although there are now more differences than similarities 
between the two countries in respect of the elderly, as summarized below. 
Similarities. In both countries today, the age group 50 years and over 
represents 26% of the total population, and by the year 2000 it is expected that 
17% of the population will be 60 years and over. Diseases of the circulatory 
system and neoplasms are the major causes of death in both countries. Life 
expectancy beyond retirement age (i.e. the number of years a person is expected 
to live after having retired) is about the same in both, but this is due to the 
statistical fact that in the former USSR women are expected to have an extra 
year of life expectancy compared to their United States counterparts, while men 
are expected to live 2.5 years less beyond retirement than their United States 
counterparts. Differences. Mortality rates in the former USSR are higher than 
those in the United States. Life expectancy for men in the former USSR is 6.5 
years below the figure for United States males. By age 65, the differences are 
2.7 years for women and 2.4 years for men. Today, the proportion of the 
population having reached retirement age is larger in the former USSR than in 
the United States (17% vs 15%) because of lower retirement age in the former 
USSR. By the year 2000, these figures are expected to be 19% and 25%, 
respectively. Men make up 27% of the pension-age population in the former USSR 
against 41% in the United States. Life expectancy at birth could increase by 4 
years for men in the former USSR if they had the same mortality rates from 
diseases of the circulatory and respiratory systems as their United States 
counterparts. Similarly, women in the former USSR would gain 4 years of life 
from these two causes alone. Older women are more likely to be married in the 
United States than in the former USSR, and this difference increases with age: 
at age 65, 25% of the former USSR's women are married versus 41% in the United 
States.

PMID: 1413854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. World Health Stat Q. 1992;45(1):4-14.

Some problems of medicodemographic development in the former USSR.

Virganskaya IM(1), Dmitriev VI.

Author information:
(1)Medicodemographic and Sociological Studies Laboratory, Academy of Medical 
Sciences, Moscow.

The republics of the former USSR show great diversity in life expectancy, and in 
morbidity and disability prevalence rates. The diversity in life expectancy is 
strongly influenced by the different age, sex and cause-specific mortality rates 
obtaining in each republic. These in turn are determined by environmental, 
climatic and topographic features, as well as by social and economic development 
and lifestyle, including nutritional habits. In addition, large urban and rural 
differences are noted which may be partly accounted for by the restricted access 
to and low quality of health care in rural areas. Mortality, morbidity and 
disability rates have also shown unfavourable trends between 1965 and 1989 in 
many of the republics. The authors suggest further research to elucidate 
observed mortality, morbidity and disability differentials and trends, viz. 
analyses using finer breakdown of the population; examination of 
risk-factor-pattern data for mortality and morbidity by social groups and 
regions; the collection of data on health and demographic problems of ethnic 
minorities; greater use of socioeconomic development indicators at the regional 
level; surveys of individual opinions on perceived health, health requirements 
and quality of care received; and the development of appropriate 
medicodemographic models for analytic and forecasting purposes.

PMID: 1413856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. World Health Stat Q. 1992;45(1):61-7.

Data needs for health policy in an aging population (including a survey of data 
available in the United States of America).

Rice DP(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health and Aging, School of Nursing, University of California, 
San Francisco.

The development of a coordinated, systematic and responsive data base is 
essential for governments to make informed decisions for policy development and 
planning, to assess the impact of these decisions, and to operate their 
programmes effectively. One of the most significant challenges is the 
development of data systems capable of satisfying the multiple needs for data, 
and providing the data required for evaluating the impact of health programmes, 
while keeping the respondent burden reasonable. The United States of America is 
fortunate in having well-developed systems of data collection by national 
surveys for demographic, social and economic characteristics of the population, 
morbidity and mortality, health expenditures, and use of health and long-term 
care services. Current survey and administrative record data sets are described. 
Policy issues in health care for aging populations require the use of multiple 
data sets which may require modification of or addition to existing surveys and 
administrative records. Recommendations are made for an extension of the data 
bases already in existence and on the expansion of analytical capacity to 
address health policy issues for the elderly.

PMID: 1413858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 1992 Sep;86(3):218-22. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0447.1992.tb03255.x.

The effect of long-term lithium treatment on the mortality of patients with 
manic-depressive and schizoaffective illness.

MÃ¼ller-Oerlinghausen B(1), Ahrens B, Grof E, Grof P, Lenz G, Schou M, Simhandl 
C, Thau K, Volk J, Wolf R, et al.

Author information:
(1)Research Group for Clinical Psychopharmacology, Free University of Berlin, 
Germany.

Clinical research centers in Aarhus, Berlin, Hamilton and Vienna collected 
mortality data for 827 manic-depressive and schizoaffective patients given 
lithium treatment for more than 6 months. The average duration of the treatment 
was 81 months and the total time on lithium 5600 patient-years. For each 
patient, the mortality risk was calculated by entering the appropriate national 
life tables for the general population. The number of observed deaths was 44; 
the number of expected deaths was 49.7. The standardized mortality ratio, 0.89, 
did not differ significantly from 1.0. The mortality of manic-depressive 
patients is 2-3 times that of the general population. Our data show that the 
mortality of manic-depressive and schizoaffective patients given long-term 
lithium treatment does not differ significantly from that of the general 
population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0447.1992.tb03255.x
PMID: 1414416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Am J Cardiol. 1992 Oct 8;70(10):37C-43C. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)91356-9.

Ventricular arrhythmias in heart failure.

Gorgels AP(1), Vos MA, Smeets JL, Wellens HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Academic Hospital Maastricht, The Netherlands.

Heart failure is an increasingly common disorder leading to reduced quality and 
expectancy of life. Asymptomatic and symptomatic ventricular arrhythmias are a 
frequent complication and have been found to be independent prognostic 
predictors for sudden cardiac death in patients with heart failure. 
Unfortunately, the positive predictive failure for this finding is low, but in 
patients with sustained ventricular arrhythmias, variables indicating impaired 
pump function are the most important predictors of sudden and of nonsudden 
cardiac death. Arrhythmias in heart failure may have many different underlying 
mechanisms. Indications for, and mode of treatment of, arrhythmias in heart 
failure depend on the symptoms and prognostic significance of the arrhythmia. 
Primarily, pump function should be optimized and antiarrhythmic drug therapy 
instituted only when the arrhythmia persists. In poorly tolerated and 
life-threatening arrhythmias, implantable devices allowing pacing and 
defibrillation must be considered. No data are presently available indicating a 
protective role of antiarrhythmic drugs in the prevention of sudden cardiac 
death in heart failure. Future directions should concentrate on the development 
of better stratification of risk for sudden death, better delineation of 
mechanisms of arrhythmias in heart failure (allowing the development of 
mechanism-specific antiarrhythmic drugs), and research into new nonpharmacologic 
techniques such as cardiomyoplasty and molecular biologic techniques to rebuild 
the failing heart muscles.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)91356-9
PMID: 1414893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Am J Cardiol. 1992 Oct 15;70(11):1077-80. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)90364-5.

Differences in men and women in coronary artery disease, systemic hypertension 
and their treatment.

Kitler ME.

Various studies have shown that women with coronary artery diseases are treated 
quite differently from men, although the reasons for these differences are not 
easily discernible and may be based on misconceptions. Furthermore, although the 
attributable risk percentage for cardiovascular complications of hypertension is 
higher in women than in men, little information on treating hypertension in 
women is available. There is cause for concern owing to some findings that white 
women may be harmed by antihypertensive treatment unless that treatment differs 
from that of men. Consensus on the importance of this finding has not been 
reached.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)90364-5
PMID: 1414907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Am J Cardiol. 1992 Oct 29;70(12):43D-51D. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)90271-y.

Beneficial effects of trandolapril on experimentally induced congestive heart 
failure in rats.

Fornes P(1), Richer C, Pussard E, Heudes D, Domergue V, Giudicelli JF.

Author information:
(1)DÃ©partement de Pharmacologie, FacultÃ© de MÃ©decine, Paris-Sud, Le 
Kremlin-BicÃªtre, France.

Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors have been shown to prolong life 
expectancy in patients with congestive heart failure. In order to determine the 
relative contributions of the different factors involved in this beneficial 
effect, we investigated in an experimental model of postinfarction cardiac 
insufficiency in the rat over a 9-12-month period (1) the kinetics of the 
development of the hemodynamic, biologic, and morphologic alterations that 
accompany heart failure, and (2) the kinetics of the effects of a new, 
long-acting ACE inhibitor, trandolapril. Following induction of infarction, 
systolic blood pressure, left ventricular dP/dt, and end-diastolic pressure were 
immediately decreased, decreased, and increased, respectively, and these 
modifications persisted throughout the study. Cardiac index, on the other hand, 
was only initially and transiently decreased. Cardiac remodeling (left 
ventricular dilation, myocardial hypertrophy, and fibrosis) occurred as early as 
7 days after infarction and worsened throughout the study. Plasma atrial 
natriuretic factor (ANF) and urinary cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) were 
also increased. In this model, a 1-year oral treatment with trandolapril 
resulted in early hemodynamic and biologic beneficial effects (reductions in 
pre- and afterload, increase in cardiac index, and decrease in plasma ANF), and 
in a delayed reversal of the infarction-induced cardiac morphologic alterations. 
Hence, the trandolapril-induced increase in survival rate is due initially to 
the drug's hemodynamic effects and over the long-term to both its hemodynamic 
and cardiac morphologic (limitation of remodeling) effects.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)90271-y
PMID: 1414925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Am J Epidemiol. 1992 Aug 15;136(4):389-98. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a116511.

Mortality among workers exposed to polychlorinated biphenyls.

Sinks T(1), Steele G, Smith AB, Watkins K, Shults RA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Surveillance, National Institute for Occupational Safety and 
Health, Cincinnati, OH.

On the basis of evidence from animal studies, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) 
are considered potentially carcinogenic to humans. However, the results of 
studies in human populations exposed to PCBs have been inconsistent. The authors 
conducted a retrospective cohort analysis (1957-1986) comparing the mortality of 
3,588 electrical capacitor manufacturing workers with known exposure to PCBs 
with age-, sex-, and calendar time-specific mortality rates for all whites in 
the United States. Proportional hazards modeling was also performed to examine 
the association between cumulative PCB exposure and site-specific cancer 
mortality. All-cause mortality (192 deaths observed, 283.3 expected) and total 
cancer mortality (54 deaths observed, 63.7 expected) were lower than expected. 
More deaths were observed than expected for malignant melanoma (8 observed, less 
than 2.0 expected) and cancer of the brain and nervous system (5 observed, 2.8 
expected). The average estimated cumulative dose for the cases of brain cancer 
(22.9 units) was greater than for other workers (12.9 units), but the 95% 
confidence intervals around this difference were broad. The risk of malignant 
melanoma was not related to cumulative PCB exposure. These results provide some 
evidence of an association between employment at this plant and malignant 
melanoma and cancer of the brain. The possibility that the results are due to 
chance, bias, or confounding cannot be excluded.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a116511
PMID: 1415158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Am J Kidney Dis. 1992 Oct;20(4):315-23. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(12)70293-7.

Influence of clinical and histological features on actuarial renal survival in 
adult patients with idiopathic IgA nephropathy, membranous nephropathy, and 
membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis: survey of the recent literature.

D'Amico G(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, S. Carlo Hospital, Milan, Italy.

The most recent studies, using the actuarial life-table technique, of the 
problem of long-term renal outcome and the factors that influence it in adult 
patients with one of the three most common types of chronic idiopathic immune 
complexes-mediated glomerulonephritis (IgA nephropathy [IgAN], membranous 
nephropathy [MN], and type I membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis [MPGN]) 
are reviewed. In the last decade, renal survival 10 years after onset has become 
similar to adult patients with idiopathic IgAN (80% to 87%) and idiopathic MN 
(75% to 83%), because of improvement of the renal survival of patients with MN. 
Renal survival at 10 years is worse for adult patients with idiopathic type I 
MPGN (60% to 64%). There is no substantial difference in the average renal 
survival times between different geographical regions, with the exception of a 
better prognosis for idiopathic MN in Japan. The presenting clinical factors 
that most strongly predict subsequent poor outcome are similar for the three 
types of glomerulonephritis and are rather nonspecific: (1) severe proteinuria, 
(2) impairment of renal function, and (3) arterial hypertension. As for the 
histological features, the most powerful predictor of subsequent progression in 
all three types of glomerulonephritis is tubulointerstitial damage, suggesting 
that a cell-mediated immune process believed to occur there may independently 
influence outcome in glomerular diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(12)70293-7
PMID: 1415198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Am J Kidney Dis. 1992 Oct;20(4):376-86. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(12)70302-5.

Survival differences among older dialysis patients in the southeast.

Brogan D(1), Kutner NG, Flagg E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Emory University, 
Atlanta, GA.

Older end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients treated by chronic dialysis have 
higher mortality in the United States than in many other countries. While 
increasing age, white race, male sex, and/or diabetes are considered risk 
factors for survival, few studies of older dialysis patients have simultaneously 
considered multiple predictor variables and their interactions. Using 
information contained in the 1982 to 1986 ESRD Network 20 database for Georgia 
and South Carolina, we studied hospitalizations and survival of 1,354 blacks and 
965 whites who were age 60 years or older when they began dialysis therapy. 
Survival time was modeled using the Cox life-table regression method. Older 
blacks' median age at dialysis initiation was 67.4, compared with 68.7 for older 
whites (P = 0.001). Blacks were more likely than whites (P < 0.001) to have 
hypertension-related or diabetes-related ESRD. White patients experienced 
