approximately 25% more hospitalization when adjustment was made for patient-days 
at risk. Separate multivariate survival models were required for patients with 
diabetes-related versus non-diabetes-related ESRD. Among diabetics, mortality 
was higher among whites and among patients who were older when they began 
dialysis. Among patients with non-diabetes-related ESRD, mortality was higher 
among patients who were older when they began dialysis, but the age effect was 
much stronger for white males. Our hospitalization and mortality data support 
the view that unmeasured severity (or frailty) differences characterize white as 
compared with black dialysis patients. Among non-diabetes-related ESRD patients, 
the age effect on survival was more severe in white males than in blacks or in 
white females. The high mortality we observed among older dialysis patients in 
Georgia and South Carolina warrants further study; the data may in part reflect 
patients' lower socioeconomic status compared with age, race, and sex-matched 
controls.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(12)70302-5
PMID: 1415207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Ann Thorac Surg. 1992 Oct;54(4):732-40. doi: 10.1016/0003-4975(92)91019-6.

Congenital malformations of the coronary arteries: the Texas Heart Institute 
experience.

Fernandes ED(1), Kadivar H, Hallman GL, Reul GJ, Ott DA, Cooley DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Texas Heart Institute, Houston.

Coronary artery anomalies, some of which are considered clinically 
insignificant, can be associated with other congenital heart defects, myocardial 
ischemia, and reduced life expectancy. We conducted a retrospective study to 
determine the efficacy of surgical treatment in 191 patients who had a total of 
202 coronary artery anomalies, which were classified as anomalies of origin (88 
patients), termination (93), or distribution (10). Of the 88 patients with 
anomalies of origin, 60 had a coronary artery arising from the pulmonary artery, 
18 had a right coronary artery arising from the left anterior descending artery, 
and 10 had a coronary artery arising from the contralateral sinus of Valsalva. 
All patients with an anomaly of termination had a coronary arteriovenous 
fistula, and all patients with an anomaly of origin had a single coronary 
artery. The diagnostic and operative techniques for each of the defects are 
evaluated. Based on our experience, early diagnosis and surgical intervention 
can yield satisfactory results in patients with coronary artery anomalies, with 
most experiencing relief of symptoms. The operative procedures were associated 
with a low early and late mortality; in addition, few patients experienced 
complications.

DOI: 10.1016/0003-4975(92)91019-6
PMID: 1417232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Arch Intern Med. 1992 Oct;152(10):2082-8.

Clinical prognostic factors in lupus nephritis. The importance of hypertension 
and smoking.

Ward MM(1), Studenski S.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs/Robert Wood Johnson Clinical Scholars Program, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, Calif.

BACKGROUND: Many previous studies of the influence of sociodemographic and 
clinical factors on the development of renal failure in patients with lupus 
nephritis have been based on selected subgroups of patients and have yielded 
conflicting results. We sought to determine the prognostic importance of patient 
demographic characteristics (age, gender, race, and socioeconomic status), 
smoking status, and hypertension in the development of end-stage renal disease 
(ESRD) among patients with lupus nephritis.
METHODS: This retrospective cohort study followed an inception cohort of 160 
adults with lupus nephritis. The outcome measure was the development of ESRD, 
defined as the institution of maintenance dialysis or measurement of a 
creatinine clearance of 10 mL/min or less. Life-table analysis was used to 
determine differences between patient subgroups in the time to development of 
ESRD.
RESULTS: End-stage renal disease developed in 41 (26%) of 160 patients followed 
up for a median of 6.4 years. Hypertension and smoking status at the onset of 
nephritis were strongly associated with differences in the time to development 
of ESRD. The median time to ESRD among patients with moderate to severe 
hypertension (diastolic blood pressure, greater than or equal to 105 mm Hg) was 
7 months, among patients with mild hypertension (diastolic blood pressure, 90 to 
104 mm Hg) it was 146 months, and among normotensive patients it was greater 
than 273 months. The median time to ESRD among smokers was 145 months and among 
nonsmokers it was greater than 273 months. These effects persisted in 
multivariable analyses adjusting for differences among patients in age, gender, 
socioeconomic status, renal histology, and immunosuppressive treatment. The 
independent effects of hypertension and smoking resulted in shorter times to 
renal failure among patients who were both hypertensive and smoking, compared 
with nonsmoking hypertensive patients. The development of ESRD did not differ 
among patient demographic subgroups.
CONCLUSION: Patient demographic characteristics had no detectable impact on the 
rate of progression to ESRD in this cohort. Hypertension and smoking appear to 
be important, potentially modifiable, factors influencing the prognosis of 
patients with lupus nephritis.

PMID: 1417382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Arch Intern Med. 1992 Oct;152(10):2114-22.

Relationship of general advance directive instructions to specific 
life-sustaining treatment preferences in patients with serious illness.

Schneiderman LJ(1), Pearlman RA, Kaplan RM, Anderson JP, Rosenberg EM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Care Sciences, University of California, San Diego School 
of Medicine, La Jolla 92093-0622.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether brief general instructions in a typical 
proxy-instruction advance directive (California Durable Power of Attorney for 
Health Care [DPAHC]) provide interpretable information about patient requests to 
limit life-saving treatments, and to determine whether patient treatment 
preferences are stable over time.
DESIGN: Prospective structured interviews.
SETTING: University of California, San Diego Medical Center and Veterans Affairs 
Medical Center, La Jolla.
PATIENTS: One hundred four patients (from a randomly chosen sample of 185) with 
a 5-year life expectancy of no better than 50% as judged by their physicians.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Patients completed the California DPAHC, a 
proxy-instruction advance directive, at entry and at 1 year. The patients also 
completed a questionnaire at entry, after 6 months, and after 1 year, indicating 
their preferences on a five-point Likert-format comparative rating scale for 
cardiopulmonary resuscitation, mechanical ventilation, artificial nutrition, and 
hospitalization for pneumonia.
RESULTS: Sixty-eight percent of the subjects executed the DPAHC. Most patients 
wished treatments to be limited or withheld under certain conditions of reduced 
quality of life. Although general instructions noted on the DPAHC and 
preferences regarding specific procedures were stable over the course of a year, 
the advance directive's general instructions were often inconsistent with, and 
poor predictors of, specific procedure preferences.
CONCLUSIONS: The brief general instruction component of the California DPAHC is 
not helpful in communicating patient wishes regarding specific life-saving 
procedures.

PMID: 1417386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. World Health Forum. 1992;13(2-3):165-70.

Finance for health care: part of a broad canvas.

Evlo K(1), Carrin G.

Author information:
(1)Office of International Cooperation, World Health Organization, Geneva, 
Switzerland.

The economic crisis of the 1980s led to cuts in both government and household 
expenditure on health in the Third World. In order to address these issues it is 
necessary to adopt a macroeconomic approach to the analysis of the health 
sector; this allows its relationship to the whole economy to be understood. The 
efficient and equitable utilization of resources is particularly important in 
times of severe financial constraint.

PIP: Economic conditions in developing countries during the 1980s at the 
macroeconomic level deteriorated. The effects on health services funding are 
described. the improvement in economic conditions and whether economic progress 
can be speeded up are discussed. Management of resources and the challenges for 
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) are also given attention. Governments have 
been encouraged to increase the resources for primary health care. The economic 
crisis after Alma Ata in 1978 increased external debt and interest payments. The 
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank imposed financial stabilization 
and structural adjustment restraints, which meant cuts to the social and health 
sectors. The issues are whether health has received its fair share and to what 
extend the economic crisis has decreased household health expenditures. The 
macroeconomic picture is that in 20 african countries publicly financed health 
expenditure declined from US $9.50/capita in 1982 to US $8.70 adjusted in 1985. 
Increases were made in 1987 to US $9.90. Health indicators improved during the 
1980s in spite of the government reduction in expenditures because households 
contributed to the costs of health care. Expenditures on health are beneficial 
to other sectors. Improvements have been made in the balance of payments and 
current account deficits have declined. Recovery is evidenced and it is expected 
that health budgets will be increased to reflect these changes. Immunization of 
1-year olds is expected to increase. Most of the 34 countries ranked low on an 
index of life expectancy, literacy, and gross domestic product/capita will reach 
1005 immunization by the year 2000. Access to safe water is also expected to 
improve. Child mortality rates of 70/1000 live births will be much harder to 
reach by 2000. AIDS is expected to impact on child mortality. Growth in the 
health sector should be matched with growth in the economy as a whole. 
Reallocation of resources should be accomplished only when resources do not 
contribute to health objectives. Waste needs to be eliminated. Preventive care 
should be a priority. NGOs should integrate their strategies into overall 
development aims, share know-how, and continue creative work. More efficient and 
equitable financing is needed.

PMID: 1418329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Ann Med. 1992 Oct;24(5):313-8. doi: 10.3109/07853899209147829.

Cellular senescence.

Koli K(1), Keski-Oja J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Virology, University of Helsinki, Finland.

The ageing of cells, cellular senescence, is an event that is encountered in all 
normal cells. Cells grown in vitro have a limited life span and do not grow well 
after a certain number of divisions. They cease to divide and eventually die. In 
accordance with this, the life expectancy of an established cell culture depends 
on the age of the donor. Cells that have undergone immortalization via a crisis 
period of transformation by chemicals or viruses, as well as malignant cell 
lines in general, have an ability to divide indefinitely. A distinct form of 
cell death, apoptosis or programmed cell death, is encountered in many 
physiological situations like in keratinocyte differentiation.

DOI: 10.3109/07853899209147829
PMID: 1418911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Eur J Cancer. 1992;28A(12):1940-1. doi: 10.1016/0959-8049(92)90231-p.

The darkest ages of tobacco.

McNamee D.

DOI: 10.1016/0959-8049(92)90231-p
PMID: 1419284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Br J Cancer. 1992 Nov;66(5):800-4. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1992.363.

Treatment with a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent delays the growth of 
spontaneous pulmonary metastases of a mammary adenocarcinoma of non-detected 
immunogenicity.

Fontán PA(1), Amura CR, Sordelli DO.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Microbiología, Parasitología e Inmunología, Facultad de 
Medicina, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Previous reports showed that treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
agents (NSAIA) can alter the growth profile of a variety of tumours. In this 
study, the effect of NSAIA treatment on the growth of the primary tumour and the 
appearance of spontaneous pulmonary metastases, was investigated. A mammary 
adenocarcinoma of non-detected immunogenicity, C7HI, was grafted subcutaneously 
in the lateral flank of Balb/c mice. Oral treatment with approximately 1 mg kg-1 
day-1 piroxicam delayed both tumour growth and the growth of pulmonary 
metastases. Survival of mice bearing the primary tumour was significantly 
lengthened by anti-inflammatory treatment. Similarly, in separate experiments, 
after surgical removal of the primary tumour by day 34 after grafting, the group 
of mice treated orally with piroxicam also exhibited a higher survival rate than 
the control group. Upon surgical removal of the primary tumour 34 days after 
grafting, piroxicam treatment significantly decreased both the number and size 
of pulmonary metastases. The results of this study lends support to the 
hypothesis that inhibition or modulation of inflammation may delay tumour 
organisation and growth. It is suggested that piroxicam treatment may be an 
appropriate adjunct therapy to delay the appearance of pulmonary metastases and 
to increase life-expectancy in a host whose primary tumour has to be surgically 
removed.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1992.363
PMCID: PMC1977982
PMID: 1419623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Br J Ophthalmol. 1992 Oct;76(10):590-1. doi: 10.1136/bjo.76.10.590.

Life expectancy in keratoconus.

Moodaley LC(1), Woodward EG, Liu CS, Buckley RJ.

Author information:
(1)Contact Lens and Prostheses Department, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London.

It is observed that few patients over the age of 60 regularly attend the 
keratoconus clinic at Moorfields Eye Hospital. The hypothesis that patients with 
keratoconus have a shorter life expectancy owing to underlying connective tissue 
related disease was tested. From patient records a sample of 337 keratoconus 
patients aged at least 40 years by 1991 were identified, of which 279 were 
living, 13 were deceased, and 45 were untraceable. The mortality rate for 
keratoconus patients was compared with that of the general population using 
actuarial English life tables. Results show no significant difference between 
the general population mortality rate and that of the keratoconus sample even 
with adjustment for social class. Possible explanations for the non-attendance 
of older patients are discussed.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.76.10.590
PMCID: PMC505224
PMID: 1420040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. J Health Care Poor Underserved. 1992 Fall;3(2):321-35. doi: 
10.1353/hpu.2010.0460.

The relationship between primary care and life chances.

Shi L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Administration, School of Public Health, University of 
South Carolina, Columbia 29205.

Many researchers criticize clinical medicine for its failure to improve 
mortality rates. But in their critiques, few distinguish primary care from 
expensive, high-technology specialized care. This research is concerned with the 
empirical relationship between the availability of health services resources 
(i.e., primary care, specialty care, hospital beds) and certain "life chances," 
as measured by overall and disease-specific mortality rates, and life 
expectancy. The model shows a significant direct association between primary 
care and favorable mortality outcomes, though the same does not hold true for 
variables such as hospital beds or physician specialists. There should be 
greater emphasis on prevention-oriented primary care as a mechanism for health 
improvement and cost control.

DOI: 10.1353/hpu.2010.0460
PMID: 1420668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Health Rep. 1992;4(2):185-9.

Highlights. Causes of death 1990.

[Article in English, French]

Brancker A(1).

Author information:
(1)Canadian Centre for Health Information, Statistics Canada, Ottawa.

PMID: 1421021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Bull Environ Contam Toxicol. 1992 Oct;49(4):606-12. doi: 10.1007/BF00196306.

Toxicity of methylmercury to Daphnia pulex.

Chen TY(1), McNaught DC.

Author information:
(1)Nankai University, Tianjin, People's Republic of China.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00196306
PMID: 1421856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Br J Psychiatry. 1992 Nov;161:722. doi: 10.1192/bjp.161.5.722a.

Longevity and Down's syndrome.

Prasher VP.

Comment in
    Br J Psychiatry. 1993 Feb;162:276.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.161.5.722a
PMID: 1422638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 1992 Sep-Oct;15(5):285-90. doi:
10.1007/BF02733952.

Stent placement in iliac arterial lesions: three years of clinical experience 
with the Wallstent.

Vorwerk D(1), Günther RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Technical University of Aachen, FRG.

Within a 3-year period, 125 patients with 63 iliac occlusions and 62 complex 
iliac stenoses underwent stent placement using self-expandable vascular 
endoprostheses. Early technical success rate was 98%, with a total complication 
rate of 4%. Major complications were seen in 1.6%. Early reobstruction occurred 
in 4 patients with previous occlusions. Late reobstruction due to a clinically 
relevant restenosis or reocclusion occurred in 10 patients and required 12 
repeat interventional procedures. Cumulative patency, excluding early technical 
failure, was 100% at 6 months and 89.4% at 24 months. Stenting of iliac arteries 
using self-expandable endoprostheses is a safe and effective treatment of 
complex iliac lesions.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02733952
PMID: 1423388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Endoscopy. 1992 Oct;24(8):709-16. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1010566.

A clinical decision analysis to assess the value of laparoscopic cholecystectomy 
in the treatment of gallstone disease.

Habu Y(1), Hayashi K, Watanabe Y, Kawai K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, 
Japan.

Laparoscopic cholecystectomy has been introduced for gallstone therapy and its 
use appears currently to be spreading very rapidly. A clinical decision analysis 
was performed to assess this new technique by quantitative comparison with other 
therapeutic modalities. A decision tree-based state transition model implemented 
to simulate a five-year period of follow-up was constructed. Non-surgical 
treatments were superior to surgical treatments in enhancing both life 
expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy on the basis of the optimal 
indications; one radiolucent stone < 2 cm for extracorporeal shock-wave 
lithotripsy and multiple floating stones for oral dissolution therapy 
respectively, especially in the elderly. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy was 
superior to open cholecystectomy in enhancing the quality of life for all 
eligible patients. Sensitivity analysis revealed that a higher incidence of the 
bile duct injury resulting from laparoscopic cholecystectomy would result in a 
poorer quality-adjusted life expectancy. The results of the analysis suggest the 
following. Nonsurgical treatments are acceptable alternatives to surgery on the 
basis of their optimal indications. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy has an 
advantage over open cholecystectomy in enhancing the patient's utility, and 
appears to be an attractive therapeutic modality. A proper training program is 
necessary to ensure the quality of this procedure in order to maintain its 
advantage.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1010566
PMID: 1425464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1992 Oct;18(5):508-13.

The prognostic value of the tumour markers CA 195 and CEA in patients with 
adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.

Taylor OM(1), Cooper EH, Benson EA, McMahon MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, General Infirmary, Leeds, UK.

The serum levels of CA 195 were determined in 52 patients with histologically 
proven pancreatic carcinoma and compared with carcino-embryonic antigen (CEA), 
serum bilirubin and albumin. CA 195 levels were raised above the upper limit of 
20 U/ml in 42 cases, giving a sensitivity of 80% for the detection of pancreatic 
carcinoma, whereas CEA was raised in only 55%. The levels of CA 195 and CEA were 
significantly higher in patients with metastatic disease, but potentially 
curable cases were not discriminated. Bilirubin and albumin levels were not 
significantly related to either the presence of metastases or the levels of the 
tumour markers. At the time of initial presentation, levels of both tumour 
markers correlated with the eventual duration of survival, but bilirubin and 
albumin did not. Significant increases in CEA and CA 195 were found in 
sequential blood samples, as the disease progressed. Neither CA 195 nor CEA was 
of sufficient sensitivity to be of value for screening, but both give an 
indication of the presence of metastases and of the subsequent duration of 
survival. CA 195 appeared to be more sensitive and might help to assess progress 
of the disease.

PMID: 1426303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 1992 Oct 23;47(1):17-23. doi: 
10.1016/0028-2243(92)90209-h.

Predictive value of pelvic scores for induction of labor by local PGE2.

Lyndrup J(1), Legarth J, Weber T, Nickelsen C, Guldbaek E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Herlev University Hospital, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.

The predictive value of pelvic scores, parity, age and gestational age for 
induction of labor by local prostaglandin-E2 (PGE2) was examined in 336 women 
attempting induction of labor by intracervical or vaginal PGE2. The patient 
characteristics were correlated to: (1) vaginal delivery within 48 h, (2) the 
period from induction to onset of labor (latency period), and (3) the duration 
of labor. The Bishop score (P < 0.01) and even more the Lange score (P < 0.0001) 
were significantly inversely correlated to both latency period and 
induction-delivery period. This was caused by cervical dilatation (P < 0.001), 
fetal station (P < 0.05) and cervical length (P < 0.05), whereas position and 
consistency of the cervix were of no importance. All three periods studied were 
significantly (P < 0.0001) shorter in parous women. In primiparous women, 
gestational age was of no importance for the latency period; however, higher 
gestational age was associated with longer labor (P < 0.001). We conclude that 
the predictive value of pelvic scores on induction hardly differs using local 
PGE2 compared to conventional methods; furthermore, the Bishop score should be 
substituted, disregarding position and consistency of the cervix, but putting 
more weight to cervical dilatation. A new pelvic score is proposed.

DOI: 10.1016/0028-2243(92)90209-h
PMID: 1426507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 1992 Oct 23;47(1):59-65. doi: 
10.1016/0028-2243(92)90215-k.

Prophylactic oophorectomy.

Meijer WJ(1), van Lindert AC.

Author information:
(1)Netherland Institute of Primary Health Care, Utrecht.

The risks and benefits of prophylactic bilateral oophorectomy (BO) accompanying 
hysterectomy are reviewed. The potential reduction in the risk of subsequent 
ovarian cancer is quantified using literature data and a mathematical model. The 
risks of subsequent breast cancer from low-dose ERT are estimated using a 
comprehensive mathematical model. It is hypothesized that BO may have a 
substantial protective effect on breast cancer risk despite subsequent low-dose 
or non-low-dose ERT, when BO is performed at an early age. In women with a 
family history of ovarian cancer or breast cancer, the individual risks must be 
assessed on the basis of a pedigree analysis. In conclusion, a decision on BO 
must be based on weighing the potential benefits of reduced ovarian and breast 
cancer risks against the psychological importance of retaining the ovaries and 
the risk of osteoporosis and cardiovascular disease when compliance with ERT is 
less than perfect. The provided quantitative data may help in making the right 
decision.

DOI: 10.1016/0028-2243(92)90215-k
PMID: 1426512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. G Ital Cardiol. 1992 Mar;22(3):293-305.

[Drop in cardiovascular and coronary mortality in Lombardia, 1969-1987. 
Evaluation of reliability of the estimates and possible explaining hypothesis].

[Article in Italian]

Cesana G(1), Ferrario M, Sega R, Bravi C, Gussoni MT, De Vito G, Valagussa F.

Author information:
(1)Centro di studio e di ricerca sulla Patologia Cronico-degenerativa negli 
Ambienti di Lavoro, Università degli Studi di Milano, Monza.

The results of the present analysis indicate, from 1969 to 1987, a sharp and 
stable decline in cardiovascular (CVD) mortality in Italians aged 35-74 years 
(37.6% in males 53.6% in females). These trends were responsible for consistent 
reductions of total mortality (27.5% and 38% in the two gender groups, 
respectively), and for the increase of life expectancy. The decrease involved 
the two major components of CVD mortality, i.e. coronary heart disease (CHD) 
(23% in males and 44% in females) and cerebrovascular diseases (Stroke) (42.6% 
in the former and 51% in latter gender group). All these mortality decrements 
have been higher in the Lombardia Region. Comparing age-adjusted mortality rates 
in 1968 and 1987, it was possible to estimate that 23,040 deaths were saved in 
one year among the residents of this northern part of Italy, and the decrease of 
CHD mortality was responsible for about 30% of the total national decrement of 
CHD deaths, within comparable age strata. This is attributable both to the 
higher rates registered at the beginning of the studied period, and to the 
sharper decline observed. The social impact, in terms of reduction of deaths, 
was prominent for males. Among the northern male population, the amount of 
prevented deaths due to CHD and Stroke was equivalent (2072 vs 2172). Data from 
a MONICA Collaborating Center, located in the region--Area Brianza--, allow us 
to estimate, for coronary diagnoses reported on death certificates in the 1980s, 
acceptable levels of accuracy (Cohen's Kappa of .35, with 99% CI .27-.43) and 
sensitivity (87%). In comparison with earlier estimates carried out in the late 
1970s, it is possible to hypothesize an increase of sensitivity over time for 
certified myocardial infarction diagnoses, which could have contributed to the 
underestimation of the observed decrements. In dealing with estimates of the 
reasons for these declines, only suggestions could be addressed because results 
of specific and comprehensive studies are not presently available. By comparing 
MONICA data with the results obtained in earlier surveys, it is possible to 
estimate that about 20 to 30% of the CHD decline, which occurred in the Region, 
might be attributed to the decrease of in-hospital coronary case-fatality. 
Moreover, major coronary risk factors (total cholesterol, blood pressure and 
cigarette smoking) show parallel positive changes, but their contribution in 
predicting the CHD downfall is difficult to evaluate on the basis of existing 
data.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 1426772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1992;230(6):527-30. doi:
10.1007/BF00181773.

Metastatic tumors to the orbit--management and prognosis.

Tijl J(1), Koornneef L, Eijpe A, Thomas L, Gonzalez DG, Veenhof C.

Author information:
(1)Orbital Centre, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

In a retrospective study the records of 34 consecutive cases with tumors 
metastatic to the orbit were reviewed with special attention to the management 
and prognosis of these patients. The primary tumor site was the breast in 20 
patients, prostate in 5, kidney in 2 and skin in 2. The remaining 5 patients had 
other primary tumour sites. The symptoms of orbital metastasis preceded the 
detection of the primary tumor in 8 cases (24%). Twenty patients died after a 
mean interval of 25 months following the diagnosis of the orbital metastasis. 
This study gives a summary of the clinical features of these patients. With 
improved methods of treatment it was possible to obtain a relief of orbital 
symptoms in 24 patients (71%). Although the life expectancy of these patients 
remains poor, treatment can result in symptomatic relief and in an improvement 
in the quality of life, which is the main goal in the management of these 
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00181773
PMID: 1427135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Gig Sanit. 1992 Feb;(2):9-11.

[Probability of reaching the reproductive and working age in the area of nuclear 
industry plants].

[Article in Russian]

Kurbatov AV.

PMID: 1427181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Gynecol Obstet Invest. 1992;34(3):180-3. doi: 10.1159/000292755.

Effect of the short follicular phase on subsequent conception.

Check JH(1), Adelson H, Lurie D, Jamison T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Cooper Hospital/University Medical 
Center, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Camden, N.J.

The present study was designed to evaluate whether there is a lower pregnancy 
rate in women with short follicular phases, as defined by attaining the peak 
estradiol level before day 11 of the cycle. Thirty-two early ovulators with 
mature follicles were matched with 32 women being treated for similar 
infertility problems, who ovulated between days 12-20. Pregnancies were achieved 
by 9 (28.1%) of the early ovulators compared to 19 (59.4%) of the controls. The 
mean number of cycles required to achieve a pregnancy was 8.6 in the early 
ovulators compared to 6.4 in the controls. Using the clinical life table method, 
the 12-month pregnancy rate was estimated to be 31.4% for early ovulators as 
compared to 66.3% for controls. Whether lengthening the follicular phase by drug 
treatment will improve pregnancy rates remains to be seen.

DOI: 10.1159/000292755
PMID: 1427421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Haematologica. 1992 May-Jun;77(3):257-64.

Bone marrow transplantation for childhood leukemia: five years' experience in a 
pediatric hematology center.

Uderzo C(1), Locasciulli A, Rovelli A, Rossi MR, Jankovic M, Adamoli L, Bonomi 
M, Balduzzi A, Biondi A, Schirò R, et al.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Pediatrica dell'Università di Milano, Ospedale San Gerardo, Monza 
(MI), Italy.

BACKGROUND: Fifty-three children (39 male, 14 female, median age 9 years 3 
months) with different forms of leukemia underwent bone marrow transplantation 
(BMT) at our center. Various conditioning regimens were used according to the 
disease and time of BMT. In this paper we evaluate the impact of the experience 
of a pediatric hematology center on BMT-related problems in children.
METHODS: We analyzed disease-free survival (DFS), early BMT-related effects, 
hepatic, cardiac and respiratory function and late endocrine effects as shown by 
standard instrumental and laboratory tests.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Outcome (overall median follow-up 34 months) was 
satisfactory. Three years DFS was 50.1% in all patients, 58.8% in lymphoblastic 
leukemia in 2nd complete remission (CR), and 50.0% in acute myeloid leukemia 
(some in 2nd or subsequent CR). Three of four patients with chronic myeloid 
leukemia were alive at 38 months. Management of the problems causing early 
post-BMT toxicity contributed to a progressive fall in early morbidity and 
mortality (14.3% in the last 3 years). Pre-BMT hepatitis in most patients was 
not associated with increased post-BMT hepatotoxicity. Cardiac function, even in 
patients given aggressive anthracycline treatment before BMT, remained normal 3 
years after transplantation, as did respiratory function, although 8 cases 
presented subclinical restrictive and/or obstructive alterations. Compensated 
hypothyroidism was observed in 9 patients. Six boys received replacement 
treatment for hypogonadism. Severe height impairment was seen in 2 patients. 
Post-BMT endocrine and growth effects require a longer follow-up for definitive 
conclusions to be drawn.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1427433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Horm Res. 1992;37 Suppl 3:74-87. doi: 10.1159/000182406.

The GH-transgenic mouse as an experimental model for growth research: clinical 
and pathological studies.

Wanke R(1), Wolf E, Hermanns W, Folger S, Buchmüller T, Brem G.

Author information:
(1)University of Munich, FRG.

The objectives and the methodology of mammalian gene transfer are discussed and 
findings in growth hormone (GH) transgenic mice are reported to illustrate the 
potential offered by genetically designed animal models for investigations in 
various areas of biomedical research. Transgenic mice expressing hybrid genes 
composed of either human or bovine GH coding sequences fused to the mouse 
metallothionein I promoter show high serum levels of heterologous GH, increased 
growth rates and final adult size, decreased life expectancy and a variety of 
pathological changes.

DOI: 10.1159/000182406
PMID: 1427647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Hum Biol. 1992 Dec;64(6):785-9.

Health transition: examples from the western Pacific.

Baker PT(1), Garruto RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park 
16802.

PIP: The Industrial Revolution ushered in a rapid transition from agriculture to 
industrialization. Some biological effects of this transition included 
increasing life expectancy, reduced infant mortality, and some decline in 
fertility. Reduced infant mortality first brought about an increase in life 
expectancy, but as humans were able to control infectious diseases, child and 
adult mortality also decreased. Now, accidents and chronic diseases are 
responsible for most mortality in many age groups. This shift from infectious 
diseases to accidents and chronic diseases is called the health transition. 
Japan and US are Pacific Basin countries which have relatively high life 
expectancy and low infant mortality (1988, 75.54 years vs. 71.38 years, and 4.4 
vs. 9.9, respectively). These figures suggest that these countries rather 
advanced in the health transition. Japan may have better life expectancy than 
the US because of the effect of environmental factors, ethnic diversity, and 
health care differentials by social class on cardiovascular disease and cancer 
mortality. China and Thailand hold intermediate positions (67.98 years 
(1985-1990) vs. 63.82 years (1985-1986), and 32.4 vs. 39, respectively). Some 
research indicates that urban conditions and factory work increase the 
cardiovascular disease risk among the Chinese. Recent research suggests that 
access to immunization and modern medical care for acute disease are the only 
critical variables of the health transition rather than other variables. Papua 
New Guinea is not progressing very well (53.18 years and 58). Papua New Guinea 
has not yet been able to control infectious diseases, especially malaria. This 
comparison illustrates that populations progress through the health transition 
at different rates.

PMID: 1427738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Int J Epidemiol. 1992 Apr;21(2):320-3. doi: 10.1093/ije/21.2.320.

Life table analysis of infant mortality and feto-infant mortality distributed on 
causes of death in Denmark 1983-1987.

Kristensen FB(1), Mac F.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

The survival function of 263,322 singletons of the 1983-1987 Danish birth 
cohorts (262,159 liveborn and 1163 stillborn babies) with mortality distributed 
on functional groups of underlying causes of death is presented in two graphic 
forms on the basis of Kaplan-Meier estimates. About half of all first-day deaths 
in liveborn babies occurred during the first 4 hours. More than half of all 
first-week deaths happened during the first day. More than half of all deaths 
from 31 weeks to 76 weeks after the first day of the last menstrual period (LMP) 
were either fetal deaths prior to the onset of labour unexplained by fetal 
factors or unexplained sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) deaths. Graphic 
presentation of feto-infant mortality distributed on functional cause-of-death 
groups improved the expression of the relative contribution and timing of the 
different causes of deaths. Despite a high autopsy rate and a uniform coding 
practice the distribution on causes of deaths from register data should be 
interpreted with caution. Full use of the feto-infant approach is only achieved 
with data which include late abortions. Thus the feto-infant approach is of 
special interest in countries which have registers of live births and fetal 
deaths from week 22 of gestation or earlier. The integration of the life table 
approach and analysis of underlying causes of deaths should be further explored 
as a way of utilizing vital statistic databases for the evaluation of perinatal 
care.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/21.2.320
PMID: 1428487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Int J Epidemiol. 1992 Apr;21(2):406-19. doi: 10.1093/ije/21.2.406.

Risk factor dynamics, mortality and life expectancy differences between eastern 
and western Finland: the Finnish Cohorts of the Seven Countries Study.

Pekkanen J(1), Manton KG, Stallard E, Nissinen A, Karvonen MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, National Public Health Institute, Helsinki, 
Finland.

Prior studies have not accounted for male mortality being higher in east than 
west Finland. Efforts to identify the mechanisms producing higher mortality in 
the east, due primarily to cardiovascular diseases (CVD), initially focused on a 
search for new risk factors. An alternate approach is to examine the assumptions 
of the analysis. This was investigated using a model which described (a) changes 
in risk factors over time, (b) dependency of risk factor effects on age, and (c) 
interactions and nonlinear effects of risk factors on mortality. The model was 
applied to 25-year follow-up data from cohorts of eastern (N = 823) and western 
(N = 888) Finnish men using pulse pressure, diastolic blood pressure, body mass 
index, total cholesterol, vital capacity index, cigarette smoking, and heart 
rate as risk factors. At age 40, men in the west had a life expectancy 2.4 years 
higher. Of the difference 29% (0.7 years) was associated with area differences 
in risk factor means, variances, and their change with age. The remainder, 1.7 
years, was associated with age differences in the relation of risk factor 
interactions to CVD mortality. Possible reasons for these differences, such as 
joint elevation of several risk factors inducing rapid progression of 
atherogenesis, are discussed. No significant area differences were observed for 
mortality from either cancer or other causes.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/21.2.406
PMID: 1428499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1992;24(4):627-31. doi: 
10.1016/0360-3016(92)90707-o.

The role of laminectomy in the combined treatment of metastatic spinal cord 
compression.

Landmann C(1), Hünig R, Gratzl O.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital, Basel, Switzerland.

A retrospective analysis of clinical data concerning 140 patients with spinal 
cord compression is presented. Treatment consisted of a surgical decompressive 
laminectomy followed by radiation therapy in 127 cases. Primary radiation 
therapy supported by steroids was applied in only 26 cases. A dose of 30-40 Gy 
in 15-20 fractions was delivered to all patients. Treatment outcome was analyzed 
by comparing motor function (categories: no deficit, mild deficit ambulatory, 
paraparetic not ambulatory, paraplegic), sphincter function, and pain relief 
before and after treatment in both modalities. Following laminectomy and 
radiation therapy, 82% of paraparetic patients regained their ability to walk, 
sphincter function improved in 68%, pain relief was achieved in 88%. Following 
radiation therapy alone, 64% of paraparetic patients became ambulatory, 33% 
showed a normalization of sphincter function, and 72% became pain free. Our 
results indicate that laminectomy should play a major role in the treatment of 
patients with metastatic spinal cord compression. The decision as to the 
treatment of choice has to be made individually for each patient taking into 
consideration his general condition, life expectancy, and origin of the primary.

DOI: 10.1016/0360-3016(92)90707-o
PMID: 1429084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. J Biosoc Sci. 1992 Oct;24(4):497-504. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000020058.

Socioeconomic factors affecting the longevity of the Japanese population: a 
study for 1980 and 1985.

Uchida E(1), Araki S, Murata K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo, Japan.

The effects of urbanisation, low income and rejuvenation of the population on 
life expectancy at birth and at 20, 40 and 65 years of age for males and females 
in Japan were examined twice, in 1980 and 1985. For males, urbanisation was the 
major factor determining life expectancy at birth and at age 20 years, and low 
income was the key determinant of decreased life expectancy except at 65 years 
of age. For females high income was the factor significantly decreasing life 
expectancy at 65 years of age in 1980, and rejuvenation of the population 
inversely influenced life expectancy except at birth in 1985. Life expectancy 
for all age groups in 1985 was significantly longer than in 1980 for both males 
and females.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000020058
PMID: 1429777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. J Gerontol. 1992 Nov;47 Spec No:131-3.

Breast cancer screening in older women: the family practice perspective.

Frame PS(1).

Author information:
(1)Tri-County Family Medicine, Cohocton, New York.

This article reviews screening for breast cancer in older women from the 
perspective of the primary care physician. Although breast cancer is a leading 
cause of cancer in women, the diagnosis of breast cancer in an asymptomatic 
woman is an uncommon occurrence for the individual physician. Physician 
compliance with breast cancer screening recommendations is less than optimum: 
physicians report higher compliance in survey studies than is demonstrated by 
performance audits. The low yield of screening, cost concerns, concerns about 
the reliability of radiology reports, concerns about patient compliance, lack of 
time, and forgetfulness are reasons cited for poor provider compliance with 
screening recommendations. In general there is no reason not to recommend 
mammography for older women unless individual factors including biologic age, 
life expectancy, comorbidities, or patient preference appear to make screening 
not worthwhile. The decision to stop recommending mammography for an older woman 
should be made in conjunction with the patient.

PMID: 1430874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. J Gerontol. 1992 Nov;47 Spec No:142-7.

Decision making and the principles of screening for breast cancer.

Pauker SG(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Decision Making, New England Medical Center, Boston, MA 
02111.

This position paper raises issues central to the screening process and how it 
relates to breast cancer in the elderly. These comments reflect neither a formal 
model developed specifically for breast cancer screening nor detailed data about 
this disease. Such information is available elsewhere in these Forum 
proceedings. Rather, this discussion develops the general principles of 
screening as they impact on breast cancer in elderly women.

PMID: 1430877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. J Gerontol. 1992 Nov;47 Spec No:51-8.

Economic considerations in breast cancer screening of older women.

Brown ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Cancer Institute, 
Bethesda, MD 20892.

The incidence of breast cancer increases with age, tending to result in more 
favorable cost-effectiveness outcomes with more advanced age of the screened 
population. On the other hand, the decreased remaining life expectancy of older 
women can be expected to reduce the cost effectiveness of screening. To assess 
these competing factors, the cost effectiveness of a long-term breast cancer 
screening program was evaluated using a computerized simulation model. The cost 
per life year saved decreased when the 65-69 year age group was added to a 
program screening women aged 50-64. For older age groups, however, cost 
effectiveness became relatively less favorable. The cost per life year saved of 
screening the 80-84 year age group was 55% higher than for the 65-69 group.

PMID: 1430883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. J Gerontol. 1992 Nov;47 Spec No:7-16.

Supporting statements and rationale.

Costanza ME, Annas GJ, Brown ML, Cassel CK, Champion V, Cohen HJ, Frame PS, 
Glasse L, Mor V, Pauker SG.

PMID: 1430887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. J Mal Vasc. 1992;17(3):188-95.

[Surgery of aneurysms of the abdominal aorta in 1992. Lessons of a decade].

[Article in French]

Mellière D(1), Becquemin JP, Ecollan P, Fitoussi M, Vodinh J.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire, CHU Henri-Mondor, Créteil.

Perioperative mortality of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) remains at a mean of 
3% in asymptomatic cases, 6% when symptomatic and 50% when ruptured while many 
patients with ruptured AAA die prior to surgery. This has changed little over 
the last decade. The causes of this stagnation are analyzed, strategic choices 
as a function of clinical situations, size of aneurysm, and associated lesions 
exposed, and means explored to improve the prognosis. Since the perioperative 
mortality rate appears incompressible, an improvement in the prognosis of AAA 
can be obtained only by a combined medical effort. This requires the more rapid 
recognition of prodromal symptoms of rupture, the detection of a larger number 
of asymptomatic AAA and improved postoperative life expectancy, already 
reasonable, by more rigorous vascular and cardiologic surveillance.

PMID: 1431604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1992 Aug;46(4):394-5. doi:
10.1136/jech.46.4.394.

Adding years to life: effect of avoidable mortality on life expectancy at birth.

Benavides FG(1), Orts R, Pérez S.

Author information:
(1)Departmento de Salud Pública, Universidad de Alicante, Spain.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The aim was to determine the number of years that could be 
gained by preventing avoidable deaths.
DESIGN: The study arose from the concept of avoidable causes of death and life 
expectancy at birth. Four abbreviated life tables were computed. The first 
included all causes of death; the second excluded all avoidable causes of death; 
the third and fourth excluded respectively primary and secondary avoidable 
causes of death.
SETTING: Mortality and population data were taken from Mortality Statistics 
Offices in Valencia Region, Spain.
MAIN RESULTS: Life expectancy at birth (LEB) was 75.7 years. After removing all 
avoidable deaths, LEB increased by 1.74 years. This improvement is attributed to 
avoidable deaths by primary prevention (1.09 years) and avoidable death by 
secondary prevention (0.37 year).
CONCLUSIONS: According to these results the greatest improvement in LEB would be 
gained by primary prevention.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.46.4.394
PMCID: PMC1059608
PMID: 1431715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. J Clin Epidemiol. 1992 Sep;45(9):971-84. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(92)90113-2.

Precision of blood cholesterol measurement and high blood cholesterol 
case-finding and treatment.

Weissfeld JL(1), Holloway JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, PA 15261.

Imprecise blood cholesterol measurement can be expected to adversely affect 
large scale efforts to detect and treat high blood cholesterol. Using protocols 
specified by the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP), we used computer 
