simulation techniques to quantify the effects of blood cholesterol measurement 
variability on misclassification rates, costs, effectiveness, and 
cost-effectiveness of high blood cholesterol case-finding and treatment. At the 
time of initial case-finding, increased measurement variability was associated 
with a moderate decrease in the proportions assigned to a treatment state and in 
the positive predictive value of such an assignment. After 10 years of continual 
case-finding and treatment, measurement variability dramatically affected 
proportions assigned to drug treatment and diminished the percent on drugs with 
blood cholesterol levels truly above NCEP cutpoints. Extreme variability in 
blood cholesterol measurement increased per capita costs by 14-18% and 
diminished cost-effectiveness by at least 11-12%. The adverse effects of 
measurement variability on cost-effectiveness were much more pronounced if 
adjustments to life-expectancy were made to recognize the lower quality of life 
associated with drug treatment. Misclassification rates can be decreased and 
cost-effectiveness improved by performing repeated measurements of blood 
cholesterol before increasing intensity of treatment. Improvement in the 
precision of measurement are especially beneficial for low-risk individuals.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(92)90113-2
PMID: 1432026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. J Neurooncol. 1992 Jun;13(2):157-64. doi: 10.1007/BF00172765.

The role of radiotherapy in the treatment of subtotally resected benign 
meningiomas.

Miralbell R(1), Linggood RM, de la Monte S, Convery K, Munzenrider JE, 
Mirimanoff RO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston.

Thirty-six patients with benign meningioma were treated for primary or recurrent 
disease by subtotal resection and external beam irradiation from 1968-1986 at 
Massachusetts General Hospital. Comparison is made with 79 patients treated by 
subtotal surgery alone from 1962-1980. Progression-free survival for 17 patients 
irradiated after initial incomplete surgery was 88% at 8 years compared with 48% 
for similar patients treated by surgery alone (p = 0.057). 16 patients 
incompletely resected at time of first recurrence were irradiated and 78% were 
progression-free at 8 years while 11% of a similar group treated by surgery 
alone were progression free (p = 0.001). Long term overall survival was high and 
similar in both control and study groups. Two patients were irradiated at second 
recurrence and 1 patient at third recurrence. Twenty-five patients were treated 
with photons alone and have a median follow-up of 57 months, 6 patients have 
recurred at doses 45-60 Gy. Eleven patients were treated with combined 10 MV 
photons and 160 MV protons utilizing 3-D treatment planning. These patients have 
been followed for a median of 53 months and none have failed to date. Eight of 
11 received 54-60.4 Gy and 3/11 greater than 64.48 Gy. Sex, age, pathology grade 
and score, surgery and timing of radiation therapy were not associated with 
significant differences in failure patterns within the irradiated study group (p 
less than 0.1). Complications have been seen in 6 irradiated patients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00172765
PMID: 1432033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. J R Coll Physicians Lond. 1992 Oct;26(4):357-66.

Smoking: its influence on survival and cause of death.

West RR(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Wales College of Medicine, Cardiff.

Smoking is strongly associated with age-specific death rates for a number of 
diseases. Increased age-specific death rates for a disease may imply either more 
deaths from the disease with increased absolute lifetime risk, or earlier 
deaths, without increased absolute lifetime risk. The British doctor smoking 
data are re-analysed using lifetable methods for survival, cumulative mortality 
and the disease-specific cumulative mortality. The most significant effect of 
smoking is on survival: life shortening amounts to three years for light 
smokers, five for moderate smokers, and eight for heavy smokers, compared with 
those who never smoked. Smoking increases the absolute number of deaths from 
some causes, including lung cancer; for other causes, including ischaemic heart 
disease, it brings forward death without increasing the absolute number of 
deaths. The smoking associations with more or earlier death have implications 
for research into the mechanisms of disease causation, for health promotion, for 
rational health-care planning, and for social policy.

PMCID: PMC5375557
PMID: 1432873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. J Urol. 1992 Nov;148(5 Pt 2):1667-73. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)36998-7.

Results of a randomized clinical trial of medical versus surgical management of 
infants and children with grades III and IV primary vesicoureteral reflux 
(United States). The International Reflux Study in Children.

Weiss R(1), Duckett J, Spitzer A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, New York Medical College, Valhalla 10595.

A total of 132 infants and children with grades III and IV primary 
vesicoureteral reflux was entered into a prospective trial comparing medical to 
surgical management. Inclusion criteria were an age not exceeding 10 years and a 
glomerular filtration rate of at least 70 ml. per minute per 1.73 m.2. Children 
with significant urinary tract malformations and clinical signs/symptoms of 
dysfunctional voiding were not accepted into the trial. Medical therapy 
consisted of continuous low dose antibiotic prophylaxis until vesicoureteral 
reflux resolved. The type of surgical procedure used for the correction of 
reflux was left to the discretion of the surgeon. Outcome variables included the 
appearance or progression of renal lesions, rate of renal growth, recurrence 
rate of urinary tract infection or pyelonephritis, changes in total kidney 
glomerular filtration rate, development of hypertension and resolution rate of 
vesicoureteral reflux. Followup at 6, 18, 36 and 54 months after entry included, 
in addition to history and physical examination, voiding cystourethrography, 
excretory urography and a urine culture. Of the patients 68 were allocated to 
the medical group and 64 to the surgical group. They were stratified for age, 
sex and preexisting renal scarring. Of the patients 10% were boys, 47% were 
between 2 and 6 years old at entry, 93% had a history of pyelonephritis, 67% had 
either scarring or thinning of the parenchyma at entry, 87% had grade IV 
vesicoureteral reflux in at least 1 unit and 56% had bilateral reflux. There 
were no significant differences in the frequency distribution of entry 
characteristics between the patients allocated to either group. New renal 
scarring developed in 22% of medical and 31% of surgical patients (p < 0.4). 
Growth of kidneys with grade IV vesicoureteral reflux was slightly less than 
normal in the medical (-0.67 +/- 0.15 standard deviation) and surgical (-0.42 
+/- 0.11 standard deviation) groups (p < 0.7). Pyelonephritis occurred in 15 
medical patients versus 5 surgical patients (p < 0.05). There was no significant 
change in glomerular filtration rate within each treatment group and no 
difference in glomerular filtration rate between groups. No patient had 
hypertension during the followup period. The disappearance rate of 
vesicoureteral reflux in patients with grade IV reflux was approximately 8% per 
year. Of the medical patients 75% still had vesicoureteral reflux after 3 years 
of observation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)36998-7
PMID: 1433585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 1992 Aug;22(4):270-7.

The role of socioeconomic factors in the survival of patients with 
gastrointestinal cancers.

Kato I(1), Tominaga S, Ikari A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, Nagoya.

The relations between type of occupation, marital status and residential area 
and survival from gastrointestinal cancers were examined among 4485 cases of 
stomach cancer and 2618 cases of colorectal cancer diagnosed between 1983 and 
1988 and recorded in the Aichi Cancer Registry. In univariate analyses, the 
cumulative five-year survival rates of both cancers were highest among 
professionals and managers and lowest among service workers, in males. They were 
highest among professionals, managers and clerical workers and lowest among 
housewives, in females. For both men and women, single people had a lower 
survival rate than married, and patients living in a metropolis had a higher 
survival rate than those living in other areas. Multivariate analyses, based on 
Cox's proportional hazards model, revealed occupation to have a statistically 
significant effect on prognosis for both sexes, although the effect of extent of 
disease was definitive. The analyses also confirmed the unfavorable effect of a 
single marital status and the favorable effect of residing in a metropolis, in 
women. The results suggest that socioeconomic factors may have a role to play in 
the survival of patients with gastrointestinal cancers.

PMID: 1434026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. J Theor Biol. 1992 Jul 21;157(2):203-20. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5193(05)80621-6.

A comprehensive multiple matrix model representing the life cycle of the tick 
that transmits the agent of Lyme disease.

Sandberg S(1), Awerbuch TE, Spielman A.

Author information:
(1)Bunting Institute, Radcliffe College, Cambridge, MA 02138.

An extension of Leslie matrix methodology was developed to describe the life 
cycle of Ixodes dammini, the tick that transmits the agent of Lyme disease in 
eastern North America. Thereby, we described the seasonally changing pattern of 
interactions of the tick with its various hosts in a well-studied site on 
Nantucket Island, Massachusetts. Particular numerical values representing the 
site were estimated mainly on the basis of published values and interpreted on 
the basis of experience. The model was used to predict seasonal abundance and 
annual rate of increase of this vector tick. Although these ticks quest for 
hosts during two consecutive feeding seasons, all but a few feed during the 
first such season. The relative distribution of developmental stages of the tick 
stabilized after 35 years. Abundance of the simulated population increased 
exponentially and doubled every 6 years. The simulations produced realistic 
seasonal feeding distributions of the ticks in its various developmental stages.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5193(05)80621-6
PMID: 1434674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Mayo Clin Proc. 1992 Jul;67(7):671-5. doi: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)60724-1.

Efficacy and safety of total parenteral nutrition in pediatric patients.

Wesley JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905.

Pediatric patients differ from adult patients because of active musculoskeletal 
growth and development of visceral organs and because they have a 
proportionately smaller nutritional reserve, especially premature infants. 
Measures of outcome of effective nutritional support in pediatric patients who 
have experienced trauma or medical disease or who have undergone surgical 
procedures include weight gain, increased height and circumference of the head, 
increased hepatic synthesis of plasma proteins, immunocompetence, decreased 
morbidity, improved survival, and fast recovery. If a pediatric patient cannot 
eat or be tube-fed enterally after 3 days of recovery and support with fluids, 
parenteral nutrition is indicated. Examples in which this treatment has 
dramatically decreased morbidity include gastroschisis, short-bowel syndrome, 
necrotizing enterocolitis, and Hirschsprung's disease. Contraindications to its 
use include severe congenital (usually genetic) defects and terminal cancer, 
conditions in which life expectancy and quality of life are severely decreased. 
The team approach to parenteral and enteral nutrition in pediatric patients is 
preferred, and stable patients receiving long-term nutritional support, 
including infants, should be considered for home parenteral nutrition. When 
administered by protocol, parenteral nutrition is safe in pediatric patients. In 
properly selected pediatric patients, direct and indirect costs for such therapy 
may be significantly less than those in adults, and the cost-to-benefit ratio is 
appreciably higher when life expectancy, parental pleasure, and potential work 
productivity are considered. Ethical and social issues in initiating and 
discontinuing parenteral nutrition are best decided during thorough empathic 
discussions between physicians and parents.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)60724-1
PMID: 1434903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Life Sci. 1992;51(21):PL207-10. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(92)90317-i.

Pyridine and other coal tar constituents as inhibitors of potato polyphenol 
oxidase: a non-animal model for neurochemical studies.

Henderson HM(1), Eskin NA, Pinsky C, Bose R, Ashique AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.

Potato polyphenol oxidase activity was strongly and noncompetitively inhibited 
by the "Perov mixture" of coal tar components and by pyridine alone, while 
phenol competitively inhibited the enzyme. These two inhibitors are structural 
components of the parkinsonogenic neurotoxin 
N-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). By extension, dopamine and 
neuromelanin synthesis in the brain may be influenced by the inhibitory effects 
of such compounds upon the copper-dependent steps of tyrosine metabolism. The 
non-animal model used in this study may represent an alternative to the use of 
animal tissues in neurodegenerative disease research.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(92)90317-i
PMID: 1435072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1992 Aug;93(8):800-4.

[Relationship between prolonged life span and changes of serum IAP and albumin 
induced by the therapy of lentinan plus tegafur in inoperable and recurrent 
gastric cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishigami H(1), Ogawa K, Fujimoro S, Okui K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Narita Red Cross Hospital, Japan.

Relationship between prolonged life span and changes of serum IAP and albumin 
induced by the therapy of lentinan plus tegafur were analysed on 43 cases with 
inoperable and recurrent gastric cancer. Antitumor effect was observed only in 
one case (2%). Other clinical effects such as improvement of performance status 
(PS), appetite or pain were observed in 18 cases (42%). Decrease of serum IAP 
was observed in 25 cases (58%) and increase of albumin was observed in 20 cases 
(47%). The changes of these two factors seemed to be reversely correlated. Among 
30 cases which didn't show decrease of albumin, we found no increase of 
serum-IAP in 22 cases (72%). In the cases which showed decrease of serum IAP 
from abnormally high level (more than 500 mu/ml) and increase of albumin from 
abnormally low level (less than 3.5g/dl), prolonged life span was observed by 
comparison with the other cases. The cases with any clinical effect contained 
78% of the cases without increase of serum IAP, and 72% of the cases without 
decrease of albumin. These results suggested that life prolongation effect or 
improvement of clinical symptoms by our therapy was closely related to the 
change of these serum factors.

PMID: 1435705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Mol Gen Genet. 1992 Oct;235(1):131-9. doi: 10.1007/BF00286190.

FinOP repression of the F plasmid involves extension of the half-life of FinP 
antisense RNA by FinO.

Lee SH(1), Frost LS, Paranchych W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.

The transfer operon of the F plasmid is positively regulated by the traJ gene 
product, expression of which, in turn, is regulated by both an antisense RNA, 
FinP, and the FinO protein (the FinOP system). A finP- F plasmid, pSFL20, was 
constructed by site-directed mutagenesis and was found to produce wild-type 
levels of pili encoded by the transfer operon. Transcription of the traJ gene 
was decreased by a factor of 3-5 fold in the presence of FinOP with no 
accumulation of a stable RNA duplex between the FinP RNA and the portion of the 
traJ mRNA which is complementary to finP. Stabilization of FinP RNA by FinO 
occurs in the absence of traJ transcripts, suggesting that FinO may interact 
directly with FinP to prevent its degradation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00286190
PMID: 1435724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1992 Nov 7;136(45):2223-7.

[Multi-infarct dementia in nursing home patients; more comorbidity and shorter 
life expectancy than in Alzheimer's disease].

[Article in Dutch]

Koopmans RT(1), Ekkerink JL, Sirre LG, Verkuylen MM, van den Hoogen HJ, van Weel 
C.

Author information:
(1)Verpleeghuis Joachim en Anna, Nijmegen.

A retrospective analysis of the medical charts of 117 patients (50 men and 67 
women) with multi-infarct dementia took place. All patients admitted to the 
psychogeriatric nursing home 'Joachim en Anna' in Nijmegen between 1980 and 1989 
were studied. The aim of the study was to obtain epidemiological information and 
to investigate the prevalence of comorbid conditions, prognosis and mortality. 
The results were compared with patients with Alzheimer's disease. The patients 
remained in the institute for 1.4 years and the mean total duration of the 
disease was 5.3 years. About twenty-five percent died in the first three months 
of admission. Life expectation, counted from time of admission, was 6 years 
shorter in comparison with Dutch mortality tables. Morbidity frequently seen at 
admission included circulatory system diseases and cerebrovascular accidents. 
The risk factor hypertension was seen in a smaller percentage of patients than 
expected. During the stay the diseases most frequently diagnosed were 
respiratory and urinary tract infections, adverse effects of drugs, constipation 
and chronic ulcers of the skin. About twenty percent of the patients were struck 
by a (recurrent) cerebrovascular accident or a transient ischaemic attack. Most 
patients died of dehydration or bronchopneumonia. There was, apart from the 
diagnosis of multi-infarct dementia, no single patient aspect that could predict 
a poor prognosis. Nursing home patients with multi-infarct dementia are clearly 
different from patients with Alzheimer's disease. Time spent in the nursing home 
and duration of disease are shorter. They have more comorbid conditions, 
especially of a cardiovascular nature, and they have a poor life expectation.

PMID: 1436202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Parasitology. 1992 Aug;105 ( Pt 1):35-41. doi: 10.1017/s0031182000073662.

Epidemiology of canine leishmaniasis: prevalence, incidence and basic 
reproduction number calculated from a cross-sectional serological survey on the 
island of Gozo, Malta.

Dye C(1), Killick-Kendrick R, Vitutia MM, Walton R, Killick-Kendrick M, Harith 
AE, Guy MW, Cañavate MC, Hasibeder G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Parasitology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, UK.

Assessment of the resilience of canine leishmaniasis to control or, more 
ambitiously, the effort needed to eradicate infection, requires an estimate of 
the basic case reproduction number (R0). This paper applies the theoretical 
results of Hasibeder, Dye & Carpenter (1992) to data from a cross-sectional 
survey on the Maltese island of Gozo in which dogs of known age, sex and 
occupation (pet, guard etc) were subjected to three different serological tests 
for the presence of specific antibody (IFAT, DAT and ELISA). Difficulties in 
interpreting these test results, and hence of determining the proportion of dogs 
infected, present the main obstacle to estimating R0: estimates are critically 
dependent on the choice of threshold separating seropositives from 
seronegatives. The data do, however, allow a robust comparative analysis of risk 
which shows that the force of infection experienced by working dogs is about 
three times higher than that of pet dogs, a degree of non-homogeneous contact 
which actually has little effect on estimates of R0. We suggest a cautious point 
estimate of R0 congruent to 11, and comment briefly on its significance for 
leishmaniasis control.

DOI: 10.1017/s0031182000073662
PMID: 1437274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Pneumologie. 1992 Oct;46(10):516-24.

[Current pattern of anthracosilicosis, its complications and correlation with 
other diseases (evaluation of 300 legal autopsies 1977-1988)].

[Article in German]

Hartung W(1), Moon JS.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Pathologie, Ruhr-Universität, Bochum.

The spectrum of silicosis of coal miners has changed during the past decades. 
The life expectancy of the miners suffering from silicosis has been successfully 
adapted to that of the non-miners as a result of a consistent therapy. 
Morphologically, the processes involving large callosities have receded 
markedly; in their place, there has been an increased incidence of generalised 
focal dust emphysema that are difficult to differentiate clinically from the 
common chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases. Chronic bronchitis and emphysema 
are the most important concomitant pulmonary diseases; the incidence of 
tuberculosis is still enhanced and carcinomas of the lung are only rarely to be 
acknowledged as so-called carcinomas in scar tissue. Other major diseases that 
coincide with silicosis are seen in p.m. statistics with customary frequency of 
incidence (cardiovascular diseases almost 50%, malignant tumours including those 
of the lung about 25%, other major diseases without respiratory organs about 
10%). The main problem in expertising is to differentiate the influence of these 
diseases from those of silicosis; expertising must employ the legally prescribed 
terminology. In our own investigations based on 300 postmortem expertises, death 
as a result of a professionally acquired disease was acknowledged in 48% of all 
cases of silicosis of severity grades I to III, silicosis being the sole major 
disease in only half of the cases and in the other cases an essential partial 
contributor to the cause of death. The significance of the extended generalised 
dust emphysema as a special type of pneumoconioses that must be classified as 
grave, is emphasised in contrast to previously compiled statistics.

PMID: 1438124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Sch Inq Nurs Pract. 1992 Summer;6(2):135-50; discussion 151-4. doi: 
10.1080/09503159208411583.

Maternal role satisfaction: a new approach to assessing parenting.

Ohashi JP.

There is a need to study the maternal role beyond the child's first year of 
life. This investigation, using a framework of Locke's expectancy theory, 
describes the expectations, surprises, values, and satisfactions experienced by 
102 mothers of teens. Content analysis of written narratives describing 
surprises encountered by these mothers is also presented. Data were collected by 
questionnaire. Findings offer support for Locke's theory in two ways: (1) 
expectation for role was less important than value attainment in predicting the 
level of maternal role satisfaction, and (2) encountering at least one positive 
surprise was associated with a higher level of maternal role satisfaction. These 
variables are offered as a useful nursing approach to the assessment of the 
parenting experience. Knowledge of the satisfactions reported may be encouraging 
to mothers anticipating this stage of life.

DOI: 10.1080/09503159208411583
PMID: 1439369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1992 Oct 27;81(44):1322-8.

[Ethical problems in geriatrics from the family physician's viewpoint].

[Article in German]

Kruse W(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Fakultät der RWTH, Aachen.

The picture of the 'youthful elderly' will develop further in a positive way 
because elderly people will not only experience a further increase of their 
average life-expectancy but also of their physical and psychic health and 
efficiency. Strict adhesion to calendar data means for the elderly that he is 
easily excluded from social performance and functionality of life. In order to 
meet the needs and expectations of the elder generation we need more overlapping 
linking of the different life periods, i.e. more sensitivity for individual 
arrangements. Increasing burden on the younger generation by increasing 
multimorbidity and needs for nursing may evoke responsibility for our patients. 
Therefore we practitioners should readily fulfill our duty to be in charge for 
the wellbeing of our aging patients. Social sensitivity for dignity in 
borderline situations depends on the acceptance of illness and needs for nursing 
as a natural part of our human existence.

PMID: 1439412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1992 Nov 10;81(46):1395-400.

[Epidemiology of osteoporosis].

[Article in German]

Gass R(1), Gutzwiller F.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozial- und Präventivmedizin, Universität Zürich.

A representative inquiry (n = 4217) in Zürich revealed that 22% of the female 
population eats a diet poor in calcium. A connection between calcium-deficient 
nutrition and other unhealthy lifestyles such as lack of exercise, smoking (> 10 
cigarettes/day) and regular alcohol intake (several glasses/day) has been shown 
by multivariate analysis. Therefore one has to suspect, that every third to 
fourth woman having several risk factors is at risk at entry in menopause. 
Primary prevention as a population-oriented strategy is therefore sought by 
general health-education and prevention of accidents in order to lower risks for 
fractures. Fractures of the collum femoris alone are on the basis of actual life 
expectancy in Switzerland responsible for 157,000 hospital days in women and 
18,000 in men, corresponding to the annual capacity of an acute-cave hospital 
with 500 beds. With the aid of a risk-group strategy therefore attempts at 
secondary prevention are necessary. As a cost-effective screening-test every 
postmenopausal woman should receive a peripheral quantitative 
computer-tomography. Women with relatively high bone loss-rates and/or low bone 
density (insufficient stability) could thus be recognized and offered the 
benefit of an individualized compliance-promoting protective treatment.

PMID: 1439424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Salud Publica Mex. 1992 Sep-Oct;34(5):506-17.

[Regionalization in health: an instrument for jurisdictional planning].

[Article in Spanish]

Romero-Guerrero XR(1), Perham-Zellmer KA, Vázquez-Calderón RH, Díaz-Gois A, 
García-Martínez FE, Gómez-Solís RA, Montijo-Quevedo RE, Aguirre-Garza JS, 
Izquierdo-Avalos MG, Hernández-Tezoquipa I, et al.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigaciones en Salud Pública, Instituto Nacional de Salud 
Pública (INSP), Cuernavaca, México.

This study carried out the regionalization of Sanitary Jurisdiction No. III 
seated in Cuautla, Morelos, consisting of 16 of a total of 33 municipalities in 
the state of Morelos. This regionalization was carried out through the 
delination of areas sharing similar socioeconomical and demographic 
characteristics (SED). Subsequently, the major health hazards and the 
intraregional distribution of human health resources (physicians and nurses) and 
infrastructure services (institutional health centers) were identified for each 
region. The aim of this work was to devise an instrument for a better 
understanding of and approach to health problems at a juridictional level and to 
pave the way for health planning that would be congruent with regional 
characteristics and needs. Health sector efforts would be directed towards the 
promotion of preventive health care with greater efficiency and equity. In order 
to regionalize the jurisdiction, 17 SED indicators were studied in each of the 
16 municipalities. Analysis was performed using the Principal Components Method 
(MCP) and an epidemiologic score. As a result, the sanitary jurisdiction was 
divided into three regions: Region I, with the best SED conditions, Region II, 
with moderate SED conditions and Region III with the lowest SED conditions. The 
results of this study show that there is an inverse relationship between the 
intraregional distribution of health resources with respect to the delineated 
regions and the health resources with respect to the delineated regions and the 
health needs and problems found in each one. Region III showed the worst SED 
conditions and the highest incidence of disease. It proved to be the region 
which had the greatest lack of material and human health resources, the latter 
having the lowest technical training level in all of the jurisdiction. In 
contrast. Region I had the best SED conditions and the lowest incidence of 
disease. It also had the highest number of material and human health resources, 
the latter having a high level of preparation. This situation is opposite to the 
national health policies in regards to equity "...give more benefits to the more 
vulnerable groups..."

PMID: 1440045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Sangre (Barc). 1992 Jun;37(3):169-74.

[Progression to AIDS among HIV-seropositive hemophiliacs].

[Article in Spanish]

Lorenzo JI(1), Molina R, Senent ML, Monzó E, Lerma MA, Dasí MA, Monteagudo E, 
Aznar JA.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Coagulopatías Congénitas de la Comunidad Valenciana.

PURPOSE: To assess the incidence of AIDS, along with its origin and mortality 
rate, in a group of sero-positive haemophiliacs with long follow-up.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The progression into AIDS in 94 HIV-seropositive 
haemophiliacs (88 with haemophilia A and 6 with haemophilia B) followed since 
1986 has been analyzed. The mean age was 19 years and 64% of the patients had 
severe haemophilia. All of them had been previously treated with non 
virus-inactivated factor concentrates. Was detected HIV antigen in 13 of them 
and 32 were treated with zidovudine. Actuarial analysis started from 
seroconversion date or from the first positive result and the average 
observation time was 90 months (5-97).
RESULTS: Sixteen patients developed AIDS, resulting in an eight-years 
accumulative actuarial indice of about 24%. AIDS incidence was lower (p less 
than 0.0001) in haemophilia A (21%) than in haemophilia B (67%). The eight-years 
progression rate to AIDS showed a significant dependence on patient age, it 
being higher in patients aged greater than 30 (77%) than in those aged 15-30 
(30%) and less than 15 (9%). Patients who presented CD4+ counts lower than 0.5 x 
10(9)/L or CD4/CD8 ratios lower than 0.5 at the beginning of the observation 
period had a greater 8-year AIDS incidence (63% and 57% respectively) than the 
remaining patients (16% and 12%). At AIDS diagnosis, all patients had CD4+ 
lymphocyte counts lower than 0.2 x 10(9)/L, two had detectable HIV antigenaemia 
and six had been previously treated with zidovudine. The cause of AIDS was an 
opportunistic infection in all the cases namely, P. carinii pneumonia and 
candidiasis, but no secondary neoplasia was registered. Nineteen patients died 
during the follow-up, 12 because of AIDS and 7 because of other reasons 
unrelated to HIV-infection.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that 25% of the haemophiliacs will develop AIDS 
eight years after seroconversion, and a decreasing incidence is not observed. 
Lower progression rate to AIDS in children than in adults is confirmed.

PMID: 1440093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Tijdschr Kindergeneeskd. 1992 Aug;60(4):91-7.

[The precious child. Observations at the century of the child].

[Article in Dutch]

Schnabel P(1).

Author information:
(1)Geestelijke Gezondheidszorg en Geestelijke Volksgezondheid, Rijks 
Universiteit, Utrecht.

PMID: 1440556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1992 Oct;47(10):441-2.

[Life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Gross R.

PMID: 1441654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1992 Oct;96(10):1274-81.

[Intraocular lens implantation after glaucoma filtering surgery--time course of 
changes in intraocular pressure control and filtering blebs].

[Article in Japanese]

Atagi K(1), Araie M, Ando K, Kohda F, Shimizu K, Yamagami S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Branch University of Tokyo School of Medicine, 
Bunkyo-ku, Japan.

Cataract extraction and intraocular lens (IOL) implantation were carried out in 
45 glaucomatous eyes that had undergone glaucoma filtering surgery. Of these, 37 
eyes had primary glaucoma, 2 eyes capsular glaucoma, and 6 eyes secondary 
glaucoma. The visual acuity after IOL implantation was 0.5 or more in 29 eyes 
(64%) but in 10 eyes (22%) acuity was 0.1 or less because of advanced optic 
nerve head damage. To analyze affects of IOL implantation on intraocular 
pressure (IOP) control and functioning of the filtration bleb in 39 eyes of 
primary or capsular glaucoma, a life-table analysis with the Kaplan-Meier method 
was performed. The probability that IOP control does not worsen at 2 years was 
43 +/- 7% (SE) in 21 eyes without pre-operative ocular hypotensive medication, 
56 +/- 16% in 18 eyes with pre-operative ocular hypotensive medication, 47 +/- 
12% in 26 eyes where functioning filtering bleb existed pre-operatively. The 
probability that the filtering bleb survives 2 years post-operatively was 44 +/- 
11%. The present results imply that intensive management of post-operative 
inflammation and careful IOP follow up are imperative in eyes in which IOL 
implantation was indicated after undergoing filtration surgery.

PMID: 1442352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Am Heart J. 1992 Nov;124(5):1169-74. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90396-d.

Long-term efficacy of triple-vessel angioplasty in patients with severe 
three-vessel coronary artery disease.

Warner MF(1), DiSciascio G, Kohli RS, Vetrovec GW, Sabri MN, Goudreau E, Kelly 
KM, Cowley MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond.

Between May 1982 and December 1988, a total of 103 patients underwent 
angioplasty of all three major coronary arteries at a single institution. 
Angiographic success was achieved in 334 of 352 vessels (95%) and in 441 of 460 
lesions (96%). No patients required urgent bypass surgery, and none died during 
the procedure; six had non-Q wave infarctions. The mean length of follow-up time 
was 49 +/- 15 months (range 28 to 107 months). There have been 11 deaths, and 
one patient has undergone cardiac transplantation. Thirty-six patients had a 
clinical recurrence; 30 had repeat angioplasty and five had bypass surgery. 
Another nine patients eventually had bypass surgery after the clinical 
recurrence. At 48 months actuarial event-free rates are myocardial infarction, 
98%; bypass surgery, 88%; and death, 89%. Of 86 current survivors, 58 are in 
functional class O to I, 21 are in class II, and seven are in class III.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90396-d
PMID: 1442482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1992 Oct;89(2):235-56. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.1330890208.

Estimation of age structure in anthropological demography.

Konigsberg LW(1), Frankenberg SR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Tennessee, Knoxville 37996.

Comment in
    Am J Phys Anthropol. 2002 Apr;117(4):297-309.

The past decade has produced considerable debate over the feasibility of 
paleodemographic research, with much attention focusing on the question of 
reliability of age estimates. We show here that in cases where age is estimated 
rather than known, the traditional method of assigning individuals to age 
classes will produce biased estimates of age structure. We demonstrate the 
effect of this bias both mathematically and by computer simulation, and show how 
a more appropriate method from the fisheries literature (the "iterated age 
length key") can be used to estimate age structure. Because it is often the case 
that ages are also estimated for extant groups, we suggest that our results are 
relevant to the general field of anthropological demography, and that it is time 
for us to improve the statistical basis for age structure estimation. We further 
suggest that the oft noted paucity of older individuals in skeletal collections 
is a simple result of the use of inappropriate methods of age estimation, and 
that this problem can be rectified in the future by using maximum likelihood 
estimates of life table or hazard functions incorporating the uncertainty of age 
estimates.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330890208
PMID: 1443096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Angiology. 1992 Nov;43(11):877-85. doi: 10.1177/000331979204301101.

Determinants of failure in superficial femoral artery angioplasty.

el-Bayar H(1), Roberts A, Hye R, Davis G, Freischlag J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, VA Medical Center, San Diego, California.

Although results of iliac artery balloon angioplasty have been shown to be good, 
there are much less data regarding initial success and durability of superficial 
femoral artery (SFA) dilation. The authors retrospectively reviewed the results 
of 22 patients treated for 27 SFA lesions between 1981 and 1986. Mean age was 
64.5 years (fifty-five to seventy-six). Results were analyzed with respect to 
initial, early (< twelve months), and late (> twelve months) angiographic and 
clinical success. Indications were claudication (22), nonhealing ulcer (3), and 
rest pain (2). Mean follow-up was 30.9 months; 100% at one year and 92% at two 
years. Initial failure occurred in 9 (33%) lesions. There were 2 early and 2 
late failures for a cumulative patency rate of 90.3% and 78% at one and two 
years, respectively. Predictors of clinical failure were: (1) initial--age, SFA 
occlusion, and angioplasty rating; (2) early--age, SFA occlusion, degree of 
atherosclerosis, and angioplasty rating; (3) late--angioplasty rating. There 
were 3 complications (11%). The authors conclude that: (1) 33% of attempted SFA 
angioplasties were initially unsuccessful and that the cumulative patency rate 
was 78% at two years. (2) Age is predictive of initial and early failure; SFA 
occlusion, of initial and early failure; degree of atherosclerosis, of early 
failure; and angioplasty appearance, of initial, early, and late failures. (3) 
Complications did not result in limb loss or require surgery.

DOI: 10.1177/000331979204301101
PMID: 1443760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Ann Intern Med. 1992 Dec 15;117(12):1016-37. doi:
10.7326/0003-4819-117-12-1016.

Hormone therapy to prevent disease and prolong life in postmenopausal women.

Grady D(1), Rubin SM, Petitti DB, Fox CS, Black D, Ettinger B, Ernster VL, 
Cummings SR.

Author information:
(1)University of California, Prevention Sciences Group, San Francisco 94105.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1992 Dec 15;117(12):1038-41.
    Ann Intern Med. 1993 Aug 15;119(4):347; author reply 347-8.
    Ann Intern Med. 1993 Aug 15;119(4):347; author reply 347-8.

PURPOSE: To critically review the risks and benefits of hormone therapy for 
asymptomatic postmenopausal women who are considering long-term hormone therapy 
to prevent disease or to prolong life.
DATA SOURCES: Review of the English-language literature since 1970 on the effect 
of estrogen therapy and estrogen plus progestin therapy on endometrial cancer, 
breast cancer, coronary heart disease, osteoporosis, and stroke. We used 
standard meta-analytic statistical methods to pool estimates from studies to 
determine summary relative risks for these diseases in hormone users and 
modified lifetable methods to estimate changes in lifetime probability and life 
expectancy due to use of hormone regimens.
RESULTS: There is evidence that estrogen therapy decreases risk for coronary 
heart disease and for hip fracture, but long-term estrogen therapy increases 
risk for endometrial cancer and may be associated with a small increase in risk 
for breast cancer. The increase in endometrial cancer risk can probably be 
avoided by adding a progestin to the estrogen regimen for women who have a 
uterus, but the effects of combination hormones on risk for other diseases has 
not been adequately studied. We present estimates for changes in lifetime 
probabilities of disease and life expectancy due to hormone therapy in women who 
have had a hysterectomy; with coronary heart disease; and at increased risk for 
coronary heart disease, hip fracture, and breast cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Hormone therapy should probably be recommended for women who have 
had a hysterectomy and for those with coronary heart disease or at high risk for 
coronary heart disease. For other women, the best course of action is unclear.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-117-12-1016
PMID: 1443971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Ann Gastroenterol Hepatol (Paris). 1992 Jun-Sep;28(4):175-7.

[Gastric metastasis of breast cancer occurring after a cancer-free interval of 
30 years].

[Article in French]

Benfiguig A(1), Anciaux ML, Eugène CI, Benkémoun G, Etienne JC.

Author information:
(1)Unité de Gastroentérologie, Centre Hospitalier Intercommunal, Poissy.

The authors report the case of a 75-year-old female patient who presented with a 
deterioration in her general health and epigastralgia 30 years after mastectomy 
for cancer. The findings of an exhaustive assessment was normal apart from an 
inflammatory syndrome with hyperleukocytosis and subcardial ulceration, which 
gave negative endoscopic biopsies. The patient underwent surgery and the total 
gastrectomy ablation demonstrated that this was a metastasis of a mammary 
adenoma. Follow-up for two years did not reveal any recurrence. The mean time to 
the development of gastric metastases of breast cancers is 2 to 4 years. Life 
expectancy appears to be greater the longer this latency time. The usual 
blood-borne spread explains why endoscopic biopsies may be falsely reassuring, 
since the first layers to be affected are the serous and submucosal layers. 
Localized forms may simulate ulcers; nodular forms are more appropriate for 
curative surgery than the more common infiltrating forms (which resemble 
linitis). These infiltrating forms are often combined with peritoneal damage 
and/or extradigestive metastases.

PMID: 1444182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Arch Esp Urol. 1992 Sep;45(7):679-83.

[Ureteral tamponade in the treatment of urinary fistula: our experience].

[Article in Spanish]

García-Matres Cortes MJ(1), Cárcamo Valor PI, Cózar Olmo JM, San Millán Arruti 
JP, Hidalgo Togores L, Martínez-Piñeiro JA.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología, Hospital La Paz, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad 
Autónoma, Madrid, España.

Surgical correction is the treatment of choice for urinary fistulas. However, 
there are circumstances that advise against the use of this approach, basically 
when patient general condition is poor or life expectancy short; i. e., in the 
presence of an underlying malignant pelvic disease. In these cases, urinary 
diversion by percutaneous nephrostomy will suffice, although sepsis or 
derangement of electrolyte balance may sometimes develop due to the fistulous 
defect. Occlusion of the pyelo-ureteric junction and percutaneous drainage is a 
solution that causes no major complications. Two patients who could not be 
submitted to conventional surgery were treated by the foregoing procedure. Both 
patients have been followed for more than two years. The first case was a male 
who had undergone abdominoperineal resection due to carcinoma of the sigmoid 
colon. He developed stress ulcers, pulmonary thromboembolism, sepsis, paralytic 
ileus and bilateral ureteral fistula. The second case was an insulin-dependent 
female diabetic who had previously received radiotherapy to the pelvis. She 
developed a large vesicocutaneous fistula and public osteomyelitis after 
drainage of an inguinal abscess. Patient tolerance was good and no major 
complications were observed. In our view this palliative procedure should be 
considered in the management of patients with urinary fistula whose life 
expectancy is short. Its application can be extended to patients with inoperable 
carcinoma of the bladder or prostate and important symptoms.

PMID: 1444612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Hosp Pract (Off Ed). 1992 Apr 15;27(4):12, 15, 19. doi: 
10.1080/21548331.1992.11705391.

Maimers, killers, and the universal death rate.

Jurivich D, Webster JR Jr.

Comment in
    Hosp Pract (Off Ed). 1992 Jul 15;27(7):17.

DOI: 10.1080/21548331.1992.11705391
PMID: 1445520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Eur J Cancer. 1992;29A(1):44-51. doi: 10.1016/0959-8049(93)90574-y.

Prognostic importance of various clinicopathological features in papillary 
thyroid carcinoma.

Akslen LA(1), Myking AO, Salvesen H, Varhaug JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Gade Institute, Haukeland Hospital, Bergen, Norway.

The influence of various pathological features on tumour recurrences and cancer 
deaths has been studied in 173 consecutive cases of surgically treated papillary 
thyroid carcinoma recorded in 1971-1985. During the follow-up (median 7.3 
years), 18.6% of the 161 radically treated patients had recurrent disease, and 
8.7% died of thyroid cancer. In the univariate life-table analysis, 
recurrence-free survival was significantly related to age, pTNM category, tumour 
size, presence of certain growth patterns, tumour necrosis, tumour infiltration 
in surrounding thyroid tissue and thyroid gland capsule, lymph node metastases, 
presence of extra-nodal tumour growth and number of positive lymph nodes, 
whereas only tumour diameter, thyroid gland capsular infiltration and presence 
of extra-nodal tumour growth remained as significant prognostic factors in the 
multivariate analysis. Regarding thyroid cancer deaths, sex, age, pTNM category, 
radicality of surgical treatment, tumour diameter, macroscopic appearance, 
cellular atypia, tumour necrosis, thyroid gland capsular infiltration, vascular 
invasion, extra-thyroidal extension and lymph node metastases were all 
significant variables in the univariate analysis. However, only sex, age, 
radicality of surgical treatment and vascular invasion were found to be 
significant predictors of thyroid cancer deaths in the final multivariate Cox 
model, whereas cellular atypia and necrosis showed a borderline significance. 
Our study thus documents the independent importance of certain histological 
features for morbidity and mortality in surgically treated cases of papillary 
thyroid cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/0959-8049(93)90574-y
PMID: 1445745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1992;23(1-2):17-27. doi: 10.1007/BF01831472.

Should women with node-negative breast cancer receive adjuvant 
chemotherapy?--Insights from a decision analysis model.

Hillner BE(1), Smith TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Medical College of Virginia, Virginia 
Commonwealth University, Richmond.

The use of adjuvant chemotherapy in women with node-negative breast cancer has 
been controversial and actively debated since the 1988 National Cancer Institute 
Clinical Alert. We developed a decision analysis model that used the results of 
available randomized controlled trials to assess the potential clinical and 
financial effects of using adjuvant chemotherapy for groups of 45-year-old and 
60-year-old women. Using the baseline assumptions, we found that chemotherapy 
increases quality adjusted life expectancy and survival by a substantial amount 
at a cost comparable to most accepted medical interventions. The model 
highlights the uncertainties in duration of benefit from therapy, the need for 
refinements in risk stratification, the importance of patient preferences about 
toxicity and benefit, and the need for accurate cost-accounting for oncologic 
therapies. Decision analysis complements other methods for information 
gathering, analysis, and synthesis used in clinical research. With the 
increasing focus on the effectiveness of medical interventions, decision 
analysis will be an important tool for oncologists to understand.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01831472
PMID: 1446048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1992 Nov;3(4):607-15. doi:
10.1016/s1051-0443(92)72904-2.

Life tables for clinical scientists.

Ferguson JG.

The life-table, or Cutler-Ederer, method of survival analysis is a simple and 
efficient means of estimating the probability that the first instance of an 
event will occur in a given period of time in studies complicated by incomplete 
patient follow-up. This discussion is designed to acquaint the nonstatistician 
with the general concepts, assumptions, advantages, and disadvantages of 
life-table analysis. The arcane nature of the calculations frustrates attempts 
at simplification. A glossary of statistical terms and sample calculations are 
provided for interested readers.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(92)72904-2
PMID: 1446121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Gene. 1992 Nov 16;121(2):325-30. doi: 10.1016/0378-1119(92)90138-f.

Characterization of a gene that encodes a homologue of protein kinase in 
Arabidopsis thaliana.

Hayashida N(1), Mizoguchi T, Yamaguchi-Shinozaki K, Shinozaki K.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Plant Molecular Biology, Tsukuba Life Science Center, Ibaraki, 
Japan.

Cloning and analysis of a gene that encodes a homologue of protein kinase (PK) 
from Arabidopsis thaliana is reported. Oligodeoxyribonucleotides (oligos) 
corresponding to conserved regions in catalytic domains of various PKs were used 
for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification with genomic DNA from A. 
thaliana as template, in an attempt to identify genes encoding PK in plants. We 
obtained several amplified DNA fragments that encoded part of a PK. We screened 
a genomic DNA library of A. thaliana with these oligos or PCR fragments as 
probes. Three genomic clones were obtained and one of them, named Atpk7, was 
sequenced and analyzed. Atpk7 was demonstrated by PCR to contain an intron. The 
mRNA transcribed from Atpk7 was detected predominantly in root tissue by 
Northern blot analysis. The transcription start point was determined by primer 
extension. The deduced amino acid (aa) sequence of the putative product of Atpk7 
resembles those of S6 kinases, cyclic nucleotide-dependent PKs and 
calcium-dependent PKs. From this comparison of aa sequences, the ATPK7 protein 
is considered to be a member of a novel subfamily of Ser/Thr PKs in plants.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-1119(92)90138-f
PMID: 1446831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1992 Sep-Oct;33(5):609-12.

Esmarch's bandage technique in distal bypass surgery.

Shindo S(1), Tada Y, Sato O, Miyata T, Shirakawa M, Egami J, Idezuki Y.

