Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo, 
Japan.

Esmarch's rubber bandage technique has been applied to 49 distal bypass 
surgeries in 46 patients during the past ten years. The primary and secondary 
patency rates at 5 years after femoro-tibial bypass surgery were 82% and 92%, 
respectively. This technique has the following advantages: (1) it minimizes 
surgical injury of the arterial wall because there is less dissection around the 
anastomotic site; (2) it decreases scar formation in the anastomotic area after 
surgery; (3) it maintains abundant muscular blood flow by preserving small 
branches to muscles, and (4) it provides a bloodless surgical field and easy 
handling for fine sutures without using vascular clamps. We consider that the 
avoidance of long circumferential dissection of the artery may play an important 
role in improving long-term patency in distal bypass surgery.

PMID: 1447283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Nature. 1992 Dec 3;360(6403):415. doi: 10.1038/360415a0.

Evolutionary biology. What the sperm count costs.

Partridge L, Harvey PH.

Comment on
    Nature. 1992 Dec 3;360(6403):456-8.

DOI: 10.1038/360415a0
PMID: 1448164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Nature. 1992 Dec 3;360(6403):456-8. doi: 10.1038/360456a0.

Production of sperm reduces nematode lifespan.

Van Voorhies WA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, Tucson 
85721.

Comment in
    Nature. 1992 Dec 3;360(6403):415.
    Nature. 1993 Apr 1;362(6419):417-8.

Sex and death are two fundamental but poorly understood aspects of life. They 
are often thought to be linked because reproduction requires the diversion of 
limited resources from somatic growth and maintenance. This diversion of 
resources in mated animals, often called a cost of reproduction, is usually 
expressed as a reduction of lifespan in mated animals, although some debate 
exists on the best way to measure this cost. I report here that in the soil 
nematode, Caenorhabditis elegans, sex significantly decreases male lifespan 
without reducing hermaphrodite lifespan. The reduction of mated male lifespan 
seems to be caused by additional sperm production and not by the physical 
activity of mating. This conclusion is supported by observations that a mutation 
reducing sperm production increased mean lifespan by about 65% in both mated 
males and hermaphrodites. This suggests that spermatogenesis, rather than 
oogenesis or the physical act of mating, is a major factor reducing lifespan in 
C. elegans. This contradicts the traditional biological assumption that large 
oocytes are much costlier to produce than small sperm.

DOI: 10.1038/360456a0
PMID: 1448167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Nurs Clin North Am. 1992 Dec;27(4):951-7.

Women at midlife. The transition to menopause.

Fishbein EG(1).

Author information:
(1)Georgetown University School of Nursing, Washington, DC.

The advantage over men that women experience in life expectancy does not extend 
to morbidity. Although women live on average approximately 7 years longer than 
men, their later years are often filled with medical problems. Much is currently 
known that could influence and effect improved health for women. Menopause is 
not a dramatic event that signals an abrupt change in the health and well-being 
of women. Rather, it is a transitional time of perhaps a 25-year span when 
estrogen production gradually declines and results in a variety of bodily 
changes. Concurrent with the hormone changes are other effects of the normal 
cycle of aging. Comprehensive multidisciplinary health care clinics for adult 
women have the potential to provide health services that women seek.

PMID: 1448368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Plast Reconstr Surg. 1992 Dec;90(6):951-8. doi: 
10.1097/00006534-199212000-00002.

Holoprosencephaly and midline facial anomalies: redefining classification and 
management.

Elias DL(1), Kawamoto HK Jr, Wilson LF.

Author information:
(1)UCLA Division of Plastic Surgery.

Holoprosencephaly encompasses a series of midline defects of the brain and face. 
Most cases are associated with severe malformations of the brain which are 
incompatible with life. At the other end of the spectrum, however, are patients 
with midline facial defects and normal or near-normal brain development. 
Although some are mentally retarded, others have the potential for achieving 
near-normal mentality and a full life expectancy. The latter patients do not fit 
clearly into the previously defined classification system. Proposed is a new 
classification focusing on those patients with normal or lobar brain morphology 
but with a wide range of facial anomalies. The classification aids in planning 
treatment. Coupled with CT scan findings of the brain and a period of 
observation, patients unlikely to thrive can be distinguished from those who 
will benefit from surgical intervention. Repair of the false median cleft lip 
and palate may suffice in patients with moderate mental retardation. Patients 
exhibiting normal or near-normal mentality with hypotelorbitism and 
nasomaxillary hypoplasia can be treated with a simultaneous midface advancement, 
facial bipartition expansion, and nasal reconstruction.

DOI: 10.1097/00006534-199212000-00002
PMID: 1448530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1992 Dec;175(6):528-34.

Prospective comparison of partial versus total portal decompression for bleeding 
esophageal varices.

Johansen K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington 
School of Medicine, Seattle.

Erratum in
    Surg Gynecol Obstet 1993 Jun;176(6):614.

Eighty-six patients underwent portacaval shunt (PCS) to treat bleeding 
esophagogastric varices during a period of four years. Twenty-eight patients 
(group 1) underwent emergency total portal decompression, while 58 patients 
(group 2) underwent elective partial PCS. Age, gender, preshunt and postshunt 
alcohol consumption and modified Child-Pugh classification at the time of 
operation, and at latest follow-up evaluation, did not differ significantly 
between the two groups. Early mortality was higher after emergency shunts than 
after elective operation (p < 0.01). However, partial portal decompression, when 
compared with total shunt, resulted in a significantly lower likelihood of late 
mortality (13 versus 39 percent) (p < 0.05), as well as portasystemic 
encephalopathy (8 versus 56 percent) (p < 0.0005). All shunts remained patent 
postoperatively and no patient had variceal rebleeding during follow-up 
evaluation averaging 2.2 years. Duplex sonography demonstrated hepatofugal 
portal flow in all patients in both groups. The results of the current study 
suggest that partial portal decompression is technically feasible, prevents 
further variceal hemorrhage and confers significant protection against late 
mortality and the development of postshunt neuropsychologic dysfunction.

PMID: 1448733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Arch Anat Cytol Pathol. 1992;40(2-3):73-8.

Cancer morbidity and mortality in USA Mormons and Seventh-day Adventists.

Grundmann E(1).

Author information:
(1)Gerhard-Domagk-Institut für Pathologie, Münster.

Comparison of cancer morbidity and mortality rates between Mormons and 
Seventh-day-Adventists and the corresponding rates in the Federal Republic of 
Germany and the United States, reveals that mortality from malignant neoplasms 
in general is much lower in Mormons and Seventh-day Adventists than in the 
Federal Republic of Germany. The difference concerns in particular the 
tobacco-dependent tumors: compared to the rate of affected males in the Federal 
Republic of Germany, only some 25% of Mormon males are getting lung cancer. 
Similar patterns are found in laryngeal carcinoma. Tumors that are related to 
both alcohol and tobacco, such as carcinomas of tongue, pharynx and esophagus, 
are also significantly less frequent in Mormons. Malignant neoplasms of the 
female genital tract show distinct analogies: cervical carcinoma has a morbidity 
rate of only 26.7% of affected women in Germany. Accordingly, mortality rates of 
Mormons and Seventh-day Adventists show a significant lower level when compared 
with cancer data of lung, colon and rectum, and prostate from the best German 
cancer registry (Saarland). Some tumor rates are higher in Mormons, e.g. 
malignant melanoma, also all types of malignant lymphoma and myeloma. The life 
expectancy is generally elevated by 2-4 years in Mormons and Seventh-day 
Adventists. The association with the particular life style of both religious 
groups, especially the strict reduction of tobacco consumption, and factors of 
dietary and other habits is discussed.

PMID: 1449267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 1992 Jul;13(1):17-31. doi:
10.1016/1040-8428(92)90014-h.

Fast neutron radiation therapy.

Griffin TW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Washington, Seattle.

DOI: 10.1016/1040-8428(92)90014-h
PMID: 1449618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Intern Med. 1992 Jul;31(7):841-6. doi: 10.2169/internalmedicine.31.841.

Therapeutic trials on progressive muscular dystrophy.

Satoyoshi E(1).

Author information:
(1)National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.

The special medical care in the National Sanatorium prolonged the life span of 
the patients with progressive muscular dystrophy from 15.8 years to 20.4 years 
over the last 20 years. Various new drug trials for muscular dystrophy have been 
implemented in the last 12 years in Japan. Bestatin and Loxistatin, protease 
inhibitors, showed definite improvement on dystrophic mice or hamsters, animal 
models of muscular dystrophy. However clinical application of these drugs failed 
to prove the effects on patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. The 
difficulty of clinical evaluation and judgement of effects in progressive 
neurological diseases is discussed.

DOI: 10.2169/internalmedicine.31.841
PMID: 1450492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Melanoma Res. 1992 Sep;2(3):157-62.

BANS: a discussion of the problem.

Bernengo MG(1), Reali UM, Doveil GC, Cappello N, Lisa F, Moretti S.

Author information:
(1)Dermatological Clinic, University of Turin, Italy.

The significance of the BANS location (upper Back, posterior Arm, Neck and 
Scalp) as a prognostic factor in patients with stage I melanoma is 
controversial. A meta-analysis performed by Weinstock et al. on their own and 
five comparable studies corroborated the hypothesis that this location is 
influential in the prognosis of intermediate thickness (0.76-1.69 mm) melanomas. 
Our study investigated the relationship between BANS subsites, thickness and 
prognosis in 1,082 stage I melanoma patients from two major Italian centres, 
Turin and Florence. A BANS primary was observed in 212 (19.5%) patients: 
recurrences occurred in 85 of them (40.1%) vs 309/870 non-BANS patients (35.5%). 
Overall survival probabilities were significantly shorter (p less than 0.01) in 
the BANS group (69.1% vs 76.7% at 5 years; 59% vs 68.5% at 10 years). The 
prognostic value of the BANS location was confirmed by a multivariate analysis 
using the Cox proportional hazards model. Stratification of BANS and non-BANS 
groups by thickness clusters showed a significant difference in both survival (p 
less than 0.001) and disease-free interval (p less than 0.05) in the 3.01-4.00 
mm thickness subset, due to the greater incidence of distant and visceral 
metastases. In the 0.76-1.69 mm thickness range the significance was p = 0.06.

PMID: 1450669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Br Med Bull. 1992 Apr;48(2):249-61. doi: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.bmb.a072546.

Epidemiology of the menopause.

Khaw KT(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Cambridge School of Clinical Medicine, Addenbrooke's Hospital, 
UK.

Profound changes in birth and mortality rates in this century are resulting in 
the ageing of the population of Britain and other developed countries. The 
enormous decline in maternal mortality, in particular, has meant that increasing 
proportions of women are surviving to the menopause and years of active life 
beyond it. Women aged 55 years and over now comprise 15% of the population of 
Britain. The average life expectancy for women in developed countries is around 
75 years; approximately 90% of women reach the age of 65 years, and 30% reach 80 
years. If the average age of menopause is 50 years, most women will spend 
approximately one third of their lifetime in postmenopausal life; one in every 
two women will experience about 30 years of postmenopausal life.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.bmb.a072546
PMID: 1450870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Cancer Lett. 1992 Oct 21;66(3):225-31. doi: 10.1016/0304-3835(92)90251-p.

Investigation on glutamine amidohydrolase (EC 3.5.1.2) and glutamine 
aminotransferase (EC 2.5.1.15) activity in liver and plasma of EAC-bearing mice 
following glutaminase therapy.

Pal S(1), Maity P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute, Calcutta, 
India.

The anti-neoplastic activity of bacterial glutaminase on Ehrlich ascites 
tumor-bearing mice was studied by determining the reduction in the tumor cell 
count and extension of life span of the host after therapy. The therapeutic 
effect of glutaminase in relation to change in activity of glutaminolytic 
enzymes (glutamine amidohydrolase (GNase) and glutamine aminotransferase (GAt)) 
in liver and plasma were also studied. Bacterial glutaminase was shown to be 
effective in lowering the tumor burden with increased life span of the host. 
Glutamine amidohydrolase activity in the liver and plasma was raised 
significantly with increased tumor burden, whereas GAt activity remained 
unchanged. Following glutaminase therapy, this high level of GNase activity 
decreased in comparison to the untreated control. These changes were not seen 
when normal mice were treated with the same enzyme. Thus alteration in the 
enzyme levels, particularly GNase was observed to have some correlation with 
progression of the tumor growth.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3835(92)90251-p
PMID: 1451103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Eur J Vasc Surg. 1992 Nov;6(6):607-9. doi: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80836-9.

Femoropopliteal arterial reconstruction with intraoperative iliac transluminal 
angioplasty for disabling claudication: results of a combined approach.

van der Vliet JA(1), Mulling FJ, Heijstraten FM, Reinaerts HH, Buskens FG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, St Radboud University Hospital, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.

Comment in
    Eur J Vasc Surg. 1993 Mar;7(2):223.

Seventeen patients with disabling claudication resulting from multilevel 
arteriosclerotic disease were treated by combined intraoperative iliac 
transluminal angioplasty and femoropopliteal arterial reconstruction. Clinical 
improvement or total relief of ischaemic symptoms was observed in 15 out of 17 
patients. Iliac pressure gradients were reduced with balloon dilatation to < 2 
mmHg in all cases. The mean (+/- S.D.) resting ankle-brachial systolic pressure 
index increased from 0.42 +/- 0.14 to 0.87 +/- 0.21. Complications from 
intraoperative angioplasty were not encountered and no early graft failures were 
seen. The primary actuarial graft patency at 1, 2 and 5 years was 100, 88 and 
67%, respectively. Combined intraoperative iliac transluminal angioplasty and 
femoropopliteal arterial reconstruction is a useful alternative to conventional 
surgical revascularisation in the treatment of selected patients with disabling 
claudication in the presence of multilevel arteriosclerotic disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80836-9
PMID: 1451815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Diabetologia. 1992 Oct;35(10):951-7. doi: 10.1007/BF00401424.

Life table analysis of the risk of type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus 
in siblings according to islet cell antibodies and HLA markers. An 8-year 
prospective study.

Deschamps I(1), Boitard C, Hors J, Busson M, Marcelli-Barge A, Mogenet A, Robert 
JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Endocrinology and Diabetes, INSERM U30, Paris, 
France.

To determine whether genetic markers can improve the predictive value of islet 
cell antibodies for development of Type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus, 
536 siblings aged 2-29 years were consecutively enrolled in a 8-year prospective 
survey. The risk of developing diabetes was estimated, using life-table methods, 
by years of follow-up and age, according to genetic factors (shared 
HLA-haplotypes, DR antigens, C4 allotypes) and islet cell antibody status. 
Fifteen siblings (2.8%) developed Type 1 diabetes during the study period (risk 
4.4% after 8 years, 4% by age 22 years). DR3,4 heterozygosity identified higher 
risk (16% after 8 years, 12% by age 22 years, p less than 10(-5)) than 
HLA-identity (10% and 7%, respectively, p less than 0.01); risks for DR3 or DR4 
positive and for haplo-identical siblings were low (4%, 3% and 4.4%, 
respectively, NS). C4BQO also conferred significant risk (11% vs 3% in non-C4BQO 
siblings, p less than 0.01). The predictive value of genetic markers alone was 
poor (12% for DR3,4, 7% for HLA-identity, 9% for C4BQO) compared with that of 
islet cell antibody levels greater than 4 Juvenile Diabetes Foundation units 
(41%, risk 56% after 8 years, p less than 10(-7)). HLA markers significantly 
contributed to risk prediction in combination with islet cell antibodies: islet 
cell antibody-positive DR3,4+ subjects had the highest risk (70% after 8 years, 
predictive value 58%, p less than 10(-7)) compared with islet cell 
antibody-positive DR3,4- (37% and 20%, respectively) and islet cell 
antibody-negative DR3,4+ (5% and 3.6%, respectively).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00401424
PMID: 1451952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Indian J Med Sci. 1992 Feb;46(2):56-7.

WHO commends India.

[No authors listed]

PIP: WHO finds that the health services and the health systems in India have 
improved. For example, India has made considerable improvement in expansion of 
health services to rural areas (7-10% expansion) and to the poor. Further, 
allocation to the minimum needs program, according to the state sector plan, has 
risen from 42.6% to 50%. In addition, infant and maternal mortality rates have 
fallen. Improved immunization coverage, prenatal care services, diarrhea 
prevention, malaria control, and contraceptive use have all contributed to the 
reduction in infant and maternal deaths. Health and welfare programs have 
generally institutionalized the primary health care concept of community 
participation. Training for health workers, policymakers, and personnel from 
nongovernmental organizations has expanded. Nevertheless, life expectancy has 
essentially not changed. Besides, WHO notes that the disease patterns have not 
changed. Some regions of India have disease patterns of developed countries, 
however. India has the highest number of malaria cases in southeastern Asia 
(almost 71%) and the second highest number of women with anemia. The number of 
HIV-positive and AIDS cases is growing. More than 374 million people are at risk 
of lymphatic filariasis, and Japanese encephalitis has become entrenched in 
India. 5% of the population are positive for hepatitis viruses. 1% have iodine 
deficiency disorders.

PMID: 1452231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. J Clin Exp Neuropsychol. 1992 Nov;14(6):901-23. doi:
10.1080/01688639208402543.

Cognitive rehabilitation of the hemineglect disorder in chronic patients with 
unilateral right brain damage.

Pizzamiglio L(1), Antonucci G, Judica A, Montenero P, Razzano C, Zoccolotti P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Rome La Sapienza, Roma, Italy.

Thirteen patients with a stabilized hemineglect symptomatology due to 
right-hemisphere lesions were subjected to a rehabilitation training 
specifically aimed at reducing the scanning deficit. The training consisted of 
four procedures (visual-spatial scanning, reading and copying training, copying 
of line drawings on a dot matrix, and figure description) which lasted 40 
sessions. By the end of therapy, the patients as a group showed significant 
improvements on several standard tests of hemineglect. The results on a 
Semi-structured Scale for the Functional Evaluation of Hemineglect pointed to 
the extension of exploratory improvements to situations similar to those of 
daily life. In contrast, patients improved very slightly on a variety of 
standard visual-spatial tests, indicating the specificity of training in 
reducing the scanning defect. Seven patients were examined at a follow-up 
several months after the end of therapy and appeared stable on both standard and 
functional tests of neglect.

DOI: 10.1080/01688639208402543
PMID: 1452637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Izv Akad Nauk SSSR Biol. 1992 Jul-Aug;(4):638-40.

[The impossibility in principle of an appreciable increase in the life 
expectancy of the human species].

[Article in Russian]

Mikhel'son VM(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cytology, Russian Academy of Sciences, Sankt-Peterburg.

PMID: 1452908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. J Reprod Med. 1992 Sep;37(9):757-65.

Laparoscopic uterine suspension as an adjunctive procedure at the time of laser 
laparoscopy for the treatment of endometriosis.

Ivey JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Texas Southwestern 
Medical Center, Dallas.

Uterine suspension has been advocated as an adjunctive procedure at the time of 
conservative surgery for endometriosis but has seldom been used at the time of 
CO2 laser laparoscopic treatment of endometriosis. In this study of 225 patients 
treated for cul-de-sac endometriosis by CO2 laser laparoscopy between 1984 and 
1989 uterine suspension was performed as an adjunctive procedure at the time of 
laparoscopy. The result was a cumulative pregnancy rate of 80.0%. Life-table 
analysis was performed, and monthly fecundity rates were calculated as 15.58%, 
6.29%, 17.86% and 7.89% for Revised American Fertility Society (RAFS) 
endometriosis stages I to IV respectively. CO2 laser laparoscopy and 
laparoscopic uterine suspension alleviated preoperative pelvic pain complaints 
in 94% of the patients. Monthly fecundity rates for RAFS stage I endometriosis, 
which exceeded previously reported rates following expectant management, medical 
management and conservative surgery, were attributed to laparoscopic uterine 
suspension, which had not been previously reported as an adjunct to CO2 laser 
laparoscopy.

PMID: 1453394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. N Engl J Med. 1992 Dec 31;327(27):1906-11. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199212313272703.

Long-term mortality after transfusion-associated non-A, non-B hepatitis. The 
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Study Group.

Seeff LB(1), Buskell-Bales Z, Wright EC, Durako SJ, Alter HJ, Iber FL, Hollinger 
FB, Gitnick G, Knodell RG, Perrillo RP, et al.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Washington, DC 20422.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1992 Dec 31;327(27):1949-50.

BACKGROUND: Acute non-A, non-B hepatitis after blood transfusion often 
progresses to chronic hepatitis and sometimes culminates in cirrhosis or even 
hepatocellular carcinoma. However, the frequency of these sequelae and their 
effects on mortality are not known.
METHODS: We traced patients with transfusion-related non-A, non-B hepatitis who 
had been identified in five major prospective studies conducted in the United 
States between 1967 and 1980. We matched each patient with two control subjects 
(identified as the first and second controls) who received transfusions but who 
did not have hepatitis. The mortality rates in the three groups were determined 
with use of data from the National Death Index and Social Security Death Tapes. 
Cause-specific mortality was determined by reviewing death certificates.
RESULTS: Vital status was established for over 94 percent of the 568 patients 
who had had non-A, non-B hepatitis and the two control groups (526 first 
controls and 458 second controls). After an average follow-up of 18 years, the 
estimate by life-table analysis of mortality from all causes was 51 percent for 
those with transfusion-associated non-A, non-B hepatitis, as compared with 52 
percent for the first controls and 50 percent for the second controls. The 
survival curves for the three groups were virtually the same. Mortality related 
to liver disease was 3.3, 1.1, and 2.0 percent, respectively, among the three 
groups (P = 0.033 for the comparison of the group with non-A, non-B hepatitis 
with the combined control group). Seventy-one percent of the deaths related to 
liver disease occurred among patients with chronic alcoholism.
CONCLUSIONS: In this long-term follow-up study, there was no increase in 
mortality from all causes after transfusion-associated non-A, non-B hepatitis, 
although there was a small but statistically significant increase in the number 
of deaths related to liver disease.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199212313272703
PMID: 1454085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Ophthalmology. 1992 Oct;99(10):1487-97; discussion 1497-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0161-6420(92)31775-0.

National outcomes of cataract extraction. Increased risk of retinal 
complications associated with Nd:YAG laser capsulotomy. The Cataract Patient 
Outcomes Research Team.

Javitt JC(1), Tielsch JM, Canner JK, Kolb MM, Sommer A, Steinberg EP.

Author information:
(1)Worthen Center for Eye Care Research, Georgetown University Medical Center, 
Washington, DC.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 1993 May;100(5):582.
    Ophthalmology. 1993 May;100(5):582-3.
    J Cataract Refract Surg. 2017 Dec;43(12):1618-1619.

PURPOSE: The authors studied 57,103 randomly selected Medicare beneficiaries who 
underwent extracapsular cataract extraction in 1986 or 1987 to determine the 
possible association between performance of neodymium (Nd):YAG laser capsulotomy 
and the risk of subsequent retinal break or detachment.
METHODS: Cases of cataract surgery were identified from Medicare claims 
submitted in 1986 and 1987 and were followed through the end of 1988. Episodes 
of cataract surgery, posterior capsulotomy, and retinal complications were 
ascertained based on procedure and diagnosis codes listed in physician bills and 
hospital discharge records. Lifetable and Cox's proportional hazards models were 
used to analyze the risk of retinal detachment or break in patients undergoing 
and not undergoing capsulotomy during the period of observation.
RESULTS: Of the 57,103 persons identified as having undergone extracapsular 
cataract extraction in 1986 or 1987, 13,709 subsequently underwent Nd:YAG laser 
capsulotomy between 1986 and 1988. A total of 337 persons had aphakic or 
pseudophakic retinal detachments between 1986 and 1988 and an additional 194 
underwent repair of a retinal break. Proportional hazards modeling shows a 
3.9-fold increase in the risk of retinal break or detachment among those who 
underwent capsulotomy (95% confidence interval: 2.89 to 5.25). Younger patient 
age, male sex, and white race also were associated with increased risk of 
retinal complications after extracapsular cataract extraction.
CONCLUSION: The authors conclude that there is a statistically significant 
increase in the risk of retinal detachment or break in those patients who 
undergo capsulotomy after cataract extraction. Therefore, capsulotomy should be 
deferred until the patient's impairment caused by capsular opacification 
warrants the increased risk of retinal complications associated with performance 
of capsulotomy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(92)31775-0
PMID: 1454313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Ophthalmology. 1992 Oct;99(10):1512-9. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(92)31772-5.

Which is better? One or two? A randomized clinical trial of single-plate versus 
double-plate Molteno implantation for glaucomas in aphakia and pseudophakia.

Heuer DK(1), Lloyd MA, Abrams DA, Baerveldt G, Minckler DS, Lee MB, Martone JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Southern California School of 
Medicine, Los Angeles.

PURPOSE: Previous studies have suggested that primary double-plate Molteno 
implantation may be beneficial. Therefore, the authors performed a randomized 
clinical trial to evaluate the relative effectiveness and safety of single- 
versus double-plate Molteno implantation.
METHODS: From March 1988 to February 1990, 132 patients who underwent Molteno 
implantation for medically uncontrollable non-neovascular glaucomas in aphakia 
or pseudophakia were randomly assigned to receive either single- or double-plate 
implants.
RESULTS: The 1- and 2-year life-table success rates (success [survival] defined 
as 6 mmHg < or = final intraocular pressure [IOP] < or = 21 mmHg without 
additional glaucoma surgery or devastating complication) were 55% and 46% with 
single-plate implantation and 86% and 71% with double-plate implantation, 
respectively. The final postoperative visual acuities were within one line of 
the preoperative visual acuities or had improved in 73% and 80% of patients, 
respectively. Choroidal hemorrhages and/or effusions, corneal decompensation, 
flat anterior chambers, and phthisis bulbi were more common in the patients who 
had undergone double-plate Molteno implantation; however, transient elevations 
of IOP during the first few postoperative months were more common in the 
patients who had undergone single-plate Molteno implantation.
CONCLUSIONS: Double-plate Molteno implantation more frequently affords IOP 
control than single-plate Molteno implantation; however, double plates are 
associated with greater risks of choroidal hemorrhages and/or effusions, corneal 
decompensation, flat anterior chambers, and phthisis bulbi.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(92)31772-5
PMID: 1454316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Public Health Rep. 1992 Nov-Dec;107(6):609-15.

Strengthening the public health system.

Roper WL(1), Baker EL Jr, Dyal WW, Nicola RM.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease 
Registry, Atlanta, GA 30333.

Although the American public health system has made major contributions to life 
expectancy for residents of this country over the past century, the system now 
faces more complex health problems that require comprehensive approaches and 
increased capacity, particularly in local and State public health agencies. To 
strengthen the public health system, concerted action is needed to meet these 
five critical needs: First, the knowledge base of public health workers needs to 
be supplemented through on-the-job training and continuing education programs. 
To this end, self-study courses will be expanded, and a network of regional 
training centers will be established throughout the country. Second, communities 
need dynamic leadership from public health officials and their agencies. To 
enhance leadership skills and expand the leadership role of public health 
agencies, focused personal leadership development activities, including a Public 
Health Leadership Institute, and national conferences will provide a vision of 
the future role of public health agencies. Third, local and State public health 
agencies need access to data on the current health status of the people in their 
communities and guidance from the nation's public health experts. To improve 
access to information resources, state-of-the-art technologies will be deployed 
to create integrated information and communication systems linking all 
components of the public health system. Fourth, local and State agencies need 
disease prevention and health promotion plans that target problems and develop 
strategies and the capacity to address them. To provide communities with 
structured approaches to this process, planning tools have been developed and 
distributed, and technical assistance will be provided to local and State health 
agencies to involve each community in planning,priority setting, and 
constituency building.Finally, public health agencies need adequate resources to 
fund prevention programs. To improve the use of existing Federal support and 
enhance the availability of new community resources, grant programs will be 
modified, and innovative approaches to local resource enhancement will be 
developed and shared.Activities in these five key areas are designed to improve 
the infrastructure of the public health system and its capacity to carry out 
effectively the core functions of public health assessment, policy development, 
and assurance of the availability of the benefits of public health. If the 
nation is to achieve the health objectives for the year 2000, the public health 
system-the individuals and institutions that, when working effectively together, 
promote and protect the health of the people-must be strengthened.

PMCID: PMC1403710
PMID: 1454972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Public Health Rep. 1992 Nov-Dec;107(6):636-43.

Czechoslovakia's changing health care system.

Raffel MW(1), Raffel NK.

Author information:
(1)College of Health and Human Development, Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park 16802.

Before World War II, Czechoslovakia was among the most developed European 
countries with an excellent health care system. After the Communist coup d'etat 
in 1948, the country was forced to adapt its existing health care system to the 
Soviet model. It was planned and managed by the government, financed by general 
tax money, operated in a highly centralized, bureaucratic fashion, and provided 
service at no direct charge at the time of service. In recent years, the health 
care system had been deteriorating as the health of the people had also been 
declining. Life expectancy, infant mortality rates, and diseases of the 
circulatory system are higher than in Western European countries. In 1989, 
political changes occurred in Czechoslovakia that made health care reform 
possible. Now health services are being decentralized, and the ownership of 
hospitals is expected to be transferred to communities, municipalities, 
churches, charitable groups, or private entities. Almost all health leaders, 
including hospital directors and hospital department heads, have been replaced. 
Physicians will be paid according to the type and amount of work performed. 
Perhaps the most important reform is the establishment of an independent General 
Health Care Insurance Office financed directly by compulsory contributions from 
workers, employers, and government that will be able to negotiate with hospitals 
and physicians to determine payment for services.

PMCID: PMC1403713
PMID: 1454975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Toxicol Ind Health. 1992 Sep-Oct;8(5):321-42.

Human exposure assessment. II: Quantifying and reducing the uncertainties.

Whitmyre GK(1), Driver JH, Ginevan ME, Tardiff RG, Baker SR.

Author information:
(1)Technology Sciences Group Inc. Washington, D.C. 20036.

Alternative methods of human exposure assessment that reduce and/or allow 
quantification of the uncertainties associated with exposure estimates are 
surveyed and illustrated. These alternative approaches include (1) use of more 
appropriate exposure parameter default values rather than values that result in 
extreme exposure estimates; (2) incorporation of time-activity data to better 
define appropriate exposure duration values; (3) the use of reasonable exposure 
scenarios rather than the traditional Maximally Exposed Individual (MEI) 
approach; (4) the use of stochastic approaches such as Monte Carlo-based and 
information analysis-based methods; (5) use of bivariate analysis to identify 
the extent to which interdependencies between different exposure parameters 
affect the distribution of exposure estimates; (6) use of less-than-lifetime 
exposure and risk assessment; and (7) incorporation of physiological 
considerations relevant to absorbed dose estimation, including route-specific 
impacts, use of improved absorption factors, and application of pharmacokinetic 
models. Other ways to improve the exposure assessment process, including 
assuring statistical equivalency in comparing different exposure estimates and 
incorporation of sensitive subpopulation considerations are also discussed, as 
are key research needs.

PMID: 1455441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Voen Med Zh. 1992 Jul;(7):55-7.

[The life expectancy of regular military personnel].

[Article in Russian]

Zholus BI, Alfimov VN, Maksimov LA, Neroda GA, Romanovich IK.

PMID: 1455782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. World J Surg. 1992 Nov-Dec;16(6):1066-73. doi: 10.1007/BF02067063.

Endoscopic therapy for biliary obstruction.

Soehendra N(1), Binmoeller KF, Grimm H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endoscopic Surgery, University Hospital of Hamburg, Federal 
Republic of Germany.

Endoscopic management of biliary obstruction is feasible in most patients and 
has emerged as standard treatment. Aside from the removal of bile duct stones, 
placement of a biliary stent is the most commonly employed modality of 
management. In experienced hands, this is successful in over 90% of patients. 
Lower procedure-related complications and the relative non-invasive nature of 
endoscopic treatment has relegated surgical management to a subsidiary role. 
Hospitalization time rarely exceeds 1-2 days. In most patients with advanced 
malignant disease and short life expectancy, stenting affords effective 
palliation. For the majority of patients endoscopic management is preferable to 
the percutaneous transhepatic approach due to lower overall mortality and 
morbidity. Stent occlusion necessitating replacement remains a problem, but 
improvements in this area can be expected. New plastic stent designs are 
undergoing investigation. Expandable metallic stents are promising but 
controlled comparative trials with conventional plastic prostheses are needed. 
Use of expandable stents should be judicious since these cannot be removed. In 
the future we can look forward to advances in peroral cholangioscopic technology 
which may permit targeted treatment of intraductal biliary malignancies.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02067063
PMID: 1455875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Acta Neurol Scand. 1992 Oct;86(4):381-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0404.1992.tb05105.x.

Screening for unruptured familial intracranial aneurysms. A decision analysis.

Dippel DW(1), ter Berg JW, Habbema JD.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Decision Sciences, Medical Faculty Erasmus University, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Decision analysis is used to assess the decision to screen for unruptured 
intracranial aneurysms (IAs) in two affected families, and to formulate 
guide-lines for similar decisions. Four strategies are compared: "no screening", 
"screening directly", "screening twice", and "screening later". Intravenous and 
intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography techniques (iv-DSA, ia-DSA) are 
considered. Life years lived with and without disability are computed for each 
strategy. Loss of life expectancy with and without discounting and quality 
correction is used as an outcome measure. "No screening" is the preferred 
strategy when population based estimates of the prevalence of IAs are used. 
Thus, the results of this analysis provide no justification for screening 
patients without a familial history. But a physician who thinks that the risk of 
an IA is increased may rightly decide for screening, especially when the patient 
is aged 40 to 60. Ia-DSA is preferable over iv-DSA. A scenario analysis suggests 
that screening with magnetic resonance angiography is only slightly better than 
with ia-DSA, because the complication rate of screening plays a minor role in 
the analysis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0404.1992.tb05105.x
PMID: 1455985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Am J Public Health. 1992 Dec;82(12):1641-4. doi: 10.2105/ajph.82.12.1641.

The mortality of lead smelter workers: an update.

Steenland K(1), Selevan S, Landrigan P.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Cincinnati, Ohio 
45226.

Erratum in
    Am J Public Health 1993 Jan;83(1):60.

OBJECTIVES: Mortality studies of lead workers have shown excesses of 
nonmalignant renal disease and cerebrovascular disease. Animal studies and one 
human study have shown excess kidney cancer. We have updated a mortality study 
of male lead smelter workers (n = 1990).
METHODS: An analysis was conducted using standard life table techniques. The 
updated analysis added 11 years of follow-up and 363 new deaths.
RESULTS: The original study had found elevated but nonsignificant risks for 
kidney cancer, stroke, and nonmalignant renal disease, probably attributable to 
lead exposure. Deaths from accidents and nonmalignant respiratory disease were 
significantly elevated, but probably not as a result of lead exposure. In the 
updated study, no new deaths from nonmalignant renal disease occurred (9 
observed, standardized mortality ratio = 1.21). Three more deaths from kidney 
cancer were observed, yielding a standardized mortality ratio of 1.93 (9 
observed, 95% CI = 0.88, 3.67), which increased for those who had worked in 
areas with the highest lead exposure (8 observed, standardized mortality ratio = 
2.39, 95% CI = 1.03, 4.71). Cerebrovascular disease remained elevated for those 
with more than 20 years of exposure (26 observed, standardized mortality ratio = 
1.41, 95% CI = 0.92, 2.07).
CONCLUSIONS: This cohort with high lead exposure showed a diminishing excess of 
death from nonmalignant renal disease, a continued excess from kidney cancer, 
and an excess of cerebrovascular disease only in those with longest exposure to 
lead.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.82.12.1641
PMCID: PMC1694546
PMID: 1456339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Ann Chir Gynaecol. 1992;81(3):277-83.

Results of surgical treatment of patients with Crohn's disease.

Halme LE(1).

Author information:
(1)Fourth Department of Surgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.

A follow-up study of 98 patients suffering from Crohn's disease was performed to 
evaluate the recurrence rate of the disease and the patients' ability to cope 
socially with this chronic disease. Eight patients were decreased and one had 
emigrated, thus 89 of the patients were contacted. Two of the patients had died 
of Crohn's disease and another two had died of adenocarcinoma of the large bowel 
involved in Crohn's disease. 83% of the patients had been operated on. The 
cumulative rate for recurrences resulting in reoperation using the life table 
method was 34% at 10 years and 55% at 20 years. Even after an enterostomy, the 
patients who had only large bowel involvement had the best quality of life and 
were most able to work. On the other hand, due to the higher recurrence rate, 
operated patients with both small and large bowel involvement found it most 
difficult to cope with the disease.

PMID: 1456703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Ann Neurol. 1992 Oct;32(4):570-6. doi: 10.1002/ana.410320414.

The persistent vegetative state in children: report of the Child Neurology 
Society Ethics Committee.

Ashwal S(1), Bale JF Jr, Coulter DL, Eiben R, Garg BP, Hill A, Myer EC, Nordgren 
RE, Shewmon DA, Sunder TR, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Loma Linda University School of Medicine, CA 92350.

Increasing concern about children in a persistent vegetative state (PVS) 
prompted a survey of members of the Child Neurology Society regarding aspects of 
the diagnosis and management of this disorder. Major findings of those 
responding to this survey (26% response rate) were as follows: (1) 93% believed 
that a diagnosis of PVS can be made in children, but only 16% believed that this 
applied to infants younger than 2 months and 70% in the 2-month to 2-year group; 
(2) a period of 3 to 6 months was believed to be the minimum observation period 
required before a diagnosis of PVS could be made; (3) 86% believed that the age 
of the patient would affect the duration of time needed to make the diagnosis of 
PVS; (4) 78% thought a diagnosis of PVS could be made in children with severe 
congenital brain malformations; (5) 75% believed that neurodiagnostic studies 
would be of value and supportive of the clinical diagnosis of PVS; (6) members' 
opinions as to the average life expectancy (in years) for the following age 
groups after the patients were considered vegetative were: newborn to 2 months, 
4.1; 2 months to 2 years, 5.5; 2 to 7 years, 7.3; and more than 7 years, 7.4; 
(7) 20% believed that infants and children in a PVS experience pain and 
suffering; and (8) 75% "never" withhold fluid and nutrition from infants and 
children in a PVS and 28% "always" give medication for pain and 
suffering.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410320414
PMID: 1456742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Arch Intern Med. 1992 Dec;152(12):2433-7. doi: 10.1001/archinte.152.12.2433.

Prognosis in ischemic heart disease. Can you tell as much at the bedside as in 
the nuclear laboratory?

Marantz PR(1), Tobin JN, Wassertheil-Smoller S, Ahn C, Steingart RM, Wexler JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 
10461.

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 1993 Sep 13;153(17):2055, 2061.
    Arch Intern Med. 1993 Sep 13;153(17):2055.

BACKGROUND--While the resting left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) predicts 
prognosis in ischemic heart disease, clinical evaluation is also useful. 
METHODS--To compare the prognostic value of LVEF by resting radionuclide 
ventriculography with that of clinical signs and symptoms of congestive heart 
failure (CHF), 170 patients with suspected ischemic heart disease were followed 
up in this prospective study. Patients had a standardized history and physical 
examination performed by a study cardiologist immediately before the nuclear 
scan. Chest roentgenography and radionuclide ventriculography were performed in 
a standard manner. The diagnosis of CHF was made by validated 
clinicoradiographic criteria based on the Framingham study. Mortality was 
determined by means of the National Death Index; median follow-up time was 3 
years. RESULTS--There was CHF at baseline in 70 patients, and baseline LVEF was 
low (< or = 0.4) in 63 patients. Low LVEF was significantly associated with CHF. 
During follow-up, 55 of the subjects died (overall mortality, 32%). Subjects 
with CHF had a significantly higher risk of death than those without CHF, and 
subjects with low LVEF had a higher mortality than those with preserved LVEF. 
Both CHF and LVEF were independent predictors of mortality. In a Cox model, each 
percentage increase in LVEF was associated with a 2% decreased mortality, while 
subjects with CHF had a mortality 2.5 times higher than that of those without 
CHF. Also, CHF with preserved LVEF had a better prognosis than CHF with 
depressed LVEF, but this prognosis was worse than that in subjects without CHF. 
CONCLUSIONS--The clinical diagnosis of CHF, based on clinical evaluation and 
chest roentgenogram, is a valid predictor of mortality and provides information 
independent of the radionuclide LVEF in determining prognosis in patients with 
ischemic heart disease.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.152.12.2433
PMID: 1456854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. J Am Soc Nephrol. 1992 Oct;3(4 Suppl):S111-9. doi: 10.1681/ASN.V34s111.

Cost-effectiveness of screening and early treatment of nephropathy in patients 
with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.

Siegel JE(1), Krolewski AS, Warram JH, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA 02115.

Studies have demonstrated that "antihypertensive" treatment with 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) may retard the progress of 
nephropathy in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. To obtain an 
indication of the potential effect of ACEI treatment and as a guide to future 
research, the effects of screening and early ACEI treatment programs were 
estimated using cost-effectiveness models. The preliminary analysis suggests 
that the early treatment of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus patients with 
ACEI is likely to be a very cost-effective use of health care resources. The 
cost-effectiveness ratio for screening and treatment at the stage of 
microalbuminuria ($7,900 to $16,500 per year of life saved) compares favorably 
with those of other medical life-saving interventions. Less-aggressive programs 
(screening followed by treatment at the stage of proteinuria) would improve life 
expectancy to a lesser extent but could save net health care costs as well as 
years of life. Although more exact and comprehensive cost-effectiveness analysis 
must await clinical trials, these illustrative results demonstrate the range of 
cost-effectiveness that can be expected from these programs and identify data 
needed for more decisive policy conclusions.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.V34s111
PMID: 1457753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Clin Cardiol. 1992 Nov;15(11):III2-7; discussion III8-9.

Cholesterol and cardiovascular disease: how strong is the evidence?

LaRosa JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, George Washington University Medical Center, 
Washington, D.C. 20037.

