The relationship between elevated serum cholesterol and cardiovascular disease, 
specifically coronary heart disease (CHD), has been and continues to be a source 
of debate in the medical community. Other issues under debate include criteria 
for screening for elevated cholesterol, criteria for treatment, and whether 
intervention to lower elevated cholesterol prior to a cardiac event is cost 
effective. Most physicians believe this latter statement to be true; however, 
reports of no decrease in overall mortality rates in those without clinical 
coronary disease in whom aggressive lowering of cholesterol is achieved may have 
contributed to the lack of consensus on this most important issue. In this 
presentation the evidence that links cholesterol and CHD is reviewed and it is 
demonstrated that lowering elevated cholesterol concentrations can improve 
quality of life and life expectancy.

PMID: 1458693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Contraception. 1992 Nov;46(5):407-25. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(92)90145-j.

The multiload IUD--a U.S. researcher's evaluation of a European device.

Chi IC(1).

Author information:
(1)Family Health International, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina.

This evaluative review focused on the performance and safety of the Dutch-made 
Multiload copper IUD, primarily the Multiload-375 (MLCu-375) model which has a 
longer life expectancy (5 or more years) than the Multiload-250 (MLCu-250) 
model, usually cited for a life expectancy for three years. This 
copper-medicated IUD differs from the copper-T IUDs in shape and insertion 
technique. The review shows that (a) the MLCu-375 IUD seems to be slightly less 
effective in preventing pregnancies than TCu-380A IUD. Its efficacy is 
comparable to that of the Nova-T by two to three years of use; (b) the MLCu-250 
IUD is similarly effective to TCu-200 but may be slightly less effective than 
TCu-220C; (c) no consistent differences were detectable in expulsion rates or in 
removal rates for bleeding/pain between the Multiload IUDs and comparative 
Copper-T IUDs; (d) the Multiload IUDs may perform better in nulliparous women 
than the T-shaped devices; (e) no or a very low incidence of uterine perforation 
is associated with insertions of the Multiload IUD; (f) ectopic pregnancy risks 
are similarly low in Multiload IUD users as in Copper-T-380A users; and (g) 
pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) risks are similarly low in Multiload IUD users 
as in users of T-shaped copper IUDs.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(92)90145-j
PMID: 1458888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Harefuah. 1992 Oct;123(7-8):247-9, 308, 307.

[The day-care unit as a framework for successful community rehabilitation].

[Article in Hebrew]

Grinshpon A(1), Levy A, Mester A.

Author information:
(1)Mental Health Center of Ness Ziona.

Due to rapid advances in psychiatric treatment, increased sophistication of 
welfare services, and increasing life expectancy, the number of psychiatric 
patients is increasing rapidly. Many of them do not have the necessary adaptive 
capacity to deal satisfactorily with their daily functions, such as housework, 
financial arrangements, and medical treatment. These patients could be assisted 
in day-care treatment units. We present the ideology and the different models of 
psychiatric day-care units which are becoming widely used in treatment, 
especially for rehabilitation of chronic mental patients.

PMID: 1459496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Int J Cancer. 1992 Dec 2;52(6):873-6. doi: 10.1002/ijc.2910520607.

Prognostic relevance of serum hyaluronan levels in patients with breast cancer.

Ponting J(1), Howell A, Pye D, Kumar S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Research, Christie Hospital, Manchester, UK.

The serum hyaluronan (HA) level of 238 women with breast cancer was measured by 
means of a specific radiometric assay. The results show no significant increase 
in serum HA when compared to levels in 120 control sera. A number of prognostic 
factors were evaluated including stage of disease, lymph-node involvement, 
tumour size, histology and presence of oestrogen and progesterone receptors in 
the tumour. No correlation was found with serum HA concentration and we conclude 
that serum HA level is of no prognostic significance in breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910520607
PMID: 1459727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Infect Dis Clin North Am. 1992 Dec;6(4):963-77.

Onchocerciasis.

Malatt AE(1), Taylor HR.

Author information:
(1)University of Melbourne, Department of Ophthalmology, Royal Victorian Eye and 
Ear Hospital, Australia.

Onchocerciasis is a parasitic disease with blinding consequences infecting 
approximately 18 million persons worldwide. In hyperendemic areas, nearly half 
the population are likely to become blind before they die. Blindness reduces the 
life expectancy of those affected and has an enormous socioeconomic impact on 
these communities. Ivermectin, given as a single oral dose of 150 micrograms/kg, 
can control the manifestations of the disease and can be safely distributed on a 
mass scale in endemic areas. This drug provides hope for the control of what has 
been until now an untreatable and devastating disease.

PMID: 1460274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Dec;16(6):816-23; discussion 823-4.

Polytetrafluoroethylene versus human umbilical vein in above-knee 
femoropopliteal bypass: six-year results of a randomized clinical trial.

Aalders GJ(1), van Vroonhoven TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, St. Elisabeth Hospital, Tilburg, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2001 Mar;33(3):658-9.

In a prospective, randomized trial 6 mm polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) and 6 mm 
human umbilical vein (HUV) were compared in above-knee femoropopliteal bypass 
grafting. In claudicants a prosthetic graft was used intentionally, in 
limb-salvage cases only when autologous vein was insufficient. Ninety-six 
extremities were randomized (49 PTFE and 47 HUV). Operative indication was 
disabling claudication in 77 and limb salvage in 19 extremities. The two groups 
were comparable as to preoperative risk factors and operative and postoperative 
treatment. Median follow-up was 76 months (range 47 to 91 months), during which 
23 patients died of nonrelated causes with functioning grafts. Thirty-eight 
grafts failed (33 because of occlusion and five for other reasons). At 6 years 
the primary patency rate was 38.7% in the PTFE group and 71.4% in the HUV group 
(p < 0.001). Corresponding rates for secondary patency at 6 years were 51.4% and 
76.4% (p < 0.005).

PMID: 1460707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Dec;16(6):841-52; discussion 852-4.

Iliofemoral versus femorofemoral bypass: the case for an individualized 
approach.

Harrington ME(1), Harrington EB, Haimov M, Schanzer H, Jacobson JH 2nd.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery (Division of Vascular Surgery), Mount Sinai School of 
Medicine, City University of New York, New York.

The treatment of unilateral iliac occlusion remains controversial. We report our 
experience with femorofemoral bypass (FF) and iliofemoral bypass (IF). One 
hundred sixty-two FFs and 82 IFs were performed during a 25-year period. 
Demographic characteristics of the two groups were similar. Operative 
indications included claudication in 32.1% of FFs and 19.5% of IFs, rest pain in 
26.5% of FFs and 36.6% of IFs, ulcer in 8.0% of FFs and 3.7% of IFs, gangrene 
13.6% of FFs and 23.2% of IFs, and acute thrombosis in 13.0% of FFs and 3.7% of 
IFs. Five-year primary and secondary patency rates for all FFs were 56.9% and 
65.4% respectively. Those for all IFs were 74.9% and 79.2%. The primary patency 
rate of FF performed for chronic arterial occlusive disease was 73.3% at 3 years 
and 60.4% at 5 years and for IF it was 73.4% at 3 years. In the absence of prior 
arterial surgery in the groin, the primary patency rates of bypasses for chronic 
arterial occlusive disease were 78.3% for FF and 86.8% for IF at 4 years. Distal 
endarterectomy and acute ischemia adversely affected patency. The operative 
mortality rate was 6.2% for FF and 3.7% for IF. Eleven wound complications 
occurred in the FF group. Seven patients underwent graft removal without limb 
loss. One minor wound problem occurred in the IF group. Iliofemoral bypass 
avoids operation on an asymptomatic limb; FF avoids entry in the abdomen or 
retroperitoneum and can be performed under local anesthesia. In patients in whom 
either IF or FF is applicable, the choice between these two procedures should be 
individualized with these factors in mind.

PMID: 1460710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Lakartidningen. 1992 Nov 25;89(48):4123-4.

[Weight reduction is beneficial].

[Article in Swedish]

RÃ¶ssner S(1).

Author information:
(1)Obesitasenheten, Norrbacka, Stockholm.

PMID: 1461026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. World Health Stat Q. 1992;45(2-3):220-7.

The global epidemiology of the HIV/AIDS pandemic and its projected demographic 
impact in Africa.

Chin J(1), Remenyi MA, Morrison F, Bulatao R.

Author information:
(1)Surveillance, Forecasting and Impact Assessment Unit, World Health 
Organization, Geneva.

The global epidemiology of HIV/AIDS has evolved to the point that the pandemic 
now predominantly affects heterosexuals, especially in developing countries. 
This article summarizes the status of the HIV/AIDS pandemic as of the early 
1990s; provides estimates and short-term projections of AIDS mortality in a 
hypothetical country of sub-Saharan Africa; projects the potential demographic 
impact of AIDS in a hypothetical sub-Saharan country; and describes the major 
problems associated with modelling the long-term demographic impact of this 
pandemic. Estimated AIDS cases and deaths up to 1992 were extrapolated from 
public health surveillance data and through use of the WHO model. Estimates of 
HIV seroprevalence were based on available HIV serological data. For developed 
countries, HIV estimates developed by national experts and/or national AIDS 
programmes were used, and for developing countries estimates by regional experts 
were used or were prepared by WHO. For the first half of the 1990s, projections 
of AIDS cases and deaths were derived from the WHO model; beyond the mid-1990s, 
the potential effects of AIDS on selected demographic indicators were derived 
from a demographic projection model developed by the World Bank. Although 
estimates and long-term projections cannot be made with great precision, the 
general dimensions of the HIV/AIDS pandemic have been more clearly delineated 
now at the start of its second decade. Epidemiological data indicate that in 
industrialized countries, where extensive spread of HIV began in the late 1970s 
or early 1980s, the majority of HIV infections occurred during the first half of 
the 1980s.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1462657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Am Heart J. 1992 Dec;124(6):1608-14. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90080-f.

Survival of implantable cardioverter-defibrillator recipients: role of left 
ventricular function and its relationship to device use.

Mehta D(1), Saksena S, Krol RB.

Author information:
(1)Arrhythmia and Pacemaker Service, Eastern Heart Institute, Passaic, N.J.

The quantitative benefit of ICD therapy in patients with malignant ventricular 
tachyarrhythmia with different degrees of left ventricular dysfunction is 
unclear. We evaluated patterns of ICD use and survival in 112 patients with 
moderate to severe left ventricular dysfunction. Group 1 included 57 patients 
with moderate left ventricular dysfunction (defined as left ventricular ejection 
fraction greater than 30%) and group 2 comprised 55 patients with severe left 
ventricular dysfunction (defined as ejection fraction equal to or less than 
30%). The follow-up period ranged from 1 to 78 months. Age, incidence of 
coronary artery disease, and presenting arrhythmia in the two groups were 
similar. The mean left ventricular ejection fraction in group 1 was 44.6 +/- 
8.2% and in group 2 was 21.6 +/- 6% (p < 0.0001). At 3 years of follow-up 65% of 
the patients in group 1 and 71% in group 2 (p = NS) had ICD activation for 
presumed ventricular tachycardia. Survival was calculated by means of actuarial 
analysis. Arrhythmia or sudden death mortality at 4 years of follow-up was 5% in 
group 1 and 9% in group 2 (NS). Cardiac mortality was higher in patients with 
severe left ventricular dysfunction reaching levels of statistical significance 
at 2 years of follow-up. At 2 years of follow-up it was 12% in group 1 and 40% 
in group 2 (p = 0.05), and at 4 years of follow-up it was 15% in group 1 and 43% 
in group 2 (p < 0.01). In both groups there was no difference in cardiac 
mortality in patients who did and did not have appropriate ICD shocks.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90080-f
PMID: 1462921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Eur J Cancer. 1992;28A(6-7):1293-4. doi: 10.1016/0959-8049(92)90492-k.

Handedness and breast cancer.

Lowry S.

Comment on
    Eur J Cancer. 1991;27(12):1694-5.

DOI: 10.1016/0959-8049(92)90492-k
PMID: 1463496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Plant Mol Biol. 1992 Dec;20(6):1111-9. doi: 10.1007/BF00028897.

Adenine depurination and inactivation of plant ribosomes by an antiviral protein 
of Mirabilis jalapa (MAP).

Kataoka J(1), Habuka N, Miyano M, Masuta C, Koiwai A.

Author information:
(1)Life Science Research Laboratory, Japan Tobacco Inc., Kanagawa.

Mirabilis antiviral protein (MAP) is a single-chain ribosome-inactivating 
protein (RIP) isolated from Mirabilis jalapa L. It depurinates the 28S-like 
rRNAs of prokaryotes and eukaryotes. A specific modification in the 25S rRNA of 
M. jalapa was found to occur during isolation of ribosomes by 
polyacrylamide/agarose composite gel electrophoresis. Primer extension analysis 
revealed the modification site to be at the adenine residue corresponding to 
A4324 in rat 28S rRNA. The amount of endogenous MAP seemed to be sufficient to 
inactivate most of the homologous ribosomes. The adenine of wheat ribosomes was 
also found to be removed to some extent by an endogenous RIP (tritin). However, 
the amount of endogenous tritin seemed to be insufficient for quantitative 
depurination of the homologous ribosomes. Endogenous MAP could shut down the 
protein synthesis of its own cells when it spreads into the cytoplasm through 
breaks of the cells. Therefore, we speculate that MAP is a defensive agent to 
induce viral resistance through the suicide of its own cells.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00028897
PMID: 1463845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1992;24(1):11-6. doi: 10.1007/BF01832353.

Interval cancer and survival in a randomized breast cancer screening trial in 
Stockholm.

Frisell J(1), von Rosen A, Wiege M, Nilsson B, Goldman S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, SÃ¶dersjukhuset, Stockholm, Sweden.

The aim of the present study was to analyse the survival rate in a group of 
breast cancers detected in the intervals between screening examinations in 
relation to clinically detected cancers in a non-screened population. All 
interval and control cancers were recruited from a randomized controlled 
mammography screening trial in Stockholm. The overall survival up to eight years 
of observation was higher in 191 patients with interval cancers than in 142 
control cancers (p = 0.01). There were no significant differences between the 
two groups with regard to tumor size, stage distribution, or mean age, though 
the interval group did have a larger proportion of younger women. The similarity 
was confirmed by multiple regression analysis. The overall survival stage by 
stage was consistently higher in interval cancers. The survival rate in the true 
interval cancers was similar to that for those found in retrospect to have been 
detectable or traceable at the time of screening. No correlation was found 
between the length of the interval and the survival of patients with interval 
cancers. These results contradict the hypothesis that a high growth rate is 
associated with a poorer prognosis and that interval cancers are a more 
aggressive form of breast neoplasia.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01832353
PMID: 1463867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Bull World Health Organ. 1992;70(5):561-6.

New possibilities for population control of cystic fibrosis.

Dodge JA(1), Boulyjenkov V.

Author information:
(1)Child Health Nuffield Department of Child Health, Queen's University of 
Belfast, United Kingdom.

Cystic fibrosis (CF), which is caused exclusively by mutation of a single gene, 
is inherited in autosomal recessive fashion and is the commonest such disorder 
in populations of Caucasian origin. Although much progress has been made during 
the last 50 years in its clinical management, with a corresponding improvement 
in the mean life expectancy in developed countries from a few months to a few 
decades, it remains incurable and a complete understanding of its biochemical 
basis is still being sought. Consequently, attention has been given to the 
possibility of screening for carriers of the defective gene, who represent up to 
5% in some populations, so that they may be given appropriate genetic 
counselling. Whereas previously carriers were identified only when they became 
parents of affected children, in recent years carriers who were more distantly 
related to CF patients have often been identified by means of genetic linkage 
techniques. A new strategy for the control of CF at the population level is now 
proposed. It is based on the report of a joint WHO/ICF(M)A (International Cystic 
Fibrosis (Mucoviscidosis) Association) Task Force on CF which met in November 
1990.

PMCID: PMC2393358
PMID: 1464143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Bull World Health Organ. 1992;70(5):583-90.

Community-based evaluation survey of immunizations in Burkina Faso.

Schwoebel V(1), Dauvisis AV, Helynck B, Gomes E, Drejer GF, Schlumberger M, 
Bibane L, Rumke H.

Author information:
(1)Association pour la Promotion de la MÃ©decine PrÃ©ventive, Paris, France.

A cluster sample survey was conducted in January 1989 in 3 provinces of Burkina 
Faso to evaluate an immunization programme (based on two contacts, providing 
inactivated poliomyelitis vaccine plus DPT) that had been launched in 1982-84. 
The objectives were to estimate neonatal tetanus (NNT) mortality and 
poliomyelitis prevalence in the study area. The target population (using the 
same sample of households comprised 2107 live infants born during the preceding 
year for the NNT survey, and 17,154 children aged 0-9 years for the 
poliomyelitis survey. The NNT mortality rate was 3.3 per 1000 live births, and 
the poliomyelitis prevalence rate was 2.8 per 1000 children aged 5-9 years. 
Dates of onset of poliomyelitis cases among children aged 0-9 years and the 
numbers of children at risk during the 10-year recall period, reconstituted with 
demographic indicators taken from standardized life-tables, were used to 
calculate the incidence rates of poliomyelitis. These rates could be compared in 
the 5-year period preceding the survey, and showed a decreasing trend consistent 
with routine surveillance data.

PIP: A cluster sample survey was conducted in January 1989 in 3 provinces of 
Burkina Faso to evaluate an immunization program (based on 2 contacts, providing 
inactivated poliomyelitis vaccine plus DPT) that had been launched in 1982-84. 
The objectives were to estimate neonatal tetanus (NNT) mortality and 
poliomyelitis prevalence in the study area. The target population (using the 
same sample of households) comprised 2107 live infants born during the preceding 
year for the NNT survey, and 17,154 children aged 0-9 years for the 
poliomyelitis survey. The NNT mortality rate was 3.3/1000 live births, and the 
poliomyelitis prevalence rate was 2.8/1000 children aged 5-9 years. Dates of 
onset of poliomyelitis case among children aged 0-9 years and the number of 
children at risk during the 10-year recall period, reconstituted with 
demographic indicators taken from standardized life tables, were used to 
calculate the incidence rates of poliomyelitis. These rates could be compared in 
the 5-year period preceding the survey, and showed a decreasing trend consistent 
with routine surveillance data. (author's)

PMCID: PMC2393365
PMID: 1464144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1992 Fall;8(4):719-34. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300002403.

A model for evaluating the cost-effectiveness of cholesterol-lowering treatment.

Glick H(1), Heyse JF, Thompson D, Epstein RS, Smith ME, Oster G.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania.

We describe and illustrate the use of a generalizable model for evaluating the 
cost-effectiveness of alternative cholesterol-lowering treatments. We combine 
standard incidence-based techniques for measuring the cost of illness with 
logistic risk functions from the Framingham Heart Study to project, for persons 
with known coronary risk characteristics, the likelihood of developing coronary 
heart disease (CHD) over a lifetime as well as a number of related outcomes, 
including the expected loss of years of life due to CHD, the expected lifetime 
direct and indirect costs of CHD, and the changes in these outcomes that would 
result from cholesterol-lowering treatment.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300002403
PMID: 1464491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. J Clin Pharm Ther. 1992 Oct;17(5):263-70. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2710.1992.tb01304.x.

Advances in the pharmacotherapy of cystic fibrosis.

Bosso JA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Houston, Texas.

The quality of life and life-span of cystic fibrosis patients have been improved 
substantially in the last 20 or 30 years. This has been accomplished largely 
through improved early diagnosis and advances in traditional pharmacotherapy 
which mainly consists of antibiotic therapy. In the past few years, the basic 
cellular defect of cystic fibrosis, as well as the gene determining the disease, 
have been described. These milestones in the quest for knowledge about the 
disease open the door for other innovative forms of therapy. While corrective 
gene therapy may be the ultimate result of advances made based upon this new 
knowledge, we will probably see earlier breakthroughs in the form of immune 
reaction inhibition and correction of ion flux disturbances. Each of these 
present and future forms of therapy is explored in this paper.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2710.1992.tb01304.x
PMID: 1464631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. J Gerontol Nurs. 1992 Dec;18(12):3-8. doi: 10.3928/0098-9134-19921201-03.

Research considerations: family opinions about elderly relatives in research.

Williams SG.

As the elderly population expands due to longer life expectancy, clinical 
investigation will be required to provide optimal care. Family members of the 
elderly often become involved in the decision to participate in clinical 
investigation due to moral, ethical, personal, and financial concerns. 
Establishing rapport with the patient and family members is of great importance 
for the nurse when conducting clinical investigation. Most relatives interviewed 
for this study had positive opinions toward research with the elderly.

DOI: 10.3928/0098-9134-19921201-03
PMID: 1464701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. J Rheumatol. 1992 Oct;19(10):1595-9.

The epidemiology of gout and hyperuricemia in a rural population of Java.

Darmawan J(1), Valkenburg HA, Muirden KD, Wigley RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

The prevalence of gout and hyperuricemia was investigated by a survey of a total 
population of 4683 rural adults. The successful response rate was 95.2%. Of the 
respondents 85.3% of the individuals were examined. The prevalence of gout and 
hyperuricemia in men was 1.7 and 24.3%, respectively. The male to female ratio 
was 34:1 for gout and 2:1 for hyperuricemia. The observed higher prevalence of 
gout and hyperuricemia in this male Malayo-Polynesian population compared with 
Caucasian data, in spite of a lower life expectancy and subsistence economy, 
suggests that genetic and racial predisposition are key causative factors.

PMID: 1464874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Transplant Proc. 1992 Dec;24(6):2472.

DR6 compatibility and kidney graft survival.

Correia AM(1), de Costa AG, Reis P, Rego F, Sampaio MJ, Caetano JM, Pena JR.

Author information:
(1)Unidade de TransplantaÃ§Ã£o Renal da Cruz Vermelha Portuguesa, Instituto de 
Imunologia, C. Histocompatibilidade do Sul, Lisboa.

PMID: 1465836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Transplant Proc. 1992 Dec;24(6):2707-8.

Recovery index: a useful tool for quantification of liver injury after liver 
transplantation to predict one-year survival.

Avolio AW(1), Agnes S, Magalini SC, Nanni G, Castagneto M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Catholic University of Rome, Italy.

PMID: 1465908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Transplant Proc. 1992 Dec;24(6):2711-3.

A 20-year follow-up of cadaveric kidney allotransplantation.

Candinas D(1), Keusch G, Conrad B, Schlumpf R, Decurtins M, LargiadÃ¨r F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Zurich Hospital, Switzerland.

PMID: 1465910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Tumori. 1992 Aug 31;78(4):270-3. doi: 10.1177/030089169207800412.

Endobronchial metastases in colorectal adenocarcinoma.

Rovirosa Casino A(1), Bellmunt J, Salud A, Vicente P, Maldonado J, Bodi R, 
Salvador L.

Author information:
(1)Radiotherapy and Oncology Department, University Valle de Hebron General 
Hospital, Autonoma University of Barcelona, Spain.

Between 1982 and 1990, 2388 bronchoscopic examinations were carried out in 
patients with cancer in our hospital. A diagnosis of endobronchial metastasis 
was established in 30 patients (2.09%), with the following primary tumors in 
descending order of frequency: breast, large bowel, melanoma, neuroblastoma, 
leiomyosarcoma and endometrial. Despite the rarity of endobronchial metastases 
secondary to colon adenocarcinoma, we were able to study 3 cases from our 
Center. In one case the diagnosis of endobronchial metastasis was simultaneous 
with that of the primary tumor, and in the other 2 this metastatic complication 
occurred 16 and 42 months, after the original diagnosis. When this complication 
occurred, the stage of the disease was advanced in all 3 cases: 2 were Dukes' 
stage C and one stage D. Although this metastatic location usually implies a 
very negative prognosis as regards life expectancy, it did not seem to 
significantly reduce the latter in our patients.

DOI: 10.1177/030089169207800412
PMID: 1466085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. An Med Interna. 1992 Nov;9(11):563-7.

[The quality of life and cancer].

[Article in Spanish]

SÃ¡nchez Alhama J(1), Gil Extremera B.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Granada.

Quality of life has been one of the main goals of medicine during the past 
years. With the increase of chronic degenerative diseases and the stability of 
the life expectancy at birth, we are beginning to think that it is not only 
important the number of years that we live, but as well the number of years that 
we live free of discapacities. On the other hand, the increase in the survival 
rate due to the advance of the biotechnology, as it happens with cancer, lead us 
to consider several psychosocial aspects neglected a few years ago.

PMID: 1467408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Ethn Dis. 1992 Spring;2(2):192-3.

New vital statistics confirm worsening of black health.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1467757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Eur J Cancer Prev. 1992 Jun;1(4):331-5. doi:
10.1097/00008469-199206000-00010.

Surgery in Barrett's oesophagus.

Spencer J(1).

Author information:
(1)University of London, Royal Postgraduate Medical School, UK.

Surgical treatment for a columnar-lined oesophagus (CLO) may be considered in 
terms of indications, procedures and risks. Reflux may be an indication for 
surgery, but does not lead to reversal of epithelium, nor does it eliminate 
malignant potential. Whether it reduces such potential is not certain. 
Anti-reflux surgery is therefore based on reflux-related criteria, and not as a 
treatment for a CLO. Dysplasia is a possible indication for surgery, but as 
progression to carcinoma may be slow, must not be considered an absolute 
indication in an elderly, frail patient. Malignancy is a clear indication for 
operation in a patient deemed fit enough to withstand it. Anti-reflux operations 
have been standardized over recent years, and aim at exclusion of gastric juice 
from the oesophagus. Another approach is to alter refluxed material 
qualitatively by a duodenal diversion procedure. This eliminates bile and 
pancreatic juice from the oesophagus, with dramatic effects on inflammation but 
without reversal of a CLO. Reversal of inflammation may facilitate endoscopic 
surveillance. Either dysplasia or carcinoma are treated by oesophagogastric 
resection. Newer forms of laparoscopic or thoracoscopic dissection may be 
particularly applicable with dysplasia or early carcinoma in CLO. Palliative 
surgery for advanced tumours is not often required today. Risks of anti-reflux 
surgery must be balanced against symptoms. Risks are reduced if splenectomy is 
avoided, and operations avoided where possible in the elderly. Resection for 
dysplasia or carcinoma is high-risk surgery. In the young there is much to gain, 
and the risks are lower. In the elderly, in the absence of other treatment, 
risks must be balanced against general health and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/00008469-199206000-00010
PMID: 1467784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Clin Ther. 1992 Sep-Oct;14(5):760-4; discussion 759.

Pharmaceutical research and development.

McKercher PL(1).

Author information:
(1)Upjohn Company, Inc., Kalamazoo, Michigan.

Some aspects of pharmaceutical research and development (R&D) are reviewed. The 
viability of major pharmaceutical manufacturers depends on their research and 
thus they commit substantial resources to R&D programs. Major pharmaceutical 
manufacturers in the United States employ about 40,000 R&D personnel, and 
worldwide pharmaceutical R&D expenditures reached $24 billion in 1990. The 
pharmaceutical industry is one of the most profitable; however, increasing 
prices of their products are often associated with increasing R&D costs, 
ignoring the many positive attributes of R&D. The Council on Competitiveness has 
recently proposed reforms in the approval process for new drugs, including 
accelerated approval, external review, and international cooperation. These 
reforms would help to preserve an R&D capability and a relatively unregulated 
pharmaceutical industry. Pharmaceutical R&D has made many important 
contributions, including increased life expectancy, the internationally 
competitive position of the US industry, and a positive balance of trade. 
However, a misunderstanding of the role of R&D could encourage development of 
policies and legislation detrimental to pharmaceutical R&D.

PMID: 1468093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Diabetes Care. 1992 Nov;15(11):1541-9. doi: 10.2337/diacare.15.11.1541.

Impact of NIDDM on mortality and causes of death in Pima Indians.

Sievers ML(1), Nelson RG, Knowler WC, Bennett PH.

Author information:
(1)Phoenix Epidemiology and Clinical Research Branch, National Institute of 
Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Phoenix, AZ 85014.

OBJECTIVE: To compare overall and cause-specific death rates for diabetic and 
nondiabetic Pima Indians.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: This community-based study determined overall and 
cause-specific death rates in persons with and without NIDDM in the Pima 
population. Underlying causes of death for the 10-yr period from 1975 to 1984 
were derived from review of death certificates and medical records. Diabetes 
diagnoses were based on an ongoing diabetes study initiated by the National 
Institutes of Health in 1965.
RESULTS: Of the 512 deaths, 241 were in Pima Indians with NIDDM; 203 (84%) of 
the deaths in diabetic subjects were attributed to natural causes (46 diabetic 
nephropathy, 35 IHD, 29 infections, 20 malignant neoplasms, 20 alcoholic liver 
disease, 18 stroke, 35 other causes). For natural causes, the overall 
age-sex-adjusted death rate in diabetic subjects was 1.7 times (95% CI 1.4-2.2) 
that in nondiabetic subjects. Longer duration of diabetes was significantly 
related to mortality, an association that was stronger in women than in men. 
Rates of death from diabetic nephropathy, IHD, and infections (but not stroke) 
were each significantly related to longer diabetes duration. Together, diabetic 
nephropathy and IHD accounted for 90% of the excess death rate among diabetic, 
compared with nondiabetic, Pimas.
CONCLUSIONS: In Pima Indians, NIDDM has a significant adverse effect on death 
rates that is directly related to diabetes duration, especially for deaths from 
diabetic nephropathy, IHD, or infections. Among the Pima, diabetic nephropathy 
is the leading cause of death, and IHD ranks second--a variation from other 
populations (in which IHD ranks first), probably partly attributable to a much 
younger age of onset of diabetes among the Pima than in the U.S. white 
population.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.15.11.1541
PMID: 1468284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Gynecol Oncol. 1992 Nov;47(2):146-9. doi: 10.1016/0090-8258(92)90098-4.

Intraperitoneal P-32 is not an effective consolidation therapy after a negative 
second-look laparotomy for epithelial carcinoma of the ovary.

Peters WA 3rd(1), Smith MR, Cain JM, Lee RB, Yon JL Jr.

Author information:
(1)Puget Sound Oncology Consortium, Seattle, Washington 98104.

Thirty-four patients with epithelial carcinoma of the ovary were entered into a 
trial of adjuvant intraperitoneal P-32 following induction chemotherapy and a 
negative second-look laparotomy. The breakdown by initial Stage was Stage IC, 5; 
Stage II, 3; Stage III optimal, 22; and Stage III suboptimal, 4. Previous 
treatment consisted of 4-12 cycles (median 6) of cisplatin or carboplatin-based 
combination chemotherapy. Fifteen millicuries of P-32 were instilled via a 
Tenckhoff catheter placed at the time of second-look laparotomy. Because of a 
22% incidence of bowel injury in the first 23 patients, the P-32 dose was 
reduced to 12 mCi in the last 11 patients. To date, there have been no bowel 
injuries at the lower dose. Eighteen of the 34 (53%) patients have relapsed with 
a median time to relapse of 20 months and a median follow-up for all patients of 
31 months. There has been no difference in the relapse rate between a dose of 12 
and 15 mCi. Intraperitoneal P-32 does not appear to reduce the relapse rate 
following a negative second-look laparotomy. The incidence of bowel injury is 
dose dependent and is higher than that seen in patients treated as an adjuvant 
following initial surgery without subsequent chemotherapy or second-look 
laparotomy.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-8258(92)90098-4
PMID: 1468691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Gynecol Oncol. 1992 Nov;47(2):150-8. doi: 10.1016/0090-8258(92)90099-5.

Long-term follow-up of serous ovarian tumors of low malignant potential.

Leake JF(1), Currie JL, Rosenshein NB, Woodruff JD.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland 21205.

The biologic behavior of serous tumors of low malignant potential (LMP) is of 
significant interest, yet most large series lack extended follow-up. This study 
consists of 200 patients: 106 patients were diagnosed with serous tumors of LMP 
at our institution between 1979 and 1984 and an additional 94 patients were 
identified in the referred tumor registry. The patients ranged in age from 6 to 
98 years (median, 34 years). The stage distribution was Stage I in 135 patients 
(67.5%), Stage II in 24 patients (12%), and Stage III in 41 patients (20.5%). 
Follow-up information from 4 to 27 years (median, 10 years; mean, 11.2 years) 
revealed 155 patients (77.5%) were alive without further evidence of disease and 
11 patients (5.5%) died of unrelated conditions without recurrent tumor. 
Thirty-four patients (17%) developed recurrent neoplasms at 6 to 145 months 
(median, 26 months). Patients with Stage III disease developed recurrent 
neoplasms more commonly (54%) than did patients with Stage I or II disease (6 
and 17%, respectively). Following treatment of recurrence, 15 patients are free 
of disease, 6 patients are alive with disease, and 13 (6.5% overall) patients 
have died of disease 1 to 15 years (median, 5 years) after their initial 
diagnosis. Mortality was also stage dependent: 0.7, 4.2, and 26.8% of patients 
with Stages I, II, and III disease, respectively, died secondary to tumors of 
LMP. Clinical life table analysis demonstrated 5-, 10-, and 15-, and 20-year 
survival rates for all stages of 97, 95, 92, and 89%, respectively. These 
findings confirm the excellent prognosis for patients with serous tumors of LMP, 
even when long-term follow-up is extended to 20 years. Additionally, these data 
suggest that those with more advanced or recurrent disease can enjoy extended 
survival.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-8258(92)90099-5
PMID: 1468692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Neth J Med. 1992 Oct;41(3-4):130-6.

Nutritional state and lung disease in cystic fibrosis.

Bakker W(1).

Author information:
(1)Leyenburg Hospital, Department of Pulmonology, The Hague, Netherlands.

The life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) is largely dependent 
on the severity and progress of the pulmonary involvement associated with the 
disease. Many data support the view that malnutrition and deterioration of lung 
function are closely interrelated and interdependent, with each affecting the 
other, leading to a spiral decline in both. The occurrence of malnutrition 
appears to be associated with poor lung function and poor survival, and 
conversely prevention of malnutrition appears to be associated with better lung 
function and improved survival. Nutritional intervention may lead to an 
improvement in body weight, lung function and exercise tolerance, provided that 
the intervention is combined with exercise training in order to increase both 
respiratory and other muscle mass. These improvements can be preserved when 
patients have the stamina to continue with a high-energy, high-fat diet and 
daily exercise training at home.

PMID: 1470283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1992 Dec 15;81(51):1529-33.

[Lissencephalia syndromes].

[Article in German]

Bode H(1), Bubl R.

Author information:
(1)UniversitÃ¤ts-Kinderspital, Basel.

Lissencephaly is in most cases a genetic anomaly of the brain development with 
agyria and/or pachygyria. It causes severe psychomotor retardation and epilepsy, 
which is often resistant to therapy. Some patients with type-I lissencephaly 
show cranial and facial dysmorphism and a deletion of chromosome 17p13.3 
(Miller-Dieker syndrome). The isolated lissencephaly sequence occurs without 
these features. Patients with type-II lissencephaly present additional 
malformations of the posterior fossa and of the eyes (Walker-Warburg syndrome) 
and in some cases muscular dystrophy (cerebro-oculomuscular syndrome). 
Lissencephaly can be suspected with a high probability by its typical EEG. It is 
proved by imaging techniques. Therapeutic success is limited, the life 
expectancy is strongly reduced.

PMID: 1470795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1992 Oct 10;112(24):3115-8.

[High-cost therapy. Ethical principles of allocation of scarce resources].

[Article in Norwegian]

Norheim OF(1).

Author information:
(1)Senter for medisinsk etikk, Universitetet, Oslo.

This article raises some ethical problems concerning high-cost therapy for 
malignant haematological diseases. The problem of setting priorities is 
discussed within the framework of utilitarianism, right-based theories and the 
contractarian theory of John Rawls. It is argued that utilitarianism can provide 
precise answers, based on the principle of allocative efficiency. However, this 
is not the only objective of a public health care system. The right-based 
approach is discussed, but sufficiently precise definitions seem hard to 
formulate. The contractarian approach is regarded as interesting, since it tries 
to address the question of trade-offs between objectives of allocative 
efficiency and distributive fairness.

PMID: 1471091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Ugeskr Laeger. 1992 Dec 7;154(50):3580-6.

[A marked decline in the mortality from ischemic heart disease among middle aged 
Danish men in the 1980's and simultaneous changes of mortality because of other 
causes].

[Article in Danish]

Gerdes LU(1).

Author information:
(1)Medicinsk-kardiologisk afdeling A, Arhus Amtssygehus.

Comment in
    Ugeskr Laeger. 1993 Feb 22;155(8):568-9.

The mortality from ischaemic heart disease (IHD) in 35-64 year old Danish men 
has declined by 27% from 1981 to 1989. In the same period, a lesser increase in 
mortality from all other causes was observed. However, this is a heterogenous 
phenomenon, since the mortality from (in particular) infectious diseases (AIDS), 
diabetes mellitus, and a number of diseases related to heavy drinking has 
increased, whereas the suicide rate and mortality from lung cancer (in 1985-89) 
have decreased. It is not possible to evaluate the contribution of improved 
treatment of IHD cases and a decreasing incidence of disease, respectively, to 
the decline in mortality from IHD. A decreasing incidence is very probable, 
however, since both the percentage of smokers and the plasma cholesterol levels 
in middle-aged men have declined significantly since mid-1970s and leisure time 
physical activity has increased. The trend in IHD mortality in the 1980s points 
to a sustained decline in the 1990s and a levelling off in the increase in 
mortality from other causes. Thus total mortality is expected to decrease more 
rapidly in the 1990s, resulting in an increase in life expectancy of Danish men.

PMID: 1471276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. BMJ. 1992 Mar 14;304(6828):675-80. doi: 10.1136/bmj.304.6828.675.

Adjuvant psychological therapy for patients with cancer: a prospective 
randomised trial.

Greer S(1), Moorey S, Baruch JD, Watson M, Robertson BM, Mason A, Rowden L, Law 
MG, Bliss JM.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Campaign Psychological Medicine Group, Royal Marsden 
Hospital, Sutton, Surrey.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1992 May 9;304(6836):1247-8.
    BMJ. 1992 Jun 13;304(6841):1569.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of adjuvant psychological therapy on the 
quality of life of patients with cancer.
DESIGN: Prospective randomised controlled trial comparing the quality of life of 
patients receiving psychological therapy with that of patients receiving no 
therapy, measured before therapy, at eight weeks, and at four months of follow 
up.
SETTING: CRC Psychological Medicine Group of Royal Marsden Hospital.
PATIENTS: 174 patients aged 18-74 attending hospital with a confirmed diagnosis 
of malignant disease, a life expectancy of at least 12 months, or scores on 
various measures of psychological morbidity above previously defined cut off 
points.
INTERVENTION: Adjuvant psychological therapy, a brief, problem focused, 
cognitive-behavioural treatment programme specifically designed for the needs of 
individual cancer patients.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Hospital anxiety and depression scale, mental adjustment 
to cancer scale, Rotterdam symptom checklist, psychosocial adjustment to illness 
scale.
RESULTS: 156 (90%) patients completed the eight week trial; follow up data at 
four months were obtained for 137 patients (79%). At eight weeks, patients 
receiving therapy had significantly higher scores than control patients on 
fighting spirit and significantly lower scores on helplessness, anxious 
preoccupation, and fatalism; anxiety; psychological symptoms; and on orientation 
towards health care. These differences indicated improvement in each case. At 
four months, patients receiving therapy had significantly lower scores than 
controls on anxiety; psychological symptoms; and psychological distress. 
Clinically, the proportion of severely anxious patients dropped from 46% at 
baseline to 20% at eight weeks and 20% at four months in the therapy group and 
from 48% to 41% and to 43% respectively among controls. The proportion of 
patients with depression was 40% at baseline, 13% at eight weeks, and 18% at 
four months in the therapy group and 30%, 29%, and 23% respectively in controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Adjuvant psychological therapy produces significant improvement in 
various measures of psychological distress among cancer patients. The effect of 
therapy observed at eight weeks persists in some but not all measures at four 
month follow up.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.304.6828.675
PMCID: PMC1881503
PMID: 1472184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. J Diabetes Complications. 1992 Jul-Sep;6(3):197-202. doi: 
10.1016/1056-8727(92)90036-k.

Comments on the clinical impact of hypertension in type I diabetes.

Chukwuma C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Health Promotion, National Public Health 
Institute, Helsinki, Finland.

In type I diabetes, the quality of life and, in essence, the long-term prognosis 
or life expectancy of the patient are invariably related to the manifestation of 
untoward complications. Increased arterial blood pressure (hypertension) has a 
great influence in these complications. Cumulative evidence has shown that 
proteinuric type I diabetic patients are easily susceptible to hypertension and 
its accompanying sequelae. The debilitating effects of hypertension on the 
progressive development of diabetic nephropathy leading to renal dysfunction and 
mortality in renal transplant patients have been documented. Proliferative 
retinopathy and cardiovascular lesions are also frequent devastating 
complications in hypertensive-diabetic patients. The mechanism of sodium/lithium 
countertransport activity and the genetic predisposition to hypertension require 
further elucidation.

DOI: 10.1016/1056-8727(92)90036-k
PMID: 1472746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. J Clin Pharmacol. 1992 Nov;32(11):1038-44. doi: 
10.1002/j.1552-4604.1992.tb03808.x.

Disposition of cefpodoxime proxetil in hemodialysis patients.

Borin MT(1), Hughes GS, Kelloway JS, Shapiro BE, Halstenson CE.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Pharmacokinetics Unit, Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo, MI 49007.

The disposition of cefpodoxime after single, oral 200-mg doses of cefpodoxime 
proxetil (cefpodoxime equivalents) was investigated in an open-label study of 
six patients with end-stage renal disease currently maintained on hemodialysis. 
Subjects were randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups, which differed 
in the sequence of the interdialytic and intradialytic periods. Doses were 
separated by at least 2 weeks. Blood samples were serially collected for 48 
hours after each treatment; if obtainable, urine was also collected over this 
same period. During the intradialytic period, hemodialysis was scheduled to 
begin approximately 3 hours after dosing, and dialysate was collected before and 
until the end of dialysis. Average cefpodoxime elimination half-life for the 
interdialytic period was 18.0 +/- 6.5 hours; apparent total body clearance was 
28.6 +/- 13 mL/minute. The half-life during hemodialysis, 2.66 +/- 0.74 hours, 
was considerably shorter than that after hemodialysis, 19.2 +/- 3.5 hours, in 
the intradialytic period of the study. Hemodialysis clearance of cefpodoxime was 
120 +/- 31 mL/minute, which was 57.1 +/- 13% and 71.7 +/- 25% of the 
