hemodialysis clearance for urea nitrogen and creatinine, respectively. The 2.86 
+/- 0.25 hour hemodialysis session removed 22.4 +/- 2.9% of the administered 
dose, as assessed by cefpodoxime recovery in dialysate. A maximum rebound in 
cefpodoxime plasma concentration of 0.41 +/- 0.33 mcg/mL was observed, at about 
one-half hour after the end of hemodialysis. Based on these results, dosage 
adjustment is not required, but extension of the dosing interval is 
warranted.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/j.1552-4604.1992.tb03808.x
PMID: 1474165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. J Clin Epidemiol. 1992 Oct;45(10):1165-75. doi:
10.1016/0895-4356(92)90157-i.

Lifetime data analysis of disease and aging by the Weibull probability 
distribution.

Matsushita S(1), Hagiwara K, Shiota T, Shimada H, Kuramoto K, Toyokura Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Tokyo Metropolitan Geriatric Hospital, 
Japan.

We applied the Weibull distribution to the life-table and age-patterns of 
diseases in Japan. The life-table follows a composite Weibull distribution 
composed of initial failure and two stage wear-out failure periods. The 
extension of lifespan during the past century is manifested as increases in the 
scale parameters in all three periods and the shape parameters in the wear-out 
periods with female predominancy. The shape parameters of diseases show 
time-independent sex-dependent specific values. When consistent changes are 
observed, such as increases in the shape parameters of tuberculosis and 
pneumonia, legitimate causes such as prevention and repair at the societal and 
medical level are present. Cancer and arteriosclerosis share a common range of 
shape parameters suggesting analogous underlying biological processes. An 
analysis of the epidemiology of human aging and disease by the Weibull 
distribution discloses intrinsic properties of man as a biological organization 
as well as a societal presence.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(92)90157-i
PMID: 1474413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Surv Ophthalmol. 1992 Nov-Dec;37(3):167-83. doi:
10.1016/0039-6257(92)90135-g.

Optic nerve sheath meningiomas.

Dutton JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Duke University Eye Center, Durham, North Carolina.

Meningiomas are benign neoplastic lesions arising from meningothelial cells of 
the meninges. Primary orbital meningiomas, originating in the optic nerve 
sheath, represent 1-2% of all meningiomas, and are the second most common optic 
nerve tumor after gliomas. They primarily affect middle-aged adults. Patients 
typically present with visual loss, frequently associated with optic atrophy and 
often with optociliary shunt vessels. The lesion is usually unilateral, but is 
bilateral in about 5% of cases. Meningiomas show characteristic indolent growth 
over years, progressing inexorably to blindness in the affected eye. Management 
should be conservative in most cases. In very rare situations, surgery has 
improved visual prognosis. In most patients, however, surgery offers no benefit, 
and should be reserved for those with blindness or severe proptosis, or when 
extension toward the optic canal is documented. Although preliminary results of 
radiotherapy are encouraging, very few patients have been treated using this 
modality, and the long-term advantage for vision remains unproven. Even when 
untreated, the prognosis for life is excellent, with an overall tumor-related 
mortality of 0%.

DOI: 10.1016/0039-6257(92)90135-g
PMID: 1475751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Versicherungsmedizin. 1992 Dec 1;44(6):192-4.

[Lowering increased cholesterol--prolonging life?].

[Article in German]

Klepzig H Jr(1), Kaltenbach M.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Kardiologie, Universität Frankfurt a. M.

Epidemiologic surveys reveal a positive correlation between serum cholesterol 
levels and the incidence of coronary artery disease. Intervention trials 
demonstrated that a reduction of serum cholesterol by 1% results in a decrease 
of coronary non-fatal events by 2%. Fatal coronary events remain almost 
uninfluenced. On the other side, several intervention trials showed an excess 
mortality from non-cardiac causes in the therapy groups (i.e. malignant tumors, 
suicides, accidents). Thus, until now no prolongation of life expectancy could 
be verified by cholesterol lowering measures.

PMID: 1475889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1992;104(23):714-6.

[Differential prognosis of patients with breast cancer with pleuritis 
carcinomatosa and with pulmonary lymphangiosis carcinomatosa].

[Article in German]

Baur M(1), Schlappack O, Jakesz R, Dittrich C.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Onkologie, Universitätsklinik für Innere Medizin I, Wien.

The retrospective analysis of 672 consecutive patients with breast cancer 
revealed malignant pleural effusion and lymphangitic carcinomatosis of the lung 
to be the sites of first relapse of the disease in only 2% and 1%, respectively. 
In half of the 10 patients with malignant pleural effusions evaluable for 
survival, generalization of the disease was recorded at 51 months (range 0-197 
months); the corresponding data for patients with lymphangitic carcinomatosis of 
the lung (n = 7) were 19 months (range 9-44 months). This difference was 
statistically significant (p < 0.05). The median survival of patients with 
pleural effusions and with lymphangitic carcinomatosis of the lung was 22 and 8 
months, respectively (n.s.).

PMID: 1475980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Clin Cardiol. 1992 Nov;15(11 Suppl 3):III2-7; discussion III8-9.

Cholesterol and cardiovascular disease: how strong is the evidence?

LaRosa JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Health Care Services, George Washington University 
Medical Center, Washington, D.C. 20037.

The relationship between elevated serum cholesterol and cardiovascular disease, 
specifically coronary heart disease (CHD), has been and continues to be a source 
of debate in the medical community. Other issues under debate include criteria 
for screening for elevated cholesterol, criteria for treatment, and whether 
intervention to lower elevated cholesterol prior to a cardiac event is cost 
effective. Most physicians believe this latter statement to be true; however, 
reports of no decrease in overall mortality rates in those without clinical 
coronary disease in whom aggressive lowering of cholesterol is achieved may have 
contributed to the lack of consensus on this most important issue. In this 
presentation the evidence that links cholesterol and CHD is reviewed and it is 
demonstrated that lowering elevated cholesterol concentrations can improve 
quality of life and life expectancy.

PMID: 1477994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Diabet Med. 1992 Dec;9(10):942-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.1992.tb01736.x.

A survey of lower limb amputation in diabetic patients.

Deerochanawong C(1), Home PD, Alberti KG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

A retrospective survey of non-traumatic and non-neoplastic lower limb 
amputations in Newcastle upon Tyne during 1989-91 was performed. Hospital data 
were cross-checked with the local limb fitting centre to ensure 100% 
ascertainment. The diabetic patients were found to be 39% of amputees and 42% of 
operations (all levels). Incidence of diabetes amputation was 5.7 per 100,000 
population per year. Fifteen percent of the diabetic patients had diabetes first 
diagnosed when they were admitted for amputation. For the known diabetes 
patients, 46% were under diabetes care by general practitioners only. 
Forty-seven percent of the patients who were under the care of a hospital 
service for diabetes had incomplete foot examination and assessment. Mortality 
rate within 30 days after diabetic amputation was 10% and median life expectancy 
following amputation was 22 months. It seems likely that assessment and 
management of the diabetic foot remains suboptimal in Newcastle, and that 
protocols and audit of care could lead to improvements without additional 
resources.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.1992.tb01736.x
PMID: 1478041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Hum Reprod. 1992 Oct;7(9):1240-4. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a137834.

Prognostic value of two putative sperm function tests: hypo-osmotic swelling and 
bovine sperm mucus penetration test (Penetrak).

Barratt CL(1), McLeod ID, Dunphy BC, Cooke ID.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Jessop Hospital for 
Women, Sheffield, UK.

The clinical value of two inexpensive and easy to perform sperm function tests 
(hypo-osmotic swelling and bovine sperm mucus penetration tests) were examined 
in a prospective study of in-vivo conception rates in 325 couples. Both tests 
were of no significant value alone or in combination with traditional semen 
characteristics in predicting pregnancy outcome. The two most predictive factors 
of conception were the length of infertility and percentage of progressively 
motile spermatozoa. Our data support the further investigation of sperm function 
using more sophisticated quantitative tests, specifically the examination of 
sperm motility.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a137834
PMID: 1479005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. J Med Genet. 1992 Dec;29(12):847-52. doi: 10.1136/jmg.29.12.847.

A genetic study of type 2 neurofibromatosis in the United Kingdom. II. 
Guidelines for genetic counselling.

Evans DG(1), Huson SM, Donnai D, Neary W, Blair V, Newton V, Strachan T, Harris 
R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, St Mary's Hospital, Manchester.

The major defining features, age at onset of symptoms, and survival in 150 
patients with type 2 neurofibromatosis (NF2) have been studied. The mean age at 
onset was 21.57 years (n = 110) and no cases presented after 55 years of age. 
Patients presented with symptoms attributable to vestibular schwannomas 
(acoustic neuroma), cranial meningiomas, and spinal tumours. In 97 cases studied 
personally by the authors, skin and eye examination were found to be useful to 
detect early signs of the condition. Examination of the skin is likely to assist 
in early diagnosis in at least 10% of cases and examination of the eye for a 
lens opacity or cataract in at least as many again. There are marked 
interfamilial differences in disease severity and tumour susceptibility. 
Vestibular schwannomas are not fully penetrant, but the condition is usually 
expressed in another way. Alteration to the current diagnostic criteria is 
advocated to cover the lack of provision for new mutations. A screening protocol 
is proposed and the effect of disease heterogeneity on management is discussed.

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.29.12.847
PMCID: PMC1016199
PMID: 1479599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Minerva Chir. 1992 Oct 31;47(20):1599-605.

[Thyroid pathology in the aged].

[Article in Italian]

Pannella A(1), Ragaglia G, Laboranti F, Fossa M, Picchio GL, Zambiachi M, 
Zanotto P.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Chirurgia, Università degli Studi di Pavia.

Following a review of the literature on this topic, the authors examine all 
patients with thyroid pathologies who were admitted to the 1st Institute of 
Surgical Pathology of the University of Pavia between 1-1-1974 and 31-12-1990. 
Only patients aged over 65 were included in the study and were subdivided into 
two groups, namely those aged between 65-74 (3rd age) and those over 75 (4th 
age). Particular attention was focused on the type of pathology (benign or 
malignant), other pathologies associated to the basic pathology, the type of 
operation performed and, in the case of malignant diseases, the histological 
type of tumour and any metastasis. The results of this series were then compared 
to those reported elsewhere. The Authors conclude that thyroid pathologies in 
geriatric patients are very important since, given that at this age the gland is 
becoming atrophic, the onset of disease often occurs before the age of 65 and 
symptoms in these patients are imprecise. In view of the good results obtained, 
it is always worth operating in order to give the patient a reasonable life 
expectancy, especially in those cases with collateral disorders (compression) 
caused by the thyroid mass.

PMID: 1480285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Ophthalmology. 1992 Dec;99(12):1840-7. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(92)31715-4.

Functional blindness and visual impairment in older adults from three 
communities.

Salive ME(1), Guralnik J, Christen W, Glynn RJ, Colsher P, Ostfeld AM.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology, Demography and Biometry Program, National Institute on Aging, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda 20892.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is to examine the association of 
sociodemographic factors with functional blindness and visual impairment in an 
aged population.
METHODS: Three population-based cohorts (East Boston, MA; New Haven, CT; and 
Iowa and Washington Counties, IA) of persons aged 71 years and older were 
screened for bilateral functional near and distant vision during an in-home 
interview in 1988.
RESULTS: Screening was completed by 5335 participants. The prevalence of 
functional blindness increased with age, from 1% at age 71 to 74 years to 17% in 
those 90 years of age and older. Functional visual impairment increased from 7% 
at age 71 to 74 years to 39% in those 90 years of age and older. In multivariate 
analyses, residence in a nursing home, older age, glaucoma, insulin-requiring 
diabetes at baseline, East Boston site, history of cataract, and lower 1982 
income were independent and significantly associated with both functional 
blindness and visual impairment. Age and nursing home residence were 
significantly (P < 0.05) more strongly associated with blindness (odds ratios 
4.8 and 6.1, respectively) than they were with visual impairment.
CONCLUSION: Functional blindness and visual impairment are quite prevalent among 
the oldest old and the institutionalized. The number of affected individuals 
will increase as the population ages and life expectancy increases. Although 
visual problems are associated with aging, nursing home residence, health 
problems, and socioeconomic conditions, they may be readily remediable and may 
lead to immediate improvements in quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(92)31715-4
PMID: 1480401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Vasa Suppl. 1992;35:50-2.

[Factors influencing the spontaneous course of small, asymptomatic aneurysms of 
the abdominal aorta].

[Article in German]

Schewe CK(1), Zoller WG, Schweikart HP, Spengel F, Zöllner N.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Poliklinik, Universität München.

PMID: 1481059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Vasa Suppl. 1992;37:52-3.

[Long-term follow-up of patients with peripheral arterial occlusive disease 
after balloon dilatation in the femoropopliteal area].

[Article in German]

Lafer M(1), Decrinis M, Pilger E, Stark G, Obernosterer A, Tischler R, Doder A, 
Klein EG, Hausegger H.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Universitätsklinik Graz.

PMID: 1481100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1992 Nov 21;663:372-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1992.tb38680.x.

Antiaging strategies.

Knook DL(1).

Author information:
(1)TNO Institute of Ageing and Vascular Research, Leiden, The Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1992.tb38680.x
PMID: 1482066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Aust J Public Health. 1992 Sep;16(3):305-14. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.1992.tb00071.x.

Socioeconomic correlates of mortality and hospital morbidity differentials by 
Local Government Area in Sydney 1985-1988.

Taylor R(1), Quine S, Lyle D, Bilton A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Sydney, NSW.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the magnitude of differentials in mortality and hospital 
morbidity by Local Government Area (LGA) in Sydney (1985-1988), and to correlate 
these with LGA indicators of socioeconomic status.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional group-based comparative study of mortality and hospital 
separations, and a group-based correlations analysis in relation to 
socioeconomic indicators.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Mortality--life expectancy at birth, infant mortality, 0- to 
4-year mortality, age-standardised 15- to 64-year mortality (all-cause and 
various causes), sex-specific (except infant and 0- to 4-year mortality). 
Hospital morbidity rates--0- to 4-year hospital separations, age-standardised 
15- to 64-year hospital separations (all-cause and various causes), 
sex-specific.
STUDY FACTORS: Census-derived LGA proportions of immigrants, Aborigines, 
professionals, unskilled workers, unemployed persons, those with a university 
degree and those having no qualifications, and the composite Ross Indicator.
RESULTS: Considerable differences in mortality and hospital morbidity by LGA in 
Sydney were found. Males had higher mortality and lower rates of hospital 
separation than females. LGA differentials were most obvious for adults, with 
little variation noted for infants or children. Most socioeconomic indicators 
were highly correlated with adult mortality and hospital morbidity in the 
expected direction, particularly indicators of low socioeconomic status. The 
unemployment rate, proportion Aboriginal, proportion unskilled, proportion 
unqualified, and the Ross Indicator were the most highly correlated variables.
CONCLUSIONS: There are persistent differentials by LGA in mortality and hospital 
morbidity in Sydney which are strongly associated with socioeconomic status. The 
Ross Indicator was found to be a useful composite indicator. The high 
correlations of mortality and hospital morbidity with the unemployment rate 
raise the question of to what extent this is due to illness and premature 
mortality in the unemployed. Monitoring of health status differentials needs to 
continue if progress towards Health For All targets is to be evaluated.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.1992.tb00071.x
PMID: 1482725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Aust J Public Health. 1992 Sep;16(3):315-20. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.1992.tb00072.x.

Socioeconomic status and mortality revisited: an extension of the Brisbane area 
analysis.

Siskind V(1), Najman JM, Veitch C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Queensland.

Using the methodology of an earlier study of socioeconomic mortality gradients, 
we partitioned Brisbane City into five strata of equal size on the basis of 
suburb scores derived from aggregate socioeconomic census data. Numbers of 
deaths by stratum, age, sex and cause were obtained from mortality files. For 
almost all causes, mortality gradients had not changed between 1976-1979 and 
1980-1987. A new category, medically-preventable death under age 65, had lower 
rates in higher-ranking suburbs. Potential years of life lost (PYLL) per unit of 
population, age-standardised, were also computed by stratum and cause. External 
causes of death were the main contributors to PYLL among men, with a strong 
socioeconomic gradient, while neoplasms were most important among women, with 
little evidence of a social class effect. It is estimated that, in urban 
Australia, the annual number of additional deaths under age 65 due to 
socioeconomic circumstances is over 2000 for males and over 1000 for females. 
This study provides a baseline against which the programs of health advancement 
initiated in the mid-1980s may be evaluated, or conversely, the effects of 
societal changes assessed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.1992.tb00072.x
PMID: 1482726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. J Am Soc Nephrol. 1992 Nov;3(5):1119-23. doi: 10.1681/ASN.V351119.

The effect of uninephrectomy on progression of renal failure in autosomal 
dominant polycystic kidney disease.

Zeier M(1), Geberth S, Gonzalo A, Chauveau D, Grünfeld JP, Ritz E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Heidelberg, Germany.

The evolution of renal failure was compared in 47 patients (21 male, 26 female) 
with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) in Germany, France, 
Spain, and Portugal who had undergone uninephrectomy (UNX) (median age at 
uninephrectomy, 41 yr; range, 22 to 54) and 47 non-UNX matched controls. UNX was 
usually performed because of uncontrolled urinary tract infection (N = 30), 
stones (N = 8), trauma (N = 2), or hemorrhage (N = 7). Median serum creatinine 
at UNX was 2.1 mg/dL (0.9 to 4.3). Twenty-eight of the 47 uninephrectomized 
patients progressed to end-stage renal failure. When the age at renal death was 
evaluated by survival analysis, only minor and nonsignificant acceleration was 
seen in the uninephrectomized patients (median, 50 yr; p25 = 43.6 yr; p75 = 58.3 
yr, where p is the percentile) compared with non-UNX patients matched for age, 
sex, and serum creatinine at the time of UNX in the propositus (51.2 yr; p25 = 
48.6 yr; p75 = 56.1 yr). In addition, the median interval for serum creatinine 
to rise from 4 to 8 mg/dL was similar in UNX (21.3 months) versus 
nonuninephrectomized ADPKD patients (21.9 months). Renal survival differed in 
the two genders. In females, no significant difference of age at renal death was 
found between UNX (median age, 51.6 yr) and non-UNX ADPKD patients (53.7 yr). In 
male UNX patients, age at renal death was slightly (but not significantly) less 
than in non-UNX patients (median age, 47.3 versus 52.7 yr). All male patients 
reaching end-stage renal failure before age 44 were severely hypertensive.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.V351119
PMID: 1482752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Doc Ophthalmol. 1992;81(3):349-50. doi: 10.1007/BF00161773.

The role of Western ophthalmologists in dealing with cataract blindness in 
developing countries.

Chirambo MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Sight Savers, Lilongwe, Malawi.

Of the estimated 35-40 million blindness worldwide, 17 million is caused by 
cataract and this proportion will double by year 2025. In Africa alone, it is 
estimated that there are about 3 million cataract blind. As life expectancy in 
Africa increases so will the incidence of cataract blindness. Existing resources 
of manpower and services cannot cope adequately with the present backlog of 
cataracts, let alone the anticipated increased load. The deployment of local 
ophthalmologists to deal with cataract load would be cost-effective in 
delivering appropriate eye care but the scarcity of ophthalmologists makes the 
option ineffective. The role of Western ophthalmologists will be considered in 
the provision of cataract surgical services and training of ophthalmic 
assistants, cataract surgeons and ophthalmologists.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00161773
PMID: 1483377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1992;65(6):507-12. doi:
10.1007/BF00602356.

Muscle strength according to level of physical exercise and educational 
background in middle-aged women in Finland.

Rantanen T(1), Parkatti T, Heikkinen E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Jyväskyla, Finland.

The aim of this study was to examine the role of socio-economic status and the 
practice of physical exercise in explaining variation in muscle strength in 50 
to 60-year-old women. Consequently, four study groups combining education and 
physical activity were formed: (1) university education, physically active; (2) 
university education, sedentary; (3) vocational or lower level of education, 
physically active; (4) vocational or lower level of education, sedentary. 
Maximal isometric strength of hand grip, arm flexion, body flexion and extension 
as well as dynamic power of the abdominal muscles were measured in 112 women. 
The results of the maximal isometric strength measurements were standardised by 
body mass index. The means of the maximal isometric strength results and sit-up 
tests were compared between the groups using two-way analysis of variance. The 
physically active women performed better than the sedentary in both the 
isometric and dynamic tests. Greater muscle strength was also found among the 
more highly educated compared with the less educated. The less educated 
sedentary women showed the poorest performance in the strength tests.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00602356
PMID: 1483438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Demography. 1992 Nov;29(4):565-80.

A description of the extreme aged population based on improved Medicare 
enrollment data.

Kestenbaum B(1).

Author information:
(1)Social Security Administration, Office of the Actuary, Baltimore, MD 21235.

The mortality and size of the extreme aged population can be studied most 
accurately with Medicare enrollment data from the Social Security 
Administration's Master Beneficiary Record after certain types of questionable 
records are eliminated. With the improved data base we find that mortality rates 
at the very old ages are higher than published rates, we are more confident of 
the reality of the race crossover, and we can estimate the number of 
centenarians more accurately. Furthermore, a large matched-records study shows 
close agreement on age at death between the Master Beneficiary Record and the 
death certificate.

PMID: 1483542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Demography. 1992 Nov;29(4):581-94.

Extreme mortality in nineteenth-century Africa: the case of Liberian immigrants.

McDaniel A(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Studies Center, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 19104.

Several studies have examined the mortality of immigrants from Europe to Africa 
in the nineteenth century. This paper examines the level of mortality in Liberia 
of Africans who emigrated there from the United States. A life table is 
estimated from data collected by the American Colonization Society from 1820 to 
1843. The analysis reflects the mortality experience of a population that is 
transplanted from one disease environment to another, more exacting, disease 
environment. The results of this analysis show that these Liberian immigrants 
experienced the highest mortality rates in accurately recorded human history.

PMID: 1483543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Med Decis Making. 1992 Oct-Dec;12(4):288-97. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9201200408.

Assessing utilities by means of conjoint measurement: an application in medical 
decision analysis.

Maas A(1), Stalpers L.

Author information:
(1)Nijmegen Institute for Cognition and Information, Department of Mathematical 
Psychology, The Netherlands.

A method is presented for helping patients who have laryngeal cancer to decide 
between laryngectomy and radiotherapy in cases where these treatments are deemed 
medically equivalent. The method is based on the model of additive conjoint 
measurement. The treatment with the higher utility is determined from pair 
comparisons among outcomes that vary in quality and quantity of life. Pair 
comparisons enable a (partial) test of the axioms of additive conjoint 
measurement. This is in contradistinction to earlier work on decision making for 
patients with laryngeal cancer, and most of the work in medical decision making 
in general, in which underlying axioms have almost never been tested. Besides 
testing the axioms, another important advantage of pair comparisons is that they 
avoid difficulties with other, risk-based, assessment procedures by presenting 
only riskless alternatives. Encouraging results have been found in a study among 
patients.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9201200408
PMID: 1484478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Med Decis Making. 1992 Oct-Dec;12(4):307-11. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9201200410.

New DEALEs: other approximations of life expectancy.

Keeler E(1), Bell R.

Author information:
(1)RAND Social Policy Department, Santa Monica, CA 90407-2138.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9201200410
PMID: 1484480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Rev Prat. 1992 Oct 1;42(15):1925-6.

[What is the nutritional value of cholesterol-free butter consumption?].

[Article in French]

Apfelbaum M.

PMID: 1485088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Ann Chir Gynaecol. 1992;81(4):357-61.

Injection sclerotherapy for esophageal varices.

Aberra E(1), Huttunen R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, North Karelian Central Hospital, Joensuu, Finland.

Thirty-five consecutive patients with bleeding esophageal varices were treated 
by repeated endoscopic injection sclerotherapy. During each session the varices 
were injected with 14 +/- 4.2 ml (mean +/- SD) of 5% ethanolamine oleate 
submucosally or intravariceally. The varices were obliterated in 31 (89%) 
patients. On average 3.3 +/- 2.4 sclerotherapy sessions were required for 
eradication of the varices. Mild fever was noticed almost in every patient after 
sclerotherapy. Mediastinitis was a complication in one (2.8%) patient. 
Esophageal stricture ensued in two (5.7%) patients which did not require 
treatment. The cumulative survival rates at 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 years were 83%; 
65%; 52%; 52% and 47% respectively. The corresponding 95% confidence intervals 
were (0.7, 0.96); (0.48, 0.8); (0.34, 0.7); (0.3, 0.74) and (0.22, 0.7). 
Sclerotherapy is an effective and safe method to treat bleeding esophageal 
varices.

PMID: 1485788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1992;6(12):639-40; discussion 641. doi: 
10.1016/1010-7940(92)90187-3.

Cancer surgery on a single residual lung.

Levasseur P(1), Regnard JF, Icard P, Dartevelle P.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Thoracique et Vasculaire, Hôpital Marie Lannelongue, Le 
Plessis Robinson, France.

A series of nine patients with single lungs operated on for lung cancer is 
reported. This represents 10% of all the synchronous and metachronous lung 
cancers operated during the same period. There were three early postoperative 
deaths and a further three patients died subsequently at 15, 20 and 24 months, 
respectively, after operation; the remaining three are alive 6, 12 and 29 
months, respectively, following their surgery. The analysis of the results of 
this small series indicates that wedge and segmental resection, when feasible, 
may be undertaken in patients with a single lung with reasonable life 
expectancy. The fact that lobectomy is not tolerated in such patients emphasizes 
the importance of early diagnosis when minimal local excision can be undertaken.

DOI: 10.1016/1010-7940(92)90187-3
PMID: 1485973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Baillieres Clin Gastroenterol. 1992 Nov;6(4):767-83. doi: 
10.1016/0950-3528(92)90052-g.

Management of recurrent gallstones.

Lanzini A(1), Northfield TC.

Author information:
(1)1 Medicina, Spedali Civili, Brescia, Italy.

The risk of gallstone recurrence following non-surgical treatment has been 
overestimated in the past for two reasons: (1) diagnosis of primary gallstone 
dissolution was based on oral cholecystography; and (2) gallstone recurrence was 
expressed as a cumulative recurrence rate. Results based on better methodologies 
for diagnosis of gallstones (ultrasonography) and for calculation of results 
(life-table analysis) have indicated that gallstones recur in about 50% of 
patients, and that the risk of recurrence is confined mainly to the first 5 
years after dissolution. Pretreatment gallstone characteristics, but not patient 
characteristics, are important risk factors for gallstone recurrence. Multiple 
stones are more likely to recur than solitary stones, a phenomenon attributable 
to the presence of a potent pronucleating factor in the bile of patients with 
multiple stones. This observation, and the finding that NSAID administration may 
reduce gallstone recurrence via inhibition of mucin secretion, suggests that the 
nucleation defect might be a key factor in the pathogenesis of recurrent 
gallstones. Prophylaxis with low-dose CDCA or UDCA has proven ineffective for 
preventing gallstone recurrence, although it may reduce it. Since the majority 
of recurrent gallstones are small when first seen because of regular 
ultrasonographic follow-up, multiple, radiolucent and in functioning 
gallbladders, they are amenable to bile acid retreatment, and intermittent bile 
acid therapy is probably a viable strategy for long-term management of 
cholesterol cholelithiasis.

DOI: 10.1016/0950-3528(92)90052-g
PMID: 1486214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Bull World Health Organ. 1992;70(6):791-800.

Measurement and utilization of healthy life expectancy: conceptual issues.

Robine JM(1), Michel JP, Branch LG.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Health and Medical Research, Montpellier, France.

The periodic calculation of healthy life expectancies permits the evaluation of 
the impact of new health policies at a given moment, as well as the assessment 
of trends under changing health conditions. In spite of their apparent 
simplicity, the results obtained will have to be interpreted by experts. Useful 
reference values can be provided by international comparisons. However, several 
choices remain to be made, such as (i) the types of morbidity and disability 
data to be associated with mortality data; (ii) the multiple indicators 
available; (iii) the type of observations to be recorded, i.e., "abilities" or 
"performances"; (iv) whether or not the recovery of lost functions should be 
considered; (v) the mode of computation, i.e., life expectancy before the first 
morbid event or global healthy life expectancy; and (vi) the determination of 
thresholds based on either relative or absolute criteria.

PMCID: PMC2393410
PMID: 1486677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. J Gen Intern Med. 1992 Mar-Apr;7(2):131-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02598001.

Should all patients with atrial fibrillation be screened with echocardiography?

Desbiens NA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Marshfield Clinic, WI 54449.

OBJECTIVE: To address a patient care problem suggested by a quality assurance 
study: Should physicians of patients with atrial fibrillation who have not had 
echocardiography performed be encouraged to obtain echocardiograms in order to 
discover heretofore undetected mitral stenosis, which could be treated with 
anticoagulation, in order to avert strokes?
DESIGN: Decision analysis using a Markov-chain technique and quality-adjusted 
life expectancy.
SETTING: Outpatient clinics.
PATIENTS: Patients aged 40-80 years with chronic atrial fibrillation.
INTERVENTIONS: The following strategies were studied: 1) obtain echocardiograms 
for all patients and anticoagulate those with mitral stenosis; 2) anticoagulate 
patients with classic auscultatory sounds of mitral stenosis and obtain 
echocardiograms for patients with other murmurs; if an echocardiogram reveals 
mitral stenosis, anticoagulate; 3) anticoagulate all patients with murmurs; 4) 
anticoagulate all patients; 5) observe all patients (natural history).
MAIN RESULTS: The base analysis, using data available in the literature and on 
site, indicated that though performing echocardiography on all patients with 
atrial fibrillation gave the best quality-adjusted life expectancy, the 
differences among the five strategies studied were small. In addition, 
sensitivity analysis revealed that the decision was sensitive to many of the 
variables used in the analysis, especially the efficacy and the risks of 
anticoagulation.
CONCLUSION: A recommendation that cardiac ultrasonography be done for all 
patients with atrial fibrillation in order to detect clinically unrecognized 
mitral stenosis cannot be made.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02598001
PMID: 1487759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Nutr Rev. 1992 Dec;50(12):355-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.1992.tb02479.x.

Longevity, diet, and nutrition in Japan: epidemiological studies.

Matsuzaki T(1).

Author information:
(1)University of the Ryukyus, Japan.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.1992.tb02479.x
PMID: 1488166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Acta Pharm Hung. 1992 Sep;62(5):237-41.

[Pharmacology of selegiline (recent considerations)].

[Article in Hungarian]

Tardos L(1), Jánváriné Kanyó E.

Author information:
(1)Chinoin Gyógyszer és Vegyészeti Termékek Gyára Rt., Budapest.

The nigrostriatal system, where dopaminergic neuron activity dominates, plays 
and important role in control of motoric and psychic functions. Selegiline with 
its neurochemical activity ie. MAO-B enzyme and dopamine uptake inhibition is 
able to restore or improve the deteriorated function of that system. Selegiline 
can hinder the uptake of tyramine into the peripheral sympathetic nerve endings, 
so cheese effect, which is a characteristic and dangerous side effect induced by 
MAO-A inhibitors, does not occur. Selegiline can potentiate the learning 
activity of PEA in rats, these effect may be connected with increased dopamine 
turnover in the striatum. In pathological conditions dopamine can be replaced by 
L-dopa, so it has a fundamental role in the improvement of dopaminergic 
functions. According to neurochemical activity selegiline takes a prominent role 
in the extension and improvement of L-dopa therapy. The neuroprotective effect 
of selegiline is multiple, with the inhibition of MAO-B it can stop the 
production of neurotoxin MPP+ (arising from MPTP) and its uptake into the nerve 
endings respectively. In chronic treatment with Selegiline SOD activity 
increases in rats, as a consequence the level of free oxygen radicals and toxic 
metabolites can be diminished. Chronic treatment with selegiline does not 
influence the activity of young animals, but improves sexual activity and 
learning capacity and enlarges life expectancy of old rats. These experiments 
verified its positive activity on the nigrostriatal system and give a good 
chance for geriatric usage. In longtime treatments dependency was not stated.

PMID: 1488908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Horm Metab Res Suppl. 1992;26:90-4.

Diabetes mellitus and bone metabolism.

Ziegler R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, University of Heidelberg, Germany.

Whether there is a diabetic osteopathy" or osteopathy in diabetes mellitus", is 
still unclear. Epidemiological studies show in part discrepant results: bone 
mass was diminished in some studies, unchanged in others--even more positive 
trends were reported. Increases in osteoporotic fractures were observed in 
smaller collectives whereas no general trends for fracturing bones were found in 
diabetics. There are many in part favouring, in part impairing factors to be 
taken into consideration: Diabetes mellitus type I is a disease including immune 
phenomena. As inflammation leads to bone loss (inflammation-mediated osteopenia 
= IMO), peak bone mass may be influenced by such a process. The lack of 
insulin-like growth factors may be decisive, too. Complications of diabetes 
mellitus include hypogonadism--this may be disadvantageous for the skeleton. 
Diabetic complications like retinopathy, neuropathy, and angiopathy may 
influence the fracture event independently from bone mass. On the other hand, 
diabetes mellitus type II may be somehow protected against bone loss: Increased 
adipose tissue in connection with the frequently seen overweight yields 
metabolically active steroid hormones, insulin related growth factors may 
stimulate bone formation (e.g. in Forestier's disease). Older diabetics do not 
show diminished life expectancy any more due to their regular medical 
care--whether this includes the risk of bone diseases, is not yet clear. It may 
be worth to further analyse these "positive" effects seen in bones of type II 
diabetics because they may be useful in osteoporosis even in non-diabetics.

PMID: 1490700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Minerva Urol Nefrol. 1992 Jul-Sep;44(3):205-8.

[Advanced carcinoma of the prostate (stages C and D). Mortality within 12 months 
of the initiation of hormonal therapy].

[Article in Italian]

Ferraris V(1), Vitale I, Pisano PF, Buffa G.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Urologia, USSL n. 76, Casale Monferrato, Alessandria.

Seventy-three patients with stage C and D prostatic carcinoma were treated with 
hormonotherapy. During a mean follow-up of 27 +/- 17.8 months, 30 tumour-related 
deaths were registered. The patients in the G3 subset suffered a 35.7% early 
death rate versus a 10.1% rate of G1-2 ones. This difference is significant (p = 
0.0102). Nevertheless the Authors' opinion is that G3 patients should not be 
given a more aggressive treatment initially apart from the case of a controlled 
trial.

PMID: 1492272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl Kongressbd. 1992:274-7.

[Indications, choice of procedure and results of conservative therapy of spinal 
injuries].

[Article in German]

Hierholzer G(1), Ludolph E.

Author information:
(1)Berufsgenossenschaftliche Unfallklinik Duisburg-Buchholz.

For conservative treatment of injuries of the cervical spine, two different 
methods are available: The HALO fixator and the collar. The choice depends on 
the kind and extension of the injury. Stable thoracic and lumbar vertebral 
fractures are treated in a conservative functional way in order to strengthen 
the muscular apparatus. Three-point-fixation with a brace is not necessary. 
Functional therapeutic methods can also be applied in the case of instable 
fractures if they are not operable. During a rigid confinement to bed, the 
postural reduction by increasing lordosis has turned out to be the treatment of 
choice. As an essential measure the patient has to take part in a "backschool" 
with postural exercises for the daily life.

PMID: 1493277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Bull Acad Natl Med. 1992 Oct;176(7):1087-93; discussion 1093-6.

[Is thyroid cancer a severe cancer? (Prognostic study of 800 surgically-treated 
cases of which 143 nodular differentiated cancers were followed-up for more than 
20 years)].

[Article in French]

Blondeau P(1).

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Américain de Paris, Neuilly.

The prognosis of thyroid carcinoma has always been difficult to appreciate 
because this rather rare carcinoma is polymorph and subject to some very late 
recurrencies. For these reasons an acceptable prognostic evaluation is only 
possible with an important material and very long follow-up. From 800 patients 
operated by the author, 102 (13%) had an extra-capsular tumor, which means for 
all authors a very poor prognosis. Still two groups must be separated: the 
anaplastic extracapsular tumors (33/102) gave a very low life expectancy with 
17% survival at 5 years and no patient surviving at 8 years. In contrast the 
differentiated extracapsular tumors, mainly papillary, gave an unexpected 
survival rate of 35% at 15 years. The more frequent nodular form of 
differentiated carcinoma (698/800 = 87%) has a much better prognosis, but his 
slow evolution needs a long follow-up observation. From 160 patients operated on 
before 1971, 143 (90%) could be all followed during 20 years or more. The 
over-all survival rate at the 20th year is 83% with 76% of patients free of any 
recurrence. The analysis of several factors showed that the extension of the 
primitive operation (lobectomy or total thyroidectomy) does not influence the 
long term results. More reliable prognostic factors are the degree of histologic 
differentiation of the tumor, and the age of the patient. Finally, in spite of 
an excellent overall long-term prognosis, three very late recurrencies were 
observed in the group of 143 patients followed more than 20 years, respectively 
21, 22 and 31 years after the first operation. This makes impossible the 
certitude of definitive cure of any thyroid cancer.

PMID: 1493570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Contraception. 1992 Dec;46(6):575-84. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(92)90122-a.

Return to fertility after removal of a levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine 
device and Nova-T.

Andersson K(1), Batar I, Rybo G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, East Hospital, University of 
Göteborg, Sweden.

In a European randomized multicenter study, the efficacy and safety of an 
intrauterine contraceptive device releasing 20 microgram levonorgestrel/24 hours 
(LNG-IUD) have been evaluated and compared to the Nova-T. Because the LNG-IUD 
has a strongly suppressive effect on the endometrium and in some women affects 
ovarian function, the return to fertility after removal of the IUD was studied. 
Two-hundred-nine women (71 in the Nova-T and 138 in the LNG-IUD group), who had 
their IUDs removed because of planning pregnancy, were followed at least 24 
months or until termination of pregnancy. For the Nova-T, the cumulative 
conception gross rate was 71.2/100 women after 12 months (79.7 after 24 months) 
and for the LNG-IUD 79.1 (86.6 after 24 months). The difference between the 
devices is not statistically significant, and in spite of the endometrial 
suppression during use of LNG-IUD, there is no delay of return to fertility and 
in both groups 96% of the pregnancies occurred during the first year after 
removal of the device. Eighty-four % of the pregnancies in the Nova-T group and 
eighty-six % in the LNG-IUD group ended in live births. The results suggest that 
the endometrium recovers quickly, normal ovulations are established and the 
fertility seems to be unaffected after use of an LNG-IUD.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(92)90122-a
PMID: 1493717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1992 Dec;46(6):555-8. doi:
10.1136/jech.46.6.555.

International efforts to measure health expectancy.

Bone MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Social Survey Division, Office of Population Censuses and Surveys, Kingsway, 
London, United Kingdom.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.46.6.555
PMCID: PMC1059668
PMID: 1494067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Radiobiologiia. 1992 Nov-Dec;32(6):868-72.

[Changes in the sensitivity of mice to the action of gamma irradiation by Viscum 
album L. polysaccharides].

[Article in Russian]

