Narimanov AA, Popova OI, Murav'eva DA.

The influence of water-soluble polysaccharides of Viscum album L. on the 
survival of mice subjected to whole-body gamma-irradiation has been 
investigated. Polysaccharides were shown to exert a radioprotective effect which 
was a function of both the radiation dose and the drug dose and time of its 
injection. The maximum radioprotective efficacy of polysaccharides was observed 
after their injection 15 min before irradiation. A single intraperitoneal 
administration of polysaccharides (25 mg/kg) before irradiation with LD50/30 and 
LD100/10-12 increased the 60-day survival rate up to 95% and 27% respectively. 
The postirradiation injection of polysaccharides prevented death of 80% of mice 
given LD50 and increased the average life expectancy of animals irradiated with 
absolutely lethal doses.

PMID: 1494656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Aug;16(2):209-17.

Long-term results of infrainguinal revascularization with 
polytetrafluoroethylene: a ten-year experience.

Quiñones-Baldrich WJ(1), Prego AA, Ucelay-Gomez R, Freischlag JA, Ahn SS, Baker 
JD, Machleder HI, Moore WS.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Section, University of California Los Angeles School of 
Medicine 90024-6904.

Two hundred fifty-eight patients underwent 322 infrainguinal revascularizations 
with use of polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) between 1978 and 1988. The indication 
was limb salvage in 190 (59%) reconstructions. Two hundred nineteen (68%) were 
above-knee, and 75 (23%) were below-knee femoropopliteal bypasses. Twenty-eight 
(8.6%) were femoral-infrapopliteal bypasses, all done for limb salvage. 
Follow-up ranged from 24 to 144 months (mean, 66 months). The perioperative 
mortality rate (1 to 30 days) was 3.4% (9 patients), with no significant 
difference according to indication (2.9% vs 3.7%). Actuarial primary patency at 
8 years for the entire series of femoropopliteal bypasses was 53% (above knee 
53%; below knee 39%; p less than 0.05), and improved with additional procedures 
for a secondary patency of 72%. Femoropopliteal bypasses done for severe 
claudication had an 8-year actuarial primary patency of 63%, compared with 38% 
for limb salvage (p less than 0.02). Actuarial limb salvage in the latter group 
at 8 years was 66%. Femoral-infrapopliteal reconstructions with PTFE had a 
significantly lower primary patency at 3 years (22%, with a 37% limb salvage). 
Sixty-four percent of the failures for all reconstructions (N = 111) occurred 
within 12 months, with remarkable stabilization of patency curves beyond that 
interval. This experience represents the largest reported series of PTFE 
reconstruction with longest follow-up to date and may serve as a basis for 
comparison of other conduits. These results suggest an important role for PTFE 
in femoropopliteal revascularization and a limited role of this prosthetic 
conduit in femoral-infrapopliteal arterial reconstructions.

PMID: 1495144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Psychiatr Enfant. 1992;35(1):83-108.

[In pursuit of an object].

[Article in French]

Diebold G(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatre des hôpitaux, Centre infantile des Sorbiers, Dôle.

The author proposes an extension of the transitional phenomenon concept. 
Beginning with Winnicott's well known description, the author reviews the 
successive transformations of transitional space, first materialized and then 
increasingly "intrapsychic" and which persists in the individual all life long 
in various forms. Transformations go from the gross blanket to a more figurative 
little bear, then to play activities, creative drawing of the child, and finally 
to hypotheses and theories. This progressive hold on the object involves the 
mediation of transitional space--first found then created--and is instrumented 
through age-specific different means: concrete handling; certain characteristics 
of baby-talk such as voice intonation, use of the past tense before playing and 
the conditional in playing; redundancies, parentheses and abstractions. In the 
course of this paper, the author gives his personal view on the subtle 
differences between figuration and representation, and on the relationship 
between abstraction and aesthetical feeling.

PMID: 1496051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Radiobiologiia. 1992 May-Jun;32(3):429-34.

[State of cellular immunity effectors of the lung after inhalation of 239Pu 
polymer nitrate].

[Article in Russian]

Sokol'nikov ME.

Wistar rats, who inhaled 239Pu (IV) at a dose that did not reduce the average 
life expectancy (the initial level in the lung was 0.77 kBq) did not exhibit any 
essential changes in the quality and functional activity of the alveolar 
macrophages. Revealed were the injuries to cells of bifurcation lymph nodes, the 
severity of which was a function of dose absorbed in the lung.

PMID: 1496116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Scand J Urol Nephrol Suppl. 1992;142:57-8.

Indications and contraindications for continent urinary diversion.

Rowland RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis.

PMID: 1496309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Tierarztl Prax. 1992 Jun;20(3):249-53.

[Necessary care of newborn lambs using ovine colostrum. 2. Duration of 
administration].

[Article in German]

Klobasa F(1), Herbort B, Kallweit E.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Tierzucht und Tierverhalten (FAL), Mariensee, Neustadt.

Sheep colostrum, pooled from 0-12 h milkings, was fed to 38 newborn lambs for 
either 6, 12, 18 or 24 hrs after birth. The influence of the duration of feeding 
periods on the transintestinal passage of immunoglobulins, the growth 
performance, the loss rate and the onset of immunoglobulin synthesis were 
investigated by monitoring the serum concentrations of IgG1, IgG2, IgM and IgA 
during months 1 through 9 of life. Feeding of 3 portions of 100 ml at 2 h 
intervals resulted in lower serum levels of Ig's than the extension of the 
feeding to 12 x 100 ml every second hour. There was, however, no difference in 
the onset of endogenous Ig production between both groups. Growth performance 
and the loss rate were also identical.

PMID: 1496518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Am J Med. 1992 Jul 15;93(1A):43S-47S. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(92)90627-n.

Impact and cost-effectiveness of smoking interventions.

Tsevat J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts.

Cigarette smoking is the foremost preventable cause of death in the United 
States. Along with being a major contributor to lung cancer, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, and cerebrovascular disease, smoking is one of several 
modifiable risk factors for coronary artery disease (CAD). The Coronary Heart 
Disease Policy Model is a computer simulation model of CAD in the United States. 
Using the model, one can project CAD incidence, prevalence, events, mortality, 
cost, cost-effectiveness, and gains in life expectancy from various risk factor 
modifications, including smoking interventions. The model projects that reducing 
the number of cigarettes smoked by 50% would increase the population-wide life 
expectancy of 35-year-old U.S. citizens by 0.4 year. Eliminating smoking would 
yield population-wide gains of 0.8 year for 35-year-old males and 0.7 year for 
35-year-old females. These gains are comparable to those achieved with strict 
control of cholesterol levels, diastolic blood pressure, or weight. Gains for 
the smokers themselves would be much greater. On average, 35-year-old male 
smokers would live 1.2 years longer if they reduced the number of cigarettes 
smoked by 50%, and 2.3 years longer if they quit smoking. Females 35 years of 
age would live 1.5 years longer by cutting back by 50% and 2.8 years longer by 
quitting. These gains are equal to or greater than gains that individuals would 
realize by reducing serum cholesterol levels of 240-299 mg/dL to 200 mg/dL; 
controlling mild hypertension; or reducing weight from greater than or equal to 
130% ideal body weight to ideal body weight. Gains projected by the Coronary 
Heart Disease Policy Model are comparable to those forecast by others, who have 
projected that young adults would gain approximately 0.2-8.7 years by quitting 
smoking, depending on their smoking history. Two studies have examined the 
cost-effectiveness of smoking interventions. One found that counseling smokers 
to quit would cost only $705-988 per year of life saved for males and 
$1,204-2,058 per year of life saved for females. The second study found that 
prescribing nicotine gum as an adjunct to counseling would cost only 
$4,113-6,465 per year of life saved for males and $6,880-9,473 per year of life 
saved for females. These cost-effectiveness ratios are more favorable than those 
of most other current healthcare interventions. Smoking cessation would increase 
population-wide life expectancy by about a year and the life expectancy of a 
smoker by several years.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(92)90627-n
PMID: 1497003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Ann Ist Super Sanita. 1992;28(1):71-90.

[Survival in respiratory tract tumors: Italian population-based data and 
international comparisons].

[Article in Italian]

Micheli A(1), Baldasseroni A, Bruzzi P, Faggiano F, Gatta G, Ivaldi C, Magnani 
C, Merletti F, Ninu B, Sant M.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Epidemiologia, Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Milano.

Population survival studies are usually carried out within population-based 
cancer registries and are useful mainly for geographical and temporal survival 
comparisons. Survival studies based on clinical series of patients are 
traditionally executed to evaluate the efficacy of a given treatment or to 
analyze the prognostic role of clinical factors. Subjects from a case-control 
study on incidence of larynx and hypopharynx cancers in Turin, for the period 
1979-82, were followed-up in order to study their survival. The analysis was 
based on 347 cases of larynx cancer (319 males and 28 females) and 48 cases of 
hypopharynx cancer (47 males and 1 female). For larynx cancer, observed 
five-years survival was 59% in males and 64% in females. Hypopharynx cancer had 
a worse prognosis (21%). In males suffering from larynx cancer, older age, 
extent of spread, birth in Northern Italy, and being unmarried proved to be 
statistically significant negative prognostic factors. The same variables were 
also predictive of survival for hypopharynx cancer. The one- and three-year 
relative survival for larynx cancer in Turin was higher than that reported by 
other cancer registries. For males, relative five-year survival figures range 
from 47% to 65%. Survival for hypopharynx cancer is considerably lower, 
five-year figures ranging from 13% to 35%. The survival study on lung cancer was 
based on all the incident cases recorded by the Lombardy Cancer Registry 
(L.C.R.) from 1976 to 1981; during this period there were 2042 cases of primary 
lung cancers occurred in males and 217 in females. Observed survival at one, 
three and five years from diagnosis was 29%, 8% and 5%, respectively. Survival 
decreased with increasing age; no important differences between sexes are 
evident. Information on tumor stage was available in 1904 cases and histotype 
was known in 1605. Three-year survival was 17% for localized tumors, 8% for 
tumors with regional metastasis, and 1% for tumours with distant metastasis. 
Epidermoid carcinomas had a better prognosis than non-epidermoid carcinomas in 
the first year of follow-up, survival being 38% and 29%, respectively; among 
non-epidermoid carcinomas the worst prognosis was for small-cell carcinomas. 
Comparisons between the LCR relative survival and that reported by other cancer 
registries did not show important differences, five-year figures ranging from 5% 
to 10% in males.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 1497248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 1992 Aug;116(8):831-6.

Very high values of serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol.

Weitzman JB(1), Vladutiu AO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, State University of New York, School of Medicine and 
Biomedical Sciences, Buffalo.

Little is known about individuals who have very high values of serum 
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) with the exception of those who 
have very rare genetic conditions, eg, familial hyperalphalipoproteinemia or 
hypobetalipoproteinemia. During a period of 60 months of testing for HDL-C, we 
found 46 individuals (of whom 43 were women) who had an HDL-C level equal to or 
higher than 2.58 mmol/L (greater than or equal to 100 mg/dL) (range, 2.58 to 
6.15 mmol/L [100 to 238 mg/dL]). Sixteen of these individuals were treated with 
estrogens or ranitidine or were alcoholic, and several had evidence of coronary 
heart disease. We conclude that very high values of HDL-C can be found in the 
general population mostly in women, and this is often related to environmental 
causes, eg, the use of H2-blockers, estrogens, and alcohol. The finding of very 
elevated HDL-C levels in serum is probably not always due to a genetic condition 
and does not always signify absence of coronary heart disease and increased life 
expectancy.

PMID: 1497464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Arch Ophthalmol. 1992 Aug;110(8):1137-42. doi: 
10.1001/archopht.1992.01080200117038.

National outcomes of cataract extraction. III. Corneal edema and transplant 
following inpatient surgery.

Canner JK(1), Javitt JC, McBean AM.

Author information:
(1)Worthen Center for Eye Care Research, Georgetown University Medical Center, 
Washington, DC 20007.

We analyzed the likelihood of rehospitalization for corneal edema or corneal 
transplantation in all 338,141 Medicare beneficiaries older than 65 years who 
were admitted to US hospitals for cataract extraction in 1984. The rate of 
rehospitalization for corneal edema or transplant within 4 years of 
intracapsular cataract extraction was 1.4%, almost twice the rate associated 
with extracapsular extraction (0.63%) or phacoemulsification (0.62%; P less than 
.0001). No significant difference in the rate of corneal transplantation was 
detected between those undergoing extracapsular cataract extraction and those 
undergoing phacoemulsification. Among patients who had intracapsular cataract 
extraction, those who underwent concurrent intraocular lens implantation surgery 
had a higher rate of rehospitalization for corneal edema or transplantation than 
those who did not (1.11% vs 0.86%; P = .0003). However, this difference is only 
manifest starting at about 3 years after surgery. Among patients who underwent 
extracapsular cataract extraction and phacoemulsification, however, those who 
underwent intraocular lens implantation during surgery had a lower rate of 
corneal edema or transplantation than those who did not (0.47% vs 0.74%; P less 
than .0001). This difference was seen almost immediately after surgery. Cataract 
surgery accompanied by anterior vitrectomy was associated with a threefold 
increase in the 4-year rate of corneal edema or transplantation compared with 
cataract surgery alone (2.42% vs 0.87%; P less than .0001).

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.1992.01080200117038
PMID: 1497529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Bibl Nutr Dieta. 1992;(49):1-9.

Nutrition and cardiovascular risk in Hungary. Introductory lecture.

Biró G(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Food Hygiene and Nutrition, Budapest, Hungary.

PMID: 1497589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. J Am Soc Nephrol. 1992 Jun;2(12 Suppl):S228-33. doi: 10.1681/ASN.V212s228.

Renal transplantation in the first year of life: the treatment of choice for 
infants with end-stage renal disease.

Najarian JS(1), Almond PS, Mauer M, Chavers B, Nevins T, Kashtan C, Matas AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55455.

The treatment of choice for end-stage renal failure within the first year of 
life is controversial. Between September 1970 and February 1991, we performed 28 
kidney transplants (27 primary, 1 retransplant, 23 living donor, 5 cadaver) in 
infants less than 1 yr of age (mean, 7 +/- 2 months; range, 6 wk to 12 months). 
The 1-yr patient survival rate for living donor recipients was 100% versus 20% 
for cadaver recipients (P = 0.0001). The 1-yr graft survival rate for living 
donor recipients was 96% versus 20% for cadaver recipients (P = 0.001). The 1-yr 
patient survival rate for cyclosporin A (CSA) recipients (N = 12) was 100% 
versus 75% for non-CSA recipients (P = 0.03). The 1-yr graft survival rate for 
CSA recipients was 92% versus 75% for non-CSA recipients (P = 0.08). There was 
no difference in the number of rejection episodes or serum creatinine levels in 
CSA versus non-CSA recipients. Compared with pretransplant values, the mean 
posttransplant standard deviation scores (SDS) for height (N = 18), weight (N = 
22), and head circumference (N = 8) improved: height SDS from -1.9 to -1.5 (not 
significant); weight SDS from -2.5 to 0.6 (P less than 0.0005); head 
circumference SDS from -2.0 to -0.7 (P = 0.01). Because no other renal 
replacement therapy can match these results, we conclude that renal 
transplantation is the treatment of choice for infants with end-stage renal 
failure.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.V212s228
PMID: 1498279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. J Am Soc Nephrol. 1992 Jun;2(12 Suppl):S258-63. doi: 10.1681/ASN.V212s258.

Recurrence of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis posttransplantation: a special 
report of the North American Pediatric Renal Transplant Cooperative Study.

Tejani A(1), Stablein DH.

Author information:
(1)SUNY Health Science Center, Brooklyn 11203-2098.

Among various forms of glomerulonephritis, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis 
(FSGS) is the most common cause of end-stage renal disease leading to 
transplantation in children. Previous reports of the recurrence of FSGS vary 
widely. The North American Pediatric Renal Transplant Cooperative Study carried 
out a special study to determine the rate of recurrence and risk factors leading 
to recurrence in 132 transplants. Fifty-five percent of the patients were white 
children, and the remaining were black and Hispanic children. Fifty percent of 
the patients were under 5 yr of age at the time of the diagnosis of FSGS. 
Twenty-seven (20.5%) of 132 patients (95% confidence interval, 14 to 27) had a 
biopsy-proven recurrence of FSGS. The median time to recurrence was 14 days. The 
recurrence rate was similar in white children (23%) when compared with that in 
Hispanic children (20%) but was lower than that in black children (9%) (3 of 32 
children).2+ (20%). The mean serum albumin level of patients with recurrence was 
1.7 versus 2.0 g/dL for those without recurrence. The mean serum cholesterol 
level of patients with recurrence was 525 versus 476 mg/dL for those without 
recurrence. The duration of dialysis was similar in the two groups. The mean 
time from diagnosis to end-stage renal disease status was 33 months for patients 
with recurrence and 52 months for those without recurrence (P less than 
0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.V212s258
PMID: 1498285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. J Am Soc Nephrol. 1992 Jun;2(12 Suppl):S295-303. doi: 10.1681/ASN.V212s295.

Factors affecting growth after renal transplantation.

Harmon WE(1), Jabs K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Nephrology, Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115.

Renal transplantation has been recognized as the treatment of choice for 
children with chronic renal failure principally because it can normalize their 
physiologic status and thus provide them with the potential for normal growth. 
The results of renal transplantation, however, have been mixed with some reports 
of excellent posttransplant growth and others with less optimistic results. Some 
of the differences among these studies may be because of the use of multiple 
methods to assess the success or failure of posttransplant growth. The usual 
methods have included assessment of the final adult height, growth velocity, 
presence of accelerated growth rates, change in height standard deviation 
scores, and growth survival. All of these methods have advantages and 
disadvantages in the description of the success or failure of growth after renal 
transplantation, but no single method stands out as the most appropriate to use 
in all circumstances. Furthermore, growth is dependent on a large number of 
complex and interrelated factors. At least four of these factors have been shown 
to affect the growth rates of children after renal transplantation: age at the 
time of transplant; allograft function; the type, dose, and schedule of 
immunosuppressive medication; and other endocrinologic factors. Finally, 
analysis of long-term growth patterns in children after renal transplantation 
has shown that growth rates frequently decrease over time. Even children who 
have grown well immediately after the transplant may develop growth failure 
after several years. We conclude that the majority of children with renal 
transplants can experience normal or even accelerated growth rates after the 
procedure. Unfortunately, growth rates subsequently tend to decline in most 
children.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.V212s295
PMID: 1498289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Zhongguo Zhong Xi Yi Jie He Za Zhi. 1992 Feb;12(2):92-4, 69-70.

[Flow cytometric analysis of the garlic oil effect on DNA content of cancer cell 
cycle].

[Article in Chinese]

Xie JY(1), Gao YM, Shen LC.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Basic Theory of TCM, China Academy of TCM, Beijing.

Flow cytometry (FCM) is a new technique developed in the recent decade. This 
technique may measure DNA content of 5000 cells per second and trace the dynamic 
changes in cell proliferation cycle and offer a hint for designing clinical 
treatment protocol, monitor prognosis and elucidate the mechanisms of antitumor 
drugs. The authors previous studies showed significant effect of garlic oil on 
prolongation of life expectancy and inhibition of tumor growth in mice. Using 
FCM the authors analysed the effect of garlic oil on cell cycle in S180 tumor 
cells, 2-6 hrs after single administration or multiple administration the cell 
number in S phase rapidly decreased, in G1 phase increased. This suggests garlic 
oil may blockade cells to progress from G1 phase to S phase and result in 
accumulation of cells in G1 phase and directly inhibit the synthesis of DNA and 
the cell cycle. Theoretical basis for clinical application was offered and some 
aspects of antitumor mechanism of garlic oil were elucidated.

PMID: 1498535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Health Aff (Millwood). 1992 Summer;11(2):56-72. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.11.2.56.

Health and surgical outcomes in Canada and the United States.

Roos LL, Fisher ES, Brazauskas R, Sharp SM, Shapiro E.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.11.2.56
PMID: 1500060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Health Aff (Millwood). 1992 Summer;11(2):87-99. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.11.2.87.

The price of success: health care in an aging society.

Cassel CK, Rudberg MA, Olshansky SJ.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.11.2.87
PMID: 1500063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. J Am Vet Med Assoc. 1992 Jul 15;201(2):250-3.

The changing face of foodborne disease.

Potter ME(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Bacterial and Mycotic Diseases, Centers for Disease Control, 
Atlanta, GA 30333.

PMID: 1500318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. J Am Paraplegia Soc. 1992 Jul;15(3):158-62. doi:
10.1080/01952307.1992.11735869.

The serum lipoprotein profile in veterans with paraplegia: the relationship to 
nutritional factors and body mass index.

Zlotolow SP(1), Levy E, Bauman WA.

Author information:
(1)Dietetic Service, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Bronx, NY 10468.

Individuals with spinal cord injury have a shortened life expectancy, with 
coronary heart disease as a leading cause of death. Identifying potentially 
reversible risk factors would be expected to be of value in the long-term care 
of the person with a spinal cord injury. We addressed the relationships among 
diet, body mass index, and serum lipid levels in 28 veterans with paraplegia 
compared to 52 age-matched ambulatory veteran controls. There are no significant 
differences in body mass index or in total caloric, saturated fat, or 
cholesterol intake between those with paraplegia and the control group. The 
serum HDL cholesterol level is significantly lower in those with paraplegia 
compared to the control group (35 +/- 2 vs 49 +/- 2 mg/dL). There are no 
significant differences noted in serum total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, or 
triglycerides between the groups. Total caloric intake decreases significantly 
with age in the control subjects but not in the subjects with paraplegia. 
Inverse correlations are found between serum HDL cholesterol and serum 
triglycerides levels both in those with paraplegia (r = -0.54, p less than 
0.005) and in the controls (r = -0.42, p less than 0.001). In our group of 
subjects with paraplegia, serum lipid levels appear to be independent of dietary 
intake and body weight.

DOI: 10.1080/01952307.1992.11735869
PMID: 1500941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. J Neurosurg Sci. 1992 Jan-Mar;36(1):39-45.

Antiplatelet treatment after carotid endarterectomy: a pilot study.

Rodríguez y Baena R(1), Gaetani P, Bono G, Lavezzari M, Milanesi G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Neurosurgery, IRCCS Policlinico S. Matteo, Italy.

The present study was undertaken in patients subjected to endarterectomy for 
extracranial carotid stenosis in order to verify the efficacy and the safety of 
medical treatment with indobufen (2-[4-(1-oxo-2-isoindolinyl)-phenyl] butyric 
acid), a drug which has been successfully used in the long-term treatment of 
cardiovascular ischemic diseases, and which showed a significant antiplatelet 
effect. One hundred thirty-eight patients entered into the study with previous 
diagnosis of cerebrovascular ischemic event within 3 months before surgery. 
Patients were treated after surgery with indobufen 400 mg/die/orally in the 
first 2 months after discharge and than 200 mg/die/orally. The planned duration 
of medical treatment was 24 months. Any patient interrupting the medical 
treatment for a cumulative period greater than 30 days/year was excluded from 
the analysis; the end points of the study were considered death and the 
occurrence of disabling stroke. Eleven patients were considered as dropped out 
because of treatment interruption. The operative (at 1 month after surgery) 
mortality rate was 0.79%. The cumulative operative mortality and morbidity rate 
was estimated in 2.37%. The mean follow-up period was 6 months and the 
cumulative mortality rate at 36 months was estimated in 7.14%. The cumulative 
risk/year of TIA or ischemic stroke is higher than the risk for myocardial 
infarction, but the long-term mortality rate mainly depends on the latter 
complication which occurred later. Treatment with indobufen after carotid 
surgery seems to be effective as far it was restricted to an homogeneous group 
of patients presenting symptomatic extracranial carotid disease.

PMID: 1500957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 1992;116(2-4):128-36. doi: 10.1007/BF01540865.

Surgery of tumours of the lateral ventricle.

Pendl G(1), Oztürk E, Haselsberger K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Graz, Austria.

Tumours of the lateral ventricle in most cases enlarge significantly before 
signs and symptoms are exhibited. In the years between 1980 and 1991 we 
encountered 55 patients of all age groups with tumours of the lateral ventricle. 
All were diagnosed either by CT or MRI, and in lesions with good enhancement on 
CT additional angiography was performed. All 55 tumours were operated upon using 
microsurgical techniques. The approach was chosen according to the location of 
the tumour, preferably transcortical. In selected cases large tumours were 
removed in a two-stage operation. Only in one frontal horn and Cella media 
tumour an interhemispheric transcallosal approach was used. Postoperative or 
surgically related mortality was experienced in 3 cases. Life expectancy and 
morbidity were dependent upon histology.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01540865
PMID: 1502946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Ann Ital Chir. 1992 Mar-Apr;63(2):123-6.

[Evaluation of the surgical risk in general surgery: usefulness of a predictive 
system based on statistical analysis].

[Article in Italian]

Negro G(1), Iannuzzi C, Terracciano CA, Rossi M, Gallo C.

Author information:
(1)II Facoltà di Medicina e Chirurgia, Università degli Studi di Napoli Federico 
II.

1182 patients were prospectively studied in order to evaluate the surgical risk 
factors. Stepwise regression logistic procedure was employed for statistical 
analysis. Postoperative complications included death, cardiac, respiratory, 
hepatic and renal failure, wound infection and sepsis. Various preoperative 
conditions were associated with postoperative complications but some of them, as 
malnutrition or operations prolonged over two hours, occurred more frequently. 
Age did not appear as a major risk factor. The determination of surgical risk is 
a major problem in general surgical practice and many attempts have been 
realized in order to predict postoperative outcome. Clinical judgment is still 
nowadays fundamental but predictive scores based on statistical analysis have 
proved to be valid and useful tools. The authors underline the importance of 
surgical risk prediction in therapeutic programming, especially in the aged and 
in cancer patient. The surgical or non surgical option and the type of operation 
to be performed result from a careful evaluation of operative risk and 
expectancy and quality of life.

PMID: 1503367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Bol Asoc Med P R. 1992 Jan;84(1):11-4.

The death divide: differentials in premature mortality by gender in Puerto Rico.

Ramírez de Arellano AB(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, Hunter College/CUNY.

The use of the indicator "years of potential life lost" (YPLL) highlights the 
extent to which premature mortality in Puerto Rico is a predominantly male 
phenomenon. While men accounted for 58.6% of all deaths in 1987, they 
represented fully 71.8% of all YPLL attributed to the thirteen leading causes of 
death. The breakdown of YPLL by gender also underlines sex-specific differences 
in the causes of mortality. While accidents constitute the leading cause of 
premature death among men, malignant neoplasms take the lead among women. 
Similarly, homicides and cirrhosis are significant sources of years of life lost 
among males, while pneumonia/influenza and diabetes are higher priorities among 
females. These findings suggest that health promotion strategies need to be 
gender-specific in order to reach the right targets.

PMID: 1503582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Seiroka Kango Daigaku Kiyo. 1992;18:20-30.

Life style and environment.

[Article in English, Japanese]

Hinohara S.

PMID: 1504650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Cent Afr J Med. 1992 Feb;38(2):89-90.

AIDS in the 1990s--meeting the challenge.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1505018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1992;230(4):309-13. doi:
10.1007/BF00165936.

Surgical results and complications of goniosynechialysis.

Tanihara H(1), Nishiwaki K, Nagata M.

Author information:
(1)Section of Ophthalmology, Tenri Hospital, Nara, Japan.

Goniosynechialysis (GSL) was performed in 70 eyes with primary angle-closure 
glaucoma in which the intraocular pressure (IOP) could not be controlled with 
laser or surgical iridectomy. Following GSL, the IOP was maintained at below 20 
mmHg, with and without eye drops, in 34 (87%) of 39 aphakic eyes and in 13 (42%) 
of 31 phakic eyes. In 8 of 10 eyes, all of which were phakic and the first GSL 
procedure was not effective, IOP could be controlled by a second GSL procedure 
combined with lens extraction. Life-table analysis showed a significant 
difference between the probable success rate, after 5 years, between the phakic 
and aphakic groups. Postoperative tonographic C values showed improvement in 
outflow facility. However, frequently encountered complications were exudation 
of fibrin and minor hemorrhage. Our results suggest that a combination of GSL 
and extraction of the lens may be necessary to control refractory angle-closure 
glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00165936
PMID: 1505759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Isr J Med Sci. 1992 Jul;28(7):442-6.

Premature mortality, Israel 1986.

Rennert G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine and Epidemiology, Lady Davis Carmel 
Hospital, Haifa, Israel.

Mortality statistics serve as the most common tool for health policy planning. 
However, this method suffers from several shortcomings. The mortality patterns 
in Israel in 1986 are presented in this article using the measure of years of 
potential life lost (YPLL), which better expresses premature mortality and the 
burden of diseases on society. Ischemic heart disease, cancer, and accidents of 
all types are responsible equally for most premature deaths in males in Israel, 
whereas cancer is the leading cause of premature mortality in women in Israel. 
Planning future health policy should rely more heavily on measures such as YPLL.

PMID: 1506167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. J Consult Clin Psychol. 1992 Aug;60(4):613-8. doi:
10.1037//0022-006x.60.4.613.

Exercise in behavioral medicine.

Dubbert PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Jackson, Mississippi 39216.

Research on the preventive and rehabilitative applications of exercise and 
literature on exercise adherence from the past 10 years are briefly reviewed. 
Although there is now substantial evidence that a low level of physical activity 
is associated with decreased life expectancy for both men and women and 
contributes independently to the development of many prevalent chronic diseases, 
most adults and children lead sedentary lives. Recent intervention studies 
suggest exercise adherence can be improved in a variety of populations. 
Researchers in the next decade should continue to elaborate the population- and 
disease-specific effects of physical activity and exercise and give priority to 
the problem of exercise adherence, which limits the effectiveness of exercise 
interventions and remains a significant challenge to behavioral medicine.

DOI: 10.1037//0022-006x.60.4.613
PMID: 1506509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Nihon Kyobu Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1992 Jul;40(7):1067-70.

[Re-evaluation with abridged life tables of the prognosis of lung cancer 
patients who underwent surgical therapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Sagawa M(1), Saito Y, Takahashi S, Endo C, Usuda K, Kamma K, Sato M, Nagamoto N, 
Ota S, Fujimura S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan.

Some lung cancer patients after surgical treatment die as a result of pneumonia 
or cardiac failure without recurrence of lung cancer months or years after 
surgery because many such patients are aged or have decreased lung function. 
Surgical treatment may be partly to blame for these deaths. In this article, to 
evaluate the contribution of surgical treatment to deaths resulting from other 
disease, we calculate predicted survival rates using abridged life tables and 
compute relative survival rates. From 1952 to 1985, a total of 1289 lung cancer 
patients underwent surgical resection of lung cancer in our department. We 
calculated some kind of survival rates according to age, stage, and operative 
procedure. Each case was classified according to age (5-year periods), year of 
operation (5-year periods), and sex. The 5-year survival rate indicated by the 
abridged life tables in each class was regarded as the 5-year predicted survival 
rate of the case. The mean of 5-year predicted survival rates of all cases in a 
group was regarded as being the 5-year predicted survival rate of the group. The 
ratio (actual survival rate of the group/predicted survival rate of the group) 
was also calculated. The ratio of the patients who had stage O, I, or II 
diseases tended to decrease according to age. This fact supposed that the number 
of deaths resulting from other diseases with no recurrence of lung cancer in 
which surgical treatment contributed to death increased in the elderly. In the 
other hand, this tendency did not exist in the patients who had stage IIIA 
diseases.

PMID: 1506698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Mol Microbiol. 1992 Jul;6(14):1925-32. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2958.1992.tb01365.x.

A developmentally regulated cysteine proteinase gene of Leishmania mexicana.

Mottram JC(1), Robertson CD, Coombs GH, Barry JD.

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Unit of Molecular Parasitology, University of Glasgow, UK.

We have isolated a gene encoding a previously unreported class of trypanosomatid 
cysteine proteinase (CP) from the protozoan parasite Leishmania mexicana. The 
single-copy gene (lmcpa) [corrected]. has several unusual features that 
distinguish it from CP genes cloned from the related species Trypanosoma brucei 
and Trypanosoma cruzi. These include a shorter C-terminal extension of only 10 
amino acids and a three-amino-acid insertion, GlyValMet, close to the predicted 
N-terminus of the mature protein. Northern blot analysis showed that the gene is 
expressed in all life-cycle stages but at higher levels in the amastigote stage 
in the mammal and in stationary phase promastigote cultures which contain the 
infective metacyclic form of the parasite. A precursor protein of 38 kDa was 
detected in amastigotes and stationary phase promastigotes with antisera 
specific to the LmCPa pro-region, but was barely detectable in early log-phase 
promastigotes. Anti-central domain antisera recognized the 38 kDa precursor and 
24 and 27 kDa proteins. The major CPs of L. mexicana amastigotes, previously 
designated types A, B and C, were not detected with the antisera, suggesting 
that the gene codes for a previously uncharacterized CP in L. mexicana. The 24 
kDa protein detected by the antiserum has no activity towards gelatin but 
apparently hydrolyses the peptide substrate BzPheValArgAMC. The relative levels 
of the 24 and 27 kDa proteins vary between the different life-cycle stages. The 
results indicate that expression of this CP is regulated at both the RNA and 
protein level.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.1992.tb01365.x
PMID: 1508041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Ter Arkh. 1992;64(2):116-20.

[The characteristics of the formation of territorial differences in population 
mortality].

[Article in Russian]

Virganskaia IM, Dmitriev VI.

PMID: 1509362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Z Kardiol. 1992 Jul;81(7):347-53.

[Cholesterol lowering and life expectancy: a critical evaluation].

[Article in German]

Klepzig H Jr(1), Kaltenbach M.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Kardiologie Zentrums der Inneren Medizin Klinikums der 
Johann-Wolfgang-Goethe-Universität, Frankfurt, Main.

Numerous studies have confirmed a positive correlation between serum cholesterol 
levels and the occurrence of coronary artery disease. Lowering cholesterol by 1% 
is accompanied by a reduction of coronary events by 2%. The rate of fatal 
coronary events is not significantly influenced. Coronary angiography 
demonstrated only a mild average reduction of coronary lesions after 
cholesterol-lowering therapy. This might be explained by the low lipid content 
of a coronary plaque (5-15%). The majority of intervention trials revealed an 
increase of the extracardiac mortality in treatment groups. Thus, up to the 
present, it remains unproven that cholesterol-lowering therapy leads to an 
increase in life expectancy.

PMID: 1509792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Actas Urol Esp. 1992 Jun;16(6):492-4.

[Percutaneous treatment of a mycotic renal abscess, caused by Aspergillus 
fumigatus, in an AIDS patient].

[Article in Spanish]

Valle Gerhold J(1), Monzón Alebesque F, López López JA.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología, Hospital Clínico Universitario, Zaragoza.

Presentation of one case of renal mycosis by Aspergillus as a primary 
complication in one patient diagnosed with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. 
The importance of conservative treatment at all costs through percutaneous 
drainage is underlined, specially if we considered the short life expectancy of 
patients who have developed AIDS.

PMID: 1509920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Curr Opin Oncol. 1992 Aug;4(4):659-66. doi:
10.1097/00001622-199208000-00010.

Cytogenetic and experimental models.

Fletcher J(1).

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

The sarcomas, particularly those of soft tissue origin, often contain 
characteristic immunohistochemical and cytogenetic features that are of 
diagnostic relevance. Over the past year, novel findings have been reported that 
are likely to improve present sarcoma diagnostic capabilities. Findings of 
particular interest have been reported for Ewing's sarcoma, peripheral primitive 
neuroectodermal tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, and clear cell sarcoma.

DOI: 10.1097/00001622-199208000-00010
PMID: 1511022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Curr Opin Oncol. 1992 Aug;4(4):696-703. doi:
10.1097/00001622-199208000-00015.

Ewing's sarcoma and extracranial primitive neuroectodermal tumors.

Granowetter L(1).

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York, New York.

Ewing's sarcoma and primitive neuroectodermal tumor of bone and soft tissue are 
rare tumors, considered with the small round blue cell tumors of childhood. 
Recent advances link Ewing's sarcoma and primitive neuroectodermal tumor, and 
support the concept that these tumors represent stages of differentiation in a 
neoplasm of neuroectodermal origin. Advances in chemotherapy have resulted in 
the survival of the majority of patients presenting with these tumors. This 
review briefly outlines the year's literature regarding the histogenesis, 
biology, and treatment of this tumor.

DOI: 10.1097/00001622-199208000-00015
PMID: 1511026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Perit Dial Int. 1992;12(3):321-3.

Effect of long-term therapy with 1.25 mmol/L calcium peritoneal dialysis fluid 
on the incidence of peritonitis in CAPD.

Hutchison AJ(1), Turner K, Gokal R.

Author information:
(1)Renal Unit, Manchester Royal Infirmary, U.K.

PMID: 1511050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Diabet Med. 1992 Aug-Sep;9(7):590-1. doi:
10.1111/j.1464-5491.1992.tb01850.x.

Diabetes care progress report: shows promise, could do better.

Tomlinson S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.1992.tb01850.x
PMID: 1511561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Exp Appl Acarol. 1992 Jul;15(1):27-40. doi: 10.1007/BF01193965.

Temperature influence on life table statistics of the chicken mite Dermanyssus 
gallinae (Acari: Dermanyssidae).

Maurer V(1), Baumgärtner J.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Animal Sciences, Group of Physiology and Animal Husbandry, ETH 
Zürich, Switzerland.

An age-specific life table for the chicken mite Dermanyssus gallinae (DeGeer, 
1778) was based on various observations carried out at 25 degrees C. The 
generation time was calculated to be 16.8 days; the intrinsic rate of natural 
increase was 0.12 per day, and the net reproductive rate was 7.2. A nonlinear 
function was found satisfactory to describe the developmental rate of the 
different immature life-stages at temperatures below 40 degrees C. The 
stage-specific survival of the immature life-stages was generally high between 
10 and 37 degrees C, but decreased quickly outside this temperature range. Most 
of the eggs were laid during the first three weeks of the adult life. The 
proportion of surviving females rapidly decreases after moulting to the adult 
stage. At a temperature of 30 degrees C, the highest number of eggs (3 eggs per 
day) was laid.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01193965
PMID: 1511637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Gastrointest Endosc. 1992 Jul-Aug;38(4):425-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0016-5107(92)70470-2.

A prospective study of the ability of three endoscopic classifications to 
predict hemorrhage from esophageal varices.

Rigo GP(1), Merighi A, Chahin NJ, Mastronardi M, Codeluppi PL, Ferrari A, 
Armocida C, Zanasi G, Cristani A, Cioni G, et al.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology and Digestive Endoscopy, University of Modena, Italy.

Hemorrhage from esophageal varices in cirrhotics is a frequent event with high 
mortality in spite of therapy. Preventive sclerotherapy seems to be beneficial 
only if the patient's bleeding risk is higher than 40 to 50% a year. A series of 
320 patients with esophageal varices without previous bleeding was studied 
prospectively; the varices were classified according to three widely used 
endoscopic classifications. During follow-up (6 to 36 months, average 14 
months), hemorrhage occurred in 49 patients (15.3%) of whom 30 (61.2%) bled from 
varices (8.2 and 11.0% at 12 and 24 months, respectively). At the same time 
intervals, mortality of the entire population studied was 18.0 and 23.8%, 
respectively, of which one third was directly due to hemorrhage. With all three 
classifications, the higher the degree of bleeding risk, the greater the actual 
percentage of hemorrhages recorded; however, it never reached 40% a year. In 
predicting the bleeding event, Dagradi's classification proved more sensitive 
than JRSPH or NIEC, but the latter classifications were more specific and 
assessed a higher predictive value for a positive test. Endoscopic observation 
probably needs integration with other methods if a reliable bleeding prediction 
is to be made.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5107(92)70470-2
PMID: 1511815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Gac Sanit. 1992 Jan-Feb;6(28):8-12. doi: 10.1016/s0213-9111(92)71085-1.

[Differential mortality by sex in Catalonia].

[Article in Spanish]

Mingot M(1), Borràs JM.

Author information:
(1)Departament de Sanitat i Seguretat Social, Generalitat de Catalunya, 
