Barcelona.

The purpose of the study is to analyse the evolution of sex differentials in 
mortality rates in Catalonia (Spain), to assess which causes of death have the 
higher differentials and to compare the results with other countries. 
Standardized mortality rates (direct method), sex mortality ratios and 
differences were obtained. Mortality data refers to 1985 to allow for 
comparison. Men had higher mortality than women, for cancer, accidents and 
diseases of the digestive tract. Women had higher mortality rates for endocrine 
diseases, mental disorders, cardiovascular, skin and muscle-skeleton diseases 
and ill-defined causes. The evolution in recent years shows a relative 
stabilization after an increasing trend observed from 1960 to 1979. In general, 
men had a 60% higher than women age-adjusted mortality rates in the four 
countries to which Catalonia is compared. Suicide and accidents showed the 
highest sex mortality ratios. Diabetes showed a different ratio in Catalonia and 
Spain (higher female mortality rate) compared to other countries. The causes of 
death with higher male mortality were accidents, as well as causes associated 
with smoking (lung cancer and ischemic heart disease).

DOI: 10.1016/s0213-9111(92)71085-1
PMID: 1512132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. J Nutr. 1992 Sep;122(9):1917-8. doi: 10.1093/jn/122.9.1917.

Does food restriction retard aging by reducing metabolic rate?

Lynn WS(1), Wallwork JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Texas Medical Branch, 
Galveston 77555.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/122.9.1917
PMID: 1512643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 1992;36(2):158-68.

Postoperative subconjunctival 5-fluorouracil injections and success probability 
of trabeculectomy in Japanese: results of 5-year follow-up.

Araie M(1), Shoji N, Shirato S, Nakano Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo, School of Medicine, Japan.

The effects of postoperative subconjunctival 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) injections on 
the surgical outcome of trabeculectomy in the Japanese were studied in a total 
of 362 eyes of 263 glaucoma patients with the postoperative follow-up of 1-9 
years. The probability of successful intraocular pressure (IOP) control at the 
5-year point of the continuing follow-up was calculated by the life-table method 
of Kaplan-Meier. The eyes that had undergone trabeculectomy with postoperative 
injections of 5-FU (5-FU group) included 165 eyes with primary open-angle 
glaucoma (POAG), 38 eyes with secondary glaucoma (SG) and 60 eyes with 
refractory glaucoma. The eyes that had undergone trabeculectomy without 
postoperative 5-FU (control group) included 46 eyes with POAG, 31 eyes with SG 
and 22 eyes with refractory glaucoma. The surgical techniques and postoperative 
care were virtually identical between the two groups, except that the control 
group did not receive the postoperative 5-FU. The total amount of 5-FU given to 
each case averaged 36.5, 36.0 and 49.5 mg for POAG, SG and refractory glaucoma, 
respectively. At the 5-year follow-up point, the probability of maintaining IOP 
control below 21 mmHg with or without medication in the 5-FU group was 92.5% for 
POAG, 87.4% for SG and 57.5% for refractory glaucoma; while without medication 
the probability was 58.2, 54.8 and 27.8%, respectively. The probability of IOP 
control below 16 mmHg with or without medication in the 5-FU group was 77.9% for 
POAG, 66.8% for SG and 26.9% for refractory glaucoma; without medication the 
probability was 55.2, 49.8 and 24.5%, respectively. In the control group, the 
corresponding probability for each type of glaucoma was much lower than that in 
the 5-FU group, and the probability for IOP control below 16 mmHG was 0.12% at 
the 5-year follow-up point. In the 5-FU group, the mean postoperative IOP in 
successfully treated eyes remained at about 12 mmHg throughout the first 5 years 
of the follow-up period. There was no significant difference in incidence of 
postoperative complications between the 5-FU and control groups, except that 
corneal epithelial defect was noted in 38.8% of the eyes in the 5-FU group. No 
late complications related to the use of postoperative 5-FU were 
observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 1513063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Perspect Biol Med. 1992 Summer;35(4):583-93. doi: 10.1353/pbm.1992.0042.

Responses of the health professions to the demographic revolution: a 
multidisciplinary perspective.

Hamerman D(1), Fox A.

Author information:
(1)Resnick Gerontology Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New 
York.

DOI: 10.1353/pbm.1992.0042
PMID: 1513682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Respiration. 1992;59 Suppl 2:14-7. doi: 10.1159/000196115.

Benefit from long-term O2 therapy in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
patients.

Weitzenblum E(1), Apprill M, Oswald M.

Author information:
(1)Service de Pneumologie (Hautepierre), HÃ´pitaux Universitaires de Strasbourg, 
France.

The Nocturnal Oxygen Therapy Trial (NOTT) and Medical Research Council (MRC) 
trial have clearly indicated that long-term oxygen therapy (LTO) improved 
survival in patients with hypoxemic chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD), but the mechanisms accounting for this improved survival could not be 
established. In particular, there was no link between survival and changes in 
pulmonary hemodynamics. More recent studies have shown even better results of 
survival in patients under LTO after at least 5 years. LTO improves the quality 
of life in these patients by improving their neuropsychological condition, by 
increasing their walking distance, and by reducing the time spent in hospital. 
Whether LTO improves pulmonary hemodynamics and right ventricular function is 
still debated. No significant changes in mean pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) 
were observed in the MRC study in patients receiving O2 during greater than 15 
h/day, whereas a modest but significant fall in PAP was noticed after 6 months 
in the NOTT patients receiving O2 during greater than 18 h/day. In our own 
study, confirmed by more recent data from our laboratory, a reversal in the 
progression of pulmonary hypertension was observed in patients receiving O2 
during greater than 16 h/day, but it is not possible to say whether a rather 
small decrease in PAP and pulmonary vascular resistance will have favorable 
effects on life expectancy. Presently, we do not know whether LTO can reverse, 
at least partially, the structural changes in the pulmonary vessels possibly 
induced by chronic alveolar hypoxia, and we need to perform further studies in 
this field.

DOI: 10.1159/000196115
PMID: 1513967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Rev Infirm. 1992 May;42(9):58-60.

[Natural methods of contraception].

[Article in French]

Philippe HJ, Jamin O, Martin MT.

PIP: The use of natural contraceptive methods, which require avoidance of sexual 
relations during the fertile period, declined with development of effective 
modern methods. At present, their practice is most appropriate for women with 
vascular, metabolic, or other pathology contraindicating use of modern methods 
and for couples in which the male partner is fully involved in contraception. 
Contraceptive methods should be simple, effective, reversible, and safe. The 2 
principle methods in France are hormonal contraceptives, used by 50% of couples, 
and IUDs, used by 30%. Hormonal contraceptives, primarily oral contraceptives 
(OCs), have a Pearl index of .16% and satisfactory reversibility, but their 
metabolic and vascular effects make them inappropriate for some women. The Pearl 
index for IUDs is 1-2%. IUD users have a higher risk for tubal infertility, and 
some other possible complications are very serious. Neither OCs nor IUDs are 
indicated for young girls, perimenopausal women, or postpartum women. The main 
shortcoming of the natural methods is their failure rate, which is probably 
related to insufficient instruction in their techniques or to forgetting that 
they require cooperation of both spouses. The Ogino-Knaus or calendar rhythm 
method involves calculating the fertile period taking into account the life 
expectancy of the gametes. Calculation is based on the study of the duration of 
the menstrual cycle in the preceding year. The Pearl index has been estimated at 
1-47%, depending on the regularity of the cycle. The temperature method is based 
on modifications of body temperature due to hormonal variations. The fertile 
period is considered to begin with the 1st day of menstruation and to last for 3 
days following the thermal shift. The Pearl index is 12.2%. Disadvantages of the 
method are problems of interpretation related to physical exertion or stress and 
the need for a long period of abstinence. The method of palpation of the cervix 
is based on detecting the cervical modifications caused by hormonal variations. 
Estrogens cause softening, opening, and ascension of the cervix, while 
progesterone causes descent and hardening. Palpation of the cervix allows 
identification of the fertile period. No Pearl index has been published. The 
main problems are difficulty in nulliparas and the risk of infection. The 
Billings method is based on modifications of the cervical mucus during the 
cycle. The Pearl index is 3%. The principal disadvantages are the difficulty of 
interpretation and the time required for learning the method. The symptothermal 
method combines analysis of the periovulatory signs with the taking of the body 
temperature. The Pearl .8%. The main shortcoming is the possibility of 
contradictory signs.

PMID: 1514009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Am Heart J. 1992 Sep;124(3):636-44. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90271-v.

Role of mapping-guided surgery in patients with recurrent ventricular 
tachycardia.

Trappe HJ(1), Klein H, Frank G, Wenzlaff P, Lichtlen PR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University Hospital Hannover, Germany.

To assess the value of ventricular tachycardia (VT) surgery 108 patients with 
recurrent episodes of VT were studied. There were 97 patients with coronary 
artery disease (group I) and 11 patients without coronary artery disease (group 
II). All patients in group I underwent subendocardial resection; 12 patients 
also underwent cryoablation. Cryoablation alone was performed in all patients in 
group II. During a mean follow-up period of 40 +/- 27 months, 29 patients (30%) 
in group I and two patients (18%) in group II died (p = 0.33). There were nine 
patients (9%) in group I and six patients (55%) in group II who had nonfatal 
recurrences of VT after surgery (p less than 0.01). In group I, there was a 
higher mortality rate among patients who had VT of posterolateral origin (14 of 
31 patients; 45%) compared with 3 of 11 patients (28%) who had VT of 
anterolateral origin, 1 of 8 patients (12%) who had VT of inferoseptal, and 11 
of 39 (29%) patients who had VT of anteroseptal origin. None of the eight 
patients with two distinct origins of VT died.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90271-v
PMID: 1514491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Am Heart J. 1992 Sep;124(3):645-50. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90272-w.

A randomized double-blind crossover study comparing the efficacy and 
tolerability of flecainide and quinidine in the control of patients with 
symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.

Lau CP(1), Leung WH, Wong CK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Hong Kong, Queen Mary Hospital.

Patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF) are prone to recurrence. We 
compared the efficacy and tolerability of flecainide acetate in the control of 
PAF by means of conventional treatment with quinidine in 19 patients without 
structural heart disease. A randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover protocol 
consisting of 8 weeks of treatment with either agent was used. The recurrence of 
PAF was documented in a symptom diary and confirmed by event ECG recording. 
Complete control of symptoms was achieved in 4 of 19 and 2 of 11 of patients 
with flecainide and quinidine, respectively. Both agents prolonged the time to 
the first recurrence and significantly reduced the total duration of PAF 
recurrence by 40% and 47%, respectively (p less than 0.05 compared with 
placebo). Compared with quinidine, flecainide significantly reduced the 
frequency of recurrence and the rate of PAF during a recurrent episode. However, 
treatment with flecainide was associated with a higher incidence of symptomatic 
sinus pauses and visual disturbances compared with a higher incidence of 
gastrointestinal side effects with quinidine. During a follow-up period of 32 
months, satisfactory control was achieved in 74% of patients with the use of 
these two antiarrhythmic agents.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90272-w
PMID: 1514492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Ann Neurol. 1992 Jun;31(6):598-604. doi: 10.1002/ana.410310606.

Recurrent status epilepticus in children.

Shinnar S(1), Maytal J, Krasnoff L, Moshe SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY.

Erratum in
    Ann Neurol 1992 Sep;32(3):394.

Status epilepticus is an uncommon but life-threatening seizure. Little is known 
about the risk of recurrent status epilepticus in patients who present with an 
initial episode. To determine the risk of recurrent status epilepticus in 
children, we prospectively followed 95 children, identified at the time of their 
first episode of status epilepticus, for a mean of 29.0 months (range, 4-60 
months). The patients' ages ranged from 1 month to 18 years (mean, 4.6 years). 
The cause of the status epilepticus was classified as idiopathic (n = 24), 
remote symptomatic (n = 18), febrile (n = 29), acute symptomatic (n = 18), or 
progressive neurological disorder (n = 6). Sixteen children (17%) had at least 2 
episodes of status epilepticus. The risk of recurrent status was 4% (n = 1) in 
the idiopathic group, 44% (n = 8) in the remote symptomatic group, 3% (n = 1) in 
the febrile group, 11% (n = 2) in the acute symptomatic group, and 67% (n = 4) 
in those with progressive neurological disease. Recurrent status epilepticus 
occurred primarily in neurologically abnormal children. While neurologically 
abnormal children accounted for 34% (n = 32) of all children with status 
epilepticus, they comprised 88% (n = 14) of the children with recurrent status 
epilepticus (p less than 0.001) and all 5 of the children with multiple (greater 
than or equal to 3) episodes of status (p less than 0.001). Fifteen of 16 
children with recurrent status epilepticus were being treated with antiepileptic 
drugs at the time of recurrence. The morbidity and mortality of status 
epilepticus were low.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410310606
PMID: 1514772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1992 Jul;19(8 Suppl):1202-6.

Analysis of one hundred and twenty five patients with primary liver cancer 
surviving more than five years.

Tang ZY(1), Yu YQ, Zhou XD, Ma ZC, Yang BH, Lu JZ, Lin HY, Tang CL.

Author information:
(1)Liver Cancer Institute, Shanghai Medical University, China.

During the period of 1958-1986, a series of 125 patients with pathologically 
proven hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) surviving more than 5 years was collected 
in authors' institute. Thirty seven of them survived more than 10 years, the 
longest being 30 years. Of the entire series, 55.2% of patients was discovered 
by screening, 48.0% of patients was subclinical HCC, 80.0% of patients had 
solitary tumor, and 53.6% of patients had tumor size smaller than 5 cm. 
Pathological findings revealed that 90.2% of tumor was grade I and II (Edmondson 
grading) and 81.6% of patients associated with cirrhosis. The serum HBsAg was 
positive in 63% and anti-HBc in 80% of the patients who had checked the HBV 
markers. Of the 125 patients, 108 patients received resection, 67 patients were 
small HCC resection, 41 patients were non-small HCC resection, re-resection for 
subclinical recurrence or solitary lung metastasis was done in 26 patients with 
resection. Limited resection amounted to 54.6% of patients with resection. Of 
the 125 patients, 17 patients received palliative surgery other than resection, 
including hepatic artery ligation, cannulation, or their combination, etc. Eight 
out of the 17 patients received second stage resection due to marked shrinkage 
of tumor. It is concluded that early resection remained the major approach to 
get a long-term survivor, re-resection for subclinical recurrence is also of 
proved merit. Resection of huge tumor is still useful but less effective. 
Cyto-reduction and sequential resection is a new trend. Primary liver cancer 
(PLC) has long been recognized as incurable malignancy with extremely low 5-year 
survival rate. According to the cancer statistics in the United States, the 
relative 5-year survival rates for patients with PLC was 2% in 1960-1963, 3% in 
1970-1973, 4% in 1974-1976, 3% in 1977-1980 and 5% in 1981-1986. Patients with 
PLC survived more than 5 years were rarely reported in the literature. In 1971, 
Curutchet collected worldwide data from 45 authors covering the period for 65 
years (1905-1970), only 45 patients with PLC were found to be 5-year survivors. 
Thanks to the progress in tumor markers, particularly alpha fetoprotin (AFP) and 
new localization measurements, diagnosis and treatment are possible in 
subclinical stage. Based on combined strategies to the treatment of PLC 
including resection of small liver cancer, re-resection of subclinical 
recurrence after curative resection, multimodality treatment, and sequential 
resection after shrinkage of tumor, the 5-year survival of PLC has gradually 
increased.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 1514834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1992 Sep;49(9):709-15. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1992.01820090037007.

An intriguing association between ancestral mortality and male affective 
disorder.

Vaillant GE(1), Roston D, McHugo GJ.

Author information:
(1)Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, NH 03756.

We examine the relationship between ancestral age at death and affective 
disorder. A cohort of 204 socioeconomically favored men was selected for mental 
and physical health 50 years ago and followed up until age 69 +/- 1 (+/- SD) 
years in an interdisciplinary study. During follow-up, 49 of these men were 
identified at some point as being psychosocially impaired. Of these 49 men, 25 
were identified as having probable affective disorder based on family history of 
affective illness, clinical signs, subjective symptoms, clinical diagnosis, and 
choice of pharmacological treatment. Objective signs and symptoms distinguished 
these 25 men from the remaining 24 men, whose adjustment over the 50 years was 
equally psychosocially impaired, but who were never noted to be significantly 
depressed. The mean age at death of the maternal grandfathers for the 25 
depressed men was 60.4 years, significantly younger than the mean age at death 
of maternal grandfathers for either the total sample (70.1 years) or the 25 
psychosocially impaired but not depressed men (68.8 years). The mean age at 
death of the depressed men's other five first-degree ancestors was not 
significantly different from the age at death of the ancestors of the rest of 
the sample. If depressed alcohol abusers were excluded, the mean age at death of 
maternal grandfathers of alcohol abusers did not differ from that of the 
controls' maternal grandfathers. The evidence for possible X-chromosome linkage 
in male psychobiological vulnerability to affective spectrum disorder is 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1992.01820090037007
PMID: 1514876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. WHO Reg Publ Eur Ser. 1992;44:115-32.

Emerging forces in cancer care.

Lerner M.

The mainstream of scientific research is moving towards increasing recognition 
of the limits of conventional therapies and cautious optimism about the 
potential for new biological therapies. This situation has given rise to a 
social phenomenon among cancer patients. Today, in many parts of the world, a 
significant minority has chosen to engage actively in the fight for recovery. 
This minority searches for an intelligent integration of efficacious 
conventional therapies and complementary therapies involving personal trials of 
intensive health promotion. These trials cover nutritional, psychological, and 
immuno-modulating approaches to supporting general health. It appears that 10% 
among those patients achieve exceptional results, another 10% fail, and 80% 
become "healthy" cancer patients. While these experiences raise many interesting 
clinical, scientific and policy questions, they have provided a growing body of 
evidence that a great deal can be done with behavioural approaches, not in terms 
of sweeping cures but possibly for some gains in life extension and certainly 
for great gains in the human experience of being healed (or "becoming whole" 
with cancer).

PMID: 1514970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1992;21(3):173-80. doi: 10.1007/BF01975000.

Human breast cancer: survival from first metastasis. Breast Cancer Study Group.

Koenders PG(1), Beex LV, Kloppenborg PW, Smals AG, Benraad TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Survival from the detection of first metastasis (SAM) was analyzed in a single 
center series of 258 patients with advanced breast cancer. During the 15 year 
period covered by this study 230 patients died, 215 of their disease. The 
overall median SAM was 28 months. Univariate analysis of SAM stratified by first 
dominant site of metastasis, estrogen receptor status (ER), progesterone 
receptor status (PgR), tumor size, axillary lymph node status, patient age, 
menopausal status, and disease-free interval (DFI) showed the first dominant 
site of metastasis, ER, PgR, and axillary lymph node status to be significantly 
associated with SAM. Patients with visceral metastasis as first dominant site of 
metastasis had significantly shorter survival than those with either bone or 
soft tissue metastasis, median SAM 16 vs. 34 vs. 41 months respectively (P less 
than 0.001). SAM also differed according to the steroid hormone receptor status 
of the primary tumor: median SAM 34 and 33 months for patients with ER-positive 
or patients with PgR-positive tumors against 14 months for patients with 
ER-negative or with PgR-negative tumors (P less than 0.001). Patients with 
axillary lymph node involvement at primary disease had a shorter SAM than those 
without, median SAM 24 vs. 35 months (P = 0.006). No association between SAM and 
either tumor size, patient age, menopausal status, or DFI could be observed. 
Multivariate analysis including first dominant site of metastasis, ER, PgR, and 
axillary lymph node status showed the first dominant site of metastasis, ER, and 
axillary lymph node status to be independently associated with SAM.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01975000
PMID: 1515652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Clin Nephrol. 1992 Aug;38(2):81-5.

Chronic dialysis in patients with systemic amyloidosis: the experience in 
northern Italy.

Moroni G(1), Banfi G, Montoli A, Bucci A, Bertani T, Ravelli M, Pozzi C, 
Leonelli M, Lupo A, Volpi A, et al.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Istituto Scientifico Ospedale Maggiore Milano, Italy.

The clinical outcome of 61 patients with renal amyloidosis treated with chronic 
dialysis was reviewed. Eighteen patients, 4 with primary or AL amyloidosis and 
14 with reactive or AA amyloidosis, died within one month from starting 
treatment. The other 43 patients were treated with dialysis for 3 to 199 months 
and are the object of this study. Sixteen patients had AL amyloidosis and 27 had 
AA amyloidosis. Thirty-five patients were treated with hemodialysis (HD) for a 
mean period of 40 +/- 47 months and 8 were treated with continuous ambulatory 
peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) for 20 +/- 15 months. Patient survival rate at 1 and 
5 years was 68% and 30% respectively. There was no difference in survival rate 
between patients treated with HD and those treated with CAPD, while patients 
younger than 45 had a better 5-year survival rate. Twenty four (60%) patients 
achieved a satisfactory rehabilitation with dialysis. At the last follow-up, 15 
patients (14 on HD, 1 on CAPD) were alive 61 +/- 58 months after starting 
dialysis. Twenty-eight patients died after 30 +/- 20 months. The main causes of 
death were: cardiovascular accident (11), stroke (3), sepsis (5) and cachexia 
(5). The most important extra-renal complications of amyloidosis were related to 
cardiovascular involvement (heart failures, arrhythmias, hypotension) and 
gastrointestinal involvement (malabsorption). Intra-dialytic hypotension in 
patients on HD and peritonitis in patients on CAPD were the main problems 
related to dialytic procedure. his study confirms that life expectancy and the 
quality of life of dialysis patients with systemic amyloidosis are poorer than 
those of general dialysis population.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1516284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Ir J Med Sci. 1992 Mar;161(3):73-4. doi: 10.1007/BF02983717.

Audit of full blood count monitoring in patients on longterm gold therapy for 
rheumatoid arthritis.

Cervi PL(1), Wright P, Casey EB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, St. James's Hospital, Dublin.

The use of injectable gold in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is 
hampered by the high incidence of adverse reactions of which myelotoxicity is 
potentially the most serious. Regular full blood count (FBC) monitoring prior to 
each injection, a practice which requires much time and effort, has never been 
fully evaluated. Of 154 patients who were started on gold and followed by the 
lifetable method for up to 10 years, five patients were withdrawn from treatment 
because of myelotoxicity, thrombocytopenia in all cases: the two most serious 
cases occurred early at 3 and 7 months after starting treatment; three mild 
cases occurred at 17, 37 and 60 months, were of slow onset and reversed 
spontaneously. Clearly, FBC monitoring is justifiable in the first two years of 
treatment when the incidence of adverse reaction is highest. Further 
investigation is required to justify this practice after two years of 
uncomplicated treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02983717
PMID: 1517060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. J Clin Psychol. 1992 Jul;48(4):517-21. doi: 
10.1002/1097-4679(199207)48:4<517::aid-jclp2270480413>3.0.co;2-z.

The revised Generalized Expectancy for Success Scale: a validity and reliability 
study.

Hale WD(1), Fiedler LR, Cochran CD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Stetson University, DeLand, FL 32720.

The Generalized Expectancy for Success Scale (GESS; Fibel & Hale, 1978) was 
revised and assessed for reliability and validity. The revised version was 
administered to 199 college students along with other conceptually related 
measures, including the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale, the Life Orientation Test, 
and Rotter's Internal-External Locus of Control Scale. One subsample of students 
also completed the Eysenck Personality Inventory, while another subsample 
performed a criterion-related task that involved risk taking. Item analysis 
yielded 25 items with correlations of .45 or higher with the total score. 
Results indicated high internal consistency and test-retest reliability.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-4679(199207)48:4<517::aid-jclp2270480413>3.0.co;2-z
PMID: 1517446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. J Pain Symptom Manage. 1992 Aug;7(6):339-42. doi:
10.1016/0885-3924(92)90086-w.

Intestinal obstruction in patients with widespread intraabdominal malignancy.

Chan A, Woodruff RK.

The clinical course of 28 patients with surgically documented widespread 
intraabdominal malignancy who developed intestinal obstruction was reviewed. Of 
26 patients, 13 responded to initial conservative management. In the ten 
patients treated surgically, there was significant morbidity in 80% and a 
postoperative mortality of 40%. Reobstruction occurred in 11 patients, responded 
poorly to therapy, and was associated with a short life expectancy. These 
results support the use of conservative therapy in the management of intestinal 
obstruction due to widespread intraabdominal malignancy, with emphasis on the 
palliation of symptoms and maintenance of quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/0885-3924(92)90086-w
PMID: 1517649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. J Clin Oncol. 1992 Sep;10(9):1419-29. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1992.10.9.1419.

Expression of myeloid-associated and lymphoid-associated cell-surface antigens 
in acute myeloid leukemia of childhood: a Pediatric Oncology Group study.

Kuerbitz SJ(1), Civin CI, Krischer JP, Ravindranath Y, Steuber CP, Weinstein HJ, 
Winick N, Ragab AH, Gresik MV, Crist WM.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Oncology Center, Baltimore, MD.

PURPOSE: Although the expression of both myeloid- and lymphoid-associated 
cell-surface antigens in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) has been described, the 
clinical significance of such antigen expression remains unknown in the 
pediatric population. We sought to define an antibody panel for optimal 
diagnostic antigenic analysis and to test associations among antigen expression 
and a number of clinical features at presentation and prognosis in pediatric 
AML.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We reviewed the extensive immunophenotypic analysis 
performed at the time of diagnosis on 132 assessable patients registered on a 
single Pediatric Oncology Group AML protocol between 1984 and 1988.
RESULTS: Eighty-eight percent of patients were identified by testing for 
expression of CD33 and CD13. Overall, 61% of patients expressed at least one 
lymphoid-associated antigen, most commonly CD4, CD7, or CD19. Expression of CD5, 
CD10, CD20, or CD22, commonly detected in T- or B-lineage pediatric acute 
lymphoid leukemia (ALL), was uncommon; coexpression of multiple 
lymphoid-associated antigens was also uncommon. Expression of the 
monocyte-associated antigen CD14 correlated with French-American-British (FAB) 
M4 or M5 morphology. Otherwise, no correlation between antigen expression and 
FAB classification was noted. None of the myeloid, lymphoid, natural-killer 
(NK), or progenitor-associated antigens were associated with significant 
differences in the likelihood of remission induction or event-free survival when 
expressor versus nonexpressor groups were compared.
CONCLUSIONS: The distribution of cell-surface antigen expression in pediatric 
acute leukemia usually permitted the discrimination of AML from ALL by using a 
limited panel of antibodies. Although the expression of lymphoid-associated 
antigens was common, such expression did not seem to be associated with an 
adverse prognosis in pediatric AML.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1992.10.9.1419
PMID: 1517785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Klin Padiatr. 1992 Jul-Aug;204(4):221-9. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1025352.

[Experiences with modified BFM protocols in the treatment of children with acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in East Germany 1981-1991].

[Article in German]

Zintl F(1), Malke H, Reimann M, Hermann J, Domula M, DÃ¶rffel W, Eggers G, 
Exadaktylos P, Hilgenfeld E, Kotte W, et al.

Author information:
(1)Univ.-Kinderklinik Jena.

Between September and August 1991 818 previously untreated children and 
adolescents up to 18 years of age with acute lymphoblastic leukemia were entered 
into two modified BFM-protocols. Patients with B-ALL were excluded. From 1981 to 
1987 524 patients were entered into the randomized multicenter study ALL VII/81 
(modified ALL-BFM 81 protocol). Patients were divided into three risk groups 
standard (SR), medium (MR), high risk (HR) using the BFM risk factor. In a 
connecting study from 1988 to 1991 294 patients were registered on the 
stratified and randomized multicentric trial ALL VIII/87 (modified ALL-BFM 86 
study). The main modification in study ALL VII/81 concerned the duration of 
treatment. Patients were randomized into two groups. The first group received as 
a late reinduction protocol III and then therapy was stopped. The second group 
received 6-MP and MTX for another six months. The other whole treatment strategy 
of ALL-BFM 81 was adopted. In protocol ALL VIII/87 the only modification was the 
reduction of the MTX dosage from 5 g/m2 to 1 g/m2 with an infusion time of 24 
hours (leucovorin rescue 15 mg/m2 after 48 and 54 hours). The probability of the 
event-free-survival (EFS) for study ALL VII/81 was 59%. CNS events were 
significantly more frequent in standard risk patients with intermediate dose MTX 
(4 x 0.5 g/m2) compared with the irradiation group (18 Gy). The EFS for SR 
patients amounts to 61%, for MR patients to 59% and for HR patients to 36%. 
There was no significant difference of EFS for the two groups with different 
duration of therapy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1025352
PMID: 1518257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Soc Sci Med. 1992 Aug;35(3):335-46. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(92)90030-t.

Indigenous mortality: placing Australian aboriginal mortality within a broader 
context.

Hogg RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Demography Program, Research School of Social Sciences, Australian National 
University, Canberra.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether contemporary Australian 
Aboriginal mortality patterns are different from those exhibited by Canadian 
Registered Indians, New Zealand Maoris, and American Indians and Alaskan 
natives. Data on Australian Aborigines were procured from published studies 
conducted in New South Wales, the Northern Territory, Queensland, and Western 
Australia; while data on Canadian Registered Indians, New Zealand Maoris, and 
American Indians and Alaskan natives were obtained respectively from unpublished 
tables produced by Health and Welfare Canada, the National Health Statistics 
Centre, and the Indian Health Service. Mortality patterns were compared by 
evaluating differences in life expectancy and in age- and cause-specific 
patterns of death. This analysis demonstrates that although Australian 
Aborigines, Canadian Registered Indians, New Zealand Maoris, and American 
Indians and Alaskan natives have similar patterns of high adult mortality, 
Australian Aborigines are generally characterized by lower life expectancies at 
birth and higher age- and cause-specific death rates. Overall, these findings 
suggest that the mortality patterns of Australian Aborigines are strikingly 
different from those exhibited by the other three indigenous populations and 
that existing information on risk, psychosocial, and genetic factors does not 
really explain why Australian Aborigines as compared to these other indigenous 
groups have such high rates of death and low life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(92)90030-t
PMID: 1519086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Soc Sci Med. 1992 Aug;35(4):377-87. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(92)90330-s.

Changes in disease patterns and related social trends.

Powles J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, U.K.

Both the material and non-material aspects of social life are viewed as 
determinants of major transformations in the patterns of fatal disease and 
injury. A 'worst case' scenario for the burden of fatal disease is taken as a 
poor agrarian society precariously dependent on starchy staples and a narrow 
range of other foods. In such a society life expectancy may be as low as 20. 
However in many 'pre-modern' societies the regime of roughly matching fertility 
and mortality levels was set at a 'submaximal' level, with completed fertility 
rates moderated by marriage conventions. The relative importance of the factors 
contributing to the historical decline in fatal infection continues to be 
debated. Evidence on the central role of maternal literacy in the recent decline 
in Third World mortality suggests the importance of changes in the body of civil 
society as well as the activities of professionals and public agencies. The 
decline in fatal infections has been offset to varying extents by an increase in 
non-communicable disease (NCD): the Mediterranean and East Asia having smaller 
epidemics of NCDs and Eastern Europe having sustained rises of NCDs. Most 
industrialised countries have experienced declines in overall NCD mortality in 
the last 2 decades. Both the fall in fatal infection and the rise and early fall 
of NCDs can usefully be viewed against the baseline of hunter gatherer cultures. 
When this is done, the relationship between economic development and disease is 
seen to be complex. Much 'progress' has been achieved by countering (and then 
doing better than countering) the adverse effects of earlier developments. 
Although most members of the generation now alive have experienced marked health 
benefits from economic and technical advance, it is unclear whether these gains 
can be both sustained and generalised. It is possible that adverse lagged 
effects of current industrial (and military) activities will disrupt the habitat 
of future generations of our species through processes such as stratospheric 
ozone depletion, global warming and others as yet unpredicted. Modern hygienists 
have dealt successively with influences on survival mainly operating in early 
life (infection) and influences operating across the lifespan (determinants of 
chronic disease). They have now to deal with even greater separations in time 
and space between potential health determinants and their ultimate effects. To a 
high level of scientific uncertainty is added the ethical problem of equity 
between generations.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(92)90330-s
PMID: 1519090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Soc Sci Med. 1992 Aug;35(4):389-99. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(92)90331-j.

Changes in disease patterns and related social trends.

Uutela A(1), Tuomilehto J.

Author information:
(1)National Public Health Institute, Department of Epidemiology and Health 
Promotion, Helsinki, Finland.

Social environment is a major determinant of health and disease patterns in any 
community. The 19th century revolution in public health had as its cornerstone 
the improvement of social and physical environment. The favorable social 
development has since that time significantly contributed to the decrease of 
traditional health hazards in developed countries. New public health problems, 
chronic diseases have emerged in these countries. In some of these nations a new 
trend has started that may be called the second revolution in public health, 
i.e. the reduction of chronic diseases. However, the major part of the world's 
population still suffers from the traditional illnesses that should and could 
have been set aside by the 19th century revolution. Obviously, the social 
environment has not been altered sufficiently in these areas to have the desired 
impact on the health status. The observations from the Eastern European 
countries stress the need for a purposeful avoidance of deprivation in the 
social and physical environment as prerequisites for the prevention and control 
of diseases. Generally, low socio-economic status has been found to relate to an 
increased risk in many diseases. Usually there is a definite time lag between 
changes in social trends and disease patterns which causes difficulties for 
research in this area. The same fact generates problems for the planning and 
implementation of interventions to prevent the socially affected diseases. 
Changes in disease patterns are not only determined by altered social trends, 
but disease patterns can also influence social tendencies in several ways. 
Studying the interaction of social and health trends quantitatively and 
experimentally has yielded results which are hard to interpret. Therefore, 
observational and 'soft' methods are employed here to describe the relationship 
of social and health trends more aptly.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(92)90331-j
PMID: 1519091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Adv Contracept. 1992 Jun;8(2):105-14. doi: 10.1007/BF01849748.

Three years' experience with levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine device and 
Norplant-2 implants: a randomized comparative study.

Wang SL(1), Wu SC, Xin XM, Chen JH, Gao J.

Author information:
(1)National Research Institute for Family Planning, Beijing, China.

A randomized comparative study of levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine device 
(LNG-IUD) and Norplant-2 implants was carried out in 200 women for 36 months. 
Three thousand one hundred woman-months of use were observed with each device. 
Only one pregnancy occurred in users of LNG-IUD at the 12th month of use. The 
change in bleeding pattern was the most frequent reason for discontinuation. The 
discontinuation rate for irregular bleeding with Norplant-2 was 17.3 and 26.8 at 
24 and 36 months, respectively, as compared to 3.3 with LNG-IUD at both 24 and 
36 months. The differences were statistically significant. Removal for 
amenorrhea and pain only occurred in acceptors of LNG-IUD. About 20-40% of women 
using Norplant-2 had prolonged bleeding through 36 months. The percentage of 
amenorrhea in LNG-IUD was the highest (29.3%) at the end of two years of use. 
More than 97% of subjects reported satisfaction with the methods used by 
themselves.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01849748
PMID: 1519493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Adv Contracept. 1992 Jun;8(2):141-51. doi: 10.1007/BF01849751.

Clinical evaluation of quinacrine pellets for chemical female sterilization.

Agoestina T(1), Kusuma I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hasan Sadikin Hospital, Bandung, 
Indonesia.

Under the auspices of the Coordinating Board of Indonesian Fertility Research 
(BKS PENFIN), a clinical trial was undertaken to examine the safety and 
effectiveness of the quinacrine pellet method for nonsurgical female 
sterilization. One hundred women were selected to receive 3 monthly insertions 
of 250 mg of quinacrine and were followed up at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months after the 
third insertion. Socioeconomic data and complaints and menstrual patterns at 
each insertion and every follow-up visit were recorded, as were all failures. 
The life-table failure rate was determined to be 3.1. The continuation rate in 
this study was 96% at 1 year. Just over one-fifth of the women had amenorrhea by 
the third insertion, but most returned to normal by 1 year, and it appears that 
this amenorrhea was transient in nature. The method proved to be safe and 
effective, suggesting that larger clinical trials are in order.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01849751
PMID: 1519496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Adv Contracept. 1992 Jun;8(2):153-9. doi: 10.1007/BF01849753.

A New Zealand randomized comparative study of three IUDs (Nova-T, MLCu375, 
MLAgCu250): 1-, 2- and 3-year results.

Wilson JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Visiting Obstetrician and Gynaecologist, Greenlane/National Womens' Hospital, 
Auckland, New Zealand.

A randomized comparative study was made in New Zealand of 3 models of copper 
IUDs, the Nova-T, MLCu375 and MLAgCu250, with interval acceptors. Completing 3 
years of use, there were 608 Nova-T (14,011 woman-months), 586 MLCu375 (14,161 
woman-months) and 596 MLAgCu250 (14,614 woman-months). At 3 years, loss to 
follow-up was 5.2% for the Nova-T, 5.1% for the MLCu375 and 4.1% for the 
MLAgCu250. The Multiloads were significantly easier to insert and were preferred 
by the operators, as the insertion technique for the Nova-T was complicated. 
However, the Nova-T was significantly easier to remove. There was one 
perforation with a Nova-T in a puerperal breastfeeding woman. In the only 2 
parameters that are comparable between series, accidental pregnancy and 
expulsion [1], the Multiloads have been shown to be superior with higher 
relevant continuation rates. At 3 years, the MLCu375 had a significantly lower 
accidental pregnancy rate and higher relevant continuation rate. The results 
obtained with the Nova-T are similar to those of the WHO study [2]. The MLCu375, 
with its potential for use up to 5 years, has been shown to be the superior 
device.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01849753
PMID: 1519497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Adv Contracept. 1992 Jun;8(2):161-6. doi: 10.1007/BF01849754.

A randomized comparative trial of the MLCu375, TCu220C, steel ring and uterine 
cavity-shaped IUDs.

Ho J(1), Wu Z, Cai S, Han J, Liu M, Hu S, Lui Z.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology Unit, Guangdong Province Family Planning Research Institute, 
Guangdong Province MCH Hospital, People's Republic of China.

The Stainless Steel Ring, Uterine Cavity-Shaped Device, TCu220C and MLCu375 IUDs 
were evaluated in a randomized trial of 1536 women in Guangdong Province, China. 
The first-year continuation and expulsion rates were significantly lower (p less 
than 0.05) for the latter 3 IUDs than for the Stainless Steel Ring. The first 
year pregnancy rates for the MLCu375 (0.76 per 100 women) and TCu220C (1.2 per 
100 women) were significantly lower (p less than 0.05) than those of the other 
two devices (6.1 and 4.1 per 100 women). The results of the study show that the 
MLCu375 and TCu220C are the most suitable IUDs for women in Guangdong Province.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01849754
PMID: 1519498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Aust N Z J Obstet Gynaecol. 1992 May;32(2):154-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1479-828x.1992.tb01929.x.

The use of the semen analysis in predicting fertility outcome.

Arumugam K(1), Omar SZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University Hospital, Kuala Lumpur, 
Malaysia.

The study investigates the use of the various parameters of the semen analysis 
in predicting the fertility outcome in 82 infertile couples. The sperm density, 
% progressive motility, % normal morphology were divided into 'normal' and 
'abnormal' based on the criteria proposed by WHO. The subsequent cumulative 
pregnancy rates were then calculated according to this criteria. A life-table 
method of analysis was used. All female related fertility factors were excluded. 
With the exception of a sperm density of less than 20 x 10(6) per ml the other 
parameters showed no significant correlation with the cumulative pregnancy rates 
at 12 months or 24 months respectively. We concluded that the semen analysis 
does not predict the probable outcome of the subsequent rates even when female 
fertility related factors were excluded apart from a sperm density less than 20 
x 10(6) per ml.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1479-828x.1992.tb01929.x
PMID: 1520202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. In Vivo. 1992 Jul-Aug;6(4):467-75.

Changes in the course of cancer.

Kaiser HE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine, University of Maryland, 
Baltimore 21201.

Many neoplasms cannot be cured but the life span of the patient afflicted with 
such diseases has in a remarkable number of cases been prolonged. The course of 
neoplastic diseases has been changed, improving life-style and survival on the 
one hand, but resulting in new side effects including multiple primary neoplasms 
on the other. In contrast to neoplastic diseases with aggressive acute 
development, we can observe an increasing number of neoplastic diseases with a 
chronic, prolonged that progress. To understand this it is necessary to remember 
that neoplastic diseases are heterogenic in nature, and also diseases of 
autonomic growth comprising modification of the host along with progression of 
the tumor.

PMID: 1520848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Sep;16(3):319-30; discussion 330-1.

Contemporary surgical management of renovascular disease.

Hansen KJ(1), Starr SM, Sands RE, Burkart JM, Plonk GW Jr, Dean RH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, Bowman Gray School of Medicine, Wake 
Forest University, Winston-Salem, NC 27157.

To examine the treatment methods and early results of renovascular repair in our 
contemporary patient population, we reviewed our surgical experience during a 
recent 54-month period. From January 1987 to July 1991, 200 patients ranging in 
age from 5 to 80 years (mean, 56 years) were operated on for correction of 
nonatherosclerotic (43 patients) and atherosclerotic (157 patients) renovascular 
disease. The group included 92 men and 108 women, with blood pressures ranging 
from 300/198 mm Hg to 120/70 mm Hg (mean, 205/113 mm Hg). Defined by 
preoperative serum creatinine, 129 patients (65%) had evidence of renal 
insufficiency (Cr greater than or equal to 1.3 mg/dl), whereas 71 patients (36%) 
had severe renal insufficiency (Cr greater than 2.0 mg/dl; 11 patients were 
dependent on dialysis). One hundred forty-seven patients with atherosclerotic 
renovascular disease (94%) demonstrated organ-specific atherosclerotic damage. 
Operative management of 291 kidneys included unilateral renal artery repair in 
117 patients (58%), bilateral repair in 78 patients (39%), and primary 
nephrectomy in five patients (2.5%). Simultaneous aortic reconstruction was 
required in 64 patients (32%). There were five operative deaths (2.5% mortality 
rate) and four occluded renovascular repairs (1.4% primary failure) within 30 
days of surgery. Hypertension was considered cured in 21% and improved in 70% of 
195 operative survivors. In 70 patients with severe renal insufficiency before 
operation, estimated glomerular filtration rate was improved in 49% (8 of 11 
patients removed from dialysis), unchanged in 36%, and worsened in 15%. Renal 
function response was significantly influenced by the site of disease and the 
operation. Twenty-six additional postoperative deaths occurred during follow-up 
(range, 6 to 58 months; mean, 24.4 months). Extreme atherosclerotic-renovascular 
disease, preoperative renal insufficiency, failure to improve renal function, 
and progression to dependence on dialysis after operation were associated with 
follow-up deaths. Although most patients had a beneficial outcome, failure to 
improve extreme renal insufficiency was associated with a rapid rate of death 
during a relatively short follow-up period.

PMID: 1522633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Sep;16(3):354-62; discussion 362-3.

The evolving surgical management of recurrent carotid stenosis.

Treiman GS(1), Jenkins JM, Edwards WH Sr, Barlow W, Edwards WH Jr, Martin RS 
3rd, Mulherin JL Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN.

The traditional approach to recurrent carotid stenosis has been repeat 
endarterectomy or patch angioplasty. Concern with the durability of repeat 
carotid endarterectomy has resulted in our use of carotid resection with 
autogenous graft interposition. This study was designed to determine the outcome 
and efficacy of carotid resection compared with repeat carotid endarterectomy in 
the management of recurrent carotid stenosis. From 1974 to 1991, 162 operations 
(repeat carotid endarterectomy 105, carotid resection 57) were performed for 
recurrent carotid stenosis. Indication for operation was hemispheric symptoms in 
63% of patients, nonlateralizing symptoms in 25%, asymptomatic stenosis in 7%, 
and previous stroke in 5%. Ninety-one percent of patients had stenosis greater 
than 90% on arteriography. The perioperative stroke rate for carotid resection 
was 3.5%, with a subsequent rate of 0.0064 strokes per year. For repeat carotid 
endarterectomy, the perioperative stroke rate was 1.9% with a subsequent rate of 
0.011 strokes per year. Graft patency after carotid resection was 93% (mean 
follow-up, 35 months). Four patients treated with carotid resection had graft 
thrombosis, and two of the four remained asymptomatic. After repeat carotid 
endarterectomy, one patient had carotid thrombosis, and recurrent stenosis 
greater than 50% developed in 23 patients (mean follow-up, 64 months). Twenty 
patients treated with repeat carotid endarterectomy underwent an additional 
operation for further symptomatic recurrent carotid stenosis. We conclude 
carotid resection is a safe and effective alternative to repeat carotid 
endarterectomy for patients undergoing operation for recurrent carotid stenosis.

PMID: 1522637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Sep;16(3):407-11; discussion 412-3.

The safety, efficacy, and durability of external carotid endarterectomy.

Rush DS(1), Holloway WO, Fogartie JE Jr, Fine JG, Haynes JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of South Carolina School of Medicine, 
Columbia.

Results of 21 external carotid endarterectomies (ECEAs) in 19 patients with 
symptoms were reviewed retrospectively. No patients died or had new strokes 
referable to ECEA within 30 days of surgery. Overall, six (32%) patients died 
during an average 41 months of follow-up (range 1 to 134 months). Persistent 
symptoms followed five (71%) of seven ECEAs performed for cerebrovascular 
insufficiency or transient ischemic attacks. One patient treated urgently for an 
evolving stroke failed to improve and died after hospital discharge. Another 
