patient with crescendo transient ischemic attacks had a preoperative deficit 
that did not resolve for 6 months and had a second stroke 2 years later. Another 
patient had a stroke after a contralateral carotid reconstruction but recovered. 
In contrast, only two (14%) of 14 ECEAs performed for monocular amaurosis fugax 
had persistent symptoms after surgery. Durability of 16 ECEAs was evaluated by 
arteriography or duplex scanning. Of six ECEAs closed primarily, three (50%) 
occluded, one has 60% restenosis, and only two (33%) had no restenosis (mean 
follow-up 36 months). Of 10 ECEAs closed by patch angioplasty, none occluded, 2 
had 20% restenosis, and eight (80%) had no restenosis (mean follow-up 47 
months). Life-table analysis indicated improvement in ECEA patency and 
durability with patch angioplasty (p = 0.011). From these data, ECEA can be 
performed with relative safety but is more effective for treatment of monocular 
amaurosis fugax in patients with a microembolic source at the external carotid 
origin. Patients with any other indications for ECEA did not benefit 
consistently from this operation.

PMID: 1522644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Sep;16(3):420-6; discussion 426-7.

The use of arm vein conduits during infrageniculate arterial bypass.

Harward TR(1), Coe D, Flynn TC, Seeger JM.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, University of Florida College of Medicine, 
Gainesville 32610-0286.

To further examine the use of arm vein for bypass to the popliteal or 
infrapopliteal arteries, we retrospectively reviewed 43 patients undergoing 
infrageniculate arterial bypass by use of an arm vein as a conduit. Nine grafts 
were done to the below-knee popliteal artery and 34 to the infrapopliteal 
arteries. Six grafts were done by use of a single segment of an arm vein, 
whereas 37 grafts were composites of either multiple segments of arm vein (n = 
19) or segments of saphenous and arm vein (n = 18). Mean follow-up time was 15 
1/2 months. Initial (30-day) graft patency and limb salvage were 95%. Primary 
graft patency by life-table analysis was 67% at 1 year and 49% at 3 years. 
Follow-up examination detected graft stenosis before occlusion in six patients 
(all of whom were given anticoagulant medication) and three failing grafts were 
salvaged. This increased overall 3-year secondary graft patency to 64% and 
3-year secondary patency for infrapopliteal bypasses to 66%. Eleven of 12 graft 
occlusions resulted in major amputations (eight were above the knee, and three 
were below the knee) so that limb salvage paralleled secondary graft patency 
(63% at 3 years). Thus arm veins provide an excellent alternative venous conduit 
for infrageniculate arterial bypass, even when composite venous grafts must be 
used.

PMID: 1522646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Semin Oncol Nurs. 1992 Aug;8(3):212-8. doi: 10.1016/0749-2081(92)90019-y.

Rehabilitation resources within the team and community.

Frymark SL(1).

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Cancer Program, Good Samaritan Hospital and Medical Center, 
Portland, OR 97210.

The resources of a cancer rehabilitation team can provide the support, skills, 
and information needed whether the individual's life expectancy is short or 
long. The setting of such services must include both the inpatient and 
outpatient settings and serve as a comprehensive approach to enhance the 
survival for the patient with cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/0749-2081(92)90019-y
PMID: 1523369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Ter Arkh. 1992;64(1):108-14.

[The social factors of mortality].

[Article in Russian]

Virganskaia IM, Kovernyĭ II.

PMID: 1523546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Am J Clin Oncol. 1992 Oct;15(5):446-52. doi:
10.1097/00000421-199210000-00011.

Conservative management of localized prostatic cancer.

Whitmore WF Jr(1), Adolfsson J, Steineck G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York 10021.

Radical prostatectomy (RP), irradiation (RT), early endocrine therapy (EET), and 
expectant treatment (DT) are strategies for the management of clinically 
localized prostatic cancer. EET has not been systematically studied, but 
warrants prospective exploration. DT in uncontrolled studies results in 
disease-specific survival rates at 10 years that appear comparable to those 
achieved following RP or RT and may be considered a management option in 
patients with limited life expectancy. Serial observations in untreated patients 
provide a clinical indication of the rate of tumor progression, but better 
indicators of growth rate, metastatic potential, and responsiveness to a 
particular therapy are needed. Decision analysis may ultimately provide a 
practical supplement to clinical judgment in the choice of treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/00000421-199210000-00011
PMID: 1524046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Ann Genet. 1992;35(2):117-20.

Multiple congenital anomalies due to partial 2p13----2pter duplication resulting 
from an unbalanced X;2 translocation.

Sarda P(1), Lefort G, Devaux P, Humeau C, Rieu D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Medical Genetics, Hôpital Saint-Charles, 
Montpellier, France.

It has been suggested that partial distal 2p2----2pter duplication causes a 
relatively well defined clinical syndrome, mostly as regards craniofacial 
dysmorphism, musculoskeletal and genitalia anomalies. Duplications covering a 
larger portion of 2p i.e. 2p12 or 2p13----2pter are however less documented. The 
authors report a new case of partial 2p13----2pter duplication which supplies 
further evidence for short life expectancy due to the large number of 
malformations in these partial duplications.

PMID: 1524409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Behring Inst Mitt. 1992 Apr;(91):183-90.

Autoimmune hepatitis--an update.

Meyer zum Büschenfelde KH(1), Poralla T.

Author information:
(1)I. Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik, Johannes Gutenberg-Universität, Mainz, 
Germany.

Autoimmune chronic active hepatitis (ai-CAH) is a distinct form of progressive 
inflammatory liver diseases of so far unknown etiology. If untreated it carries 
an unfavourable prognosis, therefore the diagnosis should be made as soon as 
possible. The diagnostic approach has been greatly facilitated by the 
establishment of a panel of marker autoantibodies that define several subgroups 
of the disease. Moreover the characterization of the targets of these 
autoantibodies shed new insight into the pathogenesis of the disease, even 
though the primary event triggering the disease remains to be defined. While the 
marker autoantibodies mentioned above are directed to intracellular structures 
additional immune reactions (both cellular and humoral) could be detected to 
organ specific components of the liver cell surface especially the 
asialoglycoprotein receptor (ASGPR). These latter reactions can be assumed to 
play a role in the initiation and/or perpetuation of the disease. Therapeutic 
strategies based on combined immunosuppression can considerably improve symptoms 
and prolong life expectancy. If they fail liver transplantation offers a very 
promising perspective.

PMID: 1524565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Zentralbl Pathol. 1992 Jun;138(3):226-34.

[Mucopolysaccharidoses. Genetics, clinical pathology, therapeutic regimes].

[Article in German]

Warzok R(1), Seidlitz G.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Pathologie, Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-Universität Greifswald, 
Deutschland.

In recent years, several clinical and biochemical studies have been published 
contributing to better understanding of mucopolysaccharide storage diseases. Our 
purpose, therefore, is, to give an updated survey of this group of lysosomal 
diseases for diagnostic orientation to the pathologist. The present 
classification of mucopolysaccharidoses is based on a mixture of clinical 
symptoms, demonstration of enzyme defects, analysis of urinary excretion of 
glycosaminoglycans (mucopolysaccharides) and historical eponyms. A broad 
heterogeneity has been revealed: identical enzyme defects may lead to severe 
mental and physical deterioration and death during childhood or to mild forms 
with normal adult height, intelligence, and life expectancy. Conversely, 
identical phenotypes may result from mutations of different genes. Various types 
of mucopolysaccharidoses are mostly characterized by quantitative differences of 
main symptoms (coarse facial features, various skeletal abnormalities, 
hepatosplenomegaly, corneal clouding, mental retardation, and cardiac failure). 
Morphologically, storage material can be observed practically in all tissues by 
light and/or electron microscopy. Until recently, no more than palliative 
treatment could be offered. In the last decade, bone marrow transplantation has 
become available and may have beneficial effects in selected cases. The genes of 
several lysosomal enzymes have been identified, and comprehensive studies to 
introduce the gene into defective cells are currently undertaken. However, 
substantial efforts are still necessary until gene transfer will become 
available for patients with mucopolysaccharidoses.

PMID: 1525134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Rev Sci Tech. 1992 Mar;11(1):205-18. doi: 10.20506/rst.11.1.604.

Zoonoses control and veterinary public health.

Mantovani A(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio di Parassitologia, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy.

Because animals are essential in the life cycles of zoonoses, veterinary public 
health is necessary in the control of such diseases. A review of different 
operational phases of zoonoses control is presented, including surveillance, 
control in animals, control of vectors and vehicles, prevention in man and 
strategy selection. A practical scheme for zoonoses control is proposed along 
with its different constituents: legislation and administration, knowledge of 
the territory, knowledge of zoonoses, identification of diagnostic facilities, 
programme formulation, implementation and evaluation. The motivations for 
zoonoses control programmes and for their commencement and/or extension are 
discussed, with reference to their role as indicators of the social and economic 
status of a country.

DOI: 10.20506/rst.11.1.604
PMID: 1525418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Fam Med. 1992 Jul;24(5):349-54.

Decision analysis: a review.

Hagen MD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Practice, University of Kentucky College of Medicine, 
Lexington 40536-0226.

Decision analysis has been used increasingly to investigate complex medical 
decision problems and technologies. Four steps comprise the conduct of a 
decision analysis: construction of a decision tree, assignment of values to 
probabilities and outcomes, averaging out and folding back, and sensitivity 
analysis. Personal computer software is available to facilitate these tasks. 
Relevant outcome measures, such as the declining exponential approximation of 
life expectancy, have improved analysts' ability to express results in 
clinically pertinent terms. Decision analysis is a useful tool for exploring the 
uncertain and often ambiguous clinical problems facing primary care providers.

PMID: 1526383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1992 Jul-Aug;33(4):387-400.

Carotid endarterectomy: operative risks, recurrent stenosis, and long-term 
stroke rates in a modern series.

Mattos MA(1), Hodgson KJ, Londrey GL, Barkmeier LD, Ramsey DE, Garfield M, 
Sumner DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Springfield.

To determine whether carotid endarterectomy (CEA) safely and effectively 
maintained a durable reduction in stroke complications over an extended period, 
we reviewed our data on 478 consecutive patients who underwent 544 CEA's since 
1976. Follow-up was complete in 83% of patients (mean 44 months). There were 7 
early deaths (1.3%), only 1 stroke related (0.2%). Perioperative stroke rates 
(overall 2.9%) varied according to operative indications: asymptomatic, 1.4%; 
transient ischemic attacks (TIA)/amaurosis fugax (AF), 1.3%; nonhemispheric 
symptoms (NH), 4.9%; and prior stroke (CVA), 7.1%. Five and 10-year stroke-free 
rates were 96% and 92% in the asymptomatic group, 93% and 87% in the TIA/AF 
group, 92% and 92% in the NH group, and 80% and 73% in the CVA group. Late 
ipsilateral strokes occurred infrequently (8 patients, 1.7%). Late deaths were 
primarily cardiac related (51.3%). Stroke-free rates were significantly (p less 
than 0.0001) greater than stroke-free survival rates, confirming a non-stroke 
related cause for late death. Restenoses greater than 50% according to duplex 
scanning developed in 13%, most (67%) within 2 years after CEA. Most of these 
(77%) were asymptomatic, and only 0.3% (1 patient) presented with a permanent 
neurologic deficit. The results of carotid endarterectomy are superior to those 
of optimal medical management in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients in terms 
of long-term stroke prevention. When low perioperative stroke 
mortality/morbidity rates are achieved, carotid endarterectomy is justified for 
treatment of patients with carotid bifurcation disease.

PMID: 1527142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1992 Jul-Aug;33(4):426-31.

Early post-operative ankle pressure indices help predict late patency rates 
after femoro-distal vein bypass grafting.

Prime HT(1), Myers KA, Matthews PG, Zeng G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.

A prospective graft surveillance programme included 115 femorodistal autogenous 
vein bypass grafts that were patent when studied by measurements of 
ankle/brachial pressure indices (ABIs) at 3-5 weeks after operation. The grafts 
were followed for up to 3 years to determine whether early ABIs helped to 
predict subsequent failures, defined as graft thrombosis or graft or anastomotic 
stenosis causing diameter reduction greater than 75% treated by surgery or 
balloon dilatation. Receiving operating characteristics curves showed that 
resting ABIs predicted failure better than post-exercise ABIs or the differences 
between the two, and that an early resting ABI less than 0.85 was the optimal 
value to predict failure. Primary patency rates at 2 years were 88% for resting 
ABI greater than or equal to 0.85 and 36% for resting ABI less than 0.85 (p less 
than 0.0005). Most stenoses occurred in the grafts and not at anastomoses. 
Arteriographic grading of crural artery outflow was not significantly different 
for successful or failed grafts or for grafts with resting ABI greater than or 
equal to 0.85 or less than 0.85. The observation that late graft failure was 3-4 
times more likely if the early post-operative ABI was low suggests that most 
graft failures result from faults relating to the operation.

PMID: 1527145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1992 Oct;20(4):781-6. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(92)90172-j.

Long-term follow-up of patients undergoing closed transventricular mitral 
commissurotomy: a useful surrogate for percutaneous balloon mitral 
valvuloplasty?

Rihal CS(1), Schaff HV, Frye RL, Bailey KR, Hammes LN, Holmes DR Jr.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, Minnesota 55905.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine the long-term outcome and 
multivariate predictors of late events in patients who underwent 
transventricular mitral commissurotomy at the Mayo Clinic in the early 1960s.
BACKGROUND: Percutaneous balloon mitral valvuloplasty is an important new 
procedure for which long-term follow-up data are not yet available. However, 
such data do exist for patients who have undergone transventricular mitral 
commissurotomy, a similar but older and more invasive procedure.
METHODS: Follow-up data (mean duration 13.9 years) for 207 women and 60 men who 
underwent transventricular mitral commissurotomy were obtained from medical 
records, referring physicians, questionnaires and telephone interviews. Survival 
and survival free of repeat commissurotomy or mitral valve surgery were 
estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method. Cox proportional hazards model was used 
to determine predictors of survival and repeat mitral valve surgery.
RESULTS: Postoperatively, 92% of patients had symptomatic improvement, which was 
sustained for at least 3 to 4 years in 78%. At 10, 15 and 20 years 
postoperatively, 79%, 67% and 55%, respectively, of patients were alive and 57%, 
36% and 24%, respectively, were alive and free of repeat mitral valve surgery. 
At 10 years, 90% of all patients were free of transient or fixed cerebrovascular 
events. In multivariate analyses, atrial fibrillation, age and male gender were 
independently associated with death, whereas mitral valve calcification, 
cardiomegaly and mitral regurgitation independently predicted repeat mitral 
valve surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term results after transventricular mitral commissurotomy are 
excellent in selected patients with symptomatic mitral stenosis. Because of 
similarities in patient selection and mechanisms of mitral valve dilation, 
similar favorable long-term outcomes may be expected after percutaneous balloon 
mitral valvuloplasty.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(92)90172-j
PMID: 1527287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Am Heart J. 1992 Oct;124(4):1030-4. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90988-8.

Malignant pericardial effusions: usefulness of pericardioscopy.

Millaire A(1), Wurtz A, de Groote P, Saudemont A, Chambon A, Ducloux G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University Hospital of Lille, France.

In cases of malignant pericardial effusion, surgical subxiphoid biopsy sometimes 
fails to prove malignancy. To assess the usefulness of pericardioscopy, which 
allows an endoscopic investigation of the pericardial cavity, this technique was 
systematically performed during surgical drainage procedures that were performed 
on 40 patients who had pericardial effusions of suspected malignant origin. 
Twenty-six patients had a history of neoplasm, 10 had a history of hematologic 
malignancy, and four had recent tumors or lymphadenopathies that were suspected 
to be of malignant origin. Classical tests that are usually performed during a 
conventional surgical drainage procedure (fluid studies and subxiphoid biopsy) 
were combined with direct visualization of the pericardial surfaces and guided 
biopsies of suspicious areas. The follow-up period after pericardioscopy was at 
least 12 months. Two early deaths occurred after pericardioscopy, but no death 
was directly related to the endoscopy. According to all of the tests that were 
performed, diagnoses were malignant pericardial effusion in 15 of 40 patients 
(group I, 37%) and nonmalignant pericardial effusion in 25 of 40 patients (group 
II, 73%). In 3 of 13 patients (23%) in group I, the diagnosis was obtained only 
by pericardioscopy (results of cytologic studies and subxiphoid biopsy were 
negative). In two patients in group I, pericardioscopy could not be completed, 
but the diagnosis of malignant pericardial effusion was obtained by 
pericardiocentesis. In group II, effusion was considered to be postradiation 
pericarditis in five cases, infectious pericarditis in three cases (bacterial in 
one and tuberculous in two), hemopericardium induced by coagulation disturbances 
in three cases, and idiopathic pericarditis in 14 cases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90988-8
PMID: 1529876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Am J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1992 May;14(2):103-10.

Neuroblastoma: epidemiology and pattern of regression. Problems in interpreting 
results of mass screening.

Carlsen NL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics and Paediatric Surgery, University Hospital, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.

Neuroblastomas are malignant, embryonic tumors, and most are probably congenital 
in origin. Neuroblastoma is a heterogeneous neoplastic disease with respect to 
response to treatment and prognosis. Some of its clinical behavior is ascribed 
to the ability of the tumor to regress spontaneously. Spontaneous regression of 
neuroblastoma is occasionally observed in young infants, but occurs extremely 
rarely in older children. This feature is in accordance with the concept that 
tumors develop by a series of changes, progressing from a dependent state to an 
autonomous state. Spontaneous regression was documented in less than 2% of 
Danish neuroblastoma patients. However, the "true" incidence of regression may 
be higher. Epidemiological data suggest that, in recent decades, borderline 
lesions may be included among truly malignant neuroblastomas. The recent birth 
cohorts compiled in Denmark show that 1 in 7,000 live births will develop 
neuroblastoma before 15 years of age. If 65% of all childhood neuroblastomas 
could be detected at or before the age of 6 months, then the expected prevalence 
by screening would be 1/11,000. One can speculate that 1/18,000 live births 
might possibly benefit from screening at age 6 months, since 59% of these 
children had tumors in stages III and IV diagnosed after the age of 6 months. 
However, the proof that screening can only detect lesions that would have 
progressed to become malignant tumors depends on observing an appropriate fall 
in the incidence of the malignant tumors in older children and a decline in 
mortality. Therefore, it is of some concern that the incidence of neuroblastomas 
appears to actually increase with screening while mortality has been little 
effected.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1530115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Am J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1992 May;14(2):136-9. doi: 
10.1097/00043426-199205000-00007.

Management of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia by the Dana-Farber 
Cancer Institute protocols. An update of the Ontario experience.

Barr RD(1), DeVeber LL, Pai KM, Andrew M, Halton J, Cairney AE, Whitton AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

The primary purpose of this study was to determine the therapeutic efficacy of a 
protocol of treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in children. A 
prospective approach was adopted with an inception cohort of patients. Outcome 
measures were assessed on December 31, 1990. The study was conducted at two 
tertiary care centres (pediatric oncology programs) in Ontario, Canada. All 
children with ALL were eligible for study and consecutive recruitment took place 
between May 1984 and July 1987. They were classified at diagnosis into one of 
three categories for risk of relapse according to standardized criteria. 
Thirty-nine children were designated as having standard risk (SR), 31 as having 
high risk (HR), and 12 as having very high risk (VHR) disease. All patients are 
included in the analysis. Treatment was administered according to risk 
category-specific chemotherapy protocols, the details of which have been 
published. A distinguishing feature of these strategies is the intensive use of 
intramuscular L-asparaginase. Patients remained on these regimens for 2 years or 
until relapse or toxic death (events) ensued. Total and event-free survival data 
were determined by life-table analysis (Kaplan-Meier plots). With a minimum 
interval from diagnosis of 186 weeks and a median interval exceeding 5 years, 
the cumulative proportion of the entire cohort (C) surviving is 85% [95% 
confidence interval (CI), 77-93%]. For the respective risk groups, the 
corresponding proportions are SR 94% (95% CI, 87-100%), HR 74% (95% CI, 59-89%), 
and VHR 81% (95% CI, 59-100%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1097/00043426-199205000-00007
PMID: 1530118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Am J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1992 May;14(2):170-6.

Fanconi's anemia. Current concepts.

Alter BP(1).

Author information:
(1)Polly Annenberg Levee Hematology Center, Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai 
School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029.

Fanconi's anemia is an autosomal recessive disorder with a high incidence 
(greater than 90%) of aplastic anemia and a premalignant component with a 
greater than 10% risk of leukemia or solid tumors. The diagnosis of Fanconi's 
anemia depends on increased chromosomal breakage in lymphocytes following 
treatment with a DNA cross-linking agent; patients have been identified who are 
clinically well and whose physical appearance is normal. Although bone marrow or 
cord blood transplants can be curative, treatment for the aplastic anemia 
usually depends on androgens. Close to 20 patients with Fanconi's anemia have 
delivered normal babies, and the mothers' hematologic status was not 
significantly adversely affected by the pregnancy. A few patients have clonal 
cytogenetic abnormalities in their bone marrow that do not necessarily indicate 
leukemic transformation, but further follow-up is important. Studies of in vitro 
erythropoiesis indicate a correlation between the clinical hematologic status 
and the presence of erythroid progenitors in the blood or bone marrow. Certain 
hematopoietic growth factors do increase growth in vitro, suggesting that new 
types of therapy may become available. Not every patient has a poor prognosis. 
There are now many adults with Fanconi's anemia, some with families of their 
own.

PMID: 1530123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. J Clin Oncol. 1992 Jan;10(1):111-6. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1992.10.1.111.

A study of fadrozole, a new aromatase inhibitor, in postmenopausal women with 
advanced metastatic breast cancer.

Raats JI(1), Falkson G, Falkson HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, University of Pretoria, Republic of South 
Africa.

PURPOSE: The study investigated the therapeutic effects of fadrozole (CGS 
16949A), a new aromatase inhibitor, in women who had received prior treatment 
for metastatic breast cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Eighty postmenopausal women who had received prior 
treatment for metastatic breast cancer were randomized to receive fadrozole 1 
mg/d or 4 mg/d per day orally. Seventy-eight patients were assessable for 
toxicity and response.
RESULTS: Toxicity was limited to mild (grade 1) to moderate (grade 2) hot 
flashes in 28%, nausea and vomiting in 13%, fatigue in 8%, and mild loss of 
appetite in 5% of patients. No electrolyte or unanticipated hormonal changes 
occurred. The overall response was 23% (complete response, 10%; partial 
response, 13%). In addition, 45% of the patients had a no change status. There 
was no difference in response rate between the patients randomized to the two 
different doses of fadrozole. Only dominant site of metastases significantly 
affected response. The median time to treatment failure (TTF) was 4.4 months 
(4.7 months on 1 mg/d and 3.7 months on 4 mg/d). The median survival was 22.6 
months (17.5 months on 1 mg/d; median survival has not been reached in patients 
on 4 mg/d). The response and survival in patients with estrogen receptor 
(ER)-positive and ER-unknown disease were not significantly different.
CONCLUSIONS: Fadrozole has good therapeutic effect as a second-line treatment in 
postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer. In this study there was no 
significant difference in toxicity or response between 1 mg/d and 4 mg/d. 
Further trials comparing fadrozole to other hormone treatment are indicated.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1992.10.1.111
PMID: 1530798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Jan;15(1):130-41; discussion 141-2. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1992.33492.

Reversed vein graft stenosis: early diagnosis and management.

Berkowitz HD(1), Fox AD, Deaton DH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia.

Conscientious surveillance of intrainguinal bypass grafts is mandatory to detect 
vein graft stenoses, which, if uncorrected, can lead to graft occlusion. It is 
now widely accepted that noninvasive vascular laboratory studies are the best 
way to detect these lesions. However, controversy still exists over treatment, 
specifically whether balloon angioplasty is an acceptable substitute for surgery 
(patch angioplasty or short jump grafts) in the treatment of these lesions. We 
have always favored balloon angioplasty as primary treatment and have summarized 
our experience with treating 72 stenotic reversed femoropopliteal and 
femorotibial vein grafts, which represent 12% of 521 bypass grafts performed at 
our institution. Prosthetic and in situ grafts are specifically excluded from 
this report, as well as occluded grafts, found to have stenotic lesions after 
lytic therapy. The most common stenotic lesion occurred within 4 cm of the 
proximal anastomosis (29/72 = 40%). The other sites were near the distal 
anastomosis (7/72 = 10%), and in the middle of the graft (15/72 = 12%). 
Eighty-one percent (58/72) of the lesions were treated initially by balloon 
angioplasty with a 31% recurrence. Twenty-nine percent of the 14 grafts treated 
surgically by vein patch angioplasty or short jump grafts experienced 
recurrence. Overall 61% (44/72) of the stenotic grafts were treated by balloon 
angioplasty alone. The 5-year life-table assisted primary patency after 
correction of the stenotic lesion was 61%. The patency of the grafts from the 
time of initial bypass surgery, however, was 80%. Location of the stenosis 
within the graft was a major determinant of patency. Lesions in the proximal 
graft, proximal anastomosis, and distal graft taken as a group had significantly 
better patency than the midgraft and distal anastomotic lesions (5-year patency, 
65% vs 48%, p less than 0.001 log rank test). We continue to recommend balloon 
angioplasty as primary therapy for vein graft stenosis except for those 
occurring in the midgraft and distal anastomosis. Fortunately, this group 
accounts for only 36% of lesions seen with reversed veins. Recurrent stenosis 
after balloon angioplasty should be repaired surgically.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1992.33492
PMID: 1530823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Am J Med Genet. 1992 Jan 15;42(2):208-12. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.1320420214.

Survival of children with Down syndrome in Italy.

Mastroiacovo P(1), Bertollini R, Corchia C.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Department, Catholic University, Rome, Italy.

A cohort of 917 Down syndrome (DS) children born in Italy between 1978 and 1984 
was studied for survival through the age of 8 years. The highest mortality 
occurred in the first month of life (7.9%); survival was about 80% at 1 year, 
78% at 2 years, and 76% at 5 years, with small decreases thereafter. At the 
univariate analysis, survival was lower for subjects with congenital heart 
disease (CHD), birth weight less than 2,500 g, parity of 3 or plus, maternal age 
greater than or equal to 35 years, and for those born in Southern Italy compared 
with Northern Italy. No differences in survival were observed by sex and by 
socioeconomic status. The Cox proportional hazard model was used to evaluate the 
effect of each variable adjusted for all the others present in the model. 
Presence of CHD (odds ratio = 3.27; 95% confidence interval (C.I.) 2.31-4.63), 
birth in the South (odds ratio = 2.69; 95% C.I. 1.91-3.79), and low birth weight 
(odds ratio = 1.87; 95% C.I. 1.29-2.72) were independently associated with 
survival. None of the other variables emerged as a statistically significant 
prognostic factor. Various hypotheses were considered to interpret the 
unexpected effect of place of birth on survival. Quality of medical care 
provided in the South of Italy is the most likely determinant of the high 
mortality observed among children with DS born in that area of Italy. Such 
differences in survival within the same country could occur in other developed 
nations as well.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.1320420214
PMID: 1531098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Br J Hosp Med. 1992 Jan 9-22;47(1):44-50.

Modern management of peptic ulceration.

Singh P(1), Colin-Jones DG.

Author information:
(1)Royal Naval Hospital, Gosport.

Comment in
    Br J Hosp Med. 1992 Dec 2-1993 Jan 5;48(11):776.

The availability of highly effective ulcer-healing agents has made drug therapy 
the treatment of choice for the large majority of patients with peptic 
ulceration. Attention has now shifted from healing to reduction of the very high 
relapse rates still seen with most drug regimens.

PMID: 1531316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Am J Hum Genet. 1992 Mar;50(3):652-4.

Does the omission of missing information bias the estimates of age-at-onset 
distributions?

Krawczak M, Bockel B.

Comment on
    Am J Hum Genet. 1991 Jul;49(1):76-87.

PMCID: PMC1684293
PMID: 1531731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1992 Feb;3(1):45-53. doi:
10.1016/s1051-0443(92)72185-x.

Distal popliteal and tibioperoneal transluminal angioplasty: long-term 
follow-up.

Bull PG(1), Mendel H, Hold M, Schlegl A, Denck H.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Krankenhaus Wien-Lainz, Austria.

The long-term efficacy of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) for 
treatment of occlusive lesions involving arteries below the knee was evaluated 
in 168 consecutive patients. The procedure was preceded by intraarterial 
thrombolysis in 33 patients with failing femorodistal grafts. Indications were 
disabling claudication in 40 cases (24%), acute ischemia in 18 (11%), rest pain 
in 49 (29%), and tissue necrosis in 61 (36%). Angioplasty of tandem femoral 
and/or iliac lesions was performed in 58 cases (34.5%). Major complications were 
observed in 19 patients (11.3%) and minor complications in 12 others. Five 
patients died within 30 days (3%). Mean follow-up was 26.1 months (range, 4-72 
months). Major amputation was required in 26 cases (15%). The cumulative 
clinical success at 3 years was 83% for a single stenosis, 76% for multilevel 
lesions, 44% following lytic therapy, 36% for segmental occlusions, and 14% for 
anastomotic stenoses. Infrapopliteal PTA is useful in selected patients. Factors 
associated with poor long-term patency include a single patent tibial artery (P 
= .039), acute ischemia (P = .03), anastomotic stenosis (P = .01), and, 
possibly, complete occlusion prior to treatment (P = .091).

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(92)72185-x
PMID: 1531771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Am J Public Health. 1992 Apr;82(4):606-8. doi: 10.2105/ajph.82.4.606.

The epidemiology of low back pain in an adolescent population.

Olsen TL(1), Anderson RL, Dearwater SR, Kriska AM, Cauley JA, Aaron DJ, LaPorte 
RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pa 15261.

We assessed the prevalence of low back pain (LBP) in a cohort of 1242 
adolescents (aged 11 through 17) currently participating in a 4-year prospective 
study of medically treated injuries. Overall, 30.4% of the adolescents reported 
LBP. The impact of LBP in adolescents was considerable, with one third resulting 
in restricted activity and 7.3% seeking medical attention. Life-table analysis 
demonstrated that by age 15, the prevalence of LBP increased to 36%. There were 
few differences by gender or race. These results suggest that LBP in adolescents 
is a serious public health problem.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.82.4.606
PMCID: PMC1694113
PMID: 1532116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Diabet Med. 1992 Jan-Feb;9(1):84-90. doi:
10.1111/j.1464-5491.1992.tb01721.x.

An audit of lower limb arteriography in diabetic patients.

Mansell PI(1), Gregson R, Allison SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital, Nottingham, UK.

The outcome of 83 diabetic patients with peripheral vascular disease who 
underwent arteriography between 1984 and 1988 was reviewed. Angioplasty was 
possible in 42 legs and was technically successful in 31 but led directly to 
clinical improvement in only 15. Five of 20 patients referred for vascular 
surgery also improved. Factors associated with a clinically successful outcome 
were presentation with claudication, palpable pulses in the contralateral foot, 
and radiographic evidence of either a short proximal lesion or 2-3 vessel 
run-off. Median life expectancy following arteriography was 36 months. The 
median time to amputation was 21 months and median survival with both life and 
limb intact was only 13 months.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.1992.tb01721.x
PMID: 1532356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. J Med Genet. 1992 Jan;29(1):20-3. doi: 10.1136/jmg.29.1.20.

UK clinicians' knowledge of and attitudes to the prenatal diagnosis of single 
gene disorders.

Firth HV(1), Lindenbaum RH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, Churchill Hospital, Headington, Oxford.

Postal questionnaires were sent to 308 clinicians in the UK (general 
practitioners, obstetricians, clinical geneticists, neurologists, 
paediatricians, and paediatric neurologists) to assess their knowledge of, and 
attitudes to, the prenatal diagnosis of three common single gene disorders, 
Huntington's disease (HD), cystic fibrosis (CF), and Duchenne muscular dystrophy 
(DMD). Replies received numbered 213, a response rate of 69%. Overall, 95% of 
responding clinicians thought that offering prenatal diagnosis for the three 
test conditions was often or always appropriate. There was a correlation between 
the clinicians' estimates of life expectancy and their willingness to offer 
prenatal diagnosis (p less than 0.01). Among the non-geneticists questioned, 
fewer than 50% of general practitioners answered correctly regarding the 
availability of prenatal tests.

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.29.1.20
PMCID: PMC1015815
PMID: 1532425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Presse Med. 1992 Feb 15;21(6):253-7.

[Femoro-distal revascularization for "critical" chronic atheromatous ischemia. 
695 cases].

[Article in French]

Marzelle J(1), Fichelle JM, Alimi G, Grüss JM, Cormier F, Gigou F, Artru B, 
Laurian C, Cormier JM.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie vasculaire, Hôpital Saint-Joseph, Paris.

The results of the revascularizations carried out over a 10-year period for 
"critical" chronic ischaemia, using the femoropopliteal bypass technique, have 
been retrospectively analyzed. In all, 600 patients underwent femoro-distal 
revascularization in 644 limbs, and 695 bypasses were performed. The hospital 
mortality rate was 4.3 percent. Among these 695 bypasses, postoperative 
occlusion occurred in 16.5 percent of the cases, and major amputations were 
necessary in 9.8 percent. The probability of 5-year survival was 47 percent. The 
probabilities of bypass patency and limb salvage were 50 and 76 percent 
respectively. The failure of revascularization ending in amputation did not 
significantly increase the postoperative mortality rate (4.1 percent versus 4.6 
percent), but the life expectancy of patients who were amputated was 
significantly lower than that of patients who were not (55 +/- 5 percent versus 
63 +/- 3 percent at 3 years; P = 0.03). The factors predictive of successful 
bypass were examined; they included age, clinical stage, diabetes, bypass 
material, site of distal implantation, revascularization procedure and 
reoperation. Femoro-distal revascularization makes it possible to cope with the 
challenge of limb salvage, even when the receiving vessel is an artery of the 
foot.

PMID: 1532639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Oncology (Williston Park). 1992 Feb;6(2 Suppl):39-44.

Biological and functional definition of the older patient: the role of 
biomarkers of aging.

Mooradian AD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, St. Louis University School of Medicine.

The rate of aging is not uniform among all individuals. Thus, determination of 
the biological age of an individual and possibly the biological age of his or 
her organ systems poses a special challenge to the gerontologist. This could be 
accomplished if specific biomarkers of aging were available, which would allow 
standardization of studies, help us understand the various determinants of 
aging, monitor the impact of various interventions on the rate of aging, and 
possible allow estimates of life expectancy and predictions of future morbidity. 
Specific criteria need to be developed for accepting a parameter as a biomarker 
of aging, since an age-related alteration in a biological parameter does not 
necessarily qualify. Potential biomarkers of human aging include in vitro 
proliferative capacity of fibroblasts, glycation of collagen, and DNA unwinding 
rate.

PMID: 1532735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Presse Med. 1992 Mar 7;21(9):424-31.

[Long-term oxygen therapy in chronic respiratory insufficiency. Usefulness, 
indications, modes of administration].

[Article in French]

Weitzenblum E(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital de Hautepierre, CHU de Strasbourg.

Long-term oxygen therapy improves the life expectancy of hypoxaemic patients 
with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), provided the hypoxaemia is 
sufficiently pronounced under stable conditions (PaO2 less than 55 mmHg) and 
oxygen is given for more than 16 out of 24 hours. By extension, the same 
indications are applicable to hypoxaemia due to other causes (diffuse fibrosis, 
pneumoconiosis, cystic fibrosis, etc.). Long-term oxygen therapy improves the 
patients' quality of life and also has favourable effects on oxygen transport, 
neuropsychological status, polycythaemia and pulmonary hypertension. It is 
usually delivered by means of O2 extractors, to which may be added small flasks 
of O2 gas for walking and moving about. Liquid O2 is a good solution for 
subjects who are motivated and are obliged to do a great deal of walking. The O2 
flow rate administered must be such that it rises the PaO2 level above 60 mmHg. 
Oxygen therapy is only a symptomatic treatment and cannot replace other types of 
therapy, such as bronchodilators, physiotherapy, etc. It gives satisfactory 
results but it has not transformed the prognosis of severe hypoxaemic COPD.

PMID: 1533036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Fertil Steril. 1992 May;57(5):965-73.

Comparison of CO2 laser laparoscopy with laparotomy for treatment of 
endometriomata.

Adamson GD(1), Subak LL, Pasta DJ, Hurd SJ, von Franque O, Rodriguez BD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, California.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the effectiveness of laparoscopy versus laparotomy in the 
treatment of endometriomata.
DESIGN: Controlled study using data prospectively tabulated.
SETTING: Treatment performed by senior author in a referral reproductive 
endocrinology and surgery private practice.
PATIENTS: One hundred infertile women were diagnosed with endometriomata.
INTERVENTION: Forty-eight women were treated with CO2 laser laparoscopy 
(laparoscopy group) and 52 women were treated with CO2 laser or nonlaser 
laparotomy (laparotomy group).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The hypothesis that laparoscopy group pregnancy rates 
(PRs) would be equal to or greater than laparotomy group was formulated before 
data analysis but after data tabulation.
RESULTS: The 1 and 3-year life table estimated cumulative PRs +/- SE were 0.30 
+/- 0.07 and 0.52 +/- 0.09 for laparoscopy group and 0.23 +/- 0.06 and 0.46 +/- 
0.09 for laparotomy group (Breslow P = 0.48). Monthly fecundity over 3 years was 
2.4% for laparoscopy group and 2.0% for laparotomy group.
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopy with CO2 laser can be a safe and effective modality for 
treating endometriomata.

PMID: 1533375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. J Vasc Surg. 1992 May;15(5):860-5; discussion 865-6.

The role of duplex scanning versus angiography in predicting outcome after 
balloon angioplasty in the femoropopliteal artery.

Mewissen MW(1), Kinney EV, Bandyk DF, Reifsnyder T, Seabrook GR, Lipchik EO, 
Towne JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee.

Duplex-derived velocity measurements were used to assess the hemodynamics of 64 
femoropopliteal arterial sites in 59 patients after angiographically successful 
percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty. With use of angiography as the 
gold standard, percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty was judged to be 
successful if (1) evidence existed of a "split" caused by intimal dissection and 
splitting of atherosclerotic plaque; and (2) no significant diameter-reducing 
residual stenosis was observed at the percutaneous transluminal balloon 
angioplasty site. At 1 month, 55 limbs (86%) were hemodynamically and clinically 
improved by SVS/ISCVS clinical criteria for chronic limb ischemia. Of the 55 
percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty sites, duplex scanning had 
identified 40 (63%) sites with a less than 50% diameter-reducing stenosis and 15 
(27%) sites with a greater than 50% diameter-reducing stenosis within a week 
after percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty. Independent review of the 
55 angiograms taken after percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty 
identified 39 sites (71%) with a split and 16 sites (29%) without. By life-table 
analysis, a greater than 50% diameter-reducing stenosis predicted a worse 
clinical outcome (15% at 1 year) compared with the presence of a less than 50% 
diameter-reducing stenosis (84% at 1 year) (p less than 0.001; log rank test). 
The presence or absence of an angiographic split was not a predictive factor of 
percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty outcome (split, 61% at 1 year; no 
split, 62% at 1 year) (p = 0.832; log rank test). The detection of a functional 
residual stenosis by duplex scanning did not correlate with angiographic 
appearance, but was predictive of clinical failure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

PMID: 1533685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. J Med Genet. 1992 Apr;29(4):239-42. doi: 10.1136/jmg.29.4.239.

Age at onset and life table risks in genetic counselling for Huntington's 
disease.

Harper PS(1), Newcombe RG.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Genetics, University of Wales College of Medicine, 
Cardiff.

Age related genetic risk data for carrying the gene for Huntington's disease in 
relatives at risk, based on a previously documented life table approach, are 
presented in a form allowing ready access for use in genetic counselling. 
Figures are given for first degree relatives and for second degree relatives 
showing varying age combinations of consultand and intervening parent at risk. 
Data are also given for the risk of developing Huntington's disease over varying 
finite periods in relation to age. The availability of this information in 
tabular form should help those involved in genetic counselling for this disorder 
in providing accurate risk estimates to relatives; the data are also of 
importance for combination with genotype information in predictive testing.

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.29.4.239
PMCID: PMC1015921
PMID: 1533876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Am J Clin Nutr. 1992 Jun;55(6 Suppl):1253S-1256S. doi:
10.1093/ajcn/55.6.1253S.

Measurement issues in preventive strategies: past, present, and future.

Rudberg MA(1), Furner SE, Cassel CK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, IL 60637.

Prevention of the chronic health conditions of older people can potentially 
affect both life expectancy and health. In the past, fatal conditions, namely 
coronary heart disease, cancer, and stroke, dominated work on preventive 
strategies with the only outcome of concern being mortality. The present 
increasing life expectancy of the population has put persons at risk for the 
nonfatal and often disabling conditions of old age, such as dementia, 
osteoporosis and hip fracture, sensory impairments, and arthritis, to name a 
few. These conditions have major effects on, not the quantity, but the quality 
of life. In the future, quality of life measured in a variety of ways will be 
necessary to evaluate the effects of preventive strategies for nonfatal 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/55.6.1253S
PMID: 1534197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Am J Clin Nutr. 1992 Jun;55(6 Suppl):1257S-1262S. doi:
10.1093/ajcn/55.6.1257S.

Strategies for reduction of morbidity.

Fries JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, CA.

The future health of our increasingly senior populations depend upon the 
interrelationship between two critical points: the onset time of the first major 
disease, infirmity, or disability and the time of death. Reduction of morbidity 
requires compressing the average period between these points and reducing the 
average level of morbidity during this period. The goal of compression of 
morbidity currently is being achieved in some areas. Life expectancy increases 
in the United States above age 65 y have plateaued, with further increases 
becoming ever more difficult. Some major chronic diseases, such as 
