atherosclerosis and lung cancer, now occur later in life. Work disability 
prevalence has begun to decline. Intergenerational comparisons demonstrate 
improved health at specific ages. Randomized-controlled trials of primary 
prevention have failed to decrease total mortality in risk subjects while 
markedly decreasing the morbidity experienced by the same subjects. Compression 
has been documented for higher socioeconomic class subpopulations. These 
observations have major implications for health policy and mandate initiatives 
directed at prevention of disability and infirmity.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/55.6.1257S
PMID: 1534198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Radiology. 1992 Mar;182(3):703-7. doi: 10.1148/radiology.182.3.1535883.

Transcatheter embolization in management of hemorrhage from duodenal ulcer: 
long-term results and complications.

Lang EK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Louisiana State University Medical Center, New 
Orleans 70112-2822.

Effectiveness of transcatheter embolization for treatment of bleeding duodenal 
ulcers was evaluated in 57 patients followed up for at least 5 years. Terminal 
muscular branch vessel embolization was effective for initial control of 
bleeding in 27 of 28 cases, and gastroduodenal artery embolization was effective 
in 25 of 29 (P = .371). Terminal vessel embolization was more effective in 
attaining long-term control of bleeding (15 of 28 patients) than was 
gastroduodenal artery embolization (eight of 29) (P = .084). Occlusion of 
terminal vessels with 6-cyanoacrylate resulted in long-term control of bleeding 
in nine of 10 patients. With selective embolization of terminal vessels, late 
complications of duodenal stenosis occurred in seven of 28 patients; when 
occlusion was at the level of the gastroduodenal artery (P = .131), this 
developed in only two of 29. Occlusion of the proximal gastroduodenal artery by 
means of epsilon-aminocaproic acid-induced autologous clot was the most 
innocuous technique. Retrograde perfusion via the superior mesenteric and 
inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery (though at a reduced flow rate and pressure 
gradient) and reconstitution of flow after clot lysis are the theoretical 
advantages of this technique.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.182.3.1535883
PMID: 1535883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Am J Public Health. 1992 Jan;82(1):109-12. doi: 10.2105/ajph.82.1.109.

Improvement in intergenerational health.

Fries JF(1), Williams CA, Morfeld D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, CA 
94304-1808.

Differences in health status between subjects, their parents, and their children 
were analyzed in 2206 subjects who had attended the University of Pennsylvania 
during the 1939 to 1940 school year. Subjects compared their overall health 
status at the average age of 70 with that of their same-sex parent at the same 
age and with that of their same-sex child at the approximate average age of 45, 
providing reasons for reported differences. Thus, health status in family 
members of the same sex at the same age in 1988 was compared with that in 
approximately 1963. Subject health was strikingly improved compared with that of 
their parents a generation earlier, with 58% reporting their health to be better 
or much better, and only 9% reporting it to be worse or much worse (P less than 
.001). The major reasons for the difference were decreased prevalence of chronic 
conditions and healthier life-styles. The same results were observed in a 
community-based population of 317 subjects and, even more strikingly, in a group 
of 422 aging long-distance runners. These observations suggest substantial 
improvement in senior health status over the past quarter century in selected 
populations, and they contrast with equivocal changes that have been noted with 
traditional serial survey techniques.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.82.1.109
PMCID: PMC1694396
PMID: 1536312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1992;185(2):115-23.

Postnatal development of rat motor nerve terminals.

Waerhaug O(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Oslo, Norway.

The nerve terminals of neuromuscular junctions in the rat diaphragm, extensor 
digitorum longus muscle and soleus muscle have been studied in animals between 3 
weeks and 2.5 years of age using methylene blue stain and light microscopy. 
Dimensions, structure and organization of the nerve terminals were shown to 
change during life at various rates in different muscles and postnatal periods. 
The area and length of the terminals increase in all three muscles until young 
adult age. Later these dimensions continue to increase in the extensor digitorum 
longus and soleus muscles. In the diaphragm only the length increases, and this 
occurs late in adult life. The area also increases in relation to the diameter 
of the corresponding muscle fiber. Adult soleus terminals are more elongated 
than terminals in the diaphragm and extensor digitorum longus muscle. During 
adult life the extension of nerve terminals in relation to muscle fiber length 
increases in the extensor digitorum longus and soleus muscles, but is almost 
unchanged in the diaphragm. The nerve terminal branches are mainly coarse and 
irregular in young animals, but possess varying numbers of varicosities in adult 
animals. The number of varicosities is high in the extensor digitorum longus 
muscle and low in the diaphragm. In old animals the number of varicosities tends 
to be reduced. With increasing age the nerve terminal branches become organized 
in distinct groups with increasing distance between the groups. This is 
prominent in the soleus.

PMID: 1536444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Ann Emerg Med. 1992 Mar;21(3):291-7. doi: 10.1016/s0196-0644(05)80890-x.

Factors associated with career longevity in residency-trained emergency 
physicians.

Hall KN(1), Wakeman MA, Levy RC, Khoury J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas 
City.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that residency-trained emergency 
physicians who left the practice of emergency medicine do not differ 
significantly from those who continue to practice.
DESIGN: A retrospective cohort study using a mailed questionnaire.
TYPE OF PARTICIPANTS: Eight hundred fifty-eight emergency medicine residency 
graduates from 1978 through 1982.
METHODS: A mailed questionnaire was used to obtain data from the study 
population. Individuals who did not respond to the first mailing were sent a 
second survey six weeks later. A sample of 10% of nonrespondents was contacted 
by telephone and compared with respondents on five variables. Respondents were 
divided into physicians who continued to practice emergency medicine and those 
who had elected to leave the specialty. The variables used to compare the two 
groups included personal and professional demographics, career satisfaction, and 
satisfaction with training. chi 2, Fisher's exact t-test, and logistic 
regression were used to analyze the data with an a priori level of significance 
set at .05.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: There were 539 complete responses for a response 
rate of 62.8%. No statistical differences between responders and nonresponders 
were identified. The ten-year survival rate of respondents was 84.9%. Those who 
left emergency medicine were less likely to be board certified in emergency 
medicine (P less than .001), were more likely to be board certified in another 
field (P = .001), were less likely to work with residents during their emergency 
medicine practice (P = .009), and were more likely to report an annual gross 
income of less than $100,000 per year (P less than .001). Emergency physicians 
who have left the field were less likely to report being satisfied or very 
satisfied with their initial choice of emergency medicine as a specialty (P = 
.001). There was no difference in satisfaction with the quality of emergency 
medicine residency training (P = .183).
CONCLUSION: Career longevity of residency-trained emergency physicians has been 
greater than early predictions. Interactions with residents, higher income, 
satisfaction with training decision, and board certification in emergency 
medicine are variables associated with a higher retention rate.

DOI: 10.1016/s0196-0644(05)80890-x
PMID: 1536490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1992 Mar;(276):229-36.

Primary total knee arthroplasty for displaced, acute intraarticular knee 
fractures. A report of four cases.

Wolf LR(1), Rothman RH, Hozack WJ, Balderston RA, Booth RE Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Thomas Jefferson University, Rothman 
Institute, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Primary total knee arthroplasty was performed in four patients with acute 
intraarticular fractures. All four were at high risk of failure for standard 
operative and nonoperative treatment because of severe osteopenia, preexisting 
intraarticular pathology, or a limited life expectancy. All benefited by early 
pain relief, functional range of motion, and early ambulation, with no early 
perioperative morbidity.

PMID: 1537159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. J Gerontol. 1992 Mar;47(2):P85-95. doi: 10.1093/geronj/47.2.p85.

Possible selves and perceived health in older adults and college students.

Hooker K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Syracuse University, NY 13244.

Two studies were conducted to assess motivational aspects of the self by 
measuring hoped-for and feared possible selves among a sample of older adults 
and college students. It was predicted that health-related possible selves would 
be predominant among older adults, but not college students, and that 
self-regulatory aspects of possible selves would be related to perceived health. 
Data were collected through interviews and questionnaires. Older adults were 
significantly more likely to have possible selves in the realm of health than 
were college students. Regression analyses with the older sample indicate that 
outcome expectancy for a hoped-for self was positively related to perceived 
health, whereas amount of time spent thinking about a hoped-for possible self 
was negatively related to perceived health. However, these relationships were 
not significant when evaluated in relation to a feared possible self, indicating 
that there may be differences in the way self-regulatory processes operate in 
service of positive, as opposed to negative, goals for the self. Results are 
discussed with reference to theoretical models of self-efficacy and motivation 
over the life span.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/47.2.p85
PMID: 1538073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Mar;15(3):527-35.

Prospective clinical study with in vitro endothelial cell lining of expanded 
polytetrafluoroethylene grafts in crural repeat reconstruction.

Magometschnigg H(1), Kadletz M, Vodrazka M, Dock W, Grimm M, Grabenwöger M, 
Minar E, Staudacher M, Fenzl G, Wolner E.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, University of Vienna, Austria.

A nonrandomized prospective clinical study was undertaken to evaluate the 
technique and efficacy of in vitro endothelial cell lining of synthetic grafts. 
Twenty-six patients (10 men and 16 women with a mean age of 68.4 years; range, 
49 to 80 years) with end stage chronic peripheral vascular disease requiring 
reoperation were entered into the study. In 13 patients venous endothelial cells 
were harvested 4 to 7 weeks before operation, grown to confluency in culture 
flasks, and seeded onto the inner surface of expanded polytetrafluoroethylene 
grafts. Thirteen patients received untreated expanded polytetrafluoroethylene 
grafts and served as a control. A scoring system with use of intraarterial 
angiography was used to assess disease severity. No statistically significant 
differences in angiographic score were seen between the two groups, indicating 
comparable severity of disease. Early secondary graft patency (0 to 30 days) was 
92% for the in vitro endothelial cell lining group and 53% for control patients. 
The amputation rate after 18 months for the in vitro endothelial cell lining 
group was 15%, with a 31% rate in the control group. The functional performance 
of the in vitro endothelial cell lining bypasses was superior to that of 
untreated bypass grafts during the observed follow-up period. These early 
results suggest that in vitro endothelial cell lining is a method that can 
reduce the early occlusion rate now seen after repeat reconstruction of crural 
vessels.

PMID: 1538510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Mar;15(3):550-7. doi: 10.1067/mva.1992.32727.

Descending thoracic aorta-to-iliofemoral artery bypass as an alternative to 
aortoiliac reconstruction.

Criado E(1), Johnson G Jr, Burnham SJ, Buehrer J, Keagy BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina, 
Chapel Hill.

During the last 3 decades subcutaneous extraanatomic bypass, despite its limited 
durability, has been the favored alternative to infrarenal aortofemoral bypass. 
Meanwhile, the descending thoracic aorta has been scarcely used as an inflow 
source for aortoiliac reconstruction. Over the past 8 years we performed 16 
bypasses from the descending thoracic aorta to the iliofemoral vessels for 
occlusive disease. Our experience combined with that found in the 
English-language literature totaled 141 patients. In 79 patients (56%) the 
indication for surgery was failure or infection of an abdominal aortofemoral 
graft. Previous abdominal operations, sepsis, radiation therapy, the presence of 
abdominal stomas, or an unsuitable infrarenal aorta were the indications in the 
remaining cases. The combined operative mortality rate was 6.4%. The life-table 
primary graft patency was 98% at 1 year, 88% at 2 years, and 70.4% at 5 years. 
Bypass from the descending thoracic aorta to the iliofemoral artery uses an 
inflow source superior to other extraanatomic reconstructions, does not require 
aortic cross-clamping, avoids the abdominal cavity, and places the graft remote 
to the skin and intestine. The operative mortality and patency rates compare 
favorably to those of other extraanatomic or remedial aortic reconstructions. 
Descending thoracic aorta to iliofemoral artery bypass is a superb alternative 
to abdominal aortofemoral bypass, carries a low mortality rate, has an excellent 
short-term patency, and features unique characteristics for long-term 
durability.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1992.32727
PMID: 1538513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Mar;15(3):564-8.

Angioscopy-guided semiclosed technique for in situ bypass with a novel flushing 
valvulotome: early results.

Stierli P(1), Aeberhard P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Kantonsspital Aarau, Switzerland.

To allow and facilitate endoluminal vein preparation under angioscopic guidance 
for in situ bypass grafting, a Mill's valvulotome was equipped with a flushing 
channel. The advantages of the novel valvulotome are obvious: it allows perfect 
angioscopic view within a saphenous vein that still contained blood by adjusting 
the jet of lactated Ringer's solution directly to the lens of the angioscope; it 
permits the use of very small angioscopes without integrated flushing channels, 
preventing endothelial damage. The described technique was tested in 27 
peripheral reconstructions in 26 patients. The secondary cumulative patency rate 
within a follow-up time of 4 to 30 months (mean, 14 months) was 89%. The 
described technique substantially facilitates in situ bypass grafting and 
minimizes early and late complications and further improves surgical outcome.

PMID: 1538515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Transplant Proc. 1992 Feb;24(1):122-3.

Renal transplantation in cyclosporine-treated patients over age 50.

Riera L(1), Serón D, Castelao AM, Griñó JM, Franco E, Bover J, Vigués L, Alsina 
J, Serrallach N.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Nefrología, Hospital Príncipes de España, Ciudad Sanitaria de 
Bellvitge, Barcelona.

PMID: 1539204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Transplant Proc. 1992 Feb;24(1):330.

Comparison between kidney living donor and cadaveric donor transplantations in 
recipients below 45 years of age.

Fehrman I(1), Tydén G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Renal Medicine, Huddinge Hospital, Sweden.

PMID: 1539298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Am Heart J. 1992 Mar;123(3):687-92. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90507-r.

Long-term outcome in symptomatic carotid sinus hypersensitivity.

Brignole M(1), Oddone D, Cogorno S, Menozzi C, Gianfranchi L, Bertulla A.

Author information:
(1)Service of Cardiology, Hospital of Lavagna, Italy.

Between 1982 and 1988, we observed 312 patients who were affected by syncope or 
presyncope and whose spontaneous symptoms could be reproduced by means of 
carotid sinus massage (CSH); no other definite cause of syncope could be 
identified. The clinical outcome during a 2- to 8-year follow-up period (mean 44 
+/- 24 months) was assessed in 262 of them (mean age, 71 +/- 11 years; 183 men) 
and was compared with that of a group of 55 patients who were affected by 
unexplained syncope (control patients) who were matched 4:1 for age and sex with 
CSH patients. CSH patients had an overall mortality rate of 7.3 per 100 
person-years (cardiovascular, 66%; sudden death, 9%); overall predicted 
cumulative survival rates at 1, 3, 5, and 7 years were 92%, 80%, 66% and 53%. 
Survival was similar in control patients; mortality rate was 5.8 per 100 
person-years (cardiovascular, 82%; sudden death, 18%); cumulative survival rates 
at 1, 3, 5, and 7 years were 85%, 80%, 73%, and 69%. Standardized mortality rate 
of the general population with similar age and sex distribution, as calculated 
by means of Italian Istituto Centrale di Statistica death-rate data (1987 
edition) was 8 per 100 person-years. Of 13 clinical variables, age, sex, 
abnormal electrocardiogram, and heart failure (but not CSH type or related 
arrhythmias) were independently linked to mortality in CSH patients (Cox model). 
In the vasodepressor form of CSH, patients were younger than those with other 
forms of CSH and the percentage of women was higher.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90507-r
PMID: 1539520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Cancer. 1992 Mar 15;69(6):1507-12. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19920315)69:6<1509::aid-cncr2820690632>3.0.co;2-j.

Suicides among Danish patients with cancer: 1971 to 1986.

Storm HH(1), Christensen N, Jensen OM.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cancer Epidemiology, Copenhagen, Denmark.

The risk of suicide or other violent death was assessed among 296,331 patients 
with cancer in Denmark from 1971 to 1986 by linkage between the National Cancer 
Registry and mortality files. There were 1,637 violent deaths, of which 568 were 
suicides. The relative risk (RR) of suicide was significantly increased in the 
first 2 years after a cancer diagnosis, independent of age at cancer diagnosis. 
A lower suicide risk was seen after diagnosis of localized cancer (RR = 1.3; 95% 
confidence intervals [CI]: 1.1 to 1.4), compared with that seen after a 
nonlocalized cancer (RR = 1.9; 95% CI: 1.5 to 2.4). High risks for suicide were 
observed for patients of each sex after diagnoses of tumors of the brain and 
nervous system and with cancer of the lung, stomach, rectum, and kidney; high 
risks were found among male patients only after a diagnosis of lymphoma or 
pancreatic cancer. Surprisingly, the risk of suicide has increased significantly 
in more recent years.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19920315)69:6<1509::aid-cncr2820690632>3.0.co;2-j
PMID: 1540887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Gynecol Oncol. 1992 Mar;44(3):240-4. doi: 10.1016/0090-8258(92)90050-s.

Minimally invasive vulvar carcinoma: an indication for conservative surgical 
therapy.

Kelley JL 3rd(1), Burke TW, Tornos C, Morris M, Gershenson DM, Silva EG, Wharton 
JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, University of Texas, M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston 77030.

It has been proposed that squamous carcinoma of the vulva with 1 mm or less of 
stromal invasion can be treated with local resection without inguinal node 
dissection. A retrospective review of 255 cases of stages I and II vulvar 
carcinoma demonstrated 24 cases of minimally invasive carcinoma. All cases were 
subjected to detailed chart review and pathologic confirmation. Mean age at 
diagnosis was 60 years. Seven patients had a preoperative diagnosis of 
preinvasive disease, ten had stage I disease, and seven had stage II disease. 
Fifteen cases had associated vulvar carcinoma in situ. Treatment consisted of 
local excision in 2 patients, radical wide excision in 11, hemivulvectomy in 5, 
and radical vulvectomy in 6. Eleven patients had either unilateral or bilateral 
inguinal node dissection. Five-year life-table survival was 89%. Four patients 
(17%) developed recurrent dysplasia and four (17%) developed invasive 
recurrences. One invasive recurrence was in an inguinal node in a patient 
previously treated with a hemivulvectomy and negative ipsilateral superficial 
node dissection. Univariate analysis revealed no statistically significant 
associations between recurrence and age, symptom duration, margin status, 
location, FIGO stage, or coexisting VIN. Large areas of coexisting dysplasia and 
variable gross appearance make meaningful application of FIGO staging criteria 
difficult in lesions with minimal focal invasion. Wide excision or radical wide 
excision of lesions with "high-risk" VIN or those showing less than or equal to 
1 mm of stromal invasion on biopsy is adequate therapy. If final pathologic 
review demonstrates deeper invasion, a selective lymph node dissection can be 
performed as a second procedure. Careful surveillance with liberal use of 
colposcopy and biopsies is indicated in these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-8258(92)90050-s
PMID: 1541436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Gynecol Oncol. 1992 Mar;44(3):254-9. doi: 10.1016/0090-8258(92)90052-k.

Glassy cell carcinoma of the cervix: a bimodal treatment strategy.

Lotocki RJ(1), Krepart GV, Paraskevas M, Vadas G, Heywood M, Fung FK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Sciences, Manitoba, 
Affiliated Teaching Hospitals, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.

Glassy cell carcinoma of the cervix is a distinct clinicopathologic entity. This 
infrequent pathologic subtype is an aggressive biologic tumor associated with a 
rapid clinical course and poor outcome with conventional treatment modalities in 
the majority of cases. In a 12-year period from July 1976 to June 1988, 32 cases 
of glassy cell carcinoma of the cervix were identified. This accounted for 5.3% 
of all cervical carcinomas. The mean age was 10 years younger than that of other 
histologic subtypes. A disproportional number of patients with glassy cell 
carcinoma had malignancies of early clinical stages. The 5-year survival of 
patients with Stage IB glassy cell carcinoma of the cervix was 45% when treated 
with primary radical surgery in contrast to 90% for squamous cell and 78% for 
adenocarcinoma. When bimodal therapy with radical surgery and radical 
radiotherapy was used, the survival of patients with Stage IB glassy cell 
carcinoma improved to 87%. Survival of patients with Stage II glassy cell 
carcinoma of the cervix improved from 50% to 85% with combined radical surgery 
and radiotherapy. Despite a combination of radical surgery and radiotherapy, 
complications were minimal.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-8258(92)90052-k
PMID: 1541437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. J Nutr. 1992 Mar;122(3 Suppl):774-7. doi: 10.1093/jn/122.suppl_3.774.

Exercise and food restriction in rats.

Holloszy JO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, 
St. Louis, MO 63110.

A number of studies have shown that exercised rats live longer than sedentary 
freely eating controls. There is disagreement regarding whether exercise results 
in extension of maximal life span. However, in two studies of the effect of 
voluntary wheel running on longevity of male specific-pathogen-free Long-Evans 
rats it was found that, although the runners had a longer average survival than 
sedentary freely eating controls, they did not have an increase in maximal life 
span. This is in contrast to the effect of food restriction. Sedentary rats that 
were food restricted to keep their body weights in the same range as those of 
the runners lived longer than the runners and showed an extension of life span. 
When exercise, in the form of voluntary wheel running was combined with food 
restriction (approximately 30% below ad libitum), the runners had an increased 
mortality rate over the first approximately 50% of their mortality curve up to 
age approximately 900 d. However, in those food-restricted runners that survived 
past approximately 900 d survival became similar to that of food-restricted 
sedentary controls, with a similar increase in maximal life span. Thus, although 
exercise has a deleterious effect on food-restricted rats, it does not 
counteract the increase in maximal life span induced by food restriction.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/122.suppl_3.774
PMID: 1542046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. JAMA. 1992 Mar 25;267(12):1612-3. doi: 10.1001/jama.1992.03480120050024.

Age-based rationing and women.

Diekema DS.

Comment on
    JAMA. 1991 Dec 4;266(21):3012-5.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.1992.03480120050024
PMID: 1542165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Oncology. 1992;49(1):1-8. doi: 10.1159/000227001.

Histological assessment of the prognostic factors in female breast cancer.

Aaltomaa S(1), Lipponen P, Eskelinen M, Kosma VM, Mari S, Alhava E, Syrjänen K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Kuopio University Hospital, Finland.

Paraffin-embedded biopsy specimens from the primary breast carcinoma of 653 
women were subjected to histopathological assessments of the potential 
prognostic factors. Histological type, histological grade, nuclear pleomorphism, 
tubule formation, intraductal growth pattern, tumour margin circumscription, 
tumour necrosis and inflammatory cell reaction were semiquantitatively analysed 
with special reference to disease outcome during the mean follow-up 12.8 years. 
Histological grade, nuclear grade and inflammatory cell reaction were related to 
axillary lymph node involvement at operation (p less than 0.001). Intensity of 
the inflammatory cell reaction was directly correlated to histological grade, 
histological type, nuclear pleomorphism and tumour necrosis (p less than 0.001). 
Tubule formation and tumour necrosis were significant predictors for tumour 
recurrence. Recurrence-free survival was related to tubule formation (p = 
0.0048), histological grade (p = 0.0208) and intraductal growth pattern (p = 
0.0441). Tubule formation accurately predicted the recurrence-free survival in 
axillary lymph node-negative tumours (p = 0.0386). In small (diameter less than 
or equal to 20 mm) axillary lymph node-negative tumours, the inflammatory cell 
reaction (p = 0.0377) as well as intraductal growth pattern (p = 0.0632) were 
related to recurrence-free survival. Cancer-related patient survival was 
predicted in decreasing order of significance by tubule formation (p = 0.0002), 
nuclear pleomorphism (p = 0.0010), intraductal growth (p = 0.0077), tumour 
necrosis (p = 0.0117) and histological type (p = 0.0651). In axillary lymph 
node-negative tumours, tubule formation (p = 0.0409), inflammatory cell 
infiltration (p = 0.0790) and intraductal growth (p = 0.0958) predicted the 
cancer-related survival. The results indicate that despite an intense search for 
a diversity of prognostic factors by increasingly sophisticated techniques 
(e.g., morphometric measurements, flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry, and DNA 
hybridization techniques), the relatively simple light microscopic assessment of 
the above morphological features seems to be still advocated in predicting the 
disease outcome in female breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1159/000227001
PMID: 1542486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Am J Ophthalmol. 1992 Mar 15;113(3):263-8. doi:
10.1016/s0002-9394(14)71577-6.

National five-year mortality after inpatient cataract extraction.

Street DA(1), Javitt JC.

Author information:
(1)Worthen Center for Eye Care Research, Center for Sight, Georgetown University 
Medical Center, Washington, D.C.

We assessed the five-year mortality in all United States Medicare beneficiaries 
aged 65 to 79 years who underwent inpatient cataract extraction in 1984. The 
risk of dying within five years after cataract extraction was compared to the 
five-year mortality risk of the same aged persons in the United States 
population. Patients with cataracts who were younger than 75 years had 
significantly higher age-specific rates of mortality than would be predicted 
from United States life tables (P less than .001). For example, at the age of 65 
years, patients with cataracts had 1.34 times the risk of the United States 
population (95% confidence interval = 1.29 to 1.41). This risk progressively 
declined until the age of 75 years, at which age there is little difference 
between the patients with cataracts and the United States population, except for 
the oldest women with cataracts (at the age of 79 years, relative risk = .90; 
95% confidence interval = .82 to .99). Although selection factors may account 
for the excess mortality observed among these individuals, these data do support 
previous analyses that suggest an association between senile cataract and 
increased risk of mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9394(14)71577-6
PMID: 1543218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1992 Feb;73(2):133-7.

Survival and functional outcome of children with severe cerebral palsy following 
gastrostomy.

McGrath SJ(1), Splaingard ML, Alba HM, Kaufman BH, Glicklick M.

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee.

Survival, functional outcome, care setting, early and late complications, and 
caregiver satisfaction were determined in 61 children with severe cerebral palsy 
requiring gastrostomies during a six-year period. Fifty-three (87%) of the 
initial gastrostomies included a Nissen fundoplication. Early and late 
complications were 32.8% and 39.3%, respectively. Survival after initial surgery 
was 84.2% at one year, and 67.6% at four years. One child died within one month 
of surgery. Seventy percent of the children remained totally dependent in 
self-care, mobility, and communication; an additional 29% had significant 
limitations in function. Only 4 children (6.5%) ultimately became independent in 
feeding. Ninety-three percent of the children were cared for at home. 
Ninety-four percent of the parents/caregivers believed the gastrostomy was 
beneficial in management of the child. Survival was unexpectedly high compared 
to studies of adults and mentally retarded children requiring similar surgical 
procedures.

PMID: 1543407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Arch Ophthalmol. 1992 Mar;110(3):339-42. doi: 
10.1001/archopht.1992.01080150037023.

Aspirin effects on the development of cataracts in patients with diabetes 
mellitus. Early treatment diabetic retinopathy study report 16.

Chew EY(1), Williams GA, Burton TC, Barton FB, Remaley NA, Ferris FL 3rd.

Author information:
(1)National Eye Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.

The Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study, a randomized clinical trial 
supported by the National Eye Institute, was designed to assess the effect of 
photocoagulation and aspirin in 3711 patients with mild to severe 
nonproliferative or early proliferative diabetic retinopathy. Although the 
primary goal of the study was to evaluate the effect of photocoagulation and 
aspirin on diabetic retinopathy, the study also provided an opportunity to 
evaluate the effects of aspirin on the development of cataract. No evidence 
showed that aspirin use reduced the risk of development of cataract requiring 
extraction (4.1% vs 4.3% in patients assigned to aspirin or placebo treatment, 
respectively; Mantel-Cox P = .77; relative risk, 1.05; 99% confidence interval, 
0.73 to 1.51). Aspirin use also did not reduce the risk of less extensive but 
visually significant lens opacities developing (29.6% vs 28.3%; Mantel-Cox P = 
.76; relative risk, 0.99; 99% confidence interval, 0.85 to 1.15). Early 
Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study results do not support the hypothesis that 
aspirin (at a dose of 650 mg/d) reduces the risk of cataract development in this 
diabetic population.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.1992.01080150037023
PMID: 1543449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Exp Cell Res. 1992 Apr;199(2):387-91. doi: 10.1016/0014-4827(92)90450-m.

Extension of lifespan of human T lymphocytes by transfection with SV40 large T 
antigen.

Ryan QC(1), Goonewardene IM, Murasko DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical College of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia 19129.

Lymphocytes have a finite and predictable proliferative life span in culture 
similar to that observed in fibroblasts. In general, the senescence of human 
fibroblasts is inevitable and irreversible, but their proliferative life span 
can be extended by certain DNA tumor virus oncogenes, such as the large T 
antigen of the SV40 virus. Here, we show that human T lymphocytes (HTL) can be 
stably transfected with SV40 large T and that expression of T antigen extended 
the life span of T cell cultures. PHA-stimulated HTL were transfected with 
pSV3neo, an expression vector containing the SV40 early region and the neomycin 
resistance gene. Transfectants were selected for neomycin (G418) resistance. 
Control HTL, either mock transfected or transfected with pSV2neo (containing the 
neomycin resistance gene only), ceased proliferation after about 17 population 
doublings. In contrast, HTL transfected with pSV3neo underwent more than 170 
doublings. pSV3neo-transfected cells expressed SV40 large T RNA, detectable by 
in situ hybridization, and SV40 T antigen, detectable by immunofluorescence. 
Greater than 95% of the transfected cells were CD4 positive. These results 
clearly show that SV40 large T enables HTL to escape senescence. Transfection 
with SV40 large T may be a valuable method for obtaining long term human T cell 
lines for studies of both aging and immunology.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-4827(92)90450-m
PMID: 1544379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1992 Mar;74(2):261-4. doi:
10.1302/0301-620X.74B2.1544965.

Cost-benefit analysis of hip fracture treatment.

Parker MJ(1), Myles JW, Anand JK, Drewett R.

Author information:
(1)Peterborough District Hospital, England.

Comment in
    J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1993 Jan;75(1):163-4.

We have determined the quality-adjusted-life-years and cost of such in several 
types of hip fracture and various treatment options. Operative treatment proved 
more cost-effective than other methods for displaced subcapital fractures and 
for extracapsular fractures. For undisplaced subcapital fractures conservative 
treatment was almost as cost-effective as surgery.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.74B2.1544965
PMID: 1544965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1992 Jan-Feb;33(1):79-84.

Arterial embolectomy. A long-term perspective.

Varty K(1), St Johnston JA, Beets G, Campbell WB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital, Wonford, U.K.

One hundred and thirteen elderly patients (median age 77 years, range 37-99) 
were followed up for 2-10.5 years after embolectomy in order to assess the late 
outcome. There were two groups of patients: those who had suffered an embolism 
(84) and those who in retrospect had thrombosis in situ (29). Thirty three of 
the embolus group (39%) died within 30 days of surgery, and factors associated 
with mortality (p less than 0.05) were age greater than 80 years, and failure to 
save the limb (17%). In the thrombosis group limb loss was more common (76%) and 
these patients also had a higher mortality (55%). Mean long term survival in the 
embolus group was 35 months (range 1-108 months) with a high mortality rate in 
the first 6 months after embolectomy and improved survival after this. There 
were no significant differences in mortality or cardiovascular events between 
the 27 patients on long term warfarin and the 19 patients not anticoagulated. 
Mortality after embolectomy is high but there remains a group of long term 
survivors. The value of oral anticoagulation for these patients remains 
unresolved.

PMID: 1545003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1992 Mar 15;19(4):725-32. doi:
10.1016/0735-1097(92)90509-l.

Multiple valve operation for advanced valvular heart disease: results and risk 
factors in 513 patients.

Galloway AC(1), Grossi EA, Baumann FG, LaMendola CL, Crooke GA, Harris LJ, 
Colvin SB, Spencer FC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, New York University Medical Center, New York 10016.

Erratum in
    J Am Coll Cardiol 1992 Jun;19(7):1677-8.

To assess the results and incremental risk factors affecting outcome after 
multiple-valve operation in the early blood cardioplegia era of cardiac surgery, 
follow-up data (mean +/- SD 3.1 +/- 2 years) were obtained on 97% of 513 
patients (mean age +/- SD 58.8 +/- 10.5 years) who underwent a multiple-valve 
procedure between June 1976 and August 1985. Preoperatively 41% of patients were 
in New York Heart Association functional class III and 54% in class IV. Three 
groups accounted for 98.6% of the patients: 57.7% had an aortic and mitral valve 
procedure, 29% had a mitral and tricuspid valve procedure and 11.9% had a 
triple-valve procedure. The overall hospital mortality rate was 12.5% and 
overall 5-year survival rate was 67.1%. Hazard function analysis for all deaths 
revealed systolic pulmonary artery pressure (p less than 0.0001), age (p = 
0.005), triple valve procedure (p less than 0.005), concomitant coronary bypass 
operation (p less than 0.005) and prior cardiac surgery (p less than 0.002) as 
the significant incremental risk factors predicting decreased survival in the 
early hazard phase; diabetes (p less than 0.005) predicted decreased survival in 
the late hazard phase. Postoperatively the condition of 80% of the patients 
improved to functional class I or II; only 0.6% remained in functional class IV. 
The 5-year rate of freedom from late combined valve-related morbidity was 81.7% 
and that of freedom from late combined valve-related morbidity and mortality was 
71.7%. These results demonstrate excellent clinical improvement and late 
survival after multiple valve operation in patients with advanced valvular heart 
disease, justifying aggressive surgical therapy in these patients.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(92)90509-l
PMID: 1545066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. N Engl J Med. 1992 Apr 9;326(15):1021-4. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199204093261512.

International health assistance for Eurasia.

Gellert GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Orange County Health Care Agency, Santa Ana, CA 92702.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1992 Sep 3;327(10):737.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199204093261512
PMID: 1545840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Postgrad Med. 1992 Mar;91(4):439-44, 447-50, 455-8. doi: 
10.1080/00325481.1992.11701270.

Optimal care of older women. An opportunity for both prevention and treatment.

South-Paul JE(1), Woodson CE.

Author information:
(1)Department of family medicine, Uniformed Services University of the Health 
Sciences, F. Edward Hébert School of Medicine, Bethesda.

As the number of older women and their average life expectancy increase, 
physicians will need to focus as much on providing preventive, health-promoting 
care as on treating disease. Drs South-Paul and Woodson present a guide for 
multidimensional evaluation of asymptomatic older women that can serve as a 
framework for designing individualized care.

DOI: 10.1080/00325481.1992.11701270
PMID: 1546027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Am J Hematol. 1992 Mar;39(3):176-82. doi: 10.1002/ajh.2830390305.

Polysaccharide encapsulated bacterial infection in sickle cell anemia: a thirty 
year epidemiologic experience.

Wong WY(1), Powars DR, Chan L, Hiti A, Johnson C, Overturf G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Hematology-Oncology, University of 
Southern California, School of Medicine, Los Angeles.

Annual age-specific incidence rates of Streptococcus pneumoniae or Haemophilus 
influenzae bacterial septicemia in sickle cell anemia (SS) were determined for 
the years of 1957 through 1989. Forty-nine patients had 64 episodes of 
septicemia among a population of 786 SS patients observed for 8,138 
person-years. Peak frequency of infection occurred between 1968-1971 and 
1975-1981 with a conspicuous absence of episodes in 1972, 1973, 1982-1984, and 
1986-1987, thus demonstrating cycles of high and low attack rates. The annual 
age-specific incidence rate of septicemia varied from 64.5 (1965) to 421.1 
(1980) per 1,000 person-years for those under 2 years of age and never exceeded 
10.2 per 1,000 in those over 4 years of age. Following the introduction of 
pneumococcal polyvalent vaccine in 1978, incidence of infection decreased in SS 
children greater than 2 years of age. No modification of the risk of infection 
was observed in immunized children less than 2 years of age. During these three 
decades, there has been a ten-fold increase in the number of SS adults over 20 
years of age. The relative risk of chronic sickle complications comparing the 
survivors of septicemia to the non-infected patients was: subsequent death 1.76, 
retinopathy 4.06, avascular necrosis 1.95, symptomatic cholelithiasis 1.33, 
stroke 1.30, and priapism 1.26. These data suggest that prognosis for lifetime 
severe SS is initially manifested as an increased risk of septicemia during 
childhood.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.2830390305
PMID: 1546714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Am J Med. 1992 Mar;92(3):265-74. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(92)90076-n.

Maintenance therapy for duodenal ulcer: a randomized controlled comparison of 
seven forms of treatment.

Hui WM(1), Lam SK, Lok AS, Ng MM, Lai CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Hong Kong, Queen Mary Hospital.

PURPOSE: We performed a randomized controlled trial to compare the efficacy of 
seven forms of maintenance treatment of duodenal ulcer, including a mealtime 
regimen of antacids.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We randomized 785 patients with healed duodenal ulcer to 
receive: (1) no treatment; (2) mealtime antacids with an acid-neutralizing 
capacity of 80 mmol/day; (3) an antidepressant, trimipramine 25 mg; (4) an 
anticholinergic, pirenzepine 50 mg; (5) cimetidine 200 mg; (6) cimetidine 400 
mg; (7) ranitidine 150 mg; or (8) sucralfate 1 g twice a day. Symptomatology and 
side effects were assessed every 2 months and endoscopy was performed every 4 
months up to 1 year.
RESULTS: The patients were comparable in the majority of clinical 
characteristics before entry. The cumulative percentages of patients with 
relapse of ulcers at 12 months by life-table analysis were 61% with no 
treatment, 38% with mealtime antacids, 60% with trimipramine, 52% with 
pirenzepine, 46% with cimetidine 200 mg, 44% with cimetidine 400 mg, 30% with 
ranitidine 150 mg, and 40% with sucralfate. Cimetidine 400 mg, antacids, 
ranitidine 150 mg, and sucralfate were significantly better than no treatment 
and the other forms of treatment. Ranitidine was significantly better than 
antacids, cimetidine, and sucralfate in preventing endoscopically documented 
duodenal ulcer relapse by multiple comparison at 12 months, but not by 
life-table analysis nor when symptomatic relapses were compared. No significant 
difference was detected among antacids, cimetidine, and sucralfate. No major 
side effects occurred with the seven forms of treatment, but those receiving 
antacids had the highest incidence of minor adverse events (26%).
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that mealtime antacids are as effective as 
H2-receptor antagonists and sucralfate in the maintenance treatment of duodenal 
ulcer disease, but have to be taken three times a day and had the highest 
incidence of reported minor adverse events. The relapse rate was lower with 
ranitidine than with cimetidine, sucralfate, and antacids, but the difference 
was small and may not be clinically important.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(92)90076-n
PMID: 1546725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Am J Public Health. 1992 Apr;82(4):561-4. doi: 10.2105/ajph.82.4.561.

Impact of HIV infection on mortality and accuracy of AIDS reporting on death 
certificates.

Hessol NA(1), Buchbinder SP, Colbert D, Scheer S, Underwood R, Barnhart JL, 
O'Malley PM, Doll LS, Lifson AR.

Author information:
(1)AIDS Office, San Francisco Department of Public Health, Calif.

To assess the impact of HIV infection on mortality and the accuracy of AIDS 
reporting on death certificates, we analyzed data from 6704 homosexual and 
bisexual men in the San Francisco City Clinic cohort. Identification of AIDS 
cases and deaths in the cohort was determined through multiple sources, 
including the national AIDS surveillance registry and the National Death Index. 
Through 1990, 1518 deaths had been reported in the cohort and 1292 death 
certificates obtained. Of the 1292 death certificates, 1162 were for known AIDS 
cases, but 9% of the AIDS cases did not have HIV infection or AIDS noted on the 
death certificate. Only 0.7% of the decedents had AIDS listed as a cause of 
death and had not been reported to AIDS surveillance. AIDS and HIV infection was 
the leading cause of death in the cohort, with the highest proportionate 
mortality ratio (85%) and standardized mortality ratio (153 in 1987), and the 
largest number of years of potential life lost (32,008 years). The devastating 
impact of HIV infection on mortality is increasing and will require continued 
efforts to prevent and treat HIV infection.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.82.4.561
PMCID: PMC1694104
PMID: 1546772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Ann Vasc Surg. 1992 Jan;6(1):15-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02000661.

Peroneal artery bypass: a multifactorial analysis.

Shortell CK(1), Ouriel K, DeWeese JA, Green RM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Rochester Medical Center, New 
York.

Sixty-two bypass grafts to the peroneal artery were performed at the University 
of Rochester Medical Center between 1984 and 1990. An autogenous conduit was 
used in 45 patients and a prosthetic conduit in 17 patients. Primary cumulative 
patency rates were 49% at two years and 30% at four years following operation. 
Limb salvage was achieved in 68% of patients. The two year cumulative patency 
rate was significantly better when the peroneal artery was of good quality 
arteriographically compared with those in which stenoses were present (75% 
versus 25%, p less than 0.05); in patients without inflow disease compared with 
patients with inflow disease (56% versus 11%, p less than 0.05); and in 
saphenous vein grafts compared with prosthetic grafts (55% versus 17%, p less 
than 0.05). The factors that did not influence patency were the presence of a 
direct peroneal collateral vessel filling a pedal vessel, age, sex, diabetes, 
and the size of the peroneal artery. The results of peroneal artery bypass in 
end-stage patients are dependent on the presence of adequate autogenous vein and 
a recipient peroneal vessel free of disease. Under these circumstances, the 
results of the procedure approach that of standard femorotibial reconstruction.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02000661
PMID: 1547070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Demography. 1992 Feb;29(1):31-8.

Heterogeneity and selection in multistate population analysis.

Rogers A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, University of Colorado, Boulder 80309-0484.

Erratum in
    Demography 1992 May;29(2):preceding 139.

If one subgroup of individuals in a population has a higher death rate than the 
others, then over time the surviving population will include a larger share of 
those with the lower death rate. As a result, the aggregate average death rate 
for this increasingly more robust population will decline. This conclusion, 
however, can be drawn only for nonrecurrent events experienced by populations 
that do not exchange members with one another--that is, for noninteracting 
populations. Studies of changes in marital status, labor force activity, 
residential location, and active life, for example, all should focus on patterns 
of recurrent events among interacting populations (that is, multistate 
populations). Selection arising from heterogeneity will occur, but the 
consequences for average measures become unpredictable a priori. This paper 
explores such aspects of the selection effects of heterogeneity in multistate 
populations and illuminates some of their consequences for commonly used rates.

PMID: 1547901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Demography. 1992 Feb;29(1):69-92.

Changes in the family status of elderly women in Korea.

Lee YJ(1), Palloni A.

Author information:
(1)Population Research Center, University of Chicago, IL 60637.

As a result of sharp declines in fertility and mortality, the aging of the 
Korean population has proceeded rapidly and is likely to continue in full force 
for some time. In societies such as Korea, where families traditionally have 
been the only efficient source of support for the elderly, an aging population 
poses a threat because families have fewer descendants available to care for 
increasing numbers of surviving elderly persons. The exact magnitude of the 
