reduction in the supply of kin depends on details of the demographic trends and 
cannot be evaluated a priori. In this paper we use family-status life tables to 
assess the effects of changes in demographic processes on the family status of 
elderly women and to project trends in elderly women's family status.

PMID: 1547904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. J Clin Oncol. 1992 Apr;10(4):529-35. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1992.10.4.529.

Significance of epidermal growth factor receptor in advanced ovarian cancer.

Scambia G(1), Benedetti Panici P, Battaglia F, Ferrandina G, Baiocchi G, Greggi 
S, De Vincenzo R, Mancuso S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Catholic University, Rome, Italy.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the significance of 
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-R) expression in a group of advanced 
ovarian carcinomas.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study was conducted on 72 previously untreated 
patients with International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage 
III-IV disease. The median follow-up was 24 months (range, 4 to 75 months). 
EGF-R was measured by a radioreceptorial assay. A cutoff of 1.5 fmol per 
milligram of protein was chosen to define EGF-R positivity. Medians and life 
tables obtained with the Kaplan and Meier method were analyzed by the log-rank 
test. The risk of progression was estimated by Cox's proportional hazards model.
RESULTS: EGF-R was detected in 54% of primary tumors. When EGF-R was analyzed in 
different tissue specimens of the same tumor, consistent findings were noted in 
88% (seven of eight) of cases. A lower concordance rate (nine of 15; 60%) was 
found between primary tumors and omental metastases, with a tendency toward 
higher EGF-R levels in the latter. The EGF-R expression did not significantly 
correlate with age, stage, grading, and residual tumor after primary surgery. In 
the univariate analysis, stage IV disease, postoperative residual tumor diameter 
greater than 2 cm, presence of ascites, and EGF-R positivity were found to be 
significantly associated with a greater risk of disease progression. In the 
multivariate analysis, only the postoperative residual tumor and the EGF-R 
expression remained significantly associated with a high risk of progression.
CONCLUSION: Data reported here suggest that the presence of EGF-R in advanced 
ovarian tumor at the time of the primary surgery identifies a subset of patients 
with a particularly poor prognosis.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1992.10.4.529
PMID: 1548517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. J Gen Intern Med. 1992 Jan-Feb;7(1):46-51. doi: 10.1007/BF02599102.

Physicians' attitudes toward tube feeding chronically ill nursing home patients.

Von Preyss-Friedman SM(1), Uhlmann RF, Cain KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle.

OBJECTIVE: To determine attitudes of physicians toward the limitation of tube 
feeding in chronically ill nursing home patients and the influences of patient 
preferences and other patient and physician variables on these decisions.
DESIGN: Questionnaire-based, mailed survey. Hypothetical case scenarios derived 
by fractional factorial design to determine the influences of patient and family 
preferences, age, life expectancy, physical and cognitive functioning; direct 
scaling to determine the influences of legal and cost considerations.
PARTICIPANTS: Randomly selected national samples of American Geriatrics Society 
and American Medical Association members (n = 141, participation rate 41%).
MAIN RESULTS: Nearly all physicians indicated they would withhold (95%) or 
withdraw (92%) tube feeding in at least one of the 16 scenarios studied. 
Physician decisions were most highly associated with patient preferences, 
followed by family preferences, life expectancy, and cognitive status (p less 
than 0.02 to less than 0.001). When patients and families agreed, physicians 
concurred in 87% to 95% of the decisions. However, when patients and families 
disagreed, physicians concurred with patients in only 48% to 55% of the 
decisions. Increasing physician concern regarding legal and cost considerations 
was significantly associated with significantly higher and lower likelihoods of 
tube feeding, respectively (p less than 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the majority of study physicians are 
willing to limit tube feeding in nursing home patients under some circumstances. 
Patient preferences appear to be the most important factor in these decisions, 
but may not be honored, especially if the wishes of patients and their families 
are not in concurrence.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02599102
PMID: 1548547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Medicine (Baltimore). 1992 Jan;71(1):1-13.

Prognosis of acute porphyria: occurrence of acute attacks, precipitating 
factors, and associated diseases.

Kauppinen R(1), Mustajoki P.

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Medicine, University of Helsinki, Finland.

We evaluated the prognosis of acute porphyria among 206 adult Finnish patients 
with acute intermittent porphyria (AIP) or variegate porphyria (VP). The series 
represents all known patients with these porphyrias in Finland. Of the 47 
patients who had a total of 117 acute attacks during the period 1967-1989, 6 
died during an attack and 21 attacks were associated with paresis; the frequency 
of severe attacks was significantly smaller than before 1967 (p = 0.00002). Most 
pareses and deaths occurred because of a delay in diagnosis and inappropriate 
treatment of porphyria. For those patients who were symptom-free at the time of 
diagnosis (1365 follow-up years), the risk of the first subsequent attack was 
significantly smaller than for those who had had an acute attack before the 
diagnosis of porphyria (1047 follow-up years, p = 0.005). In addition, milder 
symptoms of porphyria were more common among those who had had previous attacks 
than among those who had not (p less than 0.00001). In AIP the risk of attacks 
correlated with the excretion of porphobilinogen in the urine during remission 
among adults (p = 0.03); a low rate of excretion predicted freedom from acute 
attacks. A regular use of many precipitating drugs was never associated with 
symptoms of porphyria. Two percent of the surgical operations and 4% of the 
pregnancies were associated with acute attacks. Nearly one-third of the women 
had symptoms of porphyria associated with the menstrual cycle, but these seldom 
proceeded to an acute attack. Forty-six percent of the women had used 
sex-hormone preparations regularly; 2 of them (4.5%) experienced associated 
acute attacks. Patients with AIP or VP showed increased incidences of 
hepatocellular carcinoma, and probably also chronic renal failure and 
hypertension.

PMID: 1549056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Orthopade. 1992 Feb;21(1):35-40.

[Gait pattern of patients with hip arthritis].

[Article in German]

Wiedmer L(1), Langer T, Kn√ºsel O.

Author information:
(1)Rheuma- und Rehabilitationsklinik Zurzach.

Automatic recording of the kinematic and kinetic gait pattern has so far not 
been commonly used in the diagnosis of problems affecting the human loco motor 
apparatus. In recent decades gait analysis has increasingly been applied in the 
development of endoprostheses and sports shoes and in rehabilitation, especially 
of patients with neurological diseases. When a gait laboratory is set up, this 
demands interdisciplinary cooperation, biomechanical knowledge in physicians and 
(physio-)therapists, and elaboration of treatment plans allowing direct 
therapeutic exploitation of the gait data. There are determinant factors in gait 
pattern, which does not vary qualitatively in the sagittal plane 
(flexion/extension) with sex and age until the age of 70 years. Quantitatively 
there is a great deal of individual variation, and the diagnosis of a pathologic 
function in a particular patient can be difficult. A normal reference population 
was used to determine the gait pattern characteristic for 32 patients with 
osteoarthritis of the hip on one or on both sides, and the possible significance 
of the results for physical and surgical therapy is discussed. The main 
characteristic of this gait pattern ist the limitation of hip extension before 
toe-off in the late stance phase. One-third of the patients answer compensate 
with this increased hip flexion at heel strike, which in turn leads to an 
increased load on the (more severely) affected side. In consequence, the 
increased load might lead to progression of the osteoarthritis. In the 
development of endoprostheses it should be borne in mind that the design may 
influence the gait pattern, producing overloading of the extremity and perhaps 
reducing the life of the prosthesis.

PMID: 1549336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Aust N Z J Surg. 1992 Apr;62(4):256-60. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-2197.1992.tb07551.x.

A retrospective analysis of infra-inguinal arterial reconstruction: three year 
patency rates.

Brumby SA(1), Petrucco MF, Walsh JA, Bond MJ.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Unit, Flinders Medical Centre, South Australia.

Primary infra-inguinal arterial reconstructions were reviewed for primary 
patency and outcome of thrombosis in 144 patients. Distal anastomoses in these 
patients were to the popliteal artery and were above the knee in 63, below the 
knee in 53 and at the tibial level in 28. The treatment used was: 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) in 33 cases, PTFE with an interposition vein cuff 
in 29 cases, autogenous saphenous vein (ASV) in situ in 47 cases, and reversed 
technique in 26 cases. Life table analysis showed a 59% overall primary patency 
at 3 years. Patency rates of above knee anastomoses (65%) and below knee (61%) 
were statistically different from the tibial anastomoses (42%, P = 0.005). In 
both above and below knee popliteal anastomoses there was a statistically 
significant difference in the patency of ASV and the PTFE/vein cuff technique (P 
= 0.0006) but there was no difference between ASV and PTFE. There was no 
difference in patency rates for the various types of grafts with tibial 
anastomoses. Data were analysed at 3 years, taking into account the variables of 
smoking, diabetes or indications for surgery respectively and no difference was 
found in patency. The number and calibre of the run-off vessels did not 
influence patency significantly, hence anastomosis to any good quality vessel 
regardless of run-off is recommended. The poor results with the interposition 
vein cuff technique are unexplained but this study suggests that the technique 
should be reserved for anastomoses below the popliteal artery.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.1992.tb07551.x
PMID: 1550513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. JAMA. 1992 Jan 15;267(3):361; author reply 363-4. doi:
10.1001/jama.267.3.361b.

What if Americans ate less fat?

Bailar JC 3rd.

Comment on
    JAMA. 1991 Jun 26;265(24):3285-91.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.267.3.361b
PMID: 1550614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Cancer. 1992 Apr 1;69(7):1865-72. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19920401)69:7<1865::aid-cncr2820690732>3.0.co;2-m.

Antitumor effect of methionine-depleting total parenteral nutrition with 
doxorubicin administration on Yoshida sarcoma-bearing rats.

Goseki N(1), Yamazaki S, Endo M, Onodera T, Kosaki G, Hibino Y, Kuwahata T.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Tokyo Medical and Dental University School of 
Medicine, Japan.

Methionine-depleting total parenteral nutrition (methionine-depleting TPN), 
which infuses an amino acid solution devoid of L-methionine and L-cysteine as 
the sole protein source, showed enhancement of the effect of several anti-cancer 
agents. In this study, the combined effect of the methionine-depleting TPN with 
the administration of doxorubicin was examined in Yoshida sarcoma (YS)-bearing 
rats with regard to effects on the primary tumor growth, the extension of 
metastasis, and the host animal's life span. In the first experiment, 
immediately after receiving methionine-depleting TPN for 8 days, the animals 
were killed. Pathologic findings evaluated tumor growth in the implanted site 
and extension of the metastasis. In the second experiment, the survival period 
was determined after animals received methionine-depleting TPN for 10 days, with 
subsequent oral feeding until they died naturally. Proliferation of YS was 
markedly suppressed. In particular, hematogenous metastasis, which is a 
characteristic of YS, was suppressed, and a longer survival period (42.7 +/- 
15.6 days, mean +/- SD) was attained in rats in the group treated with the 
methionine-depleting TPN combined with the administration of doxorubicin.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19920401)69:7<1865::aid-cncr2820690732>3.0.co;2-m
PMID: 1551070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1992 Apr;19(5):953-9. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(92)90277-t.

Silent versus symptomatic dipyridamole-induced ischemia after myocardial 
infarction: clinical and prognostic significance.

Bolognese L(1), Rossi L, Sarasso G, Prando MD, Bongo AS, Dellavesa P, Rossi P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Ospedale Maggiore, Novara, Italy.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 1992 Apr;19(5):960-1.

The prevalence and prognostic significance of silent myocardial ischemia were 
prospectively assessed in 217 patients (mean age 57 +/- 9 years, 83% male) 
recovering from a first uncomplicated acute myocardial infarction and undergoing 
a dipyridamole echocardiography test before hospital discharge. Clinical, 
angiographic, exercise electrocardiographic (ECG) and dipyridamole 
echocardiographic variables were also examined. Of the 217 patients, 89 had no 
echocardiographically proved dyssynergy after dipyridamole, whereas 128 had 
dipyridamole-induced wall motion abnormalities that were silent in 94 (Group I) 
and symptomatic in 34 (Group II). There was no intergroup difference with 
respect to dipyridamole time (i.e., the time from onset of the test to frank 
dyssynergy: 7 +/- 3 vs. 8 +/- 3 min; p = NS); prevalence of inferior myocardial 
infarction (69% vs. 71%; p = NS); ischemic ECG changes during the test (83% vs. 
71%; p = NS); diabetes (8.5% vs. 6%; p = NS); ongoing medical therapy; 
multivessel disease (57% vs. 56%; p = NS); and baseline left ventricular 
ejection fraction (57 +/- 13% vs. 57 +/- 10%; p = NS). There was also no 
significant difference between Group I and Group II with respect to wall motion 
score index at peak dipyridamole effect (1.77 +/- 0.39 vs. 1.78 +/- 0.36; p = 
NS). Patients were followed up for 24 +/- 4 and 25 +/- 5 months, respectively (p 
= NS). Life table analysis revealed no difference in unstable angina, 
reinfarction and death between the two groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(92)90277-t
PMID: 1552118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. JAMA. 1992 Apr 15;267(15):2055-61.

Efficacy and cost-effectiveness of autologous bone marrow transplantation in 
metastatic breast cancer. Estimates using decision analysis while awaiting 
clinical trial results.

Hillner BE(1), Smith TJ, Desch CE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Medical College of Virginia, Virginia 
Commonwealth University, Richmond 23298.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1992 Sep 23-30;268(12):1536-7.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of standard 
chemotherapy and high-dose chemotherapy with autologous bone marrow 
transplantation (ABMT) in metastatic breast cancer.
DESIGN: Decision analysis model using a Markov process.
SETTING: Response and recurrence rates from the published literature for 
standard therapy and from case series of ABMT. Costs were based on local charges 
and on adjusted Medicare data.
PATIENTS: Hypothetical cohorts of women with metastatic breast cancer who had no 
bone marrow involvement and no comorbid illness.
INTERVENTION: The standard chemotherapy cohort received cyclophosphamide, 
doxorubicin, and fluorouracil. The ABMT cohort was treated with intense 
induction chemotherapy, then additional high-dose chemotherapy following a 
remission, with ABMT support.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Anticipated survival, incremental cost per year of life, 
and incremental cost per quality-adjusted year of life gained using a 5-year 
time horizon. Rigorous sensitivity analyses were done, including assessing a 
benefit "tail" of normal life expectancy for those free of disease after 5 
years.
RESULTS: ABMT was the preferred approach under almost all assumptions, but the 
size of the benefit varied greatly. ABMT had a survival benefit of 6.0 months at 
5 years at an incremental cost of $115,800 per year of life saved. If patients 
who were free of disease after 5 years had normal survival, the benefit was 18.1 
months at an incremental cost of $28,600 per year. The benefit of ABMT was 
primarily dependent on whether the recurrence risk was constant or decreases 
after a finite period of time.
CONCLUSION: Using reasonable assumptions, ABMT provided a substantial benefit 
but at a cost that may be untenable. Decision analysis highlights the 
limitations in the currently available data and the assumptions made for the 
emotional question of using ABMT in metastatic breast cancer. The model supports 
the need for randomized clinical trials.

PMID: 1552641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. N Engl J Med. 1992 Apr 23;326(17):1108-14. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199204233261703.

Characteristics and prognostic implications of myosin missense mutations in 
familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

Watkins H(1), Rosenzweig A, Hwang DS, Levi T, McKenna W, Seidman CE, Seidman JG.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Division, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1992 Oct 15;327(16):1175-6.

BACKGROUND: Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is characterized by a variable 
degree of myocardial hypertrophy and a wide range of symptoms. Different 
mutations in the beta cardiac myosin heavy-chain gene have been identified in 
three affected families. However, neither the proportion of cases attributable 
to myosin mutations nor the effects of different mutations on clinical outcome 
are known.
METHODS: Using a ribonuclease protection assay, we screened the beta cardiac 
myosin heavy-chain genes of probands from 25 unrelated families with familial 
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy; this assay is a sensitive method for detecting the 
presence and location of mutations. We further defined the mutations by 
analyzing their nucleotide sequences. The clinical features of the disease were 
compared in families with various myosin mutations.
RESULTS: Seven mutations in the beta cardiac myosin heavy-chain gene were 
identified in 12 of the 25 families. All were missense mutations (i.e., causing 
the substitution of a single amino acid) clustered in the head and head-rod 
junction regions of the molecule. Six mutations resulted in a change in the 
charge of the amino acid. Patients with mutations that changed the charge of the 
altered amino acid (such as that from arginine to glutamine at nucleotide 403 or 
from arginine to cysteine at nucleotide 453) had a significantly shorter life 
expectancy (mean age at death, 33 years), whereas patients with the one mutation 
that did not produce a change in charge (Val606Met) had nearly normal survival. 
However, patients with different mutations did not differ appreciably in their 
clinical manifestations of familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
CONCLUSIONS: Different missense mutations in the beta cardiac myosin heavy-chain 
gene can be identified in approximately 50 percent of families with hypertrophic 
cardiomyopathy. In those families, a definite genetic diagnosis can be made in 
all members. Since the location of a mutation or its DNA-sequence alteration (or 
both) appears to influence survival, we suggest that the precise definition of 
the disease-causing mutation can provide important prognostic information about 
affected members.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199204233261703
PMID: 1552912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1992 Jan 10;112(1):57-63.

[A strategy of health for all--are we reaching our target to reduce mortality?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Guldvog B(1).

Author information:
(1)Seksjon for forebyggende og helsefremmende arbeid, Statens Institutt for 
Folkehelse, Oslo.

In the late seventies the World Health Organization developed a strategy of 
Health for all towards year 2000, to which Norwegian health authorities have 
consented. This article presents and discusses the sub-goals for expectation of 
life and mortality, and analyzes the possibilities of reaching them. The desired 
reduction of at least 25% in accident mortality rates and cardiovascular 
mortality rates in relation to the reference period 1976-80 will probably be 
reached. In addition, the desired 15% reduction in cancer mortality is likely to 
be reached for persons under 40 years of age. Infant mortality does not appear 
to be declining, cancer mortality for people over 40 years of age is increasing, 
and the suicidal and homicidal rates are increasing faster than any other cause 
of death. The possibilities of reversing this development require a structured 
plan and comprehensive changes in the way society is organized, with more 
emphasis on care, social network planning and reduction of the multicausal risk 
load that modern life implies. Some of the sub-goals are not sufficiently 
founded on accessible information, and should be revised.

PMID: 1553648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Ophthalmic Plast Reconstr Surg. 1992;8(1):56-61. doi: 
10.1097/00002341-199203000-00010.

Extrascleral malignant melanoma.

Nelson CC(1), Kincaid MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

We present two cases of anterior extrascleral extension of malignant melanoma in 
eyes previously blind from other causes. In both cases, the tumor was not 
detected by the physician but rather by the patient himself (case 1) or his wife 
(case 2). In one case, the tumor became manifest more than 60 years after the 
eye became blind from trauma. Although blind eyes may harbor lethal tumors and, 
therefore, need regular examinations, this simple part of the physical 
examination frequently remains neglected by ophthalmologists as well as by 
primary care physicians. We wish to emphasize the potential life-saving 
importance of regular examinations of blind eyes.

DOI: 10.1097/00002341-199203000-00010
PMID: 1554655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1992 Jan;20(2):93-108. doi: 10.1007/BF01834639.

Prognostic potential of flow cytometric S-phase and ploidy prospectively 
determined in primary breast carcinomas.

Ewers SB(1), Attewell R, Baldetorp B, Borg A, L√•ngstr√∂m E, Killander D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.

In a prospective study of a consecutive breast cancer series accumulated in the 
period 1978-82, the S-phase fraction (SPF) and ploidy status were determined by 
flow cytometry performed on cell nuclei derived from samples of 580 primary 
tumors. Sixty percent of the tumors were non-diploid. After correction for 
debris the median SPF values were 7.3% overall, 12% for non-diploid tumors, and 
2.9% for diploid tumors (2.6% when nodal subsets N2 and N3 and cases with 
metastases at presentation were excluded). The SPF values correlated both to 
tumor size (p = 0.008) and to the number of positive axillary lymph nodes (p = 
0.03). At clinical follow-up in 1986, 467 unilateral breast cancer patients who 
had undergone radical treatment for cure could be evaluated with respect to the 
prognostic value of both the SPF value and ploidy status. The median duration of 
follow-up was then 59 months (range 2-90), and the median time-to-recurrence 24 
months (range 2-69, n = 137). At follow-up in 1991, 201/467 of the patients had 
died, the median duration of follow-up being 50 months (range 2-126) for the 
decreased, and 119 (range 6-148) for the survivors. In multivariate analysis 
(Cox's proportional hazards models), the strongest independent predictors of 
distant recurrence-free survival (DRFS) were the number of positive axillary 
lymph nodes (p less than 0.0001), the debris-corrected SPF value alone (p = 
0.003, versus p = 0.05 for uncorrected value), and ploidy status combined with 
the corrected SPF value (p = 0.0002). When age was taken into account, both the 
corrected SPF value and the ploidy-SPF combination were predictors of crude 
survival (p = 0.006 and p = 0.002, respectively). In univariate life-table 
analysis, the 5-year DRFS rate was 93% in node-negative (N0) cases with an SPF 
less than 7.3%, as compared to 80% in those with an SPF greater than or equal to 
7.3% (p = 0.005). Among node-positive cases, the prognostic value of the SPF was 
confined to those with 1-3 positive nodes, the 5-year DRFS rate being 68% in 
cases with an SPF less than 7.3%, as compared to 40% in cases with an SPF 
greater than or equal to 7.3% (p = 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF01834639
PMID: 1554892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Gesundheitswesen. 1992 Feb;54(2):88-94.

[Satisfaction with health status in the German Federal Republic and the former 
German Democratic Republic--a comparison].

[Article in German]

Dehlinger E(1), Ortmann K.

Author information:
(1)Institut f√ºr Soziale Medizin, Freie Universit√§t Berlin.

The subjective feeling of the status of health by persons residing in the FRG 
and GDR is compared on the basis of data from the German Socio-Economic Panel 
(SOEP), which were collected shortly before the merger of both states. The 
subjective state of health is on the whole approximately similar in both states. 
Differences in influencing factors are revealed by multivariate analysis.

PMID: 1554990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Int J Cancer. 1992 Apr 1;50(6):859-62. doi: 10.1002/ijc.2910500604.

p53 expression and prognosis in gastric carcinoma.

Martin HM(1), Filipe MI, Morris RW, Lane DP, Silvestre F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Histopathology, UMDS Guy's Hospital, London, UK.

Abnormalities of the p53 gene have been identified in many malignancies, with 
reports of aberration in over half of colorectal, lung, breast and 
hepatocellular carcinoma cases. The normal gene acts as a recessive oncogene, 
while mutations change the apparent function to that of a dominant oncogene. In 
this investigation a 3-layered immunoperoxidase technique was applied to 
routinely fixed and paraffin-embedded tissue sections from 125 gastric 
carcinomas, using a polyclonal anti-p53 antibody (CM-I). We found that 57% of 
these carcinomas expressed high levels of p53 protein (positive nuclear 
staining). Survival analysis revealed a strong association between p53 status of 
the tumour and patient survival time after diagnosis (p = 0.02, Mantel-Cox 
Test); odds ratio of death, 2.09 (95% confidence interval 1.02 to 4.25). The 
5-year survival of patients with p53-expressing tumours was 24%, compared with 
56% for those non-p53-expressing tumours (the median survival times were 13 and 
102 months, respectively).

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910500604
PMID: 1555884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Nephrol News Issues. 1992 Feb;6(2):5.

As dialysis becomes an extension of life, its use gains greater scrutiny.

Neumann ME.

PMID: 1557155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Tex Med. 1992 Jan;88(1):74-6.

Years of potential life lost: an evaluation of premature cancer deaths in Texas 
from 1981 through 1988.

Rainbolt T(1).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Registry Division, Texas Department of Health, Austin 78756-3199.

Death rates are traditional public health measures used to assess the health 
status of a population. Several types of cancer are examined in this report, and 
the indicator for years of potential life lost is used to estimate the number of 
years of life lost per disease type in Texas during the years from 1981 through 
1988. For both males and females, the resulting ranking of cancer types was 
quite different from those obtained with death rates. Among males, testicular 
cancer and Hodgkin's disease ranked first and second for years of potential life 
lost while lung cancer and colorectal cancer ranked first and second for deaths. 
Most men who die with testicular cancer are young, with each death representing 
an average of 42 years of life lost. Among females, each death from four cancer 
types--leukemia, brain, cervix uteri, and malignant melanoma skin--results in 
more than 20 years of lost life.

PMID: 1557706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Ann Intern Med. 1992 May 1;116(9):722-30. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-116-9-722.

Breast cancer screening for elderly women with and without comorbid conditions. 
A decision analysis model.

Mandelblatt JS(1), Wheat ME, Monane M, Moshief RD, Hollenberg JP, Tang J.

Author information:
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Division of Cancer Control, New York, 
NY 10021.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether breast cancer screening extends life for women 
aged 65 years or more with and without comorbid medical conditions.
SETTING: A provider-patient encounter.
DESIGN: A decision analysis of the utility of screening for breast cancer.
MEASUREMENTS: Clinical examination and mammography among four groups of women 
aged 65 to 85 or more years: average health, mild hypertension, congestive heart 
failure, and average-health black women. The effects of screening were estimated 
using the best quality data available.
RESULTS: Screening saved life at all ages among patients studied. Savings were 
highest for black women and decreased with increasing age and comorbidity. 
Screening all average-health women aged 65 or more saved 67,912 years of life. 
For women who had cancer, screening extended life by 617 days for average-health 
women between 65 and 69 years of age and 178 days for those aged 85 years or 
more. Perioperative mortality and test characteristics had little effect on the 
results. The risks equaled the benefits of screening only when operative 
mortality was between 27% and 62%. The marginal costs of screening during a 
routine office visit were $138 and increased with advancing age and decreasing 
test specificity. Benefits persisted after adjustment for changes in long-term 
quality of life; however, for women aged 85 years and older (with and without 
comorbidities), the short-term morbidity of anxiety or discomfort associated 
with screening may have outweighed the benefits.
CONCLUSION: No inherent reason exists to impose an upper-age limit for breast 
cancer screening; however, more data are needed on women's preferences for 
screening strategies.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-116-9-722
PMID: 1558343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Arterioscler Thromb. 1992 Apr;12(4):468-73. doi: 10.1161/01.atv.12.4.468.

Ontogenetic regulation of apolipoprotein B mRNA editing during human and rat 
development in vivo.

Patterson AP(1), Tennyson GE, Hoeg JM, Sviridov DD, Brewer HB Jr.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Disease Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.

The solubilization and delivery of lipids in plasma rely on both forms of 
apolipoprotein B (apo B): apo B-100 and apo B-48. Apo B-48 is the translational 
product of apo B-100 mRNA that undergoes peritranscriptional conversion of 
C----U, replacing codon CAA (glutamine 2,153) with the inframe stop codon (UAA). 
We examined mRNA editing activity in the human and the rat by reverse 
transcription-polymerase chain reaction primer-extension analysis of intestine 
and liver total RNA. In rat intestine the percentage of apo B transcripts that 
undergo editing increases dramatically the day before birth (from approximately 
1% to 80%), whereas the rat liver acquires an adult level of editing activity 
during the third postnatal week (rising from approximately 8% to 30%), when 
weaning is completed, bile acid composition matures, and plasma thyroid hormone 
levels peak. In contrast to the rat, the human intestine acquires adult levels 
of apo B mRNA editing relatively early in fetal development, rising from 10% at 
10 weeks to approximately 80% by the end of the second trimester. Our results 
establish that apo B mRNA editing is 1) developmentally regulated in a tissue- 
and species-specific manner; 2) fully developed prenatally in both human and rat 
intestine, suggesting a crucial role of apo B-48 in mammalian fetal adaptation 
to extrauterine life; and 3) acquired early in human fetal intestine, implying a 
potential role for apo B-48 in prenatal lipid metabolism.

DOI: 10.1161/01.atv.12.4.468
PMID: 1558838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Hum Biol. 1992 Apr;64(2):199-213.

Differential sex mortality in a rural nineteenth-century population: Escazu, 
Costa Rica.

Madrigal L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of South Florida, Tampa 33620.

Cross-cultural studies of sex-specific mortality indicate that, whereas males 
experience their greatest mortality in industrialized societies, females 
experience their greatest mortality in populations with low life expectancy. The 
higher mortality of females in low-life-expectancy communities has been 
interpreted as a reflection of nutritional and health-care discrimination 
against females. Cross-cultural demographic studies also indicate that males 
have a higher frequency of violent and accidental deaths, possibly because of 
more frequent risky behaviors. This study focuses on Escazu, a rural 
nineteenth-century population from Costa Rica with low life expectancy. I 
investigate whether Escazu males had higher violent and accidental deaths and 
whether females had higher diarrhea-related deaths, an indication of nutritional 
discrimination. An analysis of mortality by cause of death indicates that males 
and females did not experience significantly different diarrhea-related death 
rates, although males did experience greater violent mortality. This study 
illustrates that more anthropological community-specific studies of mortality 
are needed to elucidate variation of death rates within large national or 
international regions.

PMID: 1559690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. J Am Osteopath Assoc. 1992 Jan;92(1):131-4.

Intracranial and extracranial complications of acute mastoiditis: evaluation 
with computed tomography.

Shanley DJ(1), Murphy TF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Tripler Army Medical Center, Honolulu, HI 
96859-5000.

The incidence of acute mastoiditis has decreased significantly because we can 
effectively treat otitis media with oral antibiotics. Inadequate or delayed 
treatment of otitis predisposes to the development of mastoiditis and more 
serious, life-threatening complications. Extension of the infectious process 
beyond the mastoid system can lead to a variety of intracranial and extracranial 
complications including meningitis, epidural and intracerebral abscesses, 
vascular thrombosis, osteomyelitis, and abscesses deep within the neck. Signs of 
clinical deterioration in a patient with otitis media should indicate to the 
general practitioner that a more serious condition is evolving and surgical 
intervention may be necessary. Computed tomography is considered the imaging 
modality of choice for patients with acute mastoiditis because it can define 
clearly the regional anatomy and provide important diagnostic information.

PMID: 1559855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Apr;15(4):612-8.

Prosthetic graft placement and creation of a distal arteriovenous fistula for 
secondary vascular reconstruction in patients with severe limb ischemia.

Jacobs MJ(1), Gregoric ID, Reul GJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Texas Heart Institute/St. Luke's Episcopal 
Hospital, Houston 77225.

Patients with lower limb ischemia who require reoperation for failed vascular 
reconstructive surgery can benefit from a surgical technique in which an 
artificial graft is used and an arteriovenous fistula is created at the site of 
the distal anastomosis, followed by ligation of the proximal vein. This 
technique was used in 30 patients who had undergone vascular reconstruction with 
bypasses from the femoral to the distal tibial, peroneal, or dorsal pedal 
arteries. Angiography showed occlusion of the superficial femoral and popliteal 
arteries in all patients with reconstitution of only one small segment in the 
anterior tibial (n = 12), posterior tibial (n = 11), peroneal (n = 5), or dorsal 
pedal artery (n = 2). All patients had rest pain and necrosis. Artificial grafts 
were required because of the absence of autogenous vein. Immediate postoperative 
graft patency was achieved in all 30 patients. The mean ankle/arm pressure index 
increased from 0.30 +/- 0.24 to 0.79 +/- 0.31 (p less than 0.01). Graft patency 
computed by the life-table method was 71% at both 1- and 2-year follow-up. Foot 
salvage was achieved in 25 of 30 patients after surgery. The results of this 
study indicate that an aggressive vascular surgical approach in patients with 
severe ischemia and previous failed bypass procedures is justified. In the 
absence of autogenous vein, the combination of a prosthetic graft and a distal 
arteriovenous fistula with ligation of the proximal vein increases graft 
patency.

PMID: 1560549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Nature. 1992 Apr 16;356(6370):557-8. doi: 10.1038/356557a0.

Statistics of chronic disease control.

Peto R(1).

Author information:
(1)ICRF Cancer Studies Unit, Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 1992 Jun 11;357(6378):433.

Control of the chronic diseases of middle age is increasingly important, in 
developed and in developing countries, as other causes of premature death 
decrease. It requires bigger clinical trials, and better epidemiology.

DOI: 10.1038/356557a0
PMID: 1560838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Nihon Igaku Hoshasen Gakkai Zasshi. 1992 Feb 25;52(2):182-90.

[Preliminary specification of X-ray CT for lung cancer screening (LSCT) and its 
evaluation on risk-cost-effectiveness].

[Article in Japanese]

Iinuma T(1), Tateno Y, Matsumoto T, Yamamoto S, Matsumoto M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Research, National Institute of Radiological Sciences.

In Japan mass screening for lung cancer is widely performed by chest X-ray film 
of 10 x 10 cm, with sputum cytology for high-risk groups. However, the 
effectiveness of the present mass screening program for lung cancer has been 
less than expected, although some date have shown improvement of the survival 
rate as a result of mass screening. We propose a new X-ray CT method of 
screening for lung cancer called Lung Cancer Screening CT (LSCT). The 
preliminary specifications for LSCT are as follows: scan speed is within 10 sec 
for a 40 cm length with a 1 cm slice thickness, and the absorption dose for lung 
is less than 1 cGy. A computer-assisted diagnostic system is necessary for image 
reading. The risk-benefit analysis of LSCT indicates that Japanese men and women 
over 45 years old can be screened in 1992 and thereafter. The cost per 
person.year of LSCT screening is estimated to be 1.4 x 10(6) yen for a 
population incidence rate of 50 x 10(-5) person/year and average life expectancy 
of 30 years. In 1992 the above condition will be satisfied by men aged 55 years 
old and above, but not by women of any age. We believe that LSCT should be 
developed further and tested in the high-risk group of men with an incidence 
rate of 100 x 10(-5) persons/year or more.

PMID: 1561058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Am J Cardiol. 1992 Apr 15;69(12):1039-43. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)90860-2.

Long-term outcome of paced and nonpaced patients with severe carotid sinus 
syndrome.

Brignole M(1), Menozzi C, Lolli G, Bottoni N, Gaggioli G.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Department, Hospital of Lavagna (GE), Italy.

The natural history of patients with severe carotid sinus syndrome, and the 
efficacy of permanent pacemaker treatment are not clearly known. A randomized 
treatment/nontreatment prospective study was performed in 60 patients affected 
by carotid sinus syndrome whose symptoms were judged to involve risk of major 
trauma or interfered with their daily activity. They were randomly assigned to 2 
groups: 28 patients to no therapy (nonpacing group), and 32 to VVI (n = 18) or 
DDD (n = 14) pacemaker implant (pacing group). Syncope recurred in 16 patients 
(57%) of the nopacing group (mean follow-up 36 +/- 10 months) and in only 3 (9%) 
of the pacing group (mean follow-up 34 +/- 10 months) (p = 0.0002); moreover, 19 
(68%) in the nonpacing group needed a secondary pacemaker implant because of the 
severity of symptoms. The actuarial rate of absence of syncopal recurrence after 
1, 2, 3 and 4 years was 64, 54, 38 and 38%, respectively, for the nonpacing 
group, and 100, 97, 93 and 84%, respectively, for the pacing group (p = 0.0001). 
The actuarial rate of absence of minor symptoms after 1, 2, 3 and 4 years was 
21, 14, 7 and 7%, respectively, for the nonpacing group and 66, 43, 27 and 27%, 
respectively, for the pacing group (p = 0.002). Reproducibility of carotid sinus 
reflex was tested after 15 +/- 8 months in 54 patients; an abnormal response to 
carotid sinus massage persisted in all 54. In conclusion, symptoms recur in most 
patients with untreated carotid sinus syndrome, and pacing is a useful therapy 
for preventing recurrences.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)90860-2
PMID: 1561975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Clin Infect Dis. 1992 Mar;14 Suppl 1:S126-9. doi: 
10.1093/clinids/14.supplement_1.s126.

Mucormycosis.

Sugar AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Evans Memorial Department of Clinical Research, Boston University Medical 
Center, Massachusetts.

Mucormycosis refers to the disease caused by a growing number of members of the 
Mucorales. Typically an airborne infection, primary disease is initiated in the 
upper or lower airways and is associated with the clinical development of 
sinusitis, rhinocerebral mucormycosis, or pulmonary infection. Dissemination of 
infection to skin, brain, and other sites is less common, but direct extension 
of the infection to contiguous sites is common if patients do not receive 
aggressive surgical and medical therapy. Risk factors for the development of 
mucormycosis include diabetic ketoacidosis; neutropenia; protein-calorie 
malnutrition; and iron overload, with or without the concomitant use of 
deferoxamine. This last association has only recently been recognized and has 
emerged as a major life-threatening complication for patients who are undergoing 
hemodialysis. Intravenous drug abusers may inject spores of Mucorales with their 
drugs and may present with space-occupying lesions of the CNS. The underlying 
immunologic defects that are responsible for predisposing different populations 
of patients to the development of mucormycosis are not well understood, and 
there is no unifying theory to explain why most individuals have innate immunity 
to this group of fungi. Patients with mucormycosis who are managed aggressively 
(i.e., those who undergo surgical debridement and who receive therapy with iv 
amphotericin B) may have increased rates of survival. The role of new azole 
derivatives in the treatment of mucormycosis is unknown.

DOI: 10.1093/clinids/14.supplement_1.s126
PMID: 1562684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Cancer Causes Control. 1992 Mar;3(2):125-36. doi: 10.1007/BF00051652.

Optimization of cervical cancer screening.

Gustafsson L(1), Adami HO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Technology, Uppsala University, Sweden.

The aim of this study was to investigate how a screening program interacts with 
the dynamic natural history of cervical neoplasia in order to learn how 
screening for cervical cancer should be carried out most cost-effectively. For 
the purpose of optimization, the fundamental quantities of the natural history 
are the shape of the curve of age-specific prevalence rates of cancer in situ, 
and the duration of this stage before progression to invasive cancer. Since 
these quantities seem similar in different populations, the results probably can 
be generalized. Simulation studies revealed that optimal screening implies a 
nonperiodic schedule, and that this schedule is dependent not only on the number 
of screenings, but also on the efficiency of the screening rounds. With lower 
efficiency, the schedule should be concentrated into a shorter period. The 
effect of screening is also especially sensitive to the choice of age at the 
first and--to a smaller extent--last screening. The results concerning three 
different objectives also were compared, namely reduction of the cumulative 
number of invasive cancers, reduction of deaths due to cervical cancer, and 
reduction of years-of-life lost. The choice of objective also plays a role in 
the design of an optimal screening program. The theoretical approach in this 
analysis easily can be developed and accommodated to more complex individual 
situations such as prior screening histories and differing screening schedules 
in high- and low-risk women.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00051652
PMID: 1562702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Issues Law Med. 1992 Spring;7(4):429-41.

Quality-adjusted life years: ethical implications and the Oregon plan.

La Puma J(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Ethics, Lutheran General Hospital, Park Ridge, IL 60068.

PMID: 1563937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1992 May;19(6):1254-60. doi:
10.1016/0735-1097(92)90332-h.

Influence of coronary heart disease on morbidity and mortality after carotid 
endarterectomy: a population-based study in Olmsted County, Minnesota 
(1970-1988).

Rihal CS(1), Gersh BJ, Whisnant JP, Rooke TW, Sundt TM Jr, O'Fallon WM, Ballard 
DJ.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905.

Erratum in
    J Am Coll Cardiol 1992 Nov 1;20(5):1304.

To evaluate the prognostic importance of coronary artery disease among patients 
undergoing carotid endarterectomy, 177 residents of Olmsted County, Minnesota 
who underwent carotid endarterectomy during the period 1970 through 1988 were 
followed up to July 1, 1989. Patients were stratified as to the presence (n = 
64) or absence (n = 93) of overt coronary artery disease or prior myocardial 
revascularization (n = 20) at the time of endarterectomy. At 30 days after 
carotid endarterectomy, there were no significant differences between patients 
with or without coronary artery disease in the occurrence of death, myocardial 
infarction or stroke. Kaplan-Meier estimate of 8-year relative survival after 
carotid endarterectomy (assessed as a percent of survival in age- carotid 
endarterectomy (assessed as a percent of survival in age- and gender-matched 
control subjects) was 89% in those without and 75% in those with overt coronary 
artery disease. Of the 59 total deaths, 29 (49%) had a cardiac cause and 4 (7%) 
were due to stroke (p less than 0.0001). The cumulative incidence of a cardiac 
event at 8 years after carotid endarterectomy was greater in those with than in 
those without overt coronary artery disease (61% vs. 25%, p less than 0.0001). 
In multivariable analysis, uncorrected coronary artery disease and diabetes were 
the only independent predictors of subsequent cardiac events, whereas age was 
the only independent predictor of death. These population-based data suggest 
that carotid endarterectomy can be safely undertaken in patients with stable 
coronary artery disease. In long-term follow-up of these patients, coronary 
rather than cerebral vascular disease is the most frequent cause of morbidity 
and mortality. Thus, these data lend strong support to the concept of early 
identification and management of coronary artery disease in patients undergoing 
carotid endarterectomy.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(92)90332-h
PMID: 1564225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1992 May;19(6):1323-34. doi:
10.1016/0735-1097(92)90341-j.

Cost-effectiveness of the implantable cardioverter-defibrillator: effect of 
improved battery life and comparison with amiodarone therapy.

Larsen GC(1), Manolis AS, Sonnenberg FA, Beshansky JR, Estes NA, Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New England Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts.

The implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) greatly reduces the incidence 
of sudden cardiac death among patients with recurrent sustained ventricular 
tachycardia and fibrillation who do not respond to conventional antiarrhythmic 
therapy. A cost-effectiveness analysis was performed, comparing the ICD, 
amiodarone and conventional agents. Actual variable costs of hospitalization and 
follow-up care were used for 21 ICD- and 43 amiodarone-treated patients. Life 
expectancy and total variable costs were predicted with use of a Markov decision 
analytic model. Clinical event rates and probabilities were based on published 
reports or expert opinion. Life expectancy with an ICD (6.1 years) was 50% 
greater than that associated with treatment with amiodarone (3.9 years) and 2.5 
times that associated with conventional treatment (2.5 years). Assuming 
replacement every 24 months, ICD lifetime treatment costs (in 1989 dollars) for 
a 55-year old patient are expected to be $89,600 compared with $24,800 for 
amiodarone and $16,100 for conventional therapy, yielding a marginal 
cost/effectiveness ratio for ICD versus amiodarone therapy of 1f429,200/year of 
life saved, which is comparable to that of other accepted medical treatments. If 
technologic improvements extend average battery life to 36 months, the marginal 
cost/effectiveness ratio would be $21,800/year of life saved, and at 96 months 
it would be $13,800/year of life saved. Patient age at implantation did not 
significantly affect these results. If quality of life on amiodarone therapy is 
30% lower than that with the ICD, the marginal cost/effectiveness ratio 
decreases by 35%. If the quality of life for patients receiving drugs is 40% 
lower than that of patients treated with an ICD, use of the defibrillator 
becomes the dominant strategy.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(92)90341-j
PMID: 1564234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. J Neuroradiol. 1992;19(1):68-74.

Brain tissue heterotopia in the nasopharynx. Contribution of MRI to assessment 
of extension.

[Article in English, French]

Braun M(1), Boman F, Hascoet JM, Chastagner P, Brunet A, Simon C.

Author information:
(1)Service de Neuroradiologie, CHU Nancy, France.

The authors report two cases of brain tissue heterotopia in the nasopharynx, 
without other malformations and, in one of the cases, with a persistent 
craniopharyngeal canal opening onto the heterotopia. This exceptional 
