malformation is very similar to brain heterotopia in the nose, or "nasal 
glioma", which is more frequent and less diversified at histology. The 
malformation is revealed by obstruction of the pharynx with respiratory distress 
immediately after birth or during the first weeks of life. Total surgical 
excision provides cure without sequelae. The diagnosis is based on histology. 
MRI is essential to the diagnostic and pretherapeutic evaluation, notably to 
avoid missing an ectopic hypophysis, but it is insufficient to diagnose a 
sphenoidal meningoencephalocele.

PMID: 1564532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. J Reprod Med. 1992 Mar;37(3):237-41.

Superovulation with or without intrauterine insemination for the treatment of 
infertility.

Hurst BS(1), Tjaden BL, Kimball A, Schlaff WD, Damewood MD, Rock JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

Patients undergoing human menopausal gonadotropin (hMG) superovulation were 
reviewed retrospectively to determine whether fecundity was greater for 
intrauterine insemination (IUI) than timed intercourse. Forty patients with 
unexplained infertility, American Fertility Society I or II endometriosis, 
luteal phase defect and/or cervical factor were treated with hMG alone or hMG 
plus IUI. Twenty-eight underwent 52 cycles of hMG/IUI, and 19 underwent 31 
cycles of hMG. The probability of pregnancy after four cycles was significantly 
better in the hMG/IUI group (.90) than the hMG group (.37, P = .049). There was 
a 54.5% multiple pregnancy rate, and one patient was admitted to the hospital 
for hyperstimulation. When traditional therapy fails, hMG/IUI significantly 
increases the pregnancy rates as compared to hMG with timed intercourse in a 
"good prognosis" group of patients.

PMID: 1564710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Minerva Chir. 1992 Feb;47(3-4):109-14.

[Prognostic factors in bronchopulmonary neoplasms].

[Article in Italian]

Paolini A(1), Tosato F, Passaro U, Vasapollo L.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Semeiotica Chirurgica, Università degli Studi di Roma La 
Sapienza, Roma.

The paper aims to illustrate the current state of knowledge regarding the 
prognostic factors of lung cancer. The disappointing results obtained using 
therapeutic modes (an overall 5-year survival rate of 15%), together with the 
considerable variability of the natural history of lung cancer, should be 
attributed to a group of prognostic factors, of varying importance, which can be 
subdivided into three categories: those concerning the characteristics of 
cancer, those inherent to the patient's conditions and those related to the type 
of operation. The paper underlines that histotype, TNM staging, the assessment 
of the nuclear degree and ploidy class play a correct and real prognostic role, 
and that only surgical treatment, if indicated, can offer a real life expectancy 
(40% 5-year survival rate in operated patients).

PMID: 1565264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1992 Apr 15;89(8):3546-50. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.89.8.3546.

Evidence for a programmed life span in a colonial protochordate.

Rinkevich B(1), Lauzon RJ, Brown BW, Weissman IL.

Author information:
(1)Israel Oceanography and Limnological Research, Ltd., Tel Shikmona, Haifa.

The variety of theories that have attempted to define the mechanisms of aging 
and life span can be broadly divided into two alternative but nonexclusive 
viewpoints. The first stipulates that random changes of cellular and molecular 
structures lead to death following progressive "wear and tear." The second 
argues that life span is, at least in part, genetically programmed, and 
therefore aging may also result from time-dependent intrinsic processes. Here we 
demonstrate that ramets (clonal replicates) experimentally separated from 
colonies of the acidian protochordate Botryllus schlosseri died months after 
their separation, almost simultaneously with their parent colony and sibling 
ramets. In addition, in experimentally joined chimeras between ramets of 
senescent and nonsenescent colonies, elements from different parent colonies 
displayed parent-colony-specific timing of mortality. Thus, the senescent 
phenotype was simultaneously expressed both in chimeras and in unfused ramets of 
the parent colony that was undergoing senescence, whereas control ramets from 
the other partner survived. These findings provide experimental evidence for a 
heritable basis underlying mortality in protochordates, unlinked to reproductive 
effort and other life history traits of this species.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.89.8.3546
PMCID: PMC48905
PMID: 1565651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Rev Prat. 1992 Jan 15;42(2):166-71.

[Prophylaxis and maintenance treatments of opportunistic infections in adults].

[Article in French]

Saimot AG(1), Girard PM, Landman R.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Bichat-Claude-Bernard, Paris.

Primary prophylaxis against opportunistic infections is a capital advance in the 
management of HIV-infected patients. In cases with pneumocystosis prophylaxis is 
recommended when the number of T4 cells reaches 200/mm3 or 15 to 20% and 
constitutes a major incitation to apply for detection of seropositivity. It can 
be predicted that other prophylaxis of this type will be available for other 
main opportunistic infections whose proportion is increasing due to extension of 
the patient's life expectation (e.g. toxoplasmosis). Research in this field 
relies on new drugs, on the use of older drugs, and above all on experimental 
models providing a good preclinical evaluation. The development of combined 
prophylactic treatments against several opportunistic infections is a priority 
target. Maintenance treatments are systematically given after a first 
opportunistic infection.

PMID: 1566000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1992 Jan 20;112(2):233-4.

[Agony at Christmas time].

[Article in Norwegian]

Wyller TB.

Comment on
    Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1991 Nov 20;111(28):3375-6.

PMID: 1566262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. J Clin Epidemiol. 1992 Mar;45(3):267-73. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(92)90086-3.

Different multiple regression models for estimating survival: use in a 
population-based series of colorectal cancers.

Monnet E(1), Boutron MC, Arveux P, Milan C, Faivre J.

Author information:
(1)Registre des Tumeurs Digestives, Faculté de Médecine, Dijon, France.

Two additive models for estimating relative survival, recently available in 
statistical packages, were compared to the Cox model in order to define 
practical criteria for choosing one of these three models. The three models were 
applied to a series of 1062 colorectal cancer incident cases recorded at the 
"Registre des Tumeurs Digestives de Côte d'Or" to study the impact on survival 
of age, sex and socio-economic status. The respective advantages of each method 
and facilities of each program were identified. This study emphasized the 
importance of multiple regression models for estimating relative survival: from 
the epidemiologist's point of view, they reinforce the validity of international 
comparisons of survival statistics, from the clinician's point of view, they 
permit to identify the real prognostic significance of variables related to life 
expectancy in the general population.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(92)90086-3
PMID: 1569423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1992 May 8;41(18):313-5.

Years of potential life lost before ages 65 and 85--United States, 1989-1990.

Centers for Disease Control (CDC).

Years of potential life lost (YPLL) is a public health measure that reflects the 
impact of deaths occurring in years preceding a conventional cut-off year of 
age, usually 65 years. YPLL is calculated using final mortality data from CDC's 
National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) (1) for the most recent year 
available and provisional mortality data (i.e., a 10% sample of deaths) (2) for 
the following year. This report summarizes final YPLL data for 1989 and 
provisional YPLL data for 1990.

PMID: 1569914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Versicherungsmedizin. 1992 Feb 1;44(1):10-3.

[Changes in the epidemiology, symptomatology and prognosis of gout].

[Article in German]

Mertz DP(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik am Park, Horn-Bad Meinberg.

Hardly any other disorder in this century has been subject to such strong 
changes--referring to epidemiology and symptomatology--as was gout. These 
changes were all linked to fundamental social upheavals. In the past 4 decades 
effective medicamentous possibilities of treating hyperuricaemia and gout have 
been added. The clinical picture of gout is being obscured by many and partly 
indiscriminate beginnings of treatment of innocuous or symptomless 
hyperuricaemias that were found by accident on the occasion of a medical 
checkup; attacks of gout and classical gout-specific morphological degenerations 
have become rare in spite of a still increasing number of hyperuricaemias among 
the general population. For these reasons epidemiological inquiries about gout 
lack any solid foundation. It is rather appropriate to speak only of "potential" 
gout, of a constellation which--if untreated--would probably mean manifest gout 
sometime. Because of the numerous accompanying diseases which usually attack 
patients with gout and which mostly occur combined with other disorders (such as 
obesity, lesions of the liver and kidneys, high blood pressure, disorders of the 
lipoprotein and carbohydrate metabolism), those patients' life expectancy--if 
they are not treated--is limited anyway. Most of these accompanying diseases can 
contribute to the development of an early severe atherosclerosis the 
consequences of which do lead to the death of most of the untreated "cases". 
Today gout as an arthropathy can be considered to be overcome--punctual and 
correct medical treatment provided; also the numerous accompanying diseases are 
well treatable today.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1570667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 1992 Jan-Mar;5(1):45-52. doi: 
10.1177/002383099200500108.

Incontinence and troublesome behaviors predict institutionalization in dementia.

O'Donnell BF(1), Drachman DA, Barnes HJ, Peterson KE, Swearer JM, Lew RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Massachusetts Medical Center, 
Worcester.

Factors predicting the early institutionalization of demented patients were 
studied in 143 outpatients using univariate and multivariate life-table methods. 
Four types of factors were evaluated for prognostic value: severity of 
functional impairment, behavioral disorders, individual patient characteristics, 
and type of caregiver. After follow-up of 19 +/- 12 months, 51 patients had been 
institutionalized. Increased global severity of dementia, the presence of 
troublesome and disruptive behaviors, and incontinence increased the likelihood 
of institutionalization. The best predictors of institutionalization were 
paranoia, aggressive behavior, and incontinence. Neither individual patient 
characteristics (age, education, and gender) nor caregiver relationship to the 
patient (male spouse, female spouse, and male or female child) influenced 
institutionalization. Since troublesome behavioral disorders are potentially 
treatable aspects of dementia leading to institutionalization, their management 
should be a major focus of therapy in dementia.

DOI: 10.1177/002383099200500108
PMID: 1571074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. BMJ. 1992 Mar 14;304(6828):715. doi: 10.1136/bmj.304.6828.715-b.

Income distribution and life expectancy.

Baker D, Illsley R.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1992 Jan 18;304(6820):165-8.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.304.6828.715-b
PMCID: PMC1881555
PMID: 1571661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. BMJ. 1992 Mar 14;304(6828):715-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.304.6828.715-c.

Income distribution and life expectancy.

Forster DP.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1992 Jan 18;304(6820):165-8.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.304.6828.715-c
PMCID: PMC1881494
PMID: 1571662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. J Gerontol. 1992 May;47(3):M73-8. doi: 10.1093/geronj/47.3.m73.

How comparable are healthy 60- and 80-year-old men?

Metter EJ(1), Walega D, Metter EL, Pearson J, Brant LJ, Hiscock BS, Fozard JL.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Aging, Longitudinal Studies Branch, Baltimore.

A critical issue in cross-sectional aging studies is the comparability of 
subjects of different ages, particularly regarding health status. For example, 
it is typically assumed that healthy 60-year-old men are equivalent to healthy 
80-year-old men when both age groups are selected using the same criteria. The 
60-year-old, however, may not survive or be healthy at age 80. To examine this 
issue, 212 healthy 60-year-old men in the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging 
were identified. By life table analysis, 30% were expected to survive and remain 
healthy to age 80. In this study, 61 healthy 60-year-old men were followed to 
age 80. When compared with 125 healthy 80-year-old men, they had more heart 
disease, cancer, stroke, arterial, digestive, and peripheral nervous system 
diseases. Twenty-seven of the 61 men (44%) actually continued to be healthy at 
age 80. At age 60, systolic pressure and total serum cholesterol were predictive 
of who would be healthy at age 80.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/47.3.m73
PMID: 1573187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. J Clin Epidemiol. 1992 Feb;45(2):157-67. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(92)90008-b.

Mortality in Norwegian Seventh-Day Adventists 1962-1986.

Fønnebø V(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Community Medicine, University of Tromsø, Norway.

The standardized mortality ratio (SMR) was studied in Norwegian Seventh-Day 
Adventists, a religious group practising a life-style regarded as protective 
against cancer and cardiovascular disease. Persons converting before the age of 
19 had a SMR of 69 (men) and 59 (women). This was both significantly lower than 
the general population and those converting at age 35 or above. The site mainly 
responsible for the low SMR in young converts was cardiovascular disease (men, 
44; women, 52). Overall SMR in Seventh-Day Adventists compared to the general 
population was 82 (95% CI: 77-88, p less than 0.001) in men and 95 (95% CI: 
91-100, NS) in women. SMR for cancer was significantly lower only in men before 
the age of 75 (SMR: 78, 95% CI: 61-99, p less than 0.05). Adopting a healthful 
lifestyle early in life seems to be of decisive importance with regard to 
mortality, later lifestyle changes have a smaller effect on death risk.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(92)90008-b
PMID: 1573432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. J Clin Epidemiol. 1992 Feb;45(2):169-74. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(92)90009-c.

Family patterns of coronary heart disease mortality: the Framingham Longevity 
Study.

Brand FN(1), Kiely DK, Kannel WB, Myers RH.

Author information:
(1)Boston University School of Medicine, Evans Research Foundation, MA 02118.

Family patterns for age at death were examined in a 40 year follow-up of 5209 
men and women (2900 deceased, 2309 living) in the Framingham Study and their 
parents. Age at death of both mothers and fathers was significantly older for 
surviving offspring when compared to decreased offspring (p less than 0.0001). 
When longevity was assessed according to cause of death in the offspring, 
parental age at death was a significant predictor of death by coronary heart 
disease (CHD), but not for stroke or cancer. Multiple regression analysis for 
offspring with sudden CHD death revealed that mother's age at death was a 
significant predictor of age at sudden CHD death (p less than 0.0003) whereas 
father's age at death was a significant predictor of age at death in non-sudden 
CHD death (p less than 0.004). Life table analysis showed longest survival rates 
associated with both parents surviving to age 75 or older followed by mother 
only surviving to age 75 or older, then father only, and shortest survival with 
neither parent surviving to age 75. Longevity appears to be more strongly 
associated with maternal death age than parental death age. Proportional hazards 
analysis of risk factors associated with CHD revealed that systolic blood 
pressure, sex of the individual, and cigarette smoking were the most significant 
predictors of death age. These findings suggest that familial similarities for 
death age may be mediated primarily through shared CHD risk factors within 
families, either genetic or non-genetic.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(92)90009-c
PMID: 1573433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. J Surg Oncol. 1992 May;50(1):22-6. doi: 10.1002/jso.2930500109.

Immediate mandibular stabilization following resection of advanced oral cavity 
carcinoma using the Joe Hall Morris external fixation device.

Midis GP(1), Feuer A, Bergman SA, Elias EG, Lefor AT, Didolkar MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, School of Dentistry, University 
of Maryland, Baltimore.

Internal mandibular fixation after resection of advanced oral cavity carcinoma 
with mandibulectomy has a significant complication rate. We placed the Joe Hall 
Morris (JHM) external mandibular appliance in 29 patients undergoing 
mandibulectomy for advanced oral cavity carcinoma. Fourteen patients received 
postoperative radiation therapy (RT). Three of 29 patients (10%) had 
complications associated with the JHM appliance: one patient had a broken 
connecting bar, a second had loosening of a single pin, and a third had loss of 
fixation requiring complete replacement of the appliance. Complications not 
associated with the appliance occurred in 8 patients (28%) including mandibular 
exposure (1), orocutaneous fistula (2), partial flap dehiscence (4), and flap 
necrosis (1). Oral continence was maintained in 26 patients, and occlusion was 
normal in 27. The appliance was removed in 12 weeks to 6 months in all patients. 
The JHM appliance allows for a reliable and rapid immediate fixation of the 
mandible with acceptable functional and aesthetic results, and no delay or 
interference with postoperative radiotherapy. Since the life expectancy of these 
patients is short, most do not require subsequent permanent fixation after 
removal of the appliance.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.2930500109
PMID: 1573891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Radiat Res. 1992 May;130(2):249-66.

Studies of the mortality of A-bomb survivors. 9. Mortality, 1950-1985: Part 3. 
Noncancer mortality based on the revised doses (DS86).

Shimizu Y(1), Kato H, Schull WJ, Hoel DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Radiation Effects Research Foundation, Hiroshima, 
Japan.

Deaths in the RERF Life Span Study (LSS) sample have been determined for the 
years 1950-1985 and an analysis of cancer mortality with the revised DS86 doses 
has been described separately. In this report, we examine the relationship to 
dose of deaths from all diseases other than cancer. Although the evidence is 
still limited, there seems to be an excess risk from noncancer death at high 
doses (2 or 3 Gy and over). Statistically, a pure quadratic or a 
linear-threshold model [the estimated threshold dose is 1.4 Gy (0.6-2.8 Gy)] is 
found to fit better than a simple linear or linear-quadratic model. This 
increase in noncancer mortality is statistically demonstrable, generally, after 
1965 and among the younger survivors (less than 40 at the time of the bombing), 
suggesting a sensitivity for this age group. For specific causes of death, an 
excess in relative risk at the high dose level, that is, 2 Gy or more, is seen 
in circulatory and digestive diseases. The relative risk is, however, much 
smaller than that for cancer. These findings, based as they are on death 
certificates, have their limitations. Most significant, perhaps, is the possible 
erroneous attribution of radiation-related cancer deaths to other causes. At 
present, the contribution such errors may make to the apparent increase in 
non-cancer deaths at the higher doses cannot be estimated as rigorously as is 
obviously desirable. However, even now, this increase does not appear to be 
fully explicable in terms of errors in classification. Further follow-up of 
mortality in this LSS cohort as well as disease revealed by the biennial 
physical examinations of the morbidity subsample (Adult Health Study) of the LSS 
cohort will be needed to confirm this suggestion of a radiation-related increase 
in mortality from causes other than cancer, and to determine whether it results 
in a demonstrable life shortening among the heavily exposed A-bomb survivors.

PMID: 1574582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Scand J Rheumatol Suppl. 1992;92:3-8. doi: 10.3109/03009749209101382.

Epidemiology and economics of NSAID-induced gastropathy.

Zeidler H(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Hannover, Germany.

Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use and gastrointestinal (GI) injury 
and symptoms are associated in clinical practice, but the importance of this 
injury is debatable. Most rheumatologists and general practitioners view NSAIDs 
as extremely valuable and generally well-tolerated first-line agents in the 
treatment of arthritis and musculoskeletal disorders. Generally, 
gastroenterologists and surgeons, on the other hand, insist that NSAIDs are 
dangerous and potentially lethal irritants to the GI mucosa. More frequent 
NSAID-induced gastropathy may be related to general epidemiological trends in 
NSAID-using populations: longer life expectancy, multiple risk co-factors for 
peptic ulcer disease (ie, smoking, alcohol, diet, comedication), and the 
increased availability of endoscopic examinations. Based on endoscopic studies, 
the prevalence of NSAID-induced adverse GI events has been documented in 
published reports. The frequency of bleeding is related to dose and duration of 
NSAID therapy. Overall, the prevalence of ulcer complications is higher in 
patients who consume NSAIDs. Cost-benefit analyses indicate that preventing 
potential GI damage with agents such as misoprostol may reduce the expense of 
treating the GI side effects associated with NSAID therapy.

DOI: 10.3109/03009749209101382
PMID: 1574686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Am J Cardiol. 1992 May 1;69(14):1128-34. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)90924-n.

Differential long-term impact of in-hospital symptoms of psychological stress 
after non-Q-wave and Q-wave acute myocardial infarction.

Frasure-Smith N(1), Lespérance F, Juneau M.

Author information:
(1)Montreal Heart Institute Research Centre, McGill University, Quebec, Canada.

Erratum in
    Am J Cardiol 1994 Sep 15;74(6):639.

Comment in
    Am J Cardiol. 1994 Aug 1;74(3):308.

Because of their unstable pathophysiology, it was hypothesized that patients 
with non-Q-wave acute myocardial infarctions (AMI) would be more vulnerable to 
the negative effects of psychological stress than patients with Q-wave AMI, and 
thus would be more likely to benefit from programs aimed at relieving stress. 
This hypothesis was tested through secondary analysis of data from a 1-year 
randomized clinical trial of psychological stress monitoring and intervention 
after AMI. After discharge, treatment group patients were telephoned each month 
and asked to respond to an index of psychological stress symptoms (General 
Health Questionnaire GHQ-20). Those with high stress symptoms (GHQ greater than 
or equal to 5) received home nursing visits. Control group patients received 
usual care. The sample consisted of 461 men, aged 31 to 86 years, who responded 
to the GHQ-20 before hospital discharge. Patients were followed for 5 years 
using record data. There were 321 Q-wave AMIs, 112 non-Q-wave AMIs and 28 
indeterminate electrocardiograms. Life-table analyses showed that among patients 
with non-Q-wave AMIs receiving usual care, high stress in the hospital (GHQ 
greater than or equal to 5) was associated with a 1-year relative risk (RR) of 
cardiac mortality of 5.49 +/- 1.39 (p = 0.01). In comparison, control patients 
with Q-wave MIs had no stress-related increase in risk (RR = 0.41 +/- 2.08, p = 
0.40). In the treatment group, the patients with non-Q-wave AMIs did not 
experience an increase in risk associated with high stress (RR = 1.80 +/- 1.79, 
p = 0.52).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)90924-n
PMID: 1575180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Arch Surg. 1992 May;127(5):574-8. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.1992.01420050098012.

Combined kidney and pancreas transplantation. A 3-year experience.

Shaffer D(1), Madras PN, Sahyoun AI, Williams ME, Kaldany A, D'Elia JA, Monaco 
AP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Organ Transplantation, New England Deaconess Hospital, Boston, 
Mass 02215.

Between May 1988 and September 1991, we performed 26 simultaneous kidney and 
pancreas transplants and one pancreas transplant after a kidney transplant. All 
transplants consisted of bladder drainage via a duodenal segment. Actuarial 
patient, kidney, and pancreas graft survival rates at 12 months were 96%, 88%, 
and 85%, respectively, and at 24 months were 96%, 88%, and 81%, respectively, 
and were not significantly different from those of diabetic recipients of 
cadaver kidney transplants alone. Excellent long-term glycemic control was 
obtained as monitored by fasting blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin 
levels and by oral glucose tolerance tests. The mean period of hospitalization 
and number of hospital admissions in the first year posttransplant were 
significantly greater for patients who received combined kidney and pancreas 
transplants than for those who received cadaver kidney transplants alone. 
Combined kidney and pancreas transplants can be performed with patient and graft 
survival comparable to those of kidney transplants alone, with excellent 
long-term glycemic control, but result in increased morbidity in the first 
postoperative year.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1992.01420050098012
PMID: 1575627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Epidemiology. 1992 Mar;3(2):104-12. doi: 10.1097/00001648-199203000-00007.

Reporting bias and mode of interview in a study of adverse pregnancy outcomes 
and water consumption.

Hertz-Picciotto I(1), Swan SH, Neutra RR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical and Environmental Health Sciences, University of 
California, Berkeley.

In an earlier publication, it was shown that consumption of tapwater during the 
first trimester of pregnancy was associated with a risk of spontaneous abortion 
among women who attended three prenatal clinics located in northern California 
between September 1981 and June 1982. Evidence for biased recall was presented. 
This report demonstrates that the association is limited to women interviewed by 
telephone and is not observed among those who completed a mail questionnaire. 
The possibility that the association among women interviewed by telephone is 
causal and that the lack of association among mail respondents is due to bias, 
confounding, or apparently chance fluctuations is shown to be unlikely. For 
instance, the probability is low that, among mail respondents, cases 
underreported exposure as compared with controls or that random errors were 
common enough to camouflage a true effect. Demographic differences between mail 
and telephone respondents also do not explain the results. Interviewers were, 
however, aware of the outcome of the pregnancy, suggesting that differential 
reporting of exposure may have been stimulated in the nonblind telephone 
interview. The pattern of heterogeneity between mail and telephone respondents 
was also observed for reportable anomalies and tapwater consumption. The data on 
heterogeneity support the previously published conclusion that differential 
reporting (biased recall) of this common exposure, tapwater consumption, is the 
likely explanation for its observed association with the risk of spontaneous 
abortion. That this association is limited to telephone respondents elucidates 
the mechanism that apparently produced the bias: that is, the medium of nonblind 
telephone interviews.

DOI: 10.1097/00001648-199203000-00007
PMID: 1576214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. J Assoc Acad Minor Phys. 1992;3(2):41-5.

The kidney in sickle cell anemia.

Bourke E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, VAMC Brooklyn, New York.

New insights into the physical chemistry and molecular epidemiology of sickle 
cell anemia have improved our understanding of the pathophysiology of the 
associated nephropathy, the predictors of this complication, and genetic and 
other factors that may modify it. In this article, we analyze the current 
clinicopathologic knowledge with reference to the predilection to nephropathy 
and the protection from hypertension, as well as the altered renal physiology of 
the sickle cell state that underlies both these phenomena. In the early stages 
of sickle cell anemia, the kidney is characterized by impaired function of the 
renal medulla, as evidenced by reduced capacity to concentrate, acidify, and 
excrete potassium into the urine. Meanwhile, the cortex functions supranormally, 
as evidenced by increased renal plasma flow and glomerular filtration rate, 
proximal tubular function, and urinary diluting capacity. In addition to the 
complications of hematuria and papillary necrosis, renal insufficiency 
supervenes in a subgroup of patients. The morphology of the glomerulopathy 
generally differs between children and adults; in the latter group there is a 
particularly poor prognosis and markedly shortened life expectancy. Renal 
replacement therapy has nonetheless been successful. Although hypertension may 
be found at this stage, it is extremely rare before the onset of significant 
renal impairment. The possible mechanism of this protection is discussed, with a 
focus on the compelling need for further investigation in light of the newly 
gained basic understanding of this hematorenal syndrome.

PMID: 1576459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Clin Geriatr Med. 1992 Feb;8(1):51-67.

Can screening older patients for cancer save lives?

Oddone EZ(1), Feussner JR, Cohen HJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, 
Durham, North Carolina.

Cancer screening of the elderly is warranted for those cancers for which early 
detection and treatment improve life expectancy. There is excellent evidence to 
include screening for breast cancer with clinical examination and mammography 
for elderly women. There is also reasonable evidence to screen for cervical 
cancer with PAP testing in elderly women who were previously unscreened, 
although there is no evidence to support continuing the practice in women who 
have had consecutive normal PAP tests. No evidence supports or refutes screening 
programs for colon, prostate, skin, or oral cancer in the elderly. The authors 
recommend including screening for colon and prostate cancer in the routine 
examination of office patients. The potential benefit for the rare patient in 
whom an early stage cancer is discovered and treated is large and worth both the 
physician's and patient's time and effort. The authors recommend screening only 
patients deemed to be at high risk for skin and oral cancer. The main factor 
favoring continued screening in the elderly is the burden of suffering and the 
pronounced increased incidence of the disease in old age. Lastly, the authors 
recommend against routine screening for lung cancer in the elderly.

PMID: 1576580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Eur Heart J. 1992 Jan;13(1):2-8. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a060041.

Cost-effectiveness of thrombolysis--a randomized study of intravenous rt-PA in 
suspected myocardial infarction.

Levin LA(1), Jönsson B.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Medical Technology Assessment, Linköping University, Sweden.

The aim of this randomized placebo-controlled study is to ascertain the costs of 
intravenous thrombolytic therapy (rt-PA) in the first year after suspected 
myocardial infarction and to measure the treatment effect on quality of life. 
The main findings are that the direct costs (including all health care 
expenditure), on average were 9880 SEK higher in the rt-PA group (N = 153) than 
in the placebo group (N = 160). At the same time the indirect costs were 4200 
SEK lower in the rt-PA group. The total cost of the first year after suspected 
myocardial infarction were on average 5680 SEK higher in the rt-PA group. The 
treatment gain in mean life expectancy calculated with a yearly mortality rate 
of 6% from the end of follow up was 1.25 years. Quality of life was measured 
using the Nottingham Health Profile and was classified according to NYHAs 
functional classification. The Nottingham Health Profile (NHP) results show that 
the rt-PA patients had a slightly higher (worse) score in all dimensions after 
one month with the exception of sleep. After 12 months the differences no longer 
exist and the rt-PA patients had even lower (better) scores in the sleep and 
energy dimensions. The calculated cost-effectiveness ratio varies from 3090 to 
5970 SEK per life year saved and the calculated cost-utility ratio varies from 
3260 SEK to 6310 SEK per QALY gained. In comparison with other heart disease 
treatments, intravenous thrombolysis is cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a060041
PMID: 1577026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Eur Heart J. 1992 Jan;13(1):67-9. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a060050.

The 15-year prognosis of a first acute coronary episode in women.

Robinson K(1), Conroy RM, Mulcahy R, Hickey N.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Department, St Vincent's Hospital and University College, Dublin, 
Ireland.

We report on the 15-year prognosis of 720 male and 246 female 28-day survivors 
of a first myocardial infarction or episode of unstable angina who were aged 
under 60 years at the time of admission to the study. Women were on average 1.9 
years older than men, had higher cholesterol levels, a higher prevalence of 
hypertension and angina prior to admission and a higher proportion were lifetime 
non-smokers. Women were more likely to be admitted with unstable angina rather 
than infarction. When adjusted for age, smoking status, angina, hypertension and 
the difference in prevalence of infarction, women had a relative risk of death 
of 1.054 in a 15-year life table mortality analysis. Prognostic differences 
between the sexes reported may be the result of failure to allow for differences 
in other prognostic factors.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a060050
PMID: 1577034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. J Bacteriol. 1992 May;174(10):3212-9. doi: 10.1128/jb.174.10.3212-3219.1992.

Transcriptional regulation of the ilv-leu operon of Bacillus subtilis.

Grandoni JA(1), Zahler SA, Calvo JM.

Author information:
(1)Section of Biochemistry, Molecular, and Cell Biology, Cornell University, 
Ithaca, New York 14853.

Erratum in
    J Bacteriol 1992 Jul;174(14):4863.

We used primer extension and mutational analysis to identify a promoter upstream 
of ilvB, the first gene in the ilv-leu operon of Bacillus subtilis. Between the 
promoter and ilvB, there is a 482-bp leader region which contains a sequence 
that resembles a factor-independent transcription terminator. In in vitro 
transcription experiments, 90% of transcripts initiated at the ilvB promoter 
ended at a site near this terminator. Primer extension analysis of RNA 
synthesized in vivo showed that the steady-state level of mRNA upstream of the 
terminator was twofold higher from cells limited for leucine than it was from 
cells grown with excess leucine. mRNA downstream of the terminator was 14-fold 
higher in cells limited for leucine than in cells grown with excess leucine. 
Measurement of mRNA degradation rates showed that the half-life of ilv-leu mRNA 
was the same when the cells were grown with or without leucine. These data 
demonstrate that the ilv-leu operon is regulated by transcription attenuation.

DOI: 10.1128/jb.174.10.3212-3219.1992
PMCID: PMC205988
PMID: 1577690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. J Fam Pract. 1992 May;34(5):561-8.

The evaluation and treatment of men with asymptomatic prostate nodules in 
primary care: a decision analysis.

Mold JW(1), Holtgrave DR, Bisonni RS, Marley DS, Wright RA, Spann SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Oklahoma University Health Sciences Center, 
Oklahoma City 73104.

Comment in
    J Fam Pract. 1992 Oct;35(4):366-8; author reply 373, 377.
    J Fam Pract. 1992 Oct;35(4):368; author reply 373, 377.
    J Fam Pract. 1992 Oct;35(4):368, 373; author reply 373, 377.

BACKGROUND: Whether to perform periodic rectal examinations in asymptomatic men 
as a screening test for prostatic cancer remains controversial. A randomized 
clinical trial that tests the efficacy of further evaluation and treatment of 
men who have been found to have asymptomatic prostate nodules may never be 
carried out. Decision analysis was therefore used to further investigate this 
clinical issue.
METHODS: A decision tree was developed to model the decision of whether to 
biopsy an asymptomatic prostate nodule found by digital rectal examination in a 
65-year-old man by his primary care physician. Test operating characteristics, 
probabilities of disease at different stages, probabilities of side effects from 
various treatments, and average life expectancies were obtained from the medical 
literature. Utilities for the various possible health outcome states were 
obtained from ratings by two experienced primary care physicians using the 
Kaplan-Anderson Quality of Well-Being Scale. These were used to adjust the 
quality-of-life expectancies for each outcome state. Multiple sensitivity 
analyses were performed to assess the robustness of the conclusions.
RESULTS: Disregarding patient utilities, the average survival benefit of 
evaluation and treatment is 1.1 months. When quality-of-life adjustments are 
included in the analysis, evaluation and treatment results in an average loss of 
3.5 quality-adjusted months of life. Factors that shift the decision toward 
evaluation and treatment include a positive predictive value of a prostate 
nodule for cancer of 49% or greater, specificity of prostate biopsy of 98.3% or 
greater, and the availability of much more effective treatment for stage D 
cancers. Factors that do not substantially affect the decision are cancer-free 
life expectancy, the percentage of cancers that are stage B at time of 
discovery, the sensitivity of prostate biopsy, and more effective treatment for 
stage C cancer, assuming the same rate of adverse consequences from treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The evaluation and treatment of prostatic nodules found by digital 
rectal examination in asymptomatic men in the primary care setting does not lead 
to significant improvement in life expectancy and adversely affects quality of 
life. Digital rectal examination should not be performed by primary care 
physicians as a screening test for prostate cancer.

PMID: 1578205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. J Vasc Surg. 1992 May;15(5):755-9; discussion 759-60. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1992.36607.

Popliteal-to-distal bypass for limb-threatening ischemia.

Marks J(1), King TA, Baele H, Rubin J, Marmen C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Mt. Sinai Medical Center, Cleveland, OH 44106.

In a subset of patients requiring lower extremity revascularization, the 
popliteal artery may be used for inflow, thereby minimizing dissection and the 
length of vein required for bypass. This retrospective study was done to define 
the risks and benefits of arterial reconstruction in a population of patients 
having popliteal-to-distal bypass procedures. Between 1986 and 1990, 32 surgical 
procedures were performed on 29 patients. The patient's ages ranged from 46 to 
86 years, with a mean age of 68 years. Twenty-four of 29 (83%) were men and 19 
of the 29 (66%) had diabetes. Most patients had multiple indications for 
surgical intervention, and these included rest pain (54%), nonhealing ulcers 
(64%), and gangrene (29%). Arterial bypass with use of the popliteal artery for 
the proximal anastomosis was performed with in situ saphenous vein (50%), 
reversed saphenous vein (41%), and orthograde autologous vein (9%). Distal 
anastomoses were to the posterior tibial artery in 11 bypasses (33%), the 
peroneal artery in 10 (30%), the anterior tibial artery in two (6%), and the 
dorsal pedal artery in 10 (30%). Two deaths occurred in the perioperative period 
for an operative mortality rate of 6.9%. With use of life-table analysis, the 
cumulative graft patency rate was 97% at 1 year, 97% at 2 years, and 63.5% at 4 
years. The overall cumulative limb salvage rate was 90.1% at 1 year, 90.1% at 2 
years, and 78.8% at 4 years.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1992.36607
PMID: 1578530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. J Vasc Surg. 1992 May;15(5):817-22. doi: 10.1067/mva.1992.36098.

Axillopopliteal bypass for limb salvage.

Keller MP(1), Hoch JR, Harding AD, Nichols WK, Silver D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Missouri-Columbia 65212.

Forty-one axillopopliteal bypass grafts have been placed in 30 patients for limb 
salvage in the past 12 years. The mean patient age was 65.6 years; 8 were women; 
19 smoked; and six had diabetes. Sixteen grafts were straight axillopopliteal 
bypass grafts, and 25 were sequential axillopopliteal bypass grafts. Cumulative 
life-table primary patency rates at 1, 2, and 3 years were 70%, 56%, and 43%, 
respectively; secondary patency rates were 73%, 57%, and 50%, respectively. 
Corresponding limb salvage rates were 86%, 69%, and 69%, respectively. Ringed 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) graft patency at 3 years was 61% versus 40% for 
unsupported PTFE grafts (p = 0.35). Ringed PTFE axillofemoral grafts with 
sequential femoropopliteal saphenous vein grafts had a 3-year patency of 67%. 
Graft patency was restored in 25% of occluded grafts by thrombectomy and in 80% 
of occluded grafts by thrombectomy with graft revision (p = 0.21). Cumulative 
3-year patient survival was 48%. The 30-day operative mortality rate was 20%; 
patients operated on for graft infection had a 30-day operative mortality rate 
of 36%. The data support the use of axillopopliteal bypass for limb salvage when 
standard revascularization techniques are contraindicated. Long-term patency is 
enhanced by use of externally supported PTFE and sequential femoropopliteal 
saphenous vein.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1992.36098
PMID: 1578537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. JAMA. 1992 May 27;267(20):2727.

From the Centers for Disease Control. Current trends: years of potential life 
lost before ages 65 and 85--United States, 1989-1990.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1578584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Neurology. 1992 May;42(5):991-4. doi: 10.1212/wnl.42.5.991.

Life expectancy in patients attending multiple sclerosis clinics.

Sadovnick AD(1), Ebers GC, Wilson RW, Paty DW.

Author information:
(1)Multiple Sclerosis, University Hospital-UBC Site, Vancouver, Canada.

One multiple sclerosis (MS) is diagnosed, important considerations often include 
life expectancy and the availability of life insurance. We designed a study 
specifically to examine life expectancy among MS clinic patients and analyzed 
the data using standard actuarial methods, both including and excluding 
suicides. The data show that severe MS disability, as measured by an Expanded 
Disability Status Score (EDSS) of greater than or equal to 7.5, is a major risk 
factor for death with case fatality ratios for this group of patients 
approaching 4 times the rate for controls. Conversely, excluding deaths by 
suicide, case fatality ratios for those with mild and moderate disability (EDSS 
less than or equal to 7.0) approach 1.4 times and 1.6 times for age- and 
sex-matched comparison groups. Life tables indicate that the overall life 
expectancy for MS is only about 6 to 7 years less than that for the "insured" 
population without MS.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.42.5.991
PMID: 1579256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1992 Mar;96(3):352-8.

[Visual field change and risk factors for progression of visual field damage in 
low tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Shirai H(1), Sakuma T, Sogano S, Kitazawa Y.

Author information:
(1)Hirata Eye Clinic, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

The authors carried out a prospective study in an attempt to determine the 
possible effect of intraocular pressure (IOP) and some clinical factors on the 
clinical course of low tension glaucoma (LTG). During the study period all the 
patients were followed without any antiglaucoma medication. The enrollment 
criteria for the study were reproducible, mild to moderate field loss as defined 
as a mean defect (MD) of greater than 2 dB and less than 10 dB or corrected loss 
variance (CLV) of greater than 7 dB revealed by the Octopus 201, G1 program. 
Forty-two consecutive patients (56 eyes) who fulfilled this criteria were 
enrolled. Baseline and follow-up examinations included applanation tonometry, 
perimetry with G1 program, blood pressure and pulse rate. When the MD increased 
by 4 dB or more on two consecutive perimetry examinations, the field defect was 
judged as "progressed". During the follow-up period (6-51 months, 25.1 +/- 12.5 
months), the field defect progressed in 14 eyes of 12 patients. The life-table 
analysis (Kaplan-Meier) revealed that the rate of nonprogression of visual field 
defects was 55.5% at 48 months. The rate of nonprogression was significantly 
lower in 16 eyes with a mean IOP equal to or higher than 15 mmHg as opposed to 
40 eyes with that lower than 15 mmHg (34.3% and 67.2% respectively, p less than 
0.05). The results seem to indicate that IOP is likely to be responsible for the 
aggravation of visual fields in LTG. Canonical discriminant analysis revealed 
that the discriminant function containing four variables gives the best 
separation between the "progressed" and "nonprogressed" group (discriminant 
efficacy: 83.9%).

PMID: 1580219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Am J Epidemiol. 1992 Mar 15;135(6):638-48. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a116343.

An analysis of excess mortality rates for persons with non-insulin-dependent 
diabetes mellitus in Western Australia using the Cox proportional hazards 
regression model.

Knuiman MW(1), Welborn TA, Whittall DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Western Australia, Nedlands.

A cohort of 888 rural, nonaboriginal persons with non-insulin-dependent diabetes 
mellitus identified in Western Australia through surveys in 1978-1982 were 
followed for death until the end of 1986. A total of 257 deaths were observed. 
Excess mortality in this cohort as compared with the general Australian 
population was investigated by calculating standardized mortality ratios and 
using the Cox proportional hazards regression model with hazard rates for the 
general population as the baseline. The overall standardized mortality ratio was 
1.83 (95% confidence interval 1.51-2.16) for women and 1.43 (95% confidence 
interval 1.18-1.67) for men. Cause-specific comparisons with the general 
population showed that the majority of excess deaths could be attributed to 
diseases of the circulatory system. Factors assessed at the baseline survey that 
were independently prognostic of shorter survival were early onset of diabetes 
(for females only), high plasma glucose level, retinopathy, macrovascular 
disease, albuminuria (for females only), and elevated plasma creatinine level. 
Reductions in life expectancy at 60 years of age as compared with the general 
population averaged about 5 years but could be as much as 16 years for female 
diabetics with early onset of diabetes, high plasma glucose levels, and several 
complications.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a116343
PMID: 1580240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Am J Med. 1992 May;92(5):503-12. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(92)90747-y.

Occupational exposure to human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis B virus: a 
comparative analysis of risk.

Owens DK(1), Nease RF Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Palo Alto, CA.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the occupational risk from infection with the human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in terms of loss of (quality-adjusted) life 
expectancy, and to compare that risk to those posed by other hazards faced by 
health care workers.
DESIGN: Decision-analytic model.
RESULTS: For a 30-year-old female health care worker (unvaccinated for hepatitis 
B virus [HBV]), the loss of life expectancy from a needlestick from a 
symptomatic HIV-positive (HIV+) patient is 39 days (range, 17 to 93 days), as 
compared with a loss of 17 days from a needlestick from a patient who is 
hepatitis-B-surface-antigen-positive (HBsAg+), and 38 days from a needlestick 
from a patient who is hepatitis-B-e-antigen-positive (HBeAg+). When morbidity is 
included in the analysis of risk (through calculation of the quality-adjusted 
loss of life expectancy), the risk from both HBV and HIV increases. The 
quality-adjusted loss of life expectancy due to a needlestick exposure from a 
symptomatic HIV+ patient is 45 days (range, 20 to 108 days), as compared with a 
quality-adjusted loss of life expectancy of 48 days from a needlestick from an 
HBsAg+ patient, and 109 days from a needlestick from a patient who is known to 
be HBeAg+. By comparison, a cross-country automobile trip is associated with a 
loss of life expectancy of approximately 1 day. The 45- to 50-day loss of 
quality-adjusted life expectancy from percutaneous exposures to HIV and HBV is 
approximately the same magnitude as the gain in life expectancy from 10 years of 
annual screening for breast cancer with mammography and physical examination.
CONCLUSIONS: The risk associated with percutaneous exposures to symptomatic HIV+ 
