patients is comparable to other risks that health care workers have faced 
knowingly and have accepted in the recent past. However, the loss of 
quality-adjusted life expectancy associated with a needlestick exposure is 
significant. Identification of cost-effective methods that increase the safety 
of medical personnel but also ensure full access to high-quality care for HIV+ 
patients should be a high priority.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(92)90747-y
PMID: 1580297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1992 May;73(5):403-8.

Long-term survival, prognosis, and life-care planning for 29 patients with 
chronic locked-in syndrome.

Katz RT(1), Haig AJ, Clark BB, DiPaola RJ.

Author information:
(1)SSM Rehabilitation Institute, St. Louis, MO 63117.

We present a life-table analysis of a cohort of 29 locked-in syndrome (LIS) 
patients followed for a minimum of five years, and we report on the status of 
the chronic LIS patient. Twenty-nine LIS patients who remained locked-in for 
more than one year were identified. Inpatient charts were reviewed for 
demographic, medical, and functional data. Telephone followup was obtained to 
examine medical complications after discharge, survival, neurologic recovery, 
care issues, and permanent disposition. A life-table analysis was performed on 
survival data. Cerebrovascular disease was the most common cause of LIS. 
Survival ranged from 2.02 to 18.15 years. Twenty of the 26 patients available 
for five-year followup survived; hence, five-year survival was 81%. An 
alternative method of communication and emotional stress for the patient's 
caregiver was the key issue in patient care. Most patients were cared for in 
their own homes. Although minimal late neurologic recovery occurs in chronic 
LIS, survival may, nonetheless, be prolonged with adequate supportive care. 
Modern computerized technology offers LIS patients the ability to interact with 
their environment. This information may assist physicians in making ethical and 
long-term care decisions with the patient rather than for the patient with LIS.

PMID: 1580764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1992 Apr;18(2):112-8.

Androgen receptors in operable breast cancer: relation to other steroid hormone 
receptors, correlations to prognostic factors and predictive value for effect of 
adjuvant tamoxifen treatment.

SÃ¸reide JA(1), Lea OA, Varhaug JE, Skarstein A, Kvinnsland S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway.

Steroid hormone receptors have been evaluated as independent prognostic factors 
as well as predictive factors for endocrine manipulation in the clinical 
management of breast cancer. The contribution of each receptor or combinations 
of different receptors remains controversial. In cytosols from 224 patients with 
operable breast cancer (stages I & II), estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone 
receptor (PgR) and androgen receptor (AR) content have been measured. An 
improved AR-assay has been used in order to circumvent some of the problems 
inherent in other methods. In this study, 91.1% of the patients were classified 
as AR 'positive' (i.e. greater than or equal to 10 pmol/g). The steroid hormone 
receptors were significantly correlated (P less than 0.001). Taking the median 
value of AR as cut-off (50.5 pmol/g), a significantly higher incidence (P = 
0.004) of node negative patients was found in the group with a lower AR content. 
In a multivariate analysis the AR category (median value used as cut-off) was 
shown to be an independent predictor of the likelihood of axillary metastases (P 
= 0.001). AR category, however, did not reveal any significant prognostic 
information concerning relapse free survival. A subpopulation of node positive 
patients with ER positive tumors, have been included in a randomized trial on 
the role of tamoxifen as an adjuvant treatment compared with no endocrine 
treatment. In a multivariate analysis, PgR status was shown to be a single 
independent prognostic factor (P = 0.016) for relapse free survival in patients 
with a lower AR content (less than median value). The improved AR assay used in 
the present study may provide a basis for more correct estimation of the AR 
content in an individual tumor. The present study suggests that AR analysis and 
the use of a well-chosen cut-off level may add information about tumor biology 
to increase our understanding of breast cancer biology and treatment.

PMID: 1582503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1992 May;26(5 Pt 1):720-6. doi: 
10.1016/0190-9622(92)70100-t.

New primary nonmelanoma skin cancer in patients with a history of squamous cell 
carcinoma of the skin. Implications and recommendations for follow-up.

Frankel DH(1), Hanusa BH, Zitelli JA.

Author information:
(1)Section of Dermatology, University of Southern California School of Medicine, 
Santa Barbara.

BACKGROUND: Rational follow-up guidelines for skin cancer patients should be 
based on the risk of three separate events: cancer recurrence, cancer 
metastasis, and the development of subsequent skin cancers. However, currently 
no guidelines exist for follow-up of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of 
the skin (SCC), which take into account all three of these risks.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to establish rational minimum guidelines 
for follow-up of patients with SCC. To do this, we first must determine the risk 
of SCC patients for the development of subsequent skin cancers. Combining these 
data with previously published data on SCC recurrence and SCC metastasis, we 
then propose guidelines for follow-up of patients with SCC.
METHODS: We followed up 101 SCC patients on a yearly basis for 5 years after 
treatment and recorded the date and site of subsequent nonmelanoma skin cancers 
(NMSCs).
RESULTS: Thirty percent of SCC patients developed additional SCCs and 52% 
developed subsequent NMSCs within 5 years of therapy for their first SCC. 
Patients showing the highest risk of subsequent NMSC were those presenting with 
multiple SCC, SCC greater than 1 cm in diameter, SCC requiring more than 1 Mohs 
surgery layer to remove, or SCC occurring on the scalp, ear, nose, or 
extremities. One hundred percent of subsequent NMSCs were detected by the fourth 
year of follow-up; 54% of these occurred within the first year of follow-up.
CONCLUSION: After combining our data with previously published studies of SCC 
recurrence and metastasis, we recommend that all patients with SCC be followed 
up for at least 4 years after treatment. Moreover, because most subsequent 
NMSCs, SCC recurrences, and SCC metastases developed early in the follow-up 
period, we recommend that patients be reexamined at least every 3 months during 
the first year of follow-up and every 6 months thereafter. It must be stressed 
that these are meant as minimum follow-up guidelines.

DOI: 10.1016/0190-9622(92)70100-t
PMID: 1583171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. J Virol. 1992 Jun;66(6):3733-9. doi: 10.1128/JVI.66.6.3733-3739.1992.

Regulation of delayed-early gene transcription by dual TATA boxes.

Guarino LA(1), Smith M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology Texas A&M University, College Station 77843-2475.

The 39K Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus (AcMNPV) gene is 
highly expressed throughout the virus life cycle and is controlled by tandem 
promoters that exhibit features of early and late baculovirus promoters. Late 
transcripts initiate at a conserved TAAG motif, while early transcripts are 
heterogeneous and initiate near a conserved CAGT motif. To define the nucleotide 
sequences that regulate early transcription of the 39K gene, a series of 
mutations was generated by substitution of 10-bp stretches in the 39K promoter 
with a BglII linker. The effects of these mutations on transcription from the 
early promoter were determined by transient expression and primer extension 
assays in the presence of the viral trans-activator IE1 gene. Mutations in the 
region from -15 to -44 revealed that early 39K transcription was controlled by 
dual TATA boxes. These TATA boxes are separated by 10 bp, which partially 
accounts for the heterogeneity in early 39K transcripts. Transcripts initiating 
at the CAGT motif (proximal transcripts) were abolished by deletion of the 
proximal TATA box located at -29 relative to CAGT. Proximal transcripts were not 
affected by alterations in the distal TATA motif located at -39 relative to the 
CAGT. Similarly, transcripts initiating upstream of CAGT (distal transcripts) 
were eliminated by mutations in the distal TATA but were unaffected by 
substitutions in the proximal TATA box. Proximal transcripts were not detected 
with a plasmid containing mutations in the CAGT motif, although the distal 
transcripts were unaffected by CAGT mutations. When the sequences surrounding 
the initiation site for the distal transcripts were altered, the start site was 
shifted one nucleotide, but transcription was not quantitatively affected. These 
results suggest that early 39K transcription is controlled by two distinct TATA 
elements, one that is dependent on an initiator and one in which the site of 
initiation is determined by the TATA element alone. Mutations in an upstream 
region from -45 to -68 relative to the CAGT motif had a quantitative effect but 
did not alter the heterogeneous pattern of early transcripts, suggesting these 
sequences function as an upstream regulatory region. Analysis of late 
transcription indicated that the TAAG element was essential, while transcription 
was unaffected by other mutations.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.66.6.3733-3739.1992
PMCID: PMC241158
PMID: 1583729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Neurosurgery. 1992 Apr;30(4):561-9. doi: 10.1227/00006123-199204000-00015.

Management of unruptured intracranial arteriovenous malformations: a decision 
analysis.

Auger RG(1), Wiebers DO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.

Comment in
    Neurosurgery. 1993 Jul;33(1):172-3.

The management of unruptured intracranial arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) is 
controversial. Some authorities favor elective excision of the AVM before it 
bleeds, whereas others advise nonintervention unless the AVM bleeds, at which 
time surgical excision is performed in those who survive. A Markov model was 
developed that stimulates a clinical trial in which cohorts of patients with 
unruptured AVMs were assigned to either elective excision of their AVMs or 
conservative treatment (unless the AVM bled). Incremental utilities for both 
strategies were calculated at the end of each year after the beginning of the 
trial and are expressed as quality and risk-adjusted life years. The process was 
continued until all members of the cohorts had died. The mean quality and 
risk-adjusted life expectancy for members of a cohort was calculated by dividing 
the total number of quality and risk-adjusted life years the cohort had 
accumulated by the size of the cohort. If the baseline values for surgical 
complications were used in the computation, the quality and risk-adjusted life 
expectancy for the surgical cohorts was at least 1 quality and risk-adjusted 
life year greater than for nonsurgical cohorts up to age 44. If a more favorable 
complication rate were used, elective surgery could benefit selected patients in 
their early 60s when the location and configuration of the AVM was favorable. 
Elective surgical resection is justified in many instances before rupture, 
particularly in young patients who have intracranial AVMs that have a favorable 
location, size, and venous drainage.

DOI: 10.1227/00006123-199204000-00015
PMID: 1584355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Acta Histochem Suppl. 1992;42:71-6.

[Vascular etiopathogenesis and degenerative dementias--current state of 
knowledge].

[Article in German]

Hoyer S(1), PÃ¶hlmann K, HÃ¼gel M.

Author information:
(1)Institut fÃ¼r Pathobiochemie und Allgemeine Neurochemie UniversitÃ¤t 
Heidelberg.

Dementia due to vascular and degenerative abnormalities has become more frequent 
with increasing life expectancy. Although the origin of both dementia types is 
still unknown, pathobiochemical perturbations comprising energy loss, lactic 
acidosis, calcium homeostasis and free radical formation have been found in both 
dementia types in incipient stages at the neuronal level. A therapeutic rational 
against these abnormalities is discussed.

PMID: 1584990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Am J Kidney Dis. 1992 May;19(5):448-52. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(12)80953-x.

Prosthetic fistula survival and complications in hemodialysis patients: effects 
of diabetes and age.

Windus DW(1), Jendrisak MD, Delmez JA.

Author information:
(1)Renal Division, Chromalloy American Kidney Center, St Louis, MO 63110.

Current trends in hemodialysis include increases in patient age, prevalence of 
diabetes, and use of high-efficiency dialysis. These patients often require 
prosthetic fistulas for vascular access. Little is known about fistula survival 
and complications in this setting. Hemodialysis patients at our center receiving 
new prosthetic fistulas between January 1, 1988 and January 1, 1991 were 
studied. Sixty-five prosthetic fistulas were placed in 50 nondiabetic and 73 in 
51 diabetic patients. There were no differences in age, sex, race, or access 
type or location in patients with or without diabetes. Seventeen percent of 
fistulas were lost in nondiabetic compared with 32% diabetic patients (P less 
than 0.05). Life-table analysis showed 1- and 2-year graft survivals of 88% and 
77% in nondiabetic patients and 70% and 67% in diabetic patients. A significant 
difference in graft survivals was found for the time interval from 100 to 600 
days after fistula placement. There were 188 complications in 92 of the grafts. 
There was no difference in the distribution of thromboses, elevated 
recirculations, or infections causing the first complication in patients with or 
without diabetes, but complications occurred earlier in diabetic patients (175 
+/- 26 v 286 +/- 36 days, P less than 0.01). Nondiabetic patients with 
prosthetic fistula complications were significantly older than those without 
complications (64 +/- 4 and 56 +/- 2 years, respectively, P less than 0.05). No 
impact of age on complications was found in diabetic patients. The probability 
of a first thrombosis at 6 and 12 months was 29% and 49% in nondiabetic and 55% 
and 72% in diabetic patients (P less than 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(12)80953-x
PMID: 1585933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Br J Gen Pract. 1992 Apr;42(357):172.

Private health care in the USA.

el Gamel A.

PMCID: PMC1371910
PMID: 1586565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Perit Dial Int. 1992;12(2):216-20.

Randomized study of peritonitis with conventional versus O-set techniques in 
continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.

Owen JE(1), Walker RG, Lemon J, Brett L, Mitrou D, Becker GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.

We performed a prospective randomized trial, comparing the incidence of 
peritonitis between a flush-disconnect (O-System, Baxter, Deerfield, IL) (OS) 
and a conventional (System II, Baxter) (CS) continuous ambulatory peritoneal 
dialysis (CAPD) method. Sixty consenting patients with no significant physical 
disabilities who commenced CAPD after May 1987 were entered and followed for a 
minimum of 12 months. Thirty were placed on the OS system and 30 were placed on 
CS. Age, gender, and time for training did not differ significantly. The period 
of observation for OS was 375 months; CS was observed for 430 months. OS 
patients experienced 28 episodes of peritonitis (13.4 months/patient/episode) 
compared with 88 (4.9 months/patient/episode) in CS (p less than 0.005). By 6 
months, 32% of OS patients had had at least one episode of peritonitis, compared 
with 62% of CS patients; at 12 months, these figures rose to 48% for OS and 91% 
for CS (p less than 0.01) patients (Life Table Analysis). The median survival 
time to first peritonitis episode was 5.1 months in CS and 9.7 months in OS (p 
less than 0.01). Exit-site infections occurred in 14/30 (46%) of patients on OS 
and in 13/30 (43%) of CS patients. We conclude that the OS was associated with a 
significant reduction in the incidence of peritonitis.

PMID: 1586684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Cardiovasc Clin. 1992;22(2):3-7.

Demographics of aging.

Williams TF.

PMID: 1586924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Infect Immun. 1992 Jun;60(6):2453-8. doi: 10.1128/iai.60.6.2453-2458.1992.

Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 enhances intracellular growth of 
Mycobacterium avium in human macrophages.

KÃ¤llenius G(1), Koivula T, RydgÃ¥rd KJ, Hoffner SE, Valentin A, AsjÃ¶ B, Ljungh C, 
Sharma U, Svenson SB.

Author information:
(1)National Bacteriological Laboratory, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.

Disseminated Mycobacterium avium infections are common in patients with AIDS and 
result in a reduced life expectancy. Human monocytes/macrophages are important 
target cells for both human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and M. avium. We have 
studied the interaction in vitro of M. avium and HIV type 1 (HIV-1) in human 
macrophages. Human monocytes isolated from the peripheral blood of healthy 
individuals were infected with HIV-1, M. avium, or both. The intracellular 
growth of M. avium and the replication of HIV-1 were monitored for up to 5 
weeks. Intracellular mycobacterial growth was seen in all M. avium infected cell 
cultures and was paralleled by increased production of interleukin 1 alpha and 
beta. Preinfection of the macrophages with HIV-1 reduced the interleukin 1 
production and accelerated the intracellular growth of M. avium. These findings 
may explain in part the impaired control of mycobacterial infections seen with 
patients with AIDS.

DOI: 10.1128/iai.60.6.2453-2458.1992
PMCID: PMC257180
PMID: 1587613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Med J Aust. 1992 Mar 2;156(5):312-6. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1992.tb139784.x.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of hormone replacement therapy in the menopause.

Cheung AP(1), Wren BG.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Management of the Menopause, Royal Hospital for Women, 
Paddington, NSW.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of hormone replacement therapy in 
the menopause with particular reference to osteoporotic fracture and myocardial 
infarction.
DESIGN: The multiple-decrement form of the life table was the mathematical model 
used to follow women of age 50 through their lifetime under the "no hormone 
replacement" and "hormone replacement" assumptions. Standard demographic and 
health economic techniques were used to calculate the corresponding lifetime 
differences in direct health care costs (net costs in dollars) and health 
effects ("net effectiveness" in terms of life expectancy and quality, in 
"quality-adjusted life-years"). This was then expressed as a cost-effectiveness 
ratio or the cost ($) per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) for each of the 
chosen hormone replacement regimens.
SETTING AND PATIENTS: All women of age 50 in New South Wales, Australia (n = 
27,021).
RESULTS: The analysis showed that the lifetime net increments in direct medical 
care costs were largely contributed by hormone drug and consultation costs. 
Hormone replacement was associated with increased quality-adjusted life 
expectancy, a large percentage of which was attributed to a relief of menopausal 
symptoms. Cost-effectiveness ratios ranged from under 10,000 to over a million 
dollars per QALY. Factors associated with improved cost-effectiveness were 
prolonged treatment duration, the presence of menopausal symptoms, minimum 
progestogen side effects (in the case of oestrogen with progestogen regimens), 
oestrogen use after hysterectomy and the inclusion of cardiac benefits in 
addition to fracture prevention.
CONCLUSIONS: Hormone replacement therapy for symptomatic women is cost-effective 
when factors that enhance its efficiency are considered. Short-term treatment of 
asymptomatic women for prevention of osteoporotic fractures and myocardial 
infarction is an inefficient use of health resources. Cost-effectiveness of 
hormone replacement in asymptomatic women is dependent on the magnitude of 
cardiac benefits associated with hormone use and the treatment duration.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1992.tb139784.x
PMID: 1588862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Milbank Q. 1992;70(1):81-125.

Cigarette smoking and lifetime medical expenditures.

Hodgson TA(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Analysis and Epidemiology, National Center for Health Statistics, 
Hyattsville, MD 20782.

The cumulative impact of excess medical care required by smokers at all ages 
while alive outweighs shorter life expectancy, and smokers incur higher 
expenditures for medical care over their lifetimes than never-smokers. This 
accords with the findings by Manning et al. (1989) of positive lifetime medical 
care costs per pack of cigarettes, but disagrees with the results found by Leu 
and Schaub (1983, 1985) for Swiss males. The contradictory conclusions of the 
analyses are undoubtedly due to a large difference in the amount of medical care 
used by smokers relative to neversmokers in the United States and Swiss data. 
Excess expenditures increase with the amount smoked among males and females so 
that lifetime medical costs of male heavy smokers are 47 percent higher than for 
neversmokers when discounted at 3 percent. Each year more than one million young 
people start to smoke and add an extra $9 to $10 billion (in 1990 dollars 
discounted at 3 percent) to the nation's health care bill over their lifetimes. 
Given the smoking behavior, medical care utilization and costs of care, and 
population size embedded in the data used in this analysis, I have concluded 
that in the first five years from baseline the population of smokers aged 25 and 
over incurs excess medical expenditures totaling $187 billion, which is $2,324 
per smoker. The excess cost of medical care associated with cigarette smoking is 
18 percent of expenditures for hospital care, physicians' services, and 
nursing-home care required by all persons (smokers and neversmokers) aged 25 and 
over. In the absence of large and rapid changes in the values of the underlying 
parameters, $187 billion, 18 percent of medical expenditures, can be taken as 
the premium currently being paid every five years to provide medical care for 
the excess disease suffered by smokers. Even without the addition of any new 
smokers, the present value of the bill that will be incurred for excess medical 
care required by the current population of smokers over their remaining 
lifetimes is high. The civilian noninstitutionalized population of cigarette 
smokers in 1985 who are age 25 and older is expected to incur over its remaining 
lifetime excess medical expenditures of $501 billion, or $6,239 per smoker. It 
is possible that future changes beyond recent historical trends in the habits of 
those who currently smoke, such as reductions in the amount smoked, higher rates 
of quitting, whether occurring fortuitously or brought about by design, may 
result in lower costs of smoking than estimated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 
WORDS)

PMID: 1588892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Nature. 1992 May 21;357(6375):185-6. doi: 10.1038/357185a0.

Choosing the limits to life.

Lohman PH(1), Sankaranarayanan K, Ashby J.

Author information:
(1)MGC-Department of Radiation Genetics and Chemical Mutagenesis, State 
University of Leiden, The Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1038/357185a0
PMID: 1589010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1992 Apr;23(2):39-40.

[Epidemic of chronic diseases].

[Article in Dutch]

Goedhard WJ.

PMID: 1589899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Adv Contracept. 1992 Mar;8(1):67-72. doi: 10.1007/BF01849351.

Long-term evaluation of the clinical performance of the TCu200B and the TCu380A 
in Campinas, Brazil.

DÃ­az J(1), Pinto Neto A, DÃ­az M, Marchi NM, Bahamondes L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, State University of Campinas, SP 
Brazil.

The clinical performance of the TCu200B and TCu380A was evaluated by life table 
analysis in a cohort of women who wore an IUD from July 1979 to July 1982. This 
paper presents the results up to five years of use. No significant differences 
in age and parity were found between the users in the two groups. Overall 
performance was very good with both models. The cumulative continuation rate was 
83.6, 60.9 and 46.1 at one, three and five years with the TCu200 and 84.0, 64.7 
and 49.3 with the TCu380A in the same periods. Differences between both IUDs 
were not significant. The pregnancy rate was lower with the TCu380A and reached 
statistical significance from the fourth year on. The authors conclude that both 
IUDs presented very good performance, the TCu380A being more effective, the only 
significant difference observed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01849351
PMID: 1590103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Adv Contracept. 1992 Mar;8(1):73-80. doi: 10.1007/BF01849352.

Clinical experiences with MLCu250 and MLCu375 IUD.

BatÃ¡r I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Medical School, Debrecen, 
Hungary.

The paper summarizes the author's ten-year experience with 1446 interval 
insertions of the MLCu250 standard-type device, and makes comparison between the 
first two-year results of this and the MLCu375 IUD. The 120th month was 
completed by 106 MLCu250 users, and the cumulative woman-months of use (wmu) 
were 78,078. At the end of the second year, 976 patients were at risk in this 
group, representing a total of 28,097 wmu. From the initial 224 MLCu375 IUD 
cases, 160 (2,151 wmu) and 93 (3634 wmu) were eligible for life-table 
calculation at the end of the first and the second year, respectively. The 
overall performance was evaluated by net and gross cumulative and yearly 
specific rates as suggested by Tietze. These figures are detailed by the 
article. Based on this evaluation, two statements are made: (1) the MLCu250 
standard-type device has a good overall performance and a longer life span than 
was previously expected; (2) the first two-year results with the MLCu375 are 
more favorable (lower termination rates, higher continuation) than the MLCu250.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01849352
PMID: 1590104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Am J Clin Nutr. 1992 Jun;55(6 Suppl):1196S-1202S. doi:
10.1093/ajcn/55.6.1196S.

Changes in life expectancy 1900-1990.

Kinsella KG(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for International Research, US Bureau of the Census, Washington, DC 
20233.

Life expectancy at birth has risen in all industrialized countries during the 
last 100 years, but mortality improvements by gender and region often have 
proceeded at very different rates. Although some countries have experienced 
increases in overall mortality during recent decades, the levels of life 
expectancy gains in countries such as Japan have confounded demographic 
predictions and have led to renewed research and debate over future mortality 
decline and the limits to human life. This paper reviews levels of and changes 
in life expectancy at birth and at older ages in industrialized countries during 
the 20th century. Trends in mortality and morbidity at older ages are summarized 
in the context of the historic epidemiological disease transition from 
infectious to chronic. Cause-specific and active/inactive decompositions of life 
expectancy are examined, as are initial attempts to correlate life expectancy 
with physical attributes that may reflect differential nutritional status.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/55.6.1196S
PMID: 1590256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Am J Clin Nutr. 1992 Jun;55(6 Suppl):1250S-1252S. doi:
10.1093/ajcn/55.6.1250S.

Retardation of aging processes by food restriction: an experimental tool.

Masoro EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San 
Antonio 78284-7756.

The importance of food restriction in rats, mice, and hamsters as a tool for the 
study of aging is discussed. The evidence that food restriction retards the 
aging processes is summarized and includes its ability to extend the maximum 
life span, to decrease the rate of increase in age-specific mortality, to retard 
age changes in physiological processes, and to delay or prevent most 
age-associated diseases. Food restriction has its anti-aging action by reducing 
the intake of energy rather than a specific nutrient. Research findings on the 
possible mechanisms by which food restriction retards the aging processes are 
discussed. The use of food restriction to test theories of aging is described 
and the controversial issue of its possible use as an intervention of human 
aging is addressed.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/55.6.1250S
PMID: 1590266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Angew Parasitol. 1992 Feb;33(1):61-4.

[The modification of Helicella obvia by Dicrocoelium parthenitae].

[Article in German]

Schuster R(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut fÃ¼r Parasitologie, VeterinÃ¤rmedizinischen FakultÃ¤t, 
Humboldt-UniversitÃ¤t zu Berlin, Deutschland.

During the pasture period in 1990 the snail species Helicella obvia, collected 
in a dicrocoeliosis area in the east of Brandenburg, was investigated for 
Dicrocoelium sporocysts. Simultaneously in adult snails the condition of albumen 
gland was examined. Investigations showed that Dicrocoelium infection in the 
snail host impairs their reproduction ability and life expectancy. The term 
"parasite caused sterilisation" is suggested for changes which lead to 
infertility in the case of parasite infection.

PMID: 1590597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Eur J Haematol. 1992 Apr;48(4):208-14.

Myelofibrosis in primary myelodysplastic syndromes: a retrospective study of 352 
patients.

Maschek H(1), Georgii A, Kaloutsi V, Werner M, Bandecar K, Kressel MG, Choritz 
H, Freund M, Hufnagl D.

Author information:
(1)Pathologisches Institut der Medizinischen Hochschule Hannover, F.R.G.

In a retrospective study of 352 patients with primary myelodysplastic syndromes, 
61 (17.3%) revealed myelofibrosis in bone marrow biopsies. The fibrosis was 
observed to occur mostly focally (41/61 cases), and collagen deposits were found 
very rarely (4/61). The histopathology of bone marrow biopsies revealed 
hyperplasia and disturbed differentiation in megakaryopoiesis; the frequency and 
grade of dysplasia in megakaryopoiesis increased with advancing myelofibrosis. 
Reticulin fibrosis occurred in all subtypes of MDS; however, there was a higher 
incidence in chronic myelo-monocytic leukaemia (CMMoL). The frequency of 
cytogenetic aberrations was significantly higher in the MDS cases with 
myelofibrosis, compared to the cases without fibrosis. Clinical data showed 
significantly lower values of haemoglobin and lower platelet counts in MDS with 
myelofibrosis. Life expectancy was reduced to 9.6 months, compared with 17.4 
months in MDS without fibrosis. In refractory anaemia, the survival times were 
10.0 months in MDS with myelofibrosis, compared to 28.9 months in MDS without 
myelofibrosis. 36.6% of the patients with MDS and myelofibrosis developed a 
transformation into ANLL during the course of the disease. Myelofibrosis 
therefore seems to herald a poor prognosis.

PMID: 1592101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Eur J Vasc Surg. 1992 May;6(3):255-62. doi: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80315-9.

Use of descending thoracic aorta for lower limb revascularisation.

Branchereau A(1), Magnan PE, Moracchini P, Espinoza H, Mathieu JP.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire des HÃ´pitaux Sud, UniversitÃ© Aix-Marseille 
II, France.

From November 1984 to May 1991, descending thoracic aorta to femoral artery 
bypass was used to revascularise 51 lower limbs in 27 patients. There were 25 
men and 2 women with a mean age of 60.2 years. There were four primary 
indications because of inability to use the abdominal aorta, and 23 secondary 
indications for late failure of a previous lower limb revascularisation: two 
aorto-prosthetic false aneurysms, nine infected aorto-bifemoral bypasses and 12 
occluded grafts. Three deaths and one paraplegia occurred during the 
postoperative period, and three prosthetic occlusions and one popliteal embolism 
were successfully treated. During follow up (6-72 months) five deaths and three 
graft occlusions were observed; at 5 years, the cumulative life expectancy was 
61.8 +/- 26.8%, and the cumulative secondary graft patency was 72.6 +/- 24.7%. 
One prosthetic infection and one ureteric fistula occurred and both were 
successfully treated. Thoracic aorta to femoral artery bypass is a simple 
extra-anatomic technique which can be used in cases of failure of a previous 
aorta to lower limb reconstruction. The haemodynamic results are good, and late 
results are better than axillo-femoral or bifemoral bypass.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80315-9
PMID: 1592129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. J Clin Psychiatry. 1992 May;53(5):147-52.

The prevalence of personality disorders in 210 women with eating disorders.

Herzog DB(1), Keller MB, Lavori PW, Kenny GM, Sacks NR.

Author information:
(1)Eating Disorders Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 02114.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to assess the prevalence, reliability, 
and predictive value of comorbid personality disorders in a large sample of 210 
women seeking treatment for anorexia nervosa (N = 31), bulimia nervosa (N = 91), 
or mixed disorder (N = 88).
METHOD: All subjects were interviewed using the Structured Interview for DSM-III 
Personality Disorders as part of a longitudinal outcome study of eating 
disorders currently underway at Massachusetts General Hospital.
RESULTS: Of the 210 subjects, 27% had at least one personality disorder; the 
most commonly observed was borderline personality disorder in 18 subjects (9%). 
The highest prevalence of personality disorders was found in the anorexia 
nervosa/bulimia nervosa group at 39%, followed by 22% in the anorexics and 21% 
in the bulimic sample. We found statistically significant differences regarding 
the distribution of personality disorders across eating disorder groups. The 
dramatic personality disorder cluster was differentially distributed across 
groups; this finding was accounted for by higher rates of borderline personality 
disorder in the bulimia nervosa and anorexia nervosa/bulimia nervosa groups than 
in the anorexia nervosa group. The anxious personality disorder cluster was 
differentially distributed across groups with higher rates in the anorexia 
nervosa and anorexia nervosa/bulimia nervosa samples. Those subjects with a 
comorbid personality disorder had a significantly slower recovery rate than 
those without a comorbid personality disorder.
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of personality disorders is not high in 
treatment-seeking women with eating disorders compared with previously studied 
samples. The greatest frequency of comorbid personality disorders is in the 
anorexia nervosa/bulimia nervosa group; this subset also had longer duration of 
eating disorder illness and much greater comorbid Axis I psychopathology 
compared with the rest of the sample. Future studies should address whether 
personality disorders have predictive value in the long-term course and outcome 
of eating disorders.

PMID: 1592839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. J Dermatol Surg Oncol. 1992 Jun;18(6):471-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1524-4725.1992.tb03307.x.

Recurrence rates of treated basal cell carcinomas. Part 3: Surgical excision.

Silverman MK(1), Kopf AW, Bart RS, Grin CM, Levenstein MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, New York University School of Medicine.

Comment in
    J Dermatol Surg Oncol. 1993 Feb;19(2):175-6.

This is the third report in a series that reviews the experience in the Skin and 
Cancer Unit, from 1955 through 1982, with the treatment of basal cell carcinomas 
(BCCs). It concerns 588 previously untreated (primary) BCCs removed by surgical 
excision. The cumulative 5-year recurrence rate was 4.8%. This is a 
statistically significant lower recurrence rate (P = .034) than 135 previously 
treated BCCs that had a re-recurrence rate of 11.6%. For the primary BCCs, 
multivariate analysis showed that location on the head (P = .010) and being male 
(P = .004) were independent risk factors for recurrence. The patient's age, the 
duration of the BCC, its maximum diameter, or the time span (1955-1963, 
1964-1972, 1973-1982) in which it was treated did not significantly affect the 
recurrence rate. The 5-year recurrence rate for BCCs excised from various 
anatomic sites were as follows: 1) neck, trunk, and extremities = 0.7%; 2) 
head--less than 6 mm in diameter = 3.2%; 3) head--6 to 9 mm in diameter = 8.0% 
(treated since 1964 = 5.2%); and 4) head--10 mm or more in diameter = 9.0%. 
Surgical excision is a highly effective method for removal of BCCs, and achieved 
a good to excellent cosmetic outcome in about 85% of the recurrence-free 
treatment sites.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4725.1992.tb03307.x
PMID: 1592998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1992 Jun;19(7):1542-9. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(92)90616-u.

Deleterious effects of long-term single-chamber ventricular pacing in patients 
with sick sinus syndrome: the hidden benefits of dual-chamber pacing.

Hesselson AB(1), Parsonnet V, Bernstein AD, Bonavita GJ.

Author information:
(1)Pacemaker Center, Newark Beth Israel Medical Center, New Jersey 07112.

Nine hundred fifty patients who received three modes of primary pacemaker 
systems (581 dual-chamber universal [DDD], 84 atrioventricular-sequential 
ventricular-inhibited [DVI] and 285 ventricular-inhibited [VVI]) over 12 years 
were studied retrospectively to determine the effect of pacing mode on patient 
longevity and the subsequent development of chronic atrial fibrillation or 
flutter. All patients were followed up continuously for 7 to 8 years. Patients 
were classified according to indication for permanent pacing (sick sinus 
syndrome or other indication), age at pacemaker implantation (less than or equal 
to 70 or greater than 70 years) and history of atrial tachyarrhythmia. Fourteen 
percent of patients developed atrial fibrillation at some time during the study 
period. Of those, 4% had a DDD pacemaker, 8% had a DVI pacemaker and 19% had a 
VVI pacemaker. At 7 years, atrial fibrillation was significantly more frequent 
in the VVI group than in the DDD and DVI groups. In patients with sick sinus 
syndrome, the incidence rate was even higher in the VVI group but approximately 
the same in the DDD and DVI groups. Patients in the VVI and DVI groups who had 
had previous atrial tachyarrhythmia had a significantly higher incidence of 
atrial fibrillation at 7 years than did those in the DDD group. During the 
entire period there were 130 deaths in the study group, including 22% of 
patients with a DDD pacemaker, 38% of those with a DVI pacemaker and 50% of 
those with a VVI pacemaker. Patient survival at 7 years was lower in the VVI 
group than in the DDD or DVI groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(92)90616-u
PMID: 1593051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Percept Mot Skills. 1992 Apr;74(2):424-6. doi: 10.2466/pms.1992.74.2.424.

Adolescents' time perspective.

Lennings CJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Justice Studies Department, Queensland University of Technology, Australia.

201 boys and girls in Grade 11 were administered the Time Perspective 
Questionnaire, which assesses the type of events students typically generate 
when asked to think of the past and future and their temporal extension. 
Analysis confirms little difference between adolescent boys' and girls' time 
perspectives, thereby suggesting considerable convergence has occurred in boys' 
and girls' temporal expectations.

DOI: 10.2466/pms.1992.74.2.424
PMID: 1594401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Percept Mot Skills. 1992 Apr;74(2):649-50. doi: 10.2466/pms.1992.74.2.649.

Happiness, time consciousness, and subjective life expectancy.

Joubert CE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of North Alabama, Florence 35632-0001.

84 men and 141 women enrolled at a university reported their sexes and ages, 
rated their happiness and their time consciousness, and estimated how many more 
years they expected to live. Men significantly overestimated their subjective 
life span compared to actuarial data. Women (but not men) who were happier 
tended to be younger, had greater subjective life expectancies, and felt that 
they had lived a smaller percentage of their total lives. Both older men and 
older women tended to be more time conscious.

DOI: 10.2466/pms.1992.74.2.649
PMID: 1594426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1992 Jun;174(6):460-4.

The preperitoneal approach in the repair of recurrent inguinal hernias.

Schaap HM(1), van de Pavoordt HD, Bast TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, St. Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, The Netherlands.

Preperitoneal repair of 98 recurrent inguinal hernias performed at our teaching 
hospital was studied. In 55 instances, primary closure was performed and in 43 
hernias, mesh prosthesis was applied. Rerecurrence was seen after 32 corrections 
(a follow-up examination period of 45 months). Nine asymptomatic recurrences 
were found. Unilateral versus bilateral repair showed a 27 and 50 per cent 
recurrence rate, respectively (p = 0.037). Results after primary closure and 
after mesh application were similar, and no correlation with the number of 
recurrences, age or presence of causes of raised abdominal pressure was 
observed. In 20 reoperations performed after the follow-up date, ten lateral 
hernias were found, indicating technical failure as a possible cause of 
rerecurrence. A high rate of recurrence after preperitoneal approach for 
recurrent inguinal hernia may be explained by technical shortcomings and 
detection of a high percentage of asymptomatic recurrences at physical 
examination.

PMID: 1595021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Am J Epidemiol. 1992 Apr 1;135(7):824-31. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a116369.

The standardized mortality ratio and life expectancy.

Tsai SP(1), Hardy RJ, Wen CP.

Author information:
(1)Corporate Medical Department, Shell Oil Company, Houston, TX 77252-2463.

This paper develops a theoretical relation between the standardized mortality 
ratio (SMR) and the expected years of life and establishes a regression equation 
for easy conversion between these two statistics. The mathematical expression of 
the derived relation is an approximation, requiring an assumption of constant 
age-specific mortality ratios. It underestimates the "true" value calculated 
based on life table technique when the age-specific mortality ratios increase 
with age. This equation provides a conservative method to estimate the expected 
years of life for cohort mortality studies and facilitates an assessment of the 
impact of work-related factors on the length of life of the worker. It also 
allows one to convert the SMR to life expectancy in smaller studies whose sole 
objective is to determine the SMR in a working population. A 1% decrease (or 
increase) in the standardized mortality ratio will result in 0.1373 years 
increased (or decreased) life expectancy based on white male data for the US 
population. Furthermore, with data from 14 large oil refinery and chemical 
worker cohorts of white males, the "derived" expected years of life based on the 
regression equation closely predicts the corresponding value calculated using a 
standard life table technique. This statistical equation is expected to have 
practical applications when used in conjunction with the SMR to provide an 
approximate measure of life expectancy, a term and statistic familiar to most 
lay people.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a116369
PMID: 1595682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Drugs Aging. 1992 Mar-Apr;2(2):125-36. doi:
10.2165/00002512-199202020-00006.

Pharmacological approaches to the treatment of intermittent claudication.

Bevan EG(1), Waller PC, Ramsay LE.

Author information:
(1)Glasgow Blood Pressure Clinic, Western Infirmary, Scotland.

Intermittent claudication is a common condition of the elderly, occurring in 3 
to 20% of individuals over the age of 65 years. Although local disease is 
usually benign, life expectancy in patients with intermittent claudication is 
reduced by approximately 10 years due to associated cardiovascular mortality. 
Several classes of drugs have been used in intermittent claudication, but 
clinical studies evaluating their efficacy leave much to be desired. 
Pentoxifylline (oxpentifylline), a rheological agent, and naftidrofuryl, an 
enhancer of aerobic metabolism, are the 2 most widely investigated and utilised 
drugs. The combined results of 10 placebo-controlled studies with pentoxifylline 
and 4 with naftidrofuryl estimate increases in claudication distances of 51 and 
42%, respectively. However, due to publication bias, these figures are probably 
overestimates of the true benefit from treatment with these drugs. It is likely 
that any benefit from pentoxifylline or naftidrofuryl is small and of little 
clinical importance. The suggestion that naftidrofuryl has greater efficacy in 
older patients remains unproven. Other classes of drugs including vasodilators, 
antiplatelet drugs, anticoagulants and prostaglandins have not been shown to be 
effective. Only 2 approaches to the management of intermittent claudication have 
been shown convincingly to be of benefit: stopping smoking and exercising 
regularly.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-199202020-00006
PMID: 1596595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Cancer Res. 1992 Jun 15;52(12):3317-22.

Serum level of interleukin 6 as a prognosis factor in metastatic renal cell 
carcinoma.

Blay JY(1), Negrier S, Combaret V, Attali S, Goillot E, Merrouche Y, Mercatello 
A, Ravault A, Tourani JM, Moskovtchenko JF, et al.

Author information:
(1)Departement of Immunology, Centre LÃ©on BÃ©rard, France.

Interleukin (IL) 6 was measured in the serum of 138 patients with metastatic 
renal carcinoma before the initiation of IL-2 treatment. IL-6 was detectable in 
66 patients with renal cancer (48%) and in only 8 of 70 normal adults (11%). 
Serum C reactive protein (CRP) and IL-6 levels are correlated, suggesting that 
IL-6 is involved in CRP increase in these patients. The interval between 
diagnosis of the primary tumor and metastasis was shorter in patients with a 
detectable serum IL-6 and/or serum CRP level greater than 50 mg/liter. Serum 
IL-6 and CRP levels were higher in subgroups of patients previously defined as 
having a poor life expectancy according to the Eastern Cooperative Oncology 
Group criteria. Pretreatment concentrations of IL-6 and CRP were higher in 
patients who experienced progressive disease after IL-2 treatment. Patients with 
detectable IL-6 had a shorter survival from the beginning of IL-2 treatment than 
patients without circulating IL-6 (median, 8 versus 16 months). Similarly, the 
median survival from the beginning of IL-2 therapy of patients with CRP levels 
greater than 50 mg/liter was 6 months, compared to 16 months in those with CRP 
levels below this threshold. None of the 21 patients with serum IL-6 
concentrations greater than 300 pg/ml achieved response to any of the three IL-2 
regimens. This subgroup has a median survival of 5 months after IL-2 treatment 
and consisted of 15% of the patients in our series. These results indicate that 
serum IL-6 and CRP levels are adverse prognosis factors in patients with 
metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Serum IL-6 level could help in the selection or 
stratification of the patients in future IL-2 trials.

PMID: 1596890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Jun;15(6):1032-6; discussion 1036-7. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1992.36056.

Late stroke after carotid endarterectomy: the role of recurrent stenosis.

Washburn WK(1), Mackey WC, Belkin M, O'Donnell TF Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Tufts University School of Medicine, New England 
Medical Center, Boston, MA 02111.

Perioperative stroke after carotid endarterectomy has been well studied, 
although little information is available regarding later strokes. We determined 
the etiology of late stroke after carotid endarterectomy by examining the 
records of those patients in our carotid registry who had a stroke more than 30 
days after surgery. Thirty-five (5.1%) of the 688 patients in our registry had a 
stroke more than 30 days after surgery (mean follow-up, 59.3 months; standard 
error, 1.8 months; range, 1 to 292 months). The cause of late stroke was 
established by input from consulting neurologists, CT scanning of the head, 
magnetic resonance imaging results, angiograms, noninvasive studies, and 
postmortem examinations. Eight of the 11 strokes of unknown origin were massive 
fatal events for which no further evaluation was undertaken. Restenosis or 
occlusion accounted for fewer strokes (3 of 20, 15%) in the 1- to 36-month 
postoperative interval than in the greater than 36-month interval (8 of 15, 
53.7%) (p less than 0.02 by Fisher's Exact Test). These data support the 
hypothesis that the early pseudointimal hyperplastic lesion is less likely to 
result in stroke than is later recurrent stenosis, which is usually related to 
atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1992.36056
PMID: 1597885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Jun;15(6):952-62; discussion 962-3.

Axillofemoral bypass: outcome and hemodynamic results in high-risk patients.

Schneider JR(1), McDaniel MD, Walsh DB, Zwolak RM, Cronenwett JL.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH 
03756.

Aortobifemoral bypass (AoFB) is the preferred method to provide lower extremity 
