inflow. To determine whether axillofemoral bypass (AxFB) is an acceptable 
alternative for high-risk patients, we reviewed our results with these two 
operations. Between 1985 and 1990, 29 axillobifemoral and 5 axillounifemoral 
bypass procedures were performed preferentially because of severe associated 
medical illness in patients with severe aortoiliac occlusive disease. During the 
same interval, 107 patients received an AoFB for pure aortoiliac occlusive 
disease. Nearly all patients having AxFB and AoFB were heavy smokers, and the 
two groups had similar rates of hypertension and angina. However, other major 
risk factors were more frequently found in patients undergoing AxFB. 
Limb-threatening ischemia was more frequent and femoral artery occlusive disease 
was more severe in patients having AxFB. Anastomosis to the deep femoral 
arteries and concomitant infrainguinal bypass were more likely to be required in 
patients who had AxFB. Life-table patient survival at 3 years was 35% for AxFB 
versus 91% for AoFB (p less than 0.001). Primary patency at 3 years was 63% for 
AxFB versus 85% for AoFB (p = 0.032). Secondary patency was 74% for AxFB versus 
94% for AoFB (p less than 0.001). However, all revised grafts in both groups 
were patent at 36 months, and only one revised AxFB graft was an ultimate 
failure. Limb salvage at 3 years was 76% for AxFB versus 97% for AoFB (p = 
0.065). Nineteen of the 22 patients with AxFB who died during follow-up died 
with patent grafts. Hemodynamic performance of AxFB and AoFB were compared. Mean 
preoperative ankle-brachial index was higher in AoFB (0.50) than AxFB (0.38, p 
less than 0.001), but postoperative ankle-brachial index was much higher after 
AoFB (0.83) than AxFB (0.57, p less than 0.001). Even after adjustment for 
severity of outflow disease, postoperative ankle-brachial index was much better 
after AoFB than AxFB. Axillofemoral bypass was performed in older higher risk 
patients with more severe ischemia than those in the AoFB group. Hemodynamic 
performance was inferior and graft failure more common after AxFB. However, AxFB 
provided limb salvage in all but 2 of 22 patients who have died, and no survivor 
has had amputation because of graft failure. Axillofemoral bypass is an 
acceptable but hemodynamically inferior alternative to AoFB in properly selected 
high-risk patients with critical lower extremity ischemia who would likely not 
tolerate the more durable AoFB.

PMID: 1597893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Jun;15(6):972-9; discussion 980-1.

Dipyridamole-thallium scintigraphy predicts perioperative and long-term survival 
after major vascular surgery.

Cutler BS(1), Hendel RC, Leppo JA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 
Worcester 01655.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the ability of dipyridamole-thallium 
scintigraphy to predict perioperative and late cardiac events after peripheral 
vascular operations. A total of 262 patients had dipyridamole-thallium 
scintigraphy before 87 infrainguinal reconstructions, 108 abdominal aortic 
aneurysm operations, and 67 aortobifemoral bypass grafts that were placed for 
occlusive disease. Follow-up extended to 5 years (mean, 31.1 months). Logistic 
regression analysis selected dipyridamole-thallium scintigraphy redistribution 
as the best predictor of perioperative events. Fixed defects were not 
predictive. A Cox proportional hazards model for a variety of clinical risk 
factors and scan parameters identified fixed defects and a history of congestive 
heart failure as the strongest predictors of late cardiac events. The presence 
of greater than 1 or 2 fixed segments were the best predictors in patients with 
an abnormal scan; redistribution did not predict late events. The risk of 
combined perioperative or late cardiac events was 29% for infrainguinal, 19% for 
abdominal aortic aneurysm, and 7.5% for aortobifemoral operations. Life-table 
analysis showed that after a cluster of perioperative events that occurred 
primarily in patients with dipyridamole-thallium scintigraphy redistribution, 
most of the late cardiac morbidity and deaths occurred in patients with fixed 
defects.

PMID: 1597895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Rev Port Cardiol. 1992 Jan;11(1):75-82.

[Heart surgery in the elderly].

[Article in Portuguese]

Correia JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Servi√ßo de Cardiologia, Hospital Pulido Valente, Lisboa.

The literature of the last five years is reviewd to evaluate the mortality and 
morbidity of the cardiac surgery (valve replacement and aorto-coronary by-pass, 
single or combined) in comparison with other patients. There is some slight 
increase in mortality and morbidity of these patients, depending on of non 
cardiac causes. Cardiac surgery can improve the quality of live and increase 
life expectancy of these patients, but the results are influenced by age. On the 
surgery of valve replacement is important to avoid the funcional deterioration, 
because the mortality on classe IV is very high. The results of aorto-coronary 
by-pass on the elderly are not influenced by the coronary anatomy on these ages. 
The mortality is slightly increased on the majority of the published results. 
Urgent surgery has a very high mortality on theses ages. The perfection of the 
surgical techniques and a carefull post-operative care are essencial factors for 
a good result.

PMID: 1599702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. J Public Health Med. 1992 Mar;14(1):39-42.

Time spent in hospital by the elderly in the final year of life as a health care 
indicator: inter-district comparisons.

Henderson J(1), Evans JG, Goldacre MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Oxford, 
Headington.

We have studied the amount of time spent in hospital by elderly people in their 
final year of life in 1976, 1981 and 1986 in six districts covered by the Oxford 
record linkage study to determine the extent of differences between districts. 
There was consistent but insubstantial variation between the districts. 
Variation declined over time, suggesting that the use of hospital care for the 
elderly may, in this respect, be nearing consensus. We conclude that the measure 
of total time spent in hospital by the elderly in their last year of life was 
not a powerful discriminator between districts in this region. When record 
linkage is implemented elsewhere in England, it will be possible to make wider 
geographical comparisons to determine whether important variations exist 
elsewhere.

PMID: 1599741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. J Public Health Med. 1992 Mar;14(1):43-9.

Cost-effective screening strategies for colorectal cancer.

Whynes DK(1), Walker AR, Hardcastle JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Nottingham.

Comment in
    J Public Health Med. 1993 Jun;15(2):211-2.

This paper models a range of feasible strategies for mass population screening 
for colorectal cancer. It uses both clinical and economic data derived from the 
major colorectal cancer screening trial currently under way in Nottingham, 
supplemented by data from concurrent Scandinavian trials. Costs and yields for 
12 strategies are modelled, and optima are identified according to a number of 
evaluation criteria. The cost-effectiveness condition for the desirability of 
introducing a programme of colorectal screening is also established.

PMID: 1599742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Cancer. 1992 Jul 1;70(1 Suppl):307-10. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19920701)70:1+<307::aid-cncr2820701319>3.0.co;2-n.

Prospective, conservative management of localized prostate cancer.

Jones GW(1).

Author information:
(1)Howard University College of Medicine, Department of Urology, Washington, 
D.C. 20060.

BACKGROUND: Currently, no randomized trials of the various treatment options for 
localized prostate cancer have been reported. Therefore, radical prostatectomy 
and external irradiation are offered as the primary management options and are 
thought by many to be curative.
METHODS: All patients in this series with a confirmed diagnosis of cancer of the 
prostate, localized, were given the option of expectant management in addition 
to the popular ones. Therefore, 233 patients with localized Stage A and B cancer 
were observed prospectively and conservatively for a period of 22 years, with a 
management plan of watchful waiting for most patients until signs and/or 
symptoms of disease activity occurred. In 44 patients interstitial I-125 
irradiation implantation and pelvic lymphadenectomy were performed in those who 
received surgical intervention.
RESULTS: No patient received external irradiation or radical prostatectomy in 
this series. The overall survival of patients was not statistically different 
from the United States life-tables probability for men of similar ages when the 
study ended for reporting purposes in June 1989. Exclusive of the 6 patients 
lost to follow-up, 52 patients survived less than 3 years, whereas 181 patients 
have survived more than 3 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Because of the favorable results in this expectant management 
study, it appears prudent that all patients with localized prostate cancer 
should have this management option as well as radical surgery or external 
irradiation.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19920701)70:1+<307::aid-cncr2820701319>3.0.co;2-n
PMID: 1600492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Bull World Health Organ. 1992;70(2):259-67.

Impact of height and weight on life span.

Samaras TT(1), Storms LH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego.

The study was conducted to evaluate one aspect of the entropy theory of aging, 
which hypothesizes that aging is the result of increasing disorder within the 
body, and which predicts that increasing mass lowers life span. The first 
evaluation of the impact of human size on longevity or life span in 1978, which 
was based on data for decreased groups of athletes and famous people in the USA, 
suggested that shorter, lighter men live longer than their taller, heavier 
counterparts. In 1990, a study of 1679 decreased men and women from the general 
American population supported these findings. In the present study data on the 
height, weight, and age at death of 373 men were obtained from records at the 
Veterans Administration Medical Center, San Diego, CA, USA. Men of height 175.3 
cm or less lived an average of 4.95 years longer than those of height over 175.3 
cm, while men of height 170.2 cm or less lived 7.46 years longer than those of 
at least 182.9 cm. An analysis by weight difference revealed a 7.72-year greater 
longevity for men of weight 63.6 kg or less compared with those of 90.9 kg or 
more. This corroborates earlier evidence and contradicts the popular notion that 
taller people are healthier. While short stature due to malnutrition or illness 
is undesirable, our study suggests that feeding children for maximum growth and 
physical development may not add to and may indeed be harmful to their long-term 
health and longevity.

PMCID: PMC2393304
PMID: 1600586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1992 Jun 12;117(24):927-34. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1062393.

[De novo malignant tumors during drug immunosuppression. The findings following 
1245 cadaveric kidney transplants in 1080 patients].

[Article in German]

Walz MK(1), Albrecht KH, Niebel W, Eigler FW.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung f√ºr Allgemeine Chirurgie, Universit√§tsklinikum Essen.

Thirty new malignant tumours were found in 1080 patients (634 men, 446 women; 
mean age 37.6 +/- 13.6 years) after a median follow-up period of 5 years 
following 1245 cadaveric kidney transplantations performed between 1972 and 
1990. The mean dialysis period before transplantation had been 4.0 +/- 3.1 
years. Regarding the type of tumour, carcinomas were by far the most frequent, 
while there was only one lymphoma. The annual malignancy incidence for renal 
transplant patients was 0.5%. This is 3.5 times higher for men and 4.2 times for 
women than in the normal population. Immunosuppression with azathioprine and/or 
antithymocytic globulin (n = 395) produced the same malignancy incidence (0.54%) 
as with cyclosporin (n = 685; 0.60%). On the other hand, malignant tumours 
occurred much earlier under cyclosporin than under azathioprine/antithymocytic 
globulin (27 and 68 months, respectively).

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1062393
PMID: 1600867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1992 May-Jun;33(3):344-8.

Limb salvage surgery in end stage renal disease: is it worthwhile?

Sanchez LA(1), Goldsmith J, Rivers SP, Panetta TF, Wengerter KR, Veith FJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Montefiore Medical Center, New York, New York.

The role of limb salvage surgery in patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) 
is controversial. In view of this debate, we reviewed our experience with 54 
primary and 15 secondary revascularizations for limb salvage in patients with 
ESRD over the past decade. Thirty-seven patients required dialysis and 10 had 
functioning renal transplants. Severe limb threatening ischemia was the 
indication for all revascularizations. The 2-year cumulative secondary graft 
patency rate was 56.2% with an associated limb salvage rate of 71.4%. There was 
no significant difference in graft patency or limb salvage rates between 
patients requiring dialysis and those with functioning renal allografts (p = 
0.5). The 30-day operative mortality for the 99 surgical procedures (69 arterial 
bypasses and 30 additional operations) was 13% and the 2-year patient survival 
was 45.6%. Six of the 15 amputations were performed despite a patent graft on 
limbs which had extensive infection and gangrene. We conclude that limb salvage 
surgery should only be undertaken with recognition of these risks in patients 
with ESRD or functioning renal transplants. Surgery should be performed before 
gangrene and infection become extensive. Patients with unrelenting infection or 
mid-forefoot gangrene should be considered for primary amputation.

PMID: 1601920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Med Clin (Barc). 1992 May 9;98(18):689-93.

[The use of the potential years of life between the ages of 1 and 64 as an 
indicator of premature mortality in Arag√≥n during 1987].

[Article in Spanish]

Amorin MJ(1), Barrasa JI, Stoduto P, Monserrat T, Arribas JL, Garc√≠a JR.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Medicina Preventiva, Hospital Miguel Servet, Zaragoza.

Comment in
    Med Clin (Barc). 1993 Jan 23;100(3):115.

BACKGROUND: Years of potential life lost (YPLL) are a health indicator which 
allows to discriminate the main causes of premature mortality weighting up the 
deaths according to the age of dead person.
METHODS: Premature mortality in Arag√≥n during 1987 is analysed by means of the 
indicator YPLL between the ages 1 and 64 years. The information given by this 
indicator along with that supplied by the mortality rates is used to obtain a 
more complete information of the role and relative importance of each one of the 
main groups of diseases of the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-9th 
revision) within the mortality in Arag√≥n during that whole year.
RESULTS: The biggest rates of YPLL by one thousand population were due to 
tumours (9.87), traumatisms and poisonings (8.84), vascular diseases (5.65) and 
digestive diseases (1.96). Mortality and YPLL rates were higher for males than 
for females and statistically significant differences were also observed when 
comparing the provinces of Zaragoza and Huesca with the province of Teruel 
(higher rates in the first ones) and when comparing rural with urban areas 
(higher rates in the second case).
CONCLUSIONS: According to this indicator the preventive programs in Arag√≥n 
should lead to the prevention of tumors, traumatisms, vascular diseases and 
digestive diseases, without forgetting that these illnesses have a bigger effect 
on male population and on urban areas.

PMID: 1602880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Pharos Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Med Soc. 1992 Spring;55(2):2-6.

A history of life expectancy in two developed countries.

Hiatt N(1), Hiatt JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, California 
90048.

PMID: 1603826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Soc Sci Med. 1992 Mar;34(5):559-69. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(92)90211-8.

Methods for quality adjustment of life years.

Nord E(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway.

Several valuation techniques are in use for quality adjusting life years in cost 
utility analysis. The paper gives an overview of the variability in results. A 
close inspection of a number of instruments with respect to their theme, 
instructions, decision framing and the phrasing of questions make many of the 
observed differences in results understandable. When judging the validity of the 
different techniques, three points should be kept in mind. One is that 
statements about validity should be made with respect to concrete versions 
rather than broad categories like 'the rating scale', 'time trade-off' etc. 
Another point is that a valuation technique that is valid in clinical decision 
analysis may not be valid in health program evaluation, and vice versa. The 
third point is that quality weights for life years are empirically more 
meaningful, in the sense that they are more amenable to empirical testing, if 
they are interpreted simply as preference weights rather than measures of 
amounts of well life in the utilitarian tradition. Time trade-off with a 
moderate time horizon is recommended in clinical decision analysis, while a 
combination of time trade-off and a variant of person trade-off is recommended 
in health program evaluation.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(92)90211-8
PMID: 1604362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Soc Sci Med. 1992 Apr;34(8):837-42. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(92)90253-m.

More resources better health? A cross-national perspective.

Kim K(1), Moody PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioral Science, College of Medicine, University of 
Kentucky, Lexington 40508-0086.

This study is an attempt to examine the relative importance of health care 
resources in predicting infant mortality within industrialized, developing, and 
underdeveloped countries. The analyses were based on the data of 117 countries. 
Findings from this study suggest that health resources as a whole do not make a 
significant contribution to accounting for the variance of infant mortality 
rates over and above the variance accounted for by socioeconomic resources only. 
The contribution of health resources to the health of the population as a whole 
is really rather small in comparison to the role of socioeconomic resources.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(92)90253-m
PMID: 1604375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Soc Sci Med. 1992 Apr;34(8):929-42. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(92)90261-n.

Correlates of hysterectomy in Australia.

Santow G(1), Bracher M.

Author information:
(1)Health Transition Centre, Australian National University, Canberra ACT.

With around one in five women undergoing hysterectomy by the age of 50, the 
prevalence of hysterectomy in Australia is greater than in Europe but less than 
in the United States. In this paper, data from a nationally representative 
sample survey of 2547 Australian women aged 20-59 years are employed to identify 
correlates of hysterectomy and tubal sterilization over the last 30 years. 
Physiological, socio-economic and supply-side factors all influence the 
propensity to undergo hysterectomy, and a comparison with the correlates of 
tubal sterilization reveals parallels and contrasts between the determinants of 
the two operations. Age and parity are important predictors of hysterectomy. In 
addition, use of oral contraceptives for at least five years reduces the risk of 
hysterectomy, as do tubal sterilization, tertiary education and birthplace in 
Southern Europe. Conversely, risk increases after experiencing side effects with 
the IUD or repeated foetal losses, or after bearing a third child before the age 
of 25.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(92)90261-n
PMID: 1604382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. South Med J. 1992 Jun;85(6):599-607. doi: 10.1097/00007611-199206000-00007.

Heart disease, cancer, and stroke in Maryland.

Havas S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, University of Maryland 
School of Medicine, Baltimore 21201.

Maryland has higher mortality rates from heart disease, cancer, and stroke (HCS) 
than the United States as a whole. More than 50% of deaths from HCS are 
premature, occurring before age 75. The health care and indirect costs from 
these three diseases total approximately $4.4 billion annually, placing a major 
economic burden on the state. A large body of scientific literature has shown 
the potential for the prevention of HCS. Currently, Maryland, like virtually all 
states, lacks the type of systematic, well-coordinated, comprehensive 
intervention campaign needed to lower morbidity, mortality, and health care 
costs from these three diseases. Such a campaign has now been planned by the 
University of Maryland at Baltimore. Similar campaigns are needed throughout 
much of the United States.

DOI: 10.1097/00007611-199206000-00007
PMID: 1604388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1992 May 25;86(10):523-7.

[Historical overview of the development of health statistics until the first 
half of the 20th century--3].

[Article in German]

Ewert G.

PMID: 1604897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Am J Med. 1992 Jun;92(6):665-78. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(92)90785-a.

Prophylactic use of the intra-aortic balloon pump in high-risk cardiac patients 
undergoing noncardiac surgery: a decision analytic view.

Georgeson S(1), Coombs AT, Eckman MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02111.

OBJECTIVE: As the indications for the intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) continue 
to evolve, a potential new use may be the prophylactic preoperative insertion of 
the IABP in the high-risk cardiac patient undergoing noncardiac surgery. Our 
objective is to present a general approach to the high-risk cardiac patient who 
may benefit from the prophylactic insertion of the IABP.
DESIGN: Case reports and a decision analysis.
METHODS: A decision model was constructed that weighs the risk of 
life-threatening postoperative complications against the risk of vascular 
complications, including surgery and possible amputation, from IABP insertion.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: A review of the literature identified 10 patients who 
underwent IABP placement prior to noncardiac surgery. These patients, along with 
our three cases, define a population of patients for whom the prophylactic IABP 
may be useful. This population includes patients with coronary artery disease 
(CAD) for whom bypass grafting is not an option due to: (1) inoperable CAD; (2) 
a severe coexisting disease process (such as a malignancy); or (3) the emergent 
nature of the noncardiac procedure. The decision analysis suggests that patients 
whose preoperative assessment places them at very high risk for postoperative 
complications (Goldman class IV or Detsky class III undergoing major surgery) 
may benefit the most from prophylactic placement of an IABP prior to noncardiac 
surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(92)90785-a
PMID: 1605148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1992 Jun;166(6 Pt 2):1950-4. doi: 
10.1016/0002-9378(92)91394-p.

The safety of oral contraceptives: epidemiologic insights from the first 30 
years.

Grimes DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Southern California 
School of Medicine, Los Angeles.

Because oral contraceptives are used by tens of millions of healthy women, their 
safety for short-term and long-term use is an important issue that has been 
examined in a large number of epidemiologic studies. These studies have become 
more rigorous and have increased in size and analytic sophistication over the 
years. Although breast cancer remains the most important safety concern, the 
bulk of recent data suggests that oral contraceptives have no overall impact on 
a woman's risk of developing this disease. The results are less clear on the 
risk of cervical cancer and its precursors because of methodologic problems. 
However, the newer oral contraceptive formulations no longer appear to be 
associated with an increased risk of myocardial infarction or stroke.

PIP: Studies show that OCs have several benefits besides prevention of 
pregnancy. They protect against ovarian and endometrial cancer, pelvic 
inflammatory disease, and ectopic pregnancy. OCs also prevent iron deficiency 
anemia, primary dysmenorrhea, functional ovarian cysts, and benign breast 
disease. They may even protect against some benign uterine tumors, osteoporosis, 
toxic shock syndrome, and rheumatoid arthritis. Despite many concerns, some 
large studies have not identified an overall effect of OCs on breast cancer, but 
subgroup analyses showed increased risk in 30-34 year old women and in women 
with 1 child. A reanalysis of a large US study indicated an increase risk of 
breast cancer in nulliparous women with increasing use of OCs by young women. 
Cervical cancer is the leading cancer of women in developing countries which 
emphasizes the need to examine the link between OC use and cervical cancer. 
Several studies show an increased risk of cervical cancer. Several studies show 
an increased risk of cervical cancer in long term OC users. In 1 study, long 
term use meant 5 years. Yet these studies did not adequately address confounding 
factors such as smoking and sexual behavior. 3 case control studies in the US 
and the UK found an increased risk of liver cancer among OC users, yet a large 
case control study in developing countries did not find a link between OC use 
and liver cancer. Studies of high dose OCs found considerable increased risks of 
cardiovascular disease in OC users, but they did not take into account cigarette 
smoking which indeed increases the risk. Further health practitioners today do a 
more thorough job of identifying underlying medical problems before prescribing 
OCs. Moreover estrogen doses have fallen 10 fold since the original OCs. 
Finally, despite a transient delay, women who take OCs experience a return to 
fertility at the same rate as those who use other contraceptives.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(92)91394-p
PMID: 1605284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Ann Chir. 1992;46(2):130-3.

[Resection of lung neoplasm in patients aged 70 years and over. Apropos of a 
series of 193 resections].

[Article in French]

Borrelly J(1), Grosdidier G, Sibille P.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie G√©n√©rale et Thoracique, H√¥pital Central, CHU, Nancy.

Lung cancer in the elderly is an active cancer. Due to the poor tolerance of 
radiotherapy and chemotherapy, and the ever increasing life expectancy of 
patients over the age of 70 years, surgery remains the treatment of choice for 
these lesions. We report a series of 193 patients over the age of 70 years, the 
high postoperative mortality of 19% during the first month was counterbalanced 
by a 5-year survival of more than 20%. The criteria of operability must be 
rigorous and based on objective elements, especially lung function and the 
patient's good psychological state.

PMID: 1605535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Ann Chir. 1992;46(3):271-6.

[Use of extracorporeal circulation oxygenators (CEC) in the European Economic 
Community (EEC)].

[Article in French]

Lautier A(1), Gille JP, Juvin AM, Gaillard D, Sargentini JC, Peronneau P.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U.256, Facult√© de M√©decine, H√¥pital Broussais, Cr√©teil, Paris.

This study analyses the growth of CPB in the EEC. The study situates its 
position in the world taking into account several indexes such as the Gross 
National Product and its growth the life expectancy and other technical or 
economic factors. Only a broad analysis could be performed for Europe to the 
irregular development of CPB. A more detailed analysis was performed for France 
thanks to a greater number of data. In this type of study the most important 
problem is to estimate the relevance and consistency of the data provided either 
by companies or by other organizations because they can change very quickly.

PMID: 1605563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Alzheimer Dis Assoc Disord. 1992 Spring;6(1):3-6.

Dementia and the life-prolonging technologies used: an ethical question.

Post SG(1), Whitehouse PJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Biomedical Ethics, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, Ohio.

PMID: 1605941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Ann Oncol. 1992 Feb;3(2):113-5. doi: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a058123.

Considerable side effects of chemoembolization for colorectal carcinoma 
metastatic to the liver.

Borner M(1), Castiglione M, Triller J, Baer HU, Soucek M, Blumgart L, Brunner K.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Oncology, University of Bern, Inselspital Bern, 
Switzerland.

The feasibility of one whole liver chemoembolization (CE) procedure with 
Angiostat, a vasoocclusive collagen, mitomycin, doxorubicin, and cisplatin was 
evaluated in eight patients with unresectable colorectal carcinoma metastatic to 
the liver and good performance status. One heavily pretreated patient showed a 
partial response in the liver lasting 188 days. Five patients had stabilization 
of the disease for 85-150 days. The side effects of the treatment were 
considerable with a fatigue syndrome lasting up to eight weeks, chemical and 
ischemic hepatitis, severe thrombopenia (WHO grade 4 in 2 pts) and icterus being 
the most disturbing toxicities. We recommend to restrict CE to patients with a 
life expectancy of more than 4-6 months confined to protocols, which evaluate 
efficacy, toxicity and influence on quality of life of CE with various cytotoxic 
drugs. We further suggest to perform staged unilobar CE at 4- to 6-week 
intervals rather than whole liver CE.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a058123
PMID: 1606081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1992 Jun;18(3):224-9.

Ki67 immunoreactivity in breast carcinoma: relationships to prognostic variables 
and short term survival.

Locker AP(1), Birrell K, Bell JA, Nicholson RI, Elston CW, Blamey RW, Ellis IO.

Author information:
(1)Nottingham City Hospital, Cardiff, UK.

Immunoreactivity of the monoclonal antibody Ki67, which recognizes an antigen 
expressed in cells active in the cell cycle, has been investigated by 
immunocytochemistry in a series of 67 primary breast cancers. The percentage of 
tumour cell nuclei stained by Ki67 (labelling index) was related to tumour 
histological grade, mitotic frequency, oestrogen receptor status and tumour 
type. No correlation was found with patient age, tumour size or lymph node 
stage. A high Ki67 labelling index was significantly associated with diminished 
patient survival and disease-free interval, which demonstrates an important role 
for this monoclonal antibody as a prognostic marker in breast cancer.

PMID: 1607032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Demography. 1992 May;29(2):287-303.

Living and dying in the U.S.A.: sociodemographic determinants of death among 
blacks and whites.

Rogers RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Colorado, Boulder 80309.

This paper examines the demographic and social factors associated with 
differences in length of life by race. The results demonstrate that 
sociodemographic factors--age, sex, marital status, family size, and 
income--profoundly affect black and white mortality. Indeed, the racial gap in 
overall mortality could close completely with increased standards of living and 
improved lifestyles. Moreover, examining cause-specific mortality while 
adjusting for social factors shows that compared to whites, blacks have a lower 
mortality risk from respiratory diseases, accidents, and suicide; the same risk 
from circulatory diseases and cancer; and higher risks from infectious diseases, 
homicide, and diabetes. These results underscore the importance of examining 
social characteristics to understand more clearly the race differences in 
overall and cause-specific mortality.

PMID: 1607053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. J Neurosurg. 1992 Jul;77(1):1-8. doi: 10.3171/jns.1992.77.1.0001.

Clinical outcome of radiosurgery for cerebral arteriovenous malformations.

Steiner L(1), Lindquist C, Adler JR, Torner JC, Alves W, Steiner M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Virginia, Charlottesville.

Comment in
    J Neurosurg. 1992 Nov;77(5):823.

The clinical outcomes are described for 247 consecutive cases of arteriovenous 
malformation (AVM) treated with the gamma knife between April, 1970, and 
December 31, 1983. Headache resolved in 65 (66.3%) of the 98 patients presenting 
with this symptom and improved in an additional nine (9.2%). Of 59 patients 
admitted with seizures, 11 (18.6%) became seizure-free without anticonvulsant 
medication and an additional 30 patients (50.8%) became seizure-free with 
anticonvulsant medication. Pre-existing neurological deficits improved or 
totally disappeared following radiosurgery in 56.7% of affected cases. This 
improvement presumably occurred within the frame of the natural history. The 
protective effect of the ionizing beams against hemorrhage in incompletely 
obliterated AVM's is analyzed. To assess the rate of rebleeding, probability 
estimates were calculated using both the person-year method and the Kaplan-Meier 
life table. With the person-year method the actual rebleed rate is not too 
different from the values observed in the natural history of the disease (2% to 
3%/yr). Analysis by Kaplan-Meier life-table estimates demonstrated a risk of 
nearly 3.7%/yr until 60 months after radiosurgery. Five years following 
treatment, the life table ends in a plateau which could be interpreted as an 
indication of decrease in the risk of hemorrhage. However, long flat regions at 
the right end of the life table do not imply that the real risk of rebleeding is 
negligible unless a large number of patients have been followed well into or 
beyond the flat region.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1992.77.1.0001
PMID: 1607950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Acta Orthop Scand. 1992 Jun;63(3):293-6. doi: 10.3109/17453679209154785.

Years of potential life lost after hip fracture among postmenopausal women.

Eiskjaer S(1), Ostg√•rd SE, Jakobsen BW, Jensen J, Lucht U.

Author information:
(1)Accident Analysis Center, Arhus University Hospital, Department of 
Orthopedics E, Denmark.

From January 1987 and onwards all cases of hip fracture in Arhus County, 
Denmark, were registered in a prospective multicenter investigation. Until 
December 1990, 2273 postmenopausal women (greater than 50 years) with first hip 
fractures were registered. Of these 643 sustained a hip fracture in 1988. Life 
tables were constructed for different age groups; the excess mortality (in 
comparison with the reference population) for each age group ranged from 10 to 
20 percent. The years of potential life lost (YPLL) (life expectancy method) 
were calculated for the 1988 cohort and compared with the YPLL due to other 
selected conditions calculated from official vital statistics. The YPLL rates 
(per 1000 persons) were as follows: hip fracture 9.2, ischemic heart disease 73, 
cerebrovascular disease 29, breast cancer 20 and cancer of the uterus 6.7. We 
propose that hip fracture mortality data should be continuously registered and 
evaluated using the YPLL method to detect changes caused by the expected 
increase in the number of hip fractures.

DOI: 10.3109/17453679209154785
PMID: 1609593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Am J Public Health. 1992 Jul;82(7):933-41. doi: 10.2105/ajph.82.7.933.

Health and the environment in the 1990s.

Doll R(1).

Author information:
(1)Imperial Cancer Research Fund Cancer Studies Unit, Radcliffe Infirmary, 
Oxford, England.

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 1992 Jul;82(7):931-2.
    Am J Public Health. 1992 Jul;82(7):941-3.

Expectation of life at birth provides a simple measure of the state of health of 
a country. Differences in the expectation are examined in the United States over 
time and between males and females and Whites and non-Whites, and worldwide 
between market and nonmarket developed countries, and between developed and 
developing countries. The principal factors responsible for the trends and the 
current differences are changes in the social and physical environment, in 
personal behavior, and in medical care, and their relative importance is 
assessed. It is concluded that, at present, the principal environmental hazards 
worldwide are those associated with poverty of individuals within the market 
economies and of communities in the developing countries and that in the future, 
they will be the effects of overpopulation and the production of greenhouse 
gases.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.82.7.933
PMCID: PMC1694071
PMID: 1609912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Ann Vasc Surg. 1992 May;6(3):225-31. doi: 10.1007/BF02000267.

Dysplastic lesions of renal artery branches: late results of ex vivo repair.

Barral X(1), Gournier JP, Frering V, Favre JP, Berthoux F.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire, Centre Hospitalier et Universitaire, 
Saint-Etienne, France.

Between November 1980 and July 1989, 29 ex vivo reconstructions were performed 
in 12 women and five men (mean age: 42 years) for dysplastic lesions of renal 
artery branches. Fifteen patients had hypertension, associated with advanced 
renal failure in one case. The internal iliac artery was used routinely for 
reconstruction. The saphenous vein was used on one side where bilateral repairs 
were necessary. A total of 52 distal anastomoses were performed, an average of 
2.6 per revascularized kidney. Mean follow-up was four years and 10 months. No 
patients were lost to follow-up. There were no early or late deaths. At least 
one follow-up arteriogram and technetium99 diethylene triamine pentacetic acid 
scintiscan was obtained for all patients. Forty-five (86%) of 52 anastomoses 
remained patent. Eleven of 15 hypertensive patients completely recovered while 
four were improved. Systolic arterial blood pressure decreased by an average of 
42 mmHg (p less than 0.001), and results remained stable with time. For 
fibromuscular dysplasia occurring in young patients whose life expectancy is 
usually long, this type of surgery provides excellent long-term clinical and 
anatomical results.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02000267
PMID: 1610653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Zentralbl Pathol. 1992 Apr;138(2):91-6.

Incidence and morphology of liver metastasis from extrahepatic malignancies to 
cirrhotic livers.

Vanbockrijck M(1), Kl√∂ppel G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Academic Hospital Jette, Free University of 
Brussels.

Incidence and morphologic pattern of liver metastasis from extrahepatic cancer 
in cirrhosis were studied in 2162 consecutive autopsies performed during a 12.5 
year period. The cirrhotic liver was less frequently affected by metastasis than 
the noncirrhotic liver (33.3% versus 46.4%). The incidence of extrahepatic 
malignancies and their hematogenous metastasis was lower (though statistically 
not significant) in patients with cirrhosis than in patients without cirrhosis 
(20% versus 32%). Patients with cirrhosis but without cancer died at a younger 
age (63.5 years) than patients with both cancer and cirrhosis (69.5 years). In 
cirrhotic livers, metastases from neuroendocrine tumors were predominantly 
localized within the parenchymal nodules, while nonendocrine carcinomas 
metastasized to the fibrotic septa. The results suggest (1) that patients with 
cirrhosis develop less frequently extrahepatic malignancies and hepatic 
metastasis than patients without cirrhosis, probably because of a shorter life 
expectancy due to the complications of liver cirrhosis; (2) microscopic 
localization of metastases in cirrhotic livers depend on tumor type.

PMID: 1610770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. J Arthroplasty. 1992 Jun;7(2):183-6. doi: 10.1016/0883-5403(92)90014-h.

Life expectancy after total hip arthroplasty.

Holmberg S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Samaritan Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

The 6-year survival rate was investigated in 646 patients undergoing total hip 
arthroplasty for osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, or complications 
following femoral neck fracture between 1978 and 1982. A comparison of mortality 
was done between patients treated by osteosynthesis for fresh femoral neck 
fracture and a matched general population. The mortality was lower than that of 
the matched general population after total hip arthroplasty and even lower for 
patients treated for fresh femoral neck fracture. Patients undergoing total hip 
arthroplasty for osteoarthritis had the highest survival rate, followed by 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis and complications after femoral neck 
fractures.

DOI: 10.1016/0883-5403(92)90014-h
PMID: 1613527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr (1988). 1992;5(7):688-93.

Premature mortality related to HIV infection in California 1981-1993.

Singleton JA(1), Otten MW Jr, Doebbert G, Kizer KW.

Author information:
(1)California Department of Health Services, Office of AIDS, Sacramento 
94234-7320.

The number of years of potential life lost (YPLL) before age 65 was used to 
compare the effects of HIV on premature mortality versus other causes of death 
in California from 1981 to 1993. Using California AIDS case surveillance data, 
YPLL associated with HIV rose from 629 in 1981 to 120,721 in 1989, and is 
projected to reach 188,000 in 1993 (plausible range, 155,000-285,000). In 1989, 
HIV ranked fourth in YPLL behind all malignant neoplasms, traffic-related motor 
vehicle accidents, and all heart diseases. By 1993, if current mortality trends 
continue, HIV is projected to be the leading single cause of YPLL in California 
ahead of all malignant neoplasms (184,597 in 1989), motor vehicle-related YPLL 
(163,038 in 1989), and all heart diseases.

PMID: 1613667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. J Rheumatol. 1992 May;19(5):704-8.

Life table analysis of 879 treatment episodes with slow acting antirheumatic 
drugs in community rheumatology practice.

Morand EF(1), McCloud PI, Littlejohn GO.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Unit, Monash Medical Centre, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.

Erratum in
    J Rheumatol 1992 Dec;19(12):1998.

In 596 patients with RA managed over a decade in a community practice setting, 
879 slow acting antirheumatic drug (SAARD) treatment episodes were analyzed 
using 5-year life tables. The probability of continuation of therapy was 50% by 
9-24 months for all drugs except for methotrexate (MTX), which was 62% by 5 
years [corrected]. MTX treatments were of significantly longer duration than 
those of all other SAARD (p less than 0.001); terminations for both inefficacy 
(p less than 0.001) and toxicity (NS) were less likely. These findings concur 
with recent evidence suggesting that MTX is a superior SAARD in this setting.

PMID: 1613698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 1992 Apr;29(4):245-7. doi: 
10.3143/geriatrics.29.245.

The aging of the aged: challenges for gerontology & geriatrics in the United 
States.

Schneider EL(1).

Author information:
(1)Ethel Percy Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles 90089-0191.

It comes as no surprise that global graying will be one of the most pressing 
issues of the coming century. The most rapidly growing age group in all 
developed countries is the one with persons aged 85 and older. Often referred to 
as the "oldest old", the aging of the aged reflects a universal concern being 
experienced in the United States as well as in other industrialized countries, 
such as Japan. This paper addresses the challenges that such changes present for 
gerontology and geriatrics. Contextual projections of population trends and of 
life expectancy, as well as actual health care costs and estimated government 
health care expenditures will be compared for the United States and for Japan. 
Among the geriatric challenges being confronted are (1) the need to separate 
aging from disease, (2) the need for more geriatric centers and available 
geriatricians to serve the aged, (3) the introduction of health care strategies 
of prevention and case management, (4) responses to the notion of health care 
rationing, and (5) the ultimate importance of research ranging from the 
biological and molecular to the behavioral, social, and health service delivery. 
Global aging presents a gerontological imperative that may best be understood by 
examining policy recommendations and future policy decisions.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.29.245
PMID: 1614000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1992 Apr;200(4):267-72. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1045750.

[Epiretinal membrane formation after pars plana vitrectomy in proliferative 
diabetic retinopathy].

[Article in German]

Messmer E(1), Bornfeld N, Oehlschl√§ger U, Heinrich T, Foerster MH, Wessing A.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum f√ºr Augenheilkunde, Medizinische Einrichtungen, Universit√§t 
Essen-Gesamthochschule.

Recurrent epiretinal membranes are a major contributing factor to functional and 
visual failures after pars plana vitrectomy for proliferative vitreoretinal 
disorders. In this study 222 consecutive eyes that have had pars plana 
vitrectomy for proliferative diabetic retinopathy (operated in 1986 und 1987) 
were evaluated retrospectively. The study focuses on a subgroup of 108 
consecutive eyes all with preoperative tractional retinal detachment and all 
operated with primary silicone oil injection. A minimum follow up of six months 
was present in 90% of these cases. Permanent visual success was observed in 40% 
of the eyes, most of which had dense vitreous hemorrhage preoperatively. 
Multivariant analysis revealed that among several potential risk factors 
recurrent epiretinal membranes as well as silicone oil were significantly 
associated with visual failure. Because of the high incidence of recurrent 
epiretinal membranes associated with poor functional results silicone oil 
injection following pars plana vitrectomy should be employed restrictively in 
patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1045750
PMID: 1614088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Surg Neurol. 1992 Jul;38(1):12-8. doi: 10.1016/0090-3019(92)90206-3.

Primary tumors of the cervical spine: surgical experience with 38 cases.

Di Lorenzo N(1), Delfini R, Ciappetta P, Cantore G, Fortuna A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences, University of Rome La Sapienza, Italy.

Thirty-eight primary tumors of the cervical spine were operated on in the 
Section of Neurosurgery, Department of Neurological Sciences, "La Sapienza" 
University of Rome between 1954 and 1988. Of these, 23 were malignant and 15 
benign. The aims of surgical treatment in every case were tumor removal, 
decompression of the spinal cord, and conservation or restoration of vertebral 
stability. In no case was surgery confined to biopsy. Surgical stabilization was 
performed in 12 patients. Bone fusion was obtained with autologous bone (iliac 
crest, fibula) in benign tumors, whereas synthetic material (acrylic and metal) 
was used in malignant tumors. Past experience and greater awareness of the 
concrete possibilities of treating these tumors have led us to evolve the 
following strategy: 1. For aggressive benign tumors (osteoblastoma, giant cell 
tumors) and for malignancies in patients with fair life expectancy (solitary 
myeloma, chordoma): radical removal. 2. For benign tumors with low neoplastic 
potential and for malignant tumors in patients with poor life expectancy: 
conservative removal. Long-term results were gratifying in all benign lesions 
and low-grade malignancies even though two patients with chordomas needed 
