reoperations. Sarcomas had relatively poor results.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-3019(92)90206-3
PMID: 1615369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1992;142(5-6):108-11.

[The atheroprotective importance of estrogen substitution from the social 
medicine viewpoint].

[Article in German]

Rieder A(1), Schwarz B, Kunze M.

Author information:
(1)Institut f체r Sozialmedizin, Universit채t Wien.

Due to the increasing life expectancy most women nowadays suffer from menopausal 
problems. These include not only menopausal symptoms, but also osteoporosis and 
atherosclerosis. Hormone replacement therapy therefore is a measure for keeping 
physiological standards. It has both preventive and therapeutic importance, for 
the individual as well as for the public. In the following we give an overview 
to these aspects, focusing on prevention of atherosclerosis.

PMID: 1615677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Am Heart J. 1992 Jul;124(1):154-9. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90934-n.

Ten-year experience with mitral valve replacement in the elderly.

Nair CK(1), Biddle WP, Kaneshige A, Cook C, Ryschon K, Sketch MH Sr.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Creighton University School of Medicine, Omaha, NE 
63131.

Limited data are available on mitral valve replacement in the elderly patient. 
Therefore we report our 10-year experience including predictors of perioperative 
mortality and subsequent long-term cardiac mortality in elderly patients with 
mitral valve replacement compared to younger patients. Of the 126 consecutive 
patients with mitral valve replacement, 26 were older (77 +/- 4, group 1) and 
100 were younger (62 +/- 9, group 2) than 70 years. Bioprostheses were used more 
frequently in patients in group 1 (65% vs 7%, p less than 0.0001). Of the 21 
clinical, ECG, hemodynamic, and angiographic variables studied, patients in 
group 1 had higher pulmonary artery systolic pressure (57 +/- 15 vs 48 +/- 19, p 
less than 0.05), fascicular block on ECGs (70% vs 33%, p less than 0.005), and 
greater pump time on cardiopulmonary bypass (160 +/- 75 vs 120 +/- 50 minutes, p 
less than 0.025). A trend toward a higher perioperative mortality rate was also 
seen in group 1 (27% vs 12%, p = 0.058). Predictors of perioperative mortality 
by multivariate analysis were the presence of aortic calcification and prolonged 
pump time on cardiopulmonary bypass in group 1 and coronary artery disease, 
female sex, elevated mean pulmonary artery pressure, and postoperative complete 
atrioventricular block in group 2. During a mean 4-year follow-up period, 
cardiac mortality and total mortality rates were 42% and 54%, respectively, for 
group 1 compared to 24% and 35%, respectively, for group 2.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED 
AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90934-n
PMID: 1615800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Am J Cardiol. 1992 Jul 1;70(1):56-9. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)91389-l.

Usefulness of a postoperative exercise test for predicting cardiac events after 
coronary artery bypass grafting.

Yli-M채yry S(1), Huikuri HV, Airaksinen KE, Ik채heimo MJ, Linnaluoto MK, Takkunen 
JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Oulu University Central Hospital, Finland.

The predictive value of a postoperative exercise test in terms of cardiac events 
after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) was prospectively studied in 231 
consecutive patients. During a 5-year follow-up there were 28 cardiac events 
(12%), of which 15 were cardiac deaths (13 sudden), and 13 were nonfatal 
myocardial infarctions. There was no difference in the rate of graft patency 
between groups with and without cardiac events, but ejection fraction was lower 
in patients with than without events (51 +/- 16% vs 58 +/- 10%; p less than 
0.05). Duration of the exercise test was shorter, and maximal work load was 
lower in patients with cardiac events (p less than 0.05 for both). The 
prevalence of greater than or equal to 1 mm ST-segment depression was 22% 
(symptomatic in 25%, and silent in 75%) and did not differ between groups with 
and without cardiac events. After adjustment for prognostic variables using the 
proportional hazards method, diuretic treatment (p = 0.007) and a low 
postoperative ejection fraction (p = 0.04) remained significant for predicting 
the risk of cardiac events within 5 years of CABG, but exercise duration and 
work load did not have any significant predictive value. Thus, the predictive 
value of a postoperative exercise test is limited, and signs of impaired left 
ventricular function are of greater significance for the 5-year prognosis after 
CABG than are those of myocardial ischemia.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)91389-l
PMID: 1615870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1992 Jun;166(6 Pt 1):1597-604; discussion 1604-6. doi: 
10.1016/0002-9378(92)91548-o.

Therapeutic donor insemination: a prospective randomized trial of fresh versus 
frozen sperm.

Subak LL(1), Adamson GD, Boltz NL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, CA.

OBJECTIVE: We evaluated the efficacy of fresh versus frozen sperm in therapeutic 
donor insemination.
STUDY DESIGN: Fifty-seven women underwent 72 courses of treatment (a maximum of 
six therapeutic donor insemination cycles--three fresh and three frozen) 
totaling 198 cycles. Each woman served as her own control and was prospectively 
randomized to receive a single, timed insemination of either fresh or frozen 
sperm.
RESULTS: Fecundity was 20.6% for fresh sperm cycles and 9.4% for frozen (p less 
than 0.03, by chi 2 analysis). Fresh cervical cap insemination fecundity was 
20.3%; frozen was 7.8% (p less than 0.03, by chi 2 analysis). Fresh intrauterine 
insemination fecundity was 21.2%; frozen was 15.8% (p = 0.63, by chi 2 
analysis). Fresh 3-month life-table pregnancy rates were 48% +/- 10%; frozen 
rates were 22% +/- 8% (p = 0.05 by Breslow analysis). Survival analysis with 
fixed covariates showed a positive association with the use of fresh sperm (p = 
0.04).
CONCLUSION: Cycle fecundity was significantly greater with fresh sperm in women 
undergoing cervical cap insemination or intrauterine insemination and in women 
undergoing only cervical cap insemination. These results have important 
implications for contemporary management of patients undergoing therapeutic 
donor insemination with frozen sperm.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(92)91548-o
PMID: 1615966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1992 Jun;166(6 Pt 1):1607-12; discussion 1612-3. doi: 
10.1016/0002-9378(92)91549-p.

Effect of controlled ovarian hyperstimulation on pregnancy rates after 
intrauterine insemination.

DiMarzo SJ(1), Kennedy JF, Young PE, Hebert SA, Rosenberg DC, Villanueva B.

Author information:
(1)Fertility Institute, Infertility Gynecology and Obstetrics Medical Group of 
San Diego, Inc., CA 92121.

OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to evaluate the effect of controlled ovarian 
hyperstimulation on pregnancy rates after intrauterine insemination of washed 
husband's sperm.
STUDY DESIGN: In a private practice setting at the Infertility, Gynecology, and 
Obstetrics Medical Group in San Diego, 79 treatment programs included 
intrauterine insemination during natural cycles, 195 included clomiphene 
stimulation, and 53 had human menopausal gonadotropin stimulation. Pregnancy 
rates and monthly fecundabilities were calculated by life-table analysis and 
compared by the Z test.
RESULTS: By life-table analysis the cumulative probability of pregnancy after 
intrauterine insemination with no ovulation induction is 21.0% after six cycles 
with a monthly fecundability of 3.4%. With clomiphene the pregnancy rate is 
32.7% with a monthly fecundability of 6.1%, and with human menopausal 
gonadotropin the pregnancy rate is 60.7% with a monthly fecundability of 13.0%. 
The human menopausal gonadotropin group had a significantly higher pregnancy 
rate and monthly fecundability as compared with the other two groups. There were 
no differences between the no-stimulation and the clomiphene groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Human menopausal gonadotropin stimulation results in a 
significantly higher pregnancy rate and monthly fecundability after intrauterine 
insemination as compared with no stimulation or clomiphene use.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(92)91549-p
PMID: 1615967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1992 May;9(5):387-9.

An HIV positive haemophiliac with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia successfully 
treated with intensive chemotherapy and syngeneic bone marrow transplantation.

Turner ML(1), Watson HG, Russell L, Langlands K, Ludlam CA, Parker AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, UK.

A 26-year-old HIV positive severe haemophiliac developed Burkitt-type acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia with intracranial involvement. He underwent standard 
combination therapy, and entered complete remission. Syngeneic bone marrow 
transplantation (BMT) was undertaken; the donor was also HIV positive. The 
patient died 18 months from transplant of isolated intracranial relapse, with no 
evidence of systemic relapse. Unlike other types of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, 
Burkitt's type occurs in HIV positive patients with relatively normal CD4 cell 
counts. Remission can be achieved using intensive chemotherapy, and since these 
patients may otherwise have a reasonable life expectancy, BMT may be 
appropriate.

PMID: 1617323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Cancer. 1992 Jul 15;70(2):402-9. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19920715)70:2<402::aid-cncr2820700206>3.0.co;2-p.

Social class and colon cancer survival in Finland.

Auvinen A(1).

Author information:
(1)Finnish Centre for Radiation and Nuclear Safety, Helsinki.

Erratum in
    Cancer 1993 May 1;71(9):2885.

Comment in
    Cancer. 1993 May 1;71(9):2884-5.

METHODS. Social class differences in colon cancer survival were studied in 3147 
patients with colon cancer diagnosed in Finland from 1979-1982. Of these 
patients, 2969 were eligible for survival analysis. RESULTS. A clear social 
class gradient in colon cancer survival was detected. The difference in the 
age-adjusted relative risk of death due to colon cancer between the highest (I) 
and lowest (IV) social class was 19%. Stage of disease at diagnosis accounted 
for a substantial proportion of differences in survival, and treatment accounted 
for the rest of them. Differences in treatment by social class were most 
apparent among patients with advanced or unknown stage of disease at diagnosis. 
Controlling for the place of residence had little effect on the survival 
differences. Delay in diagnosis did not account for the observed differences in 
survival by social class.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19920715)70:2<402::aid-cncr2820700206>3.0.co;2-p
PMID: 1617590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Geriatrics. 1992 Jul;47(7):39-50.

Preventive geriatrics: basic principles for primary care physicians.

Kligman EW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, University of Arizona College of 
Medicine, Tucson.

The goal of preventive geriatrics is to nurture a state of health that allows 
maximal active life expectancy while maintaining high levels of function. The 
physician's role in promoting such a state of health is disease prevention and 
the control of chronic diseases of aging. Barriers such as insufficient time 
and/or staff resources and insufficient third-party reimbursement restrict the 
delivery of multiple risk factor intervention and healthy aging counseling in 
the office setting. A systematic approach to preventive geriatrics proposed by 
the U.S. Prevention Services Task Force is discussed.

PMID: 1618397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Hygie. 1992;11(2 Suppl):18-23.

Health challenges of the developed world.

Karvonen MJ.

PMID: 1618512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Hygie. 1992;11(2 Suppl):8-14.

Health education: historic windows of opportunity.

Grant JP.

PIP: In 1991, the Executive Director of UNICEF addressed the World Conference on 
Health Education in Helsinki, Finland which centered on international 
cooperation in improving health. Health educators should convince world leaders 
to apply the money available after reductions in military spending due to the 
end of the Cold War toward revitalizing health and education systems and 
alleviating poverty. Another opportunity that they should not let slip away is 
that more countries are choosing democracy. The international consensus is now 
leaning toward human centered development. At least 71 national leaders and 
representatives from 88 other countries have supported the World Summit Plan of 
Action which emphasizes health education efforts leading toward child survival. 
This global, political endorsement also presents a plan for social mobilization. 
Health educators have already contributed greatly to the success of achieving 
universal child immunization (80%) by the end of 1990. They communicated health 
education messages via the mass media and traditional channels to motivate 
individuals and society to immunize their children. UNICEF has 27 goals for the 
1990s such as eradication of polio and guinea worm disease. In 1989, UNICEF, 
WHO, UNESCO, and about 100 other agencies began the Facts for Life initiative by 
1st publishing a book. Lay and professional health educators have incorporated 
its messages into various media: street theater, radio, comics, soap operas, 
billboards, T-shirts, and bumper stickers. Medical research has shown that 
individual responsibility for one's own health adds years to life expectancy, 
e.g., individuals should not smoke. Health educators face the challenge of 
reaching adolescents, especially since most behavior patterns are established 
during adolescence. Other challenges include developing effective messages to 
curb the AIDS pandemic, to motivate hospitals to promote breast feeding, and to 
encourage world leaders to place children's needs at the top of society's 
priorities.

PMID: 1618524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. J Hyg Epidemiol Microbiol Immunol. 1992;36(1):1-23.

Health and environment in Czechoslovakia.

Tich찼cek B(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Prague, Czechoslovakia.

The study summarizes basic information on environmental conditions and health 
status of the Czechoslovak population. It analyzes the relationships between 
health and environmental conditions, and Appendix brings the comprehensive 
results of relevant studies performed in Czechoslovakia. The analytic results 
suggest the quality of Czechoslovak ecology as unsatisfactory, which in some 
localities, e.g. North Bohemia coal fields, Prague, Ostrava, is next to 
critical, with heavy impact on the population's health. The Czechoslovak 
citizens are more prone to falling ill, die sooner than their peers in the 
majority of European and non-European countries. In addition to the specific 
effects of individual factors and life style also immunity, reproduction cycle, 
metabolic processes etc. become involved in the health-living conditions 
relationships. All these influences are responsible for high rates of morbidity 
due to the so-called civilization diseases. Inevitably, the only possible 
solution is to protect effectively human healthy by protecting his living 
conditions, i.e. environment and life style.

PMID: 1619285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Jul;16(1):23-9.

The profunda femoris: a durable outflow vessel in aortofemoral surgery.

Prendiville EJ(1), Burke PE, Colgan MP, Wee BL, Moore DJ, Shanik DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, St. James's Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.

Aorta-common femoral artery bypass is the standard operation for relief of 
aortoiliac occlusive disease. When extensive superficial femoral artery disease 
coexists, the profunda femoris, even in its distal portion, may be used as the 
outflow vessel. To test this assumption we compared cumulative patency, limb 
salvage, and the need for distal bypass of 134 aorta-profunda femoris and 151 
aorta-common femoral artery bypasses performed consecutively for aortoiliac 
occlusive disease over a 12-year period. We also analyzed results of proximal (n 
= 103) and distal (n = 31) aortoprofunda bypasses. Angiographic and noninvasive 
studies showed greater disease in limbs undergoing aorta-profunda femoris 
bypass. However, no difference was observed in cumulative patency (91% +/- 6% vs 
96% +/- 3%) or limb salvage (90% +/- 6% vs 94% +/- 3%) at 5 years. Seventeen 
distal bypasses in the group undergoing profunda femoris bypass and 20 distal 
bypasses in the group undergoing common femoral artery bypass were required to 
maintain limb salvage. Proximal and distal aorta-profunda femoris bypasses 
showed no difference in cumulative patency (91% +/- 9% vs 95% +/- 6%) or limb 
salvage (94% in each group) at 3 years. Standard aorta-common femoral artery and 
aorta-profunda femoris bypass provide cumulative patency and limb salvage 
exceeding 90% at 5 years; concomitant or subsequent distal bypass was required 
in 12% or limbs undergoing aorta-profunda femoris bypasses. Both proximal and 
distal profunda femoris arteries provide a durable outflow tract when aortoiliac 
and femoropopliteal occlusive disease are combined.

PMID: 1619722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Rev Prat. 1992 Apr 15;42(8):997-1003.

[Immunology and psychiatry].

[Article in French]

Consoli SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Unit챕 m챕dico-psychologique, h척pital Broussais, Paris.

This review of scientific literature comes within the interest arisen from ten 
years by psychoneuroimmunology, a field connecting several disciplines and 
illustrating in a new way the psychosomatic relationships. A first category of 
works has been dedicated to the study of psychiatric disorders associated with 
various diseases concerning immunity (systemic diseases, endocrine diseases, 
cancers, infectious diseases), but also to the possible effect of distressing 
life events on the upset activation of immune functions, or even to the 
discovery of predisposing personality profiles (type C profile, depressive 
vulnerability). A second category of works concerns the analysis of the immune 
disturbances associated with certain psychiatric diseases, such as depression or 
schizophrenia, but also with some distressing life conditions, like bereavement. 
Animal experimentation and human experimentation provide various informations on 
the factors conditioning the immunomodulating effects of stress, sometimes in 
the direction of an inhibition, sometimes in the direction of an activation of 
immune functions. Finally, several papers shed light on the immunomodulating 
effects of psychotropic drugs. All these works open new horizons to the 
scientific knowledge and let us glimpse an extension to the use of psychologic 
therapeutics, as well of pharmacological ones as of non pharmacological.

PMID: 1621062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Surgery. 1992 Jul;112(1):6-10.

In situ saphenous vein for lower extremity revascularization.

Anderson CB(1), Stevens SL, Allen BT, Sicard GA.

Author information:
(1)Washington University School of Medicine, Barnes Hospital, St. Louis, MO 
63110.

BACKGROUND: During a 6-year period, 349 in situ saphenous vein bypass grafts 
were performed for limb salvage by three surgeons.
METHODS: Outflow anastomoses were constructed to the infrageniculate popliteal 
(25%), posterior tibial (20%), peroneal (20%), anterior tibial (19%), and dorsal 
pedal arteries (7%). Mean patient age was 70 1/2 years.
RESULTS: The 30-day mortality rate was 3.2%, and 19% died during the ensuing 
68-month interval. At 1, 24, and 60 months primary graft patency was 89%, 77%, 
and 74%, secondary graft patency was 91%, 80%, and 78%, and cumulative limb 
survival was 94%, 88%, and 84%, respectively. Cumulative patency rates at 60 
months depending on outflow site were as follows: popliteal (85%), anterior 
tibial (80%), posterior tibial (70%), dorsal pedal (68%), and peroneal (60%). 
Patency at the peroneal position was significantly inferior to that of other 
infrapopliteal sites combined (p less than 0.05). Cumulative limb survival at 60 
months, according to outflow site, was as follows: popliteal (95%), anterior 
tibial (85%), posterior tibial (78%), dorsal pedal (73%), and peroneal (67%). 
There was no significant difference in limb salvage among infrapopliteal outflow 
sites. However, patency rates and limb salvage were significantly better for the 
popliteal outflow site than the infrapopliteal outflow sites (p less than 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: (1) A 5-year graft patency rate of 78% and a limb salvage rate of 
84% are achievable, (2) peroneal bypass is associated with a lower rate for 
graft patency but not limb salvage, and (3) popliteal bypass has the best graft 
patency and limb salvage rates.

PMID: 1621226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Surgery. 1992 Jul;112(1):84-91.

Brachiocephalic revascularization: a comparison between carotid-subclavian 
artery bypass and axilloaxillary artery bypass.

AbuRahma AF(1), Robinson PA, Khan MZ, Khan JH, Boland JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, West Virginia University Health Sciences Center, 
Charleston Area Medical Center.

Comment in
    Surgery. 1993 Nov;114(5):993.

Sixty-seven patients who underwent carotid-subclavian bypass (CSBP) (28 CSBPs 
only and eight with carotid endarterectomy) or axilloaxillary artery bypass (n = 
31) with polytetrafluoroethylene grafts were followed up for a mean of 69.2 and 
71.9 months, respectively. Indications for surgery in the CSBP group included 
hemispheric transient ischemic attack (TIA)/cerebrovascular accident in five, 
nonhemispheric TIA in seven, upper extremity ischemia in 15, and combined TIA 
and arm ischemia in nine patients. In the axilloaxillary artery group, two 
patients had hemispheric TIA, five had nonhemispheric TIA, 12 had upper 
extremity ischemia, and 12 had combined TIA and arm ischemia. Graft patency was 
determined clinically and confirmed by segmental Doppler pressures, duplex 
ultrasonography, or angiography. The 30-day mortality rate was approximately 3% 
in both groups. The 30-day complication rate was 3% for the axilloaxillary 
artery group and 8% for the CSBP group (not statistically significant). Relief 
of symptoms was achieved in 100% of patients in both groups; however, 20% of the 
patients in the axilloaxillary artery group had a recurrence of symptoms, in 
contrast to 5.6% in the CSBP group. The cumulative 10-year primary and secondary 
patency rates, calculated by life-table analysis, were 66% and 84.6% for the 
axilloaxillary artery procedures and 93.8% and 93.8% for the CSBP procedures, 
respectively (statistically significant). Concomitant carotid endarterectomy 
with CSBP did not influence graft patency. In conclusion, both bypasses have 
comparable morbidity and mortality rates; however, the CSBP has a statistically 
significantly better primary patency rate than the axilloaxillary artery bypass. 
Therefore CSBP should be the procedure of choice and the axilloaxillary artery 
bypass should be restricted to high-risk patients.

PMID: 1621229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Am J Ind Med. 1992;21(6):863-72. doi: 10.1002/ajim.4700210609.

A mortality cohort study of seamen in Italy.

Rapiti E(1), Turi E, Forastiere F, Borgia P, Comba P, Perucci CA, Axelson O.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiologic Unit, Latium Health Authority, Rome, Italy.

A total of 2,208 male subjects, enrolled as merchant marine seamen at the 
Civitavecchia (Italy) harbor from 1936 to 1975 were followed up through 1989 in 
order to evaluate their mortality experience. Available information about the 
number of sailings made it possible to divide subjects into two subgroups: 948 
workers with at least one sailing (cohort A) and 1,260 with no reported sailing 
(cohort B). Fewer than expected overall deaths were observed in both cohorts 
(cohort A: SMR = 0.83; cohort B: SMR = 0.81), mainly due to a lower mortality 
from circulatory, respiratory, and digestive diseases. Lung cancer deaths were 
significantly increased in cohort A (O = 30, SMR = 1.71, 95% CI = 1.15-2.44), 
whereas no excess was observed in cohort B (O = 6, SMR = 0.57, 95% CI = 
0.21-1.26). Among subjects employed aboard ship, a trend in SMRs for lung cancer 
increasing with duration of employment was observed. Furthermore, three 
neoplasms of other parts of the respiratory system (including one mesothelioma) 
were detected in cohort A (SMR = 5.87), and one in cohort B. The study 
substantiates an increased risk of respiratory cancer among subjects with an 
occupational history of sailing; past exposure to asbestos and to other 
environmental carcinogens aboard could be implicated.

DOI: 10.1002/ajim.4700210609
PMID: 1621694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Arctic Med Res. 1992 Apr;51(2):87-93.

Mortality among the Baffin Inuit in the mid-80s.

Choini챔re R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Montreal General Hospital, Canada.

This article proposes to describe mortality among the Inuit of the Baffin region 
during the 1983-1987 period and to compare it with that of Canadians as a whole. 
Mortality among the Baffin Inuit is clearly higher than that of the Canadian 
population as a whole. Life expectancy at birth is 66.6 years, approximately 10 
years lower than that for the general Canadian population (76.3 years). Injuries 
and poisoning, neoplasms, and diseases of the respiratory system are the leading 
causes of death observed among the Baffin Inuit. For each of these causes, the 
rates obtained for the Inuit are significantly higher than those for the total 
population of Canada.

PMID: 1622532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. CA Cancer J Clin. 1992 Jul-Aug;42(4):212-22. doi: 10.3322/canjclin.42.4.212.

The role of radical prostatectomy in the treatment of prostate cancer.

Brendler CB(1), Walsh PC.

Author information:
(1)Brady Urological Institute, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland.

Recent advances in our understanding of the surgical anatomy of the prostate 
have led to an improved operative technique for radical prostatectomy. This 
technique achieves excellent results in terms of urinary continence and 
preservation of sexual function without compromising cancer control. It is 
therefore reasonable to offer radical prostatectomy for the cure of localized 
prostate cancer to patients who are otherwise well and have a life expectancy of 
more than 10 years.

DOI: 10.3322/canjclin.42.4.212
PMID: 1623431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. J Dermatol Surg Oncol. 1992 Jul;18(7):549-54. doi: 
10.1111/j.1524-4725.1992.tb03508.x.

Recurrence rates of treated basal cell carcinomas. Part 4: X-ray therapy.

Silverman MK(1), Kopf AW, Gladstein AH, Bart RS, Grin CM, Levenstein MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, New York University School of Medicine, NY.

This is the fourth report in a series that reviews the experience in the Skin 
and Cancer Unit, from 1955 through 1982, with the treatment of basal cell 
carcinomas (BCCs). It concerns 862 primary (previously untreated) BCCs 
irradiated by a "standardized" x-ray therapy schedule. The overall 5-year 
recurrence rate for these lesions, as determined by the modified life-table 
method, was 7.4%. This rate was not significantly different from that 
experienced with 211 recurrent (previously treated) BCCs with a re-recurrence 
rate of 9.5% (P = .552). For the primary BCCs, multivariate analysis showed that 
increasing BCC diameter was the only independent risk factor for high recurrence 
rates (P = .003). The patient's age or sex, the duration of the BCC, the 
anatomic site of the BCC, or time-span treated (1955-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1982) 
did not significantly affect the recurrence rate. Additional analysis showed 
that BCCs on the head less than 10 mm in diameter had a 5-year recurrence rate 
of 4.4% whereas those 10 mm or greater in diameter had a rate of 9.5%. Lastly, 
the proportion of recurrence-free treatment sites with a good or excellent 
long-term cosmetic outcome after x-ray therapy (63%) was lower than previous 
reports in this series with curettage-electrodesiccation (91%) and surgical 
excision (84%). Thus, if the long-term cosmetic outcome after treatment is not 
an overriding concern to the patient, x-ray therapy is an effective modality for 
many primary and recurrent BCCs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4725.1992.tb03508.x
PMID: 1624628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. J Natl Cancer Inst Monogr. 1992;(11):143-9.

A model of chemotherapy in node-negative breast cancer.

Hillner BE(1), Smith TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth 
University, Richmond 23298.

Should all women with node-negative breast cancer receive chemotherapy? 
Acceptance of such a broad recommendation has been controversial due to the 
relatively good prognosis of these women and the lack of evidence of an 
improvement from chemotherapy in overall survival. We studied the question with 
a decision analytic model, which simulates a clinical trial of a large number of 
women over several decades, to calculate quality-adjusted life expectancy and 
the cost-effectiveness of chemotherapy in 45-year-old and 60-year-old women. The 
model considered a variety of scenarios about the long-term benefits of 
chemotherapy. The initial analysis found a lifetime benefit of 4 to 5 quality 
months (range, 2 to 14 months) at a cost of $15,400 to $18,800 per quality year 
(range, $5,100 to $56,800). If a risk-stratification protocol could identify a 
low-risk group, then benefit drops to about 1 quality month at a cost of $65,000 
to $90,000 per year. For the average woman, chemotherapy increases the 
quality-adjusted life expectancy by a substantial amount at a generally 
acceptable cost. However, given the uncertainty of the duration of benefit and 
current potential for risk-stratification, a broad recommendation for 
chemotherapy is inappropriate.

PMID: 1627420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. J Natl Cancer Inst Monogr. 1992;(11):19-25.

Danish randomized trial comparing breast conservation therapy with mastectomy: 
six years of life-table analysis. Danish Breast Cancer Cooperative Group.

Blichert-Toft M(1), Rose C, Andersen JA, Overgaard M, Axelsson CK, Andersen KW, 
Mouridsen HT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Odense University Hospital, Denmark.

The Danish Breast Cancer Cooperative Group (DBCG) conducted a randomized trial 
comparing breast conservation with mastectomy in patients with invasive mammary 
carcinoma. From January 1983 to March 1989, the trial accrued a total of 1153 
women. Of this number, 905 patients (79%) were randomly assigned to one of the 
two treatment options, whereas 248 patients (21%) did not accept randomization. 
Of the randomly assigned patients, 90% received the surgical option to which 
they had been originally assigned. In the breast conservation arm the tumor was 
excised with the intention of obtaining free margins determined at gross 
examination, and radiotherapy was subsequently administered to residual breast 
tissue. The axilla was dissected in all instances. Patient and tumor 
characteristics were similar in the two randomization arms. The median follow-up 
time was 40 months. At 6 years of life-table analysis the probability of 
recurrence-free survival was 70% in the breast conservation arm against 66% in 
the mastectomy arm. Survival figures were 79% against 82%, respectively.

PMID: 1627427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1992 Jun 24;1121(3):245-51. doi: 
10.1016/0167-4838(92)90153-5.

Molecular aging of lens crystallins and the life expectancy of the animal. 
Age-related protein structural changes studied in situ by Raman spectroscopy.

Ozaki Y(1), Mizuno A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, School of Science, Kwansei Gakuin University, 
Nishinomiya, Japan.

In order to investigate the relationship of molecular aging of lens crystallins 
to an animal's life expectancy or to the type of the lens, Raman spectra have 
been measured in situ for rabbit and guinea-pig lens nuclei at various stages of 
aging; these spectra have been compared with those of rat and mouse lens nuclei 
previously reported. Lens aging results in pronounced differences among the 
Raman spectra of the lens nuclei of the four species. It is shown that the rates 
of dehydration, inter- and intramolecular disulfide bond formation, and 
microenvironmental changes in the tryptophan residues of lens crystallins are 
different among the four species. Much faster changes occur for rat and mouse, 
which have a shorter life expectancy (2 years) and give rise to hard lens nuclei 
while slower changes occur for rabbit and guinea-pig, which have a longer life 
expectancy (5-7 years), and give soft lens nuclei. In addition, the Raman data 
reveal, for all the species investigated, that there are correlations among the 
rates of the dehydration, the inter- and intramolecular disulfide bond 
formation, and the microenvironmental changes in the tryptophan residues. 
Therefore, there seems to be a common mechanism for molecular aging of lens 
crystallins among the four species, although the rate of the molecular aging 
strongly depends upon the life expectancy of the animal and the type of the 
lens. The most important factor determining the rate of the molecular aging is 
probably the dehydration which decreases free water in the lens nucleus.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-4838(92)90153-5
PMID: 1627601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Aging (Milano). 1992 Mar;4(1):3-12. doi: 10.1007/BF03324056.

Aging: a challenge for psychology and psychologists. We are living in a graying 
world.

Lehr U(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gerontology, University of Heidelberg, Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324056
PMID: 1627674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1992 Spring;8(2):359-64. doi: 
10.1017/s026646230001357x.

On the discounting of gained life-years in cost-effectiveness analysis.

Johannesson M(1).

Author information:
(1)Stockholm School of Economics.

A controversial issue in cost-effectiveness analysis is the discounting of 
gained life-years. What has not been realized, however, is that the different 
methods used for discounting this measurement provide fundamentally different 
results. The method used is seldom explicitly stated. In the present article the 
four main methods for the discounting of gained life-years are reviewed and 
compared. The conclusion is that if we wish to continue comparing results, 
researchers must employ the same methodology.

DOI: 10.1017/s026646230001357x
PMID: 1628916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. J Dent Res. 1992 Jul;71(7):1370-3. doi: 10.1177/00220345920710070401.

Progression of approximal caries in relation to iatrogenic preparation damage.

Qvist V(1), Johannessen L, Bruun M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cariology and Endodontics, School of Dentistry, Faculty of 
Health Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of iatrogenic 
preparation damage on the need for operative caries treatment of approximal 
surfaces, adjacent to Class II amalgam restorations. The material was collected 
by 77 dentists from the Public Dental Child Health Service in Denmark. It 
consisted of die-stone models of 187 first-time Class II preparations, adjacent 
to 190 unfilled approximal surfaces of 58 primary and 132 permanent teeth. The 
cavity preparations were performed in children between 4 and 17 years of age. 
They were all filled with amalgam. Information about operative treatment and 
exfoliation or extraction of the preparation teeth and the adjacent teeth during 
the following seven years was obtained from the patients' records. 
Stereomicroscopic examination of the models revealed preparation damage on 64% 
of the unfilled approximal surfaces in primary teeth and on 69% of the 
corresponding test surfaces in permanent teeth. During the observation period, 
operative treatment was performed on 10% of the undamaged test surfaces in 
primary teeth and on 35% of the damaged ones (p less than 0.05). The 
corresponding figures for test surfaces in permanent teeth were 6% and 15% (p 
less than 0.05). It is concluded that iatrogenic preparation damage is a 
frequent side-effect of operative intervention with approximal caries lesions, 
and represents a dental health problem, since the damage increases caries 
progression and the perceived need for restorative therapy of the adjacent 
teeth.

DOI: 10.1177/00220345920710070401
PMID: 1629452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. J Virol. 1992 Aug;66(8):4693-7. doi: 10.1128/JVI.66.8.4693-4697.1992.

Editing on the genomic RNA of human hepatitis delta virus.

Zheng H(1), Fu TB, Lazinski D, Taylor J.

Author information:
(1)Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111.

It has been shown previously that during replication of the genome of human 
hepatitis delta virus (HDV), a specific nucleotide change occurs to eliminate 
the termination codon for the small delta antigen (G. Luo, M. Chao, S.-Y. Hsieh, 
C. Sureau, K. Nishikura, and J. Taylor, J. Virol. 64:1021-1027, 1990). This 
change creates an extension in the length of the open reading frame for the 
delta antigen from 195 to 214 amino acids. These two proteins, the small and 
large delta antigens, have important and distinct roles in the life cycle of 
HDV. To further investigate the mechanism of this specific nucleotide 
alteration, we developed a sensitive assay involving the polymerase chain 
reaction to monitor changes on HDV RNA sequences as they occurred in transfected 
cells. We found that the substrate for the sequence change was the viral genomic 
RNA rather than the antigenomic RNA. This sequence change occurred independently 
of genome replication or the presence of the delta antigen. Less than 
full-length genomic RNA could act as a substrate, but only if it also contained 
a corresponding RNA sequences from the other side of the rodlike structure, 
which is characteristic of HDV. We were also able to reproduce the HDV base 
change in vitro, by addition of purified viral RNA to nuclear extracts of cells 
from a variety of species.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.66.8.4693-4697.1992
PMCID: PMC241294
PMID: 1629949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Lakartidningen. 1992 Jun 10;89(24):2217-9.

[Life expectancy together with good health are health indicators of the public 
health status].

[Article in Swedish]

Pettersson H(1).

Author information:
(1)Statistiska centralbyr책n, SCB, Stockholm.

PMID: 1630255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Otolaryngol Clin North Am. 1992 Apr;25(2):471-91.

Stereotactic radiosurgery in the treatment of patients with acoustic tumors.

Lunsford LD(1), Linskey ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, Pennsylvania.

Stereotactic radiosurgery is performed under local anesthesia, and most patients 
can be discharged from the hospital within 24 hours of treatment. All patients 
in our series returned to their preoperative level of employment or function 
within 5 to 7 days of treatment, and this functional level was maintained over 
the period of follow-up. "Tumor control" was achieved in 96% of patients during 
an average follow-up of 1.7 years. Tumor shrinkage occurred in 45% of patients 
who had at least 1.5 years of follow-up. Useful hearing preservation rates were 
50% at 6 months and 30% 1 year after treatment. New delayed facial or trigeminal 
neuropathy occurred in 34% and 32% of patients, respectively, with a median 
onset of 5 to 6 months after treatment. The vast majority of cranial 
neuropathies were partial at onset and tended to improve over time. Other 
complications included tumor growth (4%), communicating hydrocephalus (4%), and 
transient adjacent brain parenchymal changes best seen on T2-weighted MRI (9%). 
Stereotactic radiosurgery is an important alternative treatment for carefully 
selected patients with acoustic tumors. Indications for treatment include 
sufficient medical problems to pose excessive surgical risk, advanced age, the 
presence of bilateral acoustic tumors or contralateral deafness, recurrent tumor 
despite surgical resection, or refusal to undergo microsurgery. Radiosurgery is 
contraindicated in patients with symptomatic brain stem or cerebellar 
compression from a large acoustic tumor. Previous posterior fossa radiotherapy 
is a relative contraindication that must be considered on a patient to patient 
basis. Stereotactic radiosurgery should be viewed as an additional weapon in our 
arsenal for combating acoustic tumors rather than feared as a potential 
replacement for surgical excision. The strategic role of stereotactic 
radiosurgery in the overall treatment of patients with acoustic tumors will 
continue to be refined as longer-term, carefully assessed results become 
available.

PMID: 1630838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Soc Sci Med. 1992 May;34(9):993-1004. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(92)90130-i.

A cost utility analysis of mammography screening in Australia.

Hall J(1), Gerard K, Salkeld G, Richardson J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics Research and Evaluation, University of Sydney, 
Westmead, Australia.

Cost utility analysis is the preferred method of analysis when quality of life 
instead is an important outcome of the project being appraised. However, there 
are several methodological issues to be resolved in implementing cost utility 
analysis, including whether to use generalised measures or direct disease 
specific outcome assessment, the choice of measurement technique, and the 
combination of different health states. Screening for breast cancer meets this 
criterion as mammographic screening has been shown to reduce mortality; and it 
is said that earlier treatment frequently results in less radical surgery so 
that women are offered the additional benefit of improved quality of life. 
Australia, like many other countries, has been debating whether to introduce a 
national mammographic screening programme. This paper presents the results of a 
cost utility analysis of breast cancer screening using an approach to measuring 
outcome, Healthy Year Equivalents, developed within this study to resolve these 
problems. Descriptions of breast cancer quality of life were developed from 
surveys of women with breast cancer, health professionals and the published 
literature. The time trade off technique was then used to derive values for 
breast cancer treatment outcomes in a survey of women in Sydney, Australia. 
Respondents included women with breast cancer and women who had not had breast 
cancer. Testing of (i) the effect of prognosis on the value attached to a health 
scenario; and (ii) whether the value attached to a health scenario remains 
constant over time has been reported. The estimate of the net costs of screening 
are reported. The costs of breast cancer screening include the screening 
programme itself, the further investigations and the subsequent treatment of 
breast cancer cases. Breast cancer is treated in the absence of screening, many 
commentators claim earlier treatment is costly but there is little evidence. 
Therefore we have investigated current patterns of breast cancer treatment, 
current use of investigations for women presenting with symptoms and current use 
of covert mammography screening. The results are extrapolated to obtain 
estimates of the costs and outcomes presented as cost per healthy year 
equivalent. This analysis produces important information for the Australian 
policy debate over mammography. It also contributes to the development of cost 
utility analysis and the approach developed here can be applied more generally.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(92)90130-i
PMID: 1631612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. J Parasitol. 1992 Aug;78(4):716-24.

Population dynamics of Plasmodium falciparum sporogony in laboratory-infected 
Anopheles gambiae.

Vaughan JA(1), Noden BH, Beier JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology & Infectious Diseases, School of Hygiene & Public 
Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205.

The population dynamics of cultured Plasmodium falciparum parasites was examined 
during their sporogonic development in Anopheles gambiae mosquitoes. Estimates 
of absolute densities were determined for each life stage, and life tables were 
constructed for each of 38 experimental infections. Macrogametocyte and ookinete 
mortalities contributed equally to the overall mortality. On average, there was 
a 40-fold decrease in parasite numbers in the transition from the 
macrogametocyte to the ookinete stage, a 69-fold decrease in the transition from 
ookinete to oocyst stages, and a total net decrease in parasite numbers from 
macrogametocyte to oocyst stage of 2,754-fold (i.e., multiplicative). There was 
no relationship between macrogametocyte and ookinete densities due to the 
inherent variability in fertility among different gametocyte cultures. There was 
a curvilinear relationship (r2 = 0.66) between ookinete and oocyst densities. 
Above a threshold of about 30 ookinetes/mosquito, the oocyst yield per ookinete 
became increasingly greater with increasing ookinete density. There was a linear 
relationship (r2 = 0.73) between oocyst and sporozoite densities, with an 
average of 663 salivary gland sporozoites produced per oocyst. Sporozoite 
production per oocyst was not affected by oocyst density and virtually all 
oocyst infections resulted in sporozoite infections of the salivery glands. This 
quantitative study indicates that the sporogony of cultured P. falciparum in 
laboratory-infected A. gambiae is an inefficient process and that the ookinete 
is the key transitional stage affecting the probability of vector infectivity.

PMID: 1635032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Leuk Res. 1992 Jun-Jul;16(6-7):577-84. doi: 10.1016/0145-2126(92)90005-r.

Intensive sequential post-induction therapy for adults with acute myelogenous 
leukemia in first remission: long-term follow-up and results.

Ino T(1), Kojima H, Miyazaki H, Maruyama F, Sobue R, Okamoto M, Matsui T, 
Shimizu K, Ezaki K, Hirano M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Fujita Health University School of Medicine, Aichi, 
Japan.

We designed a post-induction therapy including intensive sequential therapy with 
non-cross-resistant drugs in an effort to prolong disease-free survival (DFS) 
for adults with acute myelogenous leukemia. Forty-five patients entered this 
study and 33 of 35 patients entering complete remission received the 
post-induction therapy. With a median follow-up for survivors of 3.5 years from 
complete remission, the actuarial 5-year DFS was 46% +/- 19% (95% confidence 
interval). The five-year DFS for patients over 45 years of age was comparable to 
that for patients under 45 years of age (50% +/- 26% vs 47% +/- 28%). 
Furthermore, the actuarial 5-year DFS for patients who required two courses of 
induction therapy was comparable to that for patients who required only one 
course of induction therapy (45% +/- 29% vs 50% +/- 25%). The toxicity of 
post-induction therapy was tolerable and no patients died during complete 
remission.

DOI: 10.1016/0145-2126(92)90005-r
PMID: 1635375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1992 Jun;70(3):289-96. doi: 
10.1111/j.1755-3768.1992.tb08566.x.

Conjunctival malignant melanoma in Sweden 1969-91.

Seregard S(1), Kock E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Ophthalmic Pathology and Oncology, S:t Erik's Eye Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden.

Clinical information, follow-up and histopathological parameters of the primary 
lesions were assessed for all (45) individuals with conjunctival malignant 
melanomas in Sweden presenting during a 22.5 year period (1969 to mid 1991). The 
annual incidence of conjunctival malignant melanoma in Sweden was 0.0240 per 
100,000. On average, two new cases were diagnosed each year (population 8.6 
million in 1991). Sixty-two per cent of the lesions recurred, but re-growth in 
itself was not correlated to reduced survival. The actuarial 10-year survival 
proportion using life-table analysis was 70%. A significantly reduced survival 
due to tumour-related death was noted in patients with tumours with high mitotic 
indices, many epithelioid cells and in lesions exceeding 10 mm in diameter. 
Other factors that may influence survival are presented in the context of 
previous reports. The present policy in Sweden for treating patients with 
malignant melanoma of the conjunctiva is outlined and discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.1992.tb08566.x
PMID: 1636385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Am Heart J. 1992 Aug;124(2):455-67. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90613-z.

Electrocardiography of myocarditis revisited: clinical and prognostic 
significance of electrocardiographic changes.

Morgera T(1), Di Lenarda A, Dreas L, Pinamonti B, Humar F, Bussani R, Silvestri 
F, Chersevani D, Camerini F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Ospedale Maggiore, Trieste, Italy.

To clarify the clinical and prognostic value of the ECG, an ECG review was 
undertaken in 45 consecutive patients with a histologic diagnosis of active 
myocarditis (29 men and boys and 16 women and girls; age, 36.8 +/- 15 years; 
idiopathic myocarditis, 39 cases). In patients (21) with symptoms of recent 
onset (less than or equal to 1 month) AV block and repolarization abnormalities 
were the prevailing ECG features at the time of admission, and a 
pseudoinfarction pattern (Q waves plus ST-segment elevation) frequently heralded 
a rapidly fatal course ("fulminant myocarditis"). Left atrial enlargement and 
atrial fibrillation, left ventricular hypertrophy and LBBB, which prevailed in 
