patients who had symptoms for longer periods, corresponded to the most severe 
degree of left ventricular dysfunction during the initial hemodynamic and 
echocardiographic evaluation. The overall mortality rate after 58 +/- 24 months 
from the time of diagnosis was 29%. Abnormal QRS complexes and LBBB were markers 
of poor survival, independently of initial indexes of left and right ventricular 
function, both of which indicate an increased propensity for sudden cardiac 
death.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90613-z
PMID: 1636589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. An Esp Pediatr. 1992 Jun;36 Suppl 48:108-11.

[Marginalization and health. Introduction].

[Article in Spanish]

Yunes J(1).

Author information:
(1)Programa Materno Infantil, Organización Panamericana de la Salud, O.M.S. 
Washington, D.C.

PIP: The relationship between marginalization and health is clear. In Mexico, 
for example, life expectancy is 53 years for the poorest population sectors and 
20 years more for the wealthiest. Infant mortality in poor Colombian families is 
twice that of wealthier families, and one-third of developing countries the 
rural population is only half as likely as the urban to have access to health 
services. Women in the Southern hemisphere are 12 times likelier than those in 
the Northern to die of maternal causes. The most important step in arriving at a 
solution to the inequity may be to analyze in depth the relationship between 
marginality and health. Marginality may be defined as the lack of participation 
of individuals or groups in certain key phases of societal life, such as 
production, consumption, or political decision making. Marginality came to be 
viewed as a social problem only with recognition of the rights of all 
individuals to participate in available social goods. Marginality is always 
relative, and marginal groups exist because central groups determine the 
criteria for inclusion in the marginal and central groups. Marginality thus 
always refers to a concrete society at a specific historical moment. Marginal 
groups may be of various types. At present, marginal groups include women, rural 
populations, people with AIDS or mental illness or certain other health 
conditions, refugees, ethnic or religious groups, homosexuals, and the poor, who 
are the largest group of marginal persons in the world. Even in developed 
countries, 100-200 million persons live below the poverty line. Latin America is 
struggling to emerge from its marginal status in the world. The economic crisis 
of the 1980s increased poverty in the region, and 40% are not considered 
impoverished. Latin America is a clear example of the relationship between 
marginality and health. Its epidemiologic profile is intimately related to 
nutrition, availability of potable water, housing, and environmental sanitation. 
The concept of "epidemiologic heterogeneity" characterizes a pathological 
structure in which the poor suffer from illnesses transmitted in the air, 
contamination by human wastes, and malnutrition, and the wealthy suffer from 
disorders typical of the western industrialized countries. The poor also suffer 
from limited accessibility and poor quality of health care. In both Latin 
America and Europe, the groups most in need of adequate services have the least 
probability of receiving them. In most Latin American countries, the 
institutional configuration of health services reinforces the inequities and 
constitutes a mechanism of marginalization. The solution to the problem of 
marginalization i health and access to services will require political action, 
which in turn will need to be specifically adapted to the circumstances of each 
marginal group.

PMID: 1636942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Anthropol Anz. 1992 Apr;50(1-2):13-26.

[The early bronze age graveyards of Franzhausen I, lower Austria. 2. Demographic 
analysis].

[Article in German]

Berner M(1).

Author information:
(1)Anthropologische Abteilung, Naturhistorischen Museums, Wien.

In a recent study of 714 graves of the Early Bronze Age cemetery, Franzhausen I, 
658 individuals were demographically analysed. The masculinity rate and the 
mortality rate in the age groups were of similar order compared with estimates 
derived from other series of this period. On the base of a stationary population 
model, life tables were calculated showing life expectancy at birth to be 25.8 
years and at the age of 20, 17.7 years. Also computed were: the crude death rate 
(Z = 38.8); and the population size (P = 31 or 65). The lack of infants were 
estimated by regressions (5q0 = 58%) and the results are discussed.

PMID: 1637144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. BMJ. 1992 Jan 18;304(6820):165-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.304.6820.165.

Income distribution and life expectancy.

Wilkinson RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Trafford Centre for Medical Research, University of Sussex, Brighton.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1992 Mar 14;304(6828):715.
    BMJ. 1992 Mar 14;304(6828):715-6.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.304.6820.165
PMCID: PMC1881178
PMID: 1637372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Circulation. 1992 Aug;86(2):446-57. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.86.2.446.

Effect of completeness of revascularization on long-term outcome of patients 
with three-vessel disease undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery. A report 
from the Coronary Artery Surgery Study (CASS) Registry.

Bell MR(1), Gersh BJ, Schaff HV, Holmes DR Jr, Fisher LD, Alderman EL, Myers WO, 
Parsons LS, Reeder GS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, MN 55905.

BACKGROUND: Complete revascularization after coronary artery bypass surgery is a 
logical goal and improves symptomatic outcome and survival. However, the impact 
of complete revascularization in patients with three-vessel coronary disease 
with varying severities of angina and left ventricular dysfunction has not been 
clearly defined.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The study was performed as a retrospective analysis of 
3,372 nonrandomized surgical patients from the Coronary Artery Surgery Study 
(CASS) Registry who had three-vessel coronary disease. Group 1 (894 patients) 
had class I or II angina (Canadian Cardiovascular Society criteria) and group 2 
(2,478 patients) had class III or IV angina. In group 1, adjusted cumulative 
4-year survivals according to the number of vessels bypassed were 85% (one 
vessel), 94% (two vessels), 96% (three vessels), and 96% (more than three 
vessels) (log rank, p = 0.022). Adjusted event-free survival (death, myocardial 
infarction, definite angina, or reoperation) was not influenced by the number of 
vessels bypassed, nor was the anginal status among patients remaining alive 
after 5 years. In group 2, adjusted cumulative 5-year survivals were 78% (one 
vessel), 85% (two vessels), 90% (three vessels), and 87% (more than three 
vessels) (log rank, p = 0.074). Adjusted event-free survivals after 6 years were 
23% (one vessel), 23% (two vessels), 29% (three vessels), and 31% (more than 
three vessels) (p = 0.025); at 5 years, those with more complete 
revascularization were more likely to be asymptomatic or free of severe angina. 
Among group 2 patients with ejection fractions less than 0.35, 6-year survival 
was 69% for those with grafts to three or more vessels versus 45% for those with 
grafts to two vessels (p = 0.04). Placing grafts to three or more vessels was 
independently associated with improved survival and event-free survival in group 
2 but not group 1 patients. The case-fatality rates among 529 patients 
experiencing a myocardial infarction during follow-up was significantly higher 
for patients with less complete revascularization.
CONCLUSIONS: Complete revascularization (grafts to three or more vessels) in 
patients with three-vessel coronary disease appears to most benefit those with 
severe angina and left ventricular dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.86.2.446
PMID: 1638714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Dan Med Bull. 1992 Jun;39(3):201.

Being old. A subjective description of becoming and being old.

Møller E.

Every individual is unique. The history and the life of a person is unique. This 
is a description by an old general practitioner of the experience of becoming 
and being old.

PMID: 1638873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Fortschr Kiefer Gesichtschir. 1992;37:108-10.

[4th German-Austrian-Swiss Study Group therapy study. Prospective, randomized, 
clinical study of squamous cell cancer of the mouth: "Radical neck dissection 
versus conservative neck dissection"].

[Article in German]

Bier J(1), Howaldt HP, Pitz H.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Mund-Kiefer-Gesichtschirurgie, Universitätsklinikums 
Rudolf-Virchow, Berlin.

PMID: 1639292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Fortschr Kiefer Gesichtschir. 1992;37:21-2.

[Has preoperative irradiation of mouth cancer produced advantageous results?].

[Article in German]

Gundlach KK(1), Schmelzle R, Hübener KH.

Author information:
(1)Mund-Kiefer-Gesichtschirurgie, Universitäts-Krankenhaus Hamburg-Eppendorf.

PMID: 1639300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Fortschr Kiefer Gesichtschir. 1992;37:59-61.

[Survival of patients with mouth cancer in relation to age and concomitant 
diseases].

[Article in German]

Ordung R(1), Reuther J, Weber W, Michel C.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Mund-, Kiefer-, Gesichtschirurgie, Universität 
Würzburg.

PMID: 1639316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Neurosurgery. 1992 Jul;31(1):2-12. doi: 10.1227/00006123-199207000-00002.

Factors affecting operative and excess long-term mortality in 935 patients with 
intracranial meningioma.

Kallio M(1), Sankila R, Hakulinen T, Jääskeläinen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Helsinki, Finland.

Between 1953 and 1980, a total of 935 patients underwent surgery for 
intracranial meningioma in the Department of Neurosurgery of the Helsinki 
University Hospital. The patients were followed up until death or the end of the 
year 1987. The cumulative observed survival rate was 91% at 3 months, 89% at 1 
year, and 63% at 15 years. The relative survival rate, that is, the ratio of the 
the observed and the expected rates, was 91% at 3 months, 89% at 1 year, and 78% 
at 15 years. Significant risk factors for operative mortality (7%) for the 652 
patients operated on from 1966 to 1980 were poor preoperative clinical 
condition, absence of epilepsy, old age, incomplete tumor removal, pulmonary 
embolism, and an intracranial hematoma requiring evacuation. For those 828 
patients who survived the first postoperative year, the factors predicting an 
excess risk of death for up to 15 years were incomplete tumor removal, poor pre- 
and postoperative clinical condition, anaplasia of the tumor, and hyperostosis. 
Patients whose tumors were not completely removed had a 4.2-fold relative excess 
risk of death as compared with patients whose tumors were completely removed, 
and patients who had malignant tumors had a 4.6-fold risk as compared with those 
who had benign tumors.

DOI: 10.1227/00006123-199207000-00002
PMID: 1641106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Public Health Rep. 1992 Jul-Aug;107(4):457-61.

Life expectancy by employment status, income, and education in the National 
Longitudinal Mortality Study.

Rogot E(1), Sorlie PD, Johnson NJ.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Biometry Program, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.

Based on data from the National Longitudinal Mortality Study for 1979-85, life 
expectancies are estimated for white men and white women by education, by family 
income, and by employment status. Life expectancy varies directly with amount of 
schooling and with family income. Differences in life expectancy at age 25 
between the highest and the lowest levels of education completed were about 6 
years for white men and about 5 years for white women. For family income, 
differences between the highest and the lowest income groups were about 10 years 
for white men and 4.3 years for white women. The largest differences in life 
expectancy were between employment categories. At age 25, white men in the labor 
force lived on average about 12 more years than those not in the labor force, 
and white women lived on average about 9 more years. For those who were unable 
to work compared with those in the labor force, the difference for white men was 
about 20 years; for white women, 29 years. Results in this study showed much the 
same differentials in life expectancy for education as the earlier 
Kitagawa-Hauser study.

PMCID: PMC1403677
PMID: 1641443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Sci Total Environ. 1992 Jun 9;120(1-2):117-25. doi: 
10.1016/0048-9697(92)90223-f.

The microdose problem and the most commonly used metals.

Foa V(1), Ferioli A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Occupational Health, University of Bari, Italy.

On the basis of recent research a relationship may exist between microexposure 
to metals and certain diseases (e.g. neurological and cardiovascular diseases) 
which occur in the later stages of life. This fact must be kept firmly in mind 
in view of the implications for the quality of health, considering the increase 
in average life expectancy. Moreover, it will be necessary to re-identify the 
critical organ for each metal, bearing in mind that the effects are altered in 
low level exposure conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/0048-9697(92)90223-f
PMID: 1641631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1992 May-Jun;130(3):223-9. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1040143.

[Comments on the use of the "life-table method" in orthopedics].

[Article in German]

Hassenpflug J(1), Hahne HJ, Hedderich J.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Universitätsklinik, Kiel.

In the description of long term results, e.g. of joint replacements, 
survivorship analysis is used increasingly in orthopaedic surgery. The 
survivorship analysis is more useful to describe the frequency of failure rather 
than global statements in percentage. The relative probability of failure for 
fixed intervals is drawn from the number of controlled patients and the 
frequency of failure. The complementary probabilities of success are linked in 
their temporal sequence thus representing the probability of survival at a fixed 
endpoint. Necessary condition for the use of this procedure is the exact 
definition of moment and manner of failure. It is described how to establish 
survivorship tables.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1040143
PMID: 1642039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 1992 Jun;85(6):415-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0447.1992.tb03203.x.

A community-based study of survival in dementia.

Heeren TJ(1), van Hemert AM, Rooymans HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Leiden University, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Acta Psychiatr Scand. 1992 Dec;86(6):502-3.

The objective of this study was to compare the mortality rate of demented and 
nondemented subjects in a single cohort. We followed up a cohort of subjects 
comprising all 1259 inhabitants of Leiden aged 85 years and over, evaluated 
earlier for the presence of dementia, and including institutionalized subjects. 
The main outcome measure was the mortality rate ratio of the demented and 
nondemented groups adjusted for age and sex. The mortality rate ratio of the 
demented vs the nondemented group was 1.9 (95% confidence interval: 1.7-2.2). No 
difference in mortality rate was found between those with mild vs moderate to 
severe dementia. The mortality rate in dementia patients is higher than in 
nondemented subjects.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0447.1992.tb03203.x
PMID: 1642121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Am Surg. 1992 Aug;58(8):491-5.

Preoperative spirometry predicts perioperative pulmonary complications after 
major vascular surgery.

Kispert JF(1), Kazmers A, Roitman L.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Service, University of Kentucky, Lexington.

This study determined utility of preoperative spirometry for prediction of 
postoperative pulmonary complications (PPC) defined as pneumonia, ventilator 
dependence greater than 48 hours, and adult respiratory distress syndrome in 147 
patients undergoing vascular surgery from June 1988 through March 1990 [39 
aortic aneurysm repairs, 21 carotid procedures, and 87 operations for occlusive 
disease including aorto-ileofemoral, infra-inguinal, and visceral]. The 
incidence of PPC was 12.9 per cent, while cardiac complications (myocardial 
infarction, congestive heart failure, and ventricular arrhythmias) were present 
in 9.8 per cent. Prior or current smoking, which was present in 80 per cent, was 
not predictive of PPC. FEV1 was 2.2 +/- 0.7 L/s (mean +/- 1 SD). Abnormal FEV1 
(2.0 or less L/s) was present in 42 per cent (n = 62). For FEV1 of 2.0 or less, 
PPC rate was 22.5 per cent versus 5.8 per cent for FEV1 greater than 2.0 L/s (P 
less than 0.005, Fisher exact). The incidence of PPC was 30.7 per cent for 
aortic aneurysm repair, 8.0 per cent for occlusive disease, and 4.7 per cent for 
carotid procedures. Abdominal aortic procedures (performed in 67 patients: 39 
for aortic aneurysm repair and 28 for aortoiliac occlusive disease) were 
associated with a PPC rate of 22.4 per cent versus 5.0 per cent for 
"nonabdominal" procedures (P less than 0.002, Fisher exact). Life table analysis 
after surgery demonstrated decreased survival for patients with PPC (P = 0.031, 
Mantel-Haensel) during follow-up (250 +/- 165 days). PPC are associated with 
abnormal FEV1 and abdominal vascular procedures. In conclusion, preoperative 
spirometry is useful for the prediction of PPC after vascular surgery.

PMID: 1642387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Aust N Z J Surg. 1992 Aug;62(8):611-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-2197.1992.tb07531.x.

Duplex scan surveillance of infra-inguinal bypass grafts: the case for 
selectivity.

Bourke BM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Gosford District Hospital, New South Wales, Australia.

Comment in
    Aust N Z J Surg. 1993 Jan;63(1):80-1.

A consecutive series of 270 non-reversed infra-inguinal saphenous vein bypass 
grafts performed by the same surgeon between January 1986 and January 1991 was 
reviewed. The series included 250 in situ and 20 translocated non-reversed 
grafts. The aims were to calculate the number of duplex scans that would have 
been required for surveillance, to determine the value of a non-selective 
prolonged scanning regimen and to identify subgroups requiring more (or less) 
intensive surveillance. Indications were for critical ischaemia in 194 patients, 
popliteal aneurysms in seven patients and incapacitating claudication in 69 
patients. Patients were reviewed at 1 month and then at approximate 6 month 
intervals for symptoms and with resting and post-exercise ankle pressures. 
Primary patency of grafts placed to a popliteal distal anastomosis for critical 
ischaemia was 85% (s.e.m. 9.1%) at 3 years while secondary patency was 94% 
(s.e.m. 8.1%) at 4 years. Primary patency of grafts placed to a tibial artery or 
isolated popliteal segment was 68% (s.e.m. 8.4%) at 2 years while secondary 
patency was 76% (s.e.m. 9.9%) at 2.5 years. The difference in secondary patency 
between popliteal and tibial grafts was highly significant (P = 0.003). Tibial 
grafts required significantly more secondary early intervention than popliteal 
grafts. If recommended protocols for serial duplex scan (DS) surveillance had 
been followed, a minimum of 960 scans would have been required. If the tibial 
bypass group only had been monitored, 702 of these scans would have been avoided 
with a maximum loss of one popliteal graft and no limbs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.1992.tb07531.x
PMID: 1642581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Dev Med Child Neurol. 1992 Aug;34(8):706-18. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.1992.tb11506.x.

Epilepsy and focal gyral anomalies detected by MRI: electroclinico-morphological 
correlations and follow-up.

Guerrini R(1), Dravet C, Raybaud C, Roger J, Bureau M, Battaglia A, Livet MO, 
Gambarelli D, Robain O.

Author information:
(1)INPE University, Pisa-IRCCS Stella Maris, Italy.

The authors studied 10 patients (mean age 15 years 6 months) with localized 
developmental gyral disorder detected by MRI. There were two groups of major 
malformations. Seven patients (group 1) had unilateral 'macrogyric-like' 
insulo-opercular changes, one of whom died early in life and had extensive 
microgyria. The six others had mental retardation and epilepsy, three of whom 
had focal neurological signs. Age at onset of epilepsy varied greatly. Clinical 
and EEG data suggested a wider cerebral involvement than recognized on MRI. The 
remaining three patients (group 2) had abnormal gyri of variable topography and 
extension, with bulging grey matter and ventricular deformity. One had mental 
retardation, another had neurological signs. All had intractable complex partial 
seizures and focal EEG anomalies correlating with the MRI lesion site, pointing 
to a well-defined epileptogenic zone. No clinical or EEG evidence of significant 
malformation in the remaining brain tissue was observed. Ablative surgery was 
beneficial for one patient; focal cortical dysplasia was the pathological 
substrate.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.1992.tb11506.x
PMID: 1644233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Genetics. 1992 Jun;131(2):471-8. doi: 10.1093/genetics/131.2.471.

Persistence of repeated sequences that evolve by replication slippage.

Tachida H(1), Iizuka M.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Genetics, Shizuoka-ken, Japan.

The evolution of short repeated sequences by replication slippage under the 
assumption of selective neutrality is modeled using a linear birth and death 
process. The equilibrium distribution, the distribution of the life expectancy 
of a repeated sequence when the process starts from two repeats, the age 
distribution of repeats, the probability of obtaining two genes with i and j 
copies which diverged t generations ago and the conditional variance of copy 
number given the repeat number is more than one are computed. The distributions 
of life expectancy and age are shown to have long tails. Also the statistic 
which estimates the conditional variance is shown to have a large coefficient of 
variation. Using these theoretical results, we develop an approximate test of 
our model and analyze persistent repeated sequences found in the primate 
beta-globin gene region and Oenothera chloroplast DNA which are polymorphic 
within species. We found one sequence in Oenothera chloroplast DNA which does 
not fit to our neutral model.

DOI: 10.1093/genetics/131.2.471
PMCID: PMC1205019
PMID: 1644281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Hum Biol. 1992 Aug;64(4):497-521.

Did food increase fertility? Evaluation of !Kung and Herero history.

Pennington R(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Demography and Ecology, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706.

Low fertility among nomadic !Kung foragers of the northern Kalahari Desert of 
Botswana has been hypothesized to be an adaptation to scarcity of food. However, 
a comparison of !Kung fertility before and after a transition to a more 
sedentary lifestyle indicates that more food did not increase fertility. An 
examination of the fertility of neighboring sedentary Bantu-speaking Herero 
pastoralists during the same period also indicates that low female reproductive 
rates in this region are not unique to the !Kung. Herero fertility has increased 
dramatically in recent decades, probably in response to the control of sexually 
transmitted diseases in northwestern Botswana. More food appears to have 
substantially increased !Kung reproductive success by reducing infant and child 
mortality rates to levels observed among the Herero. These findings suggest that 
low !Kung fertility and mortality reflect contact with the Herero, who began 
expanding in large numbers into !Kung territory in the 1950s. This study 
emphasizes the need for a more rigorous comparative perspective in anthropology 
to understand better the significance of findings from restricted populations, 
and I suggest that evolutionary ecology would benefit from shifting some of its 
current focus on fertility to mortality.

PMID: 1644420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Health Phys. 1992 Sep;63(3):259-72. doi: 10.1097/00004032-199209000-00001.

Definition and estimation of lifetime detriment from radiation exposures: 
principles and methods.

Thomas D(1), Darby S, Fagnani F, Hubert P, Vaeth M, Weiss K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles 90033-9987.

Although the lifetable methodology is a standard tool in epidemiology and risk 
assessment, there are a number of differences in the way it has been applied by 
various advisory committees that have attempted to estimate radiation risks. The 
most fundamental of these differences concerns the choice of parameter to be 
estimated: the "excess lifetime risk" is the difference in lifetime risks 
between exposed and unexposed populations; the "risk of exposure-induced death" 
is the lifetime risk of dying of a disease attributable to exposure. These two 
quantities are not the same, even at low doses. Although both quantities have 
some utility in risk assessment, the "risk of exposure-induced death" comes 
closer to capturing the total impact of exposure. Other differences between 
reported risk estimates include details of the calculations, the baseline rates 
and age distributions of the exposed population, the forms of the models for 
excess rates, handling of organ-specific doses, and the groupings of cancer 
sites. These issues are discussed theoretically and illustrated with comparisons 
of the BEIR V and UNSCEAR reports. Although the risk estimates from these two 
reports are similar for most cancer sites, it is shown that this happens to be 
the result of an approximate cancellation of a number of differences that could 
be quite large.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-199209000-00001
PMID: 1644562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Wkly Epidemiol Rec. 1991 Apr 5;66(14):95-6.

Potential years of life lost before age 65, 1988 and 1989.

[Article in English, French]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1645177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1991 Jun;17(3):251-7.

An evaluation of differences in prognosis, recurrence patterns and receptor 
status between invasive lobular and other invasive carcinomas of the breast.

du Toit RS(1), Locker AP, Ellis IO, Elston CW, Nicholson RI, Robertson JF, 
Blamey RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, City Hospital, Nottingham, UK.

One-hundred-and-seventy-one patients with invasive lobular carcinomas have been 
matched with 342 patients with non-lobular invasive carcinomas for lymph node 
stage, tumour differentiation and patient age on a one to two basis. The two 
groups were investigated for differences in prognostic factors, survival, 
disease-free interval, metastatic patterns, receptor status, response to 
endocrine therapy after distant metastases and bilateral cancer rates. Patients 
with lobular carcinomas survived significantly longer than patients with 
carcinomas of no specific type, particularly in survival from the time of 
diagnosis of distant metastases; lobular carcinomas more often responded to 
endocrine treatment for systemic disease. Lobular cancers had a significantly 
higher rate of local recurrence, particularly after treatment by excision and 
breast irradiation. No differences were found between the two groups with 
respect to regional or distant recurrence rates, distant organ involvement 
patterns, distant metastatic free intervals and receptor status. Bilateral 
cancer was more frequent in patients with lobular carcinoma.

PMID: 1646127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. J Bacteriol. 1991 Aug;173(15):4570-7. doi: 10.1128/jb.173.15.4570-4577.1991.

Downstream deletion analysis of the lac promoter.

Xiong XF(1), de la Cruz N, Reznikoff WS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, College of Agricultural and Life Science, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison 53706.

We have generated a series of deletions in the downstream region of the lac 
promoter. The promoter activities of these mutations were compared by measuring 
the levels of beta-galactosidase gene expression in vivo. Our results show that 
deletion of downstream lac promoter sequences changes the promoter strength only 
two- to threefold. The effects of these deletions on transcription initiation 
site location were studied through primer extension assay of in vivo mRNAs. We 
found that the transcription start sites are primarily chosen as an approximate 
distance from the -10 region of the lac promoter; however, starts are sometimes 
manifested at a GAATT(C) sequence, which is identical to the wild-type preferred 
start site. lac promoter P2 and a newly identified promoter, P3, are transcribed 
in vivo at low levels. Catabolite activator protein complexed with cyclic AMP 
represses P2 and P3 expression in vivo. The secondary catabolite activator 
protein binding site plays at most a modest role in catabolite repression in 
vivo.

DOI: 10.1128/jb.173.15.4570-4577.1991
PMCID: PMC208131
PMID: 1649816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1991;5(6):306-9; discussion 310. doi: 
10.1016/1010-7940(91)90040-q.

Multimodality treatment for small cell bronchial carcinoma. Preliminary results 
of a prospective, multicenter trial. The ISC-Lung Cancer Study Group.

Ulsperger E(1), Karrer K, Denck H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Hospital Lainz, Vienna, Austria.

Preliminary results of the 1984 ISC (International Society of Chemotherapy) lung 
cancer studies I and II as of June 1990 are based on 146 patients with small 
cell bronchial carcinoma from 23 departments of thoracic surgery. All patients 
received surgery for cure in cTNM stages I and II followed by randomization for 
two different types of chemotherapy. For disease-free patients after completion 
of postoperative chemotherapy, prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI) was 
administered. For the two different chemotherapeutic regimens, no statistically 
significant differences in survival (SVR) could be observed. Each patient was 
classified by the pTNM system. There were 63 patients with stage I, 44 patients 
with stage II and 38 patients with stage III disease. Four years after surgery, 
63 patients with N0 disease had a SVR of 50%, 51 patients with N1 disease 31%, 
and 32 patients with N2 disease, 23%. No prolongation of brain-metastasis-free 
time for 62 patients receiving PCI was shown. It is concluded that initial 
surgical resection for small cell lung cancer in stages I and II followed by 
intensive chemotherapy is an appropriate therapeutic approach.

DOI: 10.1016/1010-7940(91)90040-q
PMID: 1651741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. J Neurooncol. 1991 Jun;10(3):253-62. doi: 10.1007/BF00177538.

Stereological estimates of nuclear volume and other quantitative variables in 
supratentorial brain tumors. Practical technique and use in prognostic 
evaluation.

Sørensen FB(1), Braendgaard H, Chistiansen AO, Bojsen-Møller M, Reske-Nielsen E.

Author information:
(1)University Institute of Pathology, University of Aarhus, Denmark.

The use of morphometry and modern stereology in malignancy grading of brain 
tumors is only poorly investigated. The aim of this study was to present these 
quantitative methods. A retrospective feasibility study of 46 patients with 
supratentorial brain tumors was carried out to demonstrate the practical 
technique. The continuous variables were correlated with the subjective, 
qualitative WHO classification of brain tumors, and the prognostic value of the 
parameters was assessed. Well differentiated astrocytomas (n = 14) had smaller 
estimates of the volume-weighted mean nuclear volume and mean nuclear profile 
area, than those of anaplastic astrocytomas (n = 13) (2p = 3.1.10(-3) and 2p = 
4.8.10(-3), respectively). No differences were seen between the latter type of 
tumor and glioblastomas (n = 19). The nuclear index was of the same magnitude in 
all three tumor types, whereas the mitotic index was significantly increased in 
glioblastomas (2p = 0.01). Three-dimensional, shape-independent estimates of 
macroscopical tumor volume were not different in anaplastic astrocytomas and 
glioblastomas (2p = 0.39). Histological type of tumor and mitotic index were of 
significant prognostic value (2p = 8.2.10(-6) and 2p approximately 0.05, 
respectively). Age above the median and short duration of symptoms were 
significantly associated with short survival (2p = 0.01). Further investigations 
of larger series of patients are needed to define the clinical usefulness of 
these objective, reproducible, and quantitative techniques in the prognostic 
evaluation of primary brain tumors.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00177538
PMID: 1654405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Acta Otorhinolaryngol Ital. 1991 Jan-Feb;11(1):13-24.

[Treatment of laryngeal adenoid cystic carcinoma].

[Article in Italian]

Serafini I(1), Lucioni M, Bittesini L, Dei Tos AP, Della Libera D.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Otorinolaringoiatrica dell'Ospedale Civile di Vittorio Veneto.

Laryngeal localization (nearly always hypoglottic) of adenoid cystic carcinoma 
is quite rare (0.6% of all malignant laryngeal tumors). In most cases the local 
development of the neoplasm is slow, of an infiltrating and highly invasive 
nature (affecting the cartilage, thyroid gland, esophagus). On the other hand in 
some cases, particularly in the laryngeal-tracheal localization, the tumors take 
on an exophytic, sessile, polypoid aspect. Although the evolution is quite slow 
prognosis is poor due to the latent spreading of distant metastasis (average 
survival is 8 years). Prognosis is further worsened by delay in diagnosis due to 
the poor, aspecific initial symptoms. C.A.T. and N.M.R. have made a marked 
contribution to improved diagnostic definition, especially in terms of tumor 
extension, which is of great importance in therapeutic staging. Given the poor 
results obtained with radiotherapy and chemotherapy the only possible treatment 
is surgery which, in most cases, must be quite radical. Only in those forms 
which are still localized (with endoluminal exophytic development) is it 
possible to perform conservative surgery. Two paradigmatic cases are reported 
here indicating two different tumor extensions: in the first case total 
laryngectomy was performed and extended to the thyroid gland and the upper 
portion of the trachea; in the second, a partial glottic-subglottic laryngectomy 
was performed with functional restoration of laryngeal function. Conservative 
surgery is only possible if the hypoglottic neoformation is limited to the 
larynx, if it is mainly exophytic in nature and if histological examination 
reveals a low degree of malignancy (a high degree of cell differentiation). 
Since this type of carcinoma tends to give rise to latent distant metastases 
prognosis is, in all cases, poor no matter what surgical technique is employed 
for the primary tumor. Therefore it is imperative that a conservative 
laryngectomy be performed in all cases where it proves oncologically possible 
and particular attention should be paid to the quality of the patient's 
post-surgery life.

PMID: 1654724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Kisaengchunghak Chapchi. 1991 Mar;29(1):67-85. doi:
10.3347/kjp.1991.29.1.67.

Epidemio-entomological survey of Japanese encephalitis in Korea.

Baik DH(1), Joo CY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Parasitology, School of Medicine, Keimyung University, Taegu, 
Korea.

In order to determine the seasonal prevalence and population dynamics of Culex 
tritaeniorhynchus in relation to the epidemics of Japanese encephalitis, and 
ecology of these vector mosquito in Kyungpook Province, Korea, studies were 
conducted during the period of 7 years from 1984 to 1990. Cx. tritaeniorhynchus 
first collected in June between 4th and 28th, and trapped in large numbers 
during the period from mid-August to early September, showed a simple sharply 
pointed one-peaked curve. There was a gradual decrease from mid-September, with 
a very small number of them collected until early October in every year. The 
average number of Cx. tritaeniorhynchus rapidly decreased after 1985, and the 
number became particularly low in 1989. The highest population density, which 
was observed in August during the initial three years, was found to be delayed 
in the following years, accompanied by a decrease in the number of mosquitoes. 
In the trend of nocturnal activity of Cx. tritaeniorhynchus, with oncoming 
darkness they become very active, gradually decreasing in activity toward mid 
night, but slightly increasing toward dawn. The immature stages of Cx. 
tritaeniorhynchus were first found in rice fields contributing to peak adult 
densities in mid-July. The highest average densities of Cx. tritaeniorhynchus 
was 14,900 per m2 on mid-August 19th. The larval Cx. tritaeniorhynchus showed 
high resistance levels and resistance ratios against 5 organophosphorus 
compounds. In the adult horizontal life table characteristics of Kyungsan 
colonies of Cx. tritaeniorhynchus under insectary conditions, life expectancy 
was 28.3 days for males and 59.8 days for females. The net reproductive rate was 
7.8 and generation time was 25.6 days.

DOI: 10.3347/kjp.1991.29.1.67
PMID: 1655009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Oncogene. 1991 Sep;6(9):1499-506.

T antigen and p53 in pre- and post-crisis simian virus 40-transformed human cell 
lines.

Kuhar SG(1), Lehman JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Albany Medical College, New York 
12208.

Infection of normal human diploid fibroblasts (HF) with the DNA tumor virus 
simian virus 40 (SV) leads to an extension of lifespan and concomitant increase 
in the levels of the viral large tumor antigen (T antigen) and the cellular 
protein p53. The intracellular localization of T antigen and p53 was mostly 
nuclear in both SVpre-crisis and SVpost-crisis cells, however certain population 
doubling (PD) of the SVpre-crisis cells exhibited some cytoplasmic staining. The 
DNA content of SVpre-crisis cells shifted to tetraploidy and the SVpost-crisis 
cells were near-tetraploid. Quantitation of T antigen and p53 in single cells by 
flow cytometry demonstrated that for all antibodies tested the levels of T 
antigen were higher in the SVpre-crisis HF than in the SVpost-crisis. The 
quantity of p53 increased with increasing age of SVpre-crisis HF, and the levels 
of p53 were higher in the SVpost-crisis HF populations. Immunoprecipitation of 
p53, T antigen and complexes demonstrated that all p53 was bound to T antigen in 
SVpre-crisis HF and SVpost-crisis HF. The SVpre-crisis HF cells showed that 33% 
of all T antigen was bound to p53, while 67% was free, and the SVpost-crisis HF 
exhibited 50% free T antigen and 50% bound to p53. The half-life of p53 was 
similar in all SVpre-crisis HF; however, the half-life was 2-3 times greater in 
SVpost-crisis HF than in SVpre-crisis HF. These results suggest that the 
interaction of DNA (ploidy), T antigen, p53 and complexes may be involved in 
formation of a stable SV40-transformed human cell line.

PMID: 1656367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1991 Nov;144(5):1134-9. doi: 10.1164/ajrccm/144.5.1134.

Does the mediastinum of patients with non-small cell lung cancer require 
histologic staging? Future standards for computed tomography.

Malenka DJ(1), Colice GL, Beck JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Hanover, New 
Hampshire 03756.

We asked whether noninvasive staging of the mediastinum is a reasonable 
alternative to invasive staging in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. 
Decision analysis was used to compare strategies relying upon mediastinoscopy, 
bronchoscopy with transbronchial needle aspiration, and/or thoracotomy for 
histologic or cytologic confirmation of mediastinal stage to two strategies 
primarily relying upon computed tomography for assessing the mediastinum. Life 
expectancy was the outcome of interest. Extensive sensitivity analysis showed 
that, if the specificity of computed tomography for mediastinal disease was 
above 0.90, a strategy primarily relying upon computed tomography to stage the 
mediastinum would provide a life expectancy within 1 month of that provided by 
invasive testing. The difference in life expectancy between the invasive and 
noninvasive staging strategies decreased further as the prior probability of 
unresectable disease increased. Surprisingly, the sensitivity of computed 
tomography for mediastinal disease was of little importance in determining 
overall life expectancy. These results suggest that noninvasive imaging 
techniques might reliably replace invasive mediastinal staging if their 
specificity exceeds 0.90.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm/144.5.1134
PMID: 1659269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Ital J Gastroenterol. 1991 Sep-Oct;23(7):448-51.

Incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma in Italy: what could we learn from 
autoptic studies?

Tiribelli C(1), Croce LS, Polo S, Sodde M, Stanta G.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Patologia Medica e Università di Trieste, Italy.

From January 1, 1968 to December 31, 1984, 31,955 autopsies were performed at 
the Department of Pathology of the University of Trieste. Of these 16,521 were 
male and 15,434 female which covered about 70% of the population who died in the 
area over the recent years. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) associated with liver 
cirrhosis was encountered in 441 cases (380 males and 61 females, M:F ratio 
5.8:1) with an overall occurrence of 1.4% in the autoptic population. On the 
contrary and in the absence of chronic liver disease HCC was only observed in 
0.3% of the cases (45 males and 16 females, M:F ratio 2.7:1). Liver cirrhosis 
accounted for 10% of autopsies (2099 males and 1104 females, M:F ratio 1.8:1). A 
15% of cirrhosis was associated with HCC, indicating that major attention should 
be paid to cirrhotic patients, in particular males after the 5th decade of life. 
The year distribution of HCC and cirrhosis was fairly constant during the period 
of time considered. These data suggest that: i) HCC is common in Italy; ii) in 
the vast majority, HCC occurs in the presence of cirrhosis; and iii) HCC appears 
to be a rather late disease as it does not reduce the life expectancy of 
cirrhotic and control populations. Since reliable, nationwide epidemiological 
data are not available in Italy, it is not known whether these data represent a 
local realty or whether they may be extrapolated to the entire country. 
Cooperative and prospective studies appear appropriate in investigating possible 
geographical differences in HCC distribution and permit a better understanding 
and prevention of the disease.

PMID: 1660331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Curr Opin Oncol. 1991 Oct;3(5):872-80. doi:
10.1097/00001622-199110000-00011.

Clinical aspects of AIDS-related non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Northfelt DW(1), Kaplan LD.

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco.

The association of malignant lymphoma with the acquired immunodeficiency 
syndrome (AIDS) has been recognized since early in the human immunodeficiency 
virus epidemic. Important clues regarding the etiology of AIDS-related 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (AIDS-NHL) and estimates of the future incidence of 
AIDS-NHL have been derived from epidemiologic studies. Recent epidemiologic and 
cohort studies reviewed in this article have confirmed that the incidence of 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is high in patients with human immunodeficiency virus 
infection, and increase with the duration of severe immunodeficiency in patients 
receiving antiretroviral therapies. A recent retrospective analysis of clinical 
features associated with AIDS-NHL described two groups of patients possessing 
distinct prognostic features. Finally, a number of new observations relating to 
the molecular and pathogenic mechanism underlying the development of AIDS-NHL 
have recently been described. The role of Epstein-Barr virus in the pathogenesis 
of AIDS-NHL continues to be enigmatic, and there may be multiple mechanisms 
contributing to the development of lymphoma, even in an individual patient.

DOI: 10.1097/00001622-199110000-00011
PMID: 1661169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. J Hypertens. 1991 Dec;9(12):1105-17.

Chronic treatment with captopril, SQ29,852, hydralazine and a 33% fish meal diet 
in malignant stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Okamoto K(1), Ohta Y, Chikugo T, Shiokawa H, Morita N.

Author information:
(1)Department of First Pathology, Kinki University School of Medicine, Osaka, 
Japan.

Malignant stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (M-SHRSP) are a useful 
animal model for studying juvenile malignant hypertension. Using M-SHRSP males, 
the effects of SQ 29,852 [(S)-1-[6-amino-2-[[hydroxy (4-phenylbutyl) 
phosphinyl]oxy]-1-oxohexyl]-L-proline; 30-40 mg/kg per day], captopril (30-40 
mg/kg per day), hydralazine hydrochloride (10-15 mg/kg per day) and a 33% fish 
meal diet on the prevention and therapy of malignant hypertension were examined. 
Drugs and diet were given separately, beginning at weaning, maturity or 
adulthood. Observed effects included antihypertension, prolonged life span and 
prevention and/or reversal of angionecrosis. Each treatment resulted in an 
antihypertensive effect, but some adult rats seemed treatment-resistant. SQ 
29,852 was the most effective treatment for reducing blood pressure. The life 
span of animals in the treated groups was extended significantly beyond that of 
the controls. In particular, those rats treated with either captopril or SQ 
29,852 lived in excess of 500 days. This included not only those in which 
treatment resulted in a lowering of blood pressure, but also those whose severe 
hypertension was not so reduced. Angionecrosis was observed in the organs of 
many of the non-treated animals, including the brain, heart, kidneys and testes. 
Both hydralazine and the fish meal diet had a limited effect, if any, on the 
prevention or reversal of angionecrosis. In contrast, almost none of the rats 
given either captopril or SQ 29,852 showed cerebrovascular lesions or 
angionecrosis of the brain, heart and kidneys; angionecrosis in adult M-SHRSP 
kidneys disappeared within 10 or 18 days after the initiation of SQ 29,852 or 
captopril, respectively. This data seems to support a possible role for these 
two drugs not only in prevention, but also in repair, of angionecrosis 
independent of markedly high blood pressure in M-SHRSP. Based on our overall 
observations, SQ 29,852 was seen as the most effective of the treatments 
studied.

PMID: 1663966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Z Kardiol. 1991;80 Suppl 8:31-6.

[Role of the sympathetic nervous system in heart failure].

[Article in German]

Dietz R(1), Osterziel KJ.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Kardiologie, Medizinischen Universitätsklinik Heidelberg.

An increased activity of the sympathetic nervous system has been regarded as a 
sensible compensatory mechanism in heart failure. Further stimulation of this 
system by therapeutic interventions has proven useful in the situation of acute 
heart failure; however, the contractile reserve elicited by beta-stimulation is 
markedly reduced. By long-term stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system in 
the treatment of chronic heart failure mostly unfavorable effects are evoked, 
i.e.: 1) An increase in impedance for the failing heart by stimulation of 
peripheral alpha 1-adrenoreceptors. 2) An increase in myocardial oxygen 
consumption which causes further deterioration of the energy balance in the 
failing heart. 3) A fall in serum potassium concentration by stimulation of beta 
2-receptors combined with a reduction of the fibrillation threshold favor the 
genesis of malignant arrhythmias. 4) Stimulation of myocardial alpha 
1-adrenoreceptors may lead to a de-differentiation with a preferential synthesis 
of fetal myosins. Because of a reduced rate of calcium removal during diastole, 
increases in heart rate lead to an elevated myocardial stiffness. An increased 
sympathetic activity in patients with heart failure represents an independent 
marker of a reduced life expectancy. Interventions that either cause a reduction 
in sympathetic activity or which protect the heart from high catecholamine 
concentrations in heart failure are associated with an improvement of survival 
and quality of life.

PMID: 1665628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. J Assoc Physicians India. 1991 Aug;39(8):633-6.

Pulmonary infections in the immunocompromised host.

Soman RN(1).

Author information:
(1)Sir HN Hospital, Bombay.

PIP: The expression "immunocompromised host" refers to an individual who has one 
or more defects in the body's natural defense, which leads to severe, often 
life-threatening, infections. Alcoholism, diabetes mellitus, advanced age, the 
use of antacids, and viral infections have immune-modulating effects. The human 
