immunodeficiency virus, cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, and Non A, Non B 
hepatitis virus also contribute to immunosuppression. The lung has a special 
vulnerability to infection, and pneumonia accounts for more than 40% of deaths 
in the immunosuppressed population. Diagnostic methods include detection of 
microbial antigens by monoclonal antibodies, DNA sequences by the polymerase 
chain-reactions or DNA probes, and unique metabolites of pathogens by gas 
chromatography. Transtracheal aspiration was used to obtain uncontaminated 
respiratory secretions, but fiberoptic bronchoscopy with shielded brush and 
bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) is a better means of diagnosis because of a 90% 
sensitivity in diagnosing pneumocystis infection. Percutaneous aspiration and 
open lung biopsy are reserved for more complicated cases. Empiric treatment is 
justified in far advanced AIDS or relapsed myelogenous leukemia with limited 
life expectancy, or when there is uncontrollable bleeding diathesis or impaired 
pulmonary function as invasion diagnostic procedures will not be tolerated. The 
most important antiinfective measure is careful hand washing, while prophylactic 
antibiotics, selective decontamination, and antifungal, antiviral, and 
antiparasitic agents can be used. Active and passive immunization against 
specific pathogens, immunological reconstitution with granulocyte-macrophage 
colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and reducing the dosage of immunosuppression 
are the other strategies for prevention. In the last several decades there has 
been substantial progress in the management of chronic diseases which used to be 
fatal.

PMID: 1667654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Vestn Khir Im I I Grek. 1991 May;146(5):19-22.

[The life expectancy of patients radically treated for esophageal cancer at high 
altitude].

[Article in Russian]

Igisinov SI.

Postoperative lethality among patients who lived under high-altitude conditions 
proved to be higher than that among patients who lived at low altitudes before 
operations. Evidently, the terms of disadaptation at the preoperative period can 
influence the persons who lived under conditions of high-altitude hypoxia. It 
has been found that the cumulative 3-years survival rate of the esophageal 
cancer patients after the surgical treatment shows a two-fold rise as compared 
with that after the combined therapy, but the 5-years survival rate was almost 
the same.

PMID: 1668430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Vestn Khir Im I I Grek. 1991 Jun;146(6):90-2.

[The treatment results in esophageal cancer over 25 years].

[Article in Russian]

Igisinov SI.

PMID: 1668519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Vopr Onkol. 1991;37(11-12):1095-8.

[The results of cystectomy in bladder cancer].

[Article in Russian]

Matveeva BP, Gotsadze DT, Pirtskhalaishvili GG.

Long-term results were assessed in 173 bladder cancer patients subjected to 
cystectomy. Twenty-eight (16.2%) patients died postoperatively. End results were 
evaluated in 142 patients. The patients were followed up for 1-17 years. Within 
that period, 50 patients (35.2%) died of tumor progression whereas 20--from 
renal failure (14.1%). Overall three- and five-year survival was 54.8 +/- 5.1 
and 50.0 +/- 5.6%, respectively. Treatment results were studied versus stage, 
histologic pattern, type of treatment, tumor growth pattern and age. A 
significant correlation was established for stage and effectiveness of 
cystectomy only.

PMID: 1669204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Mech Ageing Dev. 1991 Feb;57(2):139-44. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(91)90030-4.

Is arteriosclerosis a life prolonging, adaptive process?

Kaunitz H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032.

Comment in
    Mech Ageing Dev. 1992;66(1):115-6.

Arteriosclerosis is believed by many to represent the aging process of arteries 
and to be responsible for the cause-specific deaths at any age in industrialized 
countries. However, the increasing rate of (A) associated with steadily 
increasing life expectancy invited studies of the average age at death (AAD) of 
conditions with prominent (A) (ischemic heart disease, myocardial infarction, 
cerebrovascular disease, "atherosclerosis"). Data were obtained from "Vital 
Statistics of the U.S.A.", (Vol. II, Mortality), Section 8, Tables VIII-V). 
Persons above the age of 40 were studied. The (A) groups were compared to the 
"normals" from whom (in addition to the groups with prominent arteriosclerosis,) 
accidents, suicides, homicides and other "external" causes of death were 
deducted. We also excluded malignancies because the AAD would have prejudiced 
the data in favor of our assumption. In general the (A) groups had significantly 
higher (AAD's) than the "normals". Exceptions were white males with ischemic 
heart disease whose (AAD) was lower than that of the "normals". This was also 
true for white males and females with myocardial infarction. Although (A) may 
exceed its normal function leading to lesions (e.g., myocardial infarction) in 
the majority of the cases it seems to be a life prolonging adaptive process 
which is in line with evolutionary expectations.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(91)90030-4
PMID: 1669480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Lancet. 1991 Jan 19;337(8734):180-1. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(91)90850-o.

Long-term survival in "corrected transposition".

Ikeda U, Kimura K, Suzuki O, Furuse M, Natsume T.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(91)90850-o
PMID: 1670823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Lancet. 1991 Jan 26;337(8735):209-10.

Intensive care for the elderly.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Lancet. 1991 Mar 30;337(8744):788.

PMID: 1670849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Lancet. 1991 Feb 2;337(8736):275.

Models of mortality.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1671119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Lancet. 1991 Feb 23;337(8739):460-2.

So long.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Lancet. 1991 Mar 16;337(8742):679.

PMID: 1671475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Ann Intern Med. 1991 May 1;114(9):798-802. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-114-9-798.

Cost effectiveness of low-dose zidovudine therapy for asymptomatic patients with 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.

Schulman KA(1), Lynn LA, Glick HA, Eisenberg JM.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1991 Oct 15;115(8):655-6.

We did a cost-effectiveness analysis of zidovudine therapy for asymptomatic 
patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. The incremental 
direct medical costs of zidovudine therapy were determined, and data on the 
effects of therapy were derived from the report of the Acquired Immunodeficiency 
Syndrome (AIDS) Clinical Trials Group Protocol 019. Zidovudine therapy has an 
annual incremental cost of $2653 per person. The cost per year of life saved 
ranges between $6553 and $70 526, depending on which epidemiologic model of 
potential long-term zidovudine effect is used (in sensitivity analyses, the cost 
per year of life saved ranges between $2649 and $250 546). Although expensive, 
zidovudine therapy has the potential to yield a substantial survival benefit to 
patients. The cost effectiveness of zidovudine therapy compares favorably with 
that of other common medical therapies.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-114-9-798
PMID: 1672806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr (1988). 1991;4(5):521-31.

Primary prophylaxis for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in HIV-infected people 
with CD4 counts below 200/mm3: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Freedberg KA(1), Tosteson AN, Cohen CJ, Cotton DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Boston City Hospital, Boston University School of 
Medicine, MA 02118.

We developed a decision-analytic model to assess the effectiveness and costs of 
dapsone, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, or aerosolized pentamidine as initial 
prophylaxis for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in human immunodeficiency 
virus-infected people without prior symptoms AIDS and with CD4 counts less than 
200/mm3. Each strategy increased life expectancy by about 18% compared with no 
prophylaxis; annual per-person costs were $440, $700, and $1,680 for dapsone, 
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and aerosolized pentamidine, respectively. These 
cost differences make a strategy beginning with dapsone most cost effective, 
with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $13,400 per life year saved 
compared with no prophylaxis. Aerosolized pentamidine was substantially less 
cost effective, but the incremental cost effectiveness ratios were highly 
dependent on estimates for quality of life, efficacy, toxicity, and compliance. 
We conclude that, based on currently available data, initial prophylaxis with 
either dapsone or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is most cost effective. For 
every 100,000 people treated, starting prophylaxis with 
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or dapsone--with crossover to aerosolized 
pentamidine if oral therapy is not tolerated--may save between $98 million and 
$124 million per year.

PMID: 1673157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. J Rheumatol. 1991 Feb;18(2):195-8.

Response to sulfasalazine in rheumatoid arthritis: life table analysis of a 
5-year followup.

Jones E(1), Jones JV, Woodbury JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Victoria General Hospital, 
Halifax, NS, Canada.

Eighty-six patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with sulfasalazine were 
followed for 5 years, or until treatment was discontinued. At the end of 5 
years, there was a 22% probability of successfully continuing treatment. Most 
adverse effects developed in the first 3 months of treatment. In 38 patients 
treatment was discontinued because of inefficacy. In 18 of these, a brief period 
of improvement was followed by clinical relapse. Twenty were regarded as having 
no useful response to sulfasalazine. The treatment continuation rate of 22% at 5 
years is in marked contrast to the pessimistic longterm evaluations of second 
line drugs that have recently been reported.

PMID: 1673722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Lancet. 1991 May 25;337(8752):1235-43.

MRC European Carotid Surgery Trial: interim results for symptomatic patients 
with severe (70-99%) or with mild (0-29%) carotid stenosis. European Carotid 
Surgery Trialists' Collaborative Group.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Lancet. 1991 May 25;337(8752):1255-6.
    Lancet. 1991 Jun 29;337(8757):1600-1.
    Lancet. 1994 Jul 2;344(8914):69.

The European Carotid Surgery Trial is a multicentre trial of carotid 
endarterectomy for patients who, after a carotid territory non-disabling 
ischaemic stroke, transient ischaemic attack, or retinal infarct, are found to 
have a stenotic lesion in the relevant (ipsilateral) carotid artery. Over the 
past 10 years 2518 patients have been randomised, and the mean follow-up is now 
almost 3 years among the 2200 thus far available for analysis of the incidence 
of strokes that lasted more than 7 days. For the patients with "moderate" 
(30-69%) stenosis on their prerandomisation angiogram the balance of surgical 
risk and eventual benefit remains uncertain, and full recruitment continues. For 
374 patients with only "mild" (0-29%) stenosis there was little 3-year risk of 
ipsilateral ischaemic stroke, even in the absence of surgery, so any 3-year 
benefits of surgery were small, and were outweighed by its early risks. For 778 
patients with "severe" (70-99%) stenosis, however, the risks of surgery were 
significantly outweighed by the later benefits: although 7.5% had a stroke (or 
died) within 30 days of surgery, during the next 3 years the risks of 
ipsilateral ischaemic stroke were (by life-table analysis) an extra 2.8% for 
surgery-allocated and 16.8% for control patients (a sixfold reduction, p less 
than 0.0001). There was also a small reduction in other strokes, and at 3 years 
the total risk of surgical death, surgical stroke, ipsilateral ischaemic stroke, 
or any other stroke was 12.3% for surgery and 21.9% for control (difference 9.6% 
SD 3.3, 2p less than 0.01). The main concern was to avoid disabling or fatal 
events, and, among severe stenosis patients, 3.7% had a disabling stroke (or 
died) within 30 days of surgery, an extra 1.1% surgery versus 8.4% control (p 
less than 0.0001) had a disabling or fatal ipsilateral ischaemic stroke by 3 
years, and the total 3-year risk of any disabling or fatal stroke (or surgical 
death) was 6.0% surgery versus 11.0% control (overall difference 5.0% SD 2.3, 2p 
less than 0.05); but, for disabling or fatal stroke the control risks seemed to 
diminish after the first year, so delay of surgery by just a few months after 
clinical presentation might make this overall difference non-significant.

PMID: 1674060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Orv Hetil. 1991 Apr 30;132(17):911-4, 917.

[Heart damage associated with cerebrovascular accidents].

[Article in Hungarian]

Illyés G(1), Herpai Z.

Author information:
(1)János Kórház, Kórbonctani Osztály, Budapest.

The authors present a clinico-pathological study on 21 patients who died in 
acute cerebrovascular diseases. The main myocardial lesions were focal 
hemorrhages, contraction band necroses and myocarditis. The ECG abnormalities 
and the pathogenesis of the cardiopathy are discussed on the basis of their 
investigations and dates of references. Their conclusions is that the heart 
damages are modulated by catecholamines. The occurrence of this cardiopathy 
should be prevented by beta-blockers, so the life-expectancy of patients and the 
number of heart donors could increase.

PMID: 1674128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Lancet. 1991 Jun 8;337(8754):1418. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(91)93105-i.

Lessons from Oregon.

Sutherland DC, Malcolm JA.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1991 Apr 13;337(8746):891-4.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(91)93105-i
PMID: 1674793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Int J Radiat Biol. 1991 May;59(5):1101-14. doi: 10.1080/09553009114551011.

Ultraviolet difference spectral studies in the gamma-radiolysis of DNA and model 
compounds. II. Oxygen and temperature dependence in adenine radiation chemistry.

Stumpo VM(1), Trumbore CN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Delaware, Newark 
19716.

Ultraviolet difference spectra between gamma-irradiated and unirradiated aqueous 
solutions of oxygenated adenine reveal spectral maxima at 224, 286 and 360 nm, 
and suggest the existence of multiple radiation products. The presence of 
long-wavelength absorbing products implies the extension of the conjugation of 
the adenine ring. The product absorbing at 360 nm appears only in the presence 
of oxygen, with its yield dependent on both oxygen concentration and 
temperature. The absorbance peak at 360 nm in the UV difference spectra appears 
to demonstrate simple first-order decay kinetics, with a half-life of 50 min at 
3 degrees C. At temperatures below 23 degrees C relative yields of the radiation 
products are approximately constant, suggesting a common mechanism. Higher 
temperatures apparently induce a mechanistic alteration. Since the temperature 
during and subsequent to irradiation, as well as the oxygen concentration of the 
solution, affects the absolute yields and distribution of the radiation 
products, great care must be exercised in controlling these variables.

DOI: 10.1080/09553009114551011
PMID: 1675232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Lancet. 1991 Jul 6;338(8758):53. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(91)90041-m.

Long survival in hypoplastic left heart syndrome.

Ruiz MJ, López-Herce J, Tamariz A, García-Teresa MA.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1991 Apr 20;337(8747):957-9.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(91)90041-m
PMID: 1676102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Lancet. 1991 Jul 6;338(8758):6-9.

Comparison of ribavirin and placebo in CDC group III human immunodeficiency 
virus infection. Spanish Ribavirin Trial Group.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Lancet. 1991 Aug 17;338(8764):450-1.

To assess the efficacy and safety of ribavirin in patients with human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection a multicentre, placebo-controlled, 
prospectively randomised trial was conducted in CDC group III HIV-infected 
individuals between February, 1988, and October, 1989. Mean treatment time was 
39 weeks (range 6-52); 152 individuals were enrolled, of whom 133 could be 
evaluated. The two treatment groups were similar at baseline and 66% of all 
subjects had intravenous drug abuse as the main risk factor for HIV infection. 
Ribavirin was given at a dose of 15 mg/kg daily by mouth (average daily dose 
1000 mg). 9 of 67 patients in the placebo group (13.4%) progressed to CDC Groups 
IVA, C1, or D vs 6 of 66 (9%) in the ribavirin group. Progressions to group IVC2 
were 7 (10.4%) and 9 (13.6%), respectively. These differences are not 
statistically significant. There were no clinically or statistically significant 
differences in CD4 cell counts, total lymphocytes, total white cells, or CD4/CD8 
ratios between the two groups during treatment, and no clinically important 
side-effects were noted.

PMID: 1676117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Am J Cardiol. 1991 Jul 1;68(1):71-4. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(91)90713-u.

Difference in mortality between patients treated with captopril or enalapril in 
the Xamoterol in Severe Heart Failure Study.

Pouleur H(1), Rousseau MF, Oakley C, Rydén L.

Author information:
(1)University of Louvain Medical School, Brussels, Belgium.

Comment in
    Am J Cardiol. 1991 Jul 1;68(1):106-8.

The double-blind, placebo-controlled, multinational trial Xamoterol in Severe 
Heart Failure randomized 290 patients treated with captopril and 217 treated 
with enalapril to xamoterol or placebo. At the end of the 100-day follow-up 
period, the cumulative probability of survival in patients with coronary artery 
disease or with dilated cardiomyopathy decreased in the captopril group (90.3%) 
when compared with the enalapril group (97.2%). The excess mortality in the 
captopril group could not be related to the indexes of the severity of heart 
failure, such as baseline exercise duration, functional class, cardiothoracic 
ratio, ejection fraction or dose of diuretic drugs. Furthermore, the excess in 
mortality was seen in all subsets of patients examined as well as across 
countries. Examination of the dosing regimen used, however, suggests that 
insufficient daily dosage of captopril or the inadequate schedule of 
administration, or both, might be responsible for different degrees of 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition between the enalapril and captopril 
groups and hence for the difference in mortality. It is important in future 
clinical trials to determine to what extent complete circadian 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition is necessary to provide the full 
benefit of this therapy in heart failure.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(91)90713-u
PMID: 1676239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1991 Jul;48(7):599-602. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1991.01810310017004.

Excess mortality among 3302 patients with 'pure' anxiety neurosis.

Allgulander C(1), Lavori PW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Huddinge (Sweden) University Hospital.

The survival probability and causes of death before the age of 70 years were 
analyzed among 3302 inpatients with "pure" anxiety neurosis in Stockholm County, 
Sweden, who were tracked in case registries by means of automated record linkage 
during a 14-year period. When all patients with other psychiatric diagnoses and 
substance abuse were excluded, and marital status controlled for, there was a 
significant excess of deaths due to verified and undetermined suicides, ie, 
nearly one third of all deaths. These unnatural deaths preempted any excess in 
natural causes before the age of 70 years, such as cardiovascular disease. 
Treatment policy with regard to the use of anxiolytic drugs was not found to 
influence mortality. We concluded that the risk of suicide in inpatients before 
the age of 70 years with anxiety disorders may be as high as that in persons 
with depression or other diagnoses who require inpatient care.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1991.01810310017004
PMID: 1676884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Lancet. 1991 Jul 20;338(8760):169-72. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(91)90150-n.

Becoming a doctor in China.

Chen ZM(1), Godfrey R.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trial Service Unit, Radcliffe Infirmary, University of Oxford, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1991 Aug 24;338(8765):515.
    Lancet. 1991 Sep 14;338(8768):699.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(91)90150-n
PMID: 1677076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Lancet. 1991 Aug 10;338(8763):327-31. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(91)90475-5.

Significance of ipsilateral breast tumour recurrence after lumpectomy.

Fisher B(1), Anderson S, Fisher ER, Redmond C, Wickerham DL, Wolmark N, Mamounas 
EP, Deutsch M, Margolese R.

Author information:
(1)National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project NSABP Headquarters, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15261.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1991 Nov 30;338(8779):1402.

Breast cancer treatment trials from the US National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and 
Bowel Project have established breast-conserving operations as a replacement for 
radical mastectomy (NSABP B-04), and have shown that in terms of survival free 
from distant disease there was no significant difference between lumpectomy, 
lumpectomy plus breast irradiation, and total mastectomy (NSABP B-06). 9-year 
follow-up data from B-06 are used here to address the issue of ipsilateral 
breast tumour recurrence (IBTR) and the development of distant disease, a 
question with important clinical and biological implications. A Cox regression 
model on fixed co-variates (ie, features such as tumour type or size present at 
surgery and not subsequently alterable) and on IBTR, which is time dependent and 
not fixed, revealed that the risk of distant disease was 3.41 times greater 
after adjustment for co-variates in patients in whom an IBTR developed. IBTR 
proved to be a powerful independent predictor of distant disease. However, it is 
a marker of risk for, not a cause of, distant metastasis. While mastectomy or 
breast irradiation following lumpectomy prevent expression of the marker they do 
not lower the risk of distant disease. These findings further justify the use of 
lumpectomy.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(91)90475-5
PMID: 1677695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Acta Derm Venereol. 1991;71(3):185-8.

Serum aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen in systemic sclerosis. A 
follow-up--investigations in subclasses and during therapy.

Heickendorff L(1), Parvez A, Bjerring P, Halkier-Sørensen L, Zachariae H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Aarhus Kommunehospital, Denmark.

Fifty-seven patients with systemic sclerosis were investigated for connective 
tissue turn-over related to type III collagen. Sera from 13 patients with 
diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis and 44 patients with limited cutaneous 
systemic sclerosis were analysed for aminoterminal propeptide of type III 
procollagen (PIIINP) by a radioimmunoassay based on human propeptide. Increased 
levels of PIIINP in serum correlated with skin involvement and the clinical 
course. All patients with diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis had levels above 
the normal range, and in limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis elevated PIIINP 
levels seemed to be correlated with rapid progression and with extension of 
lesions. Immunosuppressive drugs, cyclosporin A, and prednisone with or without 
cyclophosphamide, which were given to patients with rapid disease progression, 
significantly reduced PIIINP. This was also the case with penicillamine, but to 
a lesser degree. Our data support the suggestion that immunosuppressive agents 
are justified in rapidly progressive, life-threatening or disabling disease, 
when used with the necessary precautions. Serum PIIINP may be utilized as a 
marker of type III collagen fibrogenesis in systemic sclerosis and be of 
prognostic value. PIIINP may also be of use in the differential diagnosis 
between diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis and scleredema.

PMID: 1678217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. J Formos Med Assoc. 1991 Feb;90(2):122-6.

The clinical characteristics of acute myocardial infarction in aged patients.

Liau CS(1), Hahn LC, Tjung JJ, Chen MF, Lee CM, Chen WJ, Lee YT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, College of Medicine, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, R.O.C.

Age is one of the important prognostic factors for acute myocardial infarction. 
This study was performed to clarify the clinical characteristics and outcome of 
acute myocardial infarction in Chinese geriatric patients. The study subjects 
included 742 patients, divided by age into 2 groups: Group A greater than or 
equal to 65 years, 321 cases; and Group B less than 65 years, 421 cases. The 
following characteristics were compared between these 2 groups: sex composition; 
presence of chest pain, heart failure or shock at presentation; cardiac 
functional status; occurrence of various complications, and follow-up data. 
Males were less prominent in the older group: 229 patients (71.3%) in Group A, 
and 371 patients (88.1%) in Group B. At onset, the older patients presented with 
less chest pain (72% vs 86.5%) and more heart failure (35.2% vs 20.2%), but the 
occurrence of shock was similar (5.9% vs 4.5%, for Groups A and B, 
respectively). During hospitalization, more patients in Group A showed impaired 
cardiac function, as evidenced by a higher percentage of patients identified as 
in Killip class III or IV (35.4% vs 21.1%). Concerning complications, the older 
group showed a higher incidence of hypotension, low cardiac output, lung edema, 
frequent premature ventricular beats, atrial flutter and/or fibrillation, 
complete heart block and intraventricular conduction defects, but ventricular 
septal defects, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation did not 
show any difference in occurrence. Life table analysis showed that the survival 
rate was significantly lower for Group A during the follow-up period of 5 
years.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1678403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Acta Trop. 1991 Apr;49(1):1-25. doi: 10.1016/0001-706x(91)90026-g.

On the use of mathematical models of malaria transmission.

Koella JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Swiss Tropical Institute, Basel.

The key conclusions of several mathematical models of malaria are reviewed with 
emphasis on their relevance for control. The Ross-Macdonald model of malaria 
transmission has had major influence on malaria control. One of its main 
conclusions is that endemicity of malaria is most sensitive to changes in 
mosquito imago survival rate. Thus malaria can be controlled more efficiently 
with imagicides than with larvicides. An extension of this model shows that the 
amount of variability in transmission parameters strongly affects the outcome of 
control measures and that predictions of the outcome can be misleading. Models 
that describe the immune response and simulate vaccination programs suggest that 
one of the most important determinants of the outcome of a vaccine campaign is 
the duration of vaccine efficacy. Apparently malaria can be controlled only if 
the duration of efficacy is in the order of a human life-span. The models 
further predict that asexual stage vaccines are more efficient than 
transmission-blocking vaccines. Directions for further applications of 
mathematical models are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0001-706x(91)90026-g
PMID: 1678572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Cah Anesthesiol. 1991;39(2):121-5.

[The use of opioids by the regional route in the treatment of pain].

[Article in French]

Roquefeuil B(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre Anti-Douleur, Département d'Anesthésie-Réanimation B, Hôpital St-Eloi, 
Montpellier, France.

The decision to administer regional opioids either by an epidural or a 
subarachnoid route (intrathecal or intraventricular) necessitates a prior 
multiparametric analysis. When opiate therapy is definitively indicated regional 
opiate administration usually relays an insufficient or poorly tolerated oral 
route. The epidural route seems to be the best way for transient indications; 
the choice of the opioid drug then depends on the local or disseminated 
character of pain. For definitive opioid treatment, morphine is the only 
substance which can be used for long periods of time; the choice of the route 
depends on the life expectancy; epidural way combined with "open devices or half 
open devices" chiefly concerns patients with a poor life expectancy and a rather 
low daily morphine regime: a subarachnoid approach is best indicated in cases 
with good life expectancy, however, other criteria--intellectual, 
socioeconomical levels and quality of the "support system"--are important 
factors for the choice of the route and of the type of administration devices.

PMID: 1678674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Am J Med. 1991 Aug 8;91(2A):74S-83S.

Longer relapse-free period after sucralfate than after H2-blocker treatment of 
duodenal and gastric ulcers.

Domschke S(1), Domschke W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Münster, Germany.

In a prospective investigation of 2,045 patients with recurrent peptic ulcer 
disease, the relapse-free period after acute treatment with sucralfate was 
evaluated over 1 year. This remission period was compared retrospectively with 
that achieved by previous treatment with a histamine-H2-blocker in the same 
patients. Only patients who had a symptomatic relapse within 1 year after 
H2-blocker therapy were included. Patients with no relapses within 1 year after 
sucralfate were assumed to have a relapse on day 366, in order to compare the 
two periods. In 73% of the evaluable 2,045 patients, remission after sucralfate 
was longer than after H2-blocker, and 23% of these patients had no symptomatic 
relapse at all within 1 year after sucralfate. The average relapse-free period 
after sucralfate was 212 days, as compared with 132 days after H2-blockers 
(difference = 80 days; p less than 0.0001). Elderly and nonsmoking patients and 
those experiencing their first recurrence, or who had a duodenal ulcer, 
benefited especially from acute treatment with sucralfate. It can be concluded 
that peptic ulcer patients with a relapse after treatment with an H2-blocker are 
suitable candidates for sucralfate therapy. There is a high probability that the 
relapse-free period after sucralfate is longer than after H2-blocker treatment 
in both gastric and duodenal ulcer patients.

PMID: 1679297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. J Clin Psychiatry. 1991 Sep;52 Suppl:38-41.

A review of the safety profiles of benzodiazepine hypnotics.

Roth T(1), Roehrs TA.

Author information:
(1)Sleep Disorders and Research Center, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI 48202.

Although over 20 years of clinical experience with benzodiazepine hypnotics have 
demonstrated their relative safety, flurazepam, temazepam, triazolam, and 
quazepam do not have identical safety profiles. Dose-related central nervous 
system (CNS) depression such as daytime sedation and psychomotor impairment may 
be expected because they are an extension of the therapeutic action of these 
agents. Therefore, drug dose is an important factor in determining the expected 
frequency and severity of these side effects. Also, it is important for a 
clinician not to assume that these unwanted CNS effects relate only to the 
length of a drug's half-life. Half-life does appear to be an important 
determinant of the presence or absence of rebound insomnia.

PMID: 1680124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Lancet. 1991 Oct 12;338(8772):903-7. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(91)91771-l.

Child mortality after high-titre measles vaccines: prospective study in Senegal.

Garenne M(1), Leroy O, Beau JP, Sene I.

Author information:
(1)UR Population et Santé, ORSTOM, Dakar, Senegal.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1991 Oct 12;338(8772):920.
    Lancet. 1991 Dec 14;338(8781):1518-9.

The use of Edmonston-Zagreb high-titre (EZ-HT) vaccine at age 6 months has been 
recommended for countries in which measles before the age of 9 months is a 
substantial cause of death, but little is known about the long-term effects of 
high-titre live measles vaccines given early in life. In a randomised vaccine 
trial in a rural area of Senegal, children were randomly assigned at birth to 
three vaccine groups: EZ-HT at 5 months (n = 336); Schwarz high-titre (SW-HT) at 
5 months (n = 321); and placebo at 5 months followed by standard low-titre 
Schwarz vaccine at 10 months (standard: n = 358). All children were 
prospectively followed for 24-39 months in a well-established demographic 
surveillance system. Child mortality after immunisation was significantly higher 
in the two groups which received high-titre vaccines than in the group given the 
standard vaccine. The relative risk of death was 1.80 (95% confidence interval 
[CI] 1.18-2.74; p = 0.007) in the EZ-HT group and 1.51 (0.97-2.34; p = 0.07) in 
the SW-HT group compared with the standard group. The three vaccine groups were 
comparable as regards various social, family, and health characteristics, and 
there was no difference in mortality between children who received the standard 
vaccine and those who were eligible for the trial but did not take part for 
various reasons. The higher risk of death in the two high-titre vaccine groups 
remained significant in multivariate analyses. These findings suggest a need to 
reconsider the use of high-titre measles vaccines early in life in less 
developed countries.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(91)91771-l
PMID: 1681265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Lancet. 1991 Oct 12;338(8772):942. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(91)91804-4.

Safety of depot medroxyprogesterone acetate.

Bonhomme MG, Potts DM, Fortney JA, Allen MY.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1991 Oct 5;338(8771):833-8.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(91)91804-4
PMID: 1681281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1991;5(9):447-57. doi:
10.1016/1010-7940(91)90140-f.

The return of clinically evident ischemia after coronary artery bypass grafting.

Sergeant P(1), Lesaffre E, Flameng W, Suy R, Blackstone E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Gasthuisberg University Hospital, Leuven, 
Belgium.

Although survival after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is the most 
serious outcome information, the quality of life in living patients is largely 
determined by the freedom from ischemic events. The return of angina, acute 
myocardial infarct and sudden death were studied in a large (n = 5880) 
population of patients undergoing CABG between 1971 and 1987. The freedom from 
angina pectoris was 95%, 83% and 63% at 1, 5 and 10 years, respectively, after 
surgery. Early return of angina was related to both procedure incremental risk 
factors (incomplete revascularization and non-use of the internal mammary 
(thoracic) artery (IMA) as a conduit) and patient incremental risk factors 
(aggressiveness of the atherosclerotic process and severity of preCABG 
symptoms). Late angina return was related to patient risk factors including 
coexisting factors (hyperlipidemia and hypertension), preCABG symptom severity 
and gender (female). The freedom from an acute fatal or non-fatal postCABG 
myocardial infarct was 99%, 96% and 85% at 1, 5 and 10 years after surgery. The 
incremental risk factors for early infarction were related to incomplete 
revascularization, but late infarction was related to lipid levels, coexisting 
diseases (diabetes, positive family history) and non-use of IMA to LAD. The 
freedom from sudden death was 99.8%, 99% and 97% at 1, 5 and 10 years, 
respectively, after surgery. The incremental risk factors were dominated by the 
severity of the left ventricular dysfunction. The freedom from any ischemic 
event (any of the previous three) was 93%, 79% and 54% at 1, 5 and 10 years, 
respectively, after surgery. The incremental risk factors included all those 
cited above for the specific components. Patient-specific predictions validate 
the influences of these risk factors. They demonstrate that unlike the profound 
influence of the use of the IMA on survival, there is little benefit of the use 
of the IMA on return of ischemic events over and above the effect of 
revascularization per se. The study demonstrates that most patients will 
experience return of ischemic symptoms within a period of 15-20 years after 
surgery, but that this is most likely to be return of angina and rarely sudden 
death.

DOI: 10.1016/1010-7940(91)90140-f
PMID: 1681834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Therapie. 1991 Jul-Aug;46(4):293-303.

Recent advances in the clinical pharmacology of Parkinson's disease.

Montastruc JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Pharmacologie Médicale et Clinique, INSERM U317, Faculté de 
Médecine, Toulouse, France.

The introduction of levodopa in the treatment of Parkinson's disease had 
modified both the prognosis and the current concepts of the disease, Although 
levodopa remains the most potent drug for the treatment of Parkinson's disease, 
its long-term use is associated with fluctuations in motor performance, abnormal 
movements and psychotic hallucinations. These late side-effects remain difficult 
to treat and thus raise questions as to the benefits and risks of first-time 
treatment with levodopa. Levodopa mainly alleviates akinesia and rigidity and to 
a lesser extent, tremor. Levodopa increases life expectancy. This paper reviews 
some recent developments in the pharmacology of Parkinson's disease. Recent 
findings indicate that not only central dopamine but also several other central 
neurotransmitter and receptor changes are involved in the pathophysiology of 
Parkinson's disease. New data on autonomic dysfunction in Parkinson's disease 
are presented. New methods of investigation (clinical rating scales, 
pharmacological tests, imaging techniques, etc.) are reviewed. Finally, future 
strategies, e.g. the development of potent new symptomatic drugs (selective D2 
and D1 agonists, new formulations of apomorphine, COMT inhibitors, new routes of 
administration, etc.) and etiopathogenic agents (antioxidative and anti-free 
radical drugs, etc.) are discussed.

PMID: 1683024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. J Infect Dis. 1991 Dec;164(6):1119-27. doi: 10.1093/infdis/164.6.1119.

Prospective, double-blind, concurrent, placebo-controlled clinical trial of 
intravenous ribavirin therapy of hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome.

Huggins JW(1), Hsiang CM, Cosgriff TM, Guang MY, Smith JI, Wu ZO, LeDuc JW, 
Zheng ZM, Meegan JM, Wang QN, et al.

Author information:
(1)Division of Virology (Department of Antiviral Studies), US Army Medical 
Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, Fort Detrick, Frederick, Maryland 
21702-5011.

A prospective, randomized, double-blind, concurrent, placebo-controlled clinical 
trial of intravenous ribavirin (loading dose of 33 mg/kg, 16 mg/kg every 6 h for 
4 days, and 8 mg/kg every 8 h for 3 days) was conducted in 242 patients with 
serologically confirmed hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) in the 
People's Republic of China. Mortality was significantly reduced (sevenfold 
decrease in risk) among ribavirin-treated patients, when comparisons were 
adjusted for baseline risk estimators of mortality (P = .01; two-tailed). HFRS 
typically consists of five consecutive but frequently overlapping clinical 
phases. Only occurrence of oliguric phase and hemorrhage was associated with 
severity of clinical disease in the placebo group. Ribavirin therapy also 
resulted in a significant reduction in the risk of entering the oliguric phase 
and experiencing hemorrhage. The only ribavirin-related side effect was a 
well-recognized, fully reversible anemia after completion of therapy.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/164.6.1119
PMID: 1683355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Lancet. 1991 Dec 14;338(8781):1524-5.

Screening for cystic fibrosis.

[No authors listed]

Comment on
    Lancet. 1991 Nov 23;338(8778):1318-9.

PMID: 1683943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Bioconjug Chem. 1991 Jul-Aug;2(4):207-10. doi: 10.1021/bc00010a003.

Influence of endogenous Thy1.1 cells upon the efficacy of an anti-Thy1.1 
antibody-diphtheria toxin conjugate.

Yan B(1), Baker PD, Evans CH, Marsh JW.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Institute of Mental Health, 
Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

The chemical conjugation of antibodies to protein toxins results in 
cell-specific cytotoxic agents that can be defined in terms of in vitro potency 
and efficacy; however, it is the in vivo utilities that are largely being 
pursued in clinical trials. The nature of in vivo target cell depletion by toxin 
conjugates is largely unknown. The anti-murine Thy1.1 antibody-diphtheria toxin 
conjugate possesses high in vitro efficacy, and because mice are remarkably 
resistant to the native toxin, the conjugate possesses in vivo efficacy. When 
administered intravenously, the conjugate is shown to deplete peripheral blood 
Thy1.1+ target cells in a concentration-dependent fashion. When the log kill of 
Thy1.1+ tumor cells was analyzed by the life span extension method, it was 
determined, however, that the log kill is inversely proportional to the number 
of target cells. That is, the presence of an endogenous cell population, which 
is expressing the same surface antigen targeted by the antibody conjugate as on 
the pathological cell, may drastically lower the clinical efficacy of the 
immunotoxin. Thus, the greatest potential for antibody-toxin conjugates will be 
for low target cell burdens and for pathogenic cell populations expressing 
unique surface antigens. These are important considerations in the design of 
bioconjugates to insure high in vivo efficacy in elimination of intended target 
cells.

DOI: 10.1021/bc00010a003
PMID: 1685330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Endocrinol Jpn. 1991 Aug;38(4):429-33. doi: 10.1507/endocrj1954.38.429.

Thyrotropin receptor antibody activities significantly correlate with the 
outcome of radioiodine (131I) therapy for hyperthyroid Graves' disease.

Kaise K(1), Kaise N, Yoshida K, Fukazawa H, Mori K, Yamamoto M, Sakurada T, 
Saito S, Yoshinaga K.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Tohoku University School of Medicine, 
Sendai, Japan.

The outcome of 131I therapy for 109 patients with Graves' disease was analysed 
according to pretreatment laboratory data including thyrotropin receptor 
antibody (TRAb) activities. Forty-five percent of patients became euthyroid, and 
13% of patients became hypothyroid within one year after 131I therapy. Forty-two 
percent of patients remained hyperthyroid one year after 131I therapy. 
Pretreatment values for serum T4, T3, and the estimated weight of the thyroid 
were significantly higher in the hyperthyroid group. The mean for the TRAb index 
of the hyperthyroid group was significantly higher than that of the euthyroid 
group. Life table analysis revealed a significant effect of the TRAb index on 
the rate of hyperthyroidism after 3 months or later. These results appear to 
suggest that the TRAb index is one of the factors which influence the outcome of 
131I therapy for Graves' disease.

DOI: 10.1507/endocrj1954.38.429
PMID: 1687028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Am J Hematol. 1990 Feb;33(2):128-35. doi: 10.1002/ajh.2830330210.

The choice between splenectomy and medical treatment in patients with advanced 
agnogenic myeloid metaplasia.

Benbassat J(1), Gilon D, Penchas S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Hadassah University Hospital, Jerusalem, Israel.

The objective of the study was to explore the risks and benefits of splenectomy 
in advanced agnogenic myeloid metaplasia (AMM). We searched the literature 
(Medline, 1970-1987) for studies of postoperative survival, operative mortality 
and effects of splenectomy on painful splenomegaly, and portal hypertension or 
transfusion requirements in patients with AMM. We employed formal decision 
analysis to determine the relative value of medical and surgical treatment of 
advanced AMM. Results of data synthesis showed that splenectomy in AMM is 
associated with an operative mortality of 13.4% (95% confidence intervals (CI): 
9.5-17.2%), an early morbidity of 45.3% (CI: 39.6-51.1%), and a late morbidity 
of 16.3% (CI: 9.9-22.5%). Almost all patients with portal hypertension and 
painful splenomegaly, but only about half of those with thrombopenia and anemia 
were reported to have experienced relief in their symptoms or signs after 
splenectomy. We found no evidence that splenectomy affects survival in AMM. We 
concluded that splenectomy in advanced AMM is a palliative procedure that 
carries a substantial risk. It may be considered for symptomatic patients after 
they have been informed about the operative mortality, morbidity, and chances of 
palliation. Decisions about treatment of advanced AMM should be guided 
predominantly by the patient's preferences.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.2830330210
PMID: 1689100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. J Am Diet Assoc. 1990 Feb;90(2):260-3.

A risk-reduction nutrition course for adults.

Boeckner LS(1), Kohn H, Rockwell SK.

Author information:
(1)University of Nebraska Panhandle Research and Extension Center, Scottsbluff 
69361.

This article details the development, delivery, and evaluation of a six-session 
nutrition course entitled "Eating Today for a Healthier Tomorrow." The course 
addressed nutrition practices associated with the reduction of risk for coronary 
heart disease, cancer, osteoporosis, and obesity. Teaching teams, consisting of 
an extension agent and a registered dietitian, were used in course delivery. A 
wide variety of printed and audiovisual teaching aids helped participants learn 
through discussion, goal setting, games, and food tasting. Evaluation components 
of the course included demographic and pre- and post-course food frequency 
information as well as an overall evaluation by each participant. Post-course 
evaluation data were collected at a reunion session held 2 months after course 
completion. One hundred forty-two of 195 participants (73%) completed the course 
and the evaluation. Three-fourths of the participants had a family history of at 
least one of the life-style diseases addressed by the course. The food frequency 
results indicated that participants made some significant changes in their food 
practices. They decreased the number of times they selected high-fat cheese, 
regular red meats, foods from the saturated fatty acid group, desserts, 
sodium-rich products, and tea/coffee (p less than .05), and they increased 
selection of low-fat dairy products (p less than .05). Further study is 
recommended to determine whether individuals maintain the dietary changes and 
how those changes affect others in the person's immediate environment.

PMID: 1689328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Urologe A. 1990 Jan;29(1):1-4.

Urodynamic implications of benign prostatic hyperplasia.
