
Jensen KM(1), Andersen JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Hvidovre Hospital, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

By the age of 60, about 70% of men have developed benign prostatic hyperplasia 
(BPH), and 85%-95% of these have symptomatic dysfunction of the lower urinary 
tract, 10%-20% undergoing prostatectomy. Although transurethral resection of the 
prostate is generally considered to be a safe and effective surgical procedure, 
it has recently been shown that immediate surgery, as opposed to a wait-and-see 
strategy, leads to a 1-month reduction in life expectancy. In 10%-15% of the 
patients who undergo surgery, the postoperative result is unsatisfactory as 
symptoms persist. Between 4% and 40% of patients undergoing prostatectomy become 
impotent. A urodynamic study with a scope extending beyond that of the standard 
urological examination is therefore needed to help reduce the number of 
treatment failures. The value of preoperative cystometry is questionable, since 
preoperative documentation of detrusor instability has no bearing on the 
postoperative result. Measurement of urinary flow, in contrast, is of predictive 
value in BPH, patients in whom the maximum urinary flow before surgery is more 
than 15 ml/s having significantly worse results of surgery than those with a 
maximum urinary flow of less than 15 ml/s before surgery. Further data relevant 
to the prognosis are yielded by pressure-flow investigations, which allow a 
quantitative estimate of the degree of obstruction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

PMID: 1690484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Ann Vasc Surg. 1990 May;4(3):260-3. doi: 10.1007/BF02009454.

The role of extraanatomic exclusion bypass in the treatment of disseminated 
atheroembolism syndrome.

Kaufman JL(1), Saifi J, Chang BB, Shah DM, Leather RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Albany Medical College, New York.

We treated six patients with disseminated atheroembolism complicated by severe 
and unremitting pain from bilateral foot lesions. All patients had multiple and 
severe medical risk factors. One patient had a recent myocardial infarction, six 
patients had renal failure, and three were undergoing hemodialysis. Definitive 
aortic reconstruction was therefore precluded. After failing a course of medical 
therapy, each patient was treated with axillobifemoral bypass with 
exclusion-ligation of the external iliac arteries. Healing of foot wounds 
occurred in 11 of 12 limbs at risk, with one below-knee amputation required for 
progressive forefoot necrosis. In 12 patients with severe cardiopulmonary 
disease and limited life expectancy, exclusion-ligation bypass is an effective 
and safe palliative procedure for severe disseminated atheroembolism.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02009454
PMID: 1692730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Br J Urol. 1990 Apr;65(4):313-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410x.1990.tb14746.x.

Alternatives to prostatectomy.

McLoughlin J(1), Williams G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Royal Postgraduate Medical School, Hammersmith 
Hospital, London.

The danger of the treatments described are that patients may be treated without 
referral to a urologist. Investigations to determine whether genuine obstruction 
is the cause of their symptoms may not be performed and follow-up to exclude the 
side effects of their outflow obstruction or indeed their treatment may not be 
carried out. In addition, in cases where digital palpation does not alert the 
clinician to the possibility of prostatic malignancy, the loss of specimens for 
histological interpretation may lead to missed diagnoses. In summary, the 
alternatives to prostatectomy are still limited. Hormonal manipulation, 
hyperthermia and prostatic dilatation using the smaller balloons have no role at 
present in symptomatic patients. The role of larger balloons has still to be 
determined. Alpha blockade, while achieving relief in the short-term, still 
requires long-term objective follow-up studies in patients with urodynamically 
proven obstruction to assess patient compliance and the effects of treatment 
before it can be recommended as a long-term alternative. Similar information is 
also required before the efficacy of hyperthermia in patients with retention can 
be determined. For high risk patients with a limited life expectancy who present 
with retention of urine, prostatic stents may have a role, but once again 
long-term follow-up data are required before this treatment can be advocated in 
fitter or symptomatic patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410x.1990.tb14746.x
PMID: 1692752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Eur J Cancer. 1990 Apr;26(4):442-9. doi: 10.1016/0277-5379(90)90013-j.

The prognostic value of immunohistochemical estrogen receptor analysis in 
paraffin-embedded and frozen sections versus that of steroid-binding assays.

Andersen J(1), Thorpe SM, King WJ, Rose C, Christensen I, Rasmussen BB, Poulsen 
HS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Rigshospitalet, København O, Denmark.

Estrogen receptors (ER) were independently analyzed using dextran-coated 
charcoal assays (ER-DCC) and immunohistochemical assays in frozen (ER-ICA) and 
paraffin-embedded tissue (ER-PAR) from 130 human breast cancer specimens drawn 
from postmenopausal high-risk patients registered in the Danish Breast Cancer 
Cooperative Group. ER was best detected with the ER-DCC assay followed by the 
ER-ICA (relative sensitivity 87%) and the ER-PAR assays (relative sensitivity 
71%). The semiquantified staining features of the immunohistochemical assays 
were statistically significantly correlated with each other and with ER-DCC. 
Analysis of disease-free interval (DFI) and overall survival (OS) showed that 
all assays allowed statistically significant discrimination between a high risk 
and a low risk group, although the sensitivity differences tended to be 
reflected as small differences in clinical discriminatory power. The patient 
groups were then stratified according to adjuvant treatment [radiotherapy (RT) 
versus radiotherapy and tamoxifen (RT + TAM)]. The survival advantage was tied 
primarily to the receptor status itself in the steroid-binding assays, but was 
linked to both the receptor status and the adjuvant treatment in the 
immunohistochemical assays. Thus, the relative risks in terms of DFI and OS were 
of the same relative magnitude in the RT and RT + TAM groups for ER-DCC assays 
using a cut-off level of 10 fmol/mg cytosol protein, while there were large 
differences in the relative risks between RT and RT + TAM groups for ER-ICA and 
ER-PAR assays. We conclude that an ER assay in fresh tissue should be given 
first priority, but if there is no fresh tissue, an ER assay in 
paraffin-embedded tissue offers a reasonably good alternative as a 
prognosticator and an equivalent alternative as a predictor of the response to 
endocrine treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-5379(90)90013-j
PMID: 1694085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 1990;10(2):89-98. doi: 10.1016/1040-8428(90)90001-9.

Treatment of germ cell tumors in children: results of European trials for 
testicular and non-testicular primary sites.

Göbel U(1), Haas RJ, Calaminus G, Bamberg M, Bökkerink EB, Engert J, Gadner H, 
Jürgens H, Spaar HJ, Weissach L, et al.

Author information:
(1)Kinderklinik und Poliklinik, Universität Düsseldorf, Federal Republic of 
Germany.

DOI: 10.1016/1040-8428(90)90001-9
PMID: 1694438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1990 Aug;16(4):376-9.

Palliative endoscopic therapy for rectal cancer with neodymium:YAG laser.

von Ditfurth B(1), Buhl K, Friedl P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Heidelberg, FRG.

Neodymium: YAG laser has become an alternative to conventional palliative 
therapy for rectal cancer. Between January 1986 and December 1989, 31 patients 
were treated with endoscopic laser evaporation for rectal cancers with 
obstruction (n = 17), bleeding (n = 3) and non-obstructive luminal narrowing (n 
= 11). Contraindications against surgery were multiple metastases (n = 16), poor 
general health (n = 7), refusal by patient (n = 5) and extensive local invasion 
(n = 3). Laser treatment was tolerated well with an initially good response in 
29 patients. Palliation could be maintained in 20 patients with laser only; two 
patients had an unsatisfactory control of symptoms and in eight cases a 
diverting colostomy was eventually required, largely due to extramural tumor 
growth. Complications were limited to one stenotic scar. There were no 
laser-related deaths. Patients survived on average 10.8 (0.1-49) months, 2-year 
survival was 26%. We conclude that endoscopic neodymium: YAG laser therapy is an 
efficient and safe palliative method to control intraluminal, obstructing or 
bleeding rectal cancers.

PMID: 1696214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Rev Esp Fisiol. 1990 Mar;46(1):59-62.

[Hormone therapy in prostate cancer: clinical results].

[Article in Spanish]

Morote-Robles J(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicío de Urología, Hospital Vall d'Hebron, Barcelona, España.

Palliative hormonotherapy is the choice treatment for disseminated prostatic 
cancer. The response rate oscillates between 80% and 90% and the mean 
probability of life expectancy exceeds two years with a substantial improvement 
in life quality. Hormone dependence of prostate cancer depends as a last 
instance on the existence of cellular clones with different sensitivity. 
Finally, the serial monitoring with the specific prostatic antigen allows an 
objectivation of the response and the early detection of the hormone refractory 
status.

PMID: 1697693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Am J Clin Pathol. 1990 Sep;94(3):255-60. doi: 10.1093/ajcp/94.3.255.

Immunohistochemical evaluation of estrogen and progesterone receptor content in 
183 patients with endometrial carcinoma. Part II: Correlation between 
biochemical and immunohistochemical methods and survival.

Chambers JT(1), Carcangiu ML, Voynick IM, Schwartz PE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Yale University School of Medicine, 
New Haven, Connecticut 06510.

One hundred eighty-three patients with endometrial carcinoma had both 
immunohistochemical and biochemical analysis of estrogen receptor (ER) and 
progesterone receptor (PR) content of the tumor. Biochemical analysis was done 
on a homogenate of uterine curettings; immunohistochemical stainings were done 
on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections. The biochemical method was scored 
quantitatively and the immunohistochemical, in a semiquantitative way. There was 
a significant correlation between the immunohistochemical categories of the 
malignant component of the tumor and the biochemical levels of receptor content 
(P = 0.0001). The sensitivity of the immunohistochemical method for the ER 
content was 78.5% and the specificity was 58.2%. The sensitivity for the PR was 
52.5% and the specificity was 92.8%. Changing cut-off levels for positivity of 
the biochemical analysis changed the sensitivity and specificity. Survival was 
predicted by the immunohistochemical status of the ER (P = 0.001) and PR (P = 
0.01). Similarly, it was predicted by the biochemical receptor status. 
Multivariate analysis of the immunohistochemical receptor status and the 
biochemical receptor status showed that the immunohistochemically determined 
estrogen status was the most significant predictor of survival (P = 0.001). The 
immunohistochemical analysis of sex steroid receptor status on formalin-fixed, 
paraffin-embedded tissue is not only possible and practical, but also predicts 
survival.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcp/94.3.255
PMID: 1697730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1990;7(2):121-8. doi: 10.3109/08880019009033381.

Astrocytoma in childhood: survival and performance.

Mandigers CM(1), Lippens RJ, Hoogenhout J, Meijer E, von Wieringen PM, Theeuwes 
AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, St. Radboud University Hospital, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.

Seventy-nine children (35 female, 44 male) with proven or presumed astrocytoma 
were treated from 1967 to 1987. The tumors were supratentorial located in 24 
children, cerebellar in 21 children, and pontine in 34 children. If possible, a 
radical tumor resection (4%), a subtotal tumor resection (51%), or a biopsy (8%) 
was performed. The predominant pathological Kernohan grading for the 
supratentorial, cerebellar, and pontine located tumors were grades II, II, and 
IV respectively. Histology was unknown in 15 out of 34 pontine tumors and in 1 
out of 24 supratentorial tumors. Low-graded tumors (46%) were irradiated with a 
local field (1.8/45-50 Gy) and children with high-graded tumors (34%) received a 
total brain irradiation (1.8/40 Gy) followed by a boost irradiation (10 Gy) in 5 
or 6 fractions. Overall 1-, 5-, and 10-year survivals of children with 
supratentorial, cerebellar, and pontine located tumors were 96%-91%-46%, 
95%-95%-95%, and 35%-20%-20% respectively. For all tumor locations, 77% of 
deaths occurred within 2 years of treatment. The performance status of both 
children with supratentorial and cerebellar astrocytoma showed an increase 
during the first year of treatment and then stabilized on a rather high level 
(mean performance after 5 years of 60% and 70% respectively). Children with 
pontine tumors showed a steep decrease in performance status during the first 
year of treatment and then stabilized on a low level (mean performance after 5 
years of 15%). In our study, children with supratentorial astrocytoma showed 
improvement in both survival and performance status after irradiation following 
surgical removal of the tumor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.3109/08880019009033381
PMID: 1698433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Urol Clin North Am. 1990 Nov;17(4):779-85.

Selection of patients with stage B prostate cancer for radical prostatectomy.

Middleton RG(1), Larsen RH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Utah Center for the Health Sciences, 
Salt Lake City.

There are several areas of concern in dealing with clinical stage B disease. 
First, understaging is common. Second, recognition of extension into the seminal 
vesicles is important. Third, the patient's predicted life expectancy must be 
taken into account. Moreover, even clinically localized prostate cancer may have 
metastasized, and the need for surgical staging by lymph node dissection has 
been a significant factor in the authors' preference for radical retropubic 
rather than radical perineal prostatectomy. Neither of the two serum markers in 
clinical use is an absolute predictor of stage. Analysis of tumor ploidy may 
prove useful, and transrectal ultrasound warrants further study. In the elderly 
patient, the urologist certainly may elect to monitor the tumor without 
definitely deciding on operative versus conservative treatment.

PMID: 1699342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Issues Law Med. 1990 Fall;6(2):117-51.

Indirectly intended life-shortening analgesia: clarifying the principles.

Barry FR(1), Maher JE.

Author information:
(1)University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana.

PMID: 1699909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Radiol Clin North Am. 1990 Nov;28(6):1223-35.

Percutaneous biliary drainage for high obstruction.

Barth KH(1).

Author information:
(1)Georgetown University School of Medicine, Washington, DC.

PBD is the preferred route of palliative drainage for patients with high biliary 
obstruction. The frequency of bifurcational obstruction in this setting requires 
familiarity with drainages from both the right and the left transhepatic 
approach. The preferred right transhepatic approach is fluoroscopically guided; 
on the left, ultrasonography is the guidance of choice. Large caliber drainage 
catheters are required, and dilatation of the necessary transhepatic tracts is 
extremely painful unless adequate inhalation anesthesia or, preferably, epidural 
anesthesia, is provided. Long-term biliary drainage requires a choice between 
internal-external external drainage catheters and endoprostheses that is made by 
considering the patient's life expectancy and his or her adjustment to a stent 
extending to the outside. The feasibility of corrective procedures if an 
internal-external drainage catheter or an endoprosthesis becomes blocked needs 
to be considered before definitive placement. The interventional radiologist 
becomes intimately involved in the follow-up care of patients and frequently has 
to direct appropriate patient evaluation. Familiarity with antibiotic regimens 
is important.

PMID: 1700451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Am J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1990 Fall;12(3):367-74. doi: 
10.1097/00043426-199023000-00022.

Beta S-gene-cluster haplotypes in sickle cell anemia: clinical implications.

Powars DR(1), Chan L, Schroeder WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of California School of Medicine, Los 
Angeles.

Restriction endonuclease analysis was used to detect alpha-gene deletions and to 
determine the haplotypes in the DNA of the beta S-gene-cluster [Benin, Central 
African Republic (CAR), and Senegal] in 221 patients with sickle cell anemia 
(SS). The clinical expression of SS was modified by the beta S-gene-cluster 
polymorphisms and the alpha-gene status (alpha-thalassemia-2). The overall risk 
of soft tissue organ failure caused by the obliterative sickle vasculopathy 
(including stroke, renal failure, chronic lung disease with cor pulmonale, leg 
ulcers, and young adult death) was increased threefold in those with a CAR 
haplotype and was decreased in those with a Senegalese chromosome (p = 0.003). 
In the presence of a Senegalese haplotype, the patient's health is better, and 
with the CAR haplotype it is always worse. With the Benin, it is intermediate. 
Acute recurrent clinical events including hospitalized sickle cell crisis, bone 
infarction, and infection are decreased in frequency in those with a Senegalese 
haplotype. The risk of most acute events including acute chest syndrome is 
equivalent in those with Benin or CAR haplotypes. In the United States, 
alpha-thalassemia-2 is co-inherited randomly among the beta S-gene-cluster 
haplotypes. Acute events occurring during childhood are minimally effected by 
this co-inheritance. The risk of soft tissue organ failure is decreased. After 
the age of 20 years, painful episodes of the lumbar dorsal area are increased in 
patients who had alpha-thalassemia-2 in association with degenerative bone 
disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1097/00043426-199023000-00022
PMID: 1700639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Am J Surg Pathol. 1991 Jan;15(1):1-16.

Undifferentiated (embryonal) sarcoma of the liver. Clinical and pathologic study 
of 16 cases with emphasis on immunohistochemical features.

Lack EE(1), Schloo BL, Azumi N, Travis WD, Grier HE, Kozakewich HP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Georgetown University School of Medicine, 
Washington, D.C. 20007.

Undifferentiated (embryonal) sarcoma of the liver is a primitive mesenchymal 
neoplasm with predilection for individuals in the first 2 decades of life. In 
this study (10 boys, 6 girls), children in the age range of 6-10 years were most 
commonly affected (63%). Clinical features most frequently noted on presentation 
were abdominal pain or a palpable mass. In two cases there was cardiac 
involvement caused by invasion of the inferior vena cava with extension into the 
right atrium and ventricle; both children died of progressive dyspnea from tumor 
embolization to the lungs. One patient was a member of a kindred with the cancer 
family syndrome (Li-Fraumeni syndrome). There were 13 tumor-related deaths (86% 
mortality); on child was alive with recurrent tumor in the upper abdomen. 
Complete surgical resection was attempted in 10 of 15 children who underwent 
exploratory laparotomy; 2 were alive and well 1 and 5 years later, whereas 1 
patient had a recurrence in the upper abdomen 3 years after diagnosis. 
Ultrastructural study (five cases) and immunohistochemistry (11 cases) supported 
a mesenchymal origin for the tumor, but failed to identify any diagnostic 
immunophenotype or specific line of differentiation. Coexpression of vimentin 
and cytokeratin was seen in three cases. Prompt detection of this aggressive 
tumor with complete surgical resection is the key to a successful outcome, but 
this is very difficult to achieve. Recent experience suggests that aggressive 
adjuvant chemotherapy may improve survival in some cases.

PMID: 1702267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Sangre (Barc). 1990 Aug;35(4):245-9.

[Non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. Results of alternating chemotherapy versus sequential 
chemotherapy].

[Article in Spanish]

Avilés A(1), Díaz-Maqueo JC, Torras V, Rodríguez L, López Vancell D.

Author information:
(1)Departamentos de Hematología, Hospital de Oncología, Centro Médico Nacional, 
I.M.S.S., México.

An analysis is presented of the results attained in 115 cases of advanced 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (stages III and IV) with high or intermediate grade 
histology (with exception of lymphoblastic lymphoma) which had received no 
previous treatment. The patients were distributed at random into two groups, A 
and B. Patients in group A received the classical CHOP-Bleo regimen, and they 
were given six courses at three-week intervals. The patients of group B received 
alternate chemotherapy consisting of two CHOP-Bleo courses, two CMED 
(cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, etoposide, dexamethasone) courses, and two 
CHOP-Bleo courses. The complete remission rates were 68% for patients of group A 
and 70% for patients of group B (p = 0.81); the duration of complete remission 
was 36 and 45 months, respectively (p = 0.73). Nineteen cases in group A (34%) 
and 18 in group B (30%) relapsed. Disease-free survival at five years was 34% 
for group A and 40% for group B (p = 0.67). No differences were found in 
toxicity of chemotherapy between the two groups. It was concluded that the 
alternate chemotherapy regimen CHOP-Bleo/CMED shows similar effects than the 
classical CHOP-Bleo treatment, and provides a lesser amount of adriamycin, which 
makes it feasible to use this or other anthracycline drugs in case of relapse; 
the use of this regimen must be borne in mind when the patient is carrying a 
myocardiopathy.

PMID: 1703327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1990 Dec;13(12 Pt 2):1921-4. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.1990.tb06917.x.

Appraisal of pacing lead performance using transtelephonic follow-up data.

Kim JS(1), Sugalski JS.

Author information:
(1)Medtronic, Inc. Minneapolis, MN 55432.

Reliable performance statistics for implantable pacing leads are not readily 
available because of difficulties involved in data collection. An alternate 
source of data exists in the form of commercial monitoring service data. The 
example considered here involves transtelephonic follow-up data collected by 
CardioCare, a cardiac monitoring service. This presentation describes a 
procedure used to identify complications arising from pacing leads, and also 
presents a method for proper analysis of the data. Analyses comparing silicone 
leads and polyurethane leads were performed on leads manufactured by five major 
manufacturers in the United States. The results indicate that the performance of 
polyurethane unipolar leads is similar to that of the silicone unipolar leads. 
However, the polyurethane bipolar leads did not perform as well as the silicone 
bipolar leads.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.1990.tb06917.x
PMID: 1704568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 1990 Dec;4(6):1169-81.

Palliative radiotherapy.

Awan AM(1), Weichselbaum RR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation and Cellular Oncology, University of Chicago Medical 
Center, Illinois.

We have reviewed the role of radiation therapy in the palliative treatment of 
patients with non-small cell lung cancer. The use of radiation treatment results 
in effective palliation of chest symptoms such as dyspnea, cough, hemoptysis, 
and chest pain. In addition, the pain and suffering associated with skeletal and 
hepatic metastases are effectively alleviated by radiation therapy with minimal 
morbidity. Devastating neurologic complications can be avoided or alleviated in 
a great proportion of patients undergoing radiation therapy for cerebral 
metastases and spinal cord compression. Therefore, radiation therapy is a potent 
modality in relieving or reducing the suffering of patients with lung cancer. 
This is also a modality that has wide applicability; very few patients are not 
suitable candidates for that has wide applicability; very few patients are not 
suitable candidates for treatment regardless of their performance status. The 
aim of the treatments should always be prompt intervention using radiation 
therapy schedules that will minimize treatment time yet produce the desired 
results in a high proportion of patients. Protracted radiation schedules are not 
warranted in such patients except in special clinical situations. Palliation 
with radiation therapy is achieved quite promptly, with minimal side effects and 
a very small risk of any long-term consequences in patients who have a limited 
life expectancy.

PMID: 1704880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Sangre (Barc). 1990 Oct;35(5):341-4.

[Hodgkin's disease treated with chemotherapy at reduced dosage].

[Article in Spanish]

Avilés A(1), Díaz-Maqueo JC, Torras V, Guzman R.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Hematología, Hospital de Oncología, I.N.S.S., México, D.F.

Fifty-six patients with Hodgkin's disease in advanced stages (III-IV) were 
entered in a study aimed to compare standard doses (28 cases) with low doses (28 
cases) ABVD regimen. Both groups had similar clinico-pathological features. The 
group receiving standard doses chemotherapy achieved complete remission rate of 
89% versus 85% for the low-doses group. The number of relapses was, 
respectively, 8 and 9, and the duration of remission was 66 and 57 months, 
respectively. Presently, 24 patients have died, 11 of the standard doses group 
and 13 of the reduced doses group. Toxicity was notably higher in the group 
receiving standard dosage, where fatal myelosuppression was present in two 
instances. Those data appear to suggest that chemotherapy with reduced doses for 
Hodgkin's disease can attain similar response rate and survival than those 
achieved with standard treatment, with the advantages of a lower toxicity.

PMID: 1705365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Image J Nurs Sch. 1990 Winter;22(4):226-30. doi: 
10.1111/j.1547-5069.1990.tb00218.x.

The dilemma of withholding or withdrawing nutrition.

Wurzbach ME.

Recently, societal concerns have developed about the artificial prolongation of 
dying. Life extension is not always viewed as humanitarian. Artificial nutrition 
and hydration are seen frequently as necessary comfort measures and not merely 
life extenders. Now debate is rising about whether or not even these basic life 
support measures are not merely prolonging dying. In this paper, the issue of 
withholding or withdrawing nutrition and hydration from certain patients is 
discussed, including the competing ethical arguments, the nursing perspective 
and the implications of this dilemma for nursing, health care and society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1547-5069.1990.tb00218.x
PMID: 1705534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Gastroenterol Nurs. 1991 Winter;13(3):140-1.

Intraluminal radiation therapy per endoprosthesis: a case study.

Thomas LA.

Palliation of cholangeocarcinomas has been achieved by radiation delivered to 
the bile duct via endoprothesis. This case study supports and extends the works 
of others by describing the endoscopic techniques involved in the implantation 
of iridium seeds within a nasobiliary catheter. The case presented demonstrates 
endoscopic radiation treatment with no systemic radiation effects in a patient 
whose life extension was 19 months.

PMID: 1706204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1991 Feb;14(2 Pt 1):181-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.1991.tb05088.x.

Anxiety and depression in patients with life-threatening ventricular 
arrhythmias: impact of the implantable cardioverter-defibrillator.

Keren R(1), Aarons D, Veltri EP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Maryland, Baltimore.

In order to assess the psychological responses to the automatic implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillator (AICD), 18 patients with a history of 
life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias were requested to complete the 
Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and the Beck Depression Inventory. The 
patients were divided into three groups of six and matched for age, sex, 
underlying cardiac disease, ejection fraction, and NYHA Functional 
Classification. Group I had experienced conscious discharges from the AICD, 
group II had the AICD but without discharges, and group III without the AICD 
were treated with antiarrhythmic medications alone based on electrophysiological 
guided testing. Patients with the AICD were also requested to complete a 
questionnaire directed specifically at their experiences with the AICD. All of 
the 18 patients completed the study responses and results were analyzed by 
blinded review. There were no significant differences in anxiety and depression 
scores in the three groups studied, nor any significant differences in responses 
to the questionnaire in group I versus group II. One patient in group I reported 
experiencing adverse psychological responses to the AICD. Although there appears 
to be no significant differences in psychological responses as a result of the 
AICD implantation in patients with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, 
further study with larger patient groups is needed to identify and support 
patients who may develop adverse responses to the AICD.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.1991.tb05088.x
PMID: 1706503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1990;16 Suppl 7:S126-8.

Treating mild to moderate hypertension: cost-effectiveness and policy 
implications.

Kawachi I(1), Malcolm LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Wellington School of Medicine, New Zealand.

Results from major clinical trials reported during the 1980s have led to renewed 
debate about the costs and benefits of treating mild to moderate hypertension. 
There is general agreement that existing cost-effectiveness analyses of 
antihypertensive therapy are outdated, and in need of reappraisal. Based on the 
pooled results of clinical trials, the benefits of treating mild to moderate 
hypertension [diastolic blood pressure (DBP) of 90-114 mm Hg] were re-examined. 
Using actuarial methods and estimates of health state utilities, the benefits of 
treatment were expressed in "quality-adjusted life years" (QALYs). After 
lifelong treatment for hypertension, the gain in QALYs ranged from 1.8 to 11.5 
months in men and from 2.5 to 11.3 months in women. The cost-effectiveness 
ratios ranged from $30,200 per QALY gained (for 50-year-old men with DBP of 110 
mm Hg) to $547,700 per QALY gained (for 30-year-old women with DBP of 110 mm 
Hg), in 1988 New Zealand dollars, discounted at 5%. In several categories of 
patients, the analysis suggested a net negative impact on QALYs, i.e., the 
adverse effects of drug treatment outweighed the benefits. These results have 
policy implications for both resource allocation and clinical practice.

PMID: 1708013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Verh Dtsch Ges Pathol. 1990;74:144-8.

[Myelosclerosis in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). Retrospective analysis of 
232 patients with MDS].

[Article in German]

Maschek H(1), Kaloutsi V, Werner M, Bandecar K, Buhr T, Georgii A.

Author information:
(1)Pathologisches Institut, Medizinischen Hochschule Hannover.

In a retrospective study, 45 (19.4%) out of 232 patients with MDS revealed 
myelosclerosis (MS) in bone marrow biopsy (BMB). Histological classification 
according to FAB criteria showed the following distribution: RA 21 (47%), RARS 1 
(2%), RAEB 9 (20%), RAEB-T 3 (7%), and CMMol 11 (24%). Sclerosis occurred in all 
subtypes of MDS, but with a higher incidence in CMMol. Clinical data showed 
lower values of hemoglobin and lower platelet counts in MDS.MS. Life expectancy 
was reduced to 7.8 months, compared with 15.0 months in MDS without MS (p = 
0.0026). In RA, the survival times were 9.7 months in MDS.MS, compared to 27.9 
months in MDS without MS (p = 0.0035). 21 (47%) of the patients with MDS.MS 
experienced a transformation into ANLL. Myelosclerosis therefore seems to herald 
a bad prognosis.

PMID: 1708573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Med Decis Making. 1991 Jan-Mar;11(1):1-8. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9101100101.

Comparison of different treatment strategies for diffuse large-cell lymphomas: a 
decision analysis.

Djulbegovic B(1), Hollenberg J, Woodcock TM, Herzig R.

Author information:
(1)University of Louisville, Department of Medicine, KY 40292.

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1992 Jan-Mar;12(1):76-7.

There are more than 20 drug combinations in use for the treatment of diffuse 
large-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). New treatments have been developed 
without prior comparison in clinical trials. The authors devised a 
Markov-process model to compare the efficacy of a first-generation combination 
chemotherapy regimen (CHOP) with that of a third-generation regimen (MACOP-B) 
using currently available data. For a typical 57-year-old male patient, life 
expectancy with MACOP-B was 12.1 years, compared with 8.3 years with CHOP. The 
remission rate after initial treatment and the functional status after the first 
remission is achieved were the most important determinants of life expectancy. 
It was still possible for CHOP to become better strategy provided that the 
initial remission rate with MACOP-B were lower than 50% or that functional 
status after remission was achieved were less than 66%. The analysis suggests 
that the most effective therapeutic regimen for diffuse large-cell lymphoma must 
not only result in a high remission rate but also cause minimal late sequelae. 
These two parameters were incorporated into the nomogram, which can serve as a 
basis for comparison of the efficacy of any chemotherapeutic regimen in 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9101100101
PMID: 1709713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1991 Apr;14(4 Pt 1):517-21. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.1991.tb02823.x.

Long-term functional integrity of atrial leads.

Parsonnet V(1), Hesselson AB, Harari DC.

Author information:
(1)Pacemaker Center, Newark Beth Israel Medical Center, Newark, NJ 07112.

The effectiveness and reliability of atrial leads has been questioned. We 
studied retrospectively, all atrial leads implanted at our center (n = 494; 438 
Medtronic Model 6957J, 56 Medtronic Model 4512) over a 5-year period ending 
December 31, 1987, to determine the frequency of atrial lead failure (pacing, 
sensing, or both) and the median duration of proper pacing and sensing function 
for each lead model studied. Eighty-eight percent of the polyurethane atrial 
leads continued to function satisfactorily at 5 years, results somewhat better 
than those reported heretofore in the literature, as well as our own past 
results with a variety of different lead types. There were 29 failures of 
pacing, sensing, or both (6% of implants). The cumulative survival of the atrial 
leads at 5 years was 88%. Pacing and sensing survival were 91% +/- 2.4% and 88% 
+/- 2.9%, respectively. We conclude that the choice of pacing mode for a new 
pacemaker should be based solely on the clinical indication and not on the 
concern that atrial pacing and sensing will be unreliable.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.1991.tb02823.x
PMID: 1710056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Zentralbl Chir. 1991;116(7):447-52.

[Pancreatic ductal carcinoma. Intra- and postoperative complications in 
palliative and curative interventions].

[Article in German]

Volk H(1).

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische Universitätsklinik Würburg.

During 1982 and 1989 we treated 95 patients with ductal pancreatic carcinoma. Of 
these, 32.6% (31/95) had resection. The operation lethality was 3% (1/31), the 
clinical lethality 12% (4/31). The median length of survival was 6,8 months. 
Almost half of the potential curatively operated patients showed complications. 
Remarkable, that patients, operated in stages III and IV have been involved over 
proportionally often. Complications are the intra- and postoperative bleeding, 
the pancreatic fistulae, the intra-abdominal abscess, the sepsis and 
cardiopulmonary insufficiencies. 33 Patients underwent palliative operation, 
where the complication rate was significantly lower. Indeed, 5 patients who got 
a biliodigestive anastomosis, subsequently developed a pyloric or duodenal 
stenosis and had to be reoperated. The 30-day-lethality of the palliatively 
operated patients was 13% (4/33), the clinical lethality was 15% (5/33) and the 
median length of survival was 5,6 months. 24 patients underwent exploratory 
laparotomy and 7 patients were inoperable. Due to the higher complication rate 
in the curatively operated patients and only little higher life expectancy, an 
extensive surgical treatment of pancreatic carcinoma should only be considered 
effective in selected cases and in an early stage of carcinoma.

PMID: 1711747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Drugs. 1991;41 Suppl 1:37-47. doi: 10.2165/00003495-199100411-00008.

First experience with cilazapril in the treatment of sleep apnoea-related 
hypertension.

Mayer J(1), Peter JH.

Author information:
(1)Marburg University Medical Outpatient Department, Federal Republic of 
Germany.

Sleep-related breathing disorders are associated with considerably impaired 
vitality and reduced life expectancy. In this respect, a particularly important 
role is played by obstructive snoring and obstructive or mixed sleep apnoea. 
Because of the often underestimated prevalence of sleep-related breathing 
disorders and their association with hypertension in greater than 50% of 
patients, it is important to introduce antihypertensive drug therapy that does 
not exacerbate the effects and the degree of these disorders, and that above all 
produces an adequate lowering of blood pressure by night. In the present study 
in 12 patients, it has been shown that the new ACE inhibitor, cilazapril, 
achieves a good reduction in blood pressure over 24 hours and during all stages 
of sleep, without any negative influence on the ratio of REM: nonREM sleep. The 
apnoea index was reduced from 40 (range 12 to 84) to 27 (range 0 to 72) apnoeas 
per hour of sleep (p less than 0.01). It will be increasingly important to take 
into account the effects of antihypertensive therapy on other clinical 
parameters, especially the nocturnal blood pressure profile and its association 
with sleep-related breathing disorders.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199100411-00008
PMID: 1712271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. J Appl Physiol (1985). 1991 May;70(5):2331-3. doi:
10.1152/jappl.1991.70.5.2331.

Molecular and cell biology of cystic fibrosis.

Davis PB(1).

Author information:
(1)Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio 44106.

The questions emerged in better focus: we need to know, definitively, what CFTR 
is and what it does. We need to know how mutant CFTR expression leads to the 
relentless lung disease that takes the lives of the patients. We need to know 
how the different mutations in CFTR behave functionally. Much more information 
is needed on the pathways for ion transport in the airways in order for us to 
consider therapeutic alternatives. Better information on CFTR expression, 
particularly in the lung, would greatly facilitate consideration of 
pathophysiology as well as gene therapy. Many of these questions can be attacked 
by imaginative use of the tools already in hand. The need is urgent. The 
wondrous scientific advancements of the last five years and the additional money 
being spent on CF research have bought no dramatic increase in life expectancy 
for the patients. Every day, three more succumb.

DOI: 10.1152/jappl.1991.70.5.2331
PMID: 1713908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. J Biol Chem. 1991 Aug 15;266(23):15060-7.

Isolation and structural characterization of the Chlamydomonas reinhardtii gene 
for cytochrome c6. Analysis of the kinetics and metal specificity of its 
copper-responsive expression.

Hill KL(1), Li HH, Singer J, Merchant S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, UCLA 90024.

We have isolated a 5-kilobase pair fragment of genomic DNA containing the entire 
coding region for the Chlamydomonas reinhardtii gene encoding the 
copper-repressible Cyt c6. A region comprising 2.6 kilobase pairs contains the 
entire transcribed region plus 852 nucleotides upstream of the Cyt c6 
transcription start site and 495 nucleotides downstream of the conserved C. 
reinhardtii polyadenylation signal. Comparison of the genomic sequence with the 
cDNA sequence (Merchant, S., and Bogorad, L. (1987) J. Biol. Chem. 262, 
9062-9067) revealed that the coding region is interrupted by two introns, each 
of which is flanked by C. reinhardtii consensus intron/exon boundaries. Primer 
extension and S1 nuclease protection analyses identified the 5' border of the 
Cyt c6 mRNA at approximately 79 base pairs upstream from the initiator 
methionine. Analysis of the 5' upstream region reveals no significant similarity 
to sequences found in upstream regions of other copper-regulated genes. 
Time-course studies indicate that 1) the mature Cyt c6 mRNA has a half-life of 
approximately 45-60 min and is completely lost within 4 h, and 2) the primary, 
unspliced transcript has a half-life of approximately 10 min and is completely 
lost within 30 min after the addition of copper ions to copper-depleted cells. 
These results indicate that the response to copper occurs very rapidly upon 
elevation of extracellular copper levels. Although this gene is unresponsive to 
silver ions in vivo, in contrast to the yeast copper-responsive CUP1 gene 
(Furst, P., Hu, S., Hackett, R., and Hamer, D. (1988) Cell 55, 705-717), it does 
respond to mercury ions, albeit with less sensitivity. Mercury ions cannot, 
however, substitute for copper in allowing the accumulation of plastocyanin in 
vivo.

PMID: 1714451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Eur J Surg. 1991 Mar;157(3):197-200.

Regional lymph node metastasis of early gastric cancer.

Eriguchi M(1), Miyamoto Y, Fujii Y, Takeda Y, Osada I, Hagihara T, Yoshizaki I, 
Shimizu H, Akiyama N, Yanagie H, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Tokyo, Japan.

Of 122 patients hospitalized for early gastric cancer in 1974-1989, 15 were 
histologically found to have regional lymph node metastases. Tumor invasion was 
limited to the mucosa in 3 cases and to the submucosa in 12. An ulcer or ulcer 
scar was found in the tumor in 12 cases. Metastasis had occurred only to the 
perigastric nodes in 13 cases and also along the left gastric and/or common 
hepatic arteries in two. Preoperative endoscopic injection of Chinese ink into 
the submucosa revealed a high rate of uptake in regional lymph nodes along the 
left gastric, splenic and common hepatic arteries. Patients with early cancer 
should undergo gastrectomy with lymphadenectomy, particularly if the cancer 
contains an ulcer or has invaded the submucosa. If the patient's general health 
and life expectancy are poor, restricted surgery or endoscopic treatment should 
be considered.

PMID: 1714763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Drugs. 1991 Jun;41(6):875-82. doi: 10.2165/00003495-199141060-00005.

Current concepts in rational therapy for haemochromatosis.

Crawford DH(1), Halliday JW.

Author information:
(1)Liver Unit, University of Queensland, Royal Brisbane Hospital, Australia.

Genetic haemochromatosis is characterised by an inappropriately high rate of 
iron absorption by the small intestine. The disease is transmitted as an 
autosomal recessive condition. The gene frequency in the Caucasian population is 
approximately 1 in 20 and the disease frequency is 1 in 400. Excessive iron 
deposition occurs in the liver, pancreas, heart, pituitary and joints and 
hepatic iron concentrations above approximately 400 mumol/g dry weight are 
always associated with fibrosis and usually with cirrhosis and progressive liver 
failure. Accurate diagnosis depends upon the demonstration of elevated hepatic 
iron stores. An hepatic iron index [hepatic iron concentration (in mumol/g dry 
weight) divided by patient age] of greater than 2.0 distinguishes homozygous 
subjects from the other conditions in which slight increases in hepatic iron 
concentration may occur, e.g. in a subject heterozygous for haemochromatosis or 
alcoholic liver disease. If cirrhosis is present, patients are at a high risk of 
developing hepatocellular carcinoma. Therefore, they should undergo regular 
abdominal ultrasound and alpha-fetoprotein estimation. In the absence of 
cirrhosis, phlebotomy restores life expectancy to normal. Venesection should be 
continued until all excess iron stores are removed as judged by failure of a 
rise in haemoglobin concentration on cessation of phlebotomy. Screening of first 
degree relatives should commence from a young age (e.g. 10 years). If serum 
ferritin or transferrin saturation are abnormal, liver biopsy should be 
undertaken. HLA typing of the family allows for the identification of those 
siblings who are most likely to develop the disease. Secondary iron overload is 
often multifactorial in origin. Iron chelation therapy with subcutaneous 
deferoxamine (desferrioxamine) should only commence after careful consideration 
of the potential benefits in each individual patient.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199141060-00005
PMID: 1715264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. J Calif Dent Assoc. 1991 Aug;19(8):29-38.

Oral health and aging: dental implications of a grayer America.

Niessen LC(1), Jones JA.

Author information:
(1)Baylor College of Dentistry, Dallas, TX.

PMID: 1715906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 1991;35(1):87-95.

Macular lesions predisposing to senile disciform macular degeneration.

Yuzawa M(1), Hagita K, Egawa T, Minato H, Matsui M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Nihon University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.

Senile disciform macular degeneration (SMD) is a neovascular/exudative form of 
age-related macular degeneration (AMD). In this study 340 eyes were followed up 
to assess the progression of SMD. The 340 eyes consisted of two groups. Group 1 
was composed of 157 eyes with age-related macular changes other than choroidal 
neovascular membrane. Group 2 was made up of the contralateral eyes of 183 
unilateral SMD eyes. Average ages were 61 and 64 in groups 1 and 2, 
respectively, and respective follow-up periods were 44 and 52 months. Choroidal 
neovascular membrane developed in 12 eyes in group 1 (7.6%) and in 19 eyes in 
group 2 (10.4%), a total of 31 eyes (9.1%). Retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) 
detachment was found as a predisposing lesion in 25 of these 31 eyes. Choroidal 
neovascular membrane developed in 12 of the 24 eyes with large RPE detachments. 
In 3 eyes neovascular membrane developed from an RPE detachment which had 
evolved from soft drusen. There were 3 eyes among the 62 eyes with soft drusen 
in which neovascular membrane developed directly from soft drusen. Based on 
these results, we classified AMD into 3 types; 1) atrophic, 2) predisciform, 
which includes RPE detachment and soft drusen, and 3) SMD.

PMID: 1716707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. J Mol Biol. 1991 Oct 5;221(3):737-43. doi: 10.1016/0022-2836(91)80168-t.

Escherichia coli ribosome is inactivated by Mirabilis antiviral protein which 
cleaves the N-glycosidic bond at A2660 of 23 S ribosomal RNA.

Habuka N(1), Miyano M, Kataoka J, Noma M.

Author information:
(1)Life Science Research Laboratory, Japan Tobacco, Inc., Kanagawa.

Ribosome-inactivating proteins (RIPs) are known to inactivate eukaryotic 
ribosomes, which results in the inhibition of protein synthesis, but there has 
been no evidence that they inactivate the ribosomes of Escherichia coli. 
Recently, Mirabilis antiviral protein (MAP), a RIP, has been shown to inhibit 
the protein synthesis of E. coli as well as eukaryotes. To elucidate its 
mechanism, E. coli ribosomes treated with MAP were analyzed by 
polyacrylamide/agarose composite gel electrophoresis and RNA sequencing using 
reverse transcriptase with DNA primer. The 23 S rRNAs, with an A260 value for 
ribosomes of 15, were completely cleaved in vitro by a 30 minute treatment with 
MAP at a concentration of 100 nM at 37 degrees C and a subsequent treatment with 
aniline. However, they were not affected by ricin A-chain under the same 
conditions. The primer extension of DNA polymerization stopped before A2660 of 
23 S rRNA in RNA sequencing. Furthermore, both 16 S and 23 S rRNAs were cleaved 
by the MAP and aniline treatments when naked E. coli rRNAs were used as 
substrates, and the primer extension stopped before bases A2660 and A1014, 
respectively, in RNA sequencing. As the A2660 region has been shown to interact 
with the elongation factors EF-Tu and EF-G these results indicate that MAP 
cleaves the N-glycosidic bond at A2660 in E. coli 23 S RNA resulting in the 
inactivation of the ribosome.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-2836(91)80168-t
PMID: 1719209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. J Urol. 1991 Nov;146(5):1313-6. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)38077-1.

