Biopsy after external beam radiation therapy for adenocarcinoma of the prostate: 
correlation with original histological grade and current prostate specific 
antigen levels.

Dugan TC(1), Shipley WU, Young RH, Verhey LJ, Althausen AF, Heney NM, McManus 
PL, Abraham EH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer 
Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston.

Comment in
    J Urol. 1992 Nov;148(5):1565-6.

We obtained post-irradiation biopsies in 37 men with initially stage T3 
prostatic adenocarcinoma treated by external beam radiotherapy. Eligibility for 
post-irradiation biopsy included no clinical local failure, interval since 
treatment of 24 months or more and no endocrine therapy. Of the 37 patients 23 
(62%) had negative biopsies while 14 (38%) had positive biopsies. Of 23 patients 
whose original cancer was well or moderately differentiated 18 (78%) had 
negative biopsies, compared to only 5 of 14 (36%) of those with poorly 
differentiated cancer (p less than 0.03). Among 19 patients whose current serum 
prostate specific antigen (PSA) value is less than 2.5 ng./ml. 15 (79%) had 
negative biopsies, compared to only 4 of 14 (29%) with a PSA level of greater 
than 2.5 ng./ml. (p less than 0.02). These results strongly suggest that there 
is a low probability of positive post-irradiation biopsy regardless of its 
significance in men with a normal prostate by palpation and a normal serum PSA 
value. However, short followup since biopsy precludes analysis of the predictive 
value of post-irradiation biopsy on long-term local and distant disease status.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)38077-1
PMID: 1719244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Klin Padiatr. 1991 Jul-Aug;203(4):236-45. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1025435.

[Treatment of non-testicular germ cell tumors in children and adolescents with 
BEP and VIP: initial results of the MAKEI 89 therapy study].

[Article in German]

Göbel U(1), Bamberg M, Engert J, Gnekow AK, Haas HJ, Jürgens H, Kühl J, Lenard 
HG, Lumenta C, Niethammer D, et al.

Author information:
(1)Universitäts-Kinderkliniken Düsseldorf.

The pilot protocol of the German Society of Pediatric Oncology for treatment of 
non testicular germ cell tumors was initiated in November 1987. The final 
protocol was started at 1. 1. 89. Different therapy was administered depending 
on histology, primary localisation or stage of tumors. Patients with malignant 
germ cell tumors such as dysgerminomas, embryonal carcinomas, yolk sac tumors or 
chorio carcinomas received BEP (Bleomycin 15 mg/m2/days 1-3, Etoposide 100 
mg/m2/days 4-8, Cisplatinum 20 mg/m2/days 4-8), followed by VIP (Vinblastine 3 
mg/m2/days 1 + 2, Ifosfamide 1500 mg/m2/days 1-5 including Mesna uroprotection 
and Cisplatinum 20 mg/m2/days 1-5). Patients with ovary tumors of stage 1 were 
treated with 3 courses of BEP, patients with ovary tumors stage II and 
extragonadal localisation received 3 courses of VIP in addition to 3 courses of 
BEP. In cases of extended tumors 4 courses of BEP were followed by delayed 
resection of tumors and 4 courses of VIP. Patients with intracranial germinomas 
were treated with 30 Gy of craniospinal radiation therapy and additional 15 Gy 
as a tumor boost. Since some cases of spinal extension were reported a spinal 
radiation therapy seems to be indispensable. Patients with intracranial 
embryonal carcinomas, yolk sac tumors or chorio carcinomas tumors were given 2 
courses of BEP and VIP followed by 30 Gy of craniospinal radiation therapy and 
additional 20 Gy as a tumor boost. Patients with immature teratomas of the ovary 
grade 1-3 and grade 3 of tumors with extragonadal localisation were treated with 
3 courses of BEP after resection of tumors. Until 1. 1. 1991 92 patients were 
reported to the study--27 with intracranial and 65 with extracranial primary 
localisation of tumors. 43 patients suffered from teratomas (including 20 
immature teratomas grade 1-3), 18 from germinomas (seminomas/dysgerminomas) and 
31 from malignant non-seminomatous germ cell tumors. After an observation period 
of 29 months disease-free survival rate was 80% (79/92 patients, Kaplan-Meier 
Statistics). Outcome of intracranial tumors was death or relapse in 2/9 patients 
with malignant non-seminomatous germ cell tumors, in 2/14 patients with 
intracranial germinomas, in 2/4 patients with teratomas. Patients with 
extracranial localisation of tumors suffered from death or relapse in 1/21 cases 
with non-seminomatous tumors, in 0/4 cases with dysgerminomas and 5/39 cases 
with teratomas. During pilot study one infant with a malignant non-seminomatous 
germ cell tumor died of a pneumopathia. Therefore infants treated according to 
the final protocol did not receive Bleomycin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1025435
PMID: 1719267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Surg Endosc. 1991;5(2):63-7. doi: 10.1007/BF00316838.

Randomized comparison of endoscopic palliation of malignant esophageal stenoses.

Fuchs KH(1), Freys SM, Schaube H, Eckstein AK, Selch A, Hamelmann H.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische Universitäsklinik und Poliklinik, Würzburg, Federal Republic of 
Germany.

In a randomized study, palliative therapy of malignant esophageal and gastric 
stenosis was investigated by a comparison of endoscopic laser therapy (ELT) with 
palliative endoscopic perturbation (PEP). A total of 124 patients exhibiting a 
malignant stenosis in the esophagus and proximal stomach were referred to our 
unit between January 1, 1987, and March 31, 1990. Criteria for randomization 
were: (1) inoperable malignant stenosis, (2) dysphagia enabling the ingestion of 
semi-solid food, (3) the possibility of performing ELT and PEP, and (4) the 
absence of fistula formation. Only 40 patients met these criteria; the remaining 
84 subjects were assigned to an escape group whose treatment consisted of ELT, 
PEP, percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy, transnasal feeding tube, radiotherapy, 
and endoscopic bougienage. We found no significant difference between ELT and 
PEP with regard to survival, food passage, or quality of life. We recommend the 
application of PEP in patients exhibiting advanced tumor disease and a poor 
general condition and favour the use of ELT combined with afterloading in 
patients with a life expectancy of greater than or equal to 3 months.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00316838
PMID: 1719650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Neurol Med Chir (Tokyo). 1991 Apr;31(4):194-8. doi: 10.2176/nmc.31.194.

Outcome of primary central nervous system lymphoma--a study of 32 patients.

Kiya K(1), Uozumi T, Kurisu K, Hotta T, Ogasawara H, Sugiyama K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Hiroshima University School of Medicine.

The outcomes in 32 cases of histologically diagnosed primary central nervous 
system lymphoma were investigated. The 1-, 2-, and 5-year survival rates were 
54, 36, and 8%, respectively. Good outcome was indicated by extensive surgical 
removal with 50-Gy irradiation and lower ages. 61% of patients receiving 
radiation therapy suffered recurrence within 1 year. The incidence of multiple 
lesions increased at recurrence. These lesions were almost all remote from the 
initial site in the brain, occurring more frequently in the central part of the 
supratentorial regions near the ventricle. Multiple lesions recurred more 
rapidly than single lesions. Longer survival times were indicated by a long 
tumor-free period after initial treatment. Extensive surgical removal results in 
long survival times for patients with a localized single tumor in the early 
stage. Radiochemotherapy should be given as part of the initial treatment.

DOI: 10.2176/nmc.31.194
PMID: 1720205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. J Neurosci. 1991 Dec;11(12):3928-42. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.11-12-03928.1991.

Changes in the distribution of extracellular matrix components accompany early 
morphogenetic events of mammalian cortical development.

Sheppard AM(1), Hamilton SK, Pearlman AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, Missouri 63110.

As a step in defining the molecular environment for development of the mammalian 
cerebral cortex, we have used immunohistochemistry to analyze the distribution 
and remodeling of three major extracellular matrix (ECM) components, 
fibronectin, chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CSPG), and tenascin, during 
embryonic and early postnatal stages in the mouse. Fibronectin and CSPG are 
distributed throughout the proliferative zone that initially comprises the thin 
wall of the telencephalic vesicle, but their distribution changes as newly 
generated cells form the preplate just beneath the pia. Immunolabeling for CSPG 
becomes most prominent in the preplate, and fibronectin becomes restricted to 
that layer. Just after this change occurs, processes of preplate neurons, 
visualized with antibodies to neurofilaments, become evident within the 
matrix-rich preplate zone. The association of fibronectin and CSPG with preplate 
cells persists as cortical plate neurons divide the preplate; both ECM 
components are now most prominent in the marginal zone and subplate, the layers 
above and below the cortical plate that are preplate derived. Within the 
preplate and its derivatives, immunolabeling of fibronectin is punctate and 
closely associated with radial glial processes, while labeling of CSPG is more 
intense and diffuse. Labeling of fibronectin and CSPG declines rapidly as the 
cortical plate begins to differentiate into cortex; labeling for tenascin first 
appears at this stage in the most mature layers, the marginal zone and subplate, 
then gradually becomes widespread throughout all of cortex and subcortical white 
matter. In early postnatal life, tenascin is eliminated from the hollows of the 
vibrissal barrels in the somatosensory region; it then declines rapidly 
throughout cortex. The association of both fibronectin and CSPG with preplate 
cells and the distribution of fibronectin along radial glia during early 
cortical development suggest that one or both of these transient cell types 
might produce specific ECM components or induce their local deposition. The 
spatial and temporal distribution of fibronectin and CSPG suggests a role in 
defining a destination for migrating neurons that form the cortical plate and in 
delineating the pathway for early axonal extension. In contrast, the relatively 
late appearance of tenascin correlates best with the formation of astrocytes and 
their processes rather than with the establishment of cortical layers or major 
axonal pathways. These events are well underway before labeling of tenascin is 
evident.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.11-12-03928.1991
PMCID: PMC6575290
PMID: 1720815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Arch Surg. 1991 Nov;126(11):1353-8. doi:
10.1001/archsurg.1991.01410350043007.

Metastatic melanoma of the gastrointestinal tract. Results of surgical 
management.

Caputy GG(1), Donohue JH, Goellner JR, Weaver AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn. 55905.

Between 1954 and 1989, 41 patients with melanoma metastatic to the 
gastrointestinal tract underwent surgical treatment at the Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, Minn. The small bowel was most commonly involved (71%), followed by 
the stomach (27%), large bowel (22%), and esophagus (5%). Gross total excision 
of all intra-abdominal metastases was performed in 52% of patients. The 
postoperative mortality was 5% and the median patient survival was 0.8 years, 
with 1- and 5-year survival rates of 44% and 9%, respectively. Of the patient, 
tumor, and treatment variables evaluated, patients with small-intestinal 
metastases had a significantly worse prognosis. Although patients with melanoma 
metastatic to the bowel have a limited life expectancy, surgical resection of 
their metastases provides effective palliation. Operative treatment of selected 
patients with symptomatic melanoma metastatic to the gastrointestinal tract is a 
worthwhile undertaking.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1991.01410350043007
PMID: 1720950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1991 Nov;14(11 Pt 1):1614-21. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.1991.tb02737.x.

The epidemiology of pacemaker implantations in Fyn county, Denmark.

Andersen C(1), Green A, Madsen GM, Arnsbo P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Odense University Hospital, Denmark.

Throughout the last three decades the number of patients with pacemakers has 
increased. Registers of pacemakers and pacemaker patients have been established 
to monitor, for example, the battery life expectancy and patient data. We have 
analyzed the registry for Fyn county, Denmark, which includes data on incidence, 
prevalence, and mortality rates among patients with pacemakers during the period 
from 1964 to 1990. The analyses show that the prevalence rate is steadily 
increasing as a result of a combination of an increasing incidence rate and a 
stable mortality rate among the pacemaker patients. Based on the development in 
the first almost 30 years of pacemaker implantations, two trends of the future 
prevalence of pacemaker patients are projected. Provided constant mortality 
rates and expected incidence rates of 300 per million person years and 350 per 
million person years, respectively, the prevalence will reach a plateau of 2.7 
per 1,000 persons and 3.1 per 1,000 persons, respectively, within the next 25 
years.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.1991.tb02737.x
PMID: 1721151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1991 Nov;14(11 Pt 2):1850-4. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.1991.tb02778.x.

Six-year clinical experience with the automatic implantable cardioverter 
defibrillator.

Edel TB(1), Maloney JD, Moore S, McGuinn WP, Gohn D, Williams D, Wilkoff BL, 
McCarthy P, Morant VA, Pearce G, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Ohio 44106.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.1991.tb02778.x
PMID: 1721187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1991 Nov;14(11 Pt 2):1905-10. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.1991.tb02788.x.

Long-term follow-up of patients with nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy and 
ventricular tachyarrhythmias treated with implantable cardioverter 
defibrillators.

Fazio G(1), Veltri EP, Tomaselli G, Lewis R, Griffith LS, Guarnieri T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland.

We analyzed our 10-year cumulative experience of 40 consecutive patients with 
idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and associated ventricular tachyarrhythmias, 
treated with implantable cardioverter defibrillators. Dilated cardiomyopathy was 
defined as left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) less than or equal to 50% 
with no defineable etiology. Patient characteristics included: 24 male, mean age 
52 years, mean EF = 33%, New York Heart Association Class I-III, presenting 
syndrome--cardiac arrest (n = 28), syncope/near syncope (n = 12). At 2.5 years 
mean follow-up, there were 16 deaths: one operative, three sudden, two incessant 
ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation (VT/VF), six heart failure, and 
four noncardiac. The actuarial mortality at 1 and 4 years was 0% and 14% for 
sudden death, 11% and 34% for cardiac death. The projected mortality was 52% and 
78% for same time intervals (P less than 0.01). No useful baseline variable 
predicted who would or would not receive an ICD shock in follow-up. ICD therapy 
appears effective in reducing sudden death mortality in this high risk 
population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.1991.tb02788.x
PMID: 1721197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1991 Nov;14(11 Pt 2):1929-34. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.1991.tb02792.x.

Does reception of appropriate shocks from the implantable cardioverter 
defibrillator affect survival?

Tchou P(1), Axtell K, Keim S, Anderson AJ, Troup P, Jazayeri M, Avitall B, 
Akhtar M.

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin, Sinai Samaritan Medical Center, Milwaukee.

The implantable cardioverter defibrillator has become an important therapeutic 
modality for treatment of life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Recent 
reports have suggested that patients who receive appropriate shocks from this 
device have an inordinately high overall mortality, and questioned the extent of 
benefit these patients derive from the implant. This report analyzed the 
survival among 184 patients who received the implantable cardioverter 
defibrillator to assess survival differences between patients who received 
appropriate shocks versus those who did not. At a mean follow-up of 24 +/- 18.7 
months, 68 patients received an appropriate shock from their device while 116 
did not receive an appropriate shock. Overall survival of the entire population 
was quite similar to those published by others. There was no significant 
difference between overall survival of patients who received an appropriate 
shock versus those who did not. However, there was a statistically significant 
difference in sudden death mortality. The group of patients that received 
appropriate shocks included all five sudden deaths. This observation suggested 
that sudden death in this population was likely due to ventricular 
tachyarrhythmias rather than strictly bradycardia or asystole. The "benefit" of 
the device to the entire population was also assessed by estimating survival 
after receipt of the first appropriate shock. Using this approach, an estimated 
10% of patients died without receiving an appropriate shock. In other words, 
ultimately, 90% of patients were expected to benefit from the device. This 
survival curve, which initiated only after receipt of the first appropriate 
shock was fairly similar to those estimated from conventional methods. 
Therefore, survival after receipt of an appropriate shock was comparable to 
overall survival and there was no significant difference between survival of 
patients who received appropriate shocks and those who did not.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.1991.tb02792.x
PMID: 1721201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1991 Nov;14(11 Pt 2):1947-50. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.1991.tb02795.x.

Proarrhythmic response to antiarrhythmic drug as a risk factor for sudden 
cardiac death in patients with ischemic heart disease.

Trusz-Gluza M(1), Giec L, Dabrowski A, Kuch J, Pasyk S, Piwowarska W, Pracka H, 
Sadowski Z, Wodniecki J.

Author information:
(1)First Cardiologic Clinic, Silesian Medical Academy, Silesian Heart Center, 
Katowice, Poland.

The prognostic significance of arrhythmogenic response to an antiarrhythmic drug 
was studied. In 782 patients with ischemic heart disease (IHD) and frequent 
and/or complex ventricular premature beats (VPBs), 1,041 drug tests guided by 
24-hour Holter monitoring were conducted. The following drugs were assessed: 
beta blockers, disopyramide, mexiletine, amiodarone. Proarrhythmia was defined 
as: (1) greater than 4-fold increase in VPBs, (2) greater than 10-fold increase 
in repetitive forms, or (3) new occurrence of ventricular tachycardia or 
ventricular fibrillation (VT/VF). During a follow-up of 1-49 months (mean 22) 
patients were treated with antiarrhythmic drugs found to be safe in control 
Holter monitoring. Proarrhythmic effects were observed in 8.4% of patients. No 
drug was completely free of this type of reaction. In long-term observation, 
cardiac death and sudden death occurred in 53 and 32 patients, respectively. 
With actuarial analysis (Kaplan-Meier method, log-rank test) there was a 
significant difference in cardiac death (P less than 0.01) and sudden death rate 
(P less than 0.05) of proarrhythmia (+) compared with proarrhythmia (-) patients 
at 1 year (11% vs 4%, 7% vs 3%) and 3 years (24% vs 11%, 16% vs 7%). 
Proarrhythmic response was an independent risk factor apart from myocardial 
infarction, VT/VF, ejection fraction less than 40% and QTc greater than 440 
msec. Arrhythmogenic response to antiarrhythmic drugs seems to be an additional 
predictor of sudden death in IHD.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.1991.tb02795.x
PMID: 1721204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Mutat Res. 1991 Mar-Nov;256(2-6):295-302. doi: 10.1016/0921-8734(91)90020-c.

A re-examination of the effects of ionizing radiation on lifespan and 
transformation of human diploid fibroblasts.

Holliday R(1).

Author information:
(1)Genetics Division, National Institute for Medical Research, Mill Hill, 
London, U.K.

Human diploid fibroblasts, strain MRC-5, were sequentially irradiated with 60Co 
gamma rays at intervals during their in vitro lifespan. The results indicate 
that 3 or 6 doses of 1 Gy can increase lifespan, and the same was true for cells 
treated with 3 doses of 3 Gy. Higher doses (5 x 3 Gy) did reduce growth 
potential, suggesting either that mid-late passage cells become more sensitive 
to radiation, or that doses beyond a given threshold reduce population lifespan 
by multiple cellular hits. The life extension induced by gamma rays might be due 
to an induced hypermethylation of DNA. Alternatively, oxygen radicals produced 
by irradiation might trigger an adaptive stress response which would remove 
damaged macromolecules and thereby increase the cells' growth potential. 
Whichever explanation is correct, the results show that the human fibroblast 
system is not appropriate for the study of the well known effect of ionizing 
radiation in shortening the lifespan of experimental animals. Contrary to 
earlier published results, populations of cells treated with cumulative doses of 
15 Gy or 18 Gy and held for nearly 3 months after they had reached senescence 
(Phase III), produced no foci of transformed cells.

DOI: 10.1016/0921-8734(91)90020-c
PMID: 1722019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Clin Geriatr Med. 1991 Nov;7(4):803-16.

Home hospice care.

Rhymes JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago Medical Center, Illinois 60637.

Home hospice care, which helps patients with terminal illnesses remain at home, 
is becoming more common and accepted in the United States. The Medicare hospice 
benefit reimburses hospices for the care of elderly patients. The goal of 
hospices is to help the patient and family remain in control of the dying 
process as much as possible. Palliative care rather than the extension of life 
is emphasized. Hospice techniques for controlling symptoms such as pain, nausea, 
and vomiting are discussed in this article.

PMID: 1722136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Med Vet Entomol. 1991 Apr;5(2):193-206. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2915.1991.tb00542.x.

Behaviour and fitness of gamma HCH/dieldrin resistant and susceptible female 
Anopheles gambiae and An.stephensi mosquitoes in the absence of insecticide.

Rowland M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Entomology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine.

The effects of gamma HCH/dieldrin resistance genes on various fitness components 
of mosquito larvae and adult females in the absence of insecticide were 
investigated in backcrossed strains of Anopheles gambiae Giles and An.stephensi 
Liston. Among larvae, heterozygotes (RS) developed slightly but significantly 
faster than homozygotes for resistance (RR) or susceptibility (SS). The lifetime 
fecundity of RR females in population cages was only half to two-thirds that of 
SS and RS females despite similar longevities; several reasons were identified: 
RR gravid females were less responsive to oviposition-site stimuli, their 
spontaneous activity--as measured in an acoustic actograph--was only half that 
of SS or RS females, and RR females produced fewer eggs per unit bloodmeal. When 
inseminated females were recorded in LD 12:12, RR were again less active than SS 
or RS. When the lighting was switched to a regime simulating full-moonlight, the 
activity pattern of SS and RS changed and they flew for longer periods. In 
contrast, the activity of RR females was the same in LD 12:12 as in 'moonlight'. 
In a test simulation of potential predation, RR mosquitoes took to flight least 
readily. All component tests on adult females therefore point to RR as being the 
least fit of the three genotypes. The behavioural tests suggest that resistance 
has raised the response threshold of RR females to diverse stimuli. A possible 
physiological mechanism underlying RR behaviour is that a change in the 
cyclodiene receptor on the chloride channels has increased their permeability to 
chloride ions, causing hyper-inhibition of the nervous system.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2915.1991.tb00542.x
PMID: 1722728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Neurol Med Chir (Tokyo). 1991 Nov;31(11):702-7. doi: 10.2176/nmc.31.702.

Intraoperative radiation therapy for malignant glioma.

Sakai N(1), Yamada H, Andoh T, Hirata T, Nishimura Y, Miwa Y, Shimizu K, 
Yanagawa S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Gifu University School of Medicine.

Intraoperative radiation therapy (IORT) was used as part of the initial therapy 
for malignant glioma in 32 of 73 patients with histologically verified 
anaplastic astrocytoma (grade III astrocytoma) and glioblastoma multiforme. The 
initial treatment for all cases was subtotal or total tumor resection combined 
with external irradiation and chemotherapy. IORT was performed 1 week after 
tumor resection, with doses of 10-50 Gy (mean 26.7 Gy) in one session. Fourteen 
of 32 cases had IORT two times because of tumor recurrence. The IORT patients 
had survival rates at 24 and 36 months after initial treatment of 57.1 and 33.5% 
(median survival 26.2 months). The other 41 patients had 23.6 and 13.1% 
survivals (median survival 20.7 months), which were significantly lower (p less 
than 0.01). Tumor recurrence within the original lesion site was suspected 
because of clinical condition, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance 
imaging studies in 65.6% of the IORT group (21 cases) 12 months after initial 
treatment. Twenty cases of death in the IORT group, including five autopsy 
cases, demonstrated regional tumor recurrence with a high incidence of 
intraventricular tumor invasion. The authors consider IORT is beneficial for 
selected malignant glioma patients, including tumor recurrence, because of 
prolonged survival.

DOI: 10.2176/nmc.31.702
PMID: 1723157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. J Cell Sci. 1991 Sep;100 ( Pt 1):85-97. doi: 10.1242/jcs.100.1.85.

Multiple families of proteins in the secretory granules of Paramecium 
tetraurelia: immunological characterization and immunocytochemical localization 
of trichocyst proteins.

Shih SJ(1), Nelson DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison 53706.

Paramecium tetraurelia has thousands of secretory granules (trichocysts), which 
release their protein contents by regulated exocytosis. The secretory proteins 
that fill the granule comprise the condensed trichocyst matrix (ctmx), a 
paracrystalline structure that, upon exocytosis, expands about eightfold in 
length within milliseconds. The resulting needle-like extended trichocyst matrix 
(xtmx), also paracrystalline, is released outside the cell. Both ctmx and xtmx 
are composed of 35 or more small (Mr 14-25 x 10(3)), acidic (pI 4.4-5.8) 
proteins. We used monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) raised against proteins of the 
xtmx to study the relationship among these proteins, and to determine their 
locations within the paracrystalline ctmx and xtmx. The antibodies defined four 
distinct protein groups. Group I proteins (defined by mAb A1-3 and B5-5) showed 
a relatively wide range of pI values, and existed in xtmx as disulfide-linked 
heterodimers. They were distributed throughout the matrix of condensed and 
extended trichocysts, as judged by electron-microscopic immunocytochemistry. 
Group II proteins (defined by mAb B4-4 and B3-5) were more acidic, also present 
as heterodimers and specifically localized in a 150 nm wide cortex in ctmx and 
in a much thinner cortex in xtmx. In xtmx, antibodies against group II proteins 
stained the outer surface on the regions between the electron-dense striations 
with 55 nm intervals. However, these regions were not accessible to antibody 
B4-4 in ctmx. Group III proteins (defined by mAb B7-4) are monomeric proteins; 
group IV are two subunits of heterodimers. Proteins of groups IV are two 
subunits of heterodimers. Proteins of groups III and IV were localized in the 
core of ctmx, but were distributed uniformly in xtmx. Our results show that 
these very similar tmx proteins are not structurally equivalent. Within the 
highly regular structures of condensed and extended tmx, immunologically 
distinct families of tmx proteins occupy specific and different positions in the 
paracrystalline array. One family of tmx proteins (group II) is buried in the 
condensed tmx and only becomes accessible to antibodies upon trichocyst 
extension. Our results suggest that the 150 nm cortex of condensed tmx expands 
lengthwise, while decreasing in the thickness, to form the outer shell of 
extended tmx, and the core expands in length without decreasing in diameter to 
form the inside structure of the extended tmx.

DOI: 10.1242/jcs.100.1.85
PMID: 1724451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Actas Urol Esp. 1991 Sep-Oct;15(5):421-4.

[Treatment of hormone-refractory prostate cancer with estramustine phosphate].

[Article in Spanish]

Morote J(1), López-Pacios MA, Ahmad A, Vila J, de Torres JA.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Uro-oncología, Hospital General Valle de Hebrón, Barcelona.

Twenty-one patients with hormone refractory prostate cancer were treated with 
oral estramustine phosphate, 600 mg/day, and the response was monitored through 
serial dosages of prostatic specific antigen (PSA). Patients showed biological 
response (67%) and clinical response (43%). The duration of the biological 
response was 6 months in 50% cases and over 12 months in 18%. Survival was 
higher for responders than non responders. It is concluded that estramustine 
phosphate is effective in this type of therapy and that PSA allows to measure 
the type of response and its duration.

PMID: 1725472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Surg Annu. 1992;24 Pt 1:195-226.

Liver transplantation in children: an update.

Superina RA.

Liver transplantation in children has progressed to the point where much of the 
initial skepticism surrounding the value of this extraordinary endeavor has been 
overcome, and the results clearly justify the widespread use of this procedure 
in children with limited life expectancy secondary to severe liver disease. 
Advances in the areas of organ preservation and reduced-size liver 
transplantation have increased organ availability for children and significantly 
decreased mortality on transplant waiting lists. Changes in the ways 
pediatricians and pediatric surgeons think about children with EHBA have led to 
an increasing level of sophistication in combining the traditional surgical and 
medical treatments of this disease with the developing field of transplantation 
to maximize the chances for a normal life for all children with this problem. 
Newer immunosuppressive agents and more rational use of available medications 
have led to fewer graft losses to rejection while minimizing the undesirable 
side effects of individual drugs. As our understanding of the delicate 
interaction between the immune system and the graft increases, newer methods of 
immunomodulation may yet lead to the eventual goal of donor-specific tolerance, 
in which all immunologic reactivity remains normal except with respect to donor 
antigens on the graft. More specific immunosuppressive agents and more effective 
antiviral strategies have led to a decreased mortality from viral infections and 
may lead to a decrease in the mortality from secondary malignant disease. As 
mere survival after liver transplantation becomes more commonplace, more effort 
can be directed into meeting the long-term psychological and social needs of 
children with liver transplants to ensure that children develop and grow in as 
normal a manner as possible.

PMID: 1727323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. J Clin Oncol. 1992 Jan;10(1):117-27. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1992.10.1.117.

ICRF-187 permits longer treatment with doxorubicin in women with breast cancer.

Speyer JL(1), Green MD, Zeleniuch-Jacquotte A, Wernz JC, Rey M, Sanger J, Kramer 
E, Ferrans V, Hochster H, Meyers M, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Rita and Stanley Kaplan Cancer Center, New York, NY.

Erratum in
    J Clin Oncol 1992 May;10(5):867.

PURPOSE: To test potential protection by ICRF-187 against cumulative 
doxorubicin-dose-related cardiac toxicity, we conducted a randomized clinical 
trial in 150 women with advanced breast cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients received fluorouracil (5FU) 500 mg/m2, 
doxorubicin 50 mg/m2, and cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 every 21 days intravenously 
(IV) (control regimen, 74 patients), or the same regimen preceded by ICRF-187 
1,000 mg/m2 IV (experimental regimen, 76 patients).
RESULTS: We previously reported that ICRF-187 in this dose and schedule provides 
cardiac protection and does not substantially alter the noncardiac toxicity or 
antitumor efficacy of the control regimen. In this updated analysis of the 
entire patient cohort, we provide additional support for these findings and 
demonstrate that patients in the ICRF-187 group received more cycles (median, 
11) and higher cumulative doses (median, 500 mg/m2) of doxorubicin than patients 
in the control group (median, nine cycles, P less than .01; and 441 mg/m2, P 
less than .05). Twenty-six patients in the ICRF-187 group received doxorubicin 
doses of at least 700 mg/m2, and among them, 11 patients received 1,000 mg/m2 or 
more. Only three patients in the control group received doxorubicin doses of 700 
mg/m2; the maximum dose administered to one patient in this group was 950 mg/m2. 
ICRF-187 cardiac protection was demonstrated by difference in incidence of 
clinical congestive heart failure (CHF; two patients in the ICRF-187 group v 20 
in the control group; P less than .0001) and by differences in resting left 
ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) determined by multigated radionuclide 
(MUGA) scan from baselines and that required patient removal from study (five 
patients in the ICRF-187 group had a decrease in LVEF to less than 0.45 or a 
decrease from the baseline LVEF of 0.20 or more v 32 in the control group; P 
less than .000001). Among the 30 patients who had an assessable endomyocardial 
biopsy at cumulative doxorubicin 450 mg/m2, none of 16 in the ICRF-187 group and 
six of 14 in the control group had a score of 2 (P less than .05). ICRF-187 
cardiac protection was observed in patients with and without prior chest-wall 
radiation or other risk factors for developing doxorubicin cardiac toxicity.
CONCLUSION: By protecting against cumulative doxorubicin-induced cardiac 
toxicity, ICRF-187 permits significantly greater doses of doxorubicin to be 
administered to patients with greater safety.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1992.10.1.117
PMID: 1727913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. JAMA. 1992 Jan 15;267(3):361-2; author reply 363-4. doi: 
10.1001/jama.1992.03480030039019.

What if Americans ate less fat?

Sheppard L, Prentice R.

Comment on
    JAMA. 1991 Jun 26;265(24):3285-91.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.1992.03480030039019
PMID: 1727948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Am J Psychiatry. 1992 Jan;149(1):100-7. doi: 10.1176/ajp.149.1.100.

Anxiety syndromes as epiphenomena of primary major depression: outcome and 
familial psychopathology.

Coryell W(1), Endicott J, Winokur G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City 
52242.

OBJECTIVE: Anxiety symptoms often appear within depressive episodes, but their 
significance is uncertain. This study sought to determine whether they indicate 
the coexistence of a separate disease process and whether they have prognostic 
significance.
METHOD: A series of patients with primary depression who entered a follow-up and 
family study included 37 who also had obsessions or compulsions, 93 who had 
panic attacks, 101 who had phobias, and 196 who had none of these anxiety 
syndromes. Each of the overlapping groups defined by the presence of a specific 
anxiety syndrome was compared to the group that had none of these syndromes with 
respect to baseline demographic, phenomenological, and historical features, 
illness rates among directly interviewed relatives, and diagnostic stability and 
clinical outcome at semiannual follow-ups over a period of 5 years.
RESULTS: Depressive symptoms at intake were more longstanding and severe among 
patients with specific anxiety symptoms, and these patients went on to 
experience more depressive morbidity during the ensuing 5 years. The development 
of autonomous anxiety disorders was rare, however, and specific anxiety 
syndromes in the probands did not increase risks for the corresponding disorders 
among relatives.
CONCLUSIONS: When restricted to episodes of major depression, anxiety syndromes 
appear to be prognostically significant epiphenomena rather than indicators of 
an additional disorder.

DOI: 10.1176/ajp.149.1.100
PMID: 1728156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Int J Cancer. 1992 Jan 2;50(1):53-6. doi: 10.1002/ijc.2910500112.

Cancer control programme in India: opportunities for implementation and 
evaluation.

Sankaranarayanan R(1), Nair MK, Mathew B, Wesley R, Mayadevi S.

Author information:
(1)Regional Cancer Centre, Trivandrum, India.

Cancer is now being appreciated in India as an emerging public health problem. 
Approximately 600,000 new cancer cases occur in India every year, and the 
absolute number of new cancer patients will increase considerably, due to growth 
in the size of the population and an increase in the proportion of elderly 
persons due to improved life expectancy following control of communicable 
diseases. This emerging problem has received the attention of the Government of 
India, and some state governments within the Indian Federation have formulated 
National and State Cancer Control Programmes to deal with the situation. In the 
event of these programmes being implemented, consideration should be given now 
to measures of evaluation of the activities, as many of the indices, used to 
monitor programmes in developed countries, such as 15% reduction from peak 
cancer mortality, or in peak mortality from specific cancers, are not applicable 
in developing countries like India. Factors such as the pattern of tobacco 
habits in the community, knowledge, attitude and practice (KAP) patterns 
regarding cancer in the general population, referral practices, and the national 
pattern of extent of disease at presentation, gain considerable importance from 
the evaluation point of view. Our article mainly deals with the sources and the 
quality of baseline data for such factors and the realistic quantitative goals 
which could be set for the above factors.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910500112
PMID: 1728613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Jan;15(1):102-10; discussion 110-2.

Unsuspected preexisting saphenous vein disease: an unrecognized cause of vein 
bypass failure.

Panetta TF(1), Marin ML, Veith FJ, Goldsmith J, Gordon RE, Jones AM, Schwartz 
ML, Gupta SK, Wengerter KR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Montefiore Medical Center, New York, NY 10467.

Our prior anecdotal experience with unsuspected preexisting saphenous vein 
disease prompted us to study its incidence, its relation to graft failure, and 
to identify techniques for its detection. Thick-walled, postphlebitic sclerotic 
occluded, postphlebitic sclerotic recanalized, calcified, and varicose vein 
lesions were detected in 63 (12%) of 513 infrainguinal vein bypasses. In 13 (2% 
to 5%) cases, severe saphenous vein disease precluded use of the vein. In the 
remaining 50 cases, the entire vein or a portion thereof, with minimal or 
unsuspected disease, was used for bypass. Early graft failures occurred in 10 
(20%) of the 50 cases. The cumulative primary patency rate at 30 months for 
bypasses performed with diseased veins was 32%. This was significantly less than 
the 73% cumulative primary patency rate for bypasses with veins without 
detectable disease (p less than or equal to 0.001). Retrospective evaluation of 
preoperative duplex ultrasonography (n = 21) originally used to evaluate 
saphenous vein length and diameter correctly identified thick-walled, occluded, 
calcified, and varicose veins in 62% of cases. Intraoperative methods of vein 
evaluation included inspection, palpation, irrigation, catheter or valvulotome 
insertion to identify obstruction, and intraoperative arteriography. Histologic 
examination of diseased veins demonstrated a spectrum of disease with thickening 
of the intima and media, vein wall calcification, and luminal recanalization. We 
conclude that (1) unsuspected preexisting saphenous vein disease occurs in 
approximately 12% of cases and results in both early and late graft failures; 
(2) detection, in some cases, is possible with duplex ultrasonography and 
intraoperative techniques; and (3) diseased veins that are recanalized, 
calcified, or thick-walled should not be used if an alternative vein is 
available.

PMID: 1728668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Jan;15(1):143-9; discussion 150-1.

A twelve-year experience with the popliteal-to-distal artery bypass: the 
significance and management of proximal disease.

Wengerter KR(1), Yang PM, Veith FJ, Gupta SK, Panetta TF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Montefiore Medical Center, Albert Einstein 
College of Medicine, New York, NY 10467.

The value of the popliteal-to-distal artery bypass in limb salvage is well 
documented. However, the influence of progression of disease in the superficial 
femoral artery or proximal popliteal artery, and the role of percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty of these vessels before bypass have not been adequately 
assessed. To evaluate these and other factors, we reviewed our experience with 
153 nonsequential popliteal-to-distal artery bypasses performed over a 12-year 
period. Limb salvage was the indication for all procedures, and 87% of the 
patients were diabetic. The 5-year primary and secondary graft patency rates 
were 55% and 60%, respectively, and the limb salvage rate was 73%. Preoperative 
arteriograms were evaluated for stenosis in the superficial femoral artery or 
popliteal artery proximal to the graft. Fifty-six grafts with a proximal 
stenosis 20% or less were identified and had primary graft patency of 77% at 2 
years, similar to the 70% patency for the 20 grafts placed distal to a 21% to 
35% stenosis. The 18 grafts placed distal to a stenosis greater than 35% had 53% 
2-year primary graft patency (p = 0.25). Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty 
of a superficial femoral artery or popliteal artery stenosis (24% to 85% luminal 
narrowing) in 19 limbs resulted in 68% 2-year graft patency, not significantly 
lower than grafts with 35% or less proximal stenosis (75%, p = 0.25). Other 
factors associated with significant decreases in graft patency included a vein 
graft diameter less than 3.0 mm, a dorsalis pedis outflow site, and poor quality 
outflow. Thus the popliteal-to-distal bypass is a durable procedure.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1728672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Jan;15(1):167-74; discussion 174-5. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1992.33676.

The economics of femorocrural reconstruction for critical leg ischemia with and 
without autologous vein.

Cheshire NJ(1), Wolfe JH, Noone MA, Davies L, Drummond M.

Author information:
(1)St. Mary's Hospital, London, England.

It is well established that primary arterial reconstruction, even to crural 
vessels, is cheaper than amputation. Reintervention increases expenditure and 
may produce mean costs exceeding those of primary amputation. Furthermore, 
secondary amputation may eventually become necessary. Femorocrural grafts have 
the highest average "reconstruction policy" cost (i.e., primary procedure and 
all further operations necessary during follow-up). We must therefore seek 
support for this potentially expensive form of treatment. In conjunction with 
health economists we have compared the average policy cost of 130 
reconstructions with grafts exceeding 70 cm in length (89 vein grafts, 41 
polytetrafluoroethylene grafts with a distal vein collar) with 67 vascular 
amputations, at mean follow-up of 3 years. One-month mortality rate after 
reconstruction was less than 1% but was 10% after amputation. At 3 years, 
however, 20% of both groups were dead. Overall 3-year patency is 65% (72% for 
vein grafts, 48% for polytetrafluoroethylene grafts). Ninety-seven percent of 
irreversible graft occlusions resulted in amputation in these patients. After 
autologous vein grafting reintervention, our follow-up showed increased mean 
costs from $6898 to $15,024 per patient. After prosthetic grafting, the higher 
reintervention rate increased from $6898 to $20,416. These mean costs remained 
less than amputation, reintervention, and additional mobility costs, which 
amounted to a mean of $21,726 per patient. Important differences in outcome were 
observed: 70% of patients undergoing amputation were confined to the home 
compared with only 9% of patients undergoing reconstruction; 30% of patients 
undergoing amputation were confined to bed or had to use a wheelchair compared 
with 1% of patients undergoing reconstruction.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1992.33676
PMID: 1728675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Am J Cardiol. 1992 Jan 1;69(1):103-7. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)90683-p.

Effects of enalapril on long-term mortality in severe congestive heart failure. 
CONSENSUS Trial Group.

Kjekshus J(1), Swedberg K, Snapinn S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Baerum Hospital, Norway.

All surviving patients in a double-blind study comparing the effects of 
enalapril and placebo on survival in severe congestive heart failure were 
recommended to be treated with active drug after stopping the trial. Two-year 
follow-up from the end of the blinded trial demonstrated that among 77 survivors 
of 127 patients originally allocated to the group with enalapril, 38 were still 
alive. Of 126 patients allocated to the group with placebo 58 survived the 
blinded study, and after 2-year follow-up 26 were still alive. Thus, the 
difference between the original treatment groups remained, despite that 
treatment with enalapril was made available to all surviving patients and that 
those in the group with enalapril were sicker at baseline than those in the 
group with placebo. If enalapril was prescribed, the mortality was 47% compared 
with 75% if it was not. Life-table analysis suggests a marked carry-over effect 
of treatment in the group with enalapril that lasted for up to 15 months before 
mortality rates became comparable in the 2 treatment groups. This strongly 
suggests that enalapril confers structural protection to the failing myocardium.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)90683-p
PMID: 1729857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Am J Cardiol. 1992 Jan 1;69(1):45-50. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)90674-n.

Prognostic significance of exercise thallium-201 testing in patients aged 
greater than or equal to 70 years with known or suspected coronary artery 
disease.

Hilton TC(1), Shaw LJ, Chaitman BR, Stocke KS, Goodgold HM, Miller DD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, St. Louis University Medical Center, 
Missouri 63110-0250.

The prognostic value of exercise thallium-201 myocardial perfusion imaging has 
not been studied in an elderly (aged greater than or equal to 70 years) 
population. Retrospective analysis of 120 consecutive elderly patients 
undergoing Bruce protocol exercise stress with quantitative planar thallium-201 
scintigraphy, followed clinically for a mean of 36 +/- 12 months after testing, 
revealed a 10% cardiac event rate (6 cardiac deaths from arrhythmia or 
congestive heart failure, and 5 fatal and 1 nonfatal myocardial infarction). 
There were no exercise stress-related complications. Survival without cardiac 
events was associated with greater exercise duration (5.6 +/- 2.4 vs 3.1 +/- 2.4 
minutes; p less than 0.0007) and peak exercise heart rate (131 +/- 18 vs 120 +/- 
19 beats/min; p less than 0.05). Univariate variables associated with higher 
cardiac event rates included: (1) peak exercise less than or equal to stage I 
(18 vs 6%; p = 0.04); (2) maximal ST-segment depression greater than or equal to 
2 mm (27 vs 6%; p = 0.003); and (3) presence of a fixed or reversible 
thallium-201 perfusion defect (18 vs 2%; p = 0.004). Multivariate stepwise 
logistic regression analysis identified the combination of peak exercise less 
than or equal to stage I and any thallium-201 perfusion defect as the most 
powerful predictor of subsequent cardiac events (relative risk = 5.3 at 1 year). 
Thus, exercise thallium-201 scintigraphy in elderly patients is safe and 
provides important prognostic information.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)90674-n
PMID: 1729866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. J Gerontol. 1992 Jan;47(1):S27-37. doi: 10.1093/geronj/47.1.s27.

How changes in components of growth affect the population aging of states.

Ahmed B(1), Smith SK.

Author information:
(1)Population Division, U.S. Bureau of the Census, Washington, DC 20233.

We analyzed the demographic determinants of population aging for states of the 
United States between 1950 and 1980. Using the factorial projections method, we 
estimated the effects of population momentum and changes in mortality, 
fertility, and migration on changes in the proportion of persons age 65+. 
Declining mortality rates caused the population to age in virtually every state 
in every decade between 1950 and 1980, but the effects were very small. The 
effects of changes in fertility rates were considerably greater. Population 
momentum generally had a greater effect on population aging than changes in 
either fertility or mortality rates. Net migration was by far the most volatile 
component of population aging, both in terms of changes over time and 
state-to-state differences at a given point in time. We expect this trend to 
continue in coming decades.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/47.1.s27
PMID: 1730863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Am J Cardiol. 1992 Jan 15;69(3):145-51. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)91294-e.

Long-term survival of emergency department patients with acute chest pain.

Lee TH(1), Ting HH, Shammash JB, Soukup JR, Goldman L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 
02115.

To evaluate the long-term prognosis of patients with acute chest pain, 
prospective clinical data and long-term follow-up data (mean 30.1 +/- 9.4 
months) were collected for 1,956 patients who presented to the emergency 
department of an urban teaching hospital with this chief complaint. During 
follow-up of the 1,915 patients who were discharged alive from the emergency 
department or hospital, there were 113 (6%) cardiovascular deaths. No 
differences were detected in the post-discharge cardiovascular survival rates 
after 3 years of experience with patients who were discharged from the emergency 
department with a known prior diagnosis of angina or myocardial infarction (89%) 
and patients who had been admitted and found to have acute myocardial infarction 
(85%), angina (87%), or other cardiovascular diagnoses (87%). Patients who were 
discharged from either the hospital or the emergency department without 
cardiovascular diagnoses had an excellent prognosis. Multivariate Cox regression 
analysis identified 5 independent correlates of cardiovascular mortality after 
discharge: age, prior history of coronary disease, ischemic changes on the 
emergency department electrocardiogram, congestive heart failure and cardiogenic 
shock. These findings indicate that the postdischarge cardiovascular mortality 
of patients with chest pain who are discharged from the emergency department 
with a known history of coronary disease is similar to that of admitted patients 
with angina or myocardial infarction. These data suggest that the same types of 
prognostic evaluation strategies that have been developed for admitted patients 
with ischemic heart disease should also be considered when such patients present 
to the emergency department but are not admitted.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(92)91294-e
PMID: 1731449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Am J Med. 1992 Jan;92(1):45-52. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(92)90014-3.

The risks of blood transfusion: the relative influence of acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome and non-A, non-B hepatitis.

Carson JL(1), Russell LB, Taragin MI, Sonnenberg FA, Duff AE, Bauer S.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, University of Medicine and Dentistry, 
