New Jersey-Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick 08903.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1992 Nov;93(5):586.
    Am J Med. 1992 Sep;93(3):356-8.

PURPOSE: The acquired immunodeficiency syndrome epidemic has greatly increased 
concern about the risk of blood transfusion. Many transfusions are now 
autologous, and when these are not available, both physicians and patients are 
more likely to question the advisability of transfusion. We evaluate the risk of 
preoperative blood transfusion and the contribution of human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) infection to that risk.
METHODS: We used decision analysis to characterize the risk associated with HIV 
infection in days of life lost. The contributions to risk of acute transfusion 
reaction, hepatitis B, and non-A, non-B hepatitis are also estimated. 
Sensitivity analyses show the implications for transfusion risk of recent 
information about HIV infection in the blood supply and a new test for hepatitis 
C.
RESULTS: The analysis shows that the contribution of HIV infection to the risk 
of death from transfusion, expressed in days of life expectancy lost, has become 
extremely small over the last several years. Currently, HIV infection accounts 
for less than 1% of the risk of death, while non-A, non-B hepatitis accounts for 
97% to 98%. Further reductions in the risk of HIV infection, even to zero, will 
make relatively little difference in the safety of transfusion. The analysis 
also shows that the remaining risk from transfusion should decrease sharply, by 
more than two thirds, with the adoption of the test for hepatitis C.
CONCLUSIONS: Efforts to improve the safety of blood should focus on reducing the 
risk of non-A, non-B hepatitis. The remaining risk of HIV infection is very 
small.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(92)90014-3
PMID: 1731509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. JAMA. 1992 Feb 12;267(6):816-22.

The benefits of treating hyperlipidemia to prevent coronary heart disease. 
Estimating changes in life expectancy and morbidity.

Grover SA(1), Abrahamowicz M, Joseph L, Brewer C, Coupal L, Suissa S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cardiovascular Risk Assessment, Montreal General Hospital, Quebec, 
Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the lifetime benefits of reducing total serum cholesterol 
levels to prevent coronary heart disease (CHD).
DESIGN: We developed a CHD primary prevention computer model to estimate the 
benefits associated with lifelong risk factor modification. We validated the 
model by comparing the computer estimates with the observed results of three 
primary CHD prevention trials.
PATIENTS: Men and women age 35 to 65 years who are free of CHD, with total serum 
cholesterol levels ranging from 5.2 to 7.8 mmol/L (200 to 300 mg/dL), with or 
without additional CHD risk factors.
INTERVENTIONS: Serum cholesterol reduction through dietary modification or diet 
and medications.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Changes in life expectancy and the delay of symptomatic 
CHD.
RESULTS: The computer forecasts for CHD end points closely matched the observed 
results of the Lipid Research Clinics Trial, the Helsinki Heart Study, and 
MRFIT. We then applied the computer model to low-risk and high-risk men and 
women with total serum cholesterol levels between 5.2 and 7.8 mmol/L (200 and 
300 mg/dL) and estimated that, after reducing serum cholesterol levels 5% to 
33%, the average life expectancy would increase by 0.03 to 3.16 years. We also 
forecast that the average onset of symptomatic CHD would be delayed among these 
patient groups by 0.06 to 4.98 years.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that this computer model accurately estimates the 
results of clinical trials and can be used to forecast the changes in life 
expectancy and morbidity (the development of CHD) associated with specific CHD 
risk reduction interventions. The wide variation surrounding these estimates 
underscores the need to better define which groups of individuals will gain the 
most from cholesterol reduction.

PMID: 1732653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Leuk Res. 1992;16(1):109-15. doi: 10.1016/0145-2126(92)90109-k.

Prognostic factors in the myelodysplastic syndromes.

Tricot GJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Indiana University Medical Center, Indianapolis.

The myelodysplastic syndromes are acquired clonal hematologic malignancies 
characterized by progressive cytopenia and an increased risk of evolution to 
acute myeloid leukemia. It mainly affects elderly people, but may also be found 
in younger patients and children. MDS represents a heterogeneous group of 
disorders. Some patients will experience prolonged survival, whereas a 
substantial number of patients will die within the first year after diagnosis. 
Treatment of patients should be based on life expectancy. Patients with 
pancytopenia, excess of bone marrow blasts, complex chromosome abnormalities, 
abnormal chromosome 7, older age and secondary MDS have a poor prognosis. 
Several simple scoring systems are available, based on peripheral counts, 
percent of bone marrow blasts and age, that provide significant prognostic 
information about life expectancy in patients with MDS. The most widely used is 
the Bournemouth scoring system. The prognostic factors and the scoring systems 
are reviewed.

DOI: 10.1016/0145-2126(92)90109-k
PMID: 1732663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Life Sci. 1992;50(5):327-34. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(92)90433-p.

Microtubule functions.

Avila J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Biología Molecular (CSIC-UAM), Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 
Spain.

Microtubules, with intermediate filaments and microfilaments, are the components 
of the cell skeleton which determinates the shape of a cell. Microtubules are 
involved in different functions including the assembly of mitotic spindle, in 
dividing cells, or axon extension, in neurons. In the first case, microtubules 
are highly dynamic, while in the second case microtubules are quite stable, 
suggesting that microtubule with different physical properties (stability) are 
involved in different functions. Thus, to understand the mechanisms of 
microtubule functions it is very important to understand microtubule dynamics. 
Historically, tubulin, the main component of microtubules, was first 
characterized as the major component of the mitotic spindle that binds to 
colchicine. Afterwards, it was found that tubulin is particularly more abundant 
in brain than in other tissues. Therefore, the roles of microtubules in mitosis, 
and in neurons, have been more extensively analyzed and, in this review, these 
roles will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(92)90433-p
PMID: 1732704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Neurology. 1992 Jan;42(1):111-5. doi: 10.1212/wnl.42.1.111.

Prevention of stroke with ticlopidine: who benefits most? TASS Baseline and 
Angiographic Data Subgroup.

Grotta JC(1), Norris JW, Kamm B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Texas Medical School, Houston 77030.

We examined the baseline characteristics of patients in the Ticlopidine Aspirin 
Stroke Study (TASS) to determine if the effects of the two treatments in 
preventing stroke differed in various subgroups. Patients with the following 
characteristics did less well on aspirin: elevated creatinine, hypertension or 
diabetes requiring treatment, or treatment with anticoagulant or antiplatelet 
drugs prior to their qualifying TIA or stroke. Women and patients with 
vertebrobasilar symptoms did particularly well on ticlopidine. We performed 
arteriography in 1,188 patients with carotid qualifying events. The frequency of 
stroke in patients with abnormal arteriograms ipsilateral to their symptoms was 
slightly higher than in those with normal carotid arteries. Ticlopidine was more 
effective in patients without carotid stenosis. Ticlopidine is more effective 
than aspirin in preventing strokes in patients having warning TIAs. The patients 
who benefit most from ticlopidine may be women, those who have vertebrobasilar 
symptoms, those with cerebral ischemic symptoms while on aspirin or 
anticoagulant therapy, and patients with diffuse atherosclerotic disease rather 
than high-grade carotid stenosis.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.42.1.111
PMID: 1734290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Pediatrics. 1992 Feb;89(2):240-6.

Lupus nephritis: prognostic factors in children.

McCurdy DK(1), Lehman TJ, Bernstein B, Hanson V, King KK, Nadorra R, Landing BH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Childrens Hospital of Los Angeles, CA.

Comment in
    Pediatrics. 1992 Oct;90(4):652-3.

As newer treatment modalities become available for patients with severe lupus 
nephritis, it becomes increasingly important to identify patients at risk for 
renal failure. In this study, the records of 90 children presenting with 
systemic lupus erythematosus over a 13-year period were reviewed. Nineteen were 
lost to follow-up prior to completion of the study. Of the 71 remaining 
children, 16 (22%) progressed to chronic renal failure. Persistent hypertension 
lasting greater than 4 months, anemia, abnormalities of the urinalysis, and 
elevated serum creatinine level were significantly associated with progression 
to renal failure. Sex, race, age, abnormalities of creatinine clearance, and 
24-hour urine protein collection were not associated with progression to renal 
failure. Renal biopsies were obtained in 45 children. Biopsies were initially 
classified according to World Health Organization criteria. Diffuse 
proliferative glomerulonephritis was significantly associated with progression 
to renal failure. The 45 biopsies available were reviewed by one of the authors 
and categorized by activity and chronicity indices. Both the active lesions of 
fibrinoid necrosis, synechiae, tubular casts, and vasculitic lesions and the 
chronic lesion of glomerular sclerosis correlated with progression to renal 
failure. Of the 16 children who progressed to renal failure, 2 had cadaver 
kidney transplants and are well 5 years posttransplant; 4 had fulminant lupus 
and died within 1 month of commencing dialysis; 10 began chronic dialysis. Five 
of the 10 children on chronic dialysis died from sepsis. These data suggest that 
children with systemic lupus erythematosus who undergo dialysis do 
poorly.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1734390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. West J Med. 1992 Jan;156(1):50-1.

Health behavior and experiences of physicians. Results of a survey of Palo Alto 
Medical Clinic physicians.

Bortz WM 2nd(1).

Author information:
(1)Palo Alto Medical Foundation, CA 94301.

Comment in
    West J Med. 1992 Apr;156(4):437.

The results of a health practice questionnaire submitted to the 152 physician 
members of the Palo Alto Medical Clinic, 126 of whom responded, indicate a 
generally favorable profile of preventive medicine strategies. Physicians 
generally smoke less, drink about the same, exercise more, and use their seat 
belts more than the population at large. They also can expect to live longer. 
These results are compared with those of other physician surveys and surveys of 
the general public.

PMCID: PMC1003146
PMID: 1734598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Dig Dis Sci. 1992 Mar;37(3):385-90. doi: 10.1007/BF01307732.

Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs and mortality from peptic ulceration in West 
Germany: 1952-1989.

Katschinski BD(1), Zachewicz H, Goebell H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University Hospital, Essen, Germany.

Previous epidemiological studies have examined peptic ulcer mortality in West 
Germany until 1980 and reported decreasing mortality rates for young and 
middle-aged people and increasing mortality rates for elderly people. Data on 
ulcer mortality until 1989 show that these trends have continued. The rise in 
mortality rates in the oldest age groups could be explained partially by their 
greater life expectancy, thus increasing the risk of lethal ulcer complications. 
Analysis of NSAID consumption in relation to the mortality pattern shows that 
there is an inverse correlation between NSAID consumption as measured by the 
number of prescriptions and peptic ulcer mortality. It is concluded that NSAID 
consumption is not responsible for the mortality pattern of peptic ulcer in West 
Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01307732
PMID: 1735362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1992;64(1):84-91. doi: 10.1007/BF00376446.

Determinants of isometric muscle strength in men of different ages.

Era P(1), Lyyra AL, Viitasalo JT, Heikkinen E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Jyväskylä, Finland.

Values of maximal isometric strength of five muscle groups and associated 
factors including occupational status, life style and health were studied in 
three groups of men aged from 31 to 35, 51 to 55, and 71 to 75 years. The 
results indicated significant differences between the age groups in isometric 
handgrip, elbow flexion, knee extension, trunk extension and trunk flexion 
strength. In the youngest group, the manual workers tended to have higher 
strength values in all muscle groups than the lower and higher status white 
collar workers, whereas among the middle-aged and oldest men the manual workers 
tended to have the poorest performance. Good self-rated health and the intensity 
of physical exercise during leisure were positively associated with muscle 
strength in the youngest and middle-aged groups whereas in the oldest group the 
most important variable was home gymnastics. The multivariate structural 
equation models of isometric strength differed somewhat among the age groups and 
in these models the above-mentioned variables accounted for from 33% to 43% of 
the variance in isometric strength within the age groups. The results 
illustrated the most important factors associated with isometric strength in 
samples of men of different ages and also provided suggestions as to how these 
determinants might influence comparisons between different age groups in respect 
of muscle strength.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00376446
PMID: 1735418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Eur J Biochem. 1992 Feb 1;203(3):415-23. doi: 
10.1111/j.1432-1033.1992.tb16565.x.

Structure of yeast pGKL 128-kDa killer-toxin secretion signal sequence. 
Processing of the 128-kDa killer-toxin-secretion-signal-alpha-amylase fusion 
protein.

Tokunaga M(1), Kawamura A, Omori A, Hishinuma F.

Author information:
(1)Laboratories of Molecular Genetics, Mitsubishi Kasei Institute of Life 
Sciences, Tokyo, Japan.

The linear double-stranded DNA plasmid pGKL1 in yeast encodes a killer toxin 
consisting of 97-kDa, 31-kDa and 28-kDa subunits. A 128-kDa protein precursor of 
the 97-kDa and 31-kDa subunits, was first synthesized with a 29-amino-acid 
extension at its NH2-terminus as a secretion signal sequence. In the present 
study, the property of this signal sequence was studied by the analysis of a 
fusion protein with mouse alpha-amylase. Using the secretion signal sequence of 
the killer protein, the mouse alpha-amylase was successfully secreted into the 
culture medium. An intracellular precursor form of alpha-amylase was identified 
and purified. Analysis of the NH2-terminal sequence of this precursor molecule 
indicated that it corresponded to the secretory intermediate (pro form) of 
alpha-amylase with the removal of the hydrophobic segment (Met1-Gly16) of the 
secretion signal. Both the secretion of alpha-amylase into the culture medium 
and the detection of the pro-alpha-amylase species in the cells were prohibited 
by a sec 11 mutation, or by the conversion of Gly to Val at the 16th position of 
the secretion signal. These results strongly suggest that the cleavage occurs 
between Gly16 and Leu17 by a signal peptidase, and that this cleavage is 
required for the secretion of alpha-amylase into the medium. Based on the data 
from the NH2-terminal amino acid sequences of secreted alpha-amylases, we 
conclude that the 29-amino-acid secretion signal present in the 128-kDa killer 
toxin precursor protein is a prepro structure.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-1033.1992.tb16565.x
PMID: 1735428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Fertil Steril. 1992 Feb;57(2):290-3.

In vitro fertilization in unstimulated cycles: the University of Southern 
California experience.

Paulson RJ(1), Sauer MV, Francis MM, Macaso TM, Lobo RA.

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California School of Medicine, Los Angeles.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the clinical experience of our center with in vitro 
fertilization (IVF) in unstimulated cycles and to provide a comparison to 
stimulated cycles.
DESIGN: Spontaneous ovulatory cycles were triggered with human chorionic 
gonadotropin in the midcycle, and 78 aspirations for IVF were performed, with 
the remainder of the IVF cycle proceeding in a standard manner.
SETTING: The IVF program of the University of Southern California and the 
California Medical Center, Los Angeles, California.
PATIENTS: Spontaneously ovulatory women (n = 46) with predominantly pelvic 
factor as their principal cause of infertility, under the age of 40, and no male 
factor.
INTERVENTIONS: Human chorionic gonadotropin administration in midcycle, follicle 
aspiration, IVF, and embryo transfer.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Embryo implantation and pregnancy.
RESULTS: Seventy-eight follicle aspirations resulted in 11 clinical (14%) and 9 
ongoing (12%) pregnancies. The per embryo implantation rate was 13% clinical and 
11% ongoing. There was no decrease in per cycle pregnancy rates (PRs) for up to 
three unstimulated cycles.
CONCLUSIONS: Unstimulated IVF is a viable alternative to stimulated cycles with 
PRs approximately one half those of stimulated cycles. It is reasonable to offer 
patients up to three cycles of unstimulated IVF without expecting a decrease in 
PRs.

PMID: 1735477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Int J Health Serv. 1992;22(1):139-56. doi: 10.2190/HMXD-PNQF-2X2L-C8TR.

Kerala State, India: radical reform as development.

Franke RW(1), Chasin BH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Montclair State College, NJ 07043.

Kerala State in southwestern India has achieved some of the third world's best 
rates of life expectancy, literacy, and infant mortality, despite one of the 
lowest per capita incomes. Especially notable is the nearly equal distribution 
of development benefits to urban, rural, male, female, high-caste, and low-caste 
sections of the populations. An even population distribution, a cosmopolitan 
trading history, and the development of militant worker and small farmer 
organizations led by dedicated activists provide the main explanations for 
Kerala's achievements. Land reform has redistributed wealth and political power 
from a rich elite to small holders and landless laborers. Public food 
distribution at controlled prices, large-scale public health actions, accessible 
medical facilities, and widespread literacy combine with and reinforce each 
other to maintain and expand Kerala's achievements. Serious unemployment 
threatens the Kerala experiment, but Kerala nonetheless offers important lessons 
to development planners, policymakers, and third world activists.

DOI: 10.2190/HMXD-PNQF-2X2L-C8TR
PMID: 1735622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Feb;15(2):344-50; discussion 351-3.

Intraabdominal paraanastomotic aneurysms after aortic bypass grafting.

Edwards JM(1), Teefey SA, Zierler RE, Kohler TR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Seattle Veterans Affairs Medical Center, WA 98108.

Although the reported incidence of intraabdominal paraanastomotic aneurysms 
after abdominal aortic bypass grafting ranges from 1% to 15%, the true incidence 
is unknown because few studies have used routine, serial radiographic or 
sonographic imaging studies. Since July 1, 1988, we have used yearly abdominal 
sonography examinations to monitor our patients with aortic grafts. In the first 
33 months we studied 138 patients. Medical records of 111 of these were 
available for review and form the basis of this report. Eleven patients (10%) 
were found to have intraabdominal paraanastomotic aneurysms ranging in overall 
size from 4.1 to 6.2 cm (mean, 5.0 +/- 0.7 cm). The mean time between operation 
and detection of an aneurysm was 144 +/- 101 months (range, 8 to 336 months). 
Three paraanastomotic aneurysms occurred within 3 years of operation, and the 
remaining eight occurred late (7 to 28 years). By life-table analysis, the 
incidence of paraanastomotic aneurysms was 27% at 15 years. Paraanastomotic 
aneurysms were classified as either pseudoaneurysms (presumed disruption of the 
anastomotic suture line, n = 7) or as true aneurysms (widening of the adjacent 
aorta, n = 4). True aneurysms occurred only after repair of an abdominal aortic 
aneurysm, whereas pseudoaneurysms were more frequent after bypass for occlusive 
disease. The finding of paraanastomotic aneurysms in 10% of our patients 
supports the use of yearly sonography for routine follow-up after aortic 
grafting.

PMID: 1735895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Feb;15(2):385-91; discussion 392-3. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1992.33848.

Surgical management of severe acute lower extremity ischemia.

Yeager RA(1), Moneta GL, Taylor LM Jr, Hamre DW, McConnell DB, Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland.

Seventy-four patients (70 men [95%], 4 women [5%], mean age, 63 years) with 
severe, acute lower limb ischemia (acute clinical deterioration and absent pedal 
Doppler signals) caused by either arterial thrombosis (n = 68) or embolism (n = 
6) underwent urgent surgical management consisting of operative 
revascularization with or without amputation in 67 patients (91%) and primary 
amputation alone in 7 patients (9%). Sixty-one patients (82%) had severely 
threatened limb viability, and 13 (18%) had major irreversible ischemic limb 
changes at presentation. Eighty-six percent of patients were initially 
anticoagulated with heparin. Seventy percent underwent preoperative angiography. 
Surgical revascularization included 42 inflow and 20 outflow arterial 
reconstructions and 9 thrombectomy or embolectomy procedures. Mean follow-up was 
17 months (range, 0 to 64). Life-table primary patency at 36 months for arterial 
reconstructions was 81% for inflow and 78% for outflow procedures. Cumulative 
limb salvage was 70% at 1 month and 68% at 36 months. Patient survival was 85% 
at 1 month and 51% at 36 months. No death was directly attributable to 
complications related to limb reperfusion, and no patient required dialysis for 
myoglobinuria. We conclude that management of severe, acute lower limb ischemia 
with early amputation of nonviable limbs and heparinization, angiography, and 
prompt operative revascularization for threatened but viable extremities 
minimizes morbidity and mortality rates, while maximizing limb salvage. These 
results may be useful for comparison with comparable groups of patients treated 
with thrombolytic or endovascular modalities.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1992.33848
PMID: 1735899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. J Vasc Surg. 1992 Feb;15(2):402-7; discussion 407-8.

Is long vein bypass from groin to ankle a durable procedure? An analysis of a 
ten-year experience.

Shah DM(1), Darling RC 3rd, Chang BB, Kaufman JL, Fitzgerald KM, Leather RP.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Section, Albany Medical College, Albany, NY 12208.

Long vein bypass from the femoral artery to the level of the ankle may be 
performed with good initial success despite extreme bypass length and limited 
outflow tracts. However, the long-term performance of these bypasses remains to 
be defined. During the last 10 years we have performed single greater saphenous 
vein in situ bypass to the ankle level in 270 patients. There were 187 male and 
83 female patients, and 61% of the patients were diabetic. The operative 
mortality rate was 3.7%. Cumulative bypass patency was 79% at 3 years and 73% at 
5 years. In a similar manner, limb salvage was 93% at 3 years and 89% at 5 
years. The patency rate was similar for various inflow arteries (common femoral, 
88 cases; proximal superficial femoral, 135 cases; and deep femoral, 41 cases) 
and outflow tracts (dorsal pedal, 72 cases; anterior tibial, 59 cases; posterior 
tibial, 72 cases, and peroneal, 67 cases). Short bypasses, composite bypasses, 
free-vein grafts, and bypasses proximal to 10 cm above the ankle were excluded 
from this analysis. These data show that a long bypass to the ankle level for 
limb salvage is a durable procedure. The basic concept of bypassing all 
occlusive disease to the distal open artery in patients undergoing limb salvage 
should be an acceptable dictum. Excellent long-term patency and limb salvage 
rates are achievable by following this principle.

PMID: 1735901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Br J Surg. 1992 Jan;79(1):47-9. doi: 10.1002/bjs.1800790115.

Hepatic transplantation in children using reduced size allografts.

Badger IL(1), Czerniak A, Beath S, Tisone G, Deakin M, Sherlock DJ, Kelly DA, 
McMaster P, Buckels JA.

Author information:
(1)Liver Unit, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Edgbaston, Birmingham, UK.

The shortage of paediatric liver donors has led to the use of reduced size 
hepatic allografts. Between July 1987 and July 1990, 30 reduced size orthotopic 
liver transplantations were performed in 24 children aged between 3 months and 7 
years. All patients were in advanced chronic or acute liver failure and were 
considered unlikely to survive for long enough for a size-matched donor to 
become available. The most common indication was biliary atresia. The median 
intraoperative blood loss was 75 (range 13-1015) ml kg-1. Nine patients have 
died and seven have undergone retransplantation, four successfully. Seven 
patients had portal vein hypoplasia with a high graft failure rate due to 
ischaemic infarction. There was significant morbidity from biliary tract 
complications, leading to further operations in four cases. The 1-year actuarial 
survival rate was 62 per cent.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.1800790115
PMID: 1737273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. J Biosoc Sci. 1992 Jan;24(1):1-8. doi: 10.1017/s002193200000674x.

Characterisation of health and social development.

Almeida RM(1), Thamer M, Attinger EO.

Author information:
(1)University of Virginia, Health Sciences Center, Charlottesville.

The relative performance of less developed countries in their health, 
demographic and economic sectors was assessed by means of comparative indices 
constructed with the help of a factor analysis. This approach reduces the 
problems usually associated with such indices, like the arbitrary weighting of 
their components.

PIP: A new method of comparing the performance of developing countries, similar 
to the physical quality of life index, was developed using factor analysis of 
the social, demographic, economic and health variables weighted by their 
loadings of the factor they represented. Data were taken from the World Health 
Organization, the World Bank, and the United Nations Research Institute for 
Social Development for 67 countries. For each year countries were classified as 
developed, transitional and less developed, using an infant mortality of 50/1000 
and combined life expectancy of 65 years as the cut-off. First the factors 
explaining most of the variance were selected in each category, then countries 
were ranked. The most important factors were for health: life expectancy, crude 
death rate, infant mortality; for social: literacy; for demography: population 
growth rate, percentage of non-working age population, and crude birth rate; for 
economics: gross domestic product, energy consumption, and rate of urbanization. 
Countries that moved from less developed to developed were not necessarily 
first-ranked in economic factors, e.g., China and Sri Lanka improved in health 
indices, while Costa Rica improved in demographic indices. This method provides 
a way to compare common and distinctive features of countries without using 
arbitrary criteria.

DOI: 10.1017/s002193200000674x
PMID: 1737805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. J Biosoc Sci. 1992 Jan;24(1):17-24. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000006763.

Measurement of post-partum amenorrhoea in Bangladesh.

Rahman MM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Chittagong, Bangladesh.

Reported information on the duration of post-partum amenorrhoea usually shows 
considerable number preference, particularly at 6-monthly intervals. This paper 
presents a technique for smoothing such amenorrhoea data using a modified 
exponential curve. An attempt has also been made to estimate the average number 
of months a mother is expected to remain amenorrhoeic.

PIP: A researcher used data on about 4,000 women from the 1975 Bangladesh 
Fertility Survey (part of the World Fertility Survey) to illustrate a technique 
to smooth amenorrhea data since the mothers preferred to report 6 month 
intervals and ton construct an amenorrhea life table for mothers from 
Bangladesh. Specifically he categorized women by marriage cohort and used 7, 13, 
19, 25, 31, 37, 43, and 49 month durations for the life table and to modify an 
exponential curve to smooth the amenorrhea data. He further broke down the 
durations to 1 month when he compared women married between 1945-1949 and 
1960-1964 for 2 amenorrhea life tables. When he plotted the observed and 
estimated values, he learned that a shift in the percentage of women 
experiencing postpartum amenorrhea for lower durations (up to 7 months) occurred 
over time. Further the estimates of the amenorrhea life tables confirmed that 
the duration of postpartum amenorrhea has fallen. In addition, these tables 
showed that 50% of the women began menstruating again around month 9 postpartum 
and that, by month 33 postpartum, 90% did. In conclusion, the modified 
exponential curves appeared to be sound for smoothing postpartum amenorrhea data 
in Bangladesh.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000006763
PMID: 1737811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. J Biosoc Sci. 1992 Jan;24(1):89-95. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000006829.

Correlation between subsequent lengths of postpartum amenorrhoea in a 
prospective study of breast-feeding women in rural Bangladesh.

Ford K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Planning and International Health, School of Public 
Health, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

The relationship between subsequent lengths of lactational amenorrhoea for 
individual women in a prospective study of breast-feeding women in Bangladesh 
was studied. The data indicate that previous length of amenorrhoea has 
significant predictive value for the subsequent length of amenorrhoea. 
Information on previous experience with lactational amenorrhoea should be 
therefore incorporated into guidelines for the introduction of family planning 
during lactation.

PIP: A researcher drew from 1975-1979 prospective data on about 2500 women from 
14 villages in rural Matlab, Bangladesh to determine the relationship between 
subsequent durations of lactational amenorrhea in breast feeding women. The life 
table analysis included 1852 postpartum amenorrhea intervals. The median 
interval was 14.66 months for all births and 15.5 months when infant deaths were 
excluded. The median duration of postpartum amenorrhea for all women who 
remained amenorrheic after a live birth was 15.68 months and for 2nd and later 
births it was 13.74 months. The shorter the prior interval, the greater was the 
risk of quick resumption of menstruation. In fact, the relative risk (RR) was 9 
for women with an earlier interval of 6 months (p.01), 5 for those with a 6-12 
month interval (p.01), and 2.5 for those with a 13-18 month interval (p.05). 
Years of schooling had a significant effect on resumption of menstruation 
(p.01), but the researcher could not determine if it was due to other aspects of 
differences in patterns of breast feeding by socioeconomic status. She did not 
directly measure frequency and duration of each feeding. The introduction of 
solid food supplementation did not affect resumption of menstruation at all. In 
conclusion, the researcher recommended that since previous length of postpartum 
amenorrhea had a considerable predictive effect on subsequent lengths of 
postpartum amenorrhea, family planning workers should include previous 
experience with postpartum amenorrhea to algorithms for the introduction of 
contraception during lactation.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000006829
PMID: 1737817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. J Clin Epidemiol. 1992 Jan;45(1):17-9. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(92)90183-n.

The "Intervention Index": insufficient information.

Kottke TE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Mayo Clinic and Foundation, Rochester, MN 55905.

Comment on
    J Clin Epidemiol. 1992 Jan;45(1):21-9.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(92)90183-n
PMID: 1738007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. J Neurosurg. 1992 Mar;76(3):450-4. doi: 10.3171/jns.1992.76.3.0450.

Diffuse brain swelling in severely head-injured children. A report from the NIH 
Traumatic Coma Data Bank.

Aldrich EF(1), Eisenberg HM, Saydjari C, Luerssen TG, Foulkes MA, Jane JA, 
Marshall LF, Marmarou A, Young HF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston.

In this study, data were prospectively collected from 753 patients (111 children 
and 642 adults) with severe head injury and examined for evidence of diffuse 
brain swelling and its association with outcome. Diffuse brain swelling occurred 
approximately twice as often in children (aged 16 years or younger) as in 
adults. A high mortality rate (53%) was found in these children, which was three 
times that of the children without diffuse brain swelling (16%). Adults with 
diffuse brain swelling had a mortality rate (46%) similar to that of children, 
but only slightly higher than that for adults without diffuse brain swelling 
(39%). When the diagnosis of diffuse brain swelling was expanded to include 
patients with diffuse brain swelling plus small parenchymal hemorrhages (less 
than 15 cu cm), these mortality rates were virtually unchanged.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1992.76.3.0450
PMID: 1738026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Nurs Times. 1992 Jan 8-14;88(2):51.

Changes in the year before death 1969-87.

Cartwright A.

PMID: 1738654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Ann Intern Med. 1992 Mar 15;116(6):499-504. doi:
10.7326/0003-4819-116-6-499.

The health transition in developing countries: a role for internists from the 
developed world.

Escovitz GH(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

Demographic and epidemiologic changes that have occurred in the past five 
decades in many developing countries provide new opportunities for internists 
from developed countries to contribute to improvements in international health. 
These changes, called the "health transition," are characterized by major growth 
in the number and proportion of middle-aged and elderly persons and in the 
frequency of the chronic diseases that occur in these age groups. The health 
transition is the result of concentrated national and international efforts to 
improve maternal and child health by emphasizing primary care and 
community-organized outreach services. In many developing countries, such 
efforts have been responsible for a decrease in the birth rate; reduced maternal 
mortality; improved preventive services; and a vigorous therapeutic approach to 
infantile diarrhea and respiratory infection, which, in turn, have resulted in 
the reduced infant mortality and the increased life expectancy that defines the 
health transition. These changes, often accompanied by increasing urbanization 
and industrialization, are creating health problems similar to those seen in the 
"developed" world but are occurring in countries that have far fewer resources. 
Internists interested in working in developing countries can therefore bring 
their skills, experience, and perspective to bear on these problems, primarily 
by working within well-structured programs, the aim of which is to strengthen 
the capacity of the organizations and institutions within these countries to 
cope with the rising tide of chronic adult diseases.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-116-6-499
PMID: 1739241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Fertil Steril. 1992 Mar;57(3):559-64. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)54900-0.

Intrauterine insemination outperforms intracervical insemination in a 
randomized, controlled study with frozen, donor semen.

Patton PE(1), Burry KA, Thurmond A, Novy MJ, Wolf DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oregon Health Sciences University, 
Portland.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of intrauterine insemination (IUI) in a donor 
insemination program.
DESIGN: Prospective randomized clinical trial.
SETTING: Donor insemination program.
PATIENTS, PARTICIPANTS: Women undergoing insemination were randomly assigned to 
receive either IUI or intracervical insemination for a maximum of six cycles.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Cycle fecundity rates between the two routes were 
compared.
RESULTS: The monthly fecundity rate for intracervical insemination was 5.1% 
compared with 23% by IUI. By life table analysis, pregnancy rates for IUI were 
significantly higher than intracervical insemination (P = 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: Intrauterine insemination with quarantined donor sperm is superior 
to intracervical insemination.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)54900-0
PMID: 1740198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Andrologia. 1991 May-Jun;23(3):219-21. doi:
10.1111/j.1439-0272.1991.tb02541.x.

Male alcohol consumption and fecundity in couples attending an infertility 
clinic.

Dunphy BC(1), Barratt CL, Cooke ID.

Author information:
(1)Harris Birthright Centre for Reproductive Medicine, Jessop Hospital for 
Women, Sheffield, United Kingdom.

The relationship between male alcohol intake and fertility was studied for 258 
couples attending an infertility clinic. 21% consumed less than 1 unit per week 
on average, 10% consumed between 1 and 5 units per week, 23% consumed between 6 
and 10 units per week, 27% consumed 11 to 20 units per week and 19% consumed 
more than 20 units per week. There was no significant association between 
alcohol consumption and any semen parameter. 110 men had a female partner who 
was apparently normal. There was no significant difference in the alcohol intake 
between the 'normal' and 'abnormal' female groups. Couples were followed-up for 
up to 32 months. Sixteen women had a treatment independent conception within the 
'normal' female group. There was no significant association between the amount 
of alcohol consumed per week and the fertility outcome.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0272.1991.tb02541.x
PMID: 1741485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Andrologia. 1991 May-Jun;23(3):223-5. doi:
10.1111/j.1439-0272.1991.tb02542.x.

Male cigarette smoking and fecundity in couples attending an infertility clinic.

Dunphy BC(1), Barratt CL, von Tongelen BP, Cooke ID.

Author information:
(1)Harris Birthright Centre for Reproductive Medicine, Jessop Hospital for 
Women, Sheffield, United Kingdom.

The relationship between male cigarette smoking and fertility was studied for 
330 couples attending an infertility clinic. 59% did not smoke, 10% smoked 
between 1 and 5 per day, 8% smoked between 6 and 10 per day, 16% smoked 11-20 
per day and 7% smoked more than 20 per day. There was no significant association 
between smoking and any semen parameter. 138 men had a female partner who was 
apparently normal. There was no significant difference in smoking habits between 
the 'normal' and 'abnormal' female groups. Couples were followed-up for up to 32 
months. Nineteen women had a treatment independent conception within the 
'normal' female group. There was no significant association between the number 
of cigarettes smoked and the fertility outcome.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0272.1991.tb02542.x
PMID: 1741486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Andrologia. 1991 May-Jun;23(3):251-4. doi:
10.1111/j.1439-0272.1991.tb02551.x.

Intrauterine insemination with semen of oligozoospermic men: effectiveness of 
the continuous-step density gradient centrifugation technique.

Kobayashi T(1), Sato H, Kaneko S, Aoki R, Ohno T, Nozawa S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Keio University, School of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan.

There has been an argument as to whether the intrauterine insemination (IUI) 
substantially improves pregnancy rate in cases of oligoasthenozoospermia. The 
present study evaluates the efficiency of the IUI with the use of the life table 
analysis. The insemination was performed after washing and concentrating sperm 
using the continuous-step density gradient centrifugation reported in our 
previous papers. The number of IUI cycles studied was 222 (46 couples), in 13 
cases of which pregnancy was established with a pregnancy rate of 28.3%. The 
cumulative probability of conception reached to 57% at the eleventh cycles of 
the IUI treatment. These results suggest that the potential efficiency of the 
IUI for the oligo-asthenozoospermic cases is high if the sperm is processed in a 
proper method.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0272.1991.tb02551.x
PMID: 1741492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1991 Dec;144(6):1357-60. doi: 10.1164/ajrccm/144.6.1357.

Isoniazid preventive therapy for tuberculosis. Decision analysis considering 
ethnicity and gender.

Jordan TJ(1), Lewit EM, Reichman LB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, New Jersey Medical School, University of 
Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Newark.

Comment in
    Am Rev Respir Dis. 1992 Oct;146(4):1118-9.

The decision to prescribe or withhold isoniazid (INH) preventive therapy for 
low-risk tuberculin reactors has been highly controversial, primarily due to 
isoniazid's possible hepatotoxic effects. Previous analyses have explored the 
INH decision only from the perspective of patient age, recognizing that the 
risks of INH-induced hepatotoxicity are age related. Decision analyses presented 
in this paper assess the impact of gender and ethnic group, as well as age, on 
the INH decision. Results for low-risk patients favor prescribing INH preventive 
therapy for all 20-yr-olds, all 35-yr-olds except black women, and no 
50-yr-olds, projecting life expectancy benefits that range from 3 to 19 days. A 
comparison set of analyses performed for high-risk patients favors prescribing 
INH for all groups except 50-yr-old black women. These findings suggest that 
ethnicity, gender, and age should be considered when making the decision to 
prescribe or withhold INH preventive therapy.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm/144.6.1357
PMID: 1741549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Ann Ital Med Int. 1991 Jan-Mar;6(1 Pt 2):126-36.

The late complications of diabetes mellitus.

Squadrito G(1), Cucinotta D.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Medicina Interna, Università degli Studi di Messina, Italy.

Late complications of diabetes mellitus include a variety of clinical pictures, 
mainly related to the involvement of the arterial wall both of large vessels 
(macroangiopathy) and small vessels (microangiopathy), and of the peripheral 
nervous system (neuropathy). Their presence in almost all types of diabetes 
indicates that there is a common pathogenetic mechanism, which can be 
substantially identified in high blood glucose levels and related alterations. 
Hyperglycemia, in fact, leads to some metabolic abnormalities, i.e. 
non-enzymatic glycosylation of proteins and polyol pathway activity; moreover it 
can negatively affect the pattern of some hormones, especially GH and sex 
steroids, and normal rheological and clotting properties of blood. These 
abnormalities, confirmed by experimental models, play a key role in the 
development of late diabetic complications. However some evidence indicates that 
a genetic background may predispose to their development or protect from their 
onset. The two main forms of diabetic retinopathy, non-proliferative and 
proliferative, show an incidence which increases with age and duration of 
diabetes, reaching 100% when diabetes lasts for more than 20 years. The risk of 
blindness, which is very high for the proliferative form, has been dramatically 
reduced by laser-photocoagulation. Diabetic nephropathy affects a lesser number 
of diabetics but, after a silent or preclinical stage, leads to renal failure 
and subsequent replacement therapy. Strict metabolic control in the silent stage 
and later rigid anti-hypertensive treatment can prevent or retard the evolution 
of this complication. A close association has been observed between diabetes and 
hypertension, which can directly affect the onset and evolution of diabetic 
nephropathy, probably through a common genetic mechanism. Diabetic neuropathy 
has a wide variety of clinical manifestations, at somatic, autonomic and central 
levels and can greatly modify the quality and expectancy of life. However, the 
major cause of death in diabetic subjects is large vessel disease or 
macroangiopathy, which is similar to non-diabetic atherosclerosis regarding the 
main histopathological and clinical manifestations but has a much higher 
prevalence and severity. Finally, a specific cardiomyopathy has also been 
described in diabetes mellitus and can account for the high rate of heart 
failure observed in these patients.

PMID: 1742148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Ann Oncol. 1991 Oct;2(9):681-6. doi: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a058049.

A randomized, double-blinded study comparing six doses of batanopride 
(BMY-25801) with methylprednisolone in patients receiving moderately emetogenic 
chemotherapy.

Rusthoven J(1), Pater J, Kaizer L, Wilson K, Osoba D, Latreille J, Findlay B, 
Lofters WS, Warr D, Laberge F, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton Regional Cancer Centre, 
Canada.

Several agents in a new class of antiemetic compounds, 5-hydroxytryptamine 
(5-HT3) antagonists, have shown promise as effective antiemetics with fewer side 
effects than metoclopramide. One of these agents, batanopride, produced no 
severe toxicity at doses that prevented emesis due to chemotherapy in early 
Phase I trials. We conducted a randomized, double-blinded, 7 arm clinical trial 
to: (1) identify the presence of a dose-response for complete protection from 
emesis, and (2) compare batanopride with a standard antiemetic, 
methylprednisolone if a dose-response was found not to exist. Prior to 
chemotherapy, six patient groups each received a single intravenous dose of 
batanopride ranging from 0.2 to 6.0 mg/kg whereas a seventh group received 
methylprednisolone 250 mg intravenously. Chemotherapy-naïve cancer patients 
scheduled to receive moderately emetogenic chemotherapy were eligible. Primary 
treatment outcomes that were recorded and analyzed included the number of 
episodes of emesis, the time to the first episode of emesis as well as the 
frequency and severity of nausea. Two hundred and eight patients accrued between 
April 1989 and February 1990 were evaluable for response. A significant 
dose-response effect for complete protection from emesis was not seen over the 
first 24 hours after chemotherapy (p = 0.102). However, a linear dose-response 
effect for time to first emesis was evident in a multivariate analysis (p = 
0.029). While the highest batanopride dose group was associated with a higher 
complete protection rate (CPR) than the control group, this group also exhibited 
a higher incidence of diarrhea (p = 0.013), hypotension, and 
electrocardiographic abnormalities.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a058049
PMID: 1742224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Epilepsia. 1991 Nov-Dec;32(6):851-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1528-1157.1991.tb05541.x.

Natural history of recurrent seizures after resective surgery for epilepsy.

Wingkun EC(1), Awad IA, Lüders H, Awad CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, OH 44195.

Seizures persist or recur in 20-60% of patients after resective surgery for 
intractable partial epilepsy. Further information about the natural course of 
these seizures is lacking in the literature. During one decade of epilepsy 
surgery at a single institution, we identified 72 patients with recurrent 
postoperative seizures after resective procedures for epilepsy. Prospectively 
compiled seizure diaries, hospital records, and outpatient office records were 
reviewed and supplemented by telephone communications to assess subsequent 
seizure frequency. Follow-up data was available ranging from 6 months to 7 years 
5 months (mean 3 years 5 months). The likelihood of persistent seizures and 
recurrent intractability was examined with life-tables. Seizures recurred within 
the first postoperative year in 86% of patients and were similar to preoperative 
events in 74% of patients. After the first seizure recurrence, there was 80% 
likelihood of persistent seizures in the next 6 years and 40% likelihood of 
intractability (more than one seizure a month despite optimal medical therapy). 
The interval until recurrence within the first postoperative year did not affect 
the likelihood of subsequent seizures or intractability. Late seizure recurrence 
(after the first year) was not associated with any instances of subsequent 
intractability. Recurrent seizures after extratemporal resections were more 
likely to become persistent and intractable than seizures recurring after 
temporal resections. This information provides rational prognostication and 
assists in counseling patients with recurrent seizures after resective surgery 
for intractable epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1528-1157.1991.tb05541.x
PMID: 1743156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1991 Dec;17(6):609-14.

Breast cancer in elderly women: characteristics of the disease.

Nagadowska M(1), Kułakowski A.

