Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Maria Skłodowska-Curie Memorial Cancer 
Centre and Institute of Oncology, Warsaw, Poland.

The records of 325 women aged over 70 years, with breast cancer were reviewed to 
identify the characteristics of the disease in elderly women and to determine 
the eventual effect of age on its management. Over 50% of patients were in the 
advanced stage (stage III or IV). The percentage of inoperable cases increased 
with greater delay between the onset of first symptoms and the first medical 
consultation (Chi-square (chi 2) = 42.8 P less than 0.001), but the delay time 
did not influence relative survival rates. Axillary lymph node status, stage of 
the disease and recurrences were the major factors influencing survival. 
Postoperative complications were analysed. Other, co-existing diseases were 
found in a significant number of patients (145, 44.6%); they did not influence 
long term results but increased postoperative mortality and morbidity. We 
conclude that breast cancer in elderly women can be treated by appropriate 
surgical therapy if the patient's overall performance status is good. Advanced 
age alone is not a contra-indication to the relevant therapy, corresponding with 
the stage of the disease.

PMID: 1743310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Fertil Steril. 1991 Dec;56(6):1029-33.

Effects of vehicle supplementation on total estradiol absorption from a 
transdermal estradiol delivery system.

Smith RD(1), Robinson DE, Delignieres B, Albertson BD, Tomai TP, Zinaman MJ, 
Simon JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Georgetown University School of 
Medicine, Washington, D.C. 20007.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effects of vehicle supplementation on serum estradiol 
(E2) delivery pharmacokinetics from the Ciba-Geigy (Summit, NJ) 0.1-mg Estraderm 
Patch.
DESIGN: Postmenopausal women were randomized to a 28-day crossover treatment 
protocol separated by a 14-day wash out period.
SETTING: Normal human volunteers were studied in an academic research 
environment.
PATIENTS, PARTICIPANTS: The subject pool included eight healthy postmenopausal 
women between 32 and 60 years of age.
INTERVENTIONS: In treatment A, a 0.1-mg Estraderm Patch was worn for 7 days; in 
treatment B, and identical patch was worn into which 0.6 mL of ethanol was 
injected on day 3 of use.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Serum E2 levels were measured in both groups.
RESULTS: Although E2 absorption showed characteristic interpatient variability, 
addition of ethanol significantly extended the mean time for serum E2 levels to 
return to baseline, without increasing peak absorption. The mean extension was 
50 hours.
CONCLUSION: The addition of ethanol to the Estraderm Patch increased the 
duration of elevated serum E2 levels measured in menopausal women, thus 
potentially increasing the effective life span of the transdermal therapeutic 
system.

PMID: 1743317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Haematologica. 1991 May-Jun;76(3):204-8.

Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in the elderly: the impact of advanced age on therapeutic 
options and clinical results.

Orlandi E(1), Lazzarino M, Brusamolino E, Castelli G, Pagnucco G, Morra E, 
Bernasconi C.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Ematologia, Università di Pavia, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Treatment of older patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) is 
difficult and conflicting. Lower responsiveness to therapy has been reported; 
however, the high risk of treatment morbidity, drug-dose reduction, and the 
occurrence of unrelated deaths might account for the poor outcome of NHL in the 
elderly.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed the therapeutic approach and the outcome in 
90 NHL patients aged 65 years or older. Histologic classification was according 
to the Working Formulation.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients with low-grade NHL have been managed 
conventionally: complete response (CR) rate was 34.5% and median overall 
survival was 35 months. Sixty-one patients with intermediate-grade (IG, 36 
cases) or high-grade (HG, 25 cases) NHL were treated as follows: 5 stage I-IE 
cases underwent radiation therapy; of 56 stage II-IV patients, 14 had 
conservative single-agent therapy and 32 received an attenuated CVP regimen. 
Only 10 patients were considered suitable for attenuated CHOP or CHOP-like 
programs. Overall CR rate was 50% for IG and 32% for HG NHL: Median survival was 
33 months and 10 months (p less than or equal to 0.05), respectively. For IG and 
HG patients, the attainment of CR influenced survival significantly. Treatment 
morbidity was observed in 41% of patients. Resistant lymphoma was the major 
cause of death (31/36) during the first six months of therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: In our experience, the outcome of elderly NHL patients treated with 
conservative therapeutic approaches is poor. Intensive chemotherapy regimens 
tailored to individual patients are needed to improve clinical results.

PMID: 1743590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Mech Ageing Dev. 1991 Oct;60(2):143-52. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(91)90127-l.

Age-related differences in promoter-induced extension of in vitro proliferative 
life span of Syrian hamster fibroblasts.

Deamond SF(1), Bruce SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Hygiene and Public Health, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205-2179.

The proliferative capacity of Syrian hamster dermal fibroblasts has been 
previously shown to be inversely related to the age of the donor (Mech. Ageing 
and Dev., 34 (1986) 151). The present study demonstrates an inverse correlation 
between in vivo age and the in vitro morphological and proliferative response of 
Syrian hamster dermal fibroblasts to the tumor promoter 
phorbol-12,13-didecanoate. Treatment of fetal fibroblasts with promoter 
increased the proliferative life span of the cultures by approximately 2-fold, 
but did not increase the frequency of conversion to established cell lines. 
Neonatal and young adult fibroblasts exhibited intermediate responses to 
promoter treatment, showing 54.9% and 33.1% extension, respectively. In 
contrast, promoter treatment had no significant effect on aged adult 
fibroblasts. Maximal extension required continual treatment beginning in primary 
culture or at passage 1. Promoter-induced extension of proliferative life span 
appears to be mediated through the prolonged maintenance of small, highly 
proliferative cells that are present in primary cultures of these cells.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(91)90127-l
PMID: 1745071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Mech Ageing Dev. 1991 Oct;60(2):189-98. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(91)90130-r.

Hydrogen peroxide production by mitochondria may be a biomarker of aging.

Sohal RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, 
Texas 75275.

The hypothesis that rate of intracellular prooxidant production is associated 
with the rate of aging was tested by comparing the rate of H2O2 generation by 
mitochondria in houseflies of similar chronological but different physiological 
ages. Physiological age represents the life expectancy or 'nearness to death'. 
Average and maximum life spans of flies were extended 2-fold by the elimination 
of flying activity. In addition, using senescence-related loss of flight ability 
as a phenotypic marker of impending death, relatively short-lived and long-lived 
subpopulations of flies were isolated from cohort populations. Rate of H2O2 
generation was measured fluorometrically in mitochondria from thoracic flight 
muscles using alpha-glycerophosphate as a substrate and without employing any 
respiratory inhibitors as is often the case in mammalian studies. The rate of 
mitochondrial H2O2 release was found to be associated with life expectancy or 
the physiological age of flies rather than the chronological age. At the same 
chronological age, mitochondria from flies with a shorter life expectancy had a 
markedly higher rate of H2O2 generation than those with a longer life 
expectancy. Results of this and some previous studies in this laboratory are 
interpreted to suggest that the rate of prooxidant generation rather than the 
level of antioxidant defenses may be a key correlate of the rate of aging.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(91)90130-r
PMID: 1745074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Med J Aust. 1991 Dec 2-16;155(11-12):812-8.

The Royal Commission into Aboriginal Deaths in Custody. Aspects of medical 
interest.

Cordner S(1).

Author information:
(1)Victorian Institute of Forensic Pathology, South Melbourne.

Comment in
    Med J Aust. 1992 Mar 2;156(5):365-6.

The Royal Commission into Aboriginal Deaths in Custody was established in a 
climate of deep suspicion about the treatment of Aboriginal detainees in 
Australian prisons and police lock-ups. Three and a half years of exhaustive 
enquiry have resulted in a mammoth report which not only deals with the problems 
in the criminal justice system that contribute to these deaths but also 
discusses in detail the current state of Aboriginal society in Australia. It is 
the Commission's view that improvements in the lives of Aboriginal people will 
only occur if they are given the power to bring about those improvements 
themselves. The Commission's report inevitably has much to say about health 
matters. This review concentrates on these health matters as they affect 
Aboriginal people generally, and more specifically, after they arrive within the 
criminal justice system. The Commission's views about the medical aspects of the 
investigations of the deaths once they occurred are also summarised as are some 
of the issues which are at the root of why Aboriginal people are grossly 
over-represented in custody.

PMID: 1745179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Neuroepidemiology. 1991;10(4):200-4. doi: 10.1159/000110270.

Epidemiology of lissencephaly type I.

de Rijk-van Andel JF(1), Arts WF, Hofman A, Staal A, Niermeijer MF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Westeinde Hospital, The Hague, The Netherlands.

In a cooperative study in The Netherlands 22 patients with lissencephaly type I 
were collected. In the period 1980-1988, the prevalence of lissencephaly type I 
in the Netherlands was 11.7 per million births (12.2 for females and 11.0 for 
males). The 5-year survival rate of patients with a complete or nearly complete 
agyria (grade 1 or 2) in this study was 54% compared to 91% in patients with a 
mixture of agyria with pachygyria or complete pachygyria (grade 3 or 4).

DOI: 10.1159/000110270
PMID: 1745330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Am J Cardiol. 1991 Dec 1;68(15):1491-7. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(91)90284-r.

Late results (30 to 35 years) after operative closure of isolated ventricular 
septal defect from 1954 to 1960.

Moller JH(1), Patton C, Varco RL, Lillehei CW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55455.

This study was designed to determine the clinical status, cause of death, and 
effects of pulmonary vascular disease and conduction abnormalities 30 to 35 
years after surgery in 296 consecutive surviving patients of closure of 
ventricular septal defect. Of the 296 patients, current status was determined by 
contact with patient and physician in 290 cases, with 6 (2%) lost to follow-up 
(7,912 patient years are included). Cardiac catheterization after surgery in 168 
patients showed complete closure of the defect in 80%. Death occurred in 59 
patients (20%), with higher mortality rates in those operated on after the age 
of 5 years, those with pulmonary vascular resistance greater than 7 units (51%), 
and those with complete heart block (78%). Of 37 patients with transient heart 
block after surgery, 8 (22%) have died (3 pulmonary vascular disease, 2 sudden 
death, 2 unknown causes and 1 complete heart block). Twenty other patients had a 
dysarrhythmia after surgery, and none of these died. Nine episodes of 
endocarditis occurred (11.4/10,000 patient years). Nine of 296 (3%) offspring 
had cardiac malformation. Most patients are in New York Heart Association class 
I, 57% attended college and 15% received an advanced degree. The data show good 
results for this group of patients operated on during an early era (1954 to 
1960) of open cardiac surgery. They support the current trend toward operation 
in patients with ventricular septal defects at an early age and with low 
pulmonary vascular resistance.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(91)90284-r
PMID: 1746432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Am J Cardiol. 1991 Dec 15;68(17):1600-8. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(91)90316-d.

Silent versus symptomatic ischemia during a thallium-201 exercise test.

Travin MI(1), Flores AR, Boucher CA, Newell JB, LaRaia PJ.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.

One hundred thirty-four patients with redistribution on a thallium-201 exercise 
test who did not experience angina (group 1) were compared with 134 patients 
also having redistribution who had angina during the test (group 2). The groups 
were matched by age, sex, and peak exercise heart rate. Although patients in 
both groups achieved an equivalent exercise level, patients in group 1 had less 
frequent (53 vs 71%, p less than 0.005) and less severe (0.15 +/- 0.13 vs 0.20 
+/- 0.13 mV, p less than 0.005) ischemic ST-segment depression. Group 1 also had 
less ischemic thallium-201 images in terms of the number of redistributing 
defects, the severity of the worst redistributing defect, and an ischemic index 
composite of both extent and severity. Patients in group 1 were less likely to 
undergo early revascularization (12 vs 29%, p less than 0.005), but in the 
remaining patients the occurrence of adverse cardiac events was similar (21% vs 
29%, p = not significant). By multivariate analysis, only the ischemic index 
correlated with early revascularization in group 1 (p = 0.0017), whereas the 
percent maximal predicted heart rate correlated best in group 2 (p = 0.0003). In 
group 1 the ratio of lung/heart thallium-201 uptake correlated best with an 
outcome of nonfatal myocardial infarction or cardiac death (p = 0.0024); in 
group 2 the presence of fixed left ventricular dilatation did (p = 0.0022). 
Thus, patients with exercise-induced thallium-201 redistribution without angina 
have less ischemia than patients experiencing angina.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(91)90316-d
PMID: 1746460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Am J Cardiol. 1991 Dec 15;68(17):1709-14. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(91)90334-h.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of the use of digoxin immune Fab (ovine) for 
treatment of digoxin toxicity.

Mauskopf JA(1), Wenger TL.

Author information:
(1)Center for Economics Research, Research Triangle Institute, Research Triangle 
Park, North Carolina 27709.

Each year many people have digitalis toxicity severe enough to require extensive 
hospital treatment. Digoxin immune Fab[ovine]-Fab fragments (Digibind) have been 
shown to reverse digitalis toxicity and substantially reduce the risk of death. 
Data were used from uncontrolled studies of patients treated with Fab fragments 
as well as clinical, medical care and pharmacokinetic data from symptomatically 
treated patients to derive estimates of the difference in clinical outcomes and 
medical care costs when treating with this new drug. Estimates are derived 
separately for treatment of patients with toxicity that is immediately 
life-threatening and patients whose manifestations are not immediately 
life-threatening. Treatment with Fab fragments reduces the probability of dying 
more for the seriously toxic than for the less seriously toxic patient. Such 
treatment is generally associated with an increase in total medical care costs 
for the seriously toxic patients because more of them survive the toxic episode 
and require additional medical care before discharge from the hospital. For 
these patients, the estimated cost per life-year saved is between $1,900 and 
$5,400. When Fab fragments are used to treat less seriously toxic patients, 
total medical care costs decrease because of an estimated decreased number of 
days in the coronary care unit and decreased use of pacemakers and other 
aggressive treatments.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(91)90334-h
PMID: 1746476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Anticancer Res. 1991 Jul-Aug;11(4):1663-9.

The significance of nuclear morphometric variables as prognostic predictors in 
breast cancer.

Aaltomaa S(1), Lipponen P, Eskelinen M, Kosma VM, Marin S, Alhava E, Syrjänen K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Kuopio University Hospital, Finland.

The preoperative biopsies from primary breast carcinomas of 504 women were 
subjected to interactive morphometric analysis of a) the mean nuclear area (NA), 
b) standard deviation of nuclear area (SDNA), c) mean area of the 10 largest 
nuclei (NAl0), d) nuclear perimeter (PE), e) standard deviation of nuclear 
perimeter (SPDE), f) largest nuclear diameter (Dmax) and g) shortest nuclear 
diameter (Dmin), h) histological grade and i) classical prognostic variables. 
The above data were correlated with the disease outcome during the mean 
follow-up period of 11.2 years. Tumor size (p less than 0.0001), morphometric 
variables (p = 0.0001-0.005) and histological grade (p = 0.03) predicted 
axillary lymph node metastasis at the time of diagnosis. According to 
multivariate analysis, tumour size and NA predicted the axillary lymph node 
metastasis independently. Axillary lymph node status (p less than 0.0001) and 
histological grade (p = 0.01) predicted the tumour recurrence and 
recurrence-free survival, whereas the morphometric variables had no significant 
predictive value. Axillary lymph node status (p less than 0.0001), tumour size 
(p less than 0.0001), histological grade (p = 0.0012) and morphometric variables 
(p = 0.003-0.035) predicted the disease-related survival. Of the morphometric 
variables, NA and the Dmin were the two most important predictors of 
tumour-related survival in univariate analysis. Dmax had independent prognostic 
information in multivariate survival analysis. In the same analysis, tumour size 
and axillary lymph node status were more important predictors. In conclusion, 
the morphometric variables analysed have independent predictive value in female 
breast cancer. Their value is, however, inferior to that of the tumour size and 
axillary lymph node status, but equal to that of the histological grade.

PMID: 1746922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Int J Hematol. 1991 Apr;54(2):103-7.

Androgen in the treatment of refractory anemia.

Kobaba R(1), Kanamaru A, Takemoto Y, Kohsaki M, Kakishita E, Nagai K.

Author information:
(1)2nd Department of Internal Medicine, Hyogo College of Medicine, Japan.

We retrospectively evaluated the efficacy of androgen in the treatment of 
refractory anemia (RA) and compared patient characteristics and the probability 
of survival in androgen-responder and nonresponder groups. Forty patients with 
RA were treated in our hospital between 1975-1989, and 27 were treated with 
various derivatives of androgen. Eleven of the latter responded effectively to 
androgen therapy, representing an efficacy rate of 40.7%, higher than that of 
any other treatments thus far reported. The probability of 10-year survival 
estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method was 75.0% for the responder group and 41.3% 
for nonresponders, with a median follow-up of 1202 and 1272 days, respectively. 
In addition, the percent probability of transformation-free survival was higher 
among androgen-responders than among nonresponders, though the difference was 
not significant. Transformation from RA to RAEB or overt leukemia was seen in 
only one case among the former group, but in six among the latter. With respect 
to patient characteristics, only the percentage of marrow myeloblasts differed 
significantly between the groups.

PMID: 1747444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Br J Rheumatol. 1991 Dec;30(6):407-12. doi: 10.1093/rheumatology/30.6.407.

Outcome of parenteral gold therapy in RA patients: a comparison between two 
periods using life-table analysis.

Bendix G(1), Bjelle A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.

Tolerance and outcome of parenteral gold therapy were compared using life-table 
analysis and ARA remission criteria between 151 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) 
patients treated in 1983 and in 210 patients treated in 1985. The total risk of 
termination of therapy was significantly higher in patients treated in 1983 than 
those treated in 1985. The most common causes were mucocutaneous reactions (41 
and 25% in 1983 and 1985, respectively), unsatisfactory effect (15 and 25%) and 
practical problems (14 and 26%). The outcome regarding all ARA remission 
criteria except for fatigue (not systematically registered) was significantly 
more favourable in patients treated in 1985 than in those treated in 1983.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/30.6.407
PMID: 1747693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Health Aff (Millwood). 1991 Fall;10(3):202-15. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.10.3.202.

Health status in east European countries.

Rowland D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, School of Hygiene and Public 
Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.10.3.202
PMID: 1748378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Klin Wochenschr. 1991 Sep 16;69(14):633-9. doi: 10.1007/BF01649423.

The spontaneous course of small abdominal aortic aneurysms. Aneurysmal growth 
rates and life expectancy.

Zöllner N(1), Zoller WG, Spengel F, Weigold B, Schewe CK.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Poliklinik der Universität München.

Since abdominal ultrasonography has become a routine diagnostic procedure, 
increasing numbers of small asymptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysms are detected 
incidentally. Of 128 patients (108 male, 20 female) with abdominal aortic 
aneurysms, 96 patients were observed clinically and by repeated ultrasound 
studies for an average of 3.47 years, adding up to a total observation period of 
333 patient-years. Among these 96 patients, 72 had small aneurysms (averaged 
diameters less than 5 cm). Three of them were lost to follow up. None of the 
remaining 69 patients died from rupture, 20 died from other causes and 8 
patients were successfully operated. Of the patients with a large aneurysm one 
was lost to follow up. Five patients of the remaining 23 died as a result of 
rupture, 7 were successfully operated. The average growth rate of small 
aneurysms was 0.18 cm/year, whereas the larger aneurysms showed a growth rate of 
0.28 cm/year (diameter). The survival rate of patients with small aneurysms was 
94% after one year, 80% after 3 years, and 73% after 5 years, indicating that 
life expectancy is reduced in patients with an aneurysm of the abdominal aorta, 
but not because of complications of the aneurysm.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01649423
PMID: 1749201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Proc Nutr Soc. 1991 Aug;50(2):413-32. doi: 10.1079/pns19910053.

Obesity and health: why slim?

Flynn MA(1), Gibney MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, Trinity College Medical School, St. James's 
Hospital, Dublin, Republic of Ireland.

DOI: 10.1079/pns19910053
PMID: 1749809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Soc Biol. 1991 Spring-Summer;38(1-2):154. doi:
10.1080/19485565.1991.9988779.

Mean age and life expectancy at birth in stationary populations: comment.

Preston SH(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Studies Center, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1991.9988779
PMID: 1749964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Virchows Arch A Pathol Anat Histopathol. 1991;419(5):409-15. doi: 
10.1007/BF01605075.

The histopathology of the liver in older patients with hepatitis B virus surface 
antigenaemia.

Sugimura H(1), Fukazawa T, Saitoh M, Nakamura K, Shimada H, Ohtsubo K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pathology, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of 
Gerontology, Japan.

The histopathology of the liver and the detectability of intrahepatic hepatitis 
B virus (HBV) markers were studied in 34 autopsy cases in elderly patients (mean 
age 73.9 years, range 60-91 years) who had had a history of positive HBV surface 
antigenaemia prior to death. Seven of 14 persistent HBV carrier cases (group A) 
in which long-lasting HBV surface antigen (HBsAg) carriage in the sera had been 
confirmed by sequential assays, and 5 out of 15 HBV-infected people (group C, 
single assay) showed significant primary liver damages including chronic 
hepatitis, toxic hepatitis, liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. In 5 
cases (group B), one of which was type B liver cirrhosis, HBsAg became negative 
and HBsAb appeared during the follow-up period (up to 33 months). Among 
confirmed HBV carriers, HBsAg and HBV core antigen were most frequently found in 
the liver of cirrhotic cases with and without hepatocellular carcinoma (5 of 6), 
whereas these were rarely detected in those with non-specific changes or slight 
hepatitic activity (1 of 7). All 5 cases in group B were negative for 
histological HBV-related antigens and the findings in group C were variously 
interpreted. Post-mortem cases of the aged HBV carriers who survived their mean 
life expectancy represent an important population in which to study the natural 
history of HBV carriers.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01605075
PMID: 1750187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Vestn Akad Med Nauk SSSR. 1991;(9):47-52.

[Anthropogenic low-intensity environmental factors and life expectancy: new 
aspects of the problem].

[Article in Russian]

Litvinov NN, Kazachkov VI, Gasimova ZM, Loginova EV.

Based on their own universal concept of the causal relationship between chemical 
environmental agents and the human body, confirmed by numerous experimental 
data, the authors suggest that the biological process of aging may be 
accelerated or inhibited under exposure to chemical low-intensity environmental 
factors due to changes in the nonspecific resistance of the body.

PMID: 1750245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Aust Nurses J. 1991 Oct;21(4):28-9.

Nurse and the law. In the best interests of the child.

Langslow A.

PMID: 1750811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Curr Opin Oncol. 1991 Oct;3(5):901-7. doi: 10.1097/00001622-199110000-00015.

Biologic therapy and immunotherapy for ovarian cancer.

Bookman MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Ovarian cancer remains an attractive model for evaluation of biologic and 
immunologic therapies due to the availability of multiple reagents, the 
development of preclinical murine models, and the intraperitoneal pattern of 
clinical disease. Recent studies have focused on conjugated monoclonal 
antibodies, including radioconjugates, immunotoxins, and bispecific antibodies. 
Other preclinical and clinical studies have been conducted with recombinant 
cytokines and adoptive cellular immunotherapy for small-volume residual disease. 
Dose-limiting clinical toxicities have emerged with many of these approaches in 
the absence of frequent antitumor responses, and new strategies will be required 
to develop effective therapies in the future.

DOI: 10.1097/00001622-199110000-00015
PMID: 1751581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Harefuah. 1991 Aug;121(3-4):83-8.

[Morbidity in primary care clinics of 29 kibbutzim--prospective study].

[Article in Hebrew]

Yekutiel P(1), Fattal B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Environmental Sciences, Graduate School of Applied Science and 
Technology, Hebrew University of Jerusalem.

All consultations and diagnoses in the clinics of 29 kibbutzim during the 
12-month period, March 1981-February 1982, were analyzed. In these clinics there 
is physician-nurse teamwork and the nurse handles independently certain types of 
consultations which in the regular Kupat Holim clinic would ordinarily be 
handled by a physician. The total study population was 15,605, and there were 
62,950 consultations during the observation period, giving an average annual 
rate of 4.03 per person. More than 40% of the consultations were with nurses. 
The distribution of diseases by the 18 main diagnostic groups of the 
International Classification of Diseases was compared with that in 3 earlier 
primary care surveys in Israel and that in the large general practice survey in 
Britain for the years 1981 and 1982. There were no marked differences between 
the morbidity patterns of this survey and those of the others. The morbidity 
patterns were typical for those found nowadays at the primary care level in 
developed countries. With greater life expectancy in industrialized societies, 
chronic-degenerative diseases and particularly cardiovascular diseases, have 
increased. This is reflected in more frequent visits to primary care clinics. 
The proportion of these visits is slightly lower in this survey than in the 
others due to the younger age profile of the kibbutz population.

PMID: 1752579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1991 Nov-Dec;32(6):726-31.

Results of carotid endarterectomy in patients 75 years of age and older.

Roques XF(1), Baudet EM, Clerc F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Haut-Leveque's Cardiological Hospital, 
University of Bordeaux, France.

From April 1980 to September 1989, 69 patients over 75 years of age (mean 78 
years, range 75 to 86) underwent 81 carotid endarterectomies. Twenty three 
percent were asymptomatic, 56.5% had symptoms appropriate to lesion location and 
20.5% had a non hemispheric syndrome. Nine patients required an associated 
procedure (combined cardiac surgery 6 pts; vascular surgery 3 pts). 
Perioperative mortality was 3.7%. The combined early lethal and non lethal 
stroke rate was 6.1%. Actuarial survival, at 10 years, was 58.4% +/- 10, and the 
incidence of freedom from stroke at 10 years was 86.2% +/- 5. Despite the fact 
that the hospital mortality of patients over 75 years undergoing carotid 
endarterectomy is more than three times that of patients operated on under 75 
years of age (1.2%), the combined stroke and neurologic mortality rate is 
similar to that of patients under 75 years (5.3%). Carotid surgery in patients 
over 75 years of age does not increase life expectancy but does improve the 
quality of survival which depends mainly on cardiac events.

PMID: 1752888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1991 Nov-Dec;32(6):787-93.

Combined surgical approach to coexistent carotid and coronary artery disease.

Pomè G(1), Passini L, Colucci V, Taglieri C, Arena O, Collice M, Pellegrini A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, ospedale Niguarda Ca Granda, Milan, Italy.

Combined coronary artery bypass and carotid endarterectomy were performed in 52 
patients (mean age 61 years) between 1981 and 1990. Of these, 36 (69%) had 
functional class III-IV angina pectoris, 33 (63%) had triple-vessel disease, 36 
(69%) had one, or more, previous myocardial infarctions, and 33 (63%) had an 
abnormal left ventricular function. In 4 cases, additional cardiac procedures 
were performed. Asymptomatic carotid stenosis was documented in 29 patients 
(56%) and the remaining 23 (44%) had experienced cerebrovascular symptoms. All 
patients had hemodynamically significant stenosis of at least one carotid 
artery, 17 (33%) had severe bilateral carotid artery stenosis, and 6 (11%) had 
an additional occlusion of the contralateral internal carotid artery. There were 
no early deaths. Perioperative morbidity included: myocardial infarction in 4 
patients (7.7%) and neurological deficit in 3 (5.7%) but functional impairment 
was not permanent. Late results have been obtained for all 52 patients at a mean 
postoperative interval of 35 months. Four patients (7.7%) have died, and the 5 
year life-table survival rate was 83%. At five years, actuarial curves showed 
67% of patients to be free of all serious events or death. Late mortality and 
morbidity were related above all to the progression of the coronary artery 
disease. We concluded that simultaneous endarterectomy of significant carotid 
artery stenosis in candidates for coronary bypass can be done safely and 
considered as more practical for the patient.

PMID: 1752901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Med Clin (Barc). 1991 Oct 26;97(14):533-5.

[The real efficacy of breaking the smoking habit].

[Article in Spanish]

Marín Tuyà D.

PMID: 1753828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1991 Dec;165(6 Pt 2):2046-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0002-9378(11)90578-x.

Natural family planning use-effectiveness and continuation.

Kambic RT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Dynamics, School of Hygiene and Public Health, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD.

Numerous studies have been conducted to assess the use-effectiveness of natural 
family planning. However, because of imprecise definitions of terms, these 
studies show noncomparable results. Special effort is required to study natural 
family planning use-effectiveness by the same criteria as other family planning 
methods.

PIP: There is a 10-15-year time lag between scientific evaluation of medical 
contraception and measurement. As a result, NFP has been relegated to a 
subordinate status in the family planning field. Although NFP researchers can 
benefit from the time lab by adapting the data collection techniques and 
statistical approaches refined through decades of studies of modern 
contraceptive effectiveness, there are selected issues that only NFP research 
can resolve. For example, it must be determined whether an NFP client becomes a 
study subject at registration, when she is taught the method, when she begins to 
chart her cycles, or after she has had several months of experience with the 
method's use. Such clarification is especially important to the calculation of 
drop-out rates. Methodological problems in measuring use-effectiveness have led 
to noncomparable results for the same NFP method from country to country. An 
examination of NFP effectiveness studies conducted from 1981-90 reveals a median 
rate of 13/1, with a low of 2.5 for an ovulation method study conducted in 
Indonesia in 1990 and a high of 27.9 for an ovulation method study conducted in 
New Zealand in 1981. Studies completed after 1988 tend to document pregnancy 
rates lower than the median, presumably reflecting both improved methodology and 
NFP program development.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9378(11)90578-x
PMID: 1755467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1991 Dec;165(6 Pt 2):2048-51. doi: 
10.1016/s0002-9378(11)90579-1.

Efficacy studies in natural family planning: issues and management implications 
illustrated with data from five studies.

Labbok MH(1), Klaus H, Perez A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Georgetown University, Washington, 
DC 20007.

Studies of method effectiveness must be carefully assessed for comparability of 
findings. Several parameters are identified that are important in the assurance 
of comparable results. This article discusses these issues with the use of data 
from previously published studies and emphasizes the management implications of 
use-effectiveness data.

PIP: The focus of the article on natural family planning (NFP) efficacy studies 
is on issues in data analysis and the use of efficacy data in management 
decisions. Data problems are identified as variable study designs, different 
times of entry, accuracy of self selection and self reporting, and consistency 
of method use and followup. Examples with actual data of these problems are 
given for Chile, Bangladesh, Kenya, and Korea. The methods used to measure 
effectiveness are not comparable. Clinical trials are prospective measures of 
efficacy, while population surveys are sometime as used for in-use efficacy. use 
efficacy may be calculated in 2 ways: the Pearl Index (the failure rate 
expressed as the number of pregnancies divided by the number of months of 
exposure and multiplied by 1200) and the cumulative life table method. Numerator 
problems occur due to reporting bias and loss of followup. Denominator problems 
suffer from self selection into the method, bias of recall, different times of 
entry into the study, and unreported concurrent use of other methods. Another 
variable is the median age of participants and the number of months of method 
use completed at the time date gathering began. The comparative example is given 
of data from Bangladesh, Kenya and Korea where entry into the study was late and 
related to the lowest unplanned pregnancy rate. The center with the youngest 
population also showed the lowest unplanned pregnancy rate. The timing is also 
related to whether the respondent is breastfeeding just after delivery or 
interbirth, where unplanned pregnancies are greater. It is pointed out that 
another method such as effectiveness assessment might be used. It measures the % 
of clients achieving adequate spacing or their stated goal. The advantages are 
in its being a personalized indicator, easier to assess, and provides excellent 
time series data. It is not useful in comparing methods or programs. Examples of 
usefulness of efficacy data are given; i.e., multiple decrement life tables can 
tell management about continuers versus discontinuers. The reason for the 
unplanned pregnancy may tell whether there was a misunderstanding. In the 
Chilean data set, most of the pregnancies occurred during lactation after the 
return of menses. When lactation is controlled for, the rates between spacers 
and limiters disappears. A common error is knowledgeable users do not follow the 
rules of the ovulation method and there is cultural resistance to revealing the 
number of sexual partners.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9378(11)90579-1
PMID: 1755468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1991 Dec;165(6 Pt 2):2054-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0002-9378(11)90581-x.

Further analysis of contraceptive failure of the ovulation method.

Trussell J(1), Grummer-Strawn L.

Author information:
(1)Princeton University, NJ 08544-2091.

Reanalysis of data on the ovulation method of natural family planning collected 
by the World Health Organization yields the following conclusions. The method is 
effective during perfect (correct and consistent) use, with a first-year 
probability of failure of 3.4%. However, it is extremely unforgiving of 
imperfect use, with a first-year probability of failure of 84.2% if the method 
is not used correctly. During the initial year, 87% of the cycles were 
characterized by perfect use. Nevertheless, the 13% of cycles characterized by 
imperfect use had a tremendous impact on the overall failure rate. During the 
first year of typical use 22.5% of the women in the clinical trial became 
accidentally pregnant.

PIP: Re-analysis of data collected from clinical trials of the ovulation method 
(OM) of natural family planning (NFP) delineated failure rates for both perfect 
and imperfect use during the teaching phase, the effectiveness phase, and the 
actual 1st year of use, and offered computed failure rates for various types of 
use errors. The data, originally published in 1981, covered 765 women in the 
teaching phase (2701 cycles), and 725 in the effectiveness phase (7514 cycles), 
from New Zealand, India, Ireland, Philippines and El Salvador. In this study 
rules for the teaching phase differed significantly from the effectiveness 
phase, with total abstinence required for the 1st cycle, and more restrictions 
in the teaching phase generally. The data suggested that errors were 
underreported, and that failure rates were higher than those typically reported 
in other studies. Except for the 1st cycle, cycles with no intercourse were 
eliminated from analysis. 2.0% conceived in the 1st cycle, as 46% had coitus. 
Life table probabilities of pregnancy were 22.0% in the 1st year, 3.2% in 
perfect use and 84.1% in imperfect use. Failure rates per cycle in the teaching 
phase (cycles 2-6), 0.22% failure with perfect use, and 9.9% with imperfect use, 
were similar to those in the effectiveness phase, 0.24% for perfect use and 
14.4% with imperfect use. The most risky behaviors were having intercourse on 
wet/mucus days, within 3 days after the peak, during stress, on the peak day or 
around a 2nd peak (90% failure rate). Moderately risky behaviors were 
intercourse during mischarted cycles, spotting/bleeding days, having genital 
contact on wet days (50%). Intercourse on consecutive early days was least risky 
(16.6%). By plotting the percent failing in the 1st year as a function of per 
cycle failure rates for perfect and imperfect use, it was concluded that the OM 
is fairly effective if used perfectly, extremely unforgiving of imperfect use, 
and moderately difficult to use perfectly. If underreporting is taken into 
account, the conclusion would be that OM is moderately effective if used 
perfectly, and very difficult to use perfectly.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9378(11)90581-x
PMID: 1755470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Contraception. 1991 Oct;44(4):409-17.

Phase II--clinical trial with biodegradable subdermal contraceptive implant 
Capronor (4.0-cm single implant). Indian Council of Medical Research Task Force 
on Hormonal Contraception.

[No authors listed]

The subdermal biodegradable contraceptive implant Capronor (4.0 cm) was 
implanted in 41 women to observe the efficacy and side effects. Only one 
pregnancy was reported at 10 months of use, and the life table continuation rate 
at 12 months was 82.2 per 100 users. No serious clinical side effects were 
reported during the study period. The menstrual pattern was disrupted during the 
first 3 months of implant use in two-thirds of the women which improved by the 
end of 12 months of use. The results of this Phase II study suggest that 
Capronor is a safe and effective long-acting contraceptive. These findings need 
to be confirmed in a Phase III clinical trial on a larger sample size.

PMID: 1756628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Eur J Vasc Surg. 1991 Dec;5(6):655-8. doi: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80901-6.

Transmetatarsal amputation in patients with peripheral vascular disease.

Geroulakos G(1), May AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Colchester General Hospital, Essex, U.K.

Transmetatarsal amputation has the reputation of being an operation with a poor 
healing rate, and less than a 50% success rate had recently been reported. The 
outcome of this amputation in patients with peripheral vascular disease has been 
retrospectively studied in this paper by examining 34 transmetatarsal 
amputations performed over a 5-year period. Twelve patients had had previous toe 
amputations and 22 were diabetic with an overall healing rate of 68%. There was 
no significant difference in the success rate between diabetics and 
non-diabetics. One patient died in the postoperative period, giving an early 
post-operative mortality of 3%. Revision of failed transmetatarsal below-knee 
amputation resulted in healing in seven patients out of nine, suggesting that it 
does not compromise later amputation at a higher level. Healing did not appear 
to be influenced by factors such as sympathectomy, previous arterial 
reconstruction or peripheral pulses. Transmetatarsal amputation provides 
patients who have a short life expectancy with a durable functional stump which 
is prosthesis free.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80901-6
PMID: 1756881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. J Clin Psychol. 1991 Nov;47(6):854-60. doi: 
10.1002/1097-4679(199111)47:6<854::aid-jclp2270470617>3.0.co;2-h.

A self-discrepancy reduction model of religious coping.

Lilliston L(1), Klein DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Oakland University, Rochester, MI 48309.

It was proposed that effectiveness of a religious response to personal crisis is 
related to type and amount of self-discrepancy. Fifty subjects were administered 
a questionnaire to assess the following two types of self-discrepancies: (1) 
discrepancy between perceived actual self and perceived ideal self and (2) 
discrepancy between perceived actual self and perceived ought-to-be self. 
Subjects also were asked to choose types of religious responses to a personal 
crisis. Religious responses were behaviorally, cognitively, and affectively 
loaded. Subjects with an actual/ought discrepancy chose behavioral and affective 
religious responses more frequently than did those without this discrepancy. No 
effects were found for the actual/ideal discrepancy. Implications of these 
results for revision and extension of the model are discussed.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-4679(199111)47:6<854::aid-jclp2270470617>3.0.co;2-h
PMID: 1757588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. J Rheumatol. 1991 Sep;18(9):1394-7.

Longitudinal analysis of HLA associated risks for iridocyclitis in juvenile 
rheumatoid arthritis.

Giannini EH(1), Malagon CN, Van Kerckhove C, Taylor J, Lovell DJ, Levinson JE, 
Passo MH, Ginsberg J, Burke MJ, Glass DN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH 
45229.

The risk of iridocyclitis in children with early onset pauciarticular juvenile 
rheumatoid arthritis (EOPA-JRA) has been shown to be associated with certain HLA 
haplotypes. Our report contains an actuarial analysis, using one-year intervals, 
of 161 subjects and estimates haplotype specific risks. Individuals who possess 
the major susceptibility haplotype HLA-DR5 (11) developed eye disease earlier 
and with a greater frequency than did those with the protective HLA-DR1 
haplotype. Highly significant differences were found between the resulting 
life-table curves for HLA-DR5 and HLA-DR1 positive subjects (p = 0.00003). These 
time oriented risk estimates may aid clinicians in determining more precisely 
the probability of iridocyclitis throughout the course of the disease in 
children with EOPA-JRA.

PMID: 1757943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1991 Dec 21;135(51):2425-8.

[150 years of life expectancy of Dutch members of parliament; 1848-1989].

[Article in Dutch]

Noteboom WM(1), Rosendaal FR, Vandenbroucke JP.

Author information:
(1)Academisch Ziekenhuis, afd. Klinische Epidemiologie, Leiden.

To determinate whether the stressful lifestyle of members of parliament (MP) 
might lead to excess mortality, as suggested in British Medical Journal in 1989, 
we investigated the mortality and life expectancy of 1589 members of the Dutch 
parliament over the period 1848-1989. Total mortality (all causes) for members 
of parliament who had been in function for at least one year (n = 1472) was 
compared to that of the general population of the Netherlands, adjusted for age, 
sex and calendar period. We calculated a standardized mortality ratio (SMR) from 
beginning of exposure as well as from ten years after entry in order to correct 
for a healthy cohort effect. The total number of deaths was 986 (863 with 
follow-up after 10 years after entry) and did not exceed the expected number of 
deaths based on population mortality rates. We conclude that MPs have no higher 
death risk than those who elected them, although one might have expected a lower 
death risk because of their social background.

PMID: 1758503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Respir Med. 1991 Sep;85 Suppl B:3-5. doi: 10.1016/s0954-6111(06)80161-7.

The role of health economics in clinical decision-making: is it ethical?

Williams A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, U.K.

With health care resources inevitably limited, we must ensure that they are used 
where they will do the most good. Doing good means improving people's life 
expectancy and quality of life, two characteristics which are combined in the 
Quality-Adjusted-Life-Year, or QALY. Even with effectiveness measured in this 
humanitarian way some people think it is unethical to let cost-effectiveness 
notions guide health care priorities. But costs represent sacrifices of health 
imposed on others, and it cannot be ethical to ignore such sacrifices. Indeed 
the reverse is true, it is unethical to ignore costs, and not to seek to become 
more efficient.

DOI: 10.1016/s0954-6111(06)80161-7
PMID: 1759019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Ter Arkh. 1991;63(9):50-2.

[The natural course of a complete atrioventricular block].

[Article in Russian]

Egorov DF, Gordeev OL.

The natural disease course is analyzed in 311 patients with atrioventricular 
blockade admitted for surgical treatment to the Leningrad Center of Arrhythmia 
Surgery and Cardiac Pacing. It has been discovered that, as a rule, 
Morgagni-Adams-Stokes (MAS) attacks do not occur for over 2-3 years after their 
onset, which determines to a considerable measure the patients: life expectancy. 
The authors hold that the very first Mas attack which may occur in a patient 
with atrioventricular blockade is an absolute indication for implantation of a 
permanent cardiac pacemaker. If the permanent cardiac pacemaker was established, 
1-, 3-, 5-, 7- and 8-year survival rates were, respectively, 91.1, 85.8, 77.3, 
63.2, and 60.8%.

PMID: 1759223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Vrach Delo. 1991 Sep;(9):105-7.
