
[The medico-demographic situation in the Ukrainian SSR at the present stage].

[Article in Russian]

Uvarenko AR, Kartysh AP, Chepelevskaia LA.

PMID: 1759417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1991 Nov 11;85(21):1027-30.

[Early diagnosis and treatment results in breast carcinoma--a population-based 
analysis].

[Article in German]

Möhner M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Krebsforschung, Berlin-Buch.

PMID: 1759471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Br J Obstet Gynaecol. 1991 Nov;98(11):1141-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1471-0528.1991.tb15367.x.

The Stamey endoscopic bladder neck suspension: a clinical and urodynamic 
investigation, including actuarial follow-up over four years.

Hilton P(1), Mayne CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Newcastle-upon-Tyne.

Comment in
    Br J Obstet Gynaecol. 1992 May;99(5):442-3.

OBJECTIVE: To assess a modified Stamey endoscopic bladder neck suspension as a 
management for genuine stress incontinence in women unsuitable for 
colposuspension because of vaginal narrowing or inefficient voiding.
DESIGN: Uncontrolled observational study.
SETTING: Regional university gynaecological urology unit.
SUBJECTS: A hundred women, median age 58 years, with genuine stress incontinence 
confirmed by urodynamic investigation; 65 had had previous surgery for the same 
problem.
TREATMENT: A Stamey procedure with monofilament nylon and short buffers of 
silastic tubing at each anchor site.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Urodynamic reassessment 3 months after surgery and 
clinical follow-up for up to 4 years, using life table methods. The median 
follow-up was 27 months.
RESULTS: At 3 months the objective cure rate was 83%. Subjectively the cure 
rates at 4 years were 53% in patients under 65 years of age and 76% in those who 
were older. Overall mean bladder capacity decreased from 506 to 458 ml after 
surgery (P less than 0.05) and, in those who were cured, mean peak flow rate 
fell from 25.5 to 19.6 ml/s (P less than 0.05). The urethral functional length 
and the pressure transmission in the proximal three quarters were increased by 
successful surgery (P less than 0.01) but the resting urethral profile, voiding 
pressure and the frequency of detrusor instability were unchanged.
CONCLUSIONS: This modification of the Stamey operation has an important role in 
the management of elderly patients those with previous unsuccessful operations, 
and those with inefficient voiding pre-operatively.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.1991.tb15367.x
PMID: 1760427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. BMJ. 1991 Nov 30;303(6814):1395-7. doi: 10.1136/bmj.303.6814.1395.

Medicine in Europe. European health challenges.

Smith T.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1992 Jan 4;304(6818):53.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.303.6814.1395
PMCID: PMC1671597
PMID: 1760611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Krankenpfl J. 1991 Nov;29(11):526-30.

[The close relationship between man and his environment. Epidemics and 
infectious diseases].

[Article in German]

Vasold M.

PMID: 1762416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Med Inform (Lond). 1991 Oct-Dec;16(4):355-62. doi:
10.3109/14639239109067657.

A computer simulation model for cost-effectiveness analysis of cardiovascular 
disease prevention.

Johannesson M(1), Hedbrant J, Jönsson B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Society, Linköping University, Sweden.

In this paper a computer simulation model for cost-effectiveness analysis of 
cardiovascular disease prevention is presented. Cost-effectiveness analysis 
makes it possible to compare the cost-effectiveness of different interventions 
in order to maximize the health effects for a given amount of resources. The 
computer simulation model was written in Turbo-Pascal to be used on an 
IBM-PC-compatible. The model was based on the 8-year logistic multivariate risk 
equations for CHD and stroke from the Framingham Heart Study, but the regression 
coefficients can easily be changed if local data exist. The main advantages with 
the model are that it is easy to use, transparent, and flexible. The model was 
mainly developed for scientific purposes, but should be useful also for 
educational purposes and clinical decision analysis. The modelling approach used 
should also be useful in many other medical areas.

DOI: 10.3109/14639239109067657
PMID: 1762471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1991 Nov;84(11):1517-21.

[Dysfunction of aortocoronary bypass. Prognosis].

[Article in French]

Tabone X(1), Georges JL, Massougbodji M, Le Feuvre C, Batisse JP, Metzger JP, 
Vacheron A.

Author information:
(1)Clinique cardiologique, hôpital Necker, Paris.

From 1978 to 1988, 108 patients with at least one occluded or stenosed 
aorto-coronary bypass graft (over 75% stenosis) underwent coronary angiography 
on average 31 months after the initial coronary bypass surgery. The occluded or 
stenosed coronary graft was either a saphenous vein (n = 126 including 9 
sequentials) or internal mammary artery (n = 5). The bypassed artery was the 
left anterior descending (n = 66), right coronary (n = 40), left marginal (n = 
25) or diagonal (n = 9). The number of occluded or stenosed grafts by patient 
was 1.2. The left ventricular ejection fraction was 55% (range 25 to 77%). 
During a mean follow-up period of 60 months after coronary angiography, there 
were 14 cardiac deaths and 15 non-lethal myocardial infarctions. Treatment 
comprised 12 angioplasties, 26 new bypass grafts and 3 cardiac transplantations. 
The 8 year actuarial survival was 84%. The survival without infarction at 8 
years was 69%. Survival was significantly decreased to 72% when the occluded or 
stenosed graft was located on the left anterior descending artery. The survival 
without infarction at 8 years was 52% in the patients with dysfunction of left 
anterior descending artery grafts and 89% when the diseased graft was located on 
another artery (right coronary, left marginal, diagonal). Therefore, the data of 
this retrospective study show that coronary graft dysfunction on the right 
coronary, left marginal or diagonal arteries do not greatly influence life 
expectancy in the medium term after coronary bypass surgery.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED 
AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1763918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Confed Aust Crit Care Nurses J. 1991 Dec;4(4):4-6.

Nurse initiated advanced life support (ALS) requirements for role extension--a 
NSW perspective.

Mangan B.

Comment in
    Aust Crit Care. 1992 Mar;5(1):4.

Comment on
    Confed Aust Crit Care Nurses J. 1991 Mar;4(1):2.

PMID: 1764616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Epidemiol Rev. 1991;13:228-66. doi: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.epirev.a036070.

Unintentional injuries in developing countries: the epidemiology of a neglected 
problem.

Smith GS(1), Barss P.

Author information:
(1)Injury Prevention Center, Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and 
Public Health, Baltimore, MD 21205.

PIP: The WHO has a special office to coordinate global injury epidemiology and 
prevention; 2 world Bank policy and planning projects identified injuries as a 
priority area. The epidemiology of unintentional injuries based on the 
International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, external causes codes: 
E800-E949, in developing countries is reviewed. Developing countries are those 
with an annual gross national product/capita of US$2500, based on 1986 figures 
form the World Bank. It includes countries generally with a population greater 
than 1 million. Only Sri Lanka, Thailand, Egypt, and Mauritius reported injury 
data to the WHO between 1977-87. There were no data available from the Caribbean 
and Central and South America. Information included here was obtained from a 
review of world literature on injuries indexed in 3 computer databases: Medlars, 
Biosis, and Excerpta Medica for the period 1966-90. 2500 reference titles and 
abstracts were reviewed. Those focusing on risk factors for and causes of 
injuries were selected for inclusion. Injury mortality is discussed in terms of 
its health impact and local population based studies. Injury morbidity 
discussion refers to the Gordon study on the rural Indian population and rates 
of injuries, urban studies in Brazil, Chile, Cuba, and Venezuela on causes of 
injury, and longterm disability from a Nepal study, and a Brazilian study on 
costs of injuries. The discussion of risk factors common to many injuries 
identifies age and sex particularly for the elderly, and alcohol or kola nuts as 
leading to higher accidents rates. Poverty, urban residence, and race are also 
suggested, but there is little evidence to support this. Specific attention is 
given to the following injuries: drowning, burns and fires, falls, poisoning, 
animal bites and wounds, machinery or tool or sharp objects, bicycles, eye, and 
disasters. Emergency medical services have been found to decrease trauma; it is 
suggested, that for those unable to afford mobile medical units, households and 
primary health care units need to be able to use simple treatments to control 
hemorrhage and prevent infection. Treatment and rehabilitation are also 
considered as well as future needs for research to identify the most significant 
injuries and risk factors from good quality data.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.epirev.a036070
PMID: 1765113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Hepatogastroenterology. 1991 Oct;38(5):438-43.

Factors of prognostic value in long-term survival of colorectal cancer patients.

García-Peche P(1), Vázquez-Prado A, Fabra-Ramis R, Trullenque-Peris R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Valencia General and University Hospital, Spain.

We have studied 191 protocolized colorectal cancer patients, analyzing the 
prognostic factors described in the literature as being important to long-term 
survival. Of the data studied, sex, age, duration of symptoms, tumor location, 
tumor extension within the circumference of the bowel lumen, and the surgical 
technique employed, all showed differences in terms of five-year survival, but 
without reaching statistical significance. The factors with statistically 
significant prognostic value were first symptoms, occlusion, perforation, 
primary tumor size and configuration, lymph node involvement, degree of wall 
infiltration, presence of emboli, degree of differentiation and Scarff index. In 
view of these results, we consider that the evaluation of bowel wall 
infiltration, lymph node involvement, venous and/or lymphatic embolization, and 
tumor differentiation is necessary to establish long-term prognosis in these 
patients. The remaining factors lack prognostic value.

PMID: 1765364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Int Angiol. 1991 Jul-Sep;10(3):126-32.

In situ saphenous vein arterial bypass for infrainguinal revascularization: 
initial experience using an open technique.

de Mello AV(1), Santos CM, Silva JL, Souza MT, Portilho MA, Guimarães AV, 
Freitas RG, Silvério JW.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Service, Jacarepaguá General Hospital, National Institute of Social 
Welfare, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

The authors describe their initial experience with the use of the in situ 
saphenous vein arterial by-pass technique for infrainguinal revascularization. 
From December 1986 to August 1989, we performed 101 in situ saphenous vein 
arterial by-passes. From these 101 by-pass, 18 composite or partial in situ vein 
by-passes (in situ + reversed vein) and 2 extra-anatomical sequencial by-passes 
(one axillofemoral and one cross-over femorofemoral proximal by-passes extended 
by in situ saphenous vein femoropopliteal arterial by-passes) were withdrawn 
from the statistics, with the purpose of analysing the natural evolution of the 
in situ vein arterial by-pass without the insertion of reversed vein segments 
and/or the influence of artificial grafts to improve arterial inflow. Therefore 
only 81 in situ by-pass cases will be analysed in the present paper. From these 
81 cases, 44 (54.3%) were performed in diabetic patients and limb salvage was 
the indication for by-pass in 63 (81%). The saphenous vein valves were rendered 
incompetent utilising the retrograde Mills-Leather valvulotome and exposing the 
greater saphenous vein with a continuous incision. In the 81 cases, wound 
complications occurred in 18 limbs (22%) and operative mortality (30 days) was 
6.1%. Primary cumulative patency rate of the 81 cases was 77% and secondary 
cumulative patency rate was 80%, at the end of the analysed period. The open 
technique, using a retrograde valvulotome and exposing the entire conduit of the 
greater saphenous vein, became our preferred technique for infrainguinal 
revascularization.

PMID: 1765713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 1991 Nov;17(4):921-30.

Long-term outcome of systemic lupus erythematosus in childhood. What is the 
prognosis?

Lehman TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Cornell University Medical Center, New York, New York.

Projections of an 80% rate of 10-year survival are little comfort to the parents 
of a child diagnosed with systemic lupus erythematosus. Parents' hope is for a 
normal life expectancy. This must be the physician's goal. Although physicians 
cannot tell parents that systemic lupus erythematosus can be cured, they can, 
however, tell them that considerable progress in the management of this 
condition. True long-term survival measured in decades is likely for children 
without high-risk findings and increasingly anticipated even for those who have 
them.

PMID: 1767081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Rev Esp Cardiol. 1991 Oct;44(8):500-10.

[Ischemic cardiopathy in women].

[Article in Spanish]

Alegría E(1), Alzamora P, Bolao IG, Velasco S, Fidalgo ML, Iglesias I.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cardiología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Navarra, 
Pamplona.

Life expectancy in western women is 8 years larger compared to men. This is due 
to the higher incidence of ischemic heart disease in men at least before 
reaching 45 years of age. This may also be due to differences in blood 
lipoprotein levels, differences in smoking habits, use of hormonal 
contraceptives, plasma iron levels, parity and other risk factors also found in 
men. After menopause the difference in the incidence of ischemic heart disease 
progressively decreases, basically because of a decrease in estrogen secretion. 
However, the role of estrogen supplement treatment in this group of women in the 
prevention of ischemic heart disease has not yet been clearly defined. The 
objectives of this study are to review the risk factors involved in the 
development of ischemic heart disease in women, the changes brought about by 
menopause and the possible beneficial effects of supplemental estrogens in the 
postmenopausal period.

PMID: 1767104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Cas Lek Cesk. 1991 Nov 18;130(20-21):577-83.

[The quality of demographic development in Czechoslovakia from the European 
viewpoint].

[Article in Czech]

Wynnyczuk V(1), Srb V.

Author information:
(1)Cs. demografická spolecnost CSAV, Praha.

Forty years of a totalitarian regime imply economic, cultural and moral 
devastation. Statistical analyses reveal, however, also demographic devastation 
in particular in the sphere of health and social aspects. This means that the 
basic indicators of the quality of demographic development in Czechoslovakia 
during the last 25 years are remarkably close to the indicators of the former 
socialist system and that they deteriorate and lag behind when compared with 
other countries, in particular developed industrial countries. This trend can be 
also called "balkanization" because Czechoslovakia which belonged before the war 
among the eight most highly developed industrial countries dropped at the end of 
the eighties to the level of demographic indicators of Bulgaria, Jugoslavia, 
Hungary, Roumania etc. In the submitted investigation the authors demonstrate 
these facts based on the analysis of selected coefficients of quality of the 
demographic development such as infant mortality, specific mortality of the male 
and female population aged 55-59 years and the mean life expectancy of men and 
women at birth, on the background of the general European demographic situation. 
For analyses only the latest data published by UNO were used.

PMID: 1769051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Int J Health Serv. 1991;21(4):637-51. doi: 10.2190/N70D-H1U1-TFYY-7PVB.

Ethics and equity in U.S. health care: the data.

Rice DP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, University of California, San 
Francisco 94143.

Access to and equality in health care has deteriorated in the 1980s, as shown by 
the data on racial differences in reducing infant mortality rates, in life 
expectancy, and in the incidence and economic burden of AIDS. Various health 
status measures indicate significant declines with decreasing income, and the 
use of medical care services is higher for low-income groups. The growing number 
of uninsured and underinsured persons has exacerbated the problem. A consensus 
is emerging among diverse groups that health care should be extended to those 
who do not have access to it and that providing universal and affordable health 
care is a major national health priority.

DOI: 10.2190/N70D-H1U1-TFYY-7PVB
PMID: 1769752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Int J Colorectal Dis. 1991 Nov;6(4):179-83. doi: 10.1007/BF00341385.

Anastomotic leaks in colorectal cancer surgery: a risk factor for recurrence?

Akyol AM(1), McGregor JR, Galloway DJ, Murray GD, George WD.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Surgery, Western Infirmary, Glasgow, UK.

This study examines anastomotic leaks as a potential influence on the long term 
outcome of patients with colorectal cancer. 167 patients were studied who had 
clinical and radiological assessment of anastomotic integrity in the 
post-operative period, following potentially curative resections for left-sided 
colonic or rectal cancer. There was no evidence of a leak in 135 of these 
patients, while the remaining 32 developed a clinical and/or a radiological 
leak. At the end of a mean follow-up of 25 months, 15 patients with leaks 
(46.9%) developed tumour recurrence, compared with 25 of those without any leak 
(18.5%; p less than 0.001). Cancer specific mortality at 24 months was also 
significantly higher for patients with leaks (36.9% +/- 9.7% versus 12.6% +/- 
3.3%; p less than 0.001). The influence of anastomotic leaks on the outcome was 
independent of tumour stage. These results suggest that in patients undergoing 
surgery for colorectal cancer development of an anastomotic leak is 
significantly associated with a poorer long-term outcome.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00341385
PMID: 1770281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Urologe A. 1991 Nov;30(6):394-400.

[Selection criteria for radical prostatectomy with reference to long-term 
results].

[Article in German]

Frohmüller H(1), Wirth M, Manseck A, Theiss M.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Klinik und Poliklinik, Universität Würzburg.

Between July 1969 and May 1991 radical prostatectomies were performed in 410 
consecutive patients with prostate cancer at the Department of Urology, 
University of Würzburg. The calculated survival rates for these 410 patients up 
to 15 years after surgery are very similar to the life expectancy of the normal 
male age-matched population. In 127 of the 410 cases radical prostatectomy was 
carried out more than 10 years ago, so that the data relating to these cases 
have been definitely observed, not merely statistically evaluated. In order to 
permit a comparison of our results with those reported in the literature, the 
TNM classification of 1979 was utilized in this study. This means that only 
tumors penetrating through the capsule of the prostate were classified as stage 
pT3. Those tumors that are only infiltrating the apex or the prostatic capsule, 
are classified as stage pT2. For patients with stage pT1pN0M0 and 
pT2pN0M0-tumors, 10-year survival rates (90.5% and 70% respectively) were 
recorded which are even slightly better than those of the normal male 
age-matched population. For patients with tumors extending through the capsule, 
the 10-year survival rate was found to be 60%. Forty percent ot these patients 
with stage pT3pN0M0 disease are alive tumor-free after more than 10 years and 
can thus be regarded as cured. When lymph node metastases were present (stage 
pT2-3pN1-2M0), some of the patients appeared to benefit from radical 
prostatectomy, since 4 out of 11 patients with this stage disease survived for 
more than 10 years.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1771718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Actas Urol Esp. 1991 Jul-Aug;15(4):331-7.

[Infiltrating transitional carcinoma of the bladder. 3. Effect of regional lymph 
node dissemination on the prognosis].

[Article in Spanish]

Escudero Barrilero A(1), Mateos A, Maganto E, Mayayo T, Pérez Bustamante I, 
Fernández I, del Hoyo J.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Ramón y Cajal, Servicio de Urología, Madrid.

The evolution of 168 patients, 136 of which underwent bilateral lymphadenectomy 
is analyzed in this paper. In 126 cases it was possible to obtain all the data 
in order to define N within the T.N.M. rating. With regard to the remaining 
patients 10, of which we lack the anatomopathological report, and 32 which did 
not undergo lymphadenectomy, are included under item Nx. During follow-up, 
metastasis was diagnosed in 60% node-positive patients. We believe it to have 
been already present at the time of undergoing surgery. Survival was 
significantly higher in the group without node dissemination than in both 
negative-nodes and Nx groups. When assessing the nodular dissemination group, 
patients treated with 2000 rad prior to cystectomy showed higher survival rates: 
36% vs 22% and 11% for groups treated with 4500 rad and no radiotherapy. 
respectively. Metastatic percentage, however, was lower for the group managed 
with surgery alone (50%) than those treated with pre-operative radiotherapy (73% 
and 67% with 2000 and 4500 rad, respectively), on the other side, it would seem 
a contradiction that a 2000 rad dosage should be more effective than a 4500 rad 
dosage for this group of patients, since theoretically, the latter is closer to 
the ideal dosage to eradicate the nodular disease. Since 3 of 5 patients have 
micrometastasis, which we are yet unprepared to detect, all positive-node 
patients should receive chemotherapy immediately after recovery from surgery.

PMID: 1772046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. NAACOGS Clin Issu Perinat Womens Health Nurs. 1991;2(4):441-51.

Menopause and cardiovascular disease.

Philosophe R, Seibel MM.

As the life expectancy of women increases, a greater percentage of women's lives 
will be spent in the menopause. The greatest cause of morbidity and mortality 
during that period is cardiovascular disease. The associated risks that 
predispose to the development of cardiovascular disease are multifactoral and 
include hypertension, diabetes mellitus, smoking, obesity, family history, and 
elevated cholesterol levels. The menopause, per se, is associated with an 
increased risk because of the unfavorable changes in cholesterol metabolism 
secondary to estrogen deprivation. The replacement of estrogen to menopausal 
women is believed to improve the lipid profile and reduce the atherogenic 
changes that increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. However, this form of 
preventative therapy is futile unless other factors that promote cardiovascular 
disease also are modified. Such modification may be achieved by following a 
well-balanced diet, combined with an exercise program, cessation of smoking, 
weight control, and the monitoring of blood pressure and diabetes in high-risk 
patients.

PMID: 1772731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. NAACOGS Clin Issu Perinat Womens Health Nurs. 1991;2(4):509-25.

Nutrition and health patterns in midlife women.

Ingram-Fogel C.

The middle years for women present many challenges and opportunities. The 
changes of life--physical, psychosocial, developmental, and environmental--can 
be rewarding, positive experiences. At the same time, as women enter the middle 
years, they may face a number of health problems. Preparation for health 
maintenance, illness prevention, and coping with problems as they occur can 
prevent many of the potential health alterations through life style changes. 
Even when these health problems are unpreventable, modification of behaviors and 
habits may ameliorate some of their consequences. The nurse is the logical 
person to educate and counsel women on how to lower their risks for midlife 
health problems. An overview of the health status of women at midlife is 
presented, including current life expectancy, mortality, and morbidity data. 
Risk factors and risk assessment specific to diseases prevalent in midlife and 
older women are reviewed, with emphasis on nutrition and obesity. Nursing 
strategies for reducing the risk factors (obesity, hypercholesterolemia, and 
sedentary life style) related to many of the health concerns of midlife women 
are presented.

PMID: 1772736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Ann Vasc Surg. 1991 Nov;5(6):519-24. doi: 10.1007/BF02015275.

Infrainguinal polytetrafluoroethylene grafts: saved limbs or wasted effort? A 
report on ten years' experience.

Davies MG(1), Feeley TM, O'Malley MK, Colgan MP, Moore DJ, Shanik GD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, St. James' Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.

Two-hundred and twenty-four infrainguinal polytetrafluoroethylene 
reconstructions were performed for critical ischemia over a 10 year period: 48 
to the above-knee popliteal artery, 113 to the below-knee popliteal artery, and 
63 to the tibial vessels. The cumulative patency rates were 84 +/- 6% and 63 +/- 
9% for above-knee popliteal, 53 +/- 5% and 35 +/- 7% for below-knee popliteal, 
45 +/- 6% and 30 +/- 9% for tibial vessels at one and five years respectively. 
Limb salvage rates were 81 +/- 6% and 73 +/- 9% (above-knee popliteal), 69 +/- 
5% and 57 +/- 9% (below-knee popliteal), 64 +/- 7% and 32 +/- 10% (tibial 
vessels) at one and five years respectively. Graft occlusion did not result in 
limb loss in 32 cases. Preoperatively, 54% of the patients had limited mobility 
while 43% were regarded as severely restricted. At follow-up, 57% of the 
patients were considered to be independent, 26% had limited mobility, and 17% 
were still severely restricted. Polytetrafluoroethylene provides good short-term 
limb salvage and improved mobility in patients with critical ischemia and poor 
life expectancy. Its use is well worth the effort.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02015275
PMID: 1772757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. BMJ. 1991 Dec 7;303(6815):1480. doi: 10.1136/bmj.303.6815.1480.

The "Q" in QALYs.

Carr-Hill R, Morris J.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1991 Nov 2;303(6810):1136-7.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.303.6815.1480
PMCID: PMC1671683
PMID: 1773169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Gut. 1991 Dec;32(12):1562-4. doi: 10.1136/gut.32.12.1562.

Wire guided balloon assisted endoscopic biliary stent exchange.

Martin DF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University Hospital of South Manchester, Withington.

A simple technique of endoscopic stent exchange using a biliary dilatation 
balloon is described. The technique is appropriate in patients with bile duct 
malignancy in whom clogging of a previously placed straight stent has occurred. 
Balloon assisted exchange has been used in 25 patients to date and minimises the 
risks of failure of stent reinsertion and the need for further procedures in 
patients with limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.32.12.1562
PMCID: PMC1379264
PMID: 1773968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Neuropediatrics. 1991 Nov;22(4):198-202. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1071441.

A nationwide survey on transient hyperammonemia in newborn infants in Japan: 
prognosis of life and neurological outcome.

Yoshino M(1), Sakaguchi Y, Kuriya N, Ohtani Y, Yamashita F, Hashimoto T, Oyanagi 
K, Tada K, Narisawa K, Kitagawa T, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics & Child Health, Kurume University School of 
Medicine, Japan.

A nationwide survey of transient hyperammonemia in newborns was carried out in 
Japan. A total of 18 patients, consisting of 12 male and 6 female infants, were 
reported from 11 facilities. These neonates exhibited hyperammonemia with plasma 
ammonia levels in the range from 124 to 6256 micrograms/dl. Four newborn infants 
of the 18 died in the neonatal period, and an additional one died in the early 
infancy. Among the 13 infants who were alive at the time of this survey, 6 had 
neurological sequelae, including mental retardation, spastic quadriplegia and 
epilepsy. The multivariate analysis revealed that the Apgar score at 1 minute, 
peak plasma ammonia concentration, birth weight and sex were significant factors 
affecting the prognosis of life.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1071441
PMID: 1775216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Rev Elev Med Vet Pays Trop. 1991;44(1):9-14.

Studies on west African dwarf sheep: incidence of perinatal mortality in 
Nigeria.

Otesile EB(1), Oduye OO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Medicine, University of Ibadan, Nigeria.

A study was conducted on the incidence of perinatal lamb mortality with 
extension up to 30 days of age (PMR 30) in West African Dwarf sheep in Ibadan, 
Nigeria, over a three year period. An overall PMR 30 of 19.9% was recorded. This 
consisted of an abortion rate of 3.0%, a still-birth rate of 2.7% and a neonatal 
lamb mortality rate of 15.6% up to 30 days of age (LMR). Abortion rate was 
significantly higher in pregnancies with multiple foetuses and during the dry 
sea son (P less than 0.01 and P less than 0.05 respectively). Conversely, the 
still-birth rate was slightly higher in single lambs (P less than 0.05). The LMR 
for males (17.1%) and that for females (13.4%) were not significantly (P greater 
than 0.05) different. Also the LMR for single-born (14.4%), twin-born (15.4%) 
and triplets (26.7%) did not significantly differ (P greater than 0.05). The 
optimum birth weight for survival of the breed appeared to be 2.6 to 3 kg. 
Regression analysis showed a 28.3% increase in birth weight and all live-born 
lambs with birth weights of 0.9 kg or less died during the neonatal period. 
About two-thirds (67.2%) of all neonatal deaths occurred during the first week 
of life. There was no significant effect of season on LMR. The perinatal 
mortality rates recorded among West African Dwarf sheep in this study do not 
seem to significantly differ from corresponding figures recorded in other parts 
of the world.

PMID: 1775695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Int J Hematol. 1991 Aug;54(4):307-13.

Retrospective analysis of late intensification therapy with high-dose 
methotrexate for standard-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia in childhood 
(CCLSG-S811 study). The Children's Cancer and Leukemia Study Group.

Koizumi S(1), Fujimoto T, Sasaki K, Takeda T, Utsumi J, Mimaya J, Ohta S, 
Ninomiya T, Takaue Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Aichi Medical University, Japan.

Using the CCLSG-S811 protocol for children with standard-risk acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), late intensification therapy (LIT) with high-dose 
methotrexate (HD-MTX) was conducted without randomization. Of 118 eligible 
patients, 114 attained complete remission and 82 maintained continuous complete 
remission (CCR) for at least 3 years, completing the entire S811 regimen. Among 
the latter, 74 patients received LIT with HD-MTX between 2-3 years after CCR 
onset. MTX (2,000 mg/m2 per dose per week) was administered by 24 h infusion and 
three doses were given every 12 weeks. Leucovorin rescue (15 mg/m2 i.v.) every 6 
h was initiated 12 h after the end of MTX infusion for seven doses. As regular 
maintenance chemotherapy, intermittent (Regimen A) or continuous (Regimen B) MTX 
plus 6-mercaptopurine (6MP) combined with pulses of prednisolone and vincristine 
was administered (Koizumi S, Fujimoto T, Takeda T, et al. Cancer 1988; 61: 
1292-1300). Retrospective analysis revealed that patients on Regimen A who 
started LIT earlier (within 2 years of CCR onset (n = 23)) showed a higher rate 
of event-free survival (EFS) at 8 years (95.5% +/- 4.4%, mean +/- S.E.) than 
patients who started LIT later (2.5 years after CCR onset (n = 18, 66.2% +/- 
11.3%, p less than 0.01)). In addition, the superiority of four or five courses 
of the LIT (n = 39) as compared to 2 or 3 courses (n = 35) was noted for both 
regimens. The data suggest that early and aggressive LIT with HD-MTX may improve 
the long-term survival of childhood ALL patients.

PMID: 1777605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Curr Med Res Opin. 1991;12(7):413-22. doi: 10.1185/03007999109111512.

Comparative clinical evaluation of the activity of Ser-316 suppository in the 
treatment of lumbar osteoarthrosis.

Ginsberg F(1).

Author information:
(1)Département de Rhumatologie et de Médecine Physique, CMC Assubel, Brussels, 
Belgium.

In a double-blind, randomized study, 47 patients suffering from lumbar 
osteoarthrosis were treated with either Ser-316 suppository (horse immune serum 
directed against bone and parathyroidal glands) or placebo over a period of 6 
months at a dose of 3 suppositories/week. Efficacy was assessed based on the 
reduction in severity of pain on motion, consumption of paracetamol tablets, 
functional disability in normal and professional life; on the improvement of 
motility as shown by fingers-floor distance, Schober Index, extension, lateral 
flexions; and on the global evolution of the disease. Statistically significant 
improvements for fingers-floor distance, lateral flexions, paracetamol 
consumption, pain on motion, disability in normal life and evolution of the 
disease were seen in the Ser-316 group compared with the results obtained in 
placebo-treated patients, and were evident mainly from the third month of 
treatment. Globally, 17 (74%) of 23 patients receiving Ser-316 were considered 
by both patients and physician to have shown a good or excellent response 
compared with only 3 (14%) of 22 patients on placebo. There were no reports of 
any adverse reactions in either treatment group.

DOI: 10.1185/03007999109111512
PMID: 1778084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Exp Clin Endocrinol. 1991;98(2):81-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1211104.

Sexual dysfunction in patients with hypothalamo-pituitary disorders.

Lundberg PO(1), Hulter B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital, Uppsala/Sweden.

Four different studies of sexual problems and sexual dysfunction in patients 
with hypothalamo-pituitary disorders have been undertaken and data about the sex 
life of the patients have been correlated with diagnosis, tumour extension and 
pathology, endocrine insufficiency and pituitary hormone hypersecretion. In the 
first study 48 out of 53 (76.2%) adult males with pituitary tumours reported 
decreased or absent sexual desire. The corresponding figure in the second study 
was 29 out of 37 (78.4%) among adult males with pituitary tumours and 
hyperprolactinaemia. Twenty (31.7%) and 18 (48.6%) patients, respectively, 
reported decreased sexual desire as the first symptom of their tumour. A highly 
significant correlation between a decrease in serum testosterone and a decrease 
in sexual desire was found. Some males with normal serum testosterone but 
hyperprolactinaemia also reported decreased sexual desire. In the third study, 
109 females (aged 20-60) with morphologically verified hypothalamo-pituitary 
disorders, 68 (62.4%) had noticed a decrease in sexual desire. This problem was 
registered for 53 (84.1%) out of the 63 women in this group who had 
hyperprolactinaemia but only in 15 (32.6%) out of the 46 women with normal serum 
prolactin (p less than 0.001). In the last study 48 women with well-defined 
hypothalamo-pituitary disorders underwent a comprehensive interview about sexual 
function and sexual appreciation. Thirty-eight (79.2%) of the women had 
developed a lack of or a considerable decrease in sexual desire. Problems with 
lubrication or orgasms were reported by 31 (64.6%) and 33 (68.7%) of the women, 
respectively. Preservation of normal menstrual pattern, age, and intrasellar 
tumour growth was correlated to normal sexual desire and function.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1211104
PMID: 1778235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Genetika. 1991 Sep;27(9):1648-57.

[Empirical estimation of recurrence risks in multifactorial diseases with 
variable age-at-onset: conditional probability approach].

[Article in Russian]

Sergeev AS.

Conditional probability approach in estimation of recurrence risks considered in 
the report is naturally extended to the case of diseases with variable 
age-at-onset which are divided into many age-at-onset incompatible classes, the 
distribution of families for classes of affected and normal siblings being 
polynomial, modified with regard both for classes by age manifestation and for 
age of relatives at the moment of observation. This case is realised within the 
framework of the so called "life-table" approach of general use in demography. 
It is emphasized that the estimate of "accumulated morbidity" obtained within 
this framework--as a resulting estimate of "forthcoming risk" for individuals 
which are at premanifestational age--is the "a posteriori" probability for 
relatives to be affected by the disease. It is indicated that conditional 
probability approach, being free of any biological models of the disease origin, 
is not free of ascertainment models: different kinds of stratifications of the 
patients for the features related to their ascertainment as probands 
(age-at-onset, age by the time of observation, sex, birth order, etc.) can 
naturally generate inconsistency of the ascertainment probability pi both within 
and among the families, violating the independence of the ascertainment of 
patients as probands. In this connection, the maximum likelihood equations are 
given for estimation of the ascertainment probabilities of different 
incompatible groups of patients as probands and the necessity to account for 
possible differences in pi-s is pointed out.

PMID: 1778463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1991;7(4):651-6. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300007297.

Comment on "Dealing with discounting".

Johannesson M, Levin LA.

Comment on
    Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1990;6(1):139-45.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300007297
PMID: 1778716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. J Anim Sci. 1991 Oct;69(10):4167-75. doi: 10.2527/1991.69104167x.

Animal welfare: concepts and measurement.

Broom DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Clin. Vet. Med., Cambridge University, United Kingdom.

The term "welfare" refers to the state of an individual in relation to its 
environment, and this can be measured. Both failure to cope with the environment 
and difficulty in coping are indicators of poor welfare. Suffering and poor 
welfare often occur together, but welfare can be poor without suffering and 
welfare should not be defined solely in terms of subjective experiences. The 
situations that result in poor welfare are reviewed in this study with special 
reference to those in which an individual lacks control over interactions with 
its environment. The indicators of poor welfare include the following: reduced 
life expectancy, impaired growth, impaired reproduction, body damage, disease, 
immunosuppression, adrenal activity, behavior anomalies, and self-narcotization. 
The uses of measures of responsiveness, stereotypies, and animal preferences in 
welfare assessment are discussed. The need to make direct measurement of poor 
welfare as well as to use sophisticated studies of animal preferences is 
emphasized.

DOI: 10.2527/1991.69104167x
PMID: 1778832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Minerva Cardioangiol. 1991 Jul-Aug;39(7-8):303-6.

[Subrenal coarctation of the aorta. Presentation of a clinical case].

[Article in Italian]

Occhionorelli S(1), Taddia MC, Romano D, Vasquez G, Mari F, Pollinzi V, Cavagna 
E, Saletti A, Mascoli F.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinica Chirurgica Generale e Terapia Chirurgica, Università 
degli Studi di Ferrara.

Coarctation of abdominal aorta constitutes a rare group of vascular 
abnormalities, including segmental stenoses and extended hypoplasia below the 
restriction. Usually hypertension is the only clinical evidence. The natural 
history of the surgically untreated disease foresees a decline of life 
expectancy; while surgical operation permit an almost complete "restitutio ad 
integrum". The Authors report a case of coarctation of the abdominal aorta come 
to their observation whose particularly was determined by the absence of high 
blood pressure, the aortic stenoses being located under the renal arteries.

PMID: 1780082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Z Gerontol. 1991 Nov-Dec;24(6):316-8.

[Methods in age determination in human skeletons exemplified by inhumation and 
cremation burials of the Hallstatt period].

[Article in German]

Claassen H(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Anthropologie und Humangenetik, Universität München.

Discussed were the usual methods presently applied in anthropology for 
determining a person's age at death by means of specific characteristics of the 
human skeleton. The inhumation and cremation burials from two tumulus cemeteries 
of the Hallstatt period (750-500 BC), Dietfurt and Schirndorf, which are both 
located in the Upper Palatinate, Bavaria, were used as illustrations. In the 
case of the skeleton of an adult a combined method of age-determination, which 
took the following four factors into account, proved to be effective: 1. the 
stage of closure of the endocranial suture, 2. changes in the symphyseal surface 
of the pubis, 3. and 4. changes in the structure of the spongiosa of the 
proximal humerus epiphysis and femur epiphysis. In addition the degree of 
abrasion of the teeth can be taken into account. In the case of skeletons of 
non-adults, teeth cutting and the epiphyseal fusion should be paid particular 
attention to. Using the described methods, the following data relating to 
age-structure for the inhumation burials of both Hallstatt cemeteries could be 
attained. The death-apex was reached in the adult age-class. The average 
life-expectancy of both men and women in Dietfurt and Schirndorf was 
approximately 31-32 years. The average life-expectancy at the time of birth was 
32.3 years in Dietfurt and 26.9 years in Schirndorf. The varying results are due 
to the fact that more children of the age-classes infants I and infants II could 
be proved for the Schirndorf cemetery.

PMID: 1781203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Ann Chir. 1991;45(9):803-10.

[Neurovascular transfer of the m. gracilis for the treatment of Volkmann's 
contracture following supracondylar fracture in childhood].

[Article in French]

Egerszegi EP(1), Zuker RM, Caouette-Laberge L, Manktelow RT, McLeod AM, Candlish 
SE, Garon N.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Plastique, Hôpital Sainte-Justine, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada.

Children are particularly prone to developing moderate to severe Volkmann's 
ischemic contracture following a supracondylar fracture of the humerus or its 
treatment. In order to treat such contractures, intensive hand therapy and a 
gracilis free muscle transfer to the digital flexors were used in 8 patients at 
an average age of 6 years 2 months. All transfers were successful. At follow-up 
(1 to 8 years, average 3 years), despite limited wrist extension in 5/8 patients 
and mean grip and pinch strengths between 22 and 43% of normal for age and 
dominance, all patients regained considerable finger flexor excursion (tip to 
crease distances of 0 to 5.0 cms, average 1.68 cms). Although fine motor 
assessment using the M.A.N.D. battery of tests placed the patients in the 
moderate disability range, 7/8 patients became independent in the tested 
activities of daily living with the exception of buttoning a cuff with the 
involved hand, which was difficult for 5/8 subjects. Quantifiable measurements 
underestimated the renewed importance of the operated hand. Compensatory motion 
at the shoulder allowed positioning the hand which changed from being nearly 
useless to becoming a functionally non-dominant hand well integrated into daily 
life.

PMID: 1781624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 1991 Dec;40(10):571-3.

[What type of heart valve prosthesis after age 70].

[Article in French]

Acar J(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Cardiologie, Hôpital Tenon, Paris.

The choice of a valve replacement in patients over 70 years of age must take 
into account various parameters: the type of valve disorder being operated, the 
probability of post-operative survival in view of the stage of the valve disease 
and the age of the subject, and the advantages and draws-backs related to the 
replacements used. In the case of mechanical replacements, the main risks are 
related to the embolic and hemorrhagic problems inherent in anticoagulant 
treatment. In the case of biological replacements, the problems are related to 
the primary degeneration of these valves, which appears to be less frequent the 
higher the age. In patients over 75 years of age, bioreplacements have more 
advantages than mechanical valves. In subjects between 70 and 75 years of age, a 
mechanical valve can be recommended if there is no contraindication to 
anticoagulant treatment, if there is some other grounds for long-term 
anticoagulation and if the life expectancy appears to be greater than 10 years. 
In other situations, a bioreplacement is recommended.

PMID: 1781629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 1991 Dec;40(10):599-602.

[Management of subrenal aneurysm of the abdominal aorta].

[Article in French]

Blondeau P(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie, Hôpital Américain de Paris, Neuilly-Sur-Seine.

This update, intended for cardiologists, is not concerned with technical 
surgical considerations but rather considers the problems facing the physician 
in abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). 1) What form does AAA take: an atheromatous, 
spindle-shaped and partially thrombotic ectasis. 2) How is it detected: 
traditionally by clinical examination and increasingly by ultrasound. 3) What 
additional examinations are useful: the most simple and commonly repeated is 
ultrasound. Aortic angiography is useful only in cases with a surgical 
indication. 4) What is the risk of spontaneous development: above all, rupture, 
the statistical risk of which becomes considerable once the diameter of the 
aneurysm exceeds 6 cm. 5) What are the risks and results of surgical treatment: 
it has become an operation presenting little danger and one that beyond all 
doubt increases life expectancy. 6) Which patients should undergo surgery: all 
aneurysms dating from more than 6 cm and/or showing symptoms.

