PMID: 1781634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Zhonghua Zhong Liu Za Zhi. 1991 Sep;13(5):369-71.

[The study of lymph nodes metastasis and staging of carcinoma of the gastric 
cardia by computer].

[Article in Chinese]

Fang DK(1).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Institute, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing.

A total of 605 cases of the carcinoma of gastric cardia resected were analysed 
univariantly using program of analysis for risk states and survival analysis by 
life table method on IBM-PC computer. The significance of lymph nodes metastasis 
in different situations concerning prognosis was evaluated. Our results suggest 
that the lymph nodes with metastasis at the lower part of esophagus should be 
grouped as N 1 in the TNM staging system for carcinoma of the gastric cardia. We 
propose a new staging method, using number of lymph nodes metastasis and degree 
of tumorous infiltration to the adjacent organs as main indices, for the 
advanced carcinoma of the gastric cardia clinically and pathologically.

PMID: 1782851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Oper Dent. 1991 Jan-Feb;16(1):17-20.

Longevity of cusp-covered amalgams: survivals after 15 years.

Smales RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Adelaide, Department of Dentistry, South Australia.

The longevity of 124 cusp-covered class 2 amalgam restorations and 644 
restorations placed without cusp coverage was assessed over periods of up to 15 
years. The survivals of both groups of restorations were approximately 72% after 
15 years. The longevity of the cusp-covered restorations was not affected 
significantly by the use of pins for retention, or by patient age. The survivals 
were much better than the estimates of longevity generally ascribed by dentists 
to cusp-covered or complex amalgam restorations.

PMID: 1784534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Biotherapy. 1991;3(4):287-95. doi: 10.1007/BF02221321.

Alternating immunochemotherapy of advanced gastric carcinoma: a randomized 
comparison of carbazilquinone and PSK to carbazilquinone in patients with 
curative gastric resection.

Kondo T(1), Sakamoto J, Nakazato H.

Author information:
(1)Tokai Central Hospital, Gifu, Japan.

A total of 103 patients with advanced gastric carcinoma were randomized after 
curative surgery to receive an alternate administration of carbazilquinone (CQ) 
and PSK (Krestin) or carbazilquinone alone. Each course of therapies started 1 
week after the surgical operation and therapy schedules consisted of 9 courses. 
In each course of 6 weeks, CQ (2 mg/m2/week) was administered on day 0, 8, and 
15. In combined immunochemotherapy group, PSK was given orally in 3-divided 
doses of 2 g/m2/day from the day of the third CQ administration for consecutive 
4 weeks. Estimated survival rate and cumulative survival curve were compared 
utilizing the data up to 7 years after the operation. There was no overall 
significant difference in survival rates between the CQ plus PSK group and the 
CQ alone group, but a group of patients whose disease was classified as S1 + 
S2(N1-2) survived significantly longer when treated with the combination of CQ 
and PSK. Neither in more advanced cases (greater than S3 or greater than N3) nor 
in cancers of early stages, the addition of PSK provided an additive effect. The 
favorable result obtained in one subgroup treated with PSK, suggests that the 
use of this agent in treating gastric cancers should be carefully evaluated in 
terms of serosal infiltration and nodal metastasis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02221321
PMID: 1786194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Biotherapy. 1991;3(4):345-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02221327.

Intrapleural application of recombinant interleukin-2 in patients with malignant 
pleurisy due to lung cancer. A multi-institutional cooperative study.

Yasumoto K(1), Ogura T.

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Disease Center, Matsuyama Red Cross Hospital, Matsuyama, Japan.

Forty-three patients with malignant pleurisy due to lung cancer were entered 
into the trial to evaluate clinical efficacy of intrapleural instillation of 
recombinant interleukin-2 (RIL-2). Among 35 evaluable patients, serial 
cytological examinations of pleural effusion following the start of the 
treatment revealed disappearance of malignant cells in 26 (74%). Malignant cells 
were detected again in 7 of the 26, however, cytology remained negative in the 
other 19 patients for longer than 4 weeks. Pleural effusion disappeared 
roentgenographically in 13 of 35 evaluable patients. Additional 8 patients 
demonstrated marked decrease of pleural effusion. Complete response (CR) which 
means disappearance of both malignant cells and pleural effusion for longer than 
4 weeks was obtained in 13 of the 35 patients (37%). No serious side effects 
were experienced in this trial. These results indicate that intrapleural RIL-2 
is one of candidates to control intractable malignant pleurisy due to lung 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02221327
PMID: 1786198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Zhonghua Zhong Liu Za Zhi. 1991 May;13(3):214-6.

[Colo-rectal cancer in the elderly].

[Article in Chinese]

Shen J(1).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Hospital, Shanghai Medical University.

From September 1981 to December 1988, fiberoptic colonoscopy was performed in 
4595 subjects, among whom 476 colorectal cancers were found. Among 692 subjects 
with ages beyond sixty, 164 (23.7%) colo-rectal cancers were discovered. This 
study shows that the median age of colo-rectal cancer has increased by 7 years 
from 45 of the 1950s to the 1970s. The incidence of cancer of the ascending 
colon is higher (8.5%) in subjects older than 60. It should be noted that 124 
out of 164 (75.6%) patients had been misdiagnosed. With prolonging life 
expectancy in the Chinese population, we strongly advise fibercolonoscopy for 
the early detection of colo-rectal cancer in the elderly.

PMID: 1786759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. J Antimicrob Chemother. 1991 Dec;28 Suppl C:1-8. doi:
10.1093/jac/28.suppl_c.1.

Impact of chemical structure on quinolone potency, spectrum and side effects.

Percival A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, Royal Liverpool Hospital, UK.

Following the discovery of nalidixic acid in 1962, numerous structural 
modifications have been made to the quinolone nucleus to increase antimicrobial 
activity and improve pharmacokinetic performance. A major advance occurred 
during the 1980s with the discovery that a fluorine at position 6 conferred 
broad and potent antimicrobial activity, (e.g. norfloxacin) but still with 
relatively less activity for Gram-positive and anaerobic organisms than 
Gram-negative bacteria. Subsequent developments produced quinolones with further 
improvements, predominantly in either solubility (e.g. ofloxacin), antimicrobial 
activity (e.g. ciprofloxacin) or prolonged serum half-life (e.g. pefloxacin). 
Recent modifications have attempted to achieve an optimal blend of favourable 
properties together with minimal potential for undesirable side-effects. An 
example is temafloxacin with comparatively enhanced activity against 
Gram-positive pathogens, a balanced pharmacokinetic profile, minimal CNS 
penetration, and without interaction with theophylline elimination. Improvements 
in antimicrobial activity combined with adequate blood and tissue concentrations 
do offer expectancy of enhanced therapeutic efficacy for new derivatives in 
those infections by organisms which are 'marginally' sensitive to currently used 
quinolones. The possibility of resistance emerging in these organisms during 
treatment, should also be reduced.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/28.suppl_c.1
PMID: 1787126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. J Am Mosq Control Assoc. 1991 Dec;7(4):551-5.

Development and survival of Anopheles pharoensis and An. multicolor from Faiyum, 
Egypt.

Kenawy MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Research and Training Center on Vectors of Diseases, Ain Shams University, 
Cairo, Egypt.

Adults of Anopheles pharoensis and An. multicolor were held under cycling 
environmental conditions in the laboratory to examine the duration of the 
gonotrophic cycles, survival and life expectancy, and to examine the life table 
characteristics of F1 larvae. The first gonotrophic cycle took 6.14 and 7.37 
days for An. pharoensis and An. multicolor, respectively. Subsequent gonotrophic 
cycles for the 2 species were shorter. Daily survival rates of An. pharoensis 
and An. multicolor in the laboratory were 0.95 and 0.93, respectively. The 
parity rate of field-collected females and estimates of the duration of the 
gonotrophic cycle yielded daily survivorship estimates of 0.89 and 0.80 for An. 
pharoensis and An. multicolor, respectively. Mean life expectancy at emergence 
was 19.0 days for An. pharoensis compared with 17.9 days for An. multicolor. 
Survivorship from egg eclosion to adult emergence and development time were 
similar for both species. Both the duration of gonotrophic cycles and mean life 
expectancies indicated that An. pharoensis had a greater potential to serve as a 
malaria vector than An. multicolor.

PMID: 1787399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. J Med Ethics. 1991 Dec;17(4):185-8. doi: 10.1136/jme.17.4.185.

Unprincipled QALYs: a response to Cubbon.

Harris J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Social Ethics and Policy, University of Manchester.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.17.4.185
PMCID: PMC1376053
PMID: 1787517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Med Hypotheses. 1991 Nov;36(3):250-2. doi: 10.1016/0306-9877(91)90143-m.

Death from bulbar involvement in Friedreich's ataxia.

Lalonde R(1), Botez MI.

Author information:
(1)Hôtel-Dieu Hospital, Neurology Service, Montreal, Québec, Canada.

Cheyne-Stokes breathing occurs in patients with Friedreich's ataxia. In some 
cases, this form of periodic breathing may be caused by degenerative changes at 
the bulbar level. In view of decreased levels of glycine in the spinal cord in 
patients with Friedreich's ataxia, though medullary levels have not been 
measured, it is hypothesized that glycine (and perhaps other inhibitory amino 
acids) reverses Cheyne-Stokes breathing and could perhaps prolong life 
expectancy in patients with Friedreich's ataxia.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-9877(91)90143-m
PMID: 1787821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Behav Brain Res. 1991 Nov 26;45(2):171-6. doi:
10.1016/s0166-4328(05)80082-8.

Localization of brainstem motoneurons involved in dewlap extension in the 
lizard, Anolis equestris.

Font E(1).

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Graduate Program in Ethology, University of Tennessee, 
Knoxville 37996.

Dewlap extension is a characteristic component of inter- and intraspecific 
displays of Anolis lizards. Dewlap extension is accomplished by the contraction 
of ceratohyoid muscles associated with the hyoid apparatus. Retrograde transport 
of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) was used to investigate the brainstem origins of 
efferent fibers to the ceratohyoid muscles in Anolis equestris. Following 
application of HRP to the ceratohyoid muscle or to its nerve supply on one side 
of the throat, large polygonal motoneurons were found ipsilaterally in the vagal 
(Amb X) and glossopharyngeal (Amb IX) parts of nucleus ambiguus. Labelled 
neurons were more abundant and more heavily labelled in Amb X than in Amb IX. In 
addition, small spindle-shaped cells were labelled ipsilaterally in three 
parasympathetic nuclei that innervate glandular structures in the pharyngeal 
floor. HRP injections of the larynx labelled cells in many of the same 
locations, including Amb X and Amb IX. Thus, the nucleus ambiguus in Anolis 
contains motoneurons for supply of striated muscles in the hyoid (i.e. 
ceratohyoid muscles) and the larynx.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-4328(05)80082-8
PMID: 1789924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Epidemiology. 1991 Nov;2(6):418-23. doi: 10.1097/00001648-199111000-00005.

The importance of employment status in occupational cohort mortality studies.

Steenland K(1), Stayner L.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Robert A. Taft 
Laboratory, Cincinnati, OH 45226-1998.

Person-years at risk in occupational cohort mortality studies may be defined as 
"active" (when a person is working) or "inactive" (after a person has left 
employment at the plant under study). To investigate the effects of employment 
status (active/inactive) both across studies and within them, we have analyzed 
ten large cohort studies conducted by the National Institute for Occupational 
Safety and Health in which no occupational risk had been observed. These ten 
data sets included 89,376 workers, 1,984,505 person-years, and 18,840 deaths. In 
these ten studies, the SMR for all causes was positively correlated with the 
percentage of inactive person-years in the study (r = 0.57, p = 0.08). 
Considering only inactive person-years, the all-causes SMR was 1.12 
(approximately 1.25 before age 65, dropping to 1.00 after age 65). 
Stratification of inactive person-years by time-since-last-employment showed 
markedly increased mortality during the first year following employment. The 
all-causes SMR during active person-years was 0.40 and was fairly constant 
across age categories. With active and inactive person-years combined, a strong 
negative trend in SMRs with duration of employment was observed for all causes 
and for heart disease. These trends were not apparent when person-years were 
stratified by employment status. These results indicate that investigators 
should evaluate the effects of employment status when comparing SMRs between 
multiple cohorts or when interpreting trends in rate ratios within cohorts.

DOI: 10.1097/00001648-199111000-00005
PMID: 1790193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. J Trop Pediatr. 1991 Dec;37(6):286-92. doi: 10.1093/tropej/37.6.286.

Post-partum anovulation in nursing mothers.

Taylor HW(1), Smith RE, Samuels SJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Science and Technology, New Mexico Highlands University, Las Vegas 
87701.

An analysis of breastfeeding and ovulation data from 72 nursing mothers is 
presented. A proportional hazards model of the data strengthens the hypothesis 
that a pattern of short, frequent bouts of nursing defines a risk-set of women 
less susceptible to post-partum ovulation than those who choose to nurse on a 
schedule of relatively lengthy and infrequent bouts. In contrast, no effect of 
maternal weight-for-height on the month-specific rate of post-partum ovulation 
could be detected in the study population comprised of American mothers trained 
in self-observation of fertility signs.

DOI: 10.1093/tropej/37.6.286
PMID: 1791646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Pediatr Dermatol. 1991 Dec;8(4):314-21. doi:
10.1111/j.1525-1470.1991.tb00941.x.

Cutaneous lesions in severe combined immunodeficiency: two case reports and a 
review of the literature.

Postigo Llorente C(1), Ivars Amorós J, Ortiz de Frutos FJ, Regueiro JR, Llamas 
Martín R, Guerra Tapia A, Iglesias Díez L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Immunology, Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid, 
Spain.

Two patients with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) in whom cutaneous 
lesions were the first clinical feature were studied. Neither the morphology nor 
the histology of the lesions was uniform, although we have noted some common 
findings that can, in subsequent cases, lead us to suspect SCID. The immunologic 
defects were not uniform, representing the two poles of the spectrum of SCID. We 
believe that early recognition of the skin lesions is very important, since the 
patient's life expectancy can be increased by a bone marrow transplantation (1).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1470.1991.tb00941.x
PMID: 1792206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Rev Clin Esp. 1991 Dec;189(9):399-402.

[Predictive medicine, preventive medicine].

[Article in Spanish]

del Rey Calero J.

PMID: 1792367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Scand J Soc Med. 1991 Jun;19(2):105-9. doi: 10.1177/140349489101900205.

The duration of breast-feeding. A longitudinal prospective study in Denmark.

Vestermark V(1), Høgdall CK, Plenov G, Birch M, Toftager-Larsen K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Central Hospital, Hillerød, Denmark.

A longitudinal prospective study was performed to investigate the total duration 
of breast-feeding. Three hundred and sixty-six mothers were followed-up until 3 
years after delivery. At 1 month 93% were breast-feeding, at 3 months 73%, at 6 
months 52%, at 1 year 20% and 1% breast-fed more than 3 years. Correlations were 
found between duration of breast-feeding and maternal age, education and social 
class. Mothers who had breast-fed an older child usually breast-fed the next 
child for a period of similar length. Solid food was most frequently introduced 
when the infants were 4 months old. At 6 months 4% were still exclusively 
breast-fed. Breast-feeding has become popular: only 1% did not want to 
breast-feed at all and 89% of mothers intended to breast-feed their children for 
6 months or more. Even though the mothers now breast-feed longer than earlier, 
only 39% succeeded in breast-feeding for as long as or longer than they had 
intended.

DOI: 10.1177/140349489101900205
PMID: 1792513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Ter Arkh. 1991;63(8):126-30.

[The immunological validation and the potentials and prospects of using 
immunocorrective agents in treating hemoblastoses].

[Article in Russian]

Markova TP.

Immunocorrection was provided to 94 patients with hemoblastoses. Of these, 50 
patients suffered from lymphogranulomatosis and 8 from acute leukemias. 
Levamisole (decaris, Hungary) and the Soviet drug tactivin were applied as 
immunocorrectors. The effects of levamisole and tactivin in chronic lymphoid 
leukemia are combined. They are related to immunologic differentiation of the 
cells. The patients showed an increase of the count of E-RFC, a decline of the B 
cell count with superficial immunoglobulins, Em-RFC, changes in the T mu: T 
gamma cell ratio, and the maintenance of the level of serum immunoglobulins. As 
a result of the continuous administration of immunocorrectors, there was a rise 
of the count of B cells with immunoglobulins in the cytoplasm. The continuous 
use of immunocorrectors favours stabilization of the course of the underlying 
disease, an increase of the patients' life expectancy. In patients with 
lymphogranulomatosis, the use of levamisole as part of the multimodality 
treatment leads to an increase of the count of E-RFC, augmentation of the life 
expectancy. The treatment with immunocorrectors should be carried out under 
control of the immunity parameters.

PMID: 1792602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Thorax. 1991 Dec;46(12):881-5. doi: 10.1136/thx.46.12.881.

Cystic fibrosis: current survival and population estimates to the year 2000.

Elborn JS(1), Shale DJ, Britton JR.

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Medicine Unit, City Hospital, Nottingham.

Erratum in
    Thorax 1992 Feb;47(2):139.

Comment in
    Thorax. 1992 Apr;47(4):327-8.
    Thorax. 1992 May;47(5):400.

BACKGROUND: Survival from cystic fibrosis is increasing rapidly. Estimates of 
the extent of this improvement should allow health care facilities to be planned 
to deal with the expanding population of patients with cystic fibrosis. 
Estimates of life expectancy are also essential if accurate information on 
current prognosis is to be given to parents of an affected child, or to 
prospective parents deciding whether to proceed with a pregnancy where the fetus 
may be affected.
METHODS: Survival trends in the national data on cystic fibrosis have been 
analysed to produce estimates of the likely size of the cystic fibrosis 
population over the next decade and to predict the life expectancy of children 
born with cystic fibrosis in the years up to 1990.
RESULTS: In England and Wales the estimated number of patients with cystic 
fibrosis is at present about 5200, of whom 3300 (63%) are aged under 16 years. 
By the year 2000 the total population will increase to 6000, with 3400 (57%) 
aged under 16. Thus the number of children with cystic fibrosis will remain 
fairly constant over the next 10 years, whereas adult numbers will increase by 
about 36% (from 1901 to 2577). The median life expectancy of children with 
cystic fibrosis born in 1990 is estimated to be 40 years, double that of 20 
years ago.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that health service provision for children will 
not need to change substantially over the next 10 years whereas services for 
adults will need to increase by about a third. Parents can be counselled that 
the median life expectancy of a newborn child with cystic fibrosis is currently 
likely to be of the order of 40 years.

DOI: 10.1136/thx.46.12.881
PMCID: PMC463492
PMID: 1792634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Vrach Delo. 1991 Dec;(12):46-7.

[Factors affecting the treatment results with pulmonary tuberculosis patients].

[Article in Russian]

Berezovskiĭ BA, Salobaĭ RIu, Marchak VV, Popova II, Zakopaĭlo GG, Kucher VA, 
Vasylyk VU, Mikheĭ LV.

A study is presented of the effect of social factors on the outcomes of 
pulmonary tuberculosis in patients with freshly detected disease mainly in rural 
localities in 1985-1989. The outcomes of treatment depended mainly on the form 
and extension of the pathological process and terms of treatment. It was also 
established that the outcomes of tuberculosis are also influenced by 
unfavourable social factors which are more pronounced in persons with an 
extensive process. Treatment results were better in women with higher education 
than in similarly educator men. Among agricultural workers treatment efficacy 
was worse than among office workers and housewives. Life in the family effects 
more favourably treatment results than single life. Treatment results were worse 
in those living in unsatisfactory conditions, engaged in hard physical work, 
suffering of concomitant diseases and bad habits.

PMID: 1792770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Acta Paediatr Jpn. 1991 Aug;33(4):497-506. doi: 
10.1111/j.1442-200x.1991.tb02579.x.

Chromosome abnormalities and prognosis in childhood acute leukemia.

Hayashi Y(1), Hanada R, Yamamoto K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Saitama Children's Medical Center, Japan.

We report here on the leukemic cell karyotypes of 134 children with acute 
nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) examined at Saitama Children's Medical Center 
(SCMC), and of 88 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) referred to 
SCMC. The patients were mainly treated according to the protocol of the Tokyo 
Children's Cancer Study Group. Of 106 ANLL cases with adequate banding, 18% were 
normal, 34% had miscellaneous clonal abnormalities, and 48% were classified into 
known cytogenetic subgroups: t(8;21) (n = 21), 11q23 abnormalities (n = 14), 
-7/del(7q) (n = 6), inv (16)/del(16) (n = 5), and t(15;17) (n = 5). According to 
the FAB classification, M7 (21.7%) were more frequent than in previous reports 
because this study included a number of Down's Syndrome patients with M7 
morphology. The present study confirmed the well-known association of t(15;17) 
with M3, t(8;21) with M2, 11q23 abnormalities with M4 and M5, and inv 
(16)/del(16) with M4. Patients with t(8;21) or inv (16)/del(16q) ANLL fared no 
better overall than the entire group. Of 51 ALL cases with adequate banding, 
13.7% were normal, and 86.3% were classified into abnormal subgroups: 
translocation (n = 14), hyperdiploidy (greater than 50) (n = 13), and 
miscellaneous abnormalities (n = 17). Cases with hyperdiploidy (greater than 50) 
were restricted to a common phenotype and fared better overall than the entire 
group. Patients with translocation were found in all phenotypes, and had a poor 
prognosis. We concluded that childhood acute leukemia could be subgrouped 
according to karyotypic patterns, and that patients with translocations had a 
poor prognosis in ALL as well as ANLL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-200x.1991.tb02579.x
PMID: 1792910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Acta Paediatr Jpn. 1991 Aug;33(4):507-21. doi: 
10.1111/j.1442-200x.1991.tb02580.x.

Immunological classification of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Nakazawa S(1), Saito M, Okazaki T, Takane K, Sugita K, Mori T, Nishino K, Suzuki 
T, Kinoshita A, Abe T, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Yamanashi Medical College, Japan.

Seven hundred and forty-four newly diagnosed patients with acute leukemias 
between 1978 and 1990 were classified on the basis of immunological phenotypes. 
The majority of the patients were enrolled in the Tokyo Children's Cancer Study 
Group (TCCSG) studies. The incidence of subclassification of acute leukemias in 
this study was as follows: 522 patients with ALL (70%), 139 patients with ANLL 
(18%), 29 patients with biphenotypic leukemia, 8 patients with Ph1-positive 
acute leukemia (Ph1-AL), and 45 patients with infant leukemia. ALLs were 
classified into common ALL (cALL, 77%), T-ALL (15%), B-ALL (4%), and 
unclassified ALL (3%). The incidence of ALL subtypes in this study reflected 
those of TCCSG. Biphenotypic leukemias were categorized into 4 groups as 
follows; 1) cALL with positive myelomonocytic antigen(s) (N = 11), 2) 
unclassified ALL with positive myelomonocytic antigen(s) (N = 5), 3) ANLL with 
positive B-lymphoid antigen(s) (N = 4), and 4) acute leukemia with positive 
T-lymphoid and myeloid antigen(s). Infant leukemias were classified into ALL 
type (N = 27) and ANLL type (N = 18). In this present study, clinical features 
and immunological phenotypes of the acute leukemias with a poor prognosis, i.e. 
biphenotypic leukemia, Ph1-AL, and infant leukemia are analyzed and discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-200x.1991.tb02580.x
PMID: 1792911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Acta Paediatr Jpn. 1991 Aug;33(4):522-32.

Treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia in the Tokyo Children's Cancer Study 
Group--preliminary results of L84-11 protocol.

Tsuchida M(1), Akatsuka J, Bessho F, Chihara H, Hayashi Y, Hoshi Y, Hosoya R, 
Furukawa T, Ikuta K, Inana I, et al.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Children's Cancer Study Group, Ibaraki Children's Hospital, Ibraki, 
Japan.

The Tokyo Children's Cancer Study Group (TCCSG) has performed prospective 
randomized controlled studies since 1984 for childhood acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (ALL). Four hundred and ninety-eight newly diagnosed patients were 
treated with 5 different regimens designated as S1, S2 for a standard risk group 
(SRG), H1 and H2 for a high risk group (HRG) and HEX for an extremely high risk 
group of patients. We added intermediate-dose methotrexate as early 
intensification therapy in the S2 and H2 groups to reduce extramedullary and 
medullary relapses. Event-free survival of all patients at 4 years 6 months from 
the start of this regimen (median follow-up period 32 months) was 67.5%. The CNS 
relapse rate was significantly decreased to 2.2% compared to previously reported 
studies and our own experience. There were some unexpected complications of the 
CNS such as myelopathy and/or leukoencephalopathy. For the SRG early ID-MTX 
seemed to be useful to improve the prognosis, but triple intrathecal injections 
(TIT) should be limited in number. The 24Gy cranial irradiation (CRX) was 
effective but possibly excessive for the HRG. As evidenced by the success of the 
HEX group regimen, more intensive multi-drug consolidation in the early 
post-remission phase might be necessary to improve further the prognosis and to 
make it possible to shorten the treatment periods.

PMID: 1792912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Am J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1991 Fall;13(3):288-95. doi: 
10.1097/00043426-199123000-00007.

High-dose cyclophosphamide-high-dose methotrexate with coordinated intrathecal 
therapy for advanced nonlymphoblastic lymphoma of childhood: results of a 
Pediatric Oncology Group study.

Sullivan MP(1), Brecher M, Ramirez I, Ragab A, Hvizdala E, Pullen J, Shuster J, 
Berard C, Crist W, Vietti T.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Department of Pediatrics, 
Houston 77030.

The Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) investigated a high-dose cyclophosphamide 
(CPM) high-dose methotrexate (MTX) regimen to determine therapeutic efficacy in 
confirmed advanced nonlymphoblastic non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) (stages III and 
IV) and B-cell acute lymphatic leukemia (B-ALL) in children. Another goal was to 
determine the comparative effectiveness of shortened maintenance treatment (2 
versus 6 courses) in the study population. Systemic induction therapy included 
vincristine, prednisone, cyclophosphamide, and intermediate-dose MTX with 
leucovorin rescue. Superimposed intrathecal (IT) therapy included cytosine 
arabinoside for 2 successive days followed on day 3 by MTX. Intrathecal MTX was 
given 3 times during induction. At the end of induction, 2 days of triple 
(hydrocortisone, MTX, and cytosine arabinoside) therapy were given intrathecally 
(TIT). All patients then received a consolidation course of 4 doses of TIT, 2 
doses of cyclophosphamide, and 4 more courses of vincristine and MTX with 
leucovorin rescue. Patients were then randomized to receive either 2 or 6 cycles 
of vincristine plus MTX with leucovorin rescue. The TIT was given with each 
cycle. Complete response rates by histology and Murphy stage (1) were as 
follows: undifferentiated lymphoma (DUL) stage III, 84/105 (80%): stage IV, 5/12 
(42%); and other NHL [primarily large cell lymphoma (LCL)] stage III, 21/28 
(75%); stage IV, 2/3 (67%). Event-free survival (EFS) at greater than 2 years 
was similar for patients with DUL and LCL, i.e., 65 and 61%, respectively. No 
significant difference in outcome was noted between patient groups receiving 2 
or 6 maintenance treatments (p = .76). Treatment was notable for its modest 
toxicity following the early change to single-dose CPM therapy.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1097/00043426-199123000-00007
PMID: 1793154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1991 Dec;84(12):1789-96.

[Life expectancy after a first attack of sustained monomorphic ventricular 
tachycardia. Apropos of 295 patients with a follow-up of more than 5 years].

[Article in French]

Leclercq JF(1), Leenhardt A, Ruta I, Cauchemez B, Chouty F, Denjoy I, 
Maison-Blanche P, Coumel P, Slama R.

Author information:
(1)Clinique cardiologique, hôpital Lariboisière, Paris.

Analysis of actuarial cardiac mortality of 295 patients after a first attack of 
sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia followed up for an average of 5.1 
years showed that: the aetiology was the main prognostic factor. Patients with a 
normal left ventricle had a zero 5 year mortality rate (normal heart) or 3% 
(arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia) compared with 24% in patients with 
cardiomyopathy and 40% with myocardial infarction: p less than 0.01. Similar 
results were obtained if sudden death was considered; in patients with 
left-ventricular disease, the role of pump function assessed by the ejection 
fraction was essential: the 5 year mortality was 14.5% (cardiomyopathy) and 30% 
(myocardial infarction) if this was greater than 0.3 compared to 43% and 51% 
respectively when less than 0.3 (p less than 0.01); the heart rate of 
spontaneous ventricular tachycardia and that of tachycardia induced during 
endocavitary investigation had no influence on the mortality. However, the 
mortality following a first tachycardia with syncope was higher than that 
following a well tolerated tachycardia (p less than 0.5 if the ejection fraction 
less than or equal to 0.3 and p less than 0.001 if greater than 0.3).(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1793315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Fam Med. 1991 Nov-Dec;23(8):587-93.

Circumcision: a decision analysis of its medical value.

Lawler FH(1), Bisonni RS, Holtgrave DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, 
Oklahoma City 73190.

Comment in
    Fam Med. 1991 Nov-Dec;23(8):580, 583-4.

Routine neonatal circumcision has long been controversial. Presented here is a 
cost-effectiveness analysis of the consequences of the treatment choices 
(circumcision versus no circumcision) using a decision tree model. For a 
simulated 85-year life expectancy, routine neonatal circumcision had an expected 
lifetime cost of $164.61 per patient circumcised and a quality-adjusted survival 
of 84.999 years. Conversely, for the noncircumcision approach, the expected 
average lifetime cost was $139.26 per patient, and the quality-adjusted survival 
was 84.971 years. The net cost-effectiveness ($919.87 per quality-adjusted life 
year) is within the range usually considered worthwhile for public health 
policy. However, because of the minor differences in lifetime cost ($25) and 
benefit (10 days of life) for an individual and the tenuous values available for 
disease incidence and surgical risk, we conclude that there is no medical 
indication for or against circumcision. Additional analyses suggested that 
reported benefits in preventing penile cancer and infant urinary tract 
infections are insignificant compared to the surgical risks of post neonatal 
circumcision. The decision regarding circumcision may most reasonably be made on 
nonmedical factors such as parent preference or religious convictions.

PMID: 1794670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Haematologica. 1991 Jul-Aug;76(4):289-92.

Myelopathies during the course of multiple myeloma.

Economopoulos T(1), Pappa V, Panani A, Stathakis N, Dervenoulas J, Papageorgiou 
E, Asprou N, Raptis S.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Propaedeutic, Athens University, 
Evangelismos Hospital, Greece.

BACKGROUND: The development of acute non-lymphoblastic leukaemia (ANLL) or 
myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) secondary to treatment of multiple myeloma (MM) 
is well known. In some cases the simultaneous appearance of MM and ANLL has been 
described.
METHODS: In this series the simultaneous appearance of MM and various 
myelopathies in 91 untreated patients with MM, and the development of 
myelopathies during the course of the disease in 72 treated patients were 
studied.
RESULTS: Simultaneous appearance of MM (IgA/lambda) and refractory anaemia with 
ring sideroblasts (RAS) was observed in one case (1.1%). Development of 
myelopathies in treated patients with MM was found in 4 out of 72 cases 
(cumulative risk at 8 years 28.3%). In one case (IgG/lambda MM) a 
myeloproliferative disorder (MPD) developed 6 years after the initial diagnosis. 
Cytogenetic analysis was normal. In the second patient (IgG/k MM) a similar MPD 
was observed 5 years after the initial diagnosis. The karyotype was 46, XX, -5 + 
t (20;?). The third patient with lambda light chain disease developed RAS 11 
months after the initial diagnosis. The karyotype was 46, XY/hypodiploidy + M. 
Finally, the fourth case (IgG/k MM) developed ANLL (M4) 28 months after the 
initial diagnosis and the karyotype was 45, XX, -7, t(1;3).
CONCLUSIONS: The simultaneous appearance of MM and various myelopathies is 
unusual and probably represents a neoplastic transformation of a single 
progenitor in both lymphoid and myeloid malignancies. On the contrary, the 
development of myelopathies during the course of treated patients is a common 
phenomenon. The time of development and the cytogenetic findings strongly 
suggest that they are related to treatment with cytostatics.

PMID: 1794735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. J Hypertens Suppl. 1991 Dec;9(8):S28-30.

Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring: is it cost-effective?

Krakoff LR(1), Schechter C, Fahs M, Andre M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine (Hypertension Division), Mount Sinai School of 
Medicine, CUNY, NY 10029-6574.

The detection and treatment of hypertension can prevent cerebrovascular disease 
and, to some extent, coronary heart disease. For mild hypertension this process 
is not efficient because many patients must be treated with antihypertensive 
medication to benefit only a few. The costs of identification, diagnosis and 
drug treatment of mild hypertension are significant. These costs have increased 
recently, in part due to changing patterns of drug selection favoring newer 
agents. Primary and secondary screening for hypertension has relied on casual 
blood pressure measurement which has high sensitivity, but low specificity, i.e. 
many false-positives can be expected. Incorporation of ambulatory blood pressure 
monitoring into secondary screening has potential for greater specificity by 
excluding from treatment 20-40% of those initially identified as having mild 
hypertension. Computer analysis of simulated populations selected for treatment 
by either casual blood pressure or by use of ambulatory blood pressure 
monitoring with echocardiography (for borderline cases) demonstrates no 
difference in calculated life expectancy for the two groups. However, the former 
strategy selected 23% of the subjects for treatment, while the latter selected 
6%. These results imply that appropriate use of ambulatory blood pressure 
monitoring in secondary screening of mild hypertension may have a significant 
impact on cost-effectiveness.

PMID: 1795198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 1991 Nov;28(6):768-72. doi: 
10.3143/geriatrics.28.768.

[Epidemiologic study on factors related to physical locomotion ability among the 
aged].

[Article in Japanese]

Ueno M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology.

The present study was conducted in order to examine epidemiologic factors 
related to physical locomotion ability among the aged in an area with long life 
expectancy, a village in Okinawa Prefecture. Medical examinations and interviews 
were performed for 756 inhabitants aged 65 years and older, who were classified 
into 2 groups of physical locomotion ability, a high group and a low group. 
According to the results after multiple logistic regression analysis, the 
following factors showed positive relation to physical locomotion ability: age, 
working status, food intake frequencies (fish, eggs and green vegetables), 
skinfold thickness, grip strength and serum albumin. However, no statistical 
associations were observed between physical locomotion ability and other factors 
such as sex, smoking status, alcohol intake, hypertension, Quetelet's index, 
serum total cholesterol or and hemoglobin.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.28.768
PMID: 1795439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Pract Odontol. 1991 Jul;12(7):35-9.

[Recommendations for basic emergency equipment in the dental office].

[Article in Spanish]

Jiménez Vázquez P(1), García Luna M.

Author information:
(1)Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México.

Medical emergencies in the dentist's office are a primary concern for dental 
surgeons. Since each individual therapist is personally responsible for the 
management of those eventualities, they must be properly trained to handle them. 
Prevention is still the most effective method for avoiding them, with clinical 
examination as the prime basis for their management. Some current factors that 
increase the possibility of office emergencies include: a raise in life 
expectancy rates, thus increasing the number of patients with chronic diseases; 
multiple and complex therapeutic regimes; patients under dialysis, 
immunosuppression, transplants, etc. Apart from proper training of the dental 
surgeon in managing medical emergencies, he must have adequate equipment for 
treating such events. This article aims to offer dentists a practical guide to 
emergency equipment, which must always be at his immediate disposal, as well as 
some practical guidelines for the use of drugs and some recommendations 
regarding the organization of such equipment.

PMID: 1796075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Versicherungsmedizin. 1991 Dec 1;43(6):169-73.

[The kidney and life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Schoeppe W(1).

Author information:
(1)Zentrum der Inneren Medizin, Nephrologische Abteilung, Universität Frankfurt 
a. M.

Basic renal functions are physiologically determined as precisely regulated 
relation between more and less physical events with low energy consumption and 
energy dependent cellular transport mechanisms. All well in ageing as under 
various conditions of renal diseases adaptive processes become biologically 
effective, so that stabilisation of homöostasis is possible up to a loss of 95% 
of normal function. Life expectancy has to be defined under the new conditions 
of renal replacement therapy effective beyond this biologically defined border 
line.

PMID: 1796531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Anticancer Drugs. 1991 Aug;2(4):383-8. doi:
10.1097/00001813-199108000-00008.

Risk factors in intermediate and high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphomas of adults: a 
need for a new staging system.

el-Ghamrawy KA(1), Zawam HZ, Abdel-Azim H, Haggag M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology and Nuclear Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Cairo 
University, Egypt.

This study included 120 adult patients of intermediate and high-grade 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) in clinical stages II, III and IV. They were 
treated at Kasr El-Aini Center of Oncology and Nuclear Medicine (NEMROCK) during 
the period 1984-1987, inclusive. All patients were prospectively treated using 
four different chemotherapy regimens: MEVP (31 patients), COPP/M (23 patients), 
COPP/A-V (26 patients) and CHOP (40 patients). The clinical characteristics and 
prognostic factors in the four groups were comparable. Fifty percent (59 
patients) of the whole study group attained complete remission (CR). The highest 
CR was achieved with the CHOP regimen (58%) and the lowest was with MEVP (39%); 
the difference was statistically insignificant (p greater than 0.05). One third 
of CR relapsed during the follow-up period and two thirds remained disease-free 
for a median of 5 years and a range of 2 to 6 years. Eleven possible risk 
factors were tested for their correlation with survival. Five factors were 
identified as affecting survival significantly. When these five factors were 
subjected to stepwise regression analysis, only the quality of initial response 
and performance status sustained their prognostic significance. These factors 
were used to classify patients into three risk groups (low, intermediate, and 
high); the 5-year survivals were 79%, 36%, 17% respectively. When the Ann-Arbor 
staging system was used, no significant difference in 5-year survival was 
detected between stages II, III, and IV. The significance of the Ann-Arbor 
staging system as a prognostic indicator is questioned in G2 and G3 NHL. A new 
staging system is proposed.

DOI: 10.1097/00001813-199108000-00008
PMID: 1797195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Contraception. 1991 Nov;44(5):481-7. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(91)90150-e.

Two-year comparative trial of the Gyne T* 380 Slimline and Gyne T* 380 
intrauterine copper devices.

Sivin I(1), Diaz S, Pavez M, Alvarez F, Branche V, Diaz J, Odlind V, Olsson SE, 
Stern J.

Author information:
(1)Population Council, Center for Biomedical Research, New York, NY 10021.

In a randomized trial of the Gyne T* 380 Slimline, the-two year pregnancy rate 
was 0.3 per 100 and the continuation rate was 65 per 100. These rates did not 
differ statistically from those of the standard Gyne T* 380, nor did other 
performance parameters differ between devices by the log-rank test. Women under 
age 30 had lower continuation rates using either device than did women age 30 or 
older at admission because of removals for planned pregnancy. Conception rates 
among those who desired pregnancy were 35 per 100 at one month and 86 per 100 at 
one year.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(91)90150-e
PMID: 1797463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Contraception. 1991 Nov;44(5):489-503. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(91)90151-5.

A comparative study of 35 mcg and 50 mcg combined oral contraceptives: results 
from a multicenter clinical trial.

McLaurin VL(1), Dunson BA, Dunson TR.

Author information:
(1)Family Health International, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709.

A comparative multicenter clinical trial of two combined oral contraceptives 
(OCs) differing only in the estrogen content (35 mcg ethinyl estradiol versus 50 
mcg mestranol) was conducted at five clinics located in Yugoslavia, Egypt, Sri 
Lanka, Costa Rica and Mexico. The trial was designed to determine the 
differences between Norinyl 1+35 (Syntex) and Norinyl 1+50 (Syntex) in rates and 
reasons of discontinuation, and frequency of selected side effects which might 
contribute to method discontinuation. This report includes analysis of 1698 
women, all of whom were interval patients (at least 42 days but within 26 weeks 
postpartum), randomly allocated to one of the above OCs between October 1982 and 
January 1984. Follow-up visits were scheduled at 1, 4, 8 and 12 months after 
admission. Significantly more women in the Norinyl 1+35 group (p less than .001) 
reported intermenstrual bleeding (primarily staining and spotting), as well as 
an increase in the occurrence of intermenstrual bleeding compared to women in 
the Norinyl 1+50 group. There were no significant differences between the groups 
for side effects with the exception of more women in the Norinyl 1+50 group (p 
less than .05) reporting breast discomfort. The lost to follow-up rate at 12 
months was 19.3% for both the Norinyl 1+35 and the Norinyl 1+50 groups. The 
total discontinuation rate (including women lost to follow-up) at 12 months was 
43.5% for the Norinyl 1+35 group and 41.0% for the Norinyl 1+50 group. There 
were no significant differences between the two groups for gross cumulative life 
table discontinuation rates (p greater than .05). There were six accidental 
pregnancies attributed to user failure reported during the study period; four in 
the Norinyl 1+35 group and two in the Norinyl 1+50 group.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(91)90151-5
PMID: 1797464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Asia Pac J Public Health. 1991;5(1):49-53. doi: 10.1177/101053959100500111.

Mortality trend in a rapidly developing economy in Taiwan. Part II: Life 
expectancy and "potential years of life lost".

Tsai SP(1), Wen CP, Guo JP, Tsai SF.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas School of Public Health, Houston 77225.

Taiwan has made remarkable economic progress in the last 30 years. The life 
expectancy of its population improved steadily during this period. A male child 
born in 1983 could look forward to 70.4 years of life and a female child to 75.3 
years, gains of 17.5 years and 19.0 years, respectively, since 1950. The 
potential gains in life expectancy of the Taiwan population are also examined if 
the five leading causes of death are reduced or eliminated. In addition, this 
paper discusses the concept of potential productive years of life lost (PYLL), 
examines the leading causes of premature death and shows how this measure can be 
used to target prevention programs and health care planning.

PIP: Researchers analyzed 1983 vital statistics for Taiwan using the life table 
analysis and calculating the potential years of life lost (PYLL) to identify 
life shortening features of several major causes of death and examine the 
preventability of premature mortality. Life expectancy for males was 69.9 years 
whereas for females it was 75.1 years. these corresponding life expectancies for 
Japan were 73.8 years and 79.6 years and 71.7 years and 78.7 years for the US. 
Between 1950-1983, life expectancy at birth in Taiwan increased 17.5 years for 
males and 19 years for females. In 1983, the cumulative total of PYLL before age 
70 for males was 737,205 compared to 353,780 years for females. Thus loss of 
productivity of males was 2 times that of females. Most of this loss was a 
result of accidents. In fact, they contributed to 37.2% of PYLL for males and 
24.9% of PYLL for females. Even though accidents were also the leading cause for 
the most PYLL in Japan and the US (17.4% and 8.7% respectively in Japan and 25% 
for both sexes combined in the US), the magnitude was considerably lower than 
that of Taiwan. Further the type of accidents males were more likely to die from 
were motor vehicle accidents (18,8% vs. 18.4% for home and workplace accidents). 
On the other hand, women were more likely to die from home and workplace 
accidents(14% vs. 10%). The 2nd major cause for the most PYLL was all cancers, 
except liver cancer, (15.9% for males and 20.4% for females). The 3rd major 
cause for the most PYLL for males was liver disease (liver cancer and cirrhosis 
of the liver) (9.6%) while for females it was stroke (8.7%). Further suicides 
contributed to 6.5% of PYLL for females. IN conclusion, Taiwan should place 
accident prevention as a high priority since it needs limited resources and is 
more achievable than that of cancer elimination. The next level of preventive 
efforts should include stroke and suicide.
