
DOI: 10.1177/101053959100500111
PMID: 1799532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin. 1991 Aug-Sep;9(7):399-404.

[Tuberculosis and AIDS. Study of 54 patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Aguirrebengoa L(1), Montejo M, Urkijo JC, Urra E, Gutiérrez A, Mendoza F, 
Zalacaín R, González de Zárate P, Aguirre C.

Author information:
(1)Cátedra de Patología Médica, Universidad del País Vasco.

We present 54 cases of tuberculosis (TBC) and Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome 
(AIDS) that were observed during five years and represent 37% of our AIDS 
patients. TBC was diagnosed before AIDS in 7, after AIDS in 5 and simultaneously 
in 42. Eighty-seven per cent were intravenous drug users (IVDU) and no 
hemophilia cases were recorded. The tuberculin skin test (PPD) showed a reaction 
greater than 5 mm in 43%. Prophylaxis has not been used in any patient. TBC was 
localized in 39% and disseminated in 61%; the lung was the main organ involved. 
Diagnosis was established by culture in 42 cases and by pathology exam in 12 
cases. Eighteen patients had multiple isolations, while 36 had a single one. 
Co-occurrence with other opportunistic infections was observed in 27 cases. 
Death related to TBC was seen in 3 patients, and there were no differences in 
survival between disseminated and localized presentations. Compliance of 
treatment was very low and follow-up was not achieved in large number of 
patients.

PMID: 1799608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Farmakol Toksikol. 1991 Sep-Oct;54(5):42-4.

[The antihypoxic action of carnitine chloride].

[Article in Russian]

Karaev AL, Kovler MA, Avakumov VM.

D, L-carnitine chloride antihypoxic action was studied. Carnitine chloride 
(100-200 mg/kg) was found to increase mouse life expectancy under different 
experimental models of hypoxia both at acute and chronic administration.

PMID: 1800147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Indian J Pediatr. 1991 Jul-Aug;58(4):395-406. doi: 10.1007/BF02750917.

Bhore Committee (1946) and its relevance today.

Duggal R(1).

Author information:
(1)Foundation for Research in Community Health, Worli, Bombay.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02750917
PMID: 1800322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Gac Sanit. 1991 Mar-Apr;5(23):98. doi: 10.1016/s0213-9111(91)71054-6.

[Mortality and potential years of life lost in Madrid].

[Article in Spanish]

Castro de la Vega A, Carrasco Marina P, Cuerno Rios Y, Antón Martín G.

DOI: 10.1016/s0213-9111(91)71054-6
PMID: 1800448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. J Egypt Public Health Assoc. 1991;66(1-2):159-72.

Adult diet as a factor affecting biology of the sandfly Phlebotomus papatasi 
(Diptera: Psychodidae).

el Kordy E(1), el Shafai A, el Said A, Kenawy MA, Shoukry M, el Sawaf BM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Faculty of Science, Ain Shams University, Abbassia, 
Cairo, Egypt.

The effects of adult nutrients on egg retention, immature development and adult 
survival of P. papatasi, the important vector of leishmaniasis in Egypt were 
investigated. The tested nutrients were distilled water, overripe fig fruits, 
guinea pig blood, sucrose solution and alternative meals of blood and sucrose. 
Egg retention was observed in females irrespective to the type of offered 
nutrient (r = 0.21) but higher proportion (47%) of blood fed females had 
retained eggs. Duration of the life cycle was higher for the progeny of fig fed 
females (P less than 0.05) and mean generation time was longer for sucrose fed 
females (P less than 0.05). Such nutritional effect on life cycle was observed 
only for pre-oviposition periods and no extend effect on larval or pupal 
durations. The survivorship rates for eggs through adults were similar (P 
greater than 0.05). It is estimated that the population would increase by Ca. 
15, 11, 10 and 7 folds if the mother female was fed blood, sucrose, fig or 
distilled water respectively. The mean life time differed significantly (P less 
than 0.05) among females fed on different nutrients with the highest co (life 
expectancy at emergence) value (14.98 +/- 2.75 days) for sucrose fed females. 
Males fed on distilled water, fig fruits or sucrose solution were with similar 
longevities P greater than 0.05). In respect to leishmania transmission, the 
calculated expectancies for female life beyond the infective age indicated that 
blood-sucrose fed females have higher capability than those fed on sucrose blood 
or blood alone.

PMID: 1800616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Rev Sanid Hig Publica (Madr). 1991 Jan-Feb;65(1):39-44.

[Mortality indicators in a small community].

[Article in Spanish]

Cabrera De León A(1), Gálvez Vargas R, Sierra López A.

Author information:
(1)Unidad Docente de Medicina Familiar y Comunitaria de Santa Cruz de Tenerife.

The death rates have been much used in Public Health thanks to the ease in 
obtaining them. But our Primary Health Care Teams encounter the obstacle of a 
low denominator in that the populations of the basic health areas are small and 
the rates appear unstable. This means that they are often not produced in those 
cases where the calculation might be of use. We present our experience in the 
calculation of these indicators for the community of San Matías de Taco on 
Tenerife Island. It is a small township in very deteriorated surroundings and 
with very low socio-economic conditions. The death rates, which we have 
calculated, and the life expectancy show clearly the existence of a community 
with a health level much below that of the province as a whole. We have resorted 
to the use of a few large age groups and to the calculation of mean values over 
long periods of time. We Believe that methodology employed may be useful in 
Health care Centres.

PMID: 1801161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Acta Neurol Scand Suppl. 1991;136:24-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0404.1991.tb05016.x.

Progression and survival in Parkinson's disease.

Marttila RJ(1), Rinne UK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Turku, Finland.

Parkinson's disease is a progressive disorder and no permanent cure has ever 
been documented. The clinical onset, which usually occurs at an age of 55-65 
years, is probably preceded by a preclinical period of two or more decades. The 
progression rate of the disease is extremely variable in different patients; in 
individual patients on the other hand, the progression of motor symptoms is 
fairly constant. The tremor-dominant type of the disease usually has a more 
favourable prognosis than the hypokinetic type. Onset at an older age may be 
associated with a faster progression rate and the development of cognitive 
failure. In natural conditions, the average duration of Parkinson's disease is 
10 years, although with a considerable range. The disease shortens life 
expectancy, which can be restored at least partially by treating patients with 
levodopa and other modern drugs. The highest benefit in increasing life 
expectancy is obtained when the treatment is initiated at a relatively early 
stage of the disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0404.1991.tb05016.x
PMID: 1801533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. JAMA. 1991 Jun 26;265(24):3285-91.

What if Americans ate less fat? A quantitative estimate of the effect on 
mortality.

Browner WS(1), Westenhouse J, Tice JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San Francisco, CA 
94121.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1992 Jan 15;267(3):361; author reply 363-4.
    JAMA. 1992 Jan 15;267(3):361-2; author reply 363-4.
    JAMA. 1992 Jan 15;267(3):362; author reply 363-4.
    JAMA. 1992 Jan 15;267(3):362-3; author reply 363-4.
    JAMA. 1992 Jan 15;267(3):363; author reply 363-4.

Americans consume an average of 37% of their energy intake as fat. Many 
authorities recommend restricting fat intake to 30% of energy intake to reduce 
the rates of coronary heart disease and perhaps of cancers of the breast, colon, 
and prostate. Based on the assumptions that underlie those recommendations, we 
estimated the effect of this dietary change on mortality. If all Americans 
restricted their intake of dietary fat by reducing consumption of saturated fat 
and accompanying dietary cholesterol, the corresponding reductions in serum 
cholesterol levels could reduce coronary heart disease mortality rates by 5% to 
20%, depending on age. If the relationship between dietary fat and cancer is as 
strong as has been observed in some studies, the proportional effects on 
mortality from fat-related cancers could be even greater, although the absolute 
effects--given the lower mortality rates--would be smaller. Overall, if the 
assumptions are correct, about 42,000 of the 2.3 million deaths that would have 
occurred in adults each year in the United States could be deferred. This 2% 
benefit, equivalent to an increase in average life expectancy of 3 to 4 months, 
would accrue chiefly to people over the age of 65 years. If recent concerns 
about the possibly harmful effects of cholesterol lowering on mortality from 
noncardiovascular causes--which mainly affect younger persons--are valid, these 
relatively modest benefits would be overestimates of the actual effect.

PMID: 1801770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Contrib Nephrol. 1991;93:32-8. doi: 10.1159/000420181.

Acute renal failure associated with multiple organ failure: pump-assisted 
continuous venovenous hemofiltration, the ultimate treatment modality.

Canaud B(1), Cristol JP, Berthelemy C, Klouche K, Beraud JJ, Mion C.

Author information:
(1)Nephrology Intensive Care Unit, Lapeyronie University Hospital, Montpellier, 
France.

DOI: 10.1159/000420181
PMID: 1802597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. J Neurol Sci. 1991 Dec;106(2):213-20. doi: 10.1016/0022-510x(91)90260-e.

Prognosis of myasthenia gravis: a multicenter follow-up study of 844 patients.

Beghi E(1), Antozzi C, Batocchi AP, Cornelio F, Cosi V, Evoli A, Lombardi M, 
Mantegazza R, Monticelli ML, Piccolo G, et al.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Ricerche Farmacologiche Mario Negri, Milan, Italy.

The prognosis of myasthenia gravis (MG) was assessed retrospectively using 
life-table analysis in 844 patients followed up for a mean period of 5 years in 
3 major Italian centers. The chance of achieving at least a 1-year remission 
after treatment withdrawal (complete remission) was assessed as a specific 
end-point in the whole population and in selected subgroups with reference to 
the principal prognostic variables. The cumulative probability of complete 
remission was 1% by 1 year, 8% by 3 years, 13% by 5 years, and 21% by 10 years. 
The only variables correlated to the chance of complete remission were younger 
age at onset of MG, lower severity of symptoms at onset and nadir, and shorter 
disease duration at diagnosis. In addition, thymectomy and early surgery seemed 
to influence the chance of remission. Other factors (including the presence of 
thymoma) did not significantly influence the outcome of the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-510x(91)90260-e
PMID: 1802969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Math Biosci. 1991 Mar;103(2):287-302. doi: 10.1016/0025-5564(91)90057-p.

Construction of expanded continuous life tables--a generalization of abridged 
and complete life tables.

Hsieh JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Biostatistics, University of Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

Erratum in
    Math Biosci 1992 Mar;108(2):299.

This article extends the recent abridged life-table method of Hsieh. It 
generalizes the conventional discrete (abridged and complete) life tables into a 
continuous life table that can produce life-table functions at any age and 
develops a unified method of life-table construction that simplifies the 
disparate laborious procedures used in the traditional approach of constructing 
abridged and complete life tables. A set of precise procedures based on the 
complete cubic spline for the main body of the table and a mortality law for 
advanced ages is developed for estimating the basic and nonbasic life-table 
functions from a given mortality schedule. The proposed method can also produce 
more life-table functions than other existing methods. The method is illustrated 
with Canadian data.

DOI: 10.1016/0025-5564(91)90057-p
PMID: 1804449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Invest New Drugs. 1991 Nov;9(4):333-7. doi: 10.1007/BF00183575.

Phase II trial of ICRF-187 in children with solid tumors and acute leukemia.

Vats T(1), Kamen B, Krischer JP.

Author information:
(1)University of Kansas Medical School, Kansas City.

ICRF-187 is the (+) enantiomer of the racemic mixture razoxane (ICRF-159). This 
compound is much more water soluble and thus could be formulated for parental 
use. The maximum tolerated dose in children after phase I trials was determined 
to be 3500 mg/M2/day x 3 days. A phase II trial of ICRF-187 was done in 21 
children with solid tumors and 35 children with acute leukemia. All these 
patients were less than 21 years of age, had recovered from previous 
chemotherapy, had normal liver and kidney functions, and had a life expectancy 
of greater than 4 weeks. ICRF-187 was administered at a dose of 3 g/M2/day for 3 
days as a 4 hour infusion each day. In patients with leukemia, no objective 
response was seen in the bone marrow although a few patients had a decrease in 
peripheral blast count. There were no measurable responses seen in patients with 
a solid tumor. ICRF-187 was well tolerated. The major toxicity was hematopoietic 
depression. Significant but rare toxicities included moderate to severe nausea 
and vomiting, and elevation of bilirubin and transaminases. Although inactive in 
the current study, ICRF-187 might be more active in another schedule.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00183575
PMID: 1804808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. J Urol (Paris). 1991;97(6):279-81.

[Is bovine collagen safe?].

[Article in French]

Aragona F(1).

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Urologia Universitá di Padova, Italie.

Injectable bovine collagen has found extensive applications as soft tissue 
substitute and, more recently, in the primary treatment of vesico-ureteral 
reflux. Reactions to the material have been reported to be temporary, of low 
incidence and self-limiting. However, animal collagen is still an immunogen that 
is capable of eliciting an immune response. Elevated anti-collagen antibody 
levels have been detected in patients treated with clinical doses of injectable 
collagen, even in the absence of adverse cutaneous reactions. These antibodies 
have not yet been shown to be cross-reactive with human collagen and it is 
presumable that for most patients biologic exposure to collagen does not pose 
any health hazard. Nevertheless, the long-term significance of these antibodies 
is unknown and, until the nature of the immune response to bovine collagen is 
better understood, it would be advisable to avoid collagen implants in patients 
with a long life-expectancy or when other therapeutic modalities are available.

PMID: 1804877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Stat Med. 1991 Dec;10(12):1945-58. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780101209.

Sampling design of multiwave studies with an application to the Massachusetts 
Health Care Panel Study.

Chappell R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706.

A technique is presented which provides guidance on the spacing of follow-up 
waves in a multiwave study. Only information from the baseline wave is needed, 
as well as rough parameter estimates for the survival distribution. The 
computations use the expected Fisher information; a new method for its 
calculation is given. An analysis of the effects of simplifying assumptions, 
such as presuming that a distributional parameter is known, shows that gross 
discrepancies may result. Data from the Massachusetts Health Care Panel Study 
(MHCPS) are used for a demonstration. The MHCPS example shows that this 
technique can prevent large inefficiencies in multiwave experimental design.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780101209
PMID: 1805320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Scand J Soc Med Suppl. 1991;46:110-4.

Economics of health planning--Costa Rica as an example.

Neuhauser D(1).

Author information:
(1)Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.

Costa Rica has been unusually successful in providing high levels of health for 
its people given its economic resources. It is proposed that there are two 
reasons for its success. Having no military, Costa Rica has had resources to 
invest in health care. Having a relatively equal income and education 
distribution and a democratic government, it has been able to provide health 
care widely rather than just to the elites. This paper examines production 
functions for health and possible directions for appropriate management of 
health as Costa Rica confronts the chronic disease pattern of the developed 
world.

PMID: 1805360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Scand J Soc Med Suppl. 1991;46:33-42.

Socioeconomic development, health interventions and mortality decline in Costa 
Rica.

Rosero-Bixby L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Planning, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

Costa Rica, whose life expectancy was 74 years by 1985, has reached a health 
level comparable to a developed country. The health achievements of this country 
are product of political and socioeconomic circumstances as well as of right 
public health policies. Until about 1970 the features of Costa Rica mortality, 
although somewhat better than the Latin American average, evolved in a similar 
way to the rest of the region. In particular, the decades of 1940s and 1950s saw 
dramatic improvements in life expectancy, thanks mainly to the import of 
low-cost, high-effectiveness health technologies. In the 1970s, however, Costa 
Rica departed from a regional pattern of stagnation and managed to close the gap 
with developed countries in terms of mortality levels. A dramatic decline in the 
infant mortality rate from 60 to 19 per 1,000 took place in this decade. The 
main determinants of this breakthrough were health interventions, notably a 
primary health care program, even though favorable socioeconomic conditions and 
a reduced fertility also played a role. Ecological data and other evidence 
suggest that up to three fourths of the mortality decline was accounted for 
contemporary improvements in public health services, with about 40 percent 
attributable to primary health care interventions. Furthermore, by targeting 
interventions on the less privileged population, these interventions had the 
merit of reducing geographic and socioeconomic differentials in child mortality.

PIP: This is an historical survey of the reasons for the rapid increase in life 
expectancy and decline in infant mortality in Costa Rica in this century, with 
regression analysis of determinants of infant mortality. Costa Rica, although a 
small, relatively poor Central American country, has as of 1985 a life 
expectancy of 74 years and infant mortality rate of 19/1000. Some of the general 
social features contributing to its success are racial and cultural homogeneity, 
constitutional renunciation of an army, a social-democratic welfare-oriented 
government since the 1940's and a universal education. In recent decades 
institutional reorganization included formation of a Central Sanitary Office in 
the Ministry of Health, a Central Assistance Office, and a Social Security 
System providing medical and hospital care. In the 1970s all hospitals were 
placed under Social Security. Now 98.9% of hospitalizations are covered, and 7% 
of the GDP goes for health care. The epidemiological transition began gradually 
with sanitation and economic growth in the early 20th century and accelerated 
with the advent of antibiotics, vaccines, and DDT in the 1940s and 1950s. After 
a stagnant period in the 1960s due to volcano eruptions, the 1970s saw vast 
improvements in education, communication, and health infrastructure resulting in 
control of malaria, tuberculosis, helminthiases, tetanus, measles, diarrheal and 
respiratory infectious deaths. In the 1970s, primary health care, in the form of 
quarterly home visits to disadvantaged rural and urban areas, equalized health 
indices across the country. Immunization reached 95% an sanitation 96% of homes. 
Secondary health care (outpatient) was extended under Social Security. In this 
era, fertility fell by half, primarily due to birth spacing and limiting of 
higher order births. Regression analysis shows that primary health care 
accounted for 41%, secondary medical care for 32%, socioeconomic progress for 
22%, and decline in fertility for 5% of the fall in infant mortality.

PMID: 1805367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Gac Sanit. 1991 Nov-Dec;5(27):243-53. doi: 10.1016/s0213-9111(91)71076-5.

[Excess mortality in an inner-city area: the case of Ciutat Vella in Barcelona].

[Article in Catalan, Spanish]

Borrell i Thió C(1), Plasència i Taradach A, Pañella i Noguera H.

Author information:
(1)Institut Municipal de la Salut de Barcelona.

Erratum in
    Gac Sanit 1992 May-Jun;6(30):149-50.

The purpose of this study is to compare mortality indicators in the district of 
Ciutat Vella (the more socio-economically deprived in Barcelona) with the entire 
city, for the 1983-87 period. Crude death rates, as well as age, sex and 
cause-specific deaths rates were calculated from vital statistics data; life 
expectancy, years of potential life lost (YPLL), the Comparative Mortality 
Figure (CMF) and avoidable mortality rates were also computed. All indicators 
point out at an excess of mortality in Ciutat Vella, when compared to the whole 
city. Life expectancy was 73 years (4 years less than for Barcelona as a whole); 
infant mortality was 15.6 per 1,000 births (as opposed to 9 for Barcelona). The 
CMF was 129 (95% confidence interval: 126.2-131.8), while the YPLL ratio was 
182.1 (95% confidence interval: 173.1-191.8), mainly attributed to excess 
mortality due to tuberculosis, cirrhosis and to homicides and drug-related 
deaths. The percentage of avoidable deaths was 9.5% in Ciutat Vella compared 
with 8.23% for Barcelona as a whole. These data confirm the need to actively 
pursue intervention programs to improve health in Ciutat Vella, although further 
small-area analysis at the level of neighbourhood and of health care areas would 
be advisable.

DOI: 10.1016/s0213-9111(91)71076-5
PMID: 1806523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Int J Vitam Nutr Res. 1991;61(4):339-45.

Serum albumin levels in elderly rural Africans.

Walker AR(1), Walker BF, Manetsi B, Molefe O, Walker AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Tropical Diseases, School of Pathology, University of the 
Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.

Reports on white populations indicate an inverse relationship between serum 
albumin level and total death rate, also death rates from cardiovascular 
diseases (CHD) and cancer. Among rural African blacks, CHD is absent, and 
diet-related cancers rare, so that albumin levels in the elderly would be 
expected to be elevated. Studies on 50 men and 50 women, representative elderly 
rural blacks, revealed mean values to be high, 47.6 +/- 4.9 g/l and 48.2 +/- 4.2 
g/l. Levels were not significantly associated with Body Mass Index, blood 
pressure, serum cholesterol level, nor blood glucose level. Hence, in the 
setting described, even elevated levels of these variables appear less noxious 
to health than is the case in white populations, since such levels are 
consistent with low mortality from the diseases mentioned. Explanation of the 
relationship between serum albumin and life expectancy is unknown. Longitudinal 
studies are necessary to clarify the situation.

PMID: 1806539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. J Dent. 1991 Oct;19(5):278-82. doi: 10.1016/0300-5712(91)90071-6.

Survival predictions of four types of dental restorative materials.

Smales RJ(1), Webster DA, Leppard PI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dentistry, University of Adelaide, South Australia.

The present study assessed the survival predictions made for four different 
types of dental restorative materials, using a mixture model involving the 
standard Weibull distribution function. A large number of amalgam, anterior 
resin, glass polyalkenoate (ionomer) cement, and pit and fissure sealant 
restorations were examined over varying periods of up to 18 years. The materials 
had been placed by numerous staff and students at a teaching hospital. Based on 
maximum likelihood estimations of the parameters of the mixture model 
distribution, survival curves were generated and found to agree closely with the 
actuarial survival curves estimated from the same data. As the years of data 
used to fit the mixture model curves decreased, then the fitted curves started 
to exhibit obvious divergences from the actuarial curves at 12-13 years for 
amalgams, 3-4 years for anterior resins and sealants, and 1-2 years for glass 
polyalkenoate (ionomer) cements. At least 5 per cent of restorations needed to 
have failed over any period to allow close agreement of the two curves, with the 
slower failing materials requiring longer observation periods.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-5712(91)90071-6
PMID: 1806593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Actas Urol Esp. 1991 Sep-Oct;15(5):411-20.

[Infiltrating transitional carcinoma of the bladder (4). Our approach to stage 
pT2 and critique of other risk factors. Multifactorial analysis].

[Article in Spanish]

Escudero Barrilero A(1), Perales L, Romero J, Rodríguez Luna JM, Vallejo J, 
Rivas JA.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología, Hospital Ramón y Cajal., Madrid.

From the analysis of our experience with pT2 and pT3a tumours it could be 
deduced that the former have better prognosis. The papillary appearance, 
invasion in a wide front and extent, whether with good or moderate 
differentiation, in T2 are signs of good prognosis, as well as the non-existence 
of unilateral dilation or an effaced kidney. Considering the good evolution 
obtained with radical cystectomy only, these patients should be recruited for 
study in order to see whether evolution with bladder preservation is similar. 
Patients with pT2 tumours should not be included in protocols to evaluate the 
efficacy of adjuvant therapies used with surgery. The evolution is not 
equivalent to that expected in tumours of deeper invasion.

PMID: 1807119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Proc Nutr Soc. 1991 Dec;50(3):719-27. doi: 10.1079/pns19910085.

Diet and disease in East and West Germany.

Kohlmeier L(1), Dortschy R.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social Medicine and Epidemiology, Federal Health Office, 
Berlin, Germany.

DOI: 10.1079/pns19910085
PMID: 1809979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1991;141(23-24):560-3.

[Neurogenic bladder as a cause of urinary tract infection].

[Article in German]

Kiesswetter H(1).

Author information:
(1)Urologischen Abteilung, Wilhelminenspitals der Stadt Wien.

Life expectancy and physical fitness of patients with neurogenic bladder 
dysfunctions is highly dependent on the urine status of the patient, and on the 
integrity and function of the upper urinary tract. Residual urine and urine 
incontinence give rise to infections, a vicious circle which ends with uraemia. 
Following nerve disorders can be the cause of a bladder dysfunction with outflow 
obstruction thus bearing the risk of ascending urine infection: 1) complete or 
incomplete spinal cord lesion, 2) myelomeningocele, 3) diseases of the CNS, 4) 
peripheral neuropathy (diabetes, chronic alcoholism, infectious diseases), 5) 
effect or side-effect of medications. An infravesical obstruction can occur at 
the alpha-adrenergic receptor site, at the level of the bladder neck or at the 
level of the striated external sphincter. The latter condition was termed 
detrusor-sphincter-dyssynergia. Instrumental bladder emptying for prevention of 
UTI can be achieved by: 1) catheterisation, 2) intermittent self 
catheterisation, 3) indwelling catheter--should be avoided for long term 
drainage, 4) suprapubic bladder drainage (cystocath)--the best treatment option 
for emptying the bladder and to avoid infections.

PMID: 1810097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Pediatr Neurosurg. 1991-1992;17(1):2-9. doi: 10.1159/000120557.

Mechanical complications in shunts.

Sainte-Rose C(1), Piatt JH, Renier D, Pierre-Kahn A, Hirsch JF, Hoffman HJ, 
Humphreys RP, Hendrick EB.

Author information:
(1)Service de Neurochirurgie, Hôpital des Enfants Malades, Paris, France.

A retrospective study was conducted on 1,719 hydrocephalic patients, treated 
between 1974 and 1983 at the Hospital for Sick Children (Toronto) and l'Hôpital 
des Enfants Malades (Paris), in order to better understand shunt failure. The 
statistical analysis demonstrates the following: (1) A probability of occurrence 
of shunt malfunction of 81% at 12 years of follow-up. (2) A high prevalence of 
shunt obstruction (56.1% of all malfunction) and fracture or disconnection of 
the tubings (13.6%). (3) A higher risk of proximal occlusion with flanged 
ventricular catheter. (4) Less malfunction with proximal-non-slit valves as 
compared to distal-slit valves. (5) The importance of pressure-flow 
characteristics of the shunt; because of an indirect relation between 
overdrainage and proximal occlusion. (6) A correlation between connectors and 
migration or fracture of the shunt. (7) Less distal obstructions when an 
open-ended distal-catheter was used. These complications were of some clinical, 
psychological and economical consequences. Their rate could be lowed.

DOI: 10.1159/000120557
PMID: 1811706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Dtsch Zahnarztl Z. 1991 Jan;46(1):20-4.

[Failure-time and risk analysis of fixed partial dentures].

[Article in German]

Kerschbaum T(1), Paszyna C, Klapp S, Meyer G.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Zahn-, Mund- und Kieferkrankheiten der Universität 
zu Köln.

Statistical methods of survival-analysis were applied to investigate the effects 
of anatomical, constructional and individual factors, which determine the 
"life-time" of 4371 single crowns, 1669 bridges and 175 fixed splints of a total 
of 1841 patients of a private insurance company. After 15 years of service 64% 
of the bridges, 56% of the single crowns and 45% of the splints were still under 
risk. The number of abutments and units, location, date of insertion, jaw and 
extension/normal bridge were significant risk factors.

PMID: 1811963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. J Am Optom Assoc. 1991 Jun;62(6):483-9.

The delivery of health care and eye care in Japan.

Kimbara K(1), Bleything WB.

Author information:
(1)Pacific University College of Optometry, Forest Grove, OR 97116.

Japan has developed a socialized system of health care delivery operated under a 
governmental social insurance plan. It is all inclusive in that no matter what 
the working status, each individual is covered. Outcomes of the system are 
impressive, reporting the highest life expectancy and the lowest infant 
mortality rates in the world. Optometry as a legalized profession is not 
presently recognized in Japan, even though it is common practice for the public 
to visit optical shops to receive routine eye examinations and lens 
prescriptions. There is a movement in Japan to provide optometric education and 
qualifying examinations comparable to international standards.

PMID: 1813545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Sb Ved Pr Lek Fak Karlovy Univerzity Hradci Kralove. 1991;34(5):467-77.

Mortality effect of selected diseases on the life expectancy indicators in 
Czechoslovakian population.

Strnad L(1), Kubíková K.

Author information:
(1)Kat. sociálního lékarství LFUK, Hradec Králové.

Czechoslovakia is contemporarily ranged between the countries with mostly 
unfavourable indicators of national health. The life expectancy (LE) values at 
birth as achieved by 1988 in men were 67.85 years and 75.42 years in women, 
respectively. In Czechoslovakia this indicator is averagely 4 and more years 
lower than that of industrially developed countries. Such a low czechoslovakian 
LE value is conditioned with mainly higher mortality to the ischemic heart 
disease, vascular brain disease as well as malignancies and traumas. In men, the 
mortality due to the ischemic heart disease (IHD) is accounted for the Le 
decrease to 3.23 years, and 2.57 years in women, respectively. Similarly, there 
is a LE decrease to 3.05 years in men, and to 2.54 years in women due to the 
malignancies. When the IHD mortality decrease may be achieved up to 30% against 
the status of 1985-87, it may be resulted in LE prolongation to 0.84 in men, and 
0.66 in women, respectively. The similar decrease in mortality to vascular brain 
disease and atherosclerosis may have resulted in LE prolongation to 0.51 in men, 
and 0.72 years in women. The mortality decrease to cancers for 30% may have been 
resulted in LE prolongation for 0.84 years in men, and for 0.73 years in women, 
respectively. The attempt on how to prolong the LE is resulting in fast and 
responsible measures of primary prevention and partly in those of secondary 
prevention.

PMID: 1815324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Kardiologiia. 1991 Dec;31(12):5-11.

[Treatment of cardiac insufficiency. Achievements and prospects].

[Article in Russian]

Mareev VIu.

PMID: 1816442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Adv Dent Res. 1991 Dec;5:69-73. doi: 10.1177/08959374910050011101.

Geriatric dentistry and prevention: research and public policy.

Gershen JA(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Dentistry, University of California-Los Angeles.

Changing demographics, including the increase in life expectancy and the growing 
numbers of elderly, has focused attention on the need for dental research 
activities to be expanded for geriatric dentistry. The elderly are at greater 
risk for oral disease, since gains in longevity result in more medically 
compromising conditions or systemic disease with oral manifestations. Also, as 
edentulism decreases and as more teeth are retained by the elderly, the pattern 
of oral diseases and the treatment of dental conditions will be altered. 
Barriers to self-care and professional care must be removed, and prevention and 
early intervention strategies must be formulated to reduce the risk of oral 
disease. Risk factors for oral diseases in the elderly can be reduced by 
personal home-care regimens, professionally provided preventive, diagnostic, and 
therapeutic care, changes in high-risk behavior, and a supportive environment. 
Generating new information about the prevention of oral diseases and conditions 
that have an impact on the elderly requires a substantial research effort. A 
research agenda for the elderly should include: epidemiologic studies of 
relevant oral diseases and related risk factors; investigations of patient and 
provider attitudes and behavior related to oral health; studies of the 
relationship between general health and oral health; development and testing of 
preventive and treatment strategies for conditions such as xerostomia, root 
caries, secondary caries, and gingival recession; and studies for the evaluation 
of the impact of the aging population on the dental delivery system. Public 
policy options to support geriatric oral health care and research are limited by 
the Government's pre-occupation with cost containment and the lack of visibility 
for dental programs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1177/08959374910050011101
PMID: 1819287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Adv Dent Res. 1991 Dec;5:74-7. doi: 10.1177/08959374910050011201.

Geriatric dentistry and prevention: research and public policy (reaction paper).

Meyerowitz C(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester.

The population of older adults is heterogeneous and can be divided into many 
subgroups: the young-old, the old-old, the healthy, the sick, the frail, the 
mentally and physically handicapped, the ambulatory, the chair-bound, 
house-bound or institution-bound, and the economically advantaged and 
disadvantaged. This diversity is extremely important to the discussion of the 
oral health needs, preventive health strategies, and research agenda for the 
elderly. As life expectancy increases, more attention is being paid to disease 
prevention so that the quality of life in old age can be improved. However, the 
link among oral health, systemic disease, and quality of life in the elderly 
needs to be better-defined. There is some evidence in the literature that 
indicates that coronal and root caries appear to be major health problems for 
the elderly. This needs to be corroborated in longitudinal studies. Although 
periodontal disease prevalence and severity are high in some subgroups of the 
elderly, these appear to be in decline in the general population. Dental 
health-care workers must be cognizant of the oral conditions associated with 
systemic disease and the use of medication, a major concern in older adults. 
Prevention of oral disease in the elderly requires early intervention, education 
of the dental health team, and innovative uses of well-established preventive 
agents such as fluoride. An extensive research effort is needed to answer basic 
and applied questions regarding the oral health needs of the elderly. Federal 
and private funding will be necessary. The dental profession will have to 
demonstrate and be persuasive that money spent on research and care for the 
elderly is money well spent.

DOI: 10.1177/08959374910050011201
PMID: 1819288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Clin Transpl. 1991:13-29.

Liver transplantation in the United States: 1988 to 1990.

Belle SH(1), Beringer KC, Murphy JB, Plummer CC, Breen TJ, Edwards EB, Daily OP, 
Detre KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Between 1988 and 1990, the frequency of liver transplantation in the United 
States increased by 57%. During this same period, the number of transplant 
centers performing this procedure increased from 58 to 80. Despite this 
increase, only 15 centers reported a total of at least 100 procedures during 
these 3 years, compared to 25 centers that performed 12 or less liver 
transplantations. Recipient characteristics have been changing over time: a 
larger proportion of recipients were males in 1990 than in 1988 or 1989. The 
distribution of recipients changed dramatically; the median age increased by 4 
years, due to an increased proportion of transplantations among those age 40 and 
older and a decrease in children younger then age 10. Another major change was 
in functional status; in 1988 and 1989, over half of the recipients were 
hospitalized while awaiting transplantation, but this was reversed in 1990, when 
the majority of patients was at home awaiting transplantation. Furthermore, the 
proportion of patients in the highest functional class more than tripled. 
Alcoholic liver disease, which in 1989 became the most common primary liver 
disease of patients undergoing liver transplantation, continues to be the 
indication for an increasing number of recipients. The proportion of recipients 
with biliary atresia and primary biliary cirrhosis, the most common diagnoses in 
1988, continues to decrease. Most of the mortality was noted in the first 6 
months, when overall cumulative patient mortality was about 20%, half of which 
occurred in the first 4 weeks after OLTX. The cumulative 3-year posttransplant 
survival rate was 67%. Similarly, cumulative retransplant-free survival rates 
were 84% at 1 month and 58% at 3 years. As previously described (1), recipient 
factors associated with survival included age, UNOS description, diagnosis, and 
ABO matching. Older recipients, those with poorer functional status at time of 
transplantation, recipients with either fulminant liver failure or malignancies, 
and those who received a graft from an ABO-compatible or -incompatible donor, 
had the worst survival rates. Furthermore, in the current analysis we found that 
the outcome of recipients was affected adversely by grafts from female donors. 
Racial differences were noted, but the large quantity of missing data precluded 
definitive statements regarding any association with survival. Both recipient 
and donor ages were significant prognostic factors. For adults in the 
multivariate model, increasing recipient age was associated with higher 
mortality. Among children, however, younger donor age seemed to have an adverse 
effect on recipient survival. Donor characteristics also changed during this 
period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 1820110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. J Dermatol Surg Oncol. 1991 Sep;17(9):720-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1524-4725.1991.tb03425.x.

Recurrence rates of treated basal cell carcinomas. Part 2: 
Curettage-electrodesiccation.

Silverman MK(1), Kopf AW, Grin CM, Bart RS, Levenstein MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, New York University School of Medicine, New York.

Comment in
    J Dermatol Surg Oncol. 1992 Mar;18(3):252.

This is the second article in a series that reviews the experience in the Skin 
and Cancer Unit, from 1955 through 1982, with the treatment of basal cell 
carcinomas (BCCs). This report deals with 2314 previously untreated (primary) 
BCCs removed by curettage-electrodesiccation. Multivariate analysis showed that 
increasing lesion diameter (P less than .001), high-risk anatomic sites (nose, 
paranasal, nasal-labial groove, ear, chin, mandibular, peri-oral, and 
peri-ocular areas) (P less than .001), middle-risk anatomical sites (scalp, 
forehead, pre- and post-auricular, and malar areas) (P less than .001), and 
time-span treated (1955 to 1963) (P = .012) were independent risk factors for 
high recurrence rates. The patient's age, sex, and lesion duration before 
treatment did not affect the recurrence rates. In order to best illustrate our 
current experience with BCCs, the last time-span (1973 to 1982) was examined in 
detail. For the low-risk sites (neck, trunk, and four extremities), BCCs of all 
diameters responded well to curettage-electrodesiccation with an overall 5-year 
recurrence rate of 3.3% (SE = 1.5%) determined by the modified life-table 
method. In the middle-risk sites BCCs less than 10 mm in diameter had a 
recurrence rate of 5.3% (SE = 2.7%). Finally, in the high-risk sites, lesions 
less than 6 mm in diameter had a recurrence rate of 4.5% (SE = 2.6%). Thus, BCCs 
less than 6 mm in diameter, regardless of anatomic site, as well as selected 
larger BCCs depending on their anatomic site, are effectively treated by 
currettage-electrodesiccation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4725.1991.tb03425.x
PMID: 1820764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. World Health Forum. 1991;12(4):428-31.

Good health at a modest price: the fruit of primary care.

Agdestein S(1), Roemer M.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of California, Los Angeles 90024-1772.

Particularly in respect of life expectancy, Norway's historical bias towards 
primary care has produced similar results to those of Sweden, where hospital 
treatment has traditionally been more prominent. The per capita cost of health 
care, however, has been significantly lower in Norway than in Sweden.

PMID: 1821103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. J Subst Abuse. 1991;3(1):39-57. doi: 10.1016/s0899-3289(05)80005-7.

Abstinence expectancy and abstinence among men undergoing inpatient treatment 
for alcoholism.

Carver CS(1), Dunham RG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Miami, Coral Gables 33124.

Several personal and situational variables were examined as possible predictors 
of renewed drinking before completion of an inpatient alcoholism treatment 
program: either drinking surreptitiously while remaining in the program or 
leaving the program to return to alcohol. Male alcoholics were interviewed 
shortly after entering the program and again as they finished treatment. The 
first interview assessed predictor variables, the second interview assessed 
drinking during treatment. Treatment dropouts were pursued to determine their 
drinking status. Discriminant analyses revealed that renewed drinking was 
inversely related to subjects' reported expectancies of remaining abstinent 
during the next 6 months, positively related to employment instability, and also 
related to racial group. Analysis of premature termination of treatment as an 
alternative outcome variable suggested that these effects were specific to 
renewed drinking per se. Discussion centers on the potential relevance of 
expectancy-based theories of self-regulation to behavior during the period of 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0899-3289(05)80005-7
PMID: 1821274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Baillieres Clin Obstet Gynaecol. 1991 Dec;5(4):943-59. doi: 
10.1016/s0950-3552(05)80298-6.

Cost-effectiveness of hormone replacement therapy after the menopause.

Tosteson AN, Weinstein MC.

The net resource costs and net health benefits of treating perimenopausal women 
with hormone replacement therapy were evaluated within the framework of 
cost-effectiveness analysis. Data from the epidemiological literature were used 
to estimate changes in discounted life expectancy from hip fracture, ischaemic 
heart disease and breast cancer that are associated with hormone replacement 
therapy under a variety of assumptions. Economic data were used to estimate 
changes in total discounted costs that result from the use of hormone 
replacement therapy. For women with a previous hysterectomy, 10- and 15-year 
courses of unopposed oestrogen were evaluated. The baseline assumptions for 
unopposed oestrogen were that breast cancer incidence would be increased for 
current users by 36% and that deaths from ischaemic heart disease would be 
reduced by 50% relative to non-users. Under these assumptions, oestrogen 
replacement therapy was found to be cost-effective, with ratios ranging from 
$9130 to $12,620 per additional year of life saved. For women who have not had a 
hysterectomy, 10- and 15-year courses of oestrogen combined with progestin were 
evaluated. The baseline assumptions for combined therapy were that breast cancer 
incidence and ischaemic heart disease deaths were unaffected. Under these 
assumptions, combined therapy was more costly, with ratios ranging from $86,100 
to $88,500. Unless combined therapy is found to confer protection against 
ischaemic heart disease, the most cost-effective strategies for women with no 
prior hysterectomy may involve screening perimenopausal women to detect women at 
highest risk of hip fracture followed by selective treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-3552(05)80298-6
PMID: 1822828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Asia Pac J Public Health. 1991;5(3):221-7. doi: 10.1177/101053959100500306.

Quality of life: a possible health index for the elderly.

Kai I(1), Ohi G, Kobayashi Y, Ishizaki T, Hisata M, Kiuchi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Teikyo University, Tokyo.

To assess whether quality of life (QOL) could be employed as an outcome measure 
of health programs for elderly populations, we evaluated the relationship 
between subjective assessment of QOL ("morale scale") and objective constituents 
of active life such as activities of daily living (ADL), instrumental ADL (IADL) 
and work status along with determination of active life expectancy (ALE) in a 
rural district in Japan (n = 13,529). The QOL scale was positively correlated 
with ADL, IADL and work status but not with age. Validity and test-retest 
reliability were satisfactory as regards the small subsamples of respondents. 
ALE of the elderly aged 60 to 64 was 15.2 years, while their life expectancy was 
27.1 years. Factors associated with lower ADL included age, lower IADL and 
joblessness. The QOL measurement and the objective variables can be incorporated 
into an assessment of the health status of the elderly in addition to 
conventional indices based on mortality.

DOI: 10.1177/101053959100500306
PMID: 1823805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Mech Ageing Dev. 1991 Dec 2;61(2):135-47. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(91)90012-o.

Physiology of murine B lymphocytes. II. Life-spans of mitogen and 
