thymus-independent antigen (type 2) reactive B lymphocytes from aged mice.

Udhayakumar V(1), Goud SN, Cross RJ, Subbarao B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Kentucky, Lexington 
40536.

We showed earlier that life spans of murine B lymphocytes could be estimated by 
measuring the functional reactivities of normal B cells upon transfer into 
x-linked immunodeficient (xid) mice, which do not respond to anti-mouse IgM 
(anti-mu) antibodies and thymic-independent type-2 (TI-2) antigens. Here the 
same approach was adopted, to evaluate the life spans of B-lymphocytes from aged 
mice. Spleen cells from normal young and aged mice were transferred into young 
or aged xid recipients and the decay kinetics were followed by measuring the 
proliferative response to anti-mu and PFC response to TNP-Ficoll, a prototype 
TI-2 antigen. The results indicated that anti-mu reactive B cells of both young 
and aged mice decayed with similar non-linear kinetics. About 50% of the donor 
cells decayed in 8-10 days, whereas, the remaining decayed at a slower rate and 
it appeared that the median life-expectancy of this latter population could be 
at least 3 weeks. Essentially, there was no apparent difference in the decay 
kinetics of anti-mu reactive B cells of young and aged mice. Unlike anti-mu 
reactive cells, TNP-Ficoll reactive B cells showed 2-3-fold enhancement in the 
PFC response during the first 2 weeks, and persisted at least until 5 weeks post 
transfer. This result indicated that TNP-Ficoll reactive B cells are long-lived. 
Further, it was found that the turn over rate of TNP-Ficoll reactive B cells was 
also very similar in young and aged mice. The environment of the aged mice also 
did not appear to have any effect since the survival profiles of anti-mu 
reactive B cells were the same in young or aged xid recipients. Altogether, 
these results suggest that aging does not significantly alter the life spans of 
mature B lymphocytes.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(91)90012-o
PMID: 1824120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. N Engl J Med. 1991 Feb 7;324(6):420. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199102073240615.

Life expectancy of profoundly handicapped people.

Sulkes SB.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1990 Aug 30;323(9):584-9.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199102073240615
PMID: 1824795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Circulation. 1991 Feb;83(2 Suppl):I53-60.

Results and complications of angioplasty in aortoiliac disease.

Tegtmeyer CJ(1), Hartwell GD, Selby JB, Robertson R Jr, Kron IL, Tribble CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Virginia Medical Center, 
Charlottesville.

Comment in
    Circulation. 1991 Feb;83(2 Suppl):I61-2.

Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty was used to treat 340 aortoiliac lesions 
in 200 patients who were followed for as long as 90 months (mean, 28.7 months; 
median, 23 months). The initial success rate was 94.7% for lesions and 93.0% for 
patients. The indications for percutaneous transluminal angioplasty included 
claudication in 117 patients (58.5%), rest pain or ischemic night pain in 47 
(23.5%), limb salvage in 33 (16.5%), and aiding in wound healing in three 
(1.5%). In the series, 70% of the patients had two or more cardiovascular risk 
factors. Angioplasty was initially unsuccessful in 14 patients, and 10 patients 
were lost to follow-up. Follow-up was obtained in 176 patients. The long-term 
results were analyzed using the life table method to determine cumulative 
patency. Fourteen patients were considered failures because of recurrent disease 
or symptoms. The projected 7.5-year cumulative patency rate was 85%. When the 
response to redilatation was considered, the projected 7.5-year cumulative 
patency rate was 92%. The results indicate that percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty can successfully correct aortoiliac lesions and provide a long-term 
benefit for as long as 7.5 years.

PMID: 1825047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Circulation. 1991 Feb;83(2 Suppl):I6-11.

Standards for evaluating results of interventional therapy for peripheral 
vascular disease.

Rutherford RB(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver 80262.

Uniform standards for evaluating and reporting the results of therapeutic 
interventions for peripheral vascular disease are clearly needed. They are 
already established for vascular surgery, as represented by several reports by 
SVS/ISCVS committees, but they are not always followed by vascular surgeons and 
have been largely ignored by other vascular interventionists. In this article, 
the major problematic reporting practices are discussed and illustrated, and 14 
recommendations are advanced to deal with them. They are intended to provide 
precise definitions, objective criteria of success or failure, standardized 
severity gradation schemes for peripheral vascular disease and its risk factors, 
and proper procedures for reporting the outcome of all forms of therapeutic 
intervention. Until these or some other agreed upon reporting standards are 
accepted and followed, the literature on peripheral vascular disease and its 
management will continue to be a source of confusion rather than enlightenment.

PMID: 1825048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Circulation. 1991 Feb;83(2 Suppl):I70-80.

Femoropopliteal angioplasty. Factors influencing long-term success.

Capek P(1), McLean GK, Berkowitz HD.

Author information:
(1)Radiologic Associates, Sutter Hospitals, Sacramento, Calif.

Prospective data was recorded on 217 percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) 
procedures performed in the superficial femoral and popliteal arteries over an 
8-year period. After the initial procedure, patients were followed with serial 
noninvasive studies and, in 71 patients, repeat angiography. The mean follow-up 
period was 7 years (range, 2-11 years). Standard life-table survival analysis 
was used to assess the factors potentially affecting long-term outcome. 
Excluding an initial technical failure rate of 10%, overall patencies at 1, 3, 
and 5 years were 81%, 61%, and 58%, respectively. After the first year, the 
prognosis (i.e., failure rate) appears to be linear over the long term (i.e., up 
to 10 years). Factors negatively influencing long-term patency include the 
presence of diabetes mellitus, diffuse atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, 
or threatened limb loss. Technical factors correlated with failure include 
lesion length, moderate eccentricity, and a poor post-PTA appearance.

PMID: 1825050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Fertil Steril. 1991 Feb;55(2):246-51. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)54110-7.

Laparoscopic cautery in the treatment of endometriosis-related infertility.

Murphy AA(1), Schlaff WD, Hassiakos D, Durmusoglu F, Damewood MD, Rock JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, 
Maryland.

Comment in
    Fertil Steril. 1991 Sep;56(3):579-82.

Life table analysis and the two-parameter exponential method have been applied 
to pregnancy rates in 72 patients undergoing laparoscopic cautery exclusively. 
Patients with male factor infertility were excluded. Estimated cure rates for 
patients with stage I and II disease were 98.2% and 76.6%, respectively (not 
significantly different). No significant difference was seen when anovulation 
complicated the endometriosis (68.6%). When greater than one infertility factor 
was present, a significant difference was observed (50.6%). Patients with stage 
I disease had an average fecundity of 10.30% with decreasing values observed in 
stage II (7.59%), anovulation (6.67%), and more than one infertility factor 
(3.33%). We conclude that laparoscopic cauterization is an effective mode of 
therapy for the treatment of stage I and II endometriosis associated with 
infertility.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)54110-7
PMID: 1825068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. J Dent Res. 1991 Feb;70(2):146-9. doi: 10.1177/00220345910700021001.

An analysis of clinical studies on resin-bonded bridges.

Creugers NH(1), Van 't Hof MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Function and Prosthetic Dentistry, Dental School, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Many clinical data on resin-bonded bridges (RBBs) have been published in the 
last ten years. The survival rates vary widely, and the conclusions are 
sometimes conflicting. A method of combining the results of different studies in 
order to draw conclusions about the effectiveness of therapeutic concepts is 
meta-analysis. The aims of the meta-analysis in this study were: (1) to assess 
an "overall" survival ratio for RBBs and (2) to explore relationships between 
potential success factors and reported survival times. About 60 publications 
with clinical data on RBBs were reviewed. Following a number of inclusion 
criteria (information adequate to calculate or assess survival rates, as well as 
adequate information about the patients, the designs, and types of RBBs), 16 
different samples were used for this meta-analysis. A weighted 
multiple-regression analysis revealed no significant effects of "type of 
retention" and "location" on the survival percentages. Kaplan-Meier estimates 
were used to assess overall survival in a secondary analysis with the data from 
all 16 samples (n = 1598). The overall survivals were: one year, 89 +/- 1%; two 
years, 84 +/- 1%; three years, 80 +/- 1%; and four years, 74 +/- 2%.

DOI: 10.1177/00220345910700021001
PMID: 1825091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. EMBO J. 1991 Mar;10(3):655-64. doi: 10.1002/j.1460-2075.1991.tb07994.x.

The pim-1 oncogene encodes two related protein-serine/threonine kinases by 
alternative initiation at AUG and CUG.

Saris CJ(1), Domen J, Berns A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Genetics, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam.

The pim-1 gene is frequently found activated by proviral insertion in murine T 
cell lymphomas. Overexpression of pim-1 in lymphoid cells by transgenesis 
formally proved its oncogenic potential. The pim-1 cDNA sequence predicts that 
both murine and human pim-1 encode a 34 kd protein with homology to protein 
kinases. In this study, we show that the murine pim-1 gene encodes a 44 kd 
protein in addition to the predicted 34 kd protein. The 44 kd protein is an 
amino-terminal extension of the 34 kd protein and is synthesized by alternative 
translation initiation at an upstream CUG codon. Contrary to previous findings 
by others, we provide evidence that both murine and human pim-1 gene products 
are protein-serine/threonine kinases. Murine 44 kd and 34 kd pim-1 proteins 
exhibit comparable in vitro kinase activity and are both mainly cytoplasmic, but 
they differ in in vivo association state and half-life.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1460-2075.1991.tb07994.x
PMCID: PMC452698
PMID: 1825810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. BMJ. 1991 Feb 23;302(6774):457-60. doi: 10.1136/bmj.302.6774.457.

Healthy life expectancy: evaluation of global indicator of change in population 
health.

Robine JM(1), Ritchie K.

Author information:
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, CHRU Lapeyronie, 
Montpellier, France.

OBJECTIVE: To review and evaluate the usefulness of healthy life expectancy as a 
global indicator of changes in a population's health.
DESIGN: Review of all known studies to date from the United States, mainland 
Europe, Canada, and the United Kingdom that have used Sullivan's method of 
calculating disability free life expectancy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Life expectancy and disability free life expectancy.
RESULTS: Over the past decade the average healthy life expectancy was 60 years 
for men and 64 for women, with the proportion of years of disability ranging 
from 11% to 21% in men and from 14% to 24% in women. At the age of 65 men could 
expect eight years of disability free life and women 10, with the life 
expectancy being respectively 14 and 19 years. The difference between the 
wealthiest and poorest income quintiles was 6.3 years in life expectancy and 
14.3 in disability free life expectancy for men and 2.8 and 7.6 respectively for 
women. These results suggest that disparities in health are greater between 
social groups than between the sexes. Diseases affect mortality and morbidity 
differently. The order of importance for affecting life expectancy was 
circulatory disease, cancer, and accidents and for disability free life 
expectancy, circulatory disease, locomotor disorders, and respiratory disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: Healthy life expectancy is a valuable index for the appreciation of 
changes in both the physical and the mental health states of the general 
population, for allocating resources, and for measuring the success of political 
programmes. Future calculations should also take into account the probability of 
recovery and thus extend the applicability of the indicator to populations in 
poor health rather than focusing on the well population.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.302.6774.457
PMCID: PMC1669345
PMID: 1825931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. J Neurosci Nurs. 1991 Feb;23(1):29-33. doi: 10.1097/01376517-199102000-00006.

ImuVert therapy in the treatment of recurrent malignant astrocytomas: nursing 
implications.

Cress NB(1), Owens BM, Hill FH.

Author information:
(1)Cell Technology, Inc., Boulder, Colorado 80301.

Malignant astrocytoma is a fatal, primary brain tumor affecting adults in the 
prime of life. Even with optimal treatment, median life expectancy from time of 
diagnosis is 51 weeks. Standard therapy consists of surgical debulking, 
radiation therapy and chemotherapy. Immunotherapy, utilizing biologic response 
modifiers (BRMs), affords one of the more promising treatment modalities. 
ImuVert, a BRM derived from Serratia marcescens, was recently granted orphan 
drug status by the Food and Drug Administration. In phase I and II clinical 
trials in patients with advanced malignant tumors, toxicities ranged from mild 
local reaction at injection sites to hypotension requiring vasopressors. ImuVert 
is currently being tested in a multicenter clinical trial as a treatment for 
recurrent malignant astrocytoma in adult patients. A comprehensive toxicity 
profile of brain tumor patients receiving ImuVert and techniques of managing 
adverse effects is presented.

DOI: 10.1097/01376517-199102000-00006
PMID: 1826714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1991 May;156(5):1091-4. doi: 10.2214/ajr.156.5.1826805.

Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the subclavian arteries: long-term 
results in 52 patients.

Hebrang A(1), Maskovic J, Tomac B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Clinical Hospital Dr. O. Novosel Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Zagreb, Yugoslavia.

Comment in
    AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1992 May;158(5):1174-5.

We studied the long-term results of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the 
subclavian artery in treating stenosis (43 patients) or occlusion (nine 
patients). In all 52 patients, the blood pressure before treatment in the arm on 
the involved side was at least 30 mm Hg lower than that in the opposite arm. 
Thirty-nine patients (75%) had symptoms of vertebrobasilar insufficiency 
(dizziness, blurred vision, ataxia). Angioplasty was successful in 40 (93%) of 
43 patients with stenosis and in five (56%) of nine patients with occlusion. In 
the successfully treated patients, follow-up angiograms showed absence of 
narrowing greater than 30% stenosis, and the blood pressure in the treated arm 
equaled that in the opposite arm. The patients were followed up for 6-48 months 
(mean, 29 months). During this time, the blood pressure in the treated arm 
remained normal in 41 (91%) of 45 patients. The symptoms of vertebrobasilar 
insufficiency subsided in 28 (72%) of 39 patients. These results suggest that 
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty is useful for treating subclavian artery 
stenosis or occlusion.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.156.5.1826805
PMID: 1826805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Eur J Vasc Surg. 1991 Apr;5(2):179-86. doi: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80685-1.

Aortofemoral dacron reconstruction for aorto-iliac occlusive disease: a 25-year 
survey.

Nevelsteen A(1), Wouters L, Suy R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, University Clinic, Gasthuisberg, Leuven, 
Belgium.

The authors present a consecutive series of 869 patients, who received an 
aorto(bi)femoral Dacron graft for occlusive disease between 1963 and 1988. The 
operative indications were grade 1 disease (n = 371), grade 2 disease (n = 408) 
or grade 3 disease (n = 90). The operative mortality was 4.5% and remained 
stable over the years of the study. The median survival was 8.2 years and 25% of 
the patients survived for more than 15 years. Late patency decreased to 74% and 
70% after 10 and 15 years, respectively. Fifty-six patients underwent a major 
amputation in the long run. The amputation rate increased to 3, 8.6 and 12.1%, 
respectively for grade 1, grade 2 and grade 3 disease. Satisfactory functional 
results were obtained by 51% and 40% of the patients after 10 and 15 years, 
respectively. By means of secondary and tertiary operations this increased to 
70% and 61%. Long term functional results were primarily dependent on smoking 
habits postoperatively, the date of operation and the presence of concomitant 
femoro-popliteal occlusive disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80685-1
PMID: 1828041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. J Vasc Surg. 1991 Jun;13(6):785-90; discussion 790-1. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1991.28087.

Lack of diameter effect on short-term patency of size-matched Dacron 
aortobifemoral grafts.

Schneider JR(1), Zwolak RM, Walsh DB, McDaniel MD, Cronenwett JL.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Hanover, NH 
03756.

This study examined the relationship between graft diameter and subsequent 
patency in 79 patients who received Dacron aortobifemoral bypass grafts for 
aortoiliac occlusive disease between 1985 and 1989. Sixty-five percent of these 
patients were men, 25% were diabetic, and 94% were smokers, with an average age 
of 62 years. Patients were followed for a mean interval of 24 months. Life-table 
survival was 92% at 3 years. All surviving patients showed "significant" 
postoperative improvement by use of Society for Vascular Surgery/International 
Society for Cardiovascular Surgery combined clinical and vascular laboratory 
criteria. There were three early and five late graft thromboses. Primary and 
secondary life-table patencies were 85% and 92%, respectively, at 3 years. 
Dacron bifurcation grafts were selected to match the size of native arteries. 
Patients receiving small diameter grafts, defined as 12 mm (n = 9) and 14 mm (n 
= 39), were compared with patients receiving large diameter grafts of 16 mm (n = 
26) and 18 mm (n = 5). Small diameter grafts were more likely to be used in 
women (p less than 0.01), but patient groups were otherwise comparable with 
respect to age, smoking history, diabetes, outflow status, operative 
indications, type of proximal anastomosis (end-to-end or end-to-side), location 
of distal anastomosis (common femoral vs deep femoral), type of graft 
construction (knitted vs woven), and functional result. Graft diameter did not 
influence life-table patency, which was 84% for small and 87% for large diameter 
grafts at 3 years (p = 0.74). Furthermore, none of the other variables listed 
above influenced graft patency.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1991.28087
PMID: 1828089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Arch Surg. 1991 Jun;126(6):743-7. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.1991.01410300089013.

Monitoring functional patency of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty.

Kinney EV(1), Bandyk DF, Mewissen MW, Lanza D, Bergamini TM, Lipchik EO, 
Seabrook GR, Towne JB.

Author information:
(1)Surgical Service, Clement J. Zablocki Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
Milwaukee, WI.

Duplex scanning and Doppler-derived blood pressure measurements were used to 
serially monitor lower limb hemodynamics in 73 patients who underwent 
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Ninety percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty sites judged technically satisfactory by arteriography were 
evaluated. Significant hemodynamic improvement was seen in 81 (90%) of the 90 
limbs, although both hemodynamic and clinical improvement were achieved in only 
77 (86%) limbs. Duplex scanning within 1 week of successful angioplasty 
identified moderate (20% to 49% diameter reduction) or severe (greater than 50% 
diameter reduction) residual stenosis in 49 (63%) of 77 balloon-dilated arterial 
segments. The presence of a greater than 50% diameter reduction residual 
stenosis predicted further restenosis and late clinical failure (11% success 
rate at 1 year). When the degree of residual stenosis at the percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty site was less than 50% diameter reduction by duplex 
scanning, the procedure was durable (80% success rate at 2 years), even in 
patients with critical ischemia, poor runoff, or diabetes mellitus.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1991.01410300089013
PMID: 1828144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Bol Oficina Sanit Panam. 1991 Feb;110(2):118-25.

[Productive years of life lost in Brazil because of cardiovascular mortality].

[Article in Spanish]

Lessa I(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal da Bahia, Departamento de Medicina Preventiva, e 
Conselho Nacional de Pesquisas, Salvador, Brasil.

Based on Brazilian Government official statistics for 1985, an estimate was made 
of the number of productive years of life lost due to cardiovascular premature 
mortality (ages 15 to 59). Data were corrected by the proportion of the 
population actually engaged in work activities during 1985. Crude results showed 
a loss of 481,052.0 years of productive life for men and 333,912.5 for women. 
The average years of productive life lost per person were 12.5 for males and 
13.4 for females. The averages for women were higher in all regions. Averages 
were also higher for both men and women in underdeveloped regions (North, 
Northeast and Midwest) as compared with the South and Southeast. The two latter 
regions had the highest proportions of economically active years of life lost 
(80% and above). Data correction increased the average of years lost from 1.0 to 
2.8 per woman and from 0.2 to 0.8 per man. This suggests that, in Brazil, death 
by cardiovascular diseases occurs earlier in people engaged in work activities 
than in the population outside the work force. Social costs of premature 
cardiovascular mortality and the need for a national program on education and 
control of high blood pressure are discussed.

PMID: 1828157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Med J Aust. 1991 Jun 3;154(11):766-72.

The safety and cost-effectiveness of low osmolar contrast media. Can economic 
analysis determine the real worth of a new technology?

Henry DA(1), Evans DB, Robertson J.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Royal Newcastle Hospital, NSW.

Comment in
    Med J Aust. 1991 Jul 15;155(2):136.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the reduction in mortality associated with a reduced 
adverse reaction rate following the substitution of older high osmolar 
radiocontrast media (HOCM) by the newer and more expensive low osmolar contrast 
media (LOCM), and to assess the cost-effectiveness of switching from HOCM to 
LOCM in patients with and without underlying risk factors for adverse reactions 
from radiocontrast agents.
DATA SOURCES: Data from large prospective studies of adverse reactions to HOCM 
and LOCM were used to estimate the expected number of deaths and severe 
non-fatal reactions in a hypothetical population receiving one million 
intravenous radiocontrast injections with HOCM, and the expected reduction in 
the frequency of these outcomes after substitution by LOCM in high-risk and 
low-risk groups respectively. Life-years lost with each radiocontrast-related 
death were estimated from an audit of fatal adverse reaction reports submitted 
to the Adverse Drug Reactions Advisory Committee. The direct costs considered in 
the study were the increased costs of LOCM and the hospital costs of treating 
radiocontrast reactions which were estimated from an audit of cases admitted to 
public hospitals in Newcastle.
STUDY SELECTION: The literature search included Medline (1966-1989) and 
bibliographies of original and review articles. We included only studies which 
were prospective, monitored patients in a formal way, described a mechanism for 
the recording of adverse events and were of sufficient size to have been capable 
of detecting severe reactions to radiocontrast agents.
DATA EXTRACTION: Data were extracted independently by two investigators, 
unblinded, with disagreements resolved by consensus.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Mortality data from individual reports were pooled and exact 
confidence intervals were calculated on the assumption of a Poisson 
distribution. In the case of comparative studies the relative risks of severe 
reactions in low-risk versus high-risk patients and with LOCM compared with HOCM 
were treated for homogeneity, and pooled odds ratios and 95% confidence 
intervals (CI) were calculated by combining the logarithms of the odds ratios 
weighted by their variances.
RESULTS: The mortality after intravenous administration of HOCM was estimated 
from all studies to be 23.3 (95% CI, 2.4-33.1) per million injections. However, 
the mortality was 11.7 per million (95% CI, 2.4-34.1) in studies published since 
1986. The mortality after the use of LOCM was estimated as 3.9 per million (95% 
CI, 0.1-21.7).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 1828529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Monatsschr Kinderheilkd. 1991 Mar;139(3):120-7.

[Mucopolysaccharidosis. Nosology--clinical aspects--therapeutic approaches].

[Article in German]

Beck M(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitäts-Kinderklinik Mainz.

The mucopolysaccharidoses represent a group of lysosomal storage disorders 
characterized by coarse facies, skeletal deformities, and often mental 
deterioration. Recent clinical and biochemical studies have revealed a broad 
genetic heterogeneity of these metabolic diseases: An identical enzyme defect 
may lead to a mild form with normal adult height and normal life expectancy or 
to a severe hydrops fetalis that does not survive the first days of life. 
Conversely, Sanfilippo disease is an example that identical phenotypes may 
result from mutations of different genes. From clinical observations it became 
clear, that not only the skin, brain and skeletal system are involved in the 
storage process, but also the lungs and the cardiovascular system. Until 
recently, no more than palliative treatment could be offered. This consists of 
corneal transplantation, cervical fusion to prevent atlantoaxial subluxation, 
especially in Morquio's disease, and shunt operation to relieve hydrocephalus. 
In the last decade bone marrow transplantation became available; this may have 
beneficial effects in selected cases, especially in mucopolysaccharidosis I. 
Since the genes of several lysosomal enzymes have been identified, many efforts 
to introduce the normal gene into the affected cells were done. This method was 
successfully applied in an animal model. But many efforts in several 
laboratories are still necessary until this therapeutic regimen will become 
available for patients with mucopolysaccharidosis.

PMID: 1829136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Am J Ment Retard. 1991 May;95(6):603-12.

Life expectancy of persons with Down syndrome.

Eyman RK(1), Call TL.

Author information:
(1)University of California, Riverside Research Group, Lanterman Developmental 
Center, Pomona 91769.

The longevity of people with Down syndrome being served by the California 
Department of Developmental Services was examined in terms of a number of 
variables known to be related to early mortality. The findings indicated that 
the predictors of survival for people with Down syndrome were not different from 
the variables related to mortality among people with mental retardation in 
general. A lack of mobility or feeding skills were better predictors of an early 
death than were medical problems associated with congenital heart disease. Life 
expectancy estimates of clients with Down syndrome who lacked mobility or eating 
skills were found to be poor as compared to individuals who had Down syndrome 
but did not have these problems regardless of the presence of heart disease.

PMID: 1829373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Soc Sci Med. 1991;32(10):1129-36. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(91)90089-u.

Results of two methods to determine health expectancy in The Netherlands in 
1981-1985.

van Ginneken JK(1), Dissevelt AG, van de Water HP, van Sonsbeek JL.

Author information:
(1)TNO Institute of Preventive Health Care, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Health expectancy is a measure providing summarizing information on mortality on 
one hand and morbidity and/or disability on the other hand. In this article 
health expectancy is determined with two approaches: method 1 leads to life 
expectancy free of disability at birth and at other ages; method 2 leads to life 
expectancy in good health. Results of the various calculations show that 
according to method 1 life expectancy free of disability at birth for men in the 
Netherlands was 58.8 years and for women 57.3 years (based on data from the 
period 1981-1985). Results of method 2 are different from method 1; life 
expectancy in good health for men was 58.9 years and for women 60.7 years. 
Results of both methods are compared with studies which have been carried out in 
other countries. The comparison shows that method 1 leads to results which 
deviate from the other studies while results of method 2 are to a large extent 
similar to the other studies. Reasons are given which explain why the results of 
method 1 deviate from the other studies. In spite of the fact that the two 
methods lead to different outcomes, the conclusion is drawn that the difference 
in health expectancy between men and women is much smaller than the difference 
in total life expectancy between men and women. The difference in total life 
expectancy by sex in the period 1981-1985 was 6.7 years.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(91)90089-u
PMID: 1829855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Am J Dent. 1991 Jun;4(3):130-3.

Effects of enamel-bonding, type of restoration, patient age and operator on the 
longevity of an anterior composite resin.

Smales RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Adelaide, South Australia.

This study examined the survival of an anterior composite resin placed with or 
without enamel acid-etching using a low viscosity enamel bonding resin, for 
periods of approximately 16 years. The 950 conventional composite resin 
restorations were placed by numerous students and dentists for patients 
attending a dental hospital. Restorative failures were assessed using the life 
table method and specifically evaluated the placement method, type of 
restoration, patient age, and the dentist. There were no significant statistical 
differences between the two placement methods, or the two university and 
hospital dentist groups. However, there were significantly more failures with 
the Class IV restorations and in the oldest patient group. The enamel 
acid-etching and an enamel bonding resin did not display an advantage over 
unetched cavity preparations. The median survival for both methods of composite 
resin placement was 8-9 years.

PMID: 1830747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1991 Jul-Aug;32(4):456-62.

PTA and laser assisted PTA combined with simultaneous surgical 
revascularization.

Lorenzi G(1), Domanin M, Constantini A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Vascular Surgery and Angiology, University of Milan, Italy.

In this study we investigated the efficacy of percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty (PTA) and laser percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (LPTA) as an 
adjunct to surgery in patients with peripheral vascular disease. We report 84 
cases of the simultaneous association of direct arterial surgery and 
angioradiological procedures to treat 82 patients with arterial occlusive 
disease of the lower limbs. Sixty-five patients (79.2%) were affected by severe 
claudication and 14 (19.6%) presented with rest pain or gangrene. One patient 
(1.2%) had signs of acute ischemia. PTA or LPTA were utilized as an inflow 
procedure in 41 cases (48.8%), as an outflow procedure in 24 (28.6%) and in 19 
cases (22.6%) to recanalize an arterial occlusion in the contralateral limb 
opposite to surgical interventions. Immediate postoperative patency was achieved 
in 79 cases (94.0%), while in 5 cases (6.0%) it was impossible to perform a 
satisfactory balloon dilatation. The complication rate was 16.6%: 10 
perioperative thromboses, 1 plaque dissection, 1 peripheral embolus, 1 
haemorrhage and 1 femoral nerve lesion. No perioperative mortality occurred in 
this group of patients. Long term patency, analyzed with the life-table method 
(mean follow-up: 28 months) was respectively 78.0%, 76.3% and 78.9% at 5 years. 
These data indicate that the combined revascularization technique should always 
be recommended in properly selected patients because it is less invasive, the 
surgical risk and operative time are reduced and associated with early and long 
term cumulative patency rates comparable to those of extensive surgery.

PMID: 1830882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Radiology. 1991 Sep;180(3):771-8. doi: 10.1148/radiology.180.3.1831274.

Percutaneous iliac artery stent: angiographic long-term follow-up.

Long AL(1), Page PE, Raynaud AC, Beyssen BM, Fiessinger JN, Ducimetière P, 
Relland JY, Gaux JC.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Radiology Service, Hôpital Broussais, Paris, France.

The authors conducted a prospective study of 49 consecutive patients with 53 
lesions in 52 iliac arteries. All were treated between October 1987 and April 
1990 with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and insertion of either a 
self-expandable or balloon-expandable stent. Lesions included total occlusion 
(28%), dissection (42%), post-PTA restenosis (21%), and unsatisfactory PTA (9%). 
Complications included one aortic protrusion, one acute thrombosis of the stent 
(resolved with urokinase), and three distal embolizations (5.7%) (resolved with 
urokinase and aspiration). During 15 months of follow-up, two patients died (one 
after occlusion). Three other occlusions occurred; one of these was resolved 
with local thrombolysis. Hyperplasia occurred in seven cases (13.5%), and 
stenosis occurred at the end of the stent because of incomplete covering of the 
lesion in three (5.8%); a complementary procedure was performed in six of these 
cases. Primary patency was 85.3% at 12 months and 80.9% at 18 months; secondary 
patency rate was 96.1% at 12 and at 18 months. At the end of the study, 
excluding data for the two patients who died, 27 limbs (54%) were asymptomatic 
and improvement was achieved in 19 (38%); the clinical success rate was 92%. No 
amputations were required.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.180.3.1831274
PMID: 1831274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. J Vasc Surg. 1991 Sep;14(3):332-9. doi: 10.1067/mva.1991.30867.

Experience with laser-assisted balloon angioplasty and a rotary angioplasty 
instrument: lessons learned.

Cull DL(1), Feinberg RL, Wheeler JR, Snyder SO Jr, Gregory RT, Gayle RG, Parent 
FN 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Eastern Virginia Graduate School of Medicine, 
Norfolk 23510.

Favorable early results with mechanical angioplasty devices and laser-assisted 
balloon angioplasty have resulted in aggressive marketing and a rapid increase 
in the use of these devices for the treatment of femoropopliteal occlusive 
disease. Recent reports, however, have questioned the durability of these less 
invasive procedures. Since 1986 we have been involved in the clinical 
investigation of the Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument and laser-assisted 
balloon angioplasty. One hundred two balloon angioplasty procedures assisted by 
the Nd:YAG laser (n = 56) and the Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument (n = 46) 
were performed for the treatment of femoropopliteal occlusive lesions. Both 
Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument and laser-assisted balloon angioplasty 
groups were similar with regard to age, operative indication, preoperative 
ankle-brachial index, lesion length, and distal runoff. Mean follow-up was 19 
months in the Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument group and 15 months in the 
laser-assisted balloon angioplasty group. Technically successful recanalization 
was achieved in 67% of Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument-assisted balloon 
angioplasty procedures and 82% of laser-assisted balloon angioplasty procedures. 
Early hemodynamic and clinical improvement was obtained in 59% of Kensey dynamic 
angioplasty instrument-assisted balloon angioplasty procedures and 57% of 
laser-assisted balloon angioplasty procedures. Two-year clinical success by 
life-table analysis was 37% in the Kensey dynamic angioplasty instrument group 
and 19% in the laser-assisted balloon angioplasty group. The level of subsequent 
surgical revascularization was not altered in any patient by Kensey dynamic 
angioplasty instrument-assisted balloon angioplasty or laser-assisted balloon 
angioplasty.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1991.30867
PMID: 1831862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. J Vasc Surg. 1991 Sep;14(3):340-5.

Limitations of balloon angioplasty for vein graft stenosis.

Whittemore AD(1), Donaldson MC, Polak JF, Mannick JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115.

Vein graft stenosis remains an important contributing factor to the failure of 
infrainguinal arterial reconstruction. Repair of these lesions before graft 
occlusion provides sustained patency, yet the optimal method of repair has not 
been established. Percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty of these vein 
graft lesions has been repeatedly advocated as an alternative to surgical 
revision. Balloon angioplasty was used in 30 patients with 54 stenotic lesions 
occurring in autogenous vein grafts after infrainguinal reconstruction. The 
primary 5-year cumulative patency rate was 18% overall, with no significant 
differences observed among patency rates based on initial indication, length of 
stenotic lesion, or requirement for preliminary thrombolytic therapy. The 3-year 
patency rate associated with vein graft lesions requiring only a single 
angioplasty proved significantly higher (59%) than those requiring repetitive 
dilations (6%). It is our conclusion that balloon angioplasty for vein graft 
stenosis has significant limitations in providing sustained secondary patency.

PMID: 1831863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Respir Med. 1991 May;85(3):223-7. doi: 10.1016/s0954-6111(06)80084-3.

Symptomatic hypercalcaemia in lung cancer.

Campbell JH(1), Ralston S, Boyle IT, Banham SW.

Author information:
(1)Department for Respiratory Medicine, Glasgow Royal Infirmary, U.K.

We report our experience of the presentation and management of symptomatic 
hypercalcaemia in advanced lung cancer. Between 1981 and 1987, 55 patients 
required urgent admission due to rapid clinical deterioration accompanied by 
significant hypercalcaemia (greater than 2.75 mmol l-1). Forty patients (72%) 
had squamous cell cancer, five small cell, three large cell, two adenocarcinoma 
and five unclassified. Thirty-five had evidence of bony metastases. Symptoms 
were categorized for each patient on the basis of being either potentially 
attributable to hypercalcaemia or not. All patients were rehydrated but specific 
treatment schedules over the period varied [1981-1985: steroids, calcitonin, 
mithramycin; 1985-1987: aminohydroxypropylidene bisphosphonate (APD)]. Treatment 
resulted in a significant reduction in the prevalence of all systems except for 
pain and nausea/vomiting; the greatest effect being seen on central nervous 
system and renal tract symptoms (75 and 80% reduction respectively; P less than 
0.005 pre- versus post-treatment). Overall, 45 patients (82%) had a biochemical 
response; serum calcium fell from 3.28 +/- 0.33 mmol l-1 (mean +/- SE) to a 
nadir of 2.54 +/- 0.36 mmol l-1 (P less than 0.001). Twenty-five (49%) patients 
were discharged home. We conclude that despite the poor life expectancy of this 
group of patients (median survival 42 days) treatment of hypercalcaemia is 
worthwhile as it results in a significant symptomatic improvement.

DOI: 10.1016/s0954-6111(06)80084-3
PMID: 1831917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand. 1991;70(2):125-7. doi: 10.3109/00016349109006193.

Efficacy of laparoscopic electrocoagulation in infertile patients with minimal 
or mild endometriosis.

Arumugam K(1), Urquhart R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Aberdeen, Scotland.

The cumulative pregnancy rates in 17 infertile patients with minimal or mild 
endometriosis who underwent laparoscopic electrocoagulation were compared with 
those of 20 similar patients who underwent only diagnostic laparoscopy. A 
life-table method of analysis was used. No significant differences in pregnancy 
rates was evident at either 6 months (p greater than 0.5) or 12 months (p 
greater than 0.5) of follow-up. These results question the use of laparoscopic 
electrocoagulation for the treatment of infertile patients with minimal or mild 
endometriosis.

DOI: 10.3109/00016349109006193
PMID: 1831953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Am J Hum Genet. 1991 Oct;49(4):735-45.

Covariate-dependent age-at-onset distributions for Huntington disease.

Krawczak M(1), Bockel B, Sandkuijl L, Thies U, Fenton I, Harper PS.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, Göttingen, Germany.

A combined logistic regression and life-table analysis is presented on 
age-at-onset data for Huntington disease. Covariates included in the analysis 
were sex of the at-risk individual, parental age at onset, and sex of 
transmitting parent. Parental age at onset and parental sex were found to be 
significant covariates for age at onset in the offspring, and the appropriate 
logistic regression functions are calculated by maximum likelihood methods. 
These regression functions permit a more precise evaluation of carrier risks and 
likelihoods than hitherto was possible by simple computational means. We further 
introduce a novel method to account for sibship correlations in the significance 
assessment, using log-likelihood differences between different models.

PMCID: PMC1683183
PMID: 1832816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Eur J Cancer. 1991;27(8):1065-6. doi: 10.1016/0277-5379(91)90288-o.

After 65, cancer has a different impact on life expectancy in men and women.

Monfardini S, Tirelli U, Serraino D, Fentiman I.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-5379(91)90288-o
PMID: 1832899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. BMJ. 1991 Sep 21;303(6804):699-701. doi: 10.1136/bmj.303.6804.699.

Current practice in obtaining the "Q" in QALYs: a cautionary note.

Carr-Hill RA(1), Morris J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1991 Nov 2;303(6810):1136-7.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.303.6804.699
PMCID: PMC1670970
PMID: 1833014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Fertil Steril. 1991 Oct;56(4):628-34. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)54591-9.

Conservative laparoscopic excision of endometriosis by sharp dissection: life 
table analysis of reoperation and persistent or recurrent disease.

Redwine DB(1).

Author information:
(1)St. Charles Medical Center, Bend, Oregon 97701.

Comment in
    Fertil Steril. 2001 Jan;75(1):229-30.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the long-term outcome after laparoscopic excision of 
endometriosis.
DESIGN: This longitudinal unmatched study evaluated surgical outcome using 
follow-up questionnaires and evaluation of reoperations with results presented 
in life table format.
SETTING: Surgery was performed by a private practitioner at a referral center.
PATIENTS: All 359 patients undergoing laparoscopic excision of endometriosis 
between December 12, 1980, and March 31, 1990, were studied.
INTERVENTIONS: Endometriosis, including deeply invasive disease, was completely 
excised laparoscopically using 3-mm scissors and graspers. Adjunctive medical 
therapy was not used.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Extent of disease present at reoperation and quarterly 
rates of reoperation and recurrent/persistent disease are used as indicators of 
efficacy of surgery.
RESULTS: Interval rates of reoperation and recurrence/persistence of disease and 
extent or invasiveness of disease when found at reoperation did not increase 
with the passage of time after surgery. The maximum cumulative rate of recurrent 
or persistent disease was 19%, achieved in the 5th postoperative year.
CONCLUSION: Laparoscopic excision of endometriosis results in a low rate of 
minimal persistent/recurrent disease. The natural history of endometriosis after 
surgery suggests a rather static nature of the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)54591-9
PMID: 1833246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Orthop Nurs. 1991 Sep-Oct;10(5):27-36. doi: 10.1097/00006416-199109000-00008.

Assessment of the surgical adult orthopaedic client with Down syndrome.

Sedlak CA.

The life expectancy of individuals with Down syndrome has increased with as many 
as 80% reaching age 50. Nurses should be knowledgeable about the needs of the 
hospitalized adult orthopaedic client with Down syndrome so that an appropriate 
plan of preoperative and postoperative nursing care can be developed and 
implemented.

DOI: 10.1097/00006416-199109000-00008
PMID: 1833719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Presse Med. 1991 Sep 14;20(28):1330-4.

[Does amiodarone have a benefit effect on mortality?].

[Article in French]

Pathé M(1), Kahn JC.

Author information:
(1)Service de Cardiologie, Hôpital Intercommunal, Poissy.

Amiodarone, an anti-ischaemic and anti-arrhythmic drug, has been the object of 
numerous studies and seems to be highly effective in the treatment of severe 
ventricular arrhythmias on dilated cardiomyopathies, as well as of hypertrophic 
or ischaemic heart diseases. Some studies have shown a decrease in the incidence 
of sudden death in patients under amiodarone, but most of these studies were 
conducted on limited series with an insufficiently strict methodology. Contrary 
to other antiarrhythmic agents, amiodarone seems to be devoid of significant 
proarrhythmic effect and of depressant effect on cardiac function. Its 
anti-ischaemic activity has been demonstrated in exercise-induced and spastic 
angina. The side-effects of amiodarone are mainly extracardiac, and they may be 
a source of concern when they produce dysthyroidism or pulmonary pathology; 
however, they can be detected, or even prevented, by careful monitoring. Owing 
to its mechanism of action and its potential effectiveness, amiodarone deserves 
to be studied in patients at high risk of sudden death, especially those who 
suffer from severe ventricular arrhythmia on ischaemic cardiopathy with or 
without ventricular dysfunction. Three extensive clinical trials have been 
devised to determine with accuracy the effect of amiodarone on the mortality of 
patients who have survived a myocardial infarction or present with heart 
failure. At the end of these trials, it will perhaps be possible to evaluate the 
influence of a long-term amiodarone treatment on the mortality of patients whose 
life expectancy is shortened. The results obtained will be weighed against the 
side-effects of the treatment to obtain a benefit/risk ratio which, for the time 
being, is imperfectly known.

PMID: 1833737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. J Laparoendosc Surg. 1991 Oct;1(5):295-8. doi: 10.1089/lps.1991.1.295.

Laparoscopic surgery for HIV-infected patients: minimizing dangers for all 
concerned.

Diettrich NA(1), Kaplan G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Illinois Masonic Medical Center, Chicago.

As the number of patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
increases and their life-expectancy grows, more patients will present with 
conditions that require surgical intervention. Laparoscopic procedures provide 
several specific advantages over traditional (open) procedures in this 
population. For the patient, the extent of invasiveness is diminished; incisions 
are limited; healing time and wound complications can be decreased; pulmonary 
function is optimized; and the patient rapidly returns to regular activity. For 
the surgical team, risk of exposure to body fluids is minimized. For the general 
population, the exclusive use of readily available disposable instruments 
addresses infection control issues. Of 62 procedures performed on HIV-infected 
patients prior to the availability of laparoscopic surgery in the general 
surgery department, 27 (43.6%) could have been approached laparoscopically. Two 
patients with HIV infection are described who recently underwent successful 
laparoscopic procedures. In one case, this approach was the only option the 
patient would consent to. More widespread use of the approach should be 
specifically encouraged in patients with HIV infection.

DOI: 10.1089/lps.1991.1.295
PMID: 1834282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Am J Public Health. 1991 Nov;81(11):1456-65. doi: 10.2105/ajph.81.11.1456.

National health objectives for the year 2000: the demographic impact of health 
