promotion and disease prevention.

Stoto MA(1), Durch JS.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medicine, National Academy of Sciences, Washington, DC 20418.

BACKGROUND: The national objectives in Healthy People 2000, drafted by health 
professionals aware of currently available public health interventions, 
represent a wealth of information about near-term future mortality and 
morbidity.
METHODS: Life table methods were used to calculate the impact of projected 
changes in mortality and activity limitation rates on life expectancy and 
expected disability years.
RESULTS: Meeting the mortality objectives would increase life expectancy at 
birth by 1.5 to 2.1 years, raising life expectancy to 76.6 to 77.2 years. In 
addition, meeting the target for disability from chronic conditions would 
increase the number of years of life without activity limitations from 66.8 
years to 69.3-69.7 years. If the targets for coronary heart disease and 
unintentional injury were changed to reflect recent trends, a greater 
improvement in life expectancy at birth would be achieved: from 1.8 to 2.7 years 
to 76.9 to 77.8 years.
CONCLUSION: Meeting the targets would have an important demographic impact. 
Including changes in the coronary heart disease and injuries targets, life 
expectancy in the year 2000 would be above the middle of the ranges used in 
current Census Bureau projections.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.81.11.1456
PMCID: PMC1405693
PMID: 1835309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Eur J Cancer. 1991;27(9):1132-7. doi: 10.1016/0277-5379(91)90310-a.

Breast-conserving treatment or mastectomy in early breast cancer: a clinical 
decision analysis with special reference to the risk of local recurrence.

Verhoef LC(1), Stalpers LJ, Verbeek AL, Wobbes T, van Daal WA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Radiotherapy, Radboud University Hospital, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.

A clinical decision analysis was performed to judge the impact of local 
recurrences after breast-conserving treatment (BCT) on the (quality-adjusted) 
life expectancy of breast cancer patients. A life-long follow-up of two patient 
groups, one of which had undergone mastectomy and one BCT, was simulated by a 
Markov model of medical prognosis. Data used in the model originated from the 
literature. Since results in the source papers were not split according to 
stage, we performed two analyses: one with data from all source studies (T1 and 
T2) and one with data from source studies, concerning only T1 patients. In both 
analyses, the conclusion was that BCT yields better quality-adjusted life 
expectancy than mastectomy. Sensitivity analysis, however, identified subgroups 
of patients who should preferably undergo mastectomy. These subgroups are: 
patients preferring mastectomy to BCT, patients with a high risk of local 
recurrence, young patients and patients at high age, if they also have a high 
local recurrence risk. For these groups, patient preferences should play a major 
role in recommending treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-5379(91)90310-a
PMID: 1835623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Med J Malaysia. 1991 Mar;46(1):51-8.

Abdominal aortic aneurysm--a plea for early elective excision (aneurysmectomy).

Pung LY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur.

Though peripheral arterial disease is not as common as in the Western countries, 
abdominal aorit aneurysm (AAA) is the most frequent arterial problem in 
Malaysia. A prospective study was made of 100 consecutive patients who presented 
with AAA to the author between January 1986 to September 1988 (31 months' 
period). There were 88 males and 12 females. The age range was 47-90 years, mean 
= 68.7. All the major ethnic rates were equally affected. The sizes of the AAA 
were documented by ultrasonography and the diameters ranged from 3-10 
centimetres, mean = 5.8. Aneurysmectomy was performed on 58 patients, 17 of 
which were emergencies for ruptured AAA. The operative mortality for elective 
surgery was 2 percent, but that for emergency surgery was 47 percent. Ten 
patients refused surgery and 28 were not offered an operation. The true 
incidence of AAA is likely to be much higher than the number of patients 
referred for treatment. Many cases are not diagnosed or referred for treatment. 
Many cases of ruptured AAA died at home or in peripheral hospitals without a 
diagnosis being made. It is estimated that an AAA is present in 17,000 persons 
in Peninsular Malaysia. The risk of elective surgery is significantly lower than 
that of emergency. The overall mortality for ruptured AAA is even higher at 
about 99 percent. Furthermore, AAA is a benign disease and after surgery the 
patients return to their normal life expectancy. It is recommended that patients 
with AAA of five centimetres or more should be advised surgery if premature 
death is to be avoided.

PMID: 1836038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Semin Arthritis Rheum. 1991 Oct;21(2 Suppl 1):4-12. doi: 
10.1016/0049-0172(91)90046-3.

Worldwide trends in the socioeconomic impact and long-term prognosis of 
rheumatoid arthritis.

Markenson JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Cornell University Medical College, New York, NY.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA), once considered a benign and nonprogressive disease, 
is a debilitating condition with serious physical, emotional, and economic 
consequences. It afflicts approximately 1% of the adult population worldwide; 
prevalence increases with age, with twice as many women as men affected. In the 
United States, age, lack of formal education, and lower socioeconomic class 
correlate with both the incidence and poor prognosis of RA. The patient with RA 
faces increasing functional disability, the likelihood of work disability within 
10 years after the onset of the disease, and a drastic reduction in earnings. 
Compared with individuals without the disease, patients with RA incur higher 
medical care costs, increased hospitalization, and a greater number of physician 
visits. As in the general population, the leading cause of death among patients 
with RA is cardiovascular disease, and deaths due to malignancy occur at a 
comparable incidence; however, patients with RA are at greater risk of mortality 
due to infection, renal disease, respiratory conditions, and gastrointestinal 
disease. Life expectancy is shorter among patients with RA than in the general 
population, and survival rates are comparable to those for Hodgkin's disease, 
diabetes mellitus, stroke, and three-vessel coronary artery disease. Efforts 
must be made to develop improved therapeutic strategies and rehabilitative 
programs to improve the quality of life of patients with RA.

DOI: 10.1016/0049-0172(91)90046-3
PMID: 1836280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Fortschr Med. 1991 Sep 30;109(28):559-62.

[Surgical techniques in prostate cancer].

[Article in German]

Schmeller NT(1).

Author information:
(1)Urologische Klinik und Poliklinik, Universität München.

Diagnostic, therapeutic and palliative procedures in carcinoma of the prostate 
are discussed. Staging lymphadenectomy of pelvic lymph nodes has recently been 
performed via the laparoscope. Our results achieved with this procedure in, to 
date, 25 patients revealed lymph nodes metastasis in 50% of the cases, although 
the CT scan was unremarkable. Radical prostatovesiculectomy is accepted as the 
method of choice for the curative treatment of non-metastatic carcinoma of the 
prostate. Life expectancy following radical prostatectomy in tumor stage 2 or 
below, is similar to the general population of the same age. The palliative 
procedure of choice in prostatic carcinoma is plastic orchiectomy, in which the 
androgen-producing gonadal tissue is removed and testicular coat, together with 
the epididymi left in situ. With this approach, partial remission, rarely even 
complete remission, can be achieved in 80% of the patients. Information in the 
literature on prolongation of survival as a result of androgen deprivation is, 
however, contradictory.

PMID: 1836775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Minerva Endocrinol. 1991 Apr-Jun;16(2):93-9.

[Photon densitometry in the diagnosis of osteoporosis].

[Article in Italian]

Isaia GC(1), Salamano G, Mussetta M, Molinatti GM.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Medicina Interna, Università di Torino.

The increased average life expectancy of the inhabitants of industrialised 
countries has led to a marked increase in degenerative pathologies, including 
osteoporosis. This has made it necessary to elaborate instrumental tests capable 
of identifying risk subjects in order to intervene as quickly as possible using 
appropriate prophylactic and therapeutic measures. Single and dual photon ray 
densitometry represents the first correct approach to quantitatively assess bone 
mineral content. It not only allows an early diagnosis to be made but also 
enables a longitudinal study to be made of patients receiving treatment. The 
main studies on the accuracy and precision of dual photon ray densitometry are 
reported together with the authors' findings regarding the definition of the 
fracture threshold and osteoporosis caused by metabolic and endocrinological 
disorders.

PMID: 1837586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Bol Oficina Sanit Panam. 1991 Nov;111(5):423-31.

[Compliance with tuberculosis treatment in adults in Santiago, Chile].

[Article in Spanish]

Ferrer X(1), Kirschbaum A, Toro J, Jadue J, Muñoz M, Espinoza A.

Author information:
(1)Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Facultad de Medicina, Escuela de 
Enfermería, Santiago, Chile.

A prospective study was conducted to estimate the current magnitude of adherence 
to short-course tuberculosis treatment, the degree of abandonment, the 
characteristics of treatment dropouts, and the causes of this abandonment. The 
study group was made up of tuberculosis patients over the age of 15 who received 
care at the Western and Southern Health Services of the Metropolitan Region of 
Santiago, Chile, between 1 October 1987 and 31 January 1988. The percentage 
abandoning treatment, calculated by the life table method, was 11.5. The profile 
of patients who dropped out of treatment was as follows: male, under 45 years of 
age, single, low level of education, no steady work, homeless, and alcoholic. In 
addition, an opinion survey on the variables associated with abandonment was 
conducted and it was concluded that the main ones were alcoholism and 
intolerance to tuberculosis drugs. Awareness of this profile makes it possible 
to take measures to prevent patients from abandoning treatment, as well as to 
educate and even hospitalize at the start of treatment those tuberculous 
patients exhibiting such a profile.

PMID: 1837720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Chirurgie. 1991;117(1):49-58.

[Surgical treatment of spinal metastases].

[Article in French]

Lapresle P(1), Roy-Camille R, Lazennec JY, Mariambourg G.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie orthopédique, Hôpital de la Pitié, Paris.

Spinal metastasis often lead to two main complications: back pain and para or 
tetraplegia. Performed alone radiotherapy may be too slowly efficient to allow a 
neurological recovery. Laminectomy may improve the neurological signs but does 
not induce any change on root pain and it increases instability. A surgical 
procedure by a posterior approach including laminectomy and fixation by plates 
and transpedicular screws fits these two goals: decompression and stabilisation. 
The first 189 cases are reported: the first month lethality is about 15%. 81% of 
fixations remained unchanged. 21 out of the 62 patients with loss of autonomy 
recovered an ability to walk. Besides this palliative surgery, a total 
spondylectomy has been done 13 times in order to perform a curative surgery for 
unique metastasis of cancers with long life expectancy. An early walking is 
often possible and after healing of the wound, a complementary treatment with 
radio or chemo therapy may be started without any risk of pain or neurological 
compression.

PMID: 1837772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Vasa Suppl. 1991;33:199.

[Initial life table analysis following Strecker stent implantation in 
complicated angioplasties].

[Article in German]

Starck E(1), Wagner HJ, Truss J.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Röntgendiagnostik, Städtische Kliniken Kassel.

PMID: 1838636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Milbank Q. 1991;69(2):309-38.

The dynamics of population aging: demography and policy analysis.

Manton KG(1).

Author information:
(1)Duke University.

The dynamics of population aging will broadly shape future social and economic 
conditions in the United States and in many other developed countries. Although 
the quantitative dimension of population aging is easily characterized, the 
associated forces producing changes in health and functioning among individuals 
are less well understood. For 14 years the Milbank Quarterly, under the 
editorship of David Willis, fostered research into the interaction of 
demographic, epidemiological, public health, and clinical factors in order 
better to understand population aging. The Quarterly spurred the collection of 
longitudinal data, based on representative samples of the U.S. elderly and 
oldest-old populations, which were crucial to efforts to answer critical 
questions about anticipated changes in health and functional status as the 
population ages. This research will give us a better grasp of the policy and 
service implications of an aging population.

PMID: 1838786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Eur J Gynaecol Oncol. 1991;12(6):429-37.

LH-RH analogue Zoladex in the treatment of pre- and perimenopausal women with 
metastatic breast cancer (results of the Italian Cooperative Study).

Bianco AR(1), Rosso R, Calabresi F, Fiorentino M, Lopez M, Sismondi PG, Lenti R, 
Fosser V, De Placido S, Perrone F, et al.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Medical School II, University of Naples.

From May 1987 to May 1989 sixty one pre- and perimenopausal women with advanced 
or recurrent breast cancer entered in an open non comparative study. They were 
treated, as a first-line therapy, with goserelin (Zoladex ICI-118630) a long 
acting gonadotropin-releasing hormone (LH-RH)-analogue in a depot formulation. 
Fifty three patients were evaluable for response; median age at entry was 41 
years (range 28-56). Serum concentrations of 17 beta estradiol, LH and FSH were 
significantly suppressed within the first four weeks of therapy and remained 
suppressed for the whole duration of treatment. Subjective responses were 
observed, such as pain reduction and/or performance status improvement in 58% of 
patients. Overall objective response (CR + PR) occurred in 16 (30.2%) patients 
in all major sites of disease with a median time to response of 12 weeks (range 
8 to 48 weeks) and a lifetable median duration of response of 36 weeks (range 16 
to 76 weeks). The lifetable median time to progression was 17 weeks (range 5 to 
76 weeks). Goserelin depot was well tolerated with no withdrawal due to possible 
adverse reactions. The observed subjective and objective response rates are 
comparable to those induced by surgical oophorectomy. Goserelin provides a well 
tolerated medical alternative to ovarian ablation, without the morbidity 
associated to surgery. In conclusion the present paper suggests that this 
innovative chemical estrogen deprivation, in premenopausal breast cancer 
patients, might be favorably investigated as an adjuvant therapy in future 
clinical trials.

PMID: 1839730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Arch Ophthalmol. 1991 Dec;109(12):1707-9. doi: 
10.1001/archopht.1991.01080120091033.

Heritable retinoblastoma and pinealoma.

Lueder GT(1), Judisch GF, Wen BC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa 
City 52242.

A fourth case of bilateral retinoblastoma (RB) associated with pinealoma was 
identified among 56 patients with heritable RB. Using life-table analysis, the 
association was 5.6% 2 years after RB diagnosis. Retinoblastoma-pinealoma (RB-P) 
was uniformly fatal in this series and in 40 additional patients described in 
the literature. Ninety-five percent of patients with RB-P had bilateral RB, a 
positive family history of RB, or both. All patients with pinealoma presented 
with symptoms of increased intracranial pressure due to obstructive 
hydrocephalus. The advanced stage of the tumors at diagnosis may contribute to 
their uniform lethality. The incidence of a positive family history of RB in 
patients with pinealoma was higher than expected (62% of patients), which may be 
related to earlier surveillance and treatment of patients with positive family 
histories of RB.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.1991.01080120091033
PMID: 1841581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Cardiologia. 1991 Dec;36(12 Suppl 1):79-84.

[Ventricular hypertrophy as an expression of hypertensive damage].

[Article in Italian]

Chiariello M(1), Betocchi S.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Cardiologia, II Facoltà di Medicina e Chirurgia, Università degli 
Studi Federico II, Napoli.

Although left ventricular hypertrophy is an adaptative mechanism to increased 
load, its development represents a pathological state which can affect patients' 
health in many ways. Systemic hypertension is often associated to left 
ventricular hypertrophy; a correlation exists between ambulatory blood pressure 
monitoring daytime mean blood pressure values and left ventricular mass. Left 
ventricular hypertrophy is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular events, 
and the pattern of concentric left ventricular hypertrophy is associated with 
higher morbidity and mortality. The mechanism by which left ventricular 
hypertrophy impair life expectancy is not completely known; arrhythmias and 
ischemia may often develop in patients with secondary left ventricular 
hypertrophy and can contribute to worsen prognosis. Left ventricular mechanics 
is also affected by hypertrophy. Systolic function is usually normal at rest, 
but its response to exercise can be blunted when hypertrophy develops. Diastolic 
dysfunction is often present in patients with hypertension, even before left 
ventricular hypertrophy occurs, and it can impair systolic function by hampering 
filling resulting mostly in an impairment in the adjustment to exercise. 
Effective antihypertensive therapy leads to a decrease in left ventricular 
hypertrophy and an improvement in diastolic mechanics.

PMID: 1841809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Ethn Dis. 1991 Spring;1(2):188-99.

Cardiovascular health in Puerto Ricans compared to other population groups in 
the United States.

Ramírez EA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Puerto Rico School of Medicine, Department of Medicine, San 
Juan 00936.

It has been determined that the prevalence and incidence of coronary artery 
disease has been lower in Puerto Rico than in the United States. In a controlled 
comparison with a matched cohort of men from Framingham, Mass, Puerto Rican men 
were found to have lower serum cholesterol and lower systolic blood pressure, to 
smoke less, to be more active physically, and to be less sensitive to coronary 
risk factors. Community surveys have shown that there is moderately less 
hypertension but more diabetes and possibly more obesity in Puerto Rico than in 
the United States. Hispanic groups in the United States have shown similar 
characteristics. Possible reasons for the relative protection from coronary 
artery disease in Puerto Rico include genetic factors, diet, and life-style. 
Recent epidemiologic data show that, although mortality from coronary disease 
and stroke has been steadily decreasing in the United States, it is increasing 
in Puerto Rico. Recent life-style and dietary changes, social stress, increased 
life expectancy, and a high death rate from diabetes and hypertension may be 
contributing to this reversal. Stronger efforts to control cardiovascular risk 
factors and to improve the management of diabetes and hypertension are needed in 
Puerto Rico.

PMID: 1842533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Ethn Dis. 1991 Summer;1(3):295-9.

Should cardiovascular diseases be a health priority for developing countries? A 
brief overview of the mortality data.

Ghali JK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Epidemiology, Stritch School of 
Medicine, Loyola University, Maywood, Illinois 60153.

PMID: 1842544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Arch Intern Med. 1991 Feb;151(2):235-9.

Resuscitation of patients with metastatic cancer. Is transient benefit still 
futile?

Faber-Langendoen K.

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 1992 Jul;152(7):1529.
    Arch Intern Med. 1992 Jul;152(7):1529-30.
    Arch Intern Med. 1992 Jul;152(7):1530; author reply 1530, 1532.

PMID: 1842666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Rev Saude Publica. 1991 Dec;25(6):476-88. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89101991000600010.

Brazil is getting older: demographic changes and epidemiological challenges.

Veras RP(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Medicina Social da Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, 
Brasil.

Population ageing is currently a phenomenon not only in developed countries but 
also in third world countries. In this paper the features of a population's 
ageing and the process of epidemiological transition are discussed along with 
the worldwide changes in age-structure. Population statistics in Brazil and the 
characteristics of the elderly population are presented and analysed in the 
light of recent changes. The Brazilian elderly population is also discussed, 
particularly the issues relating to the social cost of the aged population, its 
urban and rural distribution, the elderly by sex, marital status and level of 
schooling, and emphasis is given to the imbalance of the sexes and the 
consequences of it for women.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101991000600010
PMID: 1843238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Vital Health Stat 5. 1991 Aug;(6):147-50.

Opportunities for international collaboration: comparisons of morbidity and 
mortality for chronic diseases in older persons.

Brody JA(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Illinois, Chicago.

PMID: 1844652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Rev Chil Obstet Ginecol. 1991;56(4):268-73.

[Menopause: a disease?].

[Article in Spanish]

Blumel JE(1), Brandt A, Tacla X.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Obstetricia y Ginecología, Hospital Barros Luco-Trudeau.

As life expectancy lengthens, the period that women must live deprived of 
estrogens is also lengthened. Not only does this hormonal deficit produce the 
known vasomotor symptoms, but it also increases the risk of cardiovascular 
disease and bone fractures. The fact that replacement therapy using hormones 
during the postmenopause attenuates these risks has lead to the thought that we 
might be facing a disease. Moreover, menopause meets the criteria that define 
disease. In spite of considering that to define menopause as a disease might be 
daring, we cannot rule it out.

PMID: 1845185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1991 Dec;48(12):1082-8. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1991.01810360046007.

Risk of recurrence following discontinuation of lithium treatment in bipolar 
disorder.

Suppes T(1), Baldessarini RJ, Faedda GL, Tohen M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass.

Episode recurrence in bipolar disorder following discontinuation of stable 
maintenance treatment with lithium salts was analyzed from 14 studies involving 
257 patients with bipolar I disorder. More than 50% of new episodes of illness 
occurred within 10 weeks of stopping an average of 30 months of treatment. By 
survival analysis of 124 cases in which the time to a new episode was known, the 
computed time to 50% failure of remission was 5.0 months after stopping therapy; 
the time to 25% recurrence of mania was 5.2 times earlier than for depression 
(2.7 vs 14 months). In 16 patients with a mean cycle length before treatment of 
11.6 months, the time to a new episode when off lithium therapy was only 1.7 
months. Risk of early recurrence of bipolar illness, especially of mania, 
evidently is increased following discontinuation of lithium use and may exceed 
that predicted by the course of the untreated disorder. The basis and management 
of risks associated with discontinuing effective long-term mood-stabilizing 
treatment require further study.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1991.01810360046007
PMID: 1845226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Alcohol Alcohol Suppl. 1991;1:519-22.

Assessment of treatment outcome.

Fuller RK(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical and Prevention Research, National Institute on Alcohol 
Abuse and Alcoholism, Rockville, MD 20857.

Treatment outcome research consists of two types: controlled clinical trials and 
in-house program evaluations. Controlled clinical trials are experimental 
studies designed to test whether or not a treatment is efficacious. In-house 
program evaluations provide information about the results (outcome) of an 
individual treatment program. The key components of clinical trials include 
control groups; randomization procedures; enumeration of those who were screened 
for inclusion in, those accepted into, and those excluded from the study; a 
description of the relevant patient characteristics of the sample studied; 
"double-blinding" for pharmacological studies; raters of treatment effects who 
are not the therapists for verbal therapies; objective measures of treatment 
response; follow-up of at least 70% of the original sample; and appropriate 
statistical analysis of the data collected. In-house program evaluations rarely 
have control groups or employ randomization. However, a description of the type 
of patients treated by the program, independent raters, and adequate follow-up 
of those entering treatment are essential for program evaluation; and the 
credibility of program evaluation would be enhanced by the use of objective 
measures of treatment response.

PMID: 1845591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Gastrointest Endosc. 1991 Jan-Feb;37(1):31-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0016-5107(91)70617-2.

Percutaneous cholangioscopic or transpapillary insertion of self-expanding 
biliary metal stents.

Neuhaus H(1), Hagenmüller F, Griebel M, Classen M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine II, Technical University of Munich, Klinikum 
Rechts der Isar, West Germany.

Comment in
    Gastrointest Endosc. 1991 Jul-Aug;37(4):496-7.

Fifty-two self-expanding metal stents were implanted in 39 patients with 
malignant (35 patients) or benign (4 patients) biliary stenoses. The stents were 
inserted and properly released by means of a 7 or 9 French gauge delivery 
catheter via the percutaneous (20 patients) or transpapillary (19 patients) 
route. In all cases the endoprostheses expanded to a diameter of 7 to 10 mm and 
achieved complete biliary tract drainage. Jaundice disappeared in 36 of the 39 
patients. No early complication was observed. After a median follow-up of 121 
days (range, 30 to 422 days), 19 of 36 patients are still alive and 17 died of 
non-procedure-related causes. Biliary re-obstruction occurred in five patients 
due to tumor overgrowth above or below the prosthesis (four patients) or bile 
encrustation (one patient). In patients with malignant stenoses, the probability 
of stent patency is 78% after 200 days. We conclude that large-bore metal stents 
are safe, effective, and provide better long-term patency than conventional 
endoprostheses.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5107(91)70617-2
PMID: 1848520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Arch Surg. 1991 Apr;126(4):424-8.

Radiation therapy for intraductal carcinoma. Is it an equal alternative?

Silverstein MJ(1), Waisman JR, Gierson ED, Colburn W, Gamagami P, Lewinsky BS.

Author information:
(1)Breast Center, Van Nuys, Calif 91405.

Comment in
    Arch Surg. 1991 Dec;126(12):1541-2.

Of 213 consecutive patients with intraductal carcinoma, 109 were selectively 
treated with mastectomy and 104 with radiation therapy. There were eight local 
recurrences, seven in patients treated with radiation therapy and one in a 
patient treated with mastectomy. Histologically, there were 110 comedocarcinomas 
and 103 noncomedocarcinomas. Seven local recurrences occurred in patients with 
comedocarcinomas and one in a patient with a noncomedo tumor. Three (38%) of 
eight local recurrences (all comedo) were invasive. The 5-year actuarial 
survival for all subgroups was 100%. The median follow-up was 51 months. 
Intraductal carcinoma is unlikely to metastasize to axillary lymph nodes, and 
routine dissection is unnecessary. Ductal carcinoma in situ of the comedo 
variety is more aggressive and more likely to recur than its noncomedo 
counterpart. We currently view conservative therapy for patients with 
intraductal comedocarcinoma with caution.

PMID: 1848972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Rofo. 1991 Apr;154(4):388-92. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1033155.

[Radiological follow-up of anastomotic insufficiency following partial 
esophageal resections or gastrectomies. The effects of barium-containing 
contrast media].

[Article in German]

Reichelt S(1), Eising EG, Pelster FW.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Klinische Radiologie, Wesfälische Wilhelms-Universität Münster.

Fistulae after abdomino-thoracic operations are usually treated conservatively 
because of the high complication rate of repeated surgery. If the anastomoses 
function adequately, healing usually occurs spontaneously after four to six 
weeks. Amongst 271 patients with intrathoracic oesophago-gastric or 
oesophago-jejunal anastomoses, entero-cutaneous fistulae occurred 29 times. 
Extension of the fistula into the pleura or peritoneum was first excluded by 
using an absorbable contrast medium and then a barium contrast examination was 
carried out. Thoracic fistulae closed, on average, after 21.8 days and fistulae 
in the upper abdomen after 20.3 days. Barium sulphate stimulates granulation 
tissue in the fistula and therefore leads to more rapid obliteration. This 
improves the quality of the patient's life and reduced the time the patient has 
to spend in hospital. There were no local or systematic complications.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1033155
PMID: 1850154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Hepatogastroenterology. 1991 Feb;38(1):22-8.

Epidemiology, clinical course and treatment of chronic viral hepatitis.

Stremmel W(1), Schwarzendrube J, Niederau C, Strohmeyer G.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Gastroenterologie, Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf, 
Germany.

Chronic hepatitis may take the form of a hepatitis B infection, a delta virus 
infection, or a non-A, non-B hepatitis including hepatitis C. All the viruses 
involved are transmitted predominantly by parenteral or sexual routes. New 
insights into the structure of the hepatitis B virus (HBV) and the immune 
response mechanisms of the organism permit a clear definition of the replicative 
state of the virus, and allow predictions to be made about the outcome of the 
disease. Development of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma are the major 
complications associated with impaired life expectancy. Recently, the hepatitis 
C virus (HCV) was identified as the agent responsible for most cases of chronic 
non-A, non-B hepatitis. The development of an assay for the detection of 
HCV-antibodies facilitated the diagnosis of this type of hepatitis. Moreover, 
the use of screening tests for hepatitis B and hepatitis C in blood donors will 
decrease the risk of acquiring hepatitis via contaminated blood products. 
Treatment of chronic hepatitis B and C with alpha-interferon has shown promising 
results. However, the dosage schedule, the period of treatment, and the 
selection of patients needs to be evaluated in further studies.

PMID: 1851129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. J Hypertens. 1991 Mar;9(3):193-8. doi: 10.1097/00004872-199103000-00001.

Pressure to treat and pressure to cost: a review of cost-effectiveness analysis.

Fletcher A.

DOI: 10.1097/00004872-199103000-00001
PMID: 1851781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. J Hypertens. 1991 Mar;9(3):199-208. doi: 10.1097/00004872-199103000-00002.

The cost-effectiveness of treating mild-to-moderate hypertension: a reappraisal.

Kawachi I(1), Malcolm LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Wellington School of Medicine, New Zealand.

The cost-effectiveness of treating mild-to-moderate hypertension (diastolic 
blood pressures, 90-114 mmHg) was evaluated using the latest available 
information on both costs and benefits. The net health care costs of lifelong 
treatment for hypertension, at a 5% discount rate, ranged from 1491 pounds to 
2752 pounds in men and from 1568 pounds to 2850 pounds in women in New Zealand 
in 1988 (1.00 pounds = $NZ 2.81). These figures take into account the savings in 
health care costs arising from stroke prevention. The net health care benefits, 
measured in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) discounted at 5%, ranged from--2 
days (a net negative effect of treatment) to 64 days in men and from--18 days to 
35 days in women. The cost-effectiveness of antihypertensive therapy discounted 
at 5% (excluding categories of patients for whom the ratio was undefined due to 
a net negative effect of treatment on QALYs) ranged from 11,058 pounds to 63,760 
pounds per QALY gained in men and from 22,060 pounds to 194,989 pounds per QALY 
gained in women. Treatment was more cost-effective in men than in women, in 
older age groups and at higher levels of pretreatment diastolic blood pressure. 
The cost-effectiveness ratios were highly sensitive to the discount rate used 
(with the majority of ratios in women being undefined at a 10% discount rate) 
and the costs of the regimen used (diuretic monotherapy being the most 
cost-effective, followed by beta-blockers, then angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitors), as well as to the assumptions made about the impact of medication 
side effects on patient quality of life. These results call for a re-examination 
of resource allocation to antihypertensive treatment and point to the need to 
make assessments of the cost-effectiveness of alternative, non-pharmacological 
approaches to stroke prevention.

DOI: 10.1097/00004872-199103000-00002
PMID: 1851782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1991 May 15;88(10):4084-8. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.88.10.4084.

Polymerase chain reaction-mediated gene synthesis: synthesis of a gene coding 
for isozyme c of horseradish peroxidase.

Jayaraman K(1), Fingar SA, Shah J, Fyles J.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Division-Research Laboratories, Eastman Kodak Company, 
Rochester, NY 14650-2118.

The synthesis of a gene coding for horseradish peroxidase (HRP, isozyme c; EC 
1.11.1.7) is described using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-mediated gene 
synthesis approach developed in our laboratory. In this approach, all the 
oligonucleotides making up the gene are ligated in a single step by using the 
two outer oligonucleotides as PCR primers and the crude ligation mixture as the 
target. The PCR facilitates synthesis and purification of the gene 
simultaneously. The gene for HRP was synthesized by ligating all 40 
oligonucleotides in a single step followed by PCR amplification. The gene was 
also synthesized from its fragments by using an overlap extension method similar 
to the procedure as described [Horton, R. M., Hunt, H. D., Ho, S. N., Pullen, J. 
K. & Pease, L. R. (1989) Gene 77, 61-68]. A method for combining different DNA 
fragments, in-frame, by using the PCR was also developed and used to synthesize 
the HRP gene from its gene fragments. This method is applicable to the synthesis 
of even larger genes and to combine any DNA fragments in-frame. After the 
synthesis, preliminary characterization of the HRP gene was also carried out by 
the PCR to confirm the arrangement of oligonucleotides in the gene. This was 
done by carrying out the PCR with several sets of primers along the gene and 
comparing the product sizes with the expected sizes. The gene and the fragments 
generated by PCR were cloned in Escherichia coli and the sequence was confirmed 
by manual and automated DNA sequencing.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.88.10.4084
PMCID: PMC51602
PMID: 1851991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Nature. 1991 Jul 25;352(6333):330-4. doi: 10.1038/352330a0.

Linkage of Marfan syndrome and a phenotypically related disorder to two 
different fibrillin genes.

Lee B(1), Godfrey M, Vitale E, Hori H, Mattei MG, Sarfarazi M, Tsipouras P, 
Ramirez F, Hollister DW.

Author information:
(1)Brookdale Center for Molecular Biology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New 
York, New York 10029.

Comment in
    Nature. 1991 Jul 25;352(6333):279-81.

Marfan syndrome (MFS), one of the most common genetic disorders of connective 
tissue, is characterized by skeletal, cardiovascular and ocular abnormalities. 
The incidence of the disease is about 1 in 20,000, with life expectancy severely 
reduced because of cardiovascular complications. As the underlying defect is 
unknown, MFS diagnosis is based solely on clinical criteria. Certain phenotypic 
features of MFS are also shared by other conditions, which may be genetically 
distinct entities although part of a clinical continuum. Immunohistochemical 
studies have implicated fibrillin, a major component of elastin-associated 
microfibrils, in MFS aetiology. Genetic linkage analysis with random probes has 
independently localized the MFS locus to chromosome 15. Here we report that 
these two experimental approaches converge with the cloning and mapping of the 
fibrillin gene to chromosome 15q15-21, and with the establishment of linkage to 
MFS. We also isolated a second fibrillin gene and mapped it to chromosome 
5q23-31. We linked this novel gene to a condition, congenital contractural 
arachnodactyly, that shares some of the features of MFS. Thus, the cosegregation 
of two related genes with two related syndromes implies that fibrillin mutations 
are likely to be responsible for different MFS phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1038/352330a0
PMID: 1852206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Sangre (Barc). 1991 Feb;36(1):7-14.

[Intensification chemotherapy followed by allogenieic and autologous bone marrow 
transplantation in acute non-lymphoblastic leukemia in children].

[Article in Spanish]

Ortega Aramburu JJ(1), Olivé Oliveras T, Javier Manchón G, Bastida Vila P, 
Sánchez C, Giralt López J.

Author information:
(1)Sección de Hematología, Hospital Materno Infantil, Vall d'Hebrón, Spain.

Both intensification therapies with high-doses ARA-C and bone marrow transplant, 
allogeneic (BMT) or autologous (ABMT), have proved effective in relapse 
prevention in ANLL. The present study combines both treatments. METHODS. 
Remission induction treatment was DAE combination. The first intensification 
consisted of HD ARA-C and mitoxantrone and the second HD ARA-C and AMSA. CNS 
prophylaxis consisted of 6 doses of i.t. ARA-C and MTX. Later, patients in 
remission with HLA-compatible donor received BMT and those without it, ABMT with 
"ex vivo" treatment of the bone marrow with ASTA-Z. Pre-BMT treatment was the 
same in both cases: fractionated total body irradiation (TBI) and 
cyclophosphamide in patients over 3 years of age; in patients under 3 busulfan 
was given instead of TBI. PATIENTS. Between April 88 and March 90, 18 patients 
(age 3 months to 14 years) were included. FAB subtypes were M1 + M2: 4; M3: 2; 
M4: 4; M5: 5; M6: 1; M7: 2. Two patients died of cranial haemorrhage before the 
10th day, 15 achieved complete remission (CR) after one or two induction 
treatments and 1 only attained CR after the first intensification.
RESULTS: 1 patient with M7 relapsed after the 2nd intensification. Of the 
remaining 15, five received BMT and ten ABMT. Average interval between CR and 
transplant was 4 months (3 to 8). Of the 5 with BMT, one died from progressive 
obliterating bronchiolitis at 9 months and the other four continued in CR for 6 
to 28 months. Of the 10 with ABMT none died from complications, 2 suffered early 
relapse and 8 continued in CR for 6 to 28 months.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

PMID: 1853274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Age Ageing. 1991 May;20(3):226. doi: 10.1093/ageing/20.3.226.

Serum cholesterol and coronary heart disease.

Cohen DL, Mindell JS.

Comment on
    Age Ageing. 1990 Sep;19(5):277-9.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/20.3.226
PMID: 1853797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Am J Epidemiol. 1991 Jul 1;134(1):29-38. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a115990.

Factors associated with paradoxical survival at higher blood pressures in the 
very old.

Langer RD(1), Ganiats TG, Barrett-Connor E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Family Medicine, University of California, School 
of Medicine, San Diego, La Jolla 92093-0607.

Erratum in
    Am J Epidemiol 1993 Nov 1;138(9):774.

Paradoxically greater survival for persons aged 85 years and older with higher 
blood pressures has been reported in a Finnish population study (Br Med J 
1988;296:887-9). In a previous report, the authors demonstrated improved 10-year 
survival with increasing diastolic blood pressure in men (but not in women) aged 
75 years and older in the Rancho Bernardo Chronic Disease Study (Br Med J 
1989;298:1356-7). However, few of the covariates which could potentially explain 
this effect were obtained at the visit used in that analysis. In an effort to 
confirm these reports of paradoxical survival and to explore possible reasons 
for them, the authors analyzed all-cause and cardiovascular mortality in 795 men 
and women aged 75-96 years (mean, 80.6), evaluated in 1984-1987 and followed 
prospectively for an average of 3 years after that comprehensive examination. Of 
63 deaths, 48 (76%) were in men; 43 (68%) of all deaths were cardiovascular. 
Kaplan-Meier survival analyses showed a significant trend for improved survival 
with increasing diastolic pressure in men aged 80 years and older versus 
all-cause mortality (chi 2 p less than or equal to 0.01), and cardiovascular 
mortality (chi 2 p less than or equal to 0.00). These trends were not evident in 
men aged less than 80 years or in women in either age group. Results were not 
explained by differences in the use of antihypertensive medication, pulse 
pressure, history of hypertension, history of coronary heart disease, isolated 
systolic hypertension, interval change in diastolic pressure (over an average of 
12 years), or by cholesterol, triglycerides, fasting plasma glucose, smoking, or 
body mass index. Thus, the paradoxical relation of improved all-cause and 
cardiovascular survival in men aged 80 years or older with higher diastolic 
pressure is not explained by a wide range of biologic and historical factors.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a115990
PMID: 1853858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Ann Intern Med. 1991 Aug 15;115(4):248-55. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-115-4-248.

Comparison of an aggressive (U.S.) and a less aggressive (Canadian) policy for 
cholesterol screening and treatment.

Krahn M(1), Naylor CD, Basinski AS, Detsky AS.

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto, Toronto Hospital, Ontario.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1991 Aug 15;115(4):324-6.
    Ann Intern Med. 1991 Dec 15;115(12):983.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the point at which adverse quality-of-life effects 
engendered by an aggressive cholesterol-lowering strategy dictate the use of a 
less aggressive approach.
DESIGN: Decision analysis was used to compare the effects of the National 
Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) guidelines, an aggressive program, with 
those of the Canadian Task Force on the Periodic Health Examination (CTF) 
guidelines, a more conservative program. Quality-adjusted life expectancy was 
calculated for a theoretical cohort of middle-aged men treated according to each 
program using Markov cohort analysis.
MEASUREMENTS: Guidelines were applied to the population of the Lipid Research 
Clinics Coronary Primary Prevention Trial (LRC-CPPT), under the assumption that 
cholesterol levels had the distribution of the age- and sex-matched general 
population. Outcomes were calculated using a three-state (health, coronary heart 
disease, and death) Markov model. State transition probabilities were calculated 
using bivariate (age and cholesterol) proportional hazards and logistic 
regression functions.
MAIN RESULTS: The result was a "toss-up"; the number of expected 
quality-adjusted life years was similar for both programs at all time intervals, 
although the conservative program was consistently slightly favored. The result 
was very sensitive to the disutility of dietary therapy (threshold value, 0.0014 
compared with the baseline estimate of 0.02) but was also affected by the time 
frame of the analysis and the rate at which adverse effects of treatment 
decline.
CONCLUSIONS: Even small disutilities associated with treatment may outweight the 
benefits of aggressive cholesterol-lowering strategies. Research should be 
directed toward measuring these disutilities and finding ways to reduce their 
size. Incorporation of the disutility of treatment into policy formulation may 
result in less interventionist and less costly policies.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-115-4-248
PMID: 1854109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Br J Cancer. 1991 Jul;64(1):124-7. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1991.254.

The prognostic value of immunoperoxidase staining with monoclonal antibodies 
NCRC-11 and 3E1.2 in breast cancer.

Muir IM(1), Reed RG, Stacker SA, Alexander AI, McKenzie IF, Bennett RC.

Author information:
(1)Melbourne University Department of Surgery, St. Vincent's Hospital, 
Australia.

The variation in survival of women with clinically similar breast cancers may 
lead to difficulty in clinical management so it is important to recognise 
factors which indicate the prognosis. Immunoperoxidase staining patterns of 
primary breast tumours using monoclonal antibody NCRC-11 have been shown to 
relate to overall survival (Ellis et al., 1985) but the results have not been 
reproducible in other centres. In this study paraffin sections of 483 primary 
breast cancers were stained with NCRC-11 and 3E1.2 using an immunoperoxidase 
system. The tumour staining patterns were compared with overall survival using 
life tables and tested for relative prognostic significance by Cox's 
multivariate analysis. NCRC-11 related to survival in all 483 cases (chi 2 5.8, 
P = 0.02) but both antibodies achieved maximum prognostic significance in lymph 
node negative patients (chi 2 9.4, P less than 0.002 and chi 2 10.7, P less than 
0.001) in whom no other factor was more significant. Immunoperoxidase staining 
patterns produced by monoclonal antibodies NCRC-11 and 3E1.2 are important 
prognostic factors in breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1991.254
PMCID: PMC1977294
PMID: 1854611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Br J Ind Med. 1991 Jul;48(7):433-6. doi: 10.1136/oem.48.7.433.

Health and the environment.

Lotti M.

DOI: 10.1136/oem.48.7.433
PMCID: PMC1035394
PMID: 1854645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


