91. BMJ. 1991 Jun 29;302(6792):1601. doi: 10.1136/bmj.302.6792.1601-b.

A methodological quibble about QALYs.

McTurk L.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1991 May 25;302(6787):1253-6.
    BMJ. 1990 Sep 29;301(6753):629-35.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.302.6792.1601-b
PMCID: PMC1670317
PMID: 1855052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Ciba Found Symp. 1991;156:3-10; discussion 10-6. doi:
10.1002/9780470514047.ch2.

The intrauterine environment and adult cardiovascular disease.

Barker DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)MRC Environmental Epidemiology Unit, University of Southampton, Southampton 
General Hospital, UK.

Two recent findings suggest that maternal nutrition, and fetal and infant 
growth, have an important effect on the risk of cardiovascular disease in adult 
life. (1) Among 5225 men who were born in Hertfordshire, England during 
1911-1930 and who were breast fed, those who had the lowest weights at birth and 
at one year had the highest death rates from cardiovascular disease. The 
differences were large and were reflected in differences in life expectancy. (2) 
In England and Wales there is a close geographical association between high 
death rates from cardiovascular disease, and poor maternal physique and health, 
and poor fetal growth. These findings raise the question of what processes link 
the intrauterine and early postnatal environment with risk of cardiovascular 
disease. Blood pressure, a known risk factor for cardiovascular disease, is one 
link. A recent study of 449 men and women now aged 50 showed that measurements 
at birth predicted blood pressure more strongly than current measures such as 
body mass. Levels of clotting factors in the blood and serum cholesterol (two 
other risk factors) may also be links.

DOI: 10.1002/9780470514047.ch2
PMID: 1855414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Urol Nefrol (Mosk). 1991 Jan-Feb;(1):29-34.

[The conservative treatment of kidney cancer in middle-aged and elderly 
patients].

[Article in Russian]

Igel'nik AM, Grishin MA, Mazanov GP, Shchurandina NV.

Late results of conservative management were investigated in 102 patients with 
renal carcinoma. Their ages were 60 to 90. A symptomatologic therapy alone was 
used in the management of 60 patients, 38 were treated with hydroxyprogesterone 
capronate and 4 with nolvadex. All the patients suffered from concomitant 
diseases. The refusals of operative treatment were because of such causes as: 1) 
extension of the tumor process in 29; 2) severe intercurrent diseases in 41; 3) 
cancer of a single, single-functioning kidney or the both kidneys in 7; 4) the 
patients' refusals in 25 patients. After the described treatment 71.6% of them 
lived 1 year, 36.8%-3, and 26.2%-5 years, that was quite comparable with the 
postoperative results. Prognostically beneficial treatment criteria were: a 
patient's age of 70 or more years, the stage T1-2N0M0V0, asymptomatic course of 
the disease, absence of anemia, accelerated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) 
more than 40 mm/h; the tumor size less than 10 cm. The most unfavourable 
prognostic criteria were: T4 stage of the disease, decrease of a hemoglobin 
level lees than 80 g/l, tumor size more than 10 cm. No one of the 41 patients 
who had had at least of these signs survived over 3 years. The use of 
hydroxyprogesterone capronate had no advantages over the symptomatic therapy and 
did not prolong a patient's life. A 5-year survival of patients managed on 
hormonal therapy was 22%, on the symptomatic one, 27.1%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

PMID: 1858201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1991;621:1-28. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1991.tb16965.x.

Human longevity and aging: possible role of reactive oxygen species.

Cutler RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Gerontology Research Center, National Institute on Aging, Baltimore, Maryland 
21224.

A brief overview has been given of the biological nature of human aging 
processes, where it has been emphasized that, in addition to the diseases of 
aging, there is also great economic loss as a result of human aging processes 
that began many years before medical costs related to aging begin to escalate. 
Because of the ubiquitous nature of aging, reducing the function of essentially 
all physiological processes, it appears that the only long-term solution to 
human aging problems is to decrease uniformly the aging rate of the entire body. 
Although the uniform decrease of aging rate has usually been considered 
impossible, where emphasis has consequently been placed on diseases of aging by 
the medically-orientated investigator, there is now at least one theoretical 
argument, accompanied by some experimental data, that suggests that progress can 
be made in achieving this goal. This progress has been based on the longevity 
determinant gene hypothesis predicting the existence of a relatively few key 
regulatory factors governing aging rate of the entire organism. If this 
hypothesis is not true, then indeed the prospect for significant intervention 
into human aging would appear impossible in the near future. Experiments have 
been briefly reviewed testing the longevity determinant gene hypothesis, the 
possibility that aging may be a result of dysdifferentiation and if aging rate 
is determined by mechanisms acting to stabilize the differentiated state of 
cells. In testing the dysdifferentiation hypothesis of aging, there is not yet 
much data one way or the other. It is evident, however, that changes in gene 
expression do occur with age, sometimes involving endogenous retroviruses or 
oncogenes. Other morphological evidence shows an increase with age in unusual 
cell type such as metaplasia cells. However, there is considerably more evidence 
indicating that aging may be a result of genetic instability (as it is in 
cancer) and that longer-lived species appear to have a more stable genetic 
apparatus and superior protective mechanisms against reactive oxygen species. 
There is a striking similarity in this model of aging and models of cancer, and 
much might be gained in bringing together these two fields of research. Taking 
all of these data together, as summarized in Table 14, it appears we may be on 
the right track and that mechanisms acting to protect DNA against oxidative 
damage may be one class of longevity determinant mechanisms. There is of course 
much work remaining to be done, some of which is listed in Table 15 in terms of 
our knowledge and our gaps of knowledge in this field.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1991.tb16965.x
PMID: 1859082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1991;621:291-313. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1991.tb16987.x.

The pineal control of aging. The effects of melatonin and pineal grafting on the 
survival of older mice.

Pierpaoli W(1), Dall'Ara A, Pedrinis E, Regelson W.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Biomedical Research, Quartino-Magadino, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1991.tb16987.x
PMID: 1859093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Anthropol Anz. 1991 Mar;49(1-2):65-83.

[Results of computer-assisted studies of population structure and burial 
practices of adults of the late Roman burial ground in the Minshat Abu Omar 
(east Nile delta)].

[Article in German]

Parsche F(1), Zimmermann P.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Anthropologie und Humangenetik, Universität München.

The results of 1448 skeletons met the requirements (database) for the completed 
examinations. Statistical correlations between situation of the skeletons in 
view of compass directions, position of the skeletons, grave type and 
mumification traces were calculated. More than 90% of the analyzed individuals 
were buried in west-east direction (head-feet). In 69% of all cases the 
skeletons were buried with their hands on or next to the pelvis. 98% of all 
mummies examined were found in the position hand/hands on shoulder. Special 
grave architecture was given in 15.8% of the examined individuals. The average 
life-expectancy for the group between 20 to 29 amounted to 14.65 years. The 
cluster-analysis showed clear differentiation of the male group in 3 to 4 
subpopulations. For the female group a mathematical probability for 3 
subpopulations was given. Connecting the data of cluster and burial types a 
significant distinction between the four male clusters - according to the 
distribution of the skeleton positions - could be seen. Within the female group 
a clear correlation between clusters and common characteristics could be found 
in 7 subgroups. Differentiated distribution was revealed in the different 
alignments of the skeletons.

PMID: 1859199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Arch Neurol. 1991 Jul;48(7):733-9. doi: 10.1001/archneur.1991.00530190081019.

Epidemiology of myasthenia gravis in Denmark. A longitudinal and comprehensive 
population survey.

Somnier FE(1), Keiding N, Paulson OB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, State University Hospital (Rigshospitalet), 
Copenhagen, Denmark.

The incidence of myasthenia gravis (MG) was found to be constant in calendar 
time. The mean annual incidence rate was 4.4 per million population. Age- and 
sex-specific incidence rates disclosed a bimodal appearance for both sexes, with 
a peak age at onset located in the early-onset group and another peak for late 
onset of MG. Early onset of MG appeared 10 years later for male individuals than 
for female individuals, whereas the peak for late onset of MG was located at the 
same age for both sexes. It is suggested that the separation between early onset 
and late onset of MG should be at the age of 50 years for both sexes, rather 
than at 35 to 40 years as accepted in most studies. The prevalence of MG has 
increased in time. On January 1, 1988, the point prevalence rate was 77 per 
million population (female subjects, 96, and male subjects, 57). This reflects 
an improvement in prognosis despite the fact that life expectancy was found to 
be significantly lower for MG patients than that of the sex- and age-matched 
population. The factors causing increased mortality were found to be operative 
throughout the duration of the disease. Maximum severity of disease was reached 
within 2 years from onset in 78% of the cases, and more than 50% of all 
MG-related deaths occurred during the same period. In the course of MG, 70% of 
all patients experience generalized muscular weakness, and 30% to 40% also 
suffer from respiratory problems.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1991.00530190081019
PMID: 1859301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. J Vasc Surg. 1991 Aug;14(2):152-9. doi: 10.1067/mva.1991.29238.

Thermal laser-assisted balloon angioplasty of the superficial femoral artery: a 
multicenter review of 602 cases.

Rosenthal D(1), Pesa FA, Gottsegen WL, Crew JR, Moss CA, Walsky R, Pallos LL.

Author information:
(1)Georgia Baptist Medical Center, Atlanta.

A multicenter review of 602 procedures was performed to evaluate the effects of 
thermal laser-assisted balloon angioplasty on the superficial femoral artery. 
Four hundred thirty-nine (73%) patients underwent laser-assisted balloon 
angioplasty for claudication, and 163 (27%) underwent the procedure for limb 
salvage. Two hundred ninety-two laser-assisted balloon angioplasty procedures 
were performed for multifocal stenotic disease (greater than 80%) diameter 
reduction), 258 for total occlusion, and 52 procedures for both superficial 
femoral artery stenosis and occlusion. The initial recanalization rate was 89% 
(538/602) depending on the length of the lesion. Success of laser-assisted 
balloon angioplasty was verified by angioscopy or arteriography, and all 
patients underwent segmental Doppler studies before discharge and during midterm 
follow-up extending to 30 months (mean, 11.3 months). Complications occurred in 
62 (10%) patients, but only one limb amputation occurred because of a 
complication related to a laser-assisted balloon angioplasty. Overall, 60% of 
initially successful procedures have remained patent, but long segment (greater 
than 7 cm) occlusions have fared poorly (25% patency at 30 months). This 
minimally invasive technology affords the opportunity to treat short segment 
(less than 7 cm) symptomatic superficial femoral artery occlusive disease with 
minimal risk. Initial success and midterm patency rates for appropriate lesions 
appear to make laser-assisted balloon angioplasty a viable adjunct in the 
treatment of superficial femoral artery occlusive disease.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1991.29238
PMID: 1861325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Mayo Clin Proc. 1991 Aug;66(8):814-6. doi: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)61199-9.

The influence of politics in the medical community.

McHenry DF(1).

Author information:
(1)Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, Washington, 
DC.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)61199-9
PMID: 1861553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Tijdschr Kindergeneeskd. 1991 Jun;59(3):81-5.

[Attacks of apnea in an infant with achondroplasia].

[Article in Dutch]

Helbing WA(1), van der Blij JF, ten Houten R, Broere G, Oorthuys JW.

Author information:
(1)afd. Kindergeneeskunde, Medisch Centrum Alkmaar.

Infants and children with achondroplasia are at increased risk of sudden death 
because of apneic attacks caused by compression of the medulla oblongata or 
spinal cord by a constricted foramen magnum or narrow upper cervical spinal 
canal. This history of an infant with achondroplasia is discussed. As a result 
of apneic attacks she developed severe brain damage. Cervicomedullary 
compression was revealed at CT-scan and NMRI of the basicranium and upper 
cervical canal, and confirmed at decompressive surgery. Early symptoms can be 
clues to the existence of cervicomedullary compression. These clues are 
indication for further investigations. Decompressive surgery has good results 
when performed at an early stage. Knowledge of the signs and symptoms of 
cervicomedullary compression and of factors which increase the risk of 
complications are important in the management of achondroplastic patients.

PMID: 1862512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Ann Intern Med. 1991 Sep 1;115(5):343-9. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-115-5-343.

Survival in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension. Results from a 
national prospective registry.

D'Alonzo GE(1), Barst RJ, Ayres SM, Bergofsky EH, Brundage BH, Detre KM, Fishman 
AP, Goldring RM, Groves BM, Kernis JT, et al.

Author information:
(1)Division of Lung Diseases, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, 
Bethesda, MD 20892.

OBJECTIVE: To characterize mortality in persons diagnosed with primary pulmonary 
hypertension and to investigate factors associated with survival.
DESIGN: Registry with prospective follow-up.
SETTING: Thirty-two clinical centers in the United States participating in the 
Patient Registry for the Characterization of Primary Pulmonary Hypertension 
supported by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
PATIENTS: Patients (194) diagnosed at clinical centers between 1 July 1981 and 
31 December 1985 and followed through 8 August 1988.
MEASUREMENTS: At diagnosis, measurements of hemodynamic variables, pulmonary 
function, and gas exchange variables were taken in addition to information on 
demographic variables, medical history, and life-style. Patients were followed 
for survival at 6-month intervals.
MAIN RESULTS: The estimated median survival of these patients was 2.8 years (95% 
Cl, 1.9 to 3.7 years). Estimated single-year survival rates were as follows: at 
1 year, 68% (Cl, 61% to 75%); at 3 years, 48% (Cl, 41% to 55%); and at 5 years, 
34% (Cl, 24% to 44%). Variables associated with poor survival included a New 
York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class of III or IV, presence of Raynaud 
phenomenon, elevated mean right atrial pressure, elevated mean pulmonary artery 
pressure, decreased cardiac index, and decreased diffusing capacity for carbon 
monoxide (DLCO). Drug therapy at entry or discharge was not associated with 
survival duration.
CONCLUSIONS: Mortality was most closely associated with right ventricular 
hemodynamic function and can be characterized by means of an equation using 
three variables: mean pulmonary artery pressure, mean right atrial pressure, and 
cardiac index. Such an equation, once validated prospectively, could be used as 
an adjunct in planning treatment strategies and allocating medical resources.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-115-5-343
PMID: 1863023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Curr Eye Res. 1991;10 Suppl:111-5. doi: 10.3109/02713689109020366.

A community study of ocular herpes simplex.

Liesegang TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, FL 32224.

A recent epidemiologic study of ocular herpes simplex in 151 patients over a 33 
year old period in Rochester, Minnesota has challenged some of the clinical and 
epidemiologic tenets about the disease. The incidence rate for new and recurrent 
cases and the prevalence rate was calculated and projected to the white U.S. 
population. The recurrence rate assessed by life table methods were determined 
for up to 20 years after the first episode and these rates rose following 
repeated episodes. Previous studies in the same community allow comparison of 
the incidence rates with other herpetic diseases. This community based study 
more accurately defines many of the features of the disease such as the 
prevalence among the sexes, the increasing age at presentation, the frequency of 
bilateral disease, the relationship of the initial disease to the future 
recurrence patterns, the frequency of lid, epithelial, stromal, and uveitis in 
an unselected community population, and the final visual outcome. This data 
estimates more accurately the morbidity and social impact of the condition.

DOI: 10.3109/02713689109020366
PMID: 1864087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. J Intern Med. 1991 Aug;230(2):119-23. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2796.1991.tb00418.x.

Excess mortality in giant cell arteritis.

Bisgård C(1), Sloth H, Keiding N, Juel K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Central Hospital of Holstebro, Denmark.

A 13-year departmental sample of 34 patients with definite (biopsy-verified) 
giant cell arteritis (GCA) was reviewed. The mortality of this material was 
compared to sex-, age- and time-specific death rates in the Danish population. 
The standardized mortality ratio (SMR) was 1.8 (95% confidence limits, 1.1-2.8). 
During the same period 146 patients with probable (not biopsied, but clinically 
diagnosed in the department) GCA and 85 cases of possible (diagnosed and treated 
before admission) GCA had been admitted to the department. Those two groups did 
not differ from the biopsy-verified group with respect to SMR, sex distribution 
or age. In the group of patients with department-diagnosed GCA (definite + 
probable = 180 patients), the 95% confidence interval for the SMR of the women 
included 1.0. In all other subgroups there was a significant excess mortality. 
Excess mortality has been found in two of seven previous studies on survival in 
GCA. The prevailing opinion that steroid-treated GCA does not affect the life 
expectancy of patients is probably not correct.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.1991.tb00418.x
PMID: 1865162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Jpn J Med. 1991 Jan-Feb;30(1):1-4. doi: 10.2169/internalmedicine1962.30.1.

Correlation between clinical features and deletions of the gene for dystrophin 
in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Kanazawa H(1), Takashima H, Fujishita S, Shibuya N, Tamura T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, National Kawatana Hospital, Nagasaki, Japan.

The clinical course and prognosis of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) was 
compared in patients with deletions of the gene for dystrophin (cDMD) and those 
without such deletions. A total of 24 patients was followed for at least 2 yrs. 
At age 12 the rating of the activities of daily life (ADL) and disease stage 
were less favorable in those patients with deletions of the gene for cDMD. At 
age 14, no difference in ADL and disease stage was observed between the two 
groups. The percent vital capacity was lower in those patients with the cDMD 
deficit. When the prognosis was evaluated by multivariate analysis of the data 
obtained at age 12, the percent of patients predicted as dying before the age of 
20 was 40% for those without the cDMD deficit but 76% for those who were cDMD 
defective. None of the cDMD defective patients lived longer than 20 yrs, whereas 
5 of 14 patients without the cDND deficit survived longer than 20 yrs. Disorders 
such as cardiac and respiratory failure were also seen more frequently in the 
cDND defective patients. These results suggest that patients with Duchenne 
muscular dystrophy with defective cDMD have more severe disease than those 
without cDMD deficit.

DOI: 10.2169/internalmedicine1962.30.1
PMID: 1865568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Nervenarzt. 1991 May;62(5):313-7.

[Time perspective in the treatment of elderly depressed patients].

[Article in German]

Fuchs T(1), Kurz A, Lauter H.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatrische Klinik und Poliklinik rechts der Isar, Technische Universität 
München.

Coping with depressive illness in old age is impeded by particular strains: an 
increasing incidence of loss events, physical constraints, lack of social 
support and narrowing prospects for the future may lead to relapse as well as 
retarded recovery or chronification. Treatment directed toward long-term 
rehabilitation therefore requires, in addition to medical measures, 
psychotherapeutic and social interventions which help the patient cope with past 
loss, solve current problems and open up new perspectives for the future. This 
integration would overcome a dichotomy, still prevalent in psychotherapy for the 
elderly, between retrospection and life review on the one hand, activation and 
extension of competence on the other--or "involution" versus "evolution". A 
therapeutic approach which thus integrates personal aspects of the past, present 
and future may also combine various methods such as reminiscence therapy, 
interpersonal therapy, behavioral and social interventions.

PMID: 1865963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Neurology. 1991 Aug;41(8):1240-3. doi: 10.1212/wnl.41.8.1240.

Are demented patients with Parkinson's disease accurately reflected in 
prevalence surveys? A survival analysis.

Marder K(1), Leung D, Tang M, Bell K, Dooneief G, Cote L, Stern Y, Mayeux R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, New York, NY.

We re-reviewed 257 patient records previously reviewed for an incidence study of 
dementia in Parkinson's disease (PD) to determine the frequency, date of death, 
and cause of death. We posited that if disease duration is shortened when 
dementia occurs, then dementia may be far more common than reflected in 
prevalence studies. There were 17 deaths among 65 demented patients and 28 
deaths among 168 nondemented patients. When we matched a subset of the 
nondemented patients to the demented patients by age and disease duration 
distributions, the demented subjects had significantly more deaths (p less than 
0.02), and survival among demented subjects was decreased (p less than 0.05). 
Dementia was a significant predictor of death in this sample. We conclude that 
dementia reduces survival in patients with PD. Incidence is a much better 
measure of dementia in PD than prevalence because shortened duration makes it 
less likely to detect dementia in prevalence surveys.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.41.8.1240
PMID: 1866013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Am J Ind Med. 1991;20(1):57-70. doi: 10.1002/ajim.4700200106.

Silicosis and lung cancer in North Carolina dusty trades workers.

Amandus HE(1), Shy C, Wing S, Blair A, Heineman EF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Respiratory Disease Studies, National Institute for Occupational 
Safety and Health, Morgantown, WV 26505-2888.

Since 1940, 760 cases of silicosis have been diagnosed as part of the State of 
North Carolina's (NC) pneumoconiosis surveillance program for dusty trades 
workers. Vital status was ascertained through 1983 for 714 cases that had been 
diagnosed since 1940 and death certificates were obtained for 546 of the 550 
deceased. Mortality from tuberculosis, cancer of the intestine and lung, 
pneumonia, bronchitis, emphysema, asthma, pneumoconiosis, and kidney disease was 
significantly increased in whites. Mortality from tuberculosis, ischemic heart 
disease, and pneumoconiosis was significantly increased in non-whites. The 
standardized mortality ratio (95% CI) for lung cancer based on U.S. rates was 
2.6 (1.8-3.6) in whites, 2.3 (1.5-3.4) in those who had no exposure to other 
known occupational carcinogens, and 2.4 (1.5-3.6) in those who had no other 
exposure and who had been diagnosed for silicosis while employed in the NC dusty 
trades. Age-adjusted lung cancer rates in silicotics who had no exposure to 
other known occupational carcinogens were 1.5 (.8-2.9) times higher than that in 
a referent group of coal miners with coalworkers' pneumoconiosis (CWP) and 2.4 
(1.5-3.9) times higher than that in a referent group of non-silicotic metal 
miners. Age- and smoking-adjusted rates in silicotics were 3.9 (2.4-6.4) times 
higher than that in metal miners. This analysis effectively controls for 
confounding by age, cigarette smoking, and exposure to other known occupational 
carcinogens, and it is unlikely that other correlates of silica exposure could 
explain the excess lung cancer mortality in the silicotics.

DOI: 10.1002/ajim.4700200106
PMID: 1867218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Arch Esp Urol. 1991 Apr;44(3):243-9.

[Morphometric study of transitional carcinoma of the bladder (I): analysis of 
148 superficial tumors].

[Article in Spanish]

Portillo Martín JA(1), Val Bernal F, Garijo Ayenza F, Buelta Carrillo L, Martín 
García B, Hernández Rodríguez R, Gutiérrez Baños JL, Correas Goméz MA, Fernández 
Gómez JM, Concepción Masip T.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología, Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla, Santander, España.

A morphometric study of the tumor cell nucleus was performed in 148 cases of 
superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. Of these, 131 were 
papillary and 17 were nonpapillary tumors. Our methodology is compared with 
those described elsewhere. With regard to papillary tumors, the nuclear size of 
the internal papilla near the stroma was found to be greater than that of the 
external papilla near the bladder lumen. Tumor cells with internal papillary 
nuclear size less than or equal to 28 microns 2 appeared to have a better 
prognosis. Thus, nuclear measurements in this area must be performed in future 
studies. No conclusive data could be obtained relative to the nonpapillary 
tumors. For both papillary and nonpapillary tumors, the higher the histologic 
grade, the greater the nuclear size, the differences being statistically 
significant.

PMID: 1867504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Arch Esp Urol. 1991 Apr;44(3):251-6.

[Morphometric study of transitional carcinoma of the bladder (II): analysis of 
95 infiltrating tumors].

[Article in Spanish]

Portillo Martín JA(1), Val Bernal F, Garijo Ayenza F, Buelta Carrillo L, Martín 
García B, Hernández Rodríguez R, Gutiérrez Baños JL, Correas Gómez MA, 
Concepción Masip T, Fernández Gómez JM.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología, Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla, Santander, España.

The nuclear size of 95 infiltrating carcinomas of the bladder were studied 
morphometrically. There were 34 of the infiltrating papillary type and 61 pure 
infiltrating tumors. The nuclear size was found to be greater deeper into the 
tumor. Similarly, the higher the histologic grade, the larger the nuclear size. 
Grade IV tumors, however, were not greater than grade III. The foregoing finding 
prompted us to classify grade IV tumors as undifferentiated rather than as 
transitional cell tumors. A better prognosis was observed for stage T2 and T3A 
tumors with a nuclear size less than or equal to 30 microns 2.

PMID: 1867505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Arch Otorhinolaryngol Suppl. 1991;1:19-21.

[Laryngeal dissection with chordectomy and vertical laryngeal resection].

[Article in German]

Neel HB 3rd(1).

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905.

PMID: 1867567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Can J Psychiatry. 1991 May;36(4):239-45. doi: 10.1177/070674379103600401.

Mortality in a cohort of patients with schizophrenia: a record linkage study.

Newman SC(1), Bland RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Alberta, Edmonton.

A retrospective study of mortality was conducted in which 3,623 patients with 
schizophrenia receiving treatment in Alberta between 1976 and 1985 were followed 
to the end of 1985. Vital status was determined by record linkage to the 
Statistics Canada Mortality Data Base. There were 301 deaths in the cohort, 97 
of which were due to suicide. For all causes of death combined, the risk of 
mortality was approximately double that of the Alberta population; for suicide, 
risk was increased by a factor of 20. Mortality from circulatory, respiratory, 
digestive and genitourinary diseases was also greater than expected. It is 
estimated that those who suffer from schizophrenia have a life expectancy which 
is approximately 20% shorter than that of the general population. This study 
confirms earlier research demonstrating an increased risk of mortality 
associated with schizophrenia and extends those findings to specific causes of 
death.

DOI: 10.1177/070674379103600401
PMID: 1868416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Gig Tr Prof Zabol. 1991;(5):1-4.

[Industrialization of the modern world and its impact on health].

[Article in Russian]

Izmerov NF.

PMID: 1869073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Gynecol Oncol. 1991 Jun;41(3):255-8. doi: 10.1016/0090-8258(91)90319-z.

Rapidly progressive squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix coexisting with human 
immunodeficiency virus infection: clinical opinion.

Schwartz LB(1), Carcangiu ML, Bradham L, Schwartz PE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Yale-New Haven Hospital, Connecticut 
06510.

The acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) has been characterized by 
aggressive malignancies and infections with unusual presentations. There is a 
well-documented association between cervical dysplasia and the development of 
cervical carcinoma, and more recent evidence of an association between cervical 
dysplasia and HIV infection. The course of coexistent HIV infection and cervical 
cancer has not been well described. We report a patient with HIV infection and a 
stage IIIB squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix who, despite adequate 
treatment, had rapid disease progression as well as metastasis to an unusual 
iliopsoas muscle site in association with an abscess. As HIV becomes more 
prevalent in the female population, an increased frequency of rapidly 
progressive cervical carcinoma may be forthcoming. Improved life expectancy of 
HIV-infected patients due to modern medication is anticipated, causing a 
cervical neoplasm to have a more prominent effect on prognosis. Close 
surveillance with frequent Pap smears and colposcopies as well as aggressive 
management of cervical dysplasia and carcinoma in HIV-infected patients is 
suggested as is thorough patient counseling.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-8258(91)90319-z
PMID: 1869105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Int J Cardiol. 1991 May;31(2):205-11. doi: 10.1016/0167-5273(91)90217-d.

Prognostic significance of right ventricular ejection fraction following 
inferior myocardial infarction.

Marwick TH(1), Birbara TM, Allman KC, Morris JG, Kelly DT, Harris PJ.

Author information:
(1)Hallstrom Institute of Cardiology, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.

The prognostic significance of right ventricular ejection fraction, measured by 
radionuclide ventriculography, was assessed in 168 consecutive patients with 
inferior myocardial infarction. Right ventricular ejection fraction was 0.40 or 
less in 35 patients. Over a follow-up period of 40 months, there were 15 deaths 
in the total group of 168 patients, eight (23%) in the 35 with right ventricular 
ejection fraction of 0.40 or less, and seven (5%) in the remainder of the group. 
The one year survival of patients with right ventricular impairment (84 +/- 6%) 
was significantly worse (P less than 0.01) than those with a right ventricular 
ejection fraction over 0.40 (95 +/- 2%). A multivariate Cox model analysis 
showed age (P less than 0.001), left ventricular ejection fraction (P less than 
0.01), and right ventricular ejection fraction (P less than 0.03) to be 
independent predictors of survival. Impaired right ventricular function is an 
adverse prognostic factor in patients with inferior infarction, particularly in 
those with impaired left ventricular function.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-5273(91)90217-d
PMID: 1869330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol. 1991 May;21(3):211-5. doi: 
10.1016/0165-5876(91)90002-s.

Radial versus circumferential incision in myringotomy and tube placement.

Guttenplan MD(1), Tom LW, DeVito MA, Handler SD, Wetmore RF, Potsic WP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Otolaryngology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, PA 19104.

Pressure equalization tubes are a well-recognized treatment for persistent 
otitis media with effusion and recurrent acute otitis media. Ideally, the tube 
should remain in place until the Eustachian tube function returns. Efforts to 
improve the functional life expectancy of tubes have concentrated on tube design 
with little attention directed at modification of the surgical technique. Some 
authors have noted that a radial incision offers theoretical advantages over a 
circumferential incision. A randomized study comparing radial and 
circumferential incisions in myringotomy with tube placement was conducted. Two 
hundred and twenty-eight patients had a circumferential incision performed in 
one ear and a radial incision in the opposite ear. On follow-up examinations the 
tube position and time to extrusion were noted. Using the sign test, there was 
no statistical difference in extrusion rates between the two groups. This study 
does not support the theoretical advantages espoused in the literature.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-5876(91)90002-s
PMID: 1869374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Prof Nurse. 1991 Aug;6(11):671-6.

Motivation can prolong life expectancy. A health education programme to help 
people give up smoking.

Clarke J.

Smoking is an acknowledged risk factor for coronary heart disease, but can seem 
impossible to give up. A health education plan can provide the necessary 
structure and motivation to help people stop smoking.

PMID: 1871167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1991 Aug 2;80(31-32):791-5.

[Patient selection and efficacy of tumor after-care in surgically treated 
colorectal carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Schuppisser JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische Abteilung, St.-Clara-Spitals, Basel.

Scheduled follow-up after surgically treated colorectal cancer remains 
controversial because eventually only about 5% of patients profit from it. 
Careful selection should therefore spare those patients unnecessary 
investigations who are least likely to benefit from follow-up. Only patients 
should be considered whose tumor was completely resected and who were found free 
of distant metastases. These patients should be fully informed about their 
disease and accept scheduled investigation even if asymptomatic. A questionable 
operability with regard to a second surgical intervention forbids formal entry 
into a follow-up program as well as a decreased life expectancy due to other 
disease. The family physician is most qualified to carry out or coordinate these 
investigations. For the first two postoperative years intervals of three and for 
the further three years of six months are recommended. Physical examination and 
determination of CEA titers are the essential measures; colonoscopy, sonography, 
CT scans, chest X-ray, and for rectal cancer, endoluminal sonography are 
undertaken periodically. In such a selected cohort one can expect a resectable 
recurrence in 25% of patients, of which 20% can be cured.

PMID: 1871479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Ther Umsch. 1991 May;48(5):278-84.

[Medical problems in the care of the elderly].

[Article in German]

Schramm A(1).

Author information:
(1)Geriatrische Klinik, Klinikum Bayreuth.

The number of long-lived persons is increasing dramatically. They have a high 
need for medical help and make high demands on their doctors, especially because 
of their extreme physical, psychological and social multimorbidity. It is 
difficult but important to assess the vital energy and the life expectancy of 
these persons living near death. The spectrum of vitality ranges from admirably 
well-preserved persons without any need of help to bedridden sick people wasting 
away. In this paper, there are discussed specific findings and opportunities of 
intervention, in particular the problems of admission to hospital and 
life-lengthening measures.

PMID: 1871682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Adv Contracept. 1991 Mar;7(1):43-54. doi: 10.1007/BF01850718.

Prevention of IUD-related pelvic infection: the efficacy of prophylactic 
doxycycline at IUD insertion.

Ladipo OA(1), Farr G, Otolorin E, Konje JC, Sturgen K, Cox P, Champion CB.

Author information:
(1)University College Hospital, Ibadan, Nigeria.

It is believed that much of the small increased risk for developing pelvic 
inflammatory disease (PID) associated with the use of an intrauterine device 
(IUD) appears to be caused by bacterial contamination of the endometrial cavity 
at the time of insertion. Previous research suggests that use of prophylactic 
antibiotics immediately prior to IUD insertion may reduce the risk of developing 
PID. This paper presents results from a randomized clinical trial of 1485 women 
in Ibadan, Nigeria evaluating the effectiveness of 200 mg of doxycycline (versus 
placebo) given orally at the time of IUD insertion in reducing the incidence of 
PID during the first three months of IUD use. Rate of PID infection in the 
doxycycline-treated group was not significantly lower than that in the 
placebo-treated group. The rate of unscheduled IUD-related visits to the clinic 
also was not significantly lower among the doxycycline-treated group. However, 
the incidence of PID was low (21 cases) for both study groups. Aseptic 
conditions during IUD insertion, follow-up visits with short intervals to 
monitor health, and treatment of opportunistic infections may have reduced the 
potential of PID within this population.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01850718
PMID: 1872196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Cancer. 1991 Sep 15;68(6):1394-400. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19910915)68:6<1394::aid-cncr2820680636>3.0.co;2-8.

A population-based study on the incidence and survival rates of 3857 glioma 
patients diagnosed from 1953 to 1984.

Kallio M(1), Sankila R, Jääskeläinen J, Karjalainen S, Hakulinen T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Helsinki, Finland.

Intracranial glioma was diagnosed during the patient's life and histologically 
verified in 3857 patients between 1953 and 1984 in Finland. Their survival up to 
the end of 1987 was analyzed, the follow-up being complete. The treatment was by 
operation in 1193 cases, radiation in 459 cases, both operation and radiation in 
1486 cases, and neither operation nor radiation in 719 cases. The 1-year, 
5-year, 10-year, and 15-year cumulative relative survival rates were 0.53, 0.29, 
0.20, and 0.18, respectively. The newborn to 14-year-olds lost 56% of their life 
expectancy; the 15-year-olds to 44-year-olds, 71%; the 45-year-olds to 
64-year-olds, 88%; and the 65-year-olds to 99-year-olds, 91%. According to the 
model with the best fit in regression analysis the prognosis was significantly 
better among young, recently diagnosed patients who had undergone both operation 
and radiation.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19910915)68:6<1394::aid-cncr2820680636>3.0.co;2-8
PMID: 1873791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Chin Med J (Engl). 1991 Feb;104(2):142-8.

Angiographic prediction of cardiac events after first acute transmural 
myocardial infarction. A prospective study of 108 patients.

Shen WF(1), Cui LQ, Zhang JS, Wang MH, Gong LS, Lesbre JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Second Medical 
University.

108 patients with acute myocardial infarction (MI), aged 70 years or younger, 
underwent left ventriculography and coronary arteriography (mean one month) 
after infarction and were followed up for an average period of 22 months (range 
5-47 months). The contribution of angiographic variables to a first cardiac 
event (death, recurrent infarction, coronary artery bypass grafting or 
congestive heart failure) was evaluated with Kaplan-Meier survival curve 
analysis and long-rank test. Patients with cardiac events had left ventricular 
dilation, systolic dysfunction, multivessel coronary disease and lack of 
residual flow to the infarct region. Multivariate analysis showed that left 
ventricular end-systolic volume (P less than 0.001), end-diastolic volume (P 
less than 0.01) and the number of the diseased coronary vessels (P less than 
0.05) were of significance in predicting the outcome. This prospective study 
indicates that in survivors of first acute transmural MI, cardiac 
catheterization performed one month after infarction can provide additive 
prognostic information that can be used to stratify risk.

PMID: 1874013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. J Fla Med Assoc. 1991 Jun;78(6):361-4.

Left ventricular aneurysm and intraventricular thrombi. Investigation and 
surgical correlations.

Vijayanagar R, Eckstein PF, Salas R, DeSantis M, Weston M, Musunuru R, Willard 
E.

Formation of a left ventricular aneurysm and intraventricular thrombus 
represents one of the dreaded sequelae of coronary artery disease and acute 
myocardial infarction. The present emphasis is to reduce the incidence by 
reduction of cholesterol and fats, elimination of smoking, improved detection 
and control of hypertension and diabetes mellitus. Earlier diagnosis is 
available with stress testing and other noninvasive techniques. Cardiac 
catheterization allows detection of occlusive lesions. The CASS and other 
studies increasingly prove that percutaneous angioplasty and coronary artery 
bypass surgery improve life expectancy and implicitly should reduce the 
incidence of acute myocardial infarction. In the setting of the latter, 
thrombolytic agents may reduce the amount of myocardial injury. Despite these 
measures, formation of left ventricular aneurysms remains a common occurrence. 
Diagnosis and management are critical issues to the cardiac surgeon.

PMID: 1875180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Obstet Gynecol. 1991 Sep;78(3 Pt 1):464-7.

Abortion: is there a rational precept?

Reiter RC(1), Johnson SR, Beller FK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Iowa College of 
Medicine, Iowa City.

Comment in
    Obstet Gynecol. 1991 Dec;78(6):1148-9.

Recent Supreme Court rulings have augmented the potential role of the individual 
states in abortion regulation. As a result, largely political influences have 
escalated the abortion debate to the point that there is currently no 
identifiable center, and consensus seems impossible. The traditional concept of 
viability has proven an inadequate basis for extension of personal rights and 
protections to the fetus. Conservative interpretation of a proposed neurologic 
definition of human life would suggest that human life does not start until 
approximately 70 days post-conception. Standardization and widespread acceptance 
of a definition of "brain life" would potentially clarify many medical and legal 
questions regarding elective abortion and would parallel currently accepted 
medical and legal definitions of death.

PMID: 1876385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Panminerva Med. 1991 Jan-Mar;33(1):19-25.

Abdominal aortic aneurysms surgery in over 75 years old patients. Experience in 
142 cases treated between 1980-1989.

Giorgetti PL(1), Arpesani A, Bortolani EM, Rampoldi V, Rignano A, Ghilardi G, 
Lubatti L, Giordanengo F.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Chirurgia Generale e Cardiovascolare, Università di Milano, 
Italy.

The paper describes the Authors' experience of abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery 
in over 75-year-old patients. One hundred and forty-two cases were operated over 
a 10-year period (1980-89). Seventy-two patients were treated electively and 70 
underwent emergency surgery following rupture of the aneurysm. Operative 
mortality during elective surgery was comparable to that in younger patients, 
whereas the mortality rate during emergency surgery was notably higher than that 
in under 75-year-old patients. Follow-up confirmed that the life expectancy of 
operated patients is significantly better than that of patients with untreated 
abdominal aortic aneurysms.

PMID: 1876448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Psychol Med. 1991 May;21(2):363-70. doi: 10.1017/s0033291700020468.

Factors affecting survival in Alzheimer's disease.

Burns A(1), Lewis G, Jacoby R, Levy R.

Author information:
(1)Section of Old Age Psychiatry, Institute of Psychiatry, London.

Factors affecting survival of 178 patients diagnosed using NINCDS/ADRDA criteria 
for Alzheimer's disease were studied. All patients were drawn from the 
Camberwell Health Authority Area and so were a representative sample of subjects 
from a clinical old age psychiatry service. The mortality rate of the sample was 
3.5 times that expected after adjustment for age. Younger subjects had a higher 
standardized mortality ratio than older subjects. The cumulative three-year 
mortality of the sample was 47%. Factors shown to be associated with a reduced 
survival included: increasing age, longer duration of illness, male sex, 
presence of physical illness, poor cognitive function, observed depression and 
absence of misidentification syndromes. Apraxia was a stronger predictor of 
early death than aphasia or dysmnesia.

DOI: 10.1017/s0033291700020468
PMID: 1876641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Unfallchirurg. 1991 Jun;94(6):281-6.

[Respiratory disorders in trauma patients. Pulse oximetry as an extension of 
prehospital diagnostic and therapeutic possibilities].

[Article in German]

Helm M(1), Lampl L, Forstner K, Maier B, Tisch M, Bock KH.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Anästhesiologie und Intensivmedizin, Bundeswehrkrankenhaus 
Ulm/Donau.

The early diagnosis and adequate treatment of respiratory complications in 
trauma cases has a decisive influence upon the patients' posttraumatic 
development. Pulse oximetry enables us to evaluate and monitor the prehospital 
respiratory situation objectively for the first time. Within a prospective study 
conducted from October 1988 to October 1989 in 336 unselected, primarily 
traumatized, emergency patients rescued by our "SAR Ulm 75" helicopter team, to 
determine the possibilities and limitations of this method, we maintained 
continuous pulse oximetric monitoring in all cases. The practical applicability 
and functional stability of the pulse oximeters used were adequate. On-the-spot 
intubation was necessary in 45% of the patients (or they were intubated prior to 
our taking over). Oxygen inhalation by nasal cannula was needed in 55%. While 
not being decisive for immediate intubation, monitoring with a pulse oximeter 
does play an essential role in controlling respiratory therapy. In 32% of our 
cases, pulse oximetric monitoring permitted early adjustment of the respiratory 
therapy to meet the patients requirements. This method is of special value in 
disclosing life-threatening respiratory complications (9.3%) i.e., valve 
pneumothorax. Within a group with a high percentage of multiple traumas (27%) 
