and thorax traumas (39%), this was of enormous assistance in the differential 
diagnosis. Level and rate of increase of oxygen saturation can be an indication 
of the severity of a thorax trauma. The limitations of pulse oximetric 
monitoring, especially those resulting from low peripheral perfusion in trauma 
cases (7 patients), are fairly rare.

PMID: 1876849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Ann Vasc Surg. 1991 Jul;5(4):359-62. doi: 10.1007/BF02015297.

Late results of small untreated abdominal aortic aneurysms.

Treiman RL(1), Hartunian SL, Cossman DV, Foran RF, Cohen JL, Levin PM, Wagner 
WH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, California.

We report our experience with 73 patients who were initially selected for 
nonoperative management of an abdominal aortic aneurysm less than 5 cm in 
diameter. Size of the aneurysm was determined by ultrasound (34); arteriography 
(16); computerized tomography (17); plain x-ray (4); and magnetic resonance 
imaging (2). End points of the study were subsequent elective resection, 
rupture, death from cause other than rupture, or an intact aneurysm followed for 
a minimum of three years. Overall, 28 (38%) aneurysms were subsequently resected 
on an elective basis; four (5%) ruptured; 15 (21%) were intact at the time of 
the patient's death; and 26 (36%) remained intact during follow-up of 3 to 6.5 
years. Indications for elective resection were aneurysm enlargement (21); 
symptoms suggesting impending rupture (3); and improvement in medical condition 
(4). In the 43 aneurysms initially less than 4 cm diameter, 16 (37%) had 
elective resection and one (2%) ruptured, and in the 30 that were 4-4.9 cm, 12 
(40%) were resected and three (10%) ruptured. The four aneurysms that ruptured 
had enlarged to greater than 5 cm prior to rupture. We conclude that aneurysms 
less than 4 cm can be safely followed. Aneurysms 4-4.9 cm should be considered 
for operation, depending upon the size of the aneurysm, patient's life 
expectancy, and risk factors for surgery. Any aneurysm that enlarges should be 
resected, especially if the aneurysm becomes larger than 5 cm in diameter.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02015297
PMID: 1878293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1991;7 Suppl 2:32.

Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation in multiple myeloma using HLA-compatible 
sibling donors--an EBMT Registry Study.

Gahrton G(1), Tura S, Ljungman P, Belanger B, Brandt L, Cavo M, Chapuis B, De 
Laurenzi A, de Witte T, Facon T, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Huddinge Hospital, Sweden.

PMID: 1878706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1991;7 Suppl 2:34.

Methodology of evaluation in EORTC trials including BMT in acute myelogenous 
leukemia (AML) in first complete remission (CR). EORTC Leukemia Cooperative 
Group (LCG) and GIMEMA.

Suciu S(1), Solbu G, Zittoun R, Hayat M, Willemze R, de Witte T, Mandelli F.

Author information:
(1)EORTC Data Center, Brussels, Belgium.

PMID: 1878707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1991;7 Suppl 2:6-8.

Effects of treatment regimens in patients allografted for acute and chronic 
myelogenous leukemia.

Buckner CD(1), Clift RA, Appelbaum FR, Storb R, Petersen FB, Sanders JE, Thomas 
ED, Hansen JA.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA 98104.

PMID: 1878723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1991;7 Suppl 2:9-10.

How do allogeneic bone marrow transplants cure leukaemia? The role of graft 
versus host disease.

Powles R(1), Treleaven J, Millar J, Gordon-Smith EC, Tiley C, Findlay M, Teo C, 
Duncombe A, Robinson G.

Author information:
(1)Royal Marsden Hospital.

PMID: 1878737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1991;7 Suppl 2:91.

Single or double consolidation treatment according to remission status after 
initial therapy in metastatic neuroblastoma: first results of LMCE 3 study in 40 
patients.

Zucker JM(1), Philip T, Bernard JL, Michon J, Bouffet E, Gentet JC, Lopez M, 
Coze C, Philip I.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric oncology department, Institut Curie, Paris, France.

PMID: 1878739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Clin Otolaryngol Allied Sci. 1991 Jun;16(3):240-4. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2273.1991.tb00921.x.

Blood transfusion and laryngeal cancer.

Alun-Jones T(1), Clarke PJ, Morrissey S, Hill J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford, UK.

Evidence exists to suggest a detrimental effect of blood transfusion on survival 
after resection for malignant disease. Immune suppression due to transfusion has 
been implicated, though this remains unproven. We have conducted a retrospective 
study of 69 patients (38 transfused, 31 not transfused) with squamous carcinoma 
of the larynx to assess the effect of blood transfusion on survival after 
laryngectomy. Patients were compared for age, sex, smoking habit, tumour site 
and stage, grade of operating surgeon, preoperative haemoglobin, tumour 
nucleolar organizer region status, and operation time. The minimum follow-up was 
5 years. In the transfused group 21/38 died as a result of their malignant 
disease and only 4/31 in the untransfused group. This difference was highly 
significant (P less than 0.001, chi-squared test) and using a multivariate 
analysis the only variable associated with a decreased survival time was whether 
a blood transfusion had been received. We conclude that peri-operative blood 
transfusion is associated with decreased survival after laryngectomy. However, 
whether this association is causal remains unproven.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2273.1991.tb00921.x
PMID: 1879064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Health Phys. 1991 Sep;61(3):317-35. doi: 10.1097/00004032-199109000-00002.

Catalog of risks extended and updated.

Cohen BL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Pittsburgh, PA 15260.

A large variety of risks are quantified in terms of the loss of life expectancy 
they cause in the United States. Risks considered include the following: 
diseases; accidents of various types at home, at work, in public, and in motor 
vehicles; unemployment; poor social connections; use of small cars; smoking; air 
pollution; other environmental pollutants leading to cancer and non-cancer 
effects; purposely ingested substances; sports participation; geography; medical 
care; epidemics; natural hazards; socioeconomic factors; Rn and other radiation; 
and energy conservation. A few suggestions for applications of this catalog of 
risks are offered.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-199109000-00002
PMID: 1880022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. J Vasc Surg. 1991 Sep;14(3):292-8. doi: 10.1067/mva.1991.31017.

Value and limitations of secondary femoropopliteal bypasses with 
polytetrafluoroethylene.

Yang PM(1), Wengerter KR, Veith FJ, Panetta TF, Nwosisi C, Gupta SK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Montefiore Medical Center/Albert Einstein 
College of Medicine, New York, NY 10467.

Secondary femoropopliteal bypasses with polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) grafts 
are widely regarded to be of questionable value. This has prompted some to 
abandon all attempts at secondary revascularization with PTFE and others to 
recommend that primary femoropopliteal bypasses be performed preferentially with 
PTFE grafts so that vein may be used for secondary procedures. Because we 
questioned both of these views, we reviewed all femoropopliteal bypasses done at 
our institution in the past 12 years and identified 73 secondary PTFE 
femoropopliteal procedures performed after a failed ipsilateral infrainguinal 
bypass (69 failed femoropopliteal; 4 failed femorodistal). Seventy (96%) 
secondary bypasses were performed for limb salvage and 3 (4%) for severe 
disabling claudication. Insertion of grafts to the popliteal artery was above 
the knee in 26 (36%) and below the knee in 47 (64%). Primary life-table graft 
patency at 4 years was only 38%. Forty-eight reinterventions in 34 limbs were 
required to restore or maintain graft patency in thrombosed or failing grafts. 
For thrombosed grafts, 20 interventions consisted of 9 simple thrombectomies and 
11 thrombectomies with additional revision procedures (5 distal or proximal 
extensions, 6 patch angioplasties). Twenty-eight lesions threatening graft 
patency were treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in 3, proximal or 
distal extensions in 20, and patch angioplasty in 5. As a result of these 
reinterventions, the overall secondary patency rate was 55% at 4 years, and the 
limb salvage rate was 74% at 4 years. Although aggressive follow-up and 
reintervention may be required, the use of secondary PTFE conduits in the 
femoropopliteal position is a viable option in patients undergoing limb salvage 
procedures who are at high risk.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1991.31017
PMID: 1880836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. J Vasc Surg. 1991 Sep;14(3):386-90.

Late results of two hundred seventeen femoropopliteal bypasses to isolated 
popliteal artery segments.

Kram HB(1), Gupta SK, Veith FJ, Wengerter KR, Panetta TF, Nwosisi C.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Montefiore Medical Center/Albert Einstein 
College of Medicine, New York, N.Y. 10467.

A 10-year-experience of 217 femoropopliteal bypasses to isolated popliteal 
artery segments in 207 patients is reported. Thirty-three femoropopliteal 
bypasses (15%) were performed with reversed saphenous vein and 184 (85%) with 
polytetrafluoroethylene grafts. Operative indications were gangrene in 121 
(56%), nonhealing ulceration in 40 (18%), ischemic rest pain in 51 (24%), and 
claudication in 5 (2%) cases. The 5-year primary graft patency rate of these 
bypasses was 59% (reversed saphenous vein, 74%; polytetrafluoroethylene, 55%; p 
less than 0.05), the secondary 5-year graft patency rate was 61% (reversed 
saphenous vein, 79%; polytetrafluoroethylene, 56%; p less than 0.05), and the 
5-year limb salvage rate was 78% (reversed saphenous vein, 78%; 
polytetrafluoroethylene, 78%). The 30-day operative mortality rate was 10%, and 
the 5-year patient survival rate was 38%. Eleven patients (5%) required lower 
extremity amputation because of progressive gangrene or extensive infection 
despite a patent bypass to an isolated popliteal artery segment. We conclude 
that femoropopliteal bypasses to isolated popliteal artery segments (1) have 
acceptable 5-year graft patency and limb salvage rates; (2) should be performed 
with reversed saphenous vein grafts when possible; (3) may be performed with 
polytetrafluoroethylene grafts if necessary, with a resulting limb salvage rate 
equal to that of reversed saphenous vein grafts; and (4) require sequential 
extension to an infrapopliteal artery in up to 20% of patients. In addition, the 
presence of an isolated popliteal artery segment is associated with a high 
operative mortality rate and limited life expectancy because of coronary artery 
disease.

PMID: 1880847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1991 Sep;102(3):348-53; discussion 353-4.

The influence of preoperative shock on outcome in sequential endocardial 
resection for ventricular tachycardia.

Hobson CE(1), DiMarco JP, Haines DE, Flanagan TL, Kron IL.

Author information:
(1)University of Virginia Health Sciences Center, Charlottesville 22908.

Sequential endocardial resection was used in 92 consecutive patients to treat 
ventricular tachycardia. All patients had coronary artery disease with previous 
myocardial infarction. All patients had repeated cycles of mapping and resection 
of arrhythmogenic foci in the normothermic beating heart until ventricular 
tachycardia was no longer inducible. Eighty-six patients (93%) survived to 
hospital discharge. The survival rate in patients normotensive at the time of 
operation was 98% and in patients in shock at the time of operation, 43%. By Cox 
regression analysis, preoperative shock was the significant predictor (p less 
than 0.001) of operative mortality. Seventy-four of the 86 operative survivors 
(86%) had no sustained ventricular tachycardia at initial postoperative 
electrophysiologic study when receiving no antiarrhythmic drugs. Eighty-three of 
the 86 operative survivors (97%) had no sustained ventricular tachycardia at 
final postoperative electrophysiologic study when using antiarrhythmic drugs as 
needed. After a median follow-up of 21 months (range 1 to 79 months) there were 
4 sudden cardiac deaths, 12 other cardiac deaths, and 3 noncardiac deaths. There 
were no documented nonfatal episodes of sustained monomorphic ventricular 
tachycardia after hospital discharge. Use of the sequential endocardial 
resection technique is effective in curing ventricular tachycardia with low 
operative morbidity and mortality.

PMID: 1881175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1991;6(4):269-74. doi: 10.1093/ndt/6.4.269.

Five years experience with the Quinton Permcath for vascular access.

Gibson SP(1), Mosquera D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, East Birmingham Hospital, UK.

Over a five-year period 64 Quinton Permcaths were inserted into 51 dialysis 
patients (age range 17-72 years, mean 52.1 SD 12.83). The duration of catheter 
use ranged from 5 to 1479 days, mean 315.7 SD 337. The actuarial catheter 
survival rate at 1 year was 74%, at 2 years 43%, at 3 years 25% and at 4 years 
12%. The indications for use were: exhausted peripheral access; CAPD 
contraindicated; abrupt failure or lack of an arteriovenous fistula; acute renal 
failure; limited life expectancy; patient insistence; conventional access 
contraindicated. Only minor complications occurred during insertion: haemorrhage 
requiring exploration in three patients and a temporary left recurrent laryngeal 
nerve palsy in one patient. The exit site infection and septicaemia rates were 
4.95 and 3.36 per 1000 catheter days respectively. Eighteen catheters failed due 
to infection (range of use 72-1479 days, mean 559 SD 388). Inadequate initial 
blood flow (less than 150 ml/min) occurred in 10% of dialyses but only six 
catheters failed due to intractable flow difficulties (range of use 5-49 days, 
mean 22 SD 17.5). Catheter sepsis was implicated in the death of two patients. 
One subclavan/innominate vein thrombosis occurred. The Quinton Permcath 
represents a significant advance providing immediate, durable, and relatively 
safe access in a variety of difficult circumstances.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/6.4.269
PMID: 1881581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Am J Med. 1991 Aug 8;91(2A):84S-90S. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(91)90456-8.

Maintenance therapy with sucralfate in duodenal ulcer: genuine prevention or 
accelerated healing of ulcer recurrence?

Bynum TE(1), Koch GG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

We sought to compare the efficacy of sucralfate to placebo for the prevention of 
duodenal ulcer recurrence and to determine that the efficacy of sucralfate was 
due to a true reduction in ulcer prevalence and not due to secondary effects 
such as analgesic activity or accelerated healing. This was a double-blind, 
randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel groups, multicenter clinical study with 
254 patients. All patients had a past history of at least two duodenal ulcers 
with at least one ulcer diagnosed by endoscopic examination 3 months or less 
before the start of the study. Complete ulcer healing without erosions was 
required to enter the study. Sucralfate or placebo were dosed as a 1-g tablet 
twice a day for 4 months, or until ulcer recurrence. Endoscopic examinations 
once a month and when symptoms developed determined the presence or absence of 
duodenal ulcers. If a patient developed an ulcer between monthly scheduled 
visits, the patient was dosed with a 1-g sucralfate tablet twice a day until the 
next scheduled visit. Statistical analyses of the results determined the 
efficacy of sucralfate compared with placebo for preventing duodenal ulcer 
recurrence. Comparisons of therapeutic agents for preventing duodenal ulcers 
have usually been made by testing for statistical differences in the cumulative 
rates for all ulcers developed during a follow-up period, regardless of the time 
of detection. Statistical experts at the United States Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) and on the FDA Advisory Panel expressed doubts about 
clinical study results based on this type of analysis. They suggested three 
possible mechanisms for reducing the number of observed ulcers: (a) analgesic 
effects, (b) accelerated healing, and (c) true ulcer prevention. Traditional 
ulcer analysis could miss recurring ulcers due to an analgesic effect or 
accelerated healing. Point-prevalence analysis could miss recurring ulcers due 
to accelerated healing between endoscopic examinations. Maximum ulcer analyses, 
a novel statistical method, eliminated analgesic effects by regularly scheduled 
endoscopies and accelerated healing of recurring ulcers by frequent endoscopies 
and an open-label phase. Maximum ulcer analysis reflects true ulcer recurrence 
and prevention. Sucralfate was significantly superior to placebo in reducing 
ulcer prevalence by all analyses. Significance (p less than 0.05) was found at 
months 3 and 4 for all analyses. All months were significant in the traditional 
analysis, months 2-4 in point-prevalence analysis, and months 3-4 in the maximal 
ulcer prevalence analysis. Sucralfate was shown to be effective for the 
prevention of duodenal ulcer recurrence by a true reduction in new ulcer 
development.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(91)90456-8
PMID: 1882909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1991 Sep;(270):113-9.

IIB osteosarcoma. Current management, local control, and survival 
statistics--the Australian experience.

Marsden FW(1), Stephens FO, McCarthy SW, Ferrari AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, Australia.

Current management of osteosarcoma at the authors' institution involves 
intraarterial induction chemotherapy using intermittent cycles of cisplatin and 
doxorubicin (Adriamycin), surgical resection with limb-sparing wherever 
possible, and adjuvant systemic chemotherapy (high-dose methotrexate with 
retrieval and doxorubicin). Twenty cases treated in this way between May 1983 
and May 1989 are reviewed. There were 18 Stage IIB osteosarcomas and two Stage 
IIB malignant fibrous histiocytomas. Chemotherapeutic effect was evaluated in 
the resected tumors. There was little correlation between the clinical response 
to the induction chemotherapy and cell necrosis present in the resected tumor 
mass. Wide resection margins were achieved in 17 cases, a minimal margin in two, 
and a contaminated margin in one. Radiotherapy was used in these three cases 
where resection margin was in doubt. There were two local recurrences in these 
three cases. Four patients have died of their disease, and there was one 
treatment-related death. Overall probability of survival in this group of 20 
patients has been expressed by the Kaplan-Meier method as 58%.

PMID: 1884529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1991 Sep;(270):128-34.

Radiation and pagetic osteogenic sarcomas.

Healey JH(1), Buss D.

Author information:
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, NY 10021.

Radiation and pagetic osteogenic sarcomas should be distinguished from classical 
osteogenic sarcoma. Both occur in older patients with significantly greater 
comorbidity. Roentgenographically, radiation osteogenic sarcoma is typically 
sclerotic, whereas pagetic osteogenic sarcoma is lytic and associated with 
pathologic fracture. Radical resections give the best result, local control, and 
survival. Chemotherapy has not proven effective to date. Improvements in tumor 
imaging and more intensive chemotherapy regimens may permit limb-sparing 
surgery. Overall results remain poor, with approximately 15% five-year survival 
in each condition.

PMID: 1884531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1991 Sep;(270):15-21.

Intraarterial cisplatin in the management of stage IIB osteosarcoma in the 
pediatric and adolescent age group.

Jaffe N(1), Smith D, Jaffe MR, Hudson M, Carrasco H, Wallace S, Raymond AK, 
Ayala A, Murray J, Robertson R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatrics, University of Texas M.D. Anderson Caner Center, 
Houston 77030.

Sixty patients with extremity osteosarcoma were treated with intraarterial 
cisplatin. This was followed by surgical resection (amputation or limb salvage) 
and postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy utilizing two different protocols. 
Seventy-five percent of patients achieved an initial response. Overall 
disease-free survival was 58%. The number of patients treated with limb-salvage 
surgery gradually increased to the extent that 80% of newly-registered patients 
achieved a response and were subjected to limb salvage. Disease-free survival 
was 48% in amputation and 68% in limb salvage. The only factors found to have 
prognostic significance in determining disease-free survival were extent of 
tumor destruction induced by preoperative chemotherapy and tumor size.

PMID: 1884535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1991 Sep;(270):181-96.

The use of bone allografts for limb salvage in high-grade extremity 
osteosarcoma.

Gebhardt MC(1), Flugstad DI, Springfield DS, Mankin HJ.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Oncology Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 02114.

Limb preservation is increasingly being employed in the local treatment of 
high-grade extremity osteosarcoma. Bone allografts used to reconstruct the bony 
defects following tumor resection offer many advantages, including joint 
reconstruction and incorporation of the graft to the host bone in these 
relatively young patients. The results of 53 patients 30 years of age or younger 
were assessed to determine functional outcome. Fresh-frozen allografts were 
employed as osteoarticular grafts, allograft-arthrodeses, allograft-prosthesis 
composites, or intercalary grafts. Follow-up intervals averaged 25 months 
(range, two to 63 months). Life-table analysis showed that the probability of a 
satisfactory functional result was 73% if local tumor recurrences were excluded. 
Complications included 16 infections, six fractures, 12 nonunions, and six 
unstable joints. There were five local recurrences. Eighteen grafts ultimately 
failed, and in six patients, this resulted in an above-knee amputation. An 
additional five received a second graft. The functional "end results" of the 38 
patients with two or more years of follow-up examinations were 70% satisfactory 
in those without a local recurrence. There was no statistically significant 
difference in functional outcome or local or distant relapse in those patients 
receiving preoperative chemotherapy. The authors conclude that allografts can be 
used for limb reconstruction in patients with high-grade osteosarcoma who 
receive aggressive adjuvant chemotherapy. The functional results are comparable 
to other methods of reconstruction, and once incorporated by the host, offer the 
advantage of longevity, compared with metallic implants.

PMID: 1884538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1991 Sep;(270):22-8.

Experience with multiagent chemotherapy for osteosarcoma. Improved outcome.

Goorin AM(1), Andersen JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology/Oncology, Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

Clinical researches at the authors' institution have been treating patients with 
osteosarcoma with effective adjuvant chemotherapy for 18 years, including 
14-years experience with limb-salvage surgery. The outlook for patients with 
nonmetastatic high-grade osteosarcoma has improved dramatically since 1972. 
Updated results of the single-agent adjuvant (postoperative) chemotherapy trial 
project a five-year disease-free survival (DFS) of 42% (95% confidence interval 
[CI], 14% to 70%) with follow-up periods of 5.7 to 13.8 years compared to a 
two-year DFS of 78% (60% to 95%) and follow-up periods of 0.6 to 6.8 years with 
six-agent, alternating, adjuvant postoperative chemotherapy. Additionally, since 
limb-salvage surgery began to be offered in 1976 to selected patients, 36 of 74 
patients (49%) have had limb-salvage operations performed. The two-year DFS is 
69% (52% to 85%) for patients having limb-salvage operations with follow-up 
periods of 0.6 to 10.3 years compared to 72% (57% to 87%) for amputees with 
follow-up periods of 0.3 to 10.3 years. It is concluded that patients receiving 
limb-salvage operations appear to be at no greater risk for relapse than 
patients receiving cross-bone amputation and that the administration of 
alternating, multiagent, adjuvant chemotherapy has significantly improved the 
DFS for patients who present with nonmetastatic high-grade osteosarcoma.

PMID: 1884543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1991 Sep;(270):8-14.

Adjuvant chemotherapy of high-grade osteosarcoma of the extremity. Updated 
results of the Multi-Institutional Osteosarcoma Study.

Link MP(1), Goorin AM, Horowitz M, Meyer WH, Belasco J, Baker A, Ayala A, 
Shuster J.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, California.

The Multi-Institutional Osteosarcoma Study (MIOS) was designed to determine 
whether intensive multiagent adjuvant chemotherapy improves the outcome of 
patients with nonmetastatic high-grade osteosarcoma of the extremity as compared 
with concurrent controls. After definitive surgery of the primary tumor, 
patients were randomly assigned to immediate adjuvant chemotherapy or to 
observation without adjuvant treatment. Updated results of this trial indicate 
that the projected six-year event-free survival for the control group is 11% 
compared to 61% for the chemotherapy group (p less than 0.001). Similar results 
were observed in patients who declined randomization but who were followed 
according to the treatment arms of the protocol. When randomized and 
nonrandomized patients are pooled according to assigned treatment, a survival 
advantage favoring those patients treated with immediate adjuvant chemotherapy 
is apparent. An analysis of prognostic factors among patients receiving 
immediate adjuvant chemotherapy reveals that elevation of the serum lactic 
dehydrogenase at diagnosis is the factor most predictive of adverse outcome. 
Location of the primary site in the tibia confers a favorable prognosis. The 
authors conclude that the natural history of high-grade osteosarcoma of the 
extremity has not changed over the past two decades. The administration of 
immediate adjuvant chemotherapy has a significant favorable impact on event-free 
survival and should be recommended for all such patients.

PMID: 1884563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Gastroenterol Jpn. 1991 Jul;26 Suppl 3:13-7. doi: 10.1007/BF02779254.

Long-term study of endoscopic sclerotherapy in Jakarta, Indonesia.

Rani AA(1), Herman H, Manan C, Ali I, Daldiyono.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical Faculty, University of Indonesia, Jakarta.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02779254
PMID: 1884946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Gig Sanit. 1991 Apr;(4):45-6.

[Bases of the duration of a chronic experiment].

[Article in Russian]

Rybolovlev IuR.

PMID: 1885046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. J Clin Invest. 1991 Sep;88(3):755-9. doi: 10.1172/JCI115373.

Nonsense mutations affect C1 inhibitor messenger RNA levels in patients with 
type I hereditary angioneurotic edema.

Frangi D(1), Cicardi M, Sica A, Colotta F, Agostoni A, Davis AE 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Division of Immunology, Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

Members of two unrelated families with type I hereditary angioneurotic edema 
(HANE) were found to have elevated levels of C1 inhibitor (C1INH) mRNA. DNA 
sequence analysis of PCR-amplified monocyte C1INH mRNA revealed normal and 
mutant transcripts, as expected in this disorder that occurs in heterozygous 
individuals. Single base mutations near the 3' end of the coding sequence were 
identified in affected members of each family. One mutation consisted of 
insertion of an adenosine at position 1304 which created a premature termination 
codon (TAA), whereas the second consisted of deletion of the thymidine at 
position 1298 which created a premature termination codon (TGA) 23 nucleotides 
downstream. These mutations are approximately 250 nucleotides upstream of the 
natural termination codon. Nuclear run-off experiments in one kindred revealed 
no difference in transcription rates of the C1INH gene between the patients and 
normals. C1INH mRNA half-life experiments were not technically feasible because 
of the prolonged half-life of the normal transcript. Dideoxynucleotide primer 
extension experiments allowed the differentiation of the normal and mutant 
transcripts. These studies showed that the mutant transcript was not decreased 
relative to the normal, and this therefore was at least partially responsible 
for the C1INH mRNA elevation. This elevation may be due to the decreased 
catabolism of the mutant transcript.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI115373
PMCID: PMC295456
PMID: 1885769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Med Law. 1991;10(2):155-83.

Abortion: in search of a constitutional doctrine (Part 1).

Leyshon DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Rhodes University, Grahamstown, South Africa.

This article addresses the highly controversial topic of abortion from a 
constitutional angle. It discusses and analyses the landmark United States 
decision of Roe v Wade, the fundamental arguments of pro-choice and pro-life 
supporters, the difficulties inherent in the pro-choice and pro-life options and 
the abortion situation in South Africa, and concludes with proposals for a 
future Bill of Rights.

PIP: The abortion debate is very emotional and often reverts to dogmatic 
positions that are indefensible. In terms of the Constitution, abortion exists 
as an implied right of privacy under the 14th amendment. Roe v. Wade established 
this right and it did so with the support of other decisions about privacy. The 
fundamental arguments for the pro-choice side of the debate center around a 
woman's right to privacy in making decisions to abort a fetus. The fundamental 
arguments for the pro-life side of the debate center around an extension of 
Constitutional protection to the fetus. Both these positions suffer from 
difficulties in their justifications. The pro-choice side of the debate fails to 
recognize fetal viability as the fulcrum for competing rights. The pro-choice 
side of the debate fails to understand that not everyone thinks that life begins 
at conception. In South Africa a new Bill of Rights leaves the question of 
abortion unanswered. The Courts will have to decide if the Bill of Rights 
protects the rights of women to bodily integrity or protects the fetus's right 
to life.

PMID: 1886465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. N Engl J Med. 1991 Oct 3;325(14):1041-3. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199110033251412.

Left-handedness and life expectancy.

[No authors listed]

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1991 Apr 4;324(14):998.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199110033251412
PMID: 1886627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Odontostomatol Trop. 1991 Mar;14(1):7-12.

[Surgical dentistry and geriatrics in Senegal].

[Article in French]

Diallo B(1), Ndiaye CF, Agboton C, Agboton P, Ba I.

Author information:
(1)Institut d'Odontologie et de Stomatologie de Dakar.

INTRODUCTION: Geriatric medicine is developing more and more as a specialism. 
Odontology is not behindhand. That is why, even in an African setting, when life 
expectancy is still not as high as in the West, we are finding ourselves 
treating older and older patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: During the course of the academic year 1989-1990, we 
treated 40 patients of both sexes, of different ethnic and social backgrounds 
aged from 55-89 years. Besides age, the patients had all undergone endo-buccal 
surgery, with the exception of parodontology surgery. According to sex: The 
forty patients comprised 27 men and 13 women. These figures are interesting and 
we will return to them during the discussion. According to age: The ages of our 
patients ranged from 55-89 years, with an average of 72. The distribution of age 
brackets shows a strong percentage (52.5%) of patients between 55 and 64 years 
of age. According to oral stage: In general, our patients neglect oral hygiene: 
67.5% presented at least tartaric gingivitis. This negligence was evident in 
more men than women. According to general state: More than half the sample had 
at least one general pathological disorder. They ranged from cardio-vascular 
ailments, to differing digestive disorders, to neurological and endocrinal 
pathologics.
METHODOLOGY: The data was collected using the following 3 methods which slowly 
built up: questionnaire clinical examination the operation
RESULTS: The dividing-up of the different operations: we realised a total of 71 
operations, this being an average 1.77 per patient. Distribution of pathological 
ailments according to type and nature: About 55% of our patients had a general 
pathology. Cardio-vascular ailments took first place with a frequency of 52.16%, 
followed by digestive problems with 26.08% neurological syndromes with 13.04% 
and ailments with endocrinal origins with a rate of 8.69%. Incidents during 
operation: incidents linked to the anaesthetic, incidents linked to the 
operation itself, post-operative incidents, healing.
DISCUSSION: Age: The most representative age-band was between 55 and 64 years 
(with a six ration of 1:5). Multiple extractions: Apart from a defective oral 
state, these extractions are always motivated by the need for prosthesis. All 
the patients were missing at least one tooth, confirming the thesis of Dubois, 
according to which "the repercussion of oral ageing appears in all its 
simplicity in either partial or total toothlessness".
CONCLUSION: Elderly Senegalese patients present serious oral problems since 
extraction comprises the main part of surgical odontological operations. A 
better way of dealing with these subjects, weakened by old age and general 
pathology, is desirable.

PMID: 1886835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Psychother Psychosom Med Psychol. 1991 Jun;41(6):199-205.

[Concepts of depressive patients regarding the cause of their disease].

[Article in German]

Wiegand M(1), Matussek P.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatrische Klinik Technischen Universität München.

In 60 patients suffering from either neurotic or endogenous depression 
(according to ICD-9), the aetiological concepts regarding their illness were 
studied by means of content analysis of answers to an interview question. Most 
patients had multifactorial aetiological concepts. Psychosocial concepts were 
more frequent than biological ones; this bias, however, was less pronounced in 
endogenous depressives (and, within this group, in bipolar vs. unipolar 
patients) than in neurotic depressives. The latter stressed triggering events as 
causes of illness, whereas for endogenous depressives, dispositions were more 
important. A positive expectancy of being able to influence the illness 
correlated with an aetiological model which implied triggering as well as 
predisposing factors.

PMID: 1886972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Radiobiologiia. 1991 May-Jun;31(3):357-60.

[Impairment of immunity and long-term effects of 239Pu in rats].

[Article in Russian]

Kirillova EN, Revina VS, Sokolova SN.

PMID: 1887001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Recenti Prog Med. 1991 May;82(5):262-5.

Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the elderly. Prognostic factors and outcome.

Rossini F(1), Mingozzi S, Pogliani EM, Pioltelli P, Lanzi E, Corneo G.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Patologia medica, Sezione di Ematologia, Ospedale, Monza.

The initial features and prognosis of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) of the 
elderly have been variously evaluated in literature. We have examined 190 
patients with NHL: most of them received induction therapies containing 
vincristine, cyclophosphamide and/or anthracyclines (CVP, CHOP, CEOP); age at 
diagnosis was over 65 for 62 of them (32.63%). Elderly patients had a lower rate 
of complete remissions, a shorter duration of complete remissions and, 
consequently, a poorer overall survival. In our patients, prognosis was related 
also with stage, histology (according to Working Formulation, WF) and 
performance status at the diagnosis. Elderly patient had not a significantly 
increased incidence of these unfavourable prognostic factors at the onset. 
However, patients aged 65 or more received lower doses of drugs during induction 
therapy (cyclophosphamide: 81%; vincristine: 73%; anthracyclines: 22% of 
patients under 55). Patients aged 55-65 had induction therapies of intermediate 
intensity; also proportion of complete remissions and survival were intermediate 
between the two other groups. Haematological toxicity appeared the most 
important cause of these reductions: in fact nadirs of neutrophils and platelets 
during induction therapy were similar in the 3 groups in spite of the different 
intensity of treatment. Even if statistical correlations are not possible, the 
incidence of infections has been higher in the elderly.

PMID: 1887148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Salud Publica Mex. 1991 May-Jun;33(3):227-34.

[Economic development and health].

[Article in Spanish]

Molina Salazar RE(1), Romero Velázquez JR, Trejo Rodríguez JA.

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Londres, México.

The purpose of this work is to examine the relationship between economic 
development and the population's level of health. Consequently, we will 
establish a comparison between Mexico and other countries in various stages of 
development. The interrelationship between economic development and health is a 
complex problem which is little understood, even though it is acknowledged that 
at increased levels of economic development the levels of health of a population 
will also increase. These considerations can be taken into account when we 
accept the fact that the health conditions in industrialized countries are 
generally better than the health conditions in non-industrialized countries. In 
the case of Mexico, the problems relating to social disparities due to the type 
of economic development are reflected in the country's level of health. Poor 
health conditions and the deterioration of health services in Mexico, based on 
international references, are matters that must be resolved by means of a clear 
political decision accompanied by the appropriate corresponding resources so 
that the strategies put forth by the National Health Program (1989-1994) can be 
carried out.

PMID: 1887323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Ann ICRP. 1991;22(1):1-29. doi: 10.1016/0146-6453(91)90034-E.

Risk estimates for carcinogenic effects of radiation.

Upton AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Environmental Medicine, New York University Medical Center, NY 
10016.

DOI: 10.1016/0146-6453(91)90034-E
PMID: 1888093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Ann ICRP. 1991;22(1):31-57. doi: 10.1016/0146-6453(91)90035-F.

The relative contributions of different organ sites to the total cancer 
mortality associated with low-dose radiation exposure.

Land CE(1), Sinclair WK.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Epidemiology Branch, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD.

DOI: 10.1016/0146-6453(91)90035-F
PMID: 1888094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Ann Nutr Metab. 1991;35 Suppl 1:12-21. doi: 10.1159/000177674.

Food patterns in the British isles.

Buss DH(1).

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, London, UK.

Food supply statistics can show the general dietary pattern in European 
countries. However, their energy content is 50% or more above physiological 
needs, and because the wastage of each food will be different within a country 
as well as between countries, comparisons between their nutrient content and a 
country's mortality may be unreliable. The types and amounts of food brought 
into the home are closer to what people eat, and this paper describes the main 
dietary changes which have occurred in Britain at this level since 1970. During 
a time when life expectancy increased and mortality from coronary heart disease 
fell, the main characteristics of the diet remained British, but it became more 
pre-packaged. Many recent changes were in the direction advocated by 
nutritionists, but, because of a decline in sugars and starches as well as in 
fat, the proportion of energy derived from fat remained at about 42%. Intakes of 
several other nutrients also declined, but the ratio of polyunsaturated to 
saturated fatty acids doubled to 0.37.

DOI: 10.1159/000177674
PMID: 1888123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Ann Nutr Metab. 1991;35 Suppl 1:41-52. doi: 10.1159/000177677.

Health status in Finland and other Nordic countries with special reference to 
chronic non-communicable diseases.

Tuomilehto J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, National Public Health Institute, Helsinki, 
Finland.

It is a general belief that the health status of the populations of the Nordic 
Countries, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden is very good. Infant 
mortality is the lowest in these countries. However, other indicators of the 
health status such as overall life expectancy and incidence of mortality from 
chronic non-communicable diseases demonstrate a large variation between the 
Nordic countries. Compared with other countries frequency of several 
non-communicable diseases is among the highest worldwide. Moreover, the 
incidence and mortality trends in non-communicable diseases suggest a 
heterogeneous development among the Nordic countries.

DOI: 10.1159/000177677
PMID: 1888127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Ann Nutr Metab. 1991;35 Suppl 1:53-63. doi: 10.1159/000177678.

Trends in mortality in Britain: 1920-1986.

Smith GD(1), Marmot MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Population Sciences, London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, UK.

In Britain continuing declines in infant mortality have ensured that life 
expectancy at birth has consistently improved during this century. Life 
expectancy in middle ages showed small declines between 1921 and 1940, probably 
due to real increases in coronary heart disease and cancer mortality which were 
not counterbalanced by falls in infectious disease mortality of sufficient 
magnitude. The persistence of social class differentials during this period and 
the role of diet are discussed. It is suggested that the reversal in the trend 
in overall mortality seen earlier this century in Britain has implications for 
recent mortality trends in Eastern Europe.

DOI: 10.1159/000177678
PMID: 1888128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Curr Opin Radiol. 1991 Aug;3(4):571-8.

Mammographic equipment, technique, and quality control.

Friedrich MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Urban Hospital, Berlin, FRG.

The most important improvements in mammographic technique were the introduction 
of single- or double-emulsion high-contrast film-screen combinations for 
mammography, the use of a specially designed low-kilovoltage Bucky grid to 
reduce scattered radiation, and the introduction of smaller focal spots to 
improve imaging geometry. Magnification techniques, especially the spot-film 
technique, yields clearer delineation of high-contrast microcalcifications. 
Dedicated mammographic equipment with specially designed x-ray tubes is 
necessary for modern high-quality mammography. However, in many modern 
mammographic units, the automatic exposure controller still fails to provide 
appropriate and constant optical film density over a wide range of tissue 
thickness and absorption. Extended-cycle processing of single-emulsion 
mammographic films can yield better image contrast and reduce exposure by up to 
30%. Exposure times of less than 1 second are recommended to avoid the 
unnecessary higher doses caused by longer exposure times and reciprocity law 
failure. The wide dynamic range in mammography can be reduced by a beam 
equalization filter, and thus be better adapted to the decreased latitude of 
modern high-contrast mammographic screen-film systems. Mammographic film reading 
(detection of subtle microcalcifications) can be facilitated by modern computer 
evaluation of previously digitized mammograms. Standardization and assurance of 
image quality have been major challenges in the technical development of 
mammography. Different technical and anthropomorphic phantoms have been designed 
to measure and compare practical image quality. Detailed quality control 
measures have been developed. The benefit of a single or annual screening 
mammography, calculated in gained life expectancy, by far outweighs the relative 
risk for radiation-induced breast cancer.

PMID: 1888654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Cleve Clin J Med. 1991 Jul-Aug;58(4):366. doi: 10.3949/ccjm.58.4.366.

Estrogen supplements in menopause.

Ettinger B.

Comment on
    Cleve Clin J Med. 1990 Mar-Apr;57(2):154-60.

DOI: 10.3949/ccjm.58.4.366
PMID: 1889118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Community Dent Oral Epidemiol. 1991 Aug;19(4):195-200. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0528.1991.tb00145.x.

Cohort comparisons of dental status in the adult Swedish population between 1975 
and 1981.

Osterberg T(1), Carlsson GE, Mellström D, Sundh W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, University of Göteborg, Sweden.

The aim was to describe and analyze changes in dental status in Sweden over a 
6-yr period, and to establish a baseline for a subsequent investigation. 
Representative samples of the Swedish population in 1975, 1977, and 1981 were 
investigated by means of interviews. The participation rate varied between 81 
and 86% and the number of participants between 11,582 and 14,964. Dental status, 
based on a question about natural teeth and/or removable denture(s), was 
analyzed in relation to demographic, socio-economic, social support and life 
style factors. The prevalence of edentulism in the age group 16-74 years 
decreased during the observation period from 12.7% to 9.9% in men and from 15.5% 
to 11.2 in women. Besides age, urbanization, occupation and tobacco smoking had 
the highest explanatory value for edentulism. The findings are discussed with 
respect to the increasing life expectancy and possible changes in the need and 
demand for dental care.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0528.1991.tb00145.x
PMID: 1889190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Chest. 1991 Sep;100(3):729-34. doi: 10.1378/chest.100.3.729.

Use of Medicare claims data to evaluate outcomes in elderly patients undergoing 
lung resection for lung cancer.

Whittle J(1), Steinberg EP, Anderson GF, Herbert R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore.

Comment in
    Chest. 1991 Sep;100(3):595-6.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate, using Medicare claims data, the outcomes in elderly 
