Americans undergoing lung resection for lung cancer.
DESIGN: We used discharge diagnosis and procedure codes in 1983 to 1985 Medicare 
hospital (part A) claims records to identify patients who underwent lung 
resection for lung cancer; we assessed perioperative, one-year, and two-year 
survival using Medicare enrollment file data.
PATIENTS: From a nationally random sample of 1,138,000 Medicare beneficiaries 
over 65 years of age, we identified 1,290 individuals who fulfilled our 
definition for lung resection for lung cancer.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Overall perioperative (30-day) mortality was 7.4 
percent. Postoperative survival at one and two years was 69 percent and 54 
percent, respectively. Male sex, older age, and pneumonectomy, as opposed to a 
lesser procedure, were associated with reduced perioperative and one-year and 
two-year survival. The adverse effect of advanced age on one-year and two-year 
survival following lung resection was not explained by the lower life expectancy 
of older individuals.
CONCLUSIONS: Medicare claims data can be used to estimate likely outcomes for 
elderly patients undergoing surgery for lung cancer. Expected outcomes vary with 
the patient's age, sex, and the type of surgical procedure performed.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.100.3.729
PMID: 1889265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Henry Ford Hosp Med J. 1991;39(2):81-4.

Predicting survival in the advanced cancer patient.

Miller RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)St. Anthony's Cancer Care Center, St. Petersburg, FL.

PMID: 1890012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. J Dermatol Surg Oncol. 1991 Sep;17(9):713-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1524-4725.1991.tb03424.x.

Recurrence rates of treated basal cell carcinomas. Part 1: Overview.

Silverman MK(1), Kopf AW, Grin CM, Bart RS, Levenstein MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, New York University School of Medicine, New York.

This is the first article in a series reviewing the extensive experience of the 
Oncology Section of the Skin and Cancer Unit, from 1955 through 1982, with 5755 
basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) treated by curettage-electrodesiccation, surgical 
excision, or x-ray therapy. Recurrence rates were calculated by three methods 
for each of the treatment modalities: 1) by the raw recurrence rate method; 2) 
by the "strict" 5-year recurrence rate method; and 3) by modification of the 
life-table method. Our analyses show that the last method best approximates the 
true recurrence rate. Primary (previously untreated) BCCs had a 5-year 
recurrence rate of 10.6% (standard error 0.6%), and previously treated BCCs had 
a rate of 15.4% (standard error 1.3%) (P = .0002). The greatest risk for 
recurrence of treated primary BCCs occurred 1 to 4 years after therapy. It is 
concluded that recurrence rates of primary BCCs should be reported separately 
from those of previously treated BCCs and that the modified life-table method is 
best suited to calculate 5-year recurrence rates.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4725.1991.tb03424.x
PMID: 1890243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Mech Ageing Dev. 1991 Jun 14;59(1-2):47-67. doi:
10.1016/0047-6374(91)90073-9.

Quantitative measurement of human physiological age by profiling of body fluids 
and pattern recognition.

Robinson AB(1), Robinson LR.

Author information:
(1)Oregon Institute of Science and Medicine, Cave Junction 97523.

Quantitative correlations with human age are demonstrated for 60 substances from 
a group of 200 substances measured in the urine of 235 men. Simplified pattern 
recognition calculations are used to combine these correlations into patterns of 
human age and to demonstrate their utility for the quantitative measurement of 
human physiological age and aging rate. The empirical use of these techniques 
for the extension of human life-span and diminution of human suffering from 
degenerative diseases is discussed. Current experimental limitations of this 
method are demonstrated and evaluated. The application of these techniques can 
form the basis for a significant advance in the quality of human life.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(91)90073-9
PMID: 1890886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Life Sci. 1991;49(14):PL91-6. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(91)90307-w.

Systemic administration of acromelic acid induces selective neuron damage in the 
rat spinal cord.

Kwak S(1), Aizawa H, Ishida M, Shinozaki H.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and 
Psychiatry NCNP, Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan.

A single systemic administration of acromelic acid A (ACRO), a novel kainate 
analogue (kainoid), induces a series of characteristic behavioral changes in 
association with selective damage of interneurons in the caudal spinal cord in 
adult rats. When ACRO (5 mg/kg) was systemically administered, rats displayed 
forced extension of hindlimbs followed by frequent cramps and generalized 
convulsion. Most rats died during the convulsions without neuropathological 
change. Two rats developed long-lasting spastic paraparesis which persisted at 
least 3 months. Neuropathological changes were observed only in the rats with 
persistent paraparesis, in which neuron damage was identified selectively in 
small interneurons in the lumbosacral cord. The regional difference between 
kainate- and ACRO-induced neuron damage suggests the existence of plural kinds 
of kainate receptor subtypes.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(91)90307-w
PMID: 1890926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Ophthalmology. 1991 Jul;98(7):1061-5. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(91)32176-6.

Long-term efficacy of repeat argon laser trabeculoplasty.

Feldman RM(1), Katz LJ, Spaeth GL, Crapotta JA, Fahmy IA, Ali MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California, San Diego.

The role of repeat argon laser trabeculoplasty (RALT) in the management of 
open-angle glaucoma is controversial. To determine the long-term efficacy of 
RALT, the authors reviewed case records of 44 patients (50 eyes) who received 
RALT for uncontrolled glaucoma at the Wills Eye Hospital before 1986. Success 
was defined as a 3 mmHg or greater decrease in intraocular pressure (IOP) to 
less than 22 mmHg, and no further surgical intervention. By life table analysis, 
RALT was successful in 35% of eyes at 6 months, in 21% at 12 months, in 11% at 
24 months, and in 5% at 48 months. Thirty-three percent of eyes in which primary 
ALT was successful for 1 year were successful 12 months after RALT. 
Complications included IOP spikes in 12%. In conclusion, RALT was generally not 
effective for long-term control of open-angle glaucoma, but may be useful as a 
temporizing measure. However, this use of RALT must be weighed against the risks 
of complications and the additional progression of disease before more 
definitive surgical intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(91)32176-6
PMID: 1891214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Psychother Psychosom. 1991;55(2-4):90-9. doi: 10.1159/000288414.

Job stressors and coping in health professions.

Heim E(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatrische Universitätspoliklinik Bern, Schweiz.

In spite of their knowledge about stressors, health hazards and coping, health 
professionals are in general not aware of their own health risks. In an attempt 
to clarify the issue results of our own studies are compared to the relevant 
literature. A survey on 1,248 Swiss nurses confirmed the major stressors known: 
ethical conflicts about appropriate patient care, team conflicts, role 
ambiguity, workload and organizational deficits. In doctors workload and 
shortage of time, combined with specific responsibility in decision making, are 
most prominent. Nevertheless, job satisfaction is still high in both 
professions. Health hazards in doctors are considerable, although life 
expectancy has improved and is comparable to the general public, but still lower 
as compared to other professionals. Depression and substance abuse are related 
to higher suicide rates. The specific role strain of female doctors is 
responsible for health risks with an alarming 10 years lower life expectancy 
than in the general population. Little is known about specific health hazards in 
nurses, except for burnout. A lack of coping research in the field makes 
conclusions difficult. Our own studies show limited coping skills in nurses, but 
good buffering effect in 1,700 Swiss dentists.

DOI: 10.1159/000288414
PMID: 1891573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Transfusion. 1991 Sep;31(7):648-9. doi:
10.1046/j.1537-2995.1991.31791368344.x.

Suitable survival and half-life of red cells after frozen storage in excess of 
10 years.

Umlas J(1), Jacobson M, Kevy SV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Mount Auburn Hospital, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

To examine the appropriateness of the Food and Drug Administration's 10-year 
storage time for previously frozen red cells, 24-hour posttransfusion survival 
studies were performed, and the half-life of 3 units of autologous red cells 
that had been stored for 13.5, 14, and 17 years, respectively, was measured. The 
units had acceptable freeze-thaw-wash recovery (83.3-91.4%). When a 51Cr label 
was used for the previously frozen red cells and a simultaneous 52Cr label for 
freshly drawn autologous red cells was used as a comparison, it was seen that 
the previously frozen cells had normal 24-hour posttransfusion survival 
(75.1-88.4%) as well as normal half-life (23-33.7 days). These findings support 
further extension of the maximum allowable storage time for previously frozen 
red cells.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.1991.31791368344.x
PMID: 1891794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Acta Oncol. 1991;30(5):593-6. doi: 10.3109/02841869109092424.

Hodgkin's disease in northern Sweden 1971-1981. I. A histopathological 
reevaluation of 223 cases.

Dige U(1), Johansson H, Lenner P, Norberg B, Roos G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University Hospital, Umeå, Sweden.

A histopathological reexamination was made of diagnostic material in 223 
patients with Hodgkin's disease (HD) collected between 1971 and 1981. The 
diagnosis of HD was considered to be incorrect in 90 cases (40%). Change of 
diagnosis to non-Hodgkin's lymphoma was made in 56 cases, of which 23 were 
high-grade and 26 were low-grade lymphomas (7 not determined), and to 
angioimmunoblastic lymphadenopathy in 10 cases. These discrepancies were 
considered to be due mainly to progress in the understanding and classification 
of malignant lymphomas, which stresses the importance of review of histologic 
material in retrospective studies on Hodgkin's disease.

DOI: 10.3109/02841869109092424
PMID: 1892676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Biull Eksp Biol Med. 1991 Apr;111(4):383-4.

[Increase of life span in mice under acute cooling and effects ofa preparation 
isolated from Laminaria saccharina].

[Article in Russian]

Drozd IuV, Bondarenko SV, Iasnetsov VV, Batrakov SG, Sakandelidze OG, Shashkov 
VS.

Efforts against cold is a significant problem during work in the Arctic. In 
experiments on grey mice it was demonstrated that drugs from Laminaria Saccarina 
increase life time of animals in cold temperature (-18 degrees C) by 61%.

PMID: 1893142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. CMAJ. 1991 Sep 15;145(6):707-8.

China is now moving towards the Western way of death.

Richmond C.

PMCID: PMC1335788
PMID: 1893325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Bull World Health Organ. 1991;69(3):335-8.

Increase in mortality associated with blindness in rural Africa.

Taylor HR(1), Katala S, Muñoz B, Turner V.

Author information:
(1)Dana Center for Preventive Ophthalmology, Wilmer Institute, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, MD.

Forty-seven persons were identified with visual impairment (visual acuity of 
6/60 or less in their better eye) during a population-based survey in 1986 of 
eye disease in three villages in central Tanzania. Four years later, 41 (87%) of 
them and 70 (82%) of 84 age-, sex-, and village-matched controls with normal 
functional vision (visual acuity 6/18 or better in the better eye) were traced, 
and those who were still alive were re-examined. The remainder were reported to 
be alive but had moved to other villages. Deaths among those aged 40-79 years 
amounted to 10 among the 37 visually impaired and 7 among the 70 sighted 
controls. This gave an excess mortality rate (odds ratio) of 3.33 times 
(1.03-11.04, 95% Cl) among the visually impaired compared to their age-matched 
controls. The excess mortality rate for visually impaired women was 4.11 
(0.72-25.5) and 2.71 (0.50-15.2) for visually impaired men. Nine out of 25 with 
vision of less than 3/60 in their better eye had died. The higher mortality rate 
among the visually impaired suggests that, in this environment, blindness is not 
only associated with considerable disability but is also associated with a 
shortened life expectancy, especially for women.

PMCID: PMC2393108
PMID: 1893509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Contraception. 1991 Aug;44(2):141-54. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(91)90114-u.

A comparative clinical trial of the TCu 380A, Lippes Loop D and Multiload Cu 375 
IUDs in Indonesia.

Sastrawinata S(1), Farr G, Prihadi SM, Hutapea H, Anwar M, Wahyudi I, Sunjoto, 
Kemara KP, Champion CB, Robbins M.

Author information:
(1)Coordinating Board of Indonesian Fertility Research (BKS PENFIN), Bandung.

The Copper T 380A (TCu 380A), Lippes Loop D (LLD) and the Multiload Cu 375 (MLCu 
375) IUDs were evaluated for safety and efficacy in a multicenter randomized 
clinical trial in Indonesia. A total of 2992 women were enrolled into the study 
and data for 2845 women were analyzed (147 cases did not meet protocol 
criteria). Although study IUDs were randomly assigned, LLD users in this study 
were older and of higher parity than TCu 380A and MLCu 375 users. The 24-month 
gross cumulative life-table pregnancy rates for TCu 380A, LLD and MLCu 375 users 
were 1.2, 2.2 and 2.7, respectively. The 24-month expulsion rates for TCu 380A, 
LLD and MLCu 375 users were 6.7, 7.5 and 5.3, respectively. Overall, 24-month 
continuation rates were 85.5%, 85.0% and 85.4% for the respective device groups. 
Differences in both gross and age- and parity-adjusted life-tables rates for the 
major outcome variables were not statistically significant at 24 months 
postinsertion. The study suggests that the TCu 380A, LLD and MLCu 375 IUDs seem 
to be safe and effective contraceptive options for Indonesian women.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(91)90114-u
PMID: 1893708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. J Neurooncol. 1991 Jun;10(3):191-201. doi: 10.1007/BF00177531.

The therapy of primary brain lymphoma.

Hochberg FH(1), Loeffler JS, Prados M.

Author information:
(1)Neurology Service, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.

Recommendations regarding the current therapy of primary brain lymphoma 
(NHL-CNS) take into account the occurrence of this tumor in immunocompetent and 
immunosuppressed hosts. Immunohistochemical evaluation of biopsy material or 
spinal fluid provides the diagnosis in 90% of patients. For the immunocompetent, 
pre-irradiation intra-venous or intra-arterial chemotherapy with Methotrexate 
alone or in combination with other agents is provided to treat tumor within 
multiple brain sites. Subarachnoid deposits are treated with Methotrexate by 
intrathecal administration. Radiation is provided after chemotherapy and for the 
treatment of vitreal/retinal deposits or symptomatic lesions within the spinal 
axis. The therapy of recurrent NHL-CNS makes use of intravenous Methotrexate or 
high dose Cytosine Arabinoside. Immunosuppressed patients respond to reduction 
of immunosuppressive medication. The therapy of NHL-CNS in the AIDS patient 
makes use of corticosteroids followed by cranial irradiation. A discussion of 
emerging trends in the therapy of NHL-CNS in the AIDS and non-AIDS population is 
provided.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00177531
PMID: 1895164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. J Urol. 1991 Oct;146(4):1040-5. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)37997-1.

The risk of dying of prostate cancer in patients with clinically localized 
disease.

Lerner SP(1), Seale-Hawkins C, Carlton CE Jr, Scardino PT.

Author information:
(1)Scott Department of Urology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.

From 1966 to 1979, 360 patients with clinical stages A2, B and C1 prostate 
cancer underwent staging pelvic lymphadenectomy, and completed a course of 
combined interstitial radioactive gold seeds and external beam radiotherapy. All 
patients had a normal serum prostatic acid phosphatase level and a bone scan 
negative for metastases. All patients were followed until death or for a mean of 
7.3 years (range 1.2 to 18.25 years) for those alive at analysis. To determine 
the risk of dying of prostate cancer we reviewed the records of the 142 patients 
(39%) who died. At analysis 21% of the patients had died of prostate cancer and 
17% of other known causes. The cause of death could not be determined in 4 
patients (1%). Cardiovascular disease accounted for a fifth of all deaths. The 
actuarial risk of death of prostate cancer for all patients was 8 +/- 3% (+/- 2 
standard errors) at 5 years and 30 +/- 7% at 10 years. The risk of death of all 
causes was 16 +/- 4% at 5 years and 46 +/- 7% at 10 years. An increased risk of 
cancer death was associated with established risk factors, including advanced 
local disease, poorly differentiated histology, pelvic nodal metastases and 
distant recurrence. We also noted a substantial risk of cancer death in patients 
who had local tumor recurrence. While previous studies have reported a 
relatively low incidence of cancer deaths (4 to 17%) in patients initially 
diagnosed with localized disease, our data suggest that prostate cancer is the 
major cause of mortality in such patients. Aggressive curative therapy, 
regardless of treatment modality, should be considered for localized prostate 
cancer in men with a life expectancy of 10 or more years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)37997-1
PMID: 1895420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Laryngoscope. 1991 Apr;101(4 Pt 1):372-8. doi: 10.1002/lary.1991.101.4.372.

Long-term results after lateral cranial base surgery.

Poe DS(1), Jackson G, Glasscock ME, Johnson GD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Lahey Clinic Medical 
Center, Burlington, MA 01805.

The surgical management of patients with slow-growing benign temporal bone 
neoplasms has been criticized because of its significant morbidity and mortality 
compared with results after radiation therapy, but long-term control by 
irradiation remains unproved. Long-term surgical results have not been studied 
previously. One hundred twenty-nine skull base operations were performed in 126 
patients at the Otology Group, Nashville, Tenn., from January 1970 through May 
1987. Fifty-eight patients responded to questionnaires focusing on recovery from 
loss of cranial nerves. All patients regained some degree of facial function 
(class V or better), no alimentary tubes or tracheotomies were in use, and no 
patients had debilitating aspiration. Long-term compensation from the cranial 
nerve deficits of lateral skull base surgery can be expected in most patients 
and should not be used as an argument for irradiation in patients with a long 
life expectancy at time of diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1002/lary.1991.101.4.372
PMID: 1895852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. N Engl J Med. 1991 Jan 17;324(3):160-8. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199101173240305.

Efficacy and cost effectiveness of adjuvant chemotherapy in women with 
node-negative breast cancer. A decision-analysis model.

Hillner BE(1), Smith TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth 
University, Richmond.

BACKGROUND: In 1988 the National Cancer Institute issued a Clinical Alert that 
has been widely interpreted as recommending that all women with node-negative 
breast cancer receive adjuvant chemotherapy. Acceptance of this recommendation 
is controversial, since many women who would not have a recurrence would be 
treated.
METHODS: Using a decision-analysis model, we studied the cost effectiveness of 
chemotherapy in cohorts of 45-year-old and 60-year-old women with node-negative 
breast cancer by calculating life expectancy as adjusted for quality of life. 
The analysis evaluated different scenarios of the benefit of therapy: improved 
disease-free survival for five years, with a lesser effect on overall survival 
(base line); a lifelong benefit from chemotherapy; and a benefit in disease-free 
survival with no change in overall survival by year 10. The base-line analysis 
assumed a 30 percent reduction in the relative risk of recurrence for five years 
after treatment.
RESULTS: For the 45-year-old woman, the base-line analysis found an average 
lifetime benefit from chemotherapy of 5.1 quality-months at a cost of $15,400 
per quality-year. The 60-year-old women gained 4.0 quality-months at a cost of 
$18,800 per quality-year. Under the more and less optimistic scenarios, the 
benefit of chemotherapy varied from 1.4 to 14.0 quality-months for both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Chemotherapy substantially increases the quality-adjusted life 
expectancy of an average woman at a cost comparable to that of other widely 
accepted therapies. This benefit decreases markedly if the changes in long-term 
survival are less than in disease-free survival. Given its uncertain duration, 
the benefit may be too small for many women to choose chemotherapy. Selective 
use of chemotherapy to maximize the benefit to individual patients may be 
possible with refinements in risk stratification and explicit assessment of the 
patients' risk preferences.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199101173240305
PMID: 1898533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Pediatrics. 1991 Jan;87(1):88-93.

A difference in mortality between two strains of jaundiced rats.

Stobie PE(1), Hansen CT, Hailey JR, Levine RL.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.

Homozygous Gunn rats lack bilirubin glucuronyltransferase, become jaundiced, and 
often develop kernicterus, thus providing a model for neonatal 
hyperbilirubinemia. Two new, inbred rat strains that carry the Gunn mutation are 
described. These were developed by breeding the mutant Gunn gene (j) into the 
RHA/N and ACI/N strains, producing the new lines, which were designated RHA/N-j 
and ACI/N-j. Liver assay confirmed the absence of transferase activity in 
jaundiced rats from both of the new strains, but marked differences in mortality 
between the strains were observed. The mortality of jaundiced RHA/N-j rats 
through 8 weeks was the same as that of their nonjaundiced littermates (20%). In 
contrast, mortality of jaundiced ACI/N-j rats was distinctly greater than that 
of their nonjaundiced littermates (81% vs 34%, P less than .001). Signs of 
kernicterus such as ataxia were much more frequent in jaundiced ACI/N-j rats 
than in jaundiced RHA/N-j rats (73% vs 11%, P less than .001). Both strains had 
comparable albumin concentrations through 8 weeks of age. Serum bilirubin 
concentrations were also comparable, except for a small but significant 
difference at 20 days of age (ACI/N-j = 294 mumols/L, RHA/N-j = 248 mumols/L, P 
less than .01). Similarly, the bilirubin-to-albumin ratios were comparable 
except for a significantly higher ratio at 20 days of age in the ACI/N-j rats 
(ACI/N-j = 0.70, RHA/N-j = 0.51, P less than .01). Thus, the RHA/N-j strain is 
unusual in that the jaundiced animals remain healthy. Conversely, the ACI/N-j 
animals demonstrate a high incidence of kernicterus with mortality.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1898623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1991 Feb 1;40(4):60-2.

Update: years of potential life lost before age 65--United States, 1988 and 
1989.

Centers for Disease Control (CDC).

PMID: 1898979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1991 Feb 1;40(4):62-3, 69-71.

Smoking-attributable mortality and years of potential life lost--United States, 
1988.

Centers for Disease Control (CDC).

Smoking is a leading cause of diseases associated with premature mortality in 
the United States; in 1985, these diseases accounted for an estimated 390,000 
premature deaths. In this report, mortality data and estimates of smoking 
prevalence for 1988 are used to calculate smoking-attributable mortality (SAM), 
years of potential life lost (YPLL), and age-adjusted SAM and YPLL rates for the 
United States. Calculations were performed using Smoking-Attributable Mortality, 
Morbidity, and Economic Cost (SAMMEC II) software, which includes relative risk 
estimates for 22 adult (i.e., greater than or equal to 35 years of age) 
smoking-related diseases and relative risk estimates for four perinatal (i.e., 
less than 1 year of age) conditions. Age-, sex-, and race-specific mortality 
data for 1988 were obtained from CDC's National Center for Health Statistics. 
Data on burn deaths caused by cigarettes were obtained from the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency. The estimated number of deaths among nonsmokers 
from lung cancer attributable to passive smoking was obtained from a report of 
the National Academy of Sciences. Age-, sex-, and race-specific current and 
former smoking prevalence rates in 1988 for adults aged greater than or equal to 
35 years and for women aged 18-44 years were estimated by linear extrapolation 
using National Health Interview Survey data for 1974-1987.

PMID: 1898980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Obstet Gynecol. 1991 Feb;77(2):261-4. doi: 10.1097/00006250-199102000-00019.

Protective effect of intrauterine release of levonorgestrel on pelvic infection: 
three years' comparative experience of levonorgestrel- and copper-releasing 
intrauterine devices.

Toivonen J(1), Luukkainen T, Allonen H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Chemistry, University of Helsinki, Finland.

Comment in
    Obstet Gynecol. 1991 Jun;77(6):960-1.

A randomized, multicenter comparison of two intrauterine contraceptive devices 
(IUDs) was carried out. Nine hundred thirty-seven women were fitted with a 
copper-releasing IUD, the Nova-T, and 1821 women with an IUD that releases 20 
micrograms of levonorgestrel daily. After 36 months, the cumulative gross rates 
of amenorrhea and hormonal side effects were significantly higher in the 
levonorgestrel-IUD users. The cumulative 36-month gross pregnancy rate was 3.7 
for the Nova-T and 0.3 for the levonorgestrel IUD (P less than .001), 
demonstrating the levonorgestrel IUD's high contraceptive efficacy. For the 
first time, a protective effect of the levonorgestrel IUD against pelvic 
inflammatory disease as compared with the Nova-T was seen statistically. The 
cumulative 36-month gross rate of pelvic inflammatory disease was 2.0 in Nova-T- 
and 0.5 in levonorgestrel-IUD users (P less than .013). This significantly 
lowered incidence of pelvic inflammatory disease may help to solve one of the 
major concerns associated with intrauterine contraception.

DOI: 10.1097/00006250-199102000-00019
PMID: 1899136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Biochem Pharmacol. 1991 Mar 1;41(5):815-20. doi:
10.1016/0006-2952(91)90085-j.

Efficacy of combination therapy with tubercidin and nitrobenzylthioinosine 
5'-monophosphate against chronic and advanced stages of schistosomiasis.

el Kouni MH(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biology and Medicine, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912.

The efficacy of the highly selective antischistosomal combination chemotherapy 
with tubercidin (7-deazaadenosine) plus nitrobenzylthioinosine 5'-monophosphate 
(NBMPR-P), [el Kouni et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 80: 6667-6670, 1983; el 
Kouni et al., Biochem Pharmacol 36: 3815-3821, 1987] was examined against 
chronic and advanced stages of schistosomiasis in mice. Administration of four 
successive daily doses of tubercidin (5 mg/kg/day) plus NBMPR-P (25 mg/kg/day) 
to Schistosoma mansoni-infected mice beginning 5, 6, 7 and 8 weeks 
post-infection and monitored for 22 weeks was very effective against the 
parasite. It resulted in a marked increase in survivorship of treated mice. 
Repetition of the dose-regimen after a 10-day rest period was even more 
effective. However, survivorship of infected animals decreased with the delay of 
therapy. Early treatment (5 weeks post-infection) resulted in 100% survival 
compared to 13% only for untreated animals. If therapy was instituted at 8 weeks 
post-infection, only 70% of the treated mice survived. Treated animals appeared 
healthy and were found to have less splenomegaly and hepatomegaly. Combination 
therapy also caused a significant reduction in the number of worms as well as 
the number of eggs in the liver and small intestine. However, these differences 
diminished as the treatment was delayed. The number of eggs in the liver was 
reduced from an average of 120,000 eggs per liver in untreated animals to 
approximately 16,000 eggs per liver when treated at 5 weeks post-infection. When 
treatment was delayed to 8 weeks post-infection, the reduction in liver egg 
count was not as dramatic (88,000 eggs per liver). Similarly, the number of eggs 
was reduced in the intestine from 1,759 to an average of 58 and 860 eggs per cm2 
of the intestine when the mice were treated at 5 and 8 weeks post-infection 
respectively. However, some worms survived and resumed egg production after an 
extended period of recuperation. Histological examination indicated that 
combination therapy was effective in preventing the formation of new egg 
granulomas but not on pre-existing granulomas.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-2952(91)90085-j
PMID: 1900158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Am J Public Health. 1991 Apr;81(4):427-33. doi: 10.2105/ajph.81.4.427.

Cost-effectiveness of alpha-1 antitrypsin replacement therapy in treatment of 
congenital chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Hay JW(1), Robin ED.

Author information:
(1)Hoover Institution, Stanford University, CA 94305-6010.

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 1991 Apr;81(4):414-5.

BACKGROUND: Alpha 1-antitrypsin (AAT) replacement therapy is an expensive 
intervention ($20,000-$30,000 per patient annually) which may slow or arrest the 
progression of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in AAT-deficient 
patients. While FDA-approved, therapy efficacy is unknown. The costs and 
benefits of AAT replacement therapy were evaluated for patients with congenital 
COPD.
METHODS: Epidemiological and disease cost data were taken from published 
sources. A discrete-time model of disease stage probability transition was 
developed to calculate the present-value expected cost of disease treatment, 
under a range of possible therapy efficacy and other parameter values.
RESULTS: At an efficacy of 70 percent, the cost per life year saved with AAT 
replacement therapy would be between $28,000 and $72,000 (1990 US dollars), 
depending on patient age, sex, and smoking status. At 30 percent efficacy, the 
cost per life year saved range would be between $50,000 and $128,000. A 
controlled efficacy study would cost $53 million or less, if the true efficacy 
were 50 percent or better.
CONCLUSIONS: With efficacy of 30 percent or higher, therapy cost-effectiveness 
would be comparable to other widely used medical interventions. The economic 
assessment methodology was used to evaluate both the therapeutic innovation and 
the value of additional clinical research.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.81.4.427
PMCID: PMC1405042
PMID: 1900677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. N Z Med J. 1991 Mar 27;104(908):121-3.

The ethics of informed consent in relation to prevention screening programmes.

O'Hagan J(1).

Author information:
(1)Christchurch School of Medicine.

PMID: 1901399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Am J Cardiol. 1991 Apr 15;67(9):789-96. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(91)90609-o.

An economic evaluation of lovastatin for cholesterol lowering and coronary 
artery disease reduction.

Hay JW(1), Wittels EH, Gotto AM Jr.

Author information:
(1)Hoover Institution, Stanford University 94305-6010.

Comment in
    Am J Cardiol. 1991 Oct 15;68(10):1120.

The costs and benefits of cholesterol lowering in the primary prevention of 
coronary artery disease (CAD) were considered using lifetime lovastatin therapy 
as the intervention model for adults between 35 and 55 years of age. The 
analysis projected the benefits of CAD risk reduction using estimates from the 
Framingham Heart Study. The chosen analytic perspective was that of the patient. 
For average-risk men with total serum cholesterol levels between 5.69 and 9.83 
mmol/liter (220 and 380 mg/dl), the cost per life-year saved ranged from $9,000 
to $106,000, whereas for average-risk women, the cost ranged from $35,000 to 
$297,000 (1989 U.S. dollars). In high-risk men (with smoking habit and 
hypertension), the cost per life-year saved values ranged from 6,000 to $53,000, 
whereas in high-risk women the cost per life-year saved values ranged from 
$19,000 to $160,000. The results were more favorable than those found in 
previous studies of alternate medication therapies for hypercholesterolemia. 
Even using conservative parameter assumptions, at least 800,000 Americans aged 
35 to 55 years are at sufficiently high risk for CAD, so that the net cost of 
lovastatin therapy can be favorably compared with other widely used medical 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(91)90609-o
PMID: 1901436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Ann Hematol. 1991 Feb;62(1):5-15. doi: 10.1007/BF01714977.

Hemophilia treatment in historical perspective: a review of medical and social 
developments.

Rosendaal FR(1), Smit C, Briët E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, University Hospital Leiden, The Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01714977
PMID: 1903310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. N Engl J Med. 1991 Jul 11;325(2):81-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199107113250202.

Cost effectiveness of prophylactic intravenous immune globulin in chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia.

Weeks JC(1), Tierney MR, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 
02115.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1992 Jan 9;326(2):139.
    N Engl J Med. 1991 Jul 11;325(2):123-5.

BACKGROUND: A recent randomized controlled trial of intravenous immune globulin 
in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and hypogammaglobulinemia 
demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in the rate of bacterial 
infections among patients who received intravenous immune globulin. We used 
decision-analysis techniques to determine whether prophylactic intravenous 
immune globulin is likely to result in an overall clinical benefit to patients 
who receive this treatment and to examine its cost effectiveness.
METHODS: We constructed a model to compare two strategies: treatment with 
intravenous immune globulin at a dose of 400 mg per kilogram of body weight 
every three weeks and no immune globulin therapy. Baseline estimates of the 
efficacy of intravenous immune globulin were derived from the published results 
of the randomized trial. The costs of treatment, complications, and infections 
were estimated on the basis of component costs. Health outcomes were measured in 
terms of gains in quality-adjusted life expectancy.
RESULTS: Intravenous immune globulin therapy can result in a loss of 
quality-adjusted life expectancy when the inconvenience of treatment is taken 
into account. If the inconvenience of treatment is not considered, therapy 
results in a gain of 0.8 quality-adjusted days per patient per year of therapy 
at a cost of $6 million per quality-adjusted life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Decision-analysis modeling may be applied to the results of 
randomized controlled trials to assess the potential clinical and financial 
effects of adopting the intervention in medical practice. In the case of 
intravenous immune globulin therapy in patients with chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia and hypogammaglobulinemia, this type of analysis suggests that 
treatment might not result in improved quality or length of life and that it is 
extraordinarily expensive in comparison with other treatments generally accepted 
as cost effective.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199107113250202
PMID: 1904989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Ann Intern Med. 1991 Aug 1;115(3):195-200. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-115-3-195.

Misoprostol compared with sucralfate in the prevention of nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drug-induced gastric ulcer. A randomized, controlled trial.

Agrawal NM(1), Roth S, Graham DY, White RH, Germain B, Brown JA, Stromatt SC.

Author information:
(1)Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans, Louisiana.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1991 Dec 1;115(11):911-3.

OBJECTIVES: To compare the efficacy and frequency of adverse experiences of 
misoprostol and sucralfate in the prevention of gastric ulcers in patients 
receiving nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) therapy.
DESIGN: A prospective, randomized, single-blind, multicenter trial.
PATIENTS: Patients with osteoarthritis receiving treatment with ibuprofen, 
piroxicam, or naproxen and experiencing abdominal pain were eligible.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients who were expected to receive at least 3 months of NSAID 
therapy and who did not have a gastric ulcer at the time of the initial 
screening endoscopy were randomized to receive misoprostol, 200 micrograms four 
times a day, or sucralfate, 1 g four times a day. A gastric ulcer was defined as 
a lesion of the gastric mucosa 0.3 cm or greater in diameter. Patients were 
followed clinically, and repeat endoscopies were performed after 4, 8, and 12 
weeks.
MAIN MEASUREMENT: The development of a gastric ulcer, which was regarded as a 
prophylaxis failure.
RESULTS: Two hundred fifty-three patients were evaluable for efficacy analysis. 
A gastric ulcer developed in 2 of the 122 (1.6%, 95% CI, 0.3% to 6.4%) patients 
on misoprostol, compared with 21 of 131 patients on sucralfate (16%, CI, 10.4% 
to 23.7%). The difference in ulcer rates was 14.4% (CI, 10.4% to 19.5%; P less 
than 0.001).
CONCLUSION: In patients receiving chronic NSAID therapy for osteoarthritis, 
treatment with misoprostol for 3 months was associated with a significantly 
lower frequency of gastric ulcer formation, compared with treatment with 
sucralfate (P less than 0.001).

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-115-3-195
PMID: 1905501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Psychiatry Res. 1991 Mar;36(3):329-31. doi: 10.1016/0165-1781(91)90031-j.

Reduced mortality of manic-depressive patients in long-term lithium treatment: 
an international collaborative study by IGSLI.

Müller-Oerlinghausen B, Ahrens B, Volk J, Grof P, Grof E, Schou M, Vestergåard 
P, Lenz G, Simhandl C, Thau K, et al.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-1781(91)90031-j
PMID: 1905823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Dig Dis Sci. 1991 Jul;36(7):949-56. doi: 10.1007/BF01297146.

Lithotripsy versus cholecystectomy for management of gallstones. A decision 
analysis by Markov process.

Sonnenberg A(1), Derfus GA, Soergel KH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 53226.

Extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy is a new treatment method that effectively 
distintegrates radiolucent gallstones and is associated with a low complication 
rate. Using the model of a Markov process for decision analysis, survival and 
costs under four possible strategies to treat gallstones were compared: 
expectant management with cholecystectomy (EC) or lithotripsy (EL) reserved for 
symptomatic gallstones; prophylactic cholecystectomy (PC) or lithotripsy (PL) 
for all gallstones. Life expectancy for the different strategies varies by few 
days. Only if high annual rates of pain and complication occurred in subjects 
with silent gallstones would both prophylactic procedures marginally increase 
life expectancy. Prophylactic cholecystectomy then would be more cost-effective 
than prophylactic lithotripsy. Expectant strategies remain much cheaper than 
prophylactic management over a broad range of probability values and procedural 
costs. Expectant use of lithotripsy costs less than cholecystectomy. A low 
success rate of lithotripsy would raise the direct costs of lithotripsy above 
those of cholecystectomy but leave total costs of both strategies in the same 
order of magnitude. Lithotripsy appears to be a feasible alternative to treat 
symptomatic but not asymptomatic gallstones.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01297146
PMID: 1906398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. N Z Med J. 1991 Jul 24;104(916):303-5.

The costs and benefits of bone marrow transplantation.

Beard ME(1), Inder AB, Allen JR, Hart DN, Heaton DC, Spearing RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Christchurch Hospital, N.Z.

The average direct costs of performing a bone marrow transplant (BMT), including 
the subsequent year, was found to be NZ$27,074 for 43 consecutive transplants. 
In 29 BMTs a full two year period of follow up was available and a quality of 
life analysis was carried out on these patients. It was calculated that 59 
quality adjusted life years (QALYs) had been gained by the BMT procedure at the 
time of analysis. By combining these two analyses the cost of each QALY gained 
by BMT is NZ$13,272. The relatively low cost of BMT is partly due to the 
extremely low annual costs in second and subsequent years post BMT. In our 
patients this cost amounted to $195 per year. The costs and benefits of BMT 
compare very favourably with other complex medical procedures.

PMID: 1906588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Appl Environ Microbiol. 1991 May;57(5):1367-71. doi: 
10.1128/aem.57.5.1367-1371.1991.

Behavior of Listeria monocytogenes inoculated into raw tomatoes and processed 
tomato products.

Beuchat LR(1), Brackett RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, University of Georgia, Griffin 
30223-1797.

Rates of death and growth of Listeria monocytogenes inoculated onto raw whole 
and into chopped tomatoes stored at 10 and 21 degrees C were not influenced by 
prior treatment of tomatoes with chlorine or packaging under an atmosphere of 3% 
O2 and 97% N2. Growth of the pathogen occurred in whole tomatoes held at 21 
degrees C but not at 10 degrees C, while death occurred in chopped tomatoes 
stored at these temperatures. Likewise, growth patterns of mesophilic aerobic 
microorganisms, psychrotrophic microorganisms, and yeasts and molds on whole and 
chopped tomatoes were essentially unaffected by chlorine and modified atmosphere 
packaging treatments. Populations of L. monocytogenes inoculated into 
commercially processed tomato juice and sauce and held at 5 degrees C remained 
constant for 14 days. A gradual decrease in the number of viable L. 
monocytogenes cells was observed in juice and sauce held at 21 degrees C. In 
contrast, the organism died rapidly when suspended in commercial tomato ketchup 
at 5 and 21 degrees C. Unlike low-acid raw salad vegetables such as lettuce, 
broccoli, asparagus, and cauliflower on which we have observed L. monocytogenes 
grow at refrigeration temperatures, tomatoes are not a good growth substrate for 
the organism. Nevertheless, L. monocytogens can remain viable on raw whole and 
chopped tomatoes and in commercial tomato juice and sauce for periods extending 
beyond their normal shelf-life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1128/aem.57.5.1367-1371.1991
PMCID: PMC182956
PMID: 1906697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. JAMA. 1991 Aug 14;266(6):820-4.

Cost and benefit of secondary prophylaxis for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.

Castellano AR(1), Nettleman MD.

Author information:
(1)University of Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1992 Apr 1;267(13):1779.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the relative cost and benefit of aerosolized pentamidine 
and the combination product of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim sulfate as 
secondary prophylaxis for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.
DESIGN: A Markov-based cost-benefit analysis was performed. Drug efficacies, 
toxicities, and mortality rates were drawn from the current literature.
SETTING: Hypothetical.
PATIENT POPULATION: Patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus who 
had had at least one episode of P carinii pneumonia.
INTERVENTIONS: Regimen 1 required the use of aerosolized pentamidine as the sole 
first-line prophylactic agent in all patients. Regimen 2 required the use of 
sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim in all patients who had no history of a toxic 
reaction to the drug; only patients with a history of toxic effects and those 
who developed toxic effects while receiving the drug would receive aerosolized 
pentamidine. Regimen 3 required that no secondary prophylaxis be given.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Net cost, median patient survival, and 5-year survival 
for each regimen and for regimens 1 and 2 compared with regimen 3.
MAIN RESULTS: Regimen 2 was dominant, with a net cost of $6332 per patient and a 
median survival of 2.050 years. Compared with no prophylaxis, regimen 2 resulted 
in a savings of $16,503 per patient and a 0.696-year increase in median 
survival. Compared with regimen 1, regimen 2 resulted in a savings of $2904 and 
a 0.067-year increase in median survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Secondary prophylaxis for P carinii saves money and extends 
survival. Current data suggest that sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim should be 
given whenever it can be tolerated. Use of aerosolized pentamidine as a 
first-line agent would result in a modest increase in cost and a decrease in 
life expectancy.

PMID: 1907671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1991 Aug;18(11):1735-9.

[Effect, recurrence and prognosis of intra-arterial infusion chemotherapy with 
anticancer agents for advanced breast cancer--especially, the significance of 
tumor blood vessels].

[Article in Japanese]

Toda K(1), Asaishi K, Okazaki M, Masuoka H, Okazaki A, Watanabe Y, Sato H, 
Mikami T, Ohba S, Okazaki Y, et al.

Author information:
(1)1st Dept. of Surgery, Sapporo Medical College.

Between January 1977 and March 1991, 86 patients of Stage III and Stage IV 
breast cancer were treated by intra-arterial infusion chemotherapy (IAIC) in 
Sapporo Medical College. The 5- and 10-year overall survival rates of Stage III 
b were: infusion group 53.1% and 53.1%, non infusion group 50.1% and 16.7%, 
respectively. A significant difference was seen in the 10-year survival rate (p 
less than 0.05). The 5- and 10-year overall survival rate of Stage III b 
histologically effective group was 67.3% and non-effective group 31.8%. A 
significant difference was seen between these two groups (p = 0.0241). A 
significant difference was seen between n2 positive Stage III b infusion group 
and non-infusion group in 7-year survival rate (p less than 0.01). The ischemic 
effect on tumor cells by degeneration changes of the blood vessels was important 
for the histological effect. Pre-operative angiography helped in the choice of 
anticancer agents. The sufficient adjuvant chemo-endocrine therapy will assure a 
good prognosis for IAIC-treated Stage III b breast cancer patients.

PMID: 1908650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Gerontologist. 1991 Jun;31(3):332-6. doi: 10.1093/geront/31.3.332.

Comparing apples and oranges: does cost-effectiveness analysis deal fairly with 
the old and young?

Welch HG(1).

Author information:
(1)Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, NH.

This paper considers the role patient age plays in the type of outcome analysis 
most germane for policymakers: cost-effectiveness analysis. The magnitude of age 
bias is quantified and means to modify it are described. In particular, present 
value analysis (discounting) is demonstrated to markedly attenuate the effect of 
patient age on cost-effectiveness analysis. As the discount rate gets larger, 
the difference in potential "life-years" between old and young gets smaller and 
the age bias is minimized. However, relegating a decision about the importance 
of patient age to a decision about the discount rate seems inappropriate. Value 
judgments cannot be avoided; therefore, it is best that they be explicit.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/31.3.332
PMID: 1908812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 1991 Aug 30;179(1):528-34. doi: 
10.1016/0006-291x(91)91403-y.

Cooperative effect of antisense-Rb and antisense-p53 oligomers on the extension 
of life span in human diploid fibroblasts, TIG-1.

Hara E(1), Tsurui H, Shinozaki A, Nakada S, Oda K.

