Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Biological Science, Science University of Tokyo, Chiba, 
Japan.

Normal human diploid fibroblasts, TIG-1, which have a replicative life span of 
about 62 population doublings (PD), tended to senesce after about 50 PD with a 
gradual decrease in sensitivity to serum. Treatment of TIG-1 cells with the 
antisense-Rb oligomer, which completely depleted the retinoblastoma 
susceptibility gene product (RB), extended life span by about 10 PD. Treatment 
with the antisense-p53 oligomer alone had no effect; however, cotreatment with 
the antisense-Rb oligomer further potentiated the extension and the increased 
sensitivity to serum caused by the antisense-Rb oligomer alone, suggesting that 
p53 and RB function in separate, yet complementary pathways in signal 
transduction to senescence. The c-fos expression, which is presumed to be 
regulated negatively by RB, was not stimulated in partially senescent TIG-1 
cells by treatment with the antisense-Rb oligomer.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-291x(91)91403-y
PMID: 1909121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. J Paediatr Child Health. 1991 Jun;27(3):175-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1754.1991.tb00381.x.

Failure of intravenous infusions in neonates.

Hecker JF(1), Duffy BJ, Fong T, Wyer M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, The University of New England, Armidale, Australia.

The median life expectancy (survival) of 286 peripheral intravenous infusion 
sites in 105 babies in a children's intensive care unit was 36 h. Unadjusted 
univariate survival analysis revealed that dextrose infusions and the initial 
infusions received by a baby had longer survival than total parenteral nutrition 
(TPN) infusions and later infusions respectively. Also infusions with 
cloxacillin and penicillin survived for longer than average while infusions with 
phenytoin had reduced survival. Gestational age, weight, infusion site, other 
drugs, co-infusion of Intralipid with TPN solutions and neutralization of TPN 
did not influence survival of infusions. Multivariate survival analysis 
confirmed the findings for TPN and penicillin but not for cloxacillin, phenytoin 
or later infusions. Multivariate analysis also suggested that survival was 
improved with ampicillin and aminophylline and worse for leg sites, for older 
babies and for infusions in which the fluids were given at greater rates. It 
also indicated that neutralization of TPN improved survival.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1754.1991.tb00381.x
PMID: 1909534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1991 Sep;73(5):851-8. doi:
10.1302/0301-620X.73B5.1910048.

The odontoid process in Morquio-Brailsford's disease. The effects of 
occipitocervical fusion.

Stevens JM(1), Kendall BE, Crockard HA, Ransford A.

Author information:
(1)National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, London, England.

High definition computed cervical myelograms have been made in flexion and 
extension in 13 patients with Morquio-Brailsford's disease. We observed that: 1) 
odontoid dysplasia was present in every case, with a hypoplastic dens and a 
detached distal portion which was not always ossified; 2) atlanto-axial 
instability was mild, and anterior atlanto-axial subluxation was absent in most 
cases; 3) severe spinal cord compression, when present, was due to anterior 
extradural soft-tissue thickening; 4) this compression was not relieved by 
flexing or extending the neck and was manifested early in life; 5) posterior 
occipitocervical fusion resulted in disappearance of the soft-tissue thickening 
and normalisation of subsequent development of the dens. We conclude that the 
severity of neurological involvement at the craniovertebral junction was 
determined by soft-tissue changes, not by the type of odontoid dysplasia nor by 
subluxation. Posterior occipitocervical fusion proved to be an effective 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.73B5.1910048
PMID: 1910048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Mol Biother. 1991 Jun;3(2):68-73.

Continuous infusion interleukin-2 and tumor-derived activated cells as treatment 
of advanced solid tumors: a National Biotherapy Study Group Trial.

Oldham RK(1), Dillman RO, Yannelli JR, Barth NM, Maleckar JR, Sferruzza A, Cohen 
RJ, Minor DR, Spitler L, Birch R, et al.

Author information:
(1)Biological Therapy Institute, Franklin, TN 37065-1700.

Metastases from patients with solid tumors were harvested from 196 patients for 
the purpose of growing tumor-derived activated cells (TDAC). Cells were prepared 
from autologous tumor cultures by incubation with Interleukin-2 (IL-2) followed 
by repeated exposure to tumor antigen and/or anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody. 
Initial growth success was achieved in 66%; 45/56 (80%) of these early cultures 
were subsequently expanded for in vivo therapy. It took a mean of 69.4 +/- 24.0 
days to grow TDAC for treatment. Thirty-eight patients were treated with 
cyclophosphamide (1 g/m2) on day one followed by a 96-hour continuous infusion 
of IL-2 (18 x 10(6) IU/m2/day) on days 2-5 and approximately 10(11) TDAC on day 
2. Patients subsequently received monthly IL-2 as a 96-hour constant infusion if 
their cancers were stable or regressing. Median age was 51 yrs; 58% were male. 
Performance status was 0-1 in 64%, 29% had lung metastases; 34% had liver 
metastases. The usual IL-2 toxicities were seen. Responses were seen only in 
1/38 patients (3%); a partial response in a patient with lymphoma. Forty-two 
percent were stable 90 days post-treatment, the rest were progressive or 
inevaluable. We conclude that a treatment plan for IL-2/TDAC is technically 
difficult, costly, and not practical under these conditions. Clinical results to 
date are not clearly different than those obtained with other IL-2 regimens.

PMID: 1910622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Mol Biother. 1991 Jun;3(2):74-8.

Continuous infusion of interleukin-2 and cyclophosphamide as treatment of 
advanced cancers: a National Biotherapy Study Group Trial.

Oldham RK(1), Stark J, Barth NM, Hoogstraten B, Brown CH, O'Connor T, Dupere S, 
Birch R.

Author information:
(1)Biological Therapy Institute, Franklin, TN 37065-1700.

We have evaluated the effect of Interleukin-2 [IL-2] after Cyclophosphamide (C) 
chemotherapy in 41 patients with metastatic cancer. IL-2 was given as a 
continuous infusion priming cycle 36 hours after C at 1 gm/m2 intravenously. In 
39 evaluable patients, there were no complete remissions [CR], 2 partial 
remissions [PR], and 1 had a minor response [MR]. Stable disease for 30 days was 
seen in 16 patients whereas 20 progressed. The durations of partial and minor 
responses were brief, ranging from 1-6 months. Grade 3-4 neutropenia was seen in 
41%. This was more severe than seen with IL-2 alone or IL-2 combined with lower 
doses of C. The marrow suppression was due to the chemotherapy. This combination 
of IL-2 and C appears to be reasonably well tolerated by patients, but toxicity 
is greater and the response rate is no better than results achieved by IL-2 
alone. Responses of 26 patients with renal cancer appear to be inferior to our 
historical data using IL-2/LAK cells without C. Immune monitoring demonstrated 
changes expected with C chemotherapy (i.e., a non-selective decline in immune 
function). C induced no further differences in IL-2 induced changes in immune 
function.

PMID: 1910623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1991;5(8):430-2. doi: 10.1016/1010-7940(91)90189-q.

Surgical treatment of large pericardial effusions. Etiology and long-term 
survival.

Olsen PS(1), SÃ¸rensen C, Andersen HO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery R, Gentofte County Hospital, Hellerup, 
Denmark.

From 1977 to 1988 60 patients were treated for large pericardial effusion. The 
operation consisted of a small left anterior thoracotomy with formation of a 
pericardial window. In 28 patients (47%) the etiology was a malignant disease. 
Eight patients (29%) had malignant cells in the pericardial fluid and 23 
patients (82%) had metastases to the pericardium. Seven patients (12%) had 
purulent pericarditis; in 4 cases Staphylococcus was found. Of the remaining 25 
patients, the etiology remained unknown in 13. The 5-year survival rate was 60% 
among patients with nonmalignant effusions. In patients with malignant effusions 
only 20% were alive after 2 years. There were no deaths related to the 
operation. We conclude that large pericardial effusions of unknown etiology can 
be safely treated with a small left anterior thoracotomy. This access gives 
optimal possibilities for rapid diagnosis and treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/1010-7940(91)90189-q
PMID: 1910850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Pediatr Nephrol. 1991 Jul;5(4):393-7. doi: 10.1007/BF01453661.

Racial differences in the incidence and renal outcome of idiopathic focal 
segmental glomerulosclerosis in children.

Ingulli E(1), Tejani A.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

The North American Pediatric Registry reports that from 1987 to 1989 blacks and 
Hispanic children accounted for 23% of all renal transplants performed but 38% 
of those performed for focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS). From these 
data, we infer that blacks and Hispanics form a disproportionate number of FSGS 
patients who progress to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) compared with white 
children. To explore this hypothesis we assessed our single-center experience of 
FSGS comparing black and Hispanic with white children. Of 177 black and Hispanic 
children followed in our clinic for idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (NS) between 
1974 and 1989, 57 were diagnosed as having FSGS (group I). The mean age at onset 
of NS of these group I patients was 7.3 +/- 4.6 years and the mean duration of 
follow-up was 8.25 +/- 4.3 years. During the same period, 13 of 65 white 
patients (group II) with idiopathic NS were found to have FSGS. Their mean age 
(7.8 +/- 4.8 years) and duration of follow-up (8.8 +/- 4.8 years) were similar. 
Therapeutic modalities in the two groups were also similar. Of group I patients, 
78% (42/54) reached ESRD compared with 33% (4/12) of group II patients (P less 
than 0.01). Life table analysis showed that 50% of black and Hispanic children 
will reach ESRD within 3 years of FSGS.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF01453661
PMID: 1911111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Pediatr Nephrol. 1991 Jul;5(4):513-21. doi: 10.1007/BF01453693.

Accelerated growth and visceral lesions in transgenic mice expressing foreign 
genes of the growth hormone family: an overview.

Wanke R(1), Hermanns W, Folger S, Wolf E, Brem G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Veterinary Pathology, University of Munich, Federal Republic of 
Germany.

Effects of growth hormone (GH) overproduction were studied in transgenic mice 
expressing murine metallothionein I-GH fusion genes. The most obvious 
consequence was the acceleration of growth, which led to substantial increases 
in body weight of up to more than twice that seen in controls. Growth of the 
internal organs was stimulated, with hepatomegaly and nephromegaly as the most 
prominent features. GH transgene expression was also reflected in increased 
skeletal growth which affected various bones to different extents. The mean 
life-span of human GH transgenic mice with serum levels of hGH ranging from 3 x 
10(3) to 9 x 10(5) ng/ml was drastically reduced at 160 days in both sexes. 
Severe renal lesions were the primary cause of the decrease in life expectancy 
and were characterized by marked nephron atrophy, obsolescence of numerous 
glomeruli, and a massive cystic dilation of the tubules. Initial changes 
involved the glomeruli, which showed significant enlargement and sclerotic 
lesions. The liver exhibited a pronounced hepatocellularmegaly and progressive 
degenerative as well as hyperplastic changes. One-third of the hGH transgenic 
animals displayed myocardial fibrosis. Hepatocellular carcinoma was found in 
bovine GH transgenic mice older than 12 months. Our observations are compared 
with results of other investigators.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01453693
PMID: 1911131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Reg Anesth. 1991 Jul-Aug;16(4):209-13.

Technical complications during long-term subarachnoid or epidural administration 
of morphine in terminally ill cancer patients: a review of 140 cases.

Crul BJ(1), Delhaas EM.

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Cancer Center I.K.O., Institute for Anesthesiology, Nijmegen, 
The Netherlands.

The type and incidence of technical complications (e.g., obstruction and 
dislocation of the catheter and infection) in long-term (ten to 366 days) spinal 
morphine administration in terminally ill cancer patients by means of an 
epidural or subarachnoid catheter are presented. Total treatment time was 8650 
days, of which patients spent 6175 at home. Portable external mini infusion 
pumps were used with satisfactory results in 15 patients of the epidural group 
(n = 110) and in all patients receiving subarachnoid morphine (n = 30). In the 
other 95 patients of the epidural group, intermittent bolus injections were 
used. During the first 20 days of treatment, a significant difference 
(chi-square test, p = 0.02) in the incidence of complications was observed 
between the epidural group (8%) and the subarachnoid group (25%). During the 
remainder of the treatment period the complication rate rose to 55% in patients 
receiving epidural morphine and declined to 5% in the subarachnoid group, a 
significant difference (chi-square test, p = 0.001). The most frequent 
complication in the epidural group was obstruction and dislocation of the 
catheter, probably due to the development of epidural fibrosis. This problem 
became apparent in 50% of patients during the treatment period from Day 20 to 
366. In patients receiving subarachnoid morphine, the prevalent complication was 
CSF leakage, which was observed only during the first two weeks of treatment. 
The subarachnoid route is preferred for patients expected to live longer than 
one month. For patients with a shorter life expectancy, epidural administration 
can yield acceptable results.

PMID: 1911496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. BMJ. 1991 Aug 17;303(6799):408-9. doi: 10.1136/bmj.303.6799.408.

Challenge of aging.

Evans JG(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine, University of Oxford, Radcliffe Infirmary.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.303.6799.408
PMCID: PMC1670728
PMID: 1912811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Cardiol Clin. 1991 Aug;9(3):483-8.

Abdominal aortic aneurysms.

Swinton NW Jr(1), Jewell ER, Tsapatsaris NP.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Medicine and Hypertension, Lahey Clinic Medical Center, 
Burlington, Massachusetts.

Modern surgical techniques permit repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms and 
prevent eventual rupture, with a mortality rate of only a few percent. Coronary 
heart disease is the chief cause of death, depriving the patient of an assumed 
improved life expectancy after successful operation for aneurysm. Therefore, 
aggressive preoperative cardiac evaluation, including coronary arteriography and 
perhaps more protective myocardial revascularization procedures, is indicated.

PMID: 1913729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Circulation. 1991 Oct;84(4):1625-35. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.84.4.1625.

Serial long-term assessment of the natural history of asymptomatic patients with 
chronic aortic regurgitation and normal left ventricular systolic function.

Bonow RO(1), Lakatos E, Maron BJ, Epstein SE.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.

BACKGROUND: Many asymptomatic patients with aorta regurgitation and normal left 
ventricular systolic function remain clinically stable for many years, but 
others ultimately develop symptoms or left ventricular dysfunction and require 
operation. To identify indexes of left ventricular function predictive of 
symptomatic and functional deterioration during the long-term course of 
asymptomatic patients, we studied 104 asymptomatic patients with chronic severe 
aortic regurgitation and normal left ventricular ejection fraction at rest.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Serial echocardiographic (average, 7.8 per patient) and 
radionuclide angiographic (average, 5.0 per patient) studies were obtained over 
a mean follow-up period of 8 years (range, 2-16 years). By Kaplan-Meier life 
table analysis, 58 +/- 9% of patients remained asymptomatic with normal ejection 
fraction at 11 years, an average attrition rate of less than 5% per year; two 
patients died suddenly, four developed asymptomatic left ventricular 
dysfunction, and 19 underwent operation because symptoms developed. By 
univariate Cox regression analysis, many variables on initial study were 
associated with death, ventricular dysfunction, or symptoms, including age, left 
ventricular end-systolic dimension and end-diastolic dimension, fractional 
shortening, and both rest and exercise ejection fraction (all p less than 
0.001). The average rates of change of rest ejection fraction, fractional 
shortening, and end-systolic dimension were also associated with death or 
symptoms by univariate Cox analysis (all p less than 0.01). However, when all 
variables were included in a multivariate Cox analysis, only age (p less than 
0.05), initial end-systolic dimension (p less than 0.001), and rate of change in 
end-systolic dimension and rest ejection fraction during serial studies (both p 
less than 0.05) predicted outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: Thus, in addition to indexes of left ventricular function 
determined on initial evaluation, serial long-term changes in systolic function 
identify patients likely to develop symptoms and require operation. Patients 
have a higher risk of symptomatic deterioration if there is progressive change 
in end-systolic dimension or resting ejection fraction during the course of 
serial studies.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.84.4.1625
PMID: 1914102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Exp Gerontol. 1991;26(2-3):189-201. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(91)90011-a.

Can the adult skeleton recover lost bone?

LeBlanc A(1), Schneider V.

Collaborators: LeBlanc A(2), Schneider V(3).

Author information:
(1)Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.
(2)Baylor College of Medicine, Houston TX
(3)JSC

The loss of bone mineral with aging and subsequent development of osteoporosis 
is a common problem in elderly women, and as life expectancy increases, in 
elderly men as well. Space flight also causes bone loss and could be a limiting 
factor for long duration missions, such as, a Mars expedition or extended 
occupation of a space station. Before effective countermeasures can be devised, 
a thorough knowledge of the extent, location, and rate of bone loss during 
weightlessness is needed from actual space flight data or ground-based disuse 
models. In addition, the rate and extent that these losses are reversed after 
return from space flight are of primary importance. Although the mechanisms are 
not likely to be the same in aging and space flight, there are common elements. 
For example, strategies developed to prevent disuse bone loss or to enhance the 
rate of recovery following space flight might have direct applicability to 
clinical medicine. For various reasons, little attention has been given to 
recovery of bone mass following space flight. As a prelude to the design of 
strategies to enhance recovery of bone, this paper reviews published literature 
related to bone recovery in the adult. We conclude that recovery can be 
expected, but the rate and extent will be individual and bone site dependent. 
The development of strategies to encourage or enhance bone formation following 
space flight may be as important as implementing countermeasures during flight.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(91)90011-a
PMID: 1915690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Gerontology. 1991;37(4):187-92. doi: 10.1159/000213259.

Habituation of the proboscis extension response as a function of age in 
Drosophila melanogaster.

Fois C(1), MÃ©dioni J, Le Bourg E.

Author information:
(1)UniversitÃ© Paul-Sabatier, URA CNRS 664, Toulouse, France.

Habituation of the proboscis extension response induced by sugar tarsal 
stimulation was individually studied in males of Drosophila melanogaster all 
along the adult life span (2-71 days of age at 25 degrees C). A polynomial 
regression fits the best the results: the speed of acquisition of this kind of 
learning decreases between the ages of 3 and 35 days, a plateau being observed 
in flies older than 35 days. Similar results have been previously obtained using 
associative learning tasks of increasing complexity. These effects of age could 
be due to a memory impairment, but also to deficits in the process of central 
inhibition of irrelevant motor responses.

DOI: 10.1159/000213259
PMID: 1916308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Fortschr Med. 1991 Jun 20;109(18):369-71.

[Psychosocial aspects of sexuality in the elderly woman].

[Article in German]

Wenderlein JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Frauenklinik, UniversitÃ¤t Ulm.

In the doctor's office, counseling in matters of sexuality in the aged is rare, 
and scientific data are sparse. Speculative literature is of little use. 
Normative ideas from earlier decades need to be checked for their present-day 
validity. Sexuality as a learning process and form of communication is 
relatively constant, so that few generalizations are possible. A widely accepted 
theory is that of non-use, which means in analogy to the mental faculties in 
aging a steady decline of sexual functions. The possibilities for sexual 
activity in age are impaired not only by illness and the side effects of drugs; 
rather, the difference in life expectancy in men and women is also becoming ever 
more relevant. Thus, today, 1/7 of the 70-75 men are widowed compared with 50% 
of the women of the same age--three times as many. By the year 2000, 15% of the 
population will be aged 85 or older. The expected ratio of women to men is 2:1. 
Elderly women suffer from depression that lasts for weeks about three times as 
often as men. Possible consequences in the sexual area should be considered.

PMID: 1916552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Int Orthop. 1991;15(2):105-9. doi: 10.1007/BF00179706.

Metastatic fractures of long bones.

Korkala OL(1), Karaharju EO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, University Central Hospital, 
Helsinki, Finland.

Forty-two patients with a total of 52 metastatic fractures of long bones were 
analysed retrospectively with regard to the type of treatment, complications, 
general mobility and survival. Endoprosthetic replacement appeared to be better 
than osteosynthesis in the proximal femur, and this method should also be 
considered in pathological fractures of the distal femur. Nailing is indicated 
in fractures of the shafts of long bones in the lower limb, and also in the 
humerus. Osteosynthesis with a plate has only limited indications. Cement should 
be added to an osteosynthesis or replacement of a pathological fracture in order 
to achieve immediate stability. On the whole, the life expectancy of these 
patients has improved; five in our series lived for more than 6 years after the 
treatment of their metastases. The method of surgical treatment therefore needs 
more consideration.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00179706
PMID: 1917181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. J Neurosurg. 1991 Nov;75(5):740-6. doi: 10.3171/jns.1991.75.5.0740.

Long-term outcome of 89 low-grade brain-stem gliomas after interstitial 
radiation therapy.

Mundinger F(1), Braus DF, Krauss JK, Birg W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Stereotaxy and Neuronuclear Medicine, Neurosurgical Hospital, 
Albert-Ludwigs University, Freiburg, Germany.

Between 1974 and 1985, 89 patients suffering from histologically confirmed, 
nonresectable low-grade astrocytomas located in the brain stem were entered into 
a retrospective study. Iodine-125 (125I) was implanted in 29 patients and 
iridium-192 (192Ir) in 26 patients. Computerized tomography revealed that 78% of 
the tumors in these patients were located chiefly in the mesencephalic region, 
70% were circumscribed, and 78% were contrast-enhanced. Thirty-four patients 
underwent biopsy without prior aggressive tumor-specific therapy such as 
chemotherapy or external beam irradiation. Among these, 70% of the tumors were 
located predominantly in the pons, 74% were diffuse, and 59% were hypodense or 
isodense after contrast enhancement. Long-term follow-up investigations 
indicated that life expectancy after interstitial radiation therapy with 125I 
implanted directly by catheter either permanently or temporarily showed a more 
favorable trend than that after treatment with 192Ir. Interstitial radiation 
therapy with 125I appears to be an effective treatment for slowly proliferating, 
differentiated, well-delineated, nonresectable brain-stem gliomas. This 
technique makes it possible to achieve radiosurgical tumor control and, when 
carefully applied, represents the least traumatic treatment. Reduction of the 
tumor mass brings about improvement of the clinical symptoms. Further 
investigations on the biological behavior of brain-stem gliomas and prospective 
randomized long-term follow-up studies are necessary to evaluate the different 
kinds of treatment available for these patients.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1991.75.5.0740
PMID: 1919696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. J Am Podiatr Med Assoc. 1991 Aug;81(8):448-53. doi:
10.7547/87507315-81-8-448.

The demographics of an aging revolution. National Council on the Aging, Inc.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.7547/87507315-81-8-448
PMID: 1920108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. JAMA. 1991 Oct 23-30;266(16):2268-71.

Primary care and health. A cross-national comparison.

Starfield B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy Management, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Hygiene and Public Health, Baltimore, MD 21205.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1992 Oct 21;268(15):2032-3.

Ten Western industrialized nations were compared on the basis of three 
characteristics: the extent of their primary health service, their levels of 12 
health indicators (eg, infant mortality, life expectancy, and age-adjusted death 
rates), and the satisfaction of their populations in relation to overall costs 
of the systems. Information was derived primarily from published sources. 
Indices were developed to characterize the extent of primary care in each 
country and the standing of each country relative to the others on the health 
indicators. There was general concordance for primary care, the health 
indicators, and the satisfaction-expense ratio in nine of the 10 countries. 
Ratings for the United States were low on all three measures. West Germany also 
had low ratings. In contrast, Canada, Sweden, and the Netherlands had generally 
high ratings for all three measures. The lack of concordance in the ratings in 
the United Kingdom may be a result of relatively low expenditures for other 
social services and public education in that country. The findings may add to 
the debate and deliberations concerning modifications in organization and 
financing of care that are currently being considered in the United States.

PMID: 1920727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Kardiol Pol. 1991;34(4):245-8.

[Does coronary surgery prolong life--or only improve its quality?].

[Article in Polish]

Borkowski D(1), Sitkowski W.

Author information:
(1)II Kliniki Kardiochirurgii Instytutu Kardiologii w Warszawie.

PMID: 1921108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Klin Wochenschr. 1991 Aug 16;69(12):506-10. doi: 10.1007/BF01649286.

The natural course of atrial septal defect in adults--a still unsettled issue.

Konstantinides S(1), Geibel A, Kasper W, Just H.

Author information:
(1)Innere Medizin III, UniversitÃ¤tsklinik Freiburg.

Atrial septal defect is the most frequently encountered major congenital cardiac 
disorder in the adult population, with a prevalence of 0.2 to 0.7 per thousand. 
Several patients tolerate large unrepaired defects for 80 years or even longer 
without serious disability. However, it is assumed that, as a rule, atrial 
septal defect reduces life expectancy, the average age at death not exceeding 50 
years. This estimation is based on studies derived mainly from necropsy series 
or from the admission profile of patients undergoing late operative repair. The 
onset of atrial fibrillation, with an incidence ranging from 13 to 52 percent 
among patients older than 40 years, as well as the progression of pulmonary 
arterial hypertension in up to 53 percent of patients, results in congestive 
heart failure and functional limitation. On the other hand, very few 
longitudinal studies thus far have directly and systematically followed the 
course of adults with unrepaired defects. Thus, many issues regarding the 
natural history and prognosis of atrial septal defect still remain unresolved. 
Follow-up series of older patients with nonoperated defects could yield valuable 
information even in an era when routine early surgical closure is increasingly 
being recommended.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01649286
PMID: 1921234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Med Care. 1991 Oct;29(10):1061-4. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199110000-00012.

Effects of number of rating scale points upon utilities in a quality of 
well-being scale.

Kaplan RM(1), Debon M, Anderson BF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Family Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla 92093-0622.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199110000-00012
PMID: 1921526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1991 Sep 14;135(37):1703-6.

['Healthy life expectancy', a contemporary measure for public health].

[Article in Dutch]

Schaapveld K(1), van de Water HP, van Ginneken JK.

Author information:
(1)Nederlands Instituut voor Praeventieve Gezondheidszorg-TNO, Leiden.

PMID: 1922517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Neoplasma. 1991;38(4):369-78.

Strategies of reducing the carcinogenic risk of cytostatic agents on the basis 
of bioassay evaluation.

Berger MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Toxicology and Chemotherapy, German Cancer Research Center, 
Heidelberg, FRG.

This article described strategies that can be used to reduce the carcinogenic 
risk of cytostatic chemotherapy and summarizes our recent experimental results. 
Reduction of neoplasms caused by the carcinogenic potency inherent in cytostatic 
agents can be obtained. (A) by chemical modifications such as: (1) exchanging a 
chlorine atom in N, N'-bis-(2-chloroethyl)-N-nitrosourea (BCNU) in the 
chloroethyl group at N'-position for a hydroxyl group to form the less 
carcinogenic analog N-(2-chloroethyl)-N'-(2-hydroxyethyl)-N-nitrosourea (HECNU); 
(2) linking chlorambucil to the steroid prednisolone to obtain a conjugate 
(prednimustine) with distinctly lower carcinogenic potential than chlorambucil; 
(3) progressive ring halogenation of phenyl-triazenes to generate agents with 
decreased long-term toxic risk; (B) by replacing cyclophosphamide within the 
carcinogenic drug combination of cyclophosphamide, methotrexate and 
5-fluorouracil (CMF) by vincristine to form the combination VMF which has no 
detectable carcinogenic potential; (C) by coadministration of cyclophosphamide 
and mesna to achieve a dose-related reduction of cyclophosphamide-induced 
urinary bladder carcinomas; (D) by administration of dinaline, a compound which 
reduces the spontaneous incidence of malignant tumors in rats. These examples 
demonstrate that the carcinogenic risk of single agents and drug combinations 
used for antineoplastic chemotherapy has successfully been reduced, as assessed 
in long-term bioassays. Such strategies should be considered in the treatment of 
patients with long life expectancy following cytotoxic chemotherapy.

PMID: 1922569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Neth J Surg. 1991 Jun;43(3):67-70.

The femoro-femoral cross-over bypass.

van Adrichem LN(1), van Berge Henegouwen DP, Lobach HJ, van der Werken C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, St. Elisabeth Ziekenhuis, Tilburg, The Netherlands.

From 1984 to 1990 64 patients (56 men and 8 women) with a mean age of 67.1 years 
(36-88 yrs.) were treated with a femoro-femoral cross-over bypass (45 primary 
and 19 secondary procedures). All patients had an occlusion of one iliac artery. 
In 26 patients there were factors that made a central reconstruction 
unattractive. These disorders were congestive heart failure, COPD, CVA, an age 
over 80 years, etc. In 19 patients an occlusion of one leg of a former 
aortobifemoral bypass determined the choice for cross-over bypass. Three 
patients died (5 per cent), two patients of the so-called redo-group 
(septicaemia, one patient and arteriojejunal fistula one patient), the third 
patient died after a primary femoro-femoral bypass (myocardial infarction). The 
overall patency rate after three years was 78 per cent. Especially primary 
cross-over bypasses showed a good outcome with a primary patency of 80 per cent 
and a secondary patency of 85 per cent after three years. Considering that 23 of 
the 45 (51 per cent) primary procedures were for treatment of critical ischaemia 
(stage III and IV of Fontaine), a favourable limb-salvage of 21 out of 23 (91 
per cent) was obtained. The cross-over bypass can be recommended as first choice 
therapy for patients with a unilateral iliac artery occlusion.

PMID: 1922883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Orv Hetil. 1991 Sep 8;132(36):1993-5.

[Prevention of avoidable untimely death].

[Article in Hungarian]

PetrÃ¡nyi G.

PMID: 1923473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Plast Reconstr Surg. 1991 Nov;88(5):810-3. doi: 
10.1097/00006534-199111000-00011.

Is iliac node clearance necessary for stage II melanoma?

Zoltie N(1), Chapman P, Joss G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery, West Norwich Hospital, England.

Comment in
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 1992 Sep;90(3):537-8.

In a retrospective review (1970-1983), survival following block dissection of 
the groin was compared in two groups with clinical stage II melanoma. Twenty 
patients under one surgeon had ilioinguinal (high) block dissection, and 22 
patients under another surgeon had inguinal (low) block dissection. The high 
block 5-year survival was 40 percent, and the low block 5-year survival was 35 
percent. There was no statistical difference between groups on life-table or 
log-rank test analysis. It is concluded that the extent of groin dissection has 
no effect on survival of stage II melanoma.

DOI: 10.1097/00006534-199111000-00011
PMID: 1924567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Radiat Res. 1991 Oct;128(1 Suppl):S117-23.

Life-shortening and disease incidence in mice after exposure to gamma rays or 
high-energy neutrons.

Maisin JR(1), Wambersie A, Gerber GB, Mattelin G, Lambiet-Collier M, De Coster 
B, Gueulette J.

Author information:
(1)UniversitÃ© Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.

Male C57Bl/Cnb and BALB/c mice were exposed to single and fractionated d(50) + 
Be neutrons or 137Cs gamma rays at 12 weeks of age and were followed for 
life-shortening and disease incidence as ascertained by autopsy and histological 
examinations at the time of spontaneous death. Fractionation schedules used were 
10 exposures at 24-h intervals and 8 exposures at 3-h intervals for gamma rays, 
and 8 exposures at 3-h intervals for neutrons. The data were analyzed by the 
Kaplan-Meier procedure using as criteria causes of death and possible causes of 
death. Individual groups were compared by a modified Wilcoxon test according to 
Hoel and Walburg (J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 49, 361-372 (1972)). No significant 
difference was found in C57Bl/Cnb and BALB/c male mice between a single 
gamma-ray exposure and a single neutron exposure. Gamma-ray fractionation was 
clearly less effective in reducing survival time than a single exposure. In 
contrast, fractionation of neutrons was slightly, although not significantly, 
more effective in reducing survival time than a single exposure. The relative 
biological effectiveness (RBE) for life-shortening for d(50)-Be neutrons 
compared to gamma rays is of the order of 1 to 2 for a single exposure to 
neutrons and between 2 and 3 for fractionated neutrons compared to a single 
exposure to gamma rays. Neutron irradiation caused somewhat more cancer than 
gamma irradiation, and the RBE for cancer induction may be higher, probably 
between 2 and 3 in the range of 1 to 3 Gy, although the present data do not 
allow a more precise assessment.

PMID: 1924737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Radiat Res. 1991 Oct;128(1 Suppl):S124-7.

Protection by WR-151327 against late-effect damage from fission-spectrum 
neutrons.

Grdina DJ(1), Wright BJ, Carnes BA.

Author information:
(1)Biological and Medical Research Division, Argonne National Laboratory, 
Illinois 60439.

The mutagenic and carcinogenic properties of fission-spectrum neutrons 
(KERMA-weighted mean energy of 0.85 MeV) from Argonne National Laboratory's 
JANUS reactor are substantially greater than those of low-LET radiation sources 
such as X-ray and 60Co photons. However, in contrast to the vast amount of work 
focused on chemical protection against damage induced by low-LET radiation, 
studies on the prevention of carcinogenic damage induced by fission neutrons 
have been limited. We have investigated the protective properties of the 
thiophosphorate compound S-3-(3-methylaminopropylamino)propylphosphorothioic 
acid (WR-151327) against carcinogenesis and life shortening in the B6CF1 hybrid 
mouse strain. Male and female mice, 200 of each sex per experimental group, were 
irradiated individually at 110 days of age. WR-151327 was administered 
intraperitoneally at a dose of 580 mg/kg 30 min prior to irradiation with a dose 
of 10 cGy. Animals were housed five to a cage; cage locations in holding rooms 
were controlled by computer and randomized. Mice were checked daily and all 
deceased animals were necropsied. A neutron dose of 10 cGy significantly altered 
the patterns of death of male and female animals compared to corresponding 
unirradiated control groups (logrank P values of 0.01 and 0.07, respectively). 
This was evidenced by a shortening of the life span due to tumor induction in 
the irradiated groups. WR-151327, when administered 30 min prior to irradiation, 
effectively protected both male and female animals from these effects. The life 
curves of irradiated male and female animals and those of corresponding 
unirradiated control groups were not significantly different (logrank P values 
of 0.63 and 0.25, respectively).

PMID: 1924738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Respiration. 1991;58 Suppl 1:52-6. doi: 10.1159/000195972.

Long-term oxygen therapy for cor pulmonale in patients with chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease.

SolÃ¨r M(1), Michel F, Perruchoud AP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital, Basel, Switzerland.

Besides smoking cessation, antiobstructive therapy, and the treatment of 
intercurrent infections, long-term oxygen therapy has had the most impressive 
impact on survival in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD). COPD leads to a functional and anatomical obstruction of the pulmonary 
vascular bed, with the development of pulmonary arterial hypertension and cor 
pulmonale. In these patients, survival benefit from long-term oxygen therapy 
(LTOT) stems mainly from improved hemodynamics. However, this improvement is 
limited: hypoxemic COPD patients treated by LTOT have the same life expectancy 
as nonhypoxemic COPD patients. Practical aspects concerning the prescription and 
application of LTOT are discussed, with special emphasis on ambulatory oxygen 
and oxygen-saving techniques.

DOI: 10.1159/000195972
PMID: 1925080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Rev Prat. 1991 Sep 1;41(19):1769-75.

[Acquired aneurysms of the infrarenal abdominal aorta].

[Article in French]

Anidjar S(1), Michel JB.

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie vasculaire, groupe hospitalier PitiÃ©-SalpÃªtriÃ¨re, Paris.

Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) are the result of a degenerative process of the 
aortic wall. The incidence of AAA has increased during the last three decades. 
Computerized axial tomography is the best method for investigating AAA. For 
aneurysms of 4-5 cm or more in antero-posterior diameter, the risk of rupture is 
definitely high and justifies a preventive surgery. Precise evaluation of 
myocardial function and of coronary circulation may limit the operative risk and 
may improve the life expectancy. Screening of AAA in populations at risk will 
allow to survey the natural history of aneurysmal disease and limit the 
incidence of rupture which keeps a high mortality rate.

PMID: 1925354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Unfallchirurg. 1991 Aug;94(8):409-16.

[Indications for bipolar prosthesis in femoral neck fractures. A retrospective 
study of the prognosis in geriatric patients with bipolar prostheses with 
reference to the preoperative health status].

[Article in German]

Hennig F(1), Hoepffner HJ, Muth A.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung fÃ¼r Unfall- und Wiederherstellungschirurgie des Allgemeinen 
Krankenhauses Altona, Hamburg.

In Germany the decision to implant a bipolar prosthesis in patients with femoral 
neck fracture depends mainly on the patient's age and general condition. Taking 
into account the clinical results to date, however, these criteria alone appear 
not to be adequate. In our hospital 182 patients were provided with a bipolar 
prosthesis between January 1986 and February 1989 after traumatic hip fracture. 
By June 1990, the end of this investigation, 56% had died. In a retrospective 
study of the 67 surviving patients 25 (6-48) months postoperatively, we found 
that the results obtained with this bipolar prosthesis were comparable to those 
seen with total hip endoprostheses according to the Harris hip function score 
and to radiological findings regarding the frequency of loose stems and 
protrusion. We also employed a standardized system to evaluate the clinical 
condition of each patient preoperatively as well as the intra- and postoperative 
complications. These clinical data were compared with the postoperative survival 
and the Harris hip score. We found: (1) Good to excellent results in 45% 
(greater than 80 points), satisfactory results in 52% (51-80 points) and poor 
results in 3% after a period of up to 48 months. Good to excellent functional 
results were frequently obtained in healthy older patients. (2) Life expectancy 
in our group of 182 patients was shorter than in the normal population of the 
same age. (3) The reduced life expectancy was not attributable to the fracture 
trauma or the operation but rather to preexisting unrelated causes. In fact the 
fracture trauma itself often appeared to be a result of the patient's 
preexisting bad health.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1925619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1991 Aug;173(2):123-30.

Postoperative radiation therapy does not increase survival after curative 
resection for squamous cell carcinoma of the middle and lower esophagus as shown 
by a multicenter controlled trial. French University Association for Surgical 
Research.

TÃ©niÃ¨re P(1), Hay JM, Fingerhut A, Fagniez PL.

Author information:
(1)French University Association for Surgical Research, Bois-Colombes.

In 1978, postoperative radiation therapy was suggested to be an additive 
treatment of carcinoma of the esophagus. In 1987, we began a multicenter trial 
of patients with epidermoid carcinoma of the middle third or the lower third of 
the esophagus. Isolated surgical treatment (119 patients) was compared with 
surgical treatment followed by radiation therapy (102 patients). Randomization 
was performed according to the results of pathologic examination of all resected 
lymph nodes. Patients were divided into three groups: N0, no lymph node 
invasion; N+1, invasion of paraesophageal lymph nodes, and N+2, invasion of 
distal lymph nodes (recurrent, tracheal and celiac). All patients included in 
this trial had a curative esophageal resection. In the group receiving radiation 
therapy (102 patients), a total dose of 45 to 55 Grays was delivered in the 
mediastinal, right and left supraclavicular areas and also to the celiac area 
when celiac lymph node invasion was present. Two hundred and twenty-one patients 
were randomized and observed from three to nine years; life table method (log 
rank method) was used to compare survival and local recurrence. In all patients 
studied, the survival rate was significantly higher (p less than 0.01) in 
patients without lymph node invasion (group N0) than in patients with lymph node 
invasion (groups N+1 and N+2). Postoperative radiation therapy did not improve 
survival in any group. This lack of improvement in survival was present 
regardless of lymph node status. However, there were significantly fewer 
recurrences in patients receiving radiation therapy as compared with those not 
receiving radiation therapy.

PMID: 1925862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Transplant Proc. 1991 Oct;23(5):2604-5.

Transplantation of small pediatric cadaver kidneys into adult recipients.

Abouna GM(1), Kumar MS, Samhan M, Silva OS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Hanhemann University, Philadelphia, PA 19102.

PMID: 1926498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Am J Public Health. 1991 Oct;81(10):1273-9. doi: 10.2105/ajph.81.10.1273.

Bleach programs for preventing AIDS among i.v. drug users: modeling the impact 
of HIV prevalence.

Siegel JE(1), Weinstein MC, Fineberg HV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA 02115.

BACKGROUND: The growing importance of drug use as a mode of HIV transmission has 
led to increased attention to AIDS prevention among intravenous drug users 
(IVDUs). This analysis examines the effectiveness of bleach distribution, a 
program to prevent HIV transmission via shared needles.
METHODS: We used a Markov model to assess the role of the initial HIV prevalence 
among drug users in determining the effectiveness of bleach programs. The model 
incorporates survey data on risk behaviors and published information describing 
HIV incubation and mortality. It predicts life expectancy for cohorts of IVDUs 
with and without a bleach program to estimate program effectiveness.
RESULTS: We found that bleach programs can produce the greatest life-year 
savings in areas of low HIV prevalence. In the lowest prevalence scenario (0.02 
initial prevalence), initiation of the program resulted in a projected savings 
of 2.3 life years per HIV-negative drug user, compared with 1.7 and 1.3 years 
under medium (0.25) and high (0.60) prevalence, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: While bleach programs are beneficial in all groups of IVDUs, these 
results highlight the advantages of introducing bleach programs early, when 
prevalence is still comparatively low in a drug-user population.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.81.10.1273
PMCID: PMC1405310
PMID: 1928525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Ann Intern Med. 1991 Nov 15;115(10):760-3. doi:
10.7326/0003-4819-115-10-760.

Treatment for cerebral toxoplasmosis protects against Pneumocystis carinii 
pneumonia in patients with AIDS. The Swiss HIV Cohort Study.

Heald A(1), Flepp M, Chave JP, Malinverni R, RÃ¼ttimann S, Gabriel V, Renold C, 
Sugar A, Hirschel B.

Author information:
(1)HÃ´pital Cantonal Universitaire de GenÃ¨ve, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1992 Jul 15;117(2):169.
    Ann Intern Med. 1992 Mar 15;116(6):524.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether long-term maintenance treatment for 
toxoplasmosis protects against Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with 
the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
DESIGN: Cohort study.
SETTING: Switzerland.
