PATIENTS: A total of 453 patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
entered the Swiss HIV Cohort Study. Ninety-nine patients with cerebral 
toxoplasmosis but no previous or simultaneous P. carinii pneumonia were compared 
with 240 patients with AIDS and other severe opportunistic infections (Centers 
for Disease Control [CDC] stage IVC1 infection other than toxoplasmosis and P. 
carinii pneumonia) as well as with 114 patients receiving inhaled pentamidine in 
a study of primary pneumocystis prophylaxis in patients infected with HIV.
MEASUREMENTS: Life-table analysis for P. carinii-free survival.
MAIN RESULTS: Six of 99 (6%) patients with toxoplasmosis, 50 of 240 (21%) 
patients with other severe opportunistic infections, and 8 of 114 (6%) patients 
receiving inhaled pentamidine developed P. carinii pneumonia. Life-table 
analysis showed that the incidence of pneumonia was substantially lower in 
patients with toxoplasmosis compared with that in patients with other severe 
opportunistic infections and was similar to the incidence in patients receiving 
pentamidine as prophylaxis. Analysis of the medication records from patients 
with toxoplasmosis showed that pyrimethamine and sulfonamides were administered 
50% of the time; pyrimethamine and clindamycin, 25% of the time; and 
pyrimethamine alone, 9.9% of the time but that only one of the six patients with 
toxoplasmosis who developed P. carinii pneumonia received pyrimethamine and 
sulfonamides in the month before diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: Patients with cerebral toxoplasmosis have a low risk for 
subsequently developing P. carinii pneumonia. This decreased risk is probably 
the result of chronic suppressive treatment with pyrimethamine and sulfonamides.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-115-10-760
PMID: 1929023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Ann Intern Med. 1991 Nov 15;115(10):807-17. doi:
10.7326/0003-4819-115-10-807.

Cost effectiveness of colorectal cancer screening in the elderly.

Wagner JL(1), Herdman RC, Wadhwa S.

Author information:
(1)U.S. Congress, Office of Technology Assessment, Washington, D.C.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of a periodic program of colorectal 
cancer screening in the elderly.
DESIGN: A model was constructed of four strategies for the periodic screening of 
persons 65 to 85 years of age. The effect of each strategy on life expectancy 
and health care costs was estimated under assumptions that were uniformly 
unfavorable to screening. Cost and added years of life were discounted at 5% per 
year. Cost per year of life gained from screening was calculated for each 
screening strategy.
DATA SOURCES: Assumptions used in the model were based on a review of pertinent 
studies; those studies with results more unfavorable to screening were given 
more weight. Strengths and weaknesses of studies are discussed.
MAIN RESULTS: A program of annual fecal occult blood testing (FOBT) in the 
elderly would detect at least 17% of the expected cases of cancer and could cost 
$35,000 per year of life saved. Screening schedules that include periodic 
sigmoidoscopy would prevent more cases of cancer but could cost between $43,000 
and $47,000 per year of life gained. These estimates are based on uncertain 
assumptions, but results were not extremely sensitive to further relaxation of 
the values of the most uncertain assumptions. In no case did the cost per year 
of life gained from annual FOBT exceed $55,000 or did the cost per year of life 
gained from FOBT with sigmoidoscopy every 5 years exceed $61,000.
CONCLUSIONS: Although colorectal cancer screening is costly in the aggregate, 
its potential medical benefits make it a reasonably cost-effective preventive 
intervention for the elderly.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-115-10-807
PMID: 1929029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Arch Dis Child. 1991 Sep;66(9):1018-21; discussion 1026. doi: 
10.1136/adc.66.9.1018.

Heart-lung transplantation for cystic fibrosis. 1: Assessment.

Whitehead B(1), Helms P, Goodwin M, Martin I, Lask B, Serrano E, Scott JP, Smyth 
RL, Higenbottam TW, Wallwork J, et al.

Author information:
(1)Cardiothoracic Unit, Hospital for Sick Children, London.

Forty five patients with cystic fibrosis (age 5-15 years) were assessed for 
heart-lung transplantation between September 1987 and March 1990. The two main 
conditions for acceptance were (i) life expectancy less than 2 years and (ii) a 
severely impaired quality of life. Patients were accepted onto an active waiting 
list (n = 26), a provisional waiting list (n = 15), or not accepted (n = 4). 
Selection was made on clinical grounds with objective measurements used as an 
aid in assessment. As expected, the mean values for objective measures were 
significantly different between patients on the active waiting list compared 
with the provisional waiting list/not accepted group for resting heart rate 
(118/minute v 101/minute), percentage of ideal weight (83.2% v 93.1%), forced 
expiratory volume at one second as percent of predicted normal (27.3% v 47.6%), 
Shwachman-Kulczycki score (33.6 v 52.5), Chrispin-Norman x ray score (25.8 v 
22.1), 12 minute walk (540 m v 854 m), and minimal oxygen saturation (81.5% v 
92%). Psychological evaluation demonstrated a 55% incidence of individual and a 
50% incidence of family morbidity. Of the 26 patients accepted onto the active 
waiting list, 11 have been transplanted (mean waiting time 3.3 months), 10 have 
died within a mean of 3.7 months of acceptance, and five remain on the active 
list (mean 5.6 months).

DOI: 10.1136/adc.66.9.1018
PMCID: PMC1793053
PMID: 1929505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1991 Sep;48(9):789-95. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1991.01810330013002.

Comparing age at onset of major depression and other psychiatric disorders by 
birth cohorts in five US community populations.

Burke KC(1), Burke JD Jr, Rae DS, Regier DA.

Author information:
(1)Office of the Institute Director, National Institute of Mental Health, 
Rockville, Md.

Using data collected in the National Institute of Mental Health (Rockville, Md) 
Epidemiologic Catchment Area Program, we examined the proposed hypothesis that 
there has been a shift in major depression to younger ages at onset, or 
increased prevalence in younger age periods, for recent birth cohorts. 
Life-table survival methods were used to examine the hazard rates for major 
depression as well as for other specific mental disorders. The findings are 
consistent with a gradual shift to increased rates for major depression between 
the ages of 15 and 19 years for Epidemiologic Catchment Area respondents born 
more recently. The findings also suggest a similar shift for drug 
abuse/dependence; similar but less pronounced changes were found for alcohol 
abuse/dependence and obsessive-compulsive disorder. However, in this study, 
bipolar disorder, panic disorder, and phobias did not exhibit a consistent 
increase in onset at younger ages. Further research is required to determine if 
the shifts in major depression, drug abuse/dependence, and possibly alcohol 
abuse/dependence are linked. It is important to note that these shifts to 
adolescent onset are occurring when nearly half the 31 million Americans without 
health insurance are aged 24 years or younger.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1991.01810330013002
PMID: 1929768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Arch Surg. 1991 Oct;126(10):1251-7; discussion 1257-8. doi: 
10.1001/archsurg.1991.01410340093013.

Limb salvage vs amputation for critical ischemia. The role of vascular surgery.

Taylor LM Jr(1), Hamre D, Dalman RL, Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 
97201-3098.

Since 1980, 498 patients with 627 critically ischemic legs (rest pain, gangrene, 
ischemic ulcer, and ankle-brachial pressure index less than 0.40) were treated 
with revascularization regardless of operative risk or anticipated operative 
difficulty. Primary amputation was performed only when no graftable distal 
vessels were present (14 primary amputations [2.8%]) or in neurologically 
impaired, hopelessly nonambulatory patients. The mortality for revascularization 
was 2.3%, and the median hospital stay was 11 days. During follow-up, 41 limbs 
(7%) required amputation, 31 after failure of revascularization and 10 despite 
patent revascularizations. Renal failure had an adverse influence on limb 
salvage (67%) because of a significantly increased requirement for amputation 
despite patent revascularizations. We conclude aggressive limb revascularization 
in patients with critical lower-extremity ischemia results in low operative 
morbidity and mortality and excellent long-term limb salvage. Patients with 
critical leg ischemia and renal failure are at higher risk for limb loss than 
patients without renal failure.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1991.01410340093013
PMID: 1929826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 1991 Jul-Aug;8(4):17-9. doi:
10.1177/104990919100800404.

AIDS and hospice.

von Gunten CF, Martinez J, Weitzman SA, Von Roenn J.

Which AIDS patients should be admitted to hospice programs? Many health care 
professionals feel that any anti-viral drug or treatment directed against the 
opportunistic infections characteristic of AIDS to be incompatible with hospice 
philosophy. Others argue that inclusion of AIDS patients blurs the distinction 
between hospice and community service programs. We argue that achieving 
consensus on this issue is best served by focusing on the defining 
characteristic of hospice programs--the care of the dying. Consensus is not 
served by dwelling on the specific palliative or supportive measures used to 
achieve the hospice goal. We suggest a framework by which AIDS patients may be 
accommodated in existing hospice programs while maintaining hospice program 
integrity. It is further suggested that these may be used for the consideration 
of any patient for hospice care.

DOI: 10.1177/104990919100800404
PMID: 1931326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Curr Opin Radiol. 1991 Oct;3(5):654-62.

Imaging of solid renal masses.

Aslaksen A(1), Göthlin JH.

Author information:
(1)Bergen University, Haukeland Hospital, Norway.

Detection of renal cell carcinoma is still a major task for the radiologist. 
Ultrasonography has replaced excretory urography as the most cost-effective 
means of detecting early renal cell carcinoma. Detection of small tumors 
confined to the renal parenchyma has made partial nephrectomy a safe therapeutic 
alternative, but a longer life expectancy has not been proved. Doppler 
ultrasonography and MR imaging are used to help distinguish between benign and 
malignant renal tumors with initial equivocal results. However, accurate 
diagnostic criteria for CT have been developed and CT remains the standard 
diagnostic method for characterizing and staging renal tumors. MR imaging has 
one major advantage: it depicts the degree of tumor involvement of the renal 
vein and inferior vena cava. Percutaneous fine-needle aspiration biopsy is still 
important for discriminating between benign and malignant tumors as well as 
enlarged lymph nodes.

PMID: 1931501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Epidemiol Bull. 1991;12(3):1-6.

Mortality due to intestinal infectious diseases in Latin America and the 
Caribbean, 1965-1990.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Life expectancy has increased in Latin America and the nonLatin Caribbean 
(LA/CA) from 51.8-66.6 years and 56.4-72.4 years between 1950-1955 and 1985-1990 
respectively. Reduction in mortality due to infectious and parasitic diseases 
had the most significant effect on this rise in life expectancy. Indeed since 
the actual number of intestinal infection related deaths did fall while the 
populations grew considerably, there was a true reduced risk of death from these 
infections. Improved nutrition, potable water and waste disposal availability, 
immunizations, and safer food handling directly impacted on this reduction while 
the downward trend of the birth rate, increased literacy (especially among 
women), and mass media indirectly prompted the decline. Nevertheless these 
improvements have not yet reached the levels of the US and Canada during 
1965-1970 (.07/1000) and have not been equitably divided among the different 
population groups. Indeed the technology existed 2 decades earlier to achieve 
zero deaths from diarrhea, yet deaths rates in LA/CA continued to range from 
.17-9.83/1000 during 1985-1990. Costa Rica and Chile experienced more of a 
decline in mortality from intestinal infections than most other countries. For 
example, the number of deaths fell about 90% for about the entire population and 
93% and 95% respectively for children 5 years old. Even though there was a 95% 
reduction in the number of deaths for 5 year old children in Chile, the 64% 
reduction in Mexico resulted in more lives saved (355 vs. 529). Further data 
analysis showed that the death rate for 5 old children was the most valid 
indicator to analyze changes in mortality from intestinal infections. Over the 
25 year period the countries with the least reduction in death rates from 
diarrhea included Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua.

PMID: 1931515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Epidemiology. 1991 Mar;2(2):160. doi: 10.1097/00001648-199103000-00016.

Years of potential life lost (YPLL)--what does it measure?

Gefeller O.

DOI: 10.1097/00001648-199103000-00016
PMID: 1932318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Aust J Public Health. 1991 Sep;15(3):207-21. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.1991.tb00336.x.

Mortality in Pacific island countries around 1980: geopolitical, socioeconomic, 
demographic and health service factors.

Taylor R(1), Lewis ND, Sladden T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Sydney, NSW.

Inhabitants of Pacific island countries experience a wide range of levels and 
cause structures of mortality. Data on socioeconomic, geopolitical and 
demographic variables have been analysed here to identify correlates and 
determinants of mortality in Pacific island countries circa 1980. The mortality 
data used in the study were the best available for the period and are reasonably 
accurate; descriptive data were derived from recognised sources. Political 
status was a major correlate, with independence positively associated with 
mortality. However, the influence of political status was partly accounted for 
by economic and social variables. Economic indices, particularly imports per 
capita, were major inverse correlates of mortality. Disparities in life 
expectancy occurred between malarious and nonmalarious countries, and these were 
not explicable by other factors. Melanesians, especially women, experienced high 
mortality rates. Education and doctor availability were both associated with 
increased life expectancy. Intercorrelation and confounding need to be taken 
into account in the interpretation of this analysis. The results have 
ramifications for policy development in the Pacific island countries themselves, 
and for investment and aid programs from major donor nations and organisations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.1991.tb00336.x
PMID: 1932327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Health Rep. 1991;3(2):170-5.

Causes of death 1989.

[Article in English, French]

Brancker A.

PMID: 1932593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Bull Acad Natl Med. 1991 Apr;175(4):643-9; discussion 649-50.

[Treatment of ilio-femoral venous thromboses with surgical thrombectomy].

[Article in French]

Juhan C(1), Miltgen G, Barthélémy P, Ayuso D.

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie vasculaire, Hôpital Nord, Marseille.

Surgical thrombectomy which has been commonly performed in the past is now 
abandoned by most teams. Nevertheless some surgeons have gone on performing 
venous thrombectomies with good results. We have performed venous thrombectomy 
in 91 acute ilio-femoral vein thrombosis associated with inferior vena cava or 
superficial vein involvement in respectively 35% and 86% of the cases. The mean 
estimated age of the clot was 5 days. Ilio-femoral thrombectomy was carried out 
under general anesthesia using a Fogarty catheter introduced through a common 
femoral venotomy and the removal of the distal clots by mean of massages 
maneuver. In case of vena cava involvement, direct caval venotomy was carried 
out by a right sub-costal approach. A temporary arterio-venous fistula in the 
groin was associated in 89% and a partial interruption of the vena cava in 55% 
of the cases. No operative death and no peri-operative pulmonary embolism were 
observed. Post-operative ilio-femoral vein patency rate was 85% without 
recurrence after closure of the arterio-venous fistula. A venous thrombectomy in 
selected cases appears to be more efficient than intra-venous heparin or 
thrombolytic therapy. Indications of venous thrombectomy are ilio-femoral or 
ilio-caval vein thrombosis of less than 7 days duration. Patients who are non 
ambulatory or with limited life expectancy are not likely to benefit from 
surgery. Venous thrombectomy is not recommended in patients with inflammatory or 
tumoral pelvic or retroperitoneal lesions, coagulopathies, peripheral arterial 
or significant heart diseases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1933480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Cancer Res. 1991 Dec 1;51(23 Pt 2):6452-69.

Dose and time relationships for tumor induction in the liver and esophagus of 
4080 inbred rats by chronic ingestion of N-nitrosodiethylamine or 
N-nitrosodimethylamine.

Peto R(1), Gray R, Brantom P, Grasso P.

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine, Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford, United 
Kingdom.

A Weibull analysis is presented of the dose and time relationships for the 
effects on 4080 inbred rats of chronic ingestion in the drinking water of 16 
different doses of N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) or N-nitrosodiethylamine 
(NDEA). The sites chiefly affected were the liver (by both agents) and the 
esophagus (by NDEA only). Since the experiment continued on into extreme old 
age, effects became measurable at doses of only 0.01 to 0.02 mg/kg/day, which is 
an order of magnitude lower than previously achieved. (After only 2 years of 
treatment, however, the TD50 doses needed to halve the proportion of tumorless 
survivors would have been about 0.06 mg/kg/day of NDEA, or about 0.12 mg/kg/day 
of NDMA.) The general pattern of response was that the natural logarithm of the 
probability of remaining tumorless was given by the product of two terms, the 
first (the "Weibull b value") depending on the dose rate but not on the duration 
of exposure and the second depending not on dose at all but only on duration. 
For all types of tumor the dependence on duration was fairly similar (and for 
each the second term was taken to be -t7, where t = years of treatment), but for 
different types of tumor the dependence on dose rate was quite different. For 
esophageal tumors, the "Weibull b value" was approximately proportional to the 
cube of the dose rate of NDEA (males 21 d3, females 11 d3, where d = dose rate 
in mg/kg adult body weight/day), and the background incidence was unmeasurably 
low. For liver tumors induced by NDEA, the b value was approximately 
proportional to the fourth power of dose rate + 0.04 mg/kg/day [males, 19 (d + 
0.04)4; females, 32 (d + 0.04)4], although the relationships were somewhat 
different for the different cell types of liver tumor. This one formula implies 
both approximate linearity at low doses and an approximately cubic relationship 
within the higher range of doses that was studied. For liver tumors induced by 
NDMA, the Weibull b value was approximately proportional to the sixth power of 
dose rate + 0.1 mg/kg/day [males, 37 (d + 0.1)6; females, 51 (d + 0.1)6], again 
with some variation between liver cell types, and again implying approximate 
linearity at low doses. These algebraic formulae should, of course, be trusted 
only in the range of doses where they were derived, and particularly not above 
it.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 1933907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Circulation. 1991 Nov;84(5 Suppl):III260-7.

Coronary bypass surgery improves survival in high-risk unstable angina. Results 
of a Veterans Administration Cooperative study with an 8-year follow-up. 
Veterans Administration Unstable Angina Cooperative Study Group.

Sharma GV(1), Deupree RH, Khuri SF, Parisi AF, Luchi RJ, Scott SM.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Administration Medical Center, W. Roxbury, MA 02132.

To identify high-risk subgroups, 468 patients with unstable angina were 
prospectively stratified according to the clinical presentation of unstable 
angina (type I or type II) and left ventricular function (normal or abnormal) 
and were randomized to conventional medical therapy or surgical treatment with 
coronary bypass surgery. Type I patients (n = 374) were those who had 
progressive effort angina or recent angina at rest. Type II patients (n = 94) 
were those who had severe rest angina associated with ST-T changes on the 
electrocardiogram. Follow-up for 8 years showed that the cumulative mortality 
rates for type II patients with abnormal left ventricular function were 
significantly lower in the surgical patients compared with the medical cohorts 
(13% versus 46%, p less than 0.04). In the other subgroups, cumulative medical 
and surgical mortality rates were not different. Thus, type II patients with 
abnormal left ventricular function appear to be the subgroup of patients who are 
at the highest risk with medical therapy. Coronary bypass surgery significantly 
reduces the mortality in this high-risk subgroup of patients with unstable 
angina.

PMID: 1934418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Contrib Gynecol Obstet. 1991;18:1-14.

The third age, the Third World and the 21st century.

Diczfalusy E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Reproductive Endocrinology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.

PMID: 1935122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Dokl Akad Nauk SSSR. 1991;319(1):250-3.

[Effect of an epiphyseal polypeptide preparation on life expectancy and 
frequency of spontaneous tumors in aged female rats].

[Article in Russian]

Anisimov VN, Khavinson VKh.

PMID: 1935561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Eur J Clin Nutr. 1991 Jul;45(7):341-6.

Contraceptive use and breast-feeding duration in rural Bangladesh.

Briend A(1), Fauveau V, Chakraborty J.

Author information:
(1)International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh.

The association between contraceptive use and breast-feeding duration was 
investigated in 2380 women in rural Bangladesh where women usually stop 
breast-feeding once pregnant. Life table analysis showed that women receiving 
regular injections of depo medroxy progesterone acetate (DMPA) and those using 
non-hormonal contraception breast-fed significantly longer than women using no 
contraception. In contrast, women using oral contraceptives (combination of 0.5 
mg norgestrel and 0.05 mg ethinyl oestradiol) did not breast-feed longer than 
women using no contraception. It is suspected that prolongation of 
breast-feeding obtained by delaying the next pregnancy with this oral 
contraceptive was offset by the depressing effect of oestradiol on lactation. 
Thus, in communities where prolonged breast-feeding is associated with improved 
child survival, non-hormonal contraceptive methods, or injectable DMPA, should 
be preferred for lactating women to oestrogen-containing oral contraceptives.

PIP: Researchers used the life table method to analyze data on 2380 lactating 
women with at least 1 5 year old child alive in March 1988 to examine the 
association between contraceptive use and lactation in rural Matlab, Bangladesh. 
51.6% of the women used the contraceptive method of 3 monthly intramuscular 
injections of 150 mg depo medroxy progesterone acetate (DMPA). 23.7% used a 
combined oral contraceptive (COC) (.5 mg norgestrel and .05 ethinyl estradiol). 
24.6% used a nonhormonal method, especially tubectomy and IUDs. Women who did 
not use contraceptive were more likely to be pregnant when they stopped breast 
feeding (47.8%) than their counterparts who had used contraception (5.5%) 
(p.001). Women who used a nonhormonal method or received DMPA breast fed a mean 
of 43 and 45 months respectively which compared to the duration of mothers who 
did not use contraception and were not pregnant at the end of the follow up (44 
months). Mothers who did not use contraception and were pregnant at then end of 
the follow up breast fed on average 31 months. Therefore pregnancy was a common 
cause for breast feeding cessation. DMPA users breast fed significantly longer 
than women not using contraceptives (45 months vs. 40 months) (p.001). Further 
nonhormonal contraceptive users had a significantly longer breast feeding 
duration than noncontraceptive users (p.01). These associations remained 
significant even after adjusting for parity and maternal education (p.001 and 
p=.024 respectively). On the other hand, COC users breast fed on average 40 
months which was similar to the mean duration of noncontraceptive users. In 
fact, COC use significantly increased breast feeding cessation when the 
researchers adjusted for pregnancy or excluded women who were pregnant at the 
end of the follow up (p.001). The researchers believed that cessation occurred 
with COC users because estradiol depressed lactation rather than contraceptive 
failure. In conclusion, contraceptive use delays pregnancy which in turn 
protects breast feeding and may improve child survival.

PMID: 1935859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Eur J Biochem. 1991 Oct 15;201(2):483-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1432-1033.1991.tb16306.x.

Post-transcriptional effect of ultraviolet light on gene expression in human 
cells. Stabilization of cytokine-induced and poly(I).poly(C)-induced messenger 
RNA.

Hilgers G(1), Clauss IM, Huez GA, Rommelaere J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Rhode St. 
Genèse, Belgium.

It is well established that ultraviolet light modulates gene expression in 
mammalian cells, particularly at transcriptional and post-translational levels. 
The present study was undertaken to investigate whether the fate of mRNA is also 
altered in ultraviolet-light-irradiated human cells. In order to facilitate 
distinction between transcriptional and post-transcriptional effects, this 
analysis has focused on six genes whose transcription is conditional on the 
supply of exogenous inducers, interferon-alpha, interleukin-1 alpha or the 
double-stranded RNA, poly(I).poly(C). Human cells induced to express these genes 
were found to retain a significantly higher concentration of corresponding 
transcripts when irradiated with ultraviolet light at the end of the inducing 
treatment. This stimulation was due to dose-dependent ultraviolet-light 
stabilization of preformed mRNA, as shown by run-on and pulse/chase experiments. 
This work uncovers a new facet of the cellular response to genotoxic stresses, 
i.e. extension of the life-span of transcription products. Whether this 
stabilizing effect contributes to cell recovery by promoting gene expression 
remains to be determined.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-1033.1991.tb16306.x
PMID: 1935943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Diabetologia. 1991 Aug;34 Suppl 1:S141-4. doi: 10.1007/BF00587642.

Effect of pancreas transplantation on life expectancy, kidney function and 
quality of life in uraemic type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetic patients.

Secchi A(1), Di Carlo V, Martinenghi S, La Rocca E, Caldara R, Spotti D, 
Slaviero G, Staudacher C, Ferrari G, Pozza G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Istituto Scientifico San Raffaele, Milan, 
Italy.

The aim of our study was to evaluate the effects of haemodialysis, kidney 
transplantation and simultaneous kidney and pancreas transplantation on survival 
of diabetic subjects and on kidney function. 40 Type 1 (insulin-dependent) 
diabetic patients received a kidney transplantation: in 31 cases the kidney was 
transplanted simultaneously to a pancreas graft from the same donor (KP group), 
while in 9 cases the pancreas was not available (K group). 44 uraemic Type 1 
(insulin-dependent) diabetic patients on dialysis and in waiting list for kidney 
transplantation, constituted the control group (HD group). Patient survival rate 
1, 3 and 5 years following transplantation was better in KP group (93%, 89%, 
89%, respectively) and in K group (88%, 88%, 73%, respectively) and in HD group 
(88%, 62%, 51%, respectively). Kidney graft survival at 1, 3 and 5 years 
post-transplant was better in KP group (93%, 72%, 72%, respectively) than in K 
group (76%, 61%, 31%, respectively). 1 year after transplantation, patients of 
the KP group who had lost the pancreas for technical reasons (thrombosis) were 
included in the K group so as to evaluate the effect of the transplanted 
pancreas on long-term patient and kidney survival. Patient survival rate in the 
KP group (17 patients) at 2 and 4 years was 100%, while at the same intervals it 
was 78% in the K group (13 patients). Kidney graft function rate at 2 and 4 
years was 93% in the KP group (17 grafts) and 54% and 27% respectively in the K 
group (14 grafts).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00587642
PMID: 1936682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 1991 Aug;51(8):595-601. doi:
10.1055/s-2007-1026207.

[Use of methadone in obstetric and gynecologic management of drug-dependent 
females with and without HIV infection].

[Article in German]

Schäfer A(1), Eck M, Bell U, Heckmann W, Schwartländer B.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsfrauenklinik Klinikum Rudolf Virchow Berlin UFK.

In the course of obstetrical and gynecological care, 113 women with acute 
intravenous drug use (IVD) participated in a methadon detoxification. In 
addition to medical treatment, socio-paedagogical intervention was part of the 
approach. A total of 212 cycles of methadon detoxification have been 
administered since patients' relapse during or after detoxication had a chance 
of readmission. In 45% of the attempts, detoxification could be fully achieved. 
An investigation of actual drug behaviour of the participating women in October 
1990 showed, that 23.9% had abstained from drug consumption for at least 6 
months ("drug free"). According to the HIV status and pregnancy 4 groups with 
comparable age (mean 27.7 years) and duration of drug dependency (mean 7.5 
years) were classified. There were remarkable differences in drug behaviour 
between these groups. Of the HIV-infected women treated during pregnancy, 36% 
were drug free. Of the HIV-infected women without pregnancy and pregnant women 
without HIV-infection, comparable proportions (approx. 27% each) were living 
without drugs. All but one HIV-negative women of the group without pregnancy 
(3.8%) consumed drugs. In conclusion, pregnancy and subsequent motherhood seems 
to enhance and stabilize the motivation to quit drug consumption. The 
significant difference between the HIV-negative and HIV-positive women without 
pregnancy suggests, that besides pregnancy, the awareness of HIV-infection and 
of a limited life expectancy has also a positive influence on drug behaviour.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1026207
PMID: 1936870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Fortschr Med. 1991 Aug 30;109(25):500-3.

[Cardiac surgery interventions in patients over 70 years of age].

[Article in German]

von der Emde J(1), Esperer HD, Rein J, Eberlein U.

Author information:
(1)Herzchirurgische Abteilung, Herzzentrum Universität.

In consequence of a longer life expectancy and improved surgical results, 
patients aged over 70 years now account for 10 to 15% of patients undergoing 
surgery on the heart. Such patients do, however, make greater demands on 
peri-operative management; the adaptability of the cardiopulmonary and renal 
functions to stress is reduced, homeostasis is fragile, and the diseases that 
commonly accompany old age represent an additional risk. Furthermore, greater 
demands are also made on the operating skills of the surgeon. Nevertheless, no 
patient should be considered inoperable merely on account of advanced age. 
However, the indications for surgery must always be established on an individual 
basis, and against the background of the expected risk/benefit ratio. The 
biological rather than the chronological age is always decisive. The main aim of 
surgical treatment is to achieve an improvement in the patient's quality of 
life.

PMID: 1937337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. J Biosoc Sci. 1991 Oct;23(4):499-505. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000019593.

Matriarchy, polyandry, and fertility amongst the Mosuos in China.

Johnson NE(1), Zhang KT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Michigan State University, East Lansing.

A survey of 232 households of the Mosuo minority group in Yunnan Province, 
People's Republic of China, suggested that polyandrous matriarchy did not raise 
the birth rate per household, but lowered the community birth rate by 
restricting many women's chances of marrying. The results imply that tolerance 
by the national government of polyandry within certain minority groups (e.g. 
Mosuos and Tibetans) will not prevent but may aid the attainment of zero 
population growth by China in the twenty-first century.

PIP: Survey data from a stratified cluster sample of 163 Musuo households in 
Yongning and all 69 Musuo households in Xinman, which has strong Han influence, 
in Yunnan Province of China in January 1988 were analyzed for nuptiality and 
birthing patterns. The 1 child policy adopted in 1979 to stabilize the 
population of China at 1.2 billion by 2000 provides economic and medical rewards 
only to couples of the Han ethnic majority. Minorities constitute 8% of the 
population and do not have to comply with this policy. The concern is that the 
nonHan might raise the national birth rate and reduce the proportion of Han, 
even though nonHan life expectancy is lower and there is practice of polyandry. 
The Musuo have practiced matrilineal polyandry since the Yuan dynasty (1271-1368 
AD). The general practice of polyandry is described as a walking marriage where 
women control material resources. The study hypothesis is that for Musuo women, 
matriarchy is associated with higher fertility than patriarchy, and polyandrous 
marriage is associated with higher fertility than is monogamous matriarchy or 
monogamous patriarchy. Type I households have as head a women whose husband 
either visits or lives with her but is not legally bound to her; it is de facto 
polyandry (26.7% of survey households). Type II is female-headed and daughters 
bring children into the household by de facto polyandry (41%), but sons formally 
weds monogamously. Type III is headed by a man and descent line is patrilineal 
(32%). The results showed that the polyandrous matriarchy did not raise the 
birth rate per household, but lowered the community birth rate by restricting 
the chances of women marrying (28.4% not married) due to the scarcity of 
unattached men. National government should practice tolerance of polyandry as an 
acid to the attainment of zero population growth. The surviving rate for births 
over the past 5 years or the child/woman ratio (the number 0-4 years/1000 women 
15-44) is expected to be highest for households I and declining to III. The 
results were the opposite and do not support the hypothesis. The child/woman 
ratio was 386 for Type I (polyandrous matriarchy), 406 for Type II (polyandrous 
and monogamous matriarchy), and 411 for Type III (monogamous patriarchy), even 
in areas with a low level of economic development. The differences are minimal. 
Discussion is provided on the polyandry found among villagers of Limi in the 
Highlands of Nepal and the Tre-ba of Central Tibet, where there is fraternal 
polyandry patriarchies, where fertility rates of these unions were not higher, 
and a sizeable fraction of women 20-49 were left without mates (31% in Limi and 
29% in Dhinga). In Kerala state, India and among the Kandyan Sinhalese of Sri 
Lanka, polyandry may not increase the fertility of individual wives, and is 
economically resourceful.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000019593
PMID: 1939297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1991 Sep-Oct;32(5):636-42.

Surgery for abdominal aortic aneurysms. A survey of 656 patients.

Olsen PS(1), Schroeder T, Agerskov K, Røder O, Sørensen S, Perko M, Lorentzen 
JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery RK, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Between 1979 and 1988, 656 patients were operated upon for abdominal aortic 
aneurysm. Elective operation was performed in 287 patients (44%) and acute 
operation in 369 patients. A ruptured aneurysm was found in 218 patients (33%). 
Patients with arteriosclerotic heart disease, hypertension, impaired renal 
function or chronic pulmonary disease showed an increased perioperative 
mortality. Development of postoperative cardiac and renal complications could 
not be related to previous cardiac or renal diseases. The major postoperative 
complications were renal failure in 81 patients (12%), pulmonary insufficiency 
in 77 patients (11%) and cardiac complications in 96 patients (13%). Failure of 
one or more organs occurred in 153 patients (23%) and the mortality rate for 
patients with multiorgan failure was 68%. Complications leading to reoperation 
occurred in 93 patients (14%). The perioperative mortality was 18.8%. The 
mortality for elective cases was 4.8%, for symptomatic cases 17.2% and 37% for 
ruptured aneurysms. The five-year survival rate was 48% for ruptured aneurysms, 
70% for symptomatic cases and 75% for elective cases. After six months the life 
expectancy in these three groups of patients were identical and comparable to 
the expected survival for a sex and age matched control population.

PMID: 1939327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1991 Sep-Oct;32(5):680-9.

Outcome of intraarterial urokinase for acute vascular occlusion.

Parent FN 3rd(1), Piotrowski JJ, Bernhard VM, Pond GD, Pabst TS 3rd, Bull DA, 
Hunter GC, McIntyre KE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Arizona Health Sciences Center, Tucson.

Intraarterial urokinase (IAUK) was administered to 33 patients on 40 occasions 
for the treatment of acute extremity ischemia and long-term patency was 
assessed. Lysis was successful in 39 of the 40 cases (95%). Occlusive thrombus 
was cleared in 12 of 13 patients with native artery occlusion (7 complete, 5 
partial), 8 of 9 with autologous vein grafts (5 complete, 3 partial), and in all 
18 patients with synthetic grafts (17 complete, 1 partial). The primary 
cumulative patency following successful IAUK was 100% for native arteries and 
47% for synthetic grafts at 12 months, and 23% for autologous grafts at 9 
months. The difference in rethrombosis rate between autologous vein (67%) and 
native artery (0%) was significant (p = 0.02) as was the difference between 
infrainguinal prosthetic grafts (63%) and native artery (p = 0.025). IAUK is 
most effective for the treatment of native artery occlusion, but is 
significantly less effective for thrombosed infrainguinal autologous vein or 
synthetic grafts due to the likelihood of reocclusion, despite the high 
immediate success rate. For autologous vein grafts, lysis is frequently 
incomplete and patency rapidly deteriorates regardless of adjunctive therapy to 
relieve the underlying obstruction.

PMID: 1939333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. J Clin Epidemiol. 1991;44(11):1131-9. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(91)90145-y.

Natural history of chronic left ventricular aneurysm; a population based cohort 
study.

Benediktsson R(1), Eyjolfsson O, Thorgeirsson G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, National University Hospital, Reykjavik, Iceland.

In order to evaluate the morbidity and mortality of chronic left ventricular 
aneurysm a population based cohort study was carried out. All cardiac 
catheterizations performed in Iceland during the years 1983-1985 were examined 
(n = 1261). Sixty seven patients with left ventricular aneurysm defined as: (1) 
normal diastolic contour with segmental dyskinesis (n = 6), (2) abnormal 
diastolic contour with (a) akinetic (n = 36) or (b) dyskinetic (n = 25) segments 
in systole, were included. Sixty seven patients with normal diastolic contour 
and akinetic segments in systole served as controls. The groups had similar mean 
age, sex ratio, number of diseased vessels and left ventricular end diastolic 
pressure. Mean ejection fraction was significantly lower in the aneurysm group 
(46 vs 56%, p = 0.00005). Collaterals were detected significantly more often in 
controls (88 vs 72%, p = 0.03). At follow up in 1989, 19 in the aneurysm group 
had died as compared to 12 in the control group. Life table analysis revealed 
significant differences between survival curves. The relative risk ratio was 
2.18 with 95% confidence interval of 1.00-4.74 (p less than 0.05). However, when 
the amount of myocardial damage was taken into account the differences in 
survival were no longer statistically significant (relative risk ratio 1.77 with 
95% confidence interval of 0.79-3.99). We conclude that the reduced survival 
probability of patients with chronic left ventricular aneurysm in comparison to 
controls with akinetic scars is accounted for by the more extensive myocardial 
damage and not by the presence of aneurysm per se.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(91)90145-y
PMID: 1941008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. J Pediatr. 1991 Nov;119(5):733-7. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(05)80288-4.

Thyroid function after treatment of brain tumors in children.

Ogilvy-Stuart AL(1), Shalet SM, Gattamaneni HR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Christie Hospital, Manchester, England.

Comment in
    J Pediatr. 1992 May;120(5):836-7.

In 134 children who had been treated for a brain tumor not involving the 
hypothalamic-pituitary axis, thyroid function was assessed up to 24 years after 
treatment with cranial or craniospinal irradiation. In addition, 78 children 
received up to 2 years of cytotoxic chemotherapy. Of 85 children who received 
craniospinal irradiation, 30 (35%) had abnormalities of thyroid function, and 10 
(20%) of 49 who received cranial irradiation had such abnormalities. Frank 
hypothyroidism developed in three children and thyrotoxicosis in one. Thirty-six 
children had an elevated thyroid-stimulating hormone level in the presence of a 
normal thyroxine level; in 16 of them the thyroid-stimulating hormone level 
subsequently returned to normal. Twenty-eight children who were treated between 
1960 and 1970 were excluded from the analysis. Of 34 children who received 
cranial irradiation, five had thyroid dysfunction and 24 of 72 who received 
craniospinal irradiation had such dysfunction (p = 0.013). Thyroid dysfunction 
was present in 4 of 35 children who received no chemotherapy and in 25 of 71 who 
received chemotherapy (p = 0.014). Direct irradiation plus chemotherapy was more 
damaging than irradiation alone. These data confirm the high incidence of 
thyroid dysfunction when the thyroid gland is included in the radiation field. 
However, in a high proportion, the thyroid abnormalities are minor and revert to 
normal with time; life-long replacement therapy with thyroxine may be 
unnecessary.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(05)80288-4
PMID: 1941379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. J Toxicol Clin Exp. 1991 May-Jun;11(3-4):147-58.

[Evaluation studies of experimental carcinogenesis].

[Article in French]

Maximilien R(1), Morin M.

Author information:
(1)Département de Protection Sanitaire-Institut de Protection et de Sureté 
Nucléaire, Fontenay-Aux-Roses, France.

In many cases, epidemiological studies demonstrate carcinogenic risk of 
occupational exposures and industrial processes, but do not allow to assess 
carcinogenic potential of the various substances involved in exposures 
(speciation). Expert judgment combining human and animal data is needed for 
classifying and labelling of the pure substances. For decision aiding purpose, a 
method was established for reviewing critically experimental carcinogenesis: 1. 
Standardized toxicological profiles are established according to pure 
substances, species, strains and administration routes. 2. Methodological 
evaluation is made using a scheme based on 3 critical parameters: study duration 
which should extend to the life expectancy of the species under study; sample 
size, the statistical significance of negative experiments being ascertained 
depending on size of samples; survival rates of groups, since sufficient numbers 
of animals should be at risk during most of their life span. 3. Classification 
of the results for risk assessment, taking into account the relevance of the 
administration routes.

PMID: 1941701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. J Urol. 1991 Nov;146(5):1224-7. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)38052-7.

What are the benefits of extended dissection of the regional renal lymph nodes 
in the therapy of renal cell carcinoma.

Herrlinger A(1), Schrott KM, Schott G, Sigel A.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Urology, University of Erlangen-Nuernberg, Germany.

In a prospective study of 511 patients we compared the data of 320 who underwent 
systematically extended dissection of the regional lymph nodes with data of 191 
who underwent only facultative dissection of the lymph nodes, which means that 
no lymph nodes had been removed or only a few were taken for staging purposes. 
Only patients without distant metastases and who were less than 72 years old 
were included. All patients were treated with a transabdominal approach. The 
incidence of positive nodes in the patients with systematically extended 
lymphadenectomy was 17.5% and for patients with facultative lymphadenectomy it 
was 10%. Survival rates of patients with facultative lymphadenectomy were 58% 
after 5 years and 40.9% after 10 years, compared to 66% and 56.1%, respectively, 
for patients with systematically extended lymphadenectomy (p less than 0.01). 
Patients with stage pT1-2 (Robson stage I) and pT3aN0M0 (Robson stage II) tumor 
obviously had the highest benefits with extended lymphadenectomy. Operative 
mortality was less than 1% after systematically extended lymphadenectomy and 
3.8% after facultative lymphadenectomy. We conclude from our data that the 
systematic and extended lymphadenectomy improves the prognosis of patients with 
renal cell carcinoma without any additional operative risks.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)38052-7
PMID: 1942267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. J Urol. 1991 Nov;146(5):1327-32; discussion 1332-3. doi: 
10.1016/s0022-5347(17)38081-3.

Prognostic factors in progression-free survival and corrected survival in 
patients with advanced prostatic cancer: results from a randomized study 
comprising 150 patients treated with orchiectomy or estrogens.

Johansson JE(1), Andersson SO, Holmberg L, Bergström R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Orebro Medical Center Hospital, Sweden.

In a population-based randomized study comparing 150 patients with advanced 
prostatic cancer treated with orchiectomy or estrogen, some possible prognostic 
factors were analyzed. The observation period was 78 to 114 months. M category, 
T category, tumor grade, performance status, pain, prostatic acid phosphatase, 
sedimentation rate, hemoglobin and serum creatinine level were all statistically 
significantly related to the interval to progression and to disease-specific 
death on univariate analyses. Variables that were statistically significant on 
multivariate analyses were M category, T category, sedimentation rate and 
patient age. The sedimentation rate predicted the intervals to progression and 
to disease-specific death, with the relative hazard and 95% confidence interval 
for the latter end point being 1.018 (range 1.010 to 1.027) for each millimeter 
increase in sedimentation rate per hour. An analysis that was stratified 
according to the extent of the disease as measured on a bone scan showed that 
the sedimentation rate was the only prognostic factor of statistical 
significance with an estimate of relative hazard of 1.52 if the sedimentation 
rate was elevated 20 mm. per hour. Progression-free survival but not 
disease-specific survival was statistically significantly better in the estrogen 
group (relative hazard 0.47), as assessed by multivariate analysis in which all 
variables were taken into account.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)38081-3
PMID: 1942284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 1991 Jul;28(4):509-14. doi: 
10.3143/geriatrics.28.509.

[Changes in the blood cell counts with aging].

[Article in Japanese]

Kubota K(1), Shirakura T, Orui T, Muratani M, Maki T, Tamura J, Morita T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Kusatsu Branch Hospital, Gunma University School of 
Medicine.

We analyzed the blood cell counts and serum levels of total protein (TP), total 
cholesterol (TC) and triglyceride (TG) of 2,231 healthy subjects (1,295 men and 
936 women) between age 20 and 99 years in order to clarify the following two 
subjects. (1) In the approximately 10 years since the report of Shirakura et al 
in 1978, eating habits have improved and the average life expectancy has 
extended in Japan. Is there any effect of such betterment on blood cell counts 
of the aged? (2) It has been pointed out that quality of everyday life, such as 
staying at home but not in an old-age home, working, traveling, and so forth, 
had an influence on the blood cell counts of aged. Is there any difference 
between the blood cell counts of people under 60 years and those of people older 
than 60 years who have a good quality of life as mentioned above? The hemoglobin 
concentration, red blood cell count, and hematocrit value began to decrease in 
men in their sixth decade and in women in their seventh decade and the change 
was more prominent with advancing age, especially in men. The white blood cell 
count and platelet count tended to decrease with advancing age. The serum levels 
of TP, TC, and TG also declined with age in those over 60 years of age. These 
results confirmed that the hemoglobin concentration, red blood cell count, and 
hematocrit value decrease in the elderly subjects as they grow older and it may 
be considered that reduced ingestion of protein is one of the causes of the 
phenomenon.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.28.509
PMID: 1942631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Langenbecks Arch Chir. 1991;376(4):203-7. doi: 10.1007/BF00186813.

[Tumor recurrence at the neck in papillary thyroid gland cancer. A statistical 
analysis of the recurrence probability after radical surgery].

[Article in German]

Ladurner D(1), Seeber G, Schmid K, Tötsch M, Donnemiller E.

Author information:
(1)II. Universitäts-Klinik für Chirurgie, Innsbruck.

308 cases of papillary thyroid carcinoma (82.6% of our patients operated on 
between 1952 and 1987) who had undergone potentially curative surgery were 
analysed postoperatively. The follow-up ranges from 1 month to 29.4 years 
(median 4.58 years). In 32 cases (10.4%) a cervical tumour recurrence (local 
recurrence and/or cervical lymph nodes) was found. 8 of these are not free of 
tumour at the end of the follow-up, 6 had died of thyroid carcinoma (case 
fatality rate 18.8%, mortality rate 66.7%, in the entire material 2.9% and 29.0% 
respectively). The cumulative recurrence rate is 9.98% after 5 years and 16.98% 
after 10 years. A statistical analysis of the probability of recurrence was 
carried out only for patients who could be followed at least 5 years or those 
who died within 5 years. Age, sex, stage of tumour and histological criteria 
were taken into account as statistical variables. The state of cervical lymph 
nodes, the differentiation of the tumour and the patients' sex turned out to be 
determining factors for tumour recurrence after 5 years. In order to improve the 
recurrence rate a differentiated surgical radicality, depending on the above 
mentioned variables, is recommended.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00186813
PMID: 1943407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1991 Sep;92(9):1135-8.

[Surgical repair for aortic aneurysms in aged patients over 70 years of age].

