[Article in Japanese]

Kazui T(1), Yamada O, Komatsu S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery (Section 2), Sapporo Medical College & Hospital, Japan.

From 1960 through 1991, 556 consecutive patients with aortic aneurysms 
consisting of 173 with abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) and 383 with thoracic 
aortic aneurysms (TAA) were treated surgically. No significant differences were 
observed in the early mortality rate after AAA or TAA repair between the aged 
(41 TAA, 52 AAA) and non-aged groups. The 5-year survival rate of aged patients 
with TAA (47.3 +/- 8.5%) was significantly lower to that of non-aged patients 
(67.4 +/- 2.8%). However, the 5-year survival rate of aged patients with AAA 
(63.9 +/- 12.1%) was not significantly different from that of non-aged patients 
(75.9 +/- 4.3%). The asymptomatic non-ruptured aneurysms in aged-patients 
present many problems such as the association between surgical intervention and 
life expectancy, selection of patients by accurate preoperative evaluation of 
risk factors, and determination of the timing of operation.

PMID: 1944171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. N Z Med J. 1991 Nov 13;104(923):477-9.

The economics of serum cholesterol reduction.

Amarasingham R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Dunedin Hospital.

PMID: 1945177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Postgrad Med J. 1991 Sep;67(791):825-8. doi: 10.1136/pgmj.67.791.825.

Changes in birth-cohort pattern of peptic ulcer mortality in England and Wales.

Katschinski BD(1), Logan RF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University Hospital Essen, Germany.

Previous epidemiological studies have described the secular trends in peptic 
ulcer mortality in England and Wales as being characteristic of a cohort 
phenomenon. The most recent data on ulcer mortality, however, show increasing 
mortality rates from duodenal ulcer in women over 65 and from gastric ulcer in 
women over 75 years. While the rise in mortality rates in the oldest age groups 
is partly explained by their greater life expectancy, the increase in mortality 
from duodenal ulcer in older women shows evidence of an environmental (period) 
effect being superimposed on female cohorts born between 1895 and 1925. This 
effect could partly be due to the increasing consumption of non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs which coincides with the rise in mortality rates.

DOI: 10.1136/pgmj.67.791.825
PMCID: PMC2399114
PMID: 1946128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol. 1991 Jun;13(3):228-40. doi: 
10.1016/0273-2300(91)90065-4.

Should the presence of carcinogens in breast milk discourage breast feeding?

Rogan WJ(1), Blanton PJ, Portier CJ, Stallard E.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology Branch, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, 
Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709.

Pollutant chemicals are commonly found in human milk at levels that would 
prevent its sale as a commercial food for infants. The chemicals found most 
commonly are dichlorodiphenyl-dichloroethene, polychlorinated biphenyls, 
dieldrin, chlordane, heptachlor, and polychlorinated dibenzodioxins. In general, 
the regulatory levels for these chemicals have been set to prevent cancer in 
adult humans from lifetime exposure. We compared lives saved in the postneonatal 
period by breast feeding to the estimated excess cancer deaths attributable to 
the contaminants in breast milk. The results of this analysis suggest that only 
extreme levels of contaminants in breast milk represent more of a hazard than 
failure to breast feed, but clinical considerations in individual cases might 
override this conclusion. Our analysis depends on assumptions about how the 
chemicals might cause cancer in humans and on whether breast feeding prevents 
some postneonatal mortality. Noncarcinogenic hazards from chemical exposure, 
other hazards from breast feeding such as transmission of viruses, and benefits 
of breast feeding other than reduction in mortality were not considered.

DOI: 10.1016/0273-2300(91)90065-4
PMID: 1947235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol. 1991 Jun;13(3):293-308. doi: 
10.1016/0273-2300(91)90069-8.

Standard setting processes and regulations for environmental contaminants in 
drinking water: state versus federal needs and viewpoints.

Sidhu KS(1).

Author information:
(1)Interagency Center on Health and Environmental Quality, Michigan Department 
of Public Health, Lansing 48909.

The primary objective of a standard setting process is to arrive at a drinking 
water concentration at which exposure to a contaminant would result in no known 
or potential adverse health effect on human health. The drinking water standards 
also serve as guidelines to prevent pollution of water sources and may be 
applicable in some cases as regulatory remediation levels. The risk assessment 
methods along with various decision making parameters are used to establish 
drinking water standards. For carcinogens classified in Groups A and B by the 
United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) the standards are set by 
using nonthreshold cancer risk models. The linearized multistage model is 
commonly used for computation of potency factors for carcinogenic contaminants. 
The acceptable excess risk level may vary from 10(-6) to 10(-4). For 
noncarcinogens, a threshold model approach based on application of an 
uncertainty factor is used to arrive at a reference dose (RfD). The RfD approach 
may also be used for carcinogens classified in Group C by the USEPA. The RfD 
approach with an additional uncertainty factory of 10 for carcinogenicity has 
been applied in the formulation of risk assessment for Group C carcinogens. The 
assumptions commonly used in arriving at drinking water standards are human life 
expectancy, 70 years; average human body weight, 70 kg; human daily drinking 
water consumption, 2 liters; and contribution of exposure to the contaminant 
from drinking water (expressed as a part of the total environmental exposure), 
20%. Currently, there are over 80 USEPA existing or proposed primary standards 
for organic and inorganic contaminants in drinking water. Some of the state 
versus federal needs and viewpoints are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0273-2300(91)90069-8
PMID: 1947238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Stat Med. 1991 Oct;10(10):1595-605. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780101011.

Analysis of clinical trials by treatment actually received: is it really an 
option?

Lee YJ(1), Ellenberg JH, Hirtz DG, Nelson KB.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes 
of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.

The primary analysis of a randomized clinical trial should compare patients in 
their randomly assigned treatment groups (intention to treat analysis). When a 
substantial number of subjects fail to take a prescribed medication or are 
switched to a different study medication, it is tempting to consider treatment 
comparisons using only those subjects with treatment as actually received rather 
than as prescribed. There are several arguments against this approach: the 
prognostic balance brought about by randomization is likely to be disturbed; 
sample size will be reduced; and the validity of the statistical test procedures 
will be undermined. Further, results of analysis by treatment actually received 
may suffer from a bias introduced by using compliance, a factor often related to 
outcome independently of the treatment received, to determine the groups for 
comparison. The extent and nature of this bias will be related to the definition 
of compliance in an as treated analysis, a definition which could be 
unintentionally self-serving. We have investigated the problem of the definition 
of actual treatment in the context of a recent clinical trial. We used several 
definitions to classify patients as having received or not received treatment as 
prescribed. These definitions, when used in as treated analyses, provided 
results that were at times inconsistent or counter-intuitive, and which neither 
helped to confirm nor further explain the intention to treat analysis.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780101011
PMID: 1947515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1991 Oct 8;80(41):1120-3.

[Rehabilitation in multiple sclerosis].

[Article in German]

Kesselring J(1), Mertin J.

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitationszentrum, Valens.

Rehabilitation is the only effective treatment in multiple sclerosis (MS), as 
long as the cause of this commonest neurological disease of younger adults is 
not known. No medical treatment constantly influences the course of the disease. 
Methods for restitution of functional impairments, for improvement of abilities 
and for adaptation of daily life according to constraints caused by disability 
and handicap are applied with the goal of enlarging personal free space. 
Inadequate prevention of complications is often the cause for apparent 
progressive deterioration of the disease. Efficient symptomatic therapies have 
helped to increase life expectancy and to improve quality of life of MS patients 
in recent years.

PMID: 1947541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Southeast Asian J Trop Med Public Health. 1991 Jun;22(2):235-9.

Laboratory studies on host-parasite relationship of Bithynia snails and the 
liver fluke, Opisthorchis viverrini.

Chanawong A(1), Waikagul J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Helminthology, Faculty of Tropical Medicine, Mahidol 
University, Bangkok, Thailand.

The infection rate of Bithynia snails to Opisthorchis viverrini eggs was studied 
in relation to exposure intensity, age and species of host. It was found that 50 
miracidial eggs per snail yielded the highest percentage of living surviving 
positive snails. Bithynia funiculata and Bithynia siamensis siamensis were 
highly susceptible to O. viverrini, about four to seven times higher than 
Bithynia siamensis goniomphalos. Young snails, 1-3 months old, appeared more 
susceptible than old snails.

PMID: 1948284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Sangre (Barc). 1991 Jun;36(3):183-6.

[Causes of death in chronic myeloid leukemia. Analysis of 109 patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Cervantes F(1), Sanz C, Bosch F, Rozman C.

Author information:
(1)Escuela de Hematología Farreras Valenti, Servicio de Hematología, Hospital 
Clínico y Provincial de Barcelona.

The cause of death was revised in 109 cases of Ph'-positive chronic myelogenous 
leukaemia (CML) who died in a 15-year period. The median survival of the series, 
which included eight patients with initial criteria of blastic crisis, was 33.7 
months (ranging between 2 and 192). Eight patients (7.3%) died during the 
chronic phase of the disease, 7 (6.4%) in the accelerated phase, and 94 (86.3%) 
in the blastic crisis. The cause of death in the chronic phase was frequently 
unrelated to CML (a second malignancy, cirrhosis of the liver, suicide, in four 
cases as opposed to infection, haemorrhage of hyperuricaemic renal failure in 
four others), but this was not so in the deaths occurred in the accelerated 
phase or blastic crisis. Thus, most of the deaths appearing in the accelerated 
phase were due to infection or haemorrhage, whereas in the blastic crisis they 
were mainly due to infection (54 of the 94 cases), followed by haemorrhage and 
leucostasis. All in all, these three complications were responsible for 94% of 
the deaths occurring in that evolutive phase of CML.

PMID: 1948535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Sangre (Barc). 1991 Jun;36(3):193-6.

[Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in childhood. Review of 33 cases].

[Article in Spanish]

Furundarena JR(1), Martínez Busteros D, Navarro E, Aginako R, Manterola A, Orube 
A, Lasa R, Echeveste MA, Egurbide I, Bengoechea E, et al.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Hematología y Hemoterapia, Hospital Ntra. Sra. de Aránzazu. San 
Sebastián.

A retrospective study was performed of 33 cases of non Hodgkin's lymphoma in 
children diagnosed in our hospital. The mean age was 10 years and there were 24 
males and 9 females. The distribution, according to Rappaport's diagnostic 
classification, was: 11 undifferentiated lymphomas, 9 lymphoblastic lymphomas, 6 
diffuse histiocytic lymphomas, and 7 cases of other types. Of the 33 patients, 
23 had bulky disease (over 5 cm. in diameter). The mean serum LDH and uric acid 
values were, respectively, 537 (68-2021) and 6.0 (2.7-19). According to Murphy's 
staging system, the distribution of the cases was as follows: I (1), II (4), III 
(12), IV (16). Since this study spreads for a long period, several protocols 
have been used in the treatment of the group, but most patients received the 
LSA2-L2 regimen. Complete remission (CR) was achieved in 26 cases (78%), this 
being 100% of the lymphoblastic lymphomas. After a mean follow-up of 45 months, 
the actuarial survival is 48.1%, and the disease-free survival of patients 
attaining CR is 60.4%. The prognostic factors analysed, such as histologic type, 
stage, and serum LDH showed no statistical significance, probably due to the low 
number of cases studied.

PMID: 1948537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1991 Jul-Sep;72(3):19-26.

Longevity gains continue.

[No authors listed]

1990 was an excellent year for life expectancy. Average future lifetime for both 
infant boys and girls rose to all-time highs. However, the gender gap in 
expectation of life at birth widened for the first time in more than a decade. 
The increase may be a statistical aberration or, more likely, a reflection of 
the growing mortality toll from AIDS, especially among males. If so, then the 
outlook is for widening longevity gaps between the sexes. On the other hand, 
there was more good news, as the infant mortality rate decreased dramatically, 
falling to a record low. Also encouraging is the continued, if somewhat 
unsteady, long-term trend toward gradual narrowing of the white/non-white/black 
life expectancy differentials.

PMID: 1948639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Surgery. 1991 Nov;110(5):824-31.

Proximal gastric vagotomy for peptic ulcer disease: follow-up of 483 patients 
for 3 to 14 years.

Valen B(1), Dregelid E, Tønder B, Svanes K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Bergen, Haukeland Hospital, Norway.

During the years 1972 to 1986, proximal gastric vagotomy was performed in 483 
patients for management of duodenal, pyloric, or prepyloric ulcers. In 25 
patients a drainage procedure was added because of pyloric stenosis. The 
operations were performed by 64 surgeons, most of whom were junior residents. 
After surgery four patients had lesser curve necrosis; one of the patients died. 
The 14-year cumulative ulcer recurrence rate was similar (about 13%) in patients 
treated for duodenal and pyloric/prepyloric ulcers. The cumulative recurrence 
rate was significantly higher in women (17%) than in men (12%). Twenty-three 
percent of female patients and 16% of male patients were considered Visick grade 
4. Moderate dumping occurred in 29% and diarrhea in 7% of the patients. The 
diarrhea was moderate except in one patient who had disabling diarrhea. Women 
had more frequent nausea, epigastric fullness after meals, and food intolerance 
than men. Basal acid output, pentagastrin-stimulated peak acid output, and 
insulin-stimulated peak acid output were not found to be reliable tests for 
evaluating the completeness of vagotomy or predicting ulcer recurrence.

PMID: 1948651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 1991 May-Jun;85(3):324-6. doi: 
10.1016/0035-9203(91)90276-5.

Some recent advances in non-communicable diseases in the Tropics. 1. 
Hypertension: an emerging problem in tropical countries.

Beevers DG(1), Prince JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dudley Road Hospital, Birmingham, UK.

With increasing urbanization, hypertension and its complications are becoming 
major health problems in many tropical countries. In particular, hypertension is 
a major cause of illness in black Africans. There is good evidence that an 
increasing dietary salt intake is partly responsible for this rising incidence 
of hypertension and possibly restriction of salt may help in prevention. The 
public health requirements for the prevention, detection and management of 
hypertension are likely to consume scarce resources in countries where life 
expectancy is gradually rising due to improved control of communicable disease 
and malnutrition. Failure to address the problem of hypertension could have 
serious effects on morbidity and mortality of economically active individuals in 
developing countries.

DOI: 10.1016/0035-9203(91)90276-5
PMID: 1949131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Vet Clin North Am Small Anim Pract. 1991 Sep;21(5):989-1004. doi: 
10.1016/s0195-5616(91)50107-8.

Boxer cardiomyopathy. A review of the long-term benefits of antiarrhythmic 
therapy.

Harpster NK(1).

Author information:
(1)Angell Memorial Animal Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

Antiarrhythmic therapy for Boxer cardiomyopathy both enhances the quality of 
life and improves life expectancy. The natural course of the disease for most 
dogs is a progression from mild arrhythmias to serious, potentially 
life-threatening arrhythmias and eventually to CHF. This process may evolve over 
a period of months or even years; the factors responsible for the variable rate 
of progression from one dog to another are not well understood. Once heart 
failure occurs, the long-term prognosis is dismal, usually no better than 3 to 6 
months. Whether the administration of L-carnitine will have a significant effect 
on functional improvement of the heart, as taurine in dilatative feline 
cardiomyopathy, awaits the long-term evaluation of this therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0195-5616(91)50107-8
PMID: 1949503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1991;103(17):513-8.

[Risk factors for coronary heart disease].

[Article in German]

Lechleitner M(1), Patsch JR, Braunsteiner H.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Klinische Atheroskleroseforschung, Universitätsklinik für 
Innere Medizin, Innsbruck.

Cardiovascular disease remains the major cause of death in the industrialized 
world with dyslipidemia, hypertension and cigarette smoking leading a long list 
of risk factors. Recently, controversy arose from some critical articles 
expressing concern about the evaluation and interpretation of statistical data 
of epidemiologic studies. One study using covariance analysis reported an 
absence of the widely accepted negative association between coronary heart 
disease (CHD) and high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Also criticism was 
expressed regarding the cost-effectiveness of preventive measures such as the 
use of lipid lowering drugs on life expectancy. Because of such recent 
scientific controversy and discussions already taking place in the media, we 
have summarized in this article recent epidemiologic evidence including a 
meta-analysis of the major epidemiologic studies on HDL. We have directed 
particular attention to 3 large epidemiological studies, i.e., the Familial 
Atherosclerosis Treatment Study (FATS), the Program on the Surgical Control of 
the Hyperlipidemias (POSCH), and the Cholesterol Lowering Atherosclerosis Study 
(CLAS), all of which have clearly demonstrated a desirable effect of intensive 
lipid lowering therapy on coronary lesions.

PMID: 1949809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Adv Contracept. 1991 Jun-Sep;7(2-3):281-6. doi: 10.1007/BF01849418.

Clinical study of Multiload Cu375 in Pakistan.

Husain FA(1), Kazi A, Khan T.

Author information:
(1)National Research Institute of Fertility Control, Clifton, Karachi.

Three hundred and sixty five volunteers were observed for a total of 4882 
woman-months for the clinical evaluation of MLCu375. Data were analyzed by 
life-table method at 6, 12 and 18 months. Most women were 21-30 years old, and 
of parity 2-4. Continuation rates of 78.2 and 68.8 at 12 and 18 months, 
respectively, and a pregnancy rate of 0.3% proved the device to be highly 
effective and well tolerated.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01849418
PMID: 1950724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Am J Kidney Dis. 1991 Nov;18(5 Suppl 2):21-9.

Prevalence and cost of ESRD therapy.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1951354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1991 Oct;165(4 Pt 1):1056-60. doi: 
10.1016/0002-9378(91)90469-8.

Ultrasonographic diagnosis of congenital anomalies in twins.

Allen SR(1), Gray LJ, Frentzen BH, Cruz AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Florida, Gainesville.

To determine whether serial ultrasonographic examinations with basic anatomic 
surveys provide an adequate screen for congenital abnormalities that are more 
common in twins, we compared the results of prenatal sonograms and neonatal 
examinations for 314 twins (157 pairs) delivered during a recent 42-month 
period. An anomaly was defined as major if it potentially required surgical 
repair or precluded normal life expectancy; otherwise it was defined as minor. 
Thirty-three twins (9.5%) had 40 anomalies; 28 (9%) were major and 12 (4%) were 
minor. Prenatal ultrasonography with cardiac screening limited to the 
four-chamber view provided detection of 39% of all major anomalies, 55% of 
noncardiac major anomalies but none of the cardiac lesions, and 69% of the major 
anomalies for which routine prenatal management should be altered. No 
false-positive diagnoses incorrectly altered management. We conclude that serial 
prenatal ultrasonographic examinations are useful in detecting noncardiac 
anomalies for which twins are at increased risk, but the four-chamber view is 
not an adequate screen for the cardiac malformations of twins.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(91)90469-8
PMID: 1951512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Am J Public Health. 1991 Nov;81(11):1442-7. doi: 10.2105/ajph.81.11.1442.

Effects of budgeting on health care services in Dutch hospitals.

Casparie AF(1), Hoogendoorn D.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus University Rotterdam, Department of Health Care Policy and 
Management, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: In 1983 hospital budgeting was introduced in the Netherlands. We 
studied the effect of the enactment of budgeting on the efficiency and 
effectiveness of health care.
METHODS: In four different age groups, the admission rate, length of stay, type 
and number of surgical inpatient procedures, and hospital mortality were 
measured in all short-term hospitals from 1977 through 1988. Data were 
standardized by age and sex.
RESULTS: For the total population, the hospital admission rate and the operation 
rate decreased after 1982. However, for the subgroup of patients beyond the age 
of 65 both rates are still on the rise, but the increase in the admission rate 
for elderly patients has slowed significantly since 1983. The tendency toward a 
shorter length of stay, together with the diminished admission rates, led to a 
22% decrease in standardized hospital days between 1982 and 1988. The severity 
of the operations increased. Most operations performed on elderly patients were 
aimed at improving the quality of their lives rather than lengthening their life 
expectancy. The hospital mortality rate decreased in all age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that modern medicine in the Netherlands has 
become more efficient and more effective. Better health care for older patients 
was achieved within the same budget. The tendency toward more efficiency by 
hospitals has been reinforced since 1983.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.81.11.1442
PMCID: PMC1405658
PMID: 1951801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1991 Nov;144(5):1070-4. doi: 10.1164/ajrccm/144.5.1070.

Descriptive study of prognostic factors influencing survival of compensated 
silicotic patients.

Infante-Rivard C(1), Armstrong B, Ernst P, Petitclerc M, Cloutier LG, Thériault 
G.

Author information:
(1)School of Occupational Health and Pulmonary Research Laboratory, Department 
of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

The objective of this study was to assess survival and the prognostic 
influencing survival of compensated silicotic patients. All workers compensated 
for silicosis in the Province of Quebec from 1938 to 1985 (n = 1,165) were 
included. Clinical data were those collected during the exam that led to a 
compensation decision. Due to missing data, a subcohort of 961 patients was used 
for multivariate analysis of clinical prognostic factors with the Cox 
proportional hazards model. The following factors made an independent 
contribution to survival: age at compensation, smoking, dyspnea, expectoration, 
abnormal breath sounds, radiographic appearance, and vital capacity. On the 
basis of the model, patients with small opacities alone on their chest 
radiograph and who did not have dyspnea, expectoration, or abnormal breath 
sounds had a survival similar to the average Quebec man; other patients had a 
poorer survival. We conclude that it is possible to identify at the time of 
compensation, silicotic patients who are likely to have a life expectancy 
similar to that of the general population. Symptoms and physical signs as well 
as radiographic and lung function abnormalities appear to be useful prognostic 
indicators in compensated silicotic patients.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm/144.5.1070
PMID: 1952433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Ann Hum Biol. 1991 Sep-Oct;18(5):395-404. doi: 10.1080/03014469100001692.

Isonymy in records of births and deaths in Ferrara.

Barrai I(1), Scapoli C, Canella R, Formica G, Barale R, Beretta M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Evolutionary Biology, University of Ferrara, Italy.

Surname distributions were studied in records of male and female births in 
Ferrara in the period 1982-89, and in records of male and female deaths in the 
same period. Average year of birth and standard deviation was 1985 +/- 2.3 for 
the birth series, and 1912 +/- 14.4 for the death series. Then the surname 
distributions, in two independent samples at an average distance of 73 years, 
were compared. It was observed that random isonymy within series, which depends 
on the shape of the distribution, stays fairly constant at three generations of 
distance, indicating near-equilibrium of surname turnover. The migrational 
contribution is indicated by the significant decrease of random isonymy between 
series, measured with the method of Lasker. It was also observed that immigrants 
to Ferrara have a life-span significantly longer than people born in the town.

PIP: In the study of surname distribution in population structure, there are 2 
lines of inquiry: surnames as alleles at a haploid locus with models of neutral 
evolution, and surnames in a diploid state with estimation of marital and random 
isonymy in males and females. Both approaches are used in the analysis of 
surname distribution among births and deaths in Ferrara, Italy, in the period 
1982-89. The purposes were to determine whether surname distribution had changed 
perceptibly in the population in the course of an average human life span and to 
report on the variation of isonymy in deaths and births. A comparison was made 
of the shape of the surname distributions and of isonomy within and between 
samples. The assumption was that a random sample of people born at an average of 
73 years ago are representative of surname distributions existing at the time of 
their birth in Ferrara. The data were classified by sex and place of birth for 
death and sex only for births. There were 7509 deaths of those born in Ferrara 
with 1894 surnames among the deaths and 14,572 deaths total with 3896 surnames 
among the total deaths. There were 6066 births with 2561 surnames among births. 
Surnames were studied fitting a regression to the log-log transformation to the 
number of surnames which were represented "k" times. Entropy and the equivalent 
surname number were also calculated. Random isonymy was calculated within series 
and between series using the method of Lasker, and standardized isonymy between 
2 series was calculated according to Chen and Cavalli-Sforza. Estimates of 
abundance of surnames and migration rates were calculated according to the 
method of Fisher, and Karlin and McGregor. The results revealed that the 
distribution of surnames in Ferrara in 19185 maintain a shape very similar to 
the shape in 1912. The slopes of the log-log regressions for migration show a 
significant affect, but migration affects the shape only slightly. Isonymy 
remains almost the same during the 73 years. The reason random isonymy did not 
change significantly over the years may be due to only recent growth of birth 
rates and the immigration of entire family groups. It would appear that the 
genetic structure of the population stayed almost constant, as described by 
isonymy. An interesting characteristic was that immigrants were the most 
long-lived, even after infant deaths are excluded.

DOI: 10.1080/03014469100001692
PMID: 1952797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Ann Hum Biol. 1991 Sep-Oct;18(5):417-24. doi: 10.1080/03014469100001712.

A longitudinal study of osteoarthritis of the hand: the effect of age.

Busby J(1), Tobin J, Ettinger W, Roadarmel K, Plato CC.

Author information:
(1)Applied Physiology Section, National Institute on Aging, National Institutes 
of Health.

Osteoarthritis is the most ubiquitous rheumatic disease worldwide. Although its 
prevalence in various populations has been well documented, few studies have 
evaluated the longitudinal radiographic progression of the disease, especially 
as it is expressed in the interphalangeal joints of the hand. In this 
longitudinal study, left hand-wrist X-rays of 386 white male participants of the 
Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging followed for at least 5 years with two or 
more visits were examined for prevalence and progression of osteoarthritis of 
the distal and proximal interphalangeal joints of the hand. As other studies 
have shown, we found that the prevalence of osteoarthritis in both distal and 
proximal interphalangeal joints becomes progressively higher as the age of the 
subjects increases. Using the life table method of analysis we studied the 
progression of osteoarthritis as defined by the following criteria: (1) an 
increase in the severity of radiographic changes of the joints previously 
affected and (2) an increase in the number of new joints affected. The results 
indicated that osteoarthritis in both the distal and proximal interphalangeal 
joints progresses at a faster rate in the older population than in individuals 
less than 60 years of age. Furthermore, osteoarthritis in the interphalangeal 
joints progresses at the same rate whether the starting point was a Kellgren 
grade of 0 (no disease) or 1 (doubtful). We therefore conclude that grade 1 is 
an intermediate step in the inexorable progression of osteoarthritis of the 
interphalangeal joints and not synonymous with grade 0, as it has been 
customarily interpreted.

DOI: 10.1080/03014469100001712
PMID: 1952799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Ann Thorac Surg. 1991 Nov;52(5):1154-7. doi: 10.1016/0003-4975(91)91300-k.

Ivor Lewis operation for epidermoid carcinoma of the esophagus.

Lozac'h P(1), Topart P, Etienne J, Charles JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Centre Hospitalo-Universitaire, Brest, France.

One hundred patients, 95 men and 5 women with a mean age of 59 years (age range, 
35 to 77 years), were treated by the same initiate surgeon in practice from 1982 
to 1988 for epidermoid carcinoma of the lower two-thirds of the esophagus using 
the Ivor Lewis procedure. Fifty-eight tumors were located in the middle third of 
the esophagus and 42, in the lower third. Postoperative staging revealed 30 
stage I/II and 70 stage III carcinomas (ie, tumors extending beyond the 
esophageal wall or lymph node extension). Operative procedure was considered 
curative in 70 patients and palliative in 30 patients. The same procedure has 
been used for all patients. In all patients we were able to perform extended 
esophagectomy with anastomosis located 3 to 7 cm under the pharyngoesophageal 
junction. Postoperative mortality was 4%. Morbidity due to leakage was 7%; 
proper drainage enabled spontaneous healing in 5 patients. Fifteen patients had 
pulmonary complications, none of which fatal, Median actuarial survival was 17 
months. Actuarial survival at 24 months is significantly higher for patients in 
stage I and II (68.4%) than for patients in stage III (23.2%) (p less than 
0.01). The Ivor Lewis procedure is a safe surgical approach for the treatment of 
the esophageal carcinoma that has a high survival rate and allows a good quality 
of life.

DOI: 10.1016/0003-4975(91)91300-k
PMID: 1953140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Baillieres Clin Obstet Gynaecol. 1991 Jun;5(2):461-83. doi: 
10.1016/s0950-3552(05)80107-5.

Long-term implications of gestational diabetes for the mother.

Henry OA, Beischer NA.

Women with GDM have a greater risk of developing diabetes in the future compared 
with those women who have normal glucose tolerance during pregnancy. Using life 
table techniques, 17 years after the initial diagnosis of GDM, 40% of women were 
diabetic compared with 10% in a matched control group of women who had normal 
glucose tolerance in pregnancy. The incidence of diabetes was higher among women 
who were older, more obese, of greater parity and with more severe degrees of 
glucose intolerance during pregnancy. Diabetes also occurred more commonly among 
women who had a first-degree relative who was diabetic, in women born in 
Mediterranean and East Asian countries, and in those who had GDM in two or more 
pregnancies. Despite differing testing techniques and varying criteria for the 
diagnosis of GDM, follow-up studies from across the world consistently show a 
higher rate of subsequent diabetes among GDM mothers. NIDDM is associated with 
increased morbidity and a higher mortality rate, especially in women. 
Cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases are the leading causes of death. 
High lipid levels, hypertension and obesity are often already present when 
diabetes is diagnosed and may antedate the development of overt diabetes; 
treatment of diabetes at this stage may therefore be too late to prevent 
complications occurring. A follow-up programme for women with GDM facilitates 
screening of a group known to be at increased risk of developing diabetes so 
that the diagnosis can be made before associated risk factors for complications 
develop. Intervention in the form of counselling regarding cigarette smoking, 
exercise and a healthy, high-residue, unrefined carbohydrate, low cholesterol 
diet, given together with weight monitoring, may prevent the onset of both 
diabetes and its associated cerebrovascular and cardiovascular problems.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-3552(05)80107-5
PMID: 1954723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Genet Epidemiol. 1991;8(3):177-86. doi: 10.1002/gepi.1370080304.

Investigating genomic imprinting and susceptibility to insulin-dependent 
diabetes mellitus: an epidemiologic approach.

McCarthy BJ(1), Dorman JS, Aston CE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, Graduate School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Children of fathers with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) are at 
greater risk of developing the disease than are children of IDDM mothers, 
reasons for which are currently unknown. To explore the possibility that genomic 
imprinting contributes to this phenomenon, 1,774 families with at least one IDDM 
child diagnosed before the age of 17 years and between 1950 and 1981 from the 
Children's Hospital at Pittsburgh IDDM Registry were evaluated. Approximately 1% 
of the mothers and 2.9% of the fathers were reported to have IDDM diagnosed 
before the age of 36 years (P less than 0.001). Excluding IDDM probands, the 
IDDM recurrence risk to siblings in families with an IDDM father was greater 
than that in families with an IDDM mother or in those with neither parent 
affected. Lifetable analyses revealed that among all children of diabetic 
fathers (probands included), there was a greater prevalence of IDDM, through age 
30 years, for sons compared to daughters (59.5% vs. 34.1%, P = 0.02). However, 
there was no significant sex difference in the prevalence of IDDM among children 
of affected mothers (41.1% vs. 45.5%, P greater than 0.05). These data are not 
consistent with the genomic imprinting hypothesis and suggest that other genetic 
and/or environmental factors contribute to the increased risk for children of 
IDDM fathers.

DOI: 10.1002/gepi.1370080304
PMID: 1955152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1991 Nov;73(6):950-4. doi:
10.1302/0301-620X.73B6.1955443.

Non-operative treatment of impacted femoral neck fractures. A prospective study 
of 170 cases.

Raaymakers EL(1), Marti RK.

Author information:
(1)Academisch Medisch Centrum, Amsterdam Zuidoost, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1992 May;74(3):476-7.

In a prospective study, 170 impacted femoral neck fractures were treated by 
early mobilisation and weight-bearing. The overall mortality at one year was 
16%. In the 167 patients who were followed up until fracture healing or 
secondary instability, 143 fractures (86%) united. Instability occurred only in 
patients over 70 years of age, and in younger patients with a short life 
expectancy. Stepwise logistic regression analysis indicated that poor general 
health and old age (over 70 years) were risk factors. None of the other 
variables, such as the Garden index, Pauwels' type, and time to full 
weight-bearing had any influence on the development of secondary instability. 
Delayed operation after secondary instability caused no increase in mortality, 
nonunion or avascular necrosis. Functional treatment of all patients with 
impacted femoral neck fractures seems therefore to be justified.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.73B6.1955443
PMID: 1955443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Pediatrics. 1991 Dec;88(6):1081-92.

Annual summary of vital statistics--1990.

Wegman ME(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109-2029.

Infant mortality declined more rapidly between 1989 and 1990 than in any year 
since 1977; the provisional 1990 rate, 9.1 per 1000 live births, was the lowest 
ever recorded. Absence of final 1989 data prevents updating sex and race 
differences, but in 1988 data the rate for black persons was more than twice for 
white. Most of the decline in 1990 was in the neonatal period with a substantial 
drop in perinatal categories involving respiration. Surfactant therapy earned 
deserved kudos for much of the decrease, but more attention is needed to the 
more cost-effective potential of preventive measures. Births increased in number 
and rate; there were more women in the childbearing years and they had higher 
fertility rates. Marriages and divorces both increased slightly. Deaths 
increased but the death rate decreased; the estimated age-adjusted death rate 
was the lowest ever. Excess of births over deaths added more than 2 million 
persons to the US population. Worldwide, 22 countries with more than 2,500,000 
population had 1989 infant mortality rates less than 10, led by Japan at 4.4; 
the US, at 9.7, was 21st on the list. An additional 7 countries had rates less 
than 15 per 1000 live births.

PMID: 1956723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Nouv Rev Fr Hematol (1978). 1991;33(3):267-72.

Treatment of relapsed and refractory Hodgkin's disease with high dose 
chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation.

Brice P(1), Gisselbrecht C, Ferme C, Lepage E, Baruchel A, Marolleau JP, Gerota 
O, Boiron M.

Author information:
(1)Institut d'Hématologie, Hôpital Saint-Louis, Paris, France.

Despite combination of chemotherapy and radiotherapy, some patients with 
refractory or relapsed Hodgkin's disease (HD) have a bad prognosis. We performed 
high dose chemotherapy (HDCT) (BCV regimen) with autologous bone marrow 
transplantation (ABMT) in 26 patients with advanced HD. 11 patients were 
considered refractory after at least two non cross-resistant chemotherapy 
regimens and radiotherapy in 8 cases. 15 patients had a poor prognosis relapse 
(in visceral or irradiated site) after complete remission and they received 
chemotherapy before ABMT. At the time of transplantation 4 patients had 
progressive disease with B symptoms and did not respond to HDCT; they all died 3 
to 12 months post-transplantation from persistent HD. For the remaining 22 
patients, 3 months after HDCT 19 patients (73%) were in complete remission, 2 
(8%) in partial remission and one patient died from toxicity. After complete 
remission 4 patients relapsed at 12 to 18 months and 15 patients are in 
persistent remission 24 to 46 months after transplantation. These results are 
encouraging in patients with bad prognostic factors but able to respond to 
chemotherapy.

PMID: 1956765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Radiologe. 1991 Oct;31(10):474-80.

[3D-based production of hip joints: the Aldinger system].

[Article in German]

Aldinger G(1), Weipert A.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Klinik Paulinenhilfe, Stuttgart.

Total hip replacement is regarded as one of the most successful surgical 
procedures. However, aseptic loosening of the foreign material still remains a 
great problem with endoprostheses. Bone cement, a material for filling and 
fitting, allows a solution to the problem in old people, but for younger people 
surgeons have looked for alternatives without cement. In fixation hip stems 
without form-filling cement, the greatest difficulty with standardized stems was 
the lack of adequate fit into the individual bone cavity. The new approach, the 
Aldinger custom-made hip stem, is based on a series of computer tomographical 
X-rays. This free-styled prosthesis stem is derived directly from the 
3D-reconstruction of the inner contour of the femur without any parametrization 
of the cross-sections. A simulation of the implantation procedure is performed 
to ensure the implantability of the prosthesis and to give the surgeon some 
useful hints for the individual operation. In addition to the excellent form-fit 
to the individual bone, this prosthesis has further advantages such as the 
special disk-like surface structure, allowing good stress transfer to the bone, 
and the possibility of positioning the artificial head freely in three 
dimensions according to the requirements of therapy. Seven years of experience 
with this new system demonstrate that "computer-fit" can be a successful 
alternative to "cement-fit," especially in younger patients with a life 
expectancy of more than 10-15 years.

PMID: 1956978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1991 Nov 23;121(47):1715-20.

[Indications for intubation and mechanical ventilation in aspecific chronic 
obstructive bronchopneumopathy].

[Article in French]

Chevrolet JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Soins intensifs de médecine, Hôpital cantonal universitaire, Genève.

COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) is characterized by recurrent 
exacerbations of respiratory failure, and mechanical ventilation appears often 
to be the only therapeutic tool available to avoid an imminent fatal outcome. 
However, when these patients are candidates for mechanical ventilation they are 
in the terminal phase of a very severe and chronic debilitating illness, and it 
is important to select patients with reasonable survival expectancy and an 
acceptable quality of life before initiating mechanical ventilation. We strongly 
advocate a non-dogmatic attitude based on the scientific data at present 
available in the literature.

PMID: 1957144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Soc Sci Med. 1991;33(6):655-9. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(91)90019-9.

Out of sight, out of mind--1. Emergent patterns of self-harm among aborigines of 
remote Australia.

Hunter E(1).

Author information:
(1)New South Wales Institute of Psychiatry, Sydney, Australia.

In Australia, the Royal Commission into Aboriginal Deaths in Custody has done 
more to draw attention to the experience of Aborigines nationwide than any of 
its many predecessors. In the first paper the author summarises findings of the 
Commission to date and draws attention to the wider contexts of suicides in 
custody by providing information on self-harmful behaviours and changing 
Aboriginal mortality patterns from the remote Kimberley region of Western 
Australia.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(91)90019-9
PMID: 1957185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Ann Vasc Surg. 1991 Sep;5(5):449-55. doi: 10.1007/BF02133050.

Concomitant abdominal aortic aneurysm and colorectal cancer: a decision analysis 
approach to a therapeutic dilemma.

Velanovich V(1), Andersen CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Madigan Army Medical Center, Tacoma, Washington 98431.

The therapeutic approach to a patient with concomitant abdominal aortic aneurysm 
and colorectal carcinoma is not clear. Decision analysis helps clarify decision 
options and quantify therapeutic outcomes. Variables used in decision analysis 
include life expectancy after resection for colorectal cancer and abdominal 
aortic aneurysm, rupture rate of abdominal aortic aneurysm, complications of 
colorectal The results support the concept that the symptomatic lesion should be 
treated first. When both lesions are asymptomatic and the aneurysm is 4-5 cm in 
diameter, it should be resected first, if the colorectal cancer has a less than 
5% chance of obstruction or perforation, as is found in noncircumferential 
lesions. When the aneurysm is greater than 5 cm, it should be resected first if 
the cancer has a less than 22% chance of obstructing or perforating, as with 
circumferential lesions. Simultaneous resection should be considered for 
patients with aneurysms greater than 5 cm and cancers with a greater than 75-80% 
chance of obstruction or perforation, provided the dual procedures can be 
performed with a less than 10% operative mortality and less than 50% 
complication rate.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02133050
PMID: 1958460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Circulation. 1991 Dec;84(6):2607-8. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.84.6.2607.

Life expectancy and coronary artery disease.

Baird MB, Massie HR, Hough JL.

Comment on
    Circulation. 1991 Apr;83(4):1194-201.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.84.6.2607
PMID: 1959214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Clin Biochem. 1991 Aug;24(4):375-81. doi: 10.1016/0009-9120(91)80012-r.

Bone marrow transplantation for the treatment of genetic diseases.

Cowan MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Francisco 94143-0105.

Consideration of a bone marrow transplant (BMT) for a child with a genetic 
disease depends upon many factors including the pathophysiology of the disorder, 
the natural history of the disease, whether an alternative therapy exists and 
whether a donor is available. Children with disorders such as severe combined 
immunodeficiency disease (SCID), in which life expectancy is minimal, are 
obviously candidates for a BMT, even with less than optimal donors, while those 
with disorders such as beta-thalassemia major, in which an alternative therapy 
exists, must be considered more carefully and only with an optimal donor. The 
risks of conditioning therapy, graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), and early death 
as well as the cost are critical to this decision and must be viewed in light of 
the potential outcome of a successful BMT and the life expectancy and quality of 
life with a BMT. For some genetic diseases with multisystem involvement (e.g., 
Hurler's mucopolysaccharidosis), the efficacy of a BMT has been reasonably 
demonstrated, providing significant brain damage has not occurred previously. 
For some other storage-related diseases, there is no place for BMT. Further 
studies are essential to increase our knowledge as to its potential role in 
other types of genetic-associated diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/0009-9120(91)80012-r
PMID: 1959229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1991 Dec;18(7):1587-93. doi:
10.1016/0735-1097(91)90489-v.

Aspirin (75 mg/day) after an episode of unstable coronary artery disease: 
long-term effects on the risk for myocardial infarction, occurrence of severe 
angina and the need for revascularization. Research Group on Instability in 
Coronary Artery Disease in Southeast Sweden.

Wallentin LC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, Linköping 
University, Sweden.

Comment on
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 1991 Dec;18(7):1617-26.
