
In this study, 796 men with unstable coronary artery disease (that is, unstable 
angina or non-Q wave myocardial infarction) were randomized to double-blind 
placebo-controlled treatment with aspirin (75 mg/day). The long-term efficacy 
was judged from the occurrence of myocardial infarction or death or severe 
angina necessitating referral to coronary angiography. The risk of myocardial 
infarction or death was reduced during aspirin treatment--after 1 year, the risk 
ratio was 0.52 (confidence interval 0.37 to 0.72). Severe angina necessitating 
referral to coronary angiography was less common during aspirin therapy--after 3 
months, the risk ratio was 0.59 (0.42 to 0.84) and after 1 year 0.71 (0.56 to 
0.91). The combined event rate of myocardial infarction or death or referral to 
coronary angiography was reduced; after 3 months, the risk ratio was 0.44 (0.30 
to 0.66) and after 1 year 0.65 (0.54 to 0.79). The 75-mg aspirin dose was well 
tolerated and had a high level of patient compliance. Treatment with aspirin (75 
mg/day) should be recommended to all men for greater than or equal to 3 months 
after an episode of unstable coronary artery disease. Long-term therapy should 
be considered if there are no contraindications or side effects.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(91)90489-v
PMID: 1960301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Nihon Kyobu Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1991 Sep;39(9):1691-4.

[The long-term results of patients over 70 years old after coronary artery 
bypass surgery].

[Article in Japanese]

Hirata N(1), Nakano S, Matsuda H, Taniguchi K, Matsumura R, Sakaki S, Takahashi 
T, Mitsuno M, Ueda T, Kawashima Y.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Osaka University Medical School, Japan.

We have assessed the long-term results of heptagenerians after isolated coronary 
artery bypass surgery from 1979 to 1989 in 32 patients over 70 (mean 72) years 
old using actuarial techniques. In these patients, the long-term results could 
not be properly assessed because many other factors other than cardiac events 
influenced their survival. Accordingly, we compared our subjects with the 
general population matching the operative age and sex characteristics from life 
tables (= matched population). There was no operative mortality. The 5 year and 
9 year survival rates were 93% and 31%. In the matched population, the 5 year 
and 9 year survival rates were 81% and 59%. The survival rate between the two 
groups was not significantly different. We concluded that the long-term results 
of coronary artery bypass surgery in patients over 70 years were similar to 
those of the matched population. Therefore, coronary artery bypass surgery 
should be offered to older patients for usual indications.

PMID: 1960447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. J Clin Oncol. 1991 Dec;9(12):2141-7. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1991.9.12.2141.

Anthrapyrazole CI941: a highly active new agent in the treatment of advanced 
breast cancer.

Talbot DC(1), Smith IE, Mansi JL, Judson I, Calvert AH, Ashley SE.

Author information:
(1)Breast Unit, Royal Marsden Hospital, London, United Kingdom.

Thirty-one patients with advanced breast cancer were treated with CI941, an 
anthrapyrazole structurally related to mitoxantrone. Patients had not previously 
been treated with anthracyclines or mitoxantrone, and 15 patients had not 
received any previous cytotoxic chemotherapy. CI941 was given at a dose of 50 
mg/m2 by intravenous bolus injection every 21 days. Thirty patients were 
assessable for response, and all were assessable for toxicity. Two patients (7%) 
had complete responses (CRs), and 17 (56%) achieved partial responses (PRs; 
overall response rate, 63%; 95% confidence interval, 46% to 81%). The response 
rates in patients with and without prior chemotherapy were 63% and 64%, 
respectively. The median response duration was 37 weeks from start of treatment, 
with a maximum response duration of greater than 70 weeks. Median survival has 
not yet been reached. Leukopenia was the most frequently encountered toxicity, 
with a World Health Organization (WHO) grade greater than 3 occurring in 74% of 
courses. Thrombocytopenia and anemia were negligible. Only 10 patients (32%) had 
alopecia severe enough to wear a wig. There were no cardiac symptoms or events 
in any patient, but a slight median fall in left ventricular ejection fraction 
(LVEF) of 6% (from +7 to -12) during stress and 6% (from +14 to -14) at rest 
occurred. Other toxicities were mild, and the drug was generally well tolerated. 
CI941 is a very active and well-tolerated new agent in the treatment of advanced 
breast cancer, with neutropenia being the main toxicity.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1991.9.12.2141
PMID: 1960556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. J Vasc Surg. 1991 Dec;14(6):771-6; discussion 776-9. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1991.33214.

Popliteal artery aneurysms: a 25-year surgical experience.

Shortell CK(1), DeWeese JA, Ouriel K, Green RM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Rochester Medical Center, NY 
14642.

Operative repair was undertaken for 51 popliteal aneurysms in 39 patients 
between 1958 and 1990. Operation was performed on an emergency basis in 19 
extremities with limb-threatening ischemia and as an elective procedure in 32 
extremities. Cumulative limb salvage (94%) rates and patency rates (67%) became 
significantly different at 6 years (p less than 0.05). Graft patency was 
affected by clinical presentation and runoff. After 1 year, cumulative patency 
for extremities with limb-threatening ischemia was significantly lower than for 
those having an elective operation (69% vs 100%, p less than 0.05). Runoff did 
not influence graft patency until 3 years, at which time cumulative patency was 
better in extremities with good runoff than in extremities with poor runoff (89% 
vs 30%, p less than 0.05). Limb salvage was affected only by presentation. All 
limb loss (three patients) occurred within the first month in extremities with 
graft occlusion after operation for limb-threatening ischemia. Runoff did not 
influence patency rates for extremities with limb-threatening ischemia, since no 
difference was observed in runoff between the two groups. We conclude that 
elective repair is indicated in all patients with popliteal aneurysms. It is 
associated with little risk to the patient, and prevents the need for operation 
in the setting of limb-threatening ischemia with its poorer overall results and 
definite incidence of amputation.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1991.33214
PMID: 1960807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Minerva Chir. 1991 Jun 30;46(12):661-70.

[Synchronous carcinoma of the colorectum].

[Article in Italian]

Pisciotta M(1), Gulotta G, Profita G, Amoroso S, Mineo R, Rodolico V.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Patologia Chirurgica e Propedeutica Clinica Base, Universit√† 
degli Studi di Palermo.

The incidence of synchronous carcinoma of the large intestine is rising in 
relation to a greater oncogenic environmental charge and increased average life 
expectancy. There is also a constant risk of not recognising the disease, 
especially in the case of small carcinoma and, to a greater extent, in patients 
operated during the occlusive phase. Having underlined the diagnostic value of a 
correct preparation of the colon prior to instrumental tests, the authors 
emphasise the importance of a careful intraoperative exploration of the viscera, 
its preliminary confinement in occluded subjects and repeated surgery in the 
event of doubts regarding the monolocation of the tumour. Lastly, they underline 
the importance of postoperative radiological and endoscopic controls since these 
tests mark both the successful outcome of treatment and the start of follow-up.

PMID: 1961589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Drugs. 1990 Oct;40(4):498-530. doi: 10.2165/00003495-199040040-00003.

Pharmacotherapeutic aspects of unfractionated and low molecular weight heparins.

Verstraete M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Thrombosis and Vascular Research, University of Leuven, Belgium.

Standard unfractionated heparin is a mixture of mucopolysaccharide chains of 
various length that may vary from 5000 to 30,000 daltons. Heparin is only 
effective as an anticoagulant in the presence of a plasma protein termed 
antithrombin III, with which it forms a complex. High- and low-affinity heparin 
are 2 types that readily bind or do not bind, respectively, to antithrombin III. 
The pharmacokinetics of unfractionated heparin are compatible with a model based 
on the combination of a saturable and a linear mechanism. The primary indication 
for intravenous infusion of conventional heparin is to prevent extension of an 
established arterial, venous or intracardiac thrombus. The average requirement 
is 400 U/kg/24h. Subcutaneous administration of 5000U of concentrated 
unfractionated heparin, administered every 8 or 12 hours, is effective and safe 
in the prevention of postoperative venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in 
patients at medium thrombotic risk. Adequate prophylaxis is also obtained in 
patients at high thrombotic risk if 5000U of heparin combined with 0.5mg 
dihydroergotamine is given subcutaneously 3 times daily, or by monitoring the 3 
subcutaneous doses of heparin in order to maintain an adjusted activated partial 
thromboplastin time (APTT) of around 50 to 70 seconds. Low molecular weight 
heparins have been produced by a variety of techniques and their molecular 
weights range from 3000 to 9000 daltons. These preparations have a ratio of 
anti-factor Xa activity to anti-factor IIa activity of about 4, while the ratio 
for unfractionated heparin is 1. After intravenous administration of low 
molecular weight heparin, the half-life of the anti-factor Xa activity is 
considerably longer than for unfractionated heparin, while the anti-factor IIa 
half-lives are similar. In contrast to unfractionated heparin, low molecular 
weight heparin is completely absorbed after subcutaneous administration and its 
biological half-life is almost twice as long. In spite of certain differences 
with regard to the ratio between factor Xa and IIa inhibition, the various low 
molecular weight preparations show a rather similar absorption pattern. The 
bioavailability of all low molecular weight heparin fractions is substantially 
higher than that of unfractionated heparin, which renders their use more simple. 
Low molecular weight heparins less readily enhance platelet aggregation although 
there is no evidence that low molecular weight heparins are less antigenic or 
that they do not interact with platelet IgGFc receptor. A lower bleeding 
incidence for equivalent antithrombotic efficacy of fractionated heparins when 
compared to unfractionated heparins has yet to be established in 
humans.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199040040-00003
PMID: 1964634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Tokai J Exp Clin Med. 1990 Mar;15(1):87-92.

Concurrent murine cytomegalovirus and Klebsiella pneumoniae infections in 
germfree mice.

Tazume S(1), Umehara K, Leung WC, Ando K, Hata J, Hashimoto K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, School of Medicine, Tokai University, Kanagawa 
Japan.

The effects of concurrent murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) and Klebsiella 
pneumoniae infections were studied in germfree (GF) mice. The mice received 
sublethal doses, 5 x 10(5) pfu, of MCMV. K. pneumoniae was injected in doses of 
40 to 100 cfu, which by itself killed 0-33% of GF mice. When K. pneumoniae was 
given to GF mice infected with MCMV, the mortality increased up to 100%, with 
distinct enhancement persisting until day 10 of the MCMV infection. The virus 
titer in various organs did not change after superinfection with K. pneumoniae, 
while the viable counts of K. pneumoniae in organs remained remarkably high 
until death, suggesting the cause of death to be severe generalized infection by 
the bacteria. When compared to specific pathogen-free (SPF) mice, GF mice were 
more susceptible to both MCMV and K. pneumoniae infection, had higher titers of 
the virus for longer periods in various organs, and showed extension in the 
duration of enhanced mortality by the bacteria. Histopathologically, the spleen 
and liver were found to be the most severely affected tissues, more so in GF 
than in SPF mice, with recovery from the changes being slower in the GF animals.

PMID: 1965065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 1990 Nov-Dec;5(6):616-26. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1746.1990.tb01115.x.

Percutaneous ethanol injection for the treatment of small hepatocellular 
carcinoma. Study of 95 patients.

Ebara M(1), Ohto M, Sugiura N, Kita K, Yoshikawa M, Okuda K, Kondo F, Kondo Y.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, Chiba University, Japan.

Percutaneous ethanol injection (PEI) was applied to 120 lesions in 95 patients 
with hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) smaller than 3 cm in the past 6 years. All 
main target tumours, in 67 patients who had been followed by sonography for more 
than 6 months after PEI, decreased in size; 28 tumours (41.8%) became 
undetectable and have remained so until now. The 1-, 2-, 3-, 4- and 5-year 
survival rates calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method were 93%, 81%, 65%, 52% and 
28% respectively. These survival rates were better than those of patients with 
HCC smaller than 3 cm who did not receive anticancer treatment (P less than 
0.01). The survival of patients of the Child's A or Child's B status was better 
than that of those with Child's C disease. Recurrence occurred in areas within 
the liver different from the original lesion in 34% in one year, 61% in two 
years and 66% in three years after PEI. PEI was then repeated in 61% of such 
patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.1990.tb01115.x
PMID: 1966597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Drugs Exp Clin Res. 1990;16(12):615-9.

Post-antibiotic effect of azithromycin on respiratory tract pathogens.

Debbia EA(1), Molinari G, Paglia P, Schito GC.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Microbiology, University of Genoa, Italy.

Azithromycin is a new azalide antibiotic with structural modifications that 
confer to the molecule acid stability, extension of antibacterial spectrum that 
includes important Gram-negative pathogens, long elimination half-life, and 
tendency to concentrate into various tissues where it persists for extended 
periods of time. The existence and length of a post-antibiotic effect (PAE), an 
important parameter for the characterization of new antibiotic molecules, has 
not yet been evaluated for this agent. In this study the PAE of azithromycin was 
assessed against representative respiratory pathogens included in the in vitro 
antimicrobial activity of the drug. The results obtained indicate that 
azithromycin produce a significant PAE on all Gram-positive and Gram-negative 
bacteria tested, resulting in an average value of 3.5 h for both S. pyogenes and 
S. pneumoniae, 3 h for B. catarrhalis and H. influenzae, and 2 h for Klebsiella 
spp. These findings support previous reports underlining the remarkable in vitro 
activity of azithromycin against H. influenzae, a pathogen poorly susceptible to 
the classical macrolides. Furthermore, the present demonstration of the 
existence of a long PAE of azithromycin against other Gram-positive and 
Gram-negative bacteria extends the pharmacokinetic advantages of the drug and 
strongly supports the application of this azalide in the therapy of respiratory 
infections.

PMID: 1966617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Lancet. 1990 Feb 3;335(8684):275-7. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(90)90082-g.

Effects of coronary risk reduction on the pattern of mortality.

Rose G(1), Shipley M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Population Sciences, London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1990 Apr 14;335(8694):923.

Control of coronary risk factors is associated with lower age-specific risks, 
but people will then live longer, with increased exposure to the higher 
mortality rates of the elderly. Expected changes in pattern of mortality, based 
on the 15-year follow-up of men in the Whitehall study, have been calculated. 
Non-smokers live longer than smokers, but death (when it comes) is more likely 
to be due to heart attack and less likely to be due to cancer. By contrast a 
lower level of plasma cholesterol, which is also associated with longer life, is 
expected to reduce the lifetime risk of fatal heart attack, its place then being 
taken by a typical mixture of other causes of death.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(90)90082-g
PMID: 1967732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Lancet. 1990 Feb 24;335(8687):458-60. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(90)90678-x.

Health in Eastern Europe.

Forster DP(1), J√≥zan P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Community Medicine, Medical School, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1990 Jul 7;336(8706):56.

To assess trends in health in Eastern Europe, age-standardised mortality rates 
since 1950 in four Eastern European countries (German Democratic Republic, 
Poland, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary) were compared with those in two Western 
European countries (Federal Republic of Germany and England and Wales). In the 
Eastern European countries mortality rates had increased or were virtually 
unchanged since the mid-1960s, especially in middle aged and elderly men. Death 
rates in males in Poland, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary in the mid to late 1980s 
were as high as those in the two Western European countries in the early 1950s. 
There was a shorter time lag for females. This poor health record in Eastern 
Europe will need to be addressed by the policy makers in the new democracies.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(90)90678-x
PMID: 1968180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Lancet. 1990 Feb 24;335(8687):482-3. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(90)90722-h.

Should liver metastasis from colorectal cancers be treated surgically?

Benhamou G, Marmuse JP, Johanet H, Le Goff JY.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(90)90722-h
PMID: 1968209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Presse Med. 1990 Feb 10;19(5):213-6.

[Beta-blockers in the treatment of heart failure].

[Article in French]

Komajda M(1), Salloum J, Lechat P, Grosgogeat Y.

Author information:
(1)Service de Cardiologie, H√¥pital Salp√®tri√®re, Paris.

Comment in
    Presse Med. 1990 Oct 13;19(33):1550.

The first attempts at treating heart failure with beta-blockers were made almost 
15 years ago. A few studies, some of them controlled and randomized, suggest 
that beta-blockers may improve the patients' comfort, their physical 
capabilities, their haemodynamic values or even their life expectancy. However, 
the results published are conflicting. The mechanism of the beneficial effects 
of beta of beta-blockers is controverted, the most widely accepted hypotheses 
being that they protect against the toxic effect of catecholamines, act as 
antiarrhythmics and prevent the down regulation of beta-adrenoceptors. Numerous 
questions concerning the exact indications of these drugs, the nature and dosage 
of the beta-blocker to be used, the possible combinations with other therapies 
and the responses to be expected remain to be answered. When available, the 
results of multicentre trials currently in progress will be of assistance to 
determine the role of beta-blockers in the overall management of heart failure.

PMID: 1968634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Isr J Med Sci. 1990 Jan;26(1):47-9.

Comparable efficacy of oral 5-aminosalicylic acid (Mesasal) and sulfasalazine in 
maintaining ulcerative colitis in remission.

Eliakim R(1), Wengrower D, Ligumsky M, Rachmilewitz D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hadassah University Hospital, Jerusalem, 
Israel.

PMID: 1968895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Lancet. 1990 Apr 14;335(8694):888-9.

Declining mortality from Down syndrome--no cause for complacency.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Lancet. 1990 May 26;335(8700):1278.
    Lancet. 1990 May 26;335(8700):1278-9.
    Lancet. 1990 Jun 16;335(8703):1470.

PMID: 1969989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Lancet. 1990 Apr 28;335(8696):1020-2. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(90)91075-l.

Cancer in the elderly: why so badly treated?

Fentiman IS(1), Tirelli U, Monfardini S, Schneider M, Festen J, Cognetti F, 
Aapro MS.

Author information:
(1)ICRF Clinical Oncology Unit, Guy's Hospital, London, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1991 Jul 13;338(8759):114.
    Lancet. 1990 Jun 30;335(8705):1597.
    Lancet. 1990 Sep 1;336(8714):564.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(90)91075-l
PMID: 1970072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Lancet. 1990 May 26;335(8700):1249-50.

Africa's tuberculosis burden and chemoprophylaxis.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 1971323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Anticancer Res. 1990 Mar-Apr;10(2B):555-63.

Screening of families predisposed to cancer development in The Netherlands.

Vasen HF(1), Griffioen G, Lips CJ, Struyvenberg A, van Slooten EA.

Author information:
(1)Foundation for the Detection of Hereditary Tumors, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Screening for hereditary tumours provides a basis for secondary prevention. In 
1985, the Foundation for the Detection of Hereditary Tumours was established in 
The Netherlands to coordinate screening in families with hereditary tumours. In 
the initial period of four years a large number of families were collected. 
Registration started with families with the multiple endocrine neoplasia 
syndrome type 2 and familial adenomatous polyposis. Later, families with the 
familial dysplastic nevus syndrome, hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer 
and the multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 1 were also collected and 
inventoried, because expansion of the registry to include these syndromes was 
considered. As a general conclusion based on our studies, it may be said that 
screening of families with the multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 2, 
familial adenomatous polyposis, familial dysplastic nevus syndrome, and 
hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer leads to detection of these tumours in 
an earlier stage, which in turn may permit curative treatment and improvement of 
the prognosis and life expectancy. Screening of the MEN-1 syndrome may improve 
the prognosis by favouring appropriate management decisions. It is evident that 
a detailed family cancer history is extremely important as an indicator of a 
genetic basis and has implications for family screening and follow up. The 
doctor's task of ensuring that the necessary investigations are carried out is 
made easier by use of the facilities of the Foundation for the Detection of 
Hereditary Tumours. The registration system in particular has assured the 
continuation of periodic examination, because the specialist is kept informed at 
all times. The collection of data and the preparation of an inventory of the 
data of families with hereditary tumours on a national scale have contributed to 
both the understanding of these syndromes and the optimalization of the 
screening procedures. The study of hereditary tumours is important, because it 
can provide clues concerning carcinogenesis in general.

PMID: 1972010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Versicherungsmedizin. 1990 Jun 1;42(3):80-3.

[Prognosis and trends in bypass surgery].

[Article in German]

Sittaro NA(1).

Author information:
(1)Volksf√ºrsorge Deutsche Lebensversicherungs AG, Hamburg.

Various long-term prospective studies evaluated subgroups of patients obtaining 
benefits of prognosis and life quality by undergoing CABG (coronary artery 
bypass grafting). Early and late graft failure was a recurrent problem. A 
significant reduction of early graft occlusion was possible by using platelet 
inhibitory drugs or anticoagulant therapy while IMA grafts showed an excellent 
long-term patency preventing late graft failure. Additionally IMA grafts 
improved life expectancy and reduced the risk of myocardial infarction. Although 
the number of high risk patients and emergency procedures increased the over all 
mortality rate decreased.

PMID: 1972602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Lancet. 1990 Jul 7;336(8706):56.

Health in Hungary.

[No authors listed]

Comment on
    Lancet. 1990 Feb 24;335(8687):458-60.

PMID: 1973239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Lancet. 1990 Aug 4;336(8710):285-8. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(90)91812-o.

Premature mortality due to cardiovascular disease in hypopituitarism.

Ros√©n T(1), Bengtsson BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine II, Sahlgrenska Hospital, G√∂teborg, Sweden.

333 consecutive patients with hypopituitarism diagnosed between 1956 and 1987 
were retrospectively examined. The patients had been given routine replacement 
therapy. The overall mortality was higher than in an age and sex matched 
population. Deaths from vascular disorders were also significantly increased (60 
[40 male, 20 female] versus 30.8 expected [23.5, 7.4 female]). The hazard 
function for vascular death was independent of age at diagnosis, time after 
diagnosis, calendar year of diagnosis, gender, degree of pituitary 
insufficiency, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus. Mortality risk was raised 
irrespective of whether hypopituitarism was due to pituitary adenoma or 
secondary to other diseases. 7 patients (3 male, 4 female) died from malignant 
diseases (expected 10.1 and 4.1, respectively). These observations indicate that 
life expectancy is shortened in patients with hypopituitarism. Growth-hormone 
deficiency could be a factor in this increased mortality from cardiovascular 
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(90)91812-o
PMID: 1973979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. J Pediatr Surg. 1990 Jul;25(7):744-8. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3468(05)80010-7.

Peptic ulcer in children.

Tsang TM(1), Saing H, Yeung CK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Hong Kong, Queen Mary Hospital.

From January 1983 to April 1989, 39 children were diagnosed as suffering from 
primary peptic ulcer. Of these ulcers, 30 were duodenal, seven prepyloric, and 
two patients had a combination of both. Among 36 patients with H2-blocker 
therapy, 33 had treatment completed with ulcer healing assessed by endoscopic 
examinations. Sixteen patients (49%) had ulcer healing within a single 6-week 
course of treatment, whereas 17 patients (51%) required multiple 6-week courses. 
The latter group had a mean basal acid output (BAO) of 0.13 +/- 0.06 mmol/kg/h 
and a mean maximal acid output (MAO) of 0.48 +/- 0.12 mmol/kg/h, which is 
significantly higher (P less than .05 and P less than .005, respectively) than 
the mean BAO (0.08 +/- 0.06 mmol/kg/h) and mean MAO (0.31 +/- 0.11 mmol/kg/h) in 
patients whose ulcers healed within 6 weeks of treatment. Subsequent follow-up 
with endoscopy over a mean period of 1.8 years (range, 3 months to 6 years) 
showed 10 patients with recurrent ulcers. Life-table analysis showed a 
recurrence rate of 35% within 1 year after ulcer healing. Five patients required 
surgery for ulcer complications--obstruction (2), perforation (2), and bleeding 
(1). In two of these patients initial H2-blocker therapy was unsuccessful.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3468(05)80010-7
PMID: 1974285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 1990 Sep;33(1):49-57. doi:
10.1016/0020-7292(90)90654-4.

Effectiveness of phenol-atabrine-paste (PAP) instillation for female 
sterilization.

Kang XP(1), Wan HZ, Wang P, Wang SX, Chow LP.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Beijing Medical University, China.

Two groups of sterilized women, 3307 by phenol-atabrine-paste (PAP) instillation 
and 1026 by mini-lap technique, were follow-up interviewed to determine their 
relative effectiveness. PAP, if successfully performed, was as effective as the 
mini-lap. The life table pregnancy rates among successful PAP women were 0.21 
and 0.28 at 12 and 24 months, respectively. The rates among the unsuccessful PAP 
women, however, were high: 15.1 and 30.5 at 12 and 24 months, respectively. In 
spite of its distinctive advantage of being non-surgical, wider promotion of PAP 
sterilization procedure deserves caution.

DOI: 10.1016/0020-7292(90)90654-4
PMID: 1974532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Am J Psychiatry. 1990 Sep;147(9):1138-48. doi: 10.1176/ajp.147.9.1138.

Continuous versus targeted medication in schizophrenic outpatients: outcome 
results.

Carpenter WT Jr(1), Hanlon TE, Heinrichs DW, Summerfelt AT, Kirkpatrick B, 
Levine J, Buchanan RW.

Author information:
(1)Maryland Psychiatric Research Center, Department of Psychiatry, University of 
Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore 21228.

Erratum in
    Am J Psychiatry 1991 Jun;148(6):819.

Comment in
    Am J Psychiatry. 1991 Nov;148(11):1612-3.

The authors report on the outcome of treatment of 116 outpatients with chronic 
schizophrenia who were assigned to a 2-year, single-blind course of treatment 
with either targeted or continuous medication. These patients were not 
restricted to those who were good candidates for a medication reduction 
strategy. Continuous medication was superior to targeted medication in 
preventing decompensations and hospitalizations and in extent of employment at 2 
years. Other measures of psychopathology and functioning at 1 and 2 years did 
not differentiate the two groups of patients. The targeted approach achieved a 
substantial reduction in total medication through a reduction in the number of 
days of medication administration.

DOI: 10.1176/ajp.147.9.1138
PMID: 1974743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Lancet. 1990 Aug 25;336(8713):491-3. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(90)92026-e.

Inequalities in health: ten years and little further on.

Morris JN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Policy, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1990 Sep 29;336(8718):816.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(90)92026-e
PMID: 1975001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Neth J Med. 1990 Jun;36(5-6):255-62.

Oesophageal varices: prophylactic treatment?

Zeijen RN(1), Flendrig JA, van Spreeuwel JP.

Author information:
(1)Vakgroep Interne Geneeskunde, Academisch Ziekenhuis Maastricht.

Oesophageal varices: prophylactic treatment? Patients with oesophageal varices 
as a result of liver cirrhosis are at risk of bleeding from these varices. 
Because of the high mortality, specially from the first variceal haemorrhage, it 
would seem justified to pose the question: does prophylactic treatment of 
oesophageal varices reduce the risk of bleeding and improve life expectancy? A 
review of the literature shows that until now no mode of prophylactic therapy 
has succeeded in accomplishing these goals. It is not, therefore, possible at 
this time to advise the use of prophylactic treatment of oesophageal varices as 
a routine therapy.

PMID: 1975650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Circulation. 1990 Nov;82(5):1647-58. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.82.5.1647.

Ten-year follow-up of quality of life in patients randomized to receive medical 
therapy or coronary artery bypass graft surgery. The Coronary Artery Surgery 
Study (CASS).

Rogers WJ(1), Coggin CJ, Gersh BJ, Fisher LD, Myers WO, Oberman A, Sheffield LT.

Author information:
(1)CASS Coordinating Center, University of Washington, Seattle 98105.

Comment in
    Circulation. 1990 Nov;82(5):1859-62.

Quality of life indexes were assessed in 780 patients 10 years after 
randomization to medical therapy (n = 390) or coronary artery bypass graft 
surgery (n = 390) in the Coronary Artery Surgery Study. At 10 years, mortality 
was 21.8% in the medical group and 19.2% in the surgical group (p = NS), and 144 
(37%) of the medical group had undergone surgery because of increasing chest 
pain. At study entry, 22% of medical and surgical patients were angina free; at 
1 and 5 years after entry, the frequency of asymptomatic patients was 66% and 
63% in the surgical group and 30% and 38% in the medical group. However, by 10 
years after entry, the proportion of patients free of angina had fallen to 47% 
in the surgical group and to 42% in the medical group. Activity limitation and 
use of beta-blockers and long-acting nitrates were less in the surgical than the 
medical group at 1 and 5 years after entry but little different from the medical 
group at 10 years after entry. Throughout follow-up, recreational status, 
employment status, frequency of heart failure, use of other medications, and 
hospitalization frequency were similar between the two groups. Thus, indexes of 
quality of life such as angina relief, increased activity, and reduction in use 
of antianginal medications initially appear superior in patients with stable 
manifestations of ischemic heart disease assigned to surgery, but by 10 years 
after entry, these advantages are much less apparent. Although the observed 
similarities of the medically and surgically assigned groups at 10 years reflect 
return of symptoms in the surgical group to some extent, a more important 
explanation is the performance of late surgery in a large proportion of the 
medically assigned patients, rendering them asymptomatic.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.82.5.1647
PMID: 1977531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Neth J Med. 1990 Oct;37(3-4):95-102.

Insulinomas in MEN-I patients: early detection and treatment of insulinomas in 
patients with the multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type-I.

Jadoul M(1), Koppeschaar HP, Bax MA, Mali WP, Wit JM, Huber J, Vasen HF, Van der 
Sluys Veer J, Struyvenberg A, Lips CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital, Utrecht.

In the multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type I (MEN-I syndrome), periodic 
screening of patients and their close relatives may improve prognosis and life 
expectancy. Although there is diffuse involvement of the pancreas with 
microadenomatosis, insulinomas in the MEN-I syndrome usually occur as single 
tumours. This is illustrated here by two patients with insulinomas and the MEN-I 
syndrome. Preoperative localization of the tumours was achieved accurately by 
digital subtraction angiography combined with dynamic computerized tomography 
after a bolus injection of contrast medium. At present, two and three years 
after elective surgery both patients are asymptomatic. The early detection and 
treatment of insulinomas is extremely important because of the high risk of 
cerebral damage associated with late diagnosis. Periodic investigation of MEN-I 
family members can promote the early diagnosis and treatment of insulinomas, 
especially in young patients, whose life expectancy and quality of life may be 
improved.

PMID: 1979152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Rev Invest Clin. 1990 Apr-Jun;42(2):88-92.

[Preliminary report on the effect of low doses of azidothymidine (AZT) in the 
treatment of patients with stage III infection by human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV)].

[Article in Spanish]

Lobato-Mendiz√°bal E(1), Ruiz-Arg√ºelles GJ, Garc√≠a-Gallardo E, Mar√≠n-L√≥pez A, 
Mar√≠n-L√≥pez E.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Regional del ISSSTE, Puebla, Pue, M√©xico.

Ten patients with CDC stage III of infection by HIV were treated with AZT at 
doses of 300 mg/day (100 mg tid). There were 5 males and 5 females, the median 
age being 40.5 yr' (range 26-46). Seventy percent of them had 
transfusion-associated HIV infection and the rest had been infected by the 
sexual route. A positive clinical response was observed in 100% of the group 
after 16-24 weeks of treatment: the Karnofsky performance status increased from 
64% to 94% (p less than 0.01), the white blood cell count raised from 3.7 to 6.0 
K/microL (p less than 0.01), the number of helper lymphocytes (CD4+) also raised 
significantly from 248.2 to 470.7/uL (p less than .01). Only two patients 
required red blood cells transfusions. The life expectancy at 82 weeks was 90%. 
Toxicity was both moderate and transitory. It is concluded that low doses of AZT 
(300 mg/day) produce similar clinical results as doses of 1200-1500 mg/day. A 
larger study is needed to support our preliminary findings.

PMID: 1980026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. BMJ. 1990 Dec 15;301(6765):1362-5. doi: 10.1136/bmj.301.6765.1362.

Progression of HIV infection in misusers of injected drugs who stop injecting or 
follow a programme of maintenance treatment with methadone.

Weber R(1), Ledergerber B, Opravil M, Siegenthaler W, L√ºthy R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital, Z√ºrich, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: To see whether misusers of injected drugs who stop injecting or 
switch to a programme of maintenance treatment with methadone have a reduced 
risk of progression of HIV infection when compared with a group of persistent 
misusers.
DESIGN: Observational cohort study in HIV seropositive subjects with a current 
or past history of misusing injected drugs.
SETTING: HIV outpatient clinic at the University Hospital of Zurich, 
Switzerland.
PATIENTS: 297 Current and former parenteral drug misusers (median age 27) with 
asymptomatic HIV infection. During the observation period 80 subjects adhered to 
a programme of maintenance treatment with methadone, 124 continued with 
parenteral drug misuse, and 93 former misusers remained free of illicit drugs. 
No antiretroviral treatment was given during the study.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Probability of progression of HIV infection from 
asymptomatic to symptomatic (Centers for Disease Control stage IV) as calculated 
by life table analysis and compared in the three groups of patients by means of 
a log rank test, and predictors of disease progression as analysed with a Cox 
proportional hazards regression model.
RESULTS: The 297 patients were followed up for a median of 16 months. The median 
duration of injecting drug misuse before enrollment was 7.1 years. There were no 
significant differences among the three groups with respect to CD4+ counts at 
the beginning of the study (median 0.44 x 10(9)/l). Life table analysis showed a 
significantly lower probability of progression of HIV disease in both the 
methadone treated group and former drug misusers than in persistent injecting 
drug misusers. Multivariate regression analysis showed a relative risk of 
progression of the disease of 1.78 (95% confidence interval 1.20 to 2.67; p less 
than 0.01) in persistent injecting drug misusers, 0.48 (0.29 to 0.77; p less 
than 0.01) in the methadone treated group, and 0.66 (0.41 to 1.06; p = 0.085) in 
former drug misusers.
CONCLUSIONS: Stopping the misuse of injected drugs slows the progression of HIV 
disease in infected subjects. Drug treatment programmes are effective in 
secondary prevention of HIV associated morbidity.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.301.6765.1362
PMCID: PMC1664524
PMID: 1980219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Aktuelle Traumatol. 1990 Dec;20(6):283-7.

[Temporary extra-articular Bosworth' fixation in complete shoulder joint 
separation. Follow-up results of 41 surgically treated patients].

[Article in German]

Armbrecht A(1), Graudins J.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische Klinik, Kreiskrankenhaus Eutin.

41 patients were reviewed who suffered from complete separation of the 
acromioclavicular joint which was operated on with an extraarticular clavicular 
coracoid fixation by means of a Bosworth screw. In 82% of the cases a subjective 
and functionally good to excellent result was found. Only one patient complained 
about difficulties in managing daily life. One patient showed a subluxation of 
the acromioclavicular joint in X-ray with 10kp extension, all other patients 
demonstrated stabile relations of the ligaments. The coraco-clavicular 
calcifications of the ligaments increased with the number of months after 
operation without a negative influence on functions. An operation without much 
irritation and in a short period of time, the early beginning of functional 
therapy and the impressive results of the review show that the technique after 
Bosworth appears superior to other comparable procedures.

PMID: 1980789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl II Verh Dtsch Ges Chir. 1990:107-10.

[Perioperative chemotherapy of squamous cell cancer of the esophagus].

[Article in German]

Fink U(1), Pfeiffer G, Gossmann A, Preusser P, Wilke HJ, Siewert JR.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische Klinik und Poliklinik, TUM Klinikum rechts der Isar, M√ºnchen.

In the majority of patients with esophageal cancer local tumor infiltration 
and/or distant metastases are responsible for the poor prognosis. Therefore to 
improve life expectancy additional modalities--chemotherapy alone or in 
combination with simultaneous radiation--have been introduced perioperatively. 
In spite of a possible increase of resectability convincing data are lacking 
which could argue for an uncontrolled introduction of the neoadjuvant approach 
outside investigational studies in early tumor stages (T1, T2).

PMID: 1983489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl II Verh Dtsch Ges Chir. 1990:397-402.

[Surgical measures in recurrent hemorrhage from esophageal and gastric varices 
after sclerotherapy--a prospective study].

[Article in German]

Paquet KJ(1), Lazar A, Gad HA.

Author information:
(1)Department f√ºr Chirurgie und Gef√§sschirurgie, Heinz-Kalk-Krankenhauses, Bad 
Kissingen.

From Jan 1, 1982 to Jan 1, 1990 692 patients were admitted because of acute or 
recurrent hemorrhage from esophagogastric varices. Initial management was 
endoscopic sclerotherapy. 14 pat. were excluded. In 26 of 311 Child-Pugh 
C-patients a gastroesophageal disconnection and in 5 because of a portal 
pressure over 30 mmHg a narrow-lumen mesocaval interposition shunt (NLMCS) were 
performed because of uncontrollable hemorrhage. Hospital mortality was 31%. 182 
pat. belonged to Child-Pugh class A and 185 to B. In 194 long-term injection 
sclerotherapy was successful; 173 were sclerotherapy failures and selected for 
shunt operation at the end of the selection analysis. 85 refused shunt operation 
or did not fulfill selection criteria. Thus, 88 pat. were shunted mainly by 
NLMCS and distal splenorenal shunt. Sclerotherapy and shunt group were 
comparable. Hospital mortality showed no difference. Five year life-expectancy 
was significantly higher in shunted patients. Thus, in sclerotherapy failures 
early a shunt-indication should be discussed.

PMID: 1983579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl II Verh Dtsch Ges Chir. 1990:901-6.

[Function preserving surgery of skin and soft tissue tumors: head and neck].

[Article in German]

Berger A(1), Brenner P.

Author information:
(1)Klinik f√ºr Plast., Hand- und Wiederherstellungschirurgie MHH, Hannover.

Epithelial malignancies predominantly affect the head and the neck. Ablation 
requsives free margins of 1 centimeter (except in solid basal cell carcinoma). 
In a combined modality procedure resection of squamous cell carcinoma is 
completed by modified neck dissection. The majority of 397 tumor defects were 
treated by either primary suture and skin grafts or conventional flaps. 
Indications for 145 microvascular operations were the failure of the classic 
procedure, expanded defects, and postoperative radiotherapy. Essential for 
oncological patients with limited life expectancy is the rapid postsurgical 
recovery in case of free flaps.

PMID: 1983677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Bull Int Union Tuberc Lung Dis. 1990-1991;66 Suppl:23-4.

Isoniazid preventive therapy for low-risk adult tuberculin reactors--against.

Tsevat J(1).

Author information:
(1)Beth Israel Hospital, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Mas. 02215.

Comment on
    Bull Int Union Tuberc Lung Dis. 1990-1991;66 Suppl:21-2.

PMID: 1983745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Am J Public Health. 1991 Jan;81(1):79-84. doi: 10.2105/ajph.81.1.79.

The impact of HIV-related illness on employment.

Yelin EH(1), Greenblatt RM, Hollander H, McMaster JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco.

We used structured telephone interviews to determine the extent of work loss 
following onset of symptoms, the interval between onset of symptoms and 
cessation of work, and the risk factors for work loss among 193 persons with 
symptoms of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-related illness attending the 
AIDS Clinic at the University of California, San Francisco, between October 1, 
1988, and September 30, 1989. Estimates of the duration of time between onset of 
HIV-related symptoms and work loss derive from the life table method of Kaplan 
and Meier. A Cox proportional hazards model is used to estimate the effect of 
risk factors on the probability of withdrawing from work in each time interval. 
Eighty-six percent of the respondents worked prior to onset of the first symptom 
of HIV-related illness; 40 percent were working at the time of the most recent 
interview, a mean of 958 days later. The total number of hours worked declined 
by 59 percent during this time. Kaplan-Meier analysis indicates that 50 percent 
who worked prior to onset of HIV-related illness stopped working within two 
years and all had stopped within 10 years after onset of the first symptom.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.81.1.79
PMCID: PMC1404939
PMID: 1983921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Circulation. 1991 Jan;83(1):52-60. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.83.1.52.

Diltiazem increases late-onset congestive heart failure in postinfarction 
patients with early reduction in ejection fraction. The Adverse Experience 
Committee; and the Multicenter Diltiazem Postinfarction Research Group.

Goldstein RE(1), Boccuzzi SJ, Cruess D, Nattel S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, 
Bethesda, Md. 20814-4799.

Comment in
    Circulation. 1991 Jan;83(1):336-8.

The Multicenter Diltiazem Postinfarction Trial (MDPIT) reported no consistent 
diltiazem effect on new or worsened congestive heart failure (CHF) during 12-52 
months' follow-up after acute myocardial infarction. This was puzzling in light 
of the observation that patients with findings suggesting left ventricular 
dysfunction (LVD) at baseline on diltiazem had more cardiac events (cardiac 
mortality or recurrent nonfatal infarction) than such patients on placebo. We 
hypothesized that diltiazem increased the frequency of late CHF as well as of 
cardiac events, but only in patients predisposed by LVD. Using the same 
characterizing variables as the primary MDPIT analysis, we found that patients 
with pulmonary congestion, anterolateral Q wave infarction, or reduced ejection 
fraction (EF) at baseline were more likely to have CHF during follow-up than 
those without these markers of LVD. CHF was particularly frequent in the 
patients with LVD who were randomized to diltiazem. Among those with a baseline 
EF of less than 0.40, late CHF appeared in 12% (39/326) receiving placebo and 
21% (61/297) receiving diltiazem (p = 0.004). Life table analysis in patients 
with an EF of less than 0.40 confirmed more frequent late CHF in those taking 
diltiazem (p = 0.0017). In addition, the diltiazem-associated rise in the 
