frequency of late CHF was progressively greater with increasingly severe 
decrements in baseline EF. This diltiazem effect was absent in patients with 
pulmonary congestion at baseline but an EF of 0.40 or more, suggesting a unique 
association between diltiazem-related late CHF and systolic LVD.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.83.1.52
PMID: 1984898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. N Engl J Med. 1991 Jan 24;324(4):212-8. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199101243240402.

Cancer mortality in workers exposed to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.

Fingerhut MA(1), Halperin WE, Marlow DA, Piacitelli LA, Honchar PA, Sweeney MH, 
Greife AL, Dill PA, Steenland K, Suruda AJ.

Author information:
(1)Industrywide Studies Branch, National Institute for Occupational Safety and 
Health Centers for Disease Control, Cincinnati, OH 45226.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1991 Jan 24;324(4):260-2.
    N Engl J Med. 1991 Jun 20;324(25):1809-12.

BACKGROUND: In both animal and epidemiologic studies, exposure to dioxin 
(2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, or TCDD) has been associated with an 
increased risk of cancer.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective cohort study of mortality among the 5172 
workers at 12 plants in the United States that produced chemicals contaminated 
with TCDD. Occupational exposure was documented by reviewing job descriptions 
and by measuring TCDD in serum from a sample of 253 workers. Causes of death 
were taken from death certificates.
RESULTS: Mortality from several cancers previously associated with TCDD 
(stomach, liver, and nasal cancers, Hodgkin's disease, and non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma) was not significantly elevated in this cohort. Mortality from 
soft-tissue sarcoma was increased, but not significantly (4 deaths; standardized 
mortality ratio [SMR], 338; 95 percent confidence interval, 92 to 865). In the 
subcohort of 1520 workers with greater than or equal to 1 year of exposure and 
greater than or equal to 20 years of latency, however, mortality was 
significantly increased for soft-tissue sarcoma (3 deaths; SMR, 922; 95 percent 
confidence interval, 190 to 2695) and for cancers of the respiratory system 
(SMR, 142; 95 percent confidence interval, 103 to 192). Mortality from all 
cancers combined was slightly but significantly elevated in the overall cohort 
(SMR, 115; 95 percent confidence interval, 102 to 130) and was higher in the 
subcohort with greater than or equal to 1 year of exposure and greater than or 
equal to 20 years of latency (SMR, 146; 95 percent confidence interval, 121 to 
176).
CONCLUSIONS: This study of mortality among workers with occupational exposure to 
TCDD does not confirm the high relative risks reported for many cancers in 
previous studies. Conclusions about an increase in the risk of soft-tissue 
sarcoma are limited by small numbers and misclassification on death 
certificates. Excess mortality from all cancers combined, cancers of the 
respiratory tract, and soft-tissue sarcoma may result from exposure to TCDD, 
although we cannot exclude the possible contribution of factors such as smoking 
and occupational exposure to other chemicals.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199101243240402
PMID: 1985242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1991 Jan;172(1):1-7.

Adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum in patients less than 40 years of age.

MacGillivray DC(1), Swartz SE, Robinson AM, Cruess DF, Smith LE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Conneticut Health Center, Farmington, 
20814.

From 1962 to 1988, 50 of 801 patients with adenocarcinoma of the colon and 
rectum treated at the National Naval Medical Center were less than 40 years old. 
Symptoms were present in 47 of the younger patients at presentation. The mean 
duration of time from the onset of symptoms to diagnosis in this group was 4.9 
months. Risk factors for carcinoma of the colon and rectum were identified in 14 
of 50 patients less than 40 years old. A significantly greater proportion of 
patients less than 40 years old had Stage C disease compared with the older 
group of patients (42 versus 22 per cent, p = 0.014). Stage B disease was more 
common in patients more than 40 years of age (44.8 versus 26.0 per cent, p = 
0.014). The proportion of patients with Stages A and D disease was similar in 
both age groups. The cumulative survival rate in this group at five and ten 
years was 43 and 34 per cent, respectively. The five year survival rate in 
patients less than 40 years old with Stage B disease was 76 per cent and with 
Stage C disease, 37 per cent. All young patients with Stage D disease were dead 
at 28 months. Synchronous and metachronous carcinomas of the colon and rectum 
were uncommon in patients less than 40 years old. Patients less than 40 years of 
age with carcinoma of the colon and rectum are usually symptomatic and have 
advanced disease at the time of presentation. Survival time for these patients 
for each stage of disease is similar to the over-all population of patients with 
carcinoma of the colon and rectum.

PMID: 1985333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Am Heart J. 1991 Jan;121(1 Pt 1):12-9. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(91)90949-i.

Coronary angioplasty of diffuse coronary artery disease.

Goudreau E(1), DiSciascio G, Kelly K, Vetrovec GW, Nath A, Cowley MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond 23298.

From January 1983 through December 1987, 98 patients underwent angioplasty of at 
least one diffusely diseased coronary artery. Diffuse coronary disease was 
described as: group I, narrowing greater than or equal to 50% that involved the 
entire vessel (40 patients), group II, long lesions greater than or equal to 2 
cm in length (39 patients), group III, three or more lesions in the same vessel 
(19 patients). There were 65 men and 33 women, with a mean age of 60 years; 64 
patients (65%) had unstable angina, 23 patients (23%) were diabetic, 31 (32%) 
had prior myocardial infarctions, and 12 had prior bypass surgery. Multivessel 
disease was present in 89% of patients. Angioplasty of only the diffusely 
diseased vessel was performed in 41 patients, and additional vessels were 
dilated in 57 patients. Overall, of 396 lesions (four per patient) and 197 
vessels (two per patient) attempted, success was achieved in 382 lesions (96%) 
and 187 vessels (95%); angiographic success was achieved in 112 of 120 diffusely 
diseased vessels (93%). Clinical success was achieved in 91 patients (93%). The 
overall complication rate (death, myocardial infarction, urgent bypass surgery) 
was 8% (8 of 98): six patients (6%) had myocardial infarction (one Q wave, five 
non-Q wave), one patient (1%) had urgent bypass surgery, and two patients (2%) 
died (one during bypass surgery). The majority of complications (7 of 8 or 87%), 
including the two deaths, occurred in group I patients, with a 17.5% rate, 
versus 2.5% in group II and 0% in group III, p less than 0.002.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(91)90949-i
PMID: 1985354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Int J Cancer. 1991 Jan 2;47(1):31-7. doi: 10.1002/ijc.2910470107.

Prognostic importance of cellular DNA content in head-and-neck squamous-cell 
cancers. A comparison of retrospective and prospective series.

Kearsley JH(1), Bryson G, Battistutta D, Collins RJ.

Author information:
(1)Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Herston, Queensland, Australia.

Flow cytometric DNA-ploidy measurements were performed on formalin-fixed tumour 
specimens from 172 patients with squamous-cell cancers (SCCs) of the head and 
neck region. One hundred and two samples were chosen retrospectively and a 
further 70 consecutive patients were analysed prospectively in order to assess 
the prognostic significance of DNA ploidy and DNA index (DI). There were no 
statistically significant differences between retrospective and prospective 
groups in regard to age, sex, TNM stage, ploidy or DI. Sixty-seven percent of 
patients were aneuploid (65% retrospective; 71% prospective). The proportion of 
aneuploid tumours was significantly higher among poorly differentiated tumours. 
Survival analysis using Cox multivariate regression modelling revealed that DNA 
aneuploidy and increasing DI were significant independent prognostic factors for 
both relapse-free and overall survival. The relapse and death rates among 
aneuploid subjects were approximately 3 times as high as those for diploid 
subjects. Patients with a DI greater than 2.11 (hypertetraploidy) experienced a 
6.6-fold higher death rate than diploid subjects. These results provide strong 
support for the incorporation of DNA ploidy profiles into the clinical 
management of patients with head and neck cancer.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910470107
PMID: 1985875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. J Pediatr. 1991 Jan;118(1):11-20. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(05)81837-2.

Management of infants at risk for occult bacteremia: a decision analysis.

Downs SM(1), McNutt RA, Margolis PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 
27599-7105.

Comment in
    J Pediatr. 1991 Sep;119(3):506-8.

Because febrile infants with no obvious source of bacterial infection may have 
bacteremia, and because bacteremia is difficult to diagnose on clinical grounds, 
we used decision analysis to evaluate whether such infants should be treated 
with antibiotics, tested further, or sent home. Using a simple decision tree, we 
found that the decision to give empiric antibiotic treatment is the decision of 
choice. The difference in quality-adjusted life expectancy between the "best" 
and "worst" decisions was only 11 days. However, this difference translated to 
prevention of death or permanent disability in 60 cases per 100,000 febrile 
children. Further, empiric treatment remained the best management alternative 
unless the probability of bacteremia was less than 1.4% (less than any published 
prevalence), or the efficacy of treatment was less than 21%. Our analysis 
demonstrated that a test with far greater sensitivity than leukocyte count or 
other tests currently in use is needed to justify testing rather than treating 
empirically. Further, an enormous patient population would be needed to find a 
difference of both clinical and statistical significance between treated and 
untreated patients in a controlled trial. In the absence of such trials, we 
recommend blood culture and empiric antibiotic treatment of all infants at risk 
for occult bacteremia.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(05)81837-2
PMID: 1986075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Am J Kidney Dis. 1991 Jan;17(1):25-8. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(12)80245-9.

Survival in patients with end-stage renal disease.

Wright LF(1).

Author information:
(1)Jackson Clinic PA, TN 38301.

Based on age and medical condition at the time of treatment, 138 patients 
beginning dialysis for treatment of chronic renal failure between January 1, 
1984 and December 31, 1988, were classified into low, average, and high risk of 
death. The survival in these three groups was shown to be significantly 
different after as little as 6 months. The classification scheme is simple, and 
can be performed at the bedside. Efforts to monitor quality assurance in the 
dialysis unit must account for the significant differences in expected survival 
that reflect the case-mix observed in a particular unit.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(12)80245-9
PMID: 1986566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1991 Jan;164(1 Pt 1):165-74. doi: 
10.1016/0002-9378(91)90649-c.

A risk-benefit analysis of elective bilateral oophorectomy: effect of changes in 
compliance with estrogen therapy on outcome.

Speroff T(1), Dawson NV, Speroff L, Haber RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Case Western Reserve 
University, MetroHealth Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio.

A bilateral oophorectomy at the time of elective hysterectomy is often performed 
to prevent ovarian cancer. The assumption that endogenous estrogen can be easily 
replaced with supplemental medication fosters the decision for routine 
oophorectomy. Published reports on the use of postmenopausal estrogen indicate 
that compliance is less than perfect. This fact could affect the overall 
outcome. Decision analysis techniques with Markov cohort modeling were used to 
evaluate the policy of elective bilateral oophorectomy. Results from studies 
judged methodologically sound were combined to determine values representing the 
influence of estrogen on coronary heart disease, breast cancer, and osteoporotic 
fracture. The decision tree also explicitly incorporated patient compliance. 
When compliance with estrogen therapy is assumed to be perfect, oophorectomy 
yields longer life expectancy than retaining the ovaries. When actual 
drug-taking behavior is considered, retaining the ovaries results in longer 
survival. This analysis highlights the importance of including the effects of 
patient compliance with treatment recommendations when the impact of a health 
policy decision such as prophylactic surgery is assessed.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(91)90649-c
PMID: 1986605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1991 Jan;39(1):60-3. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1991.tb05907.x.

Ostium secundum atrial septal defect in the elderly.

Landi F(1), Cipriani L, Cocchi A, Zuccala G, Carbonin P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Universita Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Rome, Italy.

Atrial septal defect (ASD) is one of the most common congenital cardiac 
anomalies in adults. Life expectancy is shortened, and almost 90% of patients 
die by the age of 60 years. The progression of this congenital disease to 
congestive heart failure has been related to several factors such as the onset 
of pulmonary hypertension, arrhythmias, bronchopulmonary infections, or the 
development of other cardiovascular disease. We describe three cases of very old 
patients with significant ASDs and late development of symptoms. Given the 
higher risks and poorer long-term results of surgical closure of the defect in 
advanced age, the indications for such an intervention in elderly patients 
should be carefully evaluated.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1991.tb05907.x
PMID: 1987258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. J Vasc Surg. 1991 Jan;13(1):112-9; discussion 119-20. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1991.25558.

The clinical course of residual carotid arterial disease.

Green RM(1), McNamara J, Ouriel K, DeWeese JA.

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester Medical Center, NY.

Over a 5-year period 642 patients underwent 686 carotid endarterectomies with 
patch closure and intraoperative surveillance with continuous-wave Doppler. The 
perioperative stroke rate was 1.5%. Patients were screened with duplex scans 
immediately after operation for the presence of residual carotid lesions, and 
followed every 3 to 6 months for either the development of a true recurrent 
lesion or a change in a residual one. Five hundred thirty-nine arteries (84%) 
had no postoperative abnormalities. The incidence of recurrent carotid lesions 
in this groups was 1.5%, 3.4%, and 5.2% at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. The 
incidence of symptoms in this group was 0.2%, 0.7%, and 1.4% at 1, 2, and 3 
years, respectively. The earliest recurrence or symptom occurred 8 months from 
operation. One hundred forty-seven arteries had residual lesions that were more 
common when either a temporary shunt was used or the operation was carried out 
above the hypoglossal nerve or below the omohyoid muscle. Sixty-one patients who 
had plaque proximal to the arteriotomy without a significant stenosis were 
followed an average of 21 months. There were no changes in plaque morphology and 
no proven symptoms related to the residual lesion. Fifty-six patients with both 
plaque and significant hemodynamic abnormalities in the carotid bulb were 
followed an average of 18 months. Seven of these patients (12.5%) had either a 
significant deterioration of the lesion or a symptom from it. Each event 
occurred within 6 months of operation. Thirty patients had significant flow 
abnormalities but no visible plaque. None of these lesions deteriorated. 
Although common, residual carotid lesions are benign unless the lesion is 
characterized by both plaque within the artery and a hemodynamically significant 
stenosis. These lesions should be further investigated and treated when 
discovered.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1991.25558
PMID: 1987382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. J Vasc Surg. 1991 Jan;13(1):121-6; discussion 126-7. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1991.25475.

Long-term follow-up of patients operated on for recurrent carotid stenosis.

Nitzberg RS(1), Mackey WC, Prendiville E, Foster E, Kastrinakis W, Belkin M, 
O'Donnell TF Jr, Callow AD.

Author information:
(1)New England Medical Center, Tufts University School of Medicine, Department 
of Surgery, Boston, MA.

We reviewed our experience with 29 operations for recurrent carotid stenosis in 
27 patients who underwent both their primary carotid endarterectomy and their 
reoperations at our institution. These 27 patients represent 4% of the 667 
patients who underwent primary carotid endarterectomies at our institution and 
who are included in our carotid follow-up registry. Reoperation was prompted by 
recurrent symptoms in 19/29 (65.5%) cases. Comparison of long-term stroke 
prevention in those patients who did (84% at 5 years, 78.6% at 10 years) and did 
not (90.3% at 5 years, 83.6% at 10 years) develop recurrent stenosis requiring 
reoperation revealed no statistically significant difference (p = 0.48) when 
measured from the time of primary operation. The perioperative stroke and death 
rates for reoperation (3.4% and 0%) were acceptable. We conclude that with our 
acceptably low perioperative stroke morbidity (3.4%), surgery for recurrent 
carotid stenosis in symptomatic patients or in asymptomatic patients with 
high-grade (greater than or equal to 75%) stenosis maintains the durable stroke 
prevention offered by primary carotid endarterectomy.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1991.25475
PMID: 1987383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. J Vasc Surg. 1991 Jan;13(1):137-47; discussion 148-9. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1991.25812.

Experience with in situ saphenous vein bypasses during 1981 to 1989: determinant 
factors of long-term patency.

Bergamini TM(1), Towne JB, Bandyk DF, Seabrook GR, Schmitt DD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee.

From 1981 to 1989, 361 consecutive in situ saphenous vein bypasses were 
performed. Indications for revascularization were critical limb ischemia (n = 
335, 93%), popliteal aneurysm (n = 15, 4%), and claudication (n = 11, 3%). 
Outflow tract was the popliteal artery in 116 (32%) and tibial artery in 245 
(68%) of bypasses. At 6 years primary patency was 63% and secondary patency was 
81%. During the performance of the in situ bypass procedure, 86 (24%) venous 
conduits were modified because of a technical failure (n = 49, 13%) or an 
inadequate vein segment (n = 37, 10%). Secondary patency at 4 years for bypasses 
requiring modification was 72% compared to 84% for bypasses not modified (p less 
than 0.05). Atherosclerotic disease of the inflow artery necessitating 
endarterectomy, patch angioplasty, or replacement lowered primary patency at 3 
years (69%) compared to the inflow artery not requiring reconstruction (46%, p 
less than 0.02). In the follow-up period, 95 (26%) bypasses were revised because 
of thrombosis or hemodynamic failure. Bypasses requiring revision had a 4-year 
secondary patency of 68% compared to 88% for bypasses not revised (p less than 
0.02). The first 179 cases (1981 to 1985) were compared to the subsequent 182 
cases (1986 to 1989). The secondary patency at 3 years for the latter half (92%) 
compared to the first half (80%) of the experience was significantly improved (p 
less than 0.02). The secondary patency for bypasses not requiring revision was 
significantly improved (p less than 0.02) for the latter half (n = 142, 97%) 
compared to the first half (n = 124, 83%) of the series. Long-term patency with 
the in situ saphenous vein bypass is dependent on surgical experience, quality 
of the venous conduit, and atherosclerotic disease of the inflow artery that 
necessitates reconstruction. Meticulous surgical technique and compulsive bypass 
surveillance results in superior long-term patency.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1991.25812
PMID: 1987385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. J Vasc Surg. 1991 Jan;13(1):163-72.

Prospective, randomized comparison of ringed and nonringed 
polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypass grafts: a preliminary report.

Gupta SK(1), Veith FJ, Kram HB, Wengerter KR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Montefiore Medical Center/Albert Einstein 
College of Medicine, New York, NY 10467.

Kinking and compression with knee flexion are thought to be one cause of failure 
of below-knee polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypass. To prevent this 
problem polytetrafluoroethylene grafts externally supported with rigid rings 
have been developed. The present randomized, prospective study compared ringed 
and nonringed polytetrafluoroethylene grafts in 122 patients who underwent 
femoropopliteal bypass for severe limb ischemia. Patients were well matched for 
surgical indications and risk factors. There was no significant difference in 
the 3-year graft patency rate of ringed versus nonringed polytetrafluoroethylene 
femoropopliteal bypasses (74% vs 68%, p = 0.5). Similarly, no significant 
differences were found in the 3-year graft patency rates of ringed versus 
non-ringed above-knee (82% vs 74%, p = 0.5) or below-knee 
polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypasses (68% vs 59%, p = 0.5). The 
3-year graft patency rate of all above-knee polytetrafluoroethylene 
femoropopliteal bypasses was slightly greater than that of below-knee 
polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypasses (76% vs 62%), but this 
difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.25). The 3-year limb salvage 
rate with ringed polytetrafluoroethylene grafts was 92% compared with 79% for 
nonringed polytetrafluoroethylene grafts, but this difference was not 
statistically significant (p = 0.25). Data to date from this study fail to 
support the recommendation that ringed polytetrafluoroethylene grafts be used 
preferentially over conventional polytetrafluoroethylene grafts in patients who 
require femoropopliteal bypass with a synthetic graft.

PMID: 1987388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Am J Cardiol. 1991 Jan 15;67(2):121-7. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(91)90432-k.

In-hospital symptoms of psychological stress as predictors of long-term outcome 
after acute myocardial infarction in men.

Frasure-Smith N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

Erratum in
    A J Cardiol 1994 Sep 15;74(6):639.

Comment in
    Am J Cardiol. 1991 Sep 15;68(8):829.
    Am J Cardiol. 1994 Aug 1;74(3):308.

The impact of high levels of psychological stress symptoms in the hospital after 
an acute myocardial infarction (AMI) was examined over 5 years among 461 men who 
took part in a trial of psychological stress monitoring and intervention. 
Psychological stress was assessed using the 20-item General Health Questionnaire 
(GHQ) 1 to 2 days before hospital discharge. Once discharged, patients in the 
treatment group responded to the GHQ by telephone on a monthly basis and, when 
they reported high levels of stress symptoms (GHQ greater than or equal to 5), 
received visits from nurses to help them deal with their life problems. Control 
patients received routine medical care after discharge. Post-hoc subgroup 
analyses based on life-table methods showed that, for patients receiving routine 
care after discharge, high stress (GHQ greater than or equal to 5) was 
associated with a close to threefold increase in risk of cardiac mortality over 
5 years (p = 0.0003) and an approximately 1.5-fold increase in risk of 
reinfarction over the same period (p = 0.09). In contrast, highly stressed 
patients who took part in the 1-year program of stress monitoring and 
intervention did not experience any significant long-term increase in risk. 
Although program impact was significant in terms of reduction of both cardiac 
mortality (p = 0.006) and AMI recurrences (p = 0.004) among highly stressed 
patients, there was little evidence of impact among patients with low levels of 
stress in the hospital.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(91)90432-k
PMID: 1987712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Circulation. 1991 Feb;83(2 Suppl):I63-9.

Clinical and anatomic considerations for surgery in femoropopliteal disease and 
the results of surgery.

Taylor LM Jr(1), Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences, University, Portland 97201.

From 1980 to 1988 we performed 288 femoropopliteal bypass operations in 231 
patients at the Oregon Health Sciences University. The indication for the 
procedure was claudication in 31% and the relief of limb-threatening ischemia in 
64%. Operative mortality occurred after four of these operations (1.4%), 
including three deaths from myocardial infarction and one death from stroke. The 
femoropopliteal bypass patients were divided into groups for patency analysis, 
including those undergoing bypass surgery with a good quality greater saphenous 
vein versus alternate bypass conduits and patients undergoing primary limb 
bypass versus those undergoing repeat bypass after prior bypass failure. Our 
overall primary graft patency for all femoropopliteal grafts was 79% at 5 years. 
Patients undergoing bypass with a good quality greater saphenous vein had 
primary graft patency of 85% at 5 years. Patients undergoing bypass using a 
conduit other than greater saphenous vein had a 5-year patency of 73%. Patients 
undergoing repeat bypass after a prior failed bypass had a 5-year patency of 
57%.

PMID: 1991402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Circulation. 1991 Feb;83(2 Suppl):I81-5.

Clinical and anatomic considerations for surgery in tibial disease and the 
results of surgery.

Mannick JA(1), Whittemore AD, Donaldson MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital-Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Mass. 02115.

Bypass vein grafts to the infrapopliteal arteries now achieve a 5-year 
cumulative patency equivalent to that of vein grafts to the popliteal arteries. 
The technique of in situ vein grafting to the tibial arteries is described and 
the results are presented. The 5-year cumulative patency for such bypasses and 
the 5-year limb salvage in the same patients have both been approximately 80%. 
These results coupled with those reported from other centers that have sizable 
experience in tibial artery reconstruction suggest that there has been real 
progress over the past decade in the salvage of lower extremities in patients 
with far advanced peripheral vascular disease through the use of autogenous 
venous bypass grafts.

PMID: 1991403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Circulation. 1991 Feb;83(2 Suppl):I99-105.

Efficacy of thrombolysis in infrainguinal bypass grafts.

Sullivan KL(1), Gardiner GA Jr, Kandarpa K, Bonn J, Shapiro MJ, Carabasi RA, 
Smullens S, Levin DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Jefferson Medical College/Thomas Jefferson 
University Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa 19107.

The initial outcome of a consecutive series of 43 intra-arterial urokinase 
infusions for thrombosed infrainguinal grafts in 37 patients was analyzed. There 
was an 88% (38/43) technical success rate (complete clot lysis) and a 74% 
(32/43) clinical success rate. Complications occurred in 10 patients (23%) and 
were related to bleeding in four patients (9%). Patient age, graft age, 
location, material, and the duration of occlusion did not significantly 
influence the initial outcome, although there was a trend toward a higher 
bleeding complication rate among grafts less than or equal to 1 month of age at 
the time of thrombolysis. A second group of 43 infrainguinal grafts successfully 
recanalized using regional infusions of thrombolytic agents were followed for 
long-term patency. This group included 32 grafts successfully treated with 
urokinase and 11 grafts recanalized with streptokinase. By life-table analysis 
there was a 55.6% 1-year patency, which fell to 42.4% at 4 years. Vein grafts 
had significantly (p = 0.01) better long-term patency than prosthetic grafts 
(69.3% versus 28.6% at 30 months). Grafts with flow-limiting lesions identified 
and corrected by angioplasty or surgery also had significantly (p = 0.01) better 
long-term patency than those without such lesions (79.0% versus 9.8% at 2 
years). Based on the results of our study compared with a survey of long-term 
results following secondary surgical procedures for thrombosed infrainguinal 
grafts, thrombolysis can be recommended in several circumstances. Thrombolysis 
is indicated for thrombosed vein grafts or when thrombus is present in distal 
runoff vessels. Thrombosed prosthetic grafts should be replaced by autogenous 
vein grafts whenever possible.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 1991406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Dis Colon Rectum. 1991 Jan;34(1):60-3. doi: 10.1007/BF02050209.

Treatment of anorectal abscess with or without primary fistulectomy. Results of 
a prospective randomized trial.

Schouten WR(1), van Vroonhoven TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, St. Elisabeth Hospital, Tilburg, The Netherlands.

To determine whether primary fistulectomy should be performed or not at the time 
of incision and drainage, a prospective, randomized study in 70 patients with 
anorectal abscess was conducted. Thirty-six patients underwent incision, 
drainage and fistulectomy with primary partial internal spincterectomy (group 
I), whereas in 34 patients anorectal abscess was treated by incision and 
drainage alone (group II). After a median follow-up of 42.5 months, the combined 
recurrence or persistence rate was 2.9 percent in group I and 40.6 percent in 
group II (P less than 0.0003, log-rank test). Recurrent abscesses or persistent 
fistulas were treated by secondary partial internal sphincterectomy. Comparing 
anal continence before and 1 year after definite treatment, we found increased 
anal function disturbances in 39.4 percent of the patients in group I and in 
21.4 percent of the patients in group II (P less than 0.106, Fisher-exact test). 
The combined recurrence or persistence rate of 40.6 percent indicates that more 
than half of the patients with anorectal abscess will have no further problems 
after simple incision and drainage. This finding, as well as the increased anal 
function disturbances after partial internal sphincterectomy (either primary or 
secondary) are the main reasons to reserve fistulectomy as a second stage 
procedure if necessary.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02050209
PMID: 1991422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Fertil Steril. 1991 Feb;55(2):266-71. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)54113-2.

Life table analysis of fecundity in intravenously gonadotropin-releasing 
hormone-treated patients with normogonadotropic and hypogonadotropic amenorrhea.

Braat DD(1), Schoemaker R, Schoemaker J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Academic Hospital Vrije 
Universiteit, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The success of pulsatile intravenous (IV) gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) 
treatment in patients with normogonadotropic and hypogonadotropic amenorrhea was 
studied retrospectively using life table analysis. Two hundred forty-four 
ovulatory cycles in 48 normogonadotropic and hypogonadotropic patients were 
evaluated. The cumulative conception rate after 12 cycles was 93%, with a mean 
conception rate of 22.5% per cycle. Comparing cycles 1 to 6 with cycles 7 to 12, 
no significant difference in conception rate was observed. Subdivisions were 
made relative to the presence of additional infertility factors, history of 
weight loss, actual weight, estrogenic status, and primary versus secondary 
amenorrhea. The life table curves of patients either with or without other 
infertility factors were significantly different. No statistically significant 
differences were found in the other subdivisions. It is concluded that IV GnRH 
therapy is highly successful in patients with normogonadotropic and 
hypogonadotropic amenorrhea, especially if no other infertility factors are 
present.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)54113-2
PMID: 1991525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. J Immunol. 1991 Feb 15;146(4):1375-9.

An autosomal recessive gene that delays expression of lupus in BXSB mice.

Kofler R(1), McConahey PJ, Duchosal MA, Balderas RS, Theofilopoulos AN, Dixon 
FJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation, La Jolla, 
CA 92037.

We report the generation and serologic, cellular, histologic, and genetic 
characteristics of a BXSB/MpJScr substrain, termed BXSB/MpJScr-ll/ll, that has 
lost early-life male lupus disease. Classic genetic analysis suggested that 
delayed disease expression results from the action of a single autosomal 
recessive gene. This putative gene, referred to as ll (long-lived), causes a 
significant delay in expression of autoimmune serology (total serum IgG and 
anti-nuclear antibodies levels), monocytosis, and of immune complex-mediated 
histopathologic changes such as glomerulonephritis, arteritis, and myocardial 
infarction. Presumably as a consequence of the delayed immunopathology male 
BXSB/MpJScr-ll/ll mice live three to four times longer than regular BXSB/MpJScr. 
This strain might be useful for analysis of single genes responsible for severe 
autoimmune disease expression.

PMID: 1991974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. N Engl J Med. 1991 Feb 28;324(9):595-600. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199102283240905.

Lifetime use of nursing home care.

Kemper P(1), Murtaugh CM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Long Term Care Studies, Center for Intramural Research, Agency 
for Health Care Policy Research, Rockville, MD 20857.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1991 Feb 28;324(9):627-9.
    N Engl J Med. 1991 Aug 1;325(5):360-1.

BACKGROUND AND METHODS: Despite the growth in the number of Americans in nursing 
homes, there are only limited data on the total amount of time that people spend 
in such facilities. We estimate the amount of time the average person spends in 
nursing homes over his or her lifetime (lifetime nursing home use), using data 
from the National Mortality Followback Survey of the next of kin of a sample of 
persons 25 years of age or older who died in 1986. On the basis of these data, 
we estimated the likelihood that Americans will use nursing home care during the 
course of their lifetimes and the total duration of such care. Current data on 
life expectancy were then used to reweight the sample to project lifetime 
nursing home use for those who became 65 years old in 1990.
RESULTS: Of those who died in 1986 at 25 years of age or older, 29 percent had 
at some time been residents in a nursing home, and almost half of those who 
entered a nursing home spent a cumulative total of at least one year there. The 
probability of nursing home use increased sharply with age at death: 17 percent 
for age 65 to 74, 36 percent for age 75 to 84, and 60 percent for age 85 to 94. 
For persons who turned 65 in 1990, we project that 43 percent will enter a 
nursing home at some time before they die. Of those who enter nursing homes, 55 
percent will have total lifetime use of at least one year, and 21 percent will 
have total lifetime use of five years or more. We also project that more women 
than men will enter nursing homes (52 percent vs. 33 percent), and among them, 
more women than men will have total lifetime nursing home use of five years or 
more (25 percent vs. 13 percent).
CONCLUSIONS: Our projections indicate that over a lifetime, the risk of entering 
a nursing home and spending a long time there is substantial. With the elderly 
population growing, this has important implications for both medical practice 
and the financing of long-term care.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199102283240905
PMID: 1992320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1991 Feb;164(2):669-74. doi:
10.1016/s0002-9378(11)80044-x.

Epidermal growth factor receptor expression in normal ovarian epithelium and 
ovarian cancer. I. Correlation of receptor expression with prognostic factors in 
patients with ovarian cancer.

Berchuck A(1), Rodriguez GC, Kamel A, Dodge RK, Soper JT, Clarke-Pearson DL, 
Bast RC Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Duke University, Durham, NC 27710.

Previous studies in breast and bladder cancer have suggested that epidermal 
growth factor receptor is expressed by only a proportion of cancers and is 
associated with poor clinical outcome. We used a monoclonal antibody 
specifically reactive with the extracellular domain of the epidermal growth 
factor receptor to localize this receptor immunohistochemically in frozen 
sections of normal ovary and epithelial ovarian cancer. Normal ovarian 
epithelium was found to express epidermal growth factor receptor in all cases. 
Among 87 ovarian cancers, however, 23% did not express immunohistochemically 
detectable receptor. Epidermal growth factor receptor expression was not related 
to histologic grade or stage, but was associated with poor survival (p less than 
0.05). The median length of survival of patients with tumors that did not 
express epidermal growth factor receptor was 40 months compared with 26 months 
in patients with tumors that did express epidermal growth factor receptor. As in 
breast and bladder cancer, expression of epidermal growth factor receptor in 
ovarian cancer appears to be a poor prognostic factor.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9378(11)80044-x
PMID: 1992720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Med J Aust. 1991 Feb 18;154(4):235-9. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1991.tb121079.x.

Recent trends in aboriginal mortality.

Thomson NJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Unit, Australian Institute of Health, 
Acton, Act.

Mortality is an important measure of the extent of the health disadvantages 
experienced by Australia's Aborigines. In the absence of routinely available 
data on Aboriginal deaths, this paper has collated information from a number of 
sources. In addition to published reports and theses, it also includes 
unpublished data provided to the Australian Institute of Health by State and 
Territory health authorities. The review also draws on data on maternal deaths, 
collated on a triennial basis and published by the National Health and Medical 
Research Council. Despite improvements in some indices of mortality, the death 
rates of Aborigines, particularly for young and middle-aged adults, are 
unacceptably higher than those of non-Aboriginal Australians. Without 
substantial reductions in death rates, the expectation of life of Aborigines 
will remain comparable with that of people living in developing countries.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1991.tb121079.x
PMID: 1994195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Am J Cardiol. 1991 Feb 15;67(5):361-6. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(91)90042-j.

The Dutch experience in percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of narrowed 
saphenous veins used for aortocoronary arterial bypass.

Plokker HW(1), Meester BH, Serruys PW.

Author information:
(1)Interuniversity Cardiology Institute of The Netherlands, Utrecht.

Of 19,994 percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty procedures performed in 
The Netherlands between April 1980 and January 1989, the long-term follow-up of 
454 patients who underwent angioplasty of greater than or equal to 1 saphenous 
vein bypass graft was reviewed. In 46% of patients single graft angioplasty was 
attempted, and in 54% of patients sequential graft angioplasty was attempted. 
The clinical primary success rate was 90%. In-hospital mortality was 0.7%, 2.8% 
of patients sustained a procedural myocardial infarction, and 1.3% of patients 
underwent emergency bypass surgery. After a follow-up period of 5 years, 74% of 
patients were alive, and 26% were alive and event-free (no myocardial 
infarction, no repeat bypass surgery or repeat angioplasty). In patients in whom 
the initial angioplasty attempt was unsuccessful, only 3% were event-free at 5 
years, versus 27% of successfully dilated patients. The time interval between 
the angioplasty attempt and previous surgery was a significant predictor for 
5-year event-free survival. The event-free survival rates for patients who had 
bypass surgery 1 year before, between 1 and 5 years, and 5 years before 
angioplasty, were 45, 25 and 19%, respectively. Less than one-third of patients 
with previous bypass surgery who had angioplasty of the graft remained 
event-free after 5 years. In patients needing angioplasty within 1 year after 
bypass surgery, better long-term results were achieved.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(91)90042-j
PMID: 1994659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Am J Med Sci. 1991 Jan;301(1):28-31. doi: 10.1097/00000441-199101000-00005.

A history of phlebotomy therapy for hemochromatosis.

Crosby WH(1).

Author information:
(1)Chapman Cancer Center, Joplin, MO 64803.

Hemochromatosis was recognized as an iron-storage disease for 50 years before it 
was proposed to treat it by removing hemoglobin. Davis and Arrowsmith are 
credited with the first report that demonstrated its value. Larger series have 
provided statistically valid evidence of improved quality of life and increased 
longevity. The earlier the disease is discovered, the less risk of morbidity and 
mortality. Screening tests (serum iron, total iron-binding capacity, serum 
ferritin) are recommended for all blood relatives of index cases of this 
hereditary disease and for all clinics where complications of hemochromatosis 
may be treated: liver disorder however mild, diabetes mellitus, heart disease, 
arthropathies, sterility, impotence, premature menopause, and abnormal 
pigmentation of the skin.

DOI: 10.1097/00000441-199101000-00005
PMID: 1994728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Gene. 1991 Jan 2;97(1):13-9. doi: 10.1016/0378-1119(91)90004-u.

Cloning and overexpression of the gene encoding bacteriophage T5 DNA polymerase.

Chatterjee DK(1), Fujimura RK, Campbell JH, Gerard GF.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biology Research and Development, Bethesda Research Laboratory, 
Life Technologies, Inc., Gaithersburg, MD 20877.

T5 DNA polymerase (T5Pol), an essential enzyme for bacteriophage T5 DNA 
replication, is unusual because of its high processivity and strand-displacing 
ability. These two properties in a single polypeptide make T5Pol an ideal 
candidate for structural and functional analysis. Therefore, the structural gene 
encoding the DNA polymerase of bacteriophage T5 (T5pol) has been cloned and 
overexpressed in Escherichia coli. Elimination of sequences upstream from the 5' 
end of the T5pol by exonuclease III digestion was necessary to obtain stable 
clones containing a full-length structural gene. Determination of the nucleotide 
(nt) sequence of the region deleted during clone construction revealed the 
presence of a promoter sequence having extensive homology with known T5 phage 
'early' promoters. By primer extension of mRNA isolated from T5 phage-infected 
cells, two successive G residues located 6 and 7 nt downstream from the -10 
region of this promoter were identified as the initiating nt at the 5' end of 
T5pol mRNA. T5Pol produced in E. coli from the cloned gene under control of a 
tac or phage lambda pL promoter represented as much as 40% of total cell 
protein. The majority of the T5Pol present in extracts of E. coli was insoluble. 
The amount of active enzyme present was estimated to be a maximum of tenfold 
higher than that found in extracts of T5 phage-infected cells.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-1119(91)90004-u
PMID: 1995424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Cancer Res. 1991 Feb 15;51(4):1177-84.

Immortalization of Syrian hamster embryo cells is in itself a multistep event.

Bols BL(1), Naaktgeboren JM, Simons JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Genetics and Chemical Mutagenesis, State University 
of Leiden, The Netherlands.

The hypothesis that induction of immortalization of rodent cells follows one-hit 
kinetics was tested by the determination of frequencies of immortalization of 
Syrian hamster embryo cells after treatment with benzo(a)pyrene, X-rays, or 
ethylnitrosourea. Contrary to expectation, immortalization did not occur in a 
single step. Full immortalization appeared to be a process which required at 
least three steps: extension of life span (step 1), increase in cloning 
efficiency (step 2), and increase in growth rate (step 3). These three steps 
occur in this fixed sequence. The first step appears to be induced by the 
carcinogenic treatment, while the two other steps occur spontaneously in the 
progeny of cells which underwent the first step. The frequency of induction of 
the first step is in the order of magnitude of mutation induction, which 
suggests that mutation in one allele of a limited number of loci is sufficient 
to initiate the process of immortalization. However, the spontaneous frequency 
of immortalization is below 2.4 x 10(-9)/cell/generation, which appears to be 
too low for a spontaneous mutation frequency. The frequencies/cell/generation of 
the second and the third step are in the order of magnitude of spontaneous 
mutation frequencies.

PMID: 1997160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Cancer Res. 1991 Feb 15;51(4):1234-41.

Survival and causes of death in thyroid cancer: a population-based study of 2479 
cases from Norway.

Akslen LA(1), Haldorsen T, Thoresen SO, Glattre E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Gade Institute, University of Bergen, Norway.

Survival and prognostic factors were studied in 2479 clinically presenting 
thyroid cancers (TC) reported from the entire Norwegian population from 1970 to 
1985. Complete follow-up was obtained (median, 48 months), with information on 
causes of death. At the end of the observation period, 498 patients were 
reported to have died of TC, representing 69.7% of all deaths. Among 216 
patients dying of other main causes, TC was considered to be a contributing 
cause of death in 80 cases (11.2%). Multivariate regression analysis of TC 
deaths showed no significant difference according to sex in any of the 
histological types. Age had a strong impact on survival, and for papillary 
carcinomas this effect was apparent after the age of 55 years. Marked 
differences were observed between various histological types, even between 
papillary and follicular carcinomas when interactions were included. 
Furthermore, tumor stage was a strong predictor of TC deaths, and a reduced 
survival was also found in patients with lymph node metastases. In conclusion, 
the importance of age, histological type, and tumor stage as major prognostic 
factors has been documented in this population-based study from Norway.

PMID: 1997164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Infect Immun. 1991 Mar;59(3):1074-8. doi: 10.1128/iai.59.3.1074-1078.1991.

Expression and deletion analysis of the Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense cysteine 
protease in Escherichia coli.

Pamer EG(1), Davis CE, So M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation, La 
Jolla, California 92038.

Trypanosoma brucei, the cause of African sleeping sickness, differentiates in 
the mammalian bloodstream from a long, slender trypanosome into a short, stumpy 
trypanosome. This event is necessary for infection of the tsetse fly and 
maintenance of the life cycle. We have previously shown that the stumpy form 
contains 10- to 15-fold-greater cysteine protease activity than either the 
slender form or the insect midgut procyclic, and we have isolated a cDNA 
encoding the protease. In order to determine whether the cDNA encodes the 
developmentally regulated cysteine protease, we have purified the protease from 
trypanosomes and have made a polyclonal antiserum against it. The trypanosomal 
protease gene was then expressed in Escherichia coli with three different 
methionines within the pre- and propeptides acting as initiation sites. In each 
case, a protein was synthesized that was recognized by an antiserum specific for 
the developmentally regulated trypanosomal cysteine protease. The protein 
synthesized from the more upstream initiation site within the propeptide was 
proteolytically active. The recombinant protease and the trypanosomal enzyme 
were identical with respect to peptide substrates and protease inhibitors. The 
protein remained active when synthesized in a truncated form lacking the nine 
consecutive prolines and carboxy-terminus extension, indicating that the 
terminal 108 amino acids are not necessary for proteolytic activity.

DOI: 10.1128/iai.59.3.1074-1078.1991
PMCID: PMC258369
PMID: 1997411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. J Gerontol. 1991 Mar;46(2):S66-70. doi: 10.1093/geronj/46.2.s66.

Population aging patterns: the expansion of mortality.

Rothenberg R(1), Lentzner HR, Parker RA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for 
Disease Control, Atlanta.

We used the hypothesis of mortality compression as a framework to examine 
patterns of mortality from 1962 to 1984. Data from national vital statistics 
records were used for analysis of the changing age at death for percentiles of 
the population. Data from the Social Security Administration and the U.S. Census 
Bureau were used to calculate the force of mortality. The mean age at death for 
all percentiles, including the oldest groups, has risen during the interval. 
Examination of the coefficient of variation for the mean age at death suggests 
that there is a relative increase in the variability of age at death among the 
oldest old. The available data do not fit a hypothetical sequence of normal 
density distributions with an increasing mean and declining standard deviation. 
The force of mortality in those over 85 years appears to be decreasing in a 
pattern similar to that for those under 85 years. Current mortality patterns 
suggest an "expansion," rather than compression, of mortality at the oldest 
ages. Further refinement of these observations, with improved data on mortality 
among the oldest old, will be helpful in delineating mortality patterns.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/46.2.s66
PMID: 1997584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 1991;27(5):394-6. doi: 10.1007/BF00688864.

High-dose epirubicin as primary chemotherapy in advanced breast carcinoma: a 
phase II study.

Carmo-Pereira J(1), Costa FO, Miles DW, Henriques E, Richards MA, Rubens RD.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Portugues de Oncologia Francisco Gentil, Lisboa.

A total of 40 patients with metastatic breast cancer were treated with 120 mg/m2 
i.v. epirubicin every 3 weeks for a maximum of 10 cycles. Nine achieved a 
complete response and 17 showed a partial response, for an objective response 
rate of 65% (95% confidence interval, 47%-83%); the median duration of response 
was 7 months (range, 1-15 months) and median survival amounted to 13 months 
(range, 2-20 months). Leucopenia (grade 2 or 3) was seen in 14 patients on day 
21 of the cycle. A subset of nine patients underwent blood counts on day 10, 
when all had marked neutropenia (less than 1 x 10(9)/l). Other toxicity was 
frequent and included nausea/vomiting (80%), alopecia (95%) and stomatitis 
(35%). Five patients showed a significant fall in cardiac output, but this 
reverted to normal after treatment. Epirubicin should have a role in the 
development of high-dose regimens for the treatment of advanced breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00688864
PMID: 1999000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
