

366. J Am Dent Assoc. 1991 Jan;122(1):18, 20, 22. doi: 
10.14219/jada.archive.1991.0011.

Input on implants.

[No authors listed]

Comment on
    J Am Dent Assoc. 1990 Jul;121(1):138-44.

DOI: 10.14219/jada.archive.1991.0011
PMID: 1999578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. J Clin Epidemiol. 1991;44(3):285-91. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(91)90040-g.

Systematic computer-aided search of optimal staging system for colorectal 
cancer.

Maetani S(1), Onodera H, Nishikawa T, Tobe T.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan.

Two hundred and ninety-eight patients with curatively resected colorectal cancer 
were classified into 12 categories according to the depth of tumour penetration 
(T1-T4), and lymph node status (N0-N2). Using a computer, these categories were 
grouped into 2-12 stages in every possible combination, so a total of 146,975 
logical classifications were generated. The optimal model was selected for each 
group of classifications with equal stage number, thus giving the greatest 
prognostic information on 5-year survival according to the Akaike criterion. The 
results showed that (1) 13% of the total classifications, including 85% of the 
3-stage classifications, were better than the Dukes system in predicting our 
patients' outcomes; (2) the T-level was a stage-determinant even more important 
than the N-level; and (3) major changes in prognosis occurred at more advanced 
stages than the classical "turning points". We conclude that in order to find an 
optimal staging of cancer, systematic computer-aided search through all the 
possible classifications is necessary, using the appropriate database.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(91)90040-g
PMID: 1999688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. J Vasc Surg. 1991 Mar;13(3):398-407. doi: 10.1067/mva.1991.25131.

Popliteal artery aneurysms. Long-term follow-up of aneurysmal disease and 
results of surgical treatment.

Dawson I(1), van Bockel JH, Brand R, Terpstra JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital, Leiden, The Netherlands.

The natural history of aneurysmal disease was analyzed in 50 patients who were 
treated for 71 popliteal aneurysms. No patients were lost to follow-up (mean, 
5.0 years). Initially, 25 popliteal aneurysms (25/71; 35%) were treated 
nonsurgically, and 46 (46/71; 65%) were treated surgically. Complications 
developed in 12 of the 21 asymptomatic popliteal aneurysms (57%) and in 2 of the 
4 symptomatic popliteal aneurysms (50%), which were treated nonsurgically. The 
probability of developing complications increased with time to 74% within 5 
years. When reconstruction of a popliteal aneurysm was performed, graft patency 
and foot salvage were 64% and 95% at 10 years, respectively. Particularly acute 
arterial thromboembolism was a severe presenting complication. Another important 
finding was the development of 23 arteriosclerotic aneurysms at other locations 
during follow-up in 16 patients (32%). The probability of developing these new 
aneurysms increased to 49% 10 years after repair of the initial popliteal 
aneurysm. The presence of multiple isolated aneurysms at the initial examination 
was the most significant risk factor limiting the survival of these patients. 
Consequently patients at risk could be identified early. This study confirms the 
limb-threatening potential of popliteal aneurysms when left untreated. Therefore 
prophylactic reconstructive surgery should be undertaken. Moreover, this study 
demonstrates that patients with a popliteal artery aneurysm have an increased 
risk of new aneurysm formation, both in the popliteal artery and at other 
locations. Therefore these patients should be followed and, in the event that 
new aneurysms develop, should be considered for elective reconstructive surgery 
to prevent limb-threatening or life-endangering complications.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1991.25131
PMID: 1999859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Cancer. 1991 Mar 15;67(6 Suppl):1772-8. doi: 10.1002/cncr.2820671814.

Changing demographics in the United States. Implications for health 
professionals.

Frank-Stromborg M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb 60115.

The coming decade will bring dramatic changes in the composition of the American 
population. Changes in immigration laws, illegal and legal immigration into this 
country, and the aging of the "baby boomers" will all result in profound changes 
in the demographics of this country. These demographic changes will necessitate 
alterations in all aspects of the health care system. This article focuses on 
the projected changes that will occur in relation to the elderly, Hispanics, 
Asian Americans, and the economically disadvantaged, and on the related 
implications for health care professionals. The cancer incidence and mortality 
rates for each discussed minority group differ from the rates presently reported 
for white Americans. Thus, health professionals will have to be aware of the 
differences among these groups and tailor their primary and secondary prevention 
efforts accordingly. The future task for all health care providers serving 
minorities and the elderly will be to familiarize themselves with the special 
health problems of the population with whom they work and with the ethnocultural 
barriers that deter proper use and delivery of health services.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.2820671814
PMID: 2001576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Int Rev Cytol. 1991;124:187-215. doi: 10.1016/s0074-7696(08)61527-2.

Aging and immune function.

Miller RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Boston University School of Medicine, Massachusetts 
02118.

Since it is too difficult to study aging of the organism as a whole, most 
investigators try to focus on a specific physiological system that exhibits 
age-dependent functional changes, in the hopes that elucidation (in biochemical 
and developmental terms) of the mechanism of senescent change will provide 
insight into the aging process itself. The immune system is among the most 
maleable of such models, in that well-defined cell types will produce 
well-defined molecules with predictable functions in vitro and in vivo. The 
increasing power of basic immunological science should, in the next decade, 
permit an increasingly fine appreciation of how aging leads to immune decline. 
This expanding conceptual framework will then suggest new ideas about the role 
of immunosenescence in degenerative, infectious, and neoplastic illnesses and 
may also generate increasingly rational strategies for therapeutic intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/s0074-7696(08)61527-2
PMID: 2001916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. JAMA. 1991 Apr 3;265(13):1688-9. doi: 10.1001/jama.1991.03460130080024.

Lowering lipids improves coronary arterial anatomy.

Attarian E.

Comment on
    JAMA. 1990 Dec 19;264(23):3007-12.
    JAMA. 1990 Dec 19;264(23):3013-7.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.1991.03460130080024
PMID: 2002570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Mech Ageing Dev. 1991 Jan;57(1):25-48. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(91)90022-r.

A new analysis of United Nations mortality statistics.

Reading VM(1), Weale RA.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Ophthalmology, University of London, U.K.

Demographic data published by the United Nations in 1987 are analysed in terms 
of the Gompertz function. Projections for maximum life spans are obtained, with 
the data broadly divisible into three clusters. These are attributable not only 
to the influence of high infant mortality, but suggest also constitutional 
and/or environmental variations among members of the clusters. The difference 
between life span and life expectancy is estimated analytically. A comparison 
with an earlier analysis supports the view that there are important differences 
between the life expectancies of the sexes.

PIP: Demographic data published by the UN in 1987 are analyzed in terms of the 
Gompertz function. Projections for maximum lifespans are obtained, with the data 
broadly divisible into 3 clusters. These are attributable not only to the 
influence of high infant mortality, but suggest constitutional and/or 
environmental variations among members of the clusters. The difference between 
lifespan and life expectancy is estimated analytically. A comparison with 
earlier analysis supports the view that there are important differences between 
the life expectancies of the sexes.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(91)90022-r
PMID: 2002698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Mech Ageing Dev. 1991 Jan;57(1):87-100. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(91)90026-v.

Effects of long-term, low-dose growth hormone therapy on immune function and 
life expectancy of mice.

Khansari DN(1), Gustad T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Science/Microbiology, North Dakota State University, 
Fargo 58105.

We have studied effects of long-term, low-dose growth hormone therapy on the 
immune function and life expectancy of Balb/c mice. Sixty male Balb/c mice were 
aged up to the time when they started showing signs of senescence and causal 
death (deaths started when they became 17 months old). The aged mice were 
divided into two groups of 26 mice each. One group received growth hormone (30 
micrograms/mouse) subcutaneously twice a week for 13 weeks. The control group 
received an equal volume of saline for the same period. During this treatment 
period, 16 control mice died (61%) whereas only 2 of the hormone-treated mice 
died (7%). Four mice from each group were killed and immunological functions of 
splenocytes were evaluated. Hormone-treated mice had higher stimulation indices 
for pokeweed mitogen but not for Concanavalin-A. Total IgG production was 
decreased but IL-1, IL-2 and TNF production was increased. After a lag period of 
4 weeks, growth hormone therapy was continued for another 6 weeks. One of the 
growth hormone treated mice died while the control group no longer existed. 
Splenocyte functions of the growth hormone treated mice were compared to those 
of young mice. The results showed no significant difference between cytokine 
production (IL-1, IL-2, TNF and IgG) in the young and the hormone treated 
groups. Stimulation induced by concanavalin-A and pokeweed mitogen however, was 
higher in the young group than the old group. The mortality curve obtained 
suggests that long-term low-dose growth hormone treatment prolongs life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(91)90026-v
PMID: 2002700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. N Engl J Med. 1991 Apr 4;324(14):998. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199104043241418.

Handedness and life span.

Halpern DF, Coren S.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1991 Oct 3;325(14):1041-3.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199104043241418
PMID: 2002827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Nature. 1991 Mar 7;350(6313):23-4. doi: 10.1038/350023a0.

Evolutionary ecology. How to live like a mammal.

Harvey PH, Nee S.

DOI: 10.1038/350023a0
PMID: 2002840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1991 Feb 5;80(6):123-4.

[50 years of medical progress and its consequences].

[Article in French]

Rentchnick P(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculté de médecine de Genève.

In 1940, a new era begins: the victorious fight against infectious diseases with 
the discovery of the first and powerful antibiotics, then the eradication of 
small-pox and poliomyelitis with new vaccines. New procedures have allowed the 
production of very efficient medicines for all the organs; if they do not 
succeed, then we can perform organ transplantation. After eliminating the 
natural selection, medicine will be able to practice predictivity through the 
study of the human genome followed by the possibility of a true prophylaxis 
through genetic manipulations which have just started a few months ago.

PMID: 2003177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Ann Intern Med. 1991 Apr 15;114(8):641-8. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-114-8-641.

The changing prognosis of classic hemophilia (factor VIII "deficiency").

Jones PK(1), Ratnoff OD.

Author information:
(1)Case Western Reserve School of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate relative risk of mortality and median life expectancy for 
patients with classic hemophilia by a life-table analysis, taking into account 
deaths that may have occurred in infancy or childhood before the onset of 
symptoms.
DESIGN: Retrospective chart review of clinical series.
SETTING: Referral-based university medical center.
PATIENTS: Seven hundred one patients with classic hemophilia (hemophilia A; 
factor VIII "deficiency") were studied for the years from 1900 to 1990; patients 
were identified in 289 families.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Relative risk for mortality and median life 
expectancy among hemophiliacs were compared with those among normal U.S. males. 
Overall, mortality (relative to that of contemporaneous U.S. males) was 
increased about sixfold among severely affected patients, more than twofold 
among moderately affected patients, and was equivalent to that of U.S. males 
among mildly affected patients. Median life expectancy at 1 year of age had 
reached almost 68 years in the decade 1971 to 1980, but declined to only 49 
years in the decade 1981 to 1990.
CONCLUSIONS: After improvement in survival from 1971-1980 (corresponding to 
widespread treatment with lyophilized concentrates of antihemophilic factor 
[factor VIII]), relative mortality is now increasing, especially among severely 
affected patients, in large measure because of the acquired immunodeficiency 
syndrome (AIDS).

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-114-8-641
PMID: 2003710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1991 Mar;72(4-S):S309-11.

Rehabilitation in spinal cord disorders. 4. Outcomes and issues of aging after 
spinal cord injury.

Lammertse DP(1), Yarkony GM.

Author information:
(1)Craig Hospital, Englewood, CO 80110.

This self-directed learning module highlights current concepts in outcomes and 
issues of aging in spinal cord injury. It is part of the chapter on 
rehabilitation in spinal cord disorders for the Self-Directed Medical Knowledge 
Program Study Guide for practitioners and trainees in physical medicine and 
rehabilitation. This article includes discussion of the measurement of 
impairment, disability, and handicap, and outcomes with respect to employment, 
long-term adjustment, aging, life expectancy, and causes of death in spinal cord 
injury.

PMID: 2003762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Cancer Lett. 1991 Jan;56(1):29-35. doi: 10.1016/0304-3835(91)90190-s.

Modifying effect of ascorbic acid and sodium ascorbate on the promoting stage of 
uterine sarcomogenesis induced in CBA mice by 1,2-dimethylhydrazine and 
estradiol-dipropionate.

Turusov VS(1), Trukhanova LS, Parfenov YuD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Carcinogenesis, USSR Academy of Medical Sciences, Moscow.

Administration of estradiol-dipropionate (EP) after the cessation of 
1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH) treatment increased the incidence of uterine 
sarcomas in CBA mice from 32.5 (DMH alone) to 62.5%. Ascorbic acid (AA) (0.3% in 
drinking water) given simultaneously with EP decreased the tumour incidence to 
35%. Sodium ascorbate did not exert an inhibiting effect. AA inhibited the 
increase of uterine weight produced in mice by EP and did not influence the 
growth of mouse transplantable uterine sarcomas. The mechanisms of the 
antiestrogenic effects of AA are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3835(91)90190-s
PMID: 2004351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1991;229(1):33-6. doi: 10.1007/BF00172258.

Transscleral Nd: YAG laser cyclophotocoagulation versus cyclocryotherapy.

Suzuki Y(1), Araie M, Yumita A, Yamamoto T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo, Japan.

The post-operative course of intraocular pressure (IOP) after transscleral Nd: 
YAG laser cyclophotocoagulation (TSYLC) in refractory glaucoma was studied using 
the life-table method and retrospectively compared with that of 
cyclocryotherapy. In all, 36 eyes of 36 patients who underwent TSYLC for the 
first time and 80 eyes of 75 patients who underwent cyclocryotherapy for the 
first time were included in the present study. The follow-up averaged 9.2 months 
(range, 1-21 months) in patients receiving cyclocryotherapy. In patients with a 
preoperative visual acuity of greater than or equal to 0.01, the successful 
control of IOP was represented by a value of less than 21 mmHg that was obtained 
without additional medication, and that in patients who had a visual acuity of 
less than 0.01 was represented by a decrease in IOP of at least 25%, also 
obtained without additional medication. The success rate of the TSYLC-treated 
group at 21 months after treatment was 45.2% +/- 11.7%, whereas that of the 
group receiving cyclocryotherapy was 38.9% +/- 6.1%. The difference between 
these success rates was not statistically significant (P greater than 0.05). 
Complications such as phthisis bulbi, hypotony, hemorrhage in the anterior 
chamber or swelling of the eyelids were less frequent in the TSYLC-treated group 
than in the group given cyclocryotherapy. TSYLC is thought to be as effective as 
cyclocryotherapy in lowering IOP, but with fewer complications.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00172258
PMID: 2004720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. J R Soc Health. 1991 Feb;111(1):27-8. doi: 10.1177/146642409111100110.

Geriatric health promotion goals for the year 2000 in the United States.

Moore SR(1).

Author information:
(1)U.S. Public Health Service, Health Resources and Services Administration, 
Rockville, Maryland.

The United States undertakes the development of health objectives for 10-year 
cycles, covering the full range of federal health care delivery and policy. The 
goals for the cycle ending in the year 2000 have recently been announced.

DOI: 10.1177/146642409111100110
PMID: 2005605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Neurology. 1991 Mar;41(3):369-71. doi: 10.1212/wnl.41.3.369.

Clozapine-related seizures.

Devinsky O(1), Honigfeld G, Patin J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hospital for Joint Diseases, New York University 
School of Medicine, NY 10003.

Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic drug with minimal extrapyramidal toxicity 
recently approved by the Food and Drug Administration for hard-to-treat 
schizophrenic patients. We reviewed information on 1,418 patients treated with 
clozapine in the United States between 1972 and 1988. Forty-one of 1,418 (2.8%) 
patients had generalized tonic-clonic seizures during treatment with clozapine. 
Life-table analysis predicts a cumulative 10% risk of seizures after 3.8 years 
of treatment. Clozapine-related seizures appear to be dose-related. High-dose 
therapy (greater than or equal to 600 mg/day) was associated with a greater risk 
of seizures (4.4%) than medium (300 to 600 mg/day; 2.7%) or low doses (less than 
300 mg/day; 1.0%). Also, rapid upward titration may increase seizure risk. 
Thirty-one of 41 patients were successfully continued on clozapine despite 
seizure occurrence, either with reduction of dose or addition of an 
antiepileptic medication. Recognition and treatment of clozapine-related 
seizures will become increasingly important as its use grows in the 1990s.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.41.3.369
PMID: 2006003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Psychol Bull. 1991 Jan;109(1):90-106. doi: 10.1037/0033-2909.109.1.90.

Left-handedness: a marker for decreased survival fitness.

Coren S(1), Halpern DF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

Comment in
    Psychol Bull. 1993 Sep;114(2):203-34; discussion 235-47.

Life span studies have shown that the population percentage of left-handers 
diminishes steadily, so that they are drastically underrepresented in the oldest 
age groups. Data are reviewed that indicate that this population trend is due to 
the reduced longevity of left-handers. Some of the elevated risk for sinistrals 
is apparently due to environmental factors that elevate their accident 
susceptibility. Further evidence suggests that left-handedness may be a marker 
for birth stress related neuropathy, developmental delays and irregularities, 
and deficiencies in the immune system due to the intrauterine hormonal 
environment. Some statistical and physiological factors that may cause 
left-handedness to be selectively associated with earlier mortality are also 
presented.

DOI: 10.1037/0033-2909.109.1.90
PMID: 2006231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Radiologe. 1991 Jan;31(1):40-5.

[Reflections on technology in medicine].

[Article in German]

Grassmann P.

PMID: 2006254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Stat Med. 1991 Jan;10(1):79-93. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780100113.

Estimability and estimation of expected years of life lost due to a hazardous 
exposure.

Robins J(1), Greenland S.

Author information:
(1)Occupational Health Program, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 
02115.

Expected years of life lost is an important concept in public-health and legal 
issues. We describe conditions under which the expected years of life lost due 
to hazardous exposure is estimable (identifiable) from epidemiologic data. We 
show that, in general, the average years of life lost among exposed subjects 
dying at a given age (the age-specific expected years of life lost) is not 
identifiable, although the average years of life lost among all exposed subjects 
(the unconditional expected years of life lost) is identifiable from an unbiased 
epidemiologic study. We also show that the average years of life lost among all 
exposed subjects dying of a specific cause (the cause-specific expected years of 
life lost) is not identifiable. We discuss the implications of these results for 
compensation schemes based on years of life lost, and compare such schemes with 
those based on the probability of causation.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780100113
PMID: 2006358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1991 Apr;172(4):262-8.

Survival with regional and distant metastases from cutaneous malignant melanoma.

Roses DF(1), Karp NS, Oratz R, Dubin N, Harris MN, Speyer J, Boyd A, Golomb FM, 
Ransohoff J, Dugan M, et al.

Author information:
(1)Kaplan Cancer Center, New York, New York.

The clinical course of 312 consecutive patients after initial presentation with 
metastatic melanoma, 165 of whom presented with regional metastases at cutaneous 
or subcutaneous, or both, nodal sites and 147 with metastases at distant sites, 
was reviewed. The five year survival rate for regional metastases was 43.4 per 
cent compared with a five year survival rate for distant metastases of 4.9 per 
cent (p less than 0.0001). Favorable prognostic variables for survival from 
first regional metastases included primary melanoma sites on the extremities 
compared with the head, neck and trunk (p = 0.043) and a disease-free interval 
of more than one year from primary surgical treatment to regional metastases (p 
= 0.0058). Favorable prognostic variables for survival from the first distant 
metastasis included a disease-free interval of more than one year from primary 
surgical treatment to distant metastases (p = 0.0092), the type of resection of 
metastatic disease (p = 0.00027) and the addition of systemic immunotherapy (p = 
0.0011). Forty-nine patients with totally resectable distant metastases had a 
five year survival rate from the treatment of the initial metastasis of 13.1 per 
cent, whereas 33 patients having palliative resections had a five year survival 
rate of 7.5 per cent. All 165 patients who did not have resection for distant 
metastases died within five years. The results of our experience support 
therapeutic efforts to ablate both regional and distant metastases of malignant 
melanoma when feasible.

PMID: 2006449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Am J Epidemiol. 1991 Mar 15;133(6):577-84.

Sex differences in the mortality associated with insulin-dependent diabetes 
mellitus in four countries. The Diabetes Epidemiology Research International 
(DERI) Study.

[No authors listed]

As part of the Diabetes Epidemiology Research International Mortality Study, sex 
differences in overall and cause-specific mortality were evaluated in the 
follow-up of over 8,000 youth-onset diabetic patients diagnosed between 
1965-1979. These cases came from population-based cohorts in Japan, Israel, 
Finland, and the United States (Allegheny County, PA). Males had a significantly 
greater premature death rate compared with females in Finland. In the other 
countries, the sex-specific rates did not differ significantly. Cause-specific 
mortality analysis revealed that Finland and the United States had an excess of 
violent deaths for males. For all countries, there was little difference between 
mortality rates for males and females for diabetes-related mortality (e.g., 
acute diabetes-related mortality and renal disease). The results indicate that 
the male/female differences in mortality for insulin-dependent diabetic cohorts 
were not the same as for the general population. Moreover, the male/female 
mortality risk varied as the result of where the childhood diabetic patients 
lived.

PMID: 2006644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. J Am Acad Nurse Pract. 1991 Jan-Mar;3(1):48-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1745-7599.1991.tb01061.x.

Learning from the Third World: health care in Nicaragua.

Kugel C.

PIP: In this article, Candace Kugel, a family nurse practitioner in Pennsylvania 
who visited Nicaragua as part of an exchange program, describes her impressions 
of the country's health care system. Kugel is a member of the Project 
Gettysburg/Leon, a sister-city program that promotes cultural exchanges. She 
arrived in Nicaragua less than 2 weeks after the newly elected UNO government 
assumed power. In Leon, Kugel visited seven rural and urban clinics, the city's 
hospital, the health education organization, and the medical, dental, and 
nursing schools. In all health facilities, she discovered politically energized 
and committed health care workers. It is this determination that allows then to 
continue working in spite of perpetual shortages of even the most basic 
supplies. The hospital was out of insulin, and was having to reuse bulb syringes 
for newborns. One clinic lacked water supply. Kugel also found nurses to be in 
short supply. As she explains, the physicians outnumber professional nurse 3-1. 
Because of low salaries, 1 6-day work schedule, and staffing shortages, few are 
interested in becoming nurses. Furthermore, the nursing school is severely 
ill-equipped. Nonetheless, Nicaragua's health care system has accomplished 
health: immunization, family planning, prenatal care, well-child screening, 
health education, and treating open water for malaria and dengue-bearing 
mosquitoes. From 1979-88, infant mortality dropped from 93/1000-62/1000, and 
life expectancy increased from 56-63.3 years. Additionally, Nicaraguans now 
consider health care a right, not a privilege. Kugel hopes that with the end of 
the US embargo and the renewal of US aid, Nicaragua will accomplish even more.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1745-7599.1991.tb01061.x
PMID: 2007063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Dis Colon Rectum. 1991 Apr;34(4):317-22. doi: 10.1007/BF02050591.

Local recurrence following abdominoperineal excision and anterior resection for 
rectal carcinoma.

Amato A(1), Pescatori M, Butti A.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Chirurgica, Universitá Cattolica, Roma, Italia.

The aim of this retrospective study is to compare the outcome of 
abdominoperineal excision (APE) and anterior resection (AR) for rectal cancer in 
terms of local tumor recurrence. A further comparison has been carried out 
between hand-sewn and stapled anastomosis; 147 patients have been followed for 
at least 2 years: 69 after APE and 78 after AR, 40 being stapled. The following 
variables potentially related to the risk of recurrence were evaluated: age, 
grading, staging, and site of the tumor. An overall 2-year local recurrence rate 
of 11 percent after APE and 12 percent after AR was observed, whereas it was 13 
and 11 percent following stapled and hand-sewn sutures, respectively. Both 
differences were not statistically significant. A similar local recurrence rate 
was noted after APE and AR when the patients were matched for Dukes' stage and 
grading of the lesion. A trend toward an increased risk of recurrence following 
AR (P = 0.07) was shown when comparing the two procedures if mid and upper 
rectal cancers were grouped together. In the patients with anastomotic leaks 
after AR, no increase of local recurrence was observed. In conclusion, AR is 
unlikely to be followed by an increased risk of local recurrence and, therefore, 
when oncologically indicated, may be considered the operation of choice in the 
treatment of rectal cancer, although the possible risk of its overuse should be 
taken into account.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02050591
PMID: 2007349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1991 Feb 23;135(8):308-12.

[Rheumatoid arthritis, a fatal disease].

[Article in Dutch]

Rasker JJ(1), Cosh JA.

Author information:
(1)Medisch Spectrum Twente, locatie Haaksbergerstraat, Enschede.

PMID: 2008216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1991 Feb 23;135(8):312-3.

[Diminished quality of life and life expectancy in patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis].

[Article in Dutch]

van Rijswijk MH(1), Rasker JJ.

Author information:
(1)Academisch Ziekenhuis, afd. Reumatologie, Groningen.

PMID: 2008217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Ophthalmology. 1991 Feb;98(2):136-41. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(91)32325-x.

Risk factors for metastases in patients with retinoblastoma.

Messmer EP(1), Heinrich T, Höpping W, de Sutter E, Havers W, Sauerwein W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital, Essen, Germany.

The study is based upon a review of data from 583 consecutive patients with 
retinoblastoma over the years 1956 to 1986. Mean follow-up was 8 years, and 
median was 5.5 years. In 41 patients, metastases developed within 5 years. The 
influence of clinical and histopathologic risk factors on the occurrence of 
metastases was first analyzed by univariate tests. Significant variables were 
then reevaluated using the Cox proportional hazards method. Four factors were 
found to be independently associated with the development of metastases: optic 
nerve invasion with and without involvement of the resection line, choroidal 
invasion and enucleation of an affected eye more than 120 days after initial 
diagnosis. The 5-year metastatic risks associated with these factors were 67%, 
13%, 8%, and 4%, respectively. The relative risk estimate, calculated from the 
Cox model, was used for a score classification with groups of low, medium, and 
high metastatic risk. The 5-year incidence of metastases was 4%, 43%, and 68%, 
respectively.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(91)32325-x
PMID: 2008269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 1991;15(1):71-82. doi: 
10.1016/0278-5846(91)90042-y.

The prophylactic efficacy of tricyclic antidepressants--a five year followup.

Peselow ED(1), Dunner DL, Fieve RR, DiFiglia C.

Author information:
(1)New York University School of Medicine, New York.

1. In order to evaluate the efficacy of antidepressants in the prevention of 
recurrent depression, a longitudinal life-table analysis was carried out 
involving 217 unipolar patients whose depressive symptoms had remitted following 
treatment with one of five standard tricyclics (imipramine, amitriptyline, 
desipramine, nortriptyline, and doxepin). 2. Following six months continued 
euthymic mood these patients were maintained on the medication to which they 
initially responded to in a clinical setting over a 5 year period. These 
patients were compared against a group of 28 individuals who were treated 
acutely for their depression and responded to one of the above the 5 standard 
antidepressants, but following 5-6 months continuation treatment were taken off 
the antidepressant at their own request. 3. Though there was a lower rate of 
relapse in patients receiving active medication vs the no treatment group, the 
frequency of relapse was high for the group on active drug. 4. Using the 
longitudinal life-table method of Fleiss there was a pessimistic-optimistic 
average relapse rate of 30%, 50%, and 60%, at 1, 2, and 3 years respectively 
while on active drug vs a 51%, 74%, and 83% relapse rate on no treatment. 
Overall 87 of 217 patients on active drug (40.1%) were observed to have suffered 
a depressive relapse over the 5 year course.

DOI: 10.1016/0278-5846(91)90042-y
PMID: 2008541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1991 Feb 9;121(6):174-81.

[Pneumothorax in cystic fibrosis].

[Article in German]

Aebersold A(1), Schaad UB.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Universitäts-Kinderklinik Bern.

Longer life expectancy for patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) has resulted in an 
increased incidence of pneumothorax (PT), which occurs in advanced stages of CF. 
This study is based on 276 patients with CF followed up between 1974 and 1989 at 
the Department of Pediatrics, University of Berne, Switzerland. 23 children or 
adolescents (10 boys and 13 girls) experienced 51 events of PT, 18 of which were 
tension pneumothoraces. The average age at first episode was 15.6 years. The 
long-term success rates of the four different therapeutic modalities used were 
24% for observation, 9% for pleural suction drainage only, 75% for quinacrine 
sclerosis and 90% for open thoracotomy. Sclerosis was associated with fewer 
complications and shorter hospital stays than thoracotomy. We therefore conclude 
that, following initial evacuation of the PT using a chest tube, quinacrine 
sclerosis should be considered as primary prophylaxis for recurrent PT. Only in 
3 of the 23 patients did the course of the basic disease deteriorate 
substantially following PT, and there was no death related to the PT episodes.

PMID: 2008596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Ann Surg. 1991 Apr;213(4):297-307. doi: 10.1097/00000658-199104000-00004.

Have changing treatment patterns affected outcome for operable breast cancer? 
Ten-year follow-up in 1288 patients, 1965 to 1978.

Cody HS 3rd(1), Laughlin EH, Trillo C, Urban JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, New York, New 
York.

From 1965 to 1978, 1288 patients with primary operable breast cancer were 
treated by the senior author, using extended radical (ERM), radical (RM), and 
modified radical (MRM) mastectomy operations exclusively. Results were analyzed 
for trends in overall and disease-free survival, and patterns of local and 
distant relapse, the years 1965 to 1970 versus 1971 to 1974 versus 1975 to 1978. 
Significant changes (p less than 0.00001) from 1965 to 1978 included 
progressively earlier stage of disease, less frequent use of RM and ERM, a 
decline in the use of postoperative radiotherapy, and the introduction in 1975 
of multidrug adjuvant chemotherapy. Ten-year disease-free survival rates 
improved significantly for all patients (by 11%, p = 0.00004) and for 
node-negative (by 12%, p = 0.0024), node-positive (by 8%, p = 0.012), clinical 
stage II (by 15%, p = 0.0022), and pathologic stage II (by 12%, p = 0.016) 
disease. Ten-year local recurrence for all patients was 3% (local only) and 2% 
(local with distant metastasis), and survival from date of recurrence for all 
patients failing treatment increased two times (p less than 0.0001) for patients 
treated most recently. As the primary surgical treatment of breast cancer 
continues to become more moderate, the promise of systemic adjuvant therapies 
can be realized only with continued emphasis on earlier diagnosis and maximal 
local control of disease.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-199104000-00004
PMCID: PMC1358348
PMID: 2009011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Arch Surg. 1991 Apr;126(4):429-32. doi:
10.1001/archsurg.1991.01410280027002.

Local-regional breast cancer recurrence following mastectomy.

Crowe JP Jr(1), Gordon NH, Antunez AR, Shenk RR, Hubay CA, Shuck JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH.

Local-regional recurrence patterns were investigated in 1392 patients with 
breast cancer. Primary treatment for all patients included a mastectomy. Nine 
hundred seventeen patients had negative nodes and did not receive systemic 
therapy. Four hundred seventy-five patients had node metastases and were 
randomized to receive different combinations of chemoendocrine therapy. 
Follow-up ranged between 5 and 16 years. Two hundred thirty (25.8%) 
node-negative patients have had recurrences, with the initial recurrence being 
local-regional in 9.2%. Two hundred forty-two (50.9%) node-positive patients 
have had recurrences, with the initial recurrence being local-regional in 17.1%. 
Larger tumors and more extensive node involvement were associated with more 
first local-regional recurrences. The relative percent of first local-regional 
recurrence among patients in whom cancer recurred was similar for node-negative 
and node-positive patients (35.4% and 33.5%, respectively). In 63.6% of patients 
in whom cancer recurred, first local-regional recurrence were distant. Larger 
tumors, more extensive node involvement, and a shorter disease-free interval 
after mastectomy were associated with more rapid appearance of distant 
recurrence among these patients.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1991.01410280027002
PMID: 2009056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1991 Jan-Feb;32(1):117-20.

Femoro-popliteal and femoro-distal bypass: a comparison between in situ and 
reversed technique.

Bergmark C(1), Johansson G, Olofsson P, Swedenborg J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

The present report compares the in situ technique with that using the reversed 
vein for femoropopliteal bypass. In 1986 the in situ technique was introduced at 
our clinic as the preferred method for femoropopliteal bypass with the lower 
anastomosis below the knee or femorodistal bypass. Forty patients operated with 
the in situ technique were compared with an equal number of patients operated 
with the reversed technique 1983-1985. The two groups were comparable regarding 
concomitant cardiovascular and pulmonary disease, preoperative ankle-brachial 
index and level of distal anastomosis. Patency after 6 months was significantly 
higher (84%) for the in situ grafts compared to reversed veins (49%). The 
difference was mainly caused by a significantly higher patency for in situ 
grafts anastomosed to infrapopliteal arteries. Despite better patency rates in 
the in situ group limb salvage at 6 months was the same in both groups. 
Operating time was also similar in both groups. It is concluded that the in situ 
technique is superior to the reversed technique, at least in infrapopliteal 
reconstructions. The superior patency rate and the technical advantages without 
apparent disadvantages are the basis for the recommendation to use the in situ 
technique for femoropopliteal and femorodistal bypass.

PMID: 2010440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1991 Jan-Feb;32(1):121-7.

Secondary femoral-distal bypass.

Silverman SH(1), Flynn TC, Seeger JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Florida, Gainesville.

Thirty-nine secondary femoral-distal (femorotibial and femoroperoneal) bypasses 
were reviewed and compared to 89 primary femoral-distal bypasses (done during 
the same time period) to investigate the efficacy of secondary femoral-distal 
bypass. Graft patency at 2 years by life table analysis was similar in both 
groups (38% primary group vs 36% secondary group). However, limb salvage was 
significantly less in the secondary group (52% vs 68% at 2 years, p less than 
0.05). This decrease was primarily due to poorer limb salvage using composite 
grafts (prosthetic/vein) compared to vein grafts in patients who underwent 
secondary femoral-distal bypasses (37% vs 76% at 2 years, p less than 0.05). 
Postoperative wound infections and mortality were similar in both groups. Thus, 
femoral-distal bypass after failure of a previous infrainguinal reconstruction 
offers good long-term limb salvage with acceptable surgical risk when autologous 
vein is available for use as the arterial conduit.

PMID: 2010442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. J Vasc Surg. 1991 Apr;13(4):564-5.

Clinical results of axillobifemoral bypass using externally supported 
polytetrafluoroethylene.

Bell WH 3rd.

Comment on
    J Vasc Surg. 1990 Oct;12(4):416-20; discussion 420-1.

PMID: 2010940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Am J Med. 1991 Apr;90(4):418-26.

Aerosol pentamidine prophylaxis following Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in AIDS 
patients: results of a blinded dose-comparison study using an ultrasonic 
nebulizer.

Murphy RL(1), Lavelle JP, Allan JD, Gordin FM, Dupliss R, Boswell SL, Waskin HA, 
Davies SF, Graziano FM, Saag MS, et al.

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago, Illinois 60611.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1991 Apr;90(4):415-7.

PURPOSE: To compare the efficacy and safety of three different doses of 
prophylactic aerosol pentamidine in patients with one prior episode of 
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) and the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The design of the study was a double-blind, randomized, 
dose-comparison clinical trial conducted at 13 medical centers within the United 
States. In stage I of the trial, patients were randomized to receive either 5 
mg, 60 mg, or 120 mg of aerosol pentamidine delivered biweekly with the Fisoneb 
(Fisons, Inc., Rochester, New York) ultrasonic nebulizer. After 24 weeks of 
therapy, patients entered stage II of the trial, where the 5-mg group was 
re-randomized to either the 60-mg or 120-mg group.
RESULTS: One hundred seventy-five patients entered stage I of the trial and 
received prophylaxis for a mean of 123.6 days. Seven assigned to the 5-mg 
biweekly dosing schedule had a confirmed recurrence of PCP, compared with none 
in the 60-mg group (p = 0.007) and three in the 120-mg group (p = 0.304). During 
stage II of the trial, eight patients in the 60-mg group and one additional 
patient in the 120-mg group had recurrent PCP. After 52 weeks of observation, 
the likelihood of being PCP-free was 88.0% in the 60-mg group and 93% in the 
120-mg group (p = 0.712). Minor adverse events related to aerosol pentamidine 
administration included cough, taste perversion, chest pain, bronchospasm, and 
dyspnea. These side effects were more common in the 60-mg and 120-mg treatment 
groups and resulted in withdrawal from the study by one patient. Serious events 
were more common after 24 weeks of therapy and included asymptomatic 
hypoglycemia (five), pancreatitis (two), pneumothorax (one), and extrapulmonary 
pneumocystosis (one).
CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that biweekly administration of 60 mg or 
120 mg of aerosol pentamidine significantly decreases PCP recurrence when 
compared with a 5-mg regimen or findings in historic controls and is generally 
well tolerated. There is no significant difference in effect or safety between 
these two dosing regimens in patients followed for at least 52 weeks of therapy.

PMID: 2012082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Am J Med Genet. 1991 Jan;38(1):103-6. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.1320380123.

Reproductive behavior of thalassemic couples segregating for Cooley anemia.

Gamberini MR(1), Canella R, Lucci M, Vullo C, Barrai I.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Division, USL 31, University of Ferrara, Italy.

The reproductive behavior in 1984 of families segregating for Cooley anemia in 
Ferrara was compared with that of a control group of families, matched for some 
biological variables which affect fertility. At the resolution power of the 
sample, it was found that there is no significant difference in these variables 
due to segregation for Cooley anemia, and it appears that there is no longer 
significant reproductive compensation in thalassemic couples, although a 
tendency to compensate does still exist. The increased life span of children 
affected by Cooley anemia, due to improvements in treatment in the past decade, 
is probably the main reason why the compensatory reproductive behaviour of the 
past has almost disappeared.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.1320380123
PMID: 2012120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. ASAIO Trans. 1991 Jan-Mar;37(1):13-5. doi: 10.1097/00002480-199101000-00005.

Seldinger technique for Tenckhoff catheter placement.

Zappacosta AR(1), Perras ST, Closkey GM.

Author information:
(1)Bryn Mawr Hospital, Pennsylvania.

The Seldinger technique can be applied to the placement of chronic peritoneal 
dialysis catheters. With strict adherence to criteria identifying low risk 
patients, the procedure is comparatively safe, simple, usually better tolerated, 
and likely to be less costly than laparotomy placement. Using a straight 
Tenckhoff catheter with a subcutaneously placed single cuff, our one year 
catheter survival is similar to the multicenter data reported by The National 
CAPD Registry.

DOI: 10.1097/00002480-199101000-00005
PMID: 2012711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Circulation. 1991 Apr;83(4):1194-201. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.83.4.1194.

Expected gains in life expectancy from various coronary heart disease risk 
factor modifications.

Tsevat J(1), Weinstein MC, Williams LW, Tosteson AN, Goldman L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, MA.

Erratum in
    Circulation 1991 Dec;84(6):2610.

Comment in
    Circulation. 1991 Dec;84(6):2607-8.
    Circulation. 1991 Apr;83(4):1452-5.

BACKGROUND: Despite much evidence that modifying risk factors for coronary heart 
disease can decrease morbidity and mortality, little is known about the impact 
of risk-factor modification on life expectancy.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We used the Coronary Heart Disease Policy Model, a 
state-transition computer simulation of the US population, to forecast potential 
gains in life expectancy from risk-factor modification for the cohort of 
Americans turning age 35 in 1990. Among 35-year-old men, we projected that the 
