population-wide increase in life expectancy would be about 1.1 years from strict 
blood pressure control, 0.8 years from smoking cessation, 0.7 years from 
reduction of serum cholesterol to 200 mg/dl, and about 0.6 years from weight 
loss to ideal body weight. For women, reducing cholesterol to 200 mg/dl would 
have the greatest estimated impact-a gain of 0.8 years-whereas smoking 
cessation, blood pressure control, or weight loss would yield population-wide 
gains of 0.7, 0.4, and 0.4 years, respectively. Gains for 35-year-old 
individuals having a given risk factor are greater. We estimate that, on 
average, male smokers would gain 2.3 years from quitting smoking; males with 
hypertension would gain 1.1-5.3 years from reducing their diastolic blood 
pressure to 88 mm Hg; men with serum cholesterol levels exceeding 200 mg/dl 
would gain 0.5-4.2 years from lowering their serum cholesterol level to 200 
mg/dl; and overweight men would gain an average of 0.7-1.7 years from achieving 
ideal body weight. Corresponding projected gains for at-risk women are 2.8 years 
from quitting smoking, 0.9-5.7 years from lowering blood pressure, 0.4-6.3 years 
from decreasing serum cholesterol, and 0.5-1.1 years from losing weight. 
Eliminating coronary heart disease mortality is estimated to extend the average 
life expectancy of a 35-year-old man by 3.1 years and a 35-year-old woman by 3.3 
years.
CONCLUSIONS: Population-wide gains in life expectancy from single risk-factor 
modifications are modest, but gains to individuals at risk can be more 
substantial.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.83.4.1194
PMID: 2013141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Circulation. 1991 Apr;83(4):1452-5. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.83.4.1452.

Imagine no coronary heart disease.

Kaplan RM.

Comment on
    Circulation. 1991 Apr;83(4):1194-201.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.83.4.1452
PMID: 2013162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. J Neurosurg. 1991 May;74(5):720-8. doi: 10.3171/jns.1991.74.5.0720.

Postoperative radiotherapy in the management of spinal cord ependymoma.

Whitaker SJ(1), Bessell EM, Ashley SE, Bloom HJ, Bell BA, Brada M.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Radiotherapy, Royal Marsden Hospital, Sutton, England.

Fifty-eight patients with histologically verified spinal cord ependymomas were 
treated at the Royal Marsden Hospital and Atkinson Morley's Hospital between 
1950 and 1987. The median age in this series was 40 years (range 1 to 79 years) 
and the male:female ratio was 1.8:1. Ten patients had tumors in the cervical 
cord and 10 in the thoracic cord; 14 tumors involved the conus medullaris and 24 
the cauda equina. Forty ependymomas were grade I and 13 were grades II to IV (in 
five patients there was insufficient material for grading). Eleven patients 
underwent biopsy only, 33 had partial or subtotal resection, and 14 had complete 
resection. Forty-three patients received postoperative radiotherapy. The median 
follow-up period was 70 months (range 3 to 408 months). Cause-specific survival 
rates were 74% and 68% at 5 and 10 years, respectively. On univariate analysis, 
age, histological grade, postoperative neurological function, and era of 
treatment were significant prognostic factors for survival. The histological 
grade was the only significant independent prognostic factor. The relative risk 
of death from ependymoma was 9.0 for patients with tumor grades II to IV 
compared to grade I (p less than 0.005, 95% confidence interval 2.7 to 30). The 
survival rates of patients following complete excision were significantly better 
compared to those after incomplete surgery (p less than 0.025). The majority of 
completely resected neoplasms were low-grade cauda equina tumors. Despite 
incomplete surgery, 5- and 10-year progression-free survival rates following 
radical radiotherapy were both 59%, and cause-specific survival rates were 69% 
at 5 years and 62% at 10 years. This suggests that radiotherapy may achieve 
long-term tumor control in over half of those patients with residual spinal 
ependymoma.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1991.74.5.0720
PMID: 2013772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Ann Vasc Surg. 1991 Mar;5(2):111-5. doi: 10.1007/BF02016741.

Carotid endarterectomy for asymptomatic carotid stenosis: a ten-year experience 
with 120 procedures in a fellowship training program.

Anderson RJ(1), Hobson RW 2nd, Padberg FT Jr, Pecoraro JP, DeGroote RD, Jamil Z, 
Lee BC, Breitbart GB, Franco CD.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, UMDNJ-New Jersey Medical School, Newark 
07103-2757.

Performance of carotid endarterectomy for asymptomatic carotid stenosis has been 
restricted during recent years because of concern of reported complications in 
as high as 10-15% of patients, as well as limited long-term data on stroke 
protection. During the last 10 years, we have studied immediate and long-term 
results of carotid endarterectomy for asymptomatic disease in 120 patients. 
Operations were performed by a clinical vascular fellow with a staff surgeon in 
attendance in 113 (94%) cases with the remainder performed by the staff surgeon. 
Patients' mean age was 66 years; 82% were men. Risk factors included 
hypertension (56%), smoking (52%), coronary artery disease (32%), diabetes 
(24%), and hypercholesterolemia (6%). Arteriographic severity of stenoses was 
80-99% in 74%, 60-79% in 22%, and 40-59% in 4% of cases. Postoperative 
complications included two transient neurological events (1.7%). No permanent 
strokes or deaths occurred. Using the life table method, cumulative stroke rate 
was 4.5% for ipsilateral events and 7.3% for contralateral events, confirming 
the high degree of stroke protection afforded by carotid endarterectomy in this 
population. Since these results were accomplished in a fellowship training 
program, we regard adequacy of this experience as the most influential factor in 
accomplishing this record. Surgeons who are unable to achieve comparable results 
should consider abandonment of the procedure or an extended period of additional 
training.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02016741
PMID: 2015180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Ann Vasc Surg. 1991 Mar;5(2):156-62. doi: 10.1007/BF02016749.

Results of infrainguinal revascularization with reversed vein conduits: a modern 
control series.

Mills JL(1), Taylor SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, United States Air Force Medical Center, 
Lackland Air Force Base, Texas 78236-5300.

To determine the outcome of infrainguinal reversed vein bypasses in the modern 
era, we reviewed the results of 120 consecutive reversed vein grafts performed 
from March, 1986 to March, 1990. Forty-nine bypasses were to tibial, peroneal, 
or pedal arteries, 46 grafts to the below-knee popliteal artery, and 25 grafts 
to the above-knee popliteal artery. Limb salvage was the indication for 
revascularization in 70% of patients. All grafts were followed with serial, 
duplex scan, peak-systolic graft flow velocity measurements every three months 
for one year and every six months thereafter. The primary life table patency 
rate at 36 months was 67.6% for the entire series; the secondary patency rate 
was 92.5%. The secondary patency rate reflects the impact of graft revisions 
resulting from the detection of failing grafts by duplex scanning. Patency rates 
of reversed vein grafts to the tibial arteries at 36 months (73.8% primary and 
89.8% secondary) were equivalent to those performed to the popliteal artery. Our 
current patency rates with reversed vein grafts are comparable or superior to 
those reported for in-situ vein conduits and suggest that operative technique 
and meticulous follow-up are more important with respect to long-term graft 
durability than whether the vein is used in the in-situ or reversed 
configuration.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02016749
PMID: 2015186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Ann Vasc Surg. 1991 Mar;5(2):176-81. doi: 10.1007/BF02016752.

Serial duplex scans elucidate the evolving hemodynamics of distal arteriovenous 
fistulas.

Alexander JB(1), Spence RK, Camishion RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Cooper Hospital/University Medical Center, Camden, New 
Jersey 08103.

Arteriovenous fistulas at the distal anastomosis have been suggested to improve 
the patency of prosthetic femorocrural bypasses. We have followed nine patient 
with bypasses to the crural vessels and distal arteriovenous fistulas using 
physical examination, pulse volume recordings, and segmental pressure indices. 
Duplex scans of the distal anastomosis were employed to determine the 
contribution of arterial and venous outflow to total graft flow. Early graft 
patency was achieved in all patients. One patient went on to amputation at one 
week postoperatively for progressive ischemia despite a patent graft. The other 
eight patients achieved successful revascularization. Healing of ulcers, relief 
of rest pain, the presence of palpable pulses, good pulse wave amplitude, and 
normal pressure indices are consistent findings as long as the bypass is patent. 
One patient died on the fourth postoperative day from a myocardial infarction. 
The remaining patients have been followed from one to 23 months with follow-up 
examination every three to four months. Sequential duplex scans show that flow 
continues into distal arteries while venous outflow diminishes. This corresponds 
to a reduction in the diameter of the outflow veins while the caliber of 
arterial runoff is maintained. Patency has been achieved up to 23 months with a 
mean of 12 months. Venous outflow occlusion precedes graft thrombosis by two to 
15 months. Graft occlusion has uniformly necessitated amputation. It may be 
possible to improve long-term graft patency and limb salvage by surgical 
revision of the distal anastomosis to reestablish venous outflow.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02016752
PMID: 2015189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Ann Vasc Surg. 1991 Mar;5(2):182-5. doi: 10.1007/BF02016753.

Does postoperative surveillance with duplex scanning identify the failing distal 
bypass?

Robison JG(1), Elliott BM.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston 
29425.

Duplex scanning used to determine graft flow velocities is an effective means of 
identifying lower extremity bypass grafts at risk for failure before they 
occlude. We implemented a graft surveillance protocol using duplex scanning and 
over a two-year interval evaluated fifty-four lower extremity bypasses utilizing 
graft flow velocities, ankle/brachial indices, and toe pressure measurements. 
Three patients were identified with grafts at risk for thrombosis. Of these 
patients, one had no evidence of arteriographic stenosis, one patient had 
clinical symptoms of reduced flow velocity measurements, and one's graft 
subsequently occluded during follow-up. Eight patients with graft flow 
velocities of greater than 45 cm/sec subsequently developed occlusion or were 
noted to have a severe associated stenosis. Six patients developed unheralded 
graft occlusion less than three months following determination of the graft flow 
velocity. Four of these patients (67%) had bypasses to the dorsalis pedis 
artery. Graft flow velocity measurements do not always predict an impending 
graft failure, and other factors may contribute to the sudden occlusion of 
patent distal bypasses, especially to the pedal arteries. Although the concept 
of hemodynamic monitoring to identify impending graft failure is an attractive 
one, more sensitive or refined measurements (especially to the pedal vessels), 
are required.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02016753
PMID: 2015190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Bone Miner. 1991 Feb;12(2):123-32. doi: 10.1016/0169-6009(91)90041-w.

Bone mineral density and physical activity in 50-60-year-old women.

Cheng S(1), Suominen H, Rantanen T, Parkatti T, Heikkinen E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Jyväskylä, Finland.

The bone mineral density (BMD) of the calcaneus was measured utilizing a single 
energy photon absorption method in 108 women, aged 50-60 years. The women who 
participated in vigorous exercise two or more times a week or whose total 
physical activity amounted to 4 h a week had significantly higher BMD values 
than those who exercised less than two times a week or did less than 4 h 
physical activity a week. The physically active women also showed higher values 
for leg extension force and maximal oxygen uptake. BMD and leg extension force 
were positively correlated, whereas correlations between BMD and body mass, and 
the width of the calcaneus were negative. When other life-style variables were 
taken into account, such as smoking and drinking, a significant difference in 
BMD was found between physically active and sedentary women, but not between the 
smokers and non-smokers, or the drinkers and non-drinkers.

DOI: 10.1016/0169-6009(91)90041-w
PMID: 2015413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Br J Surg. 1991 Feb;78(2):171-5. doi: 10.1002/bjs.1800780212.

Population-based study of surgery in juvenile onset Crohn's disease.

Sedgwick DM(1), Barton JR, Hamer-Hodges DW, Nixon SJ, Ferguson A.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Unit, University of Edinburgh, UK.

A geographically based cohort of 68 children with Crohn's disease was derived by 
sampling from Scottish Hospital In-patient Statistics. Surgical histories were 
examined and analysed by actuarial methods, and the nature of major operations 
performed was compared with operations for Crohn's disease in the Lothians' 
Surgical Audit. Fifty-four of the 68 patients were treated surgically, with a 
total of 135 operations (71 major, 64 minor). Fifty per cent of the cohort had a 
major operation within 5 years of onset of symptoms; median time to a second 
operation was 4 years. The types of major operation performed in juvenile onset 
patients differed significantly from those recorded in the Lothians' audit, with 
a high rate of exploratory laparotomy in younger patients (12 cases). With a 
mean follow-up of 7 years, 12 patients (18 per cent) have a permanent stoma. 
There were five deaths, three postoperative. This study highlights the frequency 
of surgical intervention in young people with Crohn's disease.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.1800780212
PMID: 2015463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Br J Surg. 1991 Feb;78(2):176-8. doi: 10.1002/bjs.1800780213.

Population-based study of surgery in juvenile onset ulcerative colitis.

Sedgwick DM(1), Barton JR, Hamer-Hodges DW, Nixon SJ, Ferguson A.

Author information:
(1)Gastro-Intestinal Unit, University of Edinburgh, UK.

A geographically based cohort of 37 children with ulcerative colitis has been 
derived by sampling from Scottish Hospital In-patient Statistics. Surgical 
histories were examined and analysed by actuarial methods, and the major 
operations performed were compared with operations for ulcerative colitis in the 
Lothians' Surgical Audit. Fourteen of the 37 patients had a total of 26 
operations (15 major, 11 minor). Sixteen per cent had major surgery within 5 
years of onset of symptoms, and the types of operation were similar to those 
recorded in Lothians' Surgical Audit. Operation rate was significantly lower 
than that for a parallel cohort of patients with Crohn's disease. With a mean 
follow-up of 7.4 years, seven (19 per cent) patients have a permanent stoma and 
there has been one death.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.1800780213
PMID: 2015464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Cancer. 1991 May 15;67(10):2633-41. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19910515)67:10<2633::aid-cncr2820671039>3.0.co;2-9.

Patterns of care related to age of men with prostate cancer.

Bennett CL(1), Greenfield S, Aronow H, Ganz P, Vogelzang NJ, Elashoff RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, UCLA School of Medicine.

A chart review study was done of 242 Stages A2 to D1 cancer patients to 
determine whether the age of patients with prostate cancer influenced their 
physicians' management strategies. Ten hospitals of varying size, medical-school 
affiliation, and patient socioeconomic status participated in this study. 
Patterns of prostate cancer care were examined using sets of branching logic 
standards in the form of criteria maps. A chart-based comorbidity index was used 
to control for the effect of coexisting diseases on cancer management. 
Regression models indicated that patient age affected the intensity of both the 
diagnostic evaluation and therapy, even after controlling for independent 
factors such as comorbid disease and individual hospital differences. Patients 
aged 75 years and older had significantly less intensive clinical staging 
workups and use of surgical and radiation therapies compared with patients aged 
65 to 74 years and patients aged 50 to 64 years. In conjunction with similar 
results noted in studies of elderly patients with other malignancies, these 
results suggest that age bias is likely to be widespread. Physicians need to 
consider life expectancy, the ability of the patient to tolerate diagnostic 
procedures and therapies, and the quality of life in making treatment decisions.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19910515)67:10<2633::aid-cncr2820671039>3.0.co;2-9
PMID: 2015564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Cancer. 1991 May 15;67(10):2658-63. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19910515)67:10<2658::aid-cncr2820671042>3.0.co;2-c.

Life expectancy of patients with chronic nonleukemic myeloproliferative 
disorders.

Rozman C(1), Giralt M, Feliu E, Rubio D, Cortés MT.

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate School of Haematology Farreras Valentí, Hospital Clínic, 
University of Barcelona, Spain.

This study determines, within the frame of current therapeutic possibilities, 
the impact of chronic nonleukemic myeloproliferative disorders on expected 
survival. The survival data for 1067 patients (454 with polycythemia vera, 247 
with essential thrombocythemia, and 366 with idiopathic myelofibrosis) were 
collected from 38 Spanish institutions. The actuarial survival probability of 
each group of patients was compared with that of the age-matched and sex-matched 
control population. The survival of the patients with polycythemia vera and 
essential thrombocythemia did not differ from that of the control population (P 
= 0.92 and, 0.22, respectively), whereas the survival of the patients with 
idiopathic myelofibrosis was strikingly reduced with respect to the control 
population (P = 0.0000000007). Thus, in terms of survival, current therapeutic 
procedures may be considered as quite satisfactory in patients with polycythemia 
vera and essential thrombocythemia. On the other hand, due to poor survival of 
patients with idiopathic myelofibrosis, new therapeutic approaches for this 
condition are clearly needed.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19910515)67:10<2658::aid-cncr2820671042>3.0.co;2-c
PMID: 2015567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Demography. 1991 Feb;28(1):159-73.

Momentum and the growth-free segment of a population.

Kim YJ(1), Schoen R, Sarma PS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Dynamics, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 
21205.

In the scenario of a sudden drop in fertility to replacement level. Preston 
(1986) argued that the population segment under age T, the length of generation, 
remained growth-free. Here we first present a new relationship for the momentum 
of any observed population as the ratio of 1) the proportion of the observed 
population under the mean age at childbearing to 2) the proportion of its life 
table population under that mean age. We then use that relationship to 
demonstrate Preston's approximation. Growth factors for other population 
segments are also presented. When the initial population is stable, momentum can 
be approximated as a function of the net reproduction rate alone.

PMID: 2015941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. J Dent. 1991 Feb;19(1):18-23. doi: 10.1016/0300-5712(91)90031-s.

Prediction of amalgam restoration longevity.

Smales RJ(1), Webster DA, Leppard PI, Dawson AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dentistry, University of Adelaide, South Australia.

The purpose of the present study was to assess predictions of longevity for 
amalgam restorations using a fitted Weibull distribution against base estimates 
using actuarial methods. The 1345 restorations involved were from 100 members of 
the Royal Australian Air Force whose dental conditions had been monitored 
regularly over a minimum period of 10 years. Based on maximum likelihood 
estimates of the parameters of a Weibull distribution, Weibull curves could be 
determined and were found to be very close to actuarial survival curves 
established from the same data set. However, Weibull estimates based on survival 
experience of less than 5-6 years failed to predict long-term survival. Using 
the 6 year actuarial survival data, the predicted and observed survival curves 
disagreed by less than 10 per cent for every time period. Twenty-five per cent 
of restorations had failed for the 6 year data, compared to 22 per cent in these 
first 6 years for the full 17 year data set.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-5712(91)90031-s
PMID: 2016424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Nature. 1991 Apr 18;350(6319):545. doi: 10.1038/350545a0.

Can lefties study be right?

Pool R.

DOI: 10.1038/350545a0
PMID: 2017245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Am J Epidemiol. 1991 Apr 1;133(7):715-20. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a115946.

A preliminary study of excess risk of cardiovascular disease in the mothers of 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

Kaplan D(1), Feldman J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, State University of New York, Brooklyn 11203.

Family histories were obtained from 123 patients with rheumatoid arthritis and 
152 patients with other musculoskeletal complaints. The subjects were female 
patients aged 40 years or more seen at the Arthritis Clinic of the State 
University of New York Health Science Center at Brooklyn between October 1985 
and February 1986. It was found that death due to heart disease or stroke was 
more common (adjusted p less than 0.02) in the mothers of patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis than in the mothers of control patients, and that heart 
disease was also reported to be more common in these mothers (adjusted p less 
than 0.005). Thus, it is possible that cardiovascular disease at least partially 
accounts for the previously noted (J Rheumatol 1986; 13:903-6) shorter life 
expectancy of the mothers of patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a115946
PMID: 2018026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Am J Med. 1991 Apr 25;90(4B):3S-7S. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(91)90472-a.

Epidemiology and evaluation: steps toward hypertension treatment in the 1990s.

Schoenberger JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical 
Center, Chicago, Illinois.

The percentage of persons in the United States over age 65--especially over 
85--is increasing more rapidly than other age groups. Two thirds of people over 
age 65 have blood pressure higher than 140 mm Hg systolic or 90 mm Hg diastolic. 
Isolated systolic hypertension (systolic blood pressure greater than 160 mm Hg 
with diastolic blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg) is also highly prevalent. In a 
number of clinical trials, treatment of diastolic hypertension in the elderly 
has been shown to be beneficial, although the value of treatment of isolated 
systolic hypertension is not yet established. The benefit of antihypertensive 
therapy on the incidence of stroke and heart failure has been clearly 
established, but prevention of the atherosclerotic complications of high blood 
pressure (sudden death or myocardial infarction, for example) has not been 
convincingly demonstrated. Since clinical trials designed to investigate this 
atherosclerotic complication of hypertension have relied on stepped-care 
regimens (diuretics and beta blockers), the question arises whether the use of 
different drugs might have a better effect on prevention of myocardial 
infarction. The basis for this supposition includes the known adverse effects of 
diuretics and beta blockers on electrolytes, lipid metabolism, glucose 
metabolism, insulin resistance, and quality of life. Hypertension treatment in 
the 1990s will focus on the mechanisms by which blood pressure is lowered by 
various antihypertensive agents, as well as individualization of drug therapy 
based on coexisting diseases and conditions. Emphasis will be placed on use of 
monotherapy whenever possible; diuretics in low doses will probably be used more 
frequently for second-line therapy. In recognition of their lack of adverse 
lipid effects and their tolerability, first-line therapy with alpha blockers, 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and calcium antagonists will become 
increasingly common. The goal of antihypertensive therapy will be to extend the 
life expectancy of hypertensive patients to that of subjects without high blood 
pressure; hopefully, these new treatment approaches will bring us closer to that 
goal.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(91)90472-a
PMID: 2018054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Hum Biol. 1991 Apr;63(2):211-20.

Changing sex ratio of mortality in the Semai Senoi, 1969-1987.

Fix AG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of California, Riverside 95251.

An excess of male over female deaths is characteristic of modern national 
populations, whereas in some high-mortality societies female mortality exceeds 
that of males. Among the Semai Senoi, a Malaysian Orang Asli ("aboriginal") 
population, women experienced higher mortality than males in the decades before 
1969. This differential occurred in all age classes older than 15 years so that 
the sex ratio progressively increased with age. A recent (1987) restudy of the 
Semai population found that sex-specific differential mortality is much reduced. 
A comparison of the 1969 and 1987 life tables shows a sharp shift in the sex 
ratios of mortality for the post-15-year-old age classes (the geometric means of 
age classes 15-44 were 0.768 in 1969 and 0.997 in 1987) so that male and female 
expectations of further life at age 15 are now nearly identical. In contrast to 
the best-known cases of high female mortality (mostly in South Asia), Semai sex 
differential mortality does not include the childhood ages. The Semai have 
traditionally been relatively sexually egalitarian, and sex bias in care has not 
occurred. Analysis of sex-specific causes of death for the pre-1969 population 
suggests that maternal mortality is the major cause of the excess female deaths. 
The reduced number of maternal deaths seems largely due to better health care, 
particularly the availability of hospital services. Interestingly, the reduction 
in female mortality has occurred simultaneously with increased fertility, and 
overall mortality has continued at relatively high levels (eO less than 36). 
Thus, rather than forming a component of a unitary demographic transition, 
declining sex differences in mortality can be accounted for by a specific 
factor, better maternal care.

PIP: A researcher applied data on the Semai population from 1969 and 1989 
censuses to life tables to demonstrate that the Semai population in Malaysia 
contradict a simple developmental stage belief of sex differences in mortality. 
During this study period, the Semai continued to be unbiased in sex preference 
of children and no biased behavior toward 1 sex led to sex differential 
mortality. Further they were not biased with respect to sex for hospital 
treatment. In fact, both males and females continued to experience high infant 
and child mortality indicating both sexes received inadequate care. Yet maternal 
mortality fell between 1969-1989. This happened because mothers did used 
hospital services. In fact the major change in mortality only occurred in women 
of reproductive age. The sex ratio of mortality improved from 0.768-0.997 for 
15-44 years olds between 1969-1989. Moreover the proportion of females =or+ 15 
years old increased considerably because of a strong decrease in female deaths. 
Besides the fall in maternal mortality occurred even though total fertility 
increased 30% (5.73-7.42). This stressed the key role health care played in 
reducing the female death rate among the Semai. Usually demographers have 
witnessed an increase in maternal mortality risk when fertility increases, yet 
among the Semai the opposite occurred. Thus the modernization/transition theory 
does not apply for the Semai. Further the Semai continued to have a very low 
life expectancy (36 years in 1987) which was less than that of less developed 
countries. Moreover the Semai witnessed a distinctive decrease in female 
mortality without prior modernization of overall mortality. This study suggests 
that historical shifts in demographic measures are not single uniform changes 
but complex components with different causal factors operating at least 
semiindependently.

PMID: 2019414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1991 Mar-Apr;32(2):186-91.

Nd:YAG iliac and femoropopliteal laser angioplasty: results with large probes as 
"sole therapy".

Rosenthal D(1), Wheeler WG 3rd, Seagraves A, Erdoes L, Lamis PA, Jones M, Clark 
MD, Pallos LL.

Author information:
(1)Georgia Baptist Medical Center, Atlanta.

Laser assisted balloon angioplasty with a laser heated metallic capped 
fiberoptic catheter may be effective in the treatment of femoral and iliac 
artery occlusive disease. In order to avoid the inherent trauma of balloon 
angioplasty, yet at the same time "debulk" atheroma, 75 patients underwent laser 
angioplasty of the superficial femoral and iliac arteries as "sole therapy". 
Laser angioplasty was performed using an Nd:YAG laser coupled to a 600 micron 
fiber and a 3.5 mm probe (22-28 watts), 4.2 mm or 5.0 probe (32-40 watts). 
Fifty-nine patients had laser angioplasty for claudication and 16 for limb 
salvage. The initial angiographic success rate was 84% (41/49) (lesion length 
2-14 cm) for the superficial femoral and 69% (18/26) (lesion length 2-14 cm) for 
the iliac arteries. In follow-up extending to 21 months (mean 14.4 months) 73% 
(30/41) of the superficial femoral artery and 76% (14/18) of the initially 
recanalized iliac arteries remain patent. When initial failures are included, 
this represents an overall intermediate-term patency rate of 52% (32/49) for 
superficial femoral and 49% (14/26) for iliac arteries respectively. By avoiding 
the disruptive effect on the arterial wall architecture caused by balloon 
angioplasty, while at the same time ablating and vaporizing more atheromatous 
material with larger laser probes, the long-term patency rates of laser 
angioplasty as "sole therapy" may prove to be superior to those of laser 
assisted balloon angioplasty.

PMID: 2019619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Surgery. 1991 May;109(5):575-81.

Fifteen-year results of ambulatory compression therapy for chronic venous 
ulcers.

Mayberry JC(1), Moneta GL, Taylor LM Jr, Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 97201.

A nonoperative approach to venous stasis ulceration of the lower extremity, 
consisting of initial bedrest, ulcer cleansing, dressing changes, and ambulatory 
elastic compression stocking therapy, has been maintained for over 15 years. All 
patients had class III, severe chronic venous insufficiency. One hundred five of 
113 patients (93%) experienced complete ulcer healing in a mean of 5.3 months. 
One hundred two patients were compliant with elastic compression stockings, and 
11 patients were noncompliant. Complete ulcer healing occurred in 99 of 102 
patients (97%) who were compliant versus six of 11 patients (55%) who were 
noncompliant (p less than 0.0001). The influence of noncompliance, previous 
venous ulceration, previous venous surgery, previous known deep venous 
thrombosis, peripheral arterial insufficiency (ankle brachial systolic blood 
pressure index less than or equal to 0.60), pretreatment ulcer duration, ulcer 
size, age, sex, diabetes, smoking, and photoplethysmography venous refill time 
on ulcer healing was determined by logistic regression analysis. Only 
noncompliance with elastic compression stockings (p less than 0.0001) and a 
pretreatment ulcer duration of more than 9 months (p = 0.02) significantly 
decreased initial ulcer healing. Posthealing follow-up was available in 73 
patients for a mean of 30 months. Fifty-eight patients (79%) continued to be 
compliant with stockings; 15 patients were noncompliant. Total ulcer recurrence 
in patients who were compliant was 16%. Five-year lifetable recurrence was 29%. 
All patients who were noncompliant had recurrent ulceration by 36 months. 
Previous ulceration, previous venous surgery, and peripheral arterial 
insufficiency had no effect on ulcer recurrence (p greater than 0.05).

PMID: 2020902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Arch Neurol. 1991 May;48(5):480-3. doi:
10.1001/archneur.1991.00530170040018.

Access to neurological care for minorities.

Kenton EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurology, Lankenau Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa.

Minority groups comprise a major segment of the estimated more than 34 million 
Americans without insurance coverage and also the underinsured. Neurologic 
disease and neurologic complications of the major causes of morbidity and 
mortality affect minorities protracted by limited access to health care. 
Hypertension, a major cause of stroke in the black population, is just one 
example of the impact of accessibility to intervention in central nervous system 
disease. Health statistics note the persisting gap between minority groups and 
the nation's norms for life expectancy. Aging America and particularly black 
elderly women, combined with the lagging infant mortality among minority groups, 
demonstrate limited access issues beyond economics, reflecting inner city mores, 
cultural barriers, and communication delay limiting contact with the practicing 
neurologist. Awareness of such access limitations to neurological care for 
minorities demands the attention of the practicing neurologist and the 
neurological societies.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1991.00530170040018
PMID: 2021360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Epidemiology. 1991 Jan;2(1):33-9.

The fetal life table revisited: spontaneous abortion rates in three Kaiser 
Permanente cohorts.

Goldhaber MK(1), Fireman BH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program, Oakland, CA 
94611.

A cohort of 9,055 singleton pregnancies was identified by conventional urine 
tests or physician examination at the Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program in 
Northern California in 1981-1982. Using life table methods, we estimated the 
cumulative risk of spontaneous abortion or fetal death through the end of 
pregnancy as 13.0% of all pregnancies surviving 1 week or more past the time of 
the first missed menses. This value was lower than the estimates of 15.1% and 
16.0%, respectively, from two previous fetal life table studies conducted at 
Kaiser Permanente in prior decades, but similar to estimates from recent, 
smaller studies of early pregnancy diagnosed by human chorionic gonadotropin. 
The major difference in survival between the three Kaiser Permanente cohorts was 
in the earliest gestational week of observation, week 5 from the last menstrual 
period, where the older data were sparse and potentially biased. High loss rates 
during this week accounted for one-fourth to one-third of the cumulative risk 
observed in the older studies. Although the older cohorts were larger, the 
1981-1982 cohort included five times and three times as many pregnancies under 
observation during week 5 from the last menstrual period, yielding more stable 
estimates for this period. Because of improved reliability of early pregnancy 
testing and an emphasis on early prenatal care, the mean gestational age at 
entry to the 1981-1982 cohort was 10.4 weeks from the last menstrual period 
compared to 14.3 weeks and 13.7 weeks for the older studies. All three studies 
showed a peak for risk of spontaneous abortion around weeks 10-12 from the last 
menstrual period.

PMID: 2021664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Fertil Steril. 1991 May;55(5):1005-7. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)54314-3.

Life table analysis of intrauterine insemination pregnancy rates for couples 
with cervical factor, male factor, and idiopathic infertility.

Friedman AJ(1), Juneau-Norcross M, Sedensky B, Andrews N, Dorfman J, Cramer DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

A retrospective analysis of 231 couples undergoing 762 IUI cycles revealed that 
63 of 64 pregnancies occurred within four IUI cycles. It is recommended that 
couples undergoing IUI treatment who fail to conceive within four cycles 
consider a modification of treatment strategy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)54314-3
PMID: 2022257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Lakartidningen. 1991 Apr 17;88(16):1471-4.

[Average life span as a measure of health status].

[Article in Swedish]

Lithman T(1), Noreen D.

Author information:
(1)Samhällsmedicinska sektionen, Malmöhus läns landsting och Centrum för 
samhällsmedicin, Dalby.

PMID: 2023496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1991 Mar 16;135(11):475-8.

[Sarcoidosis of the heart].

[Article in Dutch]

de Blok K(1), Alberts C, Düren DR, David GK.

Author information:
(1)Afd. Interne Geneeskunde, Academisch Medisch Centrum, Amsterdam.

In 2 patients arrhythmias and conduction disorders were the first symptoms at 
presentation of cardiac sarcoidosis. One patient with severe conduction 
disorders showed normalisation of the EKG during steroid treatment. The other 
patient developed an overall cardiomyopathy and the arrhythmia was treated with 
conventional drugs. The frequency of cardiac involvement in sarcoidosis is much 
higher than that of clinical symptoms of sarcoid heart disease. Cardiac 
sarcoidosis is increasingly diagnosed in the last few decades. In most cases, it 
presents with sudden death, arrhythmia, conduction disorders or cardiomyopathy. 
The main diagnostic pathological feature is evidence of noncaseating granulomas, 
but mononuclear cell infiltration and focal interstitial fibrosis have also been 
found. The basal part of the interventricular septum is particularly prone to 
involvement. If conventional therapy in clinically important cases proves 
inadequate, steroid therapy should be added. It is recommended to make an EKG in 
every patient presenting with sarcoidosis even in the absence of cardiac 
symptoms. Sarcoid heart disease should be considered in every patient with 
diagnostic sarcoidosis and heart disease but also in every case of difficult 
heart disease without an obvious aetiology. Because of the relatively early age 
at onset, life expectancy is shortened.

PMID: 2023654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Radiat Res. 1991 May;126(2):198-205.

Toxicity of 241Am in male C57BL mice: relative risk versus 226Ra.

Schoeters GE(1), Maisin JR, Vanderborght OL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radioprotection, S.C.K./C.E.N., Mol, Belgium.

A life-span study on male C57BL mice after injection of various doses of 241Am 
was conducted. The effects on life span were evaluated and the incidence of 
tumors was determined by procedures that take competing risks into account. Bone 
tumors were induced in the mice by injections of 22 and 58 Bq 241Am per g. The 
mice died early from nonneoplastic diseases at the higher dose levels (190, 373, 
and 1197 Bq 241Am/g). Additionally, spontaneously occurring tumors such as liver 
carcinomas, lymphosarcomas, and lymphoreticulosarcomas occurred at an enhanced 
rate with increasing dose level. The data for survival time after 241Am 
injection and death with bone tumor were compared to data collected previously 
for 226Ra-injected mice of the same C57BL strain. This enabled direct comparison 
in the same strain of the effects of the bone-surface seeker 241Am to the 
effects of the bone-volume seeker 226Ra. The proportional hazards model was 
applied and the rate of death with bone tumor was 12.9 +/- 5.2 times higher 
after 241Am injection than after 226Ra injection if the regression covariate was 
the average dose to the skeleton. The relative risk was 3.5 +/- 1.7 if regressed 
on the injected radioactivity. The mortality rate after 241Am injection was 20.4 
+/- 3.6 times higher than after 226Ra injection if regressed on average dose to 
the skeleton.

PMID: 2023989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Soc Sci Med. 1991;32(4):359-65. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(91)90336-b.

Contextual variations in the meaning of health inequality.

Illsley R(1), Baker D.

Author information:
(1)School of Social Sciences, University of Bath, England.

The meaning of inequality in health is contextually determined; it changes both 
within and between countries and over time. This paper points to the limited 
ability of the classic class-based analyses of inequalities in health to explain 
such change. An alternative form of analysis, based on the interaction between 
age, gender and cause of death is proposed. Within this framework, intercountry 
(European) comparisons of life expectancy and age-specific mortality for both 
sexes are used to illustrate a shift over time in the social aetiology of 
disease from economic to behaviourally based causality. Implications for the 
British experience and for British social policy are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(91)90336-b
PMID: 2024150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Acta Odontol Scand. 1991 Feb;49(1):47-63. doi: 10.3109/00016359109041140.

Analyses of long-term clinical behavior of class-II amalgam restorations.

Jokstad A(1), Mjör IA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, School of Dentistry, University of Oslo, Norway.

The purpose of the study was to estimate the influence of different clinical 
variables on the replacement rate of class-II amalgam restorations in permanent 
teeth. The study included 210 patients who had 468 restorations placed by 7 
Scandinavian dentists. The observation periods varied between 7 and 10 years. At 
the time of the last recording 188 restorations remained intact in 88 patients, 
whereas 68 restorations in 53 patients had been replaced. Eighty-six patients 
with 212 restorations had dropped out of the study. The most prevalent criteria 
for replacement were secondary caries (n = 30) and restoration bulk fractures (n 
= 24). Chi-square analyses of the relationship between the prevalence of 
replacements and the clinical variables indicated effects of the operator and 
the patients' age and caries activity (p less than 0.001). Similar results were 
observed when the functional time of the restorations was related to the 
clinical variables and analyzed by ANOVA and MCA analyses and by survival 
analyses using logrank and Wilcoxon tests (p less than 0.001). The survival 
analyses using the Lee-Desu statistic D showed in addition a slight difference 
between the restorations in the lower premolars and upper and lower molars. 
There were no differences in the clinical performance between four non-gamma-2 
alloys and one conventional alloy. Furthermore, no differences were noted 
between the survival rates of MC, DO, and MOD restorations. In a Cox regression 
model the strongest effects on the estimated survival rates were associated with 
the patients' age and caries activity covariates (global chi-square = 23.5, df = 
2, p less than 0.001), whereas the effects of the operator and the other 
clinical variables were insignificant.

DOI: 10.3109/00016359109041140
PMID: 2024575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Arch Dermatol. 1991 May;127(5):673-7.

Magnitude and duration of UV-B-induced tolerance.

Taylor CR(1), Stern RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Charles A. Dana Research Institute, Beth Israel 
Hospital, Boston, MA 02215.

Comment in
    Arch Dermatol. 1992 Mar;128(3):410-1.

Using repeated minimal erythema dose (MED) testing, we investigated the 
magnitude and duration of tolerance to short-wave UV radiation in the B range 
(UV-B) in 37 patients with psoriasis who received at least 12 UV-B phototherapy 
treatments. Without substantial erythema developing, half of the patients 
received UV-B doses in excess of 13 times their pretreatment MED dose and a 
fourth received UV-B doses in excess of 28 times their pretreatment MED dose. On 
average, tolerance faded to about half that present at the last UV-B treatment 
in 3 weeks. Six weeks after therapy was stopped, most posttreatment MEDs were 
less than twice the pretreatment MED. The magnitude of tolerance achieved and 
the rate of decay did not vary with skin type. Our findings indicate that 
repeated exposures to suberythemal or mildly erythematous doses of UV-B can 
induce exceptional degrees of tolerance to UV-B radiation. The duration of this 
increase in tolerance is, however, short.

PMID: 2024985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Arch Intern Med. 1991 May;151(5):989-92. doi: 10.1001/archinte.151.5.989.

Dementia. Age-dependent incidence, prevalence, and mortality in the old old.

Aronson MK(1), Ooi WL, Geva DL, Masur D, Blau A, Frishman W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY.

Age has been reported as a strong risk factor for dementia. Supporting data have 
been derived mainly from prevalence studies, which had varied criteria and 
sample compositions that precluded direct comparisons, especially among those 
aged 85 years and older. Data regarding rates of dementia are presented based on 
85 incident cases in the Bronx (NY) Aging Study, a prospective study of 488 
initially nondemented, old old persons (mean age on entry, 79 years). Overall, 
the incidence rate over 8 years of follow-up for all-cause dementia was 3.4 per 
100 per year (43% Alzheimer's disease, 30% mixed Alzheimer's and vascular, and 
27% other). Incidence rose significantly, irrespective of gender, as subjects 
were followed up through three age intervals--ages 75 to 79 years (1.3/100 per 
year), 80 to 84 years (3.5), and 85 years and older (6.0). The comparable 
age-associated prevalence rates of dementia were 3.7%, 12.2%, and 23.9%, 
respectively, with an overall period prevalence of 22.8%. Additionally, there 
was a threefold greater mortality associated with dementia. In conclusion, 
despite the shortened life expectancy of demented persons, dementia is a highly 
prevalent condition among those aged 85 years and older. Public policy attention 
is warranted, since this group is the fastest growing population subgroup.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.151.5.989
PMID: 2025148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Can J Cardiol. 1991 Jan-Feb;7(1):11-8.

Mortality risk factors associated with mitral valve replacement: a survival 
analysis of 10 year follow-up data.

Lee SJ(1), Bay KS.

Author information:
(1)Ulsan Medical School, Korea.

The primary purpose of this study was to evaluate the long term performance of 
several prosthetic cardiac valves and the influence on outcome of different 
surgeons by following 328 patients for up to 10 years after mitral valve 
replacement surgery in a tertiary care centre. This type of follow-up study is 
faced with severe methodological difficulties, as mortality and complications 
after surgery can be influenced not only by preoperative clinical status but 
also by the competence of the operating surgeons, the type of prosthesis used, 
and system-related variables such as the overall quality of nursing care. The 
primary statistical models used were life-table analysis, logistic regression 
and Cox's proportional hazard regression, employing prosthesis type, surgeon and 
other patient- or system-specific variable as covariates. The relative 
performance of valve prostheses and surgeons were assessed for short and long 
term survival. Biologic and Omniscience valves outperformed others for short and 
long term survival, while Lillehei-Kaster valves performed well for short term 
but not long term survival. The results also suggest that the performance levels 
of surgeons do vary, and the choice of surgeon could be a significant risk 
factor in a given medical centre.

PMID: 2025784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Hum Genet. 1991 Apr;86(6):595-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00201547.

A marked drop in the incidence of the null allele of the B gene of the fourth 
component of complement (C4B*Q0) in elderly subjects: C4B*Q0 as a probable 
negative selection factor for survival.

Kramer J(1), Fülöp T, Rajczy K, Nguyen AT, Füst G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunopathology, National Institute of Haematology and Blood 
Transfusion, Budapest, Hungary.

The incidence of allotypes of the genes of the fourth component (C4) and factor 
B of the complement system was compared in 252 persons under 45 years of age 
("young" group) with 482 people between 61 and 90 years of age ("old" group). 
One hundred people older than 90 years of age (nonagenarians) were also 
investigated. A striking difference was found between the "young" and "old" 
groups in the incidence (16.1% and 5.4%, respectively) of a silent gene of the 
C4B allele (C4B*Q0). This difference was even more marked among "young" and 
"old" men (17.6% vs 3.4%). The incidence of the C4B*Q0 allele in women dropped 
to the level of the men only in the nonagenarian group. The most probable 
explanation for this finding is that people carrying the C4B*Q0 allele die from 
as yet unidentified disease(s) in their middle-age. Therefore, male (and to a 
lesser extent female) carriers of this allele may have a considerably shorter 
life expectancy than individuals without a silent gene in the C4B locus.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00201547
PMID: 2026423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. J Vasc Surg. 1991 May;13(5):631-6.

Infrapopliteal bypass for severe ischemia: comparison of autogenous vein, 
composite, and prosthetic grafts.

Londrey GL(1), Ramsey DE, Hodgson KJ, Barkmeier LD, Sumner DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Springfield.

Results of 253 consecutive bypass grafts to infrapopliteal arteries were 
reviewed. Most (92%) were placed for rest pain (103) or tissue loss (130). 
Autogenous veins were used in 175 (69%) cases, composite vein-prosthetic grafts 
were used in 45 (18%), and prosthetic grafts alone were used in 33 (13%). 
Follow-up ranged from 0 to 101 months (mean, 19 months); 37 grafts (15%) were 
lost to follow-up. The operative mortality rate was 4%, and 5-year patient 
survival rate was 44%. Limb salvage was 82% at 5 years. The 5-year patency of 
vein grafts (63%) exceeded that of both composite (28%) and prosthetic (7%) 
grafts (p = 0.005 and p = 0.00007, respectively); but the patency of composite 
and prosthetic grafts did not differ significantly (p = 0.29). The patency of 
reversed vein (59%) and in situ vein grafts (74%) was not significantly 
different at 5 years (p = 0.34). Patency was also not affected by the site of 
the proximal or distal anastomoses or diabetes. The major determinant of 
long-term patency in infrapopliteal reconstructions continues to be graft 
material. Composite grafts offered no clear advantage over prosthetic grafts, 
and both should be used only when there is no other alternative to amputation.

