PMID: 2027201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Scand J Infect Dis. 1991;23(1):37-41. doi: 10.3109/00365549109023372.

The outcome of mechanical ventilation in patients with an AIDS-associated 
primary episode of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.

Nielsen TL(1), Guldager H, Pedersen C, Mathiesen L, Nielsen JO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, University Hospital of Copenhagen, 
Hvidovre, Denmark.

The justification for mechanical ventilation (MV) of patients with an 
AIDS-related Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) has been submitted to debate, 
due to poor prognosis of AIDS patients. Since the start of the epidemic our 
policy has been to offer MV to this group of patients when needed. The first 28 
patients who received MV because of an AIDS-related primary episode of PCP were 
reviewed (28/126 patients; 22%). 14 of these patients were discharged from 
hospital. Their median survival time was 20.5 (range 7.8-37.1) months, dated 
from the episode. Life table analysis of these patients and patients with a less 
severe primary episode of AIDS-related PCP treated in the same period, did not 
reveal any difference in long-term survival. We were not able to demonstrate any 
prognostic factor separating MV patients who survived from those who died. On 
the basis of these results we recommend that MV is offered to all patients with 
a life threatening AIDS-associated primary episode of PCP.

DOI: 10.3109/00365549109023372
PMID: 2028227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Sov Zdravookhr. 1991;(1):22-6.

[Use of a simplified method of calculation of mean life expectancy for patients 
with specific diseases].

[Article in Russian]

Grabovskaia TV, Mishchenko AN, Iablon'ko LP.

In connection with the introduction of new economic mechanisms in public health 
a necessity has arisen for thorough and comprehensive evaluation of final 
results of the performance of curative and preventive institutions and some of 
their units, which are the positive changes in the population health. A great 
number of indicators reflecting some aspects of population health demand the 
search of integral evaluation methods. The indicator of mean life expectancy and 
its modifications is one of such integral indicators. Mean life expectancy 
indicators of patients with certain nosology and deficiency of mean life 
expectancy from some diseases in dynamics permit one to evaluate the measures 
taken to control these or those diseases and their cost-effectiveness which is 
of importance in evaluating the contribution of labour of medical personnel to 
the reduction of mortality from specific diseases. The paper provides simplified 
methods for calculating the above-mentioned indicators which in contrast to 
classical methods do not require complex mathematical calculations and therefore 
are intelligible for public health bodies and institutions of any level.

PMID: 2028283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. West J Med. 1991 Mar;154(3):349.

Holding our heads high.

Foege WH.

PMCID: PMC1002772
PMID: 2028609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Ann Acad Med Singap. 1991 Jan;20(1):84-90.

Clinical implications of food contaminated by aflatoxins.

Hendrickse RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Tropical Paediatrics & International Child Health, School of 
Tropical Medicine, Liverpool, U.K.

Aflatoxins have been incriminated, mainly on circumstantial evidence, in 
hepatocellular carcinoma, acute hepatic failure and Reye's syndrome, but other 
possible effects of continuous or intermittent dietary exposure to aflatoxins, 
which occurs widely in the tropics, have received little study. Over the past 10 
years evidence has steadily accumulated that incriminates aflatoxins in the 
aetiology of kwashiorkor, a widespread and serious disorder of children in the 
tropics, previously believed to be caused by protein deficiency. Investigation 
of human breast milk, undertaken initially to elucidate the pathogenesis of 
kwashiorkor in breastfed infants, has revealed widespread and serious exposure 
to aflatoxins from this source. Extension of these studies to pregnant women, in 
turn, revealed widespread and serious prenatal aflatoxin exposure. In laboratory 
and farm animals, such exposure has serious implications for immune and hepatic 
functions, and is detrimental to growth and development. Recent analysis of 
heroin samples show that heroin addicts may also be exposed to these toxins. 
These findings show that human exposure to aflatoxins may begin prenatally, 
persist during breastfeeding, and continue into adult life. It is postulated 
that aflatoxins (i) play a role in the aetiology of kwashiorkor, (ii) increase 
neonatal susceptibility to infection and jaundice, (iii) increase childhood 
susceptibility to infections and malignant disease, (iv) compromise immune 
responses to prophylactic immunisations and (v) may play a role in the 
pathogenesis of diseases in heroin addicts. There are indications also that 
acute, fatal aflatoxin poisoning which masquerades as 'hepatitis' may occur more 
frequently than is currently appreciated.

PMID: 2029170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Psychol Aging. 1991 Mar;6(1):36-42. doi: 10.1037//0882-7974.6.1.36.

Attenuation of age-related conditioning deficits in humans by extension of the 
interstimulus interval.

Solomon PR(1), Blanchard S, Levine E, Velazquez E, Groccia-Ellison M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Bronfman Science Center, Williams College, 
Williamstown, Massachusetts 01267.

Young (17-22 years) and older (61-86 years) persons underwent classical 
conditioning of the eye-blink response to a tone conditioned stimulus (CS) and 
an airpuff unconditioned stimulus (UCS) at 1 of 3 interstimulus intervals (ISIs; 
400, 650, and 900 ms). As in a previous study, older subjects conditioned more 
slowly and emitted fewer conditioned responses at the optimal 400-ms ISI. At 
longer ISIs, however, this age-related disruption of classical conditioning was 
attenuated. These differences in conditioning were not due to nonassociative 
factors, such as sensitivity to the tone CS or airpuff UCS or to differences in 
spontaneous blink rate, nor were they due to differences in general cognitive 
abilities. The results are discussed in terms of the role of temporal 
relationships between stimuli in conditioning across the life span.

DOI: 10.1037//0882-7974.6.1.36
PMID: 2029366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Acta Oncol. 1991;30(2):243-5. doi: 10.3109/02841869109092361.

Treatment of early prostatic cancer.

Chodak G(1).

Author information:
(1)Urologic-Oncologic Group, University of Chicago, Illinois.

The therapeutic management of early prostatic cancer is discussed with 
background of recent reports and trials. For an old patient with localized, well 
differentiated cancer deferred treatment can be the best alternative especially 
if he has significant cardiovascular disease. Advantages and disadvantages of 
the different local treatment methods (radical prostatectomy, external beam 
irradiation, interstitial irradiation) are discussed. The author concludes that 
present information does not permit any recommendations regarding the most 
effective treatment. The physician should carefully explain all the risks and 
benefits of each option and then help the patient decide which therapy he would 
be most willing to accept.

DOI: 10.3109/02841869109092361
PMID: 2029415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. J Gerontol. 1991 May;46(3):S170-82. doi: 10.1093/geronj/46.3.s170.

Cross-sectional estimates of active life expectancy for the U.S. elderly and 
oldest-old populations.

Manton KG(1), Stallard E.

Author information:
(1)Duke University Center for Demographic Studies, Durham, NC 27706.

Estimates are made of active life expectancy for the U.S. elderly and oldest-old 
populations using data from the 1982 and 1984 National Long Term Care Surveys. 
In the calculation of active life expectancy a multivariate analysis of 27 
measures of functioning was used to define scores to decompose total life 
expectancy by type and level of disability. These analyses showed significant 
differences in active life expectancy for males and females. Though a higher 
proportion of male life expectancy at age 65 was "active," females had larger 
absolute amounts of active life expectancy. By age 85, in contrast, males had a 
higher absolute amount of active life expectancy. In addition, calculations were 
performed with the disability associated with cognitive impairment eliminated in 
order to illustrate the sensitivity of active life expectancy to changes in 
morbidity.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/46.3.s170
PMID: 2030287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. N Engl J Med. 1991 Jun 6;324(23):1619-25. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199106063242303.

Smoking and mortality among older men and women in three communities.

LaCroix AZ(1), Lang J, Scherr P, Wallace RB, Cornoni-Huntley J, Berkman L, Curb 
JD, Evans D, Hennekens CH.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology, Demography and Biometry Program, National Institute on Aging, 
Bethesda, MD.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1991 Nov 28;325(22):1586.

BACKGROUND: Although cigarette smoking is the leading avoidable cause of 
premature death in middle age, some have claimed that no association is present 
among older persons.
METHODS: We prospectively examined the relation of cigarette-smoking habits with 
mortality from all causes, cardiovascular causes, and cancer among 7178 persons 
65 years of age or older without a history of myocardial infarction, stroke, or 
cancer who lived in one of three communities: East Boston, Massachusetts; Iowa 
and Washington counties, Iowa; and New Haven, Connecticut. At the time of the 
initial interview, prevalence rates of smoking in the three communities ranged 
from 5.2 to 17.8 percent among women and from 14.2 to 25.8 percent among men. 
During five years of follow-up there were 1442 deaths, 729 due to cardiovascular 
disease and 316 due to cancer.
RESULTS: In both sexes, rates of total mortality among current smokers were 
twice what they were among participants who had never smoked. Relative risks, as 
adjusted for age and community, were 2.1 among the men (95 percent confidence 
interval, 1.7 to 2.7) and 1.8 among the women (95 percent confidence interval, 
1.4 to 2.4). Current smokers had higher rates of cardiovascular mortality than 
those who had never smoked (as adjusted for age and community, the relative risk 
was 2.0 [95 percent confidence interval, 1.4 to 2.9] among the men and 1.6 [95 
percent confidence interval, 1.1 to 2.3] among the women), as well as increased 
rates of cancer mortality (relative risk, 2.4 [95 percent confidence interval, 
1.4 to 4.1] among the men and 2.4 [95 percent confidence interval, 1.4 to 3.9] 
among the women). In both sexes, former smokers had rates of cardiovascular 
mortality similar to those of the participants who had never smoked, regardless 
of age at cessation, whereas the rates for all cancers, as well as 
smoking-related cancers, remained elevated among men who had once smoked.
CONCLUSIONS: Our prospective findings indicate that the mortality hazards of 
smoking extend well into later life, and suggest that cessation will continue to 
improve life expectancy in older people.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199106063242303
PMID: 2030718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1991 Mar 11;85(5):179-82.

[The growing role of the family physician from a socio-gerontological 
viewpoint].

[Article in German]

Erpenbeck F(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozialmedizin am Bereich Medizin, Karl-Marx-Universität Leipzig.

PMID: 2031368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1991 Mar 11;85(5):229-31.

[Life expectancy of newborn infants according to size of community groups].

[Article in German]

Schultze H(1).

Author information:
(1)Statistisches Bundesamt, Zweigstelle Berlin-Alexanderplatz.

PMID: 2031379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Vasa. 1991;20(1):51-6.

[Long-term results 10-14 years following implantation of Y-prostheses for 
arterial occlusive disease].

[Article in German]

Albes JM(1), Ladendorff V, Alexander K, Laas J.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Thorax-, Herz- und Gefässchirurgie, Medizinische Hochschule 
Hannover.

Between 1973 and 1977 169 patients underwent implantation of bifurcated 
prostheses for arterial occlusive disease. Perioperative and follow-up data 
10-14 years after operation were retrospectively assessed. The angiologic status 
of living patients was compiled. Impact of following risk factors was 
investigated with multivariant analysis. Coronary artery disease, hypertension, 
smoking, diabetes mellitus, Pulmonary disease, renal insufficiency, obesity. 
Follow-up was 98.8%. Preoperatively over 90% of the patients investigated had 
been in grade IIb (Fontaine) or worse (33% grade IV). Early mortality was 5.3% 
(1973 = 15%, 1977 = 5.3%, 1987/1988 = 1.8%) and was mainly related to 
cardiopulmonary factors. Reoperation was necessary in 69 patients (149 
procedures, no mortality, 38 amputations). Late mortality was 75% (120 of 160 
patients) and mainly due to cardiac problems. The 10-year-actuarial-survival 
(37%) was reduced due to following combinations of risk factors: Myocardial 
infarction/smoking/obesity (n = 41) 17%, diabetes/smoking (n = 36) 17% 
hypertension/myocardial infarction (n = 24) 8%. Clinical condition of the living 
patients (n = 40) was: 48% grade I, 28% grade IIa, 18% grade IIb, none grade 
III, 8% grade IV. Long term results following implantation of bifurcated 
prostheses for arterial occlusive disease show, that quality of life is 
consistently improved. Reoperation is necessary in almost half of the patients 
due to the progressive disease. Late mortality is closely related to the 
underlying arteriosclerosis. Life expectancy of our patients does not 
significantly differ from the normal population and is probably a sequelae of 
the close follow-up.

PMID: 2031401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Am J Clin Nutr. 1991 Jun;53(6 Suppl):1595S-1603S. doi:
10.1093/ajcn/53.6.1595S.

Health implications of obesity.

Pi-Sunyer FX(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Nutrition, St Luke's/Roosevelt 
Hospital Center, New York, NY 10025.

The health risks of obesity increase with its severity and reach significance at 
a weight greater than 20% above optimal, by using life insurance tables, or at a 
body mass index greater than 27. Risks include hypertension, insulin resistance 
and diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, hypertriglyceridemia, low 
high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol, and, in some studies, high total-and 
low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol. There is an increased mortality from 
endometrial cancer in women and from colorectal cancer in men. Chronic hypoxia 
and hypercapnia, sleep apnea, gout, and degenerative joint disease can occur 
with more severe obesity. The distribution of body fat is directly related to 
these health risks. Abdominal obesity is more dangerous than gluteal-femoral 
obesity because the amount of intraabdominal fat seems to determine much of the 
increased peril; therefore, risks of cardiovascular disease, stroke, 
hypertension, and diabetes increase with abdominal obesity, even independently 
of total fat mass.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/53.6.1595S
PMID: 2031492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Pediatr Nephrol. 1991 Mar;5(2):211-4. doi: 10.1007/BF01095954.

Prior dialysis does not affect the outcome of pediatric renal transplantation.

Nevins TE(1), Danielson G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Minnesota Hospitals, Minneapolis 
55455.

The effect of pretransplantation dialysis treatment was examined retrospectively 
in 70 children less than 6 years old receiving a primary renal transplant at the 
University of Minnesota. Patient and graft survivals were compared at 1, 2 and 3 
years and there were no significant differences between patients who received 
only hemodialysis (group 1), only peritoneal dialysis (group 2), or no prior 
dialysis (group 3). All patients received deliberate blood transfusions before 
transplantation and children at risk for recurrent diseases were excluded from 
the analyses. No grafts were lost due to perioperative thrombosis. Also, 
treatment with cyclosporine A did not significantly influence the outcomes. In 
this series, the choice to proceed directly to renal transplantation without an 
interposed interval of dialysis imposes no penalty in terms of patient or graft 
survival. Likewise, when dialysis was required, the dialysis mode selected 
exerted no clear effect on the outcome of transplantation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01095954
PMID: 2031837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Clin Nephrol. 1991 Mar;35(3):110-8.

Acute and chronic renal disease in hospitalized AIDS patients.

Valeri A(1), Neusy AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New York University Medical Center, N.Y. 10016.

Comment in
    Clin Nephrol. 1992 May;37(5):269-70.

We performed a retrospective chart analysis on 449 AIDS patients admitted to 
Bellevue Hospital Center from 1983-1986 to characterize the etiologies and 
clinical course of acute renal failure (ARF) and to define the incidence and 
clinical course of AIDS-associated nephropathy (AAN) in an unselected 
hospitalized AIDS population. Defining ARF as a rise from baseline serum 
creatinine of at least 2.0 mg%, we found 88 cases (a prevalence of almost 20%) 
or 14.5 cases per 100 admissions. Volume depletion was the most common etiology 
and was as severe a cause of ARF as other etiologies. There were 21 cases of ARF 
in 17 patients with a peak serum creatinine greater than or equal to 6.0 mg%. 
Volume depletion accounted for 7/21 of these cases. Baseline renal insufficiency 
existed in 9/17 patients (12/21 cases) and volume depletion was the cause of ARF 
in 3 of these cases. Only 4 cases required dialysis. There were 34 patients 
(prevalence of 7.6% or 3.0 cases per 100 patient-years) with otherwise 
unexplained chronic renal insufficiency and/or persistent qualitative or 
quantitative proteinuria and thus were defined on clinical grounds to have 
AIDS-associated nephropathy. Thirty-two of these patients (94%) had evidence of 
AAN at or within 1 year of presentation. Eleven patients (32%) reached ESRD 
(serum creatinine greater than or equal to 6.0 mg%); 9 patients did so within 1 
year of presentation and 3 required dialysis. In those with adequate follow-up 
(9 cases), the mean survival from time of ESRD was 25.5 days and all cases died 
within 6 months of reaching ESRD.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2032395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. JAMA. 1991 Jun 12;265(22):2987-91.

Isoniazid as preventive therapy in HIV-infected intravenous drug abusers. A 
decision analysis.

Jordan TJ(1), Lewit EM, Montgomery RL, Reichman LB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Informatics, University of Medicine & Dentistry of New Jersey, 
New Jersey Medical School, Newark 07103-2406.

Tuberculin skin testing is a notoriously poor marker of tuberculosis infection 
in patients who are serologically positive for the human immunodeficiency virus. 
A decision analysis was performed to determine if and when isoniazid should be 
prescribed to prevent tuberculosis in these patients. The decision was analyzed 
for an intravenous drug abuser who may have been anergic, while tuberculin test 
status, race, and gender were varied. The assumptions and parameter estimates 
selected for this investigation represent a highly conservative vantage point 
opposing the use of isoniazid as a preventive therapy. Nevertheless, results 
showed a benefit from the use of isoniazid as a preventive therapy for all 
groups, even without tuberculin testing, except tuberculin-negative black women. 
This benefit of isoniazid therapy increased patient life expectancy as much as 
285 days. Further, the decisions continue to favor prescribing isoniazid even 
when the suspected incidence of tuberculosis infection falls as low as 3% to 8%. 
Tuberculin testing appears important primarily for black women, since those who 
have negative tuberculin skin tests may not be candidates for isoniazid therapy.

PMID: 2033771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Med Decis Making. 1991 Jan-Mar;11(1):57-60. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9101100110.

Sensitivity analysis in medical decision making: a direct line to linear 
programming.

Hershey JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Decision Sciences Department, Wharton School, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 1990 Apr-Jun;10(2):116-25.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9101100110
PMID: 2034076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Ther Umsch. 1991 Feb;48(2):66-76.

[Anamnesis and diagnostic course in osteoporosis patients and in patients at 
risk].

[Article in German]

Dambacher MA(1), Bröll H.

Author information:
(1)Forschungslabor für Kalziumstoffwechsel, Orthopädischen Universitätsklinik 
Balgrist.

The problem of osteoporosis has considerably gained in importance in recent 
years, owing to the rise in ratio of old people to total population (life 
expectancy in Zürich of a female newborn in the year 1850: 38 years, today: 82 
years). Early recognition of bone loss is of essential importance for the 
quality of life of the patient concerned. The present publication considers, 
above all, the recognition of groups of risk and the anamnestic hints for the 
presence of osteoporosis, furthermore the examination of the patient. Only 
afterwards laboratory methods, X-ray analyses, densitometry, scintigraphy and 
bone biopsy should be applied. In any case these technical 'aids' are not at the 
beginning, but at the end of the diagnostic path.

PMID: 2035169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Wkly Epidemiol Rec. 1991 Apr 5;66(14):96-9.

Tobacco or health. Smoking-attributable mortality and potential years of life 
lost.

[Article in English, French]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2036302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Br J Psychiatry. 1991 Mar;158:358-61. doi: 10.1192/bjp.158.3.358.

Parietal signs and sinister prognosis in dementia. A four-year follow-up study.

O'Carroll R(1), Whittick J, Baikie E.

Author information:
(1)MRC Brain Metabolism Unit, Royal Edinburgh Hospital, Morningside Park.

Comment in
    Br J Psychiatry. 1991 Jun;158:859-60.

Thirty elderly demented subjects were assessed in 1985 using a 
neuropsychological test battery which included tests of parietal lobe function 
that are allegedly predictive of outcome. Four years later, 29 out of the 30 
subjects were followed up. Twelve had died. There were no differences between 
survivors and deceased in terms of age, pre-morbid intelligence, years of 
full-time education, or scores on parietal tests. However, proportionally more 
of the women had died, and those subjects with more global cognitive impairment 
in 1985 were significantly more likely to have died by 1989. Those who scored 
lower on an aphasia measure in 1985 were more likely to have died. None of the 
variables differentiated between survivors and deceased Alzheimer subjects.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.158.3.358
PMID: 2036534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Contraception. 1991 Mar;43(3):229-39. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(91)90142-3.

The effect of adding copper onto Lippes Loop IUDs: results from a ten-year study 
in Yugoslavia.

Randic L(1), Haller H, Perovic M, Farr G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Hospital of Rijeka, 
Yugoslavia.

The present study is the first randomized ten-year comparison of the standard, 
non-medicated Lippes Loop D and the same device with the addition of 200 mm2 of 
copper in the form of copper sleeves. The devices were randomly inserted 
immediately after first trimester medical termination of pregnancy. Out of 400 
postabortal IUD insertions, 371 were followed for up to ten years. Gross 
cumulative life-table accidental pregnancy rates after one year of use were 0.56 
for the copper-bearing Lippes Loop and 4.63 for the standard Lippes Loop. After 
two, four and ten years, these rates were 1.24, 2.70 and 3.62 and 6.03, 7.58 and 
14.94, respectively (in all comparisons, rates were significantly different at 
the 0.05 level or lower). At each time interval, expulsion/displacement rates 
were 4.49, 4.49, 5.23 and 6.32 for the copper-bearing Lippes Loop and 12.61, 
13.29, 15.46 and 19.79 for the standard Lippes Loop (rates were significantly 
different at the 0.01 level or lower). Differences in removal rates for bleeding 
and/or pain were not significantly different at any of the follow-up intervals. 
The lower event rates for copper-bearing Lippes Loop D users indicates that the 
addition of copper to the Lippes Loop IUD may result in better long-term 
efficacy profiles for this device among postabortal women. The results also 
suggest that large, medicated IUDs may be more efficacious for women with larger 
uteri who often experience higher failure rates due to expulsion or displacement 
of smaller IUDs into the lower uterine segment.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(91)90142-3
PMID: 2036794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Eur J Vasc Surg. 1991 Apr;5(2):125-30. doi: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80675-9.

Natural history of patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm.

Glimåker H(1), Holmberg L, Elvin A, Nybacka O, Almgren B, Björck CG, Eriksson I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

Factors determining the outcome for patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm 
(AAA) were analysed in a retrospective population-based study of 187 
consecutively diagnosed AAAs at one hospital during a 9-year period. All 
aneurysms were diagnosed by ultrasound, and those cases that were not primarily 
operated upon, were followed by repeat ultrasound examinations. An expansion 
rate of more than 0.4 cm/year was seen in 27% of the aneurysms and a tendency 
towards a higher rate of expansion could be seen with larger lesions. The 
overall cumulative rupture rate was 12% at 5 years. For patients with small 
(less than 5 cm) aneurysms it was 2.5% at 7 years, and no aneurysm could 
definitively be shown to be smaller than 5 cm at the time of rupture. The 
rupture risk was significantly higher (28% at 3 years) for larger aneurysms 
(greater than or equal to 5 cm). The only reliable predictor for rupture was 
aneurysm size. The overall cumulative survival was 51% at 5 years. Patients with 
large aneurysms did not have a significantly shorter survival although a 
tendency for this to be the case was found. There was a significant difference 
between the proportion of deaths caused by aneurysm rupture in patients with 
small aneurysms when compared to those with large aneurysms, 5.5 and 53%, 
respectively. The expansion rate for AAA was highly individual and aneurysm 
diameter was the only recognisable predictor of rupture. The rupture rate for 
AAAs smaller than 5 cm was lower than previously reported.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80675-9
PMID: 2037082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Eur J Vasc Surg. 1991 Apr;5(2):135-40. doi: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80677-2.

Redo endarterectomy for recurrent carotid artery stenosis.

Gagne PJ(1), Riles TS, Imparato AM, Lamparello PJ, Giangola G, Landis RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, New York University Medical Center, N.Y.

From a registry of 2406 carotid endarterectomies performed on 1818 patients over 
a 19-year period, 29 patients (1.6%) underwent reoperations for recurrent 
stenosis. Reoperations were performed for symptomatic stenosis for 23 and 
asymptomatic greater than 80% stenosis for six patients. Compared to the entire 
series, there was no difference in the incidence of restenosis for men and 
women. The pathologic findings were myointimal hyperplasia in 27%, 
atherosclerosis in 53%, thrombus with vessel dilatation in 17% and extrinsic 
scar in 3%. Redo endarterectomy with patch angioplasty was used for 
reconstruction in 27 patients and patch angioplasty alone in two. There were no 
operative deaths or strokes. Late follow-up (mean 50 months) revealed only one 
stroke and six other deaths. Although 21 (75%) were alive and stroke-free, 
follow-up studies suggest a high incidence (21%) of tertiary lesions among 
patients who have undergone redo endarterectomy for recurrent stenosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80677-2
PMID: 2037084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Fertil Steril. 1991 Jun;55(6):1144-9. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)54366-0.

Clinical experience with the GYNE-T 380 postpartum intrauterine device.

Van Kets H(1), Kleinhout J, Osler M, Parewijck W, Zighelboim I, Tatum HJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Ghent, Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: The insertion of conventional intrauterine devices (IUDs) during the 
1st 10 days after delivery is associated with a high rate of expulsions.
DESIGN: The GYNE-T 380 (Ortho Pharmaceutical [Canada] Ltd., Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada) IUD was modified by the addition of a loose loop of knotted 
biodegradable no. 2 catgut to the top of the IUD (GYNE-T 380 postpartum IUD). 
After delivery, a special inserter was used to imbed the knotted portion of the 
loop into the myometrium of the uterine fundus.
PATIENTS, PARTICIPANTS: This modified IUD was evaluated in a phase II trial 
involving 190 women at four clinical sites.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: There were no pregnancies during the 1st year of the 
study. The continuation rate was 74 per 100 women and a life table expulsion 
rate of 9.6 and 13.3 per 100 women was observed at 6 and 12 months, 
respectively.
RESULTS: Complications associated with the insertion and the use of this IUD 
were minimal. Large scale trials evaluating this IUD are in progress.

PIP: The insertion of conventional IUDs during the 1st 10 days after delivery is 
associated with a high rate of expulsions. The Gyne T 380 (Ortho Pharmaceutical, 
Canada Ltd., Toronto, Ontario, Canada) IUD was modified by the addition of a 
loose loop of knotted biodegradable no.2 catgut to the top of the IUD (Gyne T 
380 postpartum IUD). After delivery, a special inserter was used to imbed the 
knotted portion of the loop into the myometrium of the of the uterine fundus. 
This modified IUD was evaluated in a phase II trial involving 190 women at 4 
clinical sites; continuation rate was 74/100 women, the life table expulsion 
rate as 9.6 and 13.3/100 women observed at 6 and 12 months, respectively. There 
were no pregnancies during the 1st year of study. Complications associated with 
the insertion and use of this IUD were minimal and largescale trials evaluating 
this IUD are now in progress.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)54366-0
PMID: 2037108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol. 1991 Feb;21(1):7-14. doi: 
10.1016/0165-5876(91)90054-f.

The occurrence of acute otitis media in infants. A life-table analysis.

Alho OP(1), Koivu M, Sorri M, Rantakallio P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, University of Oulu, Finland.

A random sample of 2512 children were monitored to an average age of two years 
to determine the occurrence of acute otitis media (AOM). A life-table 
methodology was employed in the analysis. The cumulative incidence of the first 
episode of AOM up to 12 months of age was 42.4% (95% confidence interval 
40.4-44.4) and the corresponding figure up to 24 months of age was 71.0% 
(68.9-73.1). The incidence rate for all acute otitis media episodes was 0.93 
episodes per child per year (0.90-0.96) during the first 24 months of life 
increasing in the spring and autumn. The risk of experiencing an episode of 
acute otitis media increased at the age of 6-12 months and decreased slowly 
during the second year of life. The results confirm the frequent nature of acute 
otitis media and stress the necessity for clear, consistent definition of the 
criteria for acute otitis media in epidemiological research.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-5876(91)90054-f
PMID: 2037420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Z Gerontol. 1991 Jan-Feb;24(1):50-4.

[Gerontologic studies in Brazil--a reminder for us].

[Article in German]

Imhof AE(1).

Author information:
(1)Freie Universität Berlin, Friedrich-Meinecke-Institut.

PMID: 2038891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Br Heart J. 1991 May;65(5):271-6. doi: 10.1136/hrt.65.5.271.

Operative survival and 40 year follow up of surgical repair of aortic 
coarctation.

Bobby JJ(1), Emami JM, Farmer RD, Newman CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Charing Cross and Westminster Medical 
School, London.

OBJECTIVE: To study early and late mortality after surgical correction of 
coarctation of the aorta.
DESIGN: Data on 223 patients operated on at the Westminster Hospital, London, 
between 1946 and 1981, were collected and updated by questionnaire.
PARTICIPANTS: All 223 patients recorded as undergoing operation for aortic 
coarctation up to the end of 1981. Fifteen of 197 survivors were lost to follow 
up; most of them were patients from overseas.
OUTCOME AND RESULTS: The early mortality (within one month of operation) was 12% 
overall, 2.6% for elective surgery, and 0% for the 77 patients undergoing 
surgery since 1968. Survivors were followed up for a total of 3288 patient 
years; in 27 follow up lasted more than 30 years. In a few it reached 40 years. 
Twenty two patients died during this period, 18 from causes that could be 
attributed to coarctation or its repair. Mortality was highest more than 20 
years after the operation.
CONCLUSION: Repair increased life expectancy in patients with aortic 
coarctation. Late problems caused by persistent hypertension or recoarctation 
became apparent in long term survivors. The increased risk of late mortality 
associated with the duration of preoperative hypertension was not statistically 
significant. There were no deaths from cerebrovascular accidents. (In an earlier 
necropsy series cerebrovascular accidents accounted for 11.8% of deaths.) The 
incidence of deaths from aneurysms resembled that in the earlier necropsy 
series.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.65.5.271
PMCID: PMC1024629
PMID: 2039672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Va Med Q. 1991 Spring;118(2):99-101.

Should we treat high cholesterol in the aged?

Godschalk MF(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine, Medical College, Virginia/Virginia 
Commonwealth University, Richmond.

Cholesterol may be a more important risk factor for coronary heart disease in 
the elderly than previously realized. Lipid-lowering therapies, including diet 
and drugs, seem to be as effective in the elderly as in the young. However, it 
may take several years to see a significant decrease in cardiac morbidity and 
mortality. Therefore, therapy should be reserved for those with a life 
expectancy of at least ten years. In our experience, diet therapy is difficult 
for the elderly to follow. Drug therapy is well tolerated, if, as with any other 
drug, you start low and go slow.

PMID: 2039782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Blood. 1991 Jun 1;77(11):2524-9.

Autologous bone marrow transplantation in 69 patients with a history of 
low-grade B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Freedman AS(1), Ritz J, Neuberg D, Anderson KC, Rabinowe SN, Mauch P, Takvorian 
T, Soiffer R, Blake K, Yeap B, et al.

Author information:
(1)Division of Tumor Immunology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 02115.

Sixty-nine patients with a history of low-grade B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 
(NHL) in sensitive relapse or incomplete first remission underwent high-dose 
chemoradiotherapy and anti-B-cell monoclonal antibody (MoAb)-treated autologous 
bone marrow transplantation (ABMT). At ABMT, 51 patients had low-grade histology 
and 18 patients had a history of low-grade NHL that had undergone histologic 
transformation to a higher-grade NHL. Before ABMT, only 20 of the 51 low-grade 
patients and 10 of the 18 patients with transformed histologies were in complete 
remission. Moreover, at the time of marrow harvest, 24 of the low-grade and 
eight of the transformed histology patients had histologic evidence of lymphoma 
cells infiltrating the marrow. Following high-dose therapy, only one acute, 
in-hospital death was observed. There was no significant difference in the 
disease-free survival (DFS) between patients with low-grade and patients with 
transformed histologies. Among patients with low-grade NHL, the patients in 
complete remission before ABMT experienced significantly longer DFS than those 
in partial remission (P less than .05). This preliminary study suggests that 
some patients with relapsed low-grade NHL may experience prolonged DFS following 
high-dose ablative therapy.

PMID: 2039834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. East Afr Med J. 1991 Feb;68(2):74-80.

Adolescent sexuality in Kenya.

Ojwang SB(1), Maggwa AB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, College of Health Sciences, 
University of Nairobi, Kenya.

Adolescent sexuality has become a major problem all over the world. This review 
paper describes the main problems encountered in Kenya with regards to 
adolescent sexuality. The role of the Government and some non-governmental 
organisations is outlined. Factors which contribute to the problem of adolescent 
sexuality in Kenya are described. The paper stresses the role of research in 
solving these problems and finally suggests some strategies which may be adopted 
in order to minimise the undesirable effects of adolescent sexuality in Kenya.

PIP: Kenya's population has increased from 5.4 million in 1948 to 15.3 million 
in 1979 and is expected to rise to 39 million by 2000. The population growth 
rate has risen from 2.5% in 1948 to 3.8% in 1979. Improvements in health and 
economic status since independence have caused significant changes from 1948-79: 
the fertility rate of women has increased from 6.5-7.9, the crude death rate has 
decreased from 25/1000-14/1000, infant mortality has decreased from 
184/1000-104/1000 births, and life expectancy has increased from 35-54 years. 
Adolescent girls, 15-24, contribute up to 30% of total pregnancies of females, 
15-49, and will form 44.2% of the reproductive age group by 2000. Between 1960 
and 1979 the fertility rate of girls 15-19 has increased from 141/1000-168/1000. 
The age of menarche has dropped from 17 to 12-15. In 1 rural community 41.9% of 
the girls and 76.1% of the boys aged 12-23 had at least one sexual experience. 
The mean age at first coitus was 13.7 for boys and 14.9 for girls. 42% of the 
girls and 74.8% of the boys had more than one sexual partner. Because of the 
gradual change from extended families to nuclear families, education, role 
models, and any established activities that initiated youth into adulthood have 
virtually disappeared, leaving adolescents uneducated and unprepared. Only 2-6% 
use any form of contraception. 58.4% of rural and 64.4% of urban pregnant girls 
are in primary school at the time of conception. 8340-10,400 girls drop out of 
school due to pregnancy each year. 46.6% of girls who get pregnant are not 
married. Abortions among the adolescents account for 28-64% of abortions done in 
hospitals, but because of strict abortion laws in Kenya, most adolescents resort 
to criminal abortions frequently performed by inexperienced people in unsanitary 
conditions. Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) are not uncommon among 
adolescents: 36.8% of pregnant adolescent females had at least 1 STD, compared 
to 16% of those aged 25 and above. Contraceptive services, education, and laws 
protecting the adolescent must be instituted in response to the problems of 
adolescent sexuality.

PMID: 2040239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Int J Cancer. 1991 May 30;48(3):333-9. doi: 10.1002/ijc.2910480304.

The risk of cancer at all sites following gastric operation for benign disease. 
A cohort study of 4,224 patients.

Eide TJ(1), Viste A, Andersen A, Søoreide O.

Author information:
(1)University of Tromsøo, Institute of Medical Biology, Norway.

This report represents the results of a historical cohort analysis of 3,360 
males and 864 females who had a gastric resection or gastroenterostomy for 
benign disease between 1990 and 1969. Within the period 1970 to 1988 the cohort 
was cross-checked with the data files at the Cancer Registry of Norway to 
identify the patients in whom cancer had been diagnosed. When analyzed according 
to cancer sites, increased risk was recorded for the oropharynx, stomach, colon, 
pancreas, liver, biliary tract, larynx, lungs, urinary bladder and 
non--melanomatous cancers of the skin in males. In females, increased risk was 
only observed for the oropharynx, but was close to a statistically significant 
level also for cancer of the stomach. A lower number of tumors of the central 
nervous system than expected was observed in both males and females. The 
increased risk of cancer of the lungs, larynx and urinary bladder in males can 
be regarded as evidence of the high prevalence of smokers in the cohort. We 
suggest that the increased risk of cancer of digestive organs is mainly related 
to life-style factors, particularly tobacco-specific nitrosamines whose effect 
is enhanced by surgical sequelae.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910480304
PMID: 2040526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. J Fam Pract. 1991 Jun;32(6):577-81.

Presenting a diagnosis of cancer: patients' views.

Peteet JR(1), Abrams HE, Ross DM, Stearns NM.

Author information:
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 02115.

Comment in
    J Fam Pract. 1991 Jun;32(6):564-6.

BACKGROUND: Although in general, patients in the United States are now told if 
they have been diagnosed as having cancer, little information is available 
either about the way in which this is done or about patients' satisfaction with 
how they are told.
METHODS: Thirty-two patients were interviewed who had been given a diagnosis of 
cancer; one half were being treated at a comprehensive cancer center and one 
half at a community hospital. The study instrument, presented in a 
semistructured interview conducted by psychosocial clinicians, included specific 
questions about the setting and the manner in which the patients were told, 
their reactions to the diagnosis, and their suggestions of how physicians should 
inform others who have to be informed of a similar diagnosis.
RESULTS: All patients were told of their diagnosis by a physician; 84% of the 
time the diagnosis was given in person. Patients said that being told with hope, 
information, and caring, and with respect for their privacy and wishes to have a 
supportive person present were particularly helpful. Almost 40% of patients 
reported at the time of the interview that their hopes were directed toward 
remission and optimal quality of life rather than toward a cure. Four of the six 
patients whose conditions had initially been misdiagnosed described subsequent 
mistrust of information received from physicians.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings confirm the importance of a physician providing hope 
for and fostering trust in patients to whom they are presenting the diagnosis of 
cancer. The results indicate that physicians' help in providing treatment 
information contributes more to hope than does cheerfulness or optimism, and 
that patients who have been given a misdiagnosis require special consideration 
in order to reestablish trust.

PMID: 2040882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. J Pediatr. 1991 Jun;118(6):838-41. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(05)82192-4.

Prediction of the course of pre-type I diabetes.

Chase HP(1), Garg SK, Butler-Simon N, Klingensmith G, Norris L, Ruskey CT, 
O'Brien D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Barbara Davis Center for Childhood Diabetes, 
University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver 80262.

To increase knowledge on the predictability of the onset of insulin-dependent 
diabetes mellitus (IDDM; type I), we followed 38 subjects less than 18 years of 
age who had positive results on two or more islet-cell antibody tests and one 
identical twin who had positive results on one islet-cell antibody test. All 39 
patients had longitudinal intravenous glucose tolerance tests to determine the 
first-phase insulin response (FPIR). Insulin dependence has developed in 10 
untreated subjects less than 18 years of age. Of the 10 subjects, insulin 
dependence developed in eight a mean of 4.6 months after their FPIR fell to less 
than 30 microU/ml and a mean of 14 months after it fell to less than 46 
microU/ml. Nine of the untreated subjects had an FPIR less than 67 microU/ml on 
at least two occasions and became insulin dependent a mean of 19 months after 
the value first fell below this level (95% confidence limit = 66.4% to 100%). 
All but one of the 10 subjects in whom IDDM developed initially had islet-cell 
antibody levels of greater than 80 JDF units. Insulin autoantibody values at 
onset were available for 9 of the 10 subjects and were positive (greater than 39 
nU/ml) in six. We conclude that the combination of positive results on two 
islet-cell antibody tests and two diminished FPIRs (less than 67 microU/ml) in 
subjects less than 18 years of age reliably predicts the onset of IDDM. These 
data should permit intervention studies to be planned.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(05)82192-4
PMID: 2040917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Ann Chir. 1991;45(3):218-21.

[Cancer of the rectum in elderly patients over the age of seventy-five years. 
Results of the surgical treatment].

[Article in French]

De Martino D(1), Joly A, Assenza M, Arnaud A, Sastre B, Sarles JC.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Sainte-Marguerite, Service de Chirurgie, Marseille.

The authors reviewed 122 rectal cancers observed over a period of 14 years in 
patients over the age of 75 years. Sixty-eight patients underwent extensive 
rectal resection, 17 were treated by local excision, and 28 only underwent a 
colostomy. Eight patients were excluded for surgery. The analysis of all of 
these groups showed that perioperative mortality was greater for large 
resections than for local resections, but with a lower recurrence rate and a 
higher survival at 3 years. Survival at 5 years after large resections was very 
close to the natural life expectancy for people of the same age. Moreover, 
survival was the quality of more comfortable than after local excision, and 
operative mortality was generally due to organ failure rather than to age 
itself. Radical surgery does not have to be systematically refused for very old 
patients, but he discussed in terms of the patients general status.

PMID: 2042913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Gastroenterology. 1991 Jul;101(1):148-53.

Long-term prognosis after partial gastrectomy for benign conditions. Survival 
and smoking-related death of 2633 Amsterdam postgastrectomy patients followed up 
since surgery between 1931 and 1960.

Tersmette AC(1), Offerhaus GJ, Giardiello FM, Brand R, Tersmette KW, Tytgat GN, 
Vandenbroucke JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, University Hospital, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.

Decreased life expectancy may occur after remote peptic ulcer surgery, but the 
cause of shortened survival is unclear. A 50-year follow-up study of an 
Amsterdam cohort of postgastrectomy patients who underwent ulcer surgery between 
1931 and 1960 showed a statistically significant decrease in survival after a 
postoperative interval of 12 years or more compared with the general population. 
The shortened life expectancy mainly reflected decreased survival in men. In 
women, no significant difference in survival compared with the general 
population was observed. The excess mortality in men was predominantly due to a 
statistically significant increase in cancer-related deaths. Carcinoma of the 
lung accounted for the majority of excess mortality. No time relationship 
between lung cancer death and interval since surgery was observed. Thus, 
smoking, primarily in men who had undergone surgery for gastric ulcers, seems an 
important factor contributing to excess mortality and shortened life expectancy. 
Excess mortality due to tobacco use has also been observed in postmarketing 
surveillance of H2-receptor antagonists. Therefore, smoking cessation may 
provide the greatest improvement in the long-term prognosis of peptic ulcer 
patients, regardless of the treatment.

PMID: 2044904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
