

470. Gac Sanit. 1991 Jan-Feb;5(22):21-8. doi: 10.1016/s0213-9111(91)71045-5.

[Years of potential life lost: comparison of 3 calculation methods].

[Article in Catalan, Spanish]

Mingot M(1), Rué M, Borrell C.

Author information:
(1)Department de Sanitat i Seguretat Social, Generalitat de Catalunya.

Two methods of assessing Years of Potential Life Lost (YPLL): 0 to 65 years and 
1 to 70 years are compared to a third, 0 to life expectancy which is considered 
a priori the most appropriate. In addition we would like to corroborate that 
YPLL is a complementary indicator of the crude rate of mortality. The results 
show that the first cause of YPLL remains tumors in all the methods. However, 
differences appear in the second and following causes. Disparities are also 
found in crude rates as YPLL reflect causes of death of the youngest age groups 
of the community. The method 0 to life expectancy is considered the least 
arbitrary and consequently it is recommended to calculate YPLL.

DOI: 10.1016/s0213-9111(91)71045-5
PMID: 2045223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. J Allied Health. 1991 Winter;20(1):39-45.

The 1990 Mary E. Switzer Lecture: allied health professions: reaching the year 
2000--health objectives for the nation.

Mason JO(1).

Author information:
(1)US Department of Health and Human Services, Washington, DC 20036.

PMID: 2045353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Holist Nurs Pract. 1991 Apr;5(3):77-84. doi:
10.1097/00004650-199104000-00013.

Medical intervention and the effectiveness of the health care delivery system: a 
Canadian perspective.

Langham P, Flagel D.

It should be apparent that the accepted paradigm of medical care as 
high-technology intervention in individual cases is inappropriate for each of 
the three major causes of mortality and morbidity. Much more can be achieved in 
lowering the infant mortality and morbidity rate by education and welfare 
strategies. Accidents and suicides can only be decreased by improving the 
environment, from both the physical and the psychologic perspectives. Education 
for working and for living is essential. Medical intervention can provide only a 
catchment for "failures." The application of the mistaken paradigm of acute care 
to the domain of chronic illness fosters the view that the health care delivery 
system is correctly structured and is providing the kind of care that is 
required. The result is both a complacency about the structure of the system and 
an insistence on "heroic" measures in "hopeless" cases. In order to rectify the 
situation in the health care delivery system, two adjustments are necessary: (1) 
an overall decrease in the cost of existing health care, so that more may be 
done with limited resources, and (2) a reeducation of both the medical 
profession and general public, so that a more rational structure may be erected.

DOI: 10.1097/00004650-199104000-00013
PMID: 2045442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. J Clin Epidemiol. 1991;44 Suppl 2:15S-19S. doi:
10.1016/0895-4356(91)90107-k.

Drug supply in Nigeria.

Salako LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, University of Ibadan, Nigeria.

The health situation in Nigeria is typical of tropical Africa. It is 
characterised by high childhood and maternal mortality and a relatively short 
life expectancy. Mortality in childhood in due mainly to diseases like malaria, 
measles, poliomyelitis, tetanus, diarrhoea and acute respiratory tract 
infections. Diseases like filariasis, schistosomiasis and leprosy which are now 
readily controlled by drugs cause considerable morbidity in later life. Although 
the technology and tools (particularly vaccines and drugs) for the control of 
most of these diseases are now available, it has not been possible to make 
optimal use of them in Nigeria and other tropical African countries because of 
unfavourable social and economic conditions. The non-availability of drugs most 
needed for healthcare and disease control has been found to be due not only to 
insufficient funds but also to the use of the limited funds on expensive drugs 
that have little bearing on the disease pattern. The Essential Drug Programme 
initiated by the World Health Organisation, now adopted by Nigeria and about 100 
other countries mostly in the Third World, aims to correct this unsatisfactory 
drug supply situation by ensuring that the available funds are used to provide 
those drugs needed by the large majority of the people and are made available at 
all times at prices that most people can afford. The Bamako Initiative in the 
African Region of the World Health Organization is also designed to ensure 
regular availability of drugs particularly to primary healthcare facilities. 
Seed drugs are provided to the health institutions either by the National 
Government or through external aid. These are sold to patients at a small profit 
margin. The proceeds are then used to replenish stocks and the small profit used 
to improve services in the health centre. The introduction of these programmes 
in Nigeria has improved drug availability considerably in the past couple of 
years and should soon start yielding further dividend in the form of measurable 
improvement in the health situation.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(91)90107-k
PMID: 2045836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. J Clin Oncol. 1991 Jul;9(7):1151-6. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1991.9.7.1151.

Corynebacterium parvum versus bacille Calmette-Guérin adjuvant immunotherapy of 
stage II malignant melanoma.

Lipton A(1), Harvey HA, Balch CM, Antle CE, Heckard R, Bartolucci AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA 17033.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 1992 Feb;10(2):345-6.

Two separate studies have been reported comparing Corynebacterium parvum and 
bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) as adjuvant immunotherapy for stage II melanoma 
patients (The Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, 48 patients; Southeastern Cancer 
Study Group [SECSG], 162 patients). As the criteria for patient selection and 
drugs used were similar, we have pooled the data to analyze the effects of these 
two treatments. Both studies used BCG (Tice, Chicago, IL) 3 x 10(8) live 
organisms per treatment by Tine technique and C parvum (Burroughs-Wellcome, 
Triangle Park, NC) subcutaneous at a dose of 4 mg/m2 (SECSG) or 5 micrograms/m2 
(Hershey) per treatment. The only difference in these studies was the frequency 
of immunization, with patients in Hershey receiving 22 doses and the SECSG 
patients receiving 55 doses during the 2-year period of treatment. Kaplan-Meier 
life-table analysis for the 210 patients shows a prolonged disease-free interval 
for patients treated with C parvum (P = .02, two-sided Mantel procedure). In 
similar fashion, patients treated with C parvum had an improved survival rate 
(from all causes) when compared with BCG-treated patients (P = .012). An 
analysis of the results for the 170 patients for which the number of positive 
nodes was available was performed using Cox's model, with nodes as a 
stratification variable and with covariates of place, treatment, age, and sex. 
In this analysis, an observed benefit for C parvum on the disease-free interval 
had a P value of .37 while the benefit of C parvum on the survival times (from 
all causes) had a P value of .04. When the same analysis was performed using 
only patients aged younger than 60 years, the observed benefit of C parvum on 
disease-free interval had a P value of .08 and the benefit of C parvum on 
survival times (from all causes) had a P value of .008.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1991.9.7.1151
PMID: 2045856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Leuk Res. 1991;15(5):321-5. doi: 10.1016/0145-2126(91)90007-g.

Improved prognosis in mice with advanced myeloid leukemia following 
administration of GM-CSF and cytosine arabinoside.

Ben-Ishay Z(1), Prindull G, Sharon S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Hebrew University-Hadassah Medical 
School, Jerusalem, Israel.

Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) was induced in C57Bl mice through the i.v. 
innoculation of C-1498 cell line. One week later, i.e. at mid-term disease, the 
leukemic mice received an i.p. injection of 200 ng rmGM-CSF and 24 h later, two 
consecutive i.p. cytosine arabinoside (ara-C) injections at 6 h intervals (2 x 
200 mg/kg). The leukemic mice received 3-4 weekly courses of combined therapy 
and survived 4-5 weeks following leukemia induction. Control mice received ara-C 
only and survived 2-3 weeks. Moreover, leukemic mice administered both GM-CSF 
and ara-C had a lower marrow leukemic load than mice treated with ara-C only. 
From these findings, we conclude that therapy of murine AML with combined 
rmGM-CSF and ara-C is more effective than ara-C only. Leukemic mice treated with 
GM-CSF and ara-C had a longer life expectancy and a smaller leukemic load than 
mice administered ara-C only.

DOI: 10.1016/0145-2126(91)90007-g
PMID: 2046385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Med Clin (Barc). 1991 Mar 23;96(11):401-4.

[Anthropometric changes and nitrogen balance in patients with morbid obesity 
treated with very low calorie diet].

[Article in Spanish]

Formiguera Sala X(1), Barbany Cahiz M, Carrillo Blanchar M, Galán Ortega A, 
Herrero Espeso P, Foz Sala M.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Trastornos de la Alimentación, Servicio de Medicina Interna, 
Hospital de Badalona Germans Trias i Pujol, Badalona.

BACKGROUND: Morbid obesity is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. 
In these patients, weight reduction reduces associated morbidity and increases 
life expectancy. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the anthropometric 
changes in a group of patients treated with a very low caloric diet and to 
assess nitrogen balance and clinical and biological tolerance.
METHODS: Overall 65 patients were prospectively evaluated (12 males and 53 
females with a mean age of 45 +/- 7 years. Mean initial weight was 110 +/- 21 
kg, with a Quetelet index of 43 +/- 7 kg/m2. They were treated as inpatients 
during 42 days exclusively with a very low caloric diet. They also followed a 
physical exercise program during one hour daily.
RESULTS: The weight reduction was 15 +/- 4 kg (p less than 0.0001) with a 
reduction in fat mass of 9 +/- 2 kg (p less than 0.0001) and a reduction in 
fat-free mass of 6 +/- 3 kg (p less than 0.0001). The Quetelet index was reduced 
in 5 +/- 1 points (p less than 0.0001). There was also a reduction in the muscle 
adipose index from 1 +/- 0.2 to 0.7 +/- 0.2. The nitrogen balance remained 
negative throughout the 42 study days, although with a clear trend towards 
equilibrium. There were significant reductions in blood glucose, proteinemia, 
total cholesterol and subfractions. Triglycerides did not show significant 
changes. Clinical tolerance was excellent in all cases except 4 who withdraw 
from treatment because of nausea and vomiting.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, very low caloric diet achieved satisfactory weight 
reduction, basically at the expense of adipose tissue, reflected in a reduction 
of the muscle adipose index. Nitrogen balance remained negative throughout the 
treatment but with a trend towards normalization. Tolerance was excellent in 61 
of the 65 cases (94%).

PMID: 2046426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Med Clin (Barc). 1991 Mar 9;96(9):328-32.

[The analysis of mortality in urban areas].

[Article in Spanish]

Ortega A(1), Puig M.

Author information:
(1)Departament de Ciències Mèdiques Bàsiques, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad 
de Barcelona.

BACKGROUND: To investigate health status inequalities in small urban areas, 
using mortality differences between districts of Reus (pop. 85000), Spain.
METHODS: For the period 1986-1988, data from the Civil Register and from death 
certificates issued indicated 1521 valid cases. Infant mortality, adjusted 
mortality indices (AMI) and years of potential life lost (YPLL) were calculated 
for the 17 groups of cause-of-death based on the International Classification of 
Diseases and Preventable Causes of Death. Both indicators (AMI and YPLL) were 
studied for each district and for the city as a whole. The exact confidence 
limits for the Standard Mortality Ratio were calculated.
RESULTS: Although AMI and YPLL gave results that were quantitatively very 
different, districts IV and VIII consistently had the worst indices while 
districts II and VI had the best.
CONCLUSION: Archive data over a period of several years together with exact 
calculation methods, can demonstrate inequalities in health or in socioeconomic 
conditions even in small areas. These methods may also be useful in delineating 
different urban living areas.

PMID: 2046442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Mol Gen Genet. 1991 May;227(1):60-4. doi: 10.1007/BF00260707.

In vivo transcriptional pattern in the infC operon of Bacillus 
stearothermophilus.

Falconi M(1), Brombach M, Gualerzi CO, Pon CL.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Biology, University of Camerino, Italy.

By Northern blot and primer extension analyses it was shown that in Bacillus 
stearothermophilus the genes infC, rpmI and rplT constitute a single 
transcriptional unit; the promoter and the transcriptional start-point used in 
vivo were identified and the half-life of the transcript (1.2 min) was 
determined. No indication of multiple initiation sites nor of differential 
stability of different regions of the transcript was found. The results suggest 
that Escherichia coli and B. stearothermophilus have a different pattern of 
transcription around the infC gene cluster and that differential translational 
efficiency within the infC-rpmI-rplT transcriptional unit accounts for the 
different levels of IF3, L35 and L20 expression. The rare AUU initiation codon 
is the only strictly conserved element of the several peculiar transcriptional 
and translational features found in E. coli infC. Upon changing this codon to 
AUG, we found a ca. 30-fold increased expression of B. stearothermophilus infC, 
which is similar to that previously found with E. coli infC (i.e. 40-fold), and 
provided evidence that regulation of infC expression through its rare AUU 
initiation codon might be a general phenomenon in bacteria.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00260707
PMID: 2046659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1991 May 11;135(19):845-50.

[The course of Alzheimer's disease in a group of nursing home patients: 
epidemiology, (co)morbidity and mortality].

[Article in Dutch]

Koopmans RT(1), van Hell ME, de Jongh F, Froeling PG, van den Hoogen HJ, van 
Weel C.

Author information:
(1)Psychogeriatrisch verpleeghuis Sint Joachim en Anna, Nijmegen.

One hundred medical charts of patients of a psychogeriatric nursing home with 
'possible' (senile) dementia of the Alzheimer type were reviewed. Eighty-seven 
patients had died and 13 were alive at the time of analysis. The aim of the 
study was to obtain epidemiological information and to investigate (co)morbidity 
and mortality of these patients. All the data of this group of nursing home 
patients appeared to have a wide range. The process of dementia started at a 
mean age of about 75 years and patients remained in their homes for more than 
five years before admission. The average time spent in the nursing home was 3.0 
years. These patients had a shorter life expectancy, counted from the time of 
admission, compared with the Dutch population. At admission a large percentage 
of patients suffered from circulatory system disease, musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disease and/or sensory deprivation. During the stay the most 
frequent diseases were urinary and respiratory tract infections, constipation 
and chronic ulcers of the skin. Symptoms specific of Alzheimer's disease also 
occurred: feeding problems, disorders of gait and neurological symptoms such as 
paratonia. A large percentage of patients showed adverse effects of drugs or 
suffered from the consequences of trauma. Patients died of cachexia or 
bronchopneumonia. It is unclear whether the population studied is representative 
of the total population of Alzheimer patients.

PMID: 2046782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Sci Am. 1991 Mar;264(3):33-4. doi: 10.1038/scientificamerican0391-33.

Grim expectations.

Yam P.

DOI: 10.1038/scientificamerican0391-33
PMID: 2047844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Acta Neurol Scand. 1991 Apr;83(4):234-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0404.1991.tb04688.x.

Limb girdle muscular dystrophy with autosomal dominant inheritance.

Marconi G(1), Pizzi A, Arimondi CG, Vannelli B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Florence, Italy.

We describe a patient suffering from limb-girdle muscular dystrophy with 
autosomal dominant inheritance proved by the presence of other similar cases in 
both sexes scattered over 4 generations of his family tree. In all patients the 
symptoms appeared in adult age and pelvi-femoral preceded scapulo-humeral 
involvement. Clinical expressivity has been variable, but rather benign without 
any reduction in life expectancy. Myopathic changes with vacuoles were present 
in muscle on light and electron microscopic examination. In the literature we 
found at least another 5 genealogies with autosomal dominant LGMD which had 
similar clinical and pathological features to those of our patient.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0404.1991.tb04688.x
PMID: 2048397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Am J Orthopsychiatry. 1991 Apr;61(2):168-78. doi: 10.1037/h0079245.

A preventive intervention program for bereaved children: problems of 
implementation.

Christ GH(1), Siegel K, Mesagno FP, Langosch D.

Author information:
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York.

A brief, standardized intervention program to facilitate children's adjustment 
to the terminal illness and death of a parent posed the following implementation 
problems: estimation of patient life expectancy; engagement of the family in 
crisis; adhesion to the parental guidance model; and termination of formal 
clinical intervention. Resolution of these issues is described, and adaptation 
of such programs to other high-risk populations is considered.

DOI: 10.1037/h0079245
PMID: 2048632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1991 May 30;1078(1):31-4. doi: 
10.1016/0167-4838(91)90088-h.

Vitamin K-dependent carboxylase: utilization of decarboxylated bone Gla protein 
and matrix Gla protein as substrates.

Engelke JA(1), Hale JE, Suttie JW, Price PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison 53706.

The ability of des-gamma-carboxy bone Gla protein (dBGP) and des-gamma-carboxy 
matrix Gla protein (dMGP) to act as substrates for the rat liver vitamin 
K-dependent carboxylase has been investigated. An amino-terminal 'propeptide' is 
present on the intracellular form of BGP and is thought to interact with a 
recognition site on the enzyme. dBGP, lacking this extension, is a poor, high 
apparent Km, carboxylase substrate, but is a much better substrate when free 
propeptide is added. MGP lacks an amino-terminal propeptide, but contains a a 
homologous region in the mature protein. dMGP is an excellent substrate for the 
carboxylase with a low apparent Km and its carboxylation is inhibited by free 
propeptide.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-4838(91)90088-h
PMID: 2049381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. J Nerv Ment Dis. 1991 Jun;179(6):356-9. doi:
10.1097/00005053-199106000-00009.

Body image dissatisfaction in homosexual and heterosexual males.

Herzog DB(1), Newman KL, Warshaw M.

Author information:
(1)Eating Disorders Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 02114.

A nonclinical sample of 43 homosexual and 32 heterosexual men completed two 
self-report inventories regarding weight, body satisfaction, eating attitudes, 
and behaviors. Subjects were also asked to select their current and ideal 
figures, the weight they felt would be most attractive to a potential partner, 
and the weight to which they would be most attracted in a potential partner from 
figures representing very thin to very heavy physiques. Heterosexual men were 
significantly heavier than homosexual men and desired a significantly heavier 
ideal weight. Although the current and ideal physiques selected by the 
homosexual and heterosexual men were almost identical, homosexual men were more 
likely to desire an underweight ideal. A heightened pursuit of thinness may 
place homosexual men at an increased risk for developing eating disorders.

DOI: 10.1097/00005053-199106000-00009
PMID: 2051150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1991 Jun 15;88(12):5360-3. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.88.12.5360.

The aging process: major risk factor for disease and death.

Harman D(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Nebraska College of Medicine, Omaha 68198-4635.

Aging is the accumulation of changes responsible for the sequential alterations 
that accompany advancing age and the associated progressive increases in the 
chance of disease and death. Average life expectancies at birth in the developed 
countries are now approaching plateau values as the aging changes associated 
with the environment and disease near irreducible levels. The inborn aging 
process is now the major risk factor for disease and death after around age 28 
in the developed countries and limits average life expectancy at birth to 
approximately 85 years. Future significant increases in average life 
expectancy--a rough measure of the healthy, productive life-span, i.e., the 
functional life-span--in these countries will be achieved only by slowing the 
rate of production of aging changes by the aging process. Many theories have 
been advanced to account for the aging process. The free radical theory of aging 
is discussed briefly. The importance attached to increasing the functional 
life-span dictates that aging hypotheses be explored for practical means of 
achieving this goal while work continues toward a consensus on the cause(s) of 
the aging process. Efforts to further increase the functional life-span by 
conventional measures are now almost futile, whereas those directed toward 
slowing the aging process are just beginning. These new efforts show promise.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.88.12.5360
PMCID: PMC51872
PMID: 2052612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Epidemiology. 1991 May;2(3):182-7. doi: 10.1097/00001648-199105000-00004.

Sex-specific trends in mortality for the aging population in Norway: a model 
with age, period, and cohort effects.

Sverre JM(1), Laake P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Ullevaal Hospital, Oslo, Norway.

During the last few decades, the citizens of most western countries have 
experienced an increased expectation of life. The rate of this change differs 
for males and females. We evaluated reasons for this pattern, using a Poisson 
model, with age, period, and cohort effects applied to vital statistics data 
from the Central Bureau of Statistics of Norway. The data comprised the total 
Norwegian population aged 45 to 104 years who died in the period from 1966 until 
1986. Differential changes in life expectancy for the elderly are explained by 
differences in sex-specific cohort effects. We also observed an extra-Poisson 
variation, or overdispersion, in the distribution for females.

DOI: 10.1097/00001648-199105000-00004
PMID: 2054399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Bull Pan Am Health Organ. 1991;25(1):77-86.

Smoking-attributable mortality, years of potential life lost, and direct health 
care costs for Puerto Rico, 1983.

Dietz VJ(1), Novotny TE, Rigau-Pérez JG, Schultz JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Field Services, Epidemiology Program Office, Centers for Disease 
Control, Atlanta, Georgia 30333.

The authors report the impact of smoking upon health in Puerto Rico for the year 
1983. Using a microcomputer spread-sheet program that calculates 
smoking-attributable disease impact, they estimated that 2,468 deaths were 
attributable to smoking. This represented 11.5% of all deaths on the island in 
1983 and resulted in approximately 19,445 years of potential life lost (YPLL). 
It appears that cigarette smoking caused US+55.9 million in direct health care 
expenditures for Puerto Rico in 1983, an amount equal to 10% of the island's 
yearly expenditures on health. Calculations such as these demonstrate the 
enormous disease impact of smoking and may assist policy-makers in planning 
prevention and intervention activities, both in Puerto Rico and elsewhere in 
Latin America.

PMID: 2054555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Cardiol Clin. 1991 May;9(2):255-70.

Medical therapy for patients with aortic insufficiency.

Greenberg BH(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland.

The medical course and management of patients with aortic insufficiency depends 
on the severity of the valve lesion and acuity with which it develops. In this 
article a description of the basic pathophysiology of aortic insufficiency and 
the natural history of the disease is outlined. Recent information describing 
both the acute and long-term effects of vasodilator therapy is summarized. With 
this information, a rational approach to the medical management of aortic 
insufficiency is developed.

PMID: 2054816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Health Psychol. 1991;10(2):86-93. doi: 10.1037//0278-6133.10.2.86.

Gender differences in health-related quality of life.

Kaplan RM(1), Anderson JP, Wingard DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Family Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego.

In 1986 the life expectancy at birth was 71.3 years for males and 78.3 years for 
females--providing a 7-year advantage for women. Although women live longer, it 
has been reported that they paradoxically experience more physical and 
psychological illnesses. In this article, we estimate the expected well-years or 
quality-adjusted life years for men and women in the general population. The 
data were obtained in a random sample of 1,034 residents of San Diego. The 
well-life expectancy uses standard life expectancies with adjustments for 
quality of life. The well-life expectancy for men was 59.8 years; for women, it 
was 62.7 years. Thus, the quality adjustment had significantly more impact on 
women (15.6 years) than on men (11.5 years). Age-specific estimates of 
health-related quality of life suggested a male advantage before age 45 and a 
female advantage after age 45. The benefits of well-years of life as a public 
health statistic are discussed.

DOI: 10.1037//0278-6133.10.2.86
PMID: 2055214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Hum Biol. 1991 Jun;63(3):389-402.

Sociodemographic correlates of breast feeding in Ghana.

Oheneba-Sakyi Y(1), Takyi BK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, State University of New York, Potsdam 13676.

This study utilizes data from the Ghana Fertility Survey (GFS) (1979-1980) to 
investigate breast feeding in Ghana and the factors that affect it. Using life 
table procedures, we found evidence that, when other factors are held constant, 
older cohorts, women with no schooling, those who work in the agricultural 
sector, those affiliated with traditional Ghanaian religions, Mole-Dagbanis, 
rural residents, residents of the Volta, Brong-Ahafo, northern, and upper 
regions, and low-parity women show longer durations of breast feeding. It is 
recommended that, along with other fertility reduction measures, prolonged 
breast feeding among all Ghanaian mothers should be encouraged to help reduce 
conception and to ensure healthy children.

PIP: Data from the Ghana Fertility Survey (GFS), 1978-80, is used to investigate 
the fertility levels and breast feeding behavior in Ghana. The stratified sample 
of 6125 women aged 15-49 years represents region and urban, large urban and 
rural sectors, of which a subsample of 4943 ever married women provides data of 
the last births within the preceding 5 years. Analysis is based on survival 
table procedures and accelerated failure time models to estimate the probability 
of breast feeding at various ages. The Weibull regression version of general 
accelerated failure time models was employed in estimating the effects of the 
independent variables on the median duration of breast feeding for selected 
maternal characteristics. The SAS statistical procedure, LIFEREG, was used to 
estimate maximum likelihood parameters with a Newton-Raphson algorithm. The 
dependent variable was the cumulative probability of breast feeding for children 
who were still breast feeding, those discontinuing, and those breast fed until 
their death. Independent variables were birth cohort (1930-39, 1940-49, 1950-54, 
and 1955-64), age at first marriage, formal education, occupation, religion, 
ethnicity, monogamous or polygynous marriage, residence, ratio of desired 
children to living ones, and parity. The results show that the median duration 
exceeds 12 months which is strongly related to birth cohort, .01 level of 
significance. Duration decreases over time. The youngest age cohort may perceive 
their breasts to be sex symbols and infant feeding formulas have become more 
available. Age at first marriage has little effect on duration, but increasing 
age at marriage shows a slight reduction in duration with controls operating. 
Babies are breast fed longer by less educated mothers, although the multivariate 
analysis indicated insignificance. Working mothers may have a conflict with 
breast feeding, but professional women have about the same duration as other 
women, perhaps due to the 3-month paid maternity leave. Agricultural workers 
tend to breast feed longer. Only traditional believers breast feed longer, 
longer by Christians by 4 months and by Muslims 2 months. Only the Mole-Dagbanis 
breast fed over 1.5 years. Women in polygynous marriages also breast feed 
longer. Urban women tended to have shorter durations, .05 significance level. 
Regional differences varied between 14-19 months. Women from Brong-Ahafo and 
Volta regions may breast feed longer because of inadequate health services. 
Greater parity is associated with shorter duration. The recommendation is that 
contraceptives be associated with shorter duration. The recommendation is that 
contraceptives be made more widely available because of the trend in shorter 
feeding and concomitantly shorter birth intervals, and that breast feeding be 
promoted.

PMID: 2055593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 1991;32(2):135-41. doi: 10.2190/HHKE-XNM3-J5J2-5GCB.

Growing old in the cradle: old age and immortality among the kings of ancient 
Assyria.

Arnett WS(1).

Author information:
(1)West Virginia University, Morgantown.

The desire for a long and healthy life was expressed often by Assyrian kings in 
their extant public texts from the 14th through the 7th centuries BC. But 
advanced old age, whether for monarchs or commoners, was not achieved very often 
in the ancient world. Consequently, Assyrian royal inscriptions frequently 
reflect concern for another kind of longevity--an immortality achieved by having 
one's works and one's name preserved and remembered by posterity. Almost every 
dedicatory inscription associated with public works--palaces, temples, 
etc.--expressed the importance of these kings' participation in what this writer 
terms a "family cult." The latter constituted a sense of continuity from father 
to son to grandson, and so on, which depended upon each new generation to 
preserve and/or restore the works and the "names" of their predecessors. If the 
Assyrian kings each did their job as "Curator" or "Steward" of the family's 
heritage, they expressed the hope that they would not be forgotten--perhaps the 
closest they could get to achieving immortality.

DOI: 10.2190/HHKE-XNM3-J5J2-5GCB
PMID: 2055659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. J Appl Physiol (1985). 1991 Apr;70(4):1529-35. doi: 
10.1152/jappl.1991.70.4.1529.

Interaction between exercise and food restriction: effects on longevity of male 
rats.

Holloszy JO(1), Schechtman KB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
Missouri 63110.

Male rats that exercise in running wheels have a longer average survival than 
freely eating sedentary controls but, in contrast to food-restricted sedentary 
controls of the same weight, show no extension of maximal life span (J. Appl. 
Physiol. 59: 826-831, 1985). To test the possibility that exercise may 
counteract a life-extending effect of decreased availability of energy for 
certain biological processes such as cell proliferation, we examined the 
combined effects of exercise and food restriction on longevity of male rats. As 
before, wheel running improved average length of life, 978 +/- 172 vs. 875 +/- 
175 (SD) days, for the sedentary controls (P less than 0.01) without increasing 
maximal life span. Paired-weight controls, food restricted (approximately 30% 
below ad libitum) to weight the same as the runners, showed increases in both 
average (1,056 +/- 144 days) and maximal life span. Food-restricted runners, 
with intake restricted to the same extent (approximately 30%), had an increased 
mortality rate over the first approximately 50% of their survival curve up to 
approximately 900 days of age; their average life span (995 +/- 226) was similar 
to that of the control group of runners and shorter than that of their 
paired-weight food-restricted sedentary controls (1,088 +/- 159 days, P less 
than 0.05). However, after approximately 900 days of age the food-restricted 
runners' survival became similar to that of the food-restricted sedentary 
groups, with a comparable increase in maximal life span. Thus the exercise did 
not counteract the increase in maximal life span induced by food 
restriction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1152/jappl.1991.70.4.1529
PMID: 2055832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1991 May-Jun;32(3):334-9.

Obliterations of the proximal subclavian artery: to bypass or to anastomose?

Kretschmer G(1), Teleky B, Marosi L, Wagner O, Wunderlich M, Karnel F, Jantsch 
H, Schemper M, Polterauer P.

Author information:
(1)I Clinic of Surgery, University of Vienna, Austria.

A clinical series has been analysed to determine which of two similar, 
extrathoracic "extraanatomic" methods of treating proximal blocks of the 
subclavian artery is the superior option. From 1975 until 1988 direct 
carotid-subclavian anastomosis was used in 32 patients and carotid-subclavian 
bypass in 19. There were no statistically significant differences for the 
probability of postoperative survival (p less than 0.877 Breslow; p less than 
0.774 Mantel), intraoperative blood loss or the duration of anaesthesia. Those 
patients who had undergone subclavian artery repair had a significantly longer 
survival than those following carotid bifurcation endarterectomy (p less than 
0.002 Breslow, p less than 0.0002 Mantel). As patients with subclavian lesions 
have a reasonable life-expectancy, they may possibly experience late 
complications of their vascular repair. Therefore it seems important to select 
the most durable operation, and direct carotid subclavian anastomosis has a 
significantly greater patency rate than bypass (p less than 0.006 Breslow, p 
less than 0.006 Mantel). Patients with preoperative symptoms of cerebrovascular 
insufficiency had a lower probability of survival than those with upper 
extremity claudication, although this did not reach statistical significance (p 
less than 0.205 Breslow; p less than 0.198 Mantel).

PMID: 2055931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. J Urol. 1991 Jul;146(1):96-8. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)37722-4.

Natural course of clinically localized prostate adenocarcinoma in men less than 
70 years old.

Adolfsson J(1), Carstensen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

A total of 61 patients, less than 70 years old at diagnosis, with clinical stage 
T1-2, NX, M0, cytologically well or moderately differentiated prostate 
adenocarcinoma was prospectively included in a surveillance study. Median 
patient age was 63 years (range 38 to 69 years). Mean followup was 96 +/- 24 
months. The probability of local progression to stage T3 disease after 5 and 10 
years was 49 and 72%, respectively. The probability of metastases developing 
after 5 and 10 years was 8 and 23%, respectively. The probability of dying of 
prostate adenocarcinoma was 2 and 8%, respectively. Moderately differentiated 
cancer progressed locally significantly faster than well differentiated disease. 
The relative number of patients who had metastases or died of prostate 
adenocarcinoma found in our study was comparable to the relative numbers 
reported after radical prostatectomy and radiation therapy. Therefore, deferred 
therapy may be an alternative to active therapy in patients with clinically 
localized prostate adenocarcinoma and with a life expectancy of less than 10 
years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)37722-4
PMID: 2056609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1991 Mar;198(3):190-4. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1045950.

[Postoperative infections in systemic immunocompromising diseases. A study of 6 
patients].

[Article in German]

Bialasiewicz AA(1), Wilk CM, Ruprecht KW.

Author information:
(1)Augenklinik mit Poliklinik, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität 
Erlangen-Nürnberg.

Advances of therapeutic strategies in the management of critically ill patients 
have resulted in an increased life expectancy and more frequent presentations to 
ophthalmic surgeons. Six patients with postoperative endophthalmitis after 
elective intraocular surgery suffering from Sharp-syndrome, metastasizing antrum 
carcinoma, granulomatous vasculitis and immunosuppressive therapy, 
agranulocytosis, silico-tuberculosis and chronic lymphatic leukemia revealed 
traditionally pathogenic agents (Proteus mirabilis, P. aeruginosa, enterococci, 
coagulase-negative Staph). Two patients had to be enucleated, one turned blind 
and three had a visual acuity 5/100 to 20/60. In our hands prognosis for 
successful therapy in immunodeficient patients seems worse than in otherwise 
healthy persons. Painstaking evaluation of history, medical work-up, 
conjunctival swabs and application of bactericidal topical antibiotics 
preoperatively and perioperatively are particularly important in these patients.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1045950
PMID: 2056737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Med Clin (Barc). 1991 Mar 30;96(12):453-5.

[Life expectancy free of disability: global indicator of health status].

[Article in Spanish]

Gutiérrez Fisac JL(1), Regidor Poyatos E.

Author information:
(1)Subdirección General de Información Sanitaria y Epidemiología, Ministerio de 
Sanidad y Consumo, Madrid.

BACKGROUND: Due to the limitations of mortality and morbidity as measures of the 
health status in developed countries, the elaboration of health indexes which 
include quality of life in addition to life duration has been proposed. The aim 
of the present article is to report the results of the calculation for Spain in 
1986 of one of these indexes, the expectancy of life free from disability 
(ELFD).
METHODS: The life expectancy (LE) and the ELFD were calculated on the basis of 
data from health surveys by interview and mortality data from routine 
statistics. This method was proposed by Sullivan in 1971 on the basis of the 
procedure of life tables.
RESULTS: The results showed that the difference in LE between sexes was reduced 
when the years lived in disability were taken into account. Thus, while LE at 
birth was 79.6 years in females and 73.2 in males, the ELFD was 62.6 and 60.8, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The important reduction in the difference between sexes regarding 
LE when ELFD is accounted for shows that the gain in years of life in females is 
obtained at the expense of years lived in disability. ELFD appears as a useful 
index for the evaluation of needs and the planning of social health services.

PMID: 2056784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Orv Hetil. 1991 Feb 17;132(7):389.

[Life expectancy of dicephalic monsters].

[Article in Hungarian]

Jójárt G.

PMID: 2057204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Pediatrics. 1991 Jul;88(1):10-8.

Improved neonatal survival following multiple doses of bovine surfactant in very 
premature neonates at risk for respiratory distress syndrome.

Hoekstra RE(1), Jackson JC, Myers TF, Frantz ID 3rd, Stern ME, Powers WF, Maurer 
M, Raye JR, Carrier ST, Gunkel JH, et al.

Author information:
(1)Minneapolis Childrens Medical Center, Seattle, Washington.

To determine whether multiple doses of bovine surfactant would improve neonatal 
mortality in very premature neonates, we conducted two multicenter controlled 
trials under identical protocols; the results were combined for analysis. Four 
hundred and thirty neonates born between 23 and 29 weeks gestation and weighing 
600 to 1250 g at birth were assigned randomly at birth to receive either 100 mg 
of phospholipids/kg of Survanta, a modified bovine surfactant (n = 210), or a 
sham air placebo (n = 220) within 15 minutes of birth. Neonates who developed 
respiratory distress syndrome and required mechanical ventilation with at least 
30% oxygen could be given up to three more doses in the first 48 hours after 
birth. Dosing was performed by investigators not involved in the clinical care 
of the neonates; nursery staff were kept blinded as to the treatment assignment. 
Cause of death was determined by a panel of three independent, board-certified 
neonatologists after blindly reviewing case report forms and autopsy reports. 
Fewer Survanta-treated neonates died of any cause (11.4% vs 18.8%, P = .031), 
died of respiratory distress syndrome (1.9% vs 15.6%, P less than .001), and 
either died or developed bronchopulmonary dysplasia due to respiratory distress 
syndrome (39.5% vs 49.1%, P = .044). The incidence of respiratory distress 
syndrome was also lower in Survanta-treated neonates (28.0% vs 56.9%, P less 
than .001), and the Survanta-treated neonates' oxygenation and ventilatory 
status were improved significantly at 72 hours. Survanta-treated neonates were 
also at lowered risk of developing pulmonary interstitial emphysema (23.3% vs 
36.9%, P = .002) and other forms of pulmonary air leaks (9.6% vs 20.8%, P 
.002).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2057245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Pediatrics. 1991 Jul;88(1):19-28.

Reduction of neonatal mortality after multiple doses of bovine surfactant in low 
birth weight neonates with respiratory distress syndrome.

Liechty EA(1), Donovan E, Purohit D, Gilhooly J, Feldman B, Noguchi A, Denson 
SE, Sehgal SS, Gross I, Stevens D, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis.

To determine if outcomes of low birth weight neonates with respiratory distress 
syndrome can be improved by the administration of multiple doses of bovine 
surfactant, we conducted two identical multicenter, controlled trials, and the 
results were combined for analysis. Seven hundred and ninety-eight neonates 
weighing 600 to 1750 g at birth who had developed respiratory distress syndrome 
within 6 hours of birth were assigned randomly to receive either 100 mg of 
phospholipid/kg of Survanta, a modified bovine surfactant (n = 402), or a sham 
dosing procedure (n = 396). Neonates whose respiratory distress persisted could 
be given up to three more doses, with all doses to be given in the first 48 
hours after birth. Dosing was performed by investigators not involved in the 
clinical care of the neonates; nursery staff were kept blinded as to the 
treatment assignment. Fewer Survanta-treated neonates died of any cause (18.4% 
vs 27.3%, P = .002), died of respiratory distress syndrome (9.0% vs 20.3%, P 
less than .001), and either died or developed bronchopulmonary dysplasia due to 
respiratory distress syndrome (51.2% vs 64.6%, P less than .001). Neonates who 
received Survanta also had greater improvement in their oxygenation and 
ventilatory status from baseline to 72 hours than did control neonates. 
Survanta-treated neonates were at lowered risk for developing pulmonary 
interstitial emphysema (18.6% vs 39.3%, P less than .001) and other pulmonary 
air leaks (11.5% vs 25.9%, P less than .001). We conclude that multiple doses of 
Survanta given after diagnosis of respiratory distress syndrome reduce mortality 
and morbidity.

PMID: 2057268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Sov Zdravookhr. 1991;(3):67-70.

[Influence of ischemic heart disease mortality on the average life span in 
Bulgaria and economic results of this disease].

[Article in Russian]

Nikolov IN.

The paper provides a socio-economic evaluation of mortality from ischemic heart 
disease (IHD) in Bulgaria during 1983-1985. The influence of IHD on mean life 
expectancy at birth was determined by using concise methods. IHD shortens the 
mean life expectancy in urban areas by 2.4 years in boys and by 1.7 years in 
girls, in rural areas by 2.5 years in boys and by 1.2 in girls. Economic losses 
due to mortality from this disease were estimated.

PMID: 2057826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Versicherungsmedizin. 1991 Apr 1;43(2):52-4.

[Prognosis and life expectancy in multiple sclerosis].

[Article in German]

Angstwurm H(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurologischen Klinik, Universität München.

Prognosis and life expectancy of patients with multiple sclerosis can be judged 
according to disability state, to duration and course of the disease on the 
basis of regular examinations. Assuming that life expectancy is 
reduced--collectively--by 10 to 15 years, it should be possible to find some 
form of life insurance for patients with multiple sclerosis also.

PMID: 2058080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1991;141(7):148-50.

[Life expectancy--the Japanese experience].

[Article in German]

Lutz W.

The author thinks that the rise in Japanese life expectancy since the end of 
world war I is due to the increase of fat and animal matter in Japanese diet by 
American influence. Even the "West" should consider a "paleolithization" of its 
diet as up to now all "field studies" failed to show a positive effect of a low 
cholesterol diet on total mortality; this the more the epidemiological relations 
between fat intake and coronary and cancer mortality can be explained by 
adaptation to carbohydrates since the neolithic.

PMID: 2058164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Zentralbl Hyg Umweltmed. 1991 Mar;191(2-3):333-46.

[Nutrition-related risk factors in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Nüssel E(1).

Author information:
(1)Abt. Klinische Sozialmedizin, Klinikum der Universität Heidelberg.

In industrialized countries life expectancy in the elderly is decreased mainly 
by degenerative cardiovascular diseases such as myocardial infarction and 
stroke. Nutrition, especially excessive intake of calories, unbalanced diets as 
well as abuse of alcohol and nicotine play an important role in cardiovascular 
mortality and morbidity just as these factors do in the pathogenesis of certain 
types of cancer. The National Health Survey 1984/86 in the FRG offers data on 
the prevalence of such risk factors as elevated body weight, elevated blood 
pressure, hypercholesterolaemia, cigarette smoking and alcohol consumption in 
different age groups. This knowledge provides the basis of modern primary health 
care and health education in order to limit diseases caused by unhealthy 
nutrition. In this respect the countrywide integrated programme for action 
called "7 against 7" is not just an important part of primary health care 
carried out by general practitioners but also an effective instrument in the 
fight against civilization diseases.

PMID: 2059294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. J Am Vet Med Assoc. 1991 May 1;198(9):1513-5.

Survival analysis.

Shott S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Rush-Presbyterian-St Luke's Medical 
Center, Chicago, IL 60612.

