PMID: 2061170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. J Biosoc Sci. 1991 Apr;23(2):155-65. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000019180.

Adult mortality from information on orphanhood and widowhood among the Kanuri of 
Nigeria.

Udjo EO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Maiduguri, Nigeria.

Although demographic information on Nigeria has increased in the past two 
decades, information on adult mortality in the country is still sparse. This 
paper provides information on the levels and trends in male and female adult 
mortality among the Kanuri of north-east Nigeria. Analysis of reports of 
orphanhood and widowhood suggests moderately high levels of mortality.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000019180
PMID: 2061344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1991 Jul;39(7):641-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1991.tb03616.x.

Survival in a residential home: an eleven-year longitudinal study.

Dontas AS(1), Tzonou A, Kasviki-Charvati P, Georgiades GL, Christakis G, 
Trichopoulos D.

Author information:
(1)Center of Studies of Age-Related Changes in Man, Athens, Greece.

The length of survival and various risk factors were studied utilizing 408 
residents (141 men, 267 women) of a large residential home. The subjects, aged 
68 years or more at entry, admitted between 1978 and 1983, were physically 
independent, continent, and non-diabetic. They were followed until December 31, 
1988, by which time 78% had died. The multivariate proportional hazard analysis 
showed the following entry variables to have the indicated effects on relative 
mortality rate ratios: 5-years' higher age (+10%, NS), persistent bacteriuria 
(+13%, NS), abnormal ECG (+26%, NS), current smoking (+63%, P less than 0.01), 
mildly impaired mobility (+96%, P less than 0.001), higher levels of in-study 
systolic pressure in 10-mm Hg steps (-4%, NS), higher entry serum cholesterol in 
1-mmol/L steps (-7%, NS), and higher hematocrit in 5% steps (-14%, P less than 
0.02). Female sex was associated with a +25% (NS) rate ratio; socioeconomic 
status and body weight were without effect. These data highlight the relative 
importance of specific factors associated with survival of persons within 
retirement homes and indicate that: (1) the presence of mild impairment of 
mobility at entry is by far the strongest predictor of early death; (2) smoking 
and lower hematocrit also exert important adverse effects; and (3) certain "risk 
factors", ie elevated systolic blood pressure and serum cholesterol, have a 
minimal protective effect, if any, in this age group.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1991.tb03616.x
PMID: 2061528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Mo Med. 1991 Feb;88(2):73-4.

What are we to do?

Sessions DG.

PMID: 2062294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Ophthalmology. 1991 May;98(5 Suppl):757-65.

Effects of aspirin treatment on diabetic retinopathy. ETDRS report number 8. 
Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study Research Group.

[No authors listed]

Aspirin treatment did not alter the course of diabetic retinopathy in patients 
enrolled in the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS). In this 
randomized clinical trial supported by the National Eye Institute, 3711 patients 
with mild-to-severe nonproliferative or early proliferative diabetic retinopathy 
were assigned randomly to either aspirin (650 mg per day) or placebo. Aspirin 
did not prevent the development of high-risk proliferative retinopathy and did 
not reduce the risk of visual loss, nor did it increase the risk of vitreous 
hemorrhage. This was true both for eyes assigned randomly to deferral of 
photocoagulation and for eyes assigned randomly to early argon laser 
photocoagulation. The ETDRS results indicate that for patients with 
mild-to-severe non-proliferative or early proliferative diabetic retinopathy, it 
is likely that aspirin has no clinically important beneficial effects on the 
progression of retinopathy. The data also show that aspirin 650 mg per day had 
no clinically important harmful effects for diabetic patients with retinopathy. 
These findings suggest there are no ocular contraindications to aspirin when 
required for cardiovascular disease or other medical indications.

PMID: 2062511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Ophthalmology. 1991 May;98(5 Suppl):766-85.

Early photocoagulation for diabetic retinopathy. ETDRS report number 9. Early 
Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study Research Group.

[No authors listed]

The Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) enrolled 3711 patients 
with mild-to-severe nonproliferative or early proliferative diabetic retinopathy 
in both eyes. One eye of each patient was assigned randomly to early 
photocoagulation and the other to deferral of photocoagulation. Follow-up 
examinations were scheduled at least every 4 months and photocoagulation was 
initiated in eyes assigned to deferral as soon as high-risk proliferative 
retinopathy was detected. Eyes selected for early photocoagulation received one 
of four different combinations of scatter (panretinal) and focal treatment. This 
early treatment, compared with deferral of photocoagulation, was associated with 
a small reduction in the incidence of severe visual loss (visual acuity less 
than 5/200 at two consecutive visits), but 5-year rates were low in both the 
early treatment and deferral groups (2.6% and 3.7%, respectively). Adverse 
effects of scatter photocoagulation on visual acuity and visual field also were 
observed. These adverse effects were most evident in the months immediately 
following treatment and were less in eyes assigned to less extensive scatter 
photocoagulation. Provided careful follow-up can be maintained, scatter 
photocoagulation is not recommended for eyes with mild or moderate 
nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy. When retinopathy is more severe, scatter 
photocoagulation should be considered and usually should not be delayed if the 
eye has reached the high-risk proliferative stage. The ETDRS results demonstrate 
that, for eyes with macular edema, focal photocoagulation is effective in 
reducing the risk of moderate visual loss but that scatter photocoagulation is 
not. Focal treatment also increases the chance of visual improvement, decreases 
the frequency of persistent macular edema, and causes only minor visual field 
losses. Focal treatment should be considered for eyes with macular edema that 
involves or threatens the center of the macula.

PMID: 2062512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Psychiatr Clin North Am. 1991 Jun;14(2):251-65.

Epidemiology of Alzheimer's disease.

Tr√®ves TA(1).

Author information:
(1)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Department of Neurology, Tel Aviv University, 
Israel.

As the life expectancy of populations is extending, interest in age-associated 
diseases is increasing, particularly for those disorders that result in 
debilitating conditions and, thus, require health policy planning. Both health 
policy planning and the research for possible etiologies are important factors 
in the study of Alzheimer's disease. The contribution of epidemiologic studies 
to both of these aspects has been reviewed. Such investigations should be 
conducted only on well-defined disorders, as is discussed in this article.

PMID: 2062720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Psychiatr Clin North Am. 1991 Jun;14(2):267-86.

Clinical genetic studies of Alzheimer's disease.

Li G(1), Silverman JM, Mohs RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York.

In this article, the authors review the genetic investigations in Alzheimer's 
disease employing epidemiologic study techniques--mainly case-control, twin, and 
cumulative risk studies--as well as pedigree and genetic linkage studies and 
discuss the implications these studies have for identifying and characterizing a 
possible genetic etiology of Alzheimer's disease. Some of the methodologic 
issues associated with each of these techniques and the more general problems 
associated with identifying genetic factors in Alzheimer's disease are 
discussed, and some directions and prospects for future research in this area 
are indicated.

PMID: 2062721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Scand J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1991;25(1):37-44. doi: 
10.3109/14017439109098081.

Valve replacement for calcified aortic stenosis in septuagenarians infers normal 
life-length.

Lund O(1), Nielsen TT, Magnussen K, Pilegaard HK, Knudsen MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Skejby Hospital, Denmark.

Aortic valve replacement because of pure or predominant stenosis was performed 
in 1970-1986 on 101 patients aged 70-78 years, including 80 in NYHA function 
class III or IV. There were 16 deaths within 30 days, and coronary artery 
disease (unbypassed in all but 1 case) was found in 11 of the 13 with autopsy or 
preoperative arteriography. None of the 12 patients without significant coronary 
artery disease at angiography died perioperatively,but one of 12 with combined 
valve replacement and coronary artery bypass grafting died. Cumulative 1-year 
survival among the 101 patients/the 85 survivors of the first 30 days and/a 
normal population matched for sex, age and year of operation was 75/90/96%. 
Corresponding percentages for 5 years were 64/75/77, for 10 years 43/52/52, and 
for 15 years 35/42/27. Advanced disease with kidney failure or left ventricular 
end-diastolic pressure greater than 20 mmHg independently increased the overall 
mortality rate. The linearized rat of cerebral events (haemorrhage, embolism) 
was 2.7/100 patient years (age-specific background rate 1.6-1.9/100 patient 
years). The 30-day mortality among septuagenarians was reduced to 3% in 
1988-1989 by routine revascularization in significant coronary artery disease. 
The patients who survived the first 30 days had normal life expectancy. Early 
operation may further improve the results.

DOI: 10.3109/14017439109098081
PMID: 2063152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Am J Occup Ther. 1991 Jun;45(6):487-90. doi: 10.5014/ajot.45.6.487.

The environment: providing opportunities for the future.

Baum CM(1).

Author information:
(1)Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110.

DOI: 10.5014/ajot.45.6.487
PMID: 2063938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 1991 May;44(5):518-27. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.1991.44.518.

Age specific patterns of change in the dynamics of Wuchereria bancrofti 
infection in Papua New Guinea.

Day KP(1), Grenfell B, Spark R, Kazura JW, Alpers MP.

Author information:
(1)Imperial College, London, United Kingdom.

Results of a longitudinal study of the age-specific dynamics of Wuchereria 
bancrofti infection in a community of East Sepik Province, Papua New Guinea 
(PNG) are described. Microfilarial (mf) density and serum levels of W. bancrofti 
phosphorylcholine-containing antigen (PC-Ag) in individuals were used as 
indirect measures of adult worm burden. These parasitological data were 
collected from 126 subjects greater than 4 years of age at two time points, 12 
months apart, prior to the administration of the antifilarial drug 
diethylcambamazine (DEC). No significant changes in levels of mf density were 
observed for the study population between these two time points. However, 
significant changes in the levels of circulating PC-Ag were noted in subjects 
less than or equal to 20 years of age, but not in subjects greater than 20 years 
of age, between these two time points. The apparent shorter half life of 
circulating PC-Ag compared to that of mf makes antigenemia a more sensitive 
measure of the dynamics of adult worm populations. These data are discussed in 
terms of a basic mathematical model describing the dynamics of adult worm 
populations in relation to their life expectancy and attrition of larvae during 
establishment. Consideration of these data in the context of this simple 
immigration/death model suggests that the differences observed in patterns of 
change in intensity of infection between subjects less than or equal to 20 years 
old and those greater than 20 years old may be consistent with the acquisition 
of resistance to superinfection with increasing age.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.1991.44.518
PMID: 2063955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1991;624:116-36. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1991.tb17012.x.

Regulation of elastin gene expression.

Rosenbloom J(1), Bashir M, Yeh H, Rosenbloom J, Ornstein-Goldstein N, Fazio M, 
Kahari VM, Uitto J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Histology, School of Dental Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 19104.

Recent isolation and characterization of cDNAs encompassing the full length of 
chicken, cow, and human elastin mRNA have led to the elucidation of the primary 
structure of the respective tropoelastins. Comparison of the tropoelastin from 
the different species has revealed that large segments of the sequence are 
conserved, but considerable variation also exists, ranging in extent from 
relatively small alterations, such as conservative amino acid substitutions, to 
large-scale deletions and insertions. Several distinct approaches have yielded 
compelling evidence of a single elastin gene per haploid genome. Analysis of the 
bovine and human elastin genes revealed that functionally distinct hydrophobic 
and cross-link domains of the protein are encoded in separate exons which 
alternate in the genes. The human gene contains 34 exons, the intron/exon ratio 
is unusually large (20:1), and the introns contain large amounts of repetitive 
sequences that may predispose to genetic instability. Comparison of the cDNA and 
genomic sequences has demonstrated that the primary transcript of both species 
is subject to considerable alternative splicing, which can account for the 
presence of multiple tropoelastin isoforms. It is likely that the conformation 
of elastin is, at least in part, that of a random coil, and therefore it might 
be expected that the stringency for conservation of the amino acid sequence 
would be less than that for other proteins with unique conformations. This 
suggests that functional elastin molecules that vary in their sequence and 
fitness may exist in the human population and be compatible with a normal life. 
Potentially though, these variations could have profound consequences on the 
properties of vital tissues found in the cardiovascular and pulmonary systems 
over the lifetime of the individual. Consequently, analysis of the structure of 
the elastin gene and its variation in what is regarded as the normal human 
population, rather than in those individuals with clearly heritable diseases, 
assumes greater importance. The 5'-flanking region of the gene is G + C rich and 
contains several SP-1 and AP2 binding sites, as well as putative glucocorticoid, 
cAMP, and TPA responsive elements, but no consensus TATA box or functional CAAT 
box. Primer extension and S1 mapping of the elastin mRNA indicated that 
transcription was initiated at multiple sites. Transfection experiments using 
promoter elements/reporter gene constructs demonstrated that the basic promoter 
element was found within region -128 to -1. In addition, three distinct 
up-regulatory and two down-regulatory regions were delineated. Taken together, 
these findings suggest that the regulation of elastin gene expression is complex 
and takes place at several levels.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1991.tb17012.x
PMID: 2064215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Anticancer Res. 1991 Mar-Apr;11(2):825-9.

How to count mitoses in bladder cancer grading?

Lipponen PK(1), Eskelinen MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Kuopio, Finland.

The prognostic value of volume corrected mitotic index (M/V index) was improved 
in bladder cancer by correcting the M/V index for mean nuclear area (NA) in a 
section as an estimate of cellularity. The clinical follow-up data of 265 
patients were obtained from patient files. The M/V index was counted in the 
biopsy specimens from the primary tumours and the NA was measured by means of 
IBAS 1&2 image analyser. The analysis showed that both M/V index and nuclear 
area corrected M/V index (MAM/V index) were related significantly to 
histological grade, clinical stage, papillary and progression in T-, N-, and 
M-categories (p less than 0.0001). In survival analysis NAM/V index was a better 
prognosticator (X2 = 25.5, p less than 0.0001) than M/V index (X2 = 14.4, p = 
0.0007), due to better prediction of large celled high grade tumours. 
Recurrence-free period (RFP) was related significantly to NAM(V index (p = 
0.0006) and to M/V index (p less than 0.0823)0 in that order. In conclusion, the 
correction of M/V index for NA as an estimate of cellularity in a section does 
not improve the prognostic value of M/V index in superficial bladder tumours, 
but it gives better grading results than the original M/V index in advanced 
tumours.

PMID: 2064337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Ann Surg. 1991 Jul;214(1):11-8. doi: 10.1097/00000658-199107000-00003.

Verification of a new clinicopathologic staging system for colorectal 
adenocarcinoma.

Michelassi F(1), Ayala JJ, Balestracci T, Goldberg R, Chappell R, Block GE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Chicago, Illinois 60637.

Rectal adenocarcinoma is said to have a poorer outcome than colon adenocarcinoma 
when compared on the basis of Dukes' staging. However a new staging system, 
determined by a multivariate analysis of 147 patients with rectal 
adenocarcinoma, has revealed three other variables significantly related to 
outcome. Therefore this study analyzed the authors' experience with colonic 
carcinoma during the same time period as they had studied for rectal carcinoma 
to determine whether the new staging system is valid for colon carcinoma as 
well, and, if so, to compare the outcome of patients with colon and rectal 
carcinoma on the basis of this new staging. A total of 603 patients with 611 
colonic adenocarcinoma were operated on at the University of Chicago Medical 
Center between 1965 and 1981. Two hundred seventy-nine adenocarcinomas (45.7%) 
were located proximal to the splenic flexure and 332 (54.3%) were located 
between the splenic flexure and the rectosigmoid. Four hundred sixty-two 
patients underwent segmental colectomy, 46 subtotal colectomy, 26 total 
colectomy, 18 proctocolectomy, 5 abdominal-perineal resection, 1 appendectomy, 
while 20 had local excision of the tumor through colotomy and 25 had permanent 
diverting stoma as the only procedure. The operative mortality rate was 6.1% in 
the whole group, but was only 2.7% in the group of potentially curable patients. 
Complete follow-up was obtained in all patients. To validate a previous staging 
system for Dukes' B and C rectal adenocarcinoma, the authors investigated the 
correlation between 5-year survival for colonic carcinoma patients and all 
relevant variables that they had considered potentially meaningful in the 
previous study with rectal adenocarcinoma. The resulting multivariate analysis 
using Cox regression showed that the four variables found previously to be 
significantly related to outcome for rectal adenocarcinoma patients (stage, 
race, tumor morphology, and vascular and/or lymphatic microinvasion) were the 
only four variables significantly (p less than 0.05) associated with outcome for 
colonic adenocarcinoma patients. In addition, by using the results of their 
previous staging system for rectal adenocarcinoma patients, they 'predicted' the 
5-year survival rates of the colon adenocarcinoma patients, divided in 16 
staging subgroups. In subgroups of at least 15 patients, the rectal staging 
system predicted the outcome to within 1 to 6 percentage points of the observed 
outcome of the colonic adenocarcinoma patients. Thus this study validates this 
staging system, incorporating stage, race, tumor morphology, and microinvasion 
to predict 5-year survival rate more accurately than Dukes' staging alone for 
both colon and rectal adenocarcinoma.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-199107000-00003
PMCID: PMC1358408
PMID: 2064465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Br J Hosp Med. 1991 May;45(5):284-5, 288-90.

The management of liver metastases.

Franco D(1).

Author information:
(1)Groupe de Recherche sur la Chirurgie du Foie et de l'Hypertension Portale, 
Universit√© Paris XI, H√¥pital Antoine B√©cl√®re, Clamart.

Comment in
    Br J Hosp Med. 1991 Sep;46(3):142-3.

The spontaneous life expectancy of patients with liver metastases from 
colorectal cancers is dismaying. Surgical resection is the only treatment which 
may help these patients. After resection the 5-year survival rate averages 25%. 
The best results are obtained in patients with one or few metastases localized 
to one liver lobe. There is no effective adjuvant therapy. Systemic or regional 
chemotherapy and immunomodulation have little effect in patients with inoperable 
metastases.

PMID: 2065231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Gastroenterology. 1991 Aug;101(2):368-72. doi: 10.1016/0016-5085(91)90013-b.

Long-term survival analysis in hereditary hemochromatosis.

Adams PC(1), Speechley M, Kertesz AE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Western Ontario, London, Canada.

This study investigated the long-term survival rates of 85 patients with 
hereditary hemochromatosis. Eighty-five patients with documented hereditary 
hemochromatosis diagnosed between 1958 and 1989 and followed up at the 
University Hospital (University of Western Ontario) medical center were 
retrospectively reviewed for this analysis. The current status of the patient 
was assessed by interview or written questionnaire completed by the patient or 
the family physician. Estimates of differences in survival rates were obtained 
using Kaplan-Meier life-table and Cox regression analysis. Liver histology, 
clinical features of the disease, and number of venesections were analyzed to 
determine their relationship to survival. In the course of a mean follow-up 
interval of 8.1 +/- 6.8 years (range, 0-31 years), there were 17 deaths among 
the 85 hemochromatosis patients. Patients with cirrhosis at the time of 
diagnosis were 5.5 times more likely to die than noncirrhotic patients. Patients 
who were noncirrhotic at the time of diagnosis had an estimated survival that 
was not significantly different from age- and sex-matched members of the normal 
population. Diabetes did not increase the risk of death after data were 
controlled for the presence of cirrhosis. Early diagnosis and treatment of 
hemochromatosis in the precirrhotic stage can lead to long-term survival similar 
to that in the general population. The presence of cirrhosis significantly 
increases mortality and is the major clinical factor affecting survival.

DOI: 10.1016/0016-5085(91)90013-b
PMID: 2065912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. J Intern Med. 1991 Jul;230(1):11-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.1991.tb00400.x.

Pathogenetic mechanism of stroke in non-valvular atrial fibrillation: follow-up 
of stroke patients with and without atrial fibrillation.

Gustafsson C(1), Britton M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Danderyd Hospital, Sweden.

Stroke patients with brain infarction and non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
(NVAF, n = 88) or sinus rhythm (SR, n = 188), treated at a population-based 
stroke unit, were studied for 5 years. Within 1 month, 13% of NVAF and 2% of SR 
patients (P less than 0.01) had either a stroke recurrence or systemic embolism. 
After 5 years, the corresponding figures were 26 and 25%, respectively. The 
1-month and 5-year mortality values were 35 and 78% in the NVAF group vs. 7 and 
52% in the SR group (P less than 0.01). Age, ischaemic heart disease and 
function group on arrival at the hospital were independent risk factors for 
death. The main cause of death was ischaemic heart disease in the NVAF group, 
and complications to the initial stroke or a stroke recurrence in the SR group. 
Thus a higher risk of death, stroke recurrence and peripheral embolism was 
evident only during the first month after stroke.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.1991.tb00400.x
PMID: 2066706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. J Clin Oncol. 1991 Apr;9(4):600-5. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1991.9.4.600.

Changing pattern of pulmonary metastases with adjuvant chemotherapy in patients 
with osteosarcoma: results from the multiinstitutional osteosarcoma study.

Goorin AM(1), Shuster JJ, Baker A, Horowitz ME, Meyer WH, Link MP.

Author information:
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA.

The multiinstitutional osteosarcoma study (MIOS), a randomized trial of adjuvant 
therapy for osteosarcoma with a concurrent control group, registered 113 
patients from June 1982 to August 1984. Preliminary analysis of the study 
indicated a significant event-free survival advantage favoring immediate 
adjuvant chemotherapy, (P less than .001). For patients treated with surgery 
alone or with surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy, the lungs were involved in more 
than 80% of the relapses. Patients relapsing after surgery alone tended to 
relapse earlier (P less than .01), had more pulmonary nodules (P less than .01), 
and had more frequent bilateral pulmonary involvement (P less than .01) than 
those treated with immediate postsurgical adjuvant chemotherapy. However, 
patients relapsing after treatment with surgery alone experienced a 
significantly longer interval to further disease progression (P less than .01) 
and improved survival after relapse (P = .01) when compared with patients who 
relapsed after treatment with immediate adjuvant chemotherapy. The only factor 
predictive of survival after relapse was if the patient could be made surgically 
disease-free after initial relapse (P = .03).

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1991.9.4.600
PMID: 2066757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Neurology. 1991 Jul;41(7):980-5. doi: 10.1212/wnl.41.7.980.

The use of immunosuppressive agents in the treatment of multiple sclerosis: a 
critical review.

Goodin DS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco 94143.

Erratum in
    Neurology 1992 Jan;42(1):266.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.41.7.980
PMID: 2067661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Oncogene. 1991 Jun;6(6):953-9.

5' untranslated sequences determine degradative pathway for alternate PDGF 
B/c-sis mRNA's.

Fen Z(1), Daniel TO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37232.

The 5' untranslated sequence (5' UTS) of the platelet-derived growth factor B 
(PDGF B/c-sis) mRNA is GC rich, includes AUGs upstream of the translation 
initiation site, and inhibits translation of downstream heterologous and 
autologous coding sequences. Its primary sequence has been remarkably conserved 
through evolution. In this study, we identified two additional PDGF B/c-sis 
mRNAs expressed in endothelial cells. These were shown by Northern, primer 
extension, and nuclease protection analyses to differ in extent of 5' 
untranslated first exon sequence. The predominant of these 5' truncated 
transcripts was 2.8kb, extended 15nt upstream of the translation start site and 
was markedly stabilized by cycloheximide and anisomycin, but not puromycin or 
pactamycin. Cycloheximide increased the half-life of this mRNA approximately 7 
fold, without affecting stability of the full length mRNA. Cycloheximide 
withdrawal caused its abrupt destabilization. The 2.8kb PDGF B/c-sis mRNA lacks 
translation inhibitory 5' UTS, encodes the same PDGF B protein, appears 
initiated from within first exon genomic sequences, and is degraded through a 
process that is sensitive to translation arrest and distinct from that degrading 
the 3.8kb PDGF B/c-sis mRNA.

PMID: 2067847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Soc Sci Med. 1991;32(10):1151-9. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(91)90092-q.

Life expectancies of cigarette smokers and nonsmokers in the United States.

Rogers RG(1), Powell-Griner E.

Author information:
(1)Population Program, University of Colorado, Boulder 80309.

This research employs the National Health Interview and the National Mortality 
Followback Surveys to calculate life expectancies by age and sex for white 
nonsmokers, former smokers, and current smokers in the United States in 1986. In 
general, life expectancies are higher for never smokers than for former smokers, 
and higher for former smokers than for current smokers. Heavy smokers have lower 
life expectancies than persons with all other smoking statuses; indeed, compared 
to never smokers, heavy smokers at age 25 can expect at least a 25% shorter 
life. Gender differences in life expectancies were found to persist even with 
the elimination of smoking. Differences in life expectancy by sex thus appear to 
be due, in part, to cigarette smoking, but also to occupational, environmental, 
and sociodemographic factors.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(91)90092-q
PMID: 2068598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. J Bone Miner Res. 1991 May;6(5):495-500. doi: 10.1002/jbmr.5650060511.

Familial aggregation of Paget's disease of bone.

Siris ES(1), Ottman R, Flaster E, Kelsey JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Columbia University College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, New York, NY.

This epidemiologic study of Paget's disease of bone used data from 788 cases and 
387 spouse controls to investigate the following: (1) the extent to which this 
disorder aggregates in families; (2) the cumulative incidence of the disease in 
first-degree relatives of patients throughout life; and (3) the influence of age 
at diagnosis (less than 55 versus 55+ years) and presence of bone deformity in 
the case on risk of Paget's disease in relatives. A positive family history in 
parents or siblings was reported by 12.3% of cases and 2.1% of controls. The 
rate of Paget's disease was approximately seven times as high in relatives of 
cases as in relatives of controls, and this increased rate did not differ 
according to gender of case or control or gender of relatives. Cumulative 
incidence of Paget's disease to age 90 was much higher in relatives of cases 
(8.9 +/- 1.0% SEM) than in relatives of controls (1.8 +/- 0.9% SEM). Among 
relatives of cases, cumulative risk was highest when the case had both early age 
at diagnosis and bone deformity (20.7 +/- 3.6% SEM) compared with risk when the 
case had early age at diagnosis but not bone deformity (10.8 +/- 3.2% SEM), bone 
deformity but not early age at diagnosis (5.8 +/- 1.3% SEM), or neither bone 
deformity nor early age at diagnosis (3.6 +/- 0.8% SEM). Risk in siblings of 
cases was higher when a parent was affected (22.1 +/- 8.0% SEM) than when both 
parents were unaffected (6.7 +/- 1.1% SEM).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/jbmr.5650060511
PMID: 2068956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Ann Pediatr (Paris). 1991 Apr;38(4):244-8.

[Glucose intolerance and diabetes during cystic fibrosis].

[Article in French]

Tubiana-Rufi N(1), Czernichow P.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Endocrinologie et Diab√©tologie P√©diatrique, H√¥pital Robert Debr√©, 
Paris.

As a result of the improvement in life-expectancy in cystic fibrosis patients, 
simultaneous presence of cystic fibrosis and diabetes mellitus is no longer 
exceptional. In teenagers and young adults with cystic fibrosis, the prevalence 
of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) is 7 to 10%. Fifty percent of 
cystic fibrosis patients have impaired glucose tolerance. These prevalences 
increase with advancing age. Insulin deficiency is a consistent feature. An 
endocrine pancreatic deficiency thus exists in addition to the exocrine 
pancreatic deficiency, as demonstrated by the fall in glucagon and pancreatic 
polypeptide productions. Development of insulin dependency is associated with 
deterioration in clinical status and indicates an adverse prognosis. Although in 
cystic fibrosis patients diabetes mellitus seems to occur as a result of 
different pathophysiologic mechanisms than those involved in autoimmune IDDM, 
the risk of degenerative complications is similar in both conditions. It follows 
that early detection of diabetes mellitus and appropriate insulin treatment are 
warranted in cystic fibrosis patients.

PMID: 2069359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Ann Pediatr (Paris). 1991 Apr;38(4):277-84.

[Degenerative complications of diabetes].

[Article in French]

de Menibus CH, Lestradet H.

Even optimally treated insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus is responsible for a 
significant number of complications which impair daily activities and shorten 
life expectancy in most patients. The cause of these complications has been 
under investigation for many years. Substantial evidence supports the following 
1) a role of high blood sugar levels which lead to glycosylation processes; 2) 
presence of disorders related to inadequate nutrition, and specifically 
excessive dietary intake of saturated fatty acids, rather than to insulin 
deficiency. Furthermore, hereditary factors may play an additional role (HLA 
haplotypes may promote the development of complications). Antibodies and/or 
hormonal factors may also be involved. Whatever the mechanisms involved, there 
is no doubt that every effort should be made to achieve normal blood sugar and 
lipid levels. But what is the optimal degree of control? What is the ideal diet? 
Is it necessary to risk severe hypoglycemia? Should insulin pumps be routinely 
used? Since many of these issues are as yet unresolved, there is a need for 
collecting valid data on long-term complications with several therapeutic 
regimens. Unfortunately, most of the many published statistical studies on these 
complications are virtually invalid. This fundamental issue is discussed. The 
authors urge diabetes mellitus specialists to use the actuarial method already 
used by oncologists for many years.

PMID: 2069364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Ann Thorac Surg. 1991 Jul;52(1):84-91. doi: 10.1016/0003-4975(91)91425-u.

Influence of type of prosthesis on late results after combined mitral-aortic 
valve replacement.

Bortolotti U(1), Milano A, Testolin L, Tursi V, Mazzucco A, Gallucci V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, University of Padova Medical School, 
Italy.

The influence of type of prosthesis on the late outcome of patients with 
combined mitral-aortic valve replacement was analyzed by comparing, at a 14-year 
follow-up, patients receiving two biological prostheses (group 1; n = 135), two 
mechanical prostheses (group 2; n = 221), or a mechanical prosthesis in the 
aortic position and a bioprosthesis in the mitral position (group 3; n = 97). No 
difference was found among the three groups in terms of actuarial survival and 
incidence of and freedom from valve-related deaths, thromboemboli, and 
hemorrhages. Patients with biological prostheses had a significantly greater 
incidence of structural valve deterioration, reoperations, and overall 
complications when compared with patients with only mechanical prostheses. The 
results of an extended follow-up of patients with combined mitral-aortic valve 
replacement indicate that mechanical prostheses perform better in the long-term 
owing to their superior durability when compared with biological valves. The use 
of bioprostheses should be confined to old patients with limited life expectancy 
because of their cardiac disease, provided that anticoagulants are not used. 
Combination of mechanical and biological prostheses in the same patient should 
be avoided because the advantages of each type of prosthesis are lost.

DOI: 10.1016/0003-4975(91)91425-u
PMID: 2069468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1991 Apr;7(4):303-9.

Allogeneic or autologous bone marrow transplantation for acute non-lymphocytic 
leukemia in first remission.

Ferrant A(1), Doyen C, Delannoy A, Cornu G, Martiat P, Latinne D, De Bruy√®re M, 
Bosly A, Michaux JL, Sokal G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, University of Louvain, Belgium.

One hundred and seven consecutive patients with acute non-lymphocytic leukemia 
(ANL) aged less than 56 years were allocated to receive either allogeneic 
(allo-BMT) or autologous bone marrow transplantation (auto-BMT) when first 
complete remission (CR1) was achieved. CR was obtained in 96 patients. 
Twenty-four patients had an HLA-identical sibling donor and 20 of these (83%) 
had an allograft in CR1. Thirty-three patients (44% of the CR1 patients without 
donor) had an autograft in CR1. The reasons for not transplanting patients in 
CR1 were early relapse (nine patients), refusal (11 patients) or medical 
problems (23 patients). The 4-year leukemia-free survival (LFS) probability for 
all the CR1 patients was 25%. For the allo-BMT patients, the 4-year LFS was 71%, 
and for the auto-BMT patients 31% (log-rank p = 0.028). The relapse 
probabilities were 33% and 48% respectively (p = 0.40). If the results are 
analysed according to the intent of the protocol, patients with a donor had an 
LFS of 53%, and patients without a donor an LFS of 16% (p = 0.003). This study 
confirms the value of allo-BMT for consolidation of ANL in CR1. The attempt to 
autograft all CR1 patients without a compatible donor has not resulted in any 
marked improvement of LFS.

PMID: 2070137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Demography. 1991 May;28(2):213-27.

Estimation of mortality from orphanhood in adulthood.

Timaeus IM(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Population Studies, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, 
England.

This paper extends earlier research into methods for estimating adult mortality 
from information on the recent incidence of orphanhood. It presents a series of 
regression coefficients for estimating female and male mortality from synthetic 
cohort data on the subsequent orphanhood of those who had a living mother or 
father at exact age 20. Such information can be obtained either where questions 
about parental survival have been asked in two inquiries or by asking 
retrospectively about dates of orphanhood in a single survey. Although the 
method is somewhat sensitive to errors in the reporting of ages and dates, it is 
a promising source of up-to-date estimates of adult mortality that are free from 
bias due to the underreporting of the orphanhood of young children ("the 
adoption effect").

PMID: 2070895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Demography. 1991 May;28(2):303-21.

Socioeconomic determinants of white and black males' life expectancy 
differentials, 1980.

Potter LB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Anthropology, Fordham University, Bronx, NY 
10458.

Epidemiological transition theory suggests that two population existing under 
disparate socioeconomic conditions would have different life expectancies as the 
result of cause-of-death differences. The effect of racial socioeconomic 
differentials on the total racial life expectancy differential are examined as 
they act through specific cause-of-death differentials. Results suggest that 
residential isolation of blacks has a strong effect on the total life expectancy 
differential as it acts through the racial homicide differential. The racial 
unemployment difference also has a strong effect on the total differential as it 
acts through the racial heart disease differential. Implications of the findings 
for reducing life expectancy differentials are discussed.

PMID: 2070901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Gynecol Obstet Invest. 1991;31(3):172-5. doi: 10.1159/000293145.

Serum lipoperoxides in induced and spontaneous abortions.

Sane AS(1), Chokshi SA, Mishra VV, Barad DP, Shah VC, Nagpal S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, B.J. Medical College, Ahmedabad, India.

Abortion, primarily as a measure of population control, certainly continues to 
be an emotional, frustrating and stressful event. In continuation of our work on 
stressful situations in the female life span and biochemical parameters, serum 
lipid peroxide levels in terms of malondialdehyde (nmol/ml) have been determined 
in females undergoing abortion [suction curettage (n = 30), Emcredil-induced 
abortion (n = 30) and spontaneous abortion (n = 40)] and were compared with 
appropriate gestational controls. Irrespective of the type of abortion, the 
serum lipid peroxide levels before abortion [mean malondialdehyde concentrations 
(nmol/ml): suction curettage 2.67, Emcredil-induced abortion 3.22, and 
spontaneous abortion 3.49] were found to be significantly elevated in comparison 
with those after abortion (suction curettage 1.91, Emcredil 1.97 and spontaneous 
abortion 1.95), indicating a maximum at peak time of stress and a minimum at the 
end of stress. The levels of serum lipid peroxide encountered before abortion 
were found to be significantly elevated in case of Emcredil-induced abortion and 
spontaneous abortion when compared with controls (second trimester mean levels 
1.82 and first trimester 2.4) whereas the levels before suction curettage were 
found to be nonsignificant in comparison with controls, indicating a lesser 
degree of stress. It is felt that monitoring of serum lipid peroxide levels in 
serum and tissues (placenta), backed by scavenging enzyme superoxide dismutase, 
can be more helpful for corroborating safety and the risk of free radical 
toxicity in pregnancy and abortion.

PIP: Abortion, primarily as a measure of population control, continues to be an 
emotional, frustrating, and stressful event. As an extension of the work the 
authors have done on stressful situations in the lifespan of the female and its 
biochemical parameters, serum lipid peroxide levels in terms of malondialdehyde 
(nmol/mI) have been determined in women undergoing abortion (n=30 for suction 
curettage), Emcredil-induced abortion (n-30), and spontaneous abortion (n-40) 
and were compared with appropriate gestational controls. Regardless of the type 
of abortion, the serum lipid peroxide levels before abortion (mean 
malondialdehyde concentrations [nmol/ml]: suction curettage 2.67, 
Emcredil-induced abortion 3.22, and spontaneous abortion 3.49) were 
significantly elevated in comparison with those after abortion (suction 
curettage 1.91, Emcredil 1.97, and spontaneous abortion 1.95), indicating a 
maximum at peak time of stress and a minimum at the end of stress. Levels of 
serum lipid peroxide encountered prior to abortion were significantly elevated 
in cases of Emcredil-induced abortion and spontaneous abortion when compared 
with controls (2nd trimester mean levels 1.82 and 1st trimester 2.4), whereas 
the levels prior to suction curettage were nonsignificant in comparison with 
controls. This indicates a lesser degree of stress. It was decided that 
monitoring of serum lipid peroxide levels in serum and tissues (placenta), 
backed up by scavenging enzyme superoxide dismutase, can be more helpful in 
corroborating safety and the risk of free radical toxicity in pregnancy and 
abortion.

DOI: 10.1159/000293145
PMID: 2071057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Int J Health Serv. 1991;21(2):351-63. doi: 10.2190/HPLM-EGXV-BWKY-5XBN.

Allocating resources to health care: is the QALY (Quality Adjusted Life Year) a 
technical solution to a political problem?

Carr-Hill RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, England.

Comment in
    Int J Health Serv. 1991;21(2):365-9; discussion 371-2.

The allocation of health care resources has always been and will remain a 
contentious issue. Classically, the arguments have been posed in terms of the 
"need" for health care and/or the "right" to treatment. More recently, there 
have been attempts to shape the debate in consequentialist terms, by introducing 
a composite outcome measure. In the United Kingdom, the QALY (Quality Adjusted 
Life Year) has been promoted enthusiastically. But, like many other such 
proposals, it is a dodo, and one that is potentially politically dangerous.

DOI: 10.2190/HPLM-EGXV-BWKY-5XBN
PMID: 2071312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1991 Aug;39(8):836-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1991.tb02709.x.

International aging: why does the United States do so poorly?

Morley JE.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1991.tb02709.x
PMID: 2071817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. J Gerontol. 1991 Jul;46(4):M145-50. doi: 10.1093/geronj/46.4.m145.

Active life expectancy for 10,000 Caucasian men and women in three communities.

Branch LG(1), Guralnik JM, Foley DJ, Kohout FJ, Wetle TT, Ostfeld A, Katz S.

Author information:
(1)Boston University School of Medicine.

Active life expectancies (ALEs) were calculated using increment-decrement life 
table techniques for 10,000 Caucasian men and women from three geographic areas. 
This technique is more appropriate than the single decrement model originally 
used, and resulting ALE was substantially greater among initially independent 
men and women aged 65 years: from 9.3 for men and 10.6 for women to 11.3 to 13.0 
for men and 15.5 to 17.1 for women. These increases may be attributable to 
factors other than the change of method, however, including the change in time 
from 1975 to 1982 and the change from one state to three communities. The sex 
differences suggest that the added years of life that women have enjoyed over 
men are neither solely added years of vigor nor solely added years of 
disability, but added years with the same mix of independence/dependence that 
the shorter-lived males experience. The age patterns suggest that at any age the 
future presents a relatively constant expectation of the total duration of 
dependency, and concordantly, as one ages, there is a relatively uniform 
decrease in the proportion of active life to remaining years.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/46.4.m145
PMID: 2071836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. J Gerontol. 1991 Jul;46(4):S225-34. doi: 10.1093/geronj/46.4.s225.

Cancer mortality, aging, and patterns of comorbidity in the United States: 1968 
to 1986.

Manton KG(1), Wrigley JM, Cohen HJ, Woodbury MA.

Author information:
(1)Duke University Center for Demographic Studies.

Cancer is often reported as contributing to the risk of noncancer causes of 
death. The age variation of these reports was studied using U.S. data on all 
causes of death listed on death certificates for 1968 to 1986. The occurrence of 
cancer as a nonunderlying cause of death increased with age and was higher for 
treatable and slowly growing tumor types. These patterns persisted even if the 
cancer manifested changes in occurrence. Nonunderlying occurrences were highest 
in the 85 to 94 age group and were correlated with cancer survival. This 
suggests increased importance of cancer as a cause of death and a comorbid 
condition among oldest-old persons. The high rate of occurrence as an associated 
cause of death suggests that if life expectancy increases due to declines in 
circulatory and other chronic disease mortality, cancer could become the 
preeminent cause of death in the United States.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/46.4.s225
PMID: 2071849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Int Angiol. 1991 Jan-Mar;10(1):39-43.

Vascular anastomosis techniques in renal transplants.

Aguil√≥ J(1), Rodriguez O, Gaete J, Galleguillos I.

Author information:
(1)Barros Luco Trudeau Hospital, Department of Surgery, University of Chile.

In our series of 250 RT's 192 (76.8%) from living donors and 58 (23.27%) from 
cadaver donors, there were 207 (88.8%) kidneys with a single renal artery, 40 
(16%) with a double artery and 3 (1.2%) with a triple artery. End to side 
anastomosis to common iliac vessels was the most frequently used technique for 
kidneys with a single renal artery (52%). Extracorporeal renal surgery was 
performed on 83.7% of kidneys with multiple arteries. There were 32 (12.8%) 
complications with 6 (2.4%) unsuccessful RT's due to technical reasons. The 
actuarial survival of patients and grafts after 5 years from live donors was 87% 
and 69% and from cadaver donors was 78% and 46%, respectively.

PMID: 2071973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1991 Jun;45(2):125-30. doi:
10.1136/jech.45.2.125.

All cause mortality and its determinants in middle aged men in Finland, The 
Netherlands, and Italy in a 25 year follow up.

Menotti A(1), Keys A, Kromhout D, Nissinen A, Blackburn H, Fidanza F, Giampaoli 
S, Karvonen M, Pekkanen J, Punsar S, et al.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Istituto Superiore di Sanit√°, 
Viale Regina Elena, Rome, Italy.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The aims were (1) to compare all cause mortality in population 
samples of different cultures; and (2) to cross predict fatal event by risk 
functions involving risk factors usually measured in cardiovascular 
epidemiology.
DESIGN: The study was a 25 year prospective cohort study. The prediction of all 
cause mortality was made using the multiple logistic equation as a function of 
12 risk factors; the prediction of months lived after entry examination was made 
by the multiple linear regression using the same factors. POPULATION SAMPLES: 
There were five cohorts of men aged 40-59 years, from Finland (two cohorts, 1677 
men), from The Netherlands (one cohort, 878 men), and from Italy (two cohorts, 
1712 men).
SETTING: The Finnish cohorts came from geographically defined rural areas, the 
Dutch cohort from a small town in central Holland, and the Italian cohorts from 
rural villages in northern and central Italy.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All cause mortality was highest in Finland (557 
per 1000), and lower in The Netherlands (477) and in Italy (475). The solutions 
of the multiple logistic function showed the significant and almost universal 
predictive role of certain factors, with rare exceptions. These were age, blood 
pressure, cigarette smoking, and arm circumference (the latter with a negative 
relationship). Similar results were obtained when solving a multiple linear 
regression equation predicting the number of months lived after entry 
examination as a function of the same factors. The prediction of fatal events in 
each country, using the risk functions of the others, produced limited errors, 
the smallest one being -2% and the largest +11%. When solving the logistic model 
