in the pool of all the cohorts with the addition of dummy variables for the 
identification of nationality, it also appeared that only a small part of the 
mortality differences between countries is not explained by 12 available risk 
factors.
CONCLUSIONS: A small set of risk factors seems to explain the intercohort 
differences of 25 year all cause mortality in population samples of three rather 
different cultures.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.45.2.125
PMCID: PMC1060729
PMID: 2072071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. J Clin Oncol. 1991 Aug;9(8):1357-62. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1991.9.8.1357.

The contribution of salvage surgery to the management of childhood osteosarcoma.

Pastorino U(1), Gasparini M, Tavecchio L, Azzarelli A, Mapelli S, Zucchi V, 
Morandi F, Bellani FF, Valente M, Ravasi G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Milan, Italy.

Between January 1970 and December 1988, 174 consecutive patients under the age 
of 20 years with curatively resected primary osteosarcoma were treated at our 
institute; 72 in the years of 1970 to 1981 and 102 in the years 1982 to 1988. In 
the latter period, adjuvant chemotherapy was replaced by neoadjuvant programs, 
and new criteria were adopted for the management of lung metastases, consisting 
in early bilateral surgical staging and lung resection through median sternotomy 
for all patients with purely intrathoracic relapse. Follow-up was updated in 
December 1989. During the last period, the overall 5-year survival improved 
significantly from 35% to 58% (P less than .001). The disease-free survival rose 
from 38% to 45% at 5 years, with median values of 15 months versus 33 months, 
while the frequency of isolated lung metastases dropped from 58% to the 
actuarial 48%. The proportion of patients who underwent complete resections of 
their pulmonary metastases rose from 17% (seven of 42) to 55% (27 of 49), 
without operative mortality. Due to such a high proportion of patients eligible 
for salvage surgery, the overall survival from detection of lung metastases 
improved from 0% to 28% at 5 years (P less than .001). Contralateral occult 
metastases were resected in three of 15 subjects with monolateral clinical 
lesions, and five patients underwent subsequent lung resections. These data 
indicate that systematic bilateral pulmonary resection plays an important role 
in improving the final cure rate of childhood osteosarcoma, beyond the benefit 
resulting from neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1991.9.8.1357
PMID: 2072139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. J Clin Oncol. 1991 Aug;9(8):1403-8. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1991.9.8.1403.

Improved results with the addition of interferon alfa-2b to dacarbazine in the 
treatment of patients with metastatic malignant melanoma.

Falkson CI(1), Falkson G, Falkson HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, University of Pretoria, South Africa.

Sixty-four patients with histologically confirmed metastatic malignant melanoma 
were entered on a prospectively controlled randomized trial. Patients received 
dacarbazine (DTIC) alone or DTIC plus interferon (IFN) alfa-2b. Patients were 
reasonably balanced with respect to age, sex, performance status (PS), site of 
metastases, and number of metastatic sites. Objective response (complete plus 
partial remission [CR + PR]) was documented in six patients on DTIC and in 16 
patients on DTIC plus IFN alfa-2b. Median time to treatment failure (TTF) and 
median survival are significantly better on the combination arm, with some 
long-term CRs observed. More toxicity was encountered in the combination arm, 
which was acceptable except in three patients where treatment was discontinued 
because of IFN toxicity.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1991.9.8.1403
PMID: 2072144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. J Speech Hear Res. 1991 Jun;34(3):661-70. doi: 10.1044/jshr.3403.661.

Prediction of deterioration in hearing due to hearing aid use.

Macrae JH(1).

Author information:
(1)National Acoustic Laboratories Chatswood, New South Wales, Australia.

There is a definite risk of overamplification by hearing aids. Guidelines should 
therefore be established that will minimize the risk of damage to hearing 
involved in hearing aid use. A mathematical model that can be used for this 
purpose is derived from equations for predicting noise-induced permanent 
threshold shift given in International Standard ISO 1999 combined with the 
Modified Power Law. The model implies that any noise exposure that would cause 
deterioration of the hearing threshold levels of a person with normal hearing 
would also be harmful to the hearing of a person with sensorineural hearing 
impairment. It follows that, in order to ensure that no deterioration occurs in 
the hearing of a hearing aid user, the output levels from the aid must be such 
that they would not cause any damage to a person with normal hearing. This 
constraint can be met for hearing aid users with mild-to-moderate sensorineural 
hearing loss but cannot be met for users with severe-to-profound loss because it 
would result in the provision of insufficient gain, particularly at the higher 
frequencies. If the model is valid, then for this group, some appropriately 
small amount of hearing damage must be accepted as the cost of the advantages 
gained from the use of a hearing aid. Verification of the model is essential 
before the model is used in clinical practice to determine the risk of 
deterioration in hearing due to hearing aid use.

DOI: 10.1044/jshr.3403.661
PMID: 2072691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1991 Jul 26;40(29):493-5, 501-2.

Mortality patterns--United States, 1988.

Centers for Disease Control (CDC).

In 1988, 2,167,999 deaths were registered in the United States--a total of 
44,676 more deaths than in 1987 and the largest annual final number ever 
recorded. As in previous years, nearly three fourths of deaths were caused by 
the first four leading causes of death--heart disease, cancer, stroke, and 
unintentional injury. This report summarizes mortality data compiled by CDC's 
National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) for 1988 and compares patterns with 
1987.

PMID: 2072885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Acta Urol Belg. 1990;58(2):79-86.

[Personal experience with the Nissenkorn endo-urethral prosthesis. Preliminary 
report].

[Article in French]

Sassine AM(1), Lamy S.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie, Centre Hospitalier, Luxembourg.

Relying on Nissenkorn preliminary report (J. of Urology, July 89), we inserted 
this intraurethral device in 11 patients. This new urethral prostheses resembles 
a double Malecot 16 F. catheter, available in 45.55 and 60 mm lengths. It is 
inserted through a 21 F. cystoscope sheath under local anesthesia. We reserved 
this prostheses for selected patients who presented a urinary retention due to 
cervico-prostatic obstruction, with anesthetic contraindications to an 
operation, or limited life expectancy. The follow-up is from 1 to 4 months. Of 
the 11 patients, 8 were able to void without incontinence or postvoiding 
residual. 2 patients had partial micturition. We noticed 2 early and one late 
migration of the prosthesis to the bladder. There were no macrohematuria or 
clinical urinary tract infection.. We believe that this urethral prosthesis is a 
valid alternative to a long term indwelling catheter. With additional experience 
and follow-up, we would be able to appreciate the real benefits of this 
prosthesis.

PMID: 2073041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 1990 Oct-Dec;3(4):231-6. doi: 
10.1177/089198879000300410.

Comparative ethics and geriatric psychiatry: looking at motivations.

Primeau FJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

In the broadest sense, medicine is a biologic-anthropologic model. The latest 
data on epidemiology and biology confirm earlier apprehensions about life 
expectancy, number of elderly, and the impact of mental impairment. The author 
wishes to reflect rather on anthropology by comparing the American and French 
cultures faced with the ethical dilemmas of aging and end-of-life issues. On 
this perilous frontier of biomedical ethics, the author suggests that the right 
to be treated as a person is an effective source of motivation for physicians to 
respect the dignity of geriatric patients in the context of high-technology 
medicine.

DOI: 10.1177/089198879000300410
PMID: 2073312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Epidemiology. 1990 Mar;1(2):134-40. doi: 10.1097/00001648-199003000-00009.

Predicted reduction in lung cancer risk following cessation of smoking and radon 
exposure.

Ennever FK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health Sciences, Case Western Reserve University 
School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH 44106.

Recently there has been considerable public and regulatory concern that radon, 
produced by the decay of naturally occurring uranium, can accumulate in homes, 
offices, and schools at levels that may substantially increase the risk of lung 
cancer. The major cause of lung cancer is smoking, and radon appears to interact 
multiplicatively with smoking in causing lung cancer. Thus, the most effective 
way to reduce the increased risk of lung cancer resulting from radon exposure is 
to cease smoking. In this paper, a model for the risks associated with radon 
exposure that was developed by a committee of the National Academy of Sciences 
is used to calculate the benefits, in terms of reduction in lifetime risk of 
lung cancer, of ceasing to smoke, ceasing radon exposure, or ceasing both. 
Ceasing to smoke is considerably more beneficial than ceasing radon exposure, 
and thus policymakers addressing the health effects of radon should place 
priority on encouraging individuals to stop smoking.

DOI: 10.1097/00001648-199003000-00009
PMID: 2073500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Bull Pan Am Health Organ. 1990;24(4):446-53.

Human dying has changed.

Llano Escobar A(1).

Author information:
(1)Colombian Association of Medical Faculties (Asociación Colombiana de 
Facultades de Medicina-ASCOFAME), Bogotá.

The act of dying has changed in response to social changes accompanying 
scientific and technologic progress. Increasingly, at least in the Western 
world, people are dying within strange medical establishments without the 
support of their loved ones and without an opportunity to take part in decisions 
relating to their own deaths. This article deals with the serious personal and 
social distress arising from this state of affairs and describes the emerging 
role of bioethics as a discipline seeking to develop options that are more 
humane.

PMID: 2073559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Bull World Health Organ. 1990;68(6):709-15.

Feasibility study of community control programmes for cystic fibrosis: 
memorandum from a WHO/ICF(M)A meeting.

[No authors listed]

As a result of improved medical services and diagnosis of cystic fibrosis (CF), 
it has in recent years become clear that this is a common genetic disorder with 
a worldwide distribution. The average life expectancy of CF patients is very low 
in the developing world, but in developed countries this fatal childhood disease 
is becoming a chronic disorder persisting into adult life. In western Europe and 
North America the average life expectancy is now about 25 years, with a fatal 
outcome, so that CF represents one of the most serious of inherited 
life-threatening conditions. It remains to be shown whether very early diagnosis 
and treatment can further improve the prognosis.

PMCID: PMC2393166
PMID: 2073710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 1990 Nov-Dec;10(3):257-63. doi: 
10.1016/0168-8227(90)90069-6.

Development of diabetic retinopathy and its associated risk factors in type 2 
diabetic patients in Osaka district, Japan: a long-term prospective study.

Sasaki A(1), Horiuchi N, Hasewgawa K, Uehara M.

Author information:
(1)Osaka Medical Center for Adult Diseases, Japan.

Incidence rates of diabetic retinopathy and its associated risk factors were 
studied in a long-term prospective study involving 976 type 2 (non-insulin 
dependent) diabetic patients that showed no retinopathy at entry to the study. 
322 of the patients (one-third of the subjects studied) developed diabetic 
retinopathy during the observation period (average length 8.3 years). The 
incidence rate per 1000 person-years was 39.8. The rate was significantly 
related to age at onset of diabetes, to fasting plasma glucose (FPG) level at 
entry, and to type of treatment. The incidence rate was also related to the 
duration of the disease. Glycemic control clearly played a role in the 
occurrence of retinopathy. Patients with FPG greater than or equal to 200 mg/dl 
had the highest incidence rate, while patients with FPG less than 140 mg/dl 
showed the lowest incidence rate throughout the observation period. Furthermore, 
a longer period between onset of diabetes and development of retinopathy was 
observed in patients with FPG less than 140 mg/dl compared to patients with FPG 
greater than or equal to 200 mg/dl. The findings suggest that strict glycemic 
control may be of particular value to reduce the incidence of retinopathy and to 
delay its appearance in type 2 diabetic patients.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8227(90)90069-6
PMID: 2073873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. J Occup Med. 1990 Sep;32(9):806-11. doi: 10.1097/00043764-199009000-00010.

Bladder cancer screening: lessons from a biologically based model of bladder 
cancer progression and therapeutic intervention.

Ellwein LB(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha 68198-6545.

The screening of asymptomatic high-risk populations has been evaluated using a 
biologically based model of bladder cancer. The model is built upon a 
mathematical representation of the induction of precursor bladder lesions with 
possible progression through clinical disease states. Screening strategies are 
based on regimens that include voided urine cytology. Diagnostic and therapeutic 
components of the model provide the basis for end results evaluation. Cytology 
screening is projected to increase average life expectancy by 1 to 3 years among 
those diagnosed while reducing deaths from bladder cancer by more than 50%. The 
additional contribution to be realized with a screening test of perfect 
sensitivity would be primarily in the increased identification of dysplasia and 
low-grade superficial papillary neoplasms, lesions that are much less 
life-threatening than the high-grade lesions already detectable by cytology. The 
theoretical potential of screening is not realizable because of diagnostic 
inaccuracies and treatment failures.

DOI: 10.1097/00043764-199009000-00010
PMID: 2074502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Scand J Urol Nephrol Suppl. 1990;131:31-7.

The Oxford-Manchester study of dialysis patients. Age, risk factors and 
treatment method in relation to quality of life.

Auer J(1), Gokal R, Stout JP, Hillier VF, Kincey J, Simon LG, Oliver DO.

Author information:
(1)Renal Unit, Churchill Hospital, Oxford.

A retrospective study of 159 patients who started Haemodialysis (HD) or 
Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis (CAPD), between 1981 and 1984 was 
carried out in two UK Renal Units. An extension of the study was carried out in 
one unit during 1985, gathering data on 30 patients aged greater than 65. The 
aim was to assess whether age, medical or social risk factors, or treatment 
method, affected perceived quality of life. Assessment was by standardised 
self-report questionnaire. The overall life satisfaction, measured on Cantril's 
ladder scale, showed no significant difference between dialysis patients and a 
normal population. On a quality of life semantic differential scale CAPD 
patients scored significantly better than HD patients. Satisfaction with sexual 
relationships showed marked deterioration in all age groups, but this did not 
seem to affect reported satisfaction with marriage. Those aged greater than 65 
scored significantly better than younger patients on dialysis stress scales, and 
were generally more satisfied with life. When the study population was 
sub-divided into four groups, by age (less than or greater than 60) and presence 
or absence of additional factors, were seen to be those least satisfied with 
life on several different assessment scales.

PMID: 2075466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Vet Rec. 1990 Dec 15;127(24):592-6.

Survey of the dog population of Zimbabwe and its level of rabies vaccination.

Brooks R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Sciences, Mutare, Zimbabwe.

A random sample survey using personal interviews was conducted in Zimbabwe in 
1986 to determine the size and structure of the national dog population and its 
level of rabies vaccination. There was an average of 0.91 dogs per household in 
Zimbabwe giving an extrapolated total population of 1,308,577 dogs. There was a 
dog to people ratio of 1:6.5 and an average of 3.4 dogs per square kilometre. 
The ratio of adult male to female dogs was 0.56:0.44, with 20 per cent of the 
dog population being less than three months old. In the period 1950 to 1986 
there was a 4.7 per cent per annum growth rate of the dog population. In one of 
the provinces, Manicaland, dogs were found to have an average age of 2.3 years 
and a life expectancy at birth of 4.6 years. An estimated 40 per cent of the dog 
population three months old and above had been vaccinated against rabies in 
1985/1986. With the rabies incidence in Zimbabwe still unacceptably high this 
level of vaccination is clearly inadequate and measures designed to increase it 
are discussed.

PMID: 2075689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Acta Diabetol Lat. 1990 Jul-Sep;27(3):231-42. doi: 10.1007/BF02581335.

Diabetes in the elderly: remarks from an epidemiological study carried out in a 
town in south-eastern Sicily (Militello V.C.).

Lombardo A(1), Oliva G, Scornavacca G, Cacciola R, Motta M, Coppolino I, 
Receputo G.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinica di Gerontologia e Geriatria, Università di Catania, 
Italy.

Longer mean life span and life expectancy of diabetics and increased factors 
that favor onset of type II diabetes have determined greater prevalence of 
diabetes in the elderly population. According to HANES II, it is 17% in the 
elderly in U.S.A. We carried out an epidemiological study on the over 65 year 
olds in Militello V.C. and examined 910 elderly subjects (72.05% of the total 
elderly population). All were tested for peripheral fasting blood glucose, body 
weight and height and filled out a questionnaire with general and diabetological 
questions. The values recommended by the NDDG were used to diagnose diabetes. 
One hundred and sixty-one diabetics (25 newly diagnosed) were observed (17.69%). 
Onset had occurred before age 65 (aged diabetics) in 72 cases and after 65 in 89 
(senile diabetics). Mean blood glucose was 152.91 +/- 55.56 mg/dl. Our results 
indicated that sulfonylureas and/or biguanides are first choice treatment. By 
grouping the diabetics on the basis of age at onset and duration of disease, a 
fall in the number of cases treated with diet alone and hypoglycemic drugs and 
an increase in patients on insulin were seen in aged diabetics as the disease 
evolves. On the contrary, there was a rise in the number of senile diabetics on 
hypoglycemic drugs.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02581335
PMID: 2075786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Gerontology. 1990;36(5-6):314-22. doi: 10.1159/000213216.

Does a centralized clock for ageing exist?

Kloeden PE(1), Rössler R, Rössler OE.

Author information:
(1)Medical Policlinic, University of Tübingen, FRG.

It is proposed that a centralized clock controlling ageing is located in the 
pineal gland with the calcification process occurring there providing a highly 
accurate bio-inorganic timing mechanism and the secreted melatonin carrying a 
signal to all cells in the organism. An explicit programme of data gathering and 
experiments suitable for the falsification of the proposal, which is consistent 
with presently known anatomical and physiological facts, is presented. The 
underlying motivation comes from evolutionary biology and the invariance, that 
is the allometry, of life expectancy curves.

DOI: 10.1159/000213216
PMID: 2076829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Int Orthop. 1990;14(4):377-80. doi: 10.1007/BF00182648.

The late outcome of femoral neck fractures.

Kuokkanen HO(1), Suominen PK, Korkala OL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Helsinki University Central 
Hospital, Finland.

The late outcome of 562 consecutive femoral neck fractures is presented; 396 
were treated with a Thompson hemiarthroplasty, 121 by internal fixation, 4 by 
primary total hip replacement, and 41 were treated conservatively. Mortality 
during the first 30 days was 5%. The incidence of primary and secondary local 
complications after osteosynthesis was 25%. Further operations were carried out 
in 10% of the hemiarthroplasties. Seventy-eight patients were evaluated 
clinically and radiologically 10 years after this operation; 24 had been 
converted to total hip replacements, and in 23 of the remaining 54 the 
prosthesis appeared loose on radiographs. There was severe protrusion of the 
metal head in 25 cases. The clinical result was excellent or good in only 17 of 
78 cases. We conclude that osteosynthesis or total hip replacement, rather than 
a Thompson hemiarthroplasty, should be considered for the treatment of femoral 
neck fractures if the patient is active and appears to have a life expectancy of 
several years.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00182648
PMID: 2076922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Sci Total Environ. 1990 Dec 15;99(3):235-42. doi:
10.1016/0048-9697(90)90154-m.

Risk analysis and risk management.

Lave LB(1).

Author information:
(1)Carnegie Mellon University, Graduate School of Industrial Administration, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213.

During the past several decades, the public has given increasing attention to 
environmental problems and increased their demands that these problems be 
solved. During this period, the difficulty and costs of solving the problems 
have become apparent. Environmental abatement programs must be effective in 
achieving the desired goals and efficient in achieving them at low cost. Risk 
analysis is necessary to quantify the benefits of proposed solutions in order to 
make them effective and efficient. The necessity for performing risk assessment 
stems from a presidential executive order, from a Supreme Court Decision, and 
from the public's demand for information about the extent of possible danger 
from a hazard, rather than knowing simply that it is a hazard. The science of 
risk analysis is an an early stage and so there are many uncertainties 
concerning interpretation of the estimates. This approach has sharpened the 
scientific questions and hastened improvements in scientific understanding. Risk 
analysis is most helpful when the analysis reflects the science, without 
intrusion of the risk assessor's values or attempts to force a risk management 
outcome by skewing the risk analysis.

DOI: 10.1016/0048-9697(90)90154-m
PMID: 2077656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Mutat Res. 1990 Sep-Nov;237(5-6):221-8. doi: 10.1016/0921-8734(90)90003-a.

Acceleration of chromosome aberrations in senescence-accelerated strains of 
mice.

Nisitani S(1), Hosokawa M, Sasaki MS, Yasuoka K, Naiki H, Matsushita T, Takeda 
T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Senescence Biology, Kyoto University, Japan.

Age-related changes in the frequency of chromosome aberrations were examined 
using bone marrow cells of senescence-accelerated strains of mice (SAM). An 
accelerated senescence-prone strain, SAM-P/1, showed a striking increase in the 
frequency of chromosome aberrations, from age 3 to 8 months, whereas an 
accelerated senescence-resistant strain, SAM-R/1, at the same ages showed only a 
slight increase. Both these strains were derived from the same ancestral strain 
(AKR/J). The rate of increase of chromosome aberration frequency paralleled the 
advancement of senescence in both strains. These observations suggest that there 
are genetic factors which closely relate to chromosomal instability and 
acceleration of the senescence processes.

DOI: 10.1016/0921-8734(90)90003-a
PMID: 2079961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Rev Rhum Mal Osteoartic. 1990 Oct 30;57(9 ( Pt 2)):22S-24S.

[Objectives to be assigned to the various proposed treatments (NSAID, 
analgesics, preventive or curative fundamental treatments). Which type of 
patients for which type of clinical trials].

[Article in French]

Menkès CJ(1), Bardin T, Danglas P.

Author information:
(1)Service de Rhumatologie A, Hôpital Cochin, Paris.

Short term symptomatic treatment concerns, above all, painful, active 
osteoarthritis. Long term treatment prevents or slows down the destruction of 
cartilage and is assessed by radiological measurement of the joint space in the 
hip and knee. This must also be combined with a clinical criterion based on a 
functional pain index and the quality of the patient's life. Interphalangeal 
osteoarthritis, excluding root arthrosis of the thumb, is a good model and the 
preventive effect of treatment can be assessed from the extension of 
interphalangeal involvement. In the lower limbs, osteoarthritis of the hip in 
its idiopathic form (with overall superior or supra-external narrowing) and 
minor dysplasias were selected. Internal femorotibial osteoarthritis is suitable 
for evaluating a drug's effect in protecting cartilage. Other varieties are 
reserved for symptomatic treatments.

PMID: 2080412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Minerva Pediatr. 1990 Nov;42(11):443-8.

[Intracranial tumors in the 1st year of life].

[Article in Italian]

Caldarelli M(1), Ceddia A, Di Rocco C, Iannelli A, Velardi F.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Neurochirurgia, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Roma.

The introduction of the new diagnostic tools for neuroimaging has resulted in 
the early recognition of congenital brain tumors. In the present report we 
describe 39 children, in whom the diagnosis of an intracranial tumor has been 
obtained during the first 12 months of life. These patients represent 14.4% of a 
pediatric population of 271 children with brain tumors, observed in the same 
period of time (11 years) in the Neurosurgical Institute of the Catholic 
University of Rome. Most of the tumors were located within the supratentorial 
compartment. Midline tumors were common. Sixteen children underwent the total 
removal of the tumor. Four infants could not be operated either because their 
poor general condition or the extension of the tumor. In one case, treatment was 
refused by the parents. The remaining children underwent the partial removal of 
the tumor, which was followed by chemotherapy (malignant tumors) or by serial 
neuroradiological examination (benign tumors), with the aim of postponing 
radiotherapy at the end of 2 years of age at least. The total mortality 
(surgical deaths: 7 cases) and deaths during the follow-up period (11 cases) was 
38.5%. Out of the 24 surviving children, 8 (20%) are normal: 7 (17%) exhibit 
only minimal neurosurgical deficits; 9 (22%) are seriously handicapped. One 
child has been lost for the follow-up observation.

PMID: 2082170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Prog Cardiovasc Nurs. 1990 Oct-Dec;5(4):118-25.

Coronary heart disease: requisite knowledge for developing prevention strategies 
for the aging adult.

Holm K, Penckofer S.

More people than ever before are reaching old age, with the latest statistics 
indicating that life expectancy for a man of 45 years has increased from 70.4 to 
77.3 years and from 77.0 to 82.8 years for a woman. One of the primary factors 
associated with this increase in longevity is the decrease in mortality from 
cardiovascular disease. Since the mid 1960's, there has been a decline in 
cardiovascular mortality of about three percent per year. Recent technological 
advances and healthier lifestyles are among the reasons contributing to this 
trend, supporting the notion that the decrease in cardiovascular mortality and 
morbidity is due to more than just aging and genetic predisposition. Our 
challenge as health care professionals, is to be aware not only of the 
cardiovascular changes that occur as a result of aging, but to identify when and 
how much intervention is appropriate (i.e. risk factor modification) for 
selected age groups, particularly the older adult.

PMID: 2082350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Epidemiology. 1990 Jul;1(4):322-9. doi: 10.1097/00001648-199007000-00012.

Years of potential life lost (YPLL)--what does it measure?

Gardner JW(1), Sanborn JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Biometrics, F. Edward Hébert School of 
Medicine, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, MD 
20814-4799.

The concept of years of potential life lost (YPLL) involves estimating the 
average time a person would have lived had he or she not died prematurely. This 
measure is used to help quantify social and economic loss owing to premature 
death, and it has been promoted to emphasize specific causes of death affecting 
younger age groups. YPLL inherently incorporates age at death, and its 
calculation mathematically weights the total deaths by applying values to death 
at each age. The method of calculating YPLL varies from author to author, each 
producing different rankings of leading causes of premature death. One can 
choose between heart disease, cancer, or accidents as the leading cause of 
premature death, depending on which method is used. Confusion in the use of this 
measure stems from a misunderstanding of the value system inherent in the 
calculation, as well as from differing views as to values that should be applied 
to each age at death.

DOI: 10.1097/00001648-199007000-00012
PMID: 2083312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Gut. 1990 Oct;31(10):1133-7. doi: 10.1136/gut.31.10.1133.

Ten years' experience with an elemental diet in the management of Crohn's 
disease.

Teahon K(1), Bjarnason I, Pearson M, Levi AJ.

Author information:
(1)Section of Gastroenterology, MRC Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, Middlesex, 
UK.

The immediate and longterm outcome of treating patients with acute Crohn's 
disease with an elemental diet was studied retrospectively. Successful diet 
induced remission was achieved in 96 of 113 patients (85%) regardless of age, 
sex, site or severity of disease, or associated complications of strictures, 
fistula, or perianal disease. Treatment was unsuccessful in 17 patients (15%), 
but there were no features at the outset of treatment that distinguished these 
patients from those who had successful remission. The longterm outcome of 
treatment was assessed over a five year period by analysis of life tables and 
survival curves. Twenty two per cent of the patients relapsed within six months 
of treatment and thereafter the annual relapse rate was 8-10%. Patients with 
disease complicated by fistula or perianal involvement had early relapse, 
approaching 100% for the latter. A further retrospective comparison of longterm 
outcome of diet v steroid induced remissions showed no significant difference in 
the relapse rates between the two groups at one, three, and five years.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.31.10.1133
PMCID: PMC1378738
PMID: 2083858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Hepatogastroenterology. 1990 Dec;37 Suppl 2:49-54.

Gallbladder disease, bile composition and bile acid absorption after partial 
ileal bypass.

Koivisto P(1), Miettilnen TA.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Medicine, University of Helsinki, Finland.

The incidence of gallbladder disease (gallstones or cholecystectomy) in 24 ileal 
bypass patients and in 24 unoperated matched controls, all heterozygous for 
familial hypercholesterolemia, was studied during a follow-up period of nine 
years on average. Gallbladder disease developed in 6 patients with ileal bypass 
and in one control patient (p less than 0.05). The operated patients who 
developed gallbladder disease were slightly older and had a higher serum 
cholesterol concentration at the start than those who did not, but otherwise the 
development of gallbladder disease could not be predicted by serum lipids or 
serial measurement of bile acid and cholesterol synthesis. At the end of the 
follow-up, the unoperated subjects had gained in weight. Moreover, the biliary 
lipid composition and the cholesterol saturation index of the bile were similar 
in the operated (n = 10) and unoperated (n = 10) patients studied. Indirect 
measurements suggested that the bile acid secretion was not changed by the 
operation, although the fractional bile acid absorption was significantly 
lowered in the operated subjects, especially in three subjects taking 
cholestyramine. All these three subjects had supersaturated bile. It is 
concluded that ileal bypass carries an increased risk of gallbladder disease 
although the cholesterol saturation index of the bile shows no significant 
difference between the operated and the control patients when studied years 
after the operation, when the control patients have gained in weight.

PMID: 2083935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Int J Epidemiol. 1990 Dec;19(4):1019-36. doi: 10.1093/ije/19.4.1019.

Forecasting chronic disease risks in developing countries.

Dowd JE(1), Manton KG.

Author information:
(1)World Health Organization, Division of Noncommunicable Diseases and Health 
Technology, Geneva, Switzerland.

Declining fertility and infant mortality has caused the population in many 
developing countries to age. Population ageing can produce a rapid shift in the 
predominant public health problems from infant mortality and infectious diseases 
to chronic disease mortality at later ages. Designing public health strategies 
to deal with the health consequences of population ageing in developing 
countries is difficult both because of a remaining burden of infectious diseases 
and because of changes in life style associated with economic development that 
may raise chronic disease risks. Because there are few longitudinal studies of 
chronic disease risks in developing countries, we investigate the use of a 
planning and forecasting model, which combines data from multiple sources, in 
six developing countries.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/19.4.1019
PMID: 2083986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Med Clin (Barc). 1990 Oct 20;95(13):490-4.

[The prognostic factors and evolution of the quality of life in primary biliary 
cirrhosis].

[Article in Spanish]

Moreno Sánchez D(1), Cassinello Ogea C, Medina Asensio J, Castilla Castellano V, 
Castellano Tortajada G, Solís Herruzo JA.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre, Madrid.

The prognostic factors and the evolution of the quality of life were evaluated 
in 38 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (94.7% females, mean age 52.6 +/- 
2.0 years) followed up for more than 36 months (mean 65.3 +/- 3.7 months). 
Karnofsky's index significantly declined during follow up (p less than 0.05) in 
a parallel fashion to modified Child's hepatic functional class (p less than 
0.05) and to the days of hospital readmission (p less than 0.05). Eleven 
patients (28.9%) died, and the median survival was 88.7 months. The comparison 
of the actuarial curves showed the following to be significant poor prognostic 
factors at the time of diagnosis: a) clinical: more than one associated 
autoimmune disease, weight loss of more than 10% of the ideal weight, jaundice, 
upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage associated with portal hypertension, 
portal-systemic encephalopathy and a modified Child's hepatic functional class 
of 9 or more; b) biochemical: serum albumin lower than 3.5 g/dl and bilirubin 
higher than 2 mg/dl; c) histological: Total histological activity index of 10 or 
more and erosive necrosis index of 2 or more (Knodell et al.), lobular 
granulomas, and stage IV (Ludwig et al). A significant correlation was found (p 
less than 0.001) between the R index of the Mayo Clinic and the mean survival 
time of our patients. As a temporary policy, we indicate hepatic transplant when 
R is 9.2 or higher (life expectancy lower than 24 months), awaiting our own 
probabilistic prognostic model with the inclusion of quality of life criteria.

PMID: 2084426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Sov Zdravookhr. 1990;(12):22-6.

[Study of life expectancy as the basis of determining the end result in health 
protection of the population].

[Article in Russian]

Stegunin SI, Zinin NA.

The absence of a complex qualitative instrument for measuring population health 
hinders in assessing public health efficacy at the local level. There is 
introduced a principally new approach to the determination of health 
characteristics at the starting level proceeding from the exhausted viability. 
Impairments of viability are classified according to the cycles of human 
development, involving the intrauterine period, and according to medical causes 
corresponding to the specialization of treatment and preventive facilities. It 
is assumed to identify additional characteristics by means of correction 
factors.

PMID: 2084847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Sov Zdravookhr. 1990;(12):3-7.

[Demographic processes in the countries of Eastern Europe 1945-1990].

[Article in Russian]

Shchepin OP, Vladimirova LI.

An analysis is made of changes in the demographic processes in the countries of 
Eastern Europe over the period from 1945 to 1990 within both the general 
regularities and national peculiarities according to the parameters of statics 
and dynamics of population movement. The positive tendencies in the demographic 
processes are pointed out, first of all in infant mortality rates and mean 
expectation of life at birth in Eastern European countries by decades reflecting 
the peculiarities of changes as compared with developed countries.

PIP: Demographic trends in 7 Eastern European countries are reviewed with 
special emphasis on changing political climate and health priorities. From 1950 
to 1988, the total population in Eastern Europe grew by 32,920 thousand people, 
while the population in East Germany actually decreased by 1,743 thousand 
people. During 1938-1987, the birth rate showed marked decrease: 1.86-fold in 
Romania, 1.76-fold in Bulgaria, 1.74-fold in Yugoslavia, 1.68-fold in Hungary, 
1.57-fold in Poland, 1.32-fold in East Germany, and 1.18-fold in Czechoslovakia. 
The decrease in the birth rate was associated with an overall increase in the 
divorce rate and decrease in the marriage rate. The highest increase in the 
divorce rate was recorded in Poland (2.95-fold), while the lowest (no number 
given)--in Rumania. By 1960, an overall mortality rate (per thousand people) 
showed a decrease, as compared with the pre-war period (from 14.1 to 7.5 in 
Poland and from 13.7 to 8.1 in Bulgaria). Later, the mortality rate started to 
show a gradual increase., In 1987, the highest mortality rate was recorded in 
Hungary (13.4), followed by East Germany (12.9), Bulgaria (12.0), Poland, 
Romania and Czechoslovakia (10.1-11.5). The lowest mortality rate was recorded 
in Yugoslavia (9.2). In all Eastern European countries, the infant mortality 
rate showed a steady decrease (from 9.62-fold in Bulgaria to 5.24-fold in 
Yugoslavia). Average life expectancy increased by 27.8 years in Romania, by 21.2 
years in Poland, by 19.4 years in Bulgaria, by 18.9 years in Hungary, by 12.4 
years in Yugoslavia, and by 3.4 years in East Germany. The increase in life 
expectancy resulted in significant aging of the population.

PMID: 2084849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Perit Dial Int. 1990;10(1):41-3.

Comparison of peritonitis rates during long-term use of standard spike versus 
Ultraset in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD).

Burkart JM(1), Hylander B, Durnell-Figel T, Roberts D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Bowman Gray School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 
27103.

Continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) is an increasingly popular 
means of end-stage renal disease replacement therapy. Unfortunately, peritonitis 
continues to be a major source of both morbidity and mortality. The Ultraset 
incorporates a "flush-before-fill" concept which should theoretically decrease 
peritonitis rates when compared to the standard spike procedure, while allowing 
patients the convenience of disconnect. To investigate the impact of long-term 
use of the Ultraset on peritonitis rates, we conducted the following study. We 
prospectively compared 21 new CAPD patients using the standard spike to 20 new 
CAPD patients using the Ultraset. Peritonitis episodes, episodes of exit-site 
infection, and the association of peritonitis with exit-site infection were 
monitored. Peritonitis rates were 7.57 months/episode for the group using the 
standard spike vs. 27.79 months/episode in the group using the Ultraset. 
Exit-site infection rates were 22.21 months/infection with the standard spike 
vs. 37.05 months/infection with the Ultraset. Using Kaplan-Meier plots, there 
was a statistically significant difference in the estimated time to the first 
episode of peritonitis, but there was no statistically significant difference 
regarding the risk of exit-site infections.

PMID: 2085581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Perit Dial Int. 1990;10(1):63-6.

A comparison of two types of catheters for continuous ambulatory peritoneal 
dialysis (CAPD).

Akyol AM(1), Porteous C, Brown MW.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Surgery, Western Infirmary, Glasgow, United Kingdom.

This study was undertaken to critically examine the value of the curled 
Tenckhoff catheter for continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) access 
with respect to the incidence of catheter-related complications. In the setting 
of a prospective, randomised, double-blind comparison, we were unable to 
demonstrate any advantage of the curled Tenckhoff catheter over the conventional 
straight type.

PMID: 2085585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1990 Oct;16(3):215-29. doi: 10.1007/BF01806330.

Medullary cancer of the breast revisited.

Fisher ER(1), Kenny JP, Sass R, Dimitrov NV, Siderits RH, Fisher B.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, Shadyside Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA 15232.

Common as well as unusual, heretofore unmentioned histopathologic features 
observed in 336 typical and 273 atypical medullary breast cancers from 6404 
patients enrolled in various stage I and II protocols of the National Surgical 
Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Projects (NSABP) are presented. Both medullary types 
exhibited comparable pathologic findings, except for the infiltrative border 
and/or slight or absent tumor lymphoid infiltrate which by definition 
characterize the atypical form. Both also demonstrated a similar, high 
proclivity to be aneuploid, and to lack estrogen and progesterone receptors and 
nodal metastases. After appropriate statistical adjustments, survival (analyzed 
for 198 patients with typical and 149 with atypical medullary cancers) was found 
to be better for untreated, node-negative and node-positive patients treated 
with L-PAM + 5Fu who had typical medullary cancers than those with the NOS 
histologic type. The magnitude of this difference was 6% at 5 and 17% at 10 
years post-operatively (cumulative odds = 1.81 with a 95% confidence interval of 
1.08 - 3.3) for the former group, and 4% at 5 and 16% at 10 years (cumulative 
odds = 1.56 with a 95% confidence interval of 1.08 - 2.23) for the latter. 
Survival was comparable for patients with atypical medullary and NOS types in 
both situations. No clear difference in survival was found in untreated, 
positive node patients with the 3 histologic types examined, although the sample 
sizes in this subset were relatively small. This information as well as other 
pertinent considerations indicate that the prognosis of typical medullary cancer 
is not as 'good' as previously perceived. It is also concluded that there is 
insufficient evidence at present to exclude the atypical medullary variant as a 
histologic type of breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01806330
PMID: 2085673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1990 Oct;16(3):231-42. doi: 10.1007/BF01806331.

RECPAM analysis of prognostic factors in patients with stage III breast cancer.

Erlichman C(1), Warde P, Gadalla T, Ciampi A, Baskerville T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

A retrospective chart review was conducted of women with stage III breast cancer 
seen at the Princess Margaret Hospital between January 1977 and December 1980. 
Three hundred and sixty-nine patients were available for analysis. These cases 
were evaluated to determine the prognostic factors of patients presenting with 
this stage of the disease using a recursive partitioning technique, RECPAM, and 
a Cox regression model. A non-mathematical description of RECPAM is presented 
and the advantages of RECPAM over Cox analysis are discussed. The results 
identify primary tumour size, axillary node involvement, internal mammary node 
involvement, and estrogen receptor status as the most important prognostic 
variables. RECPAM identified 3 prognostic groups and simultaneously provided 
rules based on the prognostic variables to assign patients to poor, 
intermediate, or good prognosis categories. Patients with estrogen receptor 
negative tumours, or those with axillary node involvement, primary tumours 
greater than 5 cm, and serum alkaline phosphatase greater than 60 IU/L, or those 
with internal mammary node involvement, no skin changes, and serum alkaline 
phosphatase greater than 60 IU/L, define a group with a poor prognosis. Patients 
with estrogen receptor positive tumours, no axillary node involvements, and 
primary tumours greater than 5 cm, or estrogen receptor positive tumours, 
axillary node involvement, primary tumours greater than 5 cm, but serum alkaline 
phosphatase less than or equal to 60 U/L, have an intermediate prognosis. The 
good prognosis group consists of those patients with estrogen receptor positive 
tumours who have either skin changes or primary tumours less than or equal to 5 
cm. The effect of loco-regional and systemic therapy was assessed and there was 
no association between treatment assignment and prognostic group. On the basis 
of this RECPAM analysis, we have defined important prognostic variables to be 
used in the design of clinical trials, and three major patient subgroups which 
can be used in routine oncologic practice as a guide to patient management.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01806331
PMID: 2085674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Contraception. 1990 Aug;42(2):159-69. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(90)90099-h.

Is the copper T 380A device associated with an increased risk of removal due to 
bleeding and/or pain? An analysis.

Chi IC(1), Farr G, Thompson K, Acosta M, Alvarado G, Rivera R, Bandaragoda J, 
Delgado Betancourt J.

Author information:
(1)Family Health International; Research Triangle Park Branch; Durham, North 
Carolina 27709.

Previous studies have consistently shown that the family of the Copper T 380 
devices is more effective in preventing accidental pregnancies than the inert, 
as well as most other, if not all, copper devices. However, a number of these 
studies also reported a higher removal rate due to bleeding and/or pain for the 
TCu 380A than for other devices. The programmatical importance of these findings 
prompted us to analyze the international multi-center randomized clinical trial 
datasets to examine this question on the new TCu 380A (ParaGard) recently 
marketed in the U.S. Our results, while confirming the inherent superior 
efficacy of the TCu 380A, did not reveal a significantly higher removal rate 
because of bleeding and/or pain among TCu 380A users than among users of the 
comparative devices, which included the Lippes Loop D, the TCu 200, the TCu 220 
and the Multiload Cu 250 devices.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(90)90099-h
PMID: 2085967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Nihon Rinsho. 1990 Dec;48 Suppl:231-7.

[Prognosis of patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus].

[Article in Japanese]

Sasaki A(1).

Author information:
(1)Osaka Prefectural College of Nursing.

PMID: 2086894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Nihon Rinsho. 1990 Dec;48 Suppl:251-60.

[Epidemiology of diabetes mellitus in the aged].

[Article in Japanese]

Shimada H(1).

