Author information:
(1)First Department of Pathology, Tokyo Medical College.

PMID: 2086897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Acta Otolaryngol Suppl. 1990;476:69-73. doi: 10.3109/00016489109127257.

Smoking habits in patients with sudden hearing loss. Preliminary results.

Matschke RG(1).

Author information:
(1)ENT Department, Ruhr-University (RUB), Prosper-Hospital, Recklinghausen, FRG.

Tobacco, especially its content of nicotine, is a drug that has a powerful 
seductive effect and a dangerous risk of dependence. It is well known that 
smoking of cigarettes in the industrialized countries of Europe neutralizes an 
essential part of medical success in that tobacco-induced shortening of life is 
estimated to equal the possible medical extension of life. Nicotine is the best 
explored component of tobacco and its effects on heart circulation have been 
investigated by many research groups. Cigarette smoking raises the body's need 
for oxygen, because the carbon monoxide that is always inhaled with the smoke 
partially blocks the haemoglobin. Though acute and combined effects of nicotine 
and carbon monoxide have been established chronic diseases of the smoker cannot 
fully be declared. An attempt was made to define some correlation between 
smoking habits and the risk of a sudden hearing loss. All the patients who were 
treated in our clinic because of sudden hearing loss were asked to complete a 
questionnaire anonymously in order to get more reliable answers. However, the 
outcome was not very encouraging. Only three quarters of our patients responded 
to the questions, of these only 29% were smokers. However, half of the 
non-smokers were former smokers. The data are discussed in relation to other 
investigations.

DOI: 10.3109/00016489109127257
PMID: 2087981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Basic Life Sci. 1990;55:31-8. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4613-1473-8_4.

Body compartment changes in sick children.

Pencharz PB(1), Vaisman N, Azcue M, Stallings VA.

Author information:
(1)Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Canada.

Our studies showed that there are important changes in body composition in 
children in response to dieting and refeeding. Similarly, we showed changes in 
body composition in response to renal transplantation, which would be expected 
to restore more normal homeostasis, but in its early phases changes in body 
composition are complicated by the use of high doses of drugs, notably steroid. 
Some of the changes in body composition can be predicted from changes in weight 
but the majority cannot. Relatively simple measurements like the four skinfolds 
as a means of determining body fat are surprisingly accurate, except in 
extremely obese subjects. Similarly, the measurements of fat free body mass are 
useful. However, this measurement does not discriminate changes within fat free 
body mass in the proportions of body cell mass versus extracellular mass. 
Similarly, none of these measurements provide any information regarding the 
composition of body cell mass with regard to its potassium and protein content 
(as reflected by total body nitrogen). The main drawback with total body 
nitrogen measurements is the radiation exposure. Thus, we have had to limit the 
inclusion of total body nitrogen measurements. It has been estimated that two 
total body nitrogen measurements provide a gonadal dose of radiation roughly 
equivalent to that experienced by an individual living in a large North American 
city, that means 30 to 50 mREM per each total body nitrogen measurement. It 
becomes ethically possible then to carry out nitrogen measurements where it can 
be argued that their measurement is essential in monitoring the safety and well 
being of the subject; or alternatively if the subject's life expectancy is 
limited.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4613-1473-8_4
PMID: 2088286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Hosp J. 1990;6(4):65-79. doi: 10.1080/0742-969x.1990.11882684.

Estimation of survival time in terminal cancer patients: an impedance to hospice 
admissions?

Schonwetter RS, Teasdale TA, Storey P, Luchi RJ.

Accurate estimation of survival time in terminal cancer patients is difficult 
yet may provide useful information. A historical prospective study on 172 
patients admitted to a home based hospice service was performed to determine 
which variables were best correlated with survival time. Mean and median 
survival were 48 and 22 days, respectively, representing a highly skewed 
distribution of life span in this sample. As age increased, survival time 
decreased. All Activities of Daily Living (ADLs) recorded (Bathing, Continence, 
Dressing and Transfer) as well as other measures of performance (mobility and 
pulse) and nutrition (appetite and nourishment) were each strongly associated 
with survival. Multivariate analysis limited significant variables to dressing 
ability, pulse rate, level of appetite and transferring ability. Outliers 
(survival greater than 180 days) were differentiated from the remainder of the 
sample by significant differences in all ADLs recorded as well as the level of 
appetite. These findings establish the importance of assessing ADLs, a measure 
of functional status, and reinforce the importance of performance and nutrition 
measures when estimating length of survival in terminal cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1080/0742-969x.1990.11882684
PMID: 2088999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Mol Microbiol. 1990 Dec;4(12):2081-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2958.1990.tb00568.x.

Prolongation of the yeast life span by the v-Ha-RAS oncogene.

Chen JB(1), Sun J, Jazwinski SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Louisiana State University 
Medical Center, New Orleans 70112.

The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae has a finite life span that is 
defined by the number of times the cell divides. The patterns of expression of 
certain genes change in a specific manner during the life span, implying that at 
least some of the manifestations of the ageing process are subject to gene 
regulation. It has now been determined that the controlled expression of the RAS 
oncogene in yeast increases the longevity of this organism, indicating that, 
conversely, a defined alteration in the activity of a single gene can extend 
this organism's life span. The results suggest that there is a balance between 
life-span extension and growth arrest when RAS is expressed. Inasmuch as the 
homologues of RAS in yeast function to integrate cell metabolism with the cell 
cycle, these studies raise the possibility that this integrative function may 
also apply to the co-ordination of successive cell cycles during the life span.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.1990.tb00568.x
PMID: 2089221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Salud Publica Mex. 1990 Nov-Dec;32(6):693-701.

[The prospects for the development of geriatrics in Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Gutiérrez Robledo LM(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de la Nutrición Salvador Zubirán, México, D.F.

The problem of population aging and its consequences for health has not been 
analysed in depth in Mexico. This paper is a critical review of available data 
on the epidemiology of aging in Mexico. Available data, even though incomplete 
serves us to identify the main problems afflicting the elderly population: 
poverty, absence of specialized services, high prevalence of disabilities and 
multiple pathology and weakening of the family and social support network. 
throughout the analysis of this information, a proposal is made towards the 
development of a gerontological services network.

PMID: 2089646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Indian J Cancer. 1990 Sep;27(3):143-53.

Radiation therapy in early glottic carcinoma: significance of prognostic factors 
and dose fractionation.

Dinshaw KA(1), Sharma V.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Radiation Oncology, Tata Memorial Hospital Parel, Bombay, India.

A retrospective analysis of 208 cases with early glottic cancers treated by 
radiation therapy is presented. Early T1 (156 cases) and T2 (52 cases) lesions 
accounted for only 43 per cent of all glottic tumours that presented at the Tata 
Memorial Hospital between 1975-80. A markedly predominant male to female ratio 
of 22:1 was noted with 66 percent presenting in the fifth and sixth decades of 
life. Radical Radiation therapy was delivered with two different regimens 
according to the then prevalent physician preference. Regimen 1 delivered 50 
Gy/15 frs. in three weeks and regimen 2 with 60 Gy/24 frs./5 weeks. The actual 
total survival and disease free survival was 92 per cent and 85 percent for T1 
lesions and 82 percent and 67 percent for T2 tumours respectively. Minimal 
tumour volume involving a unilateral mobile vocal cord had the best prognosis. 
With extension to more lengths of cord and/or involvement of the anterior 
commissure or with tethering or fixation of the cord the prognosis was adversely 
influenced. In T1 lesions, the shorter course with the higher fractionation 
dosage levels showed improved local controls. However, the results were not 
statistically significant. This was not so in the T2 lesions probably due to 
small number of cases. Treatment failure was recorded in 19 per cent cases of 
which 90 per cent was seen in the first two years after treatment. Persisting 
laryngeal oedema confirmed a high index of suspicion towards recurrent disease. 
A radiotherapeutic technique using proper patient positioning and accurate beam 
direction with total dosage level above 1850 rets and TDF between 101-106 values 
is the recommended optimal treatment. In conclusion, an understanding of the 
prognostic features and an appropriate dose fractionation schedule allows 
optimization to effectively control early glottic tumours and retain function in 
the majority of patients.

PMID: 2090566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Nephrologie. 1990;11(5):337-8.

[Is kidney transplantation justified after 65 years?].

[Article in French]

Leroux-Robert C(1), Charmes JP.

Author information:
(1)Service de Néphrologie, CHU Dupuytren, Limoges.

According to literature kidney transplantation in patients above 65 years of age 
is justified. It is justified for selected patients with perfect cardiovascular 
status and several years of life expectancy. However it would be better not to 
enlarge these indications since there are not enough kidney transplants.

PMID: 2090971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Rev Invest Clin. 1990 Oct-Dec;42(4):312-6.

[Ionizing radiation at low doses and cancer: epidemiological controversy].

[Article in Spanish]

Borja-Aburto VH(1), Bustamante-Montes P, García-Sancho MC, Villa-Romero AR.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Epidemiología, Escuela de Salud Pública de México, D.F.

The carcinogenic effects of ionizing radiation at high doses are un 
questionable. On the other hand, the deleterious exposure effects to low doses 
have not been totally proven, mainly due to methodological problems and 
difficulty in measuring reliable dose exposure. In this paper, some recent 
studies examining the effects of ionizing radiation in some occupational groups 
are reviewed and discussed. Also, the main areas of epidemiologic controversy 
are stressed. For future experiences, prospective, longitudinal studies with 
occupational cohorts, measuring radiation exposure with adequate registry and 
follow-up, are suggested.

PMID: 2091182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Eur J Pediatr. 1990;149 Suppl 1:S5-12. doi: 10.1007/BF02126292.

Study design and description of patients.

Lutz P(1), Schmidt H, Batzler U.

Author information:
(1)Kreiskrankenhaus Böblingen, Zentralinstitut für Labormedizin, Böblingen, 
Federal Republic of Germany.

A West German multicentre study (eight centres) of PKU was designed in 1976. The 
subjects of the study are the differential diagnosis, factors influencing the 
therapeutic outcome, and the extension of dietary therapy into adolescence. 
Between 1978 and 1984, 165 patients were enrolled, of whom 38 were of non-German 
nationality. The educational and occupational status of the West German parents 
were comparable to the population of the Federal Republic of Germany. In the 
central data bank located at the University Childrens Hospital in Heidelberg, 
data from recurrent medical examinations and from biochemistry, dietetics, 
neurology, psychometry and demography were collected. The differential diagnosis 
of the elevated plasma Phe level in the newborn period resulted in the detection 
of 2 patients with a PTPS-deficiency, and of 163 with an apo-enzyme defect. 
Depending upon the magnitude of the Phe levels during the first weeks of life, 
preliminary treatment groups were formed. They were revised at the age of 6 
months with a protein challenge. The levels of Phe during the protein challenge 
resulted in three types of response. Of these, type III can apparently forgo 
dietary restrictions resulting in plasma Phe concentrations of around 10 mg/dl. 
Preliminary results of the whole study are now presented.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02126292
PMID: 2091932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Brain Dev. 1990;12(6):770-3. doi: 10.1016/s0387-7604(12)80004-0.

Livebirth prevalence and follow-up of malformation syndromes in 27,472 newborns.

Higurashi M(1), Oda M, Iijima K, Iijima S, Takeshita T, Watanabe N, Yoneyama K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Maternal and Child Health, University of Tokyo, Japan.

The results of a survey of the birth prevalence of congenital anomalies among 
27,472 consecutive newborn babies at a large maternity hospital in Tokyo are 
reported. There were 29 cases with trisomy-21; 5 cases with trisomy-13 syndrome; 
5 with trisomy-18 syndrome; 2 with cri-du-chat syndrome; and one each with 
partial monosomy 4p, partial trisomy 5p, partial trisomy 6p, partial trisomy 9p, 
partial trisomy 9q, partial monosomy 10p, and partial monosomy 13q. Single cases 
of the following were observed: the Hallermann-Streiff syndrome, the 
Treacher-Collins syndrome, achondroplasia, arthrogryposis, the 
Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, the asplenia syndrome, the Klippel-Trenaunay-Weber 
syndrome, the Marfan syndrome, the Carpenter syndrome, the Goldenhar syndrome, 
and the Pierre Robin syndrome. The results of follow-ups to determine the 
life-prognosis of each patient with an autosomal aberration are reported.

DOI: 10.1016/s0387-7604(12)80004-0
PMID: 2092586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Antibiot Khimioter. 1990 Nov;35(11):27-9.

[Multifactor analysis of the combined use of an antibiotic and a low molecular 
weight immunomodulator of microbial origin in experimental plague infection].

[Article in Russian]

Nikitin AV, Makarovskaia LN, Fomina IP, Ivanitskaia LP, Popova GO, Vinidchenko 
NN, Korganov IaN, Kudinova MK.

Multifactorial analysis of the combined effect of rifampicin and a low molecular 
immunomodulator of microbial origin in experimental plague infection was 
performed. Synergism of the antibiotic used in the subtherapeutic doses and the 
immunomodulator was shown. By the results of the study polynomial statistic 
models of the second order describing the survival rate and average life-span of 
the experimental animals were developed and nomographs (equal level curves) were 
plotted for rapid estimating the therapy quantitative parameters. Optimization 
of the combined use of rifampicin and the immunomodulator on the basis of the 
multifactorial analysis was achieved.

PMID: 2092634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Digestion. 1990;47 Suppl 1:69-71. doi: 10.1159/000200521.

Australian clinical trials of omeprazole in the management of reflux 
oesophagitis.

Dent J(1).

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Unit, Royal Adelaide Hospital, Australia.

Two multicentre clinical trials of omeprazole in peptic oesophagitis were 
recently completed in Australia. In the first trial, omeprazole, 20 or 40 mg 
daily (n = 31), was compared with placebo (n = 32) in 63 patients. After 4 
weeks, 81% of the omeprazole-treated patients were healed, as determined 
endoscopically, compared with 6% of the placebo-treated patients (p less than 
0.0001). When the two doses of omeprazole were compared, there was a significant 
therapeutic advantage for the 40 mg dose at 4 weeks but by 8 weeks there was no 
significant difference between the two doses. This study included a 6-month 
surveillance phase in 107 endoscopically healed patients after cessation of 
omeprazole therapy. By 6 months, erosive or ulcerative oesophagitis had recurred 
in 82% of these patients. In the second trial, 165 patients with erosive or 
ulcerative oesophagitis were first healed with omeprazole, 20 mg daily. Of these 
patients, 159 were then enrolled in a maintenance therapy trial and randomized 
to three groups: ranitidine, 150 mg b.i.d., omeprazole, 20 mg daily, or 
omeprazole weekend therapy (i.e. omeprazole, 20 mg daily, on Friday, Saturday 
and Sunday only). Patients were followed for a maximum period of 12 months or 
until relapse. Neither ranitidine nor weekend therapy with omeprazole was 
effective in maintaining patients in remission. However, omeprazole, 20 mg 
daily, was a highly effective maintenance therapy with 89% of patients in 
remission after 12 months compared with only 25 and 32% for ranitidine and 
weekend omeprazole, respectively. All three regimens were well tolerated.

DOI: 10.1159/000200521
PMID: 2093019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Aging (Milano). 1990 Sep;2(3):227-9. doi: 10.1007/BF03323922.

Searching for the molecular basis of aging: the need for life extension models.

Vijg J.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03323922
PMID: 2094362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Aging (Milano). 1990 Sep;2(3):283-9. doi: 10.1007/BF03323934.

Mortality postponed and the unmasking of age-dependent non-fatal conditions.

Brody JA(1), Miles TP.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Illinois, Chicago 60680.

Mortality occurs at older ages in our growing and salubrious population. At 
present, fewer than 20% of all deaths, in Sweden, occur before age 65 with 18% 
of the Swedish population 65 and over. In the United States, 24% of deaths occur 
before age 65 with only 12% of the population age 65 and over. All countries in 
the developed world will have approximately 20% of their populations age 65 and 
over by about 2020. At that time, the percentage of deaths occurring prior to 
age 65 should range from 14%-16%. Thus future gains in morbidity and mortality 
will be influenced, to a lesser extent, by events prior to age 65 and prevention 
and health promotion strategies post age 65 become increasingly important. 
Active life expectancy, a developing concept, refers to the years lived in good 
health with no functional limitations. The period after active life expectancy 
consists of years of compromised health and well being. At present, each year 
gained of active life expectancy incurs almost four years of compromised health. 
A group of age-dependent nonfatal conditions are largely responsible for 
increased prevalence of social and physical deficits with age. These include 
dementia, osteoarthritis, diminished hearing and visual acuity, incontinence, 
depression, widowhood, isolation and institutionalization. Age-specific 
incidence of most of these conditions is unknown. There is little evidence, 
however, that adding years to life has postponed their age at onset. For these 
conditions, postponement is the major mechanism of prevention. We are attempting 
to construct time trends concerning the age-specific incidence and the ability 
to postpone age-dependent conditions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF03323934
PMID: 2094367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Bull Acad Natl Med. 1990 Nov;174(8):1199-204; discussion 1205-7.

[Diverse strategies to attempt to prevent the spread of HIV infections].

[Article in French]

Charvet D.

AIDS, because of the seriousness of its diagnosis, as well as the fact that it 
is linked with such life-giving symbols such as blood and sperm, has often been 
presented as the plague of the 1900's. As is often the case with serious, 
misunderstood societal calamities, AIDS carries with its attitudes of guilt and 
denial; attitudes which have greatly hampered the beginnings of preventive 
actions. Due in particular to the pioneering actions of non-profit AIDS 
associations, France currently has a global policy which encompasses prevention, 
information, and solidarity. The development and installation of this policy has 
brought to light practical problems which are ethically and morally important as 
well. Although the general public's understanding of the means of contamination 
is increasing, there remain a certain number of false conceptions which are 
difficult to overcome in information-based, mass media campaigns. As far as 
behavior-oriented prevention programs are concerned, condom promotion must often 
be carried out within certain limits of expression, particularly those of 
certain religious influences. Solidarity and ethics campaigns raise often 
sensitive human rights topics such as homosexuality and work-related issues. 
AIDS has thus a much broader scope than a public health subject, it involves the 
reflection and consideration of collective human and societal values.

PMID: 2094554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1990 Winter;5(4):347-59.

Long-term follow-up study of osseointegrated implants in the treatment of 
totally edentulous jaws.

Adell R(1), Eriksson B, Lekholm U, Brånemark PI, Jemt T.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Odontology, University of Goteborg, Sweden.

This study reviews the long-term outcome of prostheses and fixtures (implants) 
in 759 totally edentulous jaws of 700 patients. A total of 4,636 standard 
fixtures were placed and followed according to the osseointegration method for a 
maximum of 24 years by the original team at the University of Göteborg. 
Standardized annual clinical and radiographic examinations were conducted as far 
as possible. A lifetable approach was applied for statistical analysis. 
Sufficient numbers of fixtures and prostheses for a detailed statistical 
analysis were present for observation times up to 15 years. More than 95% of 
maxillae had continuous prosthesis stability at 5 and 10 years, and at least 92% 
at 15 years. The figure for mandibles was 99% at all time intervals. Calculated 
from the time of fixture placement, the estimated survival rates for individual 
fixtures in the maxilla were 84%, 89%, and 92% at 5 years; 81% and 82% at 10 
years; and 78% at 15 years. In the mandible they were 91%, 98%, and 99% at 5 
years; 89% and 98% at 10 years; and 86% at 15 years. (The different percentages 
at 5 and 10 years refer to results for different routine groups of fixtures with 
5 to 10, 10 to 15, and 1 to 5 years of observation time, respectively.) The 
results of this study concur with multicenter and earlier results for the 
osseointegration method.

PMID: 2094653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Cardiologia. 1990 Dec;35(12):1009-13.

[Primary pulmonary hypertension: a retrospective study of 13 patients].

[Article in Italian]

Mangieri E(1), Ferraironi A, Avella A, Berni A, Granatelli A, Voci P, Nigri A, 
Reale A.

Author information:
(1)II Cattedra di Malattie dell'Apparato Cardiovascolare, Università degli Studi 
La Sapienza, Roma.

Twenty-four patients (9M and 15F, mean age 28 years) with primary pulmonary 
hypertension underwent cardiac catheterization in our institution from 1955 to 
1989. The prevalence of the disease in our population was lower (0.2%) than that 
reported by other Authors (1%). Thirteen of these patients (4 M and 9 F, mean 
age 32 years) evaluated between January 1979 and December 1989, were followed. 
Five were alive after 52 +/- 30 months (Group A) while 8 died after 11 +/- 9 
months (Group B). In Group B mean pulmonary pressure was significantly higher 
than in Group A (66.7 +/- 17.2 vs 41.2 +/- 19.0 mmHg, p less than 0.05, 
respectively). Cardiac index and systolic volume index were lower in Group B 
than in Group A (2.07 +/- 0.85 vs 3.72 +/- 1.32 l/min/m2, p less than 0.01 and 
24.43 +/- 10.25 vs 41.08 +/- 16.97 ml/m2, p less than 0.05, respectively). 
Pulmonary resistance index and systemic resistance index were higher in Group B 
than in Group A (3039 +/- 1519 vs 1181 +/- 1236 dyne x s x cm-5/m2, p less than 
0.01; 4277 +/- 1794 vs 2309 +/- 1238 dyne x s x cm-5/m2, p less than 0.01). One 
patient underwent repeated cardiac catheterization after 2 years. This patient 
showed a deterioration of the hemodynamic parameters, consistent with the 
worsening of the clinical conditions. In conclusion, in our population of 
patients with primary pulmonary hypertension, an increase in pulmonary artery 
pressure and pulmonary resistances, as well as a decrease in cardiac index, are 
associated with a reduced life expectancy. On the other hand, right atrial 
pressure does not affect mortality.

PMID: 2095972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Boll Soc Ital Biol Sper. 1990 Oct;66(10):909-14.

Antioxidant enzymes in erythrocytes from old and diet restricted old rats.

Pieri C(1), Falasca M, Moroni F, Recchioni R, Marcheselli F, Ioppolo C, 
Marmocchi F.

Author information:
(1)Cytology Center, Gerontol. Res. Dept. of INRCA, Ancona.

Diet restriction, prolonging the lifespan of rodents, represents an interesting 
model for gerontological studies. We analyzed the activity of antioxidant 
enzymes, Superoxide Dismutase, Catalase and Glutathione Peroxidase in 
erythrocytes from young, old and old food restricted Wistar rats. Diet 
restriction was applied feeding the animals on every-other-day schedule starting 
from the age of 3.5 months. The age-dependent decrease of Catalase and 
Glutathione Peroxidase activities was prevented by food restriction, whereas 
Superoxide Dismutase activity was not influenced either by aging and dietary 
intervention. Present results support the hypothesis that diet restriction 
increases the protection of cell structure against the peroxidative damage, 
preserving the activity of antioxidant enzymes.

PMID: 2096875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Przegl Epidemiol. 1990;44(4):341-50.

[Selected elements of health status of the Polish population in relation to 
other European countries in the light of the program "Health for all up to 
2000"].

[Article in Polish]

Goryński P(1), Roszkowska H.

Author information:
(1)Zakład Statystyki Medycznej, Państwowego Zakładu Higieny, Warszawie.

Total mortality from main causes of death (diseases of circulatory system, 
malignant neoplasms, injuries and poisoning) life expectancy at birth, infant 
and maternal mortality in Poland in the years 1970-1988 were analyzed on the 
basis of targets of the regional strategy for "Health for all by the year 2000" 
(HFA 2000). It seems that it isn't possible to achieve targets concerning 
mortality by the year 2000. However it is possible to decrease infant and 
maternal mortality. Standardization of health indicators to european population 
allows to compare health status of the polish population to other european 
countries. This comparison shows that situation in Poland is not optimistic.

PMID: 2100819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Health Rep. 1990;2(4):361-76.

Life expectancy in Canada--an overview.

[Article in English, French]

Adams O.

At 73 years for men and more than 80 years for women, Canada's life expectancy 
at birth compares favourably with other developed countries; Japan currently 
leads the world with 75.6 years for men and 81.4 years for women. In 1920-1922, 
fewer than six out of ten Canadians could expect to survive to their 65th 
birthday; by 1985-1987, this had risen to eight out of ten. At the oldest ages, 
the increases in survival are even more striking. In 1920-1922, just over one in 
ten Canadians could expect to reach their 85th birthday; by 1985-1987, this had 
increased to more than three out of ten. Since the 1920s, life expectancy has 
been higher in the Western provinces and lower in Atlantic Canada and Quebec. In 
1950-1952, for example, a person born in Saskatchewan could expect to live four 
years longer than a person born in Quebec. By 1985-1987, this difference had 
been reduced to just over one year. Women have made much greater gains in life 
expectancy than men. In 1920-1922, women had an advantage in life expectancy 
over men of less than two years; by 1970-1972, this had more than tripled to 
seven years. Married men and women have a distinct advantage in longevity over 
other marital status categories. Married men may expect to live over eight years 
longer than never-married men, and more than ten years longer than widowed men. 
Married women can expect to live three years longer than never-married women, 
and four years longer than women who are either divorced or widowed. As of 1986, 
a boy born in highest-income quintile area in urban Canada can expect to live 
almost six years longer than a boy born in a lowest-income quintile area. For 
girls, the difference is almost two years. However, this socio-economic 
differential narrowed from 1971 to 1986.

PMID: 2101291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Jpn J Med. 1990 Nov-Dec;29(6):672-3. doi:
10.2169/internalmedicine1962.29.672.

Prognosis of silent myocardial ischemia and its strategy for treatment.

Kishida H, Saito T.

DOI: 10.2169/internalmedicine1962.29.672
PMID: 2101425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Br J Clin Pract. 1990 Dec;44(12):590-2.

A microcomputer program to compare the survival probability of patient groups.

Chan KW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Hong Kong.

A program was written to calculate the probability of patient survival, tabulate 
the results in the form of a life table and compare two patient groups by the 
Mantel-Haenszel (logrank) test on a microcomputer. The program reads data in 
either a text form or the format of data files of the dBASE III/III plus 
(Ashton-Tate). The program is entirely menu-driven and extremely easy to use. 
The structure of the data files and the function of the program are described. 
This program is useful to those without easy access to mainframe computers.

PMID: 2102151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Health Rep. 1990;2(1):57-66.

Divorces in Canada, 1988.

[Article in English, French]

Adams O.

In 1988, a total of 79,872 divorces were granted in Canada. This was a 12.2% 
decrease from the 1987 total of 90,985, the highest ever in Canada. Divorce 
levels have been generally high in the late 1980s, but data for several more 
years are required before the impact of the 1985 Divorce Act can be accurately 
assessed. The 1988 divorce rate in Canada for married women aged 15 and over was 
1,256 per 100,000. The highest rates occurred in Alberta (1,498) and British 
Columbia (1,407), and the lowest in Newfoundland (669) and Prince Edward Island 
(844). The average duration of marriages ending in divorce was 12.5 years. The 
largest number of divorces occurred after five years, followed by six and four 
years. Among divorces granted in 1988 under the 1985 divorce law, separation for 
not less than one year was cited as the grounds in almost nine out of ten cases. 
Of all children affected by custody orders for divorces granted under the 1985 
law, 76% were awarded to the wife, 12% to the husband, 11% to joint custody, and 
fewer than 1% to a person other than the husband or wife.

PMID: 2102365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. N Z Med J. 1990 Feb 14;103(883):46-8.

The use of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) in the economic appraisal of 
health care.

Kawachi I(1), Bethwaite P, Bethwaite J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Wellington School of Medicine.

PMID: 2106105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1990 Mar 23;39(11):173-8.

Alcohol-related mortality and years of potential life lost--United States, 1987.

Centers for Disease Control (CDC).

PMID: 2106617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Public Health Rep. 1990 Jan-Feb;105(1):1-12.

Updated forecasts of the costs of medical care for persons with AIDS, 1989-93.

Hellinger FJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Extramural Research, National Center for Health Services 
Research, Rockville, MD.

Data on the number of AIDS cases reported to the Centers for Disease Control 
(CDC) from January 1984 to June 1989 are used to predict the number of AIDS 
cases that will be diagnosed during the years 1989 through 1993. Using quadratic 
and linear models with the most recent data, it is projected that about 44,000 
cases will be diagnosed in 1989, 56,000 in 1990, 70,000 in 1991, 87,000 in 1992, 
and 104,000 in 1993. These projections are lower than estimates derived using 
data from January 1984 to June 1988, and they are similar to estimates derived 
by the CDC. The lifetime medical care cost of treating a person with AIDS is 
estimated to be about $75,000 (all estimates are in 1988 dollars) assuming that 
the average length of survival is 15 months and that the intensity of care (that 
is, the cost of medical care per month) does not fall as longevity rises. This 
total, $75,000, reflects recent increases in the length of survival and the 
diffusion of costly drug therapies (for example, AZT and aerosol pentamidine). 
This study forecasts that the cumulative lifetime medical care costs of treating 
all people diagnosed with AIDS during a given year to be about $3.3 billion in 
1989, $4.3 billion in 1990, $5.3 billion in 1991, $6.5 billion in 1992, and $7.8 
billion in 1993.

PMCID: PMC1579985
PMID: 2106697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Public Health Rep. 1990 Jan-Feb;105(1):36-46.

Estimating cancer mortality rates from SEER incidence and survival data.

Chu KC(1), Horm JW, Smart CR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Cancer Institute, 
Bethesda, MD 20892.

A method to estimate site-specific cancer mortality rates using Surveillance, 
Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Program incidence and survival data is 
proposed, calculated, and validated. This measure, the life table-derived 
mortality rate (LTM), is the sum of the product of the probability of being 
alive at the beginning of an interval times the probability of dying of the 
cancer of interest during the interval times the annual age-adjusted incidence 
rate for each year that data have been collected. When the LTM is compared to 
death certificate mortality rates (DCM) for organ sites with no known 
misclassification problems, the LTM was within 10 percent of the death 
certificate rates for 13 of 14 organ sites. In the sites that have problems with 
the death certificate rates, there were major disagreements between the LTM and 
DCM. The LTM was systematically lower than the DCM for sites if there was 
overreporting on the death certificates, and the LTM was higher than the DCM for 
sites if there was underreporting. The limitations and applications of the LTM 
are detailed.

PMCID: PMC1579991
PMID: 2106703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Am Heart J. 1990 Mar;119(3 Pt 2):725-7; discussion 727-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0002-8703(05)80052-3.

The economics of hypertension and stroke.

Smith GT(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Economics, London, England.

The prevention of stroke through the control of hypertension is cost-effective 
economically and medically. A reduced incidence of stroke generates savings to 
the health service in hospital and surgical costs, and the avoidance of 
premature mortality means survivors contribute more to the economy as a result 
of extra working years. In addition to financial benefits, antihypertensive 
agents can also improve a patient's quality of life. This can be measured with a 
variety of health profiles or indexes and is often expressed together with life 
expectancy in quality-adjusted life years. This article examines the benefits 
produced by the effective control of hypertension, taking data from England and 
Wales during the past 30 years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-8703(05)80052-3
PMID: 2106766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1990 Mar 30;39(12):193-6, 201.

Mortality patterns--United States, 1987.

Centers for Disease Control (CDC).

PMID: 2107382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1990 Apr 6;39(13):205, 207-9.

Mortality in developed countries.

Centers for Disease Control (CDC).

PMID: 2107385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Am J Cardiol. 1990 Mar 20;65(12):27F-32F. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(90)91252-2.

Clinical benefits and cost-effectiveness of lowering serum cholesterol levels: 
the case of simvastatin and cholestyramine in The Netherlands.

Martens LL(1), Rutten FF, Erkelens DW, Ascoop CA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.

To assess the cost-effectiveness of cholesterol-reducing therapy with 
cholestyramine and simvastatin in the primary prevention of coronary artery 
disease in The Netherlands, a model of coronary artery disease incidence was 
used based on multivariate logistic risk functions from the Framingham study. 
For men with initial cholesterol levels of 8 mmol/liter, the cost per year of 
life saved of cholestyramine, expressed in Dutch guilders (NLG; 1 NLG = $0.50), 
ranges from approximately NLG 208,000 to NLG 483,000, depending on the patient's 
age at initiation of therapy. For simvastatin, cost-effectiveness ranges from 
NLG 46,000 to NLG 98,000 per year of life saved among this group of men. Similar 
differences between simvastatin and cholestyramine therapy prevail among women, 
although the costs per year of life saved for both agents are considerably 
higher. These results suggest that (1) simvastatin is substantially more cost 
effective than is cholestyramine; (2) simvastatin therapy compares favorably 
with other generally accepted medical practices, especially if treatment is 
initiated at an early age; and (3) as its long-term safety record becomes more 
established, simvastatin may become accepted as a drug of first choice in the 
treatment of persons with elevated serum cholesterol levels.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(90)91252-2
PMID: 2107736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. BMJ. 1990 Mar 3;300(6724):610. doi: 10.1136/bmj.300.6724.610-c.

Why are the Japanese living longer?

Sakuta T.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1989 Dec 23-30;299(6715):1547-51.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.300.6724.610-c
PMCID: PMC1662332
PMID: 2108770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. JAMA. 1990 May 2;263(17):2335-40.

The aging of America. Impact on health care costs.

Schneider EL(1), Guralnik JM.

Author information:
(1)Ethel Percy Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles 90089-0191.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1990 May 2;263(17):2354-5.

The rapid growth of the oldest age groups will have a major impact on future 
health care costs. We use current US Census Bureau projections for the growth of 
our oldest age groups to project future costs for Medicare, nursing homes, 
dementia, and hip fractures. Without major changes in the health of our older 
population, these health care costs will escalate enormously, in large part as a 
result of the projected growth of the "oldest old," those aged 85 years and 
above. Medicare costs for the oldest old may increase sixfold by the year 2040 
(in constant 1987 dollars). It is unlikely that these projected increases in 
health care costs will be restrained solely by cost-containment strategies. 
Successful containment of these health care costs will be related to our ability 
to prevent and/or cure those age-dependent diseases and disorders that will 
produce the greatest needs for long-term care.

KIE: An unprecedented number of Americans are surviving into their 80s and 90s 
and this fastest-growing age group of the "oldest old" (those aged 85 years and 
older) will have a substantial impact on health care costs in the coming 
decades. Using current U.S. Census Bureau projections, Schneider and Guralnik 
project future costs for Medicare, nursing homes, dementia, and hip fractures 
and warn that cost containment measures alone will not be enough to slow health 
care costs for the elderly. They criticize suggestions that health care be 
rationed for older Americans. Instead, they recommend increased funding of 
biomedical research to improve our ability to prevent or cure diseases and 
disabilities associated with aging.

PMID: 2109105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Fertil Steril. 1990 May;53(5):792-7. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)53511-0.

Treatment of clomiphene citrate-resistant polycystic ovarian syndrome with pure 
follicle-stimulating hormone or human menopausal gonadotropin.

McFaul PB(1), Traub AI, Thompson W.

Author information:
(1)Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast, Northern Ireland.

Two hundred ten treatment cycles of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) or human 
menopausal gonadotropin (hMG) were completed in 49 patients with clomiphene 
citrate-resistant polycystic ovarian syndrome. The results from 68 cycles of 
daily intramuscular (IM) FSH and 41 cycles of IM hMG were compared. The 
ovulation rate, maximum serum estradiol (E2) levels achieved, and pregnancy rate 
were similar in both groups, but FSH resulted in significantly fewer follicles 
developing and hyperstimulation. The 68 cycles of daily IM FSH were further 
compared with the outcome of administering the FSH as an alternate-day IM 
injection in 70 cycles, and by subcutaneous pulsatile injection in 31 cycles. 
There were no differences in any of the parameters measured between daily and 
alternate-day FSH. Pulsatile FSH required a greater total dose over a longer 
period of time to achieve stimulation. It also produced fewer follicles, a lower 
maximum serum E2 level, and the lowest incidence of hyperstimulation. Twenty 
pregnancies resulted, of which 6 aborted in the first trimester; there was 1 set 
of twins and 13 singleton pregnancies. The cumulative pregnancy rate after 6 
treatment cycles was 62%.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)53511-0
PMID: 2110070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1990 May;38(5):588-93. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1990.tb02413.x.

The case of Ms. Nancy Cruzan and the care of the elderly.

Glover JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Sciences, George Washington University, Washington, 
DC 20037.

The case of Ms. Nancy Cruzan is the first so-called "right to die" case to be 
heard by the US Supreme Court. The Missouri Supreme Court had ruled that Ms. 
Cruzan's parents, who are also her court-appointed guardians, cannot authorize 
the withdrawal of artificial hydration and nutrition from their daughter. Ms. 
Cruzan has been in a persistent vegetative state since an auto accident more 
than six years ago. Even though Ms. Cruzan is only 32 years old, the decision in 
her case will have serious implications for care of the elderly. Key features of 
the Missouri Supreme Court decision include their claims that (1) the authority 
for surrogate decision-making flows from the parens patriae power of the State 
rather than from the authority of the incompetent person, (2) the State has an 
unqualified interest in the preservation of life, and (3) the medical provision 
of nutrition and hydration ought to be considered differently than other forms 
of medical treatment. Such claims are at considerable variance from accepted 
standards of ethically defensible decision-making that focus on the well-being 
of the patient understood according to the patient's own values and life goals. 
If the US Supreme Court restricts decisions to forgo life-sustaining treatment 
according to patient prognosis, capacity for decision-making, type of treatment, 
or state of residence, then a patient-centered standard of medical 
decision-making will be impossible to sustain and the maximization of life 
extension will be required without regard to the suffering thereby imposed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1990.tb02413.x
PMID: 2110203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Cancer Lett. 1990 May 15;51(1):85-9. doi: 10.1016/0304-3835(90)90235-p.

Tumour reducing and anticarcinogenic activity of selected spices.

Unnikrishnan MC(1), Kuttan R.

Author information:
(1)Amala Cancer Research Centre, Amala Nagar, Kerala, India.

Tumour reducing activity of extracts of eight commonly used spices in India were 
studied in mice transplanted intraperitoneally with Ehrlich ascites tumour. Oral 
administration of extracts of black pepper, asafoetida, pippali and garlic could 
increase the percentage of life span in these mice by 64.7%, 52.9%, 47% and 
41.1%, respectively. However intraperitoneal administration of spice extracts 
did not produce any significant reduction in tumour growth except for sesame 
(38.8%). Garlic extract and asafoetida extracts also inhibited two stage 
chemical carcinogenesis induced by 7,12 dimethyl benzanthracene and croton oil 
on mice skin with significant reduction in papiloma formation. These results 
indicate the potential use of spices as anti-cancer agents as well as 
anti-tumour promoters.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3835(90)90235-p
PMID: 2110862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Br J Gen Pract. 1990 Mar;40(332):117-22.

Resources, the family and voluntary euthanasia.

Bliss MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Hackney Hospital, London.

Comment in
    Br J Gen Pract. 1990 May;40(334):216.
    Br J Gen Pract. 1990 Oct;40(339):434.

Ethnological studies show that the care which societies are able to provide for 
their old people depends largely on available resources. However, the concept of 
resource depends on contemporary requirements and expectations. Modern families 
still try to look after their old people, but increasing longevity is making 
this more difficult. There is a finite ability of populations, however wealthy, 
to support dependent members. Resources provided to look after old people must 
necessarily be subtracted from those available for the other, still more 
important dependent group, the children, with potentially disastrous results in 
underfunding of social support and education. The sociobiological theory of 
inclusive fitness emphasizes the importance of the ways in which family members 
interact to help each other and try to ensure their genetic survival, even if 
this involves sacrificing their own interests and occasionally, their lives. 
Many old people do not wish for further longevity after they have become too 
disabled to be of service to their families, and would prefer to see limited 
resources being used for the young. In the USA, loss of autonomy of patients and 
their families owing to the practice of defensive medicine has resulted in the 
development of the 'living will', a legal document in which people can specify 
in advance what treatment they wish to accept in the event of life threatening 
illness. It is to be hoped that improved understanding of family relationships 
will make this generally unnecessary in the future and that, unless specified to 
the contrary, families will be allowed to decide about treatment for members who 
are unable to decide for themselves.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMCID: PMC1371079
PMID: 2112015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 1990;26 Suppl:S87-90. doi: 10.1007/BF00685431.

Ifosfamide/etoposide and mesna uroprotection in advanced breast cancer.

Manegold C(1), Worst P, Bickel J, Schmid H, Drings P, Kaufmann M.

Author information:
(1)Thorax Hospital, Heidelberg-Rohrbach, Federal Republic of Germany.

The object of the study was to evaluate the effectiveness of 
ifosfamide/etoposide and mesna therapy in advanced breast cancer. A total of 44 
patients with breast cancer were included in the trial. Eligibility criteria 
included measurable, refractory disease; prior anthracycline therapy (or its 
contraindication); a life expectancy of at least 3 months; and adequate hepatic, 
renal, CNS and bone marrow function. All patients were less than or equal to 70 
