years of age and had a Karnofsky performance status of greater than or equal to 
50%. There were 36 evaluable cases. Sites of metastatic disease included bone 
(19), skin (18), liver (9), lung (14), lymph node (19), and miscellaneous (7). 
Treatment consisted of 1,500 mg/m2 ifosfamide given i.v. on days 1-5, 120 mg/m2 
etoposide given i.v. on days 1-3, and 400 mg i.v. mesna given with and at 4 and 
8 h after ifosfamide. Cycles were repeated every 28 days. Initial doses were 
reduced by 25% or 50% in patients who had previously undergone both chemotherapy 
and radiotherapy. A median of 4 cycles (range, 2-8) were given. The 
myelotoxicity was marked: WHO grades 3/4 leukopenia (n = 37), grades 3/4 
thrombocytopenia (n = 12), and grades 2/3 anemia (n = 13). Due to myelotoxicity, 
dose reduction or prolongation of treatment-free intervals was necessary in 28 
cases. Alopecia was seen in 35 patients and CNS toxicity, in 8. Partial 
remission (PR) was obtained in five cases and complete remission (CR), in three. 
Sites of response included the lung (5), skin (4), lymph node (5), and 
peritoneum (1). The duration of response was 4 (n = 2) and 8 (n = 1) months for 
CR and 2 (n = 2), 6 (n = 2), and 10 (n = 1) months for PR. We conclude that the 
ifosfamide/etoposide and mesna regimen is effective, but its myelotoxicity is 
treatment-limiting.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00685431
PMID: 2112056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. JAMA. 1990 Jul 4;264(1):41-7.

Cost-effectiveness of misoprostol for prophylaxis against nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drug-induced gastrointestinal tract bleeding.

Edelson JT(1), Tosteson AN, Sax P.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Mass.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1991 Feb 6;265(5):593-5.
    JAMA. 1990 Jul 4;264(1):83-4.

Patients who take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are at increased 
risk of upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding, which may be prevented with 
prophylactic prescription of misoprostol. Using data from the literature, we 
estimated rates of gastrointestinal tract bleeding in NSAID users, direct 
medical costs, years of life lost, and cost-effectiveness of a 1-year course of 
misoprostol in three clinical populations of NSAID users: all users, users aged 
60 years or older, and users with rheumatoid arthritis. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios for misoprostol as primary prevention were $667,400 
per year of life saved for all NSAID users; $186,700 per year of life saved for 
users aged 60 years or older; and $95,600 per year of life saved for users with 
rheumatoid arthritis. Misoprostol as secondary prevention for those who 
continued to take NSAIDs despite having had an episode of gastrointestinal tract 
bleeding in the previous year was associated with incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios less than $40,000 per year of life saved in all patient groups. We 
conclude that misoprostol is costly as primary prevention for NSAID-induced 
gastrointestinal tract bleeding in the groups examined but may be cost-effective 
as secondary prevention in patients with a proved history of gastrointestinal 
tract bleeding.

PMID: 2113103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1990;6(1):139-45. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300008990.

Dealing with discounting. An application to the cost-effectiveness of 
intracoronary thrombolysis with streptokinase.

Martens L(1), van Doorslaer E.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus University.

Comment in
    Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1991;7(4):651-6.

By introducing discounting in the DEALE method, we reanalyze a recent 
publication on the cost-effectiveness of early thrombolytic therapy with 
intracoronary streptokinase after acute myocardial infarction. We show that 
failure to discount gains in life expectancy results in a serious overestimation 
of the cost-effectiveness of this technology.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300008990
PMID: 2113890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Parasitology. 1990 Jun;100 Pt 3:399-406. doi: 10.1017/s0031182000078689.

Schistosoma haematobium infection in Mauritania: two years of follow-up after a 
targeted chemotherapy--a life-table approach of the risk of reinfection.

Etard JF(1), Borel E, Segala C.

Author information:
(1)Département de Parasitologie et Pathologie Tropicale, Université Claude 
Bernard, Lyon, France.

Reinfection pattern among 6- to 20-year-old subjects was studied over 24 months 
in two Mauritanian villages of intense Schistosoma haematobium infection after a 
targeted chemotherapy with praziquantel involving the whole community. Subjects 
received treatment according to the presence of haematuria/proteinuria and this 
indirect screening technique was able to identify 98-100% of the heavily 
infected subjects (50 + eggs/10 ml). The two villages differed with respect to 
their characteristics, quality of follow-up and reinfection pattern. The 
post-treatment 6-month cumulative incidence during the two transmission periods 
following the chemotherapy, estimated from a subset of 116 subjects, was 18.0% 
and 20.5%. Reinfection rates were higher among males (Cox-Mantel: P = 0.0015), 
among children 6-10 years of age than older (P = 0.0078) and among subjects with 
more than 50 eggs/10 ml of urine before treatment than subjects with a lower egg 
output (P = 0.009). A Cox proportional hazard regression model was fitted and 
confirmed that gender, age and pretreatment level of infection were predictors 
of the rate of reinfection but that there was no interaction between these 
predictors.

DOI: 10.1017/s0031182000078689
PMID: 2114011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. CA Cancer J Clin. 1990 Jul-Aug;40(4):210-24. doi: 10.3322/canjclin.40.4.210.

Mortality at ages 75 and older in the Cancer Prevention Study (CPS I).

Lew EA(1), Garfinkel L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Statistics, American Cancer Society, New York, 
New York.

In the fall of 1959 the American Cancer Society began a comprehensive 
epidemiologic investigation of more than one million men and women drawn mainly 
from the middle-class population. The study reported here presents a portion of 
the investigation relating to the mortality among 49,469 subjects who attained 
age 75 years and older during the course of the study. Both men and women who at 
entry into this study (1960) were judged to be in good health registered 
distinctly lower mortality than those judged to be in poor health. Men and women 
with some college education had significantly lower death rates than those with 
lesser schooling. Men and women who reported a good family history of longevity 
showed consistently lower death rates in each five-year age group than those 
with average or poor family history of longevity. Persons with an average family 
history of longevity generally had lower death rates than those with a poor 
family history of longevity. Analysis of mortality by cause indicated that at 
ages 75 and older nearly half the deaths were attributed to all forms of heart 
disease. Coronary heart disease accounted for about 35 percent of all deaths, 
with the proportion decreasing with age. Deaths from stroke rose from 15 to 
about 20 percent with increase in age. Deaths from all sites of cancer declined 
with advancing age in both sexes, from about 16 percent of all deaths at ages 75 
to 79 to about six percent at ages 90 to 99. Among men, cancer of the prostate 
accounted for 3.5 percent of deaths at ages 75 to 84, decreasing to about one 
half this proportion in the early-90s age group. Colorectal cancer decreased 
from about three percent of total deaths at ages 75 to 84 to about 1.5 percent 
in the early 90s. Lung cancer and stomach cancer remained at the same level at 
these ages.

DOI: 10.3322/canjclin.40.4.210
PMID: 2114200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Health Aff (Millwood). 1990 Summer;9(2):80-93. doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.9.2.80.

Prevention and the elderly: appropriate policies.

Omenn GS.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.9.2.80
PMID: 2114346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Hereditas. 1990;112(2):117-27. doi: 10.1111/j.1601-5223.1990.tb00049.x.

Influence of temperature on the inheritance of adult life span in Drosophila 
melanogaster.

Yonemura I(1), Abe M, Ishidate R, Ishiyama T, Motoyama T, Hasekura H, Boettcher 
B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Legal Medicine, Shinshu University School of Medicine, 
Matsumoto, Japan.

Mating experiments were performed at 27 degrees C, 22 degrees C, and 17 degrees 
C, to investigate the inheritance of adult life span of highly inbred strains of 
Drosophila melanogaster. Effects of temperature difference were quantitatively 
analyzed at the genotypic level. In the temperature range of 17-27 degrees C the 
autosomal longevity alleles, A1 and A2, exerted major effects. Their effects 
produced longer life spans as the temperature decreased. The sex-linked 
longevity alleles, X1 and X2, played a secondary role in influencing life span, 
and they displayed different effects at different temperatures. Each genotype 
showed correspondence to the life span expected from the combinations of these 
longevity genes at the respective temperatures. The genetic loci controlling 
life span in these inbred strains were named JmA and JmX from "Ju-myo" which 
means life span or longevity in Japanese.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1601-5223.1990.tb00049.x
PMID: 2114381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. J Gen Intern Med. 1990 Jul-Aug;5(4):277-84. doi: 10.1007/BF02600391.

Medical management of gallstones: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Weinstein MC(1), Coley CM, Richter JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

OBJECTIVE: Ursodeoxycholic acid (ursodiol) is an oral dissolution agent recently 
approved by the Food and Drug Administration for treatment of cholelithiasis. 
The authors conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis comparing ursodiol with 
elective cholecystectomy and expectant management for men and women of ages 50 
and 70 with typical chronic biliary symptoms.
DESIGN: Using published literature and national cost data, the authors performed 
a decision analysis in which the outcome measures were life expectancy, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, and expected lifetime treatment cost.
PATIENTS: The analysis applies to patients with symptoms of biliary colic, 
noncalcified gallstones less than 20 mm in diameter, and functioning oral 
cholecystograms, who are candidates for elective cholecystectomy. Excluded were 
patients with acute cholecystitis or known or suspected common bile duct stones.
RESULTS: Ursodiol is both clinically advantageous and less expensive than 
surgery for symptomatic men aged 64 or more, and for symptomatic women aged 69 
or more. At ages younger than these, the clinical advantage of surgery is small 
and could be nullified if ursodiol were targeted at patients for whom 
dissolution is most likely to be effective, based on evidence of stone size and 
composition. Expected lifetime costs of ursodiol range from $300-400 more than 
surgery for 50-year-olds to $700-1,000 less than surgery for 70-year-olds. 
Ursodiol is the preferred choice for patients throughout this age range who are 
at significantly elevated risk of operative mortality.
CONCLUSION: Ursodiol is a clinically advantageous and cost-effective alternative 
to elective cholecystectomy, especially for older and high-risk patients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02600391
PMID: 2115575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. J Urol. 1990 Aug;144(2 Pt 1):224-7; discussion 228. doi: 
10.1016/s0022-5347(17)39416-8.

Further study of the increased mortality following transurethral prostatectomy: 
a chart-based analysis.

Malenka DJ(1), Roos N, Fisher ES, McLerran D, Whaley FS, Barry MJ, Bruskewitz R, 
Wennberg JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Family Medicine, Dartmouth Medical School, 
Hanover, New Hampshire 03756.

Previous studies using large administrative databases found an elevated relative 
risk of reoperation and death after transurethral resection of the prostate 
compared to open prostatectomy. To investigate whether differences in case-mix 
unmeasured by administrative data explained this finding, we reviewed the charts 
of 485 patients who had undergone prostatectomy (236 open and 249 transurethral) 
at the Health Science Centre, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada between 1974 and 1980. 
Data from patient histories, physical examinations and laboratory evaluations 
were abstracted and used to control for case-mix in models comparing the rates 
of reoperation and mortality after transurethral versus open prostatectomy. 
Several models were specified. In all models the relative risk of dying after 
transurethral prostatectomy remained elevated (1.36 to 1.89), as did the risk 
for reoperation (3.62). A prospective trial is needed to establish the relative 
safety and effectiveness of transurethral and open prostatectomy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)39416-8
PMID: 2115594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Ann Intern Med. 1990 Aug 1;113(3):214-26. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-113-3-214.

Screening for cervical cancer.

Eddy DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Policy Research and Education, Duke University, Durham, 
North Carolina.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Nov 15;113(10):803.
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Oct 1;113(7):560-1.

Indirect evidence indicates that cervical cancer screening should reduce the 
incidence and mortality of invasive cervical cancer by about 90%. In the absence 
of screening, a 20-year-old average-risk woman has about a 250 in 10,000 chance 
of developing invasive cervical cancer during the rest of her life, and about a 
118 in 10,000 chance of dying from it. Screening at least every 3 years from 20 
to 75 years of age will decrease these probabilities by about 215 in 10,000 and 
107 in 10,000, respectively, and will increase a 20-year-old woman's life 
expectancy by about 96 days. The particular age at which screening is begun (for 
example, 17 or 20 years), the requirement of several initial annual examinations 
before reducing the frequency, and screening every 1 or 2 years compared with 
every 3 years improves the effectiveness by less than 5%. Screening is 
recommended at least every 3 years from about age 20 to about age 65 years.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-113-3-214
PMID: 2115753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1990;592:162-72; discussion 185-92. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1990.tb30324.x.

Cost-effectiveness of hormone replacement.

Weinstein MC(1), Tosteson AN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1990.tb30324.x
PMID: 2115756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. J Mol Evol. 1990 Jul;31(1):51-68. doi: 10.1007/BF02101792.

Compositional statistics: an improvement of evolutionary parsimony and its 
application to deep branches in the tree of life.

Sidow A(1), Wilson AC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of California, 
Berkeley 94720.

We present compositional statistics, a new method of phylogenetic inference, 
which is an extension of evolutionary parsimony. Compositional statistics takes 
account of the base composition of the compared sequences by using nucleotide 
positions that evolutionary parsimony ignores. It shares with evolutionary 
parsimony the features of rate invariance and the fundamental distinction 
between transitions and transversions. Of the presently available methods of 
phylogenetic inference, compositional statistics is based on the fewest and 
mildest assumptions about the mode of DNA sequence evolution. It is therefore 
applicable to phylogenetic studies of the most distantly related organisms or 
molecules. This was illustrated by analyzing conservative positions in the DNA 
sequences of the large subunit of RNA polymerase from three archaebacterial 
groups, a eubacterium, a chloroplast, and the three eukaryotic polymerases. 
Internally consistent results, which are in accord with our knowledge of 
organelle origin and archaebacterial physiology, were achieved.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02101792
PMID: 2116531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Public Health Rep. 1990 Jul-Aug;105(4):374-80.

1889 to 1989: a century of health and disease.

Hinman AR(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Prevention Services, Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, GA 
30333.

This article traces some of the most important changes in demographics, health, 
and disease in the United States since 1889. The nation has grown, urbanized, 
and aged. Life expectancy has increased dramatically. Major health problems have 
shifted from communicable diseases to those resulting from environmental and 
behavioral influences. The Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service, a 
uniformed cadre of professionals in all the fields of public health, was formed 
in 1889 and has played an important role in the health progress of the past 
century. It promises to play just as significant a role in the future.

PMCID: PMC1580071
PMID: 2116639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Lung. 1990;168 Suppl:809-13. doi: 10.1007/BF02718212.

Indications of different oxygen sources.

Nolte D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Municipal Hospital, Bad Reichenhall, Federal 
Republic of Germany.

Elderly patients with limited prognosis and limited activities are sufficiently 
supplied by oxygen concentrators with or without portable oxygen gas cylinders. 
Younger patients with promising life expectancy should be candidates for 
transtracheal catheter and for liquid oxygen with or without oxygen saving 
systems.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02718212
PMID: 2117196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. N Z Med J. 1990 Aug 22;103(896):402-4.

Economic factors in formulating a national policy on the prevention by drugs of 
cardiovascular disease.

Malcolm L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Wellington School of Medicine.

Comment in
    N Z Med J. 1990 Dec 12;103(903):593.

PMID: 2117264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Clin Chem. 1990 Aug;36(8 Pt 2):1612-6.

Impact of new technologies on health-care costs and on the nation's "health".

Massaro TA(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Health Sciences Center, University of Virginia, 
Charlottesville 22908.

By virtually all criteria, the American health-care system has the largest and 
most widely distributed technology base of any in the world. The impact of this 
emphasis on technology on the cost of care, the rate of health-care inflation, 
and the well-being of the population is reviewed from the perspective of the 
patient, the provider, and the public health analyst.

PMID: 2117507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1990 Aug;17(8 Pt 2):1607-11.

[Evaluation of intraperitoneal cancer chemotherapy using an implantable 
reservoir in patients with peritonitis carcinomatosa].

[Article in Japanese]

Tsuji Y(1), Nishimura A, Katsuki Y, Yasuda T.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Nikko Memorial Hospital.

We evaluated the clinical usefulness of intraperitoneal cancer chemotherapy 
using an implantable reservoir in patients with peritonitis carcinomatosa as 
compared with conventional chemotherapy. The cases were comprised of 9 gastric 
cancers, 6 colorectal cancers, 1 appendiceal carcinoma, and 1 malignant tumor of 
retroperitoneum, all of which were observed to have peritoneal dissemination 
during surgical operations. Medications infused were CDDP in 14 cases, MMC in 4 
cases, and 5-FU in 1 case. The patients with P2 and P3 findings (group A) were 
compared with other cases treated with conventional chemotherapy (group B). The 
average survival periods were, for gastric cancer patients, 6 months in group A 
and 8.6 months in group B; for the colorectal cancer group, 10.5 months in group 
A and 13.6 months in group B. The 6-month and 1-year cumulative survival rates 
for the gastric cancer patients were 100% and 0%, respectively in group A; 52% 
and 17%, respectively in group B. For the colo-rectal cancer group, the 6-month, 
1-year, and 2-year cumulative survival rates were 75%, 75%, and 0%, 
respectively, in group A; 79%, 45%, and 14% respectively, in group B. These 
results did not show significant differences between the two groups. On the 
other hand, the average outpatient clinic visiting rates in the gastric cancer 
patients in groups A and B showed a significant difference; 72.6% (group A) and 
46.8% (group B). Also, the rates in the colo-rectal cancer patients showed a 
significant difference; 69.6% (group A) and 61.5% (group B). As a result, the 
extension of the period of stay at home and visiting of our outpatient clinic 
for treatment was obtained in the group A. Consequently, this intraperitoneal 
cancer chemotherapy using an implantable reservoir was extremely effective in 
patients with peritonitis carcinomatosa for outpatient treatment over the long 
term without loss of quality of life for each patient.

PMID: 2117893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Dtsch Krankenpflegez. 1990 Jan;43(1):2-5.

[The problem of dementia. Current status and attempts at a solution].

[Article in German]

Hoyer S.

PMID: 2118069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Versicherungsmedizin. 1990 Aug 1;42(4):97-8.

[Gerontology and geriatrics].

[Article in German]

Falck I.

PMID: 2119082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Ann Intern Med. 1990 Oct 15;113(8):594-603. doi:
10.7326/0003-4819-113-8-594.

Cost effectiveness of screening perimenopausal white women for osteoporosis: 
bone densitometry and hormone replacement therapy.

Tosteson AN(1), Rosenthal DI, Melton LJ 3rd, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Beth Israel Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

Bone mass measurement at menopause to identify and selectively prescribe hormone 
replacement therapy for women at high risk for fractures has seen limited 
clinical use. We used epidemiologic, clinical, and economic data in a 
decision-analytic model to compare the following clinical strategies for 
perimenopausal, asymptomatic, white women with intact uteri: no intervention; 
bone mineral density measurement followed by selective, long-term (15-year) 
estrogen-progestin therapy in women with low bone mass; and unselective, 
universal hormone replacement therapy. Life expectancy and direct medical cost 
per patient were estimated for each strategy. Strategies for screening and 
treating women with perimenopausal bone mineral density less than 0.9 g/cm2 or 
less than 1.0 g/cm2 would cost $11,700 or $22,100, respectively, per year of 
additional life gained. If the cost of screening is less than $84, then resource 
savings from hip fractures prevented would be more than the cost of screening 
and treatment. Universal treatment without screening would prevent additional 
fatal fractures but would expose many more women to the adverse effects of 
hormone replacement therapy and would cost an additional $349,000 per year of 
life gained compared with the screening strategies. When quality of life was 
considered, screening was found to be cost effective over a wide range of 
assumptions. The choice between universal treatment and screening depends on the 
risks (breast cancer), perceived side effects (menstrual bleeding), and benefits 
(prevention of ischemic heart disease) of estrogen-progestin therapy. We 
conclude that screening asymptomatic, perimenopausal white women to detect low 
bone mass and to target hormone replacement therapy at women who are at the 
greatest risk for fracture is a reasonably cost-effective use of health care 
resources. However, cost-effective screening guidelines cannot be explicitly 
established until further data addressing the association between bone mass 
measurements in the hip and hip fracture risk are available.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-113-8-594
PMID: 2119161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Nurs Stand. 1990 Aug 15-21;4(47):28-30. doi: 10.7748/ns.4.47.28.s30.

Menopause: hormone replacement therapy.

Ottaway E.

DOI: 10.7748/ns.4.47.28.s30
PMID: 2119722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. CMAJ. 1990 Oct 1;143(7):653-4.

Stop wasting health care dollars on dying seniors, physician says.

Helwig D.

Comment in
    CMAJ. 1991 Mar 1;144(5):540.
    CMAJ. 1991 Jun 1;144(11):1379-80.

PMCID: PMC1452316
PMID: 2119874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1990 Oct;142(4):848-53. doi: 10.1164/ajrccm/142.4.848.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of the routine use of isoniazid prophylaxis in 
patients with a positive Mantoux skin test.

Fitzgerald JM(1), Gafni A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

The role of isoniazid prophylaxis in low-risk patients with positive Mantoux 
skin tests has recently been questioned. In general, recent research has focused 
on the risk/benefit ratio. We, therefore, decided to extend these data and apply 
a cost-effectiveness analysis of the routine use of isoniazid prophylaxis from a 
societal perspective. Costs per case prevented were calculated for a 20-, 50-, 
and 70-yr-old low-risk patient who had a positive Mantoux test with base, high, 
and low costings. Rates were also calculated based on the use of direct costs 
alone and direct and indirect costs combined. Costs varied from Canadian 
$8,586.00 in a 20-yr-old patient to $40,102.00 in a 70-yr-old patient per case 
prevented based on direct costs with costs ranging from $3,236.00 to $11,320.00 
with both direct and indirect costs included. These costs could be considered 
reasonable from a societal perspective but do not address the issue of any 
increased life expectancy resulting from chemoprophylaxis.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm/142.4.848
PMID: 2121080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Br J Gen Pract. 1990 Aug;40(337):341-4.

Establishment of primary health care in Vietnam.

Birt CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Royal Northern Infirmary, Inverness.

Basic demographic and epidemiological data relevant to health problems in 
Vietnam are described in this paper. Existing health service arrangements are 
referred to, with particular emphasis on the strategy for development of primary 
health care. The establishment of the paediatric centre in Ho Chi Minh City is 
reported, and examples of its valuable work in primary health care development 
are described.

PIP: In spite of Vietnam's 40-year history of war, infant mortality rate of 
50-60/1000 live births in urban areas, life expectancy of 55 years for women and 
61 years for men, growth rate of 21.5/1000 population and population totaling 
61-66 million in 1986, the health status of the Vietnamese, is better than the 
mean for all African countries and no worse than developing countries with a GNP 
per head greater than Vietnam's US 210. The incidence of infectious disease 
remains high for both adults and children, with malaria leading for adults and 
diarrheal disease for children as well as malnutrition due to dietary 
insufficiency. Air pollution, poor sanitation, and chemical pollution of water 
supplies pose a serious threat to health in Saigon, as do dioxin-related 
diseases in the surrounding countryside. A decentralized government hospital 
service with health centers in all communities provides 1 doctor for every 
18,000 population. This system is criticized for lack of attention to 
socioeconomic conditions or diet. The health care strategy developed in 1986 
targets the following goals for 1990: adequate nutrition, drinking water, 
essential drugs, and sanitation as well as more extensive immunization, family 
planning services, and home treatment of illness. Along with the 3000 community 
health centers, community health workers provide basic treatment and health 
education from their homes. Although the health system is paternalistic, vital 
provisions of salts and sugars for combating diarrhea, and A and D supplements 
and food are given to the poor. Dr. Duong Quynh Hoa's pediatric research 
institute, children's hospital, and new medical school are principally concerned 
with the development of socioeconomic conditions where the doctor is only 1 
among many collaborating to improve the quality of life. One pediatric center 
project, for example, has been successful in promoting the active participation 
of people in an environmental hygiene program, a clean drinking water program, 
immunization efforts, and a diarrhea control program funded through UNICEF, WHO, 
and French and British charities. Investment is being sought from developed 
countries for economic development and food aid.

PMCID: PMC1371314
PMID: 2121182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. CA Cancer J Clin. 1990 Nov-Dec;40(6):355-67. doi: 10.3322/canjclin.40.6.355.

The impact of childhood cancer on the United States and the world.

Bleyer WA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatrics, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston.

DOI: 10.3322/canjclin.40.6.355
PMID: 2121321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Prev Med. 1990 Sep;19(5):515-32. doi: 10.1016/0091-7435(90)90050-t.

Measuring medical cost and life expectancy impacts of changes in cigarette 
sales.

Lippiatt BC(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Standards and Technology, Applied Economics Group, 
Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899.

A change in cigarette sales triggers changes in medical-care costs and in years 
of life expectancy. Changes in sales result from changes in excise tax policy, 
agricultural policy, cigarette design, smoking behavior, or anti-smoking laws. 
The model uses data on medical costs, life expectancy, cigarette price 
elasticity, and smoking demographics to estimate medical-cost and life-year 
impacts for any change in cigarette sales. It takes into account the medical 
costs incurred by quitters over their extra years of life, the asymmetry of 
impacts for increases and decreases in sales, and the delayed medical effects 
for ages not yet subject to the health risks of smoking. For example, a 1% 
decrease in U.S. cigarette sales increases life expectancy in the United States 
by 1.45 million years and increases medical-care costs by $405 million for ages 
25 to 79. This amounts only to $280 in added medical costs for each extra year 
of life. By generating aggregate health impacts at the margin, the model becomes 
a valuable tool for evaluating programs that affect smoking.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-7435(90)90050-t
PMID: 2122438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Milbank Q. 1990;68(3):445-92.

Morbidity, disability, and long-term care of the elderly: implications for 
insurance financing.

Liu K(1), Manton KG, Liu BM.

Author information:
(1)Health Policy Center, Urban Institute, Washington, DC 20037.

A scarcity of empirical information to specify appropriate provisions and base 
rates for coverage has hindered the development of long-term-care (LTC) 
insurance. Data from three nationally representative surveys on the prevalence 
of morbidity and functional limitations among the elderly population suggest 
that health status among older Americans is highly dynamic, especially at higher 
disability levels. The bioactuarial data may help insurers define potential 
markets of purchasers of policies, and identify the numbers of persons with 
disabilities severe enough to trigger use of benefits. If the accuracy of 
individual service predictions could be increased further, reserve requirements 
and overall costs to LTC insurance carriers might be reduced.

PMID: 2125111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. J Natl Med Assoc. 1990 Dec;82(12):823-7.

Meeting the health care needs of our nation's black elderly.

Johnson C(1).

Author information:
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710.

PMCID: PMC2571523
PMID: 2126295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Zentralbl Chir. 1990;115(21):1395-406.

[Life expectancy and "premature mortality" in the Democratic Republic of 
Germany. An analysis from the surgical viewpoint].

[Article in German]

Röding H(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Chirurgie, Bezirkskrankenhauses Potsdam.

An analysis was made of medical statistics on life and death, over the past 
decades, with reference being made to some key data of the national economy. The 
period under review had largely been a phase of stagnation, though progress was 
recordable by substantial criteria in some important areas of surgery, despite 
restrictions on finding, equipment, and personnel. This analysis, hopefully, 
will be helpful in proper appraisal of public health performance in the period 
under review. An additional analysis will have to show, if life expectancy and 
premature mortality, the two parameters analysed in this study, can be improved, 
in the future, solely by amendments to the organisational setup, financing, and 
strategy of the national health system.

PMID: 2126415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Drugs. 1990;40 Suppl 1:33-7. doi: 10.2165/00003495-199000401-00008.

Primary prevention of coronary heart disease in the Federal Republic of Germany. 
Analysis of cost-effectiveness.

Assmann G(1), Schulte H.

Author information:
(1)Westfahsche Wilhelms-Universität, Münster, Federal Republic of Germany.

The cost-effectiveness of a primary prevention strategy for coronary heart 
disease is reviewed in this paper. Five subgroups were identified, depending on 
the degree of medical intervention required to achieve a target low density 
lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol level of less than 4.15 mmol/L. One group required 
no intervention and, apart from initial screening costs, no further treatment 
costs were incurred. The cost-effectiveness of medical intervention in the other 
groups was calculated by use of mathematical models to predict the incidence of 
coronary heart disease. According to this analysis, life-years saved per 1000 
individuals and cost per life-years saved increased as the intensity of 
intervention increased. In individuals in whom a reduction in total cholesterol 
was required, life expectancy did not improve substantially, but the onset of 
coronary heart disease was deferred until an older age. Cholesterol-lowering 
interventions are unlikely to result in important savings to the health care 
system, as the benefit of treatment is rather reflected in terms of reduced 
mortality and improved quality of life. Total costs (in Deutschmarks [DM]) per 
life-year saved in this analysis were DM30,000-40,000 in men and 
DM86,000-110,000 in women.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199000401-00008
PMID: 2127007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Nutr Cancer. 1990;14(3-4):175-81. doi: 10.1080/01635589009514092.

Inhibition of hepatocarcinogenesis in mice by dietary methyl donors methionine 
and choline.

Newberne PM(1), Suphiphat V, Locniskar M, de Camargo JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Mallory Institute, Boston University School of 
Medicine, MA 02118.

A dietary deficiency of methyl donors, the lipotropes methionine and choline, 
enhances the activity of hepatocarcinogens in rodents. To determine if the 
reverse is true, an excess of dietary choline, methionine, or both was fed to 
male mice given a carcinogenic dose of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1). Fifty weeks 
following the last dose of AFB1, all survivors were killed then examined for 
tumor incidence, and samples of nontumorous liver tissue were assayed for 
activities of mixed function oxidases (MFO). Survival was best in the 
high-methionine/high-choline group, with 36/38 surviving to termination of the 
study. Survival in the other groups was 35/38, 30/70, 33/38, and 34/37 in 
control with no AFB1, control with AFB1, groups with high methionine, and high 
choline, respectively. Combined adenoma/carcinoma incidence was 8/38, 30/37, 
21/38, 20/37, and 10/38 in groups control with no AFB1, control with AFB1, high 
methione with AFB1, high choline with AFB1, and high choline and high methionine 
with AFB1, respectively. Cytochrome P450, cytochrome B5, cytochrome C, and 
ethylmorphine N-demethylase activities were all increased over controls, with 
most marked increases in the cytochrome P450 and ethylmorphine N-demethylase 
activities. The data presented here document a protective effect of dietary 
methyl donors on AFB1-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in mice probably acting, in 
part, via activation/detoxification mechanisms favoring an increased balance in 
detoxification of AFB1.

DOI: 10.1080/01635589009514092
PMID: 2128116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Rev Pediatr Obstet Ginecol Pediatr. 1990 Jan-Mar;39(1):85-8.

[Congenital anomalies and genetic diseases. The partial results of a triennial 
analysis of mortality in the population with congenital anomalies].

[Article in Romanian]

Nicolau S(1), Mesaroş S.

Author information:
(1)Ministerul Sănătăţii, Centrul de Calcul şi Statistică Sanitară.

PMID: 2128720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 1990 Nov-Dec;5(6):639-45. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1746.1990.tb01118.x.

Primary biliary cirrhosis: clinicopathological characteristics and outcome.

Jeffrey GP(1), Reed WD, Shilkin KB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Western Australia, Perth.

Thirty-five patients with primary biliary cirrhosis were seen between 1974 and 
1989. The median mean age at presentation was 53 years (range: 30-77) and the 
female to male ratio was 7.8:1. Thirteen (37%) were asymptomatic and nine (26%) 
had associated auto-immune disorders. Pruritus and hepatomegaly were present in 
half of the patients. Advanced histological stages of disease (Stages 3 and 4) 
were present in 57% of patients. The median period of follow-up was 5 years 
(range: 0.1-20). Twelve patients died, nine from hepatic causes and three from 
non-hepatic causes. One has undergone liver transplantation. A Kaplan-Meier 
curve estimated the median survival to be 11 years. Asymptomatic patients 
developed progressive disease and survival was similar to that of symptomatic 
patients. Using Cox's proportional hazards model, age, serum bilirubin and serum 
albumin were found to be independent prognostic variables correlating with 
reduced survival.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.1990.tb01118.x
PMID: 2129833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. J Hum Ergol (Tokyo). 1990 Dec;19(2):185-99.

Social life factors affecting the mortality, longevity, and birth rate of total 
Japanese population: effects of rapid industrialization and urbanization.

Araki S(1), Uchida E, Murata K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo, Japan.

PIP: To expand upon the findings that lower mortality was found in Japanese 
urban areas in contrast to the Western model where in the US and Britain the 
risk of death was higher in metropolitan areas and conurbations, 22 social life 
indicators are examined among 46 prefectures in Japan in terms of their effect 
on age specific mortality, life expectancy, and age adjusted marriage, divorce, 
and birth rates. The effects of these factors on age adjusted mortality for 8 
major working and nonworking male populations, where also analyzed. The 22 
social life factors were selected from among 227 indicators in the system of 
Statistical Indicators on Life. Factor analysis was used to classify the 
indicators into 8 groups of factors for 1970 and 7 for 1975. Factors 1-3 for 
both years were rural or urban residence, low income and unemployment, and 
prefectural age distribution. The 4th for 1970 was home help for the elderly and 
for 1975, social mobility. The social life indicators were classified form 1 to 
8 as rural residence in 1970 and 1975, urban residence, low income, high 
employment, old age, young age, social mobility, and home help for the elderly 
which moved from 8th place in 1970 to 1st in 1975. Between 1960-75, rapid 
urbanization took place with the proportion of farmers, fishermen, and workers 
declining from 43% in 1960 to 19% in 1975. The results of stepwise regression 
analysis indicate a positive relationship of urban residence with mortality of 
men and women except school-aged and middle-aged women, and the working 
populations, as well as life expectancy at birth for males and females and ages 
20 and 40 years for males. Rural residence was positively associated with the 
male marriage rate, whereas the marriage rate for females was affected by 
industrialization and urbanization. High employment and social mobility were 
positively related to the female marriage rate. Low income was positively 
related to the divorce rate for males and females. Rural residence and high 
employment were positively related to the birth rate. The birth rate is higher 
in rural areas. Mortality of professional, engineering, and administrative 
workers was slightly lower than the total working population, while sales 
workers, those in farming, fishing, and forestry, and in personal and domestic 
service had significantly higher mortality. The mortality of the nonworking 
population was 6-8 times higher than sales, transportation, and communication, 
and personal and domestic service as well as the total population.

PMID: 2130091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Sb Ved Pr Lek Fak Karlovy Univerzity Hradci Kralove Suppl.
1990;33(4):397-403.

[Long-term results after surgical treatment of head injuries].

[Article in Czech]

Rehák S(1), Malec R, Náhlovský J, Rezác O, Málek V, Jezík J.

Author information:
(1)Neurochirurgická klinika FN.

It outflows from a survey of 174 cases operated during five years for skull 
injuries that the resulting state depends of preoperative level of 
consciousness. In injuries with the loss of consciousness, there is a close 
correlation between the type of motor-topain response and the resulting state. 
It was stated from the delay for up to 5 years after surgery that the 
independence from the day life has been achieved in 65% of injured patients 
which experienced preoperatively a mild loss of consciousness as they localized 
the pain stimulus or produced unintelligible sounds in response to pain. The 
similar condition has been achieved in only 14% cases of preoperatively deep 
loss of consciousness, which responded to pain or not with decerebrative 
extension, or unconsciously flexion of extremities. The resulting state is less 
dependent of operative diagnosis. Epidural hematomas show better results, where 
the independence of the day life has been achieved in 62% of cases. The majority 
of them was able to perform their previous working activities later on. In 
contrast, the worst results were achieved in association with brain contusions, 
where only 18% of injured patients sustained the independence of environs with 
no return to the previous work. Prognostically, the factor of age is the most 
important. In the age group over than 60 years, the mortality represented 58%, 
whereas in 20-40 years of age it was only 24%.

PMID: 2130485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Acta Univ Carol Med (Praha). 1990;36(1-4):169-70.

Secretory immunoglobulin A in serum of CF patients.

Hein J(1), Seyfarth M, Brock J, Kirschnick HD, Schober S, Breuel K, Gülzow HU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Wilhelm-Pieck-University Rostock, German Democratic 
Republic.

Increased sIgA values were found in CF patients in about 70 per cent (3 studies 
with 23, 43, 45 CF patients). With higher severity of CF disease (Shwachman 
score) we could observe higher sIgA levels. Postmortem histological findings and 
sIgA concentrations correlated well in 13 cases. Determinations of sIgA in serum 
could serve as parameter for hepatobiliary involvement in CF. Secretory 
immunoglobulin A (sIgA) is the predominant immunoglobulin of exocrine 
secretions. In serum large and frequent elevations of sIgA could be found in 
patients with chronic liver disease characterized by biliary obstruction (3). 
Slight and irregular elevations were observed in patients with disorders of 
gastrointestinal tract and of respiratory tract as well as in lactating women 
(3). Manifestations of the hepatobiliary system in CF will become more important 
with advancing age and progressively higher life expectancy of CF patients. A 
simple reliable test for detection of hepatobiliary involvement in CF would be 
useful.

PMID: 2130686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Acta Univ Carol Med (Praha). 1990;36(1-4):213-4.

Increasing survival of Swedish patients with CF.

Kollberg H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University Hospital, Umea, Sweden.

A decade ago the majority of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients in Sweden died in 
childhood or adolescence. However, better knowledge of the underlying defect and 
understanding of how to treat the symptoms have resulted in an ever increasing 
survival rate. The results support the idea that: 1. an intensive, comprehensive 
treatment is rewarding. 2. treatment or at least regular check ups at a 
CF-center give a better prognosis. 3. newborn screening might lead to a better 
prognosis.

PMID: 2130698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Health Rep. 1990;2(4 Suppl 13):1-58.

Life tables, Canada and provinces 1985-1987.

[Article in English, French]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2131002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Math Biosci. 1990 Mar;98(2):251-71. doi: 10.1016/0025-5564(90)90128-l.

Life expectancy for a class of life distributions having the "setting the clock 
back to zero" property.

Rao BR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Graduate School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15261.

It is demonstrated that the expression for the life expectancy of an individual 
in biomedical investigations can be greatly simplified if the class of life 
distributions possesses what has been called the "setting the clock back to 
zero" property, studied previously by Raja Rao and Talwalker. It is shown that 
the Gompertzian growth process, Krane's family of life distributions, and the 
linear hazard exponential distribution have this property. To illustrate the use 
