of this property, an individual's life expectancy is tabulated for several 
choices of the parameter values when the individual's life distribution belongs 
to a Gompertzian growth process. In addition, it is shown that a new survival 
model considered by Chiang and Conforti for the estimation of time to tumor has 
the "setting the clock back to zero" property. Its life expectancy is evaluated 
at any given time chi 0 using this property.

DOI: 10.1016/0025-5564(90)90128-l
PMID: 2134506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Pediatr Neurosurg. 1990-1991;16(6):287-91. doi: 10.1159/000120544.

A prospective, randomized study of shunt function and infections as a function 
of shunt placement.

Bierbrauer KS(1), Storrs BB, McLone DG, Tomita T, Dauser R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Neurosurgery, Children's Memorial Hospital, Chicago, 
Ill.

Much controversy still exists about the relative advantages and disadvantages of 
anteriorly vs. posteriorly placed shunts in terms of infection rate and duration 
of function. During a 27-month period, all 121 patients seen requiring new shunt 
insertions were prospectively randomized to anterior or posterior placement. The 
mean duration of follow-up was 15 months. 70% of the shunts in the posteriorly 
placed group vs. 59% of the shunts in the anteriorly placed group did not 
require further surgery during the study period. In a life-table analysis of 
shunt survival as a function of placement, the shunts in the posteriorly placed 
group 'survived' slightly longer without malfunctioning or becoming infected 
than the anteriorly placed shunts. Therefore, the authors conclude that 
anteriorly placed shunts offer no advantage over posteriorly placed shunts in 
terms of shunt malfunction or infection.

DOI: 10.1159/000120544
PMID: 2134737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Dakar Med. 1990;35(2):210-5.

[Surgery of severe ischemias and infections of the foot in the diabetic. (Role 
of arterial revascularization)].

[Article in French]

Ndiaye M(1), Dereume JP, Vincent G, Bellens B, Khouzam S, Wautrecht JC.

Author information:
(1)Service de pathologie vasculaire, HÃ´pital Erasme, Bruxelles, Belgique.

From overall data on 54 diabetic patients, who, over a period of 7 years, 
underwent operations to save their feet from ischaemia (whether linked or not to 
infection), the authors study 31 cases of revascularization through arterial 
bridging in the diabetic's lower limbs. The lesions were identified by doppler 
examination followed by arteriography. Various types of bridging were 
undertaken: 24 femoro-popliteal bridges, including 16 super-articular and 8 
sub-articular ones; and 7 femoro-distal bridges on the leg artery trunks. For 
the post operational period, only one amputation, resulting from precocious 
thrombosis in the graft, had been noted. All the patients had been followed up, 
and the authors remarked that, after an average lapse of 43 months, actuarial 
survival without amputation of the lower limb amounted to 94.97% after 7 years, 
and the level of actuarial permeability of the bridges amounted to 72.61% after 
the same period. The authors stress that revascularization indications should be 
the same for atheromatous diabetics as for non diabetics.

PMID: 2135797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1990 Feb;71(2):93-6.

The 39th annual John Stanley Coulter lecture. Aging, disability and the 
home-care revolution.

Zola IK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA 02254-9110.

PMID: 2137325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. J Neurosci Nurs. 1990 Feb;22(1):43-7. doi: 10.1097/01376517-199002000-00010.

Life satisfaction and spinal cord injury: the patient perspective.

Dunnum L(1).

Author information:
(1)Pitt County Memorial Hospital, Greenville, North Carolina 27835.

Spinal cord injury is a high-cost disability requiring numerous personal 
life-style changes. As a result of advanced medical and nursing care, life 
expectancy of the spinal cord-injured (SCI) individual has greatly increased. 
Economic impact and changes in life expectancy have led to assumptions about 
life satisfaction in SCI individuals. Those assumptions are: (1) spinal 
cord-injured individuals have less life satisfaction than the general 
population, and (2) since these individuals cannot lead "normal" lives, they may 
be better off not living. This study attempted to disprove those assumptions by 
determining whether correlation existed between life satisfaction and physical 
functioning in SCI individuals. Telephone interviews were conducted with 31 
individuals who had suffered spinal cord injury. Data were collected through the 
use of the Life Satisfaction in the Elderly Scale (LSES) and the Barthel Index. 
A correlation was found to exist between LSES scores and Barthel scores, but 
Barthel scores and the LSES subscale scores for goals, mood and finance had low 
correlations. The data suggest nurses may enhance life satisfaction in the SCI 
individual by focusing on adaptation in the three subscales of goals, mood and 
finance.

DOI: 10.1097/01376517-199002000-00010
PMID: 2137502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Ann Intern Med. 1990 Apr 1;112(7):499-504. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-112-7-499.

Cancer-associated hypercalcemia: morbidity and mortality. Clinical experience in 
126 treated patients.

Ralston SH(1), Gallacher SJ, Patel U, Campbell J, Boyle IT.

Author information:
(1)Glasgow Royal Infirmary, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Jul 1;113(1):84.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To review the effects of antihypercalcemic treatment on 
morbidity and mortality in cancer-associated hypercalcemia.
DESIGN: Retrospective study of 126 consecutive patients with cancer-associated 
hypercalcemia.
SETTING: Inpatient referrals from a teaching hospital in the United Kingdom.
INTERVENTION: Medical antihypercalcemic therapy supplemented by specific 
anticancer therapy where possible.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Median survival was 30 days. Survival did not 
differ in patients treated with different antihypercalcemic regimens but was 
longer (median, 135 days; P less than 0.001) in a subgroup of 26 patients for 
whom specific anticancer therapy was available. Polyuria and polydipsia improved 
after therapy in 83% of cases, central nervous system symptoms in 71%, 
constipation in 70%, nausea and vomiting in 56%, anorexia in 50%, and malaise 
and fatigue in 47% (all significant, P less than 0.001, pre-treatment compared 
with post-treatment). Pain control improved in only 23% of cases (not 
significant). Only 7% of patients with post-treatment serum calcium values above 
3.50 mmol/L improved clinically compared with 80% whose calcium values fell 
below 2.80 mmol/L (P less than 0.001). Corresponding figures for the proportion 
of patients discharged from the hospital were 0% and 68% (P less than 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Life expectancy is poor in cancer-associated hypercalcemia even in 
patients who are actively treated. Antihypercalcemic therapy has an important 
palliative role, however, because symptoms are usually improved and, in many 
cases, patients may be made well enough to be discharged from the hospital 
during the terminal stages of their illness.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-112-7-499
PMID: 2138442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:215-21. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_39.

High-dose Ara-C as a single-agent consolidation therapy in childhood acute 
myelogenous leukemia.

Lie SO(1), Berglund G, Gustafsson G, Jonmundsson G, Siimes M, Yssing M.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Pediatrics, Rikshospitalet, Oslo, Norway.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_39
PMID: 2138994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Diabet Med. 1990 Mar-Apr;7(3):228-33. doi:
10.1111/j.1464-5491.1990.tb01375.x.

Obesity, weight loss and prognosis in type 2 diabetes.

Lean ME(1), Powrie JK, Anderson AS, Garthwaite PH.

Author information:
(1)Diabetic Clinic, Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, UK.

Comment in
    Diabet Med. 1990 Nov;7(9):841.

Medical records were reviewed of all 263 Type 2 diabetic patients from the 
Aberdeen diabetic clinic who were known to have died in 1985 or 1986. Mean age 
was 65 years (interquartile range 57-75 years) at diagnosis and 72 (66-80) years 
for men, 75 (72-83) years for women, at death. Life expectancy at age 65 was 35% 
less than published figures for the general population. Analysis of survival in 
233 patients who lived more than 1 year (189 overweight) using stepwise multiple 
regression indicated as significant (p less than 0.05) adverse independent 
variables: age at diagnosis, presence of clinical ischaemic heart disease at 
diagnosis, plasma glucose at diagnosis; and as significant favourable variables: 
oral hypoglycaemic drug therapy, weight loss in the first year, and an 
interaction between weight loss and BMI for patients with BMI greater than 25 kg 
m-2. Changes in fashions over the years are likely to have biased these results 
towards including oral hypoglycaemic therapy and excluding the expected adverse 
effect of smoking. Mean weight loss at 1 year was 2.6 kg for those with BMI 
25-30 kg m-2, 6.8 kg with BMI greater than 30 kg m-2, following standard 
dietetic advice. For the average patient each 1 kg weight loss was associated 
with 3-4 months prolonged survival.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.1990.tb01375.x
PMID: 2139394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Ann Vasc Surg. 1990 May;4(3):309-12. doi: 10.1007/BF02009464.

Basic data related to infrainguinal revascularization procedures.

Dalman RL(1), Taylor LM Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 
97201-3098.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02009464
PMID: 2140272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Clin Ter. 1990 Mar 31;132(6 Suppl):443-50.

[Aging of the population: the 2d demographic revolution].

[Article in Italian]

Recchia G.

The extension of the duration of life and the growth of elderly population 
stimulate the neuropharmacology to research new preparations and consequently to 
develop new methodic of research. At present a project of research started by 
Glaxo and coordinated by the Centre for Geriatric and Gerontology of Modena 
University on "The use of a methodology to evaluate aging population and to 
investigate the effects of L-Acetylcarnitine in senile deterioration" is in 
progress. Some aspects of this research, like dimension, experimental method, 
ways of management, evaluation of findings are new. They were discussed and 
examined during a meeting held on 22nd and 23rd September 1989, the reports of 
which are in this volume.

PMID: 2140968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Offentl Gesundheitswes. 1990 May;52 Suppl 1:23-8.

[Epidemiology and minimal risks--possibilities and limits of a prevention 
relevant risk assessment].

[Article in German]

Uberla K(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut fÃ¼r Med. Informationsverarbeitung, Biometrie und Epidemiologie, 
UniversitÃ¤t MÃ¼nchen.

PMID: 2141678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Ann Vasc Surg. 1990 Jul;4(4):351-5. doi: 10.1007/BF02000498.

Proximal percutaneous balloon angioplasty and distal bypass for multilevel 
arterial occlusion. Veterans Administration Cooperative Study No. 199.

Wilson SE(1), White GH, Wolf G, Cross AP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, Torrance 90509.

Multiple sites of atherosclerotic occlusion in high risk patients may be treated 
by angioplasty of the iliac obstruction and distal reconstruction. We report 18 
male patients with symptomatic peripheral vascular disease in whom proximal 
iliac percutaneous transluminal angioplasty was combined with femoropopliteal 
bypass (11), femorotibial bypass (2), or femorofemoral bypass (5). There were no 
operative deaths. The pretreatment ankle brachial index of 0.40 +/- 0.04 was 
increased to 0.64 +/- 0.04 by discharge (p = 0.0001), and remained significantly 
increased through 27 months (0.65 +/- 0.07) (p = 0.0001). During the follow-up 
period of 2-57 (mean 27 months) one dilated iliac artery required repeated 
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and revision of the femoropopliteal bypass 
at three months. Two late amputations of study limbs occurred at two years and 
three years due to progression of distal disease in the infrapopliteal segment. 
Four patients died during the follow-up period of ischemic heart disease (3) and 
lung carcinoma (1). Life table analysis shows a 76% success rate for the 
combined procedures at two years. In selected, high risk patients, proximal 
iliac dilatation and distal bypass is an acceptable alternative reconstruction 
for multilevel occlusion.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02000498
PMID: 2141996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. N Engl J Med. 1990 Aug 30;323(9):584-9. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199008303230906.

The life expectancy of profoundly handicapped people with mental retardation.

Eyman RK(1), Grossman HJ, Chaney RH, Call TL.

Author information:
(1)Lanterman Developmental Center, University of California, Riverside.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1991 Feb 7;324(6):420.

BACKGROUND: The life expectancy of people with mental retardation is shorter 
than that of the general population. Exact estimates of the length of survival 
for mentally retarded persons at especially high risk are not available, 
however.
METHODS: We collected data on mortality and other factors for 99,543 persons 
with developmental disabilities, including mental retardation, who received 
services from the California Department of Developmental Services between March 
1984 and October 1987. Three subgroups were selected on the basis of the four 
characteristics identified in previous studies as the best predictors of 
mortality among mentally retarded people (deficits in cognitive function, 
limitations on mobility, incontinence, and inability to eat without assistance). 
In all three subgroups, the subjects had severe deficits in cognitive function 
and were incontinent; the subjects in subgroup 1 (n = 1550) were immobile and 
required tube feeding; those in subgroup 2 (n = 4513) were immobile but could 
eat with assistance; those in subgroup 3 (n = 997) were mobile (but not 
ambulatory) and could eat with assistance. Life tables were generated for each 
of the three subgroups.
RESULTS: Immobile subjects were found to have a much shorter life expectancy 
than those who could move about. Those who also required tube feeding (subgroup 
1) had a very short life expectancy (i.e., four to five additional years). Those 
who could eat if fed by others (subgroup 2) had an average life expectancy of 
approximately eight additional years. In contrast, those who were mobile though 
not ambulatory (subgroup 3) had a life expectancy of about 23 additional years.
CONCLUSIONS: Severe mental retardation is associated with a decrease in life 
expectancy, particularly for those who were immobile.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199008303230906
PMID: 2143270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Am J Surg. 1990 Aug;160(2):166-9; discussion 169-70. doi: 
10.1016/s0002-9610(05)80299-5.

Initial results and subsequent outcome of laser thermal-assisted balloon 
angioplasty of 56 consecutive femoropopliteal lesions.

Feinberg RL(1), Wheeler JR, Gregory RT, Snyder SO Jr, Gayle RG, Parent FN 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Eastern Virginia Graduate School of Medicine, 
Norfolk 23510.

Laser thermal-assisted balloon angioplasty (LABA) was prospectively applied in 
the treatment of 56 atherosclerotic femoropopliteal occlusive lesions in 51 
consecutive patients. All procedures were performed in the operating room using 
a neodynium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet (Nd:YAG) laser source, and patients were 
evaluated for immediate and long-term hemodynamic and clinical improvement. 
Technically successful recanalization was achieved in 82% of cases, with 57% of 
all patients (32 of 56) obtaining early hemodynamic and clinical improvement. 
Long-term clinical success (by life-table analysis) was obtained by only 22.5% 
at 6 months, and only 13.5% at 12 months. Patients presenting with intermittent 
claudication did significantly better than those presenting for limb salvage (p 
= 0.01), and trends toward improved outcome were noted for short versus long 
lesions as well as for patients with "good" versus "poor" distal runoff (NS). 
Procedure-related morbidity occurred in 14%, and there was one peri-procedural 
mortality (1.8%). We conclude that the use of LABA is associated with long-term 
clinical success in only a small proportion of patients, and that widespread 
clinical application of this technique is not indicated at the present time.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(05)80299-5
PMID: 2143359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Eur Arch Psychiatry Neurol Sci. 1990;239(6):361-5. doi: 10.1007/BF01734542.

Excess mortality by natural causes of Italian schizophrenic patients.

Lesage AD(1), Trapani V, Tansella M.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatric Research Center, Louis-H. Lafontaine Hospital, MontrÃ©al, QuÃ©bec, 
Canada.

The risk of mortality over a 5- to 8-year period for a total 1-year prevalence 
cohort of schizophrenic patients extracted by means of the South-Verona 
Psychiatric Case Register (Italy) was assessed using three methods: (1) case 
control with both non-psychotic patients and the general population matched for 
sex and age; (2) indirect standardization using mortality tables; (3) a recently 
described method using survival tables. All methods yielded an excess mortality 
associated with schizophrenia, close to the two-fold increase described in other 
studies, while the survival tables method produced a higher standardized 
mortality ratio (SMR). The increased SMR did not appear solely attributable to 
suicide. Most deaths were attributable to natural causes. This is a departure 
from other recently reported mortality studies. The possible reasons are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01734542
PMID: 2144235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Community Health Stud. 1990;14(2):138-45. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.1990.tb00034.x.

Life expectancy free of disability: a composite measure of population health 
status.

Graham P(1), Davis P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, School of Medicine, University of Auckland, 
New Zealand.

Access to disability data from a nationwide survey of New Zealanders provides 
the opportunity to estimate Life Expectancy Free of Disability (LEFD) for the 
non-institutional adult population. This measure of population health status 
combines mortality and morbidity data into a single index. The analysis is 
restricted to the 15-64 age range and results on partial life expectancy free of 
disability are presented for the key sociodemographic groups. The results 
conform to the international evidence and highlight the potential impact of 
disability as a component in a composite measure of population health status: 
although women live longer than men, almost all this apparent advantage in 
longevity is spent in some state of disablement; Maori are disadvantaged in 
comparison with non-Maori both in terms of longevity and in the proportion of 
the life span spent disability-free; and, social class comparisons show a 
decline in LEFD with declining social class that is steeper than the 
corresponding mortality gradient. Despite some technical difficulties and the 
strong requirements of the data, the LEFD measure has many potential 
applications in public health research and planning. In particular, it has the 
potential to direct research and policy towards the enhancement of the active 
years of life rather than just the postponement of mortality.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.1990.tb00034.x
PMID: 2145114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Int Disabil Stud. 1990 Jan-Mar;12(1):1-5. doi: 10.3109/03790799009166593.

Mobility disability among elderly men and women in Sweden.

Lundgren-Lindquist B(1), Jette AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, University of Gothenburg, Sweden.

This paper draws on a unique longitudinal study, '70-year-old people in 
Gothenburg, Sweden', to augment available knowledge of the incidence of physical 
disability in an ageing cohort. Among women the incidence of mobility disability 
was 0.12 between age 70 and 75 years, and 0.19 from age 75 to 79 years. One in 
10 males became mobility disabled from age 70 to 75 years while the risk 
increased to 0.18 between age 75 and 79 years. Cohort members disabled at age 70 
years were at significantly increased risk of dying by age 79 years compared 
with their non-disabled counterparts. The data were consistent with other 
research revealing a substantial annual risk of disability or death for people 
in their eighth decade of life.

DOI: 10.3109/03790799009166593
PMID: 2145257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. J Biol Chem. 1990 Oct 5;265(28):17300-6.

Promoter region of the human CRE-BP1 gene encoding the transcriptional regulator 
binding to the cyclic AMP response element.

Nagase T(1), Sudo T, Maekawa T, Yoshimura T, Fujisawa J, Yoshida M, Ishii S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics, Tsukuba Life Science Center, (RIKEN), 
Ibaraki, Japan.

Genomic clones containing the 5'-terminal portion of the human CRE-BP1 gene that 
encodes transcriptional regulator binding to the cyclic AMP response element 
(CRE) were isolated. Multiple transcriptional start sites in the promoter region 
were identified by nuclease S1 mapping and primer extension analysis. By DNase I 
footprinting with use of purified transcription factor Sp1 and nuclear extracts 
prepared from HeLa cells, 11 Sp1-binding sites, two CCAAT sequences, two CREs, 
and three unknown factor recognition elements were found. Transfection of 
chimeric chloramphenicol acetyltransferase plasmids containing various deletions 
of the promoter into CV-1 cells indicated that the region between nucleotides 
-50 and 90, which contained three Sp1-binding sites and one CRE, was sufficient 
for basal promoter activity. These results suggest that multiple 
sequence-specific DNA-binding proteins may control the expression of the CRE-BP1 
gene, although Sp1 seems to be important for the basal promoter activity.

PMID: 2145272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. J Vasc Surg. 1990 Oct;12(4):416-20; discussion 420-1.

Clinical results of axillobifemoral bypass using externally supported 
polytetrafluoroethylene.

Harris EJ Jr(1), Taylor LM Jr, McConnell DB, Moneta GL, Yeager RA, Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Portland Veterans Administration Hospital, OR.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 1991 Apr;13(4):564-5.

Seventy-six axillobifemoral grafts with externally supported 
polytetrafluoroethylene prostheses were performed since 1983. The indications 
for operation were absolute (aortic sepsis) in 20 (26%) patients and relative 
(excessive operative risk or technical difficulty) in 56 (74%) patients. The 
life-table primary patency for these operations at 4 years follow-up (mean 
follow-up, 2 years, 4 months) was 85%. We conclude that the patency results 
achieved in this patient series are sufficiently satisfactory to warrant use of 
axillobifemoral grafts in an expanded number of patients with high operative 
risk and need for bypass of aortoiliac occlusive disease.

PMID: 2145447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Circulation. 1990 Nov;82(5 Suppl):IV243-7.

Surgical repair of postinfarction ventricular septal defect.

Komeda M(1), Fremes SE, David TE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Toronto Western Hospital, Ontario, 
Canada.

Thirty-one patients underwent repair of postinfarction ventricular septal defect 
(VSD) from 1980 to 1989. All patients were in New York Heart Association 
functional class IV, and 15 of them were in cardiogenic shock when operated on. 
Coronary arteriography was performed in all patients before surgery: nine had 
one-vessel, 11 had two-vessel, and 11 had three-vessel disease. The VSD was 
anterior in 15 patients and posterior in 16. The operative technique evolved 
over the years from a fairly extensive infarctectomy and reconstruction of the 
septum and right and left ventricular walls with a double Dacron patch, to 
minimal or no infarctectomy and closure of the VSD by excluding the infarcted 
muscle from the left ventricular cavity. This is accomplished by suturing a 
single patch of bovine pericardium to healthy endocardium surrounding the 
infarcted muscle. The right ventricle is left intact. Overall mortality was 10%, 
with three operative deaths. All deaths occurred in patients in cardiogenic 
shock who had three-vessel coronary artery disease. Thus, the mortality for 
patients in shock was 20%, and the mortality for patients with three-vessel 
disease was 27%. The operative mortality for patients with posterior VSD was 
twice as high as in patients with anterior VSD. However, univariate analysis of 
various clinical, hemodynamic, and operative variables indicated that only 
three-vessel disease was predictive of operative mortality. Because the number 
of patients was small and the overall operative mortality relatively low, the 
results of this analysis may not be valid.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2146043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Sov Zdravookhr. 1990;(8):54-7.

["Premature mortality" as an integral indicator of the quality of medical care].

[Article in Russian]

Askalonov AA, Gerasimenko NF, ShoÄ­khet IaN.

Retrospective expert appraisal of the causes of premature death provides the 
possibility for raising the quality of health care, eliminating defects in the 
work of polyclinics and hospitals and also consolidating the main chains of 
health care. Reduction of premature mortality for preventable causes can 
lengthen expectation of life. When assessing the quality of health care it is 
recommended to apply an integral indicator of premature mortality.

PMID: 2146750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Ann Intern Med. 1990 Dec 1;113(11):852-71. doi:
10.7326/0003-4819-113-11-852.

Myocardial revascularization for chronic stable angina. Analysis of the role of 
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty based on data available in 1989.

Wong JB(1), Sonnenberg FA, Salem DN, Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)New England Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1992 Mar 1;116(5):422-3.
    Ann Intern Med. 1990 Dec 1;113(11):817-8.

No prospective, randomized clinical trial comparing coronary artery bypass 
grafting, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, and conservative 
therapy has been reported. To address when revascularization is indicated, we 
constructed a decision analytic model. Our model incorporates procedure-related 
mortality and morbidity, coronary artery disease-related mortality, and the 
benefit of revascularization. We determined the quality-adjusted life expectancy 
and expected costs for each strategy. Our model suggests that angioplasty is a 
reasonable alternative to bypass surgery in patients with favorable lesions if 
angioplasty would provide a comparable degree of revascularization. Our model 
predicts that patients treated with angioplasty will have more revascularization 
procedures than will patients treated with bypass surgery but predicts that both 
treatments will cost the same over the typical patient's lifetime. In many 
patients with severe angina or documented ischemia, angioplasty is indicated for 
stenosis of a single artery. In patients with two vessel disease that is 
amenable to angioplasty, angioplasty may be a reasonable alternative to bypass 
surgery. Even in patients whose three vessel disease can be completely 
revascularized by angioplasty, bypass surgery, although relatively expensive, is 
slightly better than angioplasty. In patients with three vessel disease and 
comorbidities that increase operative risk, angioplasty may be a reasonable 
alternative to either bypass surgery or medical therapy.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-113-11-852
PMID: 2146912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Eur J Cancer. 1990;26(10):1089-92. doi: 10.1016/0277-5379(90)90058-2.

Effect of (E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine on life-span and 5-fluorouracil 
metabolism in mice with hepatic metastases.

Iigo M(1), Nishikata K, Nakajima Y, Hoshi A, De Clercq E.

Author information:
(1)Chemotherapy Division, National Cancer Center Research Institute, Tokyo, 
Japan.

5-Fluorouracil (5FU) is rapidly metabolised in the liver by dihydrouracil 
dehydrogenase. Bromovinyluracil is formed in the liver from 
(E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine (BVDU) by pyrimidine nucleoside 
phosphorylase and is a potent inhibitor of dihydrouracil dehydrogenase. The 
co-administration of 5FU (intravenously) and BVDU (orally) was investigated in 
normal BDF1 mice and in those bearing liver metastases of Lewis lung carcinoma. 
5FU alone rapidly disappeared from plasma and liver within 60 min of dosing. 
Administered with BVDU, 5FU persisted in plasma and liver for 60-180 min. The 
combination also significantly enhanced the life-span of tumour-bearing mice. 
5FU plus BVDU may have therapeutic potential in the treatment of primary and 
secondary liver tumours.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-5379(90)90058-2
PMID: 2148885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Eur J Cancer. 1990;26(9):941-5. doi: 10.1016/0277-5379(90)90615-z.

Diagnostic and treatment procedures induced by cervical cancer screening.

van Ballegooijen M(1), Koopmanschap MA, van Oortmarssen GJ, Habbema JD, Lubbe 
KT, van Agt HM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Social Medicine, Erasmus University 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

The amount of diagnostic and treatment procedures induced by cervical cancer 
screening has been assessed prospectively and related to mortality reduction. 
Assumptions are based on data from Dutch screening programmes and on a scenario 
for future developments. With 5 invitations for screening, between ages 37-70 
every eight years, 13 deaths are avoided per million women per screening year. 
Each death avoided is balanced by 2800 preventive smears, 9 women referred to a 
gynaecology department and 4 minor treatment procedures (conserving treatment or 
exconisation). 25 invitations in a life-time avoids 27 deaths per million women 
per screening year but with 7300 preventive smears, 22 referrals and 8 small 
treatment procedures. Thus intensifying screening will not only result in 
diminishing returns of extra screening efforts, but also in increasing risk for 
women to undergo unnecessary (no invasive disease or death avoided) diagnostic 
and treatment procedures. The balance between beneficial and adverse effects 
deteriorates strongly when hysterectomies play an important part in the 
management of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-5379(90)90615-z
PMID: 2149018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Eur J Cancer. 1990;26(9):978-82. doi: 10.1016/0277-5379(90)90625-4.

Magnitude and time trends of the life-time risk of developing cancer in 
Saarland, Germany.

Brenner H(1), Stegmaier C, Ziegler H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Sociology, University of Ulm, F.R.G.

The probability of developing cancer within defined age-intervals or during 
life-time was assessed for the population of Saarland, Germany in 1970-1972 and 
1980-1985 based on life-tables and age-specific cancer incidence rates. As a 
result of increasing life expectancy and, for some forms of cancer, increasing 
age-specific incidence rates, the probability at birth of eventually developing 
a malignant neoplasm (ICD-9 140-208) increased from 24.12% in 1970-1972 to 
32.35% in 1980-1985 in men, and from 24.76 to 29.72%, respectively, in women. 
Comparable calculations are presented and discussed for all of the most common 
malignancies in women and men. The relation to common measures of descriptive 
epidemiology, mainly the cumulative rate and the cumulative risk, is numerically 
illustrated.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-5379(90)90625-4
PMID: 2149025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Am J Med Genet Suppl. 1990;7:75-8. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.1320370714.

Incidence, survival, and mortality in Down syndrome in Denmark.

Mikkelsen M(1), Poulsen H, Nielsen KG.

Author information:
(1)John F. Kennedy Institute, Department of Medical Genetics, 
Glostrup/Copenhagen, Denmark.

The incidence of Down syndrome (DS) has been studied intensively for the two 
periods 1960-1972 and 1980-1985. The age distribution of birth-giving mothers 
has changed to older age at child birth from the first to the second period. 
Non-disjunction studies were carried out in 328 families. Most cases were first 
maternal meiotic division failures (43%). Nearly 12% were paternal meiotic 
failures, half of them in first meiosis and half in second. Both newborn infants 
and fetuses were studied. There was an excess of males, especially among newborn 
DS children, which was related to a failure at paternal first meiosis. A 
positive sex ratio was found in all newborn infants as well as in free trisomics 
as in those with de novo translocations. Survival was studied in the cohort of 
278 infants born 1980 to 1985. The highest death-rate occurred between 22 days 
to 1 year (10.4%), 30 times more than the death probability in the Danish 
population. There was a significant difference between DS cases with congenital 
heart defect and those without. The probability of infants without heart disease 
of reaching the first year was 93.1% and the age of 6 years 88.0%. The 
probability of survival of children with congenital heart defect was 71.7% and 
45.2%, respectively, reflecting also the increasing number of infants born 
prematurely with low birth weight or small-for-date infants. The predominant 
heart problems were atrio-ventricular canal defects. Infections and 
malformations added to the high mortality rate. Three cases of leukemia were 
significantly more than expected.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.1320370714
PMID: 2149979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. J Hum Hypertens. 1990 Dec;4(6):651-8.

Should treatment of mild to moderate hypertension be targeted? Results from a 
Markov cohort model incorporating multiple risk factors.

Kawachi I(1), Purdie G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Wellington School of Medicine, New Zealand.

A series of guidelines for the treatment of mild to moderate hypertension have 
recommended that individuals with multiple cardiovascular risk factors should 
start treatment sooner, or at a lower level of diastolic pressure, compared with 
patients with an isolated elevation of blood pressure. A Markov cohort model was 
constructed to examine this claim. The cohorts consisted of mild to moderately 
hypertensive men with added cardiovascular risk factors: smoking, raised serum 
cholesterol, and presence of left ventricular hypertrophy on electrocardiogram. 
The results of the model confirm that the prognosis of hypertension is highly 
dependent on the presence of other risk factors. The average remaining life 
expectancy of two patients of identical age and level of diastolic pressure 
varied by as much as 10 to 24 years, depending on the presence of other risk 
factors. Depending on the patient, the gain in life expectancy due to treatment 
of hypertension ranged from 0.11 years to 1.03 years. However, the results also 
indicated that the additional benefit as a result of 'targeting' in people with 
multiple risk factors did not exceed 0.47 years for any of the patient 
categories analysed. The nature of these conclusions remained unaltered despite 
the use of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and varying assumptions about 
the benefit of treatment. In comparison the model indicated that the benefits of 
smoking cessation among hypertensive men were three to eight times greater than 
the expected benefits from antihypertensive therapy.

PMID: 2151391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Health Rep. 1990;2(3):253-68.

The health of the elderly and the extent of family mutual aid.

[Article in English, French]

Lapierre L.

By 1986, Canadian life expectancy at birth for men had risen to 73 years; for 
women, it was almost 80 years. Life expectancy without disability, on the other 
hand, was 61.3 years for men and 64.9 years for women. Although many Canadians 
aged 65 and over suffer from health problems and restrictions in their 
activities, most consider themselves to be in good, or even excellent, health. 
However, elderly women are slightly more likely to rate their health status as 
fair or poor than are elderly men. Circulatory system diseases and cancer are 
responsible for most cases of hospitalization and death in elderly Canadians. 
The elderly often exchange services with relatives, and this arrangement seems 
generally to correspond to their needs.

PMID: 2151648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Acta Biomed Ateneo Parmense. 1990;61(3-4):159-63.

[Current status of the surgical treatment in colorectal carcinoma].

[Article in Italian]

Peracchia A(1), Violi V, Roncoroni L, Sarli L, GafÃ  M.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinica Chirurgica Generale e Terapia Chirurgica, dell'UniversitÃ  
degli Studi di Parma.

The Authors take into consideration some topical subjects, with reference to 
their own experience. The percentage of patients diagnosed as having localized 
disease, despite improvement in diagnostic techniques, has not changed over the 
last decade. In local recurrences without distant metastases, surgery is the 
sole treatment which may improve the survival. Resection however has to be 
thought over, since surgery of local recurrences may be considered as curative 
only in a few cases and the probability of a poor result in survival and quality 
of life does not justify a surgical procedure when it is associated with a high 
operative risk. In cancers of the middle 3rd and lower rectum, staplers have 
favoured the choice of anterior resection, which does not show a high rate of 
recurrences, when compared to abdominoperineal excision. At last, progress in 
surgery, anaesthesiology and intensive care determined a different therapeutical 
attitude in the aged, either due to a lower incidence of postoperative 
complications, or because life expectancy in the elderly seems to justify, 
whenever possible, a curative procedure.

PMID: 2151916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Pediatr Dent. 1990 Apr-May;12(2):72-8.

Cystic fibrosis: a current review.

Fernald GW(1), Roberts MW, Boat TF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina, 
Chapel Hill.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common severe genetic disorder seen in 
Caucasians. Defective exocrine gland secretions result in chronic diseases of 
the respiratory and gastrointestinal systems. However, the CF gene recently has 
been located and cloned. Currently, genetic technology allows identification of 
sibling carriers and antenatal diagnosis within families. Oral implications 
associated with CF include enamel hypoplasia and tooth discoloration, salivary 
gland involvement, reduced incidence of dental caries, reservoir for potentially 
pathogenic respiratory bacteria, mouth breathing, and anterior open bite 
associated with nasal and sinus obstruction. Continued efforts to improve early 
diagnosis and treatment of CF should increase life expectancy. Affected patients 
are expected to seek regular dental care more frequently as they learn to view 
the disease as manageable.

PMID: 2151956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Zentralbl Chir. 1990;115(1):35-42.

[Atypical lung cancer resection? A clinical observation pro and contra].

[Article in German]

Weber J(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik fÃ¼r Thoraxchirurgie und Lungenkrankheiten, Zschadrass.

The answer to the title of atypical resections of lung cancer is controvers. The 
experiences about a long time shows there is'nt a difference between the 
5-year-survival-rate after lobectomy and pneumonectomy in the same stages. From 
1970-1986 we carried out 195 atypical resections of lung cancer. The 
postoperative stage pT1-2N0M0 was constituted in 149 patients. The 
5-year-survival-rate of this patients is'nt different to the results after 
lobectomy. Such resections are a very good method in the surgery of lung cancer 
and for the rehabilitation of such patients.

PMID: 2156393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Gastroenterology. 1990 May;98(5 Pt 1):1392-3. doi:
10.1016/0016-5085(90)90371-7.

Prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma.

Rosellini SR, Grilli F, Miglio F.

Comment on
    Gastroenterology. 1989 Jun;96(6):1566-71.

DOI: 10.1016/0016-5085(90)90371-7
PMID: 2157621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Chest. 1990 May;97(5):1045-51. doi: 10.1378/chest.97.5.1045.

Expanded possibilities for surgical treatment of lung cancer. Survival in stage 
IIIa disease.

Mountain CF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston.

Two anatomic subsets of patients with stage IIIa non-small cell cancer of the 
lung are candidates for definitive surgical treatment. The first group includes 
patients with T1, T2, or T3 primary tumors and regional lymph node metastases 
confined to the ipsilateral mediastinal and subcarinal lymph nodes (N2 disease). 
There is controversy over the selection of this group of patients for surgery; 
some physicians do not believe that resection is an option if there is any 
evidence of mediastinal lymph node involvement. The second group is composed of 
patients with limited, circumscribed extrapulmonary extension of the primary 
tumor and lymph node metastasis, if present, limited to the hilar and 
peribronchial nodes (T3 N0-1 M0 disease). Peripheral tumors invading the chest 
wall, tumors originating in the superior sulcus of the lung, and those with 
limited involvement of the pericardium or the main bronchus are included. A 
five-year cumulative survival rate of 28 percent was documented for 198 
consecutive patients undergoing complete resection for stage IIIa non-small cell 
lung cancer, 21 percent for the T1-3 N2 group, and 39 percent for the T3 N0-N1 
patients. Cell type was not a statistically significant variable for survival; 
however, a superior outcome was observed for patients with squamous cell 
carcinoma in every TNM category. The results support surgical treatment as a 
valid option for selected patients with extrapulmonary extension of the disease.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.97.5.1045
PMID: 2158877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. J Endocrinol. 1990 Mar;124(3):403-15. doi: 10.1677/joe.0.1240403.

Effects of passive immunization of growing guinea-pigs with an insulin-like 
growth factor-I monoclonal antibody.

Kerr DE(1), Laarveld B, Manns JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Physiological Sciences, University of Saskatchewan, 
Saskatoon, Canada.

The physiological importance of circulating as opposed to locally produced 
insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) has not been determined. By using a passive 
immunoneutralization technique, our objectives were to evaluate the role of 
circulating IGF-I in the regulation of animal growth and pituitary GH content. A 
monoclonal antibody (MAb) to IGF-I, generated in our laboratory, has an affinity 
(Ka) of 0.13 litres/pmol for recombinant human IGF-I (rhIGF-I). 
Cross-reactivities of recombinant des-tripeptide IGF-I and recombinant bovine 
IGF-II were approximately 40 and 8% respectively. This MAb inhibited binding of 
purified hIGF-I to human placental membranes. In a radioimmunoassay based on 
displacement of 125I-labelled rhIGF-I from the MAb, displacement curves 
generated with dilutions of acid-gel chromatography extracts of guinea-pig serum 
and rhIGF-I standards were parallel. Twenty-four, 3-week-old male guinea-pigs 
were treated with the IGF-I MAb, a bovine herpes virus-I (BHV-I) MAb (control 
MAb) or vehicle (phosphate-buffered saline) (n = 8 per group). Treatments were 
administered i.p. every 3 days for 24 days at a dose of 20 mg/kg body weight. 
Blood was obtained on day 23 (48 h after treatment) and on day 25 (24 h after 
treatment). In a liquid-phase assay, serum from the IGF-I MAb-treated group 
bound 38 +/- 8% (mean +/- S.E.M.) (day 23) and 56 +/- 7% (day 25) of an 
125I-labelled rhIGF-I trace at a final dilution of 1:10,000. Because of the 
development of an anti-mouse immune response in the guinea-pigs, these 
parameters would probably have been much greater during the first 2 weeks of the 
trial. Of the total IGF-I in serum, 50 +/- 5% and 61 +/- 4% could be 
immunoprecipitated with an excess of rabbit anti-mouse immunoglobulin in samples 
from days 23 and 25 respectively. Comparisons between the groups treated with 
IGF-I MAb and BHV-I MAb revealed no significant differences in whole animal 
growth rate, growth of individual tissues, or pituitary GH content. Mean serum 
concentrations of IGF-I were 69 and 99% greater in the IGF-I MAb-treated group 
than in the BHV-I MAb-treated group on days 23 and 25 respectively. These 
differences probably resulted from an extension of the half-life of IGF-I in 
serum of animals treated with the IGF-I MAb.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1240403
PMID: 2159044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Contraception. 1990 May;41(5):507-17. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(90)90060-9.

A comparative study of the safety, effectiveness and acceptability of two 
foaming vaginal tablets (nonoxynol-9 versus menfegol) in Thai women.

Chompootaweep S(1), Dusitsin N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok, Thailand.

Two foaming vaginal tablets containing nonoxynol-9 (OVT-n) or menfegol (OVT-m) 
were studied to evaluate safety, effectiveness and acceptability. The study was 
conducted at the Chulalongkorn University, Institute of Health Research, 
Bangkok, Thailand. One-hundred-two women randomly assigned to one of the two 
types of tablets were scheduled for follow-up visits at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months. 
Although there were differences between the two groups in the gross cumulative 
12-month life table rates and 12-month continuation rates, these differences 
were not statistically significant. Twelve-month discontinuation rates for 
accidental pregnancy were 31.7 per 100 women for OVT-n group and 25.3 per 100 
women for the OVT-m group. Seventeen of the total 22 pregnancies occurred due to 
use failure. This study indicates that the regular and proper use of OVT-n or 
OVT-m tablets are comparable and are a safe means of birth control. Although a 
few product-related (burning) or medical complaints were reported by both groups 
of tablet users, it seems that the vaginal contraceptive is an acceptable method 
for fertility control in a suitable population who will use it regularly and 
properly.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(90)90060-9
PMID: 2161308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. J Surg Oncol. 1990 Sep;45(1):52-5. doi: 10.1002/jso.2930450112.

Postoperative radiation therapy for major salivary gland malignancies.

Harrison LB(1), Armstrong JG, Spiro RH, Fass DE, Strong EW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, NY 10021.

Between 1966 and 1982 there have been 46 patients treated with surgery plus 
post-operative radiation therapy for malignant tumors of salivary gland origin. 
The indication(s) for radiotherapy included positive margins (42%), advanced 
local tumor (37%), positive nodes (33%), or high grade histology (48%). Overall 
actuarial local control at 5 years was 73%, being 100% for T1, 83% for T2, 80% 
for T3, and 43% for T4. Actuarial survival at 5 years was 80% for T1, 83% for 
T2, 60% for T3, and 48% for T4. Patients with positive nodes (N+) did worse than 
those with negative nodes (No), with locoregional control and survival at 5 
years being 58% vs. 83%, (P = 0.025) and 38% vs. 80% (P = less than .01), 
respectively. We found no need for contralateral neck treatment even for those 
with positive nodes. Also, to date, none of eight patients with adenoid cystic 
histology has failed locally, as opposed to three of eight failures in patients 
treated with surgery alone. We believe that post-operative irradiation provides 
excellent locoregional control for appropriate patients with malignant tumors of 
