major salivary glands.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.2930450112
PMID: 2166187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Laryngoscope. 1990 Aug;100(8):799-802. doi:
10.1288/00005537-199008000-00001.

Fibrosarcoma of the head and neck.

Frankenthaler R(1), Ayala AG, Hartwick RW, Goepfert H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston 77030.

A review of 118 archival cases originally diagnosed as fibrosarcoma of the head 
and neck is presented. Sites of involvement were the sinonasal region, upper 
aerodigestive tract, skin, and soft tissues. Review of the pathologic specimens 
applying strict histopathologic criteria including immunohistochemical 
techniques reclassified many of the tumors as malignant fibrous histiocytoma, 
monophasic synovial sarcoma-like neoplasm, or dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans. 
Improved clinical outcome correlated significantly with lesser tumor size, lower 
histologic grade, and negative surgical margins. Location in the skin or soft 
tissue tended to convey improved survival, although not to a level of 
statistical significance.

DOI: 10.1288/00005537-199008000-00001
PMID: 2166190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 1990 Sep;116(9):1055-60. doi: 
10.1001/archotol.1990.01870090071011.

Submandibular gland tumors. Adverse histologic factors and therapeutic 
implications.

Weber RS(1), Byers RM, Petit B, Wolf P, Ang K, Luna M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston 77030.

We reviewed our 41-year experience with tumors of the submandibular gland to 
determine what factors influence outcome and their implications for treatment. 
The most common benign neoplasm was pleomorphic adenoma (21), while among 
malignant tumors the adenoid cystic variety (37) predominated. For the 86 
patients who had malignant tumors, the 2- and 5-year survivals by the life table 
method were 82% and 69%, respectively. For patients with malignant tumors, 
histology, size, perineural invasion, and prior treatment did not affect overall 
survival. Factors adversely affecting outcome were extraglandular soft-tissue 
extension and lymph node metastasis. Local-regional control was enhanced in 
patients with soft-tissue extension if they were treated by surgery followed by 
radiotherapy rather than by surgery alone.

DOI: 10.1001/archotol.1990.01870090071011
PMID: 2166537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi (Taipei). 1990 Apr;45(4):233-40.

Cancer of the auricle.

Lin JC(1), Chen KY, Jan JS, Wu YP, Jame JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Veterans General Hospital-Taichung, R.O.C.

Thirty-five patients with carcinoma of the auricle seen in Veterans General 
Hospitals, Taipei and Taichung from January 1970 to December 1988 were reviewed 
retrospectively. There were 28 men and 7 women. More cases occurred in the 7th 
and 8th decades with an average of 64 years (median 67) and ranged from 29 to 91 
years. The most common manifestations at diagnosis were exophytic mass (86%) 
and/or ulcerative lesion (29%). Histologically, basal cell carcinoma outnumbered 
squamous cell carcinoma 17 to 14. The remaining 4 cases consisted of 2 
melanomas, 1 sweat gland adenocarcinoma and 1 unclassified sarcoma. Eighty-eight 
percent (15/17) of basal cell carcinoma presented at early stage without 
regional lymph node or distant metastasis. They were mainly treated by surgery. 
One patient with multifocal lesions suffered from marginal recurrence. The 2 and 
5-year survival rates were 94% and 86% respectively. Half of our 14 patients 
with squamous cell carcinoma had local extensive tumor but no lymph node or 
distant metastasis was found at the time of diagnosis. Local recurrence occurred 
in 4 patients, one case associated with lung metastasis. The local control rate 
of combined surgery and irradiation in squamous cell carcinoma was 100% (4/4), 
superior than that of operation alone 67% (6/9) or radiotherapy alone (0/1). The 
actual 2 and 5-year survival rates were 85% and 64% respectively. Our 4 patients 
with different pathology other than basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma had 
high rate of regional lymph nodes or distant metastases, presenting poor 
prognosis. The overall treatment failure for carcinoma of the auricle was 23% 
(8/35) but reduced to 14% after salvage treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

PMID: 2168270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Z Erkr Atmungsorgane. 1990;174(3):204-14.

[Experiences with cytostatic treatment of small cell bronchial cancer].

[Article in German]

Wurbs W(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik des Bezirkskrankenhauses Halle, DDR.

Reported are the results of cytostatic treatment in 32 patients with inoperable 
metastasized small cell bronchogenic carcinoma. With regard to the therapeutic 
effects 3 groups (A: limited disease, stage I-IIIa; B: extensive disease, stage 
IIIb; C: extensive disease II, stage IV) are compared. The application of a 
combined chemo-radiotherapy depends on the age, the general state and the stage 
of extension of the tumor. The polychemotherapy followed by the radiotherapy 
should be preferably applied to patients with tumors of the disease group A, 
because in this group the best results were obtained with an average survival 
time of 21.3 months, a remission length of 13.4 months, an improvement of life 
quality for 12.5 months and a high remission rate. The above mentioned therapy 
scheme is justifiable and practicable.

PMID: 2169145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Br J Ind Med. 1990 Sep;47(9):615-20. doi: 10.1136/oem.47.9.615.

Individual asbestos exposure: smoking and mortality--a cohort study in the 
asbestos cement industry.

Neuberger M(1), Kundi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Vienna, Wien, Austria.

A historical prospective cohort study comprised all persons employed from 1950 
to 1981 for at least three years in the oldest asbestos cement factory in the 
world. From 2816 persons eligible for the study, record based estimates and 
measurements of dust and fibres and histories of smoking based on interviews 
were used to calculate individual exposures over time. After observation of 
51,218 person-years and registration of 540 deaths, underlying causes of death 
for this cohort were compared with those for the regional population on the 
basis of death certificates. Deaths from lung cancer in asbestos cement workers 
were higher (standard mortality ratio (SMR) 1.7), but after adjustment for age 
and sex specific smoking habits this was not significant (SMR 1.04). The study 
had a probability of greater than 92% of detecting a smoking adjusted SMR of 1.5 
or more. Using the best available evidence (including necropsy records) 52 
deaths were assigned to lung cancer and five to mesothelioma. Life table 
analyses confirmed the predominant influence of smoking on lung cancer. 
Mesothelioma was associated with the use of crocidolite in pipe production. From 
present working conditions with much lower concentrations of chrysotile and no 
crocidolite no more occupational cancers are expected in the asbestos cement 
industry.

DOI: 10.1136/oem.47.9.615
PMCID: PMC1035247
PMID: 2169860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Hepatogastroenterology. 1990 Aug;37(4):421-4.

Resection of intrahepatic bile duct carcinoma with hilar bile duct and portal 
vein invasion--a case report.

Bhuiya MM(1), Nimura Y, Kato M, Kamiya J, Kondo S, Hayakawa N, Shionoya S.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Nagoya University School of Medicine, Japan.

A case of resected intrahepatic bile duct cancer with hilar bile duct and portal 
vein invasion is presented. Percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage was 
performed to alleviate jaundice and evaluate the biliary system. Intraductal 
tumor extension was determined, and an accurate histological diagnosis was made 
in biopsy material obtained under percutaneous transhepatic cholangioscopy. 
Preoperative surgical planning was carried out on the basis of an evaluation of 
the findings of ultrasonography, computed tomography, arteriography, portography 
and percutaneous transhepatic cholangioscopy. Curative surgery, which included 
right hepatic lobectomy with total caudate lobectomy and combined resection and 
reconstruction of the portal vein, was performed. Bilioenteric continuity was 
re-established by a Roux-en-Y jejunal loop. The histological diagnosis was 
moderately differentiated tubular adenocarcinoma originated in the right 
posterior branch of the intrahepatic bile duct. Postoperative recovery was very 
good, and the patient has now been enjoying a good active social life for the 
past three years with no signs of tumor recurrence. This case report discusses 
the accurate diagnosis and rational surgical treatment for intrahepatic bile 
duct carcinoma with hilar invasion.

PMID: 2170258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 1990;116(5):425-30. doi: 10.1007/BF01612987.

Is the progress in cancer treatment results adequate or are we confronted with a 
more or less worldwide stagnation.

Karrer K.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01612987
PMID: 2172256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Arch Geschwulstforsch. 1990;60(5):365-72.

[Neuroblastoma, nephroblastoma and osteosarcoma in patients at 2 pediatric 
oncologic centers. A 15-year report].

[Article in German]

Grigo B(1), Blau HJ.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung f체r Immunpathologie und H채matologie der Klinik f체r Kinderheilkunde 
der Universit채t Rostock.

We are giving a report about the results of treatment of children (0 till 15 
years old), who were from January 1, 1971 till December 31, 1985 with a 
neuroblastoma, a nephroblastoma or an osteosarcoma hospitalized in the Clinic of 
Paediatrics of the University at Rostock or in the Children's Clinic of the 
District Hospital at Schwerin. All together there were 65 cases with such a 
diagnosis. There is a summarizing life table analysis.

PMID: 2173515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Postgrad Med. 1990 Dec;88(8):157-60, 163-4. doi:
10.1080/00325481.1990.11704777.

Hormone replacement therapy. How to select the best preparation and regimen.

Rudy DR(1).

Author information:
(1)Bon Secours Family Practice Center, St Clair Shores, MI 48081.

Hormone replacement therapy is a mainstay of preventive healthcare for the 
maturing female population. Estrogen deficiency that comes with menopause can 
have serious effects and is especially important in light of the increasing life 
expectancy of women. Various estrogen and progesterone preparations are 
available, and their best application requires understanding of the different 
potencies and metabolic effects. Daily maintenance therapy without a drug-free 
interval is becoming the standard method of the 1990s. No doubt the future will 
bring even better delivery regimens.

DOI: 10.1080/00325481.1990.11704777
PMID: 2173836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. South Med J. 1990 Dec;83(12):1421-5.

Hypercholesterolemia: the cost of treatment in perspective.

Kelley MD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Alabama School of Medicine, 
Tuscaloosa.

Would the money spent on treating hypercholesterolemia save more lives if spent 
elsewhere? How many dollars must be spent on a treatment to make one person live 
1 year longer? This cost-effectiveness analysis uses the cost per year of life 
gained to compare a wide variety of health care interventions ranging from 
carcinogen research to screening tests to liver transplants. The comparison 
calls into question some popular trends.

PMID: 2174577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Cardiovasc Res. 1990 Nov;24(11):946-52. doi: 10.1093/cvr/24.11.946.

Urinary cyclic guanosine monophosphate as an indicator of experimental 
congestive heart failure in rats.

Michel JB(1), Mercadier JJ, Galen FX, Urbain R, Dussaule JC, Philippe M, Corvol 
P.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U36, Paris, France.

STUDY OBJECTIVE--The aim was to investigate the relationship between urinary 
cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP) excretion and activation of the heart 
endocrine function in two rat models of cardiac failure. DESIGN--Left 
ventricular infarction and aging in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) are 
two models that could lead to congestive heart failure. In the first the degree 
of failure depends on the length of the infarcted area. In the second the degree 
of failure depends on time. Urinary cyclic GMP, plasma atrial natriuretic factor 
(ANF), and degree of congestive heart failure were evaluated in both models. 
EXPERIMENTAL ANIMALS--31 male Wistar rats were used for myocardial infarction 
and sham operated controls. Spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) rats (2, 6, 12 and 
24 months old, n = 10 per group) were used for the age overload studies. 
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS--In myocardial infarction, the amount of left 
ventricular ANF mRNA, plasma ANF concentration, and urinary cyclic GMP excretion 
were correlated and were proportional to the degree of cardiac failure, as 
assessed by the increase in right ventricular mass and the decrease in blood 
pressure. In male SHR (aged 6-24 months), plasma ANF and urinary cyclic GMP were 
correlated, increased with age, and were proportional to the heart to body 
weight ratio. These correlations between plasma ANF, daily urinary cyclic GMP 
excretion, and left ventricular hypertrophy persisted in two year old SHR. The 
presence of pleural extravasation in these old animals was also characterised by 
significant increases in both plasma ANF and urinary cyclic GMP. The plasma ANF 
and the daily urinary cyclic GMP excretion were negative prognostic indicators 
of life expectancy in two year old SHR. CONCLUSIONS--Urinary cyclic GMP 
excretion, correlated with the plasma ANF level, is a non-invasive indicator of 
congestive heart failure in two models of overloaded left ventricle in rats.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/24.11.946
PMID: 2176935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Ann Otolaryngol Chir Cervicofac. 1990;107(1):53-8.

[Radiotherapy of carcinoma of the nasopharynx].

[Article in French]

Belgadi B(1), Richaud P, Lagarde P, Dilhuydy JM, Faucher A, Traissac L, Stoll D, 
Pigneux J.

Author information:
(1)Fondation Bergoni챕, Bordeaux.

Cancer of the cavum is a rare condition in France. These tumors have, however, a 
poor prognosis and in general occur in young subjects. While radiotherapy would 
appear to be the best mean of ensuring local control, life expectancy depends 
solely on distant metastases. Analysis of a series of 58 cases treated at the 
Fondation Bergoni챕 from 1975 to 1985 demonstrated a 30% five year survival rate. 
Among the 25 cases of recurrence, 1 was exclusively local and 6 were 
loco-regional (T and N), while 18 patients presented metastatic progression, 
either exclusively, or with local or lymph node failure. The prognostic factors 
found in this series were: age, extension beyond the cavum, the dose of 
radiotherapy. Results in the literature in terms of survival remain poor, 
especially in advanced stages and the future perspectives for better control of 
this disease remain early diagnosis and other forms of therapy such as combined 
chemotherapy and radiotherapy.

PMID: 2178540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. JAMA. 1990 Apr 18;263(15):2066-73.

Efficacy of adenoidectomy for recurrent otitis media in children previously 
treated with tympanostomy-tube placement. Results of parallel randomized and 
nonrandomized trials.

Paradise JL(1), Bluestone CD, Rogers KD, Taylor FH, Colborn DK, Bachman RZ, 
Bernard BS, Schwarzbach RH.

Author information:
(1)Ambulatory Care Center, Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3417.

We studied the efficacy of adenoidectomy in 213 children who had received 
tympanostomy-tube placement because of persistent and/or recurrent otitis media 
and had again developed otitis media after tubal extrusion. Ninety-nine of the 
children were assigned randomly to either an adenoidectomy group or a control 
group; in a separate trial, 114 children whose parents withheld consent for 
randomization were assigned according to parental preference. In both trials, 
control group outcomes appeared to have been biased favorably by the withdrawal 
of certain severely affected subjects from control status to receive 
adenoidectomy. Nonetheless, in both trials, adenoidectomy group outcomes were 
more favorable than control group outcomes during the first 2 follow-up years. 
Statistically significant differences were found mainly in the randomized trial, 
where during the first and second years, respectively, adenoidectomy subjects 
had 47% and 37% less time with otitis media than control subjects and 28% and 
35% fewer suppurative (acute) episodes than control subjects. We conclude that 
adenoidectomy is warranted on an individualized basis for children who develop 
recurrent otitis media after extrusion of tympanostomy tubes.

PMID: 2181158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Pediatr Res. 1990 Mar;27(3):256-9. doi: 10.1203/00006450-199003000-00010.

Estimation of extracellular volume in preterm infants less than 1500 g, 
children, and adults by sucrose dilution.

Bauer K(1), Versmold H, Pr철lss A, De Graaf SS, Meeuwsen-Van der Roest WP, 
Zijlstra WG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Munich, FRG.

Extracellular volume can be estimated from the distribution volume of sucrose 
(Vdsucrose). The purpose of this study was to establish sucrose pharmacokinetics 
in preterm infants less than 1500 g compared to children and adults and to 
define an optimal sampling scheme. In five preterm infants, 10 children, and 
five adults Vdsucrose after a single injection was calculated with the 
two-compartment model (Vdsucrose-TCM) and with the one-compartment model applied 
only to the elimination phase of the same concentration-time curve 
(Vdsucrose-OCM). In preterm infants Vdsucrose-TCM was 417 +/- 45 mL/kg (mean +/- 
SD). Vdsucrose-OCM was only 3.0 +/- 2.3% higher, because sucrose elimination 
half-life was on average 250 times longer than distribution half-life. Therefore 
Vdsucrose-OCM, requiring only four blood samples between 2 to 5 h after 
injection, gave an adequate estimate of Vdsucrose in preterm infants less than 
1500 g. Vdsucrose-TCM in children and adults was 188 +/- 26 and 189 +/- 17 
mL/kg, respectively. Vdsucrose-OCM was 10 to 65% higher. Therefore, in children 
and adults only Vdsucrose-TCM gives a reliable estimate of Vdsucrose. This 
requires 10 to 15 blood samples. The reduced sampling scheme was used in an 
extension of the study of preterm infants including five additional infants. 
Vdsucrose-OCM in the preterm infants was 462 +/- 47 mL/kg at birth and 425 +/- 
46 mL/kg at maximal postnatal wt loss. Postnatal wt loss (mean -83 +/- 44 g) was 
not significantly different from postnatal reduction of Vdsucrose-OCM (mean -82 
+/- 56 mL), suggesting that postnatal wt loss mainly represents extracellular 
fluid loss.

DOI: 10.1203/00006450-199003000-00010
PMID: 2181394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Am Heart J. 1990 Apr;119(4):942-8. doi: 10.1016/s0002-8703(05)80334-5.

Ten-year survival of patients with mild angina or myocardial infarction without 
angina: a comparison of medical and surgical treatment.

Proudfit WL(1), Kramer JR, Goormastic M, Loop FD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, OH 44195.

Ten-year survival percentages were calculated for groups of 407 initially 
medically treated patients and for 390 patients who had early coronary bypass 
surgery; all had either mild angina pectoris or myocardial infarction without 
subsequent angina pectoris. Uncensored actuarial survival was 77% for medical 
patients and 83% for the surgical group. For 179 patients who had internal 
thoracic (mammary) artery grafting as part of their procedures, survival was 91% 
in contrast to 76% for those who had vein grafts only. A sharp drop of the 
survival curve for the vein graft group after the seventh year was not shown for 
those who had internal thoracic artery grafts. Survival was 71% for 280 patients 
treated medically only.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-8703(05)80334-5
PMID: 2181843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Clin Radiol. 1990 Mar;41(3):182-4. doi: 10.1016/s0009-9260(05)80964-x.

Is screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm worthwhile?

Russell JG(1).

Author information:
(1)St Mary's Hospital, Manchester.

A calculation is made of the cost for an ultrasound screening programme for 
abdominal aortic aneurysm. From this is derived the cost of a QALY (Quality 
Adjusted Life Year) for different ages and sex. The cost of a QALY in this 
programme compares well with other types of screening programme. It is found 
that a screening programme should include both men and women.

DOI: 10.1016/s0009-9260(05)80964-x
PMID: 2182268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:185-92. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_35.

Improved treatment results in the myelocytic subtypes FAB M1-M4 but not in FAB 
M5 after intensification of induction therapy: results of the German childhood 
AML studies BFM-78 and BFM-83.

Ritter J(1), Creutzig U, Schellong G.

Author information:
(1)AML-BFM Study Group, University Children's Hospital, M체nster, FRG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_35
PMID: 2182410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:193-7. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_36.

Intensive sequential chemotherapy for children with acute myelogenous leukemia.

Grier HE(1), Gelber RD, Clavell LA, Camitta BM, Link MP, Garcea MJ, Weinstein 
HJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Oncology and Biostatistics, Dana-Farber Cancer 
Institute, Boston.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_36
PMID: 2182411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:222-5. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_40.

Therapy of childhood acute myelogenous leukemia: an update of the AIEOP/LAM 8204 
study. Italian Pediatric Hematology-Oncology Association.

Amadori S(1), Ceci A, Comelli A, Madon E, Masera G, Nespoli L, Paolucci G, 
Zanesco L, Vegna ML, Moleti ML, et al.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hematology, University La Sapienza, Rome, Italy.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_40
PMID: 2182413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:233-6. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_42.

Treatment of childhood acute nonlymphocytic leukemia: cooperative 
Austrian-Hungarian study AML-IGCI-84.

Fink FM(1), Gadner H, Gr체mayer ER, Kardos G, Revesz T, Urban C, Mutz I, Ausserer 
B, Schuler D.

Author information:
(1)St. Anna Children's Hospital, Wien, Austria.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_42
PMID: 2182415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:249-53. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_45.

Therapy of acute myelogenous leukemia in adults.

Petti MC(1), Broccia G, Caronia F, Di Raimondo F, Fioritoni G, Ladogana S, Leone 
G, Liso V, Musso M, Neri A, et al.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Hematology I, University, Rome, Italy.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_45
PMID: 2182417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:254-60. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_46.

Consolidation therapy with high-dose cytosine arabinoside: experiences of a 
prospective study in acute myeloid leukemia.

Kurrle E(1), Ehninger G, Fackler-Schwalbe E, Freund M, Heil G, Hoelzer D, Link 
H, L철ffler B, L철sch A, Mitrou PS, et al.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Internal Medicine, University of Ulm, FRG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_46
PMID: 2182418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:285-9. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_51.

Predictive models for achievement of complete remission and duration of first 
remission in adult acute myeloid leukemia.

Heinecke A(1), Sauerland MC, B체chner T.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Medical Biostatistics, University of M체nster, FRG.

Achievement of CR. Using the data of 501 patients treated identically with the 
TAD9 regimen we could not find any factor of predictive value besides age and 
state of health. The effect of FAB-M seems to be spurious as it disappeared 
using prospective data. Duration of Relapse-Free Survival. In patients with 
monthly maintenance, the maintenance overrides the possible effects of the 
considered factors. In patients without monthly maintenance we only found a 
slight effect of WBC.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_51
PMID: 2182422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:290-4. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_52.

Sequential decision strategy of the AML Cooperative Group studies.

Heinecke A(1), Sauerland MC, B체chner T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biostatistics, University of M체nster, FRG.

The ongoing 1985 studies are showing at present no clear advantage for either 
therapy. In the 1981 study, randomization was terminated by the sequential 
procedure after 161 randomizations. A test with the same alpha and beta but 
fixed sample size would have required at least 200 patients, 100 for each 
therapy. So in this case the use of the sequential procedure saved about 40 
randomizations.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_52
PMID: 2182423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:413-8. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_77.

Intensive chemotherapy for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia in adults.

Rohatiner AZ(1), Bassan R, Battista R, Barnett MJ, Gregory W, Lim J, Amess J, 
Oza A, Barbui T, Horton M, et al.

Author information:
(1)CRF Department of Medical Oncology, St. Bartholomew's Hospital, London, UK.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_77
PMID: 2182432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:432-6. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_80.

Treatment of relapsed acute lymphocytic leukemia in adults.

Freund M(1), De Boben M, Diedrich H, Ganser A, Heil G, Heyll A, Henke M, 
Hiddemann W, Knauf U, Koch P, et al.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Hematology/Oncology, Medical School, Hannover, FRG.

Thirty-three patients with ALL/AUL in first relapse were treated with an 
induction of prednisone, vindesine, daunorubicin, Erwinia asparaginase, i.t. MTX 
(phase I), high-dose cytarabine, and etoposide (phase II). Twenty-one (64%) 
achieved a complete remission, one a partial remission. Side effects of 
induction-phase I were predominantly hematological with subsequent infections 
and gastrointestinal toxicity. In phase II some patients had additional 
cutaneous, ocular, and hepatic toxicity. The treatment efficiently induced 
remissions with tolerable toxicity in relapsed ALL. The disease-free survival, 
however, needs to be improved.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_80
PMID: 2182434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:439-50. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_81.

Results and significance of six randomized trials in four consecutive ALL-BFM 
studies.

Riehm H(1), Gadner H, Henze G, Kornhuber B, Lampert F, Niethammer D, Reiter A, 
Schellong G.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Pediatrics, Hannover Medical School, FRG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_81
PMID: 2182435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:451-8. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_82.

Cytogenetics of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia in multicenter trials.

Harbott J(1), Ritterbach J, Janka-Schaub G, Ludwig WD, Reiter A, Riehm H, 
Lampert F.

Author information:
(1)Children's University Hospital, Oncocytogenetic Laboratory, Giessen, FRG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_82
PMID: 2182436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:459-66. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_83.

More is better! Update of Dana-Farber Cancer Institute/Children's Hospital 
childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia trials.

Sallan SE(1), Gelber RD, Kimball V, Donnelly M, Cohen HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA.

Between 1973 and 1985, 553 children with childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
were treated on Dana-Farber Cancer Institute/Children's Hospital, Boston, 
protocols. The programs featured intensive remission induction therapy, CNS 
treatment with cranial irradiation and intrathecal drugs, doxorubicin 
intensification with or without asparaginase, and 2-21/2 years of conventional 
continuation therapy. There has been progressive improvement in event-free 
survival for each successive program. Leukemia control concerns pertain to: 1. 
late relapses (at greater than 5 years) in "standard-risk" patients; 2. an 
increased incidence of CNS relapses, especially in "standard-risk" patients, as 
preventative treatment is reduced in intensity; and 3. bone marrow relapses in 
"high-risk"patients. Comparisons of patients receiving the more intensive arm of 
each protocol with those receiving the less intensive arm support the hypothesis 
that more intensive chemotherapy results in improved event-free survival.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_83
PMID: 2182437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:473-7. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_85.

Dutch Childhood Leukemia Study Group: early results of study ALL VI (1984-1988).

Veerman AJ(1), H채hlen K, Kamps WA, Vanleeuwen EF, de Vaan GA, Vanwering ER, 
Vanderdoes-Vandenberg A, Solbu G, Suciu S.

Author information:
(1)Dutch Childhood Leukemia Study Group, Hague, The Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_85
PMID: 2182439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:478-82. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_86.

Results of acute lymphoblastic leukemia therapy in childhood: GDR-experiences 
1981-1987.

Zintl F(1), Malke H, Reimann M, D철rffel W, Domula M, Eggers G, Exadaktylos P, 
Kotte W, Krause I, Kunert W, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Jena, GDR.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_86
PMID: 2182440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:483-8. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_87.

Impact of early intensive reinduction therapy on event-free survival in children 
with low-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Henze G(1), Fengler R, Reiter A, Ritter J, Riehm H.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Pediatrics, Free University of Berlin, FRG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_87
PMID: 2182441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:494-9. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_89.

Prognosis of initial CNS involvement in acute lymphoblastic leukemia childhood.

D철rffel W(1), Zintl F, Malke H, Reuter G, Reimann M.

Author information:
(1)II. Dept. of Pediatrics, Hospital Berlin-Buch, GDR.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_89
PMID: 2182443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:511-5. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_92.

Risk of CNS relapse after systemic relapse of childhood acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia.

Fengler R(1), Hartmann R, Bode U, Janka G, J체rgens H, Riehm H, Henze G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Freie Universit채t, Berlin, FRG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_92
PMID: 2182445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:619-26. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_113.

BFM group treatment results in relapsed childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Henze G(1), Fengler R, Hartmann R, Niethammer D, Schellong G, Riehm H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Free University of Berlin, FRG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_113
PMID: 2182452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:638-48. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_116.

Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation in childhood leukemia: results and 
strategies in the Federal Republic of Germany.

Niethammer D(1), Klingebiel T, Dopfer R, Ehninger G, Henze G, Schaefer W, 
Stollmann B, Ebell W, Link M, Riehm H, et al.

Author information:
(1)Bone Marrow Transplantation Team, Universities of T체bingen, FRG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_116
PMID: 2182454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:724-31. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_133.

Recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor after 
chemotherapy for acute leukemias at higher age or after relapse.

B체chner T(1), Hiddemann W, Koenigsmann M, Zuehlsdorf M, Woermann B, Boeckmann A, 
Aguion Freire E, Innig G, Maschmeyer G, Ludwig WD, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology/Oncology, University of M체nster, FRG.

Chemotherapy (CT) induced critical cytopenia remains as the major dose limiting 
problem in the treatment of acute leukemias. This is especially true in patients 
at high risk of early death due to high intensity chemotherapy for relapse or to 
higher age. In an attempt to reduce the phase of risk we administered human 
recombinant GM-CSF to 23 patients at a median age of 65 (range 17-84) years 
including 8 acute myelogenous (AML) and 5 lymphoblastic (ALL) leukemias after 
early or second relapses and 10 patients of 65 years and older in primary 
induction treatment for AML. 3 patients with AML had prior bone marrow 
transplantation. 4 AML's were secondary to tumor chemotherapy (2) or 
myelodysplastic syndrome (2). The study was part of chemotherapeutic phase II 
and III studies using TAD9 for primary induction chemotherapy and S-HAM for 
relapses. Starting on day 4 after the end of intensive CT GM-CSF 250 
micrograms/m2/day was given by continuous i.v. infusion and after recovery of 
neutrophils was deescalated in two 4 day steps and discontinued. 12/23 patients 
achieved a complete remission (CR) and median age of responders is 61 (range 
17-84) years. In the group of the non-transplanted patients the median recovery 
time of neutrophils is reduced by one week when compared to controls receiving 
the same chemotherapy (p = 0.002). We observed a leukemic regrowth in 3 patients 
of 61, 70, and 78 years, 2 of whom having secondary AML. After discontinuation 
of GM-CSF the regrowth of blasts was reversible in 1 patient and continued 
unaffectedly in its kinetics in 2 patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_133
PMID: 2182462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Important Adv Oncol. 1990:143-58.

Bone marrow transplantation for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia.

Fefer A, Thomas ED.

PMID: 2182517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Med Decis Making. 1990 Jan-Mar;10(1):58-67. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9001000109.

Whose utilities for decision analysis?

Boyd NF(1), Sutherland HJ, Heasman KZ, Tritchler DL, Cummings BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Ontario Cancer Institute, Toronto, Canada.

The goal of this study was to examine sources of variation in the utilities 
assigned to health states. The authors selected a common clinical problem, 
carcinoma of the rectum, and examined the utilities assigned to colostomy, a 
common outcome of treatment for that disease. After preparing and validating a 
description of colostomy and its effects on patients' lives, utilities for the 
state were obtained from five groups of individuals. These comprised two groups 
of patients who received treatment for rectal cancer, a group of physicians and 
surgeons specializing in the treatment of this disease, and two groups of 
healthy subjects, none of whom were health professionals. Of the patients who 
had been treated for rectal cancer, one group had been treated surgically with 
the formation of colostomies and the other had been treated with radiotherapy 
and none had a colostomy. Utilities for colostomy were elicited using the 
standard gamble, category rating, and a treatment choice questionnaire. The 
groups differed substantially in the utilities assigned to colostomy. In 
general, patients with colostomies and physicians assigned significantly higher 
utilities than did patients who did not themselves have a colostomy. The 
clinical significance of these differences was examined in a simplified clinical 
decision problem that compared surgery (with colostomy) and radiotherapy 
(without colostomy) as primary treatment. The expected clinical value of these 
treatment alternatives was substantially influenced by the differences observed 
in utilities for colostomy. These results emphasize the importance of patient 
utilities in clinical decision making and the need to gain greater understanding 
of the factors that influence the utilities that patients assign to health 
states.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9001000109
PMID: 2182963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1990 Mar;81(3):343-56. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.1330810304.

Modeling the prehistoric Maori population.

Brewis AA(1), Molloy MA, Sutton DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Arizona, Tucson 85721.

Skeletal and comparative evidence of mortality is combined with fertility 
estimates for the precontact Maori population of New Zealand to determine the 
implied rate of precontact population growth. This rate is found to be too low 
to populate New Zealand within the time constraints of its prehistoric sequence, 
the probable founding population size, and the probable population size at 
contact. Rates of growth necessary to populate New Zealand within the accepted 
time span are calculated. The differences between this minimum necessary rate 
and the skeletally derived rate are too large to result solely from inadequacies 
in the primary data. Four alternative explanations of this conundrum are 
proposed: 1) skeletal evidence of precontact mortality is highly inaccurate; 2) 
skeletal evidence of fertility is severely underestimating actual levels; 3) 
there was very rapid population growth in the earliest part of the sequence up 
to 1150 A.D., from which no skeletal evidence currently is available; or 4) the 
prehistoric sequence of New Zealand may have been longer than the generally 
accepted 1,000-1,200 years. These alternatives are examined, and a combination 
of the last two is found to be the most probable. The implications of this model 
for New Zealand prehistory and Oceanic paleodemography are discussed.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330810304
PMID: 2183629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Cancer. 1990 May 1;65(9 Suppl):2132-47. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19900501)65:9+<2132::aid-cncr2820651410>3.0.co;2-4.

Adjuvant systemic therapy for patients with node-negative tumors.

Henderson IC(1), Hayes DF, Parker LM, Love S, Garber JE, Recht A, Breitmeyer JB, 
Harris JR, Canellos GP.

Author information:
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115.

Early adjuvant therapy studies, especially adjuvant chemotherapy studies, were 
performed almost exclusively on patients with histologically involved axillary 
lymph nodes ("node-positive" patients). These therapies were restricted to this 
group of patients because the toxicities of adjuvant therapy were believed too 
great to justify its use in patients with a very good prognosis until its 
benefits were fully established. However, after it was demonstrated that 
adjuvant therapy can significantly prolong the disease-free survival of almost 
all groups of node-positive patients and the overall survival of some patient 
subsets, adjuvant therapy trials specifically designed for patients without 
histologically involved lymph nodes ("node-negative" patients) were initiated. 
Results from some of the largest of these second generation trials were recently 
published, and the early results from these studies have generated new 
questions. For example, will the mature results from these studies be nearly 
identical to the results seen in node-positive patients, or will node-negative 
patients derive greater benefits from adjuvant therapy? Is it possible that 
adjuvant therapy will "cure" node-negative patients but not node-positive 
patients? (Cure is defined here as an effect of therapy that returns a patient 
to the life expectancy she might have had if she had never been diagnosed with 
breast cancer). Is it possible that the added years of life from adjuvant 
therapy or that the number of node-negative patients who benefit are so small 
that these benefits will be outweighed by delayed toxicities that appear in 
patients who might have been cured even without adjuvant therapy? At present the 
available data to answer these questions definitely are either contradictory or 
nonexistent.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19900501)65:9+<2132::aid-cncr2820651410>3.0.co;2-4
PMID: 2183925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Clin Geriatr Med. 1990 May;6(2):319-34.

Geriatric nutrition.

Roe DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nutritional Sciences, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York.

The aging process alters body composition so that nutritional status changes as 
we get older. The aging process shows interindividual variability in its rate of 
development. Determinants of the rates of aging of systems and tissues are 
largely genetic. Premature aging of cells and tissues is due to genetic factors 
and to long-term exposure to physical or chemical environments that cause 
irreversible tissue damage. Whereas maximal lifespan is fixed for us all, 
individuals vary in life expectancy both because of variability in the risk of 
genetic disease which shortens life and because of variable capability for 
avoidance of those factors in our environment which cause early aging. Early 
aging as well as geriatric disease foreshorten life, but both can be prevented 
to some extent by diet or by diet and exercise. Diseases that can be 
nutritionally prevented, giving us a greater chance of achieving our genetically 
determined lifespans, include nutritional deficiency states and chronic 
diet-related diseases such as non-insulin-dependent diabetes, hypertension, 
coronary artery disease, and cancer. Disabilities resulting from these diseases 
and from degenerative arthritis are also subject to modulation by diet. The 
nutritional requirements of the elderly are mostly similar to those of younger 
people. Elderly usually need fewer calories and similar nutrient intakes 
compared with those of younger people. Elderly with higher needs for specific 
nutrients include homebound or institutionalized people who lack sunlight 
exposure and therefore require more vitamin D. Nutritional requirements to 
promote longer life expectancy and freedom from disabilities that result from 
chronic disease include restriction of food energy and fat. Nutritional 
assessment of the elderly is aimed at identifying not only the presence of 
deficiency states but also states of nutrient excess and chronic diet-related 
diseases. There are certain problems in carrying out nutritional assessment in 
the elderly, but techniques are now available which make valid assessment 
possible even in the oldest old. Those who live longest have less genetic risk 
of premature aging, but as a result of native intelligence, education, coping 
skills, and higher socioeconomic status, they also have a greater likelihood of 
eating a diet that best meets their long-term nutritional needs. Those most at 
risk for developing malnutrition as they get older are those who lack food 
access because of poverty, because of disability resulting from chronic 
geriatric disease, or because of a combination of these factors. Malnutrition is 
found in elderly in our society who live in their own homes if they are 
indigent, isolated, and homebound because of disability.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
400 WORDS)

PMID: 2184927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. J Clin Oncol. 1990 May;8(5):838-47. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1990.8.5.838.

Efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy for patients with resectable head and neck 
cancer: a subset analysis of the Head and Neck Contracts Program.

Jacobs C(1), Makuch R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, CA 
94305-5306.

To evaluate the efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy for patients with advanced 
head and neck squamous cancer, the Head and Neck Contracts Program conducted a 
three-arm study comparing standard surgery and radiation, induction chemotherapy 
(cisplatin and bleomycin) plus standard therapy, and induction chemotherapy plus 
standard therapy followed by maintenance cisplatin for 6 months. As previously 
reported, this trial of 462 patients demonstrated no significant difference in 
disease-free survival or survival, but a significantly lower metastatic rate in 
the maintenance arm. To determine whether particular subgroups may have 
benefited from adjuvant therapy, we evaluated results based on primary site, and 
tumor (T) and node (N) stage. Of the 192 patients with oral cavity cancer, those 
on the maintenance arm had a significantly improved 3-year disease-free survival 
(67%) compared with the standard arm (49%) or induction arm (44%) (overall P = 
.05). For hypopharyngeal and laryngeal cancers there was no marked overall 
benefit. For the 106 patients with T1 plus T2 disease, there was marginal 
improvement in disease-free survival for the maintenance group (72%) compared 
