with the standard group (47%) or induction group (43%) (overall P = .09). There 
was no advantage for patients with T3 and T4 disease. There was superior 
disease-free survival for patients with N1 disease on the maintenance arm (70%) 
compared with the standard arm (42%) (P = .024). The same was true for 
disease-free survival in 109 patients with N2 disease: standard (52%), induction 
(30%), maintenance (84%) (overall P less than .001). There was no benefit for N3 
disease. A significant survival advantage with maintenance chemotherapy was only 
seen for N2 disease (overall P = .04). Since head and neck cancer patients are a 
heterogeneous group, there may be particular sites and stages for which adjuvant 
chemotherapy would be advantageous, and subset analysis can help indicate 
directions for new trials.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1990.8.5.838
PMID: 2185340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. J Clin Oncol. 1990 May;8(5):875-80. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1990.8.5.875.

Aromatase inhibition with 4-hydroxyandrostenedione in the treatment of 
postmenopausal patients with advanced breast cancer: a phase II study.

Höffken K(1), Jonat W, Possinger K, Kölbel M, Kunz T, Wagner H, Becher R, 
Callies R, Friederich P, Willmanns W, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine (Cancer Research), University of Essen 
Medical School, Federal Republic of Germany.

Estrogen deprivation by aromatase inhibition is an effective treatment in breast 
cancer. Between October 1986 and March 1988, 91 postmenopausal patients with 
advanced breast cancer entered a phase II study performed jointly in three 
center to investigate the new aromatase inhibitor 4-hydroxyandrostenedione. 
Patients received 500 mg 4-hydroxyandrostenedione intramuscularly (IM) every 2 
weeks for 6 weeks, and 250 mg every 2 weeks thereafter. There were two complete 
(CRs) and 19 partial remissions (PRs) (response rate, 23%). Disease 
stabilization (no change; NC) was seen in 26 patients, and in 44 patients (48%), 
disease progression occurred. Duration of the CRs is 20+ months, median 
durations of PR and NC are 13+ and 8 months, respectively. Receptor status, 
relapse-free interval, and sites of metastatic lesions did not appear to 
influence treatment results. However, efficacy of previous tamoxifen treatment 
favorably predicted response to 4-hydroxyandrostenedione. Serum estradiol levels 
decreased significantly in patients after 2 weeks of treatment. Side effects 
were mostly nonspecific and of low degree, requiring discontinuation of 
treatment in only 3% of the patients. We conclude that aromatase inhibition with 
4-hydroxyandrostenedione is efficacious in the treatment of postmenopausal 
breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1990.8.5.875
PMID: 2185341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. J Vasc Surg. 1990 May;11(5):650-8.

Should patient age be a consideration in carotid endarterectomy?

Pinkerton JA Jr(1), Gholkar VR.

Author information:
(1)University of Missouri-Kansas City School of Medicine.

Age as a factor in the selection of patients for carotid endarterectomy was 
studied with a retrospective evaluation of the perioperative and late results of 
procedures performed on 115 elderly patients. The results were taken from an 
experience of 685 operations performed on 607 patients. Perioperative results in 
420 patients under 75 years of age (560 operations) were compared with results 
in 115 patients over 75 years of age (125 operations). Statistical comparison 
revealed a greater proportion of men in group I (66%, 55%, p = 0.0186) and a 
greater proportion of patients in group II with contralateral carotid stenosis 
(24%, 33%, p = 0.0382) and stroke as a preoperative indication for operation 
(14%, 22%, p = 0.0393). No statistical difference was found between group I and 
group II as regards other operative indications, contralateral carotid 
occlusion, bilaterality of operation, emergency operation, operation for 
recurrent carotid disease, frequency of shunt use, perioperative wound bleeding, 
and perioperative transient ischemic attack. Ipsilateral perioperative stroke 
occurred in 12 patients (2%), with all strokes occurring in the younger group of 
patients (2.4%) (NS). Perioperative death occurred in six (1%) patients, with 
five deaths (1%) occurring in the younger group (cardiac, 2; stroke, 2; 
protamine reaction, 1) and one (0.9%) death occurring in the elderly group of 
patients (ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm) (NS). Life-table analysis of the 
late results of the 115 elderly patients revealed cumulative survival rates of 
85.4% and 63.8% at 2 and 5 years, respectively. The principal causes of late 
death were cardiac (48%), cancer (15%), and stroke (9%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

PMID: 2186182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Minerva Chir. 1990 Jan;45(1-2):67-74.

[Primary carcinoma of the gallbladder].

[Article in Italian]

Ghilardi G(1), Bortolani EM, Sgroi G, Pecis C.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Chirurgia Generale e Cardiovascolare, Università di Milano.

Primary carcinoma of the gallbladder, while infrequent, is the most 
representative among the malignant neoplasms of the biliary tract. The diagnosis 
of carcinoma of the gallbladder was made in 22 out of 1252 operations performed 
for gallbladder disease (1.8%) since January 1980 through June 1988: only in 9% 
of the subjects a malignant tumor of the gallbladder was suspected 
preoperatively. In 21 cases the carcinoma was associated with chronic lithiasic 
cholecystitis. The 22 cases were assessed according to the classification 
proposed by Nevin. The operations performed were: 4 routine cholecystectomies 
(stages I and II) 4 cholecystectomies with lymphadenectomy (stages I and II); 4 
cholecystectomies with lymphadenectomy and liver wedge resection of the bed of 
the gallbladder (stages II, III, IV, V); 7 explorative laparotomies and 3 
gastrojejunal anastomoses (stage V). A complete follow-up was available for each 
of the 22 subjects: cumulative survival rates were calculated according to 
Kaplan-Meyer. The overall 5-year cumulative survival rate after operation was 
19% for the whole group, whereas it reached 76% for the subgroup of 9 patients 
classified in stages I and II. This analysis reinforces the statement that 
surgical therapy can achieve excellent results if brought about before cancer 
overwhelms the muscular layer of the gallbladder wall. Thus, as the preoperative 
diagnosis of gallbladder carcinoma is extremely difficult and uncertain, any 
delay in performing cholecystectomy seems to be unwise in all those cases of 
chronic benign disease of the gallbladder (whether lithiasic in nature or not) 
that are suspected to be a major risk factor for cancer degeneration because of 
their frequent association with the carcinoma of the gallbladder.

PMID: 2186301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Versicherungsmedizin. 1990 Apr 1;42(2):45-9.

[Life expectancy and disability following pleural empyema].

[Article in German]

Zeidler D(1).

Author information:
(1)Lungenklinik der Städt, Krankenanstalten Köln.

The pleural empyema, e.g. postpneumonial or postoperative, has, in an acute 
state of being, to be treated before all by an aimed intensive puncture, 
irrigation, and drainage therapy. Removing the cause of the empyema you can 
expect a cure as a rule, but in certain cases an operative intervention is still 
necessary. The chronic empyema often needs a decortication for an operative 
correction. The trials of medical treatment being often conservative and the 
chronic intoxication most often cause a strong impairment of the general 
condition. A lot of other organic affections or damages reduce the chances of 
cure and increase lethality. The chronic empyema not available for an operative 
correction has, as a whole, a bad long-term prognosis with a high morbidality 
and lethality. The qualities of living of these patients are often reduced a 
lot.

PMID: 2186559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Versicherungsmedizin. 1990 Apr 1;42(2):52-5.

[Clinical aspects, prognosis and therapy of liver cirrhosis].

[Article in German]

Kuntz E.

Hepatic cirrhosis is regarded as the terminal stage of the most diverse chronic 
liver diseases. It is characterized by nodular restructuring of the hepatic 
parenchyma which is accompanied by scar formation and transformation of the 
vascular system. The originally diseased liver becomes increasingly less 
prominent in pathophysiological terms, whereas the consecutive portocaval 
collateral circulation becomes increasingly effective. This leads to the serious 
complications of cirrhosis and finally also to death. The diverse influences of 
the disturbed individual functions of the liver on the body characterize the 
clinical picture with its multifarious symptoms and great variations in the 
alterations of clinical test values. An exact diagnosis (in the form of an early 
diagnosis) and clarification of the respective etiopathogenesis are of crucial 
significance for prognosis and therapy. Meticulous instruction and monitoring of 
the cirrhosis patient is absolutely necessary in practice. In this way, and also 
by means of a program of prophylactic measures, complications can be largely 
avoided. Today, treatment of the liver cirrhosis constitutes specific 
polypragmasy. However, it has produced an appreciable improvement in the quality 
of life and the life expectancy.

PMID: 2186560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Br J Dermatol. 1990 Apr;122 Suppl 35:61-70. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2133.1990.tb16127.x.

Structural changes in ageing skin.

Montagna W(1), Carlisle K.

Author information:
(1)Oregon Regional Primate Research Center, Beaverton 97006.

As average life expectancy is increasing, the ageing of skin presents a growing 
problem for dermatologists. When considering ageing it is important to 
distinguish between the effects of true biological ageing and environmental 
factors, such as exposure to sun. Epidermal changes associated with ageing 
involve the flattening of its underside, a reduction in the number of Langerhans 
cells and of melanocytes, and a decline in the number of melanosomes 
synthesized, leading to reduced pigmentation. Dermal changes involve a reduction 
in the collagenous and elastic fibres, fibroblasts, mast cells and macrophages, 
and dilation of the lymphatic channels. The number of hair follicles declines 
with age, but their structure remains unchanged. Ageing does not affect the 
sebaceous glands, but some changes occur in the exocrine sweat glands.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.1990.tb16127.x
PMID: 2186788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Klin Wochenschr. 1990 Apr 2;68(7):359-71. doi: 10.1007/BF01650886.

[Calcitonin and osteoporosis--a critical review of the literature 1980-1989].

[Article in German]

Haas HG(1), Liebrich BM, Schaffner W.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Endokrinologie und Stoffwechselkrankheiten, Kantonsspital, 
Universität Basel.

Due to increasing old age and a prolonged life expectancy osteoporoses mainly of 
the involutional type have become very common and are thus of prime 
socio-medical importance. Recently considerable attention has been given to 
calcitonin as an aetiologic, prophylactic and therapeutic agent in osteoporosis. 
Since the subject is very controversial, the present study aims at critically 
evaluating the pertinent literature from 1980-1989: 1. A decreased stimulability 
of the thyroid C-cells and thus a diminished calcitonin secretion capacity has 
been demonstrated in white postmenopausal women. However an overt calcitonin 
deficiency cannot be considered to be the only or a major cause of the 
osteoporotic bone loss. 2. An increased bone loss (occurring in phases?) may be 
stopped by calcitonin(s) given either parentally or by the intranasal route. 
This pharmacologic calcitonin effect does not differ from the well-known 
osteoclast inhibiting effect in Paget's disease and seems to be similar to 
estrogen bone effects in the menopause. 3. An increase of total body calcium 
(TbCa) of 1-4% and of the bone mineral content (BMC) has been reported occurring 
within 18-24 months of calcitonin administration in overt osteoporosis. However 
a reinforcement of the bone structure has not been shown, further crash 
fractures of vertebras occurring despite calcitonin administration for up to 2 
years. Within this observation period the bone volume assessed 
histomorphometrically did not increase, unless calcitonin was combined with 
phosphates which were known to induce secondary hyperparathyroidism. 4. 
Repeatedly an analgesic efficacy has been ascribed to calcitonins, presumably 
due to a direct hormonal effect on calcitonin receptors in the brain. Since the 
pain in osteoporosis is extremely variable and often self-limiting due to 
fracture healing the "calcitonin analgesia" has probably been over-estimated.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01650886
PMID: 2188043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Perspect Biol Med. 1990 Spring;33(3):402-20. doi: 10.1353/pbm.1990.0034.

Bridging the aging-disease dichotomy. I. The amyloidosis model.

Blumenthal HT(1), Premachandra BN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, St. Louis University School of Medicine, 
Missouri.

DOI: 10.1353/pbm.1990.0034
PMID: 2188213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. S Afr Med J. 1990 May 19;77(10):519-22.

[Results of the use of the Austin Moore prosthesis for the treatment of femur 
neck fracture at Tygerberg Hospital. A retrospective study].

[Article in Afrikaans]

van der Merwe DF(1), De Klerk AJ, Vlok GJ.

Author information:
(1)Departement Ortopedie, Universiteit van Stellenbosch en Tygerberg-hospitaal, 
Parowvallei, KP.

A retrospective study was done on 116 patients who received an Austin Moore 
prosthesis at Tygerberg Hospital between 1982 and 1983. The patients all had 
displaced intracapsular femoral neck fractures (Garden type III and IV). 
Although the Moore prosthesis must be fitted meticulously for good results, the 
operation can be performed effectively by the less experienced surgeon. This 
cementless monoprothesis is a good option for the elderly and/or poor-risk 
patient with a limited life expectancy. It has a low intraoperative mortality, a 
low percentage of re-operation and results in early and good mobilisation. In 
contrast to series on cemented prosthesis, we had a very low sepsis rate. In 
comparison to a total hip replacement, this is a much cheaper prosthesis and 
operation.

PMID: 2188381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. J Pediatr. 1990 Jun;116(6):975-84. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(05)80664-x.

White matter necrosis in very low birth weight infants: neuropathologic and 
ultrasonographic findings in infants surviving six days or longer.

Paneth N(1), Rudelli R, Monte W, Rodriguez E, Pinto J, Kairam R, Kazam E.

Author information:
(1)Program of Epidemiology, College of Human Medicine, Michigan State 
University, East Lansing 48824-1316.

We describe the neuropathologic and ultrasonographic findings in 22 very low 
birth weight infants (mean weight 948 gm) who survived at least 6 days and for 
whom cranial ultrasonography had been performed three or more times in life. 
White matter necrosis was found in 15 of the 22 subjects and was judged chronic 
(5 days' duration or longer) in seven subjects. The most common pattern was 
diffuse necrosis of hemispheric white matter, found in 10 of 15 infants; 
restriction of necrosis to the periventricular region was found in only three 
infants. The classic histologic features of periventricular leukomalacia were 
absent from 7 of the 15 infants with necrosis. Seventeen infants had 
intraventricular hemorrhage, but extension of ventricular blood into white 
matter unaffected by infarction was not found. Two ultrasonographic features 
were associated with white matter necrosis: increased parenchymal echogenicity 
and ventricular enlargement. One or both of these findings were present in 67% 
of infants with white matter necrosis, in 90% of infants with diffuse necrosis, 
but in no infant without necrosis. Increased parenchymal echogenicity was seen 
in all four infants with hemorrhagic necrosis, in 60% of infants with diffuse 
necrosis, but in none of the five infants with localized necrosis. We conclude 
that the very small infants now dying in nurseries have a form of white matter 
damage that is more extensive than, and in some cases histologically different 
from, periventricular leukomalacia as originally described. Ultrasonography as 
used in this study identified most but not all infants with pathologically 
verified white matter necrosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(05)80664-x
PMID: 2189978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Arch Intern Med. 1990 Jun;150(6):1184-9.

Societal effects and other factors affecting health care for the elderly. Report 
of the Council on Scientific Affairs. AMA Council on Scientific Affairs.

[No authors listed]

With advances in medical care, life expectancy of Americans has increased 
dramatically. The increase in the size of the elderly population has had a major 
impact on health care provision and will have an even greater impact on our 
health care system over the next several decades. Although today's medical 
students will spend nearly half of their collective careers caring for the 
elderly, insufficient numbers of students show an interest in geriatrics. 
American society has become in many ways less traditional, and age is no longer 
seen as "a pathway to wisdom." Since we are now a more mobile society, extended 
families tend to scatter, and the elderly are frequently alone. We examine the 
effects of our rapidly changing, youth-oriented society on health care for the 
elderly.

PMID: 2191635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Eur J Vasc Surg. 1990 Jun;4(3):259-64. doi: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80204-x.

Eight to ten years follow-up after carotid endarterectomy: clinical evaluation 
and Doppler examination of patients operated on between 1978-1980.

Knudsen L(1), Sillesen H, Schroeder T, Hansen HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

Follow-up information was obtained on 185 patients who consecutively underwent 
carotid endarterectomy eight to ten years previously. Doppler ultrasound 
examination was performed in 59 patients who were still alive and living within 
100 miles of the hospital. Using lifetable analysis, the annual rate of focal 
strokes was estimated to be 2% and 1.5% on the operated and the contralateral, 
non-operated carotid artery, respectively. Doppler examination revealed 48% 
re-stenoses, including 14% occlusion and 15% greater than 50% stenosis. However, 
there was no association between the occurrence of restenosis and the 
development of symptoms, perhaps with the exception of internal carotid artery 
occlusion, which is not an accepted indication for carotid endarterectomy. 
Together with recent data from the literature, these observations challenge the 
indication for reoperative carotid surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80204-x
PMID: 2191875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. J Rheumatol Suppl. 1990 May;22:33-8.

Longterm experience with low dose weekly methotrexate in rheumatoid arthritis.

Weinblatt ME(1), Maier AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Boston, MA 02115.

Longterm prospective studies (several of greater than 5 years' duration) report 
sustained efficacy with low dose weekly methotrexate. A "steroid-sparing" effect 
has been noted with methotrexate in 2 of the studies. Of 230 patients enrolled 
in prospective studies, only 8% stopped therapy due to toxicity and 3% due to 
lack of efficacy. Life table analysis projected that 63% of these patients would 
receive therapy for 6 years. Even though adverse experiences were frequent, 
serious reactions have been rare in the published studies.

PMID: 2192058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Mol Microbiol. 1990 Mar;4(3):337-43. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2958.1990.tb00601.x.

Aging and senescence of the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Jazwinski SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Louisiana State University 
Medical Center, New Orleans 70112.

The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae has a limited life span, defined by 
the number of times an individual cell divides. Longevity in this organism 
involves a genetic component. Several morphological and physiological changes 
are associated with yeast aging and senescence. One of these, an increase in 
generation time with age, provides a 'biomarker' for the aging process. This 
increase in generation time has revealed the operation of a 'senescence 
factor(s)', which is likely to be a product of age-specific gene expression. The 
Cell Spiral Model indicates coordination of successive cell cycles to be 
inherent in the determination of life span. It is proposed that life expectancy 
depends on the function of a stochastic trigger during aging that sets in motion 
a programme leading to cell senescence and death.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.1990.tb00601.x
PMID: 2192228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Eur Heart J. 1990 May;11 Suppl D:33-43. doi:
10.1093/eurheartj/11.suppl_d.33.

ACE inhibitors in the treatment of hypertension in the older patient.

Canter D(1), Frank G.

Author information:
(1)Parke-Davis Pharmaceutical Research Division, Warner-Lambert Company, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan 48105.

Hypertension is a major potential problem among the increasing number of older 
persons in the population, threatening their health and shortening their life 
expectancy due particularly to stroke and congestive heart failure (CHF). 
Controlled studies have shown that antihypertensive drug therapy reduces the 
incidence of severe CHF, stroke and cardiovascular mortality in the elderly. 
Special consideration should be given to altered drug metabolism, altered 
responses to drugs, and concomitant medications when pharmacotherapy is 
instituted in the elderly. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are 
acceptable in the hypertensive older patient as first-line therapy for all 
grades of hypertension and as second-line therapy for the patient with CHF. Use 
of ACE inhibitors avoids many of the symptoms and metabolic disturbances 
associated with beta-blockers and diuretics. Quinapril is a new non-sulphydryl 
ACE inhibitor whose active metabolite, quinaprilat, has a relatively short 
accumulation half-life compared with enalapril and lisinopril but has an 
enhanced affinity for the converting enzyme, allowing rapid excretion of the 
drug while retaining a 24-hour antihypertensive effect with once-daily dosing. 
Quinapril is a valuable addition to the ACE inhibitor class, with demonstrated 
efficacy and safety in the older patient.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/11.suppl_d.33
PMID: 2193809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Sangre (Barc). 1990 Apr;35(2):114-8.

[Idiopathic myelofibrosis: clinical course, survival, and causes of death in a 
series of 60 patients].

[Article in Spanish]

López-Guillermo A(1), Cervantes F, Rovira M, Pereira A, Quinteros L, Rozman C.

Author information:
(1)Escuela de Hematología Farreras Valenti, Servicio de Hematología, Hospital 
Clínico, Villarroel, Barcelona.

The evolutive patterns, actuarial survival and causes of death of idiopathic 
myelofibrosis were analysed in a series of 60 patients. The median age of the 
patients was 64 years; 41 were males and 19 females. In the initial bone-marrow 
biopsy studies 25 patients were in stage MF/C, 17 in MF/O- and 18 in MF/O+. When 
performing this analysis, 32 patients were dead, 19 were still alive and 9 had 
been lost after a median follow-up of 6 months. The median survival of the whole 
series was 57 months. Four major evolutive patterns were recorded: 1) blastic 
crisis (7 cases), 2) portal vein hypertension (4 cases), 3) liver insufficiency 
due to massive myeloid metaplasia of the liver without signs of portal vein 
hypertension (5 cases); in 2 of them this pattern followed splenectomy), and 4) 
heart failure ascribable, at least partially, to post-transfusion 
haemochromatosis (3 cases). The blastic crisis appearing in 7 patients presented 
after a median follow-up of 19 months, and 6 of these patients have died after a 
median of 5 months since the diagnosis of the blastic crisis. In the 16 patients 
who died without any characteristic evolutive pattern, the following causes of 
death could be registered: septic shock (6 cases), intracranial haemorrhage, 
haemoperitoneum and acute renal failure (1 case each), whereas the cause of the 
deceased was unclear in the remaining 7 patients.

PMID: 2194299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Acta Oncol. 1990;29(3):391-5. doi: 10.3109/02841869009090020.

Measurement of quality of life in advanced breast cancer.

Baum M(1), Ebbs SR, Fallowfield LJ, Fraser SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, King's College School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rayne 
Institute, London, England.

Before the twentieth century the treatment of advanced breast cancer comprised 
either willful neglect or futile mastectomy. Recent years have seen the 
introduction of therapies capable of shrinking disease volume although the 
concept of a cure still remains remote. Many of these treatments are unpleasant 
and the burden they force the patient to bear may not be compensated by the 
reduction in tumour size. Decisions on the value of initiating or continuing 
such treatment have been taken by the clinician largely since no suitable 
instruments have been available to measure individual 'quality of life'. Several 
means have now evolved and in advanced breast cancer, where the treatment may 
profoundly affect the patient's sense of wellbeing, effort is being made to find 
out how much.

DOI: 10.3109/02841869009090020
PMID: 2194541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Eur Urol. 1990;17(4):301-3. doi: 10.1159/000464065.

Medical history of Teflon.

Laustriat S(1), Geiss S, Becmeur F, Bientz J, Marcellin L, Sauvage P.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie infantile, CHU Hautepierre, Strasbourg, France.

The different stages in the medical use of Teflon are recalled. After animal 
experimentation which started in 1949, Teflon has been used in humans since 1962 
in otorhinolaryngology, since 1973 in urology and, more recently, since 1984 in 
the treatment of vesicorenal reflux. The long-term future is still uncertain, 
especially with regard to children, for whom life expectancy is long.

DOI: 10.1159/000464065
PMID: 2194816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Optom Vis Sci. 1990 May;67(5):313-4. doi: 10.1097/00006324-199005000-00001.

The graying of America: optometric considerations. Introduction.

Aston SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Pennsylvania College of Optometry, Philadelphia.

Normal and abnormal effects of aging impact greatly on individuals and their 
families. Health care providers must therefore be knowledgeable about how to 
care for elderly persons. In order to interact among elderly persons and within 
the aging network, optometrists need to have a broad understanding of 
gerontology.

DOI: 10.1097/00006324-199005000-00001
PMID: 2195415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Otolaryngol Clin North Am. 1990 Jun;23(3):429-39.

Completion thyroidectomy for initially misdiagnosed thyroid cancer.

Auguste LJ(1), Attie JN.

Author information:
(1)Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, New York.

Intraoperative frozen sections fails to diagnose thyroid carcinoma accurately in 
16% of cases. In such instances, we recommend that completion thyroidectomy be 
performed in the patient who has invasive carcinoma, is less than 70 years old, 
and has a reasonable life expectancy. The procedure should be carried out 
immediately if the error in diagnosis is discovered within a week; otherwise the 
procedure should be delayed until 3 to 4 months later. At that time, the 
recurrent laryngeal nerves and at least two parathyroid glands should be 
dissected and preserved. A paratracheal lymph node dissection should also be 
performed and the lower jugular lymph nodes should be sampled. If these jugular 
lymph nodes are found to be positive, a modified radical neck dissection should 
be added. The morbidity associated with the completion thyroidectomy is minimal. 
Postoperatively, a 131I scan of the neck should be carried out and ablative 
doses of radioactive iodine can be given if the uptake in the thyroid bed is 
greater than 1.5%. Subsequently, all patients are given thyroid suppressive 
therapy and are monitored closely. This approach will reduce the local 
recurrence rate and improve the long-term survival.

PMID: 2195432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Vet Rec. 1990 Apr 21;126(16):379-88.

Orthopaedic problems in old dogs.

Vaughan LC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Royal Veterinary College, Hatfield, Hertfordshire.

With advancing years a dog may suffer from a variety of conditions of its 
musculoskeletal system which adversely affect its ability to exercise and may 
cause it to be retired from activities in work and sport for which it has been 
trained. Arthritis is common, and in many cases arises from developmental errors 
suffered in puppyhood, such as hip dysplasia, osteochondrosis and growth plate 
disorders. Trauma to joints (ligament ruptures, dislocations and fractures) may 
also be the precursor of degenerative joint changes later in life. It is 
important, therefore, for all such conditions to be corrected as effectively as 
possible if joint disease is to be minimised as the dog grows older. Preventive 
action is also required for some conditions for which correction may not be 
entirely feasible, so the identification of modes of inheritance is important if 
those are to be controlled by breeding. Certain spinal disorders also tend to 
increase in prevalence with age, particularly spondylosis deformans, neoplasms 
and chronic degenerative radiculomyelopathy. As it happens, spondylosis in mild 
to moderate degree affects pet dogs very little, but a reduction in spinal 
flexibility can cause problems for dogs required to be agile in work or sport. 
In common with other body tissues, neoplasm of the locomotor system increases in 
occurrence in older dogs, and although the overall incidence of tumours of 
bones, joints, nervous tissue and muscle is relatively low, these are the most 
serious of all the limb and spinal conditions encountered because of their life 
threatening propensities. The treatment required covers a wide range from simple 
changes of management in order to reduce exercise, to the use of analgesics and 
anti-inflammatory drugs and to surgery to remove diseased tissue, stabilise 
joints or reduce pain with forms of arthroplasty or arthrodesis.

PMID: 2195752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Mayo Clin Proc. 1990 Jul;65(7):1020-5. doi: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)65165-9.

Hepatic cysts in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.

Everson GT(1).

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Division, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, 
Denver.

Comment on
    Mayo Clin Proc. 1990 Jul;65(7):933-42.

Hepatic cysts are one of several extrarenal manifestations of the ADPKD gene. 
Several factors, including age, gender, pregnancy, the degree of renal cystic 
disease, and the extent of renal functional impairment, may modify the 
expression of hepatic cystic disease. With advances in medical care, such as 
improvement in the management of end-stage renal disease, hemodialysis, and 
renal transplantation, patients with ADPKD will experience an increased life 
expectancy. As a result, complications associated with hepatic cysts may become 
more common, and physicians may encounter an increasing number of patients with 
ADPKD who have infected hepatic cysts. Several issues in the management of this 
complication remain unresolved, but the article by Telenti and associates in 
this issue of the Proceedings addresses some of the critical issues that 
physicians who are responsible for the care of these patients will certainly 
confront in future years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)65165-9
PMID: 2198393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Acta Diabetol Lat. 1990 Apr-Jun;27(2):173-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02581289.

The role of hypertension in the development of nephropathy in type 1 
(insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus.

Feldt-Rasmussen B(1), Nørgaard K, Jensen T, Mathiesen E, Deckert T.

Author information:
(1)Steno Memorial Hospital, Gentofte, Denmark.

Which comes first when developing clinical diabetic nephropathy, the blood 
pressure rise or the increasing urinary albumin excretion? This issue is 
discussed based on recent literature of studies in humans with Type 1 
(insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus. We conclude that hypertension has a 
central role in the progression of diabetic nephropathy and has deleterious 
effects on the life expectancy of patients who already have signs of diabetic 
renal disease in terms of elevated urinary albumin excretion. However, blood 
pressure is preceded by small increments of urinary albumin excretion rates, an 
indicator of universally increased vascular leakiness, and thus does not seem to 
be the cause of diabetic nephropathy.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02581289
PMID: 2198748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. J Urol. 1990 Sep;144(3):607-10. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)39535-6.

Current status of tumor of the bowel following ureterosigmoidostomy: a review.

Husmann DA(1), Spence HM.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Southwestern Medical School, Dallas.

In the final analysis the major question that arises is whether urinary 
diversion to the intact colon should be performed at all for benign conditions 
in which a relatively long life expectancy may be anticipated. In answer to this 
question we believe that if exstrophy is the problem early primary closure with 
the staged reconstruction should be attempted first. If such efforts are marred 
by persistent incontinence management with an artificial urinary sphincter 
should be considered. In individuals with multiple bladder dehiscences after 
attempts at primary bladder closure, or in an individual with persistent 
incontinence despite multiple procedures surgical alternates should include 
diversion by a bowel conduit, continent urinary diversion, a variant of the 
ureterosigmoidostomy or standard ureterosigmoidostomy. Indeed, despite the 
appropriate concern regarding the development of tumor in ureterosigmoidostomy, 
this diversion may still have a major role in the educational process of urology 
throughout the next decade. Specifically, we must apply the knowledge gained 
from our clinical and laboratory investigations of ureterosigmoid diversion to 
the current more popular means of diversion. Of particular concern are the 
clinical findings of adenocarcinoma in enteric augmentations. This discovery 
must serve as a warning for the possibility of urocolonic tumors developing 
within alternative continent urinary diversions within the next 20 to 30 years. 
Certainly, at least annual evaluations of any diversions are mandatory until we 
can define accurately the morbidity and mortality arising from our 
interventional management.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)39535-6
PMID: 2201791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Klin Padiatr. 1990 Jul-Aug;202(4):243-52. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1025528.

[Incidence, clinical markers and prognostic significance of immunologic subtypes 
of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in children: experiences of the ALL-BFM 83 
and 86 studies].

[Article in German]

Ludwig WD(1), Teichmann JV, Sperling C, Komischke B, Ritter J, Reiter A, 
Odenwald E, Sauter S, Riehm H.

Author information:
(1)Abt. für Innere Medizin, Universitätsklinikum Steglitz, Freie Universität 
Berlin.

In the therapy studies ALL-BFM 83 and 86, immunophenotyping of ALL by monoclonal 
antibodies was performed in a total of 1162 protocol patients (ALL-BFM 83 n = 
578; ALL-BFM 86 n = 584). Both studies yielded similar results with respect to 
the incidence of immunological subtypes: CD10-negative pre-pre-B ALL (ALL-BFM 
83: 3.6%; ALL-BFM 86: 5.3%), common ALL (80.1%; 77.9%), B-ALL (1.9%; 2.8%), 
pre-T/T-ALL (13.9%; 13.5%). Leukemic cells of 3 patients in the ALL-BFM 83 study 
lacked lymphoid and myeloid antigens (acute unclassifiable leukemia, 0.5%), and 
3 patients in the ALL-BFM 86 study exhibited different blast populations with 
expression of either myeloid or lymphoid features (acute mixed-lineage leukemia, 
0.5%). Coexpression of myeloid antigens (CD13 and/or CD33 and/or CDw65) on 
lymphoblasts (My-positive ALL) was identified in 35 of the 570 (6.1%) protocol 
patients prospectively analyzed in the ALL-BFM 86 study. The following 
associations were observed between the immunological subtype and the clinical 
risk factors: median age (years)-pre-pre-B 3.0, common 4.3, B- 7.9, pre-T/T-ALL 
8.5 (pre-pre-B, common vs. pre-T/T-ALL p = 0.05); median leukocyte counts (x 
10(9)/l)-pre-pre-B 80, common 9.1, B- 12.3, pre-T/T-ALL 68.1 (common, B- vs. 
pre-pre-B, pre-T/T-ALL p less than 0.05). The prognostic relevance of the 
immunophenotype was evaluated on the basis of the therapeutic results obtained 
in the ALL-BFM 83 study. A significant difference in the remission rate was only 
recognizable between patients with common ALL (99.1%) and those with pre-T/T-ALL 
(93.7%, p less than 0.001). After a median follow-up of 54 months, the 
probability of event-free survival is 71% for pre-pre-B ALL, 67% for common ALL, 
56% for pre-T/T-ALL and 27% for B-ALL (common vs. B-, pre-T/T-ALL p less than 
0.001), the prognosis in patients with pre-pre-B and common ALL being markedly 
influenced by the initial leukocyte counts and the age.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1025528
PMID: 2203938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Onkologie. 1990 Jun;13(3):203-6. doi: 10.1159/000216759.

Bioavailability of cyclophosphamide in the CMF regimen.

Gheuens E(1), Slee PH, de Bruijn EA.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology, University of Antwerp, 
Belgium.

Cyclophosphamide (CY) was administered to 22 breast cancer patients treated 
routinely according to the CMF regimen: 75 mg/m3/d x 14 d p.o. CY, 30 mg/m2 days 
1 and 8 i.v. methotrexate (MTX) and 500 mg/m2 days 1 and 8 i.v. 5-Fluorouracil 
(5-FU). The sequence of drug administration was always the same: 1) CY, 2) MTX; 
and 3) 5-FU. Capillary gas chromatography was performed for determination of CY 
in blood. Bioavailability (F) could be determined in 14 patients since CY was 
also administered intravenously in the same dose. The data of systemic exposure 
of oral CY in the other 8 patients were matched to those of the first 14 in whom 
bioavailability could be determined. Mean F was 0.85 +/- 0.22 (85% +/- 22%); in 
1 patient F was 0.43 (43%). Furthermore, 3 patients treated with only p.o. CY 
had low estimated F values: 0.45, 0.49 and 0.50. In comparing patient 
characteristics with pharmacokinetic data, it was concluded that age might have 
a predictive value for elimination half-life t 1/2 z of i.v. CY. The youngest 
patients showed shortest t1/2 z and were also amongst those with the lowest F. 
This indication requires an extension of the study as well as monitoring of CY 
metabolism as a function of age. For the premenopausal patients this might be of 
particular importance, since this group is known to be prone to benefit from 
chemotherapeutic treatment according to the CMF regimen.

DOI: 10.1159/000216759
PMID: 2204007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. J La State Med Soc. 1990 Jul;142(7):33-6.

Telling the truth about rising health care costs.

Norbeck TB.

Comment in
    J La State Med Soc. 1990 Dec;142(12):3-4.

Bureaucrats, businessmen, and the media continue to blame physicians for the 
rising cost of medical care in the United States. It's time for somebody to tell 
the American people the truth.

PMID: 2204672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. J Vasc Surg. 1990 Sep;12(3):334-40.

Is routine duplex examination after carotid endarterectomy justified?

Cook JM(1), Thompson BW, Barnes RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, John L. 
McClellan Memorial Veterans Administration Hospital, Little Rock 72205.

Routine follow-up of patients after carotid endarterectomy with duplex scanning 
is commonly practiced, yet the clinical significance of identifying those with 
asymptomatic restenosis is unclear. To address this issue we reviewed 120 
consecutive patients who underwent 143 carotid endarterectomies from August 1983 
to December 1988. One hundred one patients (118 operations) were available for 
clinical follow-up, and the overall incidence of recurrent symptoms was 6% 
(6/101). Sixty-three of these patients (78 carotid endarterectomies) had 
postoperative duplex examination. Two had evidence of residual disease from the 
time of surgery and were not included in further analysis. Significant recurrent 
stenosis (greater than 50% diameter reduction) developed in 14 of the remaining 
76 arteries (18.2%). Twelve of 14 stenoses remained asymptomatic during 
follow-up from 18 to 72 months (mean 47.0 months) and did not undergo 
reoperation. Recurrent ipsilateral hemispheric symptoms developed in two 
patients with restenosis (14.3%). Four of the 62 arteries without significant 
recurrent stenosis developed ipsilateral symptoms (6.5%), but none required 
reoperation during follow-up from 1 to 71 months (mean 31.6 months). Life-table 
analysis showed no increased risk of transient ischemic attack, stroke, or death 
in patients with restenosis. This study supports regular clinical follow-up 
after carotid endarterectomy with emphasis on patient education in the 
recognition of symptoms. Although duplex scanning may be useful to follow known 
contralateral asymptomatic disease or evaluate those with recurrent symptoms, 
its routine use to identify patients with asymptomatic restenosis after carotid 
endarterectomy may be unnecessary.

PMID: 2204737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Orv Hetil. 1990 Aug 26;131(34):1893.

[The life span of Hungarian and foreign physicians in the light of obituaries 
published in medical journals].

[Article in Hungarian]

Barna P.

PMID: 2204869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Dimens Oncol Nurs. 1990 Summer;4(2):33-5.

Self-care issues for the elderly.

Geyer E.

PMID: 2206364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1990 Jul;16(1):15-22. doi: 10.1007/BF01806571.

Therapeutic strategies in inflammatory breast carcinoma based on prognostic 
factors.

Rouëssé J(1), Friedman S, Mouriesse H, Sarrazin D, Spielmann M.

Author information:
(1)Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France.

Prognostic factors were identified in a group of 210 patients with inflammatory 
breast carcinoma (IBC) treated at Institut Gustave Roussy from 1976-1985 with 
three successive induction protocols: Group A (n = 91), 1976-1980, doxorubicin, 
vincristine, methotrexate (AVM); Group B (n = 79), 1980-1982, doxorubicin, 
vincristine, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil (AVCMF); Group C (n 
= 40), 1983-1985, AVCMF. Groups A and B received 3 courses of respective 
chemotherapy (Ct) followed by radiotherapy (Rt), 45 Gy to breast and nodes and 
65-70 Gy to the tumor. Group C after the third Ct course received split courses 
of Rt to equivalent doses so there was no time lag between Ct courses. Ct from 
fourth to ninth courses was AVM in all groups. Hormonal therapy, radiocastration 
(pre and perimenopausal) or tamoxifen (postmenopausal) was given all patients. 
Clinical characteristics of age, menopausal status, castration, N status, and 
degree of clinical inflammation (limited to tumor area [PEV 2] or involving the 
entire breast [PEV 3]) were similar in all groups. Groups B and C had identical 
disease-free and overall survivals, superior to Group A (p = 0.005). In 
multi-variate analysis, AVCMF was one of the important prognostic factors 
together with PEV and N status.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF01806571
PMID: 2207344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Dig Dis Sci. 1990 Oct;35(10):1276-80. doi: 10.1007/BF01536419.

Outpatient health care utilization of patients with inflammatory bowel disease.

Verhoef MJ(1), Sutherland LR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary, AB, Canada.

On the basis of the normal life expectancy of inflammatory bowel disease 
patients, the early onset of their disease, and the variety of symptoms, 
inflammatory bowel disease patients were anticipated to be frequent users of 
outpatients services. This study assesses (1) the characteristics, (2) 
outpatient health care utilization, and (3) the degree of satisfaction with 
health care of inflammatory bowel disease patients compared to patients with 
other gastrointestinal disease. The study method was a secondary analysis of 
data collected on 395 patients attending the University of Calgary 
Gastroenterology Outpatient Clinic in 1988. Inflammatory bowel disease patients 
were significantly younger (P less than 0.001) and better educated (P less than 
0.05) than other patients. During the past year inflammatory bowel disease 
patients consulted significantly more often with their gastroenterologist (P 
less than 0.001) and spent more time in hospital (P less than 0.05) than other 
patients. Inflammatory bowel disease patients also consulted more frequently 
with herbalists and naturopaths. Lastly, inflammatory bowel disease patients 
were as satisfied with the health care they received as other patients. These 
results provide information useful for health care planners as well as for those 
dealing directly with inflammatory bowel disease patients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01536419
PMID: 2209295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1990 Aug;23(2 Pt 1):308-10. doi: 
10.1016/0190-9622(90)70214-3.

Years of potential life lost: another indicator of the impact of cutaneous 
malignant melanoma on society.

Albert VA(1), Koh HK, Geller AC, Miller DR, Prout MN, Lew RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Boston University School of Medicine, MA 02118.

Years of potential life lost (YPLL) is an indicator of premature mortality that 
complements traditional incidence and mortality rates and that facilitates 
comparisons among different cancers. We calculated YPLL from cutaneous melanoma 
and 11 other cancers routinely recorded and tracked by Surveillance, 
Epidemiology and End Results (SEER). YPLL from cutaneous melanoma ranked eighth 
for persons younger than 65 years of age and fourth for those 20 to 49 years of 
age. An average of 17.1 YPLL per death were due to melanoma, one of the highest 
rates for adult-onset cancers. The results of our study, the first to apply YPLL 
to cutaneous melanoma, emphasize the disproportionate impact of this cancer on 
young and middle-aged adults and reemphasize the importance of this cancer as a 
public health priority.

DOI: 10.1016/0190-9622(90)70214-3
PMID: 2212128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1990 Oct;16(4):896-902. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(10)80338-9.

The automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator in young patients.

Kron J(1), Oliver RP, Norsted S, Silka MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 
97201-3098.

An international survey identified 40 patients less than 20 years old who 
underwent surgical implantation of an automatic implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillator (AICD). There was a history of aborted sudden cardiac 
death or sustained ventricular tachycardia in 92.5% of these patients. 
Twenty-two patients (55%) had structural heart disease; dilated and hypertrophic 
cardiomyopathy were the most common diagnoses. Eighteen patients (45%) had 
primary electrical abnormalities including seven with the congenital long QT 
syndrome. There were no perioperative deaths associated with device 
implantation. Concomitant drug therapy was administered to 75% of the patients. 
Defibrillator discharge occurred in 70% of the patients, with 17 patients 
(42.5%) receiving at least one appropriate shock. There were two sudden and two 
nonsudden deaths at 28.2 months' median follow-up. Sudden death-free survival 
rates by life table analysis at 12 and 33 months were 0.94 and 0.88, 
respectively. Total survival rates at 12 and 33 months were 0.94 and 0.82, 
respectively. The AICD represents an effective treatment approach for young 
patients with life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(10)80338-9
PMID: 2212370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. J Vasc Surg. 1990 Oct;12(4):390-8; discussion 398-400.

Recurrent thoracic outlet syndrome.

Sanders RJ(1), Haug CE, Pearce WH.

Author information:
