(1)Department of Surgery, Rose Medical Center, Denver, CO.

Recurrent symptoms develop in 15% to 20% of patients undergoing either first rib 
resection or scalenectomy for thoracic outlet syndrome. Over the past 22 years 
134 operations for recurrence were performed in 97 patients. Four operations 
were used: transaxillary first rib resection (26); supraclavicular first rib 
resection with neurolysis (15); scalenectomy with neurolysis (58); and brachial 
plexus neurolysis (35). Complications included temporary plexus injury (0.7%), 
temporary phrenic palsy (3.7%), and permanent phrenic palsy (1.4%). The combined 
primary success rate of all four operations for recurrence was 84% in the first 
3 months. This fell to 59% at 1 to 2 years; 50% at 3 to 5 years; and 41% at 10 
to 15 years. No significant difference was found in results between the four 
operations used for recurrence. When recurrence was caused by trauma the results 
of reoperations were better than when recurrence was spontaneous. The primary 
success rates of three initial operations for thoracic outlet syndrome were 
compared to their secondary success rates (improved after reoperation). By use 
of life-table methods, reoperation improved the 5- to 10-year success rate of 
transaxillary first rib resection from 69% to 86% and for scalenectomy from 69% 
to 84%. Reoperation is successful in most cases of recurrent thoracic outlet 
syndrome and better when recurrence is the result of a neck injury.

PMID: 2214035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Gan No Rinsho. 1990 Aug;36(10):1193-8.

[A plan and a view for better prognosis].

[Article in Japanese]

Suzuki T(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of 5th Surgery, Kanagawa Cancer Center.

Better prognosis of treatment depends on both the development of activity of 
early detection and the progress of treatment. There are two important factors 
for effective detection of endometrial cancer, one is the spread of endometrial 
cytology and another is the mobilization of examinee in high age. As to the 
treatment, many clinics are challenging extension of radical hysterectomy such 
as para-aortic nodes dissection. To avoid the irradiation on the medical stuffs, 
remote controlled local treatment system will be improved. The appearance of 
more effective anti-cancer agent is desired. The conditions of an adequate 
treatment have to realize not only better cure rate, but also healthy 
after-life.

PMID: 2214159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 1990 May;27(3):265-73. doi: 
10.3143/geriatrics.27.265.

[On the life span and aging].

[Article in Japanese]

Tauchi H.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.27.265
PMID: 2214302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Lakartidningen. 1990 Sep 19;87(38):2944.

[May we live until retirement?].

[Article in Swedish]

Lindeberg S.

PMID: 2215008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Med Sestra. 1990 Jul;49(7):6-10.

[Smoking shortens human life].

[Article in Russian]

Nabok MF, Nabok AM, Starovoĭtova VM, Kulinskaia SS.

PMID: 2215165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. N Engl J Med. 1990 Oct 25;323(17):1167-72. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199010253231704.

A prospective study of the development of diabetes in relatives of patients with 
insulin-dependent diabetes.

Riley WJ(1), Maclaren NK, Krischer J, Spillar RP, Silverstein JH, Schatz DA, 
Schwartz S, Malone J, Shah S, Vadheim C, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Florida, 
Gainesville 32610.

BACKGROUND: The presence of cytoplasmic islet-cell autoantibodies has been 
recognized as a risk factor for the development of diabetes mellitus in 
relatives of patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM), but the 
magnitude of the risk is unknown, as is the influence of other factors, such as 
age, sex, and race.
METHODS: From 1979 through 1989, we studied 4015 initially nondiabetic relatives 
of 1590 probands with IDDM to determine the risk of IDDM according to the 
presence and titer of autoantibodies, as well as other factors.
RESULTS: Of the 4015 nondiabetic relatives, 125 (3.1 percent) had islet-cell 
antibodies in their initial serum samples, and 40 contracted IDDM. Islet-cell 
antibodies were most frequent (4.3 percent) in relatives who were under 20 years 
of age (P = 0.001) and in those (4.8 percent) from families with more than one 
affected member (a multiplex pedigree) (P = 0.003). Independent risk factors for 
the development of diabetes in the relatives included age of less than 10 years 
at the time of the initial study (P = 0.001), membership in a multiplex pedigree 
(P = 0.02), and a positive test for islet-cell antibodies in the initial serum 
sample (P = 0.0001). Twenty-seven of the relatives in whom diabetes developed 
(67.5 percent) had positive tests for islet-cell antibodies before the diagnosis 
of IDDM, giving a relative risk of IDDM of 68 (95 percent confidence interval, 
34 to 134) for antibody-positive relatives. Islet-cell-antibody titers of 20 
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation units or higher were associated with an increasing 
risk of diabetes.
CONCLUSIONS: Nondiabetic relatives of probands with IDDM who are in the first 
two decades of life, are members of multiplex pedigrees, and have increased 
titers of islet-cell antibodies are the most likely to contract IDDM themselves.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199010253231704
PMID: 2215594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Pneumologie. 1990 Aug;44(8):955-9.

[Prognosis in cor pulmonale: predictive value of two-dimensional 
echocardiography].

[Article in German]

Machraoui A(1), Barmeyer J, Ulmer WT.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Kardiologie und Angiologie, Krankenanstalten Bergmannsheil 
Bochum.

Cor pulmonale is a common complication and frequent cause of death in COLD. No 
published records are as yet available on the prognostic ranking of 
two-dimensional echo-cardiography in this group of patients. In 79 of 85 (93%) 
consecutively echocardiographically examined COLD patients it was possible to 
effect apical imaging of the four-chamber view to assess the size of the right 
ventricle, as well as a subcostal imaging to analyse the respiratory performance 
of the vena cava inferior (vci). Among the exclusion criteria of this 
prospective series were a diseased condition of the left heart or other 
associated cardiac diseases. The patients were classified into two risk groups 
(RG 0 and RG 1) depending upon whether they had a normal-sized right ventricle 
or a complete inspiratory collapse of the vci, or not. In RG 1 the pO2 values 
were lower (56.8 +/- 9.2 vs 66.0 +/- 8.8 mmHg, p less than 0.0005) whereas the 
values for the respiratory passage resistance were higher (8.01 +/- 3.92 vs 6.22 
+/- 2.87 cm H2O/l/s; p less than 0.025) than with RG 0, the values for the 
intrathoracic gas volume not being significantly different from each other. 
Fatal cardiopulmonary results were covered over a period of 2-48 months (median 
24 months) to perform life table analyses according to Breslow and Mantel. 
Patients with an enlarged right ventricle or incomplete respiratory collapse of 
the vci have a lower survival rate (43.7% respectively 61.9%) than patients with 
a normal-size right ventricle or complete respiratory collapse of the vci (90.5% 
respectively 88%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2217091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Phys Ther. 1990 Oct;70(10):638-48; discussion 648-51. doi: 
10.1093/ptj/70.10.638.

Whole-body movements during rising to standing from sitting.

Schenkman M(1), Berger RA, Riley PO, Mann RW, Hodge WA.

Author information:
(1)Program in Physical Therapy, MGM Institute of Health Professions, Boston, MA 
02108-3402.

Rising to a standing position from a sitting position is one of the most 
important activities of daily life. We present a total-body analysis of rising 
from a chair as performed by nine healthy individuals under controlled 
conditions. We describe four phases of this activity. Phase I is a 
flexion-momentum phase used to generate the initial momentum for rising. Phase 
II begins as the individual leaves the chair seat and ends at maximal ankle 
dorsiflexion. Forward momentum of the upper body is transferred to forward and 
upward momentum of the total body. Phase III is an extension phase during which 
the body rises to its full upright position. Phase IV is a stabilization phase. 
Kinetics and kinematics of the phases are analyzed. The phases are 
differentiated in terms of momentum and stability characteristics. Clinical 
implications of the mechanics of rising are discussed.

DOI: 10.1093/ptj/70.10.638
PMID: 2217543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Psychiatry Res. 1990 Jul;33(1):31-7. doi: 10.1016/0165-1781(90)90146-v.

Birth-cohort changes in the rates of mania.

Lasch K(1), Weissman M, Wickramaratne P, Bruce ML.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, Edith Nourse Rogers 
Memorial Veterans Hospital, Bedford, MA.

Secular changes in the rates of mania have been reported in the relatives of 
affectively ill patients, and the present study is an independent replication of 
these findings in a large probability sample of a community. Data from the five 
U.S. sites of the National Institute of Mental Health's Epidemiologic Catchment 
Area study (ECA), a community survey of adults, are presented. A total of 17,827 
respondents were divided into eight birth cohorts, each spanning a 10-year 
interval. Actuarial life-table analyses showed a greater cumulative risk of 
mania for white men and women from the three most recently born cohorts (i.e., 
those born after 1935). The Wilcoxon test for homogeneity indicated an overall 
significant difference by birth cohort. These findings in a community sample are 
consistent with those previously reported in relatives of affectively ill 
patients. The results support the hypothesis that birth cohort changes have 
occurred in the risk of mania and that the risk was greatest in the post-1935 
cohorts.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-1781(90)90146-v
PMID: 2217656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 1990 Aug;16(3):513-37.

Rheumatoid arthritis.

Spector TD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, St. Bartholomew's Hospital Medical College, 
London, England.

RA is a common disease with a worldwide prevalence of about 1% with an annual 
incidence of about 3/10,000 adults. It is two to three times more common in 
women. There is some evidence that over the last few decades the disease is 
declining in incidence or severity. Patients with RA have a reduced life 
expectancy and a one in three chance of becoming disabled, depending on the 
severity of the disease at onset. The cause of the disease is unknown, although 
genetic factors account for up to 30% of disease susceptibility. The most 
important genetic factors are related to HLA-DR4 and DR1, which may have 
identical regions conferring the risk of disease. Many infectious agents have 
also been implicated in the etiology of RA, although there is no good 
epidemiologic evidence to support the laboratory findings. Hormonal and 
reproductive factors are known to play a major role in disease pathogenesis. 
Both pregnancy and the oral contraceptive pill are believed to be protective 
against development of the disease, although they may act by delaying or 
modifying the course of the disease rather than conferring "immunity".

PMID: 2217956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Science. 1990 Sep 28;249(4976):1570-4. doi: 10.1126/science.2218499.

Extension of the life-span of human endothelial cells by an interleukin-1 alpha 
antisense oligomer.

Maier JA(1), Voulalas P, Roeder D, Maciag T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Jerome H. Holland, Laboratory for the 
Biomedical Sciences, American Red Cross, Rockville, MD 20855.

The proliferative potential of human diploid endothelial cells is finite, and 
cellular senescence in vitro is accompanied by the failure of the endothelial 
cell to respond to exogenous growth factors. Senescent human endothelial cells 
were shown to contain high amounts of the transcript for the cytokine 
interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1 alpha), a potent inhibitor of endothelial cell 
proliferation in vitro. In contrast, transformed human endothelial cells did not 
contain detectable IL-1 alpha messenger RNA. Treatment of human endothelial cell 
populations with an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide to the human IL-1 alpha 
transcript prevented cell senescence and extended the proliferative life-span of 
the cells in vitro. Removal of the IL-1 alpha antisense oligomer resulted in the 
generation of the senescent phenotype and loss of proliferative potential. These 
data suggest that human endothelial cell senescence in vitro is a dynamic 
process regulated by the potential intracellular activity of IL-1 alpha.

DOI: 10.1126/science.2218499
PMID: 2218499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Soc Sci Med. 1990;31(3):249-56. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90271-s.

Health and social inequities in the Federal Republic of Germany.

Kirchgässler KU.

The close relationship between social class and health status makes for the fact 
that indicators of health are supposed to tell something about the general 
conditions of life in the social structure of a particular country. This is one 
reason why trends in health and social inequities are to the foremost interest 
of the sociologist. Because the epidemiological literature in the Federal 
Republic does not allow one to consider trends over time, this paper tries to 
construct indicators from official statistics which have been regularly 
collected. The set of indicators discussed include data on mortality, 
age-at-death, morbidity as well as data related to health care and health risks. 
This discussion shows that, despite improving life expectancy and age-at-death 
figures, the major social class differential in health status has remained 
relatively stable over time, with a minor trend toward reduction in some 
figures. Since official statistics focus mainly on persons who are integrated in 
the labour market, only some groups with special risks may be detected. More 
information is certainly needed on disadvantaged groups with probably high 
health risks like the unemployed and those who subsist on welfare payments.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90271-s
PMID: 2218605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Soc Sci Med. 1990;31(3):313-8. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90278-z.

Health and social inequities in Malta.

Agius F(1).

Author information:
(1)St. Luke's Hospital, G'Mangia, Malta.

This paper focuses on the sources that are thought to lead to the genesis of 
health and social inequity in a small island community. It is largely a 
descriptive exposition, the main aim of which is to introduce the topic in 
Malta. Small size is the key geographical factor. This fact is dwelt upon to 
stress that although there are differences, say, between the two inhabitable 
islands, such differences are very small. Social homogeneity and an almost 
indiscernible urban-rural difference are strong factors that reduce any tendency 
for regional inequities. Socio-cultural factors in Malta are largely determined 
by family life and its relation with the established church. The traditional 
Catholic way of life is depicted as gradually giving way to a more secular 
lifestyle. Politics is represented as the prime factor for causing division 
within the this society. This is not without reason since this factor has taken 
over the other cause of division, namely parochialism. Political factors 
determine the distribution of resources including health resources. The 
important economic factors are that there are no great differences between the 
high income and the low income groups. However, due importance must always be 
given to the subterranean economy. The health profile is that of a developed 
country with low infant mortality and a long life expectancy. Infectious 
diseases have been on the decline and their persistence is usually linked to 
areas that have remained underdeveloped. The disadvantaged groups identified are 
the chronically unemployed, single mothers, possibly a section of the migrant 
population and the elderly.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90278-z
PMID: 2218612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Soc Sci Med. 1990;31(3):369-86. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90284-y.

Health and social inequities in Switzerland.

Lehmann P(1), Mamboury C, Minder CE.

Author information:
(1)Swiss Federal Office of Public Health, Medical Division, Lausanne.

Despite standards of living and life expectancy amongst the highest in Europe, 
Switzerland exhibits fairly substantial social inequities in health. As regards 
male mortality by socio-economic group, these differentials are both marked and 
independent of cause of death. There is a wealth of information on morbidity and 
disability supporting the hypothesis that people in lower socio-economic groups 
tend to age faster and suffer more at younger ages. It is similarly evident that 
infants of low class mothers, particularly those unwed, underprivileged 
immigrant, are at excess risk. The Swiss results are of political and scientific 
interest in that they suggest that the average wealth of a community does not 
determine health differentials.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90284-y
PMID: 2218617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Soc Sci Med. 1990;31(4):433-44. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90038-t.

Levels of health development: a new tool for comparative research and policy 
formulation.

Hunter SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Statistics and Applied Economics, Makerere University, Kampala, 
Uganda.

Levels of health development are formed by mathematically clustering countries 
using six health status indicators: crude birth, crude death, infant mortality 
and child death rates, and male and female life expectancy. Stratifying two 
international samples of 128 and 163 countries into levels of health 
development--groups with similar health status profiles--improves the results of 
regression analyses used to identify economic, political, social, educational, 
health and other health determinants. For this reason, health development levels 
are a systematic framework for delineation of health determinants. Earlier large 
scale statistical studies have been limited in their success in part because 
they did not partition their data sets prior to analysis, or used inappropriate 
criteria that blurred rather than heightened developmental differences in 
underlying social systems. These developmental differences regulate the way in 
which health status inputs are converted into health status outputs, defining 
the relative importance of health determinants at various developmental levels. 
At lowest health development levels (countries with poorer health status), the 
under-development of economic, health and educational infrastructures creates a 
vacuum which allows international intervention (aid, investment, export/import 
activities) to play a dominant role in health status determination. At middle 
health development levels, health and educational infrastructures are better 
developed, but still secondary in importance as health status determinants to 
basic economic infrastructure. Demographic problems are particularly apparent at 
these levels. At higher health development levels, education, women's status, 
and political structure are especially important health status determinants. 
This research has facilitated the identification of health status determinants 
for use in health policy analysis. Recommendations for future research include 
use of findings in health policymaking by individual countries and by 
comparative researchers, and development of appropriate health systems models 
for each level of health development.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90038-t
PMID: 2218623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Surg Clin North Am. 1990 Oct;70(5):1125-40. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(16)45234-5.

Reconstruction after mastectomy.

Bostwick J 3rd(1).

Author information:
(1)Joseph B. Whitehead Department of Surgery, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia.

Advances in materials and techniques, especially those involving transposition 
of muscle and skin flaps, have made breast reconstruction possible for most 
women who undergo mastectomy for breast cancer. The availability of this option 
can alleviate the breast and chest wall deformity that results from virtually 
all local treatment of breast cancer. It is essential that the reconstruction 
surgeon be part of the breast cancer management team from the beginning of 
treatment planning and that this surgeon work closely with the general surgeon, 
medical oncologist, and radiation therapist as well as the adjunctive treatment 
team members. The patient's clinical status and the type of local treatment will 
be significant determinants of the reconstructive options. For women with stage 
I breast cancer, these decisions may be based largely on the oncologist's local 
and adjunctive therapy procedures and the woman's desire to proceed or delay. 
For women with systemic disease, all members of the breast management team may 
need to agree on the advisability and timing of reconstruction. Central to all 
of the numerous decisions described in this paper regarding the timing, type, 
and extent of breast reconstruction is the primary goal of the entire team: the 
best possible management of the breast cancer itself. The promise of attractive, 
symmetric, and natural appearing breasts, complete with a symmetric 
nipple-areolar complex, has eased somewhat the diminishment of self-esteem and 
the threat to femininity that can accompany the loss of a breast. By lowering 
fear, the widely recognized availability of breast reconstruction may encourage 
more women to monitor their breasts and seek diagnosis of changes and may 
influence selection of the type of local treatment if cancer is detected. 
Because of the psychological and cultural significance of the breast, the 
reconstructive surgeon must be particularly sensitive to the psychological and 
aesthetic expectations of the patient. Even in those patients with metastases 
and limited life expectancy, breast reconstruction can enhance the quality of 
life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(16)45234-5
PMID: 2218823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Ther Umsch. 1990 Aug;47(8):653-7.

[Antiviral substances: against what? For whom?].

[Article in German]

Hirschel B(1).

Author information:
(1)Division des maladies infectieuses, Hôpital cantonal universitaire, Genève.

Acyclovir and zidovudine are the two most widely used antiviral drugs. Acyclovir 
is efficacious against all infections caused by herpes simplex virus, but 
treatment must start early to be effective. Herpes zoster virus is less 
susceptible to acyclovir, but high doses shorten the duration of skin lesions, 
although the effect on post-herpetic neuralgia is uncertain. Zidovudine 
diminishes short-term mortality in patients with HIV infection and serious 
opportunistic infections. In those patients, the average increase in life 
expectancy is about one year. Because of myelotoxicity, frequent monitoring of 
blood counts is necessary. Recent results in patients who have few or no 
symptoms of HIV infection indicate that the drug decreases the chance of 
progressing to AIDS. Therefore, indications for treatment now include 
asymptomatic patients with unfavourable laboratory parameters.

PMID: 2218967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Wien Med Wochenschr Suppl. 1990;106:suppl 11-2.

[The relevance of diet for civilization diseases, especially atherosclerosis].

[Article in German]

Zöllner N(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinischen Poliklinik der Universität München, BRD.

Atherosclerosis is a consequence of modern civilization and nutrition. It became 
a problem due to higher life-expectancy and changed nutritional habits. This is 
discussed in relation to myocardial infarction, gout and inborn errors of 
metabolism and modern nutrition.

PMID: 2219947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. ZWR. 1990 May;99(5):357-60.

[Efficacy of different therapeutic procedures in treatment of inflamed primary 
tooth pulps. Results after 6 years].

[Article in German]

Einwag J(1).

Author information:
(1)ZMK-Klinik Würzburg.

The efficiency of 3 different methods of primary pulp therapy (pulpotomy with 
formocresol in one and two appointments, pulpotomy with Triopaste) was studied 
over a period of 6 years in more than 300 teeth. The clinical results show a 98% 
success rate in the formocresol-treated teeth compared to only 55% of the 
Triopaste-group.

PMID: 2220109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Adv Cardiol. 1990;37:236-43. doi: 10.1159/000418831.

Ischemia detected on ambulatory monitoring: has it prognostic implications?

von Arnim T(1), Szeimies-Seebach U, Erath A, Schreiber MA, Höfling B.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik I, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, Klinikum Grosshadern, 
München, FRG.

DOI: 10.1159/000418831
PMID: 2220451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Age Ageing. 1990 Jul;19(4):S43-52. doi: 10.1093/ageing/19.suppl_1.s43.

Trans-cultural aspects of nutrition in old age.

Wahlqvist ML(1), Kouris A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Monash University, Prince Henry's Hospital, 
Melbourne, Australia.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/19.suppl_1.s43
PMID: 2220478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Am J Kidney Dis. 1990 Oct;16(4):335-8. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(12)80014-x.

Peritoneal dialysis in the geriatric patient.

Nissenson AR(1), Diaz-Buxo JA, Adcock A, Nelms M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, UCLA School of Medicine.

Elderly patients on chronic peritoneal dialysis (CPD) from two large chronic 
peritoneal dialysis programs were compared with younger patients in regard to 
peritonitis rates, catheter problems, hospital days, transfers to other forms of 
therapy, and mortality. Peritonitis rates and organisms were similar in younger 
and older patients. Catheter replacements were less common in the elderly. 
Differences in hospital days were attributable to hospitalization for vascular 
disease. The elderly were more likely to have the first episode of peritonitis, 
to die and to change dialysis modalities at all times after the first year of 
continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) treatment, although other than 
increased mortality, differences between the two groups were small. CPD appears 
to be an acceptable form of renal replacement therapy in the elderly.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(12)80014-x
PMID: 2220782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Br J Cancer. 1990 Oct;62(4):695-9. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1990.360.

Can the Spitzer Quality of Life Index help to reduce prognostic uncertainty in 
terminal care?

Addington-Hall JM(1), MacDonald LD, Anderson HR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, St George's Hospital Medical School, 
London, UK.

Data from an on-going trial of co-ordinating care for terminally ill cancer 
patients are used to investigate whether the Spitzer Quality of Life (QL) Index 
can be used to reduce prognostic uncertainty in terminal care. Four questions 
are addressed. First, can doctors and nurses distinguish between patients with a 
prognosis of more or less than 1 year? Second, do the medical and nursing staff 
differ in their ability to estimate prognosis? Third, are there differences in 
the length of life remaining between groups of patients with different QL Index 
scores? Fourth, how well does the QL Index predict the likelihood of individual 
patients dying within 6 months of assessment? Doctors and nurses assigned 
between 17 and 25% of patients to the wrong prognostic group and were as likely 
to over-estimate as to under-estimate life expectancy. Medical and nursing staff 
did not differ in their ability to make prognostic judgements. Patients with a 
low QL Index score were more likely to die within 6 months than those with 
higher scores, but scores on the Index were not strong predictors of 6-month 
survival in individual patients. The Index is not accurate enough to be used to 
predict what sort of treatment terminally ill patients will require in the 
future and for how long. Nevertheless, it may prove valuable for those planning 
services for terminally ill cancer patients who require information on the 
levels of need in a population.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1990.360
PMCID: PMC1971478
PMID: 2223593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Circulation. 1990 Nov;82(5):1616-28. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.82.5.1616.

Mortality after 10 1/2 years for hypertensive participants in the Multiple Risk 
Factor Intervention Trial.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Circulation. 1991 Dec;84(6):2608-9.
    Circulation. 1990 Nov;82(5):1857-8.

The Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial (MRFIT) is a randomized primary 
prevention trial that tested the effect of a multifactor intervention program on 
coronary heart disease (CHD) mortality in 12,866 high-risk men aged 35-57 years. 
Men were randomly assigned to either a special intervention (SI) program, which 
consisted of dietary advice for lowering blood cholesterol levels, counseling 
aimed at cessation for cigarette smokers, and stepped-care treatment for 
hypertension for those with elevated blood pressure, or to their usual sources 
of health care within the community (UC). Among the 12,866 randomized men, 8,012 
(62%) were hypertensive at baseline. For this subgroup, mortality rates with 
10.5 years of follow-up were lower for the SI than for the UC group by 15% (p = 
0.19) for CHD and 11% (p = 0.13) for all causes. These results reflected more 
favorable outcomes for SI compared with UC hypertensive men during the 3.8 
posttrial years (March 1982 through December 1985) than during the preceding 6-8 
years (through February 1982). During the posttrial years, death rates were 
lower for SI than for UC men by 26% (p = 0.09) for CHD and 23% (p = 0.02) for 
all causes. For those with diastolic blood pressure equal to or more than 100 mm 
Hg, this posttrial trend was a continuation of a trend during the trial; 
therefore, with 10.5 years of follow-up, death rates were markedly lower for SI 
than for UC by 36% (p = 0.07) for CHD and 50% (p = 0.0001) for all causes. 
Similarly, for those without baseline resting electrocardiographic 
abnormalities, the favorable posttrial outcome for the SI group was a 
continuation of a trend during the trial. In contrast, for those with baseline 
diastolic blood pressure of 90-99 mm Hg and for those with baseline resting 
electrocardiographic abnormalities, the favorable posttrial mortality findings 
for the SI group were a reversal of unfavorable trends recorded during the 
trial. Two factors appear to have contributed to this more favorable mortality 
trend for the SI group: 1) a change in the diuretic treatment protocol for SI 
men about 5 years after randomization, which involved replacement of 
hydrochlorothiazide with chlorthalidone at a daily maximum dose of 50 mg; and 2) 
a favorable effect of intervention on nonfatal cardiovascular events during the 
trial years. In addition, delay until the full impact of beneficial effects on 
mortality end points from smoking cessation and cholesterol lowering could have 
contributed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.82.5.1616
PMID: 2225366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Circulation. 1990 Nov;82(5):1629-46. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.82.5.1629.

Ten-year follow-up of survival and myocardial infarction in the randomized 
Coronary Artery Surgery Study.

Alderman EL(1), Bourassa MG, Cohen LS, Davis KB, Kaiser GG, Killip T, Mock MB, 
Pettinger M, Robertson TL.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University, California.

Comment in
    Circulation. 1990 Nov;82(5):1859-62.

The Coronary Artery Surgery Study (CASS) randomized 780 patients to an initial 
strategy of coronary surgery or medical therapy. Of medically randomized 
patients, 6% had surgery within 6 months and a total of 40% had surgery by 10 
years. At 10 years, there was no difference in cumulative survival (medical, 79% 
vs. surgical, 82%; NS) and no difference in percentage free of death and 
nonfatal myocardial infarction (medical, 69% vs. surgical, 66%; NS). Patients 
with an ejection fraction of less than 0.50 exhibited a better survival with 
initial surgery treatment (medical, 61% vs. surgical, 79%; p = 0.01). 
Conversely, patients with an ejection fraction greater than or equal to 0.50 
exhibited a higher proportion free of death and myocardial infarction with 
initial medical therapy (medical, 75% vs. surgical, 68%; p = 0.04) although 
long-term survival remained unaffected (medical, 84% vs. surgical, 83%; p = 
0.75). There were no significant differences either in survival and freedom from 
nonfatal myocardial infarction, whether stratified on presence of heart failure, 
age, hypertension, or number of vessels diseased. Thus, 10-year follow-up 
results confirm earlier reports from CASS that patients with left ventricular 
dysfunction exhibit long-term benefit from an initial strategy of surgical 
treatment. Patients with mild stable angina and normal left ventricular function 
randomized to initial medical treatment (with an option for later surgery if 
symptoms progress) have survival equivalent to those patients randomized to 
initial surgery.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.82.5.1629
PMID: 2225367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Clin Genet. 1990 Sep;38(3):211-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1990.tb03572.x.

An evaluation of 75 terminations of pregnancy based on abnormal laboratory 
findings at first trimester CVS.

Leschot NJ(1), Kanhai HH, van Asperen CJ, Wolf H, Boer K, van Prooijen-Knegt AC, 
Christiaens GC, Verjaal M, Briet E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Seventy-five selective terminations, based on abnormal laboratory findings at 
first-trimester CVS, were performed in 1581 consecutive pregnancies. In all 
cases a (semi-) direct method of cytogenetic analysis was used. The 75 abortions 
were analysed in number of ways. Confirmatory studies showed that three cases 
had to be considered as false-positive findings, and in one other case the 
results were inconclusive. Based on literature data, it was estimated that 41 of 
the 75 pregnancies would have resulted in seriously handicapped children, 
surviving beyond the age of 1 year, if no termination of pregnancy had taken 
place. Negative side-effects of the procedure include: spontaneous abortion of 
chromosomally normal fetuses due to the CVS procedure itself and the need for a 
number of secondary amniocenteses (5.1%). The advantage of DNA diagnosis in 
X-linked diseases is illustrated by comparing the CVS results with a previously 
published amniocentesis study.

PIP: 75 selective terminations, based on abnormal laboratory findings at 1st 
trimester CVS, were performed in 1581 consecutive pregnancies. In all cases, a 
semidirect method of cytogenetic analysis was used. The 75 abortions were 
analyzed in many ways. Confirmatory studies showed that 3 cases were considered 
false-positive findings, and in 1 other case, the results were inconclusive. 
Based on literature data, it was estimated that 41.75 pregnancies would have 
resulted in seriously handicapped children, surviving beyond 1 year of age, if 
no pregnancy termination had taken place. Negative side effects of the procedure 
include: spontaneous abortion of chromosomally normal fetuses due to the CVS 
procedure itself and the need for a number of secondary amniocenteses (5.1%). 
The advantage of DNA diagnosis in x-linked diseases is illustrated by comparing 
the CVS results with a previously published amniocentesis study.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1990.tb03572.x
PMID: 2225529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1990 Nov;(260):162-9.

Long-term survivorship analysis of cruciate-sparing versus cruciate-sacrificing 
knee prostheses using meniscal bearings.

Buechel FF(1), Pappas MJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey-New Jersey Medical School, 
Newark.

A comprehensive, interchangeable, low-contact-stress, mobile-bearing knee 
prosthesis system was developed and used over a 12-year period with both 
cemented and cementless fixation. Individual components of the system included a 
bicruciate-retaining meniscal bearing, a posterior cruciate-retaining meniscal 
bearing, and a cruciate-sacrificing, rotating-platform tibial component mated to 
the same femoral and rotating patellar components. Survivorship analysis of each 
implant type was performed to identify specific failure modes and trends for 
long-term survival of the implants in a wide variety of primary knee 
arthroplasties. Clinically, there were 46 prostheses of the bicruciate type 
followed for up to 12 years, 57 prostheses of the posterior-cruciate type 
followed for up to six years, and 108 prostheses of the rotating-platform type 
followed for up to ten years. All knees in this study had rotating-bearing 
patellar prostheses. Cumulative survivorship analysis using an end point of 
implant revision or a poor knee score revealed a small early failure rate of 
each implant in the first three years, associated with technical positioning or 
undersizing errors. This study indicates a predictable long-term survival of 
both cruciate-retaining and cruciate-sacrificing mobile-bearing knee prostheses 
as well as rotating-bearing patellar prostheses when used in primary knee 
arthroplasties that minimized technical errors of insertion.

PMID: 2225619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Conn Med. 1990 Sep;54(9):531.

Exasperating the ways of death.

Massey RU(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine and Health Care, University of Connecticut, 
School of Medicine, Farmington.

PMID: 2225824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Dis Colon Rectum. 1990 Nov;33(11):938-46. doi: 10.1007/BF02139103.

Survival in patients with large-bowel cancer. A population-based investigation 
from the Melbourne Colorectal Cancer Study.

Kune GA(1), Kune S, Field B, White R, Brough W, Schellenberger R, Watson LF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Melbourne, Australia.

Five-year survival data were obtained in 97 percent or 1105 of 1140 new patients 
with histologically confirmed colorectal adenocarcinoma during a 12-month period 
in 1981 and 1982, as part of a large comprehensive population-based study of 
colorectal cancer incidence, etiology, and survival, The Melbourne Colorectal 
Cancer Study. Fifteen percent of patients were Dukes' A stage, 32 percent were 
Dukes' B, 25 percent were Dukes' C, and 29 percent were Dukes' D. At five years 
after diagnosis, the observed survival rate was 36 percent and the adjusted rate 
was 42 percent. Dukes' staging was a highly discriminating factor in survival (P 
less than 0.001). Survival rates were better in women than in men and better for 
patients with colon cancer than for patients with rectal cancer. Survival by 
Dukes' staging was not affected by colon subsite or by the tumor being the first 
and single tumor, metachronous tumor, or synchronous tumor. The survival of 
younger patients was better for Dukes' stages A, B, and C, and worse for Dukes' 
D. Survival was worse in the presence of bowel perforation in Dukes' C and D 
stages. Within Dukes' D (incurable cases), survival was best in the absence of 
hepatic metastases, slightly worse when only hepatic metastases were present, 
and poorest in the presence of both hepatic and extrahepatic metastases. 
Statistical modeling of survival determinants other than staging indicated that 
cell differentiation had the largest effect (survival decreasing with poor cell 
differentiation), followed by site (survival worse for rectal cancer than colon 
cancer), then age (survival better for younger patients), while bowel 
perforation had the smallest effect on survival.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02139103
PMID: 2226081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Drugs. 1990 Aug;40(2):220-30. doi: 10.2165/00003495-199040020-00004.

Management of menopause when estrogen cannot be used.

Young RL(1), Kumar NS, Goldzieher JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, 
Texas.

Estrogen deficiency, whether surgically induced or as a consequence of natural 
ovarian failure, has destructive effects on many organ systems. With current 
levels of life expectancy, untreated women may expect to spend a third of their 
lifetime in this state. Appropriate estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) can avert 
(if started promptly) or ameliorate these devastating consequences, some of 
which (osteoporotic fractures, increased cardiovascular morbidity) can be 
lethal. Nevertheless, from 10 to 20% of postmenopausal women may have 
significant contraindications to ERT. Treatment of symptoms and improving the 
quality of life is imperative, yet many physicians abjure intervention, for 
reasons which are not entirely clear. Recent studies of conventional 
intervention with sedatives or tranquilisers show results equivalent to placebo 
therapy. On the other hand, specific agents with demonstrated effectiveness are 
available for management of the major estrogen-deficiency effects, although none 
of them are truly adequate replacement for the effect of estrogen itself.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199040020-00004
PMID: 2226213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Eur J Vasc Surg. 1990 Oct;4(5):497-502. doi: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80791-1.

Survival in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms. Comparison between 
operative and nonoperative management.

Johansson G(1), Nydahl S, Olofsson P, Swedenborg J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

Comment in
    Eur J Vasc Surg. 1991 Apr;5(2):222.
    Eur J Vasc Surg. 1991 Apr;5(2):222-4.

This study evaluates the risk benefit relationship in the surgical treatment of 
abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). Two hundred and thirteen patients with AAA 
diagnosed by CT were selectively managed depending upon the size of the 
aneurysm, and were followed with a mean follow-up time of 5 years and 4 months. 
Aneurysms greater than 5 cm were generally operated on if no serious 
contraindication existed. Aneurysms less than 5 cm were followed by repeated 
examinations and operated on if an increase in size occurred. Some small 
aneurysms were operated on for other reasons. Elective surgical management of 
134 patients resulted in a thirty day mortality of 7.5%. Later, seven additional 
patients died from causes related to the surgery. Survival of electively 
operated patients by life table analysis was 68% at 5 years. A significantly 
higher mortality was noted among those who had evidence of coronary heart 
disease at the time of operation. Forty-two patients with AAA less than 5 cm at 
the initial examination were not operated on and three ruptured, but all had 
grown to a size greater than 5 cm at the time of rupture. Patients with AAA less 
than 5 cm that were not operated on had a slightly but not significantly higher 
mortality than those who were operated on electively. This difference was mainly 
attributable to deaths from cardiac causes and not to ruptures. Patients with 
aneurysms greater than 5 cm who were not operated on had a significantly higher 
mortality than those that were, only 14% in the former group survived.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80791-1
PMID: 2226882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1990;228(5):426-31. doi:
10.1007/BF00927255.

New and recurrent tumor foci following local treatment as well as external beam 
radiation in eyes of patients with hereditary retinoblastoma.

Messmer EP(1), Sauerwein W, Heinrich T, Höpping W, Klueter-Reckmann D, Bornfeld 
N, Sack H, Förster M, Havers W.

Author information:
(1)Augenklinik, Universität, Essen, Federal Republic of Germany.

The study is based on a retrospective analysis of data from 200 patients with 
hereditary retinoblastoma. Apart from four unilateral cases with a positive 
family history all patients had bilateral disease; 229 appeared suitable for 
conservative treatment while 167 eyes had to be enucleated. Primary local 
treatment was performed in 102 eyes, while 127 eyes received primary external 
beam radiation using a linear accelerator. Follow-up was adjusted by life 
tables, with 75% of the patients being observed longer than 2 years. Using 
life-table statistics new and recurrent tumors were found in 41% of all patients 
and in 95% of these cases they were noted within 26 months after initiation of 
therapy. Among eyes treated with primary external beam radiation new and 
recurrent tumors were observed significantly less frequently when 50 Gy (22% 
compared with 49% after 40 Gy) and a highly accurate beam alignment technique 
(22% compared with 48% after alignment to the outer bony canthus) were applied. 
The incidence of recurrent tumors following primary local treatment did not 
differ significantly with regard to the application of either photo- or 
cryocoagulation (28% vs 33%), while no recurrence was observed among tumors that 
were suitable for primary treatment using ruthenium or cobalt plaques.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00927255
PMID: 2227485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Gynecol Oncol. 1990 Sep;38(3):328-32. doi: 10.1016/0090-8258(90)90067-u.

Radical wide excision and selective inguinal node dissection for squamous cell 
carcinoma of the vulva.

Burke TW(1), Stringer CA, Gershenson DM, Edwards CL, Morris M, Wharton JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, University of Texas, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston 77030.

Limited resection of some vulvar cancers may provide cure rates equivalent to 
those obtained with radical vulvectomy and bilateral inguinal node dissection. 
Rapid recovery, fewer complications, and better functional result have been 
described as advantages to less extensive procedures. Since 1978, 32 patients 
with invasive squamous cell cancer of the vulva (depth greater than 1 mm) and 
clinically negative inguinal lymph nodes underwent radical wide excisions as 
primary therapy. Mean age at diagnosis was 61 years. Seventeen patients had T1 
and 15 had T2 tumors. Resection of the primary lesion was tailored to lesion 
location and size, and dissection was carried to the deep perineal fascia. 
Twenty-two patients had unilateral superficial inguinal lymph node dissections, 
five with midline lesions had bilateral superficial dissections, and five had 
node samplings which included deep inguinal nodes. Depth of invasion ranged from 
1.5 to 13.0 mm. Mean largest lesion dimension was 23 mm. Five-year lifetable 
survival for the entire group was 84%. Univariate analysis of potential 
prognostic variables showed no significant recurrence or survival differences 
for patient age (P = 0.56), symptom duration (P = 0.57), FIGO stage (P = 0.67), 
tumor grade (P = 0.20), tumor location (P = 0.26), depth of invasion (P = 0.56), 
or resection margin status (P = 0.63). Thirty-one percent of patients had 
perioperative complications, and 16% developed delayed complications. Mean 
hospital stay was 10 days. Three patients (10%) developed new or recurrent 
vulvar disease and underwent additional therapy. None have died of disease, 
although one is alive with persistent tumor. Radical wide excision and selective 
inguinal lymphadenectomy constitute a reasonable alternative to radical 
vulvectomy with bilateral inguinal node dissections for squamous tumors 
clinically limited to the vulva. Outcome may not be strongly influenced by 
lesion size or depth of invasion.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-8258(90)90067-u
PMID: 2227543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Haematologica. 1990 May-Jun;75(3):224-7.

Average life expectancy of heterozygous beta thalassemic subjects.

Gallerani M(1), Cicognani I, Ballardini P, Savelli S, Martinelli L, Ricci A, 
Coletti M, Faggioli M, Stabellini G.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Medicina, Ospedale S. Camillo, Regione Emilia Romagna, Codigoro 
(FE), Italy.

In order to define the lifespan of heterozygous beta thalassemic subjects as 
compared to non thalassemic subjects, the authors prospectively studied all 
patients deceased during a period of 76 months at St. Camillo Hospital of 
Comacchio (Ferrara), located in the Po delta, a region with high prevalence of 
thalassemia minor. No statistically significant differences were found in the 
average life expectancy between the thalassemic and non thalassemic groups.

PMID: 2227618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Fortschr Med. 1990 Sep 20;108(27):514-7.

[Primary antibody deficiency syndrome. Improved life expectancy and 
immunoglobulin G substitution].

[Article in German]

Bartmann P(1).

Author information:
(1)Kinderklinik, Abteilung II, Universität Ulm.

