Recurrent pyogenic infections are the leading clinical symptom in patients with 
antibody deficiency syndromes. In accordance with the WHO-classification at 
least nine different diseases are differentiated. In some cases diagnosis can be 
made simply by determining the immunoglobulin serum levels. Some diseases, such 
as Ig-heavy chain gene deletions, are clearly characterized by molecular 
biological methods, while other terms, such as common variable immunodeficiency, 
cover a collection of different diseases with changes predominantly of B-cell 
functions. The main features of the antibody deficiency syndromes are described. 
In most cases adequate therapy can be achieved by IgG replacement therapy.

PMID: 2227750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Hum Biol. 1990 Oct;62(5):589-617.

Variation and classification of human age patterns of mortality: analysis using 
competing hazards models.

Gage TB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University at Albany, State University of New 
York 12222.

The structure of variation in human mortality patterns is explored using a 
five-parameter competing hazards model and standard multivariate taxonomic 
procedures. The data consist of 281 national life tables representing a wide 
range of environmental and cultural regions of the world. A general or average 
age pattern of mortality was generated for the entire sample using multiple 
regression procedures. A K mean cluster analysis conducted on the residuals of 
the regression analysis identified seven distinct models of mortality that 
differ in characteristic ways from the general pattern. Four of the seven 
clusters have age patterns of mortality similar to the north, east, south, and 
west regions of the Coale and Demeny model life tables. The remaining three 
clusters represent regions of the world and age patterns of mortality that are 
not represented in the Coale and Demeny model life tables.

PMID: 2227907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. J Dent Educ. 1990 Nov;54(11):653-60.

First permanent molar restoration differences between those with or without 
dental sealants.

Kuthy RA(1), Branch LG, Clive JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Dentistry, College of Dentistry, Ohio State 
University, Columbus 43210.

PMID: 2229621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Nihon Kyobu Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1990 Aug;38(8):1308-11.

[Late results of coronary bypass grafting in patients with concomitant 
multifocal arteriosclerotic vascular diseases].

[Article in Japanese]

Kito Y(1), Ohara K, Kawazoe K, Kosakai Y, Fujita T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, National Cardiovascular Center, Osaka, 
Japan.

Late results of coronary bypass graftings (CABG) in the patients with multifocal 
arteriosclerotic vascular diseases were reviewed. Between September 1978 and 
July 1989, 819 consecutive patients underwent CABG. There were 693 males and 126 
females, mean ages 58 +/- 8.5 years. Of 819 consecutive patients underwent CABG, 
95 patients had the coexistence of multifocal atherosclerosis (Group A). Seventy 
two patients had aortoiliac or femoropopliteal disease, and 29 patients had 
aortic aneurysm. The remaining 724 patients had no coexistence of multifocal 
atherosclerosis (Group B). The mean follow-up periods was 4.0 +/- 2.1 years, and 
the follow-up ratio was 99.4%. The 5- and 10-year survival rates were 80% and 
52% in group A, and 92% and 82% in Group B, respectively. The 5- and 10-year 
free ratio from cardiac events were 79% and 42% in Group A, and 85% and 61% in 
Group B, respectively. The 5- and 10-year free ratio from noncardiac events were 
53% and 38% in Group A, and 85% and 76% in Group B, respectively. The results 
showed that the coexistence of multifocal atherosclerotic vascular disease in 
patients underwent CABG significantly increase the ratio of noncardiac and 
cardiac events, and decreased life expectancy.

PMID: 2230386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. J Med Entomol. 1990 Sep;27(5):756-62. doi: 10.1093/jmedent/27.5.756.

Survival and development of the immature stages of Culex annulirostris (Diptera: 
Culicidae) at the Ross River Dam in tropical eastern Australia.

Rae DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, James Cook University of North Queensland, Townsville, 
Australia.

Immature stages of Culex annulirostris Skuse from Ross River Dam were reared in 
the laboratory at constant temperatures (18.0, 24.5, 28.5 and 35.0 degrees C) 
and in the field in the presence or absence of predators. In the laboratory, 
survival from first instar to adult emergence increased from 5.5% at 18 degrees 
C to 96.5% at 35 degrees C. In the field predators increased mortality by almost 
60%. Adult wing length increased inversely with constant temperature except at 
18 degrees C. In the field the largest adults were produced in the presence of 
predators. The developmental threshold temperature (to) and thermal constant (K) 
were estimated from laboratory data to be 13.7 degrees C and 129.3 DD, 
respectively. K determined in the laboratory did not differ significantly from 
that required in the field (132.8 and 153.5 DD above 13.7 degrees C in the 
presence and absence of predators). Numbers of immature Cx. annulirostris at 
four sites in the dam rose to a peak after four or five generations and then 
rapidly declined. Overall survival of immatures was very low but was 
significantly higher at the one site where Melaleucas also occurred. 
Age-specific survival was highest in the first instar. Estimated survival from 
hatching to eclosion ranged from 4/1,000 to 185/1,000. Mortality appeared to be 
density independent and was attributed mostly to predation.

DOI: 10.1093/jmedent/27.5.756
PMID: 2231614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. JAMA. 1990 Nov 28;264(20):2654-9.

Excess deaths from nine chronic diseases in the United States, 1986.

Hahn RA(1), Teutsch SM, Rothenberg RB, Marks JS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Surveillance and Epidemiologic Studies, Centers for Disease 
Control, Atlanta, GA 30333.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1991 Mar 6;265(9):1111-2.

To assess excess mortality from chronic disease in the United States, state 
age-adjusted combined mortality rates for nine chronic diseases in 1986 were 
compared with three "minimum" rates--two calculated from rates actually achieved 
in states and a third estimated as the mortality remaining after elimination of 
one risk factor for each disease. Hawaii had the lowest mortality rate of 
combined diseases (305/100,000); state excesses ranged from 0% to 37%. The sum 
of lowest disease-specific rates in any state was 284 per 100,000, indicating 
excesses of between 7% and 41%. A minimum mortality rate of 224 per 100,000 was 
estimated to result from elimination of one risk factor for each of the nine 
diseases, indicating state excesses from 26% to 54%, or 524,000 US deaths. 
Reduction of US mortality from the nine diseases to the risk factor--eliminated 
rate is estimated to be associated with an increased life expectancy at birth of 
4 years.

PMID: 2232042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. J Theor Biol. 1990 Aug 9;145(3):397-405. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5193(05)80118-3.

The role of a thymus-pineal axis in an immune mechanism of aging.

Cardarelli NF(1).

Author information:
(1)Engineering and Science Technology Division, University of Akron, OH 44325.

The Immune Theory of Aging cannot explain the cause of immune decline. It is 
hypothesized that the pineal gland acting in utero and during neonatal life in 
altricial mammals serves as a component of the immune system. Evidence in 
support of the presence of a thymus-pineal axis is presented. It is postulated 
that the pineal gland carries a considerable burden of immunological defense 
during maturation of the thymus, and also acts in the programming of the immune 
system. By relating thymus and immune function to the pineal and its known role 
as a neuroendocrine transducer for the entrainment and control of biorhythms, a 
consilence is developed between the role of the immune system in senescence and 
the pineal function in biorhythmicity. The relationships developed thus permit 
an extension of the immune theory as regards causative mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5193(05)80118-3
PMID: 2232824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Leukemia. 1990 Nov;4(11):739-44.

Comparison of outcome, clinical, laboratory, and immunological features in 164 
children and adults with T-ALL. The Groupe d'Etude Immunologique des Leucémies.

Garand R(1), Vannier JP, Béné MC, Faure G, Favre M, Bernard A.

Author information:
(1)Lab Hématologie, Hôtel Dieu, Nantes, France.

T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is a disease of poor prognosis, 
usually studied separately in adults or children. Controversial clinical or 
biological prognostic factors have been reported, and little information is 
available regarding the frequency and prognostic value of membrane markers 
identified on blast cells. We report an extensive investigation of the incidence 
and prognostic value of immunophenotypic, clinical, and laboratory data in 
T-ALL, performed as a multicenter study in 164 patients. CD7, CD5, and CD2 were 
the most frequently expressed T cell antigens, and CD2 and CD4 were more 
frequently observed in children than in adults. MHC class II, CD9, and CD10 were 
observed in 16, 22, and 21% of the patients, respectively. The male prevalence 
of T-ALL, and the more frequent presence of a tumoral syndrome in children were 
confirmed, but mediastinal enlargement and high leukocyte counts were observed 
in less than half the patients. A poor prognosis was associated with the 
expression of MHC class II in adults. The presence of a mediastinal mass 
appeared to be of good prognosis in adults, as well as a leukocyte count lower 
than 100 x 10(9)/l whatever the age of the patient.

PMID: 2232884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Mech Ageing Dev. 1990 Sep;55(3):207-20. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(90)90149-a.

Longitudinal Gompertzian analysis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis mortality in 
the U.S., 1977-1986: evidence for an inherently susceptible population subset.

Riggs JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, West Virginia University School of Medicine, 
Morgantown.

Age-adjusted mortality rates for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) for men and 
women in the United States from 1977 to 1986 were determined and subjected to 
longitudinal Gompertzian analysis. The exponential decline in the rate of 
increase of age-adjusted ALS mortality rates after age 55 years is most 
consistent with the existence of an inherently susceptible population subset 
that is decreasing faster than the general population. In the U.S. between 1977 
and 1986, annual age-adjusted ALS mortality rate distributions were determined 
by a common fixed intersect point (for men, the death rate at age 46.38 years 
was 0.91/100,000; for women, the death rate at age 45.85 years was 
0.46/100,000); and an environmental factor that varied erratically during the 
decade by a factor of 7.21 for men and 11.64 for women. On the average, the U.S. 
environment during this period was 4.33 times more conducive to mortality from 
ALS in men than in women. Overall ALS mortality between 1977 and 1986 increased 
46% and 49% for men and women, respectively. The common fixed intersect point in 
mortality rate distributions suggests that these increases were real and not 
merely the result of improved diagnosis and/or better reporting. The overall 
increase in ALS mortality most likely results from an effective increase in the 
susceptible population subset due to increasing life expectancy, rather than to 
environmental factors. That is, as life expectancy increases, more of the 
susceptible population subset live long enough to express the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(90)90149-a
PMID: 2232913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Mech Ageing Dev. 1990 Sep;55(3):255-91. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(90)90153-7.

Periodic clustering of human disease-specific mortality distributions by shape 
and time position, and a new integer-based law of mortality.

Juckett DA(1), Rosenberg B.

Author information:
(1)Barros Research Institute, Holt, MI 48842.

Erratum in
    Mech Ageing Dev 1991 Feb;57(2):203.

Human mortality distributions were analyzed for 29 disease-specific 
causes-of-death in male and female, White (U.S.A.), Black (U.S.A.) and Japanese 
(Japan) populations, constituting a total of 162 separate cohorts. For each 
cohort distribution, the curve moments and the parameter values for fits to 
model equations were determined. The differences between cohort distributions 
were characterized by two degrees of freedom, related to distribution position 
and shape, respectively. A form of the Weibull function was shown to contain two 
parameters that mapped to these two degrees of freedom. Parametric analysis on 
136 best-fitting cohorts yielded periodic clustering in the set of values for 
both Weibull parameters as quantitated using a Fourier transform method and an 
independent statistical method. This periodicity was unlikely to have occurred 
by chance (P less than 0.01). We have combined these results into a Law of 
Mortality, based on a Weibull function containing only integer parameters and 
constants, which is valid for all human age-related disease mortality. We show 
that the life expectancy differences between races and sexes is completely 
described by this formalism. We conclude that human mortality is controlled by 
discrete events, which are manifested in the appearance of only allowed 
mortality curve shapes and positions.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(90)90153-7
PMID: 2232917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Med Care. 1990 Oct;28(10):952-62. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199010000-00009.

The risk of nursing home use in later life.

Murtaugh CM(1), Kemper P, Spillman BC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Long Term Care Studies, Agency for Health Care Policy and 
Research, Rockville, MD.

Data from the 1982-1984 National Long-Term Care Survey were used in this paper 
to estimate the risk of nursing home use. The data revealed that 37% of a 
nationally representative sample of individuals dying between 1982 and 1984 used 
a nursing home sometime after turning 65. This proportion increased with 
longevity and was higher among females and whites and in the North Central and 
Western regions of the country. Because individuals now turning 65 have a longer 
life expectancy than the persons studied, they face an even higher remaining 
lifetime risk of nursing home use (43%). Assuming that past utilization patterns 
will continue, over half of the women and almost one-third of the men turning 65 
in 1990 can be expected to use a nursing home sometime before they die.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199010000-00009
PMID: 2232925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1990 Oct 6;134(40):1937-43.

[The older worker: a medical problem or not?].

[Article in Dutch]

Willems JH(1), Smulders PG, Pot FD.

Author information:
(1)Nederlands Instituut voor Praeventieve Gezondheidszorg TNO, Leiden.

PMID: 2234148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Minerva Cardioangiol. 1990 May;38(5):181-5.

[The aorto-coronary bypass in the elderly patient].

[Article in Italian]

Borioni R(1), Pallua N, Wasmuth C, Bücherl ES.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinikum Rudolf Virchow, Standort Charlottenburg Chirurgische 
Klinik und Poliklinik.

In the FRG one person every ten is more than 70-years old; the average life 
expectancy, often underestimated, is about 11 years for the 70-years old and 6 
years for 80-years old. The modern approach to coronary disease has broadened 
the indications for coronary artery bypass grafting in the elderly. The present 
report, studying 152 patients more than 70-years old, suggests the usefulness of 
a myocardial revascularization in the elderly; it remains to define the relative 
contraindications (renal failure, high LVEDP, valve replacement). However, the 
symptomatic improvement we could achieve (95.45%) seems to be a good result, 
considering the low CABG-related postoperative lethality (1.9%). The trend of 
our results regardless of 5 years survival is also encouraging (85.1%).

PMID: 2234447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Ophthalmic Surg. 1990 Aug;21(8):544-9.

Vitreous changes and macular edema in central retinal vein occlusion.

Kado M(1), Jalkh AE, Yoshida A, Takahashi M, Wazen N, Trempe CL, Schepens CL.

Author information:
(1)Eye Research Institute, Boston, MA 02114.

The condition of the posterior vitreous was determined in 56 eyes with central 
retinal vein occlusion (CRVO). Using a life-table analysis, it was studied in 56 
eyes. The incidence of posterior vitreous detachment (PVD) in the CRVO eyes at 
the first vitreous examination did not differ significantly from that in 64 
age-matched control eyes. However, the incidence of PVD in CRVO eyes increased 
from 39.3% at the first vitreous examination to 58.5% after 6 months, and to 
69.6% 1 year from the examination. The incidence of PVD in CRVO eyes during 
follow-up was statistically higher than that of the controls (P = .009). The 
incidence of PVD after the first vitreous examination was significantly higher 
in eyes with hemorrhagic retinopathy than in eyes with venous stasis retinopathy 
(P = .04). In the 34 eyes with macular edema, the edema lasted significantly 
longer in those with vitreomacular attachment (VMA) at the first examination 
than in those without VMA at this time (P = .02). VMA may play an important role 
in the pathogenesis and chronicity of macular edema in CRVO.

PMID: 2234801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Rev Invest Clin. 1990 Jan-Mar;42(1):14-7.

[Splenectomy in idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura].

[Article in Spanish]

Herrera Hernández MF(1), López-Karpovitch X, Rivero Sigarroa E, Odor Morales A, 
de la Garza Villaseñor L.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de hematología, Instituto Nacional de la Nutrición Salvador 
Zubiran, México, D.F.

Comment in
    Rev Invest Clin. 1992 Apr-Jun;44(2):283.

Between January 1976 and December 1987, 44 patients with idiopathic 
thrombocytopenic purpura were submitted to splenectomy. This study analyzes the 
results of treatment and the usefulness of several prognostic markers. There 
were 38 female patients and six males with a median age of 28.5 years (range 11 
to 66 years). Forty two out of 44 patients received preoperative steroids. 
Seventy five percent achieved a satisfactory response to this treatment but 31 
relapsed (in eight recurrence was observed when the steroid dose was tapered). 
Eleven patients persisted symptomatic notwithstanding medical treatment. In two 
cases splenectomy was performed as an emergency procedure, and in one patient 
who was already in remission with previous steroid treatment, splenectomy was 
performed for other medical reasons. Operative mortality rate was 4 percent, and 
five patients developed postoperative complications (three had pneumonia, one 
pulmonary thromboembolism and one would infection). Eighty four percent of the 
patients were free of disease at one year followup survival at 10 year period 
was 80 percent. No correlation was found between age, duration of symptoms, 
previous response to steroids or time-period of medical treatment with the 
results obtained with splenectomy.

PMID: 2236970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Sb Ved Pr Lek Fak Karlovy Univerzity Hradci Kralove Suppl. 1990;33(1):1-93.

[Evaluation of the effectiveness of health care].

[Article in Czech]

Strnad L(1).

Author information:
(1)Ustav sociálního lékarství LFUK v Hradci Králové.

During the last two decades, the economic aspects of health care acquired an 
outstanding attentiveness in all developed countries. Simultaneously, the 
methods have been searched for a more intensive and perfect application of 
internal health sources, i.e. manpower, materials and money. New approaches in 
evaluating health care efficacy (conception of health provision as a branch of 
national economy) have been made. In accord with them, the efficiency of either 
individual or partial health actions such as health care programs, preventive 
measures, diagnostical and curative procedures etc.) is measured. All these 
questions are the up to date topic for Health care of Czechoslovakia which now 
is far to dispose of sources comparable with the majority of economically 
developed countries in Europe. At present, they are approximately similar in 
supplying 1 person health care needs with 500-1000 dol. a year and even more in 
several countries, whereas Czechoslovakia spends about 200 dol. on health needs 
of 1 inhabitant a year. This fact is closely connected with relatively low 
efficacy of our economy incapable to produce the sufficient sources for 
providing health care on one hand, and on the other it is due both to the 
budgetary politics as practiced now and the conception of national product 
division. The shortage in Health care sources is manifested mainly in 
retardation of material and technical base of health service altogether with low 
levelled renumeration of health workers consequential in psychologic, social and 
political problems. The consequences of this condition are reflected negatively 
in a level of health service provision. This is as far important as the 
czechoslovac population health status viewed from the so-called strategic health 
indices (averaged life expectancy, specific mortality, occurrence of 
cardiovascular diseases and malignancies etc.) is not favourable due to a number 
of factors, and its improvement will require considerable efforts from both the 
health workers and community as a whole. Besides the needful enlargement of 
sources, these complicated questions are resolvable in observing unity of 
medical, organizational and economical rationality on all levels of health 
service management and in all health institutions. This is also the way how to 
improve the efficiency of health care. The term of efficiency in relation to the 
health services. In economics, the efficiency is the ratio between the achieved 
result (effect) and the expenditure of a specified amount of resources. 
Mathematically, this ratio is expressed as follows: efficiency = 
end-result/costs Linked to the Health care, the efficiency may be understood 
also differently from its economic term.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2237290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Science. 1990 Nov 2;250(4981):622-4. doi: 10.1126/science.2237412.

A new bestiary for aging research.

Morell V.

DOI: 10.1126/science.2237412
PMID: 2237412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Science. 1990 Nov 2;250(4981):622-5. doi: 10.1126/science.2237413.

Gerontology research comes of age.

Gibbons A.

Comment in
    Science. 1991 Feb 22;251(4996):855.

DOI: 10.1126/science.2237413
PMID: 2237413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Science. 1990 Nov 2;250(4981):634-40. doi: 10.1126/science.2237414.

In search of Methuselah: estimating the upper limits to human longevity.

Olshansky SJ(1), Carnes BA, Cassel C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, IL.

Estimates of the upper limits to human longevity have important policy 
implications that directly affect forecasts of life expectancy, active life 
expectancy, population aging, and social and medical programs tied to the size 
and health status of the elderly population. In the past, investigators have 
based speculations about the upper limits of human longevity on observations of 
past trends in mortality. Here the estimate of the upper bound is based on 
hypothesized reductions in current mortality rates necessary to achieve a life 
expectancy at birth from 80 to 120 years and an expectation of life at age 50 
from 30 to 70 years. With the use of conditional probabilities of death from 
complete life tables for the United States, reductions in mortality required to 
achieve extreme longevity (that is, 80 to 120 years) were compared with those 
resulting from hypothetical cures for all cardiovascular diseases, ischemic 
heart disease, diabetes, and cancer. Results indicate that in order for life 
expectancy at birth to increase from present levels to what has been referred to 
as the average biological limit to life (age 85), mortality rates from all 
causes of death would need to decline at all ages by 55%, and at ages 50 and 
over by 60%. Given that hypothetical cures for major degenerative diseases would 
reduce overall mortality by 75%, it seems highly unlikely that life expectancy 
at birth will exceed the age of 85.

DOI: 10.1126/science.2237414
PMID: 2237414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Soc Work. 1990 Sep;35(5):387-8.

Aging as a feminist issue.

Hartman A.

PMID: 2237514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Sov Zdravookhr. 1990;(8):27-31.

[Educational status and life expectancy].

[Article in Russian]

Virganskaia IM.

The article provides a foundation for the necessity of studying the social 
differentiation of mortality, in particular the influence of educational status 
and character of labour on length of life. It is indicated that higher indices 
of length of life are found among populations with high educational status and 
among people engaged in intellectual pursuits. The description is given of the 
methodological approaches to the construction of life expectancy tables 
according to the educational status and character of labour.

PMID: 2237614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Ugeskr Laeger. 1990 Oct 8;152(41):2988-92.

[Social situation of the 70-year old population in the past and present. A 
cohort comparison of 70-year old men and women born in 1987 and 1914 in 
Glostrup].

[Article in Danish]

Jürgensen KS(1), Avlund K, Schroll M.

Author information:
(1)Institut for Social Medicin, Panum Instiuttet, Københavns Universitet.

A cohort comparison between two different populations of 70 year-olds in 
Glostrup studied in 1967 (230 men and 210 women) and in 1984 (412 men and 392 
women) was conducted for the purpose of identifying differences in social 
background factors known to have influence on health and the quality of life of 
old people. The findings show, that from 1967 to 1984, the standard of housing 
had improved. Significantly more 70 year-olds had better housing conditions with 
bath, toilet, kitchen and central heating in 1984 (65-92%). Women in the 1914 
cohort had significantly longer education and a larger proportion were employed 
outside the home than in the 1897 cohort. Another significant cohort difference 
found was a tendency toward earlier retirement in the order of 2-3 years. This 
was seen for both sexes and all occupational groups. Since the two populations 
of 70 year-olds in Glostrup differ with regard to both social conditions and on 
health variables, this cohort comparison offers a useful starting point for 
research on how living conditions in combination with other factors affect 
health and aging.

PMID: 2238166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Ugeskr Laeger. 1990 Oct 8;152(41):2993-7.

[Health status of the 70-year-old population in the past and present. A cohort 
comparison of 70-year old men and women born in 1987 and 1914 in Glostrup].

[Article in Danish]

Jürgensen KS(1), Avlund K, Schroll M.

Author information:
(1)Institut for Social Medicin, Panum Instituttet, Københavns Universitet.

A cohort comparison between two different populations of 70 year-olds in 
Glostrup who had health examinations in 1967 (230 men and 210 women) and in 1984 
(412 men and 392 women) was conducted with the purpose of describing changes in 
health variables among old people during a period of falling mortality for both 
men and women. From the 1967 investigation to the 1984 investigation there was a 
significant improvement of the cardiovascular risk profile (i.e. body mass 
index, blood pressure, serum cholesterol, glucose tolerance) which is consistent 
with other such investigations. In contrast to these findings, symptoms of 
chronic conditions (angina pectoris, intermittent claudication and bronchitis) 
as well as the need for health care were the same in the two populations of 70 
year-olds. In addition, the 1914 cohort reported a more pessimistic outlook with 
regard to their general health and greater consumption of medicine. The results 
of this investigation are consistent with expectations regarding changes in risk 
factors and mortality in older generations. The consequences of the falling 
mortality for morbidity and functional ability in a life perspective are, 
however, still uncertain, and cannot be evaluated alone from results such as 
these.

PMID: 2238167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. West J Nurs Res. 1990 Oct;12(5):584-6. doi: 10.1177/019394599001200501.

The confusion in obesity research standards.

Brink PJ.

Comment in
    West J Nurs Res. 1991 Oct;13(5):648-9.

DOI: 10.1177/019394599001200501
PMID: 2238637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. World Health Stat Q. 1990;43(3):145-52.

Assessing the health impact of urbanization.

Williams BT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Medicine, University of Sheffield Medical School, 
United Kingdom.

Several components of urbanization influence health status, but it is difficult 
to attribute changes in health status to any particular component. The overall 
impact may be estimated by relating the degree of urbanization of populations to 
some proxy measure, like the under-5 mortality rates. In this respect the net 
effect of urbanization is shown to be beneficial. A variety of survey and 
computational methods have been used to clarify the relationship. Some 
illustrate the effects of urbanization upon particular clinical conditions, such 
as promoting the eradication of leprosy, others of particular components, such 
as overcrowding and pollution, on infant mortality. To help set goals, excess or 
avoidable mortality may be computed for a country or region by relating its 
experience to current mortality levels in a developed country; and changes in 
the levels of avoidable mortality from sentinel conditions such as infectious 
diseases may be related to changes in particular aspects of urbanization, e.g. 
improvements in levels of sanitation. Migration to the urban environment imparts 
the tendency to acquire the health characteristics of the host population. Rapid 
urbanization causes problems of psychosocial adjustment for older children. 
Urbanization may impact upon the incidence and prevalence of disability. Where 
sex-age disability-survey data exist, they may be combined with age-specific 
mortality data to construct an index of disability-free life expectancy, a more 
subtle measure for assessing the progressive impact of urbanization. Up to now, 
however, there have been no international studies of how levels of disability 
change according to the progress of urbanization, and there are no international 
census or survey recommendations for harmonizing the classification of disabled 
people.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2238695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Adv Neurol. 1990;53:399-403.

Longitudinal study of effects of early levodopa treatment on disability and 
mortality in Parkinson's disease.

Diamond SG(1), Markham CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, Los Angeles School of 
Medicine.

PMID: 2239480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Am J Epidemiol. 1990 Nov;132(5):910-25. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a115734.

The epidemiology of appendicitis and appendectomy in the United States.

Addiss DG(1), Shaffer N, Fowler BS, Tauxe RV.

Author information:
(1)Division of Bacterial Diseases, Center for Infectious Diseases, Centers for 
Disease Control, Atlanta, GA 30333.

To describe the epidemiology of appendicitis and appendectomy in the United 
States, the authors analyzed National Hospital Discharge Survey data for the 
years 1979-1984. Approximately 250,000 cases of appendicitis occurred annually 
in the United States during this period, accounting for an estimated 1 million 
hospital days per year. The highest incidence of primary positive appendectomy 
(appendicitis) was found in persons aged 10-19 years (23.3 per 10,000 population 
per year); males had higher rates of appendicitis than females for all age 
groups (overall rate ratio, 1.4:1). Racial, geographic, and seasonal differences 
were also noted. Appendicitis rates were 1.5 times higher for whites than for 
nonwhites, highest (15.4 per 10,000 population per year) in the west north 
central region, and 11.3% higher in the summer than in the winter months. The 
highest rate of incidental appendectomy was found in women aged 35-44 years 
(43.8 per 10,000 population per year), 12.1 times higher than the rate for men 
of the same age. Between 1970 and 1984, the incidence of appendicitis decreased 
by 14.6%; reasons for this decline are unknown. A life table model suggests that 
the lifetime risk of appendicitis is 8.6% for males and 6.7% for females; the 
lifetime risk of appendectomy is 12.0% for males and 23.1% for females. Overall, 
an estimated 36 incidental procedures are performed to prevent one case of 
appendicitis; for the elderly, the preventive value of an incidental procedure 
is considerably lower.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a115734
PMID: 2239906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Ann Surg. 1990 Nov;212(5):629-36. doi: 10.1097/00000658-199011000-00011.

Does carotid restenosis predict an increased risk of late symptoms, stroke, or 
death?

Bernstein EF(1), Torem S, Dilley RB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Thoracic Surgery, Scripps Clinic and Research 
Foundation, La Jolla, California 92037.

The identification of carotid restenosis as an unexpected late complication of 
carotid endarterectomy has prompted concerns regarding its importance as a 
source of new cerebral symptoms, stroke, and death. To investigate these 
concerns, we analyzed a consecutive series of 507 patients undergoing 566 
carotid endarterectomies, each documented as technically satisfactory. 
Post-operative duplex Doppler examination data at 3 days, 1, 3, 6, 12 months, 
and annually thereafter in 484 arteries (85.5%) permitted classification of 
these arteries according to the most severe degree of postoperative stenosis: 
normal (n = 306); 1% to 19% (n = 89); 20% to 50% (n = 40); more than 50% (n = 
49, including 8 occluded). The incidence of more than 50% restenosis was 14.5% 
in female and 7.7% in male patients (p = 0.003). Life table analyses to 10 years 
revealed a significantly greater life expectancy among those with restenosis (p 
= 0.05). Stroke was also less likely in patients with restenosis, although this 
difference did not reach statistical significance. When survival and stroke were 
both endpoints, the likelihood of patients with more than 50% restenosis 
remaining alive and stroke free was also greater than the less than 20% stenotic 
group (p = 0.03). Thus patients with carotid restenosis were less likely than 
patients with normal postoperative scans to have late symptoms, stroke, or early 
death.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-199011000-00011
PMCID: PMC1358192
PMID: 2241319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Arch Neurobiol (Madr). 1990 May-Jun;53(3):129-33.

[Reintervention in gliomas: the necessity of nuclear magnetic resonance].

[Article in Spanish]

Escudero Torrella J(1), Láinez Andrés JM, Morera Guitart J, Ferrer Gómez C, 
Lluch Bellod V, Sancho Rieger J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurología, Hospital General Universitari de Valencia.

The reoperation of patients with recurrence of cerebral glioma is a technique 
offering survival with a good quality of life. The accepted criteria are a 
Karnofski index until reoperation greater than or equal to 70, young age, and a 
favourable histologic grade of tumor. NMR offers better sensitivity than other 
neuroimaging techniques for the detection of tumoral extension, local and at a 
distance, and allows a good tumoral resection. We report a patient with 
recurrence of a cerebral astrocytoma grade II with the criteria for reoperation, 
but when we performed NMR a dissemination of the tumor to the posterior fossa 
was seen, and reoperation was consequently counter-indicated. We discuss the 
mechanism of the extension of cerebral gliomas, the value of neuroimaging 
techniques and the role of reoperation in this context. We consider it necessary 
to perform NMR prior to reoperation in this special group of patients with a 
cerebral glioma recurrence.

PMID: 2241470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Pediatr Nephrol. 1990 Sep;4(5):459-62. doi: 10.1007/BF00869820.

Evaluation of chlorambucil therapy in steroid-dependent and 
cyclophosphamide-resistant children with nephrosis.

Elzouki AY(1), Jaiswal OP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, Kuwait University, Safat.

A prospective study was performed to evaluate the efficacy of chlorambucil in 
inducing long-term remission in children with steroid-dependent or 
cyclophosphamide-resistant primary nephrotic syndrome (NS). The 16 
steroid-dependent children had a relapse rate of 5.3/patient per year (range 
4-8) and a mean age of 8.4 years (range 2-13). The chlorambucil dosage was 0.2 
mg/kg per day for a total of 8 weeks. Nine patients (56%) remained in complete 
remission for an average of 39.2 months (range 16-70). The interval to the first 
relapse in the remaining 7 ranged from 4 to 41 months and the relapse rate 
decreased significantly to 0.6 relapses/patient per year (P less than 0.05). 
Five children had steroid- and cyclophosphamide-resistant NS, 4 with focal 
segmental glomerulosclerosis and 1 with mesangiol proliferative 
glomerulonephritis. Chlorambucil was given in a dose of 0.2 mg/kg per day for 
8-16 weeks. Complete remission was obtained in 4 patients; 2 patients relapsed. 
No serious long-term complications were observed in our patients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00869820
PMID: 2242305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Dis Colon Rectum. 1990 Dec;33(12):1031-3. doi: 10.1007/BF02139218.

Colostomy irrigation in the elderly. Effective recovery regardless of age.

Venturini M(1), Bertelli G, Forno G, Grandi G, Dini D.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Cancer Research, Department of Oncological 
Rehabilitation, Genova, Italy.

One hundred forty elderly cancer outpatients with colostomy in the authors' 
rehabilitation department were included in an analysis of the feasibility, 
effectiveness, and safety of periodic irrigation of remaining colon with 
lukewarm tap water with the aim of regaining full continence. Sixteen patients 
did not have a sufficiently long remaining bowel (cecostomy, transverse 
colostomy) and 17 were considered unsuitable to learn the technique because of 
advanced neoplastic disease with poor life expectancy, intercurrent disease, or 
stomal problems. One hundred seven patients were proposed to perform the 
irrigation: 17 refused to do so with the remaining 90 able to learn the method 
without problems. Nearly all patients achieved full continence for at least 24 
hours. Three patients refused to continue, and nine interrupted for minor 
complications. The median duration of irrigation in the whole group is 257 days 
(range, 1 to 2669 days): 32 patients have been irrigating from one to five 
years, and 9 patients for more than 5 years. Based on these results, we 
recommend irrigation as standard rehabilitative treatment for elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02139218
PMID: 2242697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 1990 Nov;37(2):111-9. doi: 
10.1016/0028-2243(90)90104-9.

Induction of labour: the effect of vaginal prostaglandin or i.v. oxytocin--a 
matter of time only?

Lyndrup J(1), Legarth J, Dahl C, Philipsen T, Eriksen PS, Weber T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Herlev Hospital, University of 
Copenhagen, Denmark.

Ninety-one pregnant women with unfavourable cervix (Bishop score no higher than 
6) were randomly allocated to induction of labour with either prostaglandin E2 
suppositories 2.5 mg 1-2 a day or i.v. oxytocin 4-32 mU/min. The induction 
procedure was carried on for 2 days. For statistical comparison of efficacy, 
life table analysis and the logrank test were used with vaginal delivery as the 
aimed 'event'. Prostaglandin suppositories were more efficient after 12 h (p 
less than 0.025) and 24 h (p less than 0.005), whereas no difference in efficacy 
was observed after 48 h. Vaginal delivery was obtained within 48 h in 74% of the 
women in the prostaglandin group and in 70% in the oxytocin group. No difference 
was observed in methods of delivery or neonatal Apgar scores, though, in 
neonates delivered vaginally within 2 days, lowered umbilical artery blood pH 
values were found after prostaglandin E2 suppositories (p less than 0.05). The 
patients attitude toward the method of induction was highly in favour of the 
prostaglandin suppositories. Prostaglandin E2 suppositories are considered 
excellent for induction of labour if delivery has to be within 24 h, whereas the 
two methods are equally effective after 48 h.

DOI: 10.1016/0028-2243(90)90104-9
PMID: 2242793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. J Environ Sci Health B. 1990 Aug;25(4):433-46. doi:
10.1080/03601239009372699.

Enhanced degradation of carbofuran in Pacific Northwest soils.

Getzin LW(1), Shanks CH Jr.

Author information:
(1)Research & Extension Center, Washington State University-Puyallup, 
98371-4998.

Persistence of 14C-carbonyl carbofuran was measured in Pacific Northwest soils 
that had received 1-14 applications of the insecticide for root weevil control 
on perennial crops. Insecticide decay curves were obtained in nonautoclaved soil 
and several autoclaved soil samples from previously-treated fields and in 
nonautoclaved soils from paired control sites not previously treated with 
carbofuran. The insecticide usually degraded faster in soil from 
previously-treated fields than in soil from corresponding control fields. Among 
26 previously-treated fields, the pseudo half-life (time for 50% loss) of 
carbofuran was less than one wk in 11 soils, 1-3 wks in 8 soils and greater than 
4 wks in the remaining soils. Among the nontreated control fields the pseudo 
half-life was greater than 2 wks in all cases and greater than 15 wks in 5 of 
the soils. The carbofuran decay curve always possessed an initial lag phase 
where soil mixing enhanced insecticide decline. Carbofuran degraded very slowly 
in autoclaved soil samples. The half-life of carbofuran exceeded 16 wk in all 
autoclaved soils tested and in most instances 85-90% of the original dosage 
remained when the tests were terminated 112 days after treatment. These results 
provided evidence that many of the soils which received applications of 
carbofuran over the past several years have developed a capacity to degrade 
carbofuran very rapidly.

DOI: 10.1080/03601239009372699
PMID: 2243170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. J Vasc Surg. 1990 Dec;12(6):732-9; discussion 739-40. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1990.25015.

Carotid endarterectomy: a ten-year analysis of outcome and cost of treatment.

Maini BS(1), Mullins TF 3rd, Catlin J, O'Mara P.

Author information:
(1)Division of General and Vascular Surgery, Fallon Clinic, Worcester, MA 01606.

Between 1978 and 1988, 215 patients with an average age of 67 years, underwent 
246 carotid endarterectomies. Two hundred ten (85.4%) patients were symptomatic, 
and 36 (14.6%) were asymptomatic. Six patients (2.4%) had a postoperative 
stroke, and all had immediate reoperation. One of these patients died (30 day 
mortality rate, 0.4% for the series), and two (0.8%) recovered completely, 
whereas three (1.2%) had a mild permanent neurologic deficit. Two patients 
(0.8%) had nonfatal myocardial infarction. Mean follow-up of 42.2 months (range, 
1 to 126 months) was achieved. At 5 and 8 years actuarial survival rates of 82% 
and 66% and stroke-free survival rates of 67% and 37% were observed. Actuarial 
stroke free rates of 90% at 5 and 8 years were noted. By introducing and 
observing guidelines that required preoperative study of most clearly defined 
classes of patients before admission for surgical treatment, the average length 
of stay for carotid endarterectomy was lowered from 9.5 days in the first 5 
years of the study to 5.8 days in the second 5 years (p = 0.001). Average 
hospital charges, expressed in constant dollars, decreased from $3113 in the 
first 5 years to $2620 in the second 5 years (p = 0.02) despite an 88% 
inflationary increase in medical consumer price index. This experience shows 
that the length of hospitalization of patients with carotid endarterectomy can 
be reduced and the cost of admission lowered without untoward effect on 
perioperative morbidity and mortality rates.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1990.25015
PMID: 2243409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Orv Hetil. 1990 Nov 18;131(46):2537-42.

[Survival rate and follow up studies of very low birth weight (less than 1000 g) 
premature infants].

[Article in Hungarian]

Botykai A(1), Adamovich K.

Author information:
(1)Pécsi Orvostudományi Egyetem, Gyermekklinika.

The Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) at the Department of Pediatrics, 
University Medical School Pécs had been established 11 years ago. 219 premature 
infants who weighed 1000 g or less were admitted to the NICU between Jan. 1978 
and Dec. 1988. The authors analysed the hospital records of there patients and 
found a marked increase in survival rates during the last five year period. The 
data presented strongly suggest that improvement of obstetric care, development 
of respiratory and fluid therapy, the increasing experience of hospital staff 
caring for the infants are the main factors contributing to improved results. At 
the same time the adverse effects of transportation from the referring 
institution are well demonstrated. The main causes of death remained the same 
over the 11 years studied. The number and severity of acute and late 
complications decreased markedly. The intensive care of very low birth weight 
infants is becoming increasingly expensive. However the growing expenditures are 
justified by increasing life expectancy of patients and the expected better 
quality of life among survivors.

PMID: 2243704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Pediatrics. 1990 Dec;86(6 Pt 2):1048-52.

Children in the Norwegian health care system.

Lie SO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Rikshospitalet, Oslo, Norway.

Norway is a large, sparsely populated country with a long tradition of 
socialized health care. The health status of Norwegians is good, with life 
expectancy among the highest in Europe. Indicators of infant health are also 
good, although not among the best. Health services in Norway are in principle 
free of charge to all citizens, and the current health expenditure is about 6.8% 
of the Gross National Product. Preventive and curative pediatric services 
account for only 3% of this total. The structure of Norwegian health and social 
services is presented in this discussion, both in general terms and with 
particular attention to services for children.

PMID: 2243737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Arch Intern Med. 1990 Dec;150(12):2517-22.

Decision analysis, public health policy, and isoniazid chemoprophylaxis for 
young adult tuberculin skin reactors.

Colice GL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, White River Junction, Veterans Affairs 
Hospital, VT 05001.

Comment in
