    Arch Intern Med. 1991 Dec;151(12):2476-7.
    Arch Intern Med. 1991 Sep;151(9):1884.
    Arch Intern Med. 1991 Oct;151(10):2101, 2105.
    Arch Intern Med. 1991 Oct;151(10):2105.

As part of a plan to eliminate tuberculosis in America, tuberculin skin testing 
was advised for all US citizens, with isoniazid chemopreventive therapy 
administered to appropriate positive reactors. Implementation of this plan, 
however, may be limited by concerns over which skin test reactors should receive 
isoniazid therapy. Recent decision analyses suggest that, contrary to American 
Thoracic Society guidelines, asymptomatic skin test reactors under age 35 years 
with normal chest roentgenograms and no predisposing conditions to tuberculosis 
reactivation will not benefit from isoniazid chemopreventive therapy. Repeated 
analysis of these studies reveals that calculated life expectancy depends on 
estimates of the probability of certain chance outcomes. If the 
isoniazid-related hepatitis case-fatality rate is below 1%, isoniazid 
chemopreventive therapy appears to be beneficial. A literature review suggests 
that this rate is indeed this low. If the tuberculosis case-fatality rate is 
above 6.7%, also supported by the literature, the advantages of isoniazid 
therapy are further increased. This repeated analysis should reassure physicians 
that isoniazid chemoprophylaxis for tuberculin skin test reactors is beneficial 
to the individual and consonant with public health policies.

PMID: 2244768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Arch Intern Med. 1990 Dec;150(12):2557-62.

Estrogen replacement and coronary artery disease. Effect on survival in 
postmenopausal women.

Sullivan JM(1), Vander Zwaag R, Hughes JP, Maddock V, Kroetz FW, Ramanathan KB, 
Mirvis DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Tennesse, Memphis 38163.

The relationship among postmenopausal estrogen use, coronary stenosis, and 
survival was examined retrospectively in 2268 women undergoing coronary 
angiography. The patients were selected for study if their age was 55 years or 
older at the time of angiography or if they had previously undergone bilateral 
oophorectomy. Postmenopausal estrogen use in 1178 patients with coronary artery 
disease (greater than 70% stenosis) and 644 patients with mild to moderate 
coronary artery disease (5% to 69% stenosis) was compared with 446 control 
subjects (0% stenosis) using life-table analysis. Over 10 years of follow-up, 
there was no significant difference in survival among patients initially free of 
coronary lesions on arteriography who had either never used (377) or ever used 
(69) estrogens. Among patients with mild to moderate coronary stenosis, 10-year 
survival of those who had never used estrogens was 85.0% and it was 95.6% among 
99 "ever users." Survival was 60.0% among those with more than 70% coronary 
stenosis who had never used estrogen and it was 97.0% among 70 ever users. The 
"never users" group were older (65 vs 59 years), had a lower proportion of 
cigarette smokers (40% vs 57.1%), a higher proportion of subjects with diabetes 
(21.7% vs 12.9%) and hyperlipidemia (58% vs 44%), and approximately equal 
numbers of hypertensives (56.0% vs 54.3%). Cox's proportional hazards model was 
used to estimate survival as a function of multiple covariables. Estrogen use 
was found to have a significant, independent effect on survival in women. We 
conclude that estrogen replacement after menopause prolongs survival when 
coronary artery disease is present, but it has less effect in the absence of 
coronary artery disease.

PMID: 2244772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Fertil Steril. 1990 Dec;54(6):1083-8.

A randomized, controlled trial of clomiphene citrate and intrauterine 
insemination in couples with unexplained infertility or surgically corrected 
endometriosis.

Deaton JL(1), Gibson M, Blackmer KM, Nakajima ST, Badger GJ, Brumsted JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Vermont College of 
Medicine, Burlington.

This study was initiated to test the hypothesis that treatment with clomiphene 
citrate (CC) and intrauterine insemination (IUI) results in increased fecundity 
when compared with periovulatory intercourse in couples with either unexplained 
infertility or surgically corrected endometriosis. Sixty-seven couples entered a 
randomized, prospective trial comparing CC/IUI with observation. During the 
study, there were 14 pregnancies in 148 treated cycles (fecundity = 0.095) 
compared with 5 pregnancies in 150 untreated cycles (fecundity = 0.033). Using 
life-table analysis and the log-rank test, the difference in fecundities was 
statistically significant. Pregnancy outcome was not significantly different 
between the two groups. When comparing conception with nonconception cycles 
during treatment, no differences between the size of the lead follicle or the 
number of dominant follicles was detected. We conclude that treatment with 
CC/IUI improves fecundity in couples with unexplained infertility or surgically 
corrected endometriosis.

PMID: 2245833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Fertil Steril. 1990 Dec;54(6):984-90.

Neosalpingostomy for distal tubal obstruction: prognostic factors and impact of 
surgical technique.

Schlaff WD(1), Hassiakos DK, Damewood MD, Rock JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Johns Hopkins Medical School, 
Baltimore, Maryland.

We reviewed the clinical records of all women who underwent microsurgical 
terminal neosalpingostomy for distal tubal obstruction between January 1983 and 
June 1988. We identified 95 women whose preoperative evaluation revealed no 
other contributory factors for infertility and analyzed their pregnancy outcome 
after this procedure. Pregnancy success was inversely related to the extent of 
tubal distortion (dilation, rugal integrity, and status of the fimbria) and 
degree of adnexal adhesions. Using our classification system for distal tubal 
obstruction, patients with mild disease had an 80% pregnancy rate, whereas 
patients with moderate and severe disease had a 31% and 16% success rate, 
respectively. We found no statistically significant difference in pregnancy 
outcome when we compared this series with our previous group, reported in 1978, 
where contemporary microsurgical technique was not used. Although we feel that 
optimal surgical technique is important to maximize success, we conclude that 
the most important prognostic factor in pregnancy outcome after neosalpingostomy 
for distal tubal disease is the anatomical and functional integrity of the tube.

PMID: 2245857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Ital J Neurol Sci. 1990 Aug;11(4):367-72. doi: 10.1007/BF02335939.

The hypothalamus in MPTP-induced parkinsonism.

Sandyk R(1), Iacono RP, Kay SR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Montefiore 
Medical Center, Bronx, New York.

1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) has been shown to produce a 
parkinsonian syndrome in humans and other primates. Recent studies have 
demonstrated that in humans the hypothalamus has the highest binding density for 
(3H) MPTP, which corresponds to monoamine oxidase type B (MAO-B). There is 
evidence that the conversion of MPTP to the toxic compound MPP+ takes place in 
the hypothalamus; subsequently, MPP+ is transported to the striatal system, 
where destruction of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons occurs. Thus, the 
hypothalamus appears to be a primary target organ of MPTP toxicity. This 
assumption is supported by the observation that monkeys exposed to MPTP exhibit 
extensive pathological lesions in the hypothalamus which are manifested 
clinically by the development of life-threatening anorexia requiring forced 
feeding to overcome. We discuss the clinical implications of MPTP-induced 
hypothalamic damage to the pathophysiology of MPTP-induced parkinsonism and to 
Parkinson disease. It is suggested that consideration of hypothalamic 
involvement in MPTP-induced parkinsonism may provide a broader understanding of 
the pathophysiology of parkinsonism and may, in addition, account for the 
preliminary observations that MAO-B inhibitors retard the progression of 
Parkinson disease and possibly prolong life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02335939
PMID: 2246119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. J Sch Health. 1990 Sep;60(7):357-62. doi:
10.1111/j.1746-1561.1990.tb05953.x.

Taiwan, R.O.C.: perspectives in school health.

Chen WW(1), Lee SP, Pigg RM Jr, Huang SY, Yen EH.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Health Science Education, University of Florida, Gainesville 
32611-2034.

Continuous economic development and evolving social systems have created unique 
challenges for school health personnel in Taiwan. Due in part to economic growth 
and an improving health care system, average life expectancy has increased 
markedly for males and females since 1950. Traditional leading causes of death 
such as pneumonia, tuberculosis, and gastroenteritis have been replaced by 
accidents, neoplasms, and cardiovascular diseases. Schoolchildren suffer from 
various disorders that include hepatitis B, dental caries, and health problems 
related to scholastic pressure such as myopia, anxiety, and depression. However, 
new problems such as violence, substance use, and teen-age pregnancy may develop 
in the future. In response to the challenge, an extensive school health program 
has emerged that emphasizes school health instruction, school health services, 
and a healthful school environment. Increased attention has focused on teacher 
preparation in health education, and a cooperative approach to school health 
promotion emphasizes school, community, and interagency cooperation. Prompted by 
the establishment in 1980 of the Graduate Institute of Health Education, 
National Taiwan Normal University, school-based research initiatives have 
increased dramatically. Eighteen recommendations for further improvement are 
offered.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1746-1561.1990.tb05953.x
PMID: 2246877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Microcirc Endothelium Lymphatics. 1990 Apr-Jun;6(2-3):159-81.

Morphometric changes in pericyte-capillary endothelial cell associations 
correlated with vasoactive stimulus.

Buchanan RA(1), Wagner RC.

Author information:
(1)University of Delaware, School of Life and Health Sciences, Newark 19716.

The arterially-derived capillaries of the eel rete mirabile are heavily invested 
with highly arborized pericytes. By perfusing vasoactive agents through these 
capillaries, measuring changes in outflow volume and analyzing alterations in 
capillary and pericyte morphology a set of vasoactive agent-correlated changes 
were quantified. Morphometric analysis of the capillary ultrastructure revealed 
that alterations in flow and appearance were associated with changes in the 
extension of pericyte processes. These responses of the arterial pericytes to 
the vasoactive agents used in this study suggest that pericyte contraction 
alters the architecture of the arterially-derived capillaries of the rete in a 
manner which affects their permeability.

PMID: 2247024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Mol Cell Biol. 1990 Dec;10(12):6533-43. doi:
10.1128/mcb.10.12.6533-6543.1990.

Identification of cis-acting regulatory elements in the promoter region of the 
rat brain creatine kinase gene.

Hobson GM(1), Molloy GR, Benfield PA.

Author information:
(1)School of Life and Health Sciences, University of Delaware, Newark 19716.

The functional organization of the rat brain creatine kinase (ckb) promoter was 
analyzed by deletion, linker scanning, and substitution mutagenesis. Mutations 
were introduced into the ckb promoter of hybrid ckb/neo (neomycin resistance 
gene) genes, and the mutant genes were expressed transiently in HeLa cells. 
Expression was assayed by primer extension analysis of neo RNA, which allowed 
the transcription start sites and the amount of transcription to be determined. 
Transfections and primer extension reactions were internally controlled by 
simultaneous analysis of transcription from the adenovirus VA gene located on 
the same plasmid as the hybrid ckb/neo gene. We demonstrate that 195 bp of the 
ckb promoter is sufficient for efficient in vivo expression in HeLa cells. A 
nonconsensus TTAA element at -28 bp appears to provide the TATA box function for 
the ckb promoter in vivo. Two CCAAT elements, one at -84 bp and the other at -54 
bp, and a TATAAA TA element (a consensus TATA box sequence) at -66 bp are 
required for efficient transcription from the TTAA element. In addition, we 
present evidence that the consensus beta-globin TATA box responds to the 
TATAAATA element in the same way as the ckb nonconsensus TTAA element.

DOI: 10.1128/mcb.10.12.6533-6543.1990
PMCID: PMC362930
PMID: 2247071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. No Shinkei Geka. 1990 Nov;18(11):1035-9.

[Diffuse stenotic changes in the large intracranial arteries following 
irradiation therapy for medulloblastoma; case report].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamakami I(1), Sugaya Y, Sato M, Osato K, Yamaura A, Makino H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Kasima Rosai Hospital.

We reported a case of a patient who developed a diffuse stenotic change in the 
large intracranial arteries and repeated episodes of cerebral infarction after 
irradiation therapy for medulloblastoma. A three-year-old girl underwent the 
subtotal removal of cerebellar medulloblastoma and the subsequent irradiation 
therapy in the whole brain and spine (30 Gy in the whole brain, 20 Gy in the 
local brain, and 25 Gy in the whole spine). Two years later, she again underwent 
surgery and irradiation therapy because a recurrence of medulloblastoma had 
manifested itself in the frontal lobe; (40 Gy in the whole brain, 20 Gy in the 
local brain, and 25 Gy in the whole spine). One and half years after the second 
irradiation, she started suffering from frequent and refractory cerebral 
ischemic attacks. Cerebral angiography revealed a diffuse narrowing, and 
multifocal stenoses in the bilateral anterior and middle cerebral arteries. 
Computerized tomography demonstrated multiple cerebral infarctions. Her 
neurological condition deteriorated because of recurring strokes and she died at 
ten years of age. Most of the reported cases of patients who developed stenotic 
arteriopathy were children in the first decade of their life, and who were 
irradiated for parasellar brain tumor of low malignancy. Stenotic arteriopathy 
after irradiation has rarely been recognized in patients with malignant brain 
tumor. However, life expectancy is increasing even for those with malignant 
brain tumor, and it may make stenotic arteriopathy after irradiation recognized 
more commonly in patients with malignant brain tumor. Careful irradiation and 
subsequent angiographical examination should be required even in patients with 
malignant brain tumor.

PMID: 2247197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Minerva Anestesiol. 1990 May;56(5):179-83.

[The relationship between ligation of the ductus arteriosus and intracranial 
hemorrhage in preterm infants].

[Article in Italian]

Massone ML(1), Soliani M, Puccio V, Bracco G, Forcheri C, Pongiglione G, Bava G, 
Magnano GM, Toma P.

Author information:
(1)Unità di Terapia Intensiva Neonatale, Istituto G. Gaslini, Genova.

Surgical closure of patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) and perioperative time have 
been proposed as conditions of increased risk of peri-intraventricular 
hemorrhage (PVH-IVH) in preterm infants. We examined by pre- and postoperative 
ultrasound (US) scan 15 low birth-weight neonates who underwent PDA ligation 
within the first two weeks of life. They were assessed with regard to clinical 
state, perioperative management and development of PVH-IVH. Fourteen did not 
show onset or extension of intracranial hemorrhage in the immediate 
postoperative period. One patient developed a wide III grade IVH in the 24 
perioperative hours. His conditions were particularly severe, suggesting that 
many factors such as acidosis, hypoxia, hypercapnia and hypotension might have 
combined to lead to hemorrhage. We conclude that PDA ligation is not likely to 
increase the risk of PVH-IVH per se.

PMID: 2247253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Radiother Oncol. 1990;18 Suppl 1:98-101. doi: 10.1016/0167-8140(90)90184-x.

TBI technique and clinical results of leukemia patients at the University of 
Tübingen.

Christ G(1), Schmidt H, Nüsslin F, Ehninger G.

Author information:
(1)Radiologische Universitätsklinik, F.R.G.

Since 1976, more than 180 patients suffering from leukemia or aplastic anemia 
have been treated with BMT and TBI. The improvement of TBI-technique starting 
from single fraction irradiation without any shielding to different types of 
fractionation schemes with lung, head and neck shielding and an electron boost 
to the thoracal wall is shown. A more detailed description of the actual 
TBI-technique is given; this has been applied to 64 patients to-date. Some 
clinical results are summarised into four subgroups. Life table analyses are 
shown for single fraction irradiation as well as for fractionated irradiation 
separated for high and for low risk patient groups.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-8140(90)90184-x
PMID: 2247655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Unfallchirurg. 1990 Oct;93(10):449-56.

[Surgical measures in metastatic lesions of the extremities and pelvic bones].

[Article in German]

Isler B(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Orthopädische Chirurgie, Kantonsspital, Winterthur.

Two factors--generally increased life expectancy with a higher risk of malignant 
disease and improved survival rates among cancer patients--have led to a steady 
increase in the incidence of metastatic bone disease over the past 20 years. 
There is little controversy about the need for ORIF in the case of pathological 
fractures, but special techniques are necessary to achieve immediate and lasting 
stability in the presence of frequently extensive bone destruction. Metastatic 
bone lesions that involve the risk of fracture should preferably be stabilized 
prophylactically before further treatment in the form of radiation or 
chemotherapy. Special techniques of composite osteosyntheses for the long bones 
and particularly for composite reconstructions of acetabular lesions are listed.

PMID: 2247778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Urology. 1990 Dec;36(6):493-8. doi: 10.1016/0090-4295(90)80184-o.

Radical prostatectomy versus expectant primary treatment in stages I and II 
prostatic cancer. A fifteen-year follow-up.

Graversen PH(1), Nielsen KT, Gasser TC, Corle DK, Madsen PO.

Author information:
(1)Urology Section, Veterans Administration Hospital, Madison, Wisconsin.

A fifteen-year follow-up of a prospective, randomized study comparing placebo 
with radical prostatectomy as the primary treatment of early prostatic cancer is 
presented. A total of 111 patients with clinical Stage I or II prostatic cancer, 
normal acid phosphatase levels, and negative findings on skeletal x-ray film 
were evaluable. Thirty Stage I patients and 20 Stage II patients received 
placebo only; 31 Stage I and 30 Stage II patients underwent radical 
prostatectomy. The survival status for 95 patients (86%) was established at the 
fifteen-year follow-up. No significant differences in crude survival occurred in 
either stage or in both stages combined. Moreover, the survival curves closely 
followed reference curves based on expected U.S. mortality for men of comparable 
ages and races. A statistically significant association between a high Gleason 
histologic score and poor survival was established. In this study, initial 
treatment with radical prostatectomy did not yield longer survival than initial 
placebo treatment alone. However, the findings should be interpreted with 
caution, since sample size was small and staging procedure was simplified.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-4295(90)80184-o
PMID: 2247914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Am Heart J. 1990 Dec;120(6 Pt 2):1572-8. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(90)90061-2.

How to select a drug for the long-term treatment of chronic heart failure.

Man in 't Veld AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, University Hospital Dijkzigt, Erasmus 
University Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

First-line drugs for the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure should 
produce immediate symptomatic benefit, improve exercise tolerance, and thereby 
improve the quality of life. They should preferentially be active as monotherapy 
or at least reduce the need for comedication. The drugs must be safe and well 
tolerated by patients and change, in the end, the natural history of the 
disease, so that sudden death will be prevented and life expectancy improves. 
None of the currently available drugs satisfies all these criteria. Diuretics, 
digitalis, converting-enzyme inhibitors, and ibopamine come close to the 
described ideal.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(90)90061-2
PMID: 2248214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1990;610:99-105. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1990.tb16939.x.

Individual programming of life events: a challenge for demographers in the 
twenty-first century.

Légaré J(1), Marcil-Gratton N.

Author information:
(1)Département de Démographie, Faculté des Arts et des Sciences, Université de 
Montréal, Québec, Canada.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1990.tb16939.x
PMID: 2248474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Wkly Epidemiol Rec. 1990 Sep 28;65(39):297-301.

Alcohol abuse. Alcohol-related mortality and potential years of life lost, 1987.

[Article in English, French]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2248880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Biosystems. 1990;24(2):119-25. doi: 10.1016/0303-2647(90)90004-k.

A predictive model for life expectancy curves.

Kloeden PE(1), Rössler OE, Rössler R.

Author information:
(1)School of Mathematics and Physical Sciences, Murdoch University, Western 
Australia.

Life expectancy curves have a characteristic ominous shape that has fascinated 
scientists for centuries. Medawar was the first to explain this shape, 
specifically the steeply rising proneness of an average individual to die as a 
function of age, in evolutionary terms. The idea was that the "selective value" 
of the individual decreases as it has triggered other individuals taking its 
place (and carrying its genes) into existence. We demonstrate that this idea can 
be turned into a quantitative model. The resulting 4-parameter function 
reproduces well two well-known life expectancy curves from the first half of 
this century. Moreover, the easily interpretable parameters (3 of the 4) seem 
intuitively reasonable.

DOI: 10.1016/0303-2647(90)90004-k
PMID: 2249005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. BMJ. 1990 Nov 10;301(6760):1077-80. doi: 10.1136/bmj.301.6760.1077.

Leukaemia complicating treatment for Hodgkin's disease: the experience of the 
British National Lymphoma Investigation.

Devereux S(1), Selassie TG, Vaughan Hudson G, Vaughan Hudson B, Linch DC.

Author information:
(1)Kent and Canterbury Hospital.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the incidence of and risk factors for the development of 
secondary acute leukaemia and myelodysplasia in patients treated in British 
National Lymphoma Investigation's studies of Hodgkin's disease since 1970.
PATIENTS: 2676 Patients entered into Hodgkin's disease studies between February 
1970 and November 1986. Data accrued up to November 1988 were analysed, ensuring 
a minimum follow up period of two years.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of multicentre trial data by case-control and 
life table methods.
RESULTS: 17 Cases of secondary leukaemia were recorded in this group of 2676 
patients, giving an overall risk at 15 years of 1.7%. The risks of leukaemia 
after chemotherapy alone and chemotherapy with radiotherapy were not 
significantly different. The risk of leukaemia increased sharply with the amount 
of treatment given as measured by the number of attempts at treatment. The 15 
year risks of leukaemia were 0.2%, 2.3%, and 8.1% for patients receiving one, 
two, or three or more attempts at treatment. The highest risk, 22.8% at 15 
years, was observed in patients treated with lomustine (CCNU), and a 
case-control study suggested that this was an independent risk factor. The risk 
of secondary leukaemia was largely related to the overall quantity of treatment, 
although exposure to lomustine seemed to be an important risk factor. Treatment 
with both drugs and radiation was not more leukaemogenic than treatment with 
drugs alone. The greatest risk of secondary leukaemia was seen in multiply 
treated patients who were unlikely to be cured of Hodgkin's disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Avoidance of secondary leukaemia should be a minor factor in the 
choice of treatment for Hodgkin's disease.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.301.6760.1077
PMCID: PMC1664202
PMID: 2249071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Demography. 1990 Nov;27(4):639-52.

Alternative projections of the U.S. population.

Ahlburg DA(1), Vaupel JW.

Author information:
(1)Industrial Relations Center, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55455.

The U.S. Bureau of the Census recently released a set of population projections 
that include middle and high projections that we argue are too conservative. The 
projections discount the possibility of future baby booms and assume slow rates 
of mortality decline and low levels of immigration. In this article we explore 
the impact on the size and age composition of the U.S. population of alternative 
scenarios of plausible fertility, mortality, and immigration assumptions. We 
conclude that (1) the Census Bureau's highest projection might be interpreted as 
a reasonable middle projection, (2) a reasonable high projection would yield a 
U.S. population in 2080 some 300 million persons larger than the Bureau's 
highest projection, with the population 85 and older more than twice the 
Bureau's greatest estimate, and (3) uncertainty about the pace of population 
growth is substantially greater than the Bureau's projections suggest.

PMID: 2249750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Hum Immunol. 1990 Oct;29(2):79-91. doi: 10.1016/0198-8859(90)90071-v.

Effect of HLA incompatibility on graft-versus-host disease, relapse, and 
survival after marrow transplantation for patients with leukemia or lymphoma.

Anasetti C(1), Beatty PG, Storb R, Martin PJ, Mori M, Sanders JE, Thomas ED, 
Hansen JA.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA 98104.

We analyzed the relevance of HLA incompatibility to acute graft-versus-host 
disease, relapse, and survival in 281 patients with hematologic neoplasms who 
underwent bone marrow transplantation. Each patient received marrow from a 
family member who shared one HLA haplotype with the patient but differed to a 
variable degree for the HLA-A, -B, and -D antigens of the haplotype not shared; 
29 were phenotypically identical, 119 were incompatible for one locus, 104 for 
two loci, and 29 for three loci. These 281 patients were compared with 967 
patients who received marrow from siblings with identical HLA genotypes. All 
patients were treated with cyclophosphamide and total-body irradiation followed 
by the infusion of unmodified donor marrow cells. Occurrence of severe acute 
graft-versus-host disease was evaluated in patients who achieved sustained 
engraftment. In recipients of haploidentical grafts occurrence of severe acute 
graft-versus-host disease was associated with (1) graft-versus-host disease 
prophylaxis containing the combination of methotrexate plus cyclosporine versus 
standard methotrexate, relative risk = 0.35; 95% confidence interval, 0.21-0.57, 
p less than 0.0001; and (2) the degree of recipient HLA incompatibility, 
relative risk = 1.95 for each locus incompatible; 95% confidence interval, 
1.52-2.50, p less than 0.0001; (3) patient age, relative risk = 1.23 per decade; 
95% confidence interval, 1.05-1.44, p = 0.0094. Acute graft-versus-host disease 
was associated with lower leukemic relapse after transplant in patients with 
acute lymphocytic leukemia, and chronic graft-versus-host disease was associated 
with lower relapse after transplant for acute nonlymphocytic leukemia in relapse 
or chronic myelogenous leukemia in blast crisis. After transplantation for acute 
nonlymphocytic leukemia in remission, the rate of leukemic relapse was 22% in 61 
recipients of "one-locus" (A, B, or D)-incompatible grafts compared to 37% in 
561 recipients of HLA-identical sibling grafts. Survival was decreased as the 
degree of HLA disparity increased. Survival of "one-locus"-incompatible 
transplant recipients, however, was equivalent to that of HLA-identical sibling 
transplant recipients.

DOI: 10.1016/0198-8859(90)90071-v
PMID: 2249952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Minerva Cardioangiol. 1990 Jun;38(6):245-70.

[Indications for revascularization procedures in patients with intermittent 
claudication].

[Article in Italian]

Deriu GP(1), Grego F, Ballotta E, Milite D, Cognolato D, Frigatti P, Franceschi 
L, Chiesura Corona M.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Chirurgia Vascolare, Università degli Studi di Padova.

Patients suffering from arteriosclerotic obliterating disease of the lower limbs 
that present with symptoms of rest pain, ulcers or more or less severe gangrene 
are considered as candidates for revascularization operation. Apart from the 
possible non relevance of individual symptoms, in some instances the 
revascularization operation is indicated solely on the basis of the angiographic 
evidence. Ascending thrombosis of the abdominal aorta, double or triple blocks, 
stenosis of the collateral circulation and, broadly speaking, any other 
situation that suggests a possible superimposition of an episode of acute 
ischaemia due to thrombosis in a condition of chronic obliterating arteriopathy 
are considered as absolute indication for revascularization operation. Patients 
whose conditions are not listed above are considered as stage II and indication 
for operation in this case is not absolute but relative or "luxury" since its 
purpose is only to improve the quality of life. The importance of the symptoms 
must be considered along with other factors, including the personal, social, 
working, sporting and psychological needs of the specific individual apart from 
the absence of general risks related to the patient's condition. The vascular 
surgeon's expertise is obviously fundamental in exactly evaluating the 
arteriography and in understanding the precise anatomic picture that varies in 
every single case: in fact, since the operation is optional and not a necessity, 
correction of the arterial lesions in only advisable when it is possible to 
carry out and operation that is broadly risk free and with good short and long 
term results, with reference to the patient's life expectancy.

PMID: 2250769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Pediatrics. 1990 Dec;86(6):835-47.

Annual summary of vital statistics--1989.

Wegman ME(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109-2029.

US infant mortality continued to decline slowly and the provisional 1989 rate, 
9.7 per 1000 live births, was the lowest ever recorded. Final 1988 data showed 
no change in cause of death distribution or in the wide discrepancy between 
white and black infant mortality. State rates varied from 6.8 in Vermont to 12.6 
in Georgia. Worldwide, the US rate of 10.0 was bettered by 21 other countries, 
with Japan lowest at 4.8. Births increased in number and rate, because of a 
higher fertility rate and more women in the childbearing years. The birth rate 
to mothers 17 years of age and younger increased again. The proportion of women 
who had no or inadequate prenatal care was essentially unchanged. Deaths, crude 
death rate, and age-adjusted death rate decreased. The excess of births over 
deaths added almost 1.9 million persons to the US population, the highest rate 
of natural increase since 1971. The marriage rate was essentially unchanged, 
whereas the divorce rate decreased slightly, to the lowest level since 1973. 
With the exception of human immunodeficiency virus infection, homicide, and 
pulmonary malignancies, rates for most causes of death declined from 1988 to 
1989. In comparison with 1940, most declines were substantial, led by pneumonia, 
down about 80%, and perinatal conditions, down about 75%. The only large-scale 
increases among major causes in the half century were in two diseases related to 
cigarette smoking: chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, up eightfold, and 
respiratory cancer, up almost sixfold. Death rates from all other cancers, as a 
group, decreased by some 20% and from cardiovascular diseases by some 60%.

PMID: 2251021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Radiobiologiia. 1990 Sep-Oct;30(5):707-9.

[Long-term results of local x-irradiation of rats].

[Article in Russian]

Vershinina SF, Markochev AB, Makarov KG.

PMID: 2251366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Semin Oncol. 1990 Dec;17(6):758-68.

Survival outcome after Hodgkin's disease: a report from the international data 
base on Hodgkin's disease.

Henry-Amar M(1), Somers R.

Author information:
(1)Institut Gustave-Roussy, Villejuif, France.

PMID: 2251521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1990 Oct;21(5):199-204.

[Extension of life: the apotheosis of the molecular biomedical sciences?].

[Article in Dutch]

Vijg J(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituut voor Experimentele Gerontologie te Rijswijk.

Evolutionary biologists have shown that many of the adverse effects associated 
with the ageing process are the (by)products of certain genes: the manifestation 
of the negative effects of these genes only late in life has effectively 
constrained their elimination from the germ line by natural selection. In 
addition, during evolution genes have evolved that govern mechanisms for the 
protection of the body against exogenous and endogenous insults. These two types 
of genes, in interaction both with themselves and with the environment specify 
the maximum life span of a species. New scientific developments, especially in 
molecular biology, allow the careful analysis of the genetic information and its 
manipulation. On the basis of these developments more insight will be obtained 
in the causes of ageing and it will be possible to design new therapies for many 
of the adverse effects associated with ageing. In the long term it may be 
possible to remove the basic causes of ageing by genetic manipulation. The 
mission of the biomedical sciences may then be considered as completed.

PMID: 2251720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1990 Oct;21(5):205-9.

[Extension of life, at what price? Consequences for health care of the elderly].

[Article in Dutch]

Ligthart GJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Sectie Gerontologie en polikliniek Geriatrie, Rijks-universiteit Leiden.

Prolonging life only makes sense if quality of life is maintained. In biomedical 
terms this means that life extension should not be accomplished at the cost of 
an increase of morbidity and dependence. The survival curve must maintain its 
rectangular shape and compression of morbidity should be sought for. Ageing is 
not synonymous with disease, and a healthy old age certainly is possible. Many 
disorders of old age are a result of extrinsic, avoidable factors such as 
drinking, smoking, eating habits, and inactivity. Prevention must begin in 
youth. This is the price to be paid by the individual. The medical and 
scientific community should increase its efforts to develop health care for the 
aged and increase investments in the study of the ageing process itself. Society 
as a whole can give support by funding the development of geriatrics and 
gerontology, and by improving the position and the acceptance of the elderly in 
daily life.

PMID: 2251721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1990 Oct;21(5):211-5.

[Extension of life from a psychogeriatric viewpoint].

[Article in Dutch]

Munnichs JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychogerontologie, Katholieke Universiteit Nijmegen.

Life prolongation (lp) is not only a quantitative, but also a qualitative 
concept, especially when we look at the factors, which cause life prolongation. 
One of the consequences of lp is that in the Western world most people live into 
old age (defined as reaching the age of 65). Now the question is: do we have to 
continue to work on this product of 'progression-mindedness'. Do we like lp, 
considering all the negative features which accompany this phenomenon? We think 
that to a certain extent quality of life has been affected by lp. Qualitative lp 
we connect to the meaningfulness of lp. What do we understand by meaning? First, 
we describe some cases. These cases show that meaning is an interactive process, 
which, we can best conceptualize as commitment. We describe the different 
categories of commitment and their function. This makes clear the relations 
between commitment and the development of the individual older person. A 
consequence would be, that where commitments no longer exist, life prolongation 
should not be pursued.

PMID: 2251722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1990 Oct;21(5):217-21.

[2 scenarios on extension of life. Various social consequences of a higher life 
expectancy].

[Article in Dutch]

Klaassen-van den Berg Jeths A(1), van Langen JA.

Author information:
(1)Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieuhygiëne, Bilthoven.

This article explores the potential consequences of an extra life extension till 
2010. For this purpose the method of scenario analysis is used. Life extension 
is defined as an extra increase in life expectancy at birth (compared to the 
'normal' demographic forecast). The optimistic scenario is based on an equal 
delay of both death and the prevalence of disease and disability. In the 
pessimistic scenario, only death is delayed, which brings more morbidity. It is 
stressed that the development of morbidity considerably influences the social 
consequences of extra life extension, such as the use older people make of the 
(health) care services system, and the socio-economic and the socio-cultural 
position of the elderly. In the optimistic scenario the pressure on care 
services is more or less the same as it would be according to the normal 
demographic forecast, although the patients/clients are older. Due to the extra 
increase in life expectancy the costs of social security will be much higher. 
The percentage of people incapable of work, the age of retirement, the position 
of the elderly employee in the labour force and the norms and values concerning 
old age differ in both scenarios.

PMID: 2251723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1990 Oct;21(5):223-8.

[Longevity and meaning of life. Philosophical-ethical considerations of the 
theme 'extension of life'].

[Article in Dutch]

van Tongeren P(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculteit Wijsbegeerte KUN, Nijmegen.

The desire for the extension of life is not one out of many desire in life, but 
a form of the fundamental desire for life itself. This so called 'categorical 
desire' is a necessary condition for the many desires in life. The question why 
we desire for life (and for its extension), is the question for the meaning of 
life. The searching for a 'natural lifespan' is meaningless when it wants to 
find in nature a given norm for the duration of life. It can only have meaning 
when it tries to formulate the conditions for the experience of life as 
successful and meaningful. A long tradition in philosophy and religion 
associates the meaning of life with the acknowledgement of its finitude and 
mortality and with the acceptance of death. As far as the extension of life is 
motivated by a fear of death and by an effort to escape from it, it is a neglect 
of what makes life meaningful, and of what makes it (and its extension) 
worthwhile to desire.

PMID: 2251724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Am J Surg. 1990 Dec;160(6):552-4; discussion 554-5. doi: 
10.1016/s0002-9610(05)80744-5.

The "all-autogenous" tissue policy for infrainguinal reconstruction questioned.

Killewich LA(1), Bartlett ST.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of California, Davis Medical School, 
Sacramento 95817.

In 33% of patients referred for infrainguinal reconstruction for 
limb-threatening ischemia (mean preoperative ankle-arm index [AAI] = 0.26), no 
suitable autogenous reconstruction was possible. In 40% of cases, intraoperative 
pre-bypass contrast arteriography was necessary to identify a graftable tibial 
or pedal artery. The results of polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) and autogenous 
bypasses were compared after 1 to 3 years. After 1 year, patency was 85% and 67% 
for autogenous and PTFE bypasses, respectively. Limb salvage was 90% for 
autogenous bypass and 70% for PTFE bypass. Cumulative patency rates at 3 years 
were 80% for autogenous and 57% for PTFE grafts. Graft surveillance with duplex 
scanning and AAI was valuable in detecting failing grafts. For both types of 
reconstruction, secondary procedures were required to maintain patency. We 
attribute the excellent results with PTFE in part to long-term aspirin and 
warfarin therapy. In cases of combined superficial femoral and severe 
infra-popliteal occlusive disease, PTFE bypass is an excellent alternative when 
no autogenous conduit is available.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(05)80744-5
PMID: 2252111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. ASAIO Trans. 1990 Jul-Sep;36(3):M148-51.

Morbidity and mortality in hemodialysis patients.

Acchiardo SR(1), Moore LW, Burk L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Tennessee, Memphis.

Increase in mortality in hemodialysis patients in the United States is a rising 
concern. In this study, the annual mortality rate from 1981 to 1989 was 
determined and the morbidity and mortality of 136 patients dialyzed during 1988 
was analyzed. All patients were followed with urea kinetics (UK). Patients were 
divided according to NCDS mapping of BUN and protein catabolic rate (pcr): Group 
1, inadequate protein intake (n = 28); Group 2, adequate dialysis (n = 51); 
Group 3, excessive dialysis (n = 28); Group 4, undefined domain (n = 13); and 
Group 5, transitional domain (n = 16). The UK parameters measured were midweek 
predialysis BUN, pcr, and Kt/V. Group 1 by definition had the lowest pcr (0.7 
g/kg/day vs. greater than 1.0 in the other groups). Patients in Group 1 had 
significantly lower BUN, creatinine, hematocrit, and serum albumin. Results of 
all other laboratory tests were not significantly different. Numbers of 
hospitalizations and days in the hospital were higher in Group 1. Causes of 
hospitalization were similar in all groups. Mortality rate was 8% in Group 1 vs. 
4.4% in Group 2. Dialysis prescription using UK has maintained the annual 
mortality rate at about 14% for the past nine years.

PMID: 2252646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1990 Sep;6(3):185-91.

Patients at increased risk for late engraftment after transplantation: a novel 
method for their identification.

Mick R(1), Williams SF, Bitran JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago Medical Center, IL 60637.

The time to platelet engraftment (platelets greater than 50 x 10(9)/l for 3 
successive days without transfusions) is a major endpoint in treatment regimens 
of high dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell rescue. A number of 
transplanted patients die before recovery of platelets. To include such patients 
appropriately in an analysis to identify prognostic factors for engraftment, a 
proportional odds model was employed. The outcome measure was a categorization 
of patients into four levels based on time to engraftment: early (0-40 days), 
intermediate (41-70 days), late (greater than 70 days) or died without 
engraftment. Of 45 women with advanced breast cancer who underwent high dose 
chemotherapy and autologous transplantation, there were: 10 early, 11 
intermediate and eight late engrafters and 16 who died before platelet 
engraftment. Based on the proportional odds model applied to these data, four 
significant and independent prognostic factors for later or non-engraftment were 
revealed: lower numbers of mononuclear cells/kg harvested (p = 0.002), lower 
serum albumin level (p = 0.003), prior cisplatin chemotherapy (p = 0.006), and 
the existence of bone marrow malignancy (p = 0.025).

PMID: 2252958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Can J Public Health. 1990 Sep-Oct;81(5):376-81.

Premature deaths in Canada: impact, trends and opportunities for prevention.

Wigle DT(1), Mao Y, Semenciw R, McCann C, Davies JW.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory Centre for Disease Control, Health and Welfare Canada, Ottawa, 
Ontario.

Erratum in
    Can J Public Health 1991 Jan-Feb;82(1):26.

The impact, time trends and potential for prevention of premature deaths in 
Canada were assessed. There were almost 100,000 deaths before age 75 in Canada 
during 1986 resulting in over 1.7 million potential years of life lost (PYLL). 
The three leading broad disease categories responsible for PYLL were cancer, 
injuries/violence and cardiovascular disease. In both sexes, coronary heart 
disease, car accidents, lung cancer and perinatal conditions ranked in the top 5 
specific diseases responsible for PYLL; breast cancer (females) and suicide 
(males) also ranked in the top 5 conditions. Over the period 1969 to 1986, death 
rates among persons less than age 75 increased for 3 conditions among females 
and 11 conditions among males. Lung cancer and brain cancer death rates 
increased in both sexes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease death rates 
increased among females only and death rates for suicide and 8 types of cancer 
increased among males only. Over the same period, death rates declined for 37 
discrete disease categories among both females and males including particularly 
large improvements for coronary heart disease, stroke, car accidents and 
perinatal conditions. An estimated 50,000 or over 50% of all premature deaths 
per year are preventable through control of smoking, hypertension, elevated 
serum cholesterol, diabetes and alcohol abuse. About 6,000 premature deaths are 
avoidable through improvements in medical care.

PMID: 2253155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Eur J Epidemiol. 1990 Sep;6(3):257-60. doi: 10.1007/BF00150429.

Life expectancy in Italian track and field athletes.

Menotti A(1), Amici E, Gambelli GC, Milazzotto F, Bellotti P, Capocaccia R, 
Giuli B.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, 
Rome, Italy.

Nine hundred eighty-three top Italian track and field athletes (700 males and 
283 females) were examined for survival, mortality and causes of death for an 
average follow-up period of 18.6 years starting from their last year of 
competition as members of the national team. Overall mortality rates were 
compared to the rates expected on the basis of the life tables for Italian 
people of the same age, sex and time period. Thirty-four deaths were observed 
among males (vs 46.6 expected) with a O/E ratio of 0.73, while 3 deaths were 
observed among women (vs 6.2 expected) with a O/E ratio of 0.48. Neither of 
these differences was significant, but the O/E ratio for the group as a whole 
was quite significant (p = 0.0296). Some of the athletes demonstrated 
behavioural characteristics developed during their active careers that might 
have contributed to their low mortality rate.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00150429
PMID: 2253729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1990 Nov;19(5):1303-8. doi: 
10.1016/0360-3016(90)90249-j.

Cancer occurring after radiotherapy and chemotherapy.

Holm LE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer Prevention, Radiumhemmet, Karolinska Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden.

Radiotherapy and chemotherapy can effectively control cancer but can also cause 
new cancers to develop as long-term complications. Almost all types of cancer 
have been associated with radiotherapy. The breast, thyroid, and bone marrow are 
the organs most susceptible to radiation carcinogenesis. The bone marrow is also 
most frequently involved by chemotherapy and the leukemia risk is much higher 
than after radiotherapy. The combination of intensive radiotherapy and 
chemotherapy is particularly leukemogenic. The latent period between 
radiotherapy/chemotherapy and the appearance of a second primary cancer ranges 
from a few years to several decades. The risk for a second primary cancer 
following radiotherapy or chemotherapy emphasizes the need for life long 
follow-up of patients receiving such treatments. This is particularly the case 
in individuals with long life expectancy, for example, patients treated for 
childhood neoplasms. The benefits of radiotherapy and chemotherapy in oncology 
exceed the risks for second primary cancers. Efforts should be directed towards 
