identifying those patients who will benefit from the treatments so that only 
they are exposed to the risk.

DOI: 10.1016/0360-3016(90)90249-j
PMID: 2254129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. J Clin Epidemiol. 1990;43(12):1351-9. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(90)90102-u.

Competing risk analysis of life table data: application to lifetime risk 
computation.

Dong MH(1), Dubey SD, O'Neill RT, Tsong Y.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biometrics, U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Rockville, MD 
20857.

In this pedagogic note we propose to assess the safety of treatment in a 
clinical trial, or the effect of risk exposure in a chronic animal study, in 
terms of two lifetime risks. These risks are computable from life table type 
data and take into account the effects of competing risks. We first describe 
their computational procedures in detail to demonstrate the need for their 
implementation in a computer program. We then illustrate their practical 
application through use of the data obtained from an actual clinical study.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(90)90102-u
PMID: 2254772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. J Clin Epidemiol. 1990;43 Suppl:29S-31S. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(90)90214-a.

Patient characteristics in SUPPORT: sociodemographics, admission diagnosis, 
co-morbidities and acute physiology score.

Phillips RS(1), Knaus WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, MA 02215.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(90)90214-a
PMID: 2254788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. J Trauma. 1990 Dec;30(12 Suppl):S107-15. doi:
10.1097/00005373-199012001-00023.

Evolution of trauma and trauma research.

Shires GT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, NY 10021.

DOI: 10.1097/00005373-199012001-00023
PMID: 2254969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Med Hypotheses. 1990 Sep;33(1):19-20. doi: 10.1016/0306-9877(90)90079-t.

Anorexia nervosa: search for biological relevance.

Spencer RP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Connecticut Health Center, 
Farmington 06032.

Anorexia nervosa was explored as the possible expression of an aberration of the 
processing of information which ordinarily has value in life protection or 
extension. Each of 6 areas was briefly reviewed, and noted to have the potential 
for failure to balance 2 or more factors. Anorexia nervosa may prove to be a 
psychiatric disorder in which there is altered handling of signals which 
otherwise are useful in survival/longevity.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-9877(90)90079-t
PMID: 2255270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Sov Zdravookhr. 1990;(9):65-9.

[Characteristics of medical-social care organization in the Finnish Republic].

[Article in Russian]

Demin AK, Lazarenko AI.

PMID: 2255984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Acta Neurol Scand. 1990 Aug;82(2):104-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0404.1990.tb01597.x.

Long-term outcome of TIAs, RINDs and infarctions with minimum residuum. A 
prospective study in Madrid.

Calandre L(1), Bermejo F, Balseiro J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Doce de Octubre, University Hospital, Madrid, Spain.

A group of patients with transient ischemic attacks (65 cases), reversible 
ischemic neurologic deficits (37 cases) and infarctions with minimum residuum 
(41 cases) was included in a prospective follow-up for a mean period of 5.2 
years. Most of the patients were treated with acetylsalicylic acid or other 
antiplatelet agents, or with anticoagulants. Principal complications during 
follow-up were: cerebral infarction, 15 cases (10.4%); cerebral hematoma, 2 
(1.3%); transient ischemic attacks, 17, (11.8%); reversible ischemic neurologic 
deficits, 9 (6.2%); myocardial infarction, 4 (2.7%); and death, 11 (7.6%). The 
cumulative incidence for stroke or death was 6.2% for the first year and 14% for 
the fifth year. There were no significant risk factors for the occurrence of 
stroke or vascular death on time-related multivariate analysis (Cox). Disabling 
stroke was less frequent after infarctions with minimum residuum than after 
transient ischemic attacks or reversible ischemic neurologic deficits.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0404.1990.tb01597.x
PMID: 2256439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Arch Environ Health. 1990 Sep-Oct;45(5):283-7. doi: 
10.1080/00039896.1990.10118747.

High mortality and shortened life-span in patients with itai-itai disease and 
subjects with suspected disease.

Nakagawa H(1), Tabata M, Morikawa Y, Senma M, Kitagawa Y, Kawano S, Kido T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Kanazawa Medical University, Ishikawa, Japan.

A follow-up study was conducted from 1967 to 1987 for patients diagnosed as 
having itai-itai disease, subjects who were suspected of having the disease, and 
controls. Ninety-five subjects per category were selected after matching for 
age, sex, and residential area. The cumulative survival rate of the patients who 
had a definite diagnosis of itai-itai disease was significantly lower than that 
of the control group in every period after the first 3 y. The cumulative 
survival rate of the subjects who were suspected of having itai-itai disease and 
who had severe renal dysfunction due to cadmium pollution was significantly 
lower than that of the control group. These results demonstrate (1) the enduring 
negative influence of itai-itai disease on prognosis and (2) that the cadmium 
pollution-induced renal disorder adversely affects the health of the inhabitants 
of a cadmium-polluted area.

DOI: 10.1080/00039896.1990.10118747
PMID: 2256712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. J Steroid Biochem Mol Biol. 1990 Nov 20;37(3):437-45. doi: 
10.1016/0960-0760(90)90495-7.

Changes in hepatic androgen sensitivity and gene expression during aging.

Chatterjee B(1), Roy AK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, University of Texas Health 
Science Center, San Antonio 78284.

The hepatic tissue of the male rat exhibits a gradual decline and ultimate loss 
in androgen responsiveness during in vivo aging. Appearance of the 
age-associated androgen insensitivity can be delayed by dietary calorie 
restriction, an effective means for life-span extension. The androgen receptor 
mRNA is detectable in the liver only in its androgen-responsive state. Pubertal 
appearance of hepatic androgen sensitivity is remarkably correlated with the 
concomitant appearance of a cytoplasmic androgen binding (CAB) protein. Androgen 
resistance during senescence is associated with the loss of hepatic CAB activity 
as well. We are investigating the molecular basis for the temporal modulation of 
this hormone sensitivity through studies on the differential expression of two 
androgen-responsive marker genes. These are the androgen-repressible SMP-2, and 
the androgen-inducible alpha 2u-globulin. Androgen resistance of hepatocytes 
during aging results in repression of the alpha 2u-globulin gene, and 
derepression of the SMP-2 gene. The structural organizations for both of these 
genes have been characterized. The role of nuclear transcription factors 
(androgen receptor and any other transacting factor(s) which may be involved) in 
the coordinate regulation of alpha 2u-globulin and SMP-2 during aging and 
nutritional manipulation is being explored to establish the molecular mechanism 
of andropause in the liver.

DOI: 10.1016/0960-0760(90)90495-7
PMID: 2257247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Cleve Clin J Med. 1990 Nov-Dec;57(8):673-4. doi: 10.3949/ccjm.57.8.673.

Outcome improving for lung transplant patients.

McCarthy PM.

DOI: 10.3949/ccjm.57.8.673
PMID: 2257673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Contraception. 1990 Oct;42(4):379-89. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(90)90047-y.

A randomized trial of the Gyne T 380 and Gyne T 380 Slimline Intrauterine Copper 
devices.

Sivin I(1), Shaaban M, Odlind V, Olsson SE, Diaz S, Pavez M, Alvarez F, Brache 
V, Diaz J.

Author information:
(1)Population Council, Center for Biomedical Research, New York, NY 10021.

To facilitate manufacture and insertion of the Gyne T 380 IUD, design changes 
were instituted. Copper collars were seated flush at the ends of the horizontal 
crossbar of the device. A randomized study of the Gyne T 380 Slimline, the new 
design, was undertaken in comparison with the standard Gyne T 380. A total of 
996 women were enrolled, with 698 Slimline insertions and 298 of the standard 
Gyne T. No statistically significant difference in ease of insertion or in 
performance was detected between the models. At one year, the pregnancy rate of 
each model was below 0.5 per 100 and the continuation rate was 79-80 per 100. 
Pelvic inflammatory disease or endometritis was found in one percent of subjects 
in the first year. This is the seventh multicenter randomized study of a 
collared T IUD with 380 mm2 of copper surface. In all seven, the one-year gross 
pregnancy rate has been 1.2 per 100 or lower.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(90)90047-y
PMID: 2257739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Contraception. 1990 Oct;42(4):391-402. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(90)90048-z.

A randomized comparative study of the performance of seven different sizes of 
the Mahua Ring inserted following measurement of the uterine cavity and one size 
of the same ring.

Juan QL(1), Zhi LJ, Juan SL, Yi WM, Wu GM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics/Gynaecology, Tianjin Medical College Hospital No. 2, 
People's Republic of China.

A comparative study of the performance of multi-sizes of the Mahua Ring inserted 
following measurement of the uterine cavity and one size of the same ring 
assigned at random was carried out from November 1984 to September 1985 at two 
hospitals in Tianjin. The experiences of 800 acceptors were analysed by 
life-table techniques. At the end of two years, net cumulative first segment 
continuation rates of the multi-size and one-size Mahua device were 88.0 and 
88.2, respectively. The results revealed that there was no significant 
difference between the groups. It is suggested that to insert one size of the 
Mahua Ring is as effective as the insertion of many sizes of the Mahua Ring.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(90)90048-z
PMID: 2257740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. J Occup Med. 1990 Nov;32(11):1091-8. doi: 10.1097/00043764-199011000-00008.

New developments in the Life Table Analysis System of the National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health.

Steenland K(1), Beaumont J, Spaeth S, Brown D, Okun A, Jurcenko L, Ryan B, 
Phillips S, Roscoe R, Stayner L, et al.

Author information:
(1)Industry-Wide Studies Branch, National Institute for Occupational Safety and 
Health, Cincinnati, OH 45226-1998.

In the 1970s, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 
developed a Life Table Analysis System to analyze occupational cohort studies. 
We have updated the original system by adding two new features: direct 
standardization with a test for linear trend, and analyses by lagged exposure 
(either duration of exposure or cumulative exposure). We have also updated US 
reference rates through 1989. The updated systems and documentation (version F) 
are available upon request. In collaboration with the National Cancer Institute, 
we have also developed multiple cause-of-death rate files, which consider 
contributory as well as underlying cause. These files (also available upon 
request) will enable investigators to derive the expected prevalence of diseases 
at death, which can then be compared with the observed prevalence in an exposed 
cohort. Work is currently underway to produce a personal computer version of the 
Life Table Analysis System.

DOI: 10.1097/00043764-199011000-00008
PMID: 2258764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Rev Paul Med. 1990 Mar-Apr;108(2):88-94.

[Depression in the elderly: a review].

[Article in Portuguese]

de Almeida OP(1), Lafer B, Miguel Filho EC.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Psiquiatria, Hospital das Clínicas, Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade de São Paulo.

With the increase in life expectancy during recent years, the elderly population 
and its medical problems are increasing considerably. Depression in the elderly 
is an important example of this situation. In this article, the authors discuss 
special aspects of depression in the elderly, its clinical presentation, 
prevalence, course, etiologic factors, diagnosis, and treatment. They draw 
attention to the risk of not correctly identifying and treating those patients.

PMID: 2259826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Singapore Med J. 1990 Oct;31(5):486-8.

Singapore--an ageing society.

Choo PW(1), Lee KS, Owen RE, Jayaratnam FJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Tan Tock Seng Hospital, Singapore.

Singapore is undergoing a rapid transition into an ageing society. This is due 
to a dramatic fall in the birth rate combining with a fall in infant and early 
childhood mortality rate as well as an improvement in the life expectancy. Other 
changes in the society such as the breaking up of the extended family structure, 
the changing role of women as well as the increasing expectations of elderly and 
their families are taking place at the same time. These changes will place 
increasing demands on the families of the elderly, social services, community 
and health services. There will have to be a rethinking on how we care for our 
elderly and the measuring required in meeting this challenge.

PMID: 2259950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Soc Sci Med. 1990;31(8):833-6. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90019-o.

Non-market economies in health. Introduction.

Wnuk-Lipinski E(1), Illsley R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Philosophy and Sociology, Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw.

This paper introduces analyses of the state of health and of the health-care 
system in four Eastern European countries. The analyses focus on the issue of 
inequality in countries which share many characteristics including non-market 
economies, rapid urbanization and industrialization, and health systems which 
formally aim to provide equal access and treatment to all citizens. The 
measurement of social inequality in a non-market economy dominated by the state 
economy cannot be based on traditional class divisions; nor is income a good 
indicator of class position, salaries for professional and non-manual workers 
being lower than the average. Major relevant variables for which data are 
available are occupation, educational level and area of residence. Despite many 
system similarities the countries differ sharply in the level of resources 
devoted to health care and in health status based on mortality rates.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90019-o
PMID: 2259957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Soc Sci Med. 1990;31(8):837-46. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90020-s.

The Bulgarian country profile: the dynamics of some inequalities in health.

Minev D(1), Dermendjieva B, Mileva N.

Author information:
(1)G. Dimitrov Research Institute for Trade Union Studies, Sofia, Bulgaria.

The Bulgarian health-care system was based on the concept of equal access and 
treatment. In its early stages health improved and disparities between urban and 
rural areas and districts diminished. New problems, institutional rigidities and 
policy reversals led later to the concentration of health resources in the towns 
and cities and to a deterioration in rural health. Sharp disparities in reported 
health status exist between occupational, educational and income groups. Life 
expectancy has fallen. Some health problems arise from urbanization, 
industrialization and heavy internal migration. Others clearly derive from 
dysfunction in the health system itself, its narrow concept of health, the 
inability of health plans to adapt to changing problems and needs and the 
emergence of privilege in access and quality of care.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90020-s
PMID: 2259958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Soc Sci Med. 1990;31(8):847-57. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90021-j.

The Hungarian country profile: inequalities in health and health care in 
Hungary.

Orosz E(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Regional Studies, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest.

Analysis of occupational, educational, urban/rural and regional data over 
several decades demonstrate large disparities in the availability of health care 
and in infant and adult mortality. Life expectancy increased in the immediate 
post-war period but in the late sixties improvement ceased and life expectancy 
at age 40 began to fall. Mortality has been particularly high for middle-aged 
males. Analysis by cause of death suggests the persistence of older poverty-type 
diseases co-existing with the newer lifestyle diseases. Reasons for system 
dysfunctioning are discussed--lack of health resources, rigid institutional 
structures, lack of integrated health policies, failure to adjust the 
distribution of resources to changing needs etc. The analysis raises the 
question of how to achieve a balance between equity and efficiency.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90021-j
PMID: 2259959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Soc Sci Med. 1990;31(8):859-66. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90022-k.

The Polish country profile: economic crisis and inequalities in health.

Wnuk-Lipinski E(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Philosophy and Sociology, Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw.

Class position based on educational level is strongly associated with health 
status in Poland. Whilst infant mortality continues to fall, life expectancy at 
age 45 is lower particularly for males. Cause of death analysis shows a steady 
but slow fall in poverty-type diseases and a big increase in deaths from 
circulatory diseases and malignant neoplasms. Multiple regression analyses 
suggest that the main causal factors in inequality result from economic failure, 
differences in living conditions and lifestyles rather than from the evident 
inefficiencies in the health-care system itself. But there are significant 
inequalities in access to health care and especially to quality care.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90022-k
PMID: 2259960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Soc Sci Med. 1990;31(8):867-77. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90023-l.

The Soviet country profile: health of the U.S.S.R. population in the 70s and 
80s--an approach to a comprehensive analysis.

Mezentseva E(1), Rimachevskaya N.

Author information:
(1)Institut Socjalno-Ekonomiczeskich Problem Narodonasielenia, Academy of 
Sciences U.S.S.R., Moscow.

This paper reviews data from 1970 onwards on the distribution of health 
resources and health status for urban and rural areas and for the 15 Soviet 
republics. Major disparities exist between republics and especially between the 
European republics in the North and West and those of Central Asia and 
Transcaucasia. The former show relatively low infant death rates but high adult 
mortality, particularly for middle-aged males; rates of death due to circulatory 
diseases and malignant neoplasms have increased in these republics and special 
studies reveal a high incidence of alcohol-related diseases. In contrast, the 
Central Asian and Transcaucasian republics have extremely high infant mortality 
but high levels of life-expectancy thereafter. An index of medical inequality 
shows a much lower level of resources in these republics. Recent long-term 
strategies are described which aim to raise the income and status of health 
personnel from their relatively low levels and to equalize the distribution of 
health care across the country.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90023-l
PMID: 2259961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Soc Sci Med. 1990;31(8):879-89. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90024-m.

International comparative analysis: main findings and conclusions.

Wnuk-Lipinski E(1), Illsley R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Philosophy and Sociology, Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw.

This paper compares the experience of health and inequality reviewed in the 
Bulgarian, Hungarian, Polish and Soviet profiles. With health systems very 
similar in formal organization and stated aims, health status based on death 
rates has followed very similar tendencies in each country. Sharp post-war falls 
in infant death slowed down from the 60s onwards, but continued to fall. Life 
expectancy also increased but again from the late 60s began to fall, 
particularly for middle-aged men. Inequalities in health-care provision and 
access have been paralleled by inequalities in health outcome between areas and 
socio-economic groups. Comparative analysis, however, suggests that the 
dysfunctions of the health system have only been contributing factors to more 
fundamental causes stemming from socio-economic conditions, cultural and 
collective behaviour and the priorities of the political and economic system. 
Written before the transforming political events of late 1989, the reviews 
emphasise the need for change and a search for more effective and equitable 
systems and policies.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90024-m
PMID: 2259962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1990 Aug 15;45(16):493-5.

[The scientific basis and evaluation of the present-day concept of risk factors 
and their significance for the prevention of chronic non-communicable diseases].

[Article in German]

Knappe J(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Kardiologie, Medizinischen Akademie Erfurt.

Chronic diseases increased in their significance, to them first of all belong 
cardiovascular diseases. They particularly restrict a further increase of the 
life-expectancy of the persons older than 40 years. In the judgement of the 
development of these groups of diseases during the last decades the so-called 
concept of risk factors was developed, which obtained particular significance 
for the myocardial infarction and the chronic cardiovascular diseases. Though 
the epidemiologic investigations up to now could cover only correlations and not 
causal connections, the latter - that means causal conditions - seem to get an 
increasing support by results of the adequate basic research. Still more 
impressionable is, however, the regression of the mortality due to 
cardiovascular diseases which took place during recent years in connection with 
the changes of the living habits in several countries of the earth. From the 
results of our own research the particular urgencies concerning the preventive 
medicine in our country are described which must consist in changes of the 
living habits, in particular of the habits of nutrition and the abuse of coffee, 
tea, tobacco, alcohol, etc., moreover also in personal behaviour. Independent of 
this genetic factors certainly play a decisive part. Apart from the individual 
strategy mass-strategic aspects will obtain a greater importance in the 
following years.

PMID: 2260367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Ann Vasc Surg. 1990 Nov;4(6):580-3. doi: 10.1016/S0890-5096(06)60843-1.

Renal failure after operation for abdominal aortic aneurysm.

Olsen PS(1), Schroeder T, Perko M, Røder OC, Agerskov K, Sørensen S, Lorentzen 
JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Among 656 patients undergoing surgery for abdominal aortic aneurysm, 81 patients 
(12%) developed postoperative renal failure. Before operation hypotension and 
shock occurred in 88% of the patients with ruptured aneurysm, whereas none of 
the patients operated electively were hypotensive. Dialysis was performed in 32 
patients, while the remaining 49 patients were managed without dialysis. Within 
30 days after the operation 47 patients (58%) had died. There was no difference 
in mortality between patients in dialysis and patients managed without dialysis. 
Thirteen patients died during follow-up. In six cases the death was caused by 
renal failure only or in combination with failure of other organs. Analysis of 
the cumulative survival shows that, if the patients survive the postoperative 
period, their life expectancy is comparable to that of patients without renal 
complications.

DOI: 10.1016/S0890-5096(06)60843-1
PMID: 2261325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Caries Res. 1990;24(5):371-5. doi: 10.1159/000261298.

Caries control in overdenture patients: 18-month evaluation on fluoride and 
chlorhexidine therapies.

Keltjens HM(1), Schaeken MJ, van der Hoeven JS, Hendriks JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Function and Prosthetic Dentistry, University of Nijmegen, 
The Netherlands.

The aim of this study was to test the clinical effects of preventive regimens 
using fluoride and chlorhexidine on caries development in abutment teeth in 
patients with overdentures. 30 patients with immediate overdentures were 
distributed at random among three experimental groups. In these groups three 
different gels (placebo, fluoride, and chlorhexidine-fluoride) were tested by 
daily application. The patients were recalled at 6-month intervals for a period 
of 18 months. The life table survival ratios at patient level showed that in the 
chlorhexidine group caries development in the abutments was significantly 
reduced. In this group no caries developed. On comparison with the control group 
(placebo), no preventive effects of the gel were noticed for those in the 
fluoride group.

DOI: 10.1159/000261298
PMID: 2261610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am. 1990 Sep;19(3):741-60.

Ablative radioactive iodine therapy for apparently localized thyroid carcinoma. 
A decision analytic perspective.

Wong JB(1), Kaplan MM, Meyer KB, Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New England Medical Center, Tufts University School 
of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts.

Adjuvant therapy with ablative radioiodine after surgical resection of 
apparently localized thyroid carcinoma remains controversial because of the 
favorable prognosis of thyroid carcinoma and the risk of leukemia from the 
radioiodine. No controlled trials have been performed to examine this issue. We 
constructed a decision analytic model to examine whether patients with 
apparently localized thyroid carcinoma should receive radioiodine. Our analysis 
suggests that radioiodine modestly improves life expectancy by 2 to 15 months, 
depending on the patient's age and sex. This model predicts that the benefit of 
a reduction in the likelihood of recurrence outweighs the risk of leukemia from 
radioiodine.

PMID: 2261914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Eur J Haematol. 1990 Nov;45(5):284-5. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.1990.tb00480.x.

Life table analysis for estimation of duration of aplasia after high-dose 
chemotherapy.

Wahlin A, Andersson BS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.1990.tb00480.x
PMID: 2261960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Int J Epidemiol. 1990 Sep;19(3):591-8. doi: 10.1093/ije/19.3.591.

Black/white comparisons of deaths preventable by medical intervention: United 
States and the District of Columbia 1980-1986.

Schwartz E(1), Kofie VY, Rivo M, Tuckson RV.

Author information:
(1)Commission of Public Health, Washington, DC 20001.

Blacks in the US experience increased mortality (1113 versus 745 per 100,000 
males; 631 versus 411 per 100,000 females) and decreased life expectancy (63.7 
years versus 70.7 years for males; 72.3 years versus 78.1 years for females); 
compared to Whites. In an effort to determine if the excess mortality among 
Black Americans might be explained by differences in access or quality of health 
care services, we performed a race-specific analysis of conditions for which 
mortality is largely avoidable given timely and appropriate medical care. Using 
methodology proposed by Rutstein and Charlton, mortality due to 12 causes was 
evaluated including tuberculosis, cervical cancer, Hodgkin's disease, rheumatic 
heart disease, hypertensive heart disease, acute respiratory disease, pneumonia 
and bronchitis, influenza, asthma, appendicitis, hernias and cholecystitis. In 
the US, during 1980 to 1986, an average of 17,366 deaths and 286,813 years of 
potential life (YPLL) before age 65 were lost each year due to all 12 sentinel 
causes combined. Of these causes, hypertensive heart disease, pneumonia and 
bronchitis, cervical cancer and asthma accounted for the greatest number of 
deaths. The mortality rate for all 12 causes combined among Blacks was 4.5 times 
that of Whites. The highest relative rates among Blacks compared to Whites were 
observed for tuberculosis, hypertensive heart disease and asthma. The overall 
mortality rate in the District of Columbia for the selected causes was 3.7 times 
the national rate. Compared to national rates, statistically significant 
elevated rates in the District were observed for tuberculosis, hypertensive 
heart disease and pneumonia and bronchitis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1093/ije/19.3.591
PMID: 2262253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Gac Sanit. 1990 Jan-Feb;4(16):12-7. doi: 10.1016/s0213-9111(90)70987-9.

[Avoidable years of life lost ratio: an indicator to identify excess mortality 
in health areas. Mortality workshop of the Valencia region].

[Article in Spanish]

Benavides FG(1), Pérez S, Cayuela A, Nolasco A, Vanaclocha H.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Salud Comunitaria, Universidad de Alicante.

Avoidable mortality has been proposed as an outcome indicator of health 
services. Until now the Standardized Mortality Ratio (SMR) has been the effect 
measure most used to detect excesses in avoidable mortality. We propose the use, 
as a complementary measure, of the Avoidable Years of Life Lost Ratio (AYLLR). 
We show that for tuberculosis, hypertension and for all avoidable deaths both 
measures provide complementary information, since in some areas where observed 
deaths are below the expected number (SMR less than 100) we detect an observed 
number of years of life lost higher than expected (AYLLR greater than 100), due 
to the occurrence of these deaths at younger ages. The AYLLR is a standardized 
effect measure that puts a higher weight to premature deaths.

DOI: 10.1016/s0213-9111(90)70987-9
PMID: 2262281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1990 Nov-Dec;31(6):735-8.

Superficial femoral artery as inflow for bypass to the proximal popliteal 
artery.

Peer RM(1), Upson JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, State University of New York, Buffalo General 
Hospital.

We have obtained long term follow-up on 58 patients in whom the superficial 
femoral artery was used as a donor site for bypass to the proximal popliteal 
artery. The indication for the reconstructive procedure was intermittent 
claudication 36%, rest pain 34%, and gangrene 26%. All patients had angiographic 
evidence of a patent proximal superficial femoral artery and many had relative 
indications for short bypass such as limited saphenous vein availability or 
compromised medical condition. There was a cumulative patency rate of 79% by 
life table method for the series with a six year follow-up. We have observed 
that the superficial femoral artery is a satisfactory inflow site for proximal 
popliteal bypass grafts in selected patients. The procedure can maximize use of 
a limited segment of vein with minimal operative time and morbidity. Inflow 
stenosis can be revised or long bypass procedures can be offered in the event of 
graft failure.

PMID: 2262497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Salud Publica Mex. 1990 Jul-Aug;32(4):395-404.

[Mortality as a result of accidental and intentional injuries in the Federal 
District from 1970 to 1986].

[Article in Spanish]

Híjar-Medina MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Riesgos Ocupacionales y Lesiones del Centro de 
Investigaciones en Salud Pública.

This article presents the results of a retrospective analysis of unintentional 
and intentional injury mortality in México City for the period 1970-1986. The 
mortality rates and trends were obtained out of 73,197 registered deaths, 
(according to the 9th revision of the International Disease Classification). 
Deaths due to the earthquakes of 1985 were not included. The trend of mortality 
is undefined (r = -0.430). The most important causes of death were: traffic 
accidents, homicides, and others accidents. Males accounted 77 per cent of the 
deaths. The most affected age groups were 15-19 and 20-24 years. The potential 
years of life lost were analyzed. This study provides information for the 
prevention and control of injuries and for future research in this field.

PMID: 2263980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1990 Oct;38(5):276-9. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1014034.

Indications and selection criteria for cardiac transplantation.

Lösse B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Düsseldorf, Germany.

Assessment of indications for cardiac transplantation is a complex process 
including first a comparison of expected survival of a patient with end-stage 
heart disease, mostly ischemic or dilative cardiomyopathy, allocated either to 
conventional medical or surgical therapy or to cardiac transplantation, second 
the expected increase in exercise tolerance and quality of life after 
transplantation. Furthermore the exclusion of contraindications is required: 
severe irreversible secondary organ damage (especially of kidneys and liver), 
malignant tumors and systemic malignancies, severe pulmonary hypertension, 
florid infections, unstable psychosocial conditions of the patient and his 
surrounding. Although a considerable number of clinical, electrocardiographic, 
echocardiographic and hemodynamic factors have been defined as indicating very 
poor prognosis, there exists no prognostic index combining all these factors 
into a precise prediction of survival of an individual patient with end-stage 
cardiac failure. Whereas high survival rates have been concordantly documented 
for the first years after transplantation, the long-term prognosis cannot be 
estimated as yet with equally sufficient certainty, due to increasing 
observation of vasculopathies and of progressive myocardial (mostly diastolic) 
dysfunction of transplanted hearts. These problems suggest to continue with very 
careful selection of candidates for transplantation. Even in the case of cardiac 
decompensation and poor prognostic factors, usually a single examination of the 
patient is not sufficient, but rather a thorough observation of the patient over 
a period of time including an evaluation of the rate of clinical and hemodynamic 
decline and of the response to medical therapy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1014034
PMID: 2264035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1990 Oct 31;140(20):502-6.

[The significance of postoperative radiotherapy in cervix and uterine cancer].

[Article in German]

Kucera H(1).

Author information:
(1)I. Universitäts-Frauenklinik, Wien.

The benefit of adjuvant radiotherapy of operated cervical and endometrial cancer 
is not clear. In a prospective trial of 571 endometrial cancers stage I, cases 
with poor prognosticators are treated additionally with external pelvic 
irradiation (Co 60, 56 Gy) and show nearly the same outcome as cases with good 
prognosticators and without such an adjuvant therapy. A benefit of adjuvant 
irradiation of cervical carcinoma stage I/b could only be shown in cases with 
similar histopathologic characteristics (tumor volume, grading, vessel invasion, 
lymphnode involvement). In a retrospective study 171 cases of cervical carcinoma 
were analyzed. With adjuvant external irradiation the relapse free interval was 
longer and 5-year survival better than without such an adjuvant therapy.

PMID: 2264353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Adv Anat Embryol Cell Biol. 1990;120:1-96. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-75482-1.

Histophysiology of the circulating platelet.

Wurzinger LJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Anatomisches Institut, Technische Universität, München, FRG.

The role of platelets in hemostasis and thrombosis has been well established 
since Eberth's and Schimmelbusch's pioneering intravital microscopic 
experiments. A century ago the distinct features of the circulating "smooth 
disc" and the activated "spiny sphere" were described. Since then the underlying 
cell-biological processes transforming a harmless floating platelet into a 
sticky corpuscle, ready to release its stores of thrombogenic and atherogenic 
substances have been unveiled. However, its life-threatening capabilities have 
evolved from the necessity of preventing equally dangerous blood losses from a 
pressurized circulation system. As circulation depends on the liquid state of 
blood, the platelets and the molecules of the plasmatic coagulation system must 
circulate in an inactive state, to become activated at the site of "demand" to 
transform the liquid into a solid hemostatic plug. As in nucleated cells the 
plasma membrane, made up of a phospholipid bilayer with integrated 
glycoproteins, is the structure signalling environmental information to the 
platelet interior. Many of the receptors for stimulatory or inhibitory mediators 
elicit a cell-biological response via G-proteins and subsequent Ca2+ 
mobilization by IP3, or stimulation/inhibition of adenylate cyclase followed by 
changes in cytoplasmic levels of cyclic AMP. The supposed intracellular Ca2+ 
store of the platelets, the dense tubular system, also appears as the site of 
Ca2(+)-activated prostaglandin synthesis. Raised cytoplasmic Ca2+ levels promote 
the polymerization of G-actin to F-actin involved in the extension of 
pseudopodia in the course of "external shape change." Ca2(+)-activated myosin 
light-chain kinase phosphorylates myosin which becomes associated with F-actin, 
with the resulting acto-myosin complex providing the contractile force for 
"internal shape change," i.e., the centralization of organelles and for clot 
retraction later in hemostasis. More than by the three-dimensional actin 
cytoskeleton proper, the discoid shape typical of the nonstimulated platelet 
appears to be secured by a two-dimensional membrane skeleton of actin filaments 
anchored to membrane glycoproteins via actin-binding protein or spectrin and 
ankyrin. Although the microtubule coil has been confirmed as the main 
determinant of the mechanical stiffness of the platelet with biophysical 
techniques, its hitherto assumed role for the maintenance of the disc shape no 
longer appears tenable. The morphological phenomenon of the shape change 
comprises an alteration of membrane glycoproteins resulting in binding of 
"adhesive" molecules like fibrinogen.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-75482-1
PMID: 2264500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 1990 Sep;48(3):296-300. doi: 
10.1590/s0004-282x1990000300005.

[Social aspects of premature mortality (15 to 59 years old) caused by 
cerebrovascular diseases].

[Article in Portuguese]

Lessa I(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina Preventiva, Universidade Federal da Bahia (UFBA), 
Salvador, Brasil.

The loss of productive years for premature death (15-59 years) due to 
cerebrovascular diseases (CVD) was estimated on the basis of official mortality 
statistics for Brasil, 1985. Estimations were made for the 5 macro-regions of 
the country--North, Northeast, Southeast, South and Midwest, as well as for 
selected capital cities located in each of the regions, respectively: Belém, 
Salvador, São Paulo, Porto Alegre and Brasília. Men lost 158,194 years of 
productive life while the loss for women was 128,905 years. The average of years 
lost/person varied between 11.5 (South) and 13.4 (Midwest) for males and between 
12.9 (North) and 14.1 (Midwest) for females. The proportions of productive years 
lost were greater for women in all five regions. In the capital cities, the 
average loss of years were similar to the respective macro-regions, although for 
Salvador there was an increase for both genders as compared to the Northeast. 
The social costs of such premature deaths is then discussed, estimating a 
potential reduction of 200,000 years from the total losses, in case of treatment 
and control of high blood pressure in the Brazilian population.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-282x1990000300005
PMID: 2264784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Epidemiol Bull. 1990;11(3):1-9.

Epidemiological practice in the health services systems.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2265087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Milbank Q. 1990;68(3):383-411.

Age, socioeconomic status, and health.

House JS(1), Kessler RC, Herzog AR.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social Research, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48106-1248.

Analysts dispute what roles biomedical, psychosocial, and other factors play in 
determining the duration of morbidity and disability over the life course. 
Cross-sectional data from two national surveys of adults aged 25 years and over 
not only show, however, that age and socioeconomic status (SES) are significant 
predictors of self-reported physical health; they also demonstrate that the 
relation of age to health varies with SES features. Longitudinal research is 
needed to test the finding that enduring functional limitations in terms of time 
are actually compressed in higher SES groups. To improve well-being in our 
society, moreover, requires specifying why SES differences occur, and perhaps 
ultimately reducing socioeconomic inequality itself.

PMID: 2266924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Arch Inst Cardiol Mex. 1990 Jul-Aug;60(4):401-5.

[The utility of color Doppler in dissecting aortic aneurysm].

[Article in Spanish]

Delong de Astudillo R(1), Fernández Molina J, Bandín Diéguez M, Villegas García 
M, Lorenzo Negrete JA, Romero Cárdenas A, Vargas-Barrón J.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Cardiología Ignacio Chávez, México, D.F.

We inform about the utility of Color-Doppler to identify dissection in aortic 
aneurysm. We studied five patients, fourth with dissection and one without 
dissection. All of them were in the fourth decade of life, except the patient 
without dissection, who developed symptoms at the age of 62. Two-dimensional 
echocardiography displayed the alterations of the aorta, such as dilatation of 
the walls, the presence or absence of dissection and in the cases with 
dissection the extension of it (three patients had DeBakey Type I, one DeBakey 
Type III an other DeBakey Type II). In all patients with dissection the Doppler 
study determined the presence or absence of flow through the false channel, in 
particular in the second and fifth patient and with Color-Doppler we observed 
that the flow was bidirectional. Also the degree of aortic incompetence could be 
quantified. It is concluded that with two-dimentional echocardiography it is 
possible to identify the anatomical features of aortic aneurysm and that Doppler 
study gives additional hemodynamic information which has importance in therapy 
and prognosis.

PMID: 2268177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Dtsch Zahnarztl Z. 1990 Aug;45(8):455-7.

[Periodontal treatment of furcally involved teeth: with or without root 
resection?].

[Article in German]

Kuhrau N(1), Kocher T, Plagmann HC.

Author information:
(1)ZMK-Klinik der Universität Kiel.

A retrospective radiographical and clinical evaluation of 275 molars (59 
patients) with different classes of furcation involvement was assessed. Flap 
operations with and without root resections had been performed and the patients 
were enrolled in a regular maintenance program for at least 4 years (up to 8 
years). The life expectancy of molars with root resection was compared to molars 
conventionally treated by flap operation. Probing depth was reduced 
significantly on molars of the lower jaw even with class III involvement, 
progression of periodontal disease could be arrested. The progression of bone 
loss (mean 1.4 mm) in molars of the upper jaw with a class III involvement could 
be stopped only by root resection. During the observation period 12 teeth had to 
be extracted. 8 for nonperiodontal reasons. The long-term prognosis of class III 
furcations only treated by flap operation with or without tunnel preparations 
was as good as that of root resected molars.

PMID: 2269170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Dtsch Zahnarztl Z. 1990 Sep;45(9):525-37.

[New frontiers in the prosthodontic management of patients with loss of all or 
most of their teeth].

[Article in German]

Hofmann M(1).

Author information:
(1)Poliklinik für Zahnarztliche Prothetik, Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg.

In view of the increasing life expectancy and the growing number of older 
people, the conservation of denture bearing tissue will become an essential task 
in the treatment of edentulous patients. According to a clinical survey it could 
be proved that about 60% of the female and 40% of the male complete denture 
wearers had a high degree of bone loss of the lower jaw. The standard factors of 
function are described, particularly emphasizing the importance of muscular 
denture stabilization, jaw relation and mode of occlusion. The conservation of 
remaining single-posted teeth is necessary, not only for psychical reasons, but 
also with regard to support and function of the dentures. The biomechanical 
principles of design and approved denture constructions are illustrated. In 
order to ensure long-term denture function and care for the bearing tissue, it 
is mandatory that excellent oral hygiene, proper denture care, and periodical 
recalls, at intervals of 1 year at most, be maintained.

PMID: 2269188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Environ Health Perspect. 1990 Jul;87:51-6. doi: 10.1289/ehp.908751.

Evaluation of the effectiveness of mass screening for uterine cancer in Japan: 
the potential years of life lost.

Kuroishi T(1), Hirose K, Tominaga S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, Aichi Cancer Center Research Institute, Nagoya, 
Japan.

To evaluate the effectiveness of mass screening for uterine cancer in Japan, we 
compared the changes in the age-adjusted rates of potential years of life lost 
