(PYLL) due to uterine cancer between 1969 and 1972 to 1973 through 1977 between 
the high coverage-rate (intensively screened) areas and the comparable control 
areas. The percent reduction in the average age-adjusted rate of PYLL due to 
uterine cancer and the years of life saved per 100,000 females were greater in 
the high coverage-rate areas than in the control areas. These results suggested 
that mass screening programs for uterine cancer contribute to saving years of 
life.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.908751
PMCID: PMC1567837
PMID: 2269240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Environ Health Perspect. 1990 Jul;87:83-94. doi: 10.1289/ehp.908783.

Calculating excess lifetime risk in relative risk models.

Vaeth M(1), Pierce DA.

Author information:
(1)Aarhus Universitet, Afdeling for Teoretisk Statistik, Denmark.

When assessing the impact of radiation exposure it is common practice to present 
the final conclusions in terms of excess lifetime cancer risk in a population 
exposed to a given dose. The present investigation is mainly a methodological 
study focusing on some of the major issues and uncertainties involved in 
calculating such excess lifetime risks and related risk projection methods. The 
age-constant relative risk model used in the recent analyses of the cancer 
mortality that was observed in the follow-up of the cohort of A-bomb survivors 
in Hiroshima and Nagasaki is used to describe the effect of the exposure on the 
cancer mortality. In this type of model the excess relative risk is constant in 
age-at-risk, but depends on the age-at-exposure. Calculation of excess lifetime 
risks usually requires rather complicated life-table computations. In this paper 
we propose a simple approximation to the excess lifetime risk; the validity of 
the approximation for low levels of exposure is justified empirically as well as 
theoretically. This approximation provides important guidance in understanding 
the influence of the various factors involved in risk projections. Among the 
further topics considered are the influence of a latent period, the additional 
problems involved in calculations of site-specific excess lifetime cancer risks, 
the consequences of a leveling off or a plateau in the excess relative risk, and 
the uncertainties involved in transferring results from one population to 
another. The main part of this study relates to the situation with a single, 
instantaneous exposure, but a brief discussion is also given of the problem with 
a continuous exposure at a low-dose rate.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.908783
PMCID: PMC1567825
PMID: 2269245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Int J Cardiol. 1990 Nov;29(2):113-9. doi: 10.1016/0167-5273(90)90213-o.

The gender gap: why do women live longer than men?

Seely S.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-5273(90)90213-o
PMID: 2269531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Helv Chir Acta. 1990 Nov;57(3):467-9.

[Prognosis and therapy of kidney carcinoma in a retrospective study in 624 
patients].

[Article in German]

Gänsheimer S(1), Beck K, Schilling A.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Urologie, Städtisches Krankenhaus München-Bogenhausen.

624 patients, who were treated for carcinoma of the kidney between 1966 and 1987 
were analysed in a retrospective study. Prognosis depended in tumor size, 
lymphatic metastases, and tumor grading. Tumor spread into the renal veins or 
into the vena cava without lymphatic metastases did not reduce life expectancy. 
Different symptoms are important as prognostic criteria. Small tumors without 
spread into the veins can be sufficiently operated from a lumbo costal incision. 
Preoperative radiation is no beneficial.

PMID: 2269633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. J Pain Symptom Manage. 1990 Dec;5(6):345-9. doi:
10.1016/0885-3924(90)90028-i.

Attitudes about cancer pain: a survey of Wisconsin's first-year medical 
students.

Weissman DE, Dahl JL.

A brief questionnaire was administered to 317 first-year students at Wisconsin's 
two medical schools to assess their attitudes about cancer pain prior to their 
entry into medical school. Although the students had a realistic perspective of 
the prevalence and severity of cancer pain, they displayed a number of negative 
attitudes that if unchanged would contribute to future inadequate pain 
treatment. Students (a) greatly exaggerated the incidence of psychological 
dependence (addiction) in patients treated with opioid analgesics, (b) 
inappropriately timed maximal analgesic therapy to the duration of life 
expectancy, (c) felt that a majority of patients with cancer currently receive 
adequate or excessive analgesic therapy, and (d) believed that increasing pain 
was invariably related to the development of drug tolerance rather than to 
progression of the disease. Curricular efforts need to be directed at bringing 
about changes in students' negative attitudes about cancer pain and its 
management.

DOI: 10.1016/0885-3924(90)90028-i
PMID: 2269801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Nord Med. 1990;105(12):335-7.

[Interactions between cytostatic agents and other drugs].

[Article in Swedish]

Henriksson R(1), Bergström P, Grankvist K, Johansson O.

Author information:
(1)Inst för onkologi och klinisk kemi, Umeå universitetssjukhus.

Drug interactions are increasingly common, since the clinical practice is 
getting more complex with the flood of new drugs. Simultaneously, the increased 
life expectancy of the population increases the number of individuals likely to 
receive multiple prescriptions. Cytotoxic drugs generally have a narrow 
therapeutic index, and are delivered at doses close to toxic levels. 
Consequently, a slight increase of the biological activity caused by an 
interaction with other concomitantly administered drugs could be deleterious for 
the patient. Interactions between drugs can sometimes also be used in a positive 
way, i.e. to increase the therapeutic ratio. Interactions between different 
cancer treatment modalities have attracted considerable interest. However, much 
less interest has been denoted to interactions between anticancer drugs and 
other pharmaceuticals. The purpose of this review is to summarize data about the 
interactions between anticancer drugs and other clinically used drugs with 
regard to effects on tumor and toxicity.

PMID: 2270199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Public Health Nurs. 1990 Dec;7(4):243-50. doi: 
10.1111/j.1525-1446.1990.tb00643.x.

Relationship between cross-cultural health attitudes and community health 
indicators.

Champion VL(1), Austin JK, Tzeng OC.

Author information:
(1)Indiana University School of Nursing, Indianapolis.

Improving health standards both nationally and cross-culturally is a goal for 
all community health nurses. Previous research has supported links between 
health attitudes and behavior. The purpose of the present study was to 
investigate the relationship between attitudes toward health and indexes of 
community health using a cross-cultural data set. Concepts selected from the 
data set were I (myself), body, sickness, disease, life, doctor, health, 
medicine, hospital, nurse, death, and insane. Community health indicators were 
male and female life expectancy, infant mortality, economic and public health 
expenditures, and net social progress. The original sample included 1200 high 
school males within each of 30 language and cultural communities. Data were 
derived from students' ratings of the dimensions of evaluation, potency, and 
activity for each concept. The results supported the association between 
attitudes and objective community health indicators. Unexpected negative 
correlations were found between attitudes toward medicine and nurse attitudes 
toward body and life, perhaps indicating that extended contact with health care 
providers may result in negative attitudes toward them. Positive relationships 
were found between public health expenditures and nurses, indicating that in 
countries with more expenditures for community and public health, attitudes 
toward nurses were more positive.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1446.1990.tb00643.x
PMID: 2270223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1990;84(20):1053-5.

[The consequences of avoidable causes of death on life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Wiesner G(1), Zimmermann N.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozialhygiene und Organisation des Gesundheitswesens Maxim 
Zetkin.

PMID: 2270716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 1990 Aug;78(2):61-6.

[Evolution of stomach cancer mortality in Spain (1951-1985)].

[Article in Spanish]

Gil Mary A(1), Beneyto Castelló F, Calatayud Sarthou A, Giménez Fernández FJ, 
Cortina Birlanga P.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina Preventiva y Salud Pública, Universitat de Valencia.

A descriptive study was made of the trend of the stomach cancer mortality rate 
in Spain over the period 1951-1985. An upward trend was observed until 1963, and 
from that time on it gradually decreased in both sexes, though the male 
population always had a higher rate. By age, the mortality rate showed a clear 
increase in the fifties, in both sexes. A cohort effect was also clearly 
evident, the mortality rate was gradually lower in the most recent generations 
and among the different age groups, which is in keeping with the gradual 
decrease of the "Potential years in life lost" throughout the time period 
investigated. The above descriptive data would doubtless be of interest should 
analytical studies be undertaken.

PMID: 2271295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Cancer Treat Rev. 1990 Sep;17(2-3):329-34. doi:
10.1016/0305-7372(90)90065-n.

Combination chemotherapy in radically operated advanced ovarian cancer.

Petru E(1), Pickel H, Lahousen M, Boike G, Heydarfadai M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Graz, Austria.

DOI: 10.1016/0305-7372(90)90065-n
PMID: 2272048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Endoscopy. 1990 Nov;22(6):245-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1012862.

Prophylactic endoscopic sclerotherapy of esophageal varices--a prospective 
randomized trial.

Kobe E(1), Zipprich B, Schentke KU, Nilius R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical Academy, Dresden, GDR.

Sixty-three patients with degree III or IV esophageal varices and the so-called 
red color sign, but without previous bleeding were randomly assigned to either 
prophylactic sclerotherapy (PST) (n = 30) or to a control group (n = 33). In 58 
cases the portal hypertension was caused by liver cirrhosis (40% alcoholics). 
The two groups were comparable with respect to demographic data and endoscopic 
appearance, causes and severity of liver damage. Sclerotherapy was performed as 
combined intra-and paravariceal injections of 2 or 3% polidocanol. All patients, 
both in the treatment and in the control groups, who bled from varices after 
randomization, received sclerotherapy until the varices were eradicated, and 
remained in their groups. After a mean follow-up of 44.5 months, the bleeding 
rate in the PST group was significantly lower (30% vs 75%, p less than 0.01). 
The difference became significant from the second year onward. Fourteen patients 
of the PST group and 19 of the controls died (4 and 14, respectively, p less 
than 0.05 as a result of the bleeding). Life table analysis (Kaplan-Meier) 
revealed no differences in survival between the two groups. At the present time 
PST cannot yet be recommended as a method for clinical routine use.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1012862
PMID: 2272291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Fiziol Zh (1978). 1990 Sep-Oct;36(5):11-6.

[Approaches to the experimental prolongation of life].

[Article in Russian]

Nikitin VN(1).

Author information:
(1)A. M. Gorky State University, Ministry of Higher and Secondary Special 
Education of the Ukrainian SSR, Kharkov.

Modern approaches to lifespan prolongation of laboratory animals are considered. 
Calorie-deficient diet increasing lifespan, leads to essential hormonal shifts, 
to changes in the activity of genome, protein biosynthesis. These mechanisms 
determine lifespan prolongation.

PMID: 2272385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Fiziol Zh (1978). 1990 Sep-Oct;36(5):16-21.

[Effect of carbohydrate-enriched diet and subsequent food restriction on life 
prolongation in Fischer 344 male rats].

[Article in Russian]

Khorakova M(1), Deĭl Z, Khausman Dzh, Matsek K.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physiology, Czechoslovakian Academy of Sciences, Prague.

Increased proportion of carbohydrates (dextrin) in the diet has a life 
prolonging effect upon male Fischer 344 rats; however, the effect of this diet 
appears only when the rats aged from 6 weeks to 6 months are on diet, after this 
treatment median survival of experimental animals increases by 96 days and the 
10th percentile increases on the average by 10 days (n-60). Further maintenance 
of animals on the same diet has minimum effect: animals being on this diet 
throughout the whole life exhibit a median lifespan increase by 120 days and an 
increase in the 10th percentile by 41 days. However, if such animals aged 6 
months are transferred to a restricted (60%) food intake regimen (control diet, 
not enriched with carbohydrate) a further increase in median and 10th percentile 
lifespan prolongation can be observed reaching 328 and 396 days, respectively as 
compared to controls. The effects of this early feeding (from 6 weeks to 6 
months) with a carbohydrate-enriched diet available ad libitum and food 
restricted (60% controls) regimen fed from the age of 6 months onwards are 
additive, the final results being identical as if the animals are kept on the 
60% food restricted intake throughout the whole life.

PMID: 2272386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. J Allied Health. 1990 Fall;19(4):297-311.

Healthy People 2000: national health promotion and disease prevention objectives 
(excerpts). US Public Health Service.

[No authors listed]

The US Public Health Service recently completed and published Healthy People 
2000: National Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Objectives. The report is 
the culmination of a national effort, representing the work of citizens, 
professionals, organizations, and communities, and the cooperation of numerous 
federal agencies. The overall goal of the report and its objectives are to 
prevent unnecessary disease and disability and to achieve a better quality of 
life for all Americans.

PMID: 2272890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Semin Oncol Nurs. 1990 Nov;6(4):303-8. doi: 10.1016/0749-2081(90)90034-3.

Political and ethical implications of using quality of life as an outcome 
measure.

Dean HE(1).

Author information:
(1)Nursing Services/Research, VAMC, Sepulveda, CA 91343.

The issue addressed by this article has been the legitimacy of using quality of 
life as an outcome measure with the potential for use as a means of allocating 
health care resources. Serious problems that arise include the definition and 
measurement of quality of life and the related ethical dilemmas of sanctity of 
life versus quality of life, individual versus aggregate good, and autonomy 
versus paternalism. Two core questions remain: How do we use the concept of 
quality of life for the benefit of individuals and society without compromising 
the integrity of either? How do we make ethical decisions for the aggregate good 
without violating the rights of individuals and without devaluing life, either 
by forcing someone to live who does not want to or by refusing treatment to 
someone who wants it? Clinicians and researchers need to be alert to the purpose 
for which quality of life data are being gathered to ensure that appropriate 
measures are being used. Forrow et al argue that an "important barrier to the 
use of decision analyses for individual patients lies in the difficulty of 
developing reliable and quantifiable measures of patients' preferences for 
various treatment outcomes--including differences in mortality or life 
expectancy, various kinds of morbidity, burdens of taking medications, economic 
costs, and so on." If these limitations could be overcome, quality of life might 
hold some promise for individual clinical decision-making. The lack of consensus 
about its definition and the problems inherent in its measurement render quality 
of life a poor choice as a criterion for decision-making regarding health 
policy. Clinicians concerned about the issues raised in this article are 
encouraged to identify the resources available to help them examine the issues. 
Useful resources include other interested providers, ethics committees, risk 
managers, chaplins, social workers, and codes of ethics, standards, and position 
statements. The Oregon model should be studied carefully since it may provide a 
guide for other states and the federal government. Forums should be organized at 
multiple levels involving nurses, physicians, other health care providers and 
the general public. We should encourage careful inquiry and judicious 
consideration of findings. We should be aware of the political scene and the 
research scene to guard against the potential misuse of study findings in the 
establishment of public policy. We should seek information for ourselves and our 
patients; we should provide the highest quality of care we can that is aimed at 
providing patients the possibility of fulfilling their own goals for their 
lives.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0749-2081(90)90034-3
PMID: 2274729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Versicherungsmedizin. 1990 Oct 1;42(5):142-8.

[Hyperuricemia--does modern therapy improve life expectancy?].

[Article in German]

Kamilli I(1), Gresser U.

Author information:
(1)Medizinischen Poliklinik, Universität München.

Today hyperuricaemia and gout are likewise seen in every population of the 
western industrial world and have been increasing since the fifties. As known 
from number of studies hyperuricaemia often occurs in connection with 
hyperlipoproteinaemia, obesity, diabetes mellitus, arterial hypertension and 
atherosclerosis. Up to now it was not clear whether one disease caused the 
other. In 1988 Abbot could prove that among men, those afflicted by gout as 
compared to those without gout experienced a 60% excess of coronary heart 
disease. Therefore, patients with gout should receive a regular thorough 
cardiovascular evaluation. Furthermore risk factor levels which predispose to 
coronary heart disease, arterial hypertension and gout should be reduced. There 
is a significant positive correlation between the plasma uric acid levels and 
the prevalence of attacks of gouty arthritis and nephrolithiasis. It is possible 
to avoid gouty arthritis, tophi and nephrolithiasis with a consequent diet and 
medical treatment. Unfortunately, many patients interrupt therapy during 
intervals free of pain. The consequence is that even today the complications of 
hyperuricaemia cause days of inability to work and to earn one's living, despite 
of modern therapy. Hyperuricaemia not sufficiently treated reduces the quality 
of life through attacks of gout, chronic gout and nephrolithiasis as well as 
life expectancy caused by nephropathy, arterial hypertension and 
atherosclerosis. This is of special importance because of the frequency of gout 
and hyperuricaemia in our population. An early diagnosis, a consistent therapy 
and a thorough monitoring could stop an increase of this disease and prolong 
life expectancy for those who have gout and the other attendant diseases.

PMID: 2275073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Gerontologist. 1990 Oct;30(5):640-9. doi: 10.1093/geront/30.5.640.

Longer life but worse health? Measurement and dynamics.

Rogers A(1), Rogers RG, Belanger A.

Author information:
(1)Population Program, University of Colorado, Boulder 80309.

A number of recent cross-sectional studies of longevity and health among the 
elderly have concluded that recent positive trends in the prolongation of life 
have not been matched by similar trends in the extension of healthy life. This 
paper challenges that pessimistic conclusion by examining conceptual issues 
related to the measurement and dynamics of the mortality-disability process. It 
uses data from the 1986 Longitudinal Study of Aging (U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services, 1988) to illustrate its principal points.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/30.5.640
PMID: 2276638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Res Aging. 1990 Dec;12(4):399-408. doi: 10.1177/0164027590124002.

Demographic factors reshaping ties to family and place.

Morrison PA.

This article explores the broad topic of how the selective character of human 
migration and changing family circumstances may shape the intensity of local 
need among the future elderly. At origin, it is the healthier, better educated, 
and more affluent elderly who venture to migrate; and although people migrate 
from a broad spectrum of origins, they flow selectively to a narrow spectrum of 
destinations. At the same time, contemporary changes in family makeup and 
internal division of labor alter their capacity to care for elderly members. 
These demographic realities define a policy issue ripe for study. 1990 census 
data can reveal how the pressures of population aging will diffuse spatially, in 
terms of timing and intensity and, given the complex interaction of migration 
selectivity and family transformation, who will be distanced from whom, and with 
what consequences. Scattered evidence from earlier years casts light on certain 
facets of this issue: (a) the ties between elderly and their children, (b) the 
differing configurations of migration flows generating elderly concentration in 
locales, and (c) the changing nature of elderly concentration in recent decades. 
With 1990 census data, it will be possible to extend certain findings and 
consider their implications for how future aging and dependency may express 
themselves locally.

DOI: 10.1177/0164027590124002
PMID: 2277855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Res Aging. 1990 Dec;12(4):546-59. doi: 10.1177/0164027590124009.

Remarriage of older Canadians: description and interpretation.

Burch TK(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Studies Center, University of Western Ontario.

The remarriage experience of Canadian men and women aged 55 and over at time of 
survey are described using data from the Canadian Family History Survey, carried 
out in 1984 by Statistics Canada. Data pertain to approximately 1,300 women and 
1,100 men. Remarriage is put in the context of total life cycle experience by 
means of a simple decomposition of the lifetime probability of remarriage. The 
analysis highlights the greater exposure of women to remarriage (due to high 
rates of widowhood) but their lower remarriage rates compared to men. The sex 
differential in remarriage remains when age at dissolution is controlled. A 
major regional differential is found in remarriage patterns in Canada, with 
residents of Quebec showing appreciably lower remarriage rates following divorce 
than the rest of the country. An interpretation of the observed patterns 
suggests the need for more attention to motivation in the study of remarriage 
behavior.

DOI: 10.1177/0164027590124009
PMID: 2277862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1990;178:106-10. doi:
10.3109/00365529009093159.

Life expectancy in liver cirrhosis after the first variceal hemorrhage: how can 
survival be improved?

Jansen PL(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hepatology and Gastroenterology, Academic Medical Center, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

A first hemorrhage from esophageal or fundal varices in a patient with liver 
cirrhosis marks the onset of a period with a high risk of rebleeding and death. 
The risk of rebleeding can be decreased by serial sclerotherapy, esophageal 
transection, or shunt surgery. However, the influence of these treatments on 
long-term survival is unconvincing. After endoscopic sclerotherapy the 4-year 
survival is 35-60%. After liver transplantation the 5-year survival is 65%. 
Endoscopic sclerotherapy, transection, and shunt surgery should be considered 
symptomatic treatments, primarily devised to decrease the rebleeding risk. Liver 
transplantation improves survival and, in addition, decreases the rebleeding 
risk in patients with esophageal varices.

DOI: 10.3109/00365529009093159
PMID: 2277963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. J Intern Med. 1990 Dec;228(6):633-40. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2796.1990.tb00291.x.

Modern haemophilia treatment: medical improvements and quality of life.

Rosendaal FR(1), Smit C, Varekamp I, Bröcker-Vriends AH, van Dijck H, Suurmeijer 
TP, Vandenbroucke JP, Briët E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, University Hospital, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.

Adequate replacement therapy in haemophilia has been available for two decades. 
This has led to considerable improvements in the life expectancy and physical 
status of haemophilia patients. A study was conducted to investigate whether 
this has also led to improvements in quality of life. With this aim, information 
was obtained from 935 Dutch haemophiliacs by mailed questionnaires on 
relationships, marriage, family life and employment. Haemophilia patients were 
less often married than men in the general population (13% fewer) and had a 
lower total number of children (30% lower, 17% for those who were married). 
Twenty-two per cent of the patients were not employed and received an income 
from the disability funds. While severity of haemophilia, joint damage and age 
increased the risk of disability, it was noted that home treatment was 
associated with a 50% reduction in this risk. Remarkably, haemophilia patients 
did not differ from the general population in their view of the quality of their 
own health. The results of this study show a positive influence of modern 
haemophilia treatment on quality of life. At present, AIDS overshadows all 
optimistic feelings one may have about this field. However, the results 
described here demonstrate the benefits that can be achieved with adequate 
replacement therapy, and justify the expectation of further improvements in the 
near future.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.1990.tb00291.x
PMID: 2280241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Minerva Chir. 1990 Sep 15;45(17):1077-82.

[Extended and palliative surgery in the treatment of gastric cancer in advanced 
stage].

[Article in Italian]

Anfossi A(1), Gori A, Secco GB, Percivale PL.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Chirurgia Generale, Regione Liguria, USL n. 4, Ospedale di 
Albenga.

Five hundred and fifty patients operated between 1965 and 1983 for stomach 
carcinoma were included in the study. Of these, 244 (44.4%) underwent extended 
(54 patients) or palliative surgery (190 patients) due to the extragastric 
diffusion of the neoplasia. Global postoperative mortality for patients 
undergoing extended surgery was 16.7% and the five-year survival rate was 18.5%; 
in the case of those undergoing palliative surgery the postoperative mortality 
rate was 30.5% and the two-year survival rate was 14% for resection and 4% for 
derivatives. Patients who underwent a derivative operation showed an easing of 
symptoms and an improved quality of life. On the basis of these results the 
Authors consider that the possibility of extended surgery should still be 
carefully evaluated in patients in whom a stomach tumour has exceeded the 
gastric boundary, irrespective of its extent, since the limit of radical surgery 
is not related to the extension of surgical demolition but to the entity of the 
extragastric diffusion of the neoplasia. In addition, surgical abstention is not 
always justified even in patients in whom surgery cannot be curative since a 10% 
five-year survival rate was observed in patients undergoing palliative 
resection.

PMID: 2280864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1990;84(21):1075-7.

[Clinical and metabolic characterization and therapy goal of 
non-insulin-dependent (Type II) diabetes mellitus].

[Article in German]

Ratzmann KP(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Diabetes und Stoffwechselkrankheiten, Berlin.

PMID: 2281689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. G Chir. 1990 Jul-Aug;11(7-8):403-8.

[Immediate reconstructive approach in neoplastic pathology and "high risk" of 
the breast].

[Article in Italian]

Pompei S(1), Varanese A, Fanini F.

Author information:
(1)Servizio di Chirurgia Plastica e Ricostruttiva, Istituto Nazionale Tumori 
Regina Elena, Roma.

One of the most important aims in oncology should be the quality of life, even 
in the cases of limited life expectancy. With this objective, the Authors report 
their experience of immediate breast reconstruction after surgical treatment for 
neoplasms and "high risk" lesions. In 76 cases they analyzed aesthetic results 
and morbidity. In immediate reconstruction after Patey mastectomies, the tissue 
expanders offered good cosmetic results with an acceptable complication rate in 
comparison with more complex methods as myocutaneous flaps. These flaps 
represent the alternative in selected cases of Halsted mastectomies, where the 
mutilation is not acceptable to the patient. In "high risk" lesions surgical 
approach, namely subcutaneous mastectomy, may be proposed in selected cases 
only. The Authors emphasize that subcutaneous mastectomy with an immediate 
submuscular reconstruction offer good aesthetic results especially in small size 
breasts with mild ptosis. The capsular contracture is however significant in 25% 
of the patients treated with these techniques.

PMID: 2282272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Can Crit Care Nurs J. 1990 Dec-1991 Jan;7(4):4.

A drastic shift in medical resources advocated (from prolonging life to 
bettering life).

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2282558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. J Hum Hypertens. 1990 Oct;4(5):517-20.

Persistent dry cough with enalapril: incidence depends on method used.

Yeo WW(1), Ramsay LE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine & Pharmacology, Royal Hallamshire Hospital, Sheffield, 
UK.

In a cohort of 136 hypertensive patients started consecutively on enalapril the 
incidence of persistent dry cough by life-table analysis was 14.6% (95% CI 
10.2-19.0%). The incidence in women (19.2%; 95% CI 11.3-27.1%) was twice that in 
men (9.7%; 95% CI 6.6-12.8%). Dry cough was unrelated to age, smoking habit, 
renal function, or the dose and duration of enalapril treatment. In one half of 
patients who developed cough enalapril had to be stopped. The incidence of 
withdrawal due to cough was 6.0% (95% CI 4.5-7.5%), and cough was by far the 
most common reason for discontinuing enalapril treatment. Reviewing previous 
studies of enalapril-induced cough, it is evident that postmarketing 
surveillance studies have grossly underestimated the incidence and importance of 
this side-effect. Surveys in hospital clinics have slightly underestimated the 
true incidence through failure to use life-table methods of analysis.

PMID: 2283641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Med Clin (Barc). 1990 Sep 15;95(8):309-16.

[Clinical protocols].

[Article in Spanish]

Rodríguez Artalejo F(1), Ortún Rubio V.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Valenciano de Estudios en Salud Pública.

Comment in
    Med Clin (Barc). 1992 Mar 7;98(9):356.
    Med Clin (Barc). 1994 May 14;102(18):717-8.

PMID: 2283913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Z Gesamte Hyg. 1990 Oct;36(10):542-4.

[The influence of social processes on populations].

[Article in German]

Scholz RD(1), Neumann H.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozialhygiene, Bereich Medizin (Charité) der 
Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin.

The paper indicates the influence of the social process of the vital potentials 
of population. The process of lengthening of life could be taken as an social 
process too. The mortuary table population could be a relation for vital 
potentials. The process of the morbidity is influenced by vital potentials.

PMID: 2284817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Z Gesamte Hyg. 1990 Oct;36(10):544-7.

[The dynamics of life extension processes in selected examples].

[Article in German]

Scholz RD(1), Neumann H.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozialhygiene, Bereiches Medizin (Charité) der 
Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin.

The dynamics of the life expectancy is quantified using the example of some 
European industrial countries. It is possible to determinate the part of the 
mortality of infants and children at the life expectancy by performed prototype 
calculations. Further increase of years of ane's life is especially possible by 
decreasing mortality in the middle and higher age.

PMID: 2284818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Am J Law Med. 1990;16(1-2):223-47.

Financing health care for persons with HIV infection: guidelines for state 
action.

Fox DM.

Financing health care for persons with HIV infection is an increasing burden on 
states and their taxpayers. The major problems of state policy in the 1990s are 
how to organize and finance both early detection of infection and preventive 
drug treatment for persons without symptoms and how to provide a full range of 
health and social services for infected persons whose life expectancy is 
unknown. This article first describes the shift in the perceptions of HIV 
infection from a plague to a chronic disease and the implications of this shift 
for state government. Then it places the history of financing for health care in 
the context of general health care financing policy during the past decade. Next 
it describes the history of state action to finance care for HIV infection, 
especially the use of of Medicaid Waivers, problems of state financing for 
expensive prescription drugs, and state initiatives, especially in California, 
Michigan, New Jersey and New York. Finally, the article presents seven policy 
questions that states should consider in deciding what, if any, legislation or 
regulations to enact in order to organize treatment and pay some or all of the 
costs of care for persons with HIV infection.

PMID: 2285048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Am J Law Med. 1990;16(1-2):271-2.

HIV infection--criminal sentencing--People v. Chrzanowski.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2285053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Cesk Zdrav. 1990 Dec;38(12):516-9.

[Aspects of vertical management and "preference" in basic health care].

[Article in Slovak]

Klimo F(1).

Author information:
(1)Slovenská lekárska spolocnosf, Spolocnost, sociálneho lekárstva, Bratislava.

The author deals with causes of inequalities of health care in different 
regions. He thinks that it is due to the professional and economic management of 
the health services. Local decision of the Communist Party and the national 
committees was frequently at variance with the competence of the state health 
administration and thus gave preference to some types of health institutions, 
while others were neglected. To ensure an even development it is important to 
introduce more consequential vertical management. The author mentions 
controversies between resolutions of the Communist Party and state organs and 
reality in conjunction with deceiving the public by maintaining that health care 
is developing and improving. Actually the health services deteriorated and only 
narrow specialized branches developed further. The authority of general 
practitioners declined and so did the satisfaction of patients whose health 
deteriorated and whose life expectancy declined. At present the objective is to 
eliminate existing disproportions and restore to the general practitioner his 
original mission and to enable him to become a family doctor. Subsequently the 
author deals with the use of the doctor's working hours, inadequate function of 
the ambulatory services because of technical shortcomings, training of doctors 
and the reduced ratio of paramedical personnel per doctor.

PMID: 2285953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1990;38(4):373-5.

[Life expectancy in good health, a future indicator for measuring the health 
status of populations].

[Article in French]

Robine JM, Colvez A.

PMID: 2287804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Actas Urol Esp. 1990 Sep-Oct;14(5):325-9.

[Results of total androgenic blockade for the treatment of disseminated cancer 
of the prostate].

[Article in Spanish]

Miján Ortiz JL(1), Zuluaga Gómez A, García Víctor F, Martínez Torres JL, Haddad 
Campos A.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cirugía, Hospital Clínico Universitario, Granada, España.

Following Labrie's idea, during the last three and a half years about 35 stage D 
patients were treated with Total Androgenic Blockade, while Radiotherapy and 
adjuvant TAB was used in 7 stage C patients. Subjective response rate in stage D 
was 86%. In 46% of the cases there was some sort of objective response (either 
partial or complete). After 43 months the actual survival rate is 34%. These 
results show no improvement from other series, but the inclusion of patients 
with little life expectancy should be taken into account. Results obtained in 
stage C, though very few patients were included in the series, were good, and 
patients currently alive remain free from local and metastatic illness. Since 
the number of patients was reduced, no conclusion can be drawn. In view of the 
disease progression, Estracyt was used as a second line therapy. Results have 
been poor showing some subjective, but no objective, response usually of short 
duration, in all patients (5 cases) undergoing such therapeutic procedure.

PMID: 2288247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 1990 Oct-Dec;30(4):445-64.

[The health system in Japan and France].

[Article in French]

Hayashi R(1).

Author information:
(1)Département de l'Administration sanitaire, Faculté de Médecine, Université de 
Tokyo, Japon.

In 1987, male life expectancy at birth rose to 75.6 years in Japan, but reached 
only 72 years in France. Nevertheless, per capita health expenditures were lower 
in Japan (6,074 French francs in 1986) than in France (6,721 French francs in 
1986). This does not imply that the Japanese health system is "economic" at all 
levels. The average annual hospital stay (in short-term hospitals) in 1986 rose 
to 39.7 days in Japan, as compared to 13.6 days in France. Per capita 
consumption of pharmaceuticals in 1987 was US$ 208 in Japan, compared to US$ 136 
in France. These differences come from two specific Japanese features. Japanese 
physicians (most of whom are in private practice, as are their French and 
American colleagues) are allowed to have beds in their office and to hospitalize 
their patients there. Consequently, the number of beds and the average hospital 
stay are much higher in Japan. Secondly, Japanese physicians can give 
pharmaceuticals directly to their patients, which raises pharmaceutical 
consumption considerably. Needless to say, the results obtained currently by the 
Japanese health system are extremely positive. This is probably due to the fact 
that nowadays the Japanese have succeeded in integrating the advantages of the 
Westernization process (hygiene, eradication of infectious diseases, etc.) 
without adopting its disastrous aspects (for example, unhealthy lifestyles). 
However, this is simply an assumption for the time being.

PMID: 2289192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Cesk Zdrav. 1990 Nov;38(11):500-6.

[Demographic trends and the health status of the Czech population in the 80s].

[Article in Czech]

Mazánková V(1).

Author information:
(1)Ustav zdravotnických informaci a statístiky, Praha.

The author summarizes basic indicators from which conclusions can be drawn on 
the health status of the population of the Czech Republic in the eighties up to 
1988. She emphasizes the mortality life expectancy at birth, abortion rate, work 
incapacity on account of illness and injury, morbidity from diabetes and 
tuberculosis, the trend of newly detected malignant tumours and causes of 
invalidity. The assessed data are supplemented by figures and maps.

PMID: 2289283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Drugs. 1990;40 Suppl 1:19-24; discussion 24-5. doi: 
10.2165/00003495-199000401-00006.

Diet and exercise as regulators of lipid risk factors.

Lewis B(1).

Author information:
(1)St Thomas's Hospital, London, United Kingdom.

Comparisons of different countries have shown that populations with a low 
dietary intake of saturated fat also have a low mortality from coronary heart 
disease. Controlled-feeding experiments have shown that the potential for 
altering plasma cholesterol levels and, consequently, altering the risk of 
coronary heart disease by dietary modification is great. However, in practice 
the influence of dietary advice to the general population on plasma cholesterol 
levels has been less pronounced. Several investigators have shown that by 
decreasing the intake of saturated fats and dietary cholesterol and increasing 
the intake of polyunsaturated fats and foods providing soluble fibre, plasma 
cholesterol levels can be reduced by up to 29% and low density lipoprotein 
(LDL)-cholesterol by over 33%. In most studies, levels of high density 
lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol are not materially altered by modern 
lipid-lowering diets; generally, plasma levels are maintained, or increased 
after correction of overweight is is achieved. It has been calculated that the 
risk of fatal coronary heart disease is 32% lower in subjects consuming such a 
diet than in those following a typical American diet, and life expectancy is 5 
years greater in the former group. Life expectancy is also 2 to 3 years longer 
in populations habitually following low fat diets than in Western populations. 
Frequent exercise has been inversely related to risk of coronary heart disease. 
Physically active individuals have a more favourable lipoprotein profile than 
sedentary individuals but the extent of a direct effect of exercise on 
lipoprotein levels is not known.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199000401-00006
PMID: 2289407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Pediatr Emerg Care. 1990 Dec;6(4):280-4. doi:
10.1097/00006565-199012000-00008.

Pott's puffy tumor: a complication of frontal sinusitis.

Pender ES(1).

Author information:
(1)Emergency Department, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

In children sinusitis is a frequent complication of upper respiratory infections 
but an infrequently considered diagnosis. Although most sinus infections are 
resolved without complications, when complications do occur they can be serious 
or life threatening. The most common ones occur in the orbit, but CNS extension 
is not infrequent. Osteomyelitis and resulting subperiosteal abscess of the 
frontal bone--the so-called Pott's puffy tumor--is a less common, and perhaps 
less frequently recognized, serious complication of frontal sinusitis. This 
paper describes two patients with subperiosteal abscess resulting from frontal 
sinusitis, one with CNS and orbital extension. A brief literature review is 
presented, and presentation, diagnosis, and treatment are discussed.

DOI: 10.1097/00006565-199012000-00008
PMID: 2290727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Patient Educ Couns. 1990 Aug;16(1):74-9. doi: 10.1016/0738-3991(90)90050-u.

Alcohol-related mortality and years of potential life lost--United States 1987.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1016/0738-3991(90)90050-u
PMID: 2290764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Scand J Soc Med. 1990 Dec;18(4):281-6. doi: 10.1177/140349489001800409.

Mortality estimates of the 1984-85. Ethiopian famine.

Kidane A(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Science, University of Addis Ababa.

A brief summary of famine and drought from a historical perspective is given. In 
an attempt to estimate the magnitude of deaths due to the 1984-85 famine in 
Ethiopia, a survey was conducted among the resettled famine victims. The results 
show that the expected life at birth among the male and female famine victims 
was 6.2 and 5.7 years, respectively. When compared with the highest mortality 
rates ever recorded (that is Coale-Demeny, West Model Life Table level 1), the 
Ethiopian famine induced rate seems to be considerably higher. Regional 
variations between the two famine affected regions show that mortality in Tigrai 
was slightly higher than that of Wello. Also prefamine socio-economic 
differentials between households did not seem to have an effect on mortality. 
The results suggest that as much as 700,000 excess deaths might have occurred 
during the 1984-85 famine period in Ethiopia.

DOI: 10.1177/140349489001800409
PMID: 2291104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Sangre (Barc). 1990 Oct;35(5):345-51.

