[Chromosomal changes in 60 patients with acute myeloblastic leukemia. Frequency, 
characteristics and prognostic significance].

[Article in Spanish]

del Potro E(1), Ferro MT, Martínez R, Alarcón C, Villegas A, Asenjo S, Morales 
D, Espinós D, Díaz Mediavilla J, Alvarez Carmona A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Hematología, Hospital Universitario San Carlos, Madrid.

Erratum in
    Sangre (Barc) 1990 Dec;35(6):499.

Sixty patients diagnosed of acute myeloblastic leukaemia (AML) on whom a 
chromosomal study was performed at diagnosis were evaluated. Their median age 
was 43 years (range: 8-89). Normal karyotype was present in 59% of the cases, it 
being abnormal in the remaining 41%. Chromosomal alterations appeared in 64% of 
the patients with M-4 morphology, in 43% of M-5, 40% of those with M-1, 33% of 
the M-2, and in 14% of the cases with M-3 morphology. The two patients with M-6 
had abnormal karyotype. No correlations could be established between normal or 
abnormal karyotype and the clinical or laboratory data. Structural alterations 
were commonest amongst the patients with abnormal karyotype. Such alterations 
included t(8; 21), t(9; 22); t(7; 22), del 11q23, inv 16 (p13;q22), plus 
multiple major abnormalities in the M-6 patients. A strikingly low incidence of 
t(15; 17) was found in the acute promyelocytic leukaemia cases. Two chromosomal 
alterations not previously reported in AML were found in this series, namely, 
inv 13 (p11;q32) and t(21;1) (q22;q22). The finding of an abnormal karyotype had 
no unfavourable influence on the complete remission (CR) rate, which reached 65% 
of the patients with normal karyotype and 81% of those with abnormal karyotype. 
No differences were found in the duration of CR in this connection (80 and 77 
weeks, respectively). Despite the lack of definite prognostic significance, the 
study of the karyotype appears as an important information in the diagnosis of 
AML.

PMID: 2291142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Versicherungsmedizin. 1990 Dec 1;42(6):162-5.

[Life expectancy and risk assessment in decreased glucose tolerance (subclinical 
diabetes)].

[Article in German]

Hefti ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Versicherungsmedizin und Statistik der Schweizerischen 
Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft.

The term Impaired Glucose Tolerance (IGT) has replaced the term Subclinical 
Diabetes (SD). It corresponds to a grey zone between normal glucose tolerance 
(GT) and diabetic glucose intolerance which by definition can be determined only 
by an oral glucose tolerance test. Pathogenetically, and impaired glucose 
tolerance constitutes a risk factor for the formation of atherosclerosis and in 
about 30% of cases represents a pre-stage of diabetes mellitus. No mortality 
statistics are as yet available for insureds with impaired glucose tolerance. We 
may, however, assume with good reason that their relative mortality lies between 
the comparable values of insureds with normal glucose tolerance and those with 
type 2 diabetes. The relative mortality of type 2 diabetes is calculated on the 
basis of the American Medical Impairment Study 1983 and the Swiss Re study on 
diabetes mellitus and the relative mortality of insureds with impaired glucose 
tolerance is then determined on that basis. Finally, a possible course of action 
for the risk assessment of applicants with impaired glucose tolerance is 
proposed and the expected extra mortality rates are given.

PMID: 2291266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Versicherungsmedizin. 1990 Dec 1;42(6):170-4.

[Insurance related medical aspects of angina pectoris].

[Article in German]

Grond A(1).

Author information:
(1)Kölnischen Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft.

Angina pectoris or chest pain is the main symptom of coronary insufficiency 
which may lead to reversible or irreversible ischaemia. It must be distinguished 
from other cardiac or thoracic causes. Nervous or functional disorders hardly 
influence life expectancy. Unstable angina pectoris, pre-infarction syndrome or 
post-infarction angina cannot be accepted for life insurance. We have divided 
stable angina pectoris into four classes in accordance with the NYHA 
classification. We have indicated the relevant extra mortality. Separate 
consideration must be given to additional factors adversely affecting the risk.

PMID: 2291267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Versicherungsmedizin. 1990 Dec 1;42(6):174-8.

[Medical risk assessment in life insurance of applicants following coronary 
angioplasty].

[Article in German]

Genser N(1).

Author information:
(1)Gerling-Konzern Globale Rückversicherungs-AG.

The high incidence of instant results of PTCA in patients with coronary artery 
disease and the favourable prognosis of long-term follow-ups are beneficial for 
proposers being accepted for life insurance, even though they belonged to the 
group of high-risk-patients before. In assessing life insurance policies it is 
necessary to take the individual course of the CAD, the PTCA itself and the 
remaining left ventricular function into consideration. Risk factors and other 
cardiac or non-cardiac impairments must be regarded additionally.

PMID: 2291268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Versicherungsmedizin. 1990 Dec 1;42(6):183-4.

[Life expectancy after lung embolism].

[Article in German]

Weitz U(1).

Author information:
(1)Aachener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG.

The prognosis of pulmonary embolism depends chiefly on three conditions, the 
amount of pulmonary arterial obstruction, the cardio-pulmonary state and 
tolerance and haemostatic factors. Whereas a single, even massive pulmonary 
embolism as a rule does not lead to chronic morbidity, repeated though minor 
emboli may be followed by pulmonary hypertension with eventual right heart 
failure so that the long term prognosis rests upon the probability of further 
thrombotic events.

PMID: 2291270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1990;612:118-26. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1990.tb24297.x.

Differences in the pathophysiology of hemolysis of alpha- and beta-thalassemic 
red blood cells.

Shinar E(1), Rachmilewitz EA.

Author information:
(1)Magen David Adom Blood Services Center, Israel.

The basic pathology in all forms of thalassemia results from the presence of 
excess unstable globin chains within the pathological RBC, but the pattern and 
rate of their precipitation is different. Consequently, their effects on the RBC 
membrane components are not the same and may account for the different 
rheological properties that have been found. It is possible that the damage 
incurred by excess beta chains in Hb H disease is primarily due to the direct 
interaction of the large inclusions with some cytoskeletal proteins such as 
spectrin, ankyrin, and band 3. In beta-thalassemia, where excess unstable alpha 
chains have already precipitated in young erythroblasts, the main damage might 
be caused by an excess of free oxygen radicals, which affect in particular 
protein 4.1. A search for additional changes and for potential differences in 
the membrane and cellular properties between the different thalassemic syndromes 
is warranted in order to understand better the different clinical expression in 
the various types of the disease. Moreover, when there is a better elucidation 
of the mechanisms by which the RBC are destroyed, one may look for possible ways 
and means to prevent these changes, with a consequent extension of the current 
short life span of the affected RBC.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1990.tb24297.x
PMID: 2291541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 1990 Dec;39(10):571-4.

[Cardiac surgery in the elderly].

[Article in French]

Jegaden O(1), Mikaeloff P.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Thoracique et Cardio-vasculaire, Hôpital Cardiologique, 
Lyon.

In 1990, by consensus, the elderly patient in terms of cardiac surgery is a 
patient aged over 70. The special features of this population include the 
severity of symptomatology, the high incidence of left ventricular dysfunction 
and the high incidence of concomitant pathology. In the majority of cases the 
operative risk is controlled by a surgical strategy which takes into account the 
pathophysiology of the elderly patient and surgical techniques appropriate in 
the elderly. Over a 3 year period (1987-1990), 115 patients aged over 70 
underwent cardiac surgery at the hands of our team with an early postoperative 
mortality rate of 7%: 5.6% following coronary surgery only, 8% following valve 
surgery only, 22% following combined surgery. Improved life expectancy and 
quality of life of patients was the rule in the majority of cases, thus 
fulfilling the aims of surgery.

PMID: 2291607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Genet Epidemiol. 1990;7(6):419-26. doi: 10.1002/gepi.1370070604.

Estimating familial effects on age at onset and liability to schizophrenia. II. 
Adjustment for censored data.

MacLean CJ(1), Neale MC, Meyer JM, Kendler KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond 23298.

Genetic studies of disorders with adult onset often contain individuals who have 
not completed their age at risk when last observed. Without correction for such 
censoring, correlation in ages at onset among relatives is substantially 
underestimated. Moreover, without correction for the effect of correlated ages 
at onset, the relationship between age at onset in the proband and liability in 
relatives is substantially overestimated. The present paper describes methods 
for correcting the effects of censoring on these estimates. In a companion paper 
[Kendler and MacLean, Genet Epidemiol 7:409-417, 1990] these methods are applied 
to a large family study of schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1002/gepi.1370070604
PMID: 2292367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Geogr Med. 1990;20:109-17.

Index of years of potential life lost in Mexico.

Fuentes Aguilar L(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Geography, Universidad Nacional Autonoma de México, D.F.

PIP: The index of years of potential life lost (IYPL) is calculated for the 
states of Mexico in comparison to that of Mexico as a whole. Based on deaths 
notified in 1985, standardized reasons for mortality and the IYPL were 
calculated for 5-year cohorts in 32 Mexican states. The IYPL was first 
calculated for the State of Aguascalientes, a small state in central Mexico, 
using the formula of Haenszel and Yerushalmy. Columns were generated showing 1) 
the middle point for each cohort, by calculating the semi-sum of the relative 
limits in each age category; 2) number of deaths subtracted from an arbitrary 
life expectancy of 70; 3) population of each cohort; 4) rate of general 
mortality for each cohort; 5) expected deaths the state had a mortality equal to 
the Mexican Republic; and 6) IYPL. Results for IYPL for all the Mexican states 
are tabulated, next to life expectancy, and standardized reason for mortality. 
The results are also plotted graphically on maps. While at first the 2 figures 
do not seem consistent, socioeconomic factors such as child mortality, 
occupational mortality, nutrition, and environmental sanitation can explain some 
of the discrepancies. Usually mortality rates and life expectancy are used to 
describe and compare health in different regions. IYPL has it uses, despite its 
simple calculation, because it can suggest ways to allocate resources according 
to health needs.

PMID: 2292382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Prog Food Nutr Sci. 1990;14(2-3):93-137.

Nutrition and health in China, 1949 to 1989.

Kantha SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Biochemistry, Medical College of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia 19129.

Since the establishment of a new social order in 1949, China's attempts to feed 
and nurture its large population has been a topic of serious study in many 
disciplines. This review focuses on dietary sources of Chinese population and 
incidence, increase and decline of important diet related health disorders in 
China during the last four decades. Literature published since 1949 on goiter, 
rickets, riboflavin deficiency, beri beri, vision impairment, favism, cancer, 
atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease, hypertension, dental and smoking 
related diseases, diabetes mellitus, pancreatitis, lactose intolerance, mineral 
deficiency, Kashin-Beck disease, parasitic diseases and genetic disorders are 
reviewed. Also presented selectively are reports related to ethnodietetics, 
health care, maternal health and pediatric care as well as longevity. In the 
1980s, total caloric intake of Chinese population showed a 19% increase on a 
daily basis from that of late 1940s. In overall terms, plant derived foods 
supplied 93% of energy, 87% of protein and 55% of fat to the Chinese. Among the 
animal foods, pork remains the most common and least expensive form of meat, 
contributing more than 90% of China's total meat production excluding poultry 
and fish. In 1949, the life expectancy in China was only 36 years. In early 
1980s, it has increased to 68 years. This increase in life expectancy is 
attributed mostly to improved nutrition and lowering of mortality due to 
decrease in infectious diseases. Though population, disease and mortality 
statistics of modern China are spotty and sometimes questionable, common 
consensus among the researchers is that since 1949 the public health situation 
in China has improved tremendously.

PMID: 2293245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Proc Soc Exp Biol Med. 1990 Jan;193(1):31-4. doi:
10.3181/00379727-193-42985.

Assessment of nutritional components in prolongation of life and health by diet.

Masoro EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San 
Antonio 78284-7756.

Restricting the food intake of rodents extends the median length of life and the 
maximum life-span. It also retards most age-associated physiologic change and 
age-associated diseases. Our research indicates that the ability to retard 
disease processes is not the major reason for the extension of life-span or for 
the retardation of age change in most physiologic systems. Rather, it appears 
that most of the actions of food restriction are due to its ability to slow the 
primary aging processes. We found this action to relate to the restriction of 
calories rather than specific nutrients (e.g., protein or fat or minerals). Our 
findings point to the reduction in caloric intake per rat rather than per gram 
lean body mass as the basis of the retardation of aging processes by food 
restriction. The challenge is to learn how caloric intake per rat is coupled to 
the aging processes. We are currently focusing on the possibility that neural 
and endocrine mechanisms are involved. Our preliminary findings point to the 
likelihood of an involvement of the insulin-glucose system.

DOI: 10.3181/00379727-193-42985
PMID: 2294520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1990 Jan;170(1):61-4.

Prognosis of nonpalpable infiltrating carcinoma of the breast.

Ciatto S(1), Cecchini S, Iossa A, Grazzini G, Bravetti P, Rosselli del Turco M, 
Cataliotti L, Cardona G, Bianchi S.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Chirurgica I, University, Firenze, Italy.

A consecutive series of 185 instances of histologically confirmed nonpalpable 
infiltrating carcinoma of the breast is presented. Histologic nodal involvement 
was found in 12 per cent and was dependent on the size of the tumor. 
Conservative surgical treatment was the predominant method used during the study 
period. The ten year over-all survival was studied and compared with that of 
4,217 instances of palpable carcinoma of the breast observed during the same 
period. The ten year survival rates were, by far, better for nonpalpable (94 per 
cent) than for palpable carcinomas (65 per cent). A better prognosis for 
nonpalpable carcinomas was confirmed also by multivariate analysis (Cox) with 
adjustment for potential confounders, such as age, stage or nodal involvement. 
The possible confounding effect of over diagnosis and length or lead time bias 
is discussed. Although this difference in survival might be partially explained 
by the aforementioned confounders, the chance of increasing life expectancy and 
conservative surgical treatment encourages preclinical detection of carcinoma of 
the breast.

PMID: 2294631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1990 Jan 13;134(2):76-80.

[Balloon valvuloplasty of the aortic valve: short-term and medium-term results 
in 50 patients].

[Article in Dutch]

Hoedemaker G(1), van den Brink RB, Verheul JA, Visser CA, Dunning AJ.

Author information:
(1)Academisch Medisch Centrum, afd. Cardiologie, Amsterdam.

Fifty patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis underwent a balloon 
valvuloplasty of the aortic valve with acceptable initial haemodynamic results. 
Follow-up at one month showed clinical improvement in 66% of the patients. 
Long-term follow-up (clinical, Doppler echocardiography and repeat cardiac 
catheterization) was disappointing. The intervention-free rates at one and two 
years were 44% and 26%, respectively. Aortic balloon valvuloplasty should be 
limited to patients with a severe aortic stenosis and short life expectancy 
because of non-cardiac disease and to patients with severely depressed left 
ventricular function as a bridge to valve replacement.

PMID: 2296326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Neurology. 1990 Jan;40(1):8-14. doi: 10.1212/wnl.40.1.8.

Measurement and prediction of functional capacity in Alzheimer's disease.

Stern Y(1), Hesdorffer D, Sano M, Mayeux R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Columbia University College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, New York, NY.

Functional loss in Alzheimer's disease is difficult to measure or predict. The 
Blessed Dementia Rating Scale (Part 1) correlates well with postmortem changes 
but is not an effective antemortem index of functional change since disparate 
behavioral domains are assessed. We performed a factor analysis of the Blessed 
items in 187 patients with clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease and 
identified 4 independent factors: (I) cognitive, (II) personality, (III) apathy, 
and (IV) basic self-care. An endpoint, consisting of a score indicative of 
moderate disability, was determined for each factor. We then used life table 
analyses to compare the probability of reaching these endpoints over time in 
longitudinally followed patients. Patients with extrapyramidal signs at their 
initial visit reached the factor IV endpoint sooner, and those with psychosis or 
no family history of dementia also reached the factor I endpoint faster. These 
data illustrate the utility of a multifactorial approach to the assessment of 
functional capacity in Alzheimer's disease, and also indicate that 
extrapyramidal symptoms and psychosis are powerful predictors of the rate of 
decline in basic self-care activities and cognition.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.40.1.8
PMID: 2296387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Obstet Gynecol. 1990 Jan;75(1):96-101.

Treatment failure in endometrial carcinoma.

Burke TW(1), Heller PB, Woodward JE, Davidson SA, Hoskins WJ, Park RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, F. Edward Hebert School of Medicine, 
Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, Maryland.

Endometrial carcinoma has been regarded as one of the more curable gynecologic 
malignancies. Clinical stage, grade, and depth of myometrial invasion are 
well-established prognostic variables. We examined the clinical course of 520 
patients with endometrial carcinoma treated at Walter Reed Army Medical Center 
and the Naval Hospital, Bethesda, Maryland, between January 1, 1960 and December 
31, 1982. Life table 5-year survivals for stages Ia, Ib, II, III, and IV were 
89, 92, 77, 27, and 0%, respectively. Compared with patients with grade 1 
endometrial adenocarcinomas, significant decreases in survival were noted for 
patients with grade 2 or 3 endometrial, papillary endometrioid, serous 
papillary, and clear-cell tumors. There were six treatment-related deaths 
(1.2%). Thirty-eight patients (7.3%) developed recurrent disease, with a median 
time to recurrence of 15 months and a median survival of 21 months. Two of 11 
patients with pelvic recurrence were salvaged by radiotherapy, whereas none of 
27 patients with distant failure survived. Sixteen advanced-stage patients 
(3.1%) with persistent disease had a median survival of 4.5 months. Patients 
with advanced disease or unfavorable histologic subtypes responded poorly to 
conventional therapy. Current salvage treatments are largely ineffective. 
Combined-modality therapy and systemic adjuvant therapy should be prospectively 
evaluated in high-risk patient subgroups.

PMID: 2296431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Am J Public Health. 1990 Feb;80(2):193-7. doi: 10.2105/ajph.80.2.193.

Soviet health care and perestroika.

Schultz DS(1), Rafferty MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030.

Health and health care in the Soviet Union are drawing special attention during 
these first years of perestroika, Mikhail Gorbachev's reform of Soviet political 
and economic life. This report briefly describes the current state of Soviet 
health and medical care, Gorbachev's plans for reform, and the prospects for 
success. In recent years the Soviet Union has experienced a rising infant 
mortality rate and declining life expectancy. The health care system has been 
increasingly criticized for its uncaring providers, low quality of care, and 
unequal access. The proposed measures will increase by 50 percent the state's 
contribution to health care financing, encourage private medicine on a small 
scale, and begin experimentation with capitation financing. It seems unlikely 
that the government will be able to finance its share of planned health 
improvements, or that private medicine, constrained by the government's tight 
control, will contribute much in the near term. Recovery of the Soviet economy 
in general as well as the ability of health care institutions to gain access to 
Western materials will largely determine the success of reform of the Soviet 
health care system.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.80.2.193
PMCID: PMC1404625
PMID: 2297064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Gastroenterology. 1990 Mar;98(3):708-14. doi: 10.1016/0016-5085(90)90292-9.

Clinical and morphological characteristics of early gastric cancer. A 
case-control study.

Eckardt VF(1), Giessler W, Kanzler G, Remmele W, Bernhard G.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterologisches Institut Wiesbaden, Universität Mainz, Federal Republic 
of Germany.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 1990 Nov;99(5):1540-1.

We investigated whether previously reported differences between the frequency 
and survival of patients with early gastric cancer in Europe and Japan represent 
a selection phenomenon or differences in tumor biology. Within a 10-year period, 
early gastric cancer was diagnosed in 51 outpatients and advanced gastric cancer 
in 190 patients, amounting to a 21.2% incidence of early gastric cancer. 
Patients with early gastric cancer had an age distribution and clinical 
presentation similar to those of patients with benign gastric ulcers (589) but 
markedly different from those in patients with advanced cancer. Histological 
types and tumor locations were comparable in patients with early and advanced 
gastric cancer, indicating a close relationship between the two neoplasms. 
Patients with early gastric cancer had markedly higher 5-yr survival rates 
(83.4%) than those with advanced gastric cancer (14.5%) and did not differ in 
this regard from patients with benign gastric ulcers (82.9%). None of the 51 
patients with early gastric cancer died of disseminated cancer. If survival 
rates were estimated for matched pairs with comparable age, sex, and length of 
follow-up, these data remained essentially unchanged (early gastric cancer: 
83.4%, 95% confidence interval 73.2%-93.4%; gastric ulcer: 87.8%, 95% confidence 
interval 74.7%-94.3%). We conclude that early gastric cancer in European 
patients is comparable to early gastric cancer in Japan with regard to its 
morphology, clinical presentation, and curability. Early investigation of 
patients with significant gastrointestinal symptoms may improve the prognoses of 
patients with gastric cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/0016-5085(90)90292-9
PMID: 2298372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. J Biosoc Sci. 1990 Jan;22(1):33-42. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000018356.

Changes in timing of fertility--a Canadian experience.

Rajulton F(1), Balakrishnan TR, Chen JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Western Ontario, London, Canada.

This paper examines the patterns of timing of births of women using data from 
the Canadian Fertility Survey of 1984. Semi-Markovian schemes are applied to the 
maternity histories of the 5315 sample women in their reproductive ages in order 
to measure the intensity and timing of childbearing. Age-and-duration-specific 
transition probabilities are found to have substantially changed for the more 
recent birth cohorts compared to the older cohorts.

PIP: This paper examines the patterns of timing of births of women using data 
from the Canadian Fertility Survey of 1984. Simi-Markovian schemes are applied 
to the maternity histories of the 5315 sample women in their reproductive ages 
in order to measure the intensity and timing of childbearing. 
Age-and-duration-specific transition probabilities are found to have 
substantially changed for the more recent birth cohorts compared to the older 
cohorts. Clear-cut changes in intensity and timing of childbearing were 
initiated by women who are aged 30-34 at the time of survey, that is, those who 
started childbearing in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Childlessness, either 
due to physiological sterility or due to voluntary decision, is definitely 
increasing, from 8% among women who had completed their reproductive life at the 
time of survey to 15-20% among younger women. 2nd births are highly probable to 
follow 1st births promptly, even among younger cohorts. Large differences among 
cohorts are to be found either in 1st births (whose timing is increasingly 
spread out among younger cohorts) or in 3rd births (which are becoming rare). 
Younger cohorts show a trend to resort to surgical sterilization of tubal 
ligation soon after 2nd birth, with 11% of women sterilized by age 30 and 25% by 
age 35. With respect to the distributions of birth intervals, mean ages at 1st 
births center around 23 or 24 for all cohorts. For higher order births, mean 
intervals converge to 3 years for younger cohorts.. This analysis is based on 
parity states only. It seems that these patterns are the result of profound 
changes taking place in the lifestyles of women in terms of educational 
attainment, labor force participation, religious behavior and place of 
residence, and the correlates of the transition probabilities from 1 parity to 
another also require investigation.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000018356
PMID: 2298759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. J Biosoc Sci. 1990 Jan;22(1):53-61. doi: 10.1017/s002193200001837x.

Marriage and mortality: a life table analysis.

Shaikh K(1).

Author information:
(1)International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Dhaka, Bangladesh.

This paper examines the effects of age at marriage and differential mortality of 
males and females on the incidence of widowhood between the sexes. Abridged life 
tables constructed from marital status and death registration data of a rural 
area of Bangladesh for the period 1974-79 were used. The difference in life 
expectancy between males and females varies from 0.4 to 2.2 years at the ages 0 
to 65 years and over. The mortality differentials show that the probabilities of 
a male or a female surviving the other spouse would be approximately the same, 
were there no other influence. But the incidence of widows is about ten times 
that of widowers. Other relevant factors, under a given regime of mortality, are 
age at marriage and age difference between husband and wife.

DOI: 10.1017/s002193200001837x
PMID: 2298761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. J Vasc Surg. 1990 Feb;11(2):193-205; discussion 205-6. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1990.17235.

Present status of reversed vein bypass grafting: five-year results of a modern 
series.

Taylor LM Jr(1), Edwards JM, Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 
97201-3098.

From January 1980 through December 1988, 564 limbs in 434 patients were treated 
for infrainguinal arterial ischemia. Of these, 516 limbs in 387 patients 
underwent reversed vein bypass grafting. The remainder were treated by primary 
amputation (11 limbs, 1.9%) or by prosthetic bypass (37 limbs, 6.4%). The 
indications for operation were limb salvage in 80% of limbs and claudication in 
20%. Adequate ipsilateral greater saphenous vein was available for 285 (55%) 
grafts, with reversed vein bypass achieved in the other 231 operations by use of 
distal graft origins (151 grafts), use of alternate vein sources (120 grafts), 
and splicing of venous segments (81 grafts). Seventy-six grafts (15%) were to 
the above-knee popliteal artery, 199 grafts (37%) were to the below-knee 
popliteal artery, and 241 grafts (47%) were to infrapopliteal arteries, 26 of 
which (11%) were to inframalleolar arteries. The primary and secondary patencies 
for all grafts at 5 years were 75% and 81%, respectively. Grafts to 
infrapopliteal arteries had significantly worse primary patency (69%) at 5 years 
than did grafts to the popliteal artery (77%, above knee; 80%, below knee) and 
grafts formed of adequate ipsilateral greater saphenous vein had significantly 
better primary patency (80%) than did grafts performed when this conduit was not 
available (68%). Secondary patency of all graft categories ranged from 76% to 
85%, and there were no significant differences regardless of site of distal 
anastomosis, source of venous conduit, or site of graft origins. We prefer the 
use of reversed vein bypass grafting for lower extremity revascularization both 
because of the excellent patency results and because the technique can be 
applied to the larger number of patients in our practice who lack intact 
ipsilateral greater saphenous vein, in contrast to in situ vein bypass 
procedures.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1990.17235
PMID: 2299743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. J Vasc Surg. 1990 Feb;11(2):226-33; discussion 233-4. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1990.17574.

Cardiac risk in patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy: impact on 
perioperative and long-term mortality.

Mackey WC(1), O'Donnell TF Jr, Callow AD.

Author information:
(1)New England Medical Center, Tufts University Department of Surgery, Boston, 
MA.

To identify patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy who are at high risk for 
cardiac events and death, we studied the course of 614 patients with known risk 
factors who were entered into our carotid follow-up registry. Patients were 
divided into two groups, group I with overt coronary disease (prior myocardial 
infarction, angina, significant electrocardiographic abnormalities) (N = 324) 
and group II without overt coronary disease (N = 290). Group II patients were 
subdivided into groups with (IIA) (N = 206) and without (IIB) (N = 84) coronary 
risk factors (cigarettes, diabetes, or hyperlipidemias). Thirty-day, 5-, 10-, 
and 15-year life-table survival for the groups was: I = 98.5%, 68.6%, 44.9%, 
36.4%, respectively; II = 100%, 86.4%, 72.3%, 54.3%, respectively; IIA = 100%, 
84.8%, 66.9%, 41.5%, respectively; IIB = 100%, 90.5%, 87.9%, 87.9%, 
respectively. Overt coronary disease was associated with diminished 30-day (p = 
0.03) and late (p less than 0.0001) survival. Risk factors in the absence of 
overt disease were not associated with diminished 30-day survival. Late survival 
up to 3 years from endarterectomy was similar in groups IIA and IIB, but later 
survival was diminished in group IIA. Myocardial infarction was the most 
frequent cause of death in all groups. Patients with overt coronary disease are 
at high risk for late cardiac events and death. Patients without overt disease 
are at less risk than those with overt disease, and in the absence of overt 
disease, those without are at less risk than those with risk factors.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1990.17574
PMID: 2299745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. J Vasc Surg. 1990 Feb;11(2):289-94; discussion 295-6. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1990.17565.

Observations on the use of thrombolytic agents for thrombotic occlusion of 
infrainguinal vein grafts.

Belkin M(1), Donaldson MC, Whittemore AD, Polak JF, Grassi CJ, Harrington DP, 
Mannick JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Radiology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 
02115.

Vein graft failure remains a major challenge for the vascular surgeon. 
Thrombolysis of occluded vein grafts has shown promising short-term results in 
restoring vein graft patency, however, the long-term results are not 
established. This study examines the long-term patency and limb salvage after 
successful thrombolysis and revision of 22 thrombosed vein grafts in 21 
patients. There were 17 men and four women with an average age of 60 years (38 
to 77 years). Failed vein grafts had an average primary patency of 19 months (1 
to 84 months) and included eight in situ grafts and 14 non-in situ grafts. 
Twelve grafts were to the popliteal level, whereas 10 were infrapopliteal. 
Thrombolytic agents used included urokinase (15), tissue plasminogen activator 
(5), and streptokinase (2). After successful thrombolysis, 19 grafts underwent 
26 additional procedures including percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (9), 
vein patch angioplasty (4), vein interposition or jump extension graft (9), or 
other procedures (4). Three patients had no additional procedure, but one was 
placed on sodium warfarin (Coumadin). After successful initial vein graft 
salvage, life-table analysis revealed a 36.6% +/- 11.9% patency at 1 year and a 
22.9% +/- 11.6% patency at 3 years. After secondary failure six patients had 
further interventions contributing to an improved limb salvage of 66.9% +/- 
11.6% at 1 year and 60.3% +/- 19.0% at 3 years. The results suggest that 
thrombosed vein grafts initially salvaged with thrombolysis and revision do not 
have a favorable long-term patency, and that a premium must be placed on the 
detection of the failing vein graft before thrombosis.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1990.17565
PMID: 2299748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Med Educ. 1990 Jan;24(1):6-10. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2923.1990.tb02429.x.

Relevance and resources in medical education: an African view.

Archampong EQ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Ghana Medical School, Accra.

The worldwide economic crisis enjoins all planners of social services to a 
principle of relevance and efficiency in the deployment of scarce available 
resources. On the continent of Africa this is more crucial for the compelling 
influence of natural disasters and the population explosion. In the field of 
medical education relevance implies commitment of training programmes to the 
health needs of the society and in Africa this means addressing crude birth 
rates of 46 per 1000, death rates of 22 per 1000, maternal mortality of 17 per 
10,000, infant mortality of 112 per 1000 and a life expectancy of just under 50, 
statistics which represent the most dismal health indicators for the five 
continents of the world. The training of the African doctor should therefore 
ensure intimate familiarity with the environmental and sociocultural influences 
on health, placing a premium on capability for management of human, material and 
financial resources and a plan for team-work. It must also inculcate the 
appropriate learning strategy which emphasizes the searching and enquiring mind, 
applying this problem-solving attitude to the life-long practice of medicine. It 
is now accepted by most observers that these objectives are achievable most 
readily through a translation of the principles of primary health care into 
educational strategies. The planning of medical educational policy in Africa is 
thus a formidable task as it is to be done against a background of diminishing 
resources in real terms and the modern explosion of knowledge in science and 
technology. Selectivity which is sensitive to the service to which education is 
to be put is currently the most promising means to achieve relevance and 
efficiency.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2923.1990.tb02429.x
PMID: 2300006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Arthritis Rheum. 1990 Jan;33(1):37-48. doi: 10.1002/art.1780330105.

Prognosis in systemic lupus erythematosus. Negative impact of increasing age at 
onset, black race, and thrombocytopenia, as well as causes of death.

Reveille JD(1), Bartolucci A, Alarcón GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Alabama, 
Birmingham.

To assess the impact of demographic and clinical factors on prognosis in 
patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), we examined survivorship by 
life-table analysis in 389 patients. There were approximately equal numbers of 
Caucasian patients and American black patients in this study group. On both 
univariate and multivariate analyses, we found that both American black race and 
increasing age at SLE onset independently worsened the probability of survival. 
Of all the clinical factors we analyzed, thrombocytopenia emerged as the only 
independent risk factor for a worse prognosis in SLE. In all clinical and 
demographic groups considered, the leading cause of death was infection.

DOI: 10.1002/art.1780330105
PMID: 2302266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Clin Geriatr Med. 1990 Feb;6(1):1-12.

Demographic changes and their financial implications.

Anand KB(1), Wolf-Klein GP, Silverstone FA, Foley CJ.

Author information:
(1)Parker Jewish Geriatric Institute, New Hyde Park, New York.

The impressive rise in the number of elderly persons (65 years and over) will 
continue in the next two to three decades. Urinary incontinence is a common 
problem in the elderly, adversely affecting medical, social, and "quality of 
life" aspects. The cost of urinary incontinence is substantial and is expected 
to escalate enormously (e.g., by 160% from 1980 to 2040). An aggressive approach 
toward the diagnosis and management of urinary incontinence can result in an 
impressive reduction in health care costs and improvement in the quality of 
life.

PMID: 2302647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Kyobu Geka. 1990 Jan;43(1):2-9; discussion 10-2.

[Long-term follow-up study of the surgical treatment of pulmonary 
adenocarcinoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Kimura M(1), Tani K, Takeuchi Y, Yada I, Namikawa S, Yuasa H, Kusagawa M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Mie University School of Medicine.

The surgical treatment of pulmonary adenocarcinoma was studied on the basis of 
the postoperative long-term results in 211 cases. The overall five-year survival 
rate was 42% for adenocarcinoma and 48% for squamous cell carcinoma, and there 
was no significant difference. In stage I, as the degree of differentiation 
became lower, the prognosis became poorer. In stage III, the five-year survival 
rate was 50% for the alveolar cell type and 32% for the well differentiated 
type. The prognosis was better than in the moderately or poorly differentiated 
types. The prognosis of T1N0 cases was 79% in T1, but it was significantly lower 
39% for T2 cases. Among T3 or T4 cases other than N2, the two-year survival rate 
was 15%, and the longest survival recorded was 32 months. The results were also 
poor in 9 cases undergoing extensive surgery, with the two-year survival rate 
being only 10%. Of the N2 cases undergoing extensive surgery all died within a 
year, except for one case surviving two years following panpleuro-pneumonectomy. 
In N2, the prognosis was significantly worse if there were two or more foci of 
mediastinal lymph node metastasis or if subcarinal lymph node metastasis was 
present. In the long surviving cases, cancer-bearing survivors were about twice 
as common as with squamous cell carcinoma. Recurrence was usually by distant 
metastasis (mainly to the brain), being twice as common as local recurrence. 
Therefore, in adenocarcinoma the significance of postoperative adjuvant therapy 
was considered to be greater than in squamous cell carcinoma.

PMID: 2304294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol. 1990 Feb;69(2):185-90. doi: 
10.1016/0030-4220(90)90326-n.

Bimaxillary hyperplasia: the facial expression of homozygous beta-thalassemia.

Hes J(1), van der Waal I, de Man K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Academic Hospital, 
Rotterdam-Dijkzigt, The Netherlands.

A boy born in Curaçoa, who was 6 years old at his initial visit and known to 
have homozygous beta-thalassemia, is described. Emphasis is directed to the 
typical facial expression. The possibility of surgical treatment of the 
maxillary hypertrophy is discussed. However, in view of the limited life 
expectancy of these patients, correction should not be performed before 
adolescence.

DOI: 10.1016/0030-4220(90)90326-n
PMID: 2304746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Radiology. 1990 Mar;174(3 Pt 1):638-47. doi:
10.1148/radiology.174.3.2305043.

Estimation of radiation risk from screening mammography: recent trends and 
comparison with expected benefits.

Feig SA(1), Ehrlich SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Jefferson Medical College and Thomas Jefferson 
University Hospital, Philadelphia, PA 19107.

On the basis of recent epidemiologic studies, the National Institutes of Health 
in 1985 provided a new estimate for radiation risk to the breast that employed a 
relative risk model and acknowledged greater dependence on age at exposure. 
Lifetime risks from a single mammogram may be calculated from this estimate and 
are lower than those based on the previous 1977 National Cancer Institute 
estimate. Possible years of life expectancy lost from annual mammography 
beginning at age 40 years may also be calculated and are negligible compared 
with estimates for years of life expectancy gained from such screening.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.174.3.2305043
PMID: 2305043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Scand J Gastroenterol. 1990 Jan;25(1):11-8. doi: 10.3109/00365529008999204.

Survival after liver transplantation of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis 
in the Nordic countries. Comparison with expected survival in another series of 
transplantations and in an international trial of medical treatment.

Keiding S(1), Ericzon BG, Eriksson S, Flatmark A, Höckerstedt K, Isoniemi H, 
Karlberg I, Keiding N, Olsson R, Samela K, et al.

Author information:
(1)Medical Dept. A, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Until December 1988, 38 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) had been 
transplanted in the Nordic countries. The observed survival probability in 
accordance with Kaplan-Meier analysis was around 75% 2-3 months after surgery, 
with few deaths during the next 3 years. The observed survival curve was 
compared with the expected survival calculated from the experience of a recent 
English PBC transplant series; the patterns are very similar. Secondly, the 
observed survival was compared with the expected survival curve, calculated from 
the survival experience of an international trial of medical treatment--that is, 
the expected survival had the patients not been transplanted; after the first 
2-3 months the observed survival stayed better than the expected survival. 
Finally, the merits of transplantation for each particular patient was evaluated 
by means of the ratio of probability of survival when transplanted to 
probability of survival when medically treated 3, 6, and 8 months after surgery. 
The ratio increased with time, indicating a relative increase in the benefit of 
transplantation with time after surgery.

DOI: 10.3109/00365529008999204
PMID: 2305203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Scand J Gastroenterol. 1990 Feb;25(2):119-26. doi:
10.3109/00365529009107932.

Factors of prognostic importance in primary biliary cirrhosis.

Rydning A(1), Schrumpf E, Abdelnoor M, Elgjo K, Jenssen E.

Author information:
(1)Medical Dept. A, National Hospital, Oslo, Norway.

To determine survival and the risk factors of death in primary biliary 
cirrhosis, data from 52 symptomatic and 13 asymptomatic patients were analyzed. 
The mean follow-up time was 6.3 years (range, 0.4-23 years). The average length 
of survival was 18 years for the symptomatic and 8.4 years for the asymptomatic 
patients. By a univariate analysis, ascites, presence of esophageal varices, 
gastrointestinal bleeding, jaundice, hepatomegaly and the logarithms of albumin 
and bilirubin were all associated with a poor prognosis. A multivariate analysis 
of the clinical features showed that the presence of bleeding from esophageal 
varices and the logarithm of bilirubin were the only predictors for poor 
prognosis. The survival of the symptomatic patients is longer than reported 
previously, while the life expectancy for the asymptomatic patients seems no 
better than for the symptomatic group.

DOI: 10.3109/00365529009107932
PMID: 2305209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Urol Clin North Am. 1990 Feb;17(1):103-5.

Endoscopic ureteral occlusion for urinary diversion in patients with lower 
urinary tract fistulas.

Reddy PK(1), Sidi AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urologic Surgery, University of Minnesota Medical School, 
Minneapolis.

Endoscopic ureteral occlusion and nephrostomy drainage is a simple, nonsurgical 
procedure that can control urine leakage from an intractable lower urinary tract 
fistula and improve the quality of life for a patient with a short life 
expectancy.

PMID: 2305502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. J Math Biol. 1990;28(1):33-48. doi: 10.1007/BF00171517.

A deterministic approach to survival statistics.

Mackey MC(1), Milton JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.

Survival functions of the form p(t) = exp[-(lambda t) gamma], gamma greater than 
0 can be generated by deterministic nonlinear, asymptotically stable (chaotic) 
dynamical systems. These systems thus provide an alternative to stochastic 
interpretations of failure time data. We use this approach to analyze cancer 
patient survival statistics. In this manner we are able to obtain fresh insights 
into the implications of negative and positive clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00171517
PMID: 2307911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Nature. 1990 Mar 8;344(6262):91. doi: 10.1038/344091a0.

Pollution as Czech public enemy number one.

Dickman S.

DOI: 10.1038/344091a0
PMID: 2308637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Cancer. 1990 Apr 1;65(7):1517-20. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19900401)65:7<1517::aid-cncr2820650711>3.0.co;2-k.

Survival rates in patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma. Influence of 
postoperative external radiotherapy.

Benker G(1), Olbricht T, Reinwein D, Reiners C, Sauerwein W, Krause U, Mlynek 
ML, Hirche H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Endocrinology, University of Essen, Germany.

Nine hundred thirty-two patients with papillary and follicular thyroid 
carcinomas were seen at the Departments of Medicine, Surgery, and Radiology of 
the University of Essen, Essen, Germany, between 1970 and 1986. In addition to 
standard treatment by surgery, radioactive iodine and medical thyroid 
stimulating hormone (TSH) suppression, 346 patients had received conventional 
external irradiation to the neck (mostly 40-60 Gy) before referral to our 
institutions, whereas 586 patients had not received radiotherapy. From the 
follow-up data of these patients, survival rates were calculated separately for 
tumor Stages T1 (n = 203), T2 (n = 552), and T3/T4 (n = 277) using life-table 
analysis. Distribution of risk factors (histologic type of tumor, grading of 
malignancy, presence of distant metastases, age and sex) was similar in all 
groups with the one exception, that the radiotherapy patients with Stage T3/T4 
were older. There was no significant difference in the life expectancy of 
irradiated and not irradiated patients by Breslow and Mantel-Cox tests. In 
Stages T1, T2, and T3/T4, 75% of the radiotherapy patients survived for 10.6 +/- 
0.32, 11.5 +/- 0.61, and 6.71 +/- 0.85 years, respectively; the figures for the 
