nonirradiated patients were 9.4 +/- 0.17, 10.8 +/- 0.37, and 6.26 +/- 0.51 
years, respectively. When survival rates were calculated separately for patients 
with Stage T3/T4 older and younger than 40 years, there was no obvious effect of 
radiotherapy in the younger group, whereas in the older patients, improvement of 
survival by radiation just failed to reach statistical significance (P less than 
0.09). In conclusion, this retrospective analysis failed to prove that survival 
is prolonged in patients with differentiated carcinoma by administration of 
conventional external radiotherapy after surgery. A benefit to older patients 
with locally advanced tumors has still to be demonstrated.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19900401)65:7<1517::aid-cncr2820650711>3.0.co;2-k
PMID: 2311063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. J Cell Physiol. 1990 Mar;142(3):505-13. doi: 10.1002/jcp.1041420309.

Tumor promoters retard the loss of a transient subpopulation of cells in low 
passage Syrian hamster cell cultures.

Ueo H(1), Nakano S, Ts'o PO, Bruce SA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biophysics, School of Hygiene and Public Health, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, MD 21205.

Early passage normal diploid Syrian hamster (SH) fetal cell cultures contain a 
transient subpopulation of contact-insensitive (CS-) cells which lack 
density-dependent inhibition of cell division. The size of this CS- 
subpopulation decreases during in vitro passage by conversion of the CS- cells 
to contact-sensitive (CS+) cells. Approximately 10-15 population doublings after 
the frequency of the CS- cells has declined to below 0.001%, mass cultures cease 
proliferating and exhibit cellular senescence. Cultures with higher initial 
numbers of CS- cells exhibit longer in vitro proliferative life spans than 
cultures with smaller initial numbers of CS- cells. Active tumor promoting 
phorbol esters (12-O-tetra-decanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate [TPA] and 
phorbol-12,13-didecanoate [PDD]) retard the decline in the proportion of CS- 
cells during in vitro passage, while the inactive tumor promoting phorbol ester, 
4 alpha-phorbol-12,13-didecanoate (4 alpha PDD) has no effect on the rate of 
loss of the CS- cells. In addition, continuous treatment from secondary culture 
with TPA or PDD extends by approximately twofold the in vitro proliferative life 
span of SH fetal cell cultures. Treatment must, however, begin at passage 1 or 2 
when the CS- cells are still present. After the proportion of the CS- cells has 
decreased to less than 0.001% as in passage 6 cultures, promoters have no effect 
on the life span of the culture. This finding that exposure to promoters results 
in both a prolonged maintenance of the CS- cellular subpopulation, as well as an 
extension of in vitro proliferative life span, suggests that the conversion of 
CS- cells to CS+ cells is involved in the mechanism of in vitro senescence.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.1041420309
PMID: 2312613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. J Chir (Paris). 1990 Jan;127(1):13-6.

[Emergency vascular access in patients with renal failure. Apropos of 32 
implantations of permcath].

[Article in French]

Chatelard P(1), Trolliet P, Gilly F, Devolfe C, Caillot JL, Chazot C, François 
B, Bouchet A.

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie générale et vasculaire, centre hospitalier Lyon Sud, 
Pierre Bénite.

Central venous catheters allow for the most rapid hemodialysis procedure with 
sparing of peripheral blood vessels. 32 flexible, double-lumen "permcath" 
catheters were implanted to 27 patients over a period spanning 42 months 
(February 86-August 89). Catheter placement was definitive in 2 cases while 
another 30 provided previsory intravenous access for plasmapheresis (25 cases), 
acute renal insufficiency (7 cases), and chronic renal failure (17 cases). The 
mean utilization time per patient was 10.7 +/- 8.01 (SE) weeks. As respects 
chronic renal failure, this provided a time-opportunity for prospective 
maturation of conventional venous routes of access or transplantation. Permcath 
thrombosis occurred in 6 instances (18.75%), 5 times unremittingly (15.4%). 
Infection occurred in 6 patients (18.75%), leading to ablation of the permcath 
only once. Thus, permcath ensures safe, effective access for hemodialysis and 
enables maturation of a conventional venous cutdown. It may be used directly as 
a permanent vascular approach in case of limited life expectancy or of an 
extremely precarious vascular bed.

PMID: 2312626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1990 Feb;42(2):149-54.

[A continuous-step density percoll gradient for use in AIH and life table 
analysis of pregnancy rates].

[Article in Japanese]

Sato H(1), Kimura H, Saito S, Higuchi Y, Endo Y, Ohyama T, Yamaguchi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Tachikawa Kyosai Hospital, Tokyo.

For use in artificial insemination with husband's semen (AIH), a continuous-step 
Percoll density gradient technique was used to wash and concentrate sperm from 
ejaculate. To evaluate usefulness, the pregnancy rates were analyzed by the life 
table method. 1. After washing by the continuous-step Percoll density gradient 
method, sperm density increased from 28.8 X 10(6)/ml (original semen) to 40.9 X 
10(6)/ml and sperm motility improved from 52.4% (original semen) to 77.0% 
respectively. 2. A group of 119 infertile patients whose diagnosis involved 
oligoasthenozoospermia, cervical factor and unexplained infertility were 
selected for AIH. After 640 insemination cycles, 37 women conceived with a 
pregnancy rate of 31.1%. By using life table analysis, the cumulative conception 
probability rate reached 0.652 after 13 insemination cycles. 3. Cumulative 
pregnancy rates by diagnostic category were 0.494 in male factor and 0.745 in 
cervical factor after 12 cycles, respectively. 4. The poorest results were 
obtained in unexplained infertility with a cumulative pregnancy rate of only 
0.355 after 12 cycles. 5. In the follow up study, 24 viable babies were born and 
seven (18.9%) resulted in spontaneous abortion in the first trimester. These 
results indicate that the continuous-step Percoll density gradient technique is 
useful for improving the pregnancy rate in AIH.

PMID: 2313143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Soc Work. 1990 Jan;35(1):29-35.

Cuba's health care policy: prevention and active community participation.

Iatridis DS(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Social Work, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA 02167.

In Cuba, health care is considered a human right for all citizens; health care 
is therefore a national priority. Cuba's health policy emphasizes prevention, 
primary care, services in the community, and the active participation of 
citizens. These emphases have produced an impressively high ranking on major 
health indicators, despite economic handicaps. The Cuban experience demonstrates 
the influence of ideological commitment and policy-making on the provision of 
health care and challenges the assumption that high-quality care for all 
citizens requires massive financial investment. The evolution of the Cuban 
health care system since the revolution thus has implications for the U.S. 
health care system; specifically, it suggests that the equitable distribution of 
health care services in the United States requires a national health insurance 
and service delivery system.

PIP: The new Cuban government in 1959 began overhauling the for-profit health 
system which, 30 years later, resulted in free health services for all its 
citizens which is integrated with national social and economic development. Life 
expectancy in Cuba is higher than that of the US (72.5 vs. 71.9). Health workers 
have eliminated polio, tuberculosis, typhoid fever, and diphtheria. Malnutrition 
incidence amount 1-15 years olds is 0.7% compared with 5% in the US. The Cuban 
health system began in the 1960s as a curative system based in hospitals but 
shifted during the 1970s and 1980s to a primary health care system based in 
communities. It consists of 6 hierarchical, interlocking levels: national health 
institutes and hospital centers (quaternary care-super specialty), provincial 
hospitals (tertiary care-high specialty), municipal hospitals (secondary 
care-specialty), area health centers (primary or community care) serving 
25,000-30,000 people, sector polyclinics serving 4000-5000 people, and 
minipolyclinics served by a family physician team (family physician, nurse, and 
social worker) covering 600-700 people. The family physician team strategy has 
strengthened disease surveillance and completed information about health status 
and characteristics of neighborhoods. Neighborhood residents determine their own 
health care and protection. In fact, volunteer brigades build minipolyclinics 
and housing for family physicians and nurses. Critics of the Cuban health care 
system claim that the physician-to-population ratio is too high and that it 
makes up too much of the gross national product (almost 15%). Yet even though 
the US health system is the largest industry in the US and it has achieved 
impressive technological advances, the health of millions of US citizens 
deteriorates. The US needs a system that provides just, equitable, and quality 
health care to all. Thus US social workers should actively work toward national 
health insurance and on service delivery models.

PMID: 2315760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Todays OR Nurse. 1990 Mar;12(3):28-32.

Designing a state-of-the-art operating room complex.

Rea CM, Walker GJ.

1. When designing a new operating room complex, it is important to remember 
that, with a life expectancy of 15 years or more, you must take into account not 
only your current needs, but also anticipate those of the future. 2. The OR 
facility needs to be designed both for patients and providers: provide private, 
comfortable surroundings for your patients that are efficient and conducive to 
developing an enjoyable work environment for your staff. 3. Be sure to solicit 
input from various department managers as well as physicians during the initial 
design phases so that all needs may be met. In addition, ensure that state 
guidelines are satisfied.

PMID: 2315986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Versicherungsmedizin. 1990 Feb 1;42(1):6-9.

[The 1985/87 mortality table].

[Article in German]

Proebsting H.

The life-table is a mathematical model. On the base of probabilities of death 
the life-table gives statements about the expectation of life for each age. It 
also shows how many persons will--on an average--reach a certain age. Since 
1871/81 the life expectancy for newborn children has doubled. 1871/81 only 74.7% 
of all male new-born children finished the first year, to-day this share is more 
than 99%. During this time the number of male persons that reached an age of 80 
years increased from 5% to 37%.

PMID: 2316104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. AIDS. 1990 Jan;4(1):47-56. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199001000-00007.

Reducing the spread of HIV infection in sub-Saharan Africa: some demographic and 
economic implications.

Rowley JT(1), Anderson RM, Ng TW.

Author information:
(1)Parasite Epidemiology Research Group, Imperial College, London University, 
UK.

Any reduction in the rate of spread of HIV infection has consequences for the 
incidence and demographic effects of AIDS. In this paper, output from a 
published mathematical model of the dynamics of HIV transmission through 
heterosexual contact is used to study the implications of reducing HIV 
transmission on demographic patterns and national health budgets in sub-Saharan 
Africa. The major conclusion is that both the timing and the effectiveness of 
reducing HIV transmission are non-linearly related to their potential 
demographic and economic effects. The analysis emphasizes the benefits to be 
gained from a concerted effort to reduce the spread of HIV infection as early as 
possible in the time course of the epidemic.

PIP: A previously published mathematical model of the transmission of dynamics 
of HIV is used to simulate the demographic and economic consequences of 
introducing various degrees of control measures to reduce heterosexual 
transmission of HIV in sub-Sahara Africa. The model is fully age-structured and 
its output is projection over time (100 years) of total population size, broken 
down by age and sex, and numbers with HIV or AIDS. The doubling time of the 
epidemic is set at 1.5 years; the mean incubation period for AIDS 8 years for 
adults and 2 years for children; life expectancy of infected persons is set at 1 
year; probability of heterosexual transmission 10% per partner contact; that of 
vertical transmission 50%. The factor beta c, or average rate at which an 
infected person infects others, varies with level of control introduced. For a 
population of 16.6 million multiplying at 3.8% per year, with AIDS and no 
controls, growth rates will begin to decline at year 30, to reach 8.6 million by 
year 100. Without AIDS, it would have reached 740 million. With AIDS, the 
structure of the population would change to a higher proportion under 15 and 
over 25, but lower proportion between 15-25 years. Economically, assuming a GNP 
of $300 per capita, and an expenditure of $100 per AIDS patient, by year 50 2.4% 
of the GNP would be spent treating AIDS victims. Figures are also estimated for 
a fixed or falling GNP, such that funds to spend on AIDS treatment per person 
would fall over time. If control measures were taken, savings in treatment costs 
would be substantial, as much as $2.4 billion if transmission were reduced 75% 
over 25 years. If was noted that sub- Sahara African countries simply do not 
have funds to pay for Western style treatment of AIDS patients. The cost of the 
drug zidovudine (AZT) for 1 person is more than that of 1 community health 
center for a year. Already half the hospital beds are taken up by AIDS patient 
in some urban areas.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199001000-00007
PMID: 2317308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. J Am Diet Assoc. 1990 Apr;90(4):568-71.

Federal nutrition services for American Indian and Alaska native elders.

Jackson MY(1), Godfrey F.

Author information:
(1)Administration on Aging, Washington, DC 20201.

American Indian and Alaska native elders have a poverty rate of 61% and a life 
expectancy between 3 and 4 years less than that of the general older U.S. 
population. In 1978, Congress enacted a separate title under the Older Americans 
Act to address some of the special needs of American Indian elders. Since 
enactment of specific provisions for American Indians, Congress has continued to 
amend the Older Americans Act to ensure that the nutritional needs of American 
Indian elders are addressed. Currently, federal nutrition services are provided 
to American Indian and Alaska native elders through both Title III, Grants for 
State and Community Programs on Aging, Part C, Nutrition Services, and Title VI, 
Grants for Native Americans, of the Older Americans Act. In fiscal year 1987, 
more than 52,000 American Indian and Alaska elders received meals from 
congregate nutrition sites and/or home-delivered meals.

PMID: 2319079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. J Pediatr. 1990 Apr;116(4):567-73. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(05)81604-x.

Aortocoronary bypass surgery for coronary arterial lesions resulting from 
Kawasaki disease.

Suzuki A(1), Kamiya T, Ono Y, Okuno M, Yagihara T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, National Cardiovascular Center, Osaka, Japan.

Comment in
    J Pediatr. 1990 Dec;117(6):1004-6.

To establish the indications for aortocoronary bypass surgery on coronary artery 
lesions caused by Kawasaki disease, we analyzed surgical outcome in 26 patients. 
Ages at operation ranged from 1 to 17 years. All patients were followed up with 
selective coronary arteriography, thallium myocardial imaging, 
electrocardiography at rest, and the Master "two-step" and treadmill exercise 
tests for coronary insufficiency. Surgical outcome was analyzed by comparing 
results of patient examinations made preoperatively with those both at 1 month 
and 1 year postoperatively. One month after the operation, 25 (93%) of 27 
internal mammary artery grafts and 6 (86%) of 7 saphenous vein grafts were 
patent; 1 year after the operation, 19 (86%) of 22 internal mammary artery 
grafts and 6 (67%) of 9 saphenous vein grafts were patent. By comparing the 
preoperative findings of myocardial imaging with those obtained 1 month after 
surgery, we found that 17 (68%) of 25 showed improvement and 3 (12%) of 25 were 
worse. At 1 year, 6 (29%) of 21 showed further improvement than at 1 month, 
suggesting increased development of the coronary bed after internal mammary 
artery graft anastomosis. Thus an internal mammary artery graft has proved to be 
satisfactory in the management of children with coronary artery obstruction 
caused by Kawasaki disease; it appears that both the quality of life and the 
life expectancy of those patients can be improved by the surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(05)81604-x
PMID: 2319403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1990 Mar 24;134(12):602-9.

[Renal artery reconstruction for renovascular hypertension].

[Article in Dutch]

van Bockel JH(1), van Schilfgaarde R, van Brummelen P, Overbosch EH, Hermans J, 
Terpstra JL.

Author information:
(1)Afd. Heelkunde, Vaat- en Transplantatiechirurgie, Academische Ziekenhuis, 
Leiden.

Between 1959 and 1983, 172 patients were treated for hypertension by 
reconstruction of a renal artery. Reconstruction was preferably performed with 
autologous material. In a selected group of 29 patients with lesions in the 
distal renal artery or the hilar branches, an extracorporeal reconstruction with 
autotransplantation was performed. After a mean follow-up of 8.4 years the 
hypertension was cured or improved in 82% of the patients. In patients with an 
arteriosclerotic renal artery stenosis this result was favourably influenced by 
a short duration of hypertension before the operation. Their life expectancy 
after the operation was clearly favourably influenced by a beneficial blood 
pressure response even if arteriosclerotic lesions of coronary arteries, 
extracranial vessels and/or peripheral vessels were present before the 
renovascular operation. In selected patients, renal artery reconstruction for 
treatment of hypertension yields excellent short-term and long-term results, not 
only with regard to the blood pressure response but also with respect to the 
patients' life expectancy.

PMID: 2320162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Z Versuchstierkd. 1990;33(1):9-17.

The effect of food restriction by time-scheduled feeding on the development of 
body-weight, lifespan and incidence of spontaneous tumours and diseases in male 
Han:SPRD rats.

Deerberg F(1), Rapp KG, Kaspareit-Rittinghausen J, Lörcher K.

Author information:
(1)Central Institute for Laboratory Animal Breeding, Hannover, F.R.G.

Food consumption, development of body weight, lifespan and incidence of 
spontaneous diseases and tumours were investigated in 3 groups of 96 male 
Han:SPRD rats each maintained in a longevity study from weaning up to their 
natural death. All rats were fed a commercial cereal-based diet. One group 
received food ad libitum and was used as control group. Access to the diet was 
controlled in the other two groups by means of an automatic timer. The rats of 
one of the latter groups were fed nocturnally (4 x 42 min daily during the dark 
period) and those of the other adiurnally (4 x 42 min daily, each two times 
during dark and light period). Time-scheduled feeding caused an evident food 
restriction compared with the food consumption of the rats fed ad libitum. This 
food restriction, however, was significantly more pronounced in the younger 
animals during the first weeks after weaning than in the older rats. The body 
weight development corresponded to the feed intake. In animals subjected to food 
restriction the weight remained below that of rats fed ad libitum during all age 
periods. Furthermore, time-scheduled feeding caused an important increase of the 
mean life expectancy and a reduction in the incidences of chronic nephropathy 
and purulent and chronic forms of prostatitis. Only a slight effect of 
controlled feeding was observed on the incidence of alveolar lipoproteinosis. 
Time-scheduled feeding did not cause a reduction in the incidence of tumours, 
but it delayed their occurrence. The risk to develop various types of tumours 
during the third year of life was significantly higher in the ad libitum group 
than in the rats fed by a controlled regime. The automaton Han:CHRONOFEEDER, 
used in this study, has proved to be an appropriate, relatively inexpensive and 
easily installable feeding system for automatic control of food accessibility. 
It is suitable to implement controlled feeding and food restriction of rodents 
in longterm experiments.

PMID: 2321437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Clin Otolaryngol Allied Sci. 1990 Feb;15(1):35-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2273.1990.tb00429.x.

Emergency laryngectomy.

Wickham MH(1), Narula AA, Barton RP, Bradley PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Leicester Royal Infirmary, UK.

Emergency laryngectomy is a laryngectomy carried out for malignant obstruction 
of the upper airway within 24 h of admission. This combines relief of the 
obstruction with definitive primary cancer surgery, and is thought to reduce the 
risk of post-laryngectomy stomal recurrence. During a 5-year period, 13 patients 
with upper airway obstruction from squamous cell carcinoma were treated in two 
departments by emergency laryngectomy. Total laryngectomy was carried out after 
the diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx (n = 11), or piriform 
fossa (n = 2), had been confirmed by laryngoscopy and frozen section biopsy. The 
actuarial 5-year survival was 47%, and no patient in this series developed 
stomal recurrence. The management of the airway obstruction, and the 
post-laryngectomy complications, did not differ from those encountered with more 
conventional treatment. Our experience with this approach suggests that 
emergency laryngectomy is a satisfactory method of managing airway obstruction 
due to squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2273.1990.tb00429.x
PMID: 2323077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Clin Otolaryngol Allied Sci. 1990 Feb;15(1):69-81. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2273.1990.tb00436.x.

Prognosis in laryngeal carcinoma: tumour factors.

Stell PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, University of Liverpool, UK.

A personal series of 765 previously untreated patients with laryngeal carcinoma 
seen between 1962 and 1988 was analysed for the importance of prognostic 
factors. There were numerous significant correlations between tumour prognostic 
factors, particularly with neck node status. Palpable cervical nodes increased 
in frequency with increasing T status, and palpable lymph nodes were commoner in 
less well differentiated tumours, and in supra and sub-glottic tumours. These 
correlations were very highly significant. Increasing T stage was associated 
with increasing N stage. T stage was also associated with site, glottic tumours 
being far more likely to be T1 than supra or sub-glottic tumours. T stage was 
not related to histological grade. Histological grade correlated with site, 
glottic tumours being well differentiated much more often. When survival was 
analysed by univariate methods there were highly significant differences with 
increasing T stage and N stage, between the various histological grades and the 
various sites. However, when survival was analysed by multifactorial methods 
taking interactions into account, only N status was a significant prognostic 
factor. When patients with palpable nodes submitted to surgery were analysed, it 
transpired that clinical staging and node level were relatively unimportant 
compared with pathological findings: both the number of nodes invaded and the 
presence of tumour outside lymph nodes (extracapsular rupture) were highly 
significant.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2273.1990.tb00436.x
PMID: 2323084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1990 May;(254):199-204.

Acetabular protrusion in thalassemia. A report of four cases.

Korovessis PG(1), Milis ZT, Spastris PM, Urania P, Spyropoulos P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, General Hospital Agios Andreas, Patras, Greece.

Four female patients with thalassemia intermedia developed secondary acetabular 
protrusion. These cases could be the first reported cases of nontraumatic 
acetabular protrusion in patients with thalassemia. The rarified pelvic bone may 
be due to medullary hyperplasia, iron overload, or disordered calcium metabolism 
in conjunction with osteomalacia. The fact that currently patients with 
beta-thalassemia have a longer life expectancy may explain the recent 
observation of this entity, which should become more familiar to orthopedic 
surgeons who treat thalassemia patients in the future.

PMID: 2323131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:153-6. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_29.

Chromosomal aberrations in childhood acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia.

Ritterbach J(1), Harbott J, Ritter J, Lampert F.

Author information:
(1)Children's University Hospital, Oncocytogenetic Laboratory, Giessen, FRG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_29
PMID: 2323628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:174-81. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_34.

Prognosis and DNA aneuploidy in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Tsurusawa M(1), Katano N, Fujimoto T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Aichi Medical University, Japan.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_34
PMID: 2323631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:226-32. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_41.

Prognostic significance of eosinophilia in acute myelomonocytic leukemia in 
relation to induction treatment.

Creutzig U(1), Niederbiermann G, Ritter J, Harbott J, Löffler H, Schellong G.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Pediatrics, University of Münster, FRG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_41
PMID: 2323632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:299-303. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_54.

Double intensive consolidation chemotherapy (ICC) for acute myeloid leukemia.

Harousseau JL(1), Milpied N, Briere J, Desablens B, Le Prise PY, Ifrah N, 
Gandhour C, Casassus P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Hotel-Dieu, Nantes, France.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_54
PMID: 2323633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:309-13. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_56.

Acute nonlymphocytic leukemia in adults: results obtained with TAD remission 
induction therapy.

Witteveen EO(1), Verdonck LF, Nieuwenhuis HK, Dekker AW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, University Hospital, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_56
PMID: 2323635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:374-81. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_71.

Risk of leukemic transformation in two types of acquired idiopathic 
sideroblastic anemia.

Gattermann N(1), Aul C, Schneider W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, University of Düsseldorf, FRG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_71
PMID: 2323645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:387-91. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_73.

Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia: clinical data, morphological features, and 
outcome in 56 patients.

Heyll A(1), Derigs G.

Author information:
(1)Dept. Hematology, Universität Düsseldorf, FRG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_73
PMID: 2323647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:558-9. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_100.

Effect of antifungal therapy on hematological recovery after intensive 
antileukemic chemotherapy.

Essink ME(1), Hiddemann W, von Eiff M, Büchner T, van de Loo J.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Internal Medicine, Hematology/Oncology, University of Münster, FRG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_100
PMID: 2323655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:649-51. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_117.

Allogeneic and autologous bone marrow transplantation in acute leukemia: the 
Essen Experience.

Schaefer UW(1), Beelen DW, Graeven U, Kölbel M, Sayer H, Quabeck K, Becher R, 
Kremens B, Stollmann B, Grosse-Wilde H, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bone Marrow Transplantation, University Hospital Essen, FRG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_117
PMID: 2323665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1990;33:692-8. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_126.

Comparison of allogeneic and autologous bone marrow transplantation for 
treatment of acute lymphocytic leukemia in childhood.

Zintl F(1), Hermann J, Fuchs D, Prager J, Reiners B, Müller A, Kob D, Goetz I, 
Metzner G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Jena, GDR.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74643-7_126
PMID: 2323668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1990 Jan-Feb;31(1):71-6.

Abdominal aortic aneurysmectomy in octogenarian patients.

Glock Y(1), Smile E, Dalous P, Roux D, Fournial G, Cerene A, Puel P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardio-Vascular Surgery, University Hospital Rangueil, 
Toulouse, France.

The authors report 56 patients. 80 years of age or older who had an abdominal 
aortic aneurysm (AAA): twenty seven were operated upon as emergencies, 7 with 
intra-peritoneal (Group I) and 20 with retro-peritoneal rupture (Group II). 
Twenty nine underwent elective surgery (Group III). Renal pulmonary and cardiac 
disease are frequent in octogenarian patients. The surgical repair consisted of 
40 knitted bifurcated grafts and 16 aorto-aortic woven grafts. The overall 
in-hospital mortality rate is high (28.5%: 16 patients) essentially in 
"emergency" surgery: 71% for the seven Group I patients and 45% for the twenty 
Group II patients. The in-hospital mortality rate of 6.9% for the Group III of 
"elective" procedure is higher than the mortality rate of patients of all ages 
operated on for asymptomatic AAA in our institution which is 4.3%. Once a 
patient has been operated on successfully his life expectancy tends to parallel 
that of a normal population for his age group. These results can be improved 
with preventive measures such as elective surgery for asymptomatic AAA with a 
diameter of 6 cm or more. Operative contraindications are severe congestive 
heart failure, advanced pulmonary disease or neoplastic disease. The age "per 
se" is not a contraindication to aneurysmectomy. Physiologic rather than 
chronologic age should determine the selection for AAA in the over-80 age group. 
CT scans and MR are safe fast and non-invasive preoperative examinations for 
AAA.

PMID: 2324187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Am J Psychother. 1990 Jan;44(1):75-84. doi: 
10.1176/appi.psychotherapy.1990.44.1.75.

Transformations in self-understanding in surgeons whose treatment efforts were 
not successful.

Gerber LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Seattle University, WA.

This study, dealing with cardiac and cancer surgeons' reactions to treatment 
failure (i.e., situations where surgeons despite their best efforts were unable 
to successfully treat their patients) found changes in the surgeons that bore 
striking resemblance to certain changes in people undergoing psychotherapy. 
Twenty surgeons participated. Each reported on two of his patients, all of whom 
had undergone surgery that failed to stem the progress of their disease. The 
life expectancy of these patients was approximately one year. Each surgeon saw 
one of his patients only until completion of the customary postoperative care 
and then referred him/her back to the original physician. The other patient was 
seen by the surgeon on a once-monthly basis even after postoperative care had 
been completed. While the surgeons had decided to be part of the study "for the 
possible good of the patients," many reported experiences of transformations in 
their own self-understanding. The particular elements of healing and 
self-understanding included a sense of self-forgiveness and acceptance, a 
strengthened feeling of human connectedness, an enhanced sense of meaning about 
what they were doing, and a sense of openness and hope for the future. Perhaps 
this self-transformative process and the possible mechanisms for change 
discussed mimic what happens in psychotherapy patients.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.psychotherapy.1990.44.1.75
PMID: 2327522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Ann Acad Med Singap. 1990 Jan;19(1):37-40.

Left main coronary artery obstruction: surgical experience with 93 patients.

Wong JW(1), Tong MC, Tan NC, Lim YC, Ong KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Singapore General Hospital.

Among patients with ischemic heart disease, those with left main stem coronary 
artery stenosis has attracted most attention due to their ominous prognosis. 
During the period from August 1982 to February 1989, 93 patients underwent left 
main coronary artery revascularisation procedures at Singapore General Hospital. 
All the patients had greater than 75% obstruction of the left main coronary 
artery. Significant triple vessel disease occurred in 35 patients (37.6%), 
double vessel disease in 32 patients (34.4%), single vessel disease in 21 
patients (22.6%) and left main coronary as an isolated lesion in 5 patients 
(5.4%). The overall hospital mortality rate is 6.5% and perioperative infarction 
rate is 8.6%. Since mid-1985, the hospital mortality rate has been reduced to 
3.7% and the perioperative infarction rate to 4.9%. Average grafts per patient 
was 3.5. Intra-aortic balloon pump was used in 5 patients. Follow up period was 
from 5 months to 84 months with a mean of 36 months with the majority of 
patients in either New York Heart Association Class I or II and still alive.

PMID: 2327722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1990 Feb;34(2):265-8. doi: 10.1128/AAC.34.2.265.

Amikacin pharmacokinetics and suggested dosage modifications for the preterm 
infant.

Kenyon CF(1), Knoppert DC, Lee SK, Vandenberghe HM, Chance GW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Western Ontario, London, Canada.

The pharmacokinetics of amikacin administered intravenously at currently 
recommended doses (7.5 mg/kg every 12 h for infants with less than 7 days of 
life; 7.5 mg/kg every 8 h for infants with greater than 7 days of life) were 
studied in 28 preterm infants weighing less than 2,500 g (mean +/- standard 
deviation, 1.38 +/- 0.47 kg; postconceptional age, 30.50 +/- 2.86 weeks). The 
medication was infused over 45 min. Trough and peak serum samples as well as two 
additional samples were taken at steady state. The results showed a 
statistically significant inverse relationship between half-life (8.42 +/- 2.55 
h) and postconceptional age (P = 0.002) and a direct correlation between total 
body clearance (0.84 +/- 0.28 ml/min per kg) and postconceptional age (P = 
0.02). These pharmacokinetic data were used to calculate a new dosage schedule 
for preterm infants. The derived intravenous dosage of amikacin for infants of 
less than 30 weeks of postconceptional age was 9 mg/kg every 18 h. For infants 
of greater than 30 weeks of postconceptional age, the dosage was 9 mg/kg every 
12 h. Peak and trough levels of amikacin in serum that fell within the 
therapeutic range were compared by using the currently recommended dosage 
schedule and the dosage schedule derived from our pharmacokinetic data. There 
was a reduction in the number of peak and trough levels that fell outside the 
accepted therapeutic range which was not statistically significant. Extension of 
the dosing interval and a further increase in the dosage may result in further 
improvement. Based on these data, the current recommendations are inadequate for 
the preterm infant. Our derived dosage schedule improved but did not eliminate 
high trough and low peak levels of amikacin in all infants. The current 
recommendations should be adjusted for the preterm infant. Ongoing therapeutic 
drug monitoring is essential to tailor the amikacin dosage to the individual 
patient.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.34.2.265
PMCID: PMC171570
PMID: 2327775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Arch Intern Med. 1990 Apr;150(4):833-8.

The cost of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in northern California. The 
experience of a large prepaid health plan.

Hiatt RA(1), Quesenberry CP Jr, Selby JV, Fireman BH, Knight A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program, Northern 
California Region, Oakland 94611.

We studied the cost of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in the Kaiser 
Permanente Medical Care Program (KPMCP), northern California region. We report 
the costs of care to the KPMCP and introduce an innovative application of 
survival methods to cost analysis. From the beginning of the AIDS epidemic in 
1981 to the end of June 1987, 866 cases of AIDS were recorded among members of 
the KPMCP. Estimates of the costs of care of these patients were derived from 
comprehensive chart reviews of a random sample of 71 patients whose conditions 
were diagnosed from January 1984 through June 1987. Total mean lifetime costs 
per patient were $32,816 (median, $28,677), whereas the mean hospital per diem 
cost was $20,446 per patient. As more care was shifted to outpatient services 
overtime, overall costs dropped, despite marked increases in the cost of 
outpatient medications such as zidovudine. The overall estimate of cost compared 
closely with other estimates of the cost of care in San Francisco, Calif, and it 
is lower than estimates from elsewhere in the United States, probably because of 
the low proportion of cases associated with intravenous drug use and the 
well-developed social support networks available to patients with AIDS in the 
San Francisco Bay Area.

PMID: 2327843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Farmakol Toksikol. 1990 Jan-Feb;53(1):66-7.

[The radioprotective action of suprofen].

[Article in Russian]

Maćkowiak J, Sierakowski S, Wiśniewski K.

Suprofen is a new non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug administered 
intragastrically 90 min before roentgen irradiation in a dose of 20 mg/kg and 
then daily for 10 days in a dose of 10 mg/kg exerts the radioprotective effect 
evaluated according to a 30-day survival rate and an average life expectancy of 
the deceased animals as well as according to a decrease of postirradiation 
leukopenia incidence. A single administration of suprofen following roentgen 
irradiation exerts no radioprotective effect. Suprofen was found to enhance the 
radioprotective action of cysteamine.

PMID: 2328808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1990 Apr;38(4):402-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1990.tb03537.x.

Early natural menopause and the duration of postmenopausal life. Findings from a 
mathematical model of life expectancy.

Snowdon DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis 55455.

Menopause marks the beginning of a stage of life characterized by an increased 
susceptibility to diseases such as coronary heart disease and osteoporosis. It 
was therefore hypothesized that early age at natural menopause would lengthen 
the duration of the postmenopausal stage of life and thereby result in an 
earlier age at death. This study investigated the relations between age at 
natural menopause, duration of postmenopausal life (ie, life expectancy at 
menopause), and age at death (ie, age at menopause plus life expectancy at 
menopause). Data were derived from a study of 5,287 naturally postmenopausal 
Seventh-day Adventists observed during 1976-1982. Life expectancy was estimated 
by a mathematical model that used mortality ratios from the study and mortality 
rates from the US general population. For natural menopause before the age of 47 
years, each one-year decrease in age at menopause was associated with a 
0.53-year increase in postmenopausal life (P = .04) and a 0.47-year decrease in 
the age at death (P = .04). For natural menopause at the age of 47 years and 
older, however, each one-year decrease in age at menopause was associated with a 
0.99-year increase in postmenopausal life (P = .03) and only a 0.01-year 
decrease in the age at death (P = .85). Overall, these findings argue against 
the possibility that the association between age at menopause and age at death 
in this study was due to the relation of age at menopause to the duration of 
postmenopausal life.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1990.tb03537.x
PMID: 2329249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 1990 May;4(3):71-8. doi: 10.1097/00005082-199005000-00008.

Critical dimensions of chronic care. Nursing grand rounds.

Matheny ML, Wolff LM.

Due to the increasing level of acuity in today's long-term population, 
interventions previously found only in acute care are now becoming commonplace 
in the chronic care setting. These changes result from health care and 
reimbursement legislation, advances in medical technology and the overall 
increased life expectancy of the population at large. To meet these challenges, 
nursing leaders are making efforts to identify and anticipate patient care 
needs, and to implement educational programs for staff to meet those needs. One 
of those interventions, inotropic therapy, is being seen more frequently in the 
long-term care setting. This article describes how one facility managed the 
administration of inotropic agents to a patient with end stage cardiac disease, 
and some of the issues surrounding initiation of the drug.

DOI: 10.1097/00005082-199005000-00008
PMID: 2329349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Lakartidningen. 1990 Apr 18;87(16):1375-6.

[Quality of life--an important dimension in cardiovascular disease].

[Article in Swedish]

Wiklund I(1), Wilhelmsen L.

Author information:
(1)Medicinska Kliniken, Ostra Sjukhuset, Göteborg.

PMID: 2329890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Neurology. 1990 May;40(5):763-6. doi: 10.1212/wnl.40.5.763.

An examination of male-female differences in progression and mortality of 
Parkinson's disease.

Diamond SG(1), Markham CH, Hoehn MM, McDowell FH, Muenter MD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, UCLA School of Medicine 90024-1769.

We conducted disability and mortality studies to determine if the male 
preponderance usually found in Parkinson's disease (PD) was reflected in 
different courses of the diseases in the 2 sexes. We analyzed longitudinal 
disability score in 47 men and 23 women with PD followed for 6 years at UCLA. We 
found no significant differences between the sexes in mean disability scores in 
any of the 6 years. Mean dopa dosage was significantly higher in men, possibly 
reflecting their generally larger body mass. Choreoathetosis, dementia, or other 
side effects did not differ between the 2 groups. We obtained observed to 
expected mortality ratios in 239 men and 132 women followed for 3,831 
person-years from records of 4 medical centers. Using the sex-specific US Life 
Tables to calculate expected mortality, we found the observed to expected ratio 
for the men was 1.7457 and for the women 2.4740, a significantly greater excess 
in female mortality. Analyses of mortality using tables which are not 
sex-specific will fail to uncover the decreased longevity in women with PD. We 
conclude that, despite the male preponderance in PD, men and women acquire it at 
the same age, have the same progression and duration of disease, and die at the 
same age; whereas, in the general population, women have a longer life 
expectancy than men. It is not known what factors protect women from incurring 
PD and what lowers their life expectancy to that of men when they do have the 
disease.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.40.5.763
PMID: 2330103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Vestn Akad Med Nauk SSSR. 1990;(1):3-6.

[Gerontology in the USSR: yesterday, today and tomorrow].

[Article in Russian]

Bezrukov VV.

Main stages of the development of gerontological studies in this country are 
specified. The genetic mechanisms of aging, intra- and supracellular regulation, 
age-specific immunological shifts, and functional systems of the organism are 
defined as priority targets of research. More attention is to be focussed on the 
development of the biological age criteria, studies of interrelationships 
between aging and age-specific pathology, analysis of age factors underlying 
main diseases of the old, on the development and trial of new geriatric drugs, 
and the search for effective life-prolonging agents. In the field of social 
gerontology, special attention is to be paid to the research into the causes of 
relatively low life expectation in this country, the lifestyle rationale, and to 
the improvement of medico-social services for the elderly population.

PMID: 2330749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Arch Surg. 1990 May;125(5):668-70. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.1990.01410170116025.

The possibility of distal embolization from a femoral-popliteal prosthesis above 
the knee. A consideration against its routine use in this position.

Friedman SG(1), Krishnasastry KV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, North Shore University Hospital, Manhusset, NY.

The preferential use of a synthetic arterial graft in the above-knee 
femoral-popliteal position is advocated by many surgeons for a variety of 
reasons. Our recent experience with three cases of substantial deterioration of 
runoff vessels within a brief period, which may have resulted from embolization 
from such a conduit, is presented along with other arguments against the routine 
use of a prosthesis in this position. The procedure with the best possible 
outcome, namely, one utilizing autogenous vein, should be performed at the 
outset in all patients except those with a limited life expectancy or those in 
whom a lengthy procedure would be hazardous.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1990.01410170116025
PMID: 2331227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Biomed Environ Sci. 1990 Mar;3(1):90-8.

A study on the dose-response relationship between asbestos exposure level and 
asbestosis among workers in a Chinese chrysotile product factory.

Huang JQ(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preventive Medicine, Shanghai Medical University, China.

The dose-response relationship for asbestos exposure in a chrysotile product 
factory was studied. The past gravimetric dust concentration values, obtained 
from different worksites, were converted into fiber concentration values 
according to conversion factors that were worked out by simultaneous sampling in 
this study. The conversions were made so that exposure could be expressed in 
fiber-years (f-yr). Asbestosis was diagnosed on the basis of chest radiographs 
and occupational histories. Cumulative dust exposure (f-yr) was calculated up to 
the date of diagnosis for asbestosis patients, and up to September 1982 for the 
remaining workers. A dose-response relationship expressed as fiber-years exposed 
vs cumulative prevalence of asbestosis was established by the life table method 
on the basis of these data. Predicted 3 and 1% prevalence of asbestosis 
corresponded to 43 and 22 f-yr exposure, respectively. Considering that a worker 
can work for 35 years, these doses are commensurate with dust concentrations of 
1.22 and 0.63 f/ml, respectively. It is recommended that 1 f/ml be taken as the 
maximum allowable concentration of airborne asbestos dust for the workplace with 
an anticipated prevalence of about 2% asbestosis after 35 years of exposure.

PMID: 2331328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1990;4(2):63-71. doi: 10.1016/1010-7940(90)90217-n.

The science of cardiac surgery.

Kirklin JW(1).

