Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Alabama, Birmingham.

DOI: 10.1016/1010-7940(90)90217-n
PMID: 2331389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1990;4(2):72-8. doi: 10.1016/1010-7940(90)90218-o.

Internal mammary artery: methods of use and their effect on survival after 
coronary bypass surgery.

Sergeant P(1), Lesaffre E, Flameng W, Suy R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Gasthuisberg University Hospital, Leuven, 
Belgium.

Hazard analysis of total and cardiac mortality after isolated primary coronary 
artery surgery was performed using univariate and multivariate methods with 
special emphasis on the importance of the use and method of use of the internal 
mammary artery (IMA) as a bypass graft. The clinical data of 5880 consecutive 
patients were studied. The sum of the real follow-up periods studied was 27,948 
years. The hazard of total and cardiac mortality could be defined in three-phase 
parametric models with an early, a constant and a late phase. The total survival 
was 82% +/- 1% at 10 years and 59% +/- 3.6% at 15 years. The construction of a 
single IMA distal graft (using left or right IMA) had a positive influence on 
the hazard (P = 0.0004) in the late phase after surgery with a high estimate 
(-1.6). The cardiac survival was 89% +/- 0.8% at 10 years and 74% +/- 3.5% at 15 
years. The use of the left IMA had a positive influence (P = 0.001) in the late 
phase after surgery with a very high estimate (-2.3). The generated simulation 
of the total survival of a median patient with an IMA graft is 97% at 5 years 
and 94% at 10 years; for a median patient without an IMA graft, it is 97% at 5 
years and 88% at 10 years. If a patient has other risk factors reducing his life 
expectancy, the influence can be dissipated because of lower survival rates at 5 
years after surgery, when the effect of the IMA becomes most apparent.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/1010-7940(90)90218-o
PMID: 2331390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Cap Nurs. 1990 Spring;(1):5.

Health care: a right--not a privilege.

Blandon M.

PMID: 2331707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 1990 Jan;30(1):24-8.

[Computed tomography of skeletal muscles in myotonic muscular dystrophy].

[Article in Japanese]

Miyashita I(1), Yamamoto H, Koga H, Kani K, Mori K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Fujita-Gakuen Health University School of Medicine.

The computed tomography (CT) of skeletal muscles was performed on 12 patients 
with myotonic muscular dystrophy (MyD). We have sliced at seven levels; those 
are 1. neck level-at the level of thyroid cartilage 2. shoulder girdle level-at 
the level of upper edge of sternum 3. upper arm level-at the level of middle of 
upper arm 4. abdominal level-at the level of L3 vertebra 5. pelvic girdle 
level-at the level of middle inguinal ligament 6. thigh level-at the level of 
middle of thigh 7. lower leg level-at the maximum size level of lower leg. The 
characteristic changes of MyD are; the sternocleidomastoid muscles are most 
severely affected, and the paravertebral and straight abdominal muscles also 
tend to be severely atrophied with lower CT density. Concerning thigh levels, 
the deeply located muscles and muscles for extension are predominantly affected. 
At the lower leg levels, the calf muscles are severely affected. The muscles of 
levator scapulae, trapezius, psoas major, iliopsoas, gluteus, and tibialis 
posterior tend to be preserved. In the tight, the compensatory hypertrophy is 
observed often in the rectus femoris muscles and rarely in the gracilis muscles 
with the involvements of the agonist muscles. It might be also important to 
examine the changes of muscles as a whole and to know the grade of atrophy for 
planning the life style. The CT examination would be recommended by this 
standpoint.

PMID: 2331819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Demography. 1990 May;27(2):251-65.

Birth intervals and childhood mortality in rural Bangladesh.

Koenig MA(1), Phillips JF, Campbell OM, D'Souza S.

Author information:
(1)International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Dhaka, Bangladesh.

Erratum in
    Demography 1990 Nov;27(4):657.

This study investigates the relationship between birth intervals and childhood 
mortality, using longitudinal data from rural Bangladesh known to be of 
exceptional accuracy and completeness. Results demonstrate significant but very 
distinctive effects of the previous and subsequent birth intervals on mortality, 
with the former concentrated in the neonatal period and the latter during early 
childhood. The impact of short birth intervals on mortality, however, is 
substantially less than that found in many previous studies of this issue, 
particularly for the previous birth interval. The findings are discussed in 
terms of the potential for family planning programs to contribute to improved 
child survival in settings such as Bangladesh.

PMID: 2332089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Demography. 1990 May;27(2):313-21.

Estimation of exposure time distributions.

Alho JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Environmental Studies, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign 
61801.

In many demographic analyses, such as the assessment of environmental cancer 
risks, one may be interested not only in the age-by-state distribution of the 
population but also in the distribution of the population by time spent in a 
given state. States can represent geographic areas, marital statuses, labor 
force participation, or states of epidemiologic exposure. Recursive formulas for 
the calculation of the distribution of the population according to exposure time 
are derived under time-invariant state transition rates. Although populations 
can have identical growth rates and identical age-by-state distributions, they 
can have very different distributions by exposure time. An application to the 
analysis of carcinogenic exposure states is given, using data from Finland. The 
effect of population heterogeneity on the estimated exposure time distributions 
is studied.

PMID: 2332092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1990 May;38(5):527-30. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1990.tb02402.x.

Survival in acute leukemia in elderly patients. No improvement in the 1980s.

Whitely R(1), Hannah P, Holmes F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City 
66103.

Comment in
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 1991 Jan;39(1):102.

Acute leukemia is more common in older people than in the young or middle-aged. 
However, the possibilities of achieving remission or prolonging survival are 
both inversely correlated with increasing age. We studied survival in 118 acute 
leukemia patients over the age of 64 seen at a university hospital from 1970 to 
1987. Seventy percent had myeloid morphology. Median survival times were 106 
days in those diagnosed in the 1970s and 71 days for those diagnosed in the 
1980s. This was little changed from an earlier series from the same hospital 
extending back to the 1940s in which median survival was 69 days. Considering 
the two decades separately, age at diagnosis, sex, race, type of leukemia, and 
whether or not disease-specific treatment was applied had no significant effect 
on survival duration. Acute leukemia in the older patient demands difficult 
medical and ethical choices. Supportive therapy provides immediate comfort and 
relatively limited morbidity with certainty of death within a few months. 
Disease-specific therapy causes immediate morbidity for all, shortened life for 
the majority, and extended life for the minority.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1990.tb02402.x
PMID: 2332574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. J Natl Med Assoc. 1990 Apr;82(4):239-42.

AIDS among blacks in the 1990s.

Nickens H(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Minority Health, Association of American Medical Colleges, 
Washington, DC 20036.

In the black community, many health indicators are going in the wrong direction. 
Black life expectancy is going down. Our middle class is growing but our poor 
are growing also. It is no longer even jarring to talk about black males as an 
endangered species. Black women are groaning under family responsibilities. Too 
many of our young people are better armed than the police and kill each other 
for "diss'in," ie, he was disrespecting me. It is appropriate that AIDS be 
responded to as a crisis, but we also have a weighty, preexisting set of 
long-standing and equally lethal health and social ills. The infrastructure we 
build in response to AIDS and the lessons we learn from this disease must be 
developed with this broader view in mind.

PMCID: PMC2626116
PMID: 2332907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Md Med J. 1990 Apr;39(4):399-402.

Alzheimer's disease research at Johns Hopkins.

Rovner BW(1), Folstein MF.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore.

The emergence of Alzheimer's disease from relative obscurity to front-page news 
is related to the increased life expectancy and increased proportion of the 
population over 65 years old. About 8 percent of the US elderly population 
suffer from the disease.

PMID: 2333027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Schizophr Bull. 1990;16(1):11-2; discussion 17-28. doi:
10.1093/schbul/16.1.11.

Does age incidence explain all season-of-birth effects in the literature?

Dal√©n P(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Psychiatry, General Hospital, Helsingborg, Sweden.

Comment on
    Schizophr Bull. 1989;15(1):59-73.

Lewis (1989) has suggested that the effect of so-called age incidence on 
season-of-birth data may be a sufficient explanation of the anomalies found in 
many samples of schizophrenic patients. Various predictions made by Lewis do not 
agree, however, with data available from some of the sources he quoted. Age 
incidence can be a source of error when a small age difference has a 
considerable effect on the likelihood of being included in a sample. Depending 
on methods of ascertainment, this is unusual in empirical studies.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/16.1.11
PMID: 2333472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Schizophr Bull. 1990;16(1):13-5; discussion 17-28. doi:
10.1093/schbul/16.1.13.

Age-incidence artifacts do not account for the season-of-birth effect in 
schizophrenia.

Pulver AE(1), Moorman CC, Brown CH, McGrath JA, Wolyniec PS.

Author information:
(1)Epidemilogy/Genetics Program, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD 21203.

Contrary to the position taken by Lewis (1989), several articles have 
demonstrated an association between season of birth and the risk of 
schizophrenia after controlling for the age-incidence effect. The method used by 
Pulver et al. (1983) was misinterpreted by Lewis. Clarification of this method 
is provided along with additional references related to the season-of-birth 
issue.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/16.1.13
PMID: 2333473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Acta Chir Belg. 1990 Jan-Feb;90(1):5-8.

Combined cervical and left parasternal mediastinoscopy for pre-operative staging 
of left upper lobe lung cancer.

Lacquet LK(1), Schreinemakers JH, Cox AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiac Surgery, University Hospital St. Radboud, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Since exploratory thoracotomy, incomplete and palliative resection do not in 
effect prolong life expectancy, it is essential to determine the operability of 
a lung tumor as accurately as possible. Cervical mediastinoscopy has dropped the 
percentage of exploratory thoracotomy considerably. However, the lymph nodes in 
the periaortic region cannot be reached at cervical mediastinoscopy and these 
form an important lymph drainage pathway for the left upper lobe. The periaortic 
lymph nodes can be explored by left parasternal mediastinoscopy. In the present 
study we investigate the value of combined cervical and left parasternal 
mediastinoscopy in all patients with a clinically operable central lung cancer 
in the left upper lobe, and in patients with a peripheral cancer of the left 
upper lobe, when the tumor histology is unfavourable, or when there is suspicion 
of invasion of the surrounding organs. In the retrospective group, we found 
metastases at cervical mediastinoscopy in 12.9% of the patients with a tumor of 
the left upper lobe. In the prospective group, we found metastases at cervical 
mediastinoscopy, in 41.9% of the patients with a tumor of the left upper lobe. 
All the patients with a positive mediastinoscopy were excluded from operation. 
In those cases the lymph nodes were involved, or at multiple localizations, or 
at one localization extranodulary. The number of exploratory thoracotomies 
dropped in the prospective period and the resectability increased from 79.4% to 
96.5% for the left upper lobe. These data point to the reliability of left 
parasternal mediastinoscopy combined with the cervical mediastinoscopy in the 
assessment of the operability of the left upper lobe lung cancer, in order to 
avoid unnecessary thoracotomies.

PMID: 2333729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. J Am Med Womens Assoc (1972). 1990 May-Jun;45(3):99-102.

Appropriate clinical application of bone density measurements.

Wasnich RD(1), Davis JW, Ross PD.

Author information:
(1)Osteoporosis Center, Kuakini Medical Center, Honolulu.

When bone mass is properly evaluated as a risk factor, as opposed to a 
diagnostic test, its relationship to fracture risk is apparent. There is now 
substantial agreement among several prospective studies relating bone mass of 
the radius and calcaneus to fractures of the wrist, spine, hip, and other sites. 
Thus, selection of menopause-age women for preventive measures, including 
estrogen replacement, can be guided by measurements of bone mass. Although 
levels of bone mass can indicate the presence of fracture risk, they are 
insufficient measures of disease severity, and additional information is 
required for clinical decision making. It is possible to estimate Remaining 
Lifetime Fracture Probability (RLFP) based upon current bone mineral content 
(BMC), current age, life expectancy, and anticipated rate of bone loss. 
Objective estimates such as RLFP can be used to determine which patients may 
benefit from drug treatment of osteoporosis. The ultimate objective is to match 
the level and intensity of treatment to the actual level of fracture risk.

PMID: 2335697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1990 Feb;68(1):23-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1755-3768.1990.tb01644.x.

Long-term efficacy of low power argon laser trabeculoplasty.

Shirakashi M(1), Iwata K, Nakayama T, Fukuchi T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Niigata University School of Medicine, Japan.

We studied the long-term efficacy of argon laser trabeculoplasty, applying 
low-power (a mean of 450 mW), a duration of 0.1 second, and a small number of 
burns (a mean total energy of 1.85 J) over 90 to 120 degrees of the trabecular 
meshwork. Fifty-four eyes with poorly controlled open-angle glaucoma were 
treated. The mean follow-up was 46 months. The mean intraocular pressure 
decrease was 5.3 mmHg in 35 eyes at one year, 6.1 mmHg in 23 eyes at 3 years, 
5.1 mmHg in 13 eyes at 5 years, and 5.4 mmHg in 5 eyes at 6 years. Life-table 
analysis showed that the probability of success was 58% at one year, 49% at 3 
years, and 46% at 5 years. Both the incidence and magnitude of the intraocular 
pressure rise in the early post-laser period were minimal and no serious 
complications were observed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.1990.tb01644.x
PMID: 2336930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Cancer. 1990 Jun 1;65(11):2580-7. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19900601)65:11<2580::aid-cncr2820651131>3.0.co;2-i.

Utility and cost of carcinoembryonic antigen monitoring in colon cancer 
follow-up evaluation. A Markov analysis.

Kievit J(1), van de Velde CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital, Leiden, The Netherlands.

The use of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) to monitor patients after 
intentionally curative colon cancer resection can have advantages (improved life 
expectancy as a result of early detection of recurrences) as well as 
disadvantages (false-positive CEA rises and early detection of incurable 
recurrences in asymptomatic patients). This study estimated how the favorable 
and unfavorable effects of CEA monitoring affect life expectancy and quality of 
life of colon cancer patients. These effects were simulated using a Markov 
analysis for which the variables had been defined on the basis of data found in 
literature. The influence of CEA monitoring on quality adjusted life expectancy 
appears to be modest and varies, according to the data used, from an average 
increase of +7 days (+0.3%) to an average decrease of -5 days (-0.09%). This 
value is dependent, among other things, on patient related variables; the 
adverse effects especially dominate in older patients with a favorable Dukes' 
stage of the primary tumor and if operative mortality exceeds 2%. The total cost 
of CEA monitoring, including diagnosis and therapy performed as a result of 
true- or false-positive CEA rise, is considerable. High cost and low return 
leads to a high marginal cost-effectiveness ratio, which varies from $22,963 to 
$4,888,208 per quality adjusted life year saved. It is concluded that CEA 
monitoring should not be used for routine following of colon cancer patients, as 
its advantages have so far been demonstrated insufficiently.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19900601)65:11<2580::aid-cncr2820651131>3.0.co;2-i
PMID: 2337875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Ann Surg. 1990 May;211(5):521-37. doi: 10.1097/00000658-199005000-00002.

Diffuse aneurysmal disease (chronic aortic dissection, Marfan, and mega aorta 
syndromes) and multiple aneurysm. Treatment by subtotal and total aortic 
replacement emphasizing the elephant trunk operation.

Crawford ES(1), Coselli JS, Svensson LG, Safi HJ, Hess KR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.

The life expectancy of patients with aortic aneurysm is significantly prolonged 
by graft replacement therapy. Regardless, a significant predictor of late death 
is complications of either residual aortic aneurysmal disease or the development 
of additional aortic aneurysm. This paper reviews a personal experience in the 
treatment of 4170 patients with aneurysmal disease of either dissection or 
medial degenerative origin, indicating that multiple segment involvement was or 
became present in 1262 (30%) patients, 463 (67%) of 694 patients with 
dissection, and 799 (23%) of 3476 patients without dissection. Regardless of 
etiology, multiple involvement varied with the location of the presenting 
involved segment, i.e., ascending aorta (38%), ascending and arch (70%), 
descending thoracic aorta (73%), and abdominal aorta (26%). This study was 
limited in detail to 811 patients who had ascending and ascending and aortic 
arch replacement for aneurysm. These patients were divided into 3 subgroups: (1) 
524 patients with no distal disease; (2) 135 patients with distal disease 
treated by subtotal replacement in 82 and total replacement in 53; and (3) 152 
patients with distal disease not treated. The 5-year survival rate from the time 
of first operation, including early death from operation was 75% in group 1, 65% 
in group 2, and 39% in group 3. The causes of death in group 3 patients were 
aneurysmal rupture and/or associated disease. It is concluded that initial total 
aortic study and regular postoperative monitoring with computed tomographic 
scanning is indicated to detect extensive disease or recurrence of disease and 
that aggressive replacement is indicated except in patients with associated 
disease that does not permit operation.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-199005000-00002
PMCID: PMC1358216
PMID: 2339914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Am J Prev Med. 1990 Jan-Feb;6(1):1-5.

Prevention in 1989: the state of the nation.

McGinnis JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, US Public Health Service, 
Washington, DC 20201.

Substantial gains have been made in the health of Americans since 1970, notably 
the 50% decline in infant mortality; the increase of nearly 4 years in life 
expectancy for both men and women; the declines in stroke and coronary heart 
disease mortality of 54% and 43%, respectively; the decline of injury deaths by 
about 30%; and the decline in deaths from nontobacco related cancers by about 
10%. These improvements in the overall national health profile have been 
accompanied by enhanced public awareness of the relationship between behavior 
and health outcomes as well as sustained behavior change among certain groups. 
On the other hand, the research advances of the last two decades have given the 
nation an even keener understanding of how short of our full potential we are 
falling. International comparisons as well as data on the status of minority and 
disadvantaged groups in the United States confirm some of these shortfalls--in 
particular with respect to infant mortality, diabetes, motor vehicle deaths, 
suicide, and homicide. The complex etiologies of these problems require the 
forging of strong alliances with sectors outside the health arena, such as 
business and education, to seek solutions.

PMID: 2340186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Ann Vasc Surg. 1990 May;4(3):218-22. doi: 10.1007/BF02009447.

Safety and long-term benefit of carotid endarterectomy in the asymptomatic 
patient.

Park Y(1), el-Bayer H, Hye RJ, Stabile BE, Freischlag JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Veterans Administration Medical Center, San Diego, 
California.

In order to determine the safety and long-term salutary effects of carotid 
endarterectomy in the asymptomatic patient, we retrospectively reviewed all 
asymptomatic patients who underwent carotid endarterectomy from 1980 through 
1986. There were 60 carotid endarterectomies performed in 54 patients, 53 men 
and one woman. The mean age was 64 years. Arteriography revealed a high grade 
stenosis of 70% or greater in 46 carotid arteries (77%), ulceration in five 
(8%), and both in nine (15%). Risk factors included coronary artery disease in 
60% of patients, smoking in 87%, hypertension in 67%, and diabetes in 22%. 
Perioperative morbidity included three cranial nerve injuries, one myocardial 
infarction and one contralateral stroke. There were no deaths. Mean follow-up 
was 47 months with only two patients being lost to follow-up. During follow-up 
three patients suffered ipsilateral transient ischemic attacks without recurrent 
carotid stenosis and one patient had a transient ischemic attack secondary to 
contralateral carotid occlusion. There was one ipsilateral stroke occurring two 
years after operation secondary to restenosis that required reoperation and four 
late contralateral strokes. Ten patients died in the follow-up period. Causes of 
death were stroke (1), cardiac (4), malignancy (2), pulmonary (2), and unknown 
(1). All surviving patients were evaluated by duplex scan at a mean interval 
following surgery of 47 months. Restenosis of endarterectomized arteries was 
seen at the following rates: less than 50% in 41 (87%); 50-75% in four (8.5%); 
80% in one (2%); and 90% in one (2%). Life table analysis revealed a 98% 
ipsilateral stroke-free rate at five and eight years.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF02009447
PMID: 2340242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 1990 Mar;50(3):177-88. doi:
10.1055/s-2007-1026459.

[Incidence and prerequisites for therapy-independent pregnancy in sterile 
patients].

[Article in German]

Merzoug K(1), Gerhard I, Runnebaum B.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung f√ºr Gyn√§kologische Endokrinologie der Universit√§tsfrauenklink 
Heidelberg.

15.6% of 857 women who had been treated because of sterility in the infertility 
centre of the Department of Gynaecology of the University of Heidelberg between 
May 1982 and June 1985, became pregnant up to June 1986, independent of the 
therapy. Favourable conditions for the occurrence of pregnancy were provided by 
secondary sterility and miscarriages in the previous history (in case of 
non-hormonal disturbances only). Younger women and those whose wish for a child 
was more recent, had a better chance to experience pregnancy--without any 
difference between the spontaneously pregnant women and those who became 
pregnant during treatment. ("Spontaneous pregnancy" signified women who became 
pregnant either during diagnostic procedure or after having discontinued medical 
treatment for more than 3 months, in case of tubal microsurgery 12 months). 
Depending upon the aetiology of surgery, the proportion of spontaneous 
pregnancies was between 12 and 75%. The rate of spontaneous pregnancies was 
highest in case of reduced tubal patency (44%), disturbances of hormonal control 
mechanisms (62.5%) and endometriosis (75%). The spontaneous pregnancy rate was 
comparable to the overall pregnancy rate (39.4%) in women with uterine 
malformations (31.4%), immunologic infertility (33.3%), hyperandrogenemia 
(33.3), hyperprolactinaemia (31.2%) and PCO syndrome (37.5%). The percentage of 
spontaneous pregnancies was lowest in hypothyroidism (20%), primary ovarian 
insufficiency (12.5%) and disturbances of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis 
(16.7%).

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1026459
PMID: 2341005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. J Urol. 1990 Jun;143(6):1178-82. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)40219-9.

Postoperative radiotherapy of the prostate for patients undergoing radical 
prostatectomy with positive margins, seminal vesicle involvement and/or 
penetration through the capsule.

Paulson DF(1), Moul JW, Robertson JE, Walther PJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 
27710.

Comment in
    J Urol. 1990 Jun;143(6):1238-9.

A group of 159 patients previously reported as having margins positive for 
disease after radical prostatectomy with or without adjunctive postoperative 
radiation was reanalyzed to determine whether the reported benefit did indeed 
exist. Upon re-examination of the 159 patients 15 were identified who did not 
receive radical prostatectomy but who were analyzed as if they had received this 
therapy. An updated review of the total pool of 159 patients with analysis as to 
failure, death of any cause or death of prostatic cancer demonstrated no benefit 
of postoperative radiation therapy for margin positive disease. Exclusion of 
patients who did not receive radical prostatectomy and analysis as described 
also failed to identify any benefit of postoperative adjunctive radiation 
therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)40219-9
PMID: 2342178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Arch Inst Cardiol Mex. 1990 Jan-Feb;60(1):89-98.

[Several aspects of arterial pressure in urban workers].

[Article in Spanish]

Garc√≠a de Alba JE(1), Arias ED, Parra Carrillo JZ, Velasco L√≥pez T.

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Guadalajara, I.R.I.S.P.

We studied the blood pressure in 1,635 workers in 12 companies of Guadalajara 
City. We observed direct relationship of age with systolic and diastolic values. 
The prevalence of high blood pressure for 1,000 workers was: for systolic 
hypertension 158.71; for sisto-diastolic hypertension 99.42 and for the 
diastolic hypertension 27.02. We found that for the systo-diastolic 
hypertensives their life expectancy was 11.5 years shorter and the economic 
impact was calculated in 2,954.10 million of pesos for each 100 workers.

PMID: 2344230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Am J Dis Child. 1990 Jun;144(6):677-83. doi: 
10.1001/archpedi.1990.02150300075020.

The causes, cost, and prevention of childhood burn injuries.

McLoughlin E(1), McGuire A.

Author information:
(1)San Francisco Injury Center for Research and Prevention, San Francisco 
General Hospital, CA 94110.

In 1985, fire and/or burn injuries killed 1461 children aged 0 to 19 years in 
the United States; an estimated 23,638 children were hospitalized and 440,000 
were treated for burns. More than 101,000 life years were lost. A "cost of burn 
injury" model suggests a dollar value of societal losses from childhood burn 
deaths and injuries at approximately $3.5 billion. Very young children (0 to 4 
years) dying in house fires accounted for 47% of these deaths. Preventing fire 
deaths through residential sprinklers, smoke detectors, fire-safe cigarettes, 
and child-resistant lighters would prevent more than three quarters of all 
childhood fire/burn deaths. While interventions exist for tap water scalds, 
solutions to the problems of "kitchen" scald and gasoline-involved flame burns 
are less apparent.

DOI: 10.1001/archpedi.1990.02150300075020
PMID: 2346149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Ann Chir. 1990;44(2):143-5.

[Combined cervical and left parasternal mediastinoscopy in tumors of the left 
upper lobe].

[Article in French]

Lacquet LK(1), Schreinemakers JH.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Chirurgie Thoracique et Cardiaque, H√¥pital Universitaire, 
St-Radboud, Nijmegen.

Since explorative thoracotomy and palliative resection do not in effect prolong 
life expectancy, it is essential to determine the operability of a lung tumour 
as accurately as possible. Cervical mediastinoscopy has considerably decreased 
the percentage of explorative thoracotomies. However, the lymph nodes in the 
periaortic region cannot be reached by cervical mediastinoscopy and these form 
an important lymph drainage pathway for the left upper lobe. The periaortic 
lymph nodes can be explored by left parasternal mediastinoscopy. In the present 
study, we investigated the value of combined cervical and parasternal 
mediastinoscopy in all patients with clinically operable central lung cancer of 
the left upper lobe, and in selected patients with a peripheral cancer of the 
left upper lobe. In the retrospective group, we found metastases at cervical 
mediastinoscopy in 23.4% of the patients with a tumour or the left lung and in 
12.9% of the patients with a tumour of the left upper lobe. In the prospective 
group, we found metastases at cervical mediastinoscopy, possibly combined with 
parasternal mediastinoscopy, in 43% of the patients with a tumour of the left 
lung and in 41.9% of the patients with a tumour of the left upper lobe. All 
patients with positive mediastinoscopy involving either multiple nodes or an 
extranodal site, were excluded from operation. The number of explorative 
thoracotomies dropped in the prospective period and the resectability increased 
from 80.8% to 92.9% for the left lung and from 79.4% to 96.5% for the left upper 
lobe. These data indicate the reliability of parasternal mediastinoscopy in the 
assessment of the operability of left upper lobe lung cancer, in order to avoid 
unnecessary toracotomies and to avoid palliative resections.

PMID: 2346277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Arch Surg. 1990 Jun;125(6):727-31; discussion 731-2. doi: 
10.1001/archsurg.1990.01410180045009.

Resection of cavoatrial renal cell carcinoma employing total circulatory arrest.

Shahian DM(1), Libertino JA, Zinman LN, Leonardi HK, Eyre RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Lahey Clinic Medical 
Center, Burlington, Mass. 01805.

Intracaval extension of renal cell carcinoma to the right atrium is a 
life-threatening presentation that may result in fatal tricuspid valve 
obstruction or pulmonary embolization. From 1981 to 1989 we treated 10 patients 
with such extension of tumor, the last 7 of whom underwent resection in which 
hypothermic circulatory arrest was used. No postoperative deaths, myocardial 
infarctions, or strokes occurred. Four patients were alive with no evidence of 
disease at 4, 10, 16, and 39 months after resection, and 1 patient was alive 
with pulmonary and spine metastases at 34 months after resection. Two patients 
died of metastatic disease at 7 and 12 months. In the absence of diffuse 
metastatic disease, lymph-node involvement, or invasion of contiguous organs, 
radical resection of cavoatrial hypernephroma may result in excellent palliation 
and possibly a cure.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1990.01410180045009
PMID: 2346375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 1990 Feb;32(2):261-70. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2265.1990.tb00862.x.

Low-dose pituitary irradiation for acromegaly.

Littley MD(1), Shalet SM, Swindell R, Beardwell CG, Sutton ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Christie Hospital, Withington, Manchester, UK.

External radiotherapy has been used as primary treatment for acromegaly in 29 
patients and in combination with surgery in 41 patients in whom growth hormone 
levels remained elevated postoperatively. Fourteen further patients who did not 
receive radiotherapy have also been studied, four of whom had undergone surgical 
treatment. Radiotherapy schedules consisted of 20 Gy in eight fractions over 11 
days (n = 23) or 35-40 Gy in 15 fractions over 21 days (n = 47). Growth hormone 
hypersecretion was either unchanged or increased with time in non-irradiated 
patients. In those patients who underwent radiotherapy, the likelihood of the 
mean GH level during GTT falling to less than 5 mU/l was unaffected by the total 
dose of radiation administered. However, patients with a pre-radiotherapy GH 
level of less than 30 mU/l showed a significantly increased probability of 
achieving a post- radiotherapy GH level less than 5 mU/l (P = 0.002). Previous 
surgery, initial serum prolactin and the age or sex of the patient did not 
predict the successful outcome of radiotherapy. In view of the known dose 
dependency of radiation-induced hypopituitarism, lower radiation dose schedules 
(20 Gy; eight fractions in 11 days) can be used in acromegaly with some benefit, 
especially in younger patients. However, all patients should undergo operative 
removal of as much GH-secreting tissue as possible, in order to lower GH levels 
and increase the probability of achieving a cure following radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2265.1990.tb00862.x
PMID: 2347088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Chirurg. 1990 Apr;61(4):272-9.

[Liver resection in 157 patients with colorectal metastases].

[Article in German]

Ringe B(1), Bechstein WO, Raab R, Meyer HJ, Pichlmayr R.

Author information:
(1)Klinik f√ºr Abdominal-und Transplantationschirurgie, Medizinischen Hochschule 
Hannover.

The mean life expectancy for patients with hepatic metastases from colorectal 
carcinoma is poor. Removal of those tumors leads to an improvement of this 
situation. In 157 patients with colorectal metastases liver resection was 
performed. The overall 5-year survival rate was 23% with a median of 34.9 
months. Significant prognostic factors for survival were size, and distribution 
of metastases, percent hepatic replacement by tumor, and radicality of 
operation. These results emphasize again that in selected patients with 
colorectal liver metastases resectional therapy is in principle indicated. 
Especially in the light of lacking therapeutical alternatives this offers 
presently the only chance for longterm cure or at least significant palliation.

PMID: 2347262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. J Pers Soc Psychol. 1990 May;58(5):909-17. doi: 10.1037//0022-3514.58.5.909.

Life stressors, resistance factors, and improved psychological functioning: an 
extension of the stress resistance paradigm.

Holahan CJ(1), Moos RH.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas, Austin.

This study applied a set of factors previously identified as being linked with 
stress resistance to the prediction of both stable and improved psychological 
functioning over a 1-year interval with more than 400 community-resident adults. 
Stable psychological functioning under high stressors is predicted at the 
beginning of the year by personal and social resources that are linked to 
functioning through their influence on increased approach coping during the 
year. In contrast, improved psychological functioning under low stressors is 
predicted directly by initial resources. As predicted by crisis theory, improved 
functioning under high stressors is related to an increase in resources during 
the year. The findings are discussed in the context of an extension of the 
stress-resistance paradigm beyond illness prevention toward a general, 
adaptively oriented health framework.

DOI: 10.1037//0022-3514.58.5.909
PMID: 2348376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1990 Apr;196(4):205-9. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1046155.

[Secondary glaucoma after silicone oil surgery].

[Article in German]

Lucke K(1), Strobel B, Foerster M, Laqua H.

Author information:
(1)Klinik f√ºr Augenheilkunde der Medizinischen Universit√§t zu L√ºbeck.

In spite of advances in surgical technique and the development of purified 
silicone oils, secondary glaucoma still develops in 10-20% of cases following 
silicone oil surgery. In the first part of this study it is shown by life-table 
analysis that factors such as early lens removal, inferior iridectomy, early 
silicone removal or the use of purified silicone oil have little or no influence 
on the development of glaucoma. In the second part an attempt is made to 
pinpoint possible causes of secondary glaucoma by re-examining all cases in 
which elevated intraocular pressure developed some time after silicone oil 
surgery. It was found that a multitude of factors (e.g., inflammation, 
angle-block, anterior peripheral synechiae and emulsification) were involved in 
the pathogenesis of temporary or persistent secondary glaucomas. In most cases 
pre-existing pathology was found to be responsible rather than the silicone oil 
itself. The majority of the cases in which the silicone oil caused secondary 
glaucoma by emulsification responded well to medication alone or removal of the 
silicone oil.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1046155
PMID: 2348637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Med Sci Law. 1990 Apr;30(2):159-64. doi: 10.1177/002580249003000215.

Study of squatting facet/extension of talus in both sexes.

Pandey SK(1), Singh S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu 
University, Varanasi, India.

Extensions of the trochlear surface and facets of the neck tali, i.e. the 
effects of squatting stress induced bone-remodelling, have been studied in 
samples from a North Indian population and examined for differences with those 
from other geographic sectors. Further, size and side of occurrence of the 
facets and extensions were analysed. Various squatting effects on the talus are 
found to be more common in this zone in general and in females in particular. 
The differences are appraised in the sociophysiologic context of life style in 
the studied population. The study reasonably emphasizes the need for elaboration 
of impact, that stress induced bone remodelling may have on physical and sports 
performance especially that of the females and possible preventive and 
corrective measures.

DOI: 10.1177/002580249003000215
PMID: 2348771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Minerva Cardioangiol. 1990 Mar;38(3):73-7.

[Aortic valve stenosis: current physiopathological and therapeutic aspects].

[Article in Italian]

Greco P(1), Alitto F, Neri G, Grasso F, Maragno I.

Author information:
(1)Reparto Cardiologico, Ospedale Militare di Padova.

On the premise that the increased average life expectancy and a reduced 
incidence of rheumatic diseases have changed the epidemiological profile of 
valvulopathies, the paper analyses the causes, pathological anatomy, 
physiopathology and therapy of aortic valvular stenosis. First of all, the 
differences of acquired calcific stenosis, in which the orifice may be "forced" 
by the ventricular pump leading to a late onset of symptoms, are underlined. 
Clinical symptomatology must include angina, syncope or decompensation, rather 
than merely and elevated gradient, before surgical therapy is proposed. In 
addition to traditional therapeutic methods (valvular replacement) there is now 
the possibility of using balloon valvuloplasty which has provided good results 
in terms of increased valvular area and recovery of ventricular function; 
however, this is only a palliative step in cases where major surgery is 
contra-indicated.

PMID: 2348909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Stat Med. 1990 May;9(5):529-38. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780090506.

Relative survival and the estimation of net survival: elements for further 
discussion.

Est√®ve J(1), Benhamou E, Croasdale M, Raymond L.

Author information:
(1)International Agency for Research on Cancer, Lyon, France.

The methods of calculation of survival corrected for independent cause of death 
are discussed, and a maximum likelihood method is proposed and illustrated by 
survival of colon cancer patients in Geneva. The methods which are at present 
favoured for doing such calculations are subject to various biases when 
estimating net survival if the populations are heterogeneous for life 
expectancy. The proposed maximum likelihood approach would eliminate these 
biases by enabling relevant adjustment for covariates which influence survival. 
The routine use of such methods would permit better comparison of survival 
within and between populations.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780090506
PMID: 2349404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Ulster Med J. 1990 Apr;59(1):55-62.

Ascertainment and natural history of treated acromegaly in Northern Ireland.

Ritchie CM(1), Atkinson AB, Kennedy AL, Lyons AR, Gordon DS, Fannin T, Hadden 
DR.

Author information:
(1)Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast.

The prevalence of known cases of acromegaly in Northern Ireland in 1984 was 6.3 
per 100,000 population. The incidence of newly-diagnosed cases over the 
preceding 25 years was 5.5 patients per year, or 0.4 patients per 100,000 
population per year. This rate would be equivalent to about 200 new cases per 
year in the United Kingdom. Four options have been available to most of these 
patients--surgical hypophysectomy (transfrontal or transsphenoidal), pituitary 
radiotherapy (usually external cobalt beam), drug treatment with bromocriptine, 
or no treatment. Choice of treatment has been mainly influenced by tumour size, 
with the larger pituitary adenomas having surgery initially. No single form of 
treatment has been successful in achieving a clinical remission or cure in more 
than a minority of cases. The most successful outcome has been where total 
pituitary ablation has been achieved. Life-table analysis for the whole group 
shows life expectancy which is not markedly different for that of an age-matched 
population from Northern Ireland. Morbidity related to long term osteoarthritis 
and treatment complications remain a major problem. The incidence of malignant 
tumours is higher than would be expected.

PMCID: PMC2448267
PMID: 2349750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1990 May;82(1):81-99. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.1330820110.

Paleodemography of the Carlston Annis (Bt-5) Late Archaic skeletal population.

Mensforth RP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Cleveland State University, OH 44115.

The study presents a demographic assessment of the Carlston Annis (Bt-5) Late 
Archaic hunting and gathering population recovered from the banks of the Green 
River in west-central Kentucky. The shell midden habitation and cemetery site 
originally yielded the remains of 390 individuals. Radiocarbon dates place site 
occupation between 3,000 and 4,500 y.b.p. The skeletal sample consisted of 354 
individuals ranging in age from 7 months in utero to 70 + years. Subadults were 
aged by seriation of dental and skeletal developmental criteria. Adult ages were 
determined by the multifactorial summary age method that employed 1) five 
indicators of adult skeletal age at death, 2) the procedure of age indicator 
seriation, and 3) differential weighting of age assessments as determined by 
principal components analysis. Adult sex diagnoses were based on qualitative 
assessment of pelvic and cranial morphological criteria. The Bt-5 life table 
analysis yields an E0 of 22.4 years, crude birth of 45, mean family size of 3.3, 
gross reproductive rate of 2.7, generation length of 26.6 years, and B of .076, 
indicating a healthy population with a substantial capability to replace 
succeeding generations. Survivorship profiles and demographic parameters that 
compare the Carlston Annis (Bt-5) and Indian Knoll (Oh-2) skeletal series are 
presented. Both populations display type II survivorship curves, with high 
infant mortality and early onset of elevated mortality rates in adults. Major 
differences between Bt-5 and Oh-2 demographic parameters concern adult sex ratio 
and adult age distribution over 30 years. These differences are interpreted to 
reflect census errors in the Oh-2 demographic reconstruction that were possibly 
introduced by selective methodological biases and/or taphonomic factors.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330820110
PMID: 2349974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1990 Jun;47(6):511-8. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1990.01810180011002.

Age at onset of selected mental disorders in five community populations.

Burke KC(1), Burke JD Jr, Regier DA, Rae DS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biometry and Applied Sciences, National Institute of Mental 
Health, Rockville, Md.

Using data collected in the National Institute of Mental Health Epidemiologic 
Catchment Area Program, we examined the reported age at onset of selected mental 
disorders using life table survival methods. The examination of hazard rates 
suggests that adolescence and young adulthood are important periods for the 
development of unipolar major depression, bipolar illness, phobias, and drug and 
alcohol abuse/dependence. Although there are limitations in using 
cross-sectional data for this purpose, the findings suggest the need for more 
attention to the development of mental disorders in childhood and adolescence.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1990.01810180011002
PMID: 2350203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Can J Surg. 1990 Jun;33(3):216-20.

Comparison of in-situ and reversed saphenous vein grafts for infrageniculate 
bypass.

Ricci MA(1), Graham AM, Symes JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Royal Victoria Hospital, McGill University, Montreal, 
PQ.

Current controversy surrounding in-situ and reversed saphenous vein grafts 
prompted a review of 161 procedures performed between 1982 and 1987. Analysis 
was based on objective criteria recommended by the Society for Vascular 
Surgery/International Society for Cardiovascular Surgery (SVS/ISCVS) Committee 
on Reporting Standards. There were 92 in-situ bypasses, 42 to the popliteal 
artery below the knee, and 50 to tibial vessels; of 69 reversed vein grafts, the 
comparable figures were 51 and 18. Sixty-seven in-situ and 43 reversed grafts 
were done for foot salvage. The overall primary patency rate for in-situ grafts 
was 81.1% at 30 days, 77.0% at 1 year, 74.7% at 3 years and 59.8% at 5 years; 
corresponding reversed vein patency rates were 85.2%, 76.8%, 67.0% and 42.3%. 
Patency rates for foot salvage for in-situ grafts were 81.7% at 1 month, 75.9% 
at 1 year and 72.6% at 3 years, and for reversed vein grafts 78.6%, 70.3% and 
66.5%. Secondary patency rates were 72.8% at 3 years for in-situ vein and 67.2% 
for reversed vein; the foot-salvage rate at 3 years was 91.0% with in-situ vein 
and 78.9% with reversed vein. The study demonstrated no statistically 
significant difference between in-situ and reversed saphenous vein bypass for 
