infrageniculate reconstruction, regardless of the distal anastomotic site or 
severity of disease. Although a trend favouring the in-situ technique was noted, 
particularly at the tibial level, longer follow-up and a prospective randomized 
trial is needed to evaluate this.

PMID: 2350745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Harefuah. 1990 Apr 1;118(7):373-82.

[Israel national childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia study].

[Article in Hebrew]

Stark B(1), Abramov A, Attias D, Balin A, Burstein Y, Barak Y, Jaber L, Goshen 
Y, Dvir A, Hagai E, et al.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Hematology-Oncology Dept., Beilinson Medical Center, Petah Tikva, 
Jerusalem.

A national childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) study was initiated in 
Israel in 1984 with the aim of improving results in difficult aspects of 
treatment including: high-risk groups, the problems of late relapses, and the 
effect of cranial irradiation for CNS prophylaxis in leading to late 
neuropsychiatric sequelae and secondary tumors. Induction of chemotherapy with a 
combination of 6 drugs (vincristine, cyclophosphamide, cytosine arabinoside, 
adriamycin, prednisone and L-asparaginase), followed by intensification with 
methotrexate and L-asparaginase, was introduced in both the usual and the 
high-risk groups. In a selected group with better prognostic factors, therapy 
was reduced. In an attempt to minimize the sequelae of CNS prophylactic therapy, 
cranial irradiation was omitted in half the patients and intrathecal (IT) triple 
therapy was given instead. Following 2 years of unsatisfactory preliminary 
results in a very high-risk group (VHR; non-T- and T-cell leukemia with WBC 
counts of greater than 100,000 and greater than 20,000, respectively), treatment 
was modified and intensified. Between Nov. 1984 and Feb. 1989, 143 patients were 
enrolled from 10 hospitals. During follow-up of a median of 2.5 years, there 
were 32 failures (2 failed remissions, 27 relapsed and 3 died of bleeding and 
sepsis). 107 patients are alive in first remission and an additional 8 in second 
and third remissions. By Kaplan-Meier life table analysis, the rates of 
leukemia-free interval (LFI) and event-free interval (EFI) for 4 years were 60% 
and 57%, respectively. Improved LFI results of 71% for 4 years were achieved in 
a group with non-T-cell ALL with WBC less than 100,000 (the largest group, 65% 
of the patients). In the small "good risk" group (10% of patients), and the 
T-cell group with WBC less than 100,000, LFI for 4 years were 56% and 54%, 
respectively. In the VHR group, modification seemed to have improved results: 
LFI of 41% for 3 years. CNS prophylaxis with IT triple therapy was as effective 
as cranial irradiation in the standard risk group. In 1 out of 33 children on 
this protocol a single CNS relapse occurred, as compared to 2 out of 35 matched 
controls with cranial irradiation. These results warrant extension of IT triple 
therapy to higher risk groups of childhood ALL. As for systemic treatment, 
increased up-front high-dose intensive therapy is recommended for all groups 
with ALL, but with reduction of cumulative dose to minimize late effects.

PMID: 2351344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Liver. 1990 Apr;10(2):65-71. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0676.1990.tb00438.x.

Analysis of the deterioration rates of liver function in cirrhosis, based on 
galactose elimination capacity.

Marchesini G(1), Fabbri A, Bugianesi E, Bianchi GP, Marchi E, Zoli M, Pisi E.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinica Medica Generale e Terapia, Università di Bologna, Italy.

The prognosis of cirrhotic patients may depend on their liver function, but very 
few data are available to predict life expectancy in individual subjects on the 
basis of their liver function tests. The yearly changes in liver function, based 
on galactose elimination capacity (GEC), were retrospectively analyzed in 76 
cirrhotic patients. The first GEC measurement had always been performed at the 
time of diagnosis. From that time on, mean GEC changes (in mmol/min per year) 
were +0.13 [SD 0.60] in the 1st year (range: +1.42/-1.35), and -0.03 [0.30] in 
the 2nd year (P = ns). Only after 36 months could a significant deterioration in 
liver function be demonstrated, but GEC changes still ranged from +0.14 to 
-0.35. The trend in liver function was similar in patients with alcoholic and 
non-alcoholic cirrhosis, but in alcoholics a favourable effect of abstinence was 
proved. In individual subjects, 2 consecutive GEC measurements, at least 6 
months apart, failed to predict the following GEC values. The coefficients of 
determination between expected and measured GEC or delta GEC were 0.13 and 0.36, 
respectively (n = 58). When forecasting was limited to 2 years (n = 38), still 
only 31% and 55% of GEC values and delta GEC variance was predictable on the 
basis of preceding GEC values. The study shows that no definite trends in liver 
function deterioration rates can be observed in cirrhosis. This limits the 
usefulness of liver function tests in predicting prognosis in cirrhotic 
patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0676.1990.tb00438.x
PMID: 2352456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Eur Heart J. 1990 May;11(5):429-40. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a059726.

Percutaneous transluminal aortic valvuloplasty--the acute outcome and follow-up 
of 149 patients who underwent the double balloon technique.

Dorros G(1), Lewin RF, Stertzer SH, King JF, Waller BF, Myler RK, Mathiak L, 
Murphy M, Shaw RE, Assa J, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, St. Luke's Medical Center, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Double balloon percutaneous transluminal aortic valvuloplasty (PTAV) was 
performed on 149 patients (76 male (51%), mean age 76 +/- 11 years) whose 
symptoms included severe congestive heart failure in 127 cases (82%), syncope in 
21 (14%) and angina in six (4%). Significant changes (P less than 0.05) in peak 
systolic (83 +/- 36 to 38 +/- 30 mmHg) and mean gradient (68 +/- 25 to 36 +/- 21 
mmHg), and aortic valve area (0.6 +/- 0.2 to 1.0 +/- 0.4 cm2) were achieved in 
130/149 patients (87%). Complications included an overall in-hospital mortality 
of 13%, (10.0% excluding the six deaths occurring in 18 moribund patients), a 
neurologic deficit incidence of 3%, and surgical arterial entry site repair 3.0% 
(14/47) of patients. Multivariate analysis identified congestive heart failure 
(NYHA Class IV), left ventricular ejection fraction, cardiac output and coronary 
artery disease as independent variables significantly affecting in-hospital 
mortality. Predictors of poor long-term survival were degree of heart failure, 
and coronary artery disease. The cumulative probability of survival at 24 months 
was 52 +/- 5% (excluding non-cardiac deaths, was 66 +/- 3%). Follow-up (mean 
time: 16 +/- 7 months) of 130 patients discharged alive revealed 41 late deaths 
(26 cardiac related). Sixty-two patients (70%) were symptomatically improved; 17 
patients had symptom recurrence and underwent repeat valvuloplasty, and 10 
patients valve replacement. Follow-up catheterization of 18 asymptomatic 
patients revealed that 11 patients had silently restenosed. These data indicate 
that aortic valvuloplasty is a palliative therapy for elderly patients, who are 
poor surgical candidates, with symptomatic calcific aortic stenosis with 
reasonable clinical success and long-term survival when considering their 
clinical status, but with a significant restenosis rate.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a059726
PMID: 2354704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Eur Heart J. 1990 May;11(5):441-6. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a059727.

Does left ventricular aneurysm influence survival after acute myocardial 
infarction?

Heras M(1), Sanz G, Betriu A, Mont L, de Flores T, Navarro-López F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Hospital Clinic i Provincial, University of 
Barcelona, Spain.

To test whether left ventricular aneurysm independently influences survival 
after acute myocardial infarction, a series of 386 consecutive men aged 60 years 
or less, were followed up for 57 (40-100) months. Catheterization was performed 
1 month following the infarct. Aneurysm, defined as a diastolic outward bulging 
with akinetic or dyskinetic systolic motion, was diagnosed in 52 patients 
(13.5%). Mortality was higher (29% vs 14%; P less than 0.02) in patients with 
left ventricular aneurysm; their probability of survival at 60 months was 75% vs 
90% in patients without aneurysm. Cox regression analysis for the whole 
population identified ejection fraction, bifascicular block, number of diseased 
vessels and angina after infarction as the only independent predictors of 
survival; when adjusted for these variables, differences in mortality between 
patients with and without aneurysm were no longer significant. To investigate 
further the role of aneurysm in survival, the 52 patients presenting with left 
ventricular aneurysm were matched with 52 of the remaining 334 patients 
according to the following baseline variables: ejection fraction, number of 
diseased vessels, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, and bifascicular 
block. The survival curves of these two subsets were similar (mortality rates of 
75% and 82%, respectively). Cox regression analysis of the whole cohort of 104 
patients selected bifascicular block and the number of diseased vessels, but not 
left ventricular aneurysm, as independent predictors of outcome.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a059727
PMID: 2354705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Ann Surg. 1990 Jun;211(6):694-701; discussion 701-2. doi: 
10.1097/00000658-199006000-00007.

Extended profundoplasty to minimize pelvic and distal tissue loss.

Edwards WH(1), Jenkins JM, Mulherin JL Jr, Martin RS 3rd, Edwards WH Jr.

Author information:
(1)Surgical Services, St. Thomas Hospital, Nashville, Tennessee.

Multiple levels of aortoileofemoral occlusive disease may necessitate 
profundoplasty or extension of the outflow anastomosis to insure pelvic and 
distal arterial perfusion. During the period 1978 through 1988, 1637 patients 
underwent elective aortic reconstruction for aneurysmal or occlusive disease. 
One hundred forty-five had profundoplasty performed to ensure adequate outflow. 
Associated disease was common with 88 (60%) patients having arteriosclerotic 
heart disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) present in 89 
(61%) patients. Hypertension and extracranial occlusive disease was found in 68 
(46%) and 56 (38%) patients, respectively. The superficial femoral artery was 
occluded in 108 (74%) patients, while in 17 (12%) the profunda femoris was the 
only patent artery in the groin. Death occurred in nine patients (6.2%). Three 
were due to arrhythmias or myocardial infarction and ischemic colitis was the 
cause of death in two. Renal failure, sepsis, aspiration and cerebral anoxia, 
and disseminated intravascular coagulopathy accounted for one each. Five graft 
limbs failed. Amputation was required in one patient, while thrombectomy or 
distal bypass restored flow in four patients. Seventeen graft limbs in 136 
patients occluded during the follow-up period. Distal bypass was successful in 
four and amputation was required in the fifth patient. Extension of the 
profundoplasty restored flow in nine limbs, while thrombectomy alone was 
successful in one. Bilateral amputation was required in one patient with poor 
run off and insufficient autogenus venous tissue. One hundred fourteen (78.6%) 
of the 145 patients survived 10 years with patency in 268 of the original 290 
limbs at risk (92.4%). Profundoplasty in these patients with multilevel disease 
seems to extend the long-term patency of aortofemoral grafts and allows return 
to a normal life-style.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-199006000-00007
PMCID: PMC1358115
PMID: 2357132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Br J Neurosurg. 1990;4(2):87-93. doi: 10.3109/02688699008992705.

Ondine's curse with Hirschsprung's disease.

Fodstad H(1), Ljunggren B, Shawis R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Tawam Hospital, Al Ain, UAE.

Hirschsprung's disease can be associated with other congenital abnormalities, 
some of which are neural in origin. A rare association is with congenital 
failure of automatic control of respiration--central hypoventilation syndrome, 
sleep apnoea or Ondine's curse. Patients with this combination tend to have a 
short life expectancy. Diaphragmatic pacing by electrophrenic stimulation has 
proven useful in management of patients with central hypoventilation. Three 
children, two females and one male, with this combination are described. The 
male child, who had total intestinal aganglionosis, died at the age of one month 
despite an ileostomy and nocturnal mechanical ventilation. The two females had 
aganglionosis more typical of Hirschsprung's disease, one requiring colostomy. 
At the ages of 2 and 6 years, respectively, phrenic nerve stimulators were 
implanted. Both girls remain independent of nocturnal, mechanical ventilation 
two and three years after commencement of diaphragm pacing. In patients with 
Ondine's curse and Hirschsprung's disease in whom the aganglionosis can be 
effectively managed, diaphragm pacing may lead to independence from mechanical 
ventilation and prolongation of life of an acceptable quality.

DOI: 10.3109/02688699008992705
PMID: 2357289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 1990 Jan-Mar;30(1):5-45.

[Health in the USSR in the era of Perestroika].

[Article in French]

Garbe S(1), Garbe E.

Author information:
(1)Institut Pédagogique de Kiev, URSS.

For years, the Health Service of the USSR was considered a model and a guide. 
Countries in the Third World were invited to follow its various elements in 
organizing their own national health systems. But, since August 1987, everybody 
has known that the Health Service of the USSR is in a very bad situation. 
Official reports, journals of the Party and declarations of the health 
authorities all emphasized the catastrophic state of the health care 
organization in USSR: rising mortality rates, alcohol and drug abuse, extensive 
pollution, hospitals without hygiene or equipment, lack of professionalism and 
extended corruption among medical doctors and other health workers, patients' 
dissatisfaction etc... Of special concern are the cardiovascular and maternal 
mortality rates which are now much higher than in other countries. In the wake 
of perestroïka, a plan of reform was initiated by the Party and the Government, 
and was announced in 1988 by Health Minister E.N. Tchazov. The basic principle 
of the Health Service in the USSR remains prevention. Nevertheless, a great 
number of new measures will be implemented. Health information and care will be 
brought to the people by health workers. Mass screening for the most frequent 
diseases will be performed. Computers will be used on a large scale for managing 
high risk groups. Health centers will be strengthened. But the most 
revolutionary element of the reform will be the extension of the "paying 
sector", with increased number of facilities having financial autonomy. These 
facilities provide care and require some payment from the patients. They existed 
previously, but in the future they will be increased and strengthened. This 
means that the patients will have to pay more money but the services will be 
likely improved. The future will show whether the plan will succeed or fail.

PMID: 2357622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. J Vasc Surg. 1990 Jun;11(6):778-83; discussion 784-5. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1990.20249.

Carotid endarterectomy contralateral to an occluded carotid artery: 
perioperative risk and late results.

Mackey WC(1), O'Donnell TF Jr, Callow AD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Tufts University, New England Medical Center, Boston, 
MA 02111.

To define better the short-term risk and long-term benefit of carotid 
endarterectomy opposite an occluded carotid artery, we reviewed our experience 
since 1961. Angiographic data are available for 598 of 670 (89.3%) patients in 
our carotid registry. In 63 (10.5%) patients the internal or common carotid 
artery on the side opposite the endarterectomy was occluded. All operations were 
carried out under general anesthesia with selective shunting based on 
electroencephalographic criteria. Shunting was required in 29 of 63 (46.0%) 
patients with contralateral occlusion and 72 of 535 (13.5%) control subjects (p 
less than 0.0001). Perioperative strokes occurred in 3 of 63 (4.8%) patients 
with contralateral occlusion and 14 of 535 control subjects (2.6%) (p = 0.23). 
Perioperative death occurred in 0 of 63 patients with contralateral occlusion 
and 6 of 535 (1.1%) control subjects (p = 0.40). Life-table cumulative 
stroke-free rates at 1, 5, and 10 years were 95.2%, 91.0%, and 76.2% in the 
group with contralateral occlusion and 96.0%, 89.4%, and 84.1% in control 
subjects (p = 0.25). Life-table cumulative survival rates at 1, 5, and 10 years 
were 93.1%, 80.8%, and 75.4% in the group with contralateral occlusion and 
94.8%, 77.0%, and 57.9% in control subjects (p = 0.58). Carotid endarterectomy 
contralateral to an occluded carotid artery may be carried out with acceptable 
risk and late stroke-free and survival rates comparable to those seen in other 
patients who have undergone carotid endarterectomy.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1990.20249
PMID: 2359190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Scand J Gastroenterol. 1990 May;25(5):435-42. doi: 10.3109/00365529009095512.

Perioperative blood transfusion and recurrence and death after resection for 
cancer of the colon and rectum.

Jakobsen EB(1), Eickhoff JH, Andersen J, Lundvall L, Stenderup JK.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Surgery K, Frederiksberg Hospital, Denmark.

Several reports have claimed that perioperative blood transfusion promotes 
recurrence and death after cancer surgery. We studied the effect of transfusion 
in 315 patients who had radical resection for carcinoma of the colon and rectum. 
The disease recurred in 113 (42%) of 268 transfused patients, versus in 15 (32%) 
in 47 non-transfused patients (P = 0.2). Of the transfused patients 102 (38%) 
died of colon cancer, versus 13 patients (28%) in the non-transfused group (P = 
0.2). The 5-year recurrence-free survival rate was 0.59 in the transfused 
patients and 0.72 in the non-transfused group (P = 0.10). When differences in 
confounding background variables were accounted for by Cox multiple regression 
analysis, the significance of transfusion was even less. The study does not 
support the hypothesis that perioperative blood transfusion promotes recurrence 
after operation for colorectal cancer.

DOI: 10.3109/00365529009095512
PMID: 2359971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1990 Apr;47(4):395-6. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1990.01810160095017.

Life table methods and assessment of familial risk in Alzheimer's disease.

Breitner JC.

Comment on
    Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1988 Oct;45(10):894-900.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1990.01810160095017
PMID: 2360948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Neurologia. 1990 Feb;5(2):62-4.

[Findings of computed tomography in the acute form of Marchiafava-Bignami 
disease].

[Article in Spanish]

López Arlandis JM(1), Burguera JA, Hernández M, García F, Coret F, Catalá J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurología, Hospital de la Seguridad Social La Fe, Valencia.

We report a case of Marchiafava-Bignami's disease with acute evolution. 
Pathological examination was carried out and a cavitary lesion with 
discontinuous longitudinal extension was found throughout the corpus callosum. 
CT had shown a narrow hypodense area symmetrically localized just anterior to 
the frontal horns of the lateral ventricles, corresponding to the genus of the 
corpus callosum. The literature is reviewed, the anatomical-radiological 
correlations are discussed, and the possibility of the diagnosis of this 
condition during life is commented.

PMID: 2361037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Jikken Dobutsu. 1990 Apr;39(2):179-83.

[Aging and changes in reproductive behavior in Japanese monkeys (Macaca 
fuscata)].

[Article in Japanese]

Itoigawa N(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Human Sciences, Osaka University.

PMID: 2361518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Jikken Dobutsu. 1990 Apr;39(2):295-8. doi: 10.1538/expanim1978.39.2_295.

[Breeding of cataract rat strain (ICRF/Kmu//Yg)].

[Article in Japanese]

Kato S(1), Ohno K, Ihara N.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Animals, Yagi Memorial Park, Gifu, Japan.

A inbred strain, ICRF, which can be used as a model of both human cataract and 
epilepsy is described. The strain was bred from the ICR cataractous rat (Ihara, 
1983). The original ICR strain showed bilateral cataract on 11-12 weeks of age, 
but the cataractous syndrome frequently disappeared during life. In the new ICRF 
strain the cataractous syndrome continued through the life, as shown by primary 
investigation of 38 males and 32 females. Besides cataract, severe epilepsy-like 
seizures were observed in 90% of the males. Seizures were rare in females (3%). 
The life span of the ICRF rats was short, 58% of the males and 6% of the females 
died before 52 weeks of age.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim1978.39.2_295
PMID: 2361529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Ir Med J. 1990 Mar;83(1):2-3.

Insulin-dependent diabetes--the prognosis is improving.

Borch-Johnsen K.

PMID: 2361832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Nihon Igaku Hoshasen Gakkai Zasshi. 1990 Feb 25;50(2):101-6. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.rpd.a031801.

[Benefit-risk analysis of mass screening for lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Iinuma T(1), Tateno Y.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Research, National Institute of Radiological Sciences.

The mass screening of lung cancer has been started with financial support of the 
Japanese Government from 1987. It should be emphasized, however, that mass 
screening programs of any kind have to be evaluated by means of benefit-risk 
analysis and cost-effectiveness analysis. This is the first report on the 
benefit-risk analysis for mass screening program of lung cancer in Japan. The 
benefit of the lung cancer mass screening is defined as a net elongation of 
average life expectancy due to early detection of the cancer. It is calculated 
as a function of age and sex. While, the risk of the screening program is 
defined as a net shortage of average life expectancy due to radiation 
carcinogenesis of leukemia and lung cancer. In the case of radiation 
carcinogenesis, latent time and plateau period are considered in the calculation 
of the risk. Since the benefit increases with age and the risk decreases with 
age for both sexes, one can obtain a certain age at which the benefit and the 
risk cross. Assuming dose equivalent of lung of 1 mSv and risk coefficient of 
15.1 X 10(-3) Sv-1, the crossing ages of men and women are about 42 y.o. and 47 
y.o. respectively. We consider that these ages are rather high when chest 
radiograph is to be used as a screening test. It is recommended that the dose 
equivalent of lung should be lowered to 0.1 mSv if the mass screening of lung 
cancer is to be performed.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.rpd.a031801
PMID: 2362790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Sangre (Barc). 1990 Apr;35(2):93-7.

[Treatment of multiple myeloma using vincristine, cyclophosphamide, melphalan 
and prednisone (VCMP). Long-term results in 63 patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Bladé J(1), Urbano A, López Guillermo A, Rozman M, Rovira M, Montserrat E, 
Rozman C.

Author information:
(1)Escuela de Hematología Farreras Valentí, Hospital Clínico y Provincial, 
Universidad de Barcelona.

The results achieved in a series of 63 patients diagnosed of multiple myeloma in 
one Centre between February 1981 and December 1984 are reported. One patient was 
in stage IA, 27 in stage II (A, 24; B, 3), and the remaining 35 were in stage 
III (A, 22; B, 13). The initial therapy consisted of courses of vincristine, 
cyclophosphamide, melphalan and prednisone combination chemotherapy (VCMP) given 
every 4th week. Among the 56 patients who were evaluable, 28 (50%) showed 
objective response, 6 (10.7%) clinical improvement, and therapeutical failure 
was seen in 14, whereas 8 patients died during the first two months of 
treatment. The haematological tolerance to VCMP was acceptable, but 
neurotoxicity due to vincristine appeared in 17.8% of the cases. Thirty-two 
patients showing resistance to VCMP at any given moment received vincristine, 
BCNU, adriamycin and prednisone or dexamethasone (VBAP/D) as salvage therapy, 
only 5 responses (15.6%) being achieved. Only 5 patients are still alive and the 
median survival of the series is 23 months. Progression of the disease and 
infections were the major causes of death.

PMID: 2363100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Sangre (Barc). 1990 Apr;35(2):98-101.

[Bone marrow biopsy in myeloproliferative syndromes: prognostic value of 
cellular quantification].

[Article in Spanish]

Esquivias López-Cuervo JJ(1), Romero Aguilar A, González García J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Anatomía Patológica, Ciudad Sanitaria Virgen de las Nieves, 
Granada.

The proportion of granulocytes, erythroblasts, immature cells and megakaryocytes 
was evaluated when revising the bone-marrow biopsy specimens of 36 patients with 
myeloproliferative syndromes. These proportions were compared between 
themselves, a so-called Z value being thus attained; such value resulted from 
summing the proportion of granulocytes, megakaryocytes and immature cells and 
subtracting the proportion of erythroblasts. According to its value, above or 
below the mean, the Z figure correlates with the survival, the difference 
between both groups appearing as statistically significant (p = 0.02).

PMID: 2363101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Ann Vasc Surg. 1990 Jul;4(4):313-7. doi: 10.1007/BF02000491.

The influence of contralateral disease on the natural history of nonoperated 
significant carotid stenosis.

Satiani B(1), Porter RM Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Grant Medical Center, Columbus, Ohio.

The influence of contralateral disease on the natural history of ipsilateral 
nonoperated carotid stenosis greater than 50% was analyzed in 90 carotid 
arteries imaged by contrast arteriography or duplex scanning with a mean 
follow-up of 23.6 months. Ipsilateral stenosis was greater than 80% in 24 
arteries and 50-79% in 66 arteries. Contralateral disease was present in 30 
(Group I) and absent in 60 (Group II) patients. In Group I, the contralateral 
disease consisted of total occlusion in nine (30%), greater than 80% stenosis in 
five (17%), 50-79% stenosis in 12 (40%) with a mean of 78.6%. No significant 
difference existed in the incidence of initially asymptomatic vessels (57% 
versus 67%), stroke (13% versus 2%), or transient ischemic attack (17% each) 
between Groups I and II on the ipsilateral side (p greater than .05). New 
ipsilateral neurologic events occurred significantly more often in arteries with 
greater than 80% ipsilateral stenosis than those with 50-79% stenosis (p less 
than .02). The incidence of subsequent ipsilateral neurologic events (37% versus 
22%), strokes, or transient ischemic attacks (20% versus 13%) was no different 
in Groups I and II, respectively (p greater than .05). Combined ipsilateral and 
contralateral neurologic events occurred significantly more often in patients 
with contralateral disease (p less than .05). Whereas in Group I, new 
ipsilateral symptoms were significantly more common in initially symptomatic 
vessels compared to asymptomatic ones (61.5% versus 17.6%, p less than .04), no 
such difference existed in Group II.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02000491
PMID: 2364044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Ann Vasc Surg. 1990 Jul;4(4):323-7. doi: 10.1007/BF02000493.

Long-term results after carotid endarterectomy for carotid artery stenosis with 
contralateral occlusion.

Vermassen F(1), Flamme A, De Roose J, Berszenyi G, Derom F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.

Patients with one internal carotid artery occlusion and a contralateral stenosis 
run a significantly higher risk of stroke. We performed endarterectomy of the 
stenotic carotid in 44 such patients and followed them for mean 54 months (range 
1-172 months). Early mortality was 2%. Life-table analysis shows that the 
incidence of a new stroke was 0.6% per year, the survival rate was 78% after 
three years, and 70% after five years. We conclude that carotid endarterectomy 
can be safely performed in patients with contralateral internal carotid artery 
occlusion and can significantly improve the long-term prognosis of these 
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02000493
PMID: 2364046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Ann Vasc Surg. 1990 Jul;4(4):338-43. doi: 10.1007/BF02000496.

Preferential use of EPTFE for above-knee femoropopliteal bypass grafts.

Patterson RB(1), Fowl RJ, Kempczinski RF, Gewirtz R, Shukla R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Cincinnati Medical Center, Ohio 
45267-0558.

Comment in
    Ann Vasc Surg. 1991 Jan;5(1):103.

We have used polytetrafluoroethylene preferentially for bypasses to the 
above-knee popliteal artery since 1979. Since this approach has recently been 
challenged, we reviewed our experience with 138 grafts in 128 patients. The 
majority (74%) of patients were male with a mean age of 63.2 years. Risk factors 
included: smoking (85%), hypertension (55%), diabetes mellitus (45%), and 
coronary artery disease (41%). The indications for operation were disabling 
claudication (18%), rest pain (42%), gangrene/tissue loss (33%), and 
miscellaneous (7%). Perioperative (30 day) mortality was 3% and morbidity 
(excluding amputation or graft failure) was 5%. Patients were followed for up to 
eight years with a mean follow-up of 22.1 months. Grafts which remained patent, 
but did not prevent major amputation, were classified as "failed". Primary 
patency was 75% at one year and 54% at five years. Limb salvage was 88% at one 
year and 70% at five years. Risk factors, indication for operation and 
arteriographic runoff had no statistically significant impact on short- or 
long-term patency. However, bypass grafts to isolated popliteal segments had a 
significantly (p = 0.025) increased perioperative failure rate compared to all 
other grafts. Our data support the continued use of polytetrafluoroethylene for 
above-knee femoropopliteal bypass except perhaps in patients who require 
grafting to an isolated popliteal segment where higher early failure rates were 
seen.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02000496
PMID: 2364049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Bull World Health Organ. 1990;68(2):223-30.

A simplified methodology for the community-based assessment of breast-feeding 
and amenorrhoea in Mexico.

Danko RA(1), Selwyn BJ, Zamora-Romero R, Chavez-Ordoñez XP.

Author information:
(1)WHO Collaborating Centre for International Health, University of Texas 
Medical Branch, Galveston 77550.

Reported is the use of a simplified methodology for carrying out a 
community-based epidemiological assessment that is compatible with the goals of 
primary health care research. For this purpose, a current-status life table 
analysis of data from 1131 women who were served by community health workers in 
the State of México was used to determine the distributions of the duration of 
postpartum breast-feeding, amenorrhoea, and contraceptive use. The field methods 
used incorporated quality assurance procedures. At 1 month postpartum, 78% of 
the infants were still being breast-fed, at 5 months 50%, and at 12 months 25%. 
The level of amenorrhoea at 1 month postpartum was 85%, at 3 months 50%, and at 
5 months 25%. Use of contraceptives was initiated at an early stage, with 42% of 
all users beginning during the first month postpartum. The simplified method 
described permitted the area's primary health care administrators to carry out 
research projects for programme development rapidly and was compatible with the 
locally available resources.

PIP: Reported here is the use of a simplified methodology for carrying out a 
community-based epidemiological assessment that is compatible with the goals of 
primary health care research. For this purpose, a current status life table 
analysis of data from 1131 women who were served by community healthworkers in 
the state of Mexico was used to determine the distributions of the duration of 
postpartum breastfeeding, amenorrhea, and contraceptive use. The field methods 
used incorporated quality assurance procedures. At 1 month postpartum, 78% of 
the infants were still being breastfed, at 5 months 50%, and at 12 months 25%. 
The level of amenorrhea at 1 month postpartum was 85%, at 3 months 50%, and at 5 
months 25%. Use of contraceptives was initiated at an early stage, with 42% of 
all users beginning during the 1st month postpartum. The simplified method 
described permitted the area's primary health care administrators to carry out 
research projects for program development rapidly and was compatible with the 
locally available resources. (author's)

PMCID: PMC2393121
PMID: 2364480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Int J Artif Organs. 1990 May;13(5):267-72.

Peritoneal catheters: a comparative study of column disc and Tenckhoff 
catheters.

Shah GM(1), Sabo A, Nguyen T, Juler GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of California, Irvine.

A functioning peritoneal access is crucial to the success of peritoneal 
dialysis. We report retrospective analysis of our experience using 44 Tenckhoff 
and 23 column disc, double-cuff, catheters in 46 patients receiving peritoneal 
dialysis. Postoperative care was identical in both groups. Both catheter groups 
were comparable with regards to age, sex, obesity and prior abdominal surgery. 
Catheter removal due to drainage failure was significantly greater with the 
column disc than the Tenckhoff catheters (22% vs 5%, p = 0.04). In addition, 39% 
of column disc catheters compared to 11% Tenckhoff catheters were removed as a 
result of therapy resistant peritonitis (p = 0.011). Furthermore, there was a 
greater incidence of peritonitis with the column disc than with the Tenckhoff 
catheters at the end of the first year (71% vs 42%, p less than 0.01). There was 
no difference between the two groups with respect to other complications, such 
as pericatheter leak, catheter infections, catheter cuff-extrusion or hernia. 
Our experience indicates that the column disc catheter is associated with higher 
complication rates and does not offer any advantage over the Tenckhoff catheter.

PMID: 2365482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. J Neurosurg. 1990 Aug;73(2):193-200. doi: 10.3171/jns.1990.73.2.0193.

Risk of late stroke and survival following carotid endarterectomy procedures for 
symptomatic patients.

Turner DA(1), Tracy J, Haines SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.

The long-term outcome following carotid endarterectomy for neurological symptoms 
was analyzed using a retrospective life-table approach in 212 patients who had 
undergone 243 endarterectomy procedures. The postoperative follow-up period 
averaged 38.9 +/- 2.1 months (mean +/- standard error of the mean). The 
endpoints of stroke and death were evaluated in these patients. Patient groups 
with the preoperative symptoms of amaurosis fugax, transient ischemic attack, 
and prior recovered stroke were similar in terms of life-table outcome over the 
follow-up period. Sixty-two percent of symptomatic patients were alive and free 
of stroke at 5 years. The late risk of stroke (after 30 days postoperatively) 
averaged 1.7% per year based on a linear approximation to the hazard at each 
life-table interval (1.3% per year for ipsilateral stroke). The trend of late 
stroke risk was clearly downward, however, and could be fitted more accurately 
by an exponential decay function with a half-life of 33 months. Thus, the risk 
of stroke following carotid endarterectomy for neurological symptoms was highest 
in the perioperative period, slowly declined with time, and occurred 
predominantly ipsilateral to the procedure. The definition of a prospective 
medical control group remains crucial for a critical analysis of treatment 
modalities following the onset of premonitory neurological symptoms. In the 
absence of an adequate control group for this series, the calculated 
perioperative and postoperative stroke risk from this study was compared to data 
obtained from the literature on stroke risk in medically treated symptomatic 
patients. This uncontrolled comparison of treatment modalities suggests the 
combined perioperative and postoperative stroke risk associated with carotid 
endarterectomy to be modestly improved over medical treatment alone.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1990.73.2.0193
PMID: 2366076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1990 May;196(5):285-9. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1046172.

[Melanoma of the conjunctiva and its treatment].

[Article in French]

Zografos L(1), Uffer S, Gailloud C, Bercher L.

Author information:
(1)Clinique ophthalmologique universitaire de Lausanne.

37 cases of conjunctival melanomas treated in the University Eye Clinic of 
Lausanne are analysed. This total is made of 20 men and 17 women aged between 19 
and 81 years with a mean age of 54.7 years. Tumors were localized in the bulbar 
conjunctival in 27 cases, in the palpebral conjunctival in 2 cases and were 
diffuse in 8 cases. Cornea was infiltrated in 19 cases. In 21 cases, the first 
treatment was made in our service and 16 cases were recurrences following a 
treatment made elsewhere. The mortality rate to 5 years was 20%. In a 
multivariant analysis using the COX Model, the height of the tumor was the only 
significant parameter (p = 0.035) for life expectancy. Recurrence of the tumor 
(p = 0.060) and presence of a PAM (p = 0.652) were not significant parameters. 
Benefits of cryocoagulation and indications for a proton beam irradiation are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1046172
PMID: 2366455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Risk Anal. 1990 Jun;10(2):247-53. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1990.tb01046.x.

Appraisal of individual radiation risk in the context of probabilistic 
exposures.

Bohnenblust H(1), Prêtre S.

Author information:
(1)Ernst Basler & Partners Ltd., Zollikon, Switzerland.

There exists a growing desire to base safety criteria in different fields on the 
same principles. The current approach by the international Commission on 
Radiological Protection (ICRP) to control radiation exposure touches many 
aspects such as social, psychological, or economic factors that are important 
for such principles. This paper attempts to further explore possible ways of 
defining a common basis for dealing with radiation risks and other safety 
problems. Specifically, it introduces the following issues: (1) different types 
of risk are judged differently. To account for this, the concept of risk 
categories is introduced. (2) The dimension of time may play an important role. 
There is a difference between an immediate death and a death occurring 20 years 
after exposure to radiation. Effects such as reduced quality of life after 
exposure and reduction of lifetime expectancy are discussed. The paper suggests 
to introduce an individual risk equivalent which allows to compare risks as 
defined in various fields. Furthermore, it suggests the use of risk acceptance 
criteria which depend on the different categories of risk.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1990.tb01046.x
PMID: 2367710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Soc Sci Med. 1990;30(12):1341-7. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90314-i.

Modeling the growth of long-stay populations in public mental hospitals.

Fisher WH(1), Phillips BF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 
Worcester 01655.

Long-stay, chronic patients have been a problematic subpopulation in public 
mental hospitals for over a century. Despite three decades of 
deinstitutionalization and a major shift toward shorter episodes of 
hospitalization, there continues to exist a group of patients who experience 
lengthy hospital stays. As the number of such patients increases in a facility, 
its ability to provide acute care may be compromised, and the size of this 
subpopulation must therefore be anticipated. This paper examines the 
length-of-stay patterns of a sample of public mental hospital admissions through 
the use of life table analysis, and develops a dynamic modeling algorithm using 
sample survival function values. Life table analysis revealed a declining hazard 
function, indicating a diminishing probability of discharge with increased 
hospital stay. The dynamic model showed that, after 2 years of operation of a 
hypothetical facility, current length-of-stay patterns would generate an 
inpatient population 40% of which had been hospitalized for over 6 months. 
Goodness-of-fit tests comparing the algorithm's forecast with actual hospital 
utilization data showed its predictions to be reliable. The authors discuss the 
use of this methodology to anticipate the effects of programmatic or other types 
of changes in mental hospitals, and also suggest other types of settings where 
such modeling techniques might profitably be applied.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(90)90314-i
PMID: 2367879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. AARN News Lett. 1990 Jun;46(6):16-8.

Nursing shortage.

Cuddy P.

PMID: 2368576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1990 May-Jun;31(3):333-9.

Predictors of surgical outcome in patients undergoing aortobifemoral bypass 
reconstruction.

Ameli FM(1), Stein M, Provan JL, Aro L, Prosser R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Wellesley Hospital, University of Toronto.

We report a prospective study with 2 years of follow-up including 105 
consecutive symptomatic patients (58.1% claudication and 41.9% severe ischemia) 
undergoing aortobifemoral bypass surgery (ABF/BP). Proportional-hazards, 
stepwise regression, and life-table analyses were used to determine predictors 
of the following outcome criteria: graft patency, amputation, mortality, 
symptomatic recurrence, and palliation. The operative mortality was 5.7% and the 
2-year cumulative mortality was 15.5%. Most deaths (61.5%) were cardiac-related. 
There were 3 predictors of mortality: the presence of more than 1 surgical risk 
factor (relative risk [RR] 6.2; p less than 0.001), advanced age (RR 2.9; p = 
0.03) and the presence of ischemic heart disease (RR 1.5; p = 0.045). No patient 
required amputation. Early graft patency rate was 94.3% and the 2-year 
cumulative patency was 92.8%. The only predictor of graft failure was 
preoperative ankle/brachial index (ABI) of less than 0.4 (RR 6.1; p = 0.003). 
Early symptomatic relief was 98.1% and at 2 years it was 77.3%. There were 2 
predictors of symptomatic recurrence: postoperative smoking (RR 2.4; p less than 
0.001) and impaired runoff (RR 2.5; p = 0.017). Cumulative palliation was 87.6% 
at 1 month and 66.5% at 2 years postoperatively. There were 2 predictors of 
palliation: the presence of more than 1 surgical risk-factor (RR 1.8; p = 0.001) 
and postoperative transcutaneous oximetry (PtcO2) of less than 35 mmHg (RR 3.1; 
p = 0.04). We conclude that the best predictors of outcome in patients 
undergoing ABF/BP surgery were the number of preoperative risk factors, age, 
ischemic heart disease, ABI, PtcO2, postoperative smoking, and angiographic 
runoff.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2370267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Trop Anim Health Prod. 1990 May;22(2):67-76. doi: 10.1007/BF02239829.

Simulated livestock dynamics--effects of pastoral offtake practices and drift on 
cattle wealth.

Baptist R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Production, University of Nairobi, Kenya.

Pastoral cattle herds were simulated to demonstrate a species-independent 
package (DADAS) for the analysis and simulation of livestock dynamics. A cow 
culling age of 11 years was expected to maximise offtake rate and to stabilise 
the cattle population. This threshold was derived by the deterministic module of 
the package used. A closer look at six offtake patterns using the stochastic 
module of the simulation program revealed that those who cull cows at an age 
limit would fare less well than those who cull cows only when sterile. Within 
each offtake pattern the cumulative effects of chance fluctuations in sex-ratio 
of calves, mortality, sterility, age at first calving and calving interval 
resulted in cattle wealth indicators varying widely between replicate herds. The 
example shows that livestock dynamics simulation on personal computers is 
feasible for planning, teaching and research purposes.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02239829
PMID: 2371755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Ann Fr Anesth Reanim. 1990;9(3):227-8. doi: 10.1016/s0750-7658(05)80175-3.

[Definition of the elderly patient. Demographic data].

[Article in French]

Laxenaire MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Département d'Anesthésie-Réanimation, Hôpital Central, Nancy.

Based on data from INSEE, the French population included in 1982 54,273,200 men 
and women, 18.5% of whom were more than 60, 13.5% more than 65, 6.5% more than 
75 and 1.4% more than 85 years of age. With increasing age the sex ratio 
men/women changed from 1.2 between 60 and 64 to 3 after 90 years of age. For the 
year 2000 an increase of 20% of those of more than 60 and of 42% of those of 
more than 85 years of age is expected.

DOI: 10.1016/s0750-7658(05)80175-3
PMID: 2372144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. DNA Cell Biol. 1990 Jun;9(5):323-34. doi: 10.1089/dna.1990.9.323.

Cell-specific expression of a profilin gene family.

Binette F(1), Bénard M, Laroche A, Pierron G, Lemieux G, Pallotta D.

Author information:
(1)Département de Biologie, Faculté des Sciences et de Génie, Université Laval, 
Québec, Canada.

Profilin is a ubiquitous eukaryotic protein that inhibits actin polymerization. 
We cloned and sequenced the two profilin genes from the acellular slime mold 
Physarum polycephalum. The genes, proA and proP, each contain two introns. 
Primer extension experiments showed two possible transcription start sites in 
the profilin A gene and one start site in the profilin P gene. The profilin A 
mRNA has two polyadenylation sites, which yield mRNAs of about 600 and 500 
nucleotides. The profilin P mRNA has a single polyadenylation site. The protein 
sequences were deduced from cDNA nucleotide sequencing. The profilin A and 
profilin P proteins contain 125 amino acids and are 66% identical in sequence. 
They show sequence similarity to Acanthamoeba (approximately 54%), yeast 
(approximately 46%), mouse (approximately 22%), calf (approximately 21%), and 
human (approximately 21%) profilins. The presence of the profilin A and profilin 
P mRNAs was studied throughout the life cycle. Profilin A mRNA was found in 
amebas, encysted amebas, and mature spores. The profilin P mRNA was present in 
plasmodia and spherulating plasmodia. Most cell types of P. polycephalum contain 
either the amebal or the plasmodial profilin mRNA, and no cell contains both 
mRNAs. This is the first evidence for developmental regulation of profilin 
isoforms.

DOI: 10.1089/dna.1990.9.323
PMID: 2372376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Br J Urol. 1990 Jun;65(6):589-97. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410x.1990.tb14826.x.

Comparison of morphometry and DNA flow cytometry with standard prognostic 
factors in bladder cancer.

Lipponen PK(1), Collan Y, Eskelinen MJ, Pesonen E, Sotarauta M, Nordling S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Kuopio, Finland.

In 83 bladder cancer patients with adequate follow-up (mean 13 years, range 
9-22) the prognostic value of morphometric, DNA flow cytometric and clinical 
parameters was assessed. Paraffin embedded material was used in flow cytometry. 
Univariate life-table analysis showed the statistically significant relation of 
clinical stage, histological grade, mean nuclear area, the Standard Deviation 
(SD) of nuclear area, mean maximal nuclear diameter, mean nuclear perimeter and 
the volume corrected mitotic index (M/V index) to survival when bladder cancer 
deaths alone were used in the analysis. The recurrence of bladder cancer could 
be predicted with the M/V index. Survival analysis with Cox's regression model 
pointed to primary tumour clinical stage as the most important prognostic factor 
of crude survival. Histologically, grade and the SD of nuclear area were the 
best prognostic factors. Primary tumour stage and histological grade were the 
best predictors of death from bladder cancer. In Cox's model, histoquantitative 
methods are almost as good as clinical staging in predicting prognosis. DNA flow 
cytometry of paraffin embedded material offered no advantage over clinical 
stage, histological grade or morphology in assessing prognosis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410x.1990.tb14826.x
PMID: 2372672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Medicine (Baltimore). 1990 Jul;69(4):217-26. doi: 
10.1097/00005792-199007000-00003.

Acquired cystic kidney disease: occurrence, prevalence, and renal cancers.

Matson MA(1), Cohen EP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee.

Acquired cystic kidney disease (ACKD) is the result of cyst formation in the 
failing kidney. It has become more common because of increases in retention of 
the patients' own kidneys, growth in the dialysis population, and survival of 
long-term dialysis patients. We studied our chronic dialysis population for ACKD 
and renal cancers, and conducted a literature review of ACKD and renal cancer. 
We analyzed our chronic dialysis patients from 1979 through 1989 for native 
