kidney retention, and studied patients undergoing their first kidney transplant 
at our center from 1967 through 1989. Our patients and those in literature 
reports were characterized by age, sex, race, underlying renal disease, dialysis 
time, and survival. We found that: 1) Native kidney retention in dialysis and 
transplant patients has increased linearly over the past 10 to 20 years and is 
now greater than 90% in both groups; 2) ACKD occurs in ESRD patients with all 
types of underlying kidney disease. 3) ACKD affects CAPD patients and HD 
patients equally; 4) ACKD affects both sexes equally and age is not a factor in 
the development of ACKD; 5) there appears to be a greater prevalence of ACKD in 
black patients with ESRD as compared to white patients with ESRD; 6) the 
prevalence of ACKD is a function of time on dialysis; 7) the incidence of renal 
cancer in ESRD is increased over that of the general population and occurs 80% 
of the time in patients with ACKD; 8) renal cancer can develop at any time in 
patients with ESRD and also occurs in renal transplant recipients; 9) the 
incidence of renal cancer in ESRD is 5 to 7 times greater in males than in 
females, and blacks are affected nearly twice as often as whites; and 10) the 
5-year survival of patients with renal cancer and ESRD is approximately 
35%--similar to that of patients not on dialysis. ACKD is an important 
complication of ESRD and will grow in importance as the population at risk 
continues to increase. These results support the need for investigation of 
3-year dialysis patients for the presence of cystic disease and appropriate 
therapy based on findings. Further study is needed to discern the quantitative 
importance of ACKD and renal cancers in renal transplant patients.

DOI: 10.1097/00005792-199007000-00003
PMID: 2374506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1990 Jul 21;120(29):1037-44.

[Liver transplantation. Preliminary results in the district University Hospital 
of Geneva].

[Article in French]

Mentha G(1), Meyer P, Huber O, Le Coultre C, Villiger A, Cereda JM, Widmann JJ, 
Pittet D, Gunn-Séchehaye A, Schneider PA, et al.

Author information:
(1)Département de chirurgie, Hôpital cantonal universitaire, Genève.

Between July 1987 and May 1989, 11 liver transplants were performed on 10 
patients at the University Hospital of Geneva. Of 15 patients evaluated for 
elective transplantation, 10 were accepted and put on the waiting list. 5 
patients were rejected because of a contraindication or because another 
treatment seemed preferable. 8 transplantations were eventually performed. 
Emergency transplantation was considered for 6 patients, but could be performed 
in only 3. Indications for transplantation were as follows: one hepatocellular 
carcinoma in a non-cirrhotic patient, 2 post-hepatitis cirrhoses (one B and one 
non-A-, non-B), 3 primary biliary cirrhoses, one autoimmune cirrhosis, one 
primary sclerosing cholangitis, one cirrhosis on alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency, 
and one fulminant B-Delta hepatitis. Most of these patients had advanced liver 
disease and a limited life expectancy. 8 of the 10 patients transplanted are 
nevertheless alive and none is hospitalized at the present time. More than mere 
survival, however, quality of life regained after transplantation prompts us to 
consider transplantation early in the progress of the disease. Earlier 
evaluation of patients would make transplantation feasible soon after the first 
complication of the disease. This attitude would probably prevent patients from 
dying while on a waiting list and decrease operative as well as early 
postoperative risks. Better information and coordination regarding potential 
donors is necessary in Switzerland to obtain better results in organ 
transplantation.

PMID: 2374894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1990 Jul-Sep;71(3):11-7.

Major improvements in life expectancy: 1989.

[No authors listed]

Longevity in 1989 rose to a record for virtually every age. According to 
MetLife, average remaining lifetime for newborns established a new high of 75.2 
years. Expectation of life enhancements were attributed to the absence of major 
epidemics and the decline in total mortality. Recent longevity differences 
between males and females continued to narrow but disparities widened among 
whites and blacks.

PMID: 2374990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Stud Fam Plann. 1990 May-Jun;21(3):161-70.

A minority group and China's one-child policy: the case of the Koreans.

Park CB(1), Han JQ.

Author information:
(1)University of Hawaii School of Public Health, Honolulu 96822.

This report describes the participation in the one-child certificate program by 
Koreans living in China, using data from a household survey conducted in 1986 in 
Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture, Jilin Province. Although the Koreans and 
all other minorities are exempt from China's strict one-child family policy, by 
pledging not to have more than one child they receive the one-child incentives. 
The total minority population in China is nearly 70 million and their combined 
population growth rate is much higher than that of the Han majority. The Korean 
minority, however, has had a growth rate lower than that of the Han. 
Nevertheless, the level of acceptance of the one-child certificate among Korean 
couples is only about 10 percent of those who currently have one 
child--one-fourth of the 1982 national figure. Life-table analysis indicates 
that fewer than 9 percent of Korean women would accept the certificate within a 
six-year period after their first birth. In the meantime, a second child would 
be born to 60 percent of the women. Among eight factors considered, three--place 
of residence, occupation of husband, and sex of the living child--significantly 
affected the rate of acceptance of the certificate, according to the hazards 
model.

PMID: 2375047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Stud Fam Plann. 1990 May-Jun;21(3):181-5.

Mexico 1987: results from the demographic and health survey.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The Mexico National Survey on Fertility and Health was national in scope. 
Data was collected from 7786 households and complete interviews conducted with 
9310 women aged 15-49. Field work took place between February and May, 1987. The 
size of the general population grew from 44.8 million in 1965 to 70.4 million in 
1980, and increase of 57.1%. There was a 26.7% decline in the birth rate during 
those same years. Crude death rates fell from 10.8/1000 in 1965 to 6.8/1000 in 
1980, a 37% decrease. There was an increase in life expectancy from 59.4 years 
in 1965 to 66.4 years in 1980, an 11.8% increase. There was a 20.9% increase in 
urban areas during these years. The gross national product per capita was $1860 
in 1980. There was a 26% decrease in the labor force in agriculture, from 50% in 
1965 to 37% in 1980. The total number of women surveyed with no education was 
10.8%; 22.3% were rural, 6.7%, urban. The total number of women who had 
completed their secondary education was 40.5%. The total fertility rate was 
estimated at 4.0% in 1984-1986. Total fertility rates are 5.8 for rural; 3.3, 
urban. The mean ideal number of children across all ages is 3.0. The number of 
women who want no more children by all births is 4.7. The % of women in union 
who are using contraception is 52.7. The source of contraceptive supply for 
users of modern contraceptive methods in different surveys, 1979-87 (percent) is 
51.1 Mexican Institute of Social Security in the national prevalence survey; 
53.4 in the national demographic survey, 1982; and 61.9 in the national 
fertility and health survey. The % of women currently using any contraceptive 
method is 52.7%; 44.6% for any modern method. Women who want no more children 
are 58.9%; 26.8%, want more children; 10.9% are pregnant and 3.5% are undecided. 
The main reason for nonuse of contraceptives by women in union who want no more 
children is that they consider use unnecessary (33.8%). At ages 45-49, 69.8% of 
Mexican women are married; 4.7% are single; 9.9% are in union; 7.5% are widowed; 
1.9% are divorced; and 6.2% are separated. Differentials in age at 1st marriage 
are 19.4 for women. The duration of postpartum interval for breastfeeding women 
is 10.5 months; amenorrheic and/or abstaining, 7.5 months; amenorrhea, 5.6 
months; and abstaining 4.4 months. UN estimates of the infant mortality rate 
(IMR) are 53/1000 for 1980-85; survey estimates 47/1000 for 1982-87. Rural IMR 
is 79 per 100; urban IMR is 42 per 100. Mean children ever-born to mothers aged 
40-44 are 5.43; 4.88 survive; 0.55 die; the proportion dead is 0.10.

PMID: 2375050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1990 Apr 27;102(9):256-9.

[Malignant hemangioendothelioma of the thyroid gland. Pathology, clinical 
aspects and prognosis].

[Article in German]

Ladurner D(1), Tötsch M, Luze T, Bangerl I, Sandbichler P, Schmid KW.

Author information:
(1)II. Universitätsklinik für Chirurgie, Innsbruck.

Malignant hemangioendothelioma (MHE) of the thyroid still constitutes a 
relatively important part of our surgical material, with 23 MHE (2.0%) among 
1153 primary thyroid tumors diagnosed between 1952 and 1987 (biopsy material of 
the Innsbruck Pathology Institute). 18 of these cases were investigated 
immunohistochemically; in 14 cases the data on clinical findings and follow-up 
were complete. Immunohistochemical results confirm the endothelial origin of 
this tumor and allow MHE to be definitively distinguished from anaplastic 
carcinomas. Follow-up and prognosis are determined by the aggressive nature of 
local tumor spread. 13 patients died after a median survival period of 2.4 
months (R: 1.2-9.4). Only one patient has remained alive since over 4 1/2 years 
now. An improvement of the hitherto dismal prognosis is thought to depend on 
early tumor diagnosis and an ameliorated combined modality treatment.

PMID: 2375113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. World Health Stat Q. 1990;43(2):105-14.

Who dies of what? A comparative analysis of mortality conditions in developed 
countries around 1987.

Lopez AD(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiological Surveillance and Health Situation and Trend 
Assessment, World Health Organization, Geneva.

The developed countries are often viewed as being relatively homogeneous in 
terms of health conditions. This is not the case, however. Whilst the overall 
level of life expectancy in these countries (73.7 years) is well in excess of 
that observed in the majority of developing countries, there are nonetheless 
very substantial differences in health status among and between the developed 
countries. Female life expectancy is typically 6-8 years longer than that of 
males. The gap in life expectancy between Japan and some countries of Northern 
Europe, on the one hand, and the nations of Eastern Europe on the other, is of 
the same order of magnitude. Of the 11 million deaths reported in the developed 
countries each year, roughly 5.5 million or almost exactly 50% are attributable 
to cardiovascular diseases. Of these deaths, 2.4 million are coded to ischaemic 
heart disease and 1.5 million to stroke (cerebrovascular disease). Cancer (all 
forms) accounts for 2.3 million deaths (21%), 500,000 of which are due to lung 
cancer alone. External causes of death claim 750,000 lives each year in the 
developed countries, with suicide and motor-vehicle accidents each accounting 
for around 180,000 deaths. This pattern of mortality, when viewed in conjunction 
with the epidemiological evidence about the principal risk factors associated 
with these causes of death, strongly suggests that national health-for-all 
strategies must continue to emphasize individual health consciousness as the 
primary means of achieving national health goals.

PMID: 2375129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. DICP. 1990 Jul-Aug;24(7-8):689-92. doi: 10.1177/106002809002400705.

Compliance among adults with cystic fibrosis.

Fong SL(1), Dales RE, Tierney MG.

Author information:
(1)Ottawa General Hospital, Ontario, Canada.

Advances in therapy have largely contributed to the increased life expectancy of 
patients with cystic fibrosis. Unlike children, adults with cystic fibrosis must 
take responsibility for their own care. We administered a questionnaire to 23 
adult patients (aged 18-39 years) with cystic fibrosis to (1) determine 
patients' degree of compliance with medications and chest physiotherapy; (2) 
collect information on their self-assessment of health motivation, disease 
severity, and benefits of treatment; and (3) identify barriers to receiving 
medical care. Patients reported better compliance with medications than with 
chest physiotherapy. Nine percent of the patients missed at least 25 percent of 
prescribed medication, whereas 47 percent missed at least 25 percent of 
prescribed physiotherapy. We observed a trend toward better compliance in 
patients who were highly worried about their health, who believed their illness 
to be serious, and who felt that their medications were very effective. Less 
than half of the study participants believed physiotherapy to be effective, and 
that adhering to a physiotherapy schedule was very difficult. Among adults with 
cystic fibrosis, compliance can be a serious problem that minimizes the benefits 
of good medical care. We suggest that emphasizing the severity of disease and 
usefulness of therapy may improve compliance and requires study.

DOI: 10.1177/106002809002400705
PMID: 2375137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Am J Psychiatry. 1990 Aug;147(8):988-93. doi: 10.1176/ajp.147.8.988.

Second-generation deinstitutionalization, II: The impact of Brewster v. Dukakis 
on correlates of community and hospital utilization.

Geller JL(1), Fisher WH, Simon LJ, Wirth-Cauchon JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 
Worcester 01655.

Comment in
    Am J Psychiatry. 1991 Jun;148(6):816-7.

On the basis of the principle that patients have the right to be treated in the 
least restrictive setting appropriate to their needs, all 368 patients at 
Northampton State Hospital (Massachusetts) were discharged over a 10-year 
period. Three-quarters were discharged to community settings. Half of the 
patients were never rehospitalized, but many others continued to display 
patterns of recidivism. On the assumption that socially dysfunctional behavior 
would improve after discharge, the funded community system emphasized 
assessments, residential placements, and crisis intervention and deemphasized 
treatment. The findings raise many questions about the efficacy and wisdom of 
attempting to serve an entire state hospital population in the community.

DOI: 10.1176/ajp.147.8.988
PMID: 2375464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1990;592:253-6; discussion 257-62. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1990.tb30336.x.

The ideals of optimal care for women at mid-life.

Bachmann GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, 
University of Medicine & Dentistry of New Jersey, New Brunswick 08903-0019.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1990.tb30336.x
PMID: 2375588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Arch Neurol. 1990 Aug;47(8):851-6. doi: 10.1001/archneur.1990.00530080033007.

The prognosis in Alzheimer's disease. 'How far' rather than 'how fast' best 
predicts the course.

Drachman DA(1), O'Donnell BF, Lew RA, Swearer JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 
Worcester 01655.

Clinical features at the initial examination of 42 patients with probable 
Alzheimer's disease were tested for prognostic value at subsequent follow-up of 
54 +/- 25 months. These potential prognostic features were of three types: 
degree of severity features (eg, IQ scores); variable clinical features (eg, 
extrapyramidal signs); and individual distinguishing features (eg, gender, 
education, and age). The power of these potential prognostic features to predict 
prognosis was assessed using the Kaplan-Meier life-tables method and the Cox 
proportional hazards model. Three clinical end points were considered: total 
dependence in activities of daily living; incontinence; and institutionalization 
at follow-up. Degree of severity features (subtests of the Wechsler Adult 
Intelligence Scale-Revised and the Wechsler Memory Scale, and the Clinical 
Severity Score) predicted subsequent dependence in activities of daily living, 
incontinence, and institutionalization. Historical disease duration, age, 
gender, family history of dementia, retrospective rate of progression, anxiety, 
psychosis, depression, and extrapyramidal signs did not influence prognosis. 
These results suggest that initial degree of severity ("how far") rather than 
variation in the rate of progression ("how fast") best predicts prognosis in the 
early to intermediate stages of Alzheimer's disease. The relationship of disease 
severity to prognosis should be taken into account before concluding that there 
are subtypes of Alzheimer's disease that have different rates of progression.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1990.00530080033007
PMID: 2375690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 1990 Jun;50(6):470-6. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1026284.

[Effect of inguinal lymph node irradiation on the treatment result of vulvar 
cancer with different risk factors].

[Article in German]

Vavra N(1), Kucera H, Egarter C, Weghaupt K.

Author information:
(1)Ordinariat für gynäkologische Strahlentherapie, Universität Wien.

The clinical data from 101 patients with invasive squamous cell cancers of the 
vulva with less than 10 mm stromal invasion in depth, treated between 1972 and 
1983, were studied. 43 of these patients underwent merely a radical vulvectomy, 
the remaining 58 patients underwent a combination therapy of vulvectomy and 
irradiation of inguinal lymph nodes. Although the majority of risk factors, like 
clinically suspicious nodes, stromal invasion of more than 5 mm, tumour 
expansion of more than 2 cm and clitoral location, occurred more frequently 
(p<0,001) in the combination therapy group. There was no statistical 
significance in the five-year survival rate between our two therapy groups 
(88,4% versus 79,3%). In stage I and II cases inguinal relapses occurred in the 
group with vulvectomy alone in 9.3%, in the group with adjuvant external 
irradiation of the inguinal fields in 2.6%. We believe, the data presented show 
the important role of radiotherapy of inguinal nodes in the curative management 
of vulvar cancer.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1026284
PMID: 2376307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Int J Epidemiol. 1990 Jun;19(2):323-30. doi: 10.1093/ije/19.2.323.

When and why children first start to smoke.

Swan AV(1), Creeser R, Murray M.

Author information:
(1)United Medical School, Guy's Hospital, London, UK.

Most investigations of smoking in children focus on prevalence in which uptake 
and maintenance are confounded. This paper reports an analysis of pure incidence 
data in a cohort of over 6000 Derbyshire schoolchildren followed for ten years 
investigated using survival data analysis techniques. Over 70% of the cohort 
tried at least one cigarette before the end of the fifth year of secondary 
school. Some 40% identified themselves as regular smokers while at school. The 
risks of taking up regular smoking were higher if, at the age of 11.7-12.7 
years, the children had smoking siblings, opposite sex friends, were dismissive 
of the health hazards and susceptible to peer pressure. More girls than boys in 
that age range spent time with opposite sex companions and in organized social 
activities which in turn were significantly associated with the risk of taking 
up smoking. Thus the earlier physical and emotional development of girls may 
help explain recent findings that adolescent girls are now more likely to smoke 
than boys of the same age. The greatest incidence of regular smoking occurred 
when the average age was increasing from 14.2 to 15.2 years. This has very clear 
implications for the timing of anti-smoking interventions.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/19.2.323
PMID: 2376442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Int J Epidemiol. 1990 Jun;19(2):374-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/19.2.374.

Educational level and mortality in a 32-year follow-up study of 18-year-old men 
in The Netherlands.

Doornbos G(1), Kromhout D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social Medicine, University of Leiden, The Netherlands.

Social inequities and their relation to health form a topic of growing concern 
in the Netherlands. The present investigation on educational level and mortality 
was carried out in a cohort of men born in 1932, examined for military service 
in 1950/1951 and for whom vital statistics could be obtained. In the group of 
78,505 men, 3456 deaths occurred during the follow-up until 31 December 1981. A 
life table analysis revealed an inverse relation between educational level and 
survival. In a multivariate logistic regression model the confounding effects of 
height and health score were taken into account. In addition to all-cause 
mortality, the relationships of educational level and mortality from coronary 
heart disease, cancer and accidents consistently showed an inverse pattern. The 
applicability of the results elsewhere is discussed.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/19.2.374
PMID: 2376450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Br J Ophthalmol. 1990 Jun;74(6):359-62. doi: 10.1136/bjo.74.6.359.

Changes in height of choroidal melanomas after plaque therapy.

Abramson DH(1), Servodidio CA, McCormick B, Fass D, Zang E.

Author information:
(1)New York Hospital, Cornell University Medical Center, New York.

Serial ultrasonic measurements of 82 uveal melanomas treated with brachytherapy 
plaques (cobalt-60 and iodine-125) and followed up for up to 141 months revealed 
that no two patients had identical patterns of change. The mean absolute change 
in tumour height after treatment was 1.8 mm at six months, 5.6 mm at 48 months 
for large tumours, and 0.9 and 1.9 mm for medium sized tumours. Eighty of the 82 
patients fell into one of three patterns of response: 57 patients had a decrease 
in height after treatment (type D), 13 patients had the same height after 
treatment (type S), and 10 patients had a progressive increase in height (type 
I). Life table comparison showed no correlation between survival and location of 
tumour, sex of patient, size of tumour when treated, or laterality. There was a 
slight correlation between age and survival. Patients older than 60 died more 
frequently from metastatic melanoma than those under 60 (p = 0.06). Life table 
analysis showed a significant correlation between tumour regression type and 
survival. At 48 months the best cumulative probability of survival was in 
patients with type D (88% alive) compared with those of type I (34% alive, p = 
0.0004).

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.74.6.359
PMCID: PMC1042128
PMID: 2378844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. J R Soc Med. 1990 May;83(5):340-1.

Modern Cassandras.

[No authors listed]

Comment on
    J R Soc Med. 1989 Oct;82(10):575-6.

PMCID: PMC1292664
PMID: 2380954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Laryngoscope. 1990 Aug;100(8):831-6. doi: 10.1288/00005537-199008000-00007.

Supraglottic laryngectomy for intermediate-stage cancer: U.T. M.D. Anderson 
Cancer Center experience with combined therapy.

Lee NK(1), Goepfert H, Wendt CD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX 77030.

We reviewed the records of all patients with previously untreated squamous cell 
carcinomas of the supraglottic larynx who presented to The University of Texas 
M.D. Anderson Cancer Center from 1974 to 1987. Of 404 patients, 60 (15%) 
underwent supraglottic laryngectomy and functional anterior neck dissection as a 
primary modality of therapy; these patients were studied. Fifty of the 60 
patients (83%) received adjunctive postoperative radiotherapy. Tumor-free 
survival was 96% at 2 years and 91% at 5 years. There were no local failures, 4 
regional failures, and 3 distant metastases. Second cancers, mostly of the lung, 
occurred in 9 patients (15%). Three patients required completion laryngectomies 
for intractable aspiration. Analysis of deglutition and tracheal decannulation 
rehabilitation revealed a higher incidence of complications in patients who 
underwent arytenoidectomies.

DOI: 10.1288/00005537-199008000-00007
PMID: 2381259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Med J Aust. 1990 Jul 2;153(1):62. doi: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1990.tb125479.x.

Quality assurance in general practice.

Harris PJ.

Comment on
    Med J Aust. 1990 Apr 2;152(7):339-40.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1990.tb125479.x
PMID: 2381367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Ann Rheum Dis. 1990 Jun;49(6):363-9. doi: 10.1136/ard.49.6.363.

Mortality and survival in rheumatoid arthritis: a 25 year prospective study of 
100 patients.

Reilly PA(1), Cosh JA, Maddison PJ, Rasker JJ, Silman AJ.

Author information:
(1)Royal National Hospital for Rheumatic Diseases, Bath.

One hundred patients with classical (52) or definite (48) rheumatoid arthritis 
(RA) at one year after onset were followed up for 25 years. By then 63 had died, 
in one third of whom RA had either directly caused or contributed to death. 
These patients, at one year after onset of arthritis, had a higher proportion 
with classical RA and more functional impairment than the rest. Thirty five of 
the surviving 37 patients were seen for review. Eleven were well with no 
functional impairment. At one year after onset they had a lower erythrocyte 
sedimentation rate (ESR) and higher haemoglobin than the others, in whom a 
poorer outcome was associated with a persistently raised ESR and lower 
haemoglobin. The initial Rose-Waaler titre was a poor prognostic guide, but a 
better functional outcome was associated with conversion to seronegativity or a 
marked fall in rheumatoid factor level.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.49.6.363
PMCID: PMC1004101
PMID: 2383059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. BMJ. 1990 Jul 7;301(6742):17-9. doi: 10.1136/bmj.301.6742.17.

Hospital care for the elderly in the final year of life: a population based 
study.

Henderson J(1), Goldacre MJ, Griffith M.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Clinical Epidemiology, University of Oxford.

OBJECTIVES: To determine whether among people aged 65 and over those who died at 
advanced old age spent more of their last year of life in hospital than those 
who died younger, and whether the increase in longevity in the elderly between 
1976 and 1985 was accompanied by increased time spent in hospital in the last 
year of life.
DESIGN: Linkage of death records to abstracts of records of hospital inpatient 
care in the preceding year of patients' lives.
SETTING: Six health districts in England covered by the Oxford record linkage 
study.
RESULTS: People who died at advanced ages (85 and over) were less likely than 
people who died at younger ages (65-84) to have been admitted to hospital in the 
last year of life. Once admitted the very old tended to spend longer in hospital 
than others. The mean total time spent in hospital by the elderly in the year 
before death (based on all deaths including those among people not admitted at 
all) showed no appreciable change over time. The median time in hospital based 
on all deaths increased by about three days between 1976 and 1985. During that 
time there was a gain in life expectancy in the population of about one year 
from the age of 65.
CONCLUSION: The gain in life expectancy in this population was not at the 
expense of any substantial increase in time spent in hospital in the final year 
of life.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.301.6742.17
PMCID: PMC1663342
PMID: 2383701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Prog Clin Biol Res. 1990;348:169-78.

Surgery for intrathoracic metastases from renal-cell carcinoma.

Witz JP(1), Roeslin N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire, Strasbourg, 
France.

PMID: 2385605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Q J Med. 1990 Mar;74(275):309-18.

Good prognosis for dilated cardiomyopathy without severe heart failure or 
arrhythmia.

Stewart RA(1), McKenna WJ, Oakley CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Hammersmith Hospital, Royal Postgraduate Medical 
School, London.

In 124 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy, symptoms of heart failure and 
ventricular arrhythmia at initial assessment were related to outcome a mean of 
43 months later. Using life table analysis, the two-year mortality from 
progressive heart failure was 59 per cent (90 per cent symptoms, six per cent 
(1-11 per cent) for patients with class 2 symptoms and zero for patients with 
class 1 symptoms. The two-year mortality from sudden death was 18 per cent (5-32 
per cent) for patients with class 3 symptoms, eight per cent (3-14 per cent) for 
patients with class 2 symptoms and seven per cent (0-17 per cent) for patients 
with class 1 symptoms. Sudden death was more frequent in patients with 
ventricular tachycardia or frequent ventricular ectopics, irrespective of the 
severity of heart failure (15 per cent (7-23 per cent) vs. three per cent (0-8 
per cent) at two years). These findings suggest that patients with dilated 
cardiomyopathy and mild symptoms often have a benign clinical course. However, 
occult ventricular arrhythmia is associated with an increased risk of sudden 
death.

PMID: 2385738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Isr J Med Sci. 1990 Jul;26(7):404-5.

Life span of parasite in schistosomiasis patients.

Arnon R.

Comment on
    Isr J Med Sci. 1990 Jul;26(7):386-9.

PMID: 2387714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1990 Sep;16(3):545-50. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(90)90340-u.

Multivessel coronary angioplasty early after acute myocardial infarction.

Nath A(1), DiSciascio G, Kelly KM, Vetrovec GW, Testerman C, Goudreau E, Cowley 
MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond 23298.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 1990 Sep;16(3):551-2.

Coronary angioplasty has been applied in patients with recent myocardial 
infarction, but results of angioplasty of multiple vessels early after 
myocardial infarction in patients with severe multivessel disease have not been 
reported. Coronary angioplasty of multiple vessels was performed in 105 patients 
0 to 15 days (mean 5 +/- 4) after recent myocardial infarction. There were 77 
men (73%) and 28 women (27%), with a mean age of 57 years. All patients had 
severe multivessel disease, 68% with two vessel and 32% with three vessel 
disease. Twenty-eight patients (27%) had successful thrombolysis before 
angioplasty and 70 (67%) had postinfarction angina. Mean left ventricular 
ejection fraction was 58 +/- 10% and was less than 45% in 13 patients (12%). 
Angioplasty was attempted in 319 lesions (mean 3 lesions per patient, range 2 to 
9) and 252 vessels (mean 2.4 vessels per patient, range 2 to 4), with success in 
302 lesions (95%) and 237 vessels (94%); angioplasty was done in two stages in 
59 patients (56%). Clinical success was achieved in 102 patients (97%). 
Complications included myocardial infarction in six patients (5.7%) (one Q wave, 
five non-Q wave), urgent bypass surgery in two (1.9%) and death in one (0.9%); 
overall, seven patients (7%) had a major complication. All patients had a 
follow-up duration greater than 1 year (mean 31 months, range 12 to 73). 
Clinical recurrence developed in 24 patients (23%), of whom 21 had repeat 
angioplasty, 1 had bypass surgery and 2 were managed medically. Ten patients 
(9.8%) had a late infarction and 5 (4.9%) died of cardiac death during the 
follow-up period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(90)90340-u
PMID: 2387926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Nihon Eiseigaku Zasshi. 1990 Feb;44(6):1059-64. doi: 10.1265/jjh.44.1059.

[A study on the survival rates for patients and suspected patients with 
Itai-itai disease].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakagawa H(1), Tabata M, Morikawa Y, Kitagawa Y, Senma M, Kanamori C, Kawano S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Kanazawa Medical University.

A follow-up study was carried out from January 1967 to December 1986 on 148 
patients with Itai-itai disease, 130 suspected patients (persons requiring 
observation), and 212 controls who were living in the same community as patients 
with Itai-itai disease. The relative survival rates for the three groups were 
calculated from a life expectancy table. Except for 1973 data, comparison of the 
annual data from 1968 to 1986 showed that the relative survival rates in the 
patient group were significantly lower than those in the control group. The 
relative survival rates in the suspected patient group were significantly lower 
than those in the control group between 1981 and 1986. Recently the differences 
of the relative survival rates between the patient group and the suspected 
patient group have become smaller and are not significant. These results show 
the long-lasting influence of Itai-itai disease on the prognoses of patients and 
suspected patients.

DOI: 10.1265/jjh.44.1059
PMID: 2388433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Nihon Eiseigaku Zasshi. 1990 Feb;44(6):1112-9. doi: 10.1265/jjh.44.1112.

[Cumulative incidence rate of divorces for birth cohort estimated by the 
life-table method].

[Article in Japanese]

Iki M(1), Ogata A, Kajita E, Takayama S, Yamasaki K, Yajima T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health, Fukui Medical School.

The trend of divorces has been usually evaluated by the divorce rate. However, 
it is difficult to make detailed analyses of the trend of or relevant factors 
concerning divorces by the divorce rate, because the denominator of this index 
is not a population at risk of divorces. The application of the life-table 
method to calculation of cumulative incidence rate of divorces for a birth 
cohort based on vital statistics data was introduced and its problems were 
discussed. This method was able to give a precise incidence rate of divorces and 
made it possible to examine the relationship of marital durations, generation of 
cohorts or age at marriage to the incidence of divorces. The results obtained 
were as follows: 1. The cumulative incidence rate of divorces increased and the 
marital duration-specific incidence rate of divorces decreased with continuation 
of marriages. 2. The cumulative incidence rate of divorces was higher in younger 
birth cohorts than in older cohorts. 3. The cumulative incidence rate of 
divorces was the lowest in the cohort married when the husband was 23 to 32 
years of age than in the cohorts with other ages at marriage in all the birth 
cohorts examined.

DOI: 10.1265/jjh.44.1112
PMID: 2388437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Life Sci. 1990;47(4):313-8. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(90)90589-j.

Tropic effect of dexamethasone on goldfish melanocytoma cells: induction of 
calcium-dependent but protein synthesis-independent morphological changes.

Shih YL(1), Chou SC, Chi CW, Tchen TT, Lo SJ.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Microbiology and Immunology, National Yang-Ming Medical 
College, Taiwan, Republic of China.

Treatment of melanocytoma cells of goldfish origin with dexamethasone leads to 
rapid morphological changes, flattening of cell body and extension of dendrites. 
This effect is independent of protein synthesis but requires the presence of 
extracellular calcium, indicating that it is a "tropic effect" distinct from the 
typical "trophic effects" of steroid hormones that involve de novo protein 
synthesis.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(90)90589-j
PMID: 2388531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Med J Aust. 1990 Aug 20;153(4):220-2. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1990.tb136865.x.

Withdrawing and withholding treatment in intensive care. Part 2. Patient 
assessment.

Fisher MM(1), Raper RF.

Author information:
(1)Royal North Shore Hospital, St Leonards, NSW.

Comment in
    Med J Aust. 1990 Aug 20;153(4):178-80.

In order to allocate resources fairly in intensive care units, and to avoid 
treatment which only prolongs dying, accurate prediction of outcome is 
necessary. Most systems that have been developed to predict the outcome of 
treatment are flawed and are little better than the guesses of experienced 
medical and nursing staff. The likelihood of survival must then be weighed 
against a subjective assessment of quality of life. The perception that 
intensive care wastes resources on patients who have little chance of survival 
should be reassessed in the light of our limited ability to detect hopelessly 
ill patients before embarking upon treatment.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1990.tb136865.x
PMID: 2388605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Pediatrics. 1990 Sep;86(3):374-7.

Diabetes mellitus in patients with cystic fibrosis: effect on survival.

Reisman J(1), Corey M, Canny G, Levison H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

Comment in
    Pediatrics. 1991 May;87(5):748-9.

Patient data obtained from the cystic fibrosis clinic of the Hospital for Sick 
Children (Toronto, Canada) over the period 1977 to 1988 were analyzed to compare 
the diabetic and nondiabetic cystic fibrosis patients. The pulmonary function, 
nutritional status, and survival data for 713 patients who attended the clinic 
over the 11-year period are reported. Insulin-dependent diabetes was found to 
exist in 37 (5.2%) of 713 patients. The patient age at time of diabetes 
diagnosis ranged from 2 to 34 years, with a mean +/- SD of 20.0 +/- 7.4 years. 
Patients who died in both the diabetic and nondiabetic groups had worse 
pulmonary and nutritional status than the surviving patients, but there were no 
significant differences between the diabetic and nondiabetic groups in those who 
died or in those who remained alive. Survival analysis showed a similar 
prognosis in the diabetic and nondiabetic groups. It is concluded that cystic 
fibrosis patients with diabetes are, for their age, not different from patients 
without diabetes with respect to pulmonary function, nutritional status, and 
survival.

PMID: 2388786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Nihon Igaku Hoshasen Gakkai Zasshi. 1990 May 25;50(5):527-32.

[Reevaluation of benefit and risk of mass screening for stomach 
cancer--comparison between X-ray diagnosis and endoscopy as the screening test].

[Article in Japanese]

Iinuma T(1), Tateno Y.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Research, National Institute of Radiological Sciences.

Mass screening for stomach cancer has been widely performed throughout Japan, 
since stomach cancer is the most important disease among various malignant 
diseases in Japan. As a screening test, the X-ray diagnosis with barium contrast 
medium is used and the risk of X-ray exposure must be considered in order to 
compare with the benefit of the mass screening. We have reported in the previous 
article in 1977 that the benefit and risk of stomach cancer mass screening 
become equal at age of 40 y.o. Since then, various conditions with the mass 
screening of stomach cancer have changed so that reevaluation of the benefit and 
risk relationship is necessary. Especially the risk coefficient of 
radiation-induced stomach cancer has been revised drastically in the report of 
United Nations Scientific Committee on the effects of radiation in 1988. So, in 
this report, the benefit of mass screening of stomach cancer is defined as the 
net elongation of average life expectancy due to the life saved, and the risk of 
the screening is defined as the net shortage of average life expectancy due to 
the radiation-induced stomach cancer and leukemia. Since the benefit increases 
rapidly with age and the risk decreases with age, a certain age at which the 
benefit and risk become identical should be found and under this age the mass 
screening is not justified to be performed. Assuming X-ray dose equivalent to 
stomach of 10 mSv and risk coefficient of stomach cancer of 12.6 X 10(-3) Sv-1 
from the United Nations report, the critical age is found to be about 35 y.o. 
for men and women.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2388820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Minerva Urol Nefrol. 1990 Jan-Mar;42(1):17-22.

[Long-term results of high-tolerance extracorporeal methods in the light of the 
new high-efficiency treatments].

[Article in Italian]

Pacitti A(1), Salomone M, Segoloni GP, Vercellone A.

Author information:
(1)Ospedale Maggiore S. Giovanni Battista (Molinette), Torino, Cattedra di 
Nefrologia dell'Università.

While the efficiency of treatment has been recently related to long-term 
clinical outcome, the relevance of tolerance on this subject, even on critically 
ill patients, has seldom been evaluated, for the limited size of single pools on 
high tolerance dialytic treatments (HTT) and the flux of pts. among treatments. 
Since 1981, on 2243 pts on files of the Dialytic Piedmont Regional Registry, 
1399 treatments on acetate-hemodialysis (HD), 1153 on bicarbonate dialysis (BC) 
and 249 hemofiltration (HF) were compared by survival analysis (Mantel test) and 
yearly hospitalization rate (YH), according to age, factors of clinical high 
risk (HR) and presence of diabetes. BC and HF showed on HR pts. LTS comparable 
to HD (at 1 yr. 82, 78.3 vs 76.77%) despite the higher age, and the lower 
proportion of first choice (38.9%, 25% vs. 83.5%) testifying successful 
treatment of more critical cases. On non HR pts. HF, a less efficient treatment 
vs BD and AD, showed slightly reduced LTS (95.2% at 1 yr. vs. 98.1 and 97.9%). 
HY results higher on HF vs. BD on non HR pts. (10.4 vs. 5.3 and 2.1%) but 
improves on HR pts. (10.7 vs. 12.5%) and is lower than BC on diabetics (8.3 vs. 
14.5%) (p less than 0.01).

PMID: 2389218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Minerva Urol Nefrol. 1990 Jan-Mar;42(1):51-3.

[Use of urokinase in the occlusion of the vascular access routes in chronic 
hemodialysis. 7 years' experience].

[Article in Italian]

Ortensia A(1), Delle Volpe M, Iberti M, Veronesi GV, De Micheli G.

Author information:
(1)U.S.S.L. n. 70, Ospedale Civile, Alessandria, Divisione di Nefrologia e 
Dialisi.

Pharmacological treatment with urokinase in obstructions of vascular accesses 
due to chronic dialysis is a tried and tested technique. Retrospective 
investigation of a group of 111 cases treated with urokinase makes it possible 
to calculate the actuarial survival curve of vascular access in the period 
subsequent to fibrinolytic treatment. Mathematical analysis provides a precise 
indication to the use of the drug in thromboses of a-v fistulas and anatomically 
unimpaired vascular prothesies. In the presence of stenosis of a-v anastomosis, 
pharmacological thrombolysis permits restoration of a blood flow suitable to the 
conduction of haemodialytic treatment for a period useful to surgical 
correction. Infusion of urokinase is useless in cases of vascular prosthesis 
thrombosis complicated by the presence of stenosis of the lumen.

PMID: 2389223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Minerva Urol Nefrol. 1990 Jan-Mar;42(1):59-63.

[CAPD versus hemodialysis. 7 years' experience at the Centro Dialisi in Alba].

[Article in Italian]

Cavalli PL(1), Goia F, Viglino G, Cottino R, Mariano F, Gandolfo C.

Author information:
(1)U.S.S.L. n. 65, Ospedale Civile "S. Lazzaro", Alba, Servizio di Nefrologia e 
Dialisi.

The purpose of the study is to compare the survival of the patients and the 
drop-out for change of the method in 2 groups of patients (pts) undergoing 
either CAPD (41 pts) or standard hemodialysis (HD) (45 pts) as first treatment, 
since November 1981 to August 1988. Distribution per sex (24 males and 17 
females in the CAPD group vs 32 males and 13 females in the HD group), mean age 
(61.3 years vs 56.7) and number of risk factors (57 vs 61) were not 
significantly different. The total period of observation was significantly 
higher (1305.8 months vs 780.3, P less than 0.01) and the results seemed to be 
better in the CAPD group, but the life table analysis showed no significant 
differences in the incidence of death (10 events vs 13) and of drop-out for 
change of the method (8 events vs 10) respectively in the CAPD and in the HD 
group. At the end of the study 51.2% of pts on CAPD and 33.3% on HD were still 
on first treatment; clinical problems (respectively 62.5% and 70.0%) were the 
most frequent cause of drop-out. The Authors conclude that CAPD in the 
medium-term is a valuable method of treatment of end-stage renal failure, 
competitive with standard HD when patient selection is not biased by a negative 
selection.

PMID: 2389225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Alcohol. 1990 Jul-Aug;7(4):361-6. doi: 10.1016/0741-8329(90)90096-u.

A survey of muscle function in detoxified alcoholics.

Pendergast DR(1), York JL, Fisher NM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, State University of New York, Buffalo.

Selected characteristics of arm and leg muscle contraction were examined in a 
racially mixed group of male detoxified alcoholics (N = 45, ages 20-49) and 
age-matched controls (N = 75). Lifetime drinking histories estimated the mean 
lifetime consumption of ethanol to be 8.96, 12.1 and 20.4 kg ethanol/kg body 
weight for alcoholic subjects aged 20-29, 30-39 and 40-49, respectively. The 
severity of the alcohol dependence syndrome (ADS scale) was marked in 
alcoholics, but was not age-dependent. Alcoholics did not differ significantly 
from controls on health status or physical activity scales. The performance of 
alcoholic subjects was impaired on all muscle function measures, with relatively 
more impairment found in older alcoholics. Maximal knee extension force 
generated at 3 muscle lengths (hip, angle, 45 degrees, 90 degrees, 180 degrees) 
was impaired only in alcoholics 30-49 years of age. Forearm (handgrip) muscle 
strength was impaired in all age groups of alcoholics. Maximal muscle (biceps) 
contraction speed at 3 levels of resistance was impaired only in alcoholics in 
their fifth decade of life. The greatest deficit in alcoholics (all age groups) 
was observed in the anaerobic power (bicycle ergometer) test. Thus, the 
magnitude of dysfunction and the extent of age-relatedness was found to be a 
function of the muscle test employed.

DOI: 10.1016/0741-8329(90)90096-u
PMID: 2390211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Br J Obstet Gynaecol. 1990 Jul;97(7):613-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1471-0528.1990.tb02549.x.

Reproductive prognosis after abdominal metroplasty in bicornuate or septate 
uterus: a life table analysis.

Candiani GB(1), Fedele L, Parazzini F, Zamberletti D.

Author information:
(1)Prima Clinica Obstetrico Ginecologica, Università di Milano, Italy.

Reproductive prognosis after abdominal metroplasty was assessed in 73 women with 
a septate and 71 with a bicornuate uterus who underwent metroplasty at the First 
Obstetric and Gynecologic Clinic of the University of Milan between 1972 and 
1985. The overall cumulative 5-year delivery rates were respectively 70% and 73% 
in women with septate and bicornuate uterus, rising constantly with time. The 
number of previous miscarriages did not affect the reproductive prognosis: the 
5-year probability of giving birth was 64% and 75% in the women with septate 
uterus and respectively fewer than two or more previous miscarriages, and the 
corresponding values were 66% and 73% in the bicornuate uterus subgroup. The 
miscarriage rate (about 20%) was similar with both types of malformation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.1990.tb02549.x
PMID: 2390505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Dis Colon Rectum. 1990 Sep;33(9):815-6. doi: 10.1007/BF02052335.

Local recurrence after resection and low-stapled anastomosis.

