Holdsworth PJ, Heald RJ.

Comment on
    Dis Colon Rectum. 1990 Feb;33(2):117-21.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02052335
PMID: 2390918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Science. 1990 Aug 24;249(4971):908-12. doi: 10.1126/science.2392681.

Increased life-span of age-1 mutants in Caenorhabditis elegans and lower 
Gompertz rate of aging.

Johnson TE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Colorado, Boulder 80309.

A mutation in the age-1 gene of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has been 
shown to result in a 65 percent increase in mean life-span and a 110 percent 
increase in maximum life-span at 25 degrees. One of the hallmarks of organismic 
aging and senescent processes is an exponential acceleration of age-specific 
mortality rate with chronological age. This exponential acceleration is under 
genetic control: age-1 mutant hermaphrodites show a 50 percent slower rate of 
acceleration of mortality with chronological age than wild-type strains. Mutant 
males also show a lengthening of life and a slowing of the rate of acceleration 
of mortality, although age-1 mutant males still have significantly shorter 
life-spans than do hermaphrodites of the same genotype. The slower rates of 
acceleration of mortality are recessive characteristics of the age-1 mutant 
alleles examined.

DOI: 10.1126/science.2392681
PMID: 2392681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Z Gesamte Hyg. 1990 Jun;36(6):328-31.

[Results of an analysis of age and cause of death in 1,000 silicosis autopsies 
in the Thüringen region].

[Article in German]

Tischendorf M(1), Ahlendorf W.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Röntgendiagnostik des Bereiches Medizin der FSU, Jena.

The authors have studied the clinical and autopsy records, including lung 
roentgenograms, of 1,000 silicotics deceased in the Thuringian districts of 
Gera, Erfurt and Suhl over the past 30 years. The main points of the analysis 
are clinical-pathological-anatomical comparisons in pneumoconiosis diagnoses and 
the identification of the cause of death. The roentgenological findings were 
found to be largely in correspondence with the pathological-anatomical ones. 
Surprisingly, the mean life span of male pneumoconiosis patients (71.3 years) is 
more than 2 years above the average life expectancy in the GDR, whereas the mean 
life span of the female patients differs little from the average GDR figure. 
60.7 percent of the patients died of the sequelae of pneumoconiosis.

PMID: 2392852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Ann Med. 1990 Jun;22(3):207-9. doi: 10.3109/07853899009147271.

Why should we treat hyperglycaemia?

Pelkonen R(1).

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Medicine, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.

The life expectancy and quality of life of diabetic patients are largely 
determined by the long-term complications. Convincing evidence exists to show 
that the complications are secondary to the altered internal milieu caused by 
inappropriate insulin action--insulin deficiency in type 1 diabetes and insulin 
resistance in type 2 diabetes. Genetic factors play only a minor role in the 
process with the exception of diabetic nephropathy. Of the many metabolic 
disturbances present in diabetes hyperglycaemia seems to be the most important 
in this respect. Long-term it has a cumulative effect on the development of 
background retinopathy in the whole diabetic population and a similar effect on 
diabetic nephropathy in a genetically predisposed subset. The role of 
hyperglycaemia in the pathogenesis of macroangiopathy is less clear. Since 
diabetic microangiopathy is not related to diabetes itself but is secondary to 
its metabolic consequences, it is--at least in principle--preventable. That this 
is true has been shown in animal experiments but it has not been proved in human 
diabetes. There is, however, much evidence suggesting that the incidence of 
diabetic complications may be diminished when diabetes is well controlled. When 
the known facts about the rise and fall of the diabetic complications are taken 
into account the treatment of hyperglycaemia remains as one of the most 
essential aspects of managing diabetic patients.

DOI: 10.3109/07853899009147271
PMID: 2393556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Cas Lek Cesk. 1990 Jul 20;129(29):897-901.

[Nutrition and metabolic diseases with a mass incidence].

[Article in Czech]

Sobra J(1).

Author information:
(1)III. interní katedra I. lékarské fakulty Univerzity Karlovy, Praha.

Metabolic diseases with a mass incidence (simple obesity, arterial hypertension, 
hyperlipoproteinaemia, type II diabetes and gout) are the main risk factors for 
the manifestation of cardiovascular diseases which can be influenced, as has 
been reliably proved. They are at present the cause of 56% of all deaths in 
Czechoslovakia. It is important to emphasize that we are living and dying in an 
epidemic of cardiovascular diseases. The founder of morbid anatomy, Rudolf 
Virchow, stated more than 100 years ago: "If the prevalence of a certain disease 
in a population becomes epidemic, it reflects always a disorder of human 
culture". It is a fact that a great proportion of the population in 
Czechoslovakia has adopted during the past decades and still practices an 
unsound dietary regime and there are other negative lifestyle factors (obesity, 
smoking, little exercise, high alcohol consumption) for which we pay at present 
by a declining life expectancy, unnecessary human suffering and the nation as a 
whole by immense economic losses. The question arises: who and what prevents us 
from starting in Czechoslovakia as rapidly as possible expedient, 
comprehensively conceived prevention on a wide front, making use of all findings 
and advances of world science in this field?

PMID: 2393894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. J Gerontol. 1990 Sep;45(5):S206-11. doi: 10.1093/geronj/45.5.s206.

Health status and life style in elderly Japanese men with a long life 
expectancy.

Curb JD(1), Reed DM, Miller FD, Yano K.

Author information:
(1)Kuakini Medical Center, Honolulu Heart Program, HI.

The Japanese population in Hawaii has one of the longest life expectancies of 
any large population subgroup in the U.S. and the world. Cross-sectional data on 
1,379 elderly, noninstitutionalized, male Japanese American survivors of a 
population-based cohort study indicated the most common health problems were 
hypertension (43%), arthritis (33%), diabetes (13%), and gout (9%). For cancer 
and hypertension there is a trend toward higher prevalence in older age groups. 
For coronary heart disease, stroke, and angina the oldest age group (75-81 
years) has a higher prevalence than that seen in younger age groups. Other 
relatively common diseases such as diabetes, gout, peptic ulcer, and arthritis 
do not have higher prevalence in older age groups. Drugs reported to be used 
frequently by study participants were for hypertension, gout, CHD, and diabetes. 
The prevalence rates of major limitations of mobility and of living alone appear 
to be relatively low in this population. Less than one percent of the current 
population rate their health status as poor. The prevalence of normal serum 
cholesterol and smoking are similar to those seen in U.S. White males, while the 
rates of hypertension appear lower. Prevalence rates for stroke and heart attack 
also appear to be somewhat lower in these long-lived individuals than those seen 
in U.S. Whites.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/45.5.s206
PMID: 2394921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. J Biomed Eng. 1990 Jul;12(4):340-4. doi: 10.1016/0141-5425(90)90010-k.

Mechanical function of the human lumbar interspinous and supraspinous ligaments.

Hindle RJ(1), Pearcy MJ, Cross A.

Author information:
(1)Bioengineering Research Group, University of Durham, UK.

The mechanical function of the interspinous and supraspinous ligaments has been 
examined by simulating, on excised specimens, the deformation caused during 
forward flexion of the spine in real life. The load extension curves showed that 
during the first half of flexion the ligaments carried very little load but 
towards the end of the range of flexion they resisted up to 134N. When the 
supraspinous ligament was sectioned the interspinous ligament alone resisted 75% 
of this load. Testing at high strain rates showed an increase in load-carrying 
capacity of up to 30%. The maximum extension moment that can be produced by 
these ligaments was calculated to be approximately 7 Nm, or 5% of the moment the 
back muscles can produce across any intervertebral joint. Hence, during active 
lifting, these ligaments in isolation provide little mechanical assistance.

DOI: 10.1016/0141-5425(90)90010-k
PMID: 2395361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Demography. 1990 Aug;27(3):337-56.

Work and retirement among a cohort of older men in the United States, 1966-1983.

Hayward MD(1), Grady WR.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern California, Los Angeles 
90089-0191.

Multivariate increment-decrement working life tables are estimated for a cohort 
of older men in the United States for the period 1966-1983. The approach taken 
allows multiple processes to be simultaneously incorporated into a single model, 
resulting in a more realistic portrayal of a cohort's late-life labor force 
behavior. In addition, because the life table model is developed from 
multivariate hazard equations, we identify the effects of sociodemographic 
characteristics on the potentially complex process by which the labor force 
career is ended. In contrast to the assumed homogeneity of previous working life 
table analyses, the present study shows marked differences in labor force 
mobility and working and nonworking life expectancy according to occupation, 
class of worker, education, race, and marital status. We briefly discuss the 
implications of these findings for inequities of access to retirement, private 
and public pension consumption, and future changes in the retirement process.

PMID: 2397817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Demography. 1990 Aug;27(3):467-73.

Remarriage patterns of black and white women: reassessing the role of 
educational attainment.

Smock PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Demography and Ecology, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706.

Using data from the National Survey of Families and Households, this article 
illustrates the role of educational attainment in the remarriage patterns of 
black and white women. For whites, remarriage propensities do not differ 
significantly by schooling level. For blacks, on the other hand, remarriage and 
education are positively associated, net of the effects of other variables such 
as age at separation and the number of children. Very few black high school 
dropouts in the sample had remarried 10 years after separation. The results 
suggest that for blacks, those with the worst socioeconomic prospects are least 
likely to remarry.

PMID: 2397824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. J Vasc Surg. 1990 Sep;12(3):257-63.

The use of composite grafts in femorocrural bypasses performed for limb salvage: 
a review of 108 consecutive cases and comparison with 57 in situ saphenous vein 
bypasses.

Feinberg RL(1), Winter RP, Wheeler JR, Gregory RT, Snyder SO Jr, Gayle RG, 
Parent FN 3rd, Adcock GD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Eastern Virginia Graduate School of Medicine, 
Norfolk 23510.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 1991 Jun;13(6):921.

We retrospectively reviewed the results of 108 consecutive femorocrural bypasses 
performed with prosthetic/autogenous composite graft material and compared these 
with the results of 57 crural bypasses using greater saphenous vein by the in 
situ technique. Indication for operation in all cases was the salvage of an 
otherwise imminently threatened limb. Polytetrafluoroethylene-composite grafts 
(n = 87) and human umbilical vein-composite grafts (n = 21) were placed only in 
patients lacking suitable autogenous material for in-line reconstruction. 
Patient groups were similar with respect to mean age, prevalence of arterial 
disease risk factors, quality of the distal runoff, and location of the distal 
anastomosis. Cumulative patency rates at 1 year by life-table analysis were 
81.9%, 34.6%, and 12.1% for the in situ, polytetrafluoroethylene-composite and 
human umbilical vein-composite groups, respectively. At 2 years these were 
63.9%, 29.9%, and 6.0%, respectively (p less than 0.025). Cumulative limb 
salvage at 1 year was 70.6%, 62.3%, and 32.7%, respectively. Wound-related 
complications occurred in 52.4% of human umbilical vein-composite, 38.6% of in 
situ, and 18.3% of polytetrafluoroethylene-composite bypasses (p less than 
0.05). On the basis of these results, we conclude that femorocrural bypass with 
polytetrafluoroethylene-composite graft is an acceptable form of distal 
reconstruction for limb salvage in patients lacking sufficient lengths of 
autogenous vein. We no longer use human umbilical vein for composite 
construction.

PMID: 2398584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. J Vasc Surg. 1990 Sep;12(3):354-60.

Foot salvage and improvement of microvascular blood flow as a result of epidural 
spinal cord electrical stimulation.

Jacobs MJ(1), Jörning PJ, Beckers RC, Ubbink DT, van Kleef M, Slaaf DW, Reneman 
RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Academic Hospital Maastricht, The Netherlands.

Epidural spinal cord electrical stimulation has been suggested as an alternative 
treatment in patients with limb-threatening ischemia in whom vascular 
reconstructive surgery is not possible anymore. We studied the effects of 
epidural spinal cord electrical stimulation on microcirculatory blood flow in 20 
patients with ischemic rest pain and ulcers. Angiography showed occluded crural 
arteries technically unsuitable for reconstructive surgery. Intravital capillary 
microscopy was used to assess capillary density and diameter and red blood cell 
velocity before and after a 1-minute period of arterial occlusion. After 
epidural spinal cord electrical stimulation 18 patients claimed immediate pain 
relief, which was confirmed by intravital capillary microscopy. Capillary 
density increased from 10 to 19/mm2 (p less than 0.001), red blood cell velocity 
increased from 0.088 to 0.496 mm/sec (p less than 0.001), and peak red blood 
cell velocity after arterial occlusion increased from 0.092 to 0.548 mm/sec (p 
less than 0.001). Two patients had no immediate pain relief; they did not show 
improvement of microcirculatory perfusion, and amputation was necessary. During 
the follow-up period (3 months to 3 years, mean 27 months), six other patients 
had recurrent ischemic pain, and amputation was necessary. In 12 patients pain 
relief continued, and ischemic ulcers healed; capillary microscopy confirmed 
improved microcirculatory blood flow. Microcirculatory parameters were 
significantly higher in respondents than in nonrespondents (p less than 0.001). 
Life-table analysis revealed a cumulative foot salvage of 80% and 56% after 1 
and 2 years, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2398593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Pneumologie. 1990 Jul;44(7):913-4.

[Long-term follow-up of pulmonary hypertension of unknown etiology].

[Article in German]

Lang I(1), Kneussl M, Frank H, Mlczoch J.

Author information:
(1)Kardiologische Universitätsklinik Wien.

Since 1967, 166 patients with primary pulmonary hypertension of unknown etiology 
have been followed-up at the Department of Cardiology at the University of 
Vienna. Although an exact etiopathogenetic differentiation was not possible, 
three groups of patients were identified clinically: patients with so-called 
primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH)--group 1; patients with pulmonary 
hypertension induced by anorexipens (aminorex fumarate)--group 2; and patients 
with pulmonary hypertension due to emboli in the large pulmonary vessels--group 
3. In addition to non-invasive echocardiographic assessment of pulmonary 
pressures, regular cardiac catheterizations were carried out, which revealed 
right atrial mean pressure, cardiac output, and mixed venous saturation to be 
prognostic predictive factors. Patients with anorexigen-induced pulmonary 
hypertension have a clearly better life expectancy than those with PPH. Owing to 
the temporally limited effect of the pulmonary hypertension-inducing agent, 
aminorex fumarate (Menocil), patients with anorexigen-induced pulmonary 
hypertension may be considered a model group for drug-induced vascular 
pathology.

PMID: 2399244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Stroke. 1990 Sep;21(9 Suppl):II35-7.

A model stroke classification scheme and its use in outcome research.

Reding MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Cornell University Medical College, Burke Rehabilitation Center, White 
Plains, N.Y. 10605.

PMID: 2399548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Z Erkr Atmungsorgane. 1990;174(3):196-203.

[Mass chest x-ray of at-risk probands].

[Article in German]

Mucke H(1), Mucke T.

Author information:
(1)Poliklinische Abteilung für Lungenkrankheiten und Tuberkulose, Dessau, DDR.

In the GDR annually repeated indiscriminate mass miniature radiographies (MMR) 
of all persons in the age of 16 years and over were performed during 3 decades. 
The aim was, beside finding cases of pulmonary tuberculosis, the early detection 
of bronchogenic carcinoma. The decrease of tuberculosis incidence and the shift 
of nearly all new cases to higher age groups lead to a change of this policy. 
The new regulation, in force since 1986, provides mass X-ray examinations of all 
persons in the age of 40 years and over with 2 years interval, and X-ray 
examinations of the lung of persons in several risk groups with shorter, mainly 
annual intervals. The latter became a task of the chest clinics. The experience 
of 2 chest clinics with the organization of these examinations and the yield of 
new cases of pulmonary tuberculosis and bronchogenic carcinoma are reported. It 
is necessary to improve the organization and to reduce the number of risk-groups 
to those with an acceptable balance of input and result. Otherwise, the staff of 
the chest clinics is impeded to fulfill more rewarding tasks in the care of 
patients. The results of the attempts of early detection of bronchogenic 
carcinoma and improvement of life expectancy by X-ray examination of risk groups 
and early resection were disappointing. Thus, other ways must be found. A 
revision of the regulation of 1986, concerning risk groups, is proposed with the 
aim to rationalize their surveillance.

PMID: 2399745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Am J Cardiol. 1990 Sep 15;66(7):673-8. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(90)91128-s.

Long-term follow-up of postmyocardial infarction patients with ventricular 
tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation treated with amiodarone.

Strasberg B(1), Kusniec J, Zlotikamien B, Mager A, Sclarovsky S.

Author information:
(1)Coronary Care Unit, Beilinson Medical Center, Petah Tiqva, Israel.

Amiodarone in a low dose (200 mg/day) was administered alone or in combination 
with other type I antiarrhythmic drugs as a first-line agent in 33 patients with 
ventricular tachycardia (VT) (n = 24) or ventricular fibrillation (VF) (n = 9) 
secondary to coronary artery disease with healed myocardial infarction. There 
were 30 men and 3 women (mean age 69 +/- 9 years). Left ventricular ejection 
fraction ranged from 16 to 45% (mean 29 +/- 8). Therapy was guided by the 
results of electrophysiologic studies without the use of a control study 
(without drugs). Predischarge electrophysiologic studies revealed inducible 
sustained VT in 8 patients (24%), nonsustained VT in 7 and noninducible VT in 18 
patients. Mean follow-up time was 27 +/- 7 months. Eleven patients (33%) died, 5 
suddenly (15%) and 6 from nonarrhythmic causes. Five patients (15%) had nonfatal 
recurrences of VT. Life-table analysis showed that arrhythmic recurrences or 
fatalities (VT or sudden death) were related to the results of the predischarge 
electrophysiologic studies and not to the baseline arrhythmia (VT or VF). 
Toxicity from amiodarone was uncommon and no patient discontinued taking the 
drug.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(90)91128-s
PMID: 2399883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Am J Public Health. 1990 Oct;80(10):1188-92. doi: 10.2105/ajph.80.10.1188.

Global health, national development, and the role of government.

Roemer MI(1), Roemer R.

Author information:
(1)UCLA School of Public Health 90024.

In spite of extreme differences in health status between the more developed and 
less developed countries, trends of infant mortality and life expectancy show 
substantial improvements in both types of country between 1950 and 1980. These 
improvements may be attributed to three types of change: 1) socio-economic 
development with decolonization, increased industrialization, growth of gross 
domestic product, urbanization, the gains of women, and enhanced education; 2) 
cross-national influences due to greater international trade, the spread of 
technology, and widespread affirmation of human rights; and 3) national health 
system development through expanded governmental health programs. Further 
improvements will depend on greater strength in public sector health services 
rather than private sector services which aggravate inequities.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.80.10.1188
PMCID: PMC1404832
PMID: 2400028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Br J Radiol. 1990 Sep;63(753):716-9. doi: 10.1259/0007-1285-63-753-716.

Treatment outcome of spinal cord compression by nasopharyngeal carcinoma.

Leung SF(1), Tsao SY, Shiu W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Hong Kong.

Spinal cord compression occurred in 1.6% of a cohort of 626 patients with 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma during a median follow-up period of 22 months. The 
degree of motor deficit before treatment was the most important predictor of 
subsequent motor recovery. One patient had complete reversal of motor deficit 
and returned to an ambulatory state by chemotherapy alone. The development of 
spinal cord compression was associated with a short life expectancy in 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1259/0007-1285-63-753-716
PMID: 2400897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Ugeskr Laeger. 1990 Sep 3;152(36):2565-6.

[Familial benign chronic neutropenia in a Danish family].

[Article in Danish]

Busch FH(1).

Author information:
(1)Give Sygehus, medicinsk afdeling.

Familial benign chronic neutropenia is a rare anomaly which is transmitted as an 
autosomally dominant trait and is characterized by normal or somewhat low total 
leukocyte counts, consistent neutropenia, and, usually, relative monocytosis and 
lymphocytosis, sometimes with eosinophilia. Affected individuals have a normal 
life expectancy. Many are asymptomatic, but some have histories of tendency to 
develop furuncles and/or periodontal disease. A Danish family with familial 
benign chronic neutropenia is reported. Four family members were affected, of 
these one had repeated attacks of severe stomatitis, two had histories of 
tendencies to develop furuncles, and one was asymptomatic.

PMID: 2402845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1990 Sep;163(3):719-22. doi:
10.1016/0002-9378(90)91055-h.

Survival rates of monoamniotic twins do not decrease after 30 weeks' gestation.

Carr SR(1), Aronson MP, Coustan DR.

Author information:
(1)Women and Infants' Hospital of Rhode Island/Brown University, Providence 
02905-2499.

A search of pathology records from the years 1967 to 1988 at Women and Infants' 
Hospital of Rhode Island (138,232 live births) revealed 24 sets of 
histologically confirmed monoamniotic twins. All records were available for 
review. Among the 17 sets of monoamniotic twins that reached 30 weeks' gestation 
with at least one twin still alive, there were no further fetal deaths. The 
risks of early delivery in these pregnancies appear to outweigh the risk of 
fetal death as a result of monoamniotic status alone. These data do not show an 
advantage to early delivery.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(90)91055-h
PMID: 2403152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Heart Lung. 1990 Jan;19(1):49-55.

Physical and psychosocial outcomes after coronary artery bypass graft surgery: 
review of the literature.

Allen JK(1).

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University School of Nursing, Baltimore, MD 21205.

Coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery is a common technique for improving 
myocardial blood flow in patients with ischemic heart disease. It is assumed 
that revascularization translates into improved outcomes in patients who undergo 
this surgery. In this article the literature on physical and psychosocial 
outcomes after CABG surgery is reviewed with a focus on prolongation of life, 
relief of angina pectoris, improvement in functional status, and return to work. 
Predictive factors are summarized, and implications of findings are discussed.

PMID: 2404911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. J Clin Apher. 1990;5(2):100-3.

Indications for intraoperative blood salvage.

Williamson KR(1), Taswell HF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota.

Intraoperative blood salvage is an accepted, safe, and effective procedure which 
should be used more widely. Currently, intraoperative salvage is used 
predominantly in cardiac, vascular, and orthopedic surgery, but the variety of 
surgical procedures for which it is indicated continues to enlarge. Indications, 
apart from the type of surgery, include patients with religious objections to 
transfusions, rare blood types, or life-threatening hemorrhage from any cause. 
The future will likely produce an extension of the use of intraoperative salvage 
techniques to postoperative bleeding and to some patients with malignancy and 
infection.

PMID: 2404968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. J Vasc Surg. 1990 Feb;11(2):207-14; discussion 214-5.

Comparison of infrainguinal graft surveillance techniques.

Green RM(1), McNamara J, Ouriel K, DeWeese JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Rochester School of Medicine, NY 14642.

One hundred seventy-seven patients with infrainguinal bypass grafts were 
followed by use of standard graft surveillance techniques to learn more about 
the natural history of hemodynamic abnormalities in the patient with no 
symptoms. A decrease in the ankle/brachial pressure ratio of 10% or more was 
considered an abnormal evaluation. Results of the duplex scan were interpreted 
as abnormal when the peak systolic flow velocity was greater than 120 cm/sec or 
less than 40 cm/sec. There were 18 graft thromboses (10%) during the period of 
observation, and nine of these grafts were successfully revised or replaced. 
Recurrent symptoms prompted graft revision in 20 additional patients, and 18 of 
these reoperations were successful. Twenty-nine of the 38 reoperations occurred 
within the first 18 months of the study. The primary cumulative patency rate was 
86% at 1 year and 66% at 5 years. The secondary cumulative patency rate was 91% 
at 1 year and 80% at 5 years. Sudden graft occlusion occurred in five patients 
after a normal ankle/brachial index. Most of 90 patients with abnormal 
ankle/brachial indexes reverted to normal at the next visit. Nineteen of the 26 
that did not, had significant graft problems, but only eight patients had 
operable conditions, and five of the eight already had occluded grafts. No 
patient with a normal ankle/brachial index and duplex scan results had graft 
occlusion before their next surveillance visit. If the duplex scan outcome was 
abnormal but the ankle/branchial index normal the incidence of sudden graft 
occlusion was 4%. In contrast, if the duplex scan outcome was abnormal and the 
ankle/brachial index is reduced, then the risk of graft occlusion is 
66%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2405194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. J Vasc Surg. 1990 Feb;11(2):244-50; discussion 250-1. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1990.16944.

Fate of the carotid artery contralateral to endarterectomy.

Hatsukami TS(1), Healy DA, Primozich JF, Bergelin RO, Strandness DE Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle 98195.

The management of internal carotid artery disease contralateral to 
endarterectomy is highly controversial. At our institution we have adopted an 
approach by which patients are followed with serial duplex scanning after 
unilateral carotid endarterectomy. Surgery on the contralateral carotid artery 
is recommended for patients who exhibit ischemic neurologic symptoms or develop 
an 80% to 99% carotid stenosis. This strategy is based on previous reports that 
have documented an increased incidence of strokes in these two groups of 
patients. As a result, 40 patients among a study population of 200 underwent 
carotid endarterectomy on the originally unoperated side. The current study 
reviews the natural history of the patients who were followed without or before 
operation of the contralateral carotid artery in an attempt to identify other 
cohorts at increased risk for stroke. Patients were followed for up to 126 
months after unilateral carotid endarterectomy (mean, 54 months). Six patients 
were lost to follow-up (3.0%). By life-table analysis the estimated mean annual 
rate of progression to greater than or equal to 50% diameter reduction was 3.9% 
and 1.2% for progression to greater than or equal to 80% stenosis. Only two 
patients went on to occlusion during follow-up. Neurologic events referable to 
the contralateral carotid distribution were infrequent. The estimated mean 
annual rate was 2.9% for transient ischemic attacks and less than 0.8% for 
strokes. Case history review of the six patients who had strokes during 
follow-up suggested that only one patient may have benefited from carotid 
endarterectomy. Conservative management with serial duplex scanning of the 
unoperated, contralateral carotid artery appears appropriate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED 
AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1990.16944
PMID: 2405196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Prog Clin Biol Res. 1990;326:89-108.

Health implications of overweight in the elderly.

Van Itallie TB(1), Lew EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Columbia University College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, New York, N.Y. 10025.

PMID: 2405430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1990 Jan 20;120(3):54-60.

[Current aspects in therapy of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus in children 
and adolescents].

[Article in German]

Schönle EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitäts-Kinderklinik, Zürich.

It has been shown in recent years that optimal treatment delays or prevents 
diabetic late complications. The goal for therapy is therefore near 
norm-glycemia. The precondition is intensive education of the patient and the 
parents, as well as exact diet with known amounts of carbohydrates, multiple 
insulin injections and home blood glucose monitoring. We propose two different 
schemes for insulin therapy according to age: conventional insulin therapy in 
the younger child, and intensified insulin therapy with the insulin pen in 
adolescents. Conventional insulin therapy consists of two daily 
injections--before breakfast and before supper--of a mixture of short acting and 
long acting insulin. With the conventional insulin regime a rigid schedule of 
insulin injections and meals is required for optimal treatment of type I 
diabetes. This, however, is not accepted by adolescents since it conflicts with 
their age-related tendency for self-autonomy. In consequence, glucose metabolism 
deteriorates and HbA1 levels increase. Puberty is a period of high risk for the 
development of diabetic angiopathy, which determines quality of life and life 
expectancy. An approach to resolution of this dilemma is to adjust the insulin 
regime to the life-style of an adolescent rather than vice versa. Up to now, 
more than 30 adolescents with type I diabetes have been switched to intensified 
insulin therapy using the insulin pen. During a short hospital stay (5 days) 
they underwent an intensive teaching program of self control, insulin dose 
adjustment and nutrition with special attention to the management of unexpected 
situations such as additional or omitted meals, traveling and sports. Compliance 
improved markedly.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2405479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Am J Med. 1990 Feb;88(2):154-60. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(90)90466-q.

Management of patients with symptomatic gallstones: a quantitative analysis.

Ransohoff DF(1), Gracie WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06510-8025.

Should persons with symptomatic gallstones (i.e., those that have caused biliary 
pain) be treated immediately? Or may they be managed expectantly until pain 
recurs or a biliary complication (i.e., acute cholecystitis or pancreatitis) 
occurs? To assess the mortality risk of different strategies, we performed a 
quantitative analysis. For the expectant management strategy that requires 
surgery only if a biliary complication occurs, the cumulative lifetime 
probability of gallstone disease death in a 30-year-old man is about 2%, and 
most deaths occur after age 65. In comparison, elective cholecystectomy has only 
a 0.1% rate of gallstone disease death, but all deaths occur at age 30. The 
average amount of life expectancy gained by immediate cholecystectomy compared 
with expectant management is 52 days, which is reduced to 23 days using 5% 
discounting. This gain could be increased only slightly by a 100% effective and 
risk-free therapy such as perfected lithotripsy or medical dissolution. Results 
are similar for women. The results suggest that, for persons with symptomatic 
gallstones, the life expectancy gain of immediate cholecystectomy is relatively 
small and that the potential incremental gain of nonsurgical therapy is also 
small. For patients and physicians who believe that life expectancy is of 
primary consideration, the decision about therapy may be made primarily on 
non-mortality considerations. Some patients and physicians may decide that the 
risk of symptomatic gallstones is low enough that a policy of expectant 
management may be acceptable.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(90)90466-q
PMID: 2405659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Prog Clin Biol Res. 1990;323:443-8.

Statistical methods in evaluating endometriosis studies.

Wheeler JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Reproductive Medicine and Surgery, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, Texas 77030.

There is no shortage of statistical methods available for use in presenting the 
results of endometriosis research. Those that are currently in widest use have 
underlying statistical assumptions that may not be met by our study populations. 
Those methods that are more robust and compensate more for defects in satisfying 
these underlying assumptions are computer-based and much less "friendly" to 
physician and patient alike in terms of comprehensibility. Statisticians, with 
little appreciation for clinical practice, cannot answer these questions alone. 
Research is needed by clinician scientists comparing the validity of these 
methods of analysis.

PMID: 2406754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. AORN J. 1990 Feb;51(2):448, 450, 452-4. doi: 10.1016/s0001-2092(07)66076-1.

Designing services for the elderly.

Berger S, King EC.

Even after careful planning and a successful launch, even the best geriatric 
care program can not always expect smooth sailing, according to industry 
executives. Allen Mathies, president and chief executive officer at Huntington 
Memorial Hospital, cited a paradoxical side effect stemming from the success of 
his hospital's geriatric outreach programs. "On the one hand, by moving patients 
through a continuum of outpatients services, our program has helped to reduce 
the extraordinary costs associated with acute care hospitalization," he said. 
"On the other hand, those patients who are hospitalized tend to be more acutely 
ill. They use tremendous resources, but at a fixed reimbursement. There is a 
lack of recognition of our real costs by the payer." Why, then, do Huntington 
Memorial Hospital, Baptist Medical Center of Oklahoma, Morton F. Plant Hospital, 
Northwestern Memorial Hospital and other hospitals intend to continue their 
efforts on behalf of their communities' aging populations? The answer is that, 
reimbursement problems notwithstanding, benefits can be derived from making a 
commitment to geriatric care. "We have 19,000 people enrolled in our elder care 
program," Hupfeld said. "That's a powerful force. They vote. They lobby on our 
behalf. They support the hospital philanthropically. If you do a good job of 
reaching the older adults in your community, you'll find they are a powerful 
marketing force. They can do a lot for your image when it comes to reaching 
other market segments."

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-2092(07)66076-1
PMID: 2407181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Diabetes Care. 1990 Mar;13(3):288-301. doi: 10.2337/diacare.13.3.288.

Regulating insulin-receptor-gene expression by differentiation and hormones.

Mamula PW(1), McDonald AR, Brunetti A, Okabayashi Y, Wong KY, Maddux BA, Logsdon 
C, Goldfine ID.

Author information:
(1)Division of Diabetes and Endocrine Research, Mount Zion Hospital and Medical 
Center, San Francisco, CA 94120.

Insulin regulates cell function by first binding to the insulin receptor (IR) 
localized on the cell surface. With the cloning of IR cDNA and the IR-gene 
promoter, the regulation of the IR gene during differentiation and by various 
hormones can be studied. Muscle is a major target tissue for insulin action. 
BC3H1 cells, a mouse muscle cell line in culture, are a model cell type for 
studying insulin action. Differentiation in these cells results in a 5- to 
10-fold increase in IR binding and a 5- to 10-fold increase in IR content. 
Studies of IR mRNA by Northern and slot-blot analyses reveal a 10-fold increase 
in IR mRNA after differentiation. These studies indicate that there is a 
selective increase in IR-gene expression during muscle differentiation. A 
similar increase in IR-gene expression is observed for the IR during pancreatic 
acinar cell differentiation. Glucocorticoids increase IR content in several 
target tissues. Studies in cultured IM-9 lymphocytes indicate that 
glucocorticoids induce a 5-fold increase in IR mRNA levels. Studies of IR mRNA 
half-life indicate that glucocorticoids do not alter IR mRNA stability. When the 
transcription of the IR is measured by elongation assays, glucocorticoids 
directly stimulate IR transcription 5- to 10-fold. The effect is detectable 
within 30 min of glucocorticoid treatment and is maximal within 2 h. Therefore, 
these studies demonstrate that the IR gene is under the direct regulation of 
glucocorticoids. Insulin downregulates the IR in various target tissues. Prior 
studies indicate that this downregulation was partly because of accelerated IR 
degradation. Studying AR42J pancreatic acinar cells, we also found that insulin 
accelerates IR degradation. Moreover, in these cells, insulin decreases IR 
biosynthesis by approximately 50%. Studies of IR mRNA indicate there is a 
concomitant decrease in IR mRNA levels after insulin treatment. Thus, insulin 
decreases IR-gene expression. The genomic structure of the IR promoter has been 
elucidated. Primer extension and nuclease S1 analysis indicate that IR mRNA has 
multiple start sites. The promoter fragment was ligated to a promoterless 
"reporter" plasmid containing the bacterial gene chloramphenicol 
acetyltransferase (CAT). When this plasmid is transfected into cultured cells, 
CAT activity is detected, indicating promoter activity. Various portions of a 
genomic fragment were ligated to a promoter to study glucocorticoid regulation 
of the IR promoter. These studies indicate that IR-gene expression is regulated 
by differentiation and hormonal agents.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.13.3.288
PMID: 2407479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1990 Feb 20;79(8):193-201.

[Development in medicine in the Werdenberg-Sargans region].

[Article in German]

Gassner-Bachmann M.

The rich palette of medical services are as casual to us as our life expectancy 
of 70 years. We tend to forget that our ancestors benefitted from poorer health 
care than our contemporaries in third world countries. The districts of 
Werdenberg and Sargans were up to the French revolution subject to rule by the 
confederation, a frontier area and an under-developed country. Some facts from 
these times highlight the multifactorial conditions that have led to the 
improvement of our health care systems. These data and scenes serve to honor our 
ancestors and at the same time evoke thoughts about consequences and limits of 
such developments-thoughts, that incite us to reflect and act towards optimal 
conditions of life for our descendants.

PMID: 2408121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1990 Jan 31;140(1-2):50-5.

[Heart insufficiency and life expectancy--the role of ACE inhibitors].

[Article in German]

Kleber FX(1).

Author information:
(1)II. Medizinischen Klinik, Krankenhaus München-Schwabing, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, BRD.

Before efficacy of therapy has been proven in large populations years or decades 
may pass. Meanwhile the medical profession has to rely on probabilities. This 
holds true regarding improvement of prognosis of CHF by ACE inhibition. While 
symptomatic improvement of CHF by addition of ACE-inhibition. While symptomatic 
improvement of CHF by addition of ACE-inhibitors has been demonstrated in 
numerous studies, improvement of prognosis has not yet been demonstrated 
entirely sufficiently. Only one trial has been published so far in a severely 
ill but not very exactly defined population (66). Animal studies and several 
small or interim published trials, however, show that the positive influence of 
ACE-inhibitors on CHF pathophysiology and symptomatology might favourable affect 
the prognosis as well. The SAVE trial and the SOLVD trial - both have randomized 
several thousand patients - will give answers concerning the influence of 
Captopril and Enalapril on prognosis of symptomatic as well as asymptomatic left 
ventricular dysfunction and on progression of left ventricular dilatation. The 
VHEFT II trial will compare the effect of ACE-inhibitors with the combination of 
ISDN and Hydralazine. Results will be available within the first few years of 
this decade.

PMID: 2408250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Ann Chir Gynaecol. 1985;74(2):77-81.

Rationale of reoperation for gastric malignancies.

Mäkelä J, Kairaluoma MI.

The aim of this retrospective study was to elucidate the role and rationale of 
reoperation for tumour recurrence in 47 consecutive patients operated on for 
gastric cancer. The overall operative mortality was 26%, morbidity 45%, mean and 
median survivals 14 +/- 25 and 5 months, respectively postoperative symptom free 
period 8 +/- 23 months, and cumulative 5-year survival 8 +/- 3%. Bypass 
procedures and resection carried the lowest mortality, 7% and 20%, respectively 
whereas the corresponding percentages after colostomy, exploratory laparotomy 
and jejunostomy were 33%, 40% and 50%. Resection yielded a significantly longer 
mean (41 +/- 44 mos) and median (82 mos) survival than other procedures. The 
postoperative symptom free period after resection (34 +/- 42 mos) was 
significantly longer than after exploratory laparotomy and bypass procedures, 
whereas the difference between resection and enterostomy was insignificant. 
After exploratory laparotomy, colo- and jejunostomy the median survivals were 
under 2 months. We conclude that only resection, when possible, favourably 
affects survival and emphasize the importance of regular endoscopic follow-up 
after operation for gastric cancer. Resection and bypass procedures are most 
suitable for long-lasting palliation at reoperation for gastric malignancy. 
Unnecessary laparotomies, if the diagnosis can be confirmed by other means, and 
useless jejunostomies should be avoided in patients with far-advanced metastatic 
disease and short life expectancy.

PMID: 2411184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Lebensversicher Med. 1985 Jul 1;37(4):100-3.

[Life expectancy in pancreatic carcinoma and periampullary carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Muhrer KH.

PMID: 2412085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1985 Sep;161(3):204-8.

Peritoneovenous shunting for cirrhotic versus malignant ascites.

Kostroff KM, Ross DW, Davis JM.

The use of the peritoneovenous shunt in patients with cirrhosis is associated 
with a significantly higher complication rate than in patients with malignant 
ascites. Since many patients subsequently died due to the complications of shunt 
placement and the efficacy has never been clearly established by a randomized 
trial, it is difficult to recommend a procedure which may shorten the already 
brief life expectancy of the patient. We conclude that for the patients with 
ascites due to cirrhosis, the peritoneovenous shunt should be reserved for a 
carefully selected group, such as those patients with pending rupture of a 
hernia. However, for the patient with malignant ascites, the relatively low 
complication rate of peritoneovenous shunt placement and the lack of an adverse 
effect on survival time indicates that use of this successful palliative 
technique seems warranted in selected patients.

PMID: 2412302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Cancer. 1985 Nov 15;56(10):2404-10. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19851115)56:10<2404::aid-cncr2820561011>3.0.co;2-c.

Biodegradable mitomycin C microspheres given intra-arterially for inoperable 
hepatic cancer. With particular reference to a comparison with continuous 
infusion of mitomycin C and 5-fluorouracil.

Fujimoto S, Miyazaki M, Endoh F, Takahashi O, Okui K, Morimoto Y.

Thirty-two patients with inoperable hepatic cancer underwent intra-arterial 
hepatic infusion using mitomycin C (MMC) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) or 
intra-arterial hepatic chemoembolization using heated albumin microspheres 
containing MMC with an average diameter 45 +/- 8 micron. Nineteen of the 32 
patients received the MMC microsphere treatment and another 13 received the 
conventional infusion treatment, lasting for 3.4 months. The administered doses 
of MMC microspheres were 11.7 +/- 11.1 mg as MMC in the 12 with metastatic 
cancer and 6.9 +/- 2.1 mg as MMC in the 7 with hepatocellular cancer (HCC). On 
the contrary, the 13 patients who underwent conventional infusion had average 
doses of MMC 34.5 +/- 17.3 mg and of 5-FU 13.4 +/- 7.7 g, over 3.4 months. An 
objective tumor response was obtained in 13/19 (68.4%) under MMC microsphere 
chemoembolization, compared to 6/13 (46.2%) under the conventional infusion. The 
average level of CEA in the 12 with metastatic cancer, who underwent MMC 
microsphere therapy, dropped from 57.7 ng/ml to 16.5 ng/ml, while that in the 10 
patients on conventional infusion dropped from 24.0 ng/ml to 17.4 ng/ml; that of 
alpha-fetoprotein dropped in all 7 with HCC on MMC microsphere 
chemoembolization, compared to a fall in 1/3 on conventional infusion. With the 
MMC microsphere treatment, 5 patients from colorectal cancer lived for 15.6 +/- 
7.6 months, 2 are alive with a long life expectancy; and 7 patients from gastric 
or pancreatic cancer lived for only 9.3 +/- 3.3 months. In case of conventional 
infusion, 6 patients from colorectal cancer survived for 8.6 +/- 3.2 months; and 
4 patients from gastric or gallbladder cancer survived for 6.0 +/- 1.0 months. 
The MMC microsphere treatment is superior at P = 0.059 in survival duration to 
the conventional infusion treatment. However, much the same survival occurred in 
7 on MMC microsphere chemoembolization and 3 on continuous infusion.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19851115)56:10<2404::aid-cncr2820561011>3.0.co;2-c
PMID: 2412682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Eur Urol. 1985;11(4):233-43. doi: 10.1159/000472505.

Active specific immunotherapy with supportive measures in the treatment of 
palliatively nephrectomized, renal adenocarcinoma patients. A thirteen-year 
follow-up study.

Tallberg T, Tykkä H, Mahlberg K, Halttunen P, Lehtonen T, Kalima T, Sarna S.

The results of a 13-year (1971-1984) follow-up of specific active immunotherapy 
using polymerized autologous tumor tissue with adjuvants and supportive 
measures, following palliative nephrectomy in 71 patients suffering from 
advanced renal adenocarcinoma, are presented. The control patient group 
comprised 56 patients who received the best possible conservative treatment 
available. The statistically calculated life expectancy in the immunotherapy 
group is 44.5 months (SE 5.7) and in the control group 19.0 months (SE 3.3). The 
difference is statistically highly significant (generalized Wilcoxon [Breslow], 
t = 14.9, p less than 0.0001). There were no serious side effects from the 
immunization. The supportive measures entailing the administration of factors 
involved in cell regulatory functions mediated by the central nervous system, 
