amino acids, trace elements, hormones and vitamins has still to be optimized.

DOI: 10.1159/000472505
PMID: 2412827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Folia Haematol Int Mag Klin Morphol Blutforsch. 1985;112(4):515-24.

[Neoplastic meningosis in immature cell leukemias and malignant lymphomas].

[Article in German]

Höche D, Herold M, Kästner R, Anger G, Schreiber D.

162 patients with acute leukemias or malignant non-Hodgkin lymphomas were 
examined for meningeal and cerebral manifestations of their disease. A 
clinically manifest disease could be found in 13 patients, meningosis was 
additionally detected by autopsy in 32 patients. The highest frequency was found 
in acute lymphatic leukemia followed by lymphoblastic lymphomas and acute 
myeloic leukemias. Less frequently there was a meningeal involvement in 
low-grade malignant lymphomas which becomes clinically manifest only in some 
rare cases. In this respect, non-lymphoblastic, high grade-malignant lymphomas 
take an intermediate position. On principle, meningosis prophylaxis is 
imperative for acute lymphoblastic leukemias and advanced lymphoblastic 
lymphomas.

PMID: 2414180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1985 Nov;8(6):849-55. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.1985.tb05904.x.

Survival and follow-up after pacemaker implantation: a comparison of patients 
with sick sinus syndrome, complete heart block, and atrial fibrillation.

Alt E, Völker R, Wirtzfeld A, Ulm K.

The number of patients receiving cardiac pacemakers for sick sinus syndrome 
(SSS) has increased considerably in recent years. The literature has suggested 
that patients with sick sinus syndrome have a shorter life expectancy with 
pacemaker therapy than patients with total heart block or atrial fibrillation. 
We studied the survival rate of 1,049 patients with complete heart block, 592 
with sick sinus syndrome and 447 with atrial fibrillation. After 10 years we 
found a survival rate of 54.5% for patients paced for SSS, 34.4% for those with 
complete heart block, and 24.7% for those with atrial fibrillation (statistical 
significance: SSS--heart block: p less than 0.05; SSS--atrial fibrillation: p 
less than 0.01; heart block--atrial fibrillation: NS). Considering the 
calculated survival rates of a comparable normal population (i.e., 56.5%; 41.2%; 
47.8%), the differences in survival expectancy are even more pronounced 
(SSS-normal: NS; heart block-normal p less than 0.05; atrial 
fibrillation-normal: p less than 0.05). For patients with sick sinus syndrome, 
the life expectancy parallels that of the general population, while that of 
patients with complete heart block or atrial fibrillation have a life expectancy 
that is considerably lower.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.1985.tb05904.x
PMID: 2415938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. J Neurosurg Sci. 1985 Jul-Sep;29(3):199-205.

One-stage decompression and stabilization in the treatment of spinal tumors.

Faccioli F, Lima J, Bricolo A.

Nowadays, extradural vertebral neoplasms which compress the spinal cord are 
being diagnosed earlier and therefore laminectomy for decompression relieves 
many patients of their neurological deficits before permanent cord damage has 
set in. In addition, radiotherapy and oncological treatment have prolonged life 
expectancy as well as the quality of life in these patients. As the indications 
for surgery have grown, the problem of spinal instability resulting from direct 
involvement of the supporting structures of the spine or due to the surgical 
procedure per se, must be considered. Many of these patients would rapidly 
return to leading their normal activities if not confined to bed rest or 
uncomfortable orthopedic devices. The Authors present 9 patients with extradural 
vertebral lesions: 4 plasmacytomas, 3 metastatic carcinomas, 1 malignant 
lymphoma and 1 aggressive osteoblastoma treated by simultaneous decompression 
and stabilization of the spine. All patients showed remarkable improvement of 
neurological symptoms except in one case where massive pulmonary embolism caused 
death a few hours after surgery. This surgical treatment offers the advantages 
of performing wider and better decompressive maneuvers and, at the same time, 
assuring fast mobilization of the patient after surgery who is often in poor 
general conditions, thus reducing post-operative complications due to delayed 
physical therapy and bed confinement.

PMID: 2420950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Onkologie. 1986 Feb;9(1):48-53. doi: 10.1159/000215960.

[Experiences with intraoperative radiotherapy in inoperable pancreatic 
carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Weitensfelder W, Redtenbacher M, Ott K, Sabitzer H.

From January 1983 to April 1985 six patients suffering from unresectable 
pancreatic cancer underwent intraoperative irradiation therapy (IORT) followed 
by external radiotherapy. All tumors showed T4-stages except one tumor staged as 
T2N2. From the onset of symptoms to IORT the median time of hospitalization was 
26.5 days. After surgery, treatment (external irradiation included) required a 
median hospitalization period of 43.5 days. Follow up, complications and the 
terminal hospital stay of the patients who died lead to another median 
hospitalization period of 30 days. Altogether hospitalization required an 
average of 90 days which represented 38.5% of the mean life-expectancy of 234 
(SE = 57.4) days. 47.3% of the survival time did not show discomfort, in 31.6% 
there were reversible and in 21.1% irreversible complaints. Therefore, patients 
suffering from unresectable pancreatic cancer had to pay a heavy price for 
prolonging life expectancy by IORT and following percutaneous irradiation.

DOI: 10.1159/000215960
PMID: 2425316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. J Biol Chem. 1986 Aug 5;261(22):10271-6.

In vivo developmental modifications of the expression of genes encoding 
muscle-specific enzymes in rat.

Schweighoffer F, Maire P, Tuil D, Gautron S, Daegelen D, Bachner L, Kahn A.

cDNA clones for rat muscle-type creatine kinase and glycogen phosphorylase and 
aldolase A were isolated from a rat muscle cDNA library. An additional clone 
recognizing an unidentified 2.7-kilobase pair mRNA species was also isolated. 
These cDNA clones were used as probes to investigate the expression of the 
corresponding mRNAs during muscle development. Two aldolase A mRNA species were 
detected, one of 1650 bases expressed in non-muscle tissues, fetal muscle, and 
adult slow-twitch muscle, the other of 1550 bases was highly specific of adult 
fast-twitch skeletal muscle differentiation. These aldolase A mRNAs were shown 
by primer extension to differ by their 5' ends. The accumulation of muscle-type 
phosphorylase and creatine kinase and muscle-specific aldolase A mRNA 
accumulation during muscle development seems to be a coordinate process 
occurring progressively from the 17th day of intrauterine life up to the 30th 
day after birth. In contrast, the 2.7-kilobase pair RNA species is maximally 
expressed at the 1st week after birth as is the neonatal form of myosin heavy 
chain mRNA.

PMID: 2426260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Schweiz Arch Neurol Psychiatr (1985). 1986;137(4):47-60.

[Medical and social aspects of the psychological health of the elderly].

[Article in German]

Häfner H.

As a consequence of falling birth-rates and increasing life expectancy, the 
absolute and relative number of the elderly has been considerably growing in all 
industrial countries during the last hundred years. According to the findings of 
a field study carried out among inhabitants of the City of Mannheim, well in 
concordance with the results of comparable investigations undertaken in rural 
and urban areas of other countries, about a quarter of the individuals aged over 
65 are mentally ill. Under the assumption of unchanged age-related morbidity 
rates, the absolute number of elderly persons suffering from mental illness more 
than doubled in the Federal Republic of Germany between 1950 and 1980, due to 
demographical changes only. The quantitatively most important risk factor for 
psychiatric morbidity in old age, especially for psycho-organic syndromes, seem 
to be physical illness and handicaps. Environmental factors determining the 
microsocial milieu of the elderly seem to influence the frequency of depressive 
syndromes, as was shown by a study carried out in homes for the elderly in New 
York, Mannheim and London. Also in old age, belonging to the lower socioeconomic 
stratum - as a macrosocial factor - correlates with increased rates for 
psychiatric morbidity as a whole, as it does with poor physical health and 
increased mortality. However, this correlation is significant only for the group 
of psycho-organic syndromes. In functional syndromes it is hardly marked. It can 
be assumed that to a large part, unfavourable socioeconomic conditions mainly 
have an indirect impact on psychiatric morbidity by way of higher rates of those 
somatic diseases leading to psychiatric sequelae, e.g. cardiovascular diseases. 
Events of losses and social isolation in a sense of experienced loneliness 
accompanied by a lack of contact enlarge the risk of developing psychiatric 
disturbances, in particular depressive syndromes, and also the risk of somatic 
diseases and suicides. Since coping resources of the individual also often 
decrease in old age, this phase of life shows specific mental health risks which 
should be counteracted as long as possible by medical and social care on the 
levels discussed before.

PMID: 2428105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1986 Oct 3;111(40):1511-5. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1068662.

[Comparison of CHOP and COP-BLAM chemotherapy in highly malignant non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma].

[Article in German]

Gerhartz HH, Thiel E, Hiller E, Nerl C, Wilmanns W, Huhn D.

The course of disease in 61 consecutive patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma of 
high grade malignancy, treated between 1979 and 1985 with either CHOP or 
COP-BLAM regimen, was analysed retrospectively. Both groups showed a highly 
similar distribution of prognostic variables. COP-BLAM treatment resulted in 
significantly more complete remissions (23 of 27) than CHOP (11 of 29, P = 
0.001). Life expectancy was, therefore, considerably higher in the COP-BLAM 
treated group. The mean observation period, however, was longer for CHOP-treated 
patients (37 vs. 30 months. The higher remission rate of the COP-BLAM regimen 
was not compromised by a substantial increase in toxicity; no therapy-related 
death was observed. Thus, the COP-BLAM regimen appears to be superior in 
inducing complete remissions in aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Actual survival 
curves suggest that this corresponds to an increased proportion of cured 
patients, but longer follow-ups are needed.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1068662
PMID: 2428572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Endoscopy. 1986 Sep;18 Suppl 3:32-9. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1018439.

Endoscopic prosthesis for advanced esophageal cancer.

Tytgat GN, den Hartog Jager FC, Bartelsman JF.

Dysphagia, regurgitation and hypersalivation due to local destruction or 
incessant coughing in the presence of a tracheo-broncho-esophageal fistula 
become the most important distressing factors in the end stage of malignancies 
in the upper gastrointestinal tract. Inevitably such patients have a short life 
expectancy. It is often desirable to avoid the morbidity associated with 
surgery, radiotherapy or chemotherapy. The non-operative insertion of a 
prosthesis is increasingly being carried out to palliate malignant dysphagia.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1018439
PMID: 2428609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Can J Cardiol. 1986 Sep-Oct;2(5):285-94.

Noninvasive assessment of ventricular arrhythmias in clinical practice: 
prognostic implications.

Surawicz B.

Frequency and complexity of ventricular arrhythmias increases with age and 
increasing severity of heart disease. However, fatal ventricular fibrillation 
occurs frequently in the absence of symptomatic warning arrhythmias. Several 
classifications of ventricular arrhythmias are discussed. The morphology of 
ventricular premature complexes (VPC), their frequency and complexity at rest, 
during ordinary activity, or after exercise do not influence life expectancy of 
subjects without heart disease, nor in those with coronary artery disease with 
no history of myocardial infarction. In the survivors of myocardial infarction, 
the frequency and "complexity" of ventricular arrhythmias appears to be an 
independent risk factor for sudden and nonsudden cardiac death. However, the low 
specificity and predictive value of ventricular arrhythmias makes their 
assessment difficult for practical purposes. The prognosis of most patients with 
ventricular arrhythmias is determined predominantly by the condition of the 
heart. "Complex" arrhythmias at rest and during exercise do not appear to worsen 
prognosis and life expectancy in individuals without heart disease. Ambulatory 
electrocardiographic monitoring has serious limitations as a guide for clinical 
decision making. Ventricular tachycardias in patients with coronary artery 
disease are not strictly related to the frequency and "complexity" of 
ventricular premature complex, but correlate with the presence of ventricular 
aneurysms, poor ventricular function and late potentials in the signal-averaged 
high frequency electrocardiogram. Recording of such late potentials is a new and 
promising noninvasive technique for identification of patients with serious 
arrhythmias but the sensitivity and specificity of this method remains to be 
established.

PMID: 2429748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1986 Nov;12(11):1947-50. doi: 
10.1016/0360-3016(86)90130-6.

1000 cGy single dose palliation for advanced carcinoma of the cervix or 
endometrium.

Halle JS, Rosenman JG, Varia MA, Fowler WC, Walton LA, Currie JL.

Between January 1980 and the present, 42 patients with symptomatic, incurable 
gynecologic malignancies were treated at the University of North Carolina with 
1000 cGy in a single fraction to the pelvis, repeated once or twice at monthly 
intervals as necessary. Of patients with adequate follow-up, total cessation of 
bleeding was seen in 18 of 30 (60%), complete pain relief in 2/9 (22%), and 
complete tumor eradication in 7/28 (25%). These palliative benefits were 
permanent in approximately half of the patients. Five serious treatment 
complications have been documented, four occurred more than 10 months after 
treatment. We conclude that 1000 cGy single-fraction whole pelvis treatment can 
be an effective means of palliating advanced gynecologic cancer provided the 
patient has a life expectancy of less than 1 year. Patients with a longer life 
expectancy are at risk for both recurrence of symptoms and for treatment related 
complications.

DOI: 10.1016/0360-3016(86)90130-6
PMID: 2429945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Int J Health Serv. 1986;16(4):643-58. doi: 10.2190/AD12-7RYT-XVAR-3R2U.

Capitalism, socialism, and the physical quality of life.

Cereseto S, Waitzkin H.

This study compared capitalist and socialist countries in measures of the 
physical quality of life (PQL), taking into account the level of economic 
development. The World Bank was the principal source of statistical data, which 
pertained to 123 countries and approximately 97 percent of the world's 
population. PQL variables included indicators of health, health services, 
demographic conditions, and nutrition (infant mortality rate, child death rate, 
life expectancy, crude death rate, crude birth rate, population per physician, 
population per nursing person, and daily per capita calorie supply); measures of 
education (adult literacy rate, enrollment in secondary education, and 
enrollment in higher education); and a composite PQL index. All PQL measures 
improved as economic development increased. In 30 of 36 comparisons between 
countries at similar levels of economic development, socialist countries showed 
more favorable PQL outcomes (p less than .05 by two-tailed t-test). This work 
with the World Bank's raw data included cross-tabulations, analysis of variance, 
and regression techniques, which all confirmed the same conclusions. The data 
indicated that the socialist countries generally have achieved better PQL 
outcomes than the capitalist countries at equivalent levels of economic 
development.

DOI: 10.2190/AD12-7RYT-XVAR-3R2U
PMID: 2430906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Gan No Rinsho. 1986 Aug;32(10):1203-9.

[Surgical treatment of far-advanced gastric cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Okajima K, Yamada S.

Surgical treatment of far-advanced gastric cancer should be categorized as part 
of a multidisciplinary treatment. Its therapeutic principles may be summarized 
as follows: survival should be expected; operative death must be avoided; any 
operation promoting the growth of cancer should be avoided; oral intake should 
be made possible, pain should be eased; and the main focus must be removed as 
far as possible. In the cases with positive peritoneal dissemination, even at 
P3, a significant extension of life is recognized in the palliative gastrectomy 
group as compared with the non-resected group. However, considering the 
postoperative length of life, palliative gastrectomy seems applicable to cases 
of P1, H1, partly to H2, n3(+), and S3, but in more advanced cases, it was 
learned essential to determine the surgical method in consideration of the 
nature of the cancer in the individual cases.

PMID: 2431172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1986 Nov;9(6 Pt 2):1265-70. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.1986.tb06706.x.

A modified actuarial life-table approach to the analysis of implantable device 
performance.

Kim JS, Broste SK.

The actuarial life-table method is often used by pacemaker manufacturers and the 
pacing research community to describe pacemaker and lead performance. Most 
life-table methods allow for differing lengths of follow-up but assume that all 
devices were followed from implant. Occasionally, however, devices come under 
follow-up observation sometime after implant. This presentation describes an 
extension of the actuarial method to accommodate these kinds of data. The 
specific example to be considered involves follow-up data collected by 
CardioCare, a commercial cardiac monitoring service, on the performance of 
Medtronic polyurethane leads. Patients subscribe to this service, generally at 
some time after actual device implant. Results showed that of 12,112 patients 
with Models 4002, 6971, and 6972 leads who were followed by CardioCare, only 85 
were followed from implant. If one were to exclude patients not followed since 
implant, more than 99% of the data would be lost. Using the modified approach 
with allowance for postimplant, entry resulted in an estimated three-year 
cumulative survival probability for these leads of 95.7%. Treating all patients 
as if they were followed since implant, the probability would be 96.9%, an 
optimistic and biased estimate.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.1986.tb06706.x
PMID: 2432545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Ann Surg. 1987 Jan;205(1):13-7. doi: 10.1097/00000658-198701000-00003.

Splenic enlargement and hyperfunction as indications for splenectomy in chronic 
leukemia.

Mentzer SJ, Osteen RT, Starnes HF, Moloney WC, Rosenthal D, Canellos G, Wilson 
RE.

The chronic leukemias are associated with significant morbidity from splenic 
enlargement and hyperfunction. Although some patients with chronic leukemia 
benefit from splenectomy, the indications for operation are unclear. To identify 
those patients who benefit most from splenectomy, nine patients with chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and eight patients with chronic granulocytic leukemia 
(CGL) who had splenectomy to palliate the symptoms of massive splenic bulk or to 
improve the hematologic sequelae of splenic hyperfunction were studied. 
Splenectomy for bulk symptoms provided good palliation of symptoms, but the 
duration of the benefit was limited by the stage of the disease. Five of eight 
patients with CGL with bulk symptoms died within 6 months of operation. 
Splenectomy for hyperfunction was limited to a short-term hematologic response. 
In three of four patients with CLL who were Coombs positive, the presence of 
autoantibodies correlated with a recurrent transfusion requirement within 3 
months of splenectomy. Thus, the benefit of splenectomy for bulk symptoms must 
be weighed against the risk of surgery and the patient's limited life 
expectancy. The benefit of splenectomy for treatment of splenic hyperfunction 
depends on the stimulus to hyperfunction and may not be beneficial for patients 
with refractory autoimmune anemias.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-198701000-00003
PMCID: PMC1492871
PMID: 2432841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Scand J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1986;20(3):237-40. doi: 
10.3109/14017438609105931.

Palliative intubation in malignant stricture of the oesophagus and cardia.

Fjøsne HE, Erichsen HG, Sanderud A, Myrvold HE.

One-hundred patients treated with oesophageal intubation for stricture-forming 
inoperable oesophago-gastric malignancies during the years 1972 to 1983 were 
analyzed. Fifteen tubes were endoscopically positioned, the rest by thoracotomy 
or laparotomy. Seven patients died from causes related to the intubation, the 
causes of death being perforation (2), mediastinitis (3) or aortic erosion (2). 
Mean survival-time was three months (range one day to 14 months). Nineteen of 
the most deteriorated patients died within two weeks. Eighty-seven percent of 
the patients experienced relief of dysphagia. Thus the intended palliation was 
satisfactory and the results therefore support oesophageal intubation as an 
alternative to be considered in the treatment of malignancies of the oesophagus 
and cardia. However, deteriorated patients with extremely short life expectancy 
might not benefit from the procedure.

DOI: 10.3109/14017438609105931
PMID: 2433739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Gynecol Oncol. 1987 May;27(1):97-103. doi: 10.1016/0090-8258(87)90235-6.

Palliative pelvic exenteration--futility revisited.

McCullough WM, Nahhas WA.

In a retrospective review of 23 pelvic exenterations performed at Miami Valley 
Hospital, 8 were considered to be palliative procedures because of pelvic or 
paraaortic lymph node metastases, pelvic peritoneal involvement, pelvic sidewall 
extension, or distant spread. Following palliative exenteration, morbidity and 
mortality were high, survival was low, and quality of life was uniformly poor. 
With rare exceptions, pelvic exenteration as a palliative procedure should not 
be deliberately performed.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-8258(87)90235-6
PMID: 2436983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1987 Aug;165(2):111-5.

The reversed gastric esophagoplasty in palliation of carcinoma of the esophagus.

Giraud RM, Berzin S.

The reversed whole stomach was used in 29 patients to bypass nonresectable 
carcinoma of the esophagus. The mobilized distal stomach, after duodenal 
transection immediately beyond the pylorus, was placed in a substernal and 
anterior mediastinal tunnel and the prepyloric area was anastomosed to the 
cervical esophagus. Lengthening of the stomach was obtained by division of the 
lesser curve. In this series, the operative mortality rate was 4 per cent, 
morbidity was minimal and the whole procedure proved relatively easier to 
perform than the conventional isoperistaltic gastric esophagoplasty. There is no 
expected improvement in life expectancy, but morbidity decreased because of 
preservation of the esophagogastric drainage, thus avoiding a mucocele of the 
excluded esophagus and preservation of the vagus nerves.

PMID: 2440120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1987 Jul;10(4 Pt 1):853-61. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.1987.tb06042.x.

Extension of life-table methodology to allow for left-censoring in survival 
studies of pacing devices followed by commercial monitoring services.

Broste SK, Kim JS.

The actuarial life-table is commonly used to describe lifetime data of living 
subjects and manufactured products. The life-table method allows subjects to 
come under observation at different times and, thus, to have differing lengths 
of follow-up, by assuming all subjects begin their lifetimes relative to the 
outcome of interest at some common point in time. As time progresses, subjects 
are withdrawn from the life-table when their period of observation has elapsed. 
This pattern of follow-up is often termed "right-censoring." An important 
feature of the classical life table approach is that the time at which the 
subject is placed at risk is known, and the status relative to the outcome of 
interest is known for the entire time at risk. Sometimes, however, subjects 
cannot be observed for some period after the beginning of their lifetimes. The 
example to be considered involves follow-up data collected by a commercial 
pacemaker monitoring service, to which patients subscribe, generally at some 
point following the actual implant of the pacemaker. Since the outcome of 
interest is device failure after implant, some means of dealing with the lack of 
information between implant and initiation of follow-up is needed. The extension 
of the actuarial life-table to accommodate this "left-censoring" will be 
described in this paper.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.1987.tb06042.x
PMID: 2441370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Life Sci. 1987 Dec 21;41(25):2685-96. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(87)90461-9.

Pharmacologic agents for the in vivo detection of vascular sodium transport 
defects in hypertension.

Haddy FJ(1), Pamnani MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Uniformed Services University, Bethesda, Maryland.

Anatagonists to angiotensin, catecholamines, aldosterone, and vasopressin have 
long been used to help determine agonist roles in hypertension. We here call 
attention to a possible extension of this approach to detect, evaluate, and 
treat vascular sodium transport defects in hypertension. Two basic types of 
transport defects have been identified in the blood vessels of hypertensive 
animals, increased sodium permeability and decreased sodium pump activity. 
Intravenous injection of 6-iodo-amiloride, a sodium channel blocker and 
vasodilator, produces an immediate and sustained decrease in blood pressure in 
two genetic models of hypertension characterized by increased permeability of 
the vascular smooth muscle cell membrane to sodium (Okamoto spontaneously 
hypertensive rat, Dahl salt sensitive rat), whereas it produces only a transient 
fall in arterial pressure in two renal models of hypertension having normal 
sodium permeability in vascular smooth muscle cells (reduced renal mass-saline 
rat, one-kidney, one clip rat). Canrenone, a metabolic product of spironolactone 
which can compete with oubain for binding to Na+,K+-ATPase at the digitalis 
receptor site, decreases blood pressure in a low renin, volume expanded model of 
hypertension which has been shown to have depressed sodium pump activity in 
arteries and increased sodium pump inhibitor in plasma (reduced renal 
mass-saline rat) but has no effect on blood pressure in a genetic model of 
hypertension which has been shown to have increased sodium pump activity 
secondary to increased sodium permeability (spontaneously hypertensive rat). 
Thus, a sodium channel blocker and a competitor to ouabain binding can detect 
and determine the functional significance of sodium transport defects in the 
blood vessels of intact hypertensive animals. Studies in red and white blood 
cells suggest that similar defects may exist in the blood vessels of 
hypertensive humans. Thus, this approach, probing for vascular transport defects 
in the intact animal, may ultimately also be useful in the clinical setting.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(87)90461-9
PMID: 2447462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. J Neurosci. 1988 Feb;8(2):564-79. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.08-02-00564.1988.

A developmentally regulated antigen associated with neural cell and process 
migration.

Mendez-Otero R(1), Schlosshauer B, Barnstable CJ, Constantine-Paton M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06511.

The distribution of an epitope recognized by the monoclonal antibody JONES has 
been studied immunohistochemically in the developing nervous system of the rat. 
In the present report, we survey selected regions of the fetal, postnatal, and 
adult rat nervous system to test the hypothesis that JONES binding is invariably 
associated with neural cell migration and axon growth in the developing rat. A 
series of selected developmental stages extending from embryonic day (E) 9 to 
adult were used in this investigation. The distribution of JONES binding was 
examined using indirect immunofluorescence, as well as the immunogold procedure. 
Particular attention was paid to regions where the positions and timing of cell 
and axon migrations have been well described for the rat. JONES immunoreactivity 
first appears at E11-12, when it is localized to the lamina terminalis, the 
telencephalic-diencephalic junction, the midbrain, and the rhombic lip regions 
of the cytologically undifferentiated neural tube. In all the regions studied, 
during embryonic and early postnatal life, the labeling is very intense in the 
ventricular zone and shows a radial array in the adjacent intermediate and 
marginal zones. The expression of JONES epitope correlates particularly with 
times of cell migration in the retina, superior colliculus, cerebellum, and 
telencephalon and in regions undergoing neurite extension, such as the 
developing optic tract, the white matter of the cerebellum, the dorsal roots, 
the trigeminal system, and olfactory nerve. JONES binding becomes progressively 
restricted in the postnatal period. In the adult brain, immunoreactivity is 
present only in the retina and cerebellum. In the retina, JONES labeling is 
present in the outer plexiform layer and optic fiber layer. The labeling in the 
optic fiber layer extends to the optic nerve head and stops abruptly outside the 
orbit. In the cerebellum, JONES shows a radially oriented pattern throughout the 
molecular layer and delineates the cell bodies in the Purkinje cell layer. The 
only non-neural regions that show JONES immunoreactivity are the adrenal medulla 
and the kidney glomeruli. We conclude that the antigens recognized by the JONES 
monoclonal antibody are associated with the migration of subsets of cells and 
axons within the developing rat nervous system and, consequently, may play a 
role in conveying selectivity to these processes.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.08-02-00564.1988
PMCID: PMC6569310
PMID: 2448434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1987 Dec;10(6):636-42. doi: 
10.1097/00005344-198712000-00005.

Increased survival in rats with congestive heart failure treated with enalapril.

Sweet CS(1), Emmert SE, Stabilito II, Ribeiro LG.

Author information:
(1)Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Laboratories, West Point, Pennsylvania 19486.

Vasodilating drugs such as angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors may 
extend life expectancy in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF). The 
purpose of this study was to evaluate whether long-term therapy (365 days) with 
enalapril (ENAL, an ACE inhibitor), would prolong life in rats with a healed 
myocardial infarction (MI), an experimental model with hemodynamic 
characteristics of CHF. Seven days after sham or coronary ligation, when the 
healing phase of MI was well underway, 132 rats (75 sham, 57 MI) were randomized 
to receive either enalapril in the drinking water (17-25 mg/L, approximately 1.0 
mg/kg/day) or tap water. The date of spontaneous death was recorded, and heart 
weight and MI size (by planimetry) were determined. Serum ENAL, total ACE 
concentration, and angiotensin and methoxamine pressor responses were quantified 
in 12 survivors. Long-term enalapril prolonged survival (p = 0.014) with a 
median 50% survival of 164 (164-165) days, compared to 84 (64-104) days in rats 
receiving tap water. There were twice as many MI rats alive at the end of one 
year on angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition (ACEI) therapy as compared to 
the untreated group. The average MI size (39-40%) was not different between 
groups, and there was a significant inverse correlation between date of death 
and MI size (r = 0.7-0.8) in both treatment groups. Cardiac hypertrophy was 
evident in all MI rats. Serum ENAL levels, after one year, were at the 
clinically relevant concentration (2.3 ng/ml) and total serum ACE (inhibitor 
removed) doubled to 4,300 nmol/h/ml.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-198712000-00005
PMID: 2450232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. J Pediatr. 1988 Apr;112(4):530-9. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(88)80163-x.

Cost-effectiveness of splenectomy versus intravenous gamma globulin in treatment 
of chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura in childhood.

Hollenberg JP(1), Subak LL, Ferry JJ Jr, Bussel JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New York Hospital, NY 10021.

Infusions of intravenous gamma-globulin (IVGG) are an effective, nontoxic 
therapy for chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) that would be more 
widely accepted if the therapeutic agent were not so expensive. The costs and 
outcomes of managing such children with splenectomy and IVGG were modeled with 
Markov processes. Children unresponsive to one treatment were considered to have 
received the alternative. The model accounted for spontaneous remissions, 
therapeutic responses, traumatic events, episodes of sepsis, and operative 
deaths. For a 10-year-old child with chronic ITP, the strategy of initial 
treatment with splenectomy had associated costs of $17,000 and a 97.9% ten-year 
survival rate, whereas the strategy of initial treatment with IVGG had 
associated costs of $21,000 but a 98.6% survival rate. Each additional life 
saved by employing the IVGG strategy cost $540,000, or $8,000 per year for a 
life expectancy of 70 years. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that for older 
children the IVGG strategy continued to result in improved survival rates but 
was more costly than the splenectomy strategy. For younger children, the IVGG 
strategy dominated, with improved survival rates and lower costs.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(88)80163-x
PMID: 2450983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. JAMA. 1988 May 27;259(20):3010-7.

Watchful waiting vs immediate transurethral resection for symptomatic 
prostatism. The importance of patients' preferences.

Barry MJ(1), Mulley AG Jr, Fowler FJ, Wennberg JW.

Author information:
(1)General Internal Medicine Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 02114.

The rate of resection for benign prostatic hypertrophy shows considerable 
variability among small geographic areas. To help inform the decision to 
recommend prostatectomy to men with prostatism without signs of chronic 
retention, we performed a decision analysis to compare the expected outcomes 
with immediate transurethral resection and watchful waiting. Data used in the 
model originated from the medical literature, Medicare claims data, and patient 
interview studies. In our base-case analysis for 70-year-old men, immediate 
surgery resulted in the loss of 1.01 months of life expectancy, but when 
adjustments were made for quality of life, immediate surgery was favored with a 
net utility benefit of 2.94 quality-adjusted life-months. However, the analysis 
was particularly sensitive to the degree of disutility attributed to the index 
symptoms of prostatism. We conclude that patient preferences should be the 
dominant factor in the decision whether to recommend prostatectomy.

PMID: 2452904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. J Biol Chem. 1988 Jun 25;263(18):8851-5.

cDNA cloning and deduced amino acid sequence of microvitellogenin, a female 
specific hemolymph and egg protein from the tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta.

Wang XY(1), Cole KD, Law JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Arizona, Tucson 85721.

Microvitellogenin is a female-specific yolk protein from the tobacco hornworm 
moth Manduca sexta. A cDNA library was constructed from poly(A)+ RNA isolated 
from adult female fat body. cDNA clones of mRNA for microvitellogenin were 
isolated by using antiserum against microvitellogenin. Northern blot analysis of 
poly(A)+ RNA isolated from different life stages and sexes reveals that mRNA 
coding for microvitellogenin is only present in adult female fat body. 
Immunoprecipitation of the protein product translated from hybrid selected mRNA 
indicates that the cDNA clone is specific for microvitellogenin. The complete 
nucleotide sequence of the 834-base pair cDNA insert has been determined by the 
dideoxy chain termination method. The cDNA sequence predicts that 
microvitellogenin is a protein of 232 residues with a calculated molecular 
weight of 26,201. The cDNA also predicts an amino-terminal extension of 17 
residues which are not present in the mature form. This sequence appears to be a 
signal peptide. A comparison of the translated amino acid sequence with the 
sequences in the National Biomedical Foundation protein library did not 
establish any sequence homology with other known proteins.

PMID: 2454229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Eur Urol. 1988;14(5):371-6. doi: 10.1159/000472985.

Urinary diversion in gynecologic malignancies.

Janetschek G(1), Mack D, Hetzel H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Innsbruck, Austria.

A variety of methods for urinary diversion are employed in patients with 
gynecologic malignancies depending on whether there is an obstruction or fistula 
formation due to either tumor growth or radiotherapeutic injury. Percutaneous 
nephrostomy (PCN) has a low complication rate and is a good method for 
palliative urinary diversion or may precede some form of permanent diversion to 
restore the kidney function first. Indication for palliative diversion in tumor 
obstruction depends on many individual factors. A relative contraindication is 
tumor progression during therapy. 6-month survival was about 70% in patients 
with previously untreated tumors or recurrences. This rate is far better than 
reported in earlier studies, so that a palliative diversion has to be considered 
for these patients. Also a high rate of recanalization after therapy could be 
observed in the untreated group, allowing the PCN to be removed. However, this 
has not been shown to be a prognostic factor. In the individual patient some 
other aspects, such as quality of life and social status, have to be taken into 
account before a final decision can be made. Ureteral obstruction after 
radiotherapy is a rare finding and often mistaken for a more likely recurrence. 
Different methods to restore the urinary tract, such as reimplantation of the 
ureter, should be used as a first choice. When the stenosis is due to 
radiocystitis, enterocytoplasty will often be indicated. Diversion has then to 
be omitted. The poor quality of life because of permanent incontinence due to 
fistula formation makes diversion mandatory even if life expectancy is very 
short. Surgical closure of a large radiogenic fistula is rarely successful. In 
this situation, ileal conduit has proven its efficacy for long-term urinary 
diversion.

DOI: 10.1159/000472985
PMID: 2458937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Surg Endosc. 1987;1(2):123-6. doi: 10.1007/BF00312700.

Percutaneous endoscopic duodenostomy (PED). Case report.

Paul A(1), Vestweber KH, Bode C, Eypasch E.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgischer Lehrstuhl der Universität zu Köln, Federal Republic of Germany.

Surgeons are increasingly using endoscopy to place transabdominal feeding tubes 
for enteral nutrition or gastric decompression. A possible extension for the 
application of this new technique is the direct placement of the feeding tube 
into the duodenal bulb. Two patients are presented in whom percutaneous 
endoscopic duodenostomy was successfully performed, although percutaneous 
endoscopic gastrostomy was not possible. It shows that this new method is 
technically possible. In both patients the positive influence of this technique 
on the patient's quality of life could be shown using the Spitzer Quality of 
Life Index and the Karnofsky Performance Status. Enteral nutrition was 
maintained for more than 6 weeks.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00312700
PMID: 2459790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Surg Endosc. 1987;1(2):79-82. doi: 10.1007/BF00312688.

Carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater. The role of endoscopic drainage.

Huibregtse K(1), Schneider B, Rauws E, Tytgat GN.

Author information:
(1)Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Endoscopically placed biliary endoprostheses were used to treat obstructive 
jaundice in 71 patients with ampullary carcinoma. Successful placement of an 
endoprosthesis was achieved in 68 patients (95.8%). Bilirubin declined in 67 
patients (98.5%). There was no procedure-related mortality. Twenty-two patients 
(31%) received further surgical therapy, and 47 received an endoprosthesis as 
their only therapeutic intervention. In the latter group, bilirubin normalized 
in 44 of 46 patients surviving longer than 30 days (95.7%). Mean survival was 
466 days (median 410, range 23-1515), which compares favorably with surgical 
palliation. Complications mainly involved clogging of the endoprosthesis, which 
was easily treated endoscopically and, more significantly, duodenal stenoses 
secondary to continued tumor growth in almost 25% of the patients. Although 
endoscopic drainage is a safe and effective method of relieving biliary 
obstruction in patients with ampullary carcinoma, we feel it should be reserved 
for poor surgical candidates and for those patients with a limited life 
expectancy due to metastatic disease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00312688
PMID: 2459791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. BMJ. 1989 Jan 7;298(6665):37-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.298.6665.37.

Pain relief in active patients with cancer: the early use of nerve blocks 
improves the quality of life.

Lipton S(1).

Author information:
(1)Pain Relief Foundation, Liverpool.

Analgesic drugs are the first line of pain relief in cancer, but they should not 
be the only treatment offered. If nerve blocks and other destructive procedures 
are to be used they should be used early with conviction and persistence. They 
might not be being used because there are not enough doctors who can use them 
properly.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.298.6665.37
PMCID: PMC1835325
PMID: 2465046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Blood. 1989 Mar;73(4):865-79.

Plasma cell myeloma--new biological insights and advances in therapy.

Barlogie B(1), Epstein J, Selvanayagam P, Alexanian R.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Department of Hematology, 
Houston 77030.

Plasma cell myeloma is a more complex neoplasm than suggested by the relative 
uniformity of its dominant plasma cells, which represent the terminal stage of 
normal B-cell differentiation. Phenotypic, molecular, and cellular genetic data 
favor the presence of a myeloma stem cell early in hematopoietic development so 
that, as in chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), a far distance exists between 
the primordial malignant cell that was the target of malignant transformation 
and the dominant clinical phenotype. Traces of pre-B, myeloid, and T cells are 
coexpressed with the mature B-cell phenotype, an occurrence unknown in normal 
B-cell differentiation. Analogous to CML, disease progression is marked by 
disease dedifferentiation, occasionally with cessation of myeloma protein 
production and development instead of extramedullary lymphomalike features with 
high LDH or myelodysplasia/acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) syndromes. The 
prognostic importance of serum LDH levels even in newly diagnosed myeloma 
suggests the early presence of tumor cells with "LDH phenotype," which, as a 
result of drug resistance and proliferative advantage, expand preferentially 
during disease progression. Further characterization of these cells may provide 
important clues about the ontogeny of multiple myeloma. Myeloma cells express 
many receptors for different biological signals that might be exploitable for 
therapy with immunotoxins or radioisotopes. Plasma cells and their precursors 
also produce a variety of cytokines, some of which have putatively 
autostimulatory functions (eg, IL-1, IL-5, IL-6) and/or are related to disease 
manifestations (eg, IL-1 and TNF-beta as OAF). The wealth of cellular expression 
by plasma cells provides clues for understanding the mechanisms of gene 
activation and the nature of abnormal growth and differentiation. The accuracy 
of prognostically relevant staging systems has been refined with the use of new 
quantitative parameters that reflect tumor mass (ie, serum B2M levels) and 
biology. Further studies of cellular and molecular biology (ie, CAL-LA, H-ras) 
may reveal those tumor cell features that define clinical entities, response to 
therapy, and long-term prognosis. The lack of a major advance in prognosis 
despite the use of more drugs and more intensive regimens justifies the 
continued use of standard melphalan-prednisone for patients with a highly 
favorable prognosis, for the very aged, and for those with a short life 
expectancy due to other major medical problems. However, a radical departure 
from standard practice is required to improve the prognosis for younger patients 
with poor risk features.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2465790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Int J Colorectal Dis. 1989;4(1):9-11. doi: 10.1007/BF01648542.

Risk factors which determine the long term outcome of Neodymium-YAG laser 
palliation of colorectal carcinoma.

Van Cutsem E(1), Boonen A, Geboes K, Coremans G, Hiele M, Vantrappen G, 
Rutgeerts P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital, Leuven, Belgium.

We have analysed the long term results of YAG laser palliation for incurable 
colorectal carcinoma in 88 patients. Although initial palliation was achieved in 
82%, good palliation could only be maintained in 51% and 41% of patients 
surviving 6 months and 12 months respectively. The relative inefficacy of YAG 
laser therapy for palliation of rectal cancer is due to the failure to control 
extraluminal tumour growth, complications of YAG laser therapy and the poor 
general condition of these elderly patients. Factors influencing the efficacy of 
palliation, besides life expectancy, included T classification, and length of 
the neoplastic stricture. Treatment-related mortality due to perforation was 
2.3%. YAG laser therapy, applied as the sole therapeutic modality, is effective 
for short term palliation of incurable colorectal carcinoma, but is not adequate 
for long term palliation in most patients. Trials should be conducted to study 
the effect of combined treatment (e.g. laser + radiotherapy) on palliation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01648542
PMID: 2468728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. West J Med. 1989 Feb;150(2):174-9.

Managing malignant pericardial effusion.

Buzaid AC, Garewal HS, Greenberg BR.

The involvement of the pericardium by metastatic tumors is not uncommon, 
particularly in patients with lung cancer, breast cancer, lymphomas, leukemias, 
and melanomas. There are five therapeutic modalities for the treatment of 
malignant pericardial effusion, including pericardiocentesis, pericardial 
sclerosis, systemic chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and surgical treatment. The 
optimal treatment selection is dependent principally on a patient's life 
expectancy; responsiveness of the tumor to chemotherapy, irradiation, or both; 
and whether or not cardiac tamponade is present at diagnosis. The overall 
prognosis of patients with malignant pericardial effusion is primarily 
influenced by the extent and histologic features of the underlying cancer. 
Although this condition is usually incurable, a reasonable period of useful 
palliation can be obtained in most patients.

PMCID: PMC1026330
PMID: 2471362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Fogorv Sz. 1989 Jul;82(7):211-7.

[Simultaneous radiation- and chemotherapy (methotrexate and bleomycin) of 
inoperable malignant oro-facial tumors].

[Article in Hungarian]

Stasler B, Szepesi T, Holmann K, Kühböck J, Mailath G, Honenberg G.

The overall response rate is 65% with 17% CR (medium 56 months) and 49% PR 
(medium 5 months). The Kaplan-Meier survival plot shows no difference between 
the previously treated and untreated groups, whereas the kappa 2-analysis 
indicates a significant advantage for patient with complete response in the 
previously untreated group (p less than 0.03). Between the different tumor sites 
and the presence or absence of lymphnodes, there was no significant difference 
either in survival or in the distribution of the CR, PR and P. The group with 
bone destruction has a significant shorter median survival time of 9 months 
versus 15 months in patients with no bone-involvement (p less than 0.03).

PMID: 2474461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1989;13 Suppl 4:S79-82. doi: 
10.1097/00005344-198900134-00024.

Development of hypertension and life span in stroke-prone spontaneously 
hypertensive rats during oral long-term treatment with various antihypertensive 
drugs.

Gries J(1), Kretzschmar R, Neumann BW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Knoll AG, Ludwigshafen, F.R.G.

In stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats, oral long-term treatment with 
verapamil, propranolol, hydrochlorothiazide, and dihydralazine attenuated the 
development of hypertension. The various antihypertensive drugs caused 
comparable reductions in blood pressure but the calcium antagonist and the 
beta-receptor blocker prolonged the life span more than the diuretic and 
vasodilator. The relative heart and lung weights at the time of death were 
slightly diminished in the verapamil and the high-dose propranolol group. It is 
assumed that calcium antagonism and beta-receptor blockade prolong the life 
span, not only due to their blood-pressure-lowering mechanism, but also to the 
additional protective effects.

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-198900134-00024
PMID: 2475698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Dis Colon Rectum. 1989 Nov;32(11):944-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02552270.

Relative prognostic value of the Dukes and the Jass systems in rectal cancer. 
Findings from the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Projects (Protocol 
R-01).

Fisher ER(1), Robinsky B, Sass R, Fisher B.

Author information:
(1)NSABP Pathology Headquarters, Shadyside Hospital, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Comment in
    Dis Colon Rectum. 1990 Aug;33(8):721-2.

A comparison of the prognostic values of the Dukes and Jass systems were 
performed with 722 patients with rectal cancer enrolled in the National Surgical 
Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Projects, protocol R-01. The Jass system revealed four 
prognostic groups when all patients or only Dukes' B and C cases were examined; 
however, the magnitude of differences between groups I and II and III and IV 
were small. Dukes' classification, as defined in this study, revealed five 
prognostic groups. A statistically strong association between the Jass and Dukes 
systems was observed. Although histologic grade permitted further prognostic 
discrimination of all Dukes stages except A, only the Jass system allowed for 
the subdivision of C cases with up to four nodes positive for metastases. Those 
in that group had survival rates comparable to B cases (no nodal involvement) 
when scores of I and II were found. The distributions of the patients in the 
extremes of the Jass and Dukes systems (C2 as defined) were almost similar. The 
findings indicate that the Jass system is a valid prognostic method for patients 
with rectal carcinoma. In this material, however, it basically allowed for only 
two major prognostic groups whereas five were noted by the Dukes method. These 
