results, as well as the more objective nature of Dukes' classification, warrant 
its continued use for prognosis and therapeutic decisions for patients with 
rectal cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02552270
PMID: 2478350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Ann Chir. 1989;43(6):481-5.

[Value of medical treatment of cancer of the kidney].

[Article in French]

Mignot L.

Renal carcinomas have a very variable natural history and are generally not very 
sensitive to medical treatment particularly chemotherapy. The response rates 
obtained in metastatic cancer with various drugs and combinations do not exceed 
15% for a duration of response of several months. The most effective drugs are 
vinca alkaloids such as vinblastine. Over recent years, interferon has been 
tested in this type of tumour with discordant results reported in the 
literature. However, it seems that by using high doses of the order of 15 to 20 
million units per m2, three times a week, the response rates are of the order of 
20% for a duration which may be as long as one year in responding patients. In 
combination with vinblastine, some authors have obtained response rates of the 
order of 40%. Treatment is especially effective in the case of lymph node 
recurrence or small lung metastases. It is of no value in cases of visceral, 
bone or hepatic dissemination. It is frequently poorly tolerated systemically 
because of the high doses administered and it is expensive. It should therefore 
be reserved to young patients and to patients with an reasonable life 
expectancy. In cases of operated renal cancer at risk of recurrence because of 
local or lymph node spread, no adjuvant medical treatment has yet been proven to 
be effective.

PMID: 2479315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Gan No Rinsho. 1989 Nov;35(14):1655-9.

[Analysis of patients surviving for six months after irradiation of a bone 
metastasis].

[Article in Japanese]

Ohara K(1), Yoshida T, Sugahara S, Okumura T, Mitsuhashi S, Kawashima M, Akisada 
M.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Radiology, Institute of Clinical Medicine, Univ. of Tsukuba.

The effects of treatment of a bone metastasis have been studied in 49 patients 
who survived for more than six months after radiotherapy (RT). Relief from the 
symptoms reached a rate as high as 91% (85/93 irradiated sites) irrespective of 
the primary site of the cancer. However, the survival rate and the rate of 
symptom relief maintenance were statistically higher in those with breast cancer 
(15 patients, 38 irradiated sites) than in those with a lung cancer (15, 24). 
The local control rate was dose dependent (TDF). High-dose irradiation, 
therefore is recommended to achieve a high local control rate for patients with 
a long life expectancy.

PMID: 2480461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. CA Cancer J Clin. 1989 Nov-Dec;39(6):337-60. doi: 10.3322/canjclin.39.6.337.

The role of transrectal ultrasound in the early detection of prostate cancer.

Lee F(1), Torp-Pedersen ST, Siders DB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, St. Joseph Mercy Hospital, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Transrectal ultrasound allows tissue characterization of normal and abnormal 
internal anatomy of the prostate and therefore provides valuable information for 
the study of prostate cancer. In an early-detection program setting, the 
hypoechoic lesion proved to be twice as sensitive as a palpable abnormality in 
predicting the presence of cancer; for every two cancers detected by transrectal 
ultrasound, one was detected by digital rectal examination. When the presence of 
a hypoechoic lesion was the criterion for biopsy in a clinical setting, 41 
percent proved to be cancer. Sixty-eight percent of these cancers were palpable; 
thus, for every four cancers detected by transrectal ultrasound, three were 
detected by digital rectal examination. Hence, in our diagnostic settings, 
transrectal ultrasound is more sensitive than digital rectal examination. 
Because transrectal ultrasound can measure tumor size and offer information 
regarding tumor spread, we recommend that transrectal ultrasound-guided biopsy 
be performed first on all palpable lesions. Up to 50 percent of negative 
biopsies guided by palpation have subsequently proved to be cancer with 
transrectal ultrasound-guided biopsy. If transrectal ultrasound-guided biopsy of 
a palpable lesion does not reveal cancer, however, a biopsy guided by palpation 
should be performed. Strategic transrectal ultrasound-guided biopsy for staging 
should be performed to obtain tissue from areas where microscopic extracapsular 
tumor extension is likely to be present. Based on presently available evidence, 
broader implementation and evaluation of transrectal ultrasound, a tool to be 
complemented by digital rectal examination and prostate-specific antigen, is 
advocated for the early detection of prostate cancer. It is hoped that the use 
of transrectal ultrasound will lead to increased survival, with good quality of 
life, in a cost-effective manner, for men at increasing risk from prostate 
cancer in the aging national population.

DOI: 10.3322/canjclin.39.6.337
PMID: 2482116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Ann Ig. 1989 Jan-Apr;1(1-2):247-54.

[Epidemiologic situation of rubella in Italy 20 years after the introduction of 
the vaccine].

[Article in Italian]

Galli MG.

Rubella vaccination has been introduced in USA in 1969: it was addressed to all 
the newborn and to women in childbearing age. In 1970 it was offered in Europe 
to schoolgirls aged 11-14 and to women of reproductive age. The purposes were 
identical--namely to eliminate the incidence of CRS--in spite of the different 
strategies adopted: in fact the American vaccination programme tried to reach 
this aim in eradicating the disease, while in Europe special attention was given 
to the possibility of reduce morbidity in childbearing age. After 20 years we 
can try to verify if these objects have been attained. Recent data (MMWR, 1987) 
show that rubella morbidity in USA has dropped considerably (incidence rate in 
1966 = 24.3; in 1986 = 0.2) and incidence rate for CRS decreased accordingly 
from 0.90 (1969) to 0.32. Nevertheless we must underline that 47.5% of cases in 
USA from 1984 to 1986 were seen in person older than 20, and serologic studies 
have shown that infection susceptibility, in the postpuberal population, is the 
same that in prevaccinal era (10-20%). Many evaluation of efficacy of vaccinal 
strategies have been carried out in Europe, always showing a smaller number of 
women of reproductive age susceptible toward infection, together with a reduced 
probability of exposure during pregnancy. In European countries, were rubella 
vaccination has been offered only to women, morbidity has not changed 
appreciably. In Italy rubella vaccination has not been introduced at the same 
time and with the same extension in all regions: for this reason it is not 
possible to evaluate efficacy of this vaccination policy on a whole. Considering 
ISTAT data from 1971 to 1987 we can identify epidemic outbreaks in 1973, 1978, 
1982 (of limited intensity) and 1984; practically every six years, as they took 
place before vaccination era; if we take into account case notified between 1971 
and 1981 in the different age groups (table 1) we can see that the higher 
prevalence is always in the 6-13 years age group. Vaccination has not modified 
the epidemiologic trend of the disease. However, considering only the class 
toward whom vaccination was addressed from the beginning, that is women of 
reproductive age, that can have had the possibility to be vaccinated in 
prepuberal years at school or in another occasion, after serologic screening, in 
adult life, we can notice substantial differences in infection susceptibility in 
comparison with prevaccinal era, that was about 10-20% (Galli, 1982).(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2483071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1989;227(6):501-7. doi:
10.1007/BF02169440.

Natural history of subfoveal pigment epithelial detachments associated with 
subfoveal or unidentifiable choroidal neovascularization complicating 
age-related macular degeneration.

Singerman LJ(1), Stockfish JH.

Author information:
(1)Retinal Institute, Mount Sinai Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio.

There have been few studies of the natural history of pigment epithelial 
detachments associated with choroidal neovascularization, and none confined to 
subfoveal lesions. We studied the natural history of 55 eyes in 53 patients who 
had age-related macular degeneration and subfoveal pigment epithelial detachment 
associated with choroidal neovascularization that was subfoveal or 
unidentifiable in location. Life table analysis showed that, at 1-year 
follow-up, 65% had a visual acuity less than 20/200 and 26% had less than 5/200. 
Age was a significant risk factor for reduction in both initial and final visual 
acuity. The presence of both hemorrhage and exudate on initial presentation was 
a significant risk factor for poor initial visual acuity.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02169440
PMID: 2483142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. J Cardiol. 1989 Jun;19(2):499-504.

[Prevalence of mitral valve prolapse in patients with premature ventricular 
contractions and the relationship between the prolapse and the types of 
premature contractions].

[Article in Japanese]

Shiota T(1), Sakamoto T, Hada Y, Takenaka K, Amano K, Hasegawa I, Suzuki J, 
Takahashi H, Sugimoto T.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Tokyo.

To assess the prevalence of mitral valve prolapse (MVP) in patients with 
premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), 109 patients with PVCs (M: 69, F: 40, 
42 +/- 20 years; mean +/- SD) and 50 control subjects (M: 38, F: 12, 47 +/- 10 
years) were studied by echocardiography. MVP was diagnosed by two-dimensional 
echocardiography. The criterion for mitral valve prolapse by two-dimensional 
echocardiography is extension of the mitral leaflet to the left atrial side 
beyond the plane of the mitral annulus. In addition, 60 patients with PVCs were 
examined by 24-hour Holter ECG and scored by the Lown's classification. Results 
were as follows: 1) MVP was detected more frequently in patients with PVCs than 
in the control subjects (22/109, 20% vs 3/50, 6%, p less than 0.05) by 
echocardiography. 2) PVC patients with MVP were significantly younger than 
patients without MVP (34 +/- 14 vs 47 +/- 21 yrs, p less than 0.05), but there 
were no significant differences between these two groups as to sex, left atrial 
diameter and left ventricular dimension. 3) The 24-hour Holter ECG revealed that 
the high grade PVCs (Lown grade III & IV) was more closely related to the 
absence of MVP (20/45, 44% vs 4/11, 36%), though this trend did not reach 
statistical significance. It was suggested that MVP is not a major determinant 
of PVC, and life-threatening arrhythmias are more likely related to cases 
without MVP.

PMID: 2484003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Ann Ig. 1989 Nov-Dec;1(6):1479-89.

[Mortality in Sardinia: table of survival and potential years of life lost].

[Article in Italian]

Contu P, Scarpa B.

Mortality rates have often been used to measure levels of health in a 
population. The "PYLL indicator" and the "life expectancy with zero mortality 
for one cause" give high weights to early deaths. In this paper we use these 
tools to evaluate the impact of five different causes of death (cardiov. dis., 
neoplasms, respirat. dis., accidents, digestive s. dis.). The rate of PYLL per 
1000 population is given by [formula: see text] where Di delta = number of 
deaths between ages i and i+1; P = number of persons between ages i and i+1; w = 
age limit. The probability of death in the interval i - i + 1 is qi = ni Di/Pi/1 
+ 0.5 . ni Di/Pi where ni = number of years in the interval; Pi = population; Di 
. delta = number dying The probability of survival is pi = 1 - qi. The 
probability of death if the risk delta is eliminated is qi . delta = 1 - pi (Di 
delta-Di)/Di The probability of survival until age i is poi = II pi and, if the 
risk delta is eliminated, poi . delta = II pi . delta. The expectation of life 
at birth is eo = 0.5 . ni + poi . 0.5 (ni - 1 + ni) + po omega (0.5 . n omega-1 
+ P omega/D omega) and, if the risk is eliminated, eo . delta = 0.5 . n i + poi 
. delta . 0.5 (ni - 1 + ni) + po omega . delta (0.5 . n omega - 1 + P omega/(D 
omega - D omega . delta) Life expectancy gives high weights to early deaths, but 
the weights are less noticeable than when we use the PYLL indicator. In this 
paper we calculate the life expectancy with zero mortality for one cause and 
PYLL before ages 65, 75 and 85. When mortality rates (or number of deaths) are 
used to study mortality, cardiovascular diseases, neoplasms and respiratory s. 
disease are the three leading categories. When the probability of survival is 
concerned, respiratory diseases play the most important role until age 5, 
accidents until age 60, neoplasms until age 65, cardiovascular diseases in the 
elderly population.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2484481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1987;10 Suppl 7:S83-7. doi: 
10.1097/00005344-198706107-00013.

Converting-enzyme inhibition in the management of severe chronic congestive 
heart failure: physiologic concepts.

Packer M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, City University of 
New York, New York.

Evidence from the experimental and clinical laboratory suggests that the heart 
failure state is characterized not only by an excessive degree of systemic 
vasoconstriction but also by an exaggerated neurohormonal response to the 
decline in cardiac performance. Therapeutic interventions directed only at the 
first abnormality may serve to exacerbate the second, and thus may fail to 
produce long-term hemodynamic and clinical benefits. Converting-enzyme 
inhibitors successfully antagonize both homeostatic malfunctions, and thus are 
among the few vasodilators that have been shown to produce consistent 
circulatory and symptomatic improvement in patients with severe chronic heart 
failure in controlled clinical trials; the responses to treatment with these 
agents have been superior to those seen during therapy with placebo or other 
vasodilator drugs. Furthermore, experimental and clinical evidence suggests that 
converting-enzyme inhibitors exert favorable effects on the survival of patients 
with severe heart failure; this potential has now been confirmed in a 
large-scale, multicenter, placebo-controlled trial. Despite its benefits, 
converting-enzyme inhibition may be accompanied by adverse circulatory and 
metabolic reactions (symptomatic hypotension, renal insufficiency, and potassium 
retention), which are predictable consequences of interference with the 
homeostatic role of angiotensin II in low-output states.

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-198706107-00013
PMID: 2485068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl II Verh Dtsch Ges Chir. 1989:129-35.

[How does quality of life modify indications for palliative surgical measures?].

[Article in German]

Schlag P(1).

Author information:
(1)Sektion für Chirurgische Onkologie, Chirurgische Universitäts-Klinik 
Heidelberg.

Palliative operations have the aim of eliminating tumor symptoms and functional 
disorders and, if possible, improving the survival time, when incurability was 
diagnosed. The lacking possibility of cure requires careful risk-benefit 
evaluation of palliative operations. In this case, the general risk of such an 
intervention, its effectiveness and the patient's tolerance are relevant factors 
in the evaluation of life quality. It is important not only to prolong the life 
expectancy but also to alleviate various symptoms and avoid or eliminate 
physical deformations and functional disorders. Although it is still difficult 
to quantify "life quality", it is a decisive factor in palliative surgery beside 
the elimination of pain and maintenance of body functions. For example to avoid 
an artificial anus and relieve from pain is generally more important for 
patients than the statistical results of marginally prolonged survival time. 
Extensive palliative surgery is indicated when survival time and life quality 
can significantly be improved, compared to other treatment modalities.

PMID: 2485148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. J Fla Med Assoc. 1985 Nov;72(11):962-6.

Our aging female population: a preventive approach to their health care.

Notelovitz M, Ingram JM.

PMID: 2485420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Perit Dial Int. 1989;9(1):61-4.

Staphylococcus aureus nasal carriage, exit-site infection and catheter loss in 
patients treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD).

Davies SJ(1), Ogg CS, Cameron JS, Poston S, Noble WC.

Author information:
(1)Renal Unit, Guy's Hospital, London, UK.

Over a three-year period, 217 episodes of bacterial peritonitis occurred in 183 
patient years. Thirty-seven episodes were due to Staphylococcus aureus and 19 
(51%) of these required removal of the catheter to eradicate infection. This 
compared with catheter loss in 4/63 (6.3%) coagulase negative staphylococci 
infections (p less than 0.001); 7/67 (9.5%) culture negative peritonitis (p less 
than 0.001); and 10/30 (33.3%) episodes due to gram-negative organisms (p less 
than 0.05). Over half (51.3%) the episodes due to S. aureus were associated with 
exit-site infections, and this rose to 100% (10/10) with recurrent peritonitis 
(p less than 0.01). A prospective analysis of nasal carriage and exit-site 
infections due to S. aureus was carried out in 87 patients. Exit-site infections 
were present in 21 (24%), almost entirely due to different strains as judged by 
sensitivity patterns and phage typing. Nasal carriage, defined as two positive 
swabs within the study period, was present in 20 (23%) patients. Fourteen (70%) 
of these had exit-site infections due to the same strain as that isolated from 
the nose, whereas no patient grew different strains from either site. Nasal 
carriage increased the risk of infection sixfold (p less than 0.001).

PMID: 2488184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Shigaku. 1989 Oct;77(SPEC):1223-34.

[Osseointegrated implants in clinical dentistry from the point of view of 
prosthodontics].

[Article in Japanese]

Kobayashi Y.

With the life expectancy of our country reaching 80s we are encountering a 
society with greater proportion of the population in old ages. This social 
problem creates a relatively important assignment in the area of prosthodontics, 
especially in full denture prosthodontics. Though the most important factor that 
affects the success or failure of full denture prosthodontics is the condition 
of the residual ridge, recent studies have shown that the residual ridges 
continue to resorb throughout one's life span. Also our survey on the present 
Japanese denture patients tells us that an average person becomes edentulous at 
an age of 57.6, has made a full denture twice or more, has worn the denture for 
8 to 10 years, and by age 65 to 67 over half of the patients have their 
mandibular residual ridges being even or the ridge has resorbed extremely so 
that the ridge is actually lower than the floor of the mouth. With the situation 
as it is, when we look into the future of the full denture prosthodontics it is 
inevitable that there will be a rapid increase in patients with extremely 
resorbed ridges which the present theory of full denture prosthodontics could 
not handle. In this sense, prosthodontic treatment of edentulous patients with 
implants is a relatively interesting field. In this article we will comment of 
the basic application technique and the prosthodontic technique which we have 
improved of the Brånemark's Osseointegrated implants which possess the long term 
basic objective clinical data and whose long term safety has been established in 
edentulous patients. First we will explain the basic application technique using 
a real case. The patient was a 56 years old female. She came to the clinic with 
the chief complaint of severe masticatory dysfunction due to unstable full 
dentures. She strongly desired fixed prosthodontics. She had worn dentures for 
the past 17 years. The dentures that she had on when she came in for the first 
visit were her 4th set of dentures. For the past 8 years she had her dentures 
adjusted and rebased repeatedly. Her maxillary residual ridge had an average 
height but her mandibular residual ridge was extremely resorbed. EMG examination 
exhibited conspicuous distortion in chewing rhythm. From the mandibular 
movement, radiographs of the TMJ regions and the clinical observations it was 
determined that the vertical dimension had been lost and that her mandible was 
displaced toward her left and anteriorly. Palpation indicated the condition of 
muscular tension similar to that of TMJ dysfunction patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED 
AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2489292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Health Rep. 1989;1(2):137-74.

Changes in mortality by income in urban Canada from 1971 to 1986.

[Article in English, French]

Wilkins R, Adams O, Brancker A.

The reduction of socio-economic inequities in health is now an explicit 
objective of health policy in Canada. This study examines changes in mortality 
by income in urban Canada from 1971 to 1986 in terms of both relative and 
absolute differences between income groups. Street address information as shown 
on death certificates was used to code census tract of usual place of residence 
for deaths occurring to residents of Canada's Census Metropolitan Areas (CMAs) 
in 1971 and 1986. After exclusion of residents of health care institutions, 
73,995 deaths were included in the study for 1971, and 88,129 for 1986. These 
deaths were analyzed by income quintile (based on census tract incidence of low 
income), age, sex, and cause of death. In 1971, the difference in life 
expectancy at birth between the highest and lowest income quintiles was 6.3 
years for men and 2.8 years for women. By 1986, these differences had decreased 
to 5.6 years for men and 1.8 years for women. However, relative mortality 
(lowest compared to highest income quintile) at most ages changed only slightly 
over the 15 years. Relative infant mortality, for example, was 1.97 in 1971 and 
1.82 in 1986. In 1986, 21% of total potential years of life lost (PYLL) prior to 
age 75 could be attributed to differences in quintile death rates compared to 
rates for the highest income quintile. Approximately 45% of this "excess" PYLL 
was for persons under 45 years of age. In 1971, the comparable figure was 67%. 
In 1986, the major causes of death contributing to income inequalities in 
mortality were: circulatory diseases, accounting for 25% of excess PYLL related 
to quintile differences; accidents, poisonings and violence, accounting for 
about 17%; and neoplasms, accounting for 15%. Respiratory diseases, ill-defined 
conditions, metabolic diseases and perinatal conditions each contributed 6-7% of 
excess PYLL. From 1971 to 1986, in terms of age-standardized morality rates 
(ASMRs) for all ages, certain causes of death showed increased mortality 
together with greater inequality by income, especially for males: these causes 
included lung cancer, suicide, metabolic diseases other than diabetes, and 
ill-defined conditions. Other causes of death showed either little change or 
less inequality by income but higher ASMRs: these included breast cancer, colon 
and rectal cancer, arterial diseases, alcoholism, mental disorders, and diseases 
of the nervous system.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2491131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Health Rep. 1989;1(1):97-105.

Causes of death 1987.

[Article in English, French]

Brancker A.

PMID: 2491355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. JAMA. 1989 Jan 6;261(1):75-9.

The cost-effectiveness of counseling smokers to quit.

Cummings SR(1), Rubin SM, Oster G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco.

Cigarette smoking is the most important preventable cause of death in the United 
States. Surveys of patients, however, suggest that many physicians do not 
routinely counsel smokers to quit. Because physicians may not consider 
counseling against smoking to be as worthwhile as other medical practices, we 
examined its cost-effectiveness. We based our estimates of the effectiveness of 
physician counseling on published reports of randomized trials and our estimates 
of its cost on average charges for physician office visits. Our results indicate 
that the cost-effectiveness of brief advice during routine office visits ranges 
from $705 to $988 per year of life saved for men and from $1204 to $2058 for 
women. Follow-up visits about smoking appear to be similarly cost-effective. 
Physician counseling against smoking, therefore, is at least as cost-effective 
as several other preventive medical practices and should be a routine part of 
health care for patients who smoke.

PMID: 2491762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Arch Neurol. 1989 Jan;46(1):23-6. doi: 10.1001/archneur.1989.00520370025013.

The fate of World War II veterans with posttraumatic seizures.

Walker AE(1), Blumer D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery/Neurosurgery, University of New Mexico School of 
Medicine, Albuquerque 87131.

Of 244 men who, as the result of a brain wound sustained in World War II, had 
had one or more convulsive seizures, 101 have died. Except for men who succumbed 
in the first decade of complications of the wounding--infection, systemic or 
mental disease, status epilepticus, etc--the cause of death was similar to that 
of men of similar age in the general population. Of the men whose status is 
known, 74% have had no unconscious attacks in the past ten years or in the ten 
years before their death. The absence of seizures is not related to the 
continued ingestion of anticonvulsant medication. Approximately 25% of the men 
have had varying degrees of mental deterioration. The death rate of men with 
posttraumatic epilepsy is higher than that of normal men. Wounds of the right 
cerebral hemisphere seem to shorten the life span more than similar injuries of 
the left hemisphere.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1989.00520370025013
PMID: 2491944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Md Med J. 1989 Feb;38(2):115-20.

Demographic and epidemiologic considerations for developing preventive 
strategies in the elderly.

Magaziner J.

More than 29 million Americans are aged 65 and older, over 12 percent of the US 
population. This number is expected to increase to 35 million by the turn of the 
century and to 67 million by the year 2050. Growth is expected to be greatest 
among the oldest and most disabled members of this group, those aged 85 and 
older. Persons 65 and older are the largest consumers of medical care; their 
care needs will be even greater as we enter and move through the twenty first 
century. Most persons needing long-term care will reside in the community, not 
in nursing homes. In light of these projections, we must be concerned with 
community based prevention at all levels.

PMID: 2492630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Arch Neurol. 1989 Feb;46(2):223-9. doi:
10.1001/archneur.1989.00520380129027.

Clinical neuroepidemiology. III. Decisions.

Koprowski CD(1), Longstreth WT Jr, Cebul RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology and Neurology, Hahnemann University, 
Philadelphia.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1989.00520380129027
PMID: 2492802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. CA Cancer J Clin. 1989 Jan-Feb;39(1):33-9. doi: 10.3322/canjclin.39.1.33.

Trends in years of life lost to cancer: 1970 to 1985.

Mettlin C(1).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Control, Roswell Park Memorial Institute, Buffalo, New York.

DOI: 10.3322/canjclin.39.1.33
PMID: 2492875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Mar 15;110(6):456-69. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-110-6-456.

The role of exercise testing in screening for coronary artery disease.

Sox HC Jr(1), Littenberg B, Garber AM.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, California.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 1;111(3):257-8.

PURPOSE: To predict the effects of using exercise testing to screen healthy 
persons for coronary artery disease.
DATA IDENTIFICATION: The publications of the Coronary Artery Surgery Study were 
the principal sources of data for the cost-effectiveness analysis; we also used 
data from the Veterans Administration Cooperative Study of stable angina and the 
publications of the European Coronary Surgery Study Group.
STUDY SELECTION: We used studies that provided the data that our decision model 
required--life expectancy and probabilities of outcomes in persons who have or 
do not have coronary artery disease.
DATA EXTRACTION: We did not use a structured method for abstracting data. We 
tested the susceptibility of our conclusions to poor quality of data by 
substituting a wide range of values for a variable in the decision model, and by 
calculating life expectancy and costs if screening was used routinely or not 
used.
RESULTS OF DATA SYNTHESIS: We assumed that persons with an abnormal exercise 
test would have arteriography and that persons with severe coronary artery 
disease would have bypass surgery. When there were no suitable published data 
for the model, we made assumptions that favored screening. The model predicts 
that screening would increase the life expectancy of 60-year-old men at average 
risk by at most 12 days. Sixty-year-old men with no risk factors for coronary 
artery disease would derive less benefit, as would women and younger men.
CONCLUSIONS: The effect of exercise testing is too small to justify doing this 
procedure routinely in healthy persons. If coronary bypass surgery is found to 
prolong life in asymptomatic persons as much as it does in angina pectoris, 
screening older men with risk factors for coronary artery disease may prove to 
be worthwhile.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-110-6-456
PMID: 2493211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Med Law. 1989;7(5):417-22.

The right to die: a South African perspective.

van Zÿl U.

The right to die is discussed here from a South African perspective. Even though 
there is still strong opposition to euthanasia in legal circles, organised 
religious groups and the public at large, there are academics and professionals 
who advocate passive euthanasia on moral grounds. If the right to die is seen 
(and accepted) as a mere continuation and extension of the right to a dignified 
life, there should be no valid opposition to it. Such acceptance will however go 
against judicial decisions that have been handed down in cases involving 
euthanasia.

PMID: 2493546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Med Law. 1989;7(5):475-82.

The right to be born.

Davey DA.

The right to be born embodies several different rights: the right to be 
conceived, the right to be implanted in the uterus, and the right to live (or 
not be aborted). The right to be conceived, or the right of parents to 
reproduce, may depend upon circumstances. Do couples have the right to have 
children to whom they cannot offer an adequate upbringing? Do couples have the 
right to have as many children as they wish if in this way they will reduce the 
amount of food available to other families? Is the right to have children 
coupled with a responsibility not to have more children than a community, a 
country or the world can support? Fertilisation occurs in the fallopian tube, 
but only about 30% of fertilised ova normally become successfully implanted in 
the uterus. Fertilisation can also be achieved in a test tube and the resultant 
embryo then implanted in the mother's uterus to grow into a "test tube baby". Is 
it ethical to allow the use of donor sperm or ova, a surrogate mother, 
experimentation on embryos, and what should be done with "spare" embryos? The 
British Unborn Child (Protection) Bill 1986 prohibits anyone from possessing a 
fertilised embryo unless it is for the purpose of enabling a specific women to 
have a child. The right to live and not be aborted may involve a conflict of 
interests between a mother and her unborn child. A mother may claim absolute 
rights over her own body, including the right to have an abortion if she 
desires.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PIP: An essay on the right to be born and all its ramifications in the fetal 
life cycle is interwoven with the views of a South African physician, and a 
summary of South African abortion law. Experience as an obstetrician presents 
daily conflicts in rights, such as the decision to abort a woman with eclampsia, 
or whether to suggest abortion to a grand multipara in her tenth pregnancy who 
is ill and does not have the resources to care for the child. In South Africa it 
is legal to perform an abortion if a pregnancy may endanger the life or health 
of the woman, including mental health, or there is risk of an abnormal fetus, or 
in case of rape or incest. The right of human beings to reproduce is 
fundamental, but one must take responsibility for providing for the child and 
the family. By extension, that right must be considered in relation to the 
ability to the community, surrounding communities, and the world, and even 
subsequent generations, also to reproduce, and to live a reasonably acceptable 
life. These dilemmas are obvious when one reads the great ethical writers, 
especially Albert Schweitzer who wrote "One existence often holds its own life 
at the cost of another life." Only a few nations are taking steps to severely 
limit the right to reproduce. New developments in reproductive physiology, such 
as the increasingly easily performed in vitro fertilization, are complicating 
this evaluation.

PMID: 2493554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. BMJ. 1989 Jan 28;298(6668):235-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.298.6668.235.

Physical condition, longevity, and social performance of Dutch haemophiliacs, 
1972-85.

Smit C(1), Rosendaal FR, Varekamp I, Bröcker-Vriends A, Van Dijck H, Suurmeijer 
TP, Briët E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, University Hospital Leiden, The Netherlands.

A study was carried out among haemophiliacs in The Netherlands to evaluate the 
effect of modern substitution treatment (replacing the missing clotting factors) 
on medical and social performance. Three questionnaires were sent between 1972 
and 1985. The use of prophylactic treatment in the group of patients with severe 
and moderately severe haemophilia increased from 21% (n = 242) in 1972 to 36% (n 
= 559) in 1985. Home treatment programmes increased from 4% to 53%. Overall 
mortality was 2.1 times higher than in the general male population, which leads 
to a calculated life expectancy of 66 years compared with 74 years in the 
general male population. Severe joint impairment was prominent in the older age 
groups, reflecting insufficient treatment in the past. A sharp decrease in the 
use of inpatient and outpatient hospital facilities was observed as well as much 
less absence from school and work. It is concluded that the high costs of modern 
substitution treatment are fully justified.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.298.6668.235
PMCID: PMC1835514
PMID: 2493872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Can Assoc Radiol J. 1989 Feb;40(1):18-21.

Costs and benefits of low-osmolality contrast agents in radiology.

Sutherland JB(1), Huda W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg.

We have examined the costs and benefits associated with the introduction of 
low-osmolality contrast agents into general radiology. The result is a cost of 
$2,000,000 to save a life and $100,000 to save a year-of-life if it is assumed 
that these agents are ten times safer than conventional contrast agents in terms 
of fatality rates. These values are comparable to the costs of saving a life, 
and a year-of-life, associated with radiation protection practice, but appear to 
be over an order of magnitude higher than the corresponding costs in contexts 
such as mammography screening programs. Cost-benefit analysis provides a useful 
insight into medical decision making when available resources are limited. It 
raises the important question of whether society at large is allocating 
sufficient resources to health care.

PMID: 2493967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Mil Med. 1989 Feb;154(2):104.

Radiation Risk Assessment for Military Space Crews.

Reeves GI.

PMID: 2494576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. J Bacteriol. 1989 Apr;171(4):2110-5. doi: 10.1128/jb.171.4.2110-2115.1989.

Transcriptional and posttranscriptional control of the Bacillus subtilis 
succinate dehydrogenase operon.

Melin L(1), Rutberg L, von Gabain A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bacteriology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

The amount of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) in Bacillus subtilis varies with 
growth conditions. In this work we studied the steady-state level and the rate 
of decay of B. subtilis sdh mRNA under different growth conditions. In 
exponentially growing cells, the steady-state level of sdh mRNA was severalfold 
lower when glucose was present compared with growth without glucose, whereas the 
rate of decay of sdh mRNA was the same with and without glucose. Thus, glucose 
repression seems to act by decreasing sdh mRNA synthesis. When the bacteria 
entered the stationary phase, the steady-state level of sdh mRNA dropped about 
sixfold. At the same time, sdh mRNA half-life decreased from 2.6 to 0.4 min. 
This result indicates that transcription of the sdh operon is initiated at the 
same rate in exponentially growing and in stationary-phase cells. The start 
point of the sdh transcripts, as measured by primer extension, was the same 
under all conditions studied, suggesting that the sdh operon is solely 
controlled by the previously identified sigma 43-like promoter. The increase of 
SDH activity in stationary phase may be explained by reduced dilution of the SDH 
proteins as a result of the retarded growth rate. We suggest that enhanced 
degradation of the sdh transcript is a means by which the bacteria adjust 
expression to the demands of stationary phase.

DOI: 10.1128/jb.171.4.2110-2115.1989
PMCID: PMC209864
PMID: 2495271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Chest. 1989 May;95(5):1008-12. doi: 10.1378/chest.95.5.1008.

The micro-trach. A seven-year experience with transtracheal oxygen therapy.

Heimlich HJ(1), Carr GC.

Author information:
(1)Heimlich Institute at Xavier University, Cincinnati 45207-1096.

Over a six-year period, 200 patients requiring long-term oxygen therapy for 
hypoxemic lung disease underwent insertion of the micro-trach transtracheal 
catheter and were evaluated for one to seven years. The catheter requires no 
removal for cleaning; it is designed to function undisturbed within the trachea 
for six months between replacements. Transtracheal oxygen delivery and saline 
instillation were instituted immediately after inserting the device. Oxygen 
administration at a rate of 0.25 to 3 L/min was equivalent to 1 to 8 L/min 
delivered nasally. By the end of one year of follow-up, 12.5 percent of patients 
had dropped out of the study. Most patients comply with prescribed 24-hour-a-day 
oxygen use; in keeping with the NOTT study, life expectancy of emphysema 
patients may therefore be increased.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.95.5.1008
PMID: 2495902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Public Health Rep. 1989 May-Jun;104(3):222-6.

A multistate analysis of active life expectancy.

Rogers A(1), Rogers RG, Branch LG.

Author information:
(1)Population Program, Institute of Behavioral Science, University of Colorado, 
Boulder 80309.

With today's lower mortality rates, longer expectations of life, and new medical 
technologies, the nation's health policy focus has shifted from emphasis on 
individual survival to emphasis on personal health and independent living. Using 
longitudinal data sets and new methodological techniques, researchers have begun 
to assess active life expectancies, estimating not only how long a subpopulation 
can expect to live beyond each age, but what fractions of the expected remaining 
lifetime will be lived as independent, dependent, or institutionalized. New 
ideas are addressed, applying recently developed multistate life table methods 
to Waves One and Two of the Massachusetts Health Care Panel Study. Expectations 
of active life are presented for those 65 and older who initially are in one of 
two functional states of well-being. Included are expectations of life, for 
those, for example, who were independent and remained so, or those who were 
dependent and became independent. Although public health officials are concerned 
about the number of elderly who cease being independent, preliminary analysis 
shows that a significant number of the dependent elderly regain their 
independence, a situation which needs to be addressed in health care planning.

PMCID: PMC1579927
PMID: 2498971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Public Health Rep. 1989 May-Jun;104(3):279-85.

Years of potential life lost among a Native American population.

Mahoney MC(1), Michalek AM, Cummings KM, Hanley J, Snyder RL.

Author information:
(1)Roswell Park Memorial Institute, Buffalo, NY.

The determination of years of potential life lost (YPLL) can aid in monitoring 
changes in premature mortality among various population groups. While premature 
mortality has been shown to differ among blacks and whites, patterns of YPLL 
have not been well established among other racial groups. The Seneca Nation of 
Indians (SNI) is a Native American group residing primarily in western New York 
State (NYS). A review of SNI necrology records revealed that 55 percent (510 of 
924) of the deaths between 1955 and 1984 occurred before 65 years of age. The 
proportion of premature deaths among males exceeded the proportion in females. 
SNI males demonstrated an increased risk of premature death (odds ratio = 1.43) 
relative to SNI females. Both the percentage of premature deaths and the number 
of YPLL per death were greater among SNI members compared with NYS residents. 
Almost one-half of all YPLL among the SNI were attributable to accidents and 
injuries. Heart disease, digestive diseases, and malignant neoplasms also 
represented important contributors to YPLL for both SNI males and females. This 
investigation identifies important causes of premature death among a Native 
American population and underscores the preventable nature of premature loss of 
life.

PMCID: PMC1579922
PMID: 2498978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Exp Gerontol. 1989;24(3):265-71. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(89)90017-x.

Unexplained variations in life span of the Oregon-R strain of Drosophila 
melanogaster over a four-year period.

Lints FA(1), Lints CV, Bullens P, Bourgois M, Delincé J.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Génétique, Université de Louvain, Belgium.

The life span of samples of the Oregon-R strain of Drosophila melanogaster was 
observed, every fourth week, during a four-year period. Large variations, most 
probably non-random, were observed at both 25 and 21 degrees C. The possible 
causes of these variations have been searched for, yet no definite conclusion 
can be reached. The implications of these results for Drosaphila quantitative 
genetic research are stressed.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(89)90017-x
PMID: 2499486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1989 May;82(5):683-8.

[Tetralogy of Fallot. 20 years' experience in 144 cases].

[Article in French]

Hallali P(1), Davido A, Corone P.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital de la Pitié, Paris.

Between 1968 and December 1987, 144 patients with tetralogy of Fallot were 
examined at La Pitié Hospital, Paris. 76 were female and 68 male, with a mean 
age of 8.1 years at the first visit. The patients were regularly followed up by 
the same physician relying on radiography of the chest, electrocardiography and, 
since 1982, two-dimensional echocardiography. These visits were coupled with an 
interview with the welfare officer attached to our department for information on 
the patient's way of life as well as his socio-professional and familial 
problems. 129 patients of mean age 14.8 years underwent corrective surgery 
preceded in 81 cases by palliative surgery. The overall immediate mortality rate 
was 12.4% (16 cases), falling from 19.5% between 1968 and 1977 to 3% during the 
last 10 years. The mean follow-up period was 10.7 years, with 51 patients being 
followed up for more than 10 years and 18 for more than 20 years. Late mortality 
now stands at 5.3% (7 patients, 6 of whom died of a cardiac cause). Residual 
lesions consisted in significant (27%) pulmonary insufficiency in 35 patients, 
residual interventricular septal defect in 16 patients (12.4%) and pulmonary 
obstruction in 11 patients (8%). 18 patients presented with dysrhythmias, 
including 7 cases of ventricular arrhythmia; 5 two-bundle blocks and 5 complete 
atrioventricular blocks were also observed. 11 patients required reoperation 
with a 27.2% mortality rate (3 cases).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2500092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. World J Surg. 1989 May-Jun;13(3):266-71. doi: 10.1007/BF01659032.

Ultrasonographic screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm: analysis of surgical 
decisions for cost-effectiveness.

Bengtsson H, Bergqvist D, Jendteg S, Lindgren B, Persson U.

A mathematic model is created to determine the economic cost per year of 
anticipated prolongation of life that would result from a program of abdominal 
ultrasonographic (US) screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm. The protocol 
involves US screening at age 60, 67, and 74 years with additional annual 
follow-up US and examination if an aneurysm of less than 40 mm is detected. 
Larger aneurysms are assumed to be sent for early elective resection. The 
benefits and risks for a subset of men with symptoms of intermittent 
claudication (IC) as an additional risk factor of atherosclerosis is calculated 
for comparison. Many of the factors on which these calculated costs and benefits 
are based are approximations and inferences. These include operative mortality 
for elective and emergent cases, charges for each such condition, cost of US, 
and anticipated survival following successful aneurysmectomy both with and 
without concomitant IC. Sensitivity analysis is performed to show how variations 
in the major parameters alter the outcome of the calculated cost per year of 
anticipated extension of life.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01659032
PMID: 2500780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Hastings Cent Rep. 1989 Jul-Aug;19(4):8-13.

Cost-effectiveness analysis in health care.

Emery DD(1), Schneiderman LJ.

Author information:
(1)Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa 
City.

PIP: With the skyrocketing costs of modern health care, many health policy 
planners turn to cost effective analysis (CEA) or cost benefit analysis (CBA) to 
get quantitative answers for appropriateness of health procedures. This article 
analyzes how well approaches like CEA or CBA handle the hidden ethical 
judgements for such problems as: alternative treatments for an identical goal, 
the most effective utilization of funds earmarked for a particular goal, 
empirical support for the adoption of previously underfunded medical programs, 
and exposing noncostworthy care. Areas of analysis that involve human capital 
methodologies, whereby human value is often defined by economic worth, was shown 
to discriminate against low wage earners. The quandary of how to determine the 
value of human life and health is an essential problem but is certainly not 
straight forward. A particular criticism of CEA where there exist ethical 
shortcomings is the analysis of health care for the elderly (e.g. the elderly 
have a worse expenditure of dollars for lifespan extension). If CEA or CBA is 
applied in an appropriate manner, CEA can encompass many of our democratic 
society's values, and therefore philosophers, historians, and students of the 
humanities are encouraged to provide input in this domain of analysts and 
economics.

PMID: 2501235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. J R Soc Health. 1989 Jun;109(3):79-85. doi: 10.1177/146642408910900302.

Aspects of health care in China.

Rands G.

I work in nurse education mainly running courses concerned with family planning 
and health screening, so my particular interest was to look at those services, 
and the training provided to staff. I wished to look both at the urban 
facilities but particularly the 'barefoot doctor' training and the services they 
provided in the rural areas. Within the factories I wanted to talk to staff to 
see if their service equated with our occupational health service.

PIP: China's population is increasing at a rate of 12 million/year and the 
population doubled from 1949 to 1982. By the end of the century there will be 1 
billion 300 million people when the land resources can accommodate only 680 
million inhabitants. The policy of 1 child aims only at curtailing this growth 
by a system of awards and penalties. Contraceptives are free and widely 
available. As a result there are 32 million single children, and there is 
concern about the future care of the elderly. Since 1949 health care has 
improved. The infant mortality rate decreased from 200/1000 in 1949 to 34/1000 
in 1982. Average life expectancy rose from 35 to 68 years. There are 2 million 
hospital beds and over 4 million medical personnel. Contagious and infectious 
diseases were eliminated in the 1950s, however, 60 million Chinese suffer from 
endemic disease, especially from snail fever. 40 million women use IUDs. There 
are 144 medical schools with 144,000 students. 1,200,000 paramedics provide 
primary care in the communes. There is an acute shortage of nurses because of 
its lowly status. Dependents pay 50% of health care while it is free for 
workers. Health education campaigns are widespread (1 child only, stop smoking). 
The elderly are cared for by their children, but grandparents also take care of 
grandchildren. Retirement age is 55 or 60 depending on gender and type of work. 
