Professional visits were made to the Beijing Traditional Chinese Medicine 
Hospital (gallstone treatment with herbs, heat-producing moxibustion for blood 
circulation), Norman Bethune Hospital, (suction and prostaglandins for 
abortion), Dongying Commune, Hebei Medical College (25 specialties for 
postgraduate students), Shandong Psychiatric Hospital in Jinan (treatment of 
acute psychoses, schizophrenia, or mania), the Provincial Hospital Jinan 
(cesarean operations are done with acupuncture anesthesia), Jinan School of 
Health (nursing curriculum demonstration), Shanghai First Social Welfare Home 
for the Elderly, and to several factories.

DOI: 10.1177/146642408910900302
PMID: 2501488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. J Mol Evol. 1989 May;28(5):427-41. doi: 10.1007/BF02603078.

Ciliate evolution: the ribosomal phylogenies of the tetrahymenine ciliates.

Preparata RM(1), Meyer EB, Preparata FP, Simon EM, Vossbrinck CR, Nanney DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology, Ethology, and Evolution, University of Illinois, 
Urbana 61801.

We have assembled and analyzed nucleotide sequences for several different rRNA 
components from tetrahymenine ciliates. These include previously published and 
some new 5S and 5.8S rRNAs for a total of 18 species. We also report sequences 
for some 30 species obtained by primer extension analysis of a region near the 
5' end of the 23S rRNAs (region 580). Phylogenetic trees have been constructed 
for these species, utilizing heuristics (shifting ditypic site analysis) 
described in a companion paper. The trees based on these sequences are 
consistent with each other and with those based on longer sequences of the 17S 
rRNA. They show the tetrahymenines to consist of a number of distinctive 
clusters of species. The clusters (ribosets) are homogeneous with respect to 
certain life history characteristics, especially the mode of mating type 
determination, but are inhomogeneous with respect to some morphological and life 
history features, such as cyst formation and adaptations to parasitism or 
carnivory. Using the same molecular data, we also begin to explore the 
relationships of the tetrahymenines to some other ciliate taxa and to some other 
protists.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02603078
PMID: 2501504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Am J Public Health. 1989 Aug;79(8):975-81. doi: 10.2105/ajph.79.8.975.

The external costs of a sedentary life-style.

Keeler EB(1), Manning WG, Newhouse JP, Sloss EM, Wasserman J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, CA 90406.

Using data from the National Health Interview Survey and the RAND Health 
Insurance Experiment, we estimated the external costs (costs borne by others) of 
a sedentary life-style. External costs stem from additional payments received by 
sedentary individuals from collectively financed programs such as health 
insurance, sick-leave coverage, disability insurance, and group life insurance. 
Those with sedentary life-styles incur higher medical costs, but their life 
expectancy at age 20 is 10 months less so they collect less public and private 
pensions. The pension costs come late in life, as do some of the medical costs, 
and so the estimate of the external cost is sensitive to the discount rate used. 
At a 5 percent rate of discount, the lifetime subsidy from others to those with 
a sedentary life style is $1,900. Our estimate of the subsidy is also sensitive 
to the assumed effect of exercise on mortality. The subsidy is a rationale for 
public support of recreational facilities such as parks and swimming pools and 
employer support of programs to increase exercise.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.79.8.975
PMCID: PMC1349889
PMID: 2502036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1989 Mar;82(3):353-8.

[Socioeconomic implications of the practice of thrombolysis in the acute stage 
of myocardial infarction].

[Article in French]

Herve C(1), Castiel D, Gaillard M, Daussac C, Leroux V, Jan F, Castaigne A.

Author information:
(1)UFR de médecine, hôpital Henri-Mondor, Créteil.

The use of variegated and costly thrombolytic agents for the treatment of 
myocardial infarction in its acute phase may have medico-social advantages. In 
the present study, these advantages were evaluated after one year from two age 
and sex matched populations: 40 patients who underwent thrombolysis and 38 
patients who did not. Compared with the first hospitalizations, the difference 
was + 4,000 francs, rising to + 11.000 francs with the drug Eminase. A 
questionnaire including medical, social and economic data was sent to the 78 
patients and was filled by 63 of them, remaining unanswered by one patient who 
had thrombolysis and 10 patients who did not. Readmission to hospital showed a 
44.000 francs difference to the benefit of patients who underwent thrombolysis. 
Ancillary care and return to work were similar in both groups. Cost expectancy 
was 119.500 francs for patients who had thrombolysis and 122.000 francs for 
those who did not. Thrombolysis therefore is a cost reduction factor, but its 
influence on costs is less pronounced when it is performed soon after the onset 
of myocardial infarction. Thrombolysis is more expensive when carried out at 
home than in hospital. In this study, the excess cost (+ 5.000 francs) was due 
to the relatively small number of patients and to the loss of professional 
activity which may be an uncertain factor. Mortality at one year was nil when 
thrombolysis was performed within the first two hours (12 patients) and rose to 
16.6 percent between 2 and 3 hours (18 patients) and 30 percent after 3 hours 
(10 patients). Conducted on a necessarily limited number of patients, this 
multiple criteria study was also aimed at establishing a method to evaluate the 
health expenditures imposed by the introduction of new and costly treatment in 
the management of myocardial infarction.

PMID: 2502091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Ann Emerg Med. 1989 Sep;18(9):953-63. doi: 10.1016/s0196-0644(89)80460-3.

How many myocardial infarctions should we rule out?

Wears RL(1), Li S, Hernandez JD, Luten RC, Vukich DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Florida, Jacksonville.

We used computer simulation to estimate the consequences of four admitting 
strategies (coronary care unit, intermediate care unit, routine ward care, or 
outpatient follow-up) on cost, outcome, admission threshold probabilities, and 
false-positive admission rates for patients with acute myocardial infarction. At 
virtually any probability of acute myocardial infarction, replacing more 
intensive by less intensive strategies saved money but increased mortality and 
decreased life expectancy. Therefore, choices among strategies may be made by 
using the most effective strategy for progressively lower and lower risk 
patients until the additional cost per additional life saved reaches a cutoff 
value; then, a less expensive strategy is selected. With sample cutoff values of 
$1 and $2 million per life saved, the marginal threshold admission probabilities 
were: (table; see text) These results imply that the acceptable proportion of 
false-positive admissions may be as high as 70% to 80%; lower rates could 
indicate excessively restrictive admitting policies. Clinicians may be operating 
closer to the optimal decision point than has previously been asserted.

DOI: 10.1016/s0196-0644(89)80460-3
PMID: 2504084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Sep 1;111(5):389-99. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-111-5-389.

Screening for breast cancer.

Eddy DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Policy Research and Education, Duke University, Durham, 
North Carolina.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Nov 15;111(10):858-9.

There is very good evidence that screening for breast cancer reduces mortality 
in women older than 50 years and suggestive but inconsistent evidence that 
screening is effective in reducing long-term mortality in women younger than 50 
years. The probability that an average-risk woman will be diagnosed with breast 
cancer in the coming 10 years is about 130 in 10,000 for a 40-year-old woman, 
230 in 10,000 for a 55-year-old woman, and 280 in 10,000 for a 65-year-old 
woman. The chance of dying from breast cancer diagnosed in the coming 10 years 
is about 90 in 10,000, 123 in 10,000, and 120 in 10,000 for women age 40, 55, 
and 65, respectively. Mathematical models based on data from controlled trials 
of screening programs indicate that screening annually for 10 years with breast 
physical examination will decrease the probability of death from breast cancer 
by about 25 in 10,000 for women in the three age groups and increase life 
expectancy by about 20 days. Adding annual mammography will decrease the 
probability of death from breast cancer an additional 25 in 10,000 and increase 
life expectancy an additional 20 days. The actual reductions in mortality 
observed in controlled trials are slightly lower. If women are screened annually 
for 10 years with breast physical examination and mammography, the chance for a 
false-positive result over the 10-year period is approximately 2500 in 10,000. 
On the population level, if 25% of women age 40 to 75 are screened annually with 
both examinations, deaths from breast cancer would be decreased by about 4000 in 
the year 2000. Net annual costs would be approximately $1.3 billion. 
Recommending a screening strategy requires weighing the benefits against the 
risks and costs.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-111-5-389
PMID: 2504094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1989 Sep;14(3 Suppl A):29A-37A. doi: 
10.1016/0735-1097(89)90159-9.

A patient with new Q waves: methods for decision making in the individual 
patient.

Moskowitz AJ(1), Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New England Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts.

Decision analysis, an analytic approach to making decisions when uncertainty is 
present, has its foundation in probability and utility theory. It provides 
insights into the trade-offs that are involved when a selection must be made 
among patient management strategies. In general, several broad steps are 
involved. The process begins by formulating the clinical problem as a well 
focused choice among a limited set of clinical etiologies. These strategies are 
then structured explicitly in a model that depicts the clinical events that may 
ensue from each option. By assigning probability values to each outcome, the 
weighted average outcome or expected utility can be calculated for each 
alternative strategy. The strategy with the highest expected utility is the 
optimal one. The methods of decision analysis offer a number of distinct 
advantages. These include: 1) providing a structure with which to simplify and 
focus clinical dilemmas; 2) providing a forum for discussing clinical reasoning; 
and 3) developing a consensus among groups of decision makers.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(89)90159-9
PMID: 2504800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. N Engl J Med. 1989 Sep 28;321(13):898-900. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198909283211311.

Cost effectiveness as a criterion for Medicare coverage.

Leaf A(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1990 Mar 15;322(11):781.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198909283211311
PMID: 2505078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. J Clin Epidemiol. 1989;42(9):905-12. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(89)90104-2.

The benefits of treating mild to moderate hypertension. A quantitative 
estimation of the life expectancy gains from pharmacological reduction of blood 
pressure.

Kawachi I(1), Malcolm LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Wellington School of Medicine, New Zealand.

A quantitative assessment of the benefits of pharmacological treatment of mild 
to moderate hypertension (diastolic blood pressure 90-114 mmHg) in patients aged 
30-60 years was performed, based on the pooled results of nine major clinical 
trials. The benefits were expressed as added "quality-adjusted life-years" 
(QALYs), using life-table methods and utility valuations of health states. The 
expected gains in QALYs were found to be quite small, ranging from 2.3-11.4 
months in males, and 1.4-7.6 months in females. Previous attempts to estimate 
the nature and magnitude of the benefits of antihypertensive therapy have all 
been based on extrapolations from epidemiological data, instead of on the actual 
achieved reductions in mortality and morbidity demonstrated in clinical trials. 
The former method considerably overestimates the potential direct benefits from 
drug treatment of mild to moderate hypertension.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(89)90104-2
PMID: 2506315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Emerg Med Clin North Am. 1989 Nov;7(4):823-35.

Metabolic acidosis.

Kearns T(1), Wolfson AB.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh Affilated Residency in Emergency Medicine, 
Pennsylvania.

This article reviews acid-base homeostasis and discusses the approach to the 
acidotic patient, with special reference to problems commonly encountered in 
emergency practice. General principles of therapy are presented, and their 
application to specific types of life-threatening metabolic acidosis addressed. 
By extension, recommendations are made concerning the treatment of the acidosis 
associated with cardiac arrest. Finally, preliminary information is presented on 
promising new approaches to the treatment of metabolic acidosis that are 
currently under investigation.

PMID: 2509197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Leber Magen Darm. 1989 Sep;19(5):231-2, 235-8, 241-4.

[Epidemiology and clinical aspects of chronic hepatitis B and non-A, non-B virus 
infections].

[Article in German]

Stremmel W(1), Strohmeyer G.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Gastroenterologie, Zentrums für Innere Medizin, 
Universitätskliniken Düsseldorf.

Hepatitis B and Non-A-non-B infections often become chronic and proceed to 
cirrhosis associated with a shortened life expectancy. Both infections are 
transmitted by parenteral or sexual routes. New insights in the structure of the 
hepatitis B virus (HBV) as well as in the immune response mechanism of the 
organism permit by serological testing a clear definition of the replicative 
state of the virus. Together with the parameters of inflammation (e.g. 
transaminases, liver histology) it is possible to determine the activity of the 
hepatitis. The most effective treatment of chronic HBV-infection today is the 
therapy with alpha- or beta-interferon. The aim of this treatment is the 
inhibition of HBV replication and accellerated elimination of the virus, 
indicated by seroconversion of HBEAg to anti-HBEAg. The most significant advance 
in the knowledge of percutaneous Non-A-non-B hepatitis is the identification of 
the responsible virus and the development of a diagnostic test for its 
serological detection. Since this type of hepatitis becomes chronic in 50-60% of 
the cases, therapy is urgently required. Clinical studies showed that also for 
Non-A-non-B virus infection alpha-interferon is most effective. Currently the 
optimal dosage, duration and point in time for interferon treatment is being 
evaluated.

PMID: 2509833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Wiad Lek. 1989 Jan 15;42(2):74-8.

[Serum monoamine oxidase (MAO) and diamine oxidase (DAO) activity and histamine 
level in the blood of women during the early puerperium].

[Article in Polish]

Szojkowits Z, Jez W, Kochański L.

In early puerperium various biochemical changes develop in the organism. 
Considering the role played by MAO, DAO and histamine, and absence of a 
comprehensive study of this problem in this life period a study was carried out 
on 36 women, who were selected randomly from women giving birth through the 
normal pathway. Blood samples were taken in morning hours on the 1, 2 and 3 days 
of puerperium. In each case the activity of serum monoamine oxidase, diamine 
oxidase and blood histamine level were measured. The results obtained on various 
days of puerperium were compared. Statistical analysis was carried out using the 
t test for paired measurements. Increased serum MAO activity was found on the 
second day and was decreased then on the third day of puerperium, but it was 
still above the level on the first day. A successive decrease of serum DAO 
activity was noted in these three days of puerperium. The blood histamine level 
increased successively on the successive days of puerperium. Normal values of 
the activity of these substances in the serum were established in women 
delivering the fetus through the vagina. The lower normal range of MAO activity, 
extension of the range of DAO activity, especially of its upper range, and 
decreased histamine level were found. The authors discuss the causes of these 
results.

PMID: 2510406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Haematologica. 1989 Sep-Oct;74(5):481-5.

Second neoplasms in chronic lymphocytic leukemia: analysis of incidence as a 
function of the length of follow-up.

Molica S, Alberti A.

Among 191 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients seen at our institution 
over an 18-year period, 13 (6.8%) were found to have a second neoplasm (sN). A 
neoplasm associated with CLL was diagnosed concurrently in 7 cases and 
subsequently in 6, respectively. Although a trend toward a more frequent 
incidence in male patients older than 65 years with a more aggressive form of 
leukemia and who needed therapy could be detected, the clinical characteristics 
of these 13 patients did not differ significantly from those of the general 
population of CLL patients. The analysis of the sN risk as a function of the 
length of follow-up, by calculating the actuarial risk and the hazard function 
plot, provides important information on the natural history of sN appearing in 
CLL. The actuarial risk of sN at 5 years was 9.7% or 6.9%, respectively, 
according to whether we did or did not consider cases of cutaneous carcinomas. 
The smoothed hazard function showed a pattern of decreasing rate over the first 
year, a rise to 3.0% by the third year, and no increasing risk later in the 
follow-up. This trend was associated with a high incidence of sNs synchronous 
with CLL, and with a clustering of sNs among patients who died early, before 
reaching median survival. In addition, the early appearance of the sN risk is 
analogous to the renal transplant experience and suggests that sNs may result 
from impaired immune surveillance.

PMID: 2511118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1989 Sep;90(9):1428-31.

[Surgery for far-advanced colorectal cancer--extension of surgical indication 
and its results].

[Article in Japanese]

Hojo K(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Surgery, National Cancer Center Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

The role of extended surgery for far advanced colorectal cancer (stage V, IV) 
was discussed. As the progression of colorectal cancer is relatively slow and 
small, as compared to cancers of other digestive organs, removal of the far 
advanced carcinoma by much extended operation was effective to enhance the 
survival or quality of life of patients. Combined resection of adjacent organ 
involved has given many patients chance of cure. Total pelvic eviscerations were 
performed for thirty eight patients with far-advanced rectal cancer which 
involved adjacent organs. The results were a 51.5% 5-year survival rate for 
curative resected group. For advanced rectal cancer with a high degree of 
lymph-node metastasis, extension of lymph-node dissection up to the para-aortic 
region or ileo-pelvic lateral dissection en bloc with the internal iliac vessels 
were effective for decreasing the incidence of local recurrence. For seventy two 
patients with liver metastasis, radical surgery with removal of liver metastatic 
lesions post removed intra arterial infusion therapy (5FU,MMC) was carried out 
and the resulting 5-year survival rate was 40% for patients with H1 liver 
metastasis. Removal of pulmonary metastatic lesions was also performed in sixty 
five patients and the 5-year survival rate was 40%. A complete removal of 
scattered tumors (P1,P2) and administration of anticancer drug-MMC (20-30mg) in 
the peritoneal cavity was conjugated to prolong the terms of survival of 
patients.

PMID: 2511418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Bioessays. 1989 Nov;11(5):132-5. doi: 10.1002/bies.950110505.

Genetics of increased lifespan in Drosophila.

Rose MR.

Natural selection in the laboratory has been used to produce populations of 
Drosophila with genetically increased lifespan. These populations have been used 
to determine the physiological basis of postponed ageing and its pleiotropic 
concomitants. It appears that many loci and a number of physiological 
alterations are involved in increased lifespan.

DOI: 10.1002/bies.950110505
PMID: 2511838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Paraplegia. 1989 Oct;27(5):350-3. doi: 10.1038/sc.1989.53.

Spinal unit long term inpatient management of patients with severe neurological 
deficit.

Griffiths ER(1).

Author information:
(1)Spinal Department, Royal Perth Hospital, Western Australia.

Patients with the 'locked-in syndrome' are now being presented to spinal units 
for long term care. This is becoming a problem in spinal cord injury units, 
which have developed to accept spinal cord injury in the acute stage, to manage 
problems resulting from this, and to conduct a rehabilitation programme. A case 
history is presented of a patient with Guillain-Barré's recurrent syndrome, 
already 3 years an inpatient in a spinal unit and with minimal recovery. 
Problems in care are described in a patient with total bulbar palsy, paralysis 
of the intercostal and of the diaphragm includes inability to swallow due to 
bulbar paralysis with nutrition delivered by jejunostomy. The presence of a 
tracheostomy, as well as the bulbar and laryngeal palsy, render vocal 
communication impossible. Total care has been provided in a spinal unit for the 
past 3 years, with no complications occurring during his management. Given 
continuation of expert care, life expectancy may be that of many years. Is a 
spinal cord injury unit the proper place for long term management of cases of 
this nature and many similar cases described as having the 'locked-in syndrome'?

DOI: 10.1038/sc.1989.53
PMID: 2513547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. BMJ. 1989 Dec 23-30;299(6715):1547-51. doi: 10.1136/bmj.299.6715.1547.

Why are the Japanese living longer?

Marmot MG(1), Smith GD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, University College and Middlesex School of 
Medicine, London.

Erratum in
    BMJ 1990 Jan 27;300(6719):226.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1990 Feb 17;300(6722):465.
    BMJ. 1990 Mar 3;300(6724):610.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.299.6715.1547
PMCID: PMC1838781
PMID: 2514896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1989;4(10):859-63. doi: 10.1093/ndt/4.10.859.

Similar risks of nephropathy in patients with type I or type II diabetes 
mellitus.

Hasslacher C(1), Ritz E, Wahl P, Michael C.

Author information:
(1)Department Internal Medicine, University of Heidelberg, Germany.

It is commonly assumed that in patients the risks of developing nephropathy and 
uraemia are high in type I and low in type II diabetes mellitus. Since type II 
occurs mostly in elderly individuals with limited life expectancy and high 
cardiovascular mortality, the true risk may have been underestimated, as many 
patients do not survive to experience renal complications. To assess renal risk 
further, we evaluated all patients with type II and type I diabetes mellitus 
without severe secondary disease who were followed in the outpatient clinic 
between 1970 and 1985. The cumulative risk of proteinuria after 20 years of 
diabetes mellitus was 27% in type II and 28% in type I, the findings after 25 
years were 57% and 46% respectively. The cumulative risk of renal failure, i.e. 
serum creatinine greater than 1.4 mg/dl, after 3 years of persisting proteinuria 
was 41% in both type II and type I, and after 5 years of proteinuria were 63% 
and 59% respectively. We conclude that the renal risk is similar in patients 
with type II and type I diabetes mellitus.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/4.10.859
PMID: 2515489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Health Educ. 1989 Dec;20(5):15-8.

The dilemma of Native American health.

Lamarine R.

PMID: 2516053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Health Educ. 1989 Dec;20(5):9-14.

Health education for African Americans: a neglected task.

Airhihenbuwa CO.

PMID: 2516065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Chin Med J (Engl). 1989 Oct;102(10):765-7.

Life table method for analyzing relationship between smoking and hypertension.

Liu SX, Huang CN.

The life table method is introduced for describing the relationship of smoking 
amount to prevalence rate of hypertension. The smoking level at different sex 
groups are collected and grouped according to their cumulative smoking amount. 
Using the total number of peasants, and the number of hypertensives in each 
group, one is able to calculate the probability of occurrence of hypertension 
for each dose group as well as for each cumulative dose group, which indicated 
that there was a dose-effect curve in estimating the relationship between the 
cumulative smoking and the probability of hypertension, and females presented a 
significantly higher probability of hypertension than males in same smoking 
level.

PMID: 2517057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Health Psychol. 1989;8(6):723-35.

Health outcome models for policy analysis.

Kaplan RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Family Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla 92093.

The increasing therapeutic options in health care have created new dilemmas 
because resources to pay for the new technologies are limited. 
Cost/effectiveness and cost/utility models are required in order to evaluate the 
return on the invested dollar for various health care technologies. The problem 
is that different technologies are often evaluated using very different outcome 
units. The alternatives may range from liver transplantation to rehabilitation 
to preventive care. This article presents an overview of a general health policy 
model that expresses the benefits of all programs in a common unit known as the 
well-year--defined as the equivalent of 1 completely well year of life. The 
model uses two data sources: life expectancy and health-related quality of life 
during years prior to death. The quality-of-life component considers behavioral 
scales for mobility, physical activity, social activity, and symptoms. These 
dimensions are weighted by utility or preference to create a single scale that 
ranges from 0 (for death) for 1.0 (for optimum health). The model also considers 
duration of stay in each health state. Because all providers in health care 
attempt to extend life expectancy and improve quality of life, very different 
approaches in health care can be evaluated against one another. Preliminary 
analyses suggest that some behavioral interventions compete favorably with 
traditional medical and surgical treatments in terms of cost/well-year of life 
production. Various applications of the model are discussed.

PMID: 2517783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Med Law. 1989;8(6):567-80.

Life insurance and HIV testing: insurance theory, discrimination and solutions.

Bergkamp L.

Part 1 describes briefly how the market for life insurance deals with HIV 
infection and how society has reacted to its policies. Part 2 examines the 
arguments for and against HIV testing: does it discriminate against individuals 
or is it just a logical extension of risk estimation procedures and underwriting 
techniques? In part 3 possible solutions are considered. Are solutions in the 
private sector, like banning HIV testing, warranted, should we look for a public 
solution that does not burden the private insurance industry, or is a mixed 
public-private solution desirable?

PMID: 2517991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Dtsch Krankenpflegez. 1989 Jan;42(1):suppl 1-9.

[Mucoviscidosis. The psychosocial aspects of a hereditary disease].

[Article in German]

Schäffner M.

PMID: 2518093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Aten Primaria. 1989 Oct;6(8):548-52.

[Dynamic demography from 1900 to 1985 in Aldeavieja (Avila)].

[Article in Spanish]

Ripoll Lozano MA.

The dynamic demography of the village of Aldeavieja (Avila) from 1900 to 1985 
was evaluated with several indicators. A reduction in mortality rate was found, 
stabilizing around 10% since 1950, with a greater reduction in mortality rates 
in children. From 1900 to 1985 the Swarop index rose from 34.55% to 92.86%, and 
life expectancy from 30.13 to 77.5 years. The most common causes of death were 
infectious diseases during the first decades of the period, being now replaced 
by tumors and chronic diseases. There was a great demographic loss and the 
population became older (17.59% are now older than 65 years). It was concluded 
that a knowledge of dynamic demography is needed for a rational planning and an 
adequate resource allocation based on needs.

PMID: 2518965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Rev Med Chil. 1989 Oct;117(10):1182-8.

[Years of life lost according to causes of death in Chile: 1981-1983].

[Article in Spanish]

Solís F, Mardones G, Castillo B.

An estimated total of 811,037 years of life were lost for persons between 28 
days and 64 years of age in Chile from 1981 to 1983. 63% correspond to males. 
Main causes of death accounting for these figures include non accidental violent 
death (15.6%), accidental death (13.4%), pneumonia and influenza (9.9%), tumors 
(7.5%) and cirrhosis of the liver (5.6%). Almost 50% of the loss occurred in the 
28 day to 11 month and the 25 to 44 year age groups. Regional variation, from a 
minimum of 5895 years of life lost for 100,000 persons in Arica to 9,640 in 
Bio-Bio.

PMID: 2519367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Math Biosci. 1989 Apr;93(2):159-80. doi: 10.1016/0025-5564(89)90021-7.

Growth rate, population entropy, and perturbation theory.

Demetrius L.

This paper is concerned with the connection between two classes of population 
variables: measures of population growth rate--the Malthusian parameter, the net 
reproduction rate, the gross reproduction rate, and the mean life expectancy; 
and measures of demographic heterogeneity--population entropy. It is shown that 
the entropy functions predict the response of the growth rate parameters to 
perturbations in the age-specific fecundity and mortality schedule. These 
results are invoked to introduce the notion of environmental intensity. The 
intensity function, expressed in terms of the entropy parameters, is applied to 
give a comparative study of the effect of environmental factors on the dynamics 
of Swedish and French populations.

DOI: 10.1016/0025-5564(89)90021-7
PMID: 2520027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Math Biosci. 1989 Sep;96(1):95-115. doi: 10.1016/0025-5564(89)90085-0.

Bounds on life expectancy for the Rayleigh and Weibull distributions.

Rao BR, Talwalker S.

Bounds are presented for the life expectancy or the mean residual life of an 
individual whose lifetime is a random variable X following a Rayleigh 
distribution or more generally a Weibull distribution. Simple transformations of 
the variables give inequalities on the Mills' ratio and the incomplete gamma 
functions. Some numerical computations are also reported to compare the lower 
and upper bounds with the exact value of the life expectancy function for 
several values of the parameter. When the lifetime follows a Gompertz 
distribution, the problem becomes complicated, and it has not been possible to 
construct bounds on the life expectancy function. The importance of the Gompertz 
distribution in the dynamics of normal and tumor growth and in the embryonic and 
postnatal growth of birds and mammals is demonstrated, and life expectancy is 
evaluated by numerical methods for a number of parameter values.

DOI: 10.1016/0025-5564(89)90085-0
PMID: 2520194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. J Perinat Neonatal Nurs. 1989 Apr;2(4):72-82. doi: 
10.1097/00005237-198904000-00010.

The newborn infant with Down syndrome: realities and possibilities.

Walden BJ.

DOI: 10.1097/00005237-198904000-00010
PMID: 2522544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Diabet Med. 1989 Mar;6(2):164-70. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.1989.tb02107.x.

The cost of diabetes.

Gerard K(1), Donaldson C, Maynard AK.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK.

This paper estimates the cost of diabetes in England and Wales in 1984 to be in 
excess of 259.5 million pounds. The costing methodology used follows the 'cost 
of illness' framework. This framework defines three elements for costing: 
direct, indirect and psychological, although the latter element is left out of 
the calculation because monetary valuations for this element have never been 
adequately estimated. Direct costs include resources used to prevent, detect, 
and treat diabetes. Indirect costs relate to the loss of productive output 
caused by absenteeism, early retirement, and premature mortality. The estimate 
which has been obtained is likely to be an underestimate because of the 
weaknesses and gaps in the data sets. The estimate of the total lost earnings 
from diabetes varied greatly according to the choice of absentee rate. If there 
was no significant difference between absenteeism in the diabetic community and 
the non-diabetic community then the cost of diabetes would be 259.5 million 
pounds. If on the other hand the diabetic community was prone to three times as 
much absenteeism as the non-diabetic community then the cost of diabetes would 
rise to 602.5 million pounds. The costs of diabetes as a subsidiary diagnosis 
are extremely difficult to identify. They have been estimated in this study to 
be 86 million pounds but this is thought to be an overestimate. Nevertheless the 
cost of diabetes is significant and thus the search for more efficient treatment 
regimens may reduce such costs as well as enhance the quality of life of the 
patients concerned.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.1989.tb02107.x
PMID: 2522861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Hum Genet. 1989 Jun;82(3):291-2. doi: 10.1007/BF00291175.

Life tables for Down syndrome.

Baird PA(1), Sadovnick AD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
Canada.

Life expectancy in Down syndrome was calculated to 68 years, using data for 1610 
Down syndrome liveborn individuals among over 1.5 million consecutive British 
Columbia livebirths. Overall, although survival is significantly poorer than for 
the general population, over half of Down syndrome individuals can be expected 
to survive into their fifties, and 13.5% will still be alive at age 68. The data 
are presented as a life table, a practical format for the clinician and planner.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00291175
PMID: 2525108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1989 Jun 3;133(22):1121-5.

[Epidemiologic study of the estimated number of older patients with Down's 
syndrome in 1990-2025].

[Article in Dutch]

Steffelaar JW, Evenhuis HM.

Since a population-based registry of the mentally retarded is lacking in The 
Netherlands, data concerning incidence and life expectancy patients with Down's 
syndrome (DS) are not available. Based on birth statistics, in combination with 
risk factors for DS in relation to maternal age on the one hand and on studies 
on life expectancy in DS from Denmark, British Columbia and Western Australia on 
the other, the numbers of these patients older than 40 years were estimated for 
The Netherlands for the period 1990-2025. After a considerable increase of the 
number of institutionalized DS patients of 40 years and older between 1958 and 
1985, the present estimates indicate a further rise. It is expected that the 
level of aged DS patients will be highest between 2005 and 2020, and will 
increase at least to numbers 50% above those expected for 1990. These findings 
have to have an impact on the capacity planning for institutes for the mentally 
retarded.

PMID: 2525676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. J Diabet Complications. 1989 Apr-Jun;3(2):62-9. doi: 
10.1016/0891-6632(89)90014-7.

Diabetic nephropathy in insulin-dependent diabetic patients: renal hemodynamics 
and derived treatment strategies.

ter Wee PM(1), Donker JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Free University Hospital, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Late complications such as retinopathy and neuropathy contribute substantially 
to the morbidity of patients with diabetes mellitus but have only moderate 
effect on their life expectancy. However, once diabetic nephropathy occurs, life 
expectancy of patients with diabetes mellitus is shortened considerably. This 
review discusses briefly several possible pathogenetic mechanisms involved in 
the development of diabetic nephropathy. Changes in renal hemodynamics as the 
initiating and contributing factor to the development of diabetic nephropathy 
are discussed in more detail. Finally, the article reviews possible therapeutic 
measures to prevent the development of diabetic nephropathy, or to slow down its 
progression.

DOI: 10.1016/0891-6632(89)90014-7
PMID: 2526142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Genet Epidemiol. 1989;6(3):451-9. doi: 10.1002/gepi.1370060307.

Simulation of Huntington's disease onset.

Markson LE(1), Chase GA, Brookmeyer R.

Author information:
(1)Wharton Policy Modeling Workshop, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

Previous investigators have noted that the type of sampling scheme used to study 
the natural history of Huntington's disease can affect the observed age of onset 
distribution. Simulated data are presented to demonstrate that bias is 
introduced when onset characteristics derived from prevalence samples (i.e., 
samples of affected individuals alive in the population) are used to evaluate 
cofactors of disease onset and to compute genetic risk estimates for persons "at 
risk" of developing the disease. This study demonstrates that prevalence 
sampling underestimates the proportion of Huntington's disease cases in the 
population with later onset ages. Using plausible values for onset time, 
duration, and life expectancy, simulation results suggest that the paternal 
transmission effect on Huntington's disease onset is overestimated when based on 
prevalence data.

DOI: 10.1002/gepi.1370060307
PMID: 2526776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. J R Soc Med. 1989 May;82(5):317-8. doi: 10.1177/014107688908200530.

Old age in Down's syndrome.

Jancar J.

DOI: 10.1177/014107688908200530
PMCID: PMC1292151
PMID: 2526878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. J Ark Med Soc. 1989 Aug;86(3):115-7.

Hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia: a review.

Champlin TL, Mallory SB.

HED is an X-linked recessive disease involving abnormalities of tissues of 
ectodermal origin due to developmental disturbances in the embryonal state. 
These abnormalities include 1) trichodysplasia, 2) dental defects, 3) 
onychodysplasia, and 4) dyshidrosis. Also common are thin, dry skin, typical 
facial features such as saddle-nose deformity and periorbital 
wrinkling/pigmentation, otolaryngologic problems, eczema, and respiratory 
disease. Diagnosis of HED may be suspected in a child with recurrent fever of 
unknown etiology, thin blond hair, and anodontia. The diagnosis can be 
strengthened by low or absent sweat pore counts, and confirmed by palmar skin 
biopsy. Management is multidisciplinary and mainly involves avoidance of 
hyperpyrexia in the early years. At school age and beyond, the cosmetic features 
become more of a concern to the patient. As adults, these patients usually lead 
fairly normal lives both physically and socially, and have a life expectancy 
similar to that of the general population.

PMID: 2528538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Demography. 1989 Aug;26(3):393-409.

Occupational influences on retirement, disability, and death.

Hayward MD(1), Grady WR, Hardy MA, Sommers D.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern California, Los Angeles 
90089-0191.

This research examines the alternative mechanisms by which occupations influence 
the nature and timing of older men's labor force withdrawal. We specifically 
assess the extent to which occupational factors operate directly and indirectly 
on exiting events and whether occupations constrain traditional determinants of 
labor force participation. Based on a discrete-time hazard modeling approach, 
the results substantiate that the occupational task activities--substantive 
complexity and physical demands--are key elements of the work environment that 
are evaluated against nonwork alternatives. In the case of retirement, these 
aspects of occupational attractiveness function as a dominant and direct force 
in retirement decision making. With regard to disability, the occupational 
attribute of substantive complexity operates as an indirect advantage (through 
higher wages) by reducing the risk of disability. Indicators of career 
continuity also influence retirement among older workers. Finally, the results 
suggest that financial characteristics and health problems are central to the 
distribution of older workers across the alternative destination statuses of 
retirement, disability, and death.

PMID: 2529146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. World Health Stat Q. 1989;42(3):141-50.

[Estimating the value of disability-free life expectancy for western countries 
in the last decade. How can this new health status indicator be used?].

[Article in French]

Robine JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut national de la santé et de la recherche médicale, Montpellier, 
France.

Erratum in
    World Health Stat Q 1989;42(4):followi.

Disability-free life expectancy (DFLE) is an indicator of the mean duration of 
life in good health, based on the measurement of mortality combined with the 
measurement of disability. To date, some experimental calculations have been 
carried out mainly in Canada, England, France, the Netherlands and the United 
States of America. Taking these studies as a whole, disability-free life 
expectancy in the last decade can be estimated at about 59 years for men and 
about 63 years for women. The share of years of disability within life 
expectancy ranges from 11% to 27%. The calculations show that women suffer 
disability for a greater part of their life expectancy than men. The 
calculations also reveal social inequalities in health. Health authorities in 
Western countries are showing increasing interest in this indicator today. The 
main points in its favour are its simplicity in practice, its usefulness for 
determining objectives, allocating resources, measuring the success or failure 
of health policies, assessing current needs and defining future scenarios.

PMID: 2530701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. World Health Stat Q. 1989;42(3):167-76.

[Measurement of handicap in the community: a micro survey in a French village].

[Article in French]

Minaire P(1), Cherpin J, Flores JL, Weber D.

Author information:
(1)Département de rééducation et réadaptation fonctionnelles, Hôpital Bellevue, 
Saint-Etienne, France.

Handicap is the result of a process initiated by an underlying disease, an 
accident or an abnormality, which leads to a functional deficit in various 
situations of everyday life. This definition, derived from the International 
Classification of Impairments, Disabilities, and Handicaps (ICIDH), reflects the 
desire of the elderly and the handicapped for social integration. It may also 
form the conceptual basis for analysis of the capacities of individuals and 
populations. To this end, a micro-survey was conducted in a homogeneous village 
community of 532 people aged 1-92 years. This study was of the ergonomic type, 
accompanied by a questionnaire on perceived restrictions and handicaps, and 
carried out transversely over a period of one month (94.7% participation). The 
specific objectives of the study were to obtain a reliable functional 
representation of the population of the village, comparing self-assessment of 
functional capacity with observed performance, and analysing the effects of age 
on capacity. The copious data collected in the areas of locomotion, prehension 
and communication have provided a detailed functional profile of the population 
studied. These data may be transposed to particular environments, such as 
transport, housing, school or work, and may serve as a basis for comparisons. 
The difficulties encountered by subjects in the tests were closely correlated 
with the situations simulated by the tests. Subjective estimation of handicap 
proved to be reliable in comparison with actual performance, especially for 
tests of mobility and highly demanding situations. Estimation of the presence of 
a handicap increased with age. The deterioration in performance observed was 
proportional to age, but can be perceived to begin early, at about 30-40 years. 
Disability-free life expectancy (DFLE) could be an interesting indicator in so 
far as it appears to be sensitive to the confrontation of individual functional 
capacities with the environment. However, it is important that any disability 
used as a basis for calculation should be measured with maximum precision. A 
community survey of this kind is thus particularly useful for ergonomic 
purposes, but is also valuable for the planning of medical and social assistance 
at the local level in the areas of disability and handicap. The combination of 
observation and listening to people, with an interview, appears to be fruitful 
and reliable. Single studies of well-targeted samples of the population, or, 
alternatively, of larger and more significant populations, would be desirable in 
public health, since the epidemiological approach to handicap has hitherto been 
essentially focused on diagnosis and medical evaluation.

PMID: 2530705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Neurol Clin. 1989 Nov;7(4):859-70.

Genetic testing for neurologic diseases. A rose with thorns.

Bird SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Cambridge.

Genetic testing for neurologic conditions, including HD, requires that the 
