primary concerns of informed consent, counseling and support, and 
confidentiality be recognized and addressed. A safe, reliable test should be 
available to those who want the information and understand the limitations of 
the testing procedure. However, testing should be in the context of multifaceted 
counseling, which combines a variety of components. Safeguards for 
confidentiality should be assured. Predictive testing for hereditary disease 
emphasizes the need to focus on capabilities rather than disability. This is an 
extension of the larger reality that continuing advances in health care can 
extend the length of an individual's life and stave off death without restoring 
health. Certainly, new developments in molecular biology may provide new tools, 
but the basic ethical problems are fundamental issues independent of technology. 
Just as change is not necessarily progress, the application of scientific 
advances to health care does not automatically benefit humanity. Sensitivity to 
human needs is the art of applying medical technology.

PMID: 2531269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Epidemiol Prev. 1989 Sep-Dec;11(40-41):3-23.

[I. Evaluation of the efficacy of a clinical intervention].

[Article in Italian]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2534527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Milbank Q. 1989;67(3-4):370-411.

Active life among the elderly in the United States: multistate life-table 
estimates and population projections.

Rogers RG(1), Rogers A, Belanger A.

Author information:
(1)Population Program, University of Colorado, Boulder 80309-0484.

Calculations of multistate life expectancy not only measure how long a 
population may live beyond a certain age, but also what fractions of this 
continuing lifetime will be spent in an independent or dependent status. Many 
Americans aged 70 and over are leading long, active lives; large numbers of 
individuals who become dependent, moreover, do so temporarily and return to 
independent status. Men and women have disparate total and active life 
expectancies, however, reflecting differential survival patterns and varying 
rates of transition among statuses. Policy makers must consider the increased 
size of the future elderly population, and changes in its age composition and 
functional status, when planning relevant health services.

PMID: 2534561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Zhonghua Min Guo Xiao Er Ke Yi Xue Hui Za Zhi. 1989 May-Jun;30(3):172-9.

Mortality and survival in Down syndrome in Taiwan.

Hou JW, Wang TR.

In order to investigate the morbidity and mortality in individuals with Down 
syndrome(DS), we reviewed 237 cases of DS visiting our hospital in a ten-year 
period. There were 150 males and 87 females with age range from newborn to 25 
years. The major illnesses included: 1) congenital heart disease (CHD), 42.6%; 
with endocardial cushion defect, ventricular septal defect, atrial septal defect 
and patent ductus arteriosus as the common types; 2) frequent or major 
respiratory tract infections, 34.2%; 3) summer fever, 5.5%; 4) major infective 
episodes other than pneumonia, 5.0%. Other diseases such as seizure disorder, 
gastrointestinal tract anomalies and thyroid dysfunction were also noted. There 
were 28 deaths of them and the causes of mortality were 1) CHD with congestive 
heart failure (CHD with CHF) and pneumonia (46.9%); 2) CHD with CHF and sepsis 
(10.7%); 3) CHD with CHF (14.3%) and 4) acute leukemia with infection (10.7%) 
respectively. Most of the mortality occurred during the first year of life, 
especially in patients with CHD. In our series, the one year survival rate was 
93.6%; the result indicates that life expectancy in DS is much better than 
generally believed.

PMID: 2534673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. J Virol. 1989 Feb;63(2):965-9. doi: 10.1128/JVI.63.2.965-969.1989.

Human papillomavirus type 16 transformation of primary human embryonic 
fibroblasts requires expression of open reading frames E6 and E7.

Watanabe S(1), Kanda T, Yoshiike K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Enteroviruses, National Institute of Health, Tokyo, Japan.

Human papillomavirus 16 (HPV-16) early genes were tested for their ability to 
transform primary human embryonic fibroblasts (WI38) or to extend the life span 
of the fibroblasts. The expression plasmids containing the transcriptional unit 
for the HPV-16 subgenomic DNA fragments controlled by the simian virus 40 
promoter were introduced into WI38 cells with the aid of neomycin selection, and 
the drug-resistant cells that survived long-term culture were characterized. The 
fragments containing E6E7 open reading frames (ORFs) intact were found to be 
capable of extending the life span of WI38 cells. From the results obtained with 
frameshift mutations in either ORF and from those obtained by cotransfection 
with the separate plasmids containing E6 and E7 ORFs, it was concluded that 
HPV-16 transformation (extension of the life span) of human fibroblasts requires 
expression of genes E6 and E7.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.63.2.965-969.1989
PMCID: PMC247776
PMID: 2536119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Med Care. 1989 Mar;27(3 Suppl):S12-26. doi:
10.1097/00005650-198903001-00002.

Application of health status assessment measures in policy research.

Steinwachs DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research and Development Center, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Hygiene and Public Health, Baltimore, MD 21205.

The application of health status measures in policy research relies considerably 
on patterns of mortality, life expectancy, and health status indicators, such as 
hospital readmission and institutionalization rates. In recent years the state 
of the art in health status measurement has advanced substantially with the 
development of multidimensional measures with established reliability and 
validity. These newer measures have not found wide application in policy 
research. This may reflect many factors, including the complexity of these 
measures, the cost of data collection, and the perception that the health status 
scores are not easily interpreted. It also may reflect the perceived value of 
simpler and unidimensional measures of health that can be translated more 
readily into estimates of the need for health care services. A framework is 
proposed for the application of health status measures in policy research. This 
framework emphasizes the relationship between health status and the need for 
care, the measurement of unmet needs for care, and the role of health policy in 
assuring that services are available and appropriate to meet the needs for care. 
A case study is used to illustrate some of the issues in using health status 
indicators to measure needs for care and outcomes.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-198903001-00002
PMID: 2537920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1989 Feb 14;78(7):145-8.

[Clinical staging of bronchial carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Russi EW.

Histology and stage make it possible to predict statistical life expectancy in 
patients with bronchial carcinoma. These data serve to select the appropriate 
therapeutic modality which may influence an individual patient's life expectancy 
and quality. If the tumor is presumably resectable, a search for extrathoracic 
metastases is conducted by computed tomography and bone scan only if clinically 
suspected. If ct-scans reveal enlarged and therefore probably malignant 
mediastinal lymph nodes, curative resection is evaluated by mediastinoscopy. 
Correlations also exist between stage and spontaneous course as well as the 
probability of treatment-induced remission and life prolongation in small cell 
lung cancer.

PMID: 2538906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1989 Apr;86(8):2761-5. doi:
10.1073/pnas.86.8.2761.

Null mutation of copper/zinc superoxide dismutase in Drosophila confers 
hypersensitivity to paraquat and reduced longevity.

Phillips JP(1), Campbell SD, Michaud D, Charbonneau M, Hilliker AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, University of Guelph, ON, 
Canada.

The role of copper/zinc-containing superoxide dismutase (cSOD; 
superoxide:superoxide oxidoreductase, EC 1.15.1.1) in metabolic defense against 
O2 toxicity in Drosophila is examined through the properties of a mutant strain 
carrying a cSOD-null mutation, cSODn108. Homozygotes are viable as larvae, which 
indicates that cSOD is not essential for cell viability per se. cSODn108 confers 
recessive sensitivity to the superoxide anion (O2-)-generator paraquat and to 
the transition metal compound CuSO4, which indicates that the cSOD-null 
condition in fact leads to impaired O2- metabolism. The primary biological 
consequences of the reduced O2- dismutation capacity of cSODn108 Drosophila are 
realized in the adult as infertility and reduction in life-span. We conclude 
that the infertility and reduced life-span of cSODn108 adults arise as a 
consequence of the reduced capacity of embryos, larvae, and pupae to adequately 
protect developing preimaginal cells from O2- -initiated cytotoxic damage.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.86.8.2761
PMCID: PMC286998
PMID: 2539600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Dent Clin North Am. 1989 Apr;33(2):305-18, 210-9.

Finishing of composites and laminates.

Goldstein RE(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Georgia School of Dentistry, Augusta.

Regardless of the color, shape or attention to detail, there must be sufficient 
time to adequately finish all restorations. Both esthetics and function can best 
be satisfied when the restoration acquires its maximal finish. In the final 
analysis, not only will the restoration look better, but it will look better for 
a longer period of time. Life expectancy of the restoration may, in fact, be 
directly dependent on just how well this task is accomplished.

PMID: 2542106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1989 Apr;16(4 Pt 2-3):1820-6.

[Massive bone allografts in large bone defects after tumor surgery: a clinical 
long-term study].

[Article in Japanese]

Shinohara N(1), Yokoyama K, Chuman H.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Orthopedic Surgery, National Fukuoka Central Hospital.

Eleven patients with malignant bone tumor arising in femur and tibia treated by 
means of bone graft were followed for 25 months to 6 years. Histological 
diagnosis included 8 osteosarcomas, a chondrosarcoma, a malignant fibrous 
histiocytoma and a round-cell sarcoma. They had intensive adjuvant chemotherapy 
for a year after the operation. The drugs used were adriamycin and high-dose 
methotrexate. One patient died of pulmonary metastasis, two patients of local 
recurrence and another patient of infection requiring amputation. Seven cases 
were finally evaluated. Of these 7 cases, operative procedures included one 
segmental femoral resection with intercalary allograft, two segmental femoral 
resections with allograft and knee arthrodesis, three segmental tibial 
resections with allograft and knee arthrodesis and one eccentric resection of 
femur with allograft. There were three allograft resorptions which were 
successfully treated by additional autografts. Other complications were a septic 
fistula formation and two cases of breakage in internal securing metals due to 
non-union. They also healed without further problem. Bone healings of the grafts 
were evaluated on X-ray and one case was histologically examined. All of the 
primary segmental allografts after the wide resection of the tumor failed in the 
primary bone healing. However, additional autogenous bone graft led to healing 
within two years. Functional evaluation according to Enneking proved good in 
four and fair in three cases. Reconstructive surgery with massive bone grafts 
represents a successful alternative to prosthetic implant in young adults with 
long life expectancy.

PMID: 2543324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Antiviral Res. 1989 Apr;11(3):147-60. doi: 10.1016/0166-3542(89)90026-0.

Treatment of FeLV-induced immunodeficiency syndrome (FeLV-FAIDS) with controlled 
release capsular implantation of 2',3'-dideoxycytidine.

Zeidner NS(1), Strobel JD, Perigo NA, Hill DL, Mullins JI, Hoover EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Colorado State University, Fort Collins 80523.

2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC) inhibits replication of the immunodeficiency 
inducing strain of feline leukemia virus (FeLV-FAIDS) in vitro at concentrations 
ranging from 1-10 micrograms/ml. Additive antiviral effect is achieved when ddC 
is combined with either human recombinant alpha interferon (IFN alpha) or tumor 
necrosis factor (TNF) plus IFN alpha. Initial in vivo pharmacokinetic studies in 
cats, utilizing bolus intravenous administration of ddC (20 mg/kg), resulted in 
peak plasma concentrations of 15 micrograms/ml 1 min after administration and a 
half-life of approximately 1 h. These values could not be augmented with high 
levels of the deaminase blocker tetrahydrouridine administered prior to or 
concurrently with ddC. In vivo trials utilizing multiple, daily intravenous 
injections of ddC could not prevent the development of persistent viremia in 
cats infected with FeLV-FAIDS. To enhance ddC pharmacokinetics and antiviral 
activity, controlled release capsular implants were developed by blending ddC 
with a copolymer consisting of DL-lactide glycolide and hydroxypropyl cellulose, 
which was melt-spun into fibers and encapsulated in a sheath of polyethylene 
glycol for subcutaneous implantation. Pharmacokinetic studies, conducted in cats 
receiving an average dose of 600 mg of ddC, indicated an average peak plasma 
concentration of 17 micrograms/ml achieved at 6 h post implantation with 3.5 
micrograms/ml noted at 48 h; and an extension of plasma half-life from 1.5 
(bolus subcutaneous injection) to 20 h. sustained plasma concentrations of 1.5 
to 10 micrograms/ml, equivalent to ddC levels previously shown to have anti-FeLV 
activity in vitro, were maintained throughout a 72 h period. Implantation 
devices could be replenished every 48 h and elevated plasma levels were 
sustained for four weeks without signs of clinical toxicity, sepsis or 
significant alterations in the hemogram. Initial clinical trials employing 
controlled release capsular ddC implants in vivo indicate significant 
retardation of FeLV-FAIDS replication throughout a four week treatment period.

DOI: 10.1016/0166-3542(89)90026-0
PMID: 2544137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Free Radic Biol Med. 1989;7(1):23-9. doi: 10.1016/0891-5849(89)90096-8.

Relationship between superoxide anion radical generation and aging in the 
housefly, Musca domestica.

Farmer KJ(1), Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX 
75275.

The objective of this study was to elucidate the possible cause of increased 
oxidative stress observed in the adult housefly during aging. The hypothesis 
that increased production of oxygen radicals may be a cause of the increased 
oxidative stress was tested by comparison of 8-day and 15-day old flies, which 
represent the stage of full maturation and the beginning of the dying phase, 
respectively. Rates of both antimycin A-resistant respiration of isolated 
mitochondria and O2 generation at ubiquinone-cytochrome b site by 
submitochondrial particles increased during aging and were associated with life 
expectancy of flies. Flies destined to die earlier than their cohorts of the 
same age exhibited a relatively higher rate of O2- production. Age-related 
increase in O2- generation was not associated with corresponding changes in 
ubiquinone content of mitochondria.

DOI: 10.1016/0891-5849(89)90096-8
PMID: 2546868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. J Nurse Midwifery. 1989 Sep-Oct;34(5):242-52.

Virology, immunology, and natural history of HIV infection.

Cohn JA.

Human immunodeficiency virus-1 infects and damages or destroys several types of 
cells, most importantly helper/inducer (CD4+) lymphocytes. In the majority of 
infected persons, the loss of CD4+ lymphocytes leads to a progressive reduction 
in both cell mediated and antibody mediated immunity. Early during infection 
most adults are asymptomatic, but after several years many develop symptoms 
representing a moderate degree of immune suppression. Eventually, most of these 
individuals become susceptible to the life-threatening opportunistic infections 
and cancers which define the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Recent advances 
in management, including earlier diagnosis, the use of maintenance or 
suppressive therapies, and specific anti-retroviral therapy with zidovudine 
(AZT) has nearly doubled the life expectancy for persons with AIDS. Clinical 
trials of new drugs, sometimes in combination with AZT, are underway. Vaccine 
development is proceeding, but many obstacles must be overcome before a 
successful vaccine can be identified.

PMID: 2550596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Acta Oncol. 1989;28(4):451-62. doi: 10.3109/02841868909092250.

Interactions between anticancer drugs and other clinically used pharmaceuticals. 
A review.

Henriksson R(1), Grankvist K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology and Clinical Chemistry, Umeå University Hospital, 
Sweden.

Drug interactions are increasingly common, since clinical practice is getting 
more complex with the flood of new drugs. Simultaneously, the increased life 
expectancy of the population increases the number of individuals likely to 
receive multiple prescriptions. Cytotoxic drugs generally have a narrow 
therapeutic index, and are delivered at doses close to toxic levels. 
Consequently, a slight increase in biological activity caused by an interaction 
with other concomitantly administered drugs could be deleterious to the patient. 
Interactions between drugs can sometimes also be used in a positive way, i.e. to 
increase the therapeutic ratio and overcome drug resistance. Interactions 
between different cancer treatment modalities have attracted considerable 
interest. However, much less interest has been devoted to interactions between 
anticancer drugs and other pharmaceuticals. The purpose of this review is to 
summarize data about the interactions between anticancer drugs and other 
clinically used drugs with regard to effects on tumor and toxicity.

DOI: 10.3109/02841868909092250
PMID: 2551354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1989 Oct 20;114(42):1597-601. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1066801.

[Determining the prognosis in bronchial carcinoma by intraoperative pleural 
lavage].

[Article in German]

Buhr J(1), Berghäuser KH, Morr H, Dobroschke J.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Pathologie, Universität Giessen.

Pleural lavage with 300 ml physiological saline was undertaken at thoracotomy 
(before and after resection) in a prospective study of 59 patients (49 males and 
10 females; average age 59.7 years, range 41-76 years) with first manifestations 
of a bronchial carcinoma. The aim was to find out whether, even at an early 
stage of the tumour, there are tumour deposits in the pleural cavity. The lavage 
fluid was centrifuged and the sediment then embedded in paraffin and prepared 
for cytological examination. Tumour cells were demonstrated before resection in 
27 patients (45.8%), in 23 of them also after the resection. Among 38 patients, 
previously classified as being in stage I, the lavage material was positive in 
15 (39.5%); tumour cells were demonstrated in 5 of 18 patients in stage pT1. The 
cumulative two-year survival rate of non-small-cell bronchial carcinoma in stage 
I (n = 32) was 39.9% if the lavage was positive, 97.4% if negative (P less than 
0.01). The results indicate that a positive finding on pleural lavage 
corresponds to a pT4 stage with a poor life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1066801
PMID: 2553380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Radiother Oncol. 1989 Sep;16(1):1-21. doi: 10.1016/0167-8140(89)90066-2.

Factors influencing outcome of definitive radiotherapy for localized carcinoma 
of the prostate.

Perez CA(1), Garcia D, Simpson JR, Zivnuska F, Lockett MA.

Author information:
(1)Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63108.

Definitive radiation therapy was administered to 577 patients with 
histologically confirmed carcinoma of the prostate localized to the pelvis. 
Results of therapy and prognostic factors are evaluated and compared with other 
reports. All patients were followed for a minimum of 3 years, the median period 
of observation is 6.5 years. The disease-free survival in stages A2 and B was 
78% at 5 years and 60% at 10 years; in stage C, 60% at 5 years and 36% at 10 
years. The overall actuarial survival in stage B patients was 76% at 5 years and 
58% at 10 years, which is similar to the life expectancy of a comparable cohort 
of normal males. In stage C, the actuarial survival was 65% at 5 years and 38% 
at 10 years, approximately 15% below the normal life expectancy for a similar 
cohort. Histological differentiation of the tumor had a significant impact on 
survival, poorly differentiated tumors showing 20% lower survival rates, most 
likely related to a higher incidence of distant metastases. Age was not found to 
be a significant prognostic factor in patients with stage B tumors; however, in 
stage C, the 5-year disease-free survival was 43% in patients younger than 60 
and 53% in those older than 60 years (p = 0.04). In stage B, patients who had 
control of the pelvic tumor exhibited a 80% actuarial 5-year survival and 60% at 
10 years. This compares with an actuarial survival of 30% at 5 and 10 years when 
there was evidence of pelvic recurrence alone or combined with distant 
metastases. In stage C patients with pelvic tumor control, actuarial survival 
was 81% at 5 years and 50% at 10 years, in comparison with 20% 5-year and 10% 
10-year survival when pelvic recurrence or distant metastases or a combination 
of both occurred. The method of diagnosis [transurethral resection of the 
prostate (TURP) versus needle biopsy] did not appear to be a major prognostic 
factor of survival or patterns of failure, except in patients with stage C 
moderately differentiated tumors. The interpretation of the lymphangiogram 
(normal, suspicious or abnormal) did not correlate with survival or tumor 
control. The pathologic status of the lymph nodes established at lymphadenectomy 
did not appear to relate to survival for patients with stage B disease.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0167-8140(89)90066-2
PMID: 2554371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Resuscitation. 1989 Oct;18(1):75-84. doi: 10.1016/0300-9572(89)90114-7.

Results of cardiopulmonary resuscitation in a cardiology hospital.

Timerman A(1), Piegas LS, Sousa JE.

Author information:
(1)Emergency and Intensive Care Department, Dante Pazzanese Institute of 
Cardiology, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

The authors analysed a series of 557 consecutive patients who suffered 
cardiorespiratory arrest at the Dante Pazzanese Institute of Cardiology (DPIC) 
during a period of 5 years in order to examine factors predicting successful 
resuscitation and long-term survival. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) 
maneuvers were tried in 536 patients, with the following results: 284 patients 
(53%) died immediately, another 102 (19%) died within the first 24 h after the 
cardiac arrest and 150 patients (28%) survived more than 24 h. Among these, 65 
(12.1%) died in the first month after cardiac arrest and other 29 (5.4%) died 
after that period. There were 43 late survivors (8%). Thirteen patients (2.4%) 
were lost to follow-up. After 9 years, the accumulative life expectancy was 
8.7%. Coronary heart disease, cardiomyopathy and valvular heart disease were the 
most frequent underlying diseases. None of the 49 patients with cyanotic 
congenital heart disease survived. The heart arrest was mostly caused by heart 
failure (55.8%) and primary arrhythmia (17.2%) in the whole group, whereas the 
survivor group showed primary arrhythmia in 81.7% and heart failure in 7.3%. In 
those patients where the initial mechanism of cardiac arrest was ventricular 
fibrillation, 33.2% survived more than 1 month, while among those on ventricular 
asystole, only 3.4% survived more than 1 month.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-9572(89)90114-7
PMID: 2554449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol. 1989 Nov;98(11):845-7. doi: 
10.1177/000348948909801102.

Adenoid cystic carcinoma of the parotid gland: a review of surgical management 
with reference to the facial nerve.

Weinstein GS(1), Conley JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Saint Vincent's Hospital, 
New York, New York.

The purpose of this study was to review a large series of patients with adenoid 
cystic carcinoma of the parotid gland in order to develop clinical criteria for 
sacrifice versus selective sparing of the seventh nerve. We studied 43 patients 
followed over 36 years. Study patients were grouped according to the 
preoperative status and intraoperative management of the facial nerve. Criteria 
for choosing various management strategies are discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/000348948909801102
PMID: 2554769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Life Sci. 1989;45(26):2509-20. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(89)90234-8.

A pilot study of diethyldithiocarbamate in patients with acquired immune 
deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and the AIDS-related complex.

Brewton GW(1), Hersh EM, Rios A, Mansell PW, Hollinger B, Reuben JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology and Biological Therapy, M.D. Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030.

We investigated the use of diethyldithiocarbamate (DTC, or Imuthiolr, Merieux 
Institute) as a therapeutic agent in patients with Acquired Immune Deficiency 
Syndrome (AIDS) and AIDS-Related Complex (ARC). Patients were prospectively 
stratified and randomized to receive DTC 200 mg/m2 intravenously weekly for 16 
weeks or no therapy, followed by crossover to the opposite arm for an equal 
period. Forty-four patients were entered and forty were evaluable. There was a 
statistically significant decrease in symptoms in the DTC treated patients 
compared to the controls (p = .002). There was a significant improvement in 
lymphadenopathy in the treated patients compared to the controls (p = .005). One 
patient showed disappearance of splenomegaly, one clearing of antifungal 
agent-resistant perianal moniliasis, and one clearing of hairy leukoplakia. No 
significant differences in progression were noted. No changes were seen in any 
of the immunological parameters measured. There was no significant toxicity. 
Because of the changes in symptoms and in lymphadenopathy, we suggest that 
further study of DTC, both alone and in combination with other agents, may be 
indicated.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(89)90234-8
PMID: 2559272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. ZWR. 1989 Mar;98(3):234-9.

[Alveolar bone reconstruction with hydroxyapatite in aged humans].

[Article in German]

Hotz G, Eitel B, Kristen K.

There is a rising need for preprosthetic surgery due to a general increase in 
life expectancy and the desire for optimal oral rehabilitation. A method of 
reconstructing residual ridges in an ideal form with a hydroxylapatite-fibrin 
paste is presented. Patients suffering from mild to moderately severe 
age-related neurological disorders with dementia and psychomotor slowing benefit 
from the procedure, whereas psychiatric illnesses such as hypochondria or 
psychotic disturbances need to be excluded from ridge reconstruction. The same 
is true for neurological deficits resulting in facial and oral hyperkinesia.

PMID: 2560599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Eur J Cancer Clin Oncol. 1989 Dec;25(12):1695-701. doi: 
10.1016/0277-5379(89)90337-4.

Chemoprotection by 9-aminoacridine derivatives against the cytotoxicity of 
topoisomerase II-directed drugs.

Finlay GJ(1), Wilson WR, Baguley BC.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Laboratory, University of Auckland Medical School, New 
Zealand.

The effect of three acridine derivatives, 9-aminoacridine (9AA), 
4'-(9-acridinylamino)-methanesulphon-O-anisidide (O-AMSA) and quinacrine were 
compared in their ability to protect against the cytotoxicity of amsacrine, 
9-[[2-methoxy-4-[(methylsulfonyl)amino]phenyl]amino)-N,5-dimethyl-4- 
acridine-carboxamide (CI-921), N-[2-(dimethylamino)ethyl]acridine-4-carboxamide 
(AC), etoposide, mitoxantrone and doxorubicin. Cytotoxicity was measured in 
vitro by clonogenic survival assay and in vivo by life extension assays. All 
three acridine derivatives protected a Lewis lung cell line in vitro against 
CI-921, with 9AA having the highest activity. Cellular uptake of [14C] CI-921 by 
cultured Lewis lung cells was unaffected by 9AA, and slightly stimulated by 
O-AMSA and quinacrine. 9AA protected Lewis lung cells in vitro against the 
cytotoxicity of amsacrine, CI-921, AC and etoposide, partially against 
mitoxantrone but not against doxorubicin. A similar result was obtained with the 
human melanoma cell line MM96, where 9AA protected against CI-921 but not 
against doxorubicin toxicity. 9AA protected P388 leukaemia in vivo against 
amsacrine, CI-921 and AC cytotoxicity, partially against etoposide but not 
against mitoxantrone or doxorubicin. 9AA also protected against animal toxicity 
caused by high dose amsacrine and partially against CI-921 toxicity. It is 
hypothesized that DNA intercalating chemoprotectors act by restricting the 
conformational flexibility of the DNA and thus the ability of topoisomerase II 
to form a 'cleavable complex' in which the DNA is covalently linked to the 
enzyme.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-5379(89)90337-4
PMID: 2561099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Trans Am Ophthalmol Soc. 1989;87:762-801.

An analysis of corneal endothelial and graft survival in pseudophakic bullous 
keratopathy.

Sugar A(1).

Author information:
(1)W. K. Kellogg Eye Center, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

PBK has become an important complication of cataract surgery and a leading 
indication for keratoplasty. While there are many potential causative factors, 
erroneous concepts of IOL positioning and design appear to have led to PBK with 
many iris-supported and anterior chamber lens styles. Underlying host 
endothelial abnormalities are an important risk factor with posterior chamber 
lenses. Previous studies of keratoplasty for PBK have shown variable early 
results in terms of graft clarity and visual rehabilitation. Specular microscopy 
and life-table survival analysis have been infrequently used to study 
endothelial and graft survival after keratoplasty. This study combined these 
techniques to evaluate several approaches to the original IOL at PKP for PBK. 
Four-hundred sixty-nine patients having PKP for PBK between 1976 and 1986 were 
studied in five retrospective cohorts on the basis of whether their IOL was 
retained, removed, or exchanged. Specular microscopy was performed prospectively 
on 390 patients. Survival analysis showed overall failure in 20% of IOL-removed, 
24% of IOL-retained, and 16% of IOL-exchanged grafts, without significant 
differences. Within the retained group, however, graft failure rate for 
posterior chamber IOLs (6%) was significantly less than for anterior chamber 
(34%) and iris-supported (29%) lenses. With lens exchange, the failure rate was 
8% for sutured posterior chamber lenses, 5% for one-piece anterior chamber 
lenses, and 24% for closed-loop anterior chamber lenses. Graft failure rates 
exceeded rejection rates for retained iris-supported and anterior chamber 
lenses, and exchanges for closed-loop anterior chamber lenses, suggesting 
nonimmunologic causes. The survival curve for all groups combined showed 
cumulative survival of 93% at 1 year, decreasing to 62% by 6 years. Survival was 
lowest for retained anterior chamber and iris-supported lenses and exchanged 
closed-loop anterior chamber lenses. Visual acuity results were best for 
retained posterior chamber IOL eyes and exchange for one-piece anterior chamber 
IOLs. Exchange for one-piece anterior chamber IOLs gave significantly better 
visual acuity than exchange for sutured posterior chamber IOLs. There was not a 
significant relationship between duration of corneal edema prior to PKP and 
visual outcome, refuting earlier findings. Cystoid macular edema was related to 
poor vision in 62% of those with visual acuity of less than 20/40 and in 36% of 
all patients. Specular microscopy findings at 1 year were predictive of longer 
term survival results. The least cell loss was for retained and exchanged 
posterior chamber lenses and exchange for one-piece anterior chamber 
lenses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMCID: PMC1298563
PMID: 2562532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Lancet. 1989 Mar 4;1(8636):479-81. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(89)91375-5.

Population interventions reassessed.

Gunning-Schepers LJ(1), Barendregt JJ, Van Der Maas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Social Medicine, Erasmus University, 
Rotterdam, Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(89)91375-5
PMID: 2563848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Lancet. 1989 Mar 4;1(8636):481-3. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(89)91376-7.

Health promotion and the compression of morbidity.

Fries JF(1), Green LW, Levine S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, CA 94305.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1989 Apr 22;1(8643):895.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(89)91376-7
PMID: 2563849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Lancet. 1989 Mar 4;1(8636):492-3. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(89)91387-1.

Life expectancy, Down syndrome, and dementia.

Steffelaar JW, Evenhuis HM.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(89)91387-1
PMID: 2563857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Lancet. 1989 Apr 1;1(8640):718.

Population intervention.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2564520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Cancer. 1989 Jun 1;63(11 Suppl):2343-7. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19890601)63:11<2343::aid-cncr2820631145>3.0.co;2-c.

Anesthetic techniques for the management of cancer pain.

Ferrer-Brechner T(1).

Author information:
(1)Pain Management Center, University of California, Los Angeles 90024.

This review focuses on available anesthetic techniques for cancer patients, the 
indications, and appropriate agents for these potent tools in a stepwise 
approach to cancer pain. Anesthetic procedures are desirable when they will not 
compromise bodily functions important to the patient, and when tumor-directed 
therapy and noninvasive or less-invasive, low-risk approaches (primarily 
pharmacologic tailoring of analgesic drugs) fail to control pain. Nondestructive 
techniques include the epidural/intrathecal use of opioids via an implanted 
catheter, and local anesthetic blocks of nerves and sympathetic ganglia. Chronic 
intrathecal or epidural opioid infusion seems ideal if the life expectancy is 2 
to 3 months. Local anesthetic blocks can help prognosticate results of 
subsequent neurolytic blocks, including undesirable effects. Destructive 
anesthetic procedures comprise injections of neurolytic agents (most commonly 
phenol or alcohol), and insertion of freezing probes, into nerves and ganglia. 
The types of nerve blocks performed, their complications, and success rates, and 
limitations of commonly used neurolytic agents as well as their proper 
applications, are described. The importance of proper patient selection and 
knowledge of the pathophysiology of the pain being treated is stressed, as is 
the appropriate timing of anesthetic procedures in the course of the disease.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19890601)63:11<2343::aid-cncr2820631145>3.0.co;2-c
PMID: 2566372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Rev Prat. 1989 Mar 9;39(8):663-9.

[Antiparkinsonian drugs].

[Article in French]

Rascol A, Montastruc JL, Rascol O.

Levodopa (+ dopa decarboxylase inhibitor) is the most active of all drugs used 
in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. It acts on both akinesia and rigidity 
and improves the prognosis of the disease by increasing life expectancy. But 
levodopa also produces late side-effects: it often induces abnormal movements, 
fluctuations in motor performance, on-off effects, psychotic hallucinations, 
etc. Since these late side-effects remain difficult to treat, it is always 
necessary to assess the benefits and risks of the first treatment with levodopa. 
Anticholinergic drugs, which mainly act on tremor, must be used with caution 
since they may induce memory alterations and often confusional states in aged 
parkinsonians. Dopamine agonists are prescribed as adjuvant therapy in the 
treatment of the late side-effects of levodopa. New drugs (selegiline), new 
pharmaceutical preparations (sustained release forms), the first treatment of 
the disease (levodopa alone versus agonists alone versus levodopa + agonists), 
together with the new pharmacological approaches (brain grafts, drug infusions) 
are now under clinical evaluation.

PMID: 2567051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Lancet. 1989 Jul 1;2(8653):27-30. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(89)90264-x.

Survival and causes of death in thalassaemia major.

Zurlo MG(1), De Stefano P, Borgna-Pignatti C, Di Palma A, Piga A, Melevendi C, 
Di Gregorio F, Burattini MG, Terzoli S.

Author information:
(1)IRCCS San Matteo, Pavia, Italy.

Survival and causes of death were studied in 1087 Italian patients with 
thalassaemia major who were born on or after Jan 1, 1960. At the age of 15 
years, the Kaplan-Meier estimate of survival after the first decade of life was 
80.6% for subjects born in 1960-64, 84.2% for those born in 1965-69, and 96.9% 
for those born in 1970-74. At the age of 20 years, survival from the age of 10 
was 59.1% for patients born in 1960-64, and 70.2% for those born in 1965-69; at 
25 years, survival from the age of 10 was 40.7% in the 1960-64 cohort. Overall 
survival from birth for patients born in 1970-74 was 97.4% at 10 years, and 
94.4% at 15 years. The most common cause of death was heart disease, followed by 
infection, liver disease, and malignancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(89)90264-x
PMID: 2567801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Fortschr Geb Rontgenstrahlen Nuklearmed Erganzungsbd. 1989;128:119-23.

Elimination of the nonionic contrast medium iopromide in end-stage renal failure 
by hemodialysis.

Kierdorf H, Kindler J, Winterscheid R, Hollmann HJ, Vorwerk D, Speck U.

The increasing life-expectancy of patients with end-stage renal failure has led 
to a significant increase of diagnostic and interventional radiologic measures. 
The contrast media used in these procedures, however, are excreted only very 
slowly, due to the renal failure. We have therefore studied the elimination of 
the nonionic x-ray contrast medium iopromide (Ultravist) during dialysis in nine 
anuric patients with end-stage renal failure. All of the patients received 100 
ml iopromide (30 g iodine) for the visualization of their Cimino-Brescia shunt. 
They were then dialyzed 30 minutes after the injection. The plasma iodine 
concentration declined from 1.7 to 0.7 mg I/ml plasma during the 3-hour dialysis 
treatment. The iopromide clearance was a constant 80 ml/min. This is the 
equivalent of a relative dialysance of 65% of the creatinine clearance. There 
were no incidences of side effects requiring therapy in this high-risk group of 
patients. The quality of the image was good in all cases. Iopromide proved 
itself to be an x-ray contrast medium with a low rate of side effects, which can 
be effectively eliminated from the body by means of conventional dialysis.

PMID: 2568779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Lancet. 1989 Aug 12;2(8659):395-6. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(89)90578-3.

Something new in liver cirrhosis epidemiology.

Melato M, Mucli E.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(89)90578-3
PMID: 2569588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Lancet. 1989 Sep 9;2(8663):577-80. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(89)90710-1.

Weight in infancy and death from ischaemic heart disease.

Barker DJ(1), Winter PD, Osmond C, Margetts B, Simmonds SJ.

Author information:
(1)MRC Environmental Epidemiology Unit, University of Southampton, Southampton 
General Hospital.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1989 Oct 21;2(8669):984-5.
    Lancet. 1989 Dec 2;2(8675):1335.
    Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand. 2016 Jun;95(6):652-63.

Environmental influences that impair growth and development in early life may be 
risk factors for ischaemic heart disease. To test this hypothesis, 5654 men born 
during 1911-30 were traced. They were born in six districts of Hertfordshire, 
England, and their weights in infancy were recorded. 92.4% were breast fed. Men 
with the lowest weights at birth and at one year had the highest death rates 
from ischaemic heart disease. The standardised mortality ratios fell from 111 in 
men who weighed 18 pounds (8.2 kg) or less at one year to 42 in those who 
weighed 27 pounds (12.3 kg) or more. Measures that promote prenatal and 
postnatal growth may reduce deaths from ischaemic heart disease. Promotion of 
postnatal growth may be especially important in boys who weigh below 7.5 pounds 
(3.4 kg) at birth.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(89)90710-1
PMID: 2570282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. AIDS. 1989 Sep;3(9):563-9. doi: 10.1097/00002030-198909000-00002.

Appearance of predictors of disease progression in relation to the development 
of AIDS.

de Wolf F(1), Lange JM, Houweling JT, Mulder JW, Beemster J, Schellekens PT, 
Coutinho RA, van der Noordaa J, Goudsmit J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Virology, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

To study the natural history of HIV-1 infection in relation to serological and 
immunological profiles, 199 asymptomatic HIV-1-antibody 
(HIV-1-core-antibody)-seropositive and 76 seroconverted homosexual men were 
followed prospectively for 39 months. AIDS was diagnosed in 38 men. The AIDS 
attack rate was 20.8% after 39 months. The AIDS attack rate in the 
HIV-I-core-antibody positives was 12.1, versus 30.1% in the HIV-1-core-antibody 
negatives (P less than 0.001), and it was 13.3% in the HIV-1-antigen (HIV-1-Ag) 
negatives versus 53.9% in the HIV-1-Ag positives (P less than 0.001). The AIDS 
attack rate after 39 months was 10.9% in men with counts greater than or equal 
to 0.5 x 10(9)/l and 49.9% in those with CD4+ lymphocyte counts less than 0.5 x 
10(9)/l. AIDS attack rates after 30 months in the same cohort have been 
previously reported [1], and were as follows: 6.8% in the core-antibody 
positives versus 35.7% in the core-antibody negatives. 6.9% in the HIV-1-Ag 
negatives versus 43.9% in the HIV-1-Ag positives, and 6.1% in those with CD4+ 
lymphocyte counts greater than or equal to 0.5 versus 51.9% in those with CD4+ 
lymphocyte counts less than 0.5 x 10(9)/l. The disappearance of core antibody, 
the appearance of antigen and the occurrence of low CD4+ lymphocyte counts 
preceded AIDS by a mean (s.d.) of 21.3 (8.9), 17.7 (8.8) and 15.7 (8.9) months, 
respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-198909000-00002
PMID: 2571348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Dig Dis Sci. 1989 Dec;34(12):1832-40. doi: 10.1007/BF01536700.

Clinical relapse of Crohn's disease under standardized conservative treatment 
and after excisional surgery.

Dirks E(1), Goebell H, Schaarschmidt K, Förster S, Quebe-Fehling E, Eigler FW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Essen, Federal Republic of Germany.

The course of 205 patients with Crohn's disease at one gastroenterological 
center was studied in patients with conservative drug treatment or with 
operative management of their disease. The decision for one or the other 
treatment regimen was made by an interdisciplinary team of gastroenterologists 
and surgeons. Using life-table analysis the 205 patients showed a clinical 
relapse rate of 27% after two years and 38% after four years. Clinical relapse 
was defined by a Crohn's disease activity index (CDAI) over 150. We used a 
standardized drug regimen of salazosulfapyridin and prednisone; the indication 
for excisional surgery was limited strictly to life-threatening situations, 
absolute nonresponse to drug treatment, and severe intervisceral fistulae. The 
operated patients (N = 93) had a lower relapse rate than the patients treated 
conservatively (N = 112), 20% and 51%, respectively, after four years. There 
were considerably fewer relapses in Crohn's colitis patients who were operated 
upon than in conservatively treated patients (18% versus 67% after four years); 
the same was found for ileocolitis (20% vs 49% after four years), but there was 
no difference between the treatment groups in ileitis (25-30% relapses for both 
after four years). In addition the patients with Crohn's disease of the colon 
had a more favorable course after resection with respect to symptoms, clinical 
and laboratory findings, and CDAI in remission. This paper gives data only for 
surgery in severe clinical situations and does not give a rationale for earlier 
surgery. This problem should now be studied in a randomized trial.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01536700
PMID: 2574656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Aktuelle Traumatol. 1989 Dec;19(6):262-73.

[Developments in the treatment of fractures of the coxal end of the femur].

[Article in German]

Meissner A(1), Rahmanzadeh R.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Unfall- und Wiederherstellungschirurgie, Klinikum Steglitz der 
FU Berlin.

The therapeutic concept for proximal femur fractures has changed to varying 
degrees from 1978 to 1988 in the Department of Traumatology and Reconstructive 
Surgery at Steglitz Medical Center. In general, conservative therapy has been 
abandoned. Alloplastic joint replacement is performed in patients with 
coxarthrosis in the fracture area. A head prosthesis is chosen for those with a 
life expectancy of less than eight years. Clearly favourable results have been 
achieved in our department with the Duokopf prosthesis. Patients with a higher 
life expectancy are submitted to a total hip endoprosthesis, preference being 
given in cases of collum femoris fractures to the combination of a Spotorno 
shaft and a Morscher acetabulum. Loading should only be partial for five weeks 
in patients treated with this cement-free total endoprosthesis. We use the 
Duokopf prosthesis in the combination of a Spotorno shaft with a Uni-Hip head. 
We submit these patients to full loading primarily. --We have completely 
abandoned Ender nailing. We prefer the dynamic hip screw for per- and 
intertrochanteric femur fractures. For subtrochanteric femur fractures, we use 
the condyl plate. For lateral collum femoris fractures we have used the 
four-hole angle plate until 1988. Since 1989 we also use the dynamic hip screw. 
The one-hole angle plate is used for osteosynthesis in cases of medial collum 
femoris fractures.

PMID: 2575855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Adv Perit Dial. 1989;5:52-5.

CAPD versus hemodialysis (HD): 7 years of experience.

Cavalli PL(1), Viglino G, Goia F, Cottino R, Mariano F, Gandolfo C.

Author information:
(1)Servizio Nefrologia e Dialisi, Osp. S. Lazzaro, Alba.

The purpose of this work is to compare survival and drop-out in 2 groups of 
patients undergoing either CAPD (42 pts) or standard HD (48 pts) as first 
treatment, from November 1981 to December 1988. Mean age and number of risk 
factors were not significantly different. At the end of the study 50.0% of pts 
on CAPD and 37.5% on HD were still on first treatment; clinical problems were 
the most frequent cause of drop-out. The total period of observation was 
significantly higher in the CAPD group (1391.0 months vs 850.4), but the life 
table analysis showed no significant differences in the incidence of death and 
of drop-out in the two groups. The follow-up of the CAPD group was subdivided 
into two periods, due to the fact that a scheme for clinical and social survey 
of patients undergoing dialysis and a policy of more frequent home visits were 
introduced at the end of 1985. A significant decrease of peritonitis episodes 
was observed in the second period.

PMID: 2577427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Urology. 1985 Mar;25(3):228-32. doi: 10.1016/0090-4295(85)90317-6.

Prostate cancer: experience with definitive irradiation in the aged.

Green N, Bodner H, Broth E.

When considering therapeutic options for localized prostate cancer, stage and 
grade of disease have been the most important determinants. In the elderly, the 
nominal age has assumed increasing importance in the final decision. A balanced 
judgment must be reached between the patient's normal life expectancy and the 
rapidity with which the cancer may be expected to express its malignant 
potential. By careful attention to patient selection and the details of 
treatment, definitive irradiation can improve quality of life and survival. Of 
63 patients aged seventy-three to ninety years referred for irradiation, 56 were 
found medically suitable for definitive treatment. A review of our experience is 
presented.

