DOI: 10.1016/0090-4295(85)90317-6
PMID: 2579498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Exp Gerontol. 1985;20(1):15-28. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(85)90005-1.

In vivo DNA synthesis in the dietary restricted long-lived rat.

Merry BJ, Holehan AM.

Male CFY Sprague-Dawley rats maintained at 50% growth rate of ad libitum fed, 
age-matched control animals showed a 42% extension in maximum lifespan and an 
increase in the overall doubling time of the rate of mortality from 102 days to 
203 days. The slower growth rate of animals on the restricted diet was reflected 
in lower DNA, RNA, and protein content of liver, kidney and heart with age. DNA 
synthesis in vivo measured by the incorporation of 3H-thymidine was severely 
inhibited in liver, kidney, heart, and abdominal skin, particularly during the 
first six months of life. The developmental peak in DNA synthesis observed in 
liver and kidney of ad libitum fed animals before 100 days of age was completely 
inhibited. No effect of restricted feeding on DNA synthesis in the small 
intestine was observed; however, DNA synthesis was higher in thymic tissue from 
the experimental animals. A decrease in RNA content of liver, kidney, and heart 
preceded any change in protein or DNA in animals subjected to restricted 
feeding. The capacity for protein synthesis (RNA/DNA ratio) was decreased by 
restricted feeding and was associated with a reduced protein/DNA ratio 
indicative of reduced cell size during the first six months of life. The 
translational activity per ribosome (protein/RNA ratio) was not disturbed by 
undernutrition in any of the tissues studied.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(85)90005-1
PMID: 2581798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1985 May;67(3):352-7. doi:
10.1302/0301-620X.67B3.2581972.

Pathological fractures of the cervical spine. Palliative surgical treatment.

Fidler MW.

Eleven patients with metastases in the cervical spine had operations for severe 
pain due to a pathological fracture which, in eight of the cases, was unstable. 
Conservative treatment had either failed or was unsuitable. In the first five 
patients internal fixation with tension band wires and bone grafts was supported 
by a halo-brace. The method has evolved to the use of posterior instrumentation 
with laminar wires from two levels above the lesion to two levels below. 
Stability is increased by the use of bone cement with or without bone autografts 
applied to one side of the spine. This technique enables the patient to get up 
within a few days of operation--a great advantage when life expectancy is 
limited. The operations were successful in all except one case.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.67B3.2581972
PMID: 2581972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Clin Nephrol. 1989 Nov;32(5):221-4.

Survival of human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients on maintenance 
dialysis.

Feinfeld DA(1), Kaplan R, Dressler R, Lynn RI.

Author information:
(1)Baumritter Kidney Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New 
York 10583.

It has recently been reported that patients on maintenance dialysis with the 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) survive only 1 to 3 months. We 
studied all patients on maintenance dialysis at the Baumritter Kidney Center who 
were known to be infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Five 
patients met the criteria for AIDS; another ten had anti-HIV antibodies but no 
opportunistic infections. The AIDS patients survived 8 to 18 months, and two are 
still alive. Mean survival in the AIDS group was 13.2 +/- 1.9 months, while the 
HIV(+) non-AIDS group survived 15.7 +/- 3.0 months. While these data are not 
statistically different, the survival curve in the AIDS group predicted a 
shorter survival than for the HIV(+) patients without AIDS. In fact, the 
survival of our dialyzed AIDS patients was similar to that reported for AIDS 
patients in general. Our experience suggests that dialysis may have no adverse 
effect on survival in AIDS. We conclude that dialysis patients with AIDS may 
survive 8 to 12 months or more and that the approach to such patients should be 
individualized.

PMID: 2582646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Clin Pharmacokinet. 1989 Nov;17(5):367-73. doi: 
10.2165/00003088-198917050-00005.

Pharmacokinetics of sulpiride after intravenous administration in patients with 
impaired renal function.

Bressolle F(1), Brès J, Mourad G.

Author information:
(1)Département de Pharmacocinétique, Faculté de Pharmacie, Montpellier, France.

Erratum in
    Clin Pharmacokinet 1990 Oct;19(4):followi.

Single intravenous doses of sulpiride 100 mg were administered to 18 patients 
with renal function impairment, and 6 healthy volunteers. The plasma 
concentration-time profile is described by a 2-compartment open model. The 
differences between the pharmacokinetic parameters of sulpiride for the 2 groups 
were statistically significant. Elimination half-life, mean residence time and 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve are significantly greater in 
renal failure; renal and total clearance, and the cumulative amount of unchanged 
sulpiride in urine, are significantly reduced but volume of distribution remains 
unchanged. Creatinine clearance was strongly correlated with renal clearance of 
sulpiride, elimination rate constant, area under the curve and cumulative amount 
excreted in urine. For patients with impaired or physiologically reduced renal 
function receiving long term sulpiride treatment, a 35 to 70% reduction in dose, 
or extension of the dosage interval by a factor of 1.5 to 3, may be required.

DOI: 10.2165/00003088-198917050-00005
PMID: 2582694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Demography. 1989 Nov;26(4):645-60.

Forecasting mortality: a parameterized time series approach.

McNown R(1), Rogers A.

Author information:
(1)Population Program, University of Colorado, Boulder 80309.

This article links parameterized model mortality schedules with time series 
methods to develop forecasts of U.S. mortality to the year 2000. The use of 
model mortality schedules permits a relatively concise representation of the 
history of mortality by age and sex from 1900 to 1985, and the use of modern 
time series methods to extend this history forward to the end of this century 
allows for a flexible modeling of trend and the accommodation of changes in 
long-run mortality patterns. This pilot study demonstrates that the proposed 
procedure produces medium-range forecasts of mortality that meet the standard 
tests of accuracy in forecast evaluation and that are sensible when evaluated 
against the comparable forecasts produced by the Social Security Administration.

PMID: 2583322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Demography. 1989 Nov;26(4):705-9.

Relating changes in life expectancy to changes in mortality.

Alho JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Illinois, Urbana 61801.

I address the problem of what can be said of changes in mortality rates, if one 
knows how life expectancies change. I note a general formula relating life 
expectancies in different ages to mortality and prove that if mortality changes 
over time following a proportional-hazard model, then there is a one-to-one 
correspondence between life expectancy at birth and mortality rates. Extensions 
and an application of these results to the analysis of mortality change are 
presented.

PMID: 2583326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. J Clin Epidemiol. 1989;42(12):1239-41. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(89)90123-6.

Quality of life instruments for cancer patients: "Babel's Tower revisited".

de Haes JC(1), van Knippenberg FC.

Author information:
(1)Working Party on Medical Decision Making, University Hospital, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(89)90123-6
PMID: 2585015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. J Neurosurg. 1989 Dec;71(6):842-5. doi: 10.3171/jns.1989.71.6.0842.

Primary intraspinal neoplasms in Norway, 1955 to 1986. A population-based survey 
of 467 patients.

Helseth A(1), Mørk SJ.

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Cancer Registry, Institute for Epidemiological Cancer Research, 
Montebello, Oslo.

A survey of all patients (173 males and 294 females) registered with primary 
intraspinal neoplasms in the Norwegian Cancer Registry from 1955 through 1986 is 
presented. Annual age-adjusted incidence rates of new tumors per one million 
population were three for males and five for females. Altogether, 89% of the 
tumors were verified histologically. Meningioma was the most common tumor type, 
followed by ependymoma and neurilemoma. Intraspinal ependymomas accounted for 
34.5% of all 223 ependymomas of the central nervous system, whereas only 0.2% of 
the 3046 glioblastomas were found intraspinally. Patients with intraspinal 
meningioma had a better life expectancy than those with intracranial meningioma. 
The 5-year relative survival rate for patients with intraspinal ependymoma was 
88.9% in contrast to 24.4% for patients with intracranial ependymoma.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1989.71.6.0842
PMID: 2585075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. J Vasc Surg. 1989 Dec;10(6):605-11. doi: 10.1067/mva.1989.14860.

A clinicopathologic study of aneurysm formation of glutaraldehyde-tanned human 
umbilical vein grafts.

Miyata T(1), Tada Y, Takagi A, Sato O, Oshima A, Idezuki Y, Shiga J.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo, 
Japan.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 1990 Aug;12(2):221-2.

To clarify the process of graft degeneration and aneurysm formation we reviewed 
the angiographic and pathologic findings of three cases where aneurysms 
developed in glutaraldehyde-tanned human umbilical vein grafts. Seven aneurysms 
were detected in these three grafts 4 years after implantation. Six aneurysms 
originated from the bodies of the grafts and one originated from the 
factory-created anastomosis required for fabrication. Wrinkling and segmentation 
of the dilated graft documented by arteriography corresponded to mural 
dissection of the graft wall. Large protrusions near the aneurysms were revealed 
to be the transmurally dissected graft walls. At the site of dissection, blood 
escaped through the surrounding mesh of the graft to form a preaneurysmal 
change. Two aneurysms developed without breakdown of the outer mesh. The 
aneurysm of factory-created sutures was caused by tearing of the graft wall. 
Degeneration of human umbilical vein grafts, which appears to ensue inevitably 
with the passage of time after implantation, leads to the tear of the graft wall 
and transmural dissection to form aneurysm. In our department, candidates for 
human umbilical vein graft implantation have recently been restricted to the 
patients whose life expectancy is limited to only a few years because of the 
risk of aneurysm formation.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1989.14860
PMID: 2585648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Gan No Rinsho. 1989 Oct;35(13):1596-601.

[Prognostic factors in patients with brain metastases from lung carcinoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Chatani M(1), Teshima T, Inoue T.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Radiation Therapy, Center for Adult Diseases, Osaka.

Between September 1980 to December 1984, 85 patients with brain metastases from 
lung carcinoma were consecutively evaluated and were entered into the first 
prospective randomized trial. Since January 1985, the second prospective 
randomized trial was started based on the result of the first trial, i.e., 
lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) as the most important prognostic factor. We analyzed 
neurological improvement and survival of 79 patients, who were entered into the 
second trial until November 1988, compared with the first trial. This 
preliminary result suggests that LDH may also be an important prognostic factor 
in the second trial.

PMID: 2585731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Ment Retard. 1989 Aug;27(4):227-8.

The impact of HIV infection on the hemophilia community.

Whitney CK.

The hemophilia community has been rocked by the catastrophe of AIDS. The use of 
blood products that had first restored the potential for normal survival turned 
out also to bring involvement with, or the threat of, HIV infection. Persons 
with hemophilia are now burdened with fear and discrimination. Strong leadership 
has come from the National Hemophilia Foundation in the provision of needed 
support and understanding.

PMID: 2586311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1989 Sep;90(9):1529-33.

[Long-term results of mechanical valves in aortic position and biological valves 
in mitral and tricuspid positions].

[Article in Japanese]

Shimoyama Y(1), Wanibuchi Y, Ino T, Terada Y, Takagi H, Furuta S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Mitsui Memorial Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

The long-term results of patients undergoing aortic valve replacement (AVR) with 
a mechanical valve (AM), mitral valve replacement with a biological valve (MB), 
and tricuspid valve replacement (TVR) with a biological valve (TB) operated upon 
from 1977 to 1988 were retrospectively analysed. A total of 899 patients 
received 1117 valves (381 AM, 633 TB, 103 TB) with a follow-up 3778 
patient-years and 4582 valve-years. A significant incidence of thromboembolism, 
hemorrhage, and endocarditis was not found among AVR, MVR, TVR, or multiple 
valve replacement. We found a significantly decreased incidence of survival rate 
in multiple valve replacement compared with AVR or MVR, and a significantly 
increased incidence of reoperation in MB compared with AM and TB. We use AM and 
TB in any adult patients as a first choice. However, we prefer a mechanical 
valve in the mitral position except in patients over 65 years old, who have a 
short life expectancy, in whom anticoagulation is thought to be difficult, and 
who desire a biological valve.

PMID: 2586459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Oncology. 1989;46(6):360-5. doi: 10.1159/000226751.

Follow-up of breast cancer patients.

Kindler M(1), Steinhoff G.

Author information:
(1)Central Institute for Cancer Research, Robert Rössle Institute, Berlin-Buch, 
GDR.

The existing follow-up standard for breast cancer patients has been reviewed by 
a representative trial involving 1,004 curatively treated patients, who 
underwent surgery between 1977 and 1987. The objective of the study has been to 
establish whether intensive diagnostics of recurrences and metastases will lead, 
as a result of the follow-up, to life prolongation or improvement of life 
quality, and which methods will be adequate to achieve this goal. The analysis 
has shown that metastases are recognized only insignificantly earlier, and that 
improvement of survival is not achieved. The results of the trial have led to a 
recommendation for an effective follow-up programme for breast cancer patients, 
with emphasis on subtle case history data and exact clinical investigations.

DOI: 10.1159/000226751
PMID: 2587003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Nihon Igaku Hoshasen Gakkai Zasshi. 1989 Sep 25;49(9):1091-5.

[Risk-benefit analysis for mass screening of breast cancer utilizing mammography 
as a screening test].

[Article in Japanese]

Iinuma TA, Tateno Y.

Incidence of breast cancers in Japanese women is increasing steadily. Mass 
screening of breast cancer was started in Japan under auspices of Adult Health 
Promotion Act of the Japanese Government from 1987. As the first screening 
method, the palpation of breasts is employed at present, but it is expected to 
be replaced by the mammography. In this report, the risk-benefit analysis is 
presented between risk of breast carcinogenesis due to radiation and benefit of 
mass screening of breast cancer. The benefit of mass screening is taken as the 
net elongation of average life expectancy of women due to survival from breast 
cancers. The risk of mammography is taken as the net loss of average life 
expectancy of women due to breast carcinogenesis. In the latter, the latency 
time and plateau period of radiation carcinogenesis were taken into 
consideration in the calculation. The results show that the ages at which the 
benefit and risk become equal are between 30 and 35 years old when dose 
equivalent of mammography is between 10 and 20 mSv, that are conventionally 
used. However, the critical age will be reduced to 20 years old if the dose 
equivalent becomes 1 mSv. Therefore, it is strongly recommended that a low dose 
mammographic system should be developed in order to achieve 1 mSv for the mass 
screening of breast cancer of Japanese women. In author's opinion, this is quite 
feasible by employing a new digital radiography with imaging plate.

PMID: 2587191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1989 Oct;37(5):305-7. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1020338.

The use of the internal mammary artery for myocardial revascularisation in 
patients 70 years of age and older. Does it complicate the early post-operative 
period?

Noyez L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiac Surgery, University Hospital St. Radboud 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

In the last years common agreement has been reached that the internal mammary 
artery (IMA) is the conduit of choice for elective myocardial revasculariation. 
This trend has been stimulated by the long-term patency of the IMA grafts and 
the better long-term survival. However, with the increase in life-expectancy, an 
increasing number of elderly patients is referred for coronary artery bypass 
grafting. In this patient population the long-term survival is generally 
limited, and therefore many surgeons do not use the IMA as graft. However, there 
is not only the better long-term survival but also a reduction in recurrence of 
angina, cardiac events, and need for reoperations associated with the IMA use. 
In this study the perioperative (peroperative and early postoperative) mortality 
and morbidity of coronary artery surgery with IMA use and without IMA use in 
patients aged 70 years and older is compared. Based on the early clinical 
results it is suggested that the use of an IMA graft does not influence the 
perioperative morbidity and mortality of coronary artery surgery in the patient 
over 70, who thus should not be denied the conduit of choice on such grounds.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1020338
PMID: 2588248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. West J Med. 1989 Oct;151(4):467-71.

Assessing the economic impact of AIDS in local communities. Current and 
projected costs for San Diego County.

Seidman RL, Williams SJ, Mortensen LM.

The economic cost of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in San Diego 
County, California, is forecast to increase from $103 million in 1986 to between 
$502 and $743 million in 1991, rising at a minimum average annual rate of 30% 
after adjusting for inflation. A greater emphasis on outpatient care and the use 
of new therapies that increase life expectancy by reducing the frequency and 
severity of morbidity will decrease the future annual cost of treatment but will 
have a small effect on total economic costs because of substantial foregone 
earnings by persons with AIDS. Estimating the economic impact of this disease 
provides valuable information for formulating effective strategies to treat AIDS 
patients, to provide education for limiting the spread of the human 
immunodeficiency virus, and to achieve other health objectives.

PMCID: PMC1026848
PMID: 2588588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Addict Behav. 1989;14(5):531-6. doi: 10.1016/0306-4603(89)90073-7.

Relationship between alcohol expectancies and length of abstinence among 
Alcoholics Anonymous members.

Rather BC(1), Sherman MF.

Author information:
(1)Loyola College in Maryland, Baltimore 21210.

Previous research has demonstrated a consistent relationship between alcohol 
expectancies (i.e., cognitive expectancies concerning the reinforcing effects of 
alcohol) and alcohol consumption patterns. To date, no study has examined the 
expectancies of recovering alcoholics who have attained extended abstinence. One 
hundred and fourteen Alcoholics Anonymous members were examined. Significant 
negative correlations were found between the recovering alcoholic's length of 
sobriety and many of the alcohol expectancy scales. In addition, 11 items from 
the Customary Drinking Record-Revised and 2 items from the Demographic Data 
Sheet were factor analyzed resulting in the retention of two factors, Quality of 
Life and Desire to Drink. These factors seemed to be tapping important 
dimensions in the alcoholic's recovery. Two alcohol expectancy scales were found 
to be significantly predictive of the Desire to Drink and Quality of Life 
factors that were used as criteria in multiple regression equations.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4603(89)90073-7
PMID: 2589131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Am J Cardiol. 1989 Dec 1;64(19):1298-304. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(89)90571-7.

Argon laser ablation of malignant ventricular tachycardia associated with 
coronary artery disease.

Saksena S(1), Gielchinsky I, Tullo NG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Newark Beth Israel Medical Center, New Jersey.

The long-term clinical efficacy and safety of intraoperative mapping-guided 
argon laser ablation alone or in conjunction with standard surgical methods were 
assessed in 20 consecutive patients with refractory sustained ventricular 
tachycardia (VT) or ventricular fibrillation. A 15-W argon ion gas laser was 
used and pulsed laser energy was delivered through a fiberoptic catheter 
delivery system. Pre- and intraoperative mapping was used to localize the 
arrhythmogenic tissue. Postoperative clinical, ambulatory electrocardiographic 
and electrophysiologic evaluations were performed before discharge and at 1 year 
of follow-up. Thirty-eight VT morphologies were mapped and ablated with laser 
energy alone (82%), combined laser ablation and mechanical resection (13%) or 
mechanical resection alone (5%). Concomitant coronary artery bypass surgery was 
performed in 15 patients and in 1 patient it was performed with mitral value 
replacement. Postoperative 30-day mortality was 5%. One patient (5%) required 
postoperative antiarrhythmic drug therapy, and all survivors had suppression of 
inducible sustained VT at discharge. Mean left ventricular ejection fraction 
increased from 34 +/- 12% preoperatively to 41 +/- 13% postoperatively (p = 
0.001). Efficacy rates for ablation of VT sites associated with anterior 
myocardial infarction and inferior or posterior myocardial infarction were 
comparable (100 vs 96%, respectively, p greater than 0.2). At 1-year follow-up 
no sudden deaths had occurred and total survival rate was 90%. Intraoperative 
pulsed argon laser ablation alone or in conjunction with standard surgical 
techniques improves the efficacy of surgical ablation procedures for VT or 
ventricular fibrillation and reduces the need for additional postoperative 
antiarrhythmic drug or device therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(89)90571-7
PMID: 2589195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Am J Surg. 1989 Dec;158(6):502-4; discussion 504-5. doi: 
10.1016/0002-9610(89)90179-7.

Results of in-situ saphenous vein bypass to the foot.

Clifford EJ(1), Fry RE, Clagett GP, Fisher DF, Fry WJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Department of Surgery, 
Dallas.

To determine the efficacy of extending vascular reconstruction to the pedal 
vessels, the records of 115 in-situ saphenous vein bypasses to the 
infragenicular vessels were examined. Ninety-four percent were performed for 
limb-threatening ischemia and 6 percent for claudication. Ninety-one bypasses 
were to tibial vessels in the calf (Group 1), whereas severe disease of the 
tibial vessels in the calf necessitated bypass to arteries at the ankle and 
beyond in 24 (Group 2). Life-table analysis was used to calculate limb salvage, 
graft patency, and functional status for Group 1 and Group 2 36 months 
postoperatively; there were no statistical differences between groups with 
regard to these variables (p = 0.38). Diabetes had no impact on the success of 
reconstruction, and preoperative noninvasive testing was not predictive of graft 
failure in either group. Significantly, limb salvage closely paralleled graft 
patency and functional status, illustrating the severe disease in all patients. 
Patients with severe tibial-peroneal atherosclerosis may benefit from bypass 
grafting to the pedal arteries with a success rate equal to those done to more 
proximal sites.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9610(89)90179-7
PMID: 2589578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Aust Fam Physician. 1989 Sep;18(9):1136, 1138-9.

Patient education using a spreadsheet.

Tribe P.

Many general practices use a computer, but it can be used for more than accounts 
and medical records. Preparation of patient information documents is another 
ideal application. The author shows how a spreadsheet programme can be used to 
do this showing the cost of smoking both in dollars and loss of life expectancy.

PMID: 2590078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Genet Epidemiol. 1989;6(5):633-43. doi: 10.1002/gepi.1370060508.

Genetic studies on an Alzheimer clinic population.

Sadovnick AD(1), Irwin ME, Baird PA, Beattie BL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
Canada.

All patients attending the Clinic for Alzheimer Disease and Related Disorders 
have detailed family histories taken by a geneticist. To date, genetic histories 
are available for 446 consecutive, unrelated individuals. Of these, 151 (33.9%) 
are diagnosed as having "probable" (N = 141) or "autopsy-confirmed" (N = 10) 
Alzheimer disease according to recognized criteria. This data base represents a 
relatively unselected population with respect to more than one person in the 
family having dementia. Seventy-one of these 151 index cases (47.0%) have a 
positive family history of dementia, of which 8 (5.3%) may represent the 
familial (autosomal dominant) form of Alzheimer disease (FAD). Age-corrected 
empiric recurrence risks for Alzheimer disease/dementia were calculated for 
first-degree relatives of these 151 index cases using the Kaplan-Meier lifetable 
method.

DOI: 10.1002/gepi.1370060508
PMID: 2591733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Gig Tr Prof Zabol. 1989;(10):31-3.

[Physiologic hygiene characteristics of job placement following the radical 
treatment of breast cancer].

[Article in Russian]

Gundareva ID.

Life expectancy of patients with the most prevalent oncologic disease, i.e., 
breast cancer, has been increased due to the latest achievements in its 
treatment. The majority of such patients have favorable forecast and come back 
to work. At the same time it is pointed out that the treatment course is 
accompanied by some changes in the main life-sustaining and effect-dependent 
functions. Coming back to work with lowered work capacity and working under 
unfavorable labor conditions, such patients are in many cases exposed to the 
effect of various occupational factors and their professional activity. 
Proceeding from the principles of adequate job selection, one must avoid 
absolutely counter-indicative factors and restrict work load.

PMID: 2591809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Hum Biol. 1989 Aug;61(4):599-614.

Conceptive delays of twin-prone mothers: a demographic epidemiologic approach.

Philippe P, Roy R.

We studied the time interval to the first birth and to the twin birth using 
statistical and mathematical models in two groups of mothers, those with twins 
and those with singletons, from the same population. We made use of a 
pair-matched case-control design. We treated the maternal birth cohort and 
parity as confounders and thus as controlled. We also investigated the sex of 
twin pairs as an interactive variable, employing such methods as survival curve 
testing and using geometric, gamma, and exponential distributions where 
appropriate. The expectations derived from the mathematical models yield 
numerical estimates of fertility components. The results suggest that unlike-sex 
twin-prone mothers have higher fecundity than controls when they conceive 
singletons. Further, fecundity appears high and unimpaired before the birth of 
twins. Mothers of like-sex twins experience somewhat shorter and but more 
variable birth intervals than corresponding controls before the birth of twins, 
suggesting within-group heterogeneity. Specifically, the birth of like-sex twins 
is preceded by low fecundity and a short period of postpartum amenorrhea. 
Biologically, like-sex (presumably monozygotic) twin-prone mothers have a 
hormonal defect related eventually to menopausal status that interferes with 
ovulation and perhaps with lactation. As for unlike-sex twin-bearing mothers, 
they probably experience a displacement of their maximum fertility potential 
toward early reproductive life and an extension of their menstrual life. From a 
methodologic standpoint, the study of the fertility of twin-prone mothers cannot 
proceed without estimates of the fertility components of birth intervals, as 
these intervals do not lend themselves to straightforward analytical 
interpretations by statistical analyses.

PMID: 2591916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1989 Jun;43(2):140-6. doi:
10.1136/jech.43.2.140.

Life table methods applied to use of medical care and of prescription drugs in 
early childhood.

Rasmussen F(1), Smedby B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, Uppsala University, Sweden.

Life table methods were applied to analyses of longitudinal data on the use of 
medical care during the first 5 years of life among all 1701 children born in a 
Swedish semirural municipality. Cumulative proportions of the children who had 
used particular types of medical care or prescription drugs at least once by 
certain ages were estimated. By the fifth birthday, 98% had made at least one 
visit to any physician and 82% at least one visit to a paediatrician. By the 
fifth birthday at least one prescription for antibiotics had been purchased at a 
pharmacy by 82%; and 33% had been admitted to inpatient hospital care at least 
once (excluding immediate postnatal care). Acute conditions and more chronic 
diseases were also studied using these methods. At least one visit to a 
physician at a primary health care centre had been made for acute otitis media 
in 65% of 5 year olds and for atopic dermatitis in 8%.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.43.2.140
PMCID: PMC1052816
PMID: 2592902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Kidney Int. 1989 Sep;36(3):485-96. doi: 10.1038/ki.1989.221.

Donor specific transfusions or cyclosporine for related-donor kidney 
transplantation?

Jayes RL Jr(1), Levey AS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Decision Making, New England Medical Center, Tufts 
University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts.

DST and cyclosporine are two immunosuppressive strategies to improve first year 
graft survival in high MLC, one-haplotype matched, living-related donor kidney 
transplantation. However, each has disadvantages: The conventional strategy of 
DST may sensitize the recipient to donor antigens, precluding transplantation 
from that donor, and cyclosporine may increase graft failure due to 
nephrotoxicity. We used decision analysis to compare these two strategies. We 
assumed that the risk of sensitization by DST is 12%, that graft failure in the 
first year is equal in both strategies, but that the annual probability of graft 
failure in later years is 2.6% with DST and from 2.7% to 3.6% with cyclosporine. 
Patients sensitized by DST and patients with graft failure undergo dialysis 
while awaiting cadaveric donor transplantation using cyclosporine. Outcomes were 
assessed as quality-adjusted years of survival. The analysis was deliberately 
biased to favor DST, the conventional strategy. Quality-adjusted life expectancy 
for a 40-year-old patient in both strategies is from 17.7 to 19.1 years. The 
difference between the DST and cyclosporine strategies ranges from -0.7 to +0.6 
years. Given current data on sensitization by DST, long-term cyclosporine 
nephrotoxicity, and deliberate biases favoring the DST strategy, we conclude 
that there is no substantive advantage of the DST strategy. Cyclosporine is 
equally efficacious for recipients of high MLC, one-haplotype matched kidney 
transplants, and may be preferred for transplants from more distant relatives 
and unrelated living donors.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.1989.221
PMID: 2593493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Lab Anim Sci. 1989 Nov;39(6):587-90.

Oral KCl dietary supplement extends survivability of dogs with Heidenhain pouch 
gastric fistulas.

Fernandez JA(1), Katz LB, Guilloud NB, Shriver DA.

Author information:
(1)Research Laboratories, R.W. Johnson Pharmaceutical Research 
Institute,Raritan, NJ 08869.

Supplementing the food of Heidenhain pouch gastric fistula dogs with a KC1 
product greatly extends the survivability of these dogs. Since there is a 
continuous discharge of gastric juice from the pouch to the exterior each time a 
meal is consumed, clinical signs such as dehydration, anorexia, rough hair coat 
and lethargy usually occur within a few months after gastric pouch surgery and, 
unless extensive supportive measures are taken, most dogs will die shortly 
thereafter. The five dogs which did not receive KC1 supplementation died within 
6 months after surgery with a mean survival time of 2.4 +/- 0.9 months. Seven 
dogs that received a daily oral supplement of 1.5 g KC1 (20 mEq) in their food 
have, on average, survived more than ten times longer than dogs which received 
no KC1 supplementation, with a mean survival time of 25.1 +/- 4.4 months. All 
KC1 supplemented dogs survived for more than 15 months with three dogs currently 
surviving for 36-40 months. When two dogs experienced decreased serum potassium, 
sodium and/or chloride levels and showed clinical signs of electrolyte imbalance 
despite receiving daily oral KC1 supplementation, intervention with intravenous 
(i.v.) lactated Ringer's solution and increased amounts of oral KC1 supplement 
reversed these symptoms within 1-2 weeks. Dogs that received only i.v. Ringer's 
therapy died with 1 week of the onset of clinical signs. Daily oral KC1 
supplementation, careful observation of behavior and eating patterns, and 
routine physical examinations and serum electrolyte measurements can greatly 
extend the life expectancy of dogs with Heidenhain pouch gastric fistulas.

PMID: 2593637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Mayo Clin Proc. 1989 Oct;64(10):1213-25. doi: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)61284-1.

Mayo Clinic's hospital-based emergency air medical transport service.

Farnell MB(1), Sachs JL.

Author information:
(1)Section of Gastroenterologic and General Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 
55905.

Comment in
    Mayo Clin Proc. 1990 Mar;65(3):436.

Mayo Clinic's hospital-based helicopter transport service, which is staffed by a 
medical flight crew consisting of two critical-care nurses, was initiated in 
October 1984. To date, more than 2,500 patients with a wide range of 
life-threatening conditions have been transported. As a quality-assurance tool, 
a computerized data collection system was initiated in 1986, and this report 
details a 3-year experience in air transport garnered prospectively. From 1986 
through 1988, 1,701 flights were completed in response to 2,329 requests for 
transport. Overall, 10% of requests were declined because of weather. Of 1,727 
patients transported, 94% were brought to the Mayo Medical Center for care. The 
categories of the patients were medical-surgical in 1,071 (62%), trauma in 553 
(32%), and neonates in 103 (6%). Most transports (93%) originated from referral 
inpatient facilities or emergency rooms; the rest were scene flights or 
transports from Mayo to other facilities. The mortality rate among the 1,632 
patients brought to the Mayo Medical Center was 16.3%. The mean distance 
transported was 77 miles for interhospital and 23 miles for scene flights. For 
both trauma and medical-surgical patients, the severity of illness was evaluated 
with use of recognized quantitative scoring systems. Prospective collection of 
data has proved useful in program administration, quality assurance, and 
clinical research. Mayo Clinic's hospital-based helicopter transport program has 
served as a logical extension of the institution's emergency-care capabilities 
in an effort to enhance the prehospital and interhospital care of the critically 
ill within the institution's referral area.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)61284-1
PMID: 2593712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1989 Dec 16;133(50):2528-9.

[Extension of life through cytostatic treatment].

[Article in Dutch]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2594129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Q J Med. 1989 Feb;70(262):145-60.

Hypopituitarism following external radiotherapy for pituitary tumours in adults.

Littley MD(1), Shalet SM, Beardwell CG, Ahmed SR, Applegate G, Sutton ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Christie Hospital and Holt Radium Institute, 
Withington, Manchester.

The development of anterior pituitary hormone deficiencies has been studied in a 
group of 165 patients who underwent external radiotherapy for tumours of the 
pituitary or closely related anatomical sites, and who have been observed for up 
to 10 years. One hundred and forty had undergone pituitary surgery before 
radiotherapy. All patients received external radiotherapy by a three-field 
technique, giving 3750-4250 cGy in 15 or 16 fractions over 20-22 days. A 
combined test of anterior pituitary function using insulin hypoglycaemia or 
glucagon stimulation in conjunction with thyrotrophin and gonadotrophin 
releasing hormone tests and basal estimations of prolactin, thyroid hormones and 
testosterone or oestradiol was performed before radiotherapy. This was repeated 
six and 12 months later and subsequently annually. Before radiotherapy, 18 per 
cent of patients had normal growth hormone secretion, 21 per cent had normal 
gonadotrophin secretion, 57 per cent had normal corticotrophin reserve and 80 
per cent had normal thyrotrophin secretion. Life table analysis demonstrated 
increasing incidences of all anterior pituitary hormone deficiencies with time: 
by five years all patients were growth hormone deficient, 91 per cent were 
gonadotrophin deficient, 77 per cent were corticotrophin deficient and 42 per 
cent were thyrotrophin deficient. At eight years, respective incidences of 
deficiencies were 100, 96, 84 and 49 per cent. Radiation-induced 
hyperprolactinaemia was seen in 73 patients; mean serum prolactin concentration 
rose from 227 +/- 11 mU/l to a peak of 369 +/- 60 mU/l at two years and 
subsequently declined towards the basal value. The primary diagnosis, patient 
age, sex, irradiated tissue volume and previous surgery were examined as 
variables that might influence the rate of development of anterior pituitary 
hormone deficiencies, but none of these factors had a significant effect. The 
radiation induced hyperprolactinaemia was however more marked in female 
patients. Although anterior pituitary hormone deficiencies most commonly 
developed in the order growth hormone, gonadotrophin, corticotrophin, 
thyrotrophin (61 per cent of patients), other sequences were evident. Most 
notably corticotrophin deficiency occurred before gonadotrophin deficiency. 
There is a high incidence of anterior pituitary hormone deficiencies in patients 
treated surgically for pituitary tumours and the incidence increases after 
external radiotherapy. Deficiencies may occur in an unpredictable sequence and 
endocrine testing is recommended on an annual basis.

PMID: 2594955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Scand J Rheumatol Suppl. 1989;79:45-56. doi: 10.3109/03009748909092612.

Course and prognosis of early rheumatoid arthritis.

Rasker JJ(1), Cosh JA.

Author information:
(1)Medisch Spectrum Twente, Enschede, The Netherlands.

Lessons learned from a 20 year prospective study of 100 Rheumatoid Arthritis 
(RA) patients are considered. Forty six had died and the causes of death are 
discussed and correlations with early features; the findings in the survivors 
and the patterns of the course of arthritis and treatment are described. A loss 
of life expectancy was observed: the 9 patients whose deaths were due to RA or 
its systemic complications, died some 15 years prematurely; the 8 in whom RA 
contributed to death died some 10 years prematurely and in the 29 in whom death 
was unrelated to RA, death was premature by about 5 years. Already after 1 year 
of arthritis the functional capacity was reduced in those patients who later 
died due to RA or in whom RA or its treatment contributed to death. The men died 
earlier than the women and overall mortality in men was higher despite a younger 
age at onset. Patients with persistently high ESR and strong seropositivity for 
rheumatoid factor also did badly. Of the patients, who had died, the functional 
capacity at last review before their deaths was noted. It appears that already 
1-8 years before their deaths 35% of the patients were confined to chair or bed 
(Steinbröcker grade IV) and 24% markedly restricted (grade III). These figures 
show that prognosis of RA patients referred to a rheumatologist is probably 
worse than generally suggested. Rheumatoid arthritis is a severely disabling and 
potentially lethal disease.

DOI: 10.3109/03009748909092612
PMID: 2595339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Surg Clin North Am. 1989 Dec;69(6):1249-74. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(16)44987-x.

Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, endoscopic sphincterotomy, and 
biliary drainage.

Ghazi A(1), Washington M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Beth Israel Medical Center, New York, New York.

Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, endoscopic sphincterotomy, and 
endoscopic biliary drainage have dramatically changed the diagnosis and 
management of disorders of the pancreas and hepatobiliary tract. Endoscopic 
retrograde cholangiopancreatography will provide a high-resolution study that 
will define accurately the nature and location of the disease process involving 
the pancreas or bile ducts. Although sonography, CT, and, recently, MRI may 
provide clues to the diagnosis, it often remains for endoscopic retrograde 
cholangiopancreatography to establish the diagnosis with certainty. Endoscopic 
sphincterotomy has been invaluable in the management of common bile-duct stones. 
In patients who have had their gallbladders removed, sphincterotomy has avoided 
reoperation in the same field and the risk of general anesthesia. Sphincterotomy 
also is assuming an increasingly important role in the management of common-duct 
stones in patients with their gallbladders in situ who are poor operative 
candidates. In these patients, sphincterotomy likewise avoids the risk of 
general anesthesia and the surgical stress of opening a major body cavity. The 
technique has also proved to be helpful in the palliative treatment of ampullary 
and distal common bile-duct carcinomas in those patients who are poor operative 
candidates. Finally, sphincterotomy has found a role in the treatment of 
choledochal cysts and may provide relief of pain in those patients with the 
elusive diagnoses of postcholecystectomy syndromes, biliary dyskinesias, and 
sphincter of Oddi dysfunction. Endoscopic biliary drainage is becoming an 
increasingly popular option for the palliation of malignant biliary obstruction. 
In those patients who are poor operative candidates, the risk of general 
anesthesia and major surgery is avoided. In those patients with obviously 
incurable tumors, endoscopic drainage allows for a brief hospitalization without 
surgery in the face of a short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(16)44987-x
PMID: 2595522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Ter Arkh. 1989;61(9):49-52.

[The prognosis of fatal outcome in the late period after myocardial infarct].

[Article in Russian]

Aronov DM, Nikolaeva LF, Mikheeva TG, Muchnis IB, Novikov SG.

A method for life prediction within 2 nearest years after myocardial infarction 
has been designed. For this purpose altogether 922 men who suffered myocardial 
infarction were examined. The examination included collection of the disease 
history data, delineation of the characteristics of the patient's status 6 weeks 
after M1, and performance during that period of the standard bicycle ergometry 
test. The deciding rule of prediction has been developed. The rule is based on 
the mathematic discrimination and the use of the so-called "sign blocks" 
including not only the clinically significant signs such as myocardial 
infarction in the anamnesis, disability before MI, the signs of heart failure 
and the grave functional class 6 weeks after MI but also little significant 
signs (left ventricle hypertrophy, the mean exercise tolerance (up to 600 
kgm/min), and so forth), which acquire the prognostic weight when combined with 
other signs. This deciding rule of prediction with the use of exclusively 
accessible information turned out to be reliable during work, making it possible 
to stratify the patients into groups with the practically 100-percent survival 
up to the high risk of lethality exceeding the mean death rate 4-5-fold. The 
rule can be applied to public health practices during the use of the "sign 
blocks" tables.

PMID: 2595585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Am J Kidney Dis. 1989 Dec;14(6):445-51. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(89)80143-x.

Reassessment of treatment results in membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, 
with emphasis on life-table analysis.

Donadio JV Jr(1), Offord KP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 
55905.

Treatment of idiopathic membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis remains an 
unsettled issue. The results of five randomized clinical trials have not 
provided convincing evidence for the effectiveness of any treatment. Follow-up 
periods in these trials were relatively short-term, ranging from 1 to 4 years. 
In three recently published long-term clinical studies of patients with 
membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, 10-year cumulative survival free of 
renal failure improved by 20% to 35% over that described in studies published 5 
to 10 years earlier. In each study, survival was estimated using life-table 
analysis. The survival curve in the treated group was then compared with that of 
a historical control group using the date of clinical onset as time zero. The 
survival curve in the treatment group was spuriously shifted to the right. By 
definition, those in the treatment groups had to survive from clinical onset to 
initiation of treatment, but the historical control group did not have such a 
constraint. The problem in this comparison is that treatments were not started 
in a large number of patients for years after clinical onset, resulting in a 
biased comparison in favor of the treatment groups. (Also, the conclusions drawn 
from the survival data were that the improvement related directly to various 
treatments that were used.) Survival was similarly improved in patients treated 
with dipyridamole and aspirin when survival was plotted against time after 
clinical onset. However, when the data were replotted and the 
platelet-inhibitor-treated group was compared with a contemporary randomized 
control group, no difference in either patient survival or survival free of 
renal disease was demonstrated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(89)80143-x
PMID: 2596471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Cardiol Clin. 1989 Nov;7(4):805-12.

Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in patients over the age of 70 
years.

Dorros G(1), Lewin RF, Mathiak LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, St. Luke's Medical Center, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was successfully performed in 207 
of 242 patients over the age of 70 years. Multivessel disease was present in 71 
per cent of patients; 93.0 per cent of patients had good left ventricular 
ejection fractions (greater than or equal to 35 per cent). Angioplasty was 
successful in 348 of 385 lesions dilated (90 per cent), with the desired degree 
of revascularization achieved in 90 per cent of patients with the dilatation of 
one or two lesions. The complications encountered included five Q wave 
infarctions (2.1 per cent), seven angioplasty-related deaths (2.9 per cent), and 
three emergency bypass surgeries (1.2 per cent). The cumulative probability of 
survival was 92 +/- 3 per cent at 63 months, and at a mean of 2.9 years 66 per 
cent of patients were angina-free. These data indicate that selected symptomatic 
coronary disease patients over the age of 70 years unsatisfactorily managed with 
medication have been successfully managed with coronary angioplasty. The results 
of coronary angioplasty compare favorably to those of coronary artery bypass 
surgery.

PMID: 2598197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Dtsch Z Mund Kiefer Gesichtschir. 1989 Mar-Apr;13(2):117-20.

[Grading and prognostic rating of oral carcinomas based on their cloning 
potential in vitro. Guidelines for clinical antioncogram interpretation].

[Article in German]

Metelmann HR.

Malignancies of the oral cavity are not an entity in terms of their clonal 
growth potential. The antioncogram which is used within the individual treatment 
concept against the carcinoma may be employed to determine whether the tumor of 
