this patient has a high or low cloning potential. This parameter of 
differentiated cloning is an independent tumor characteristic for the purpose of 
grading and is closely related to clinical course and prognosis of the patient. 
Patients with highly cloning malignancies have a significantly shorter life 
expectancy than patients with the same risk factors suffering from carcinomas 
with a low cloning potential.

PMID: 2598514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Dig Dis Sci. 1989 Dec;34(12 Suppl):44S-48S. doi: 10.1007/BF01536662.

Postdissolution gallstone recurrence. A clinical perspective.

Thistle JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota 55905.

The intuitive assumption that gallstones will rapidly recur in all patients is 
clearly incorrect. At least 50% of patients do not develop stones within three 
to five years of complete dissolution, and the risk may decrease after the first 
two or three years. This is not so surprising when one considers the complexity 
of the pathogenic process. Bile must be sufficiently supersaturated with 
cholesterol, an imbalance in nucleating and antinucleating factors must occur, 
at least transiently, and, for some patients, a defect in gallbladder emptying 
may be necessary. Occasionally, pathogenic mechanisms that had been present, eg, 
estrogens, obesity, or medications such as clofibrate, may no longer be active. 
The best method to reduce the risk of recurrence is to reverse one or more of 
the essential pathogenic mechanisms. Desaturating bile in cholesterol by oral 
therapy with a bile acid such as ursodiol should be effective. A search for 
other safe, effective, and cost-effective approaches persists, eg, for novel 
bile acids resistant to bacterial degradation and for various dietary regimens. 
Alteration of cholesterol nucleation with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents 
is also under investigation. In addition, enhancement of gallbladder emptying is 
an interesting approach that is worth studying. If stones do recur, the course 
of action is not always clear. Recurrent stones are usually "silent," and we do 
not usually treat asymptomatic stones. These small cholesterol stones are 
temptingly easy to dissolve, however. At least in those patients whose level of 
surgical risk would be high if symptoms developed, prophylactic dissolution 
therapy may be desirable.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01536662
PMID: 2598767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Eur J Biochem. 1989 Dec 8;186(1-2):55-62. doi: 
10.1111/j.1432-1033.1989.tb15177.x.

Rapid intramolecular turnover of N-linked glycans in plasma membrane 
glycoproteins. Extension of intramolecular turnover to the core sugars in plasma 
membrane glycoproteins of hepatoma.

Tauber R(1), Park CS, Becker A, Geyer R, Reutter W.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Molekularbiologie und Biochemie, Freien Universität Berlin, FRG.

Plasma membrane glycoproteins of rat hepatocytes undergo a rapid terminal 
deglycosylation in that the terminal sugars of the oligosaccharide side chains 
are rapidly removed from the otherwise intact glycoproteins [Tauber, R., Park, 
C.S. & Reutter, W. (1983) Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 80, 4026-4029]. The present 
paper demonstrates that this rapid intramolecular turnover of plasma membrane 
glycoproteins is not restricted to peripheral sugars but, in contrast to liver, 
in hepatoma the core sugars of the oligosaccharide chains are also involved. 
Intramolecular turnover was measured in Morris hepatoma 7777 in five plasma 
membrane glycoproteins with Mr of 85,000 (hgp85), 105,000 (hgp105), 115,000 
(hgp115), 125,000 (hgp125), 175,000 (hgp175) (hgp = hepatoma glycoprotein) that 
were isolated and purified to homogeneity by concanavalin-A--Sepharose affinity 
chromatography and semipreparative SDS gel electrophoresis. Analysis of the 
carbohydrates of hgp85, hgp105, hgp115 and hgp125 revealed the presence of 
N-linked oligosaccharides containing L-fucose, D-galactose, D-mannose and 
N-acetyl-D-glucosamine, but only of trace amounts of N-acetyl-D-galactosamine; 
hgp175 additionally contained significant amounts of N-acetyl-D-galactosamine, 
indicating the presence of both N- and O-linked oligosaccharides. As shown by 
digestion with endoglucosaminidase H, the N-linked oligosaccharides of hgp105, 
hgp115, hgp125 and hgp175 were of the complex type, whereas hgp85 also contained 
oligosaccharides of the high-mannose type. Half-lives of the turnover of the 
oligosacharide chains and of the protein backbone of the five glycoproteins were 
measured in the plasma membrane in pulse-chase experiments in vivo, using 
L-[3H]fucose as a marker of terminal sugars, D-[3H]mannose as marker of a core 
sugar and L-[3H]leucine for labelling the protein backbone. Protein backbones of 
the five glycoproteins were degraded with individual half-lives ranging over 
41-90 h with a mean of 66 h. Compared to the degradation of the polypeptide 
backbone, both the terminal sugar L-fucose and the core sugar D-mannose turned 
over with much shorter half-lives averaging about 20 h in the five 
glycoproteins. The data show that, conversely to liver, within plasma membrane 
glycoproteins of hepatoma not only peripheral sugars but also core sugars of the 
oligosaccharides are split off during the life-span of the protein backbone. It 
may therefore be assumed that this reprocessing of plasma membrane glycoproteins 
is sensitive to malignant transformation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-1033.1989.tb15177.x
PMID: 2598940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. J Appl Physiol (1985). 1989 Nov;67(5):1820-6. doi:
10.1152/jappl.1989.67.5.1820.

Work capacity during 30 days of bed rest with isotonic and isokinetic exercise 
training.

Greenleaf JE(1), Bernauer EM, Ertl AC, Trowbridge TS, Wade CE.

Author information:
(1)Life Science Division, NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field 94035.

The purpose was to test the hypothesis that twice daily, short-term, variable 
intensity isotonic and intermittent high-intensity isokinetic leg exercise would 
maintain peak O2 uptake (VO2) and muscular strength and endurance, respectively, 
at or near ambulatory control levels during 30 days of -6 degrees head-down bed 
rest (BR) deconditioning. Nineteen men (aged 32-42 yr) were divided into no 
exercise control (peak VO2 once/wk, n = 5), isokinetic (Lido ergometer, n = 7), 
and isotonic (Quinton ergometer, n = 7) groups. Exercise training was conducted 
in the supine position for two 30-min periods/day for 5 days/wk. Isotonic 
training was at 60-90% of peak VO2, and isokinetic training (knee 
flexion-extension) was at 100 degrees/s. Mean (+/- SE) changes (P less than 
0.05) in peak VO2 (ml.m-1.kg-1) from ambulatory control to BR day 28 were 44 +/- 
4 to 36 +/- 3, -18.2% (3.27-2.60 l/m) for no exercise, 39 +/- 4 to 40 +/- 3, 
+2.6% (3.13-3.14 l/min) for isotonic, and 44 +/- 3 to 40 +/- 2, -9.1% (3.24-2.90 
l/min) for isokinetic. There were no significant changes in any groups in leg 
peak torque (right knee flexion or extension), leg mean total work, arm total 
peak torque, or arm mean total work. Mean energy costs for the isotonic and 
isokinetic exercise training were 446 kcal/h (18.8 +/- 1.6 ml.min-1.kg-1) and 
214 kcal/h (8.9 +/- 0.5 ml.m-1.kg-1), respectively. Thus near-peak, variable 
intensity, isotonic leg exercise maintains peak VO2 during 30 days of BR, while 
this peak, intermittent, isokinetic leg exercise protocol does not.

DOI: 10.1152/jappl.1989.67.5.1820
PMID: 2600015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. J Belge Radiol. 1989 Oct;72(5):397-401.

Some points of interest in the management of rectal cancer.

Hubens A.

The author presents the surgeon's viewpoint in the management of rectal cancer 
outlining the possible contribution of early detection, precise pre-operative 
evaluation of the tumour extension and the necessity to provide a form of 
curative and radical treatment while given the best possible quality of life.

PMID: 2600054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Laryngoscope. 1989 Dec;99(12):1248-54. doi:
10.1288/00005537-198912000-00008.

Melanomas of the mucous membrane of the head and neck.

Conley JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Columbia-Presbyterian 
Medical Center, New York, NY.

This is a report comprised of 78 cases of melanoma of the mucous membrane of the 
head and neck and is part of a larger study of 995 cases of head and neck 
melanoma. These cases represent a review of patients over a 55-year period from 
the Pack Medical Foundation. Melanoma of the mucous membrane is a rare condition 
and the most serious of all head and neck melanomas. Its highest incidence is in 
the oral cavity, followed by the nasal and pharyngeal cavities. It usually 
occurs during the fifth decade of life. In its early stages it is asymptomatic 
and often located in areas difficult to see upon visual examination and 
technically inaccessible. These facts lead to a delay in diagnosis, which 
reduces curability to 8%. In spite of these negative factors, there has been a 
significant improvement in the extension and quality of life for patients with 
melanoma of the mucous membrane. The biological characteristics of this disease 
are analyzed and a philosophy of management is offered.

DOI: 10.1288/00005537-198912000-00008
PMID: 2601538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Nephron. 1989;53(4):297-302. doi: 10.1159/000185771.

Use of Permcath (Quinton) catheter in uraemic patients in whom the creation of 
conventional vascular access for haemodialysis is difficult.

Pourchez T(1), Morinière P, Fournier A, Pietri J.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Cardiovasculaire, CHR, Amiens, France.

During the last 4 years, the Permcath Quinton double-lumen silicone catheter was 
inserted into the internal jugular vein of 57 uraemic patients with difficulty 
for creating conventional vascular access for haemodialysis. In 4 patients, with 
definitive contraindication of conventional vascular access, this catheter still 
permits haemodialysis after a duration of 8-25 months. In 25 further patients 
with terminal uraemia, but poor vein system, it allowed the maturation of an 
arteriovenous fistula after 2-14 months of use. In 17 patients already on 
chronic haemodialysis, but who lost abruptly their vascular access (15 grafts 
and 2 arteriovenous fistulae), it allowed a new arteriovenous fistula to mature 
in 16 cases after a mean duration of 7.3 +/- months. In 5 patients with short 
life expectancy because of neoplasia, it allowed to dialyse them until their 
death which occurred after 6.5 +/- 2.2 months. In 6 patients with acute renal 
failure and haemostasis problems, it allowed to perform not only dialysis, but 
also plasmapheresis in 3 and parenteral nutrition in 3 other cases. The 
complications were the following: sepsis (n = 3); episodes of hypocoagulability 
due to inadvertent injection of heparin stored in the lumen (n = 2), thrombosis 
of the lumen (n = 3), and insufficient flow (n = 6). In no case these 
complications prevented continuation of haemodialysis. The catheter had to be 
removed in 2 cases because of septis and in 1 case because of insufficient flow. 
In 3 cases the catheter had to be replaced because of thrombosis and in 1 case 
because of laceration. These complication rates are, however, fewer than those 
reported in the literature for arteriovenous shunts or rigid subclavian and 
femoral catheters. The Permcath catheter seems, therefore to be the method of 
choice for immediated vascular access in patients in whom the creation of 
conventional vascular access is difficult.

DOI: 10.1159/000185771
PMID: 2601797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Nihon Juigaku Zasshi. 1989 Oct;51(5):905-8. doi: 10.1292/jvms1939.51.905.

Epidemiological studies on the expectation of life for cats computed from animal 
cemetery records.

Hayashidani H, Omi Y, Ogawa M, Fukutomi K.

Based on the Chiang's method, the life table for cats was constructed from the 
death data of 3936 cats. They died in the Kanto area and were buried in an 
animal cemetery in Tokyo from June 1981 through May 1982. This life table seems 
to be the first one for domestic pet cats. The expectation of life for cats was 
4.2 years at age 0, 5.0 years at age 1, 5.4 years at age 4, 5.3 years at age 5, 
3.5 years at age 10, and 2.2 years at age 15. The maximum age at death was 22 
years. From age 0 to age 5, the probability of dying for cats was higher than 
that for dogs, but over 6 years of age it seemed that Gompertz's equation was 
applicable to this life table for cats. From these results, if the probability 
of dying for cats at early ages decreases, the fundamental pattern of dying 
curve for cats seems to be a similar figure of dogs. The life table was 
constructed for different breeds and localities. Comparing the expectation of 
life at age 1 (e1) of the two populations divided by breeds or localities, there 
was significant difference in the e1 among different localities but not among 
different breeds. These facts suggest the existence of some factors which may 
influence the life span of cats among different localities.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms1939.51.905
PMID: 2607740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Postgrad Med J. 1989 Sep;65(767):640-1. doi: 10.1136/pgmj.65.767.640.

Symptomless abdominal aortic aneurysm in the elderly.

Collin J(1).

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Department of Surgery, University of Oxford, John Radcliffe 
Hospital, UK.

DOI: 10.1136/pgmj.65.767.640
PMCID: PMC2429191
PMID: 2608593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Salud Publica Mex. 1989 Sep-Oct;31(5):601-9.

[Years of potential life lost in Mexico. Applications in the planning of health 
services].

[Article in Spanish]

Borja-Aburto VH, Bustamante-Montes P, López Carrillo L, Lona Zamora A, López 
Cervantes M.

During health care services planning, rational and coherent information is 
required in order to allocate resources in accordance with local relative need. 
In an attempt to recognize the national condition, Stone's method was used. This 
is a semi-quantitative method for analysing the relationship between health care 
resources and need. Years of potential life lost index was used for need 
assessment among the states, and confronted to its Federal Public Health 
Investment. The optimum resource/need ratio is regarded as that pertaining to 
the reference population, the nation as a whole. Deviation from the optimum 
ratio in the states is interpreted as a manifestation of inequitable resource 
distribution. The results show striking differences in needs and resources. 
Resource/need ratio varied from 0.21 in Oaxaca to 3.79 in Distrito Federal. The 
states least favoured in resource sharing were Oaxaca, Puebla, Hidalgo and 
México. On the other hand, Tamaulipas, Baja California Sur, Quintana Roo and 
Distrito Federal exceeded the optimum. These indexes permit a quantitative 
expression of the relationship between need and resources in order to reach 
geographical equity.

PMID: 2609222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Salud Publica Mex. 1989 Sep-Oct;31(5):610-24.

[Years of potential life lost: their usefulness in the analysis of mortality in 
Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Cavazos-Ortega N, del Río-Zolezzi A, Izazola-Licea JA, Lezana-Fernández MA, 
Valdespino-Gómez JL.

The evolution of the epidemiology of mortality in developing countries requires 
the use of indicators additional to cause specific mortality rates. This paper 
presents the leading causes of potential years of life lost in Mexico in 1983, 
by sex. Methodologic discussion focused on age limits and relative numbers. The 
indicator proved useful to assess the impact of infectious diseases, accidents 
and homicides as causes of premature death. It was also useful to identify years 
of potential life lost attributable to specific age and sex groups. The use of 
years of potential life lost provides valuable information to epidemiologic 
mortality analysis.

PMID: 2609223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Vopr Onkol. 1989;35(11):1294-300.

[The probability of becoming ill with malignant neoplasms over the space of the 
prospective life span for the population of the Latvian SSR].

[Article in Russian]

Aksel' EM, Dvoĭrin VV, Militosian NA, Suveĭzde RB.

PMID: 2609516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Vopr Onkol. 1989;35(12):1430-6.

[Multifactorial analysis in the prognostication of the incidence of recurrences, 
metastases and survival of patients with squamous cell cancer of the skin].

[Article in Russian]

Argun VM, Petrovichev NN, Iavorskiĭ VV, Dvorova EK.

A retrospective analysis of the data on 116 cases of squamous cell carcinoma of 
the skin of the body and extremities was undertaken. Eight parameters were found 
to influence metastasis formation and five-year survival: extent of involvement 
according to TNM classification, background conditions of tumor development, 
duration of disease, rate of tumor growth, gross appearance of tumor, site, 
contour and histologic pattern of malignancy. Recurrence development was 
influenced by nine parameters including those mentioned above plus extent of 
surgery. Tables for calculating likelihood of metastasis and recurrence 
development and five-year survival are provided. Credibility assured by these 
tables is as high as 75.0% in prognosing relapse, 96.4% in prognosing metastases 
and 93.6% in determining five-year survival.

PMID: 2609538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Am J Ind Med. 1989;16(4):347-54. doi: 10.1002/ajim.4700160403.

Further follow-up and adjustment for smoking in a study of lung cancer and acid 
mists.

Steenland K(1), Beaumont J.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Cincinnati, OH 45226.

Follow-up of a cohort of 1,165 steelworkers exposed to acid mists has been 
extended from 1981 to early 1986 for most cohort members, and information on 
smoking has also been collected. We obtained an SMR for lung cancer (unadjusted 
for smoking) of 1.56 (95% CI 1.12-2.11, 41 observed). For those with 20 years or 
more since first exposure, the SMR was 1.72 (1.21-2.39). However, no trend was 
found with duration of exposure. To adjust for smoking, we used an indirect 
adjustment as suggested by Axelson to account for the fact that the exposed 
cohort smoked slightly more than the U.S. referent population. The SMR for the 
whole cohort dropped to 1.36 (0.97-1.84), while for those with more than 20 
years since first exposure, the SMR was 1.50 (1.05-2.07). These results indicate 
that an excess risk for lung cancer persists after control for confounding by 
smoking.

DOI: 10.1002/ajim.4700160403
PMID: 2610208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Bull World Health Organ. 1989;67(5):565-6.

An index for assigning priority for cancer control within the health care 
delivery system in developing countries.

Jayant K.

As a result of better control of communicable diseases in the developing 
countries, life expectancy at birth has risen and the population is increasingly 
becoming exposed to higher cancer risks. This brief communication shows that the 
cumulative cancer incidence rate estimated for the age range equivalent to 
average life span is a suitable index for health planners to determine 
priorities in the allocation of funds for cancer control.

PMCID: PMC2491293
PMID: 2611979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Eur J Clin Nutr. 1989 Oct;43(10):715-26.

Nutritional status, age and survival: the muscle mass hypothesis.

Briend A(1), Garenne M, Maire B, Fontaine O, Dieng K.

Author information:
(1)ORSTOM, Institut Français de Recherche Scientifique pour le Développement en 
Coopération, Dakar, Senegal.

The relevance of nutritional indices derived from comparison with growth 
standards to assess the risk of dying was evaluated in a 2-year prospective 
study in rural Senegal. An average of 3151 children aged 6-59 months were 
measured twice a year and followed up during the intervening 6-month periods. 
Children who survived and those who died during follow-up were found to differ 
more by anthropometric measures directly related to absolute muscle mass (viz. 
weight, height or arm circumference) than by nutritional indices obtained from 
comparison with growth standards (weight-for-age, weight-for-height and 
height-for-age). The findings could not be explained by a confounding effect of 
age. This brings into question the current approach used to identify high-risk 
children.

PIP: As part of a nutritional and mortality study ongoing since 1962 in rural 
Senegal, the relevance of nutritional indices derived from comparison with 
growth curves was analyzed to assess childrens' risk of dying. During a 2-year 
prospective study, an average of 3151 children aged 6-59 months were measured at 
6 month intervals, a total of 12,605 semesters. 301 children who died during the 
following 6-months had anthropometric measures taken such as height, weight, 
mid-upper arm circumference (MUAC), head circumference, and triceps skinfold 
thickness. Univariate and bivariate multiple linear regression models were 
constructed and compared including anthropometric indicators such as weight, 
weight-for- age, weight-for-height, height, height-for-age, mid-upper-arm- 
circumference (MUAC), MUAC-for-age and age. Measures directly related to body 
size, such as weight, height and MUAC were found to be more closely related to 
child survival than any nutritional indices derived from them. Survival is 
related to a measure of body size which increases with age faster than MUAC but 
more slowly than weight, and is not due to a confounding effect of age. 
Mortality peaked at 18-29 months, corresponding to weaning. For a given muscle 
mass, children with a larger head had a greater risk of dying. Skinfold 
thickness did not improve assessment, perhaps because it is difficult to 
measure. Stunting had an independent effect on risk which could not be explained 
by muscle mass. This analysis suggests that screening schemes based on 
comparison with growth curves or weight gain are not likely to be predictive of 
risk of dying; arm circumference without correction for age or height is 
substantially better than classical nutritional indices.

PMID: 2612460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1989;52(3-4):167-77. doi: 10.1159/000156395.

Mortality of wild and captive chimpanzees.

Courtenay J(1), Santow G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Australian National University, Canberra.

Mortality of chimpanzees in the wild (Gombe National Park) and in captivity 
(Taronga Zoo, Sydney and Melbourne Zoo) was compared using standard cohort life 
table techniques. Overall mortality probabilities up to age 30 were compared 
using a logrank test. No significant difference in overall mortality was 
revealed, and the mortality curves did appear to be surprisingly similar, but 
there were nevertheless some differences in the distribution of mortality. 
Perinatal mortality was higher in the zoo, while post-perinatal and infant 
mortality were higher in the wild. Survivorship in the older zoo animals (over 
age 27) was better than the wild. These differences were attributed to the more 
sheltered zoo environment, including the availability of veterinary care, which 
could be expected to improve survival in infants and older adults. The higher 
perinatal mortality experienced by zoo infants could be reflecting higher levels 
of inbreeding among the zoo animals.

DOI: 10.1159/000156395
PMID: 2613114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Heredity (Edinb). 1989 Dec;63 ( Pt 3):315-20. doi: 10.1038/hdy.1989.104.

Longevity enhances selection of environmental sex determination.

Bull JJ(1), Bulmer MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Texas, Austin 78712.

Environmental sex determination (ESD) is a mechanism in which an individual 
develops as male or female largely in response to some environmental effect 
experienced early in life. Its forms range from sex determination by egg 
incubation temperature in reptiles to sex determination of photoperiod in 
amphipods. Previous theoretical work as suggested that ESD is favored by natural 
selection if the fitness consequences of the early environmental experience 
differ for males and females, so that an individual benefits by being male under 
some conditions and female under others. A drawback of ESD is that it enables 
climatic changes to influence the population sex ratio, and such fluctuations 
select against ESD. This study employed numerical analyses to investigate the 
balance between these two opposing forces. The negative impact of climatic 
fluctuations appears to depend greatly on species longevity: substantial 
between-year fluctuations are of little consequence in selecting against ESD in 
long-lived species because annual sex ratio fluctuations tend to cancel and thus 
alter the total population sex ratio only slightly. Thus, if a species is 
sufficiently long-lived, extreme ESD can be maintained despite only a weak 
advantage. This result offers one explanation for the failure to demonstrate an 
advantage for the extreme forms of ESD observed in reptiles.

DOI: 10.1038/hdy.1989.104
PMID: 2613535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Planta Med. 1989 Dec;55(6):513-7. doi: 10.1055/s-2006-962083.

Role of thiol agents in protecting against the toxicity of helenalin in 
tumor-bearing mice.

Hall IH, Grippo AA, Holbrook DJ, Roberts G, Lin HC, Kim HL, Lee KH.

Helanalin, a sesquiterpene lactone antineoplastic agent, is toxic at therapeutic 
doses in murine tumors. The toxicity has been assumed to be correlated with the 
binding of the drug to cellular thiol groups. Studies were undertaken to 
increase the intracellular level of GSH in the liver, kidney and other tissues 
to eliminate the toxicity of helenalin in vivo. Combination of helenalin 8 
mg/kg/day i.p.) with L-cysteine (100 mg/kg/day), beta-mercaptoethanolamine (20 
mg/kg/day), 18-beta-glycyrrhetinic acid (15 mg/kg/day), or 
4,4'-diaminodiphenylsulfone (10 mg/kg/day) afforded improvement in survival of 
mice bearing P-388 lymphocytic leukemia. However, other thiol-elevating agents, 
anti-oxidants, intracellular buffering agents, and cardiac treatment drugs were 
not effective. Hydrocortisone, Cortef, treatment with helenalin afforded 
improvement in life expectancy. Reduced glutathione (GSH) and non-protein 
sulfhydryl (NPS) levels were not reduced in the liver, kidney, or circulating 
red blood cells (rbc) by helenalin treatment. After three days treatment of mice 
with helenalin, GSH levels were reduced and NPS levels elevated in P-388 tumor 
cells. Administration of L-cysteine, beta-mercaptoethanolamine, 
4,4'-diaminodiphenylsulfone, or 18-beta-glycyrrhetinic acid alone caused no 
alteration in liver GSH but elevated NPS levels; P388 cell GSH and NPS levels 
were lowered. Combination of any of these agents, after three days, with 
helenalin afforded increases in P-388 cell GSH and NPS levels. This data would 
suggest that helenalin toxicity is not related to the lowering of GSH or NPS 
levels in critical tissues of mice.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-962083
PMID: 2616670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand. 1989;68(4):319-22. doi:
10.3109/00016348909028666.

Computation of fertility rates following a defined reproductive risk event, by 
the life table method, with ectopic pregnancy used as an example.

Sandvei R(1), Bergsjø P, Brun O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Bergen, Norway.

We have adapted the life table for use in the observation study of subjects 
desirous of pregnancy following a well-defined risk event in their reproductive 
lives. The construction of the table is described and illustrated, with the 
fertility after ectopic pregnancy given as the example.

PIP: The life table method has been underutilized in clinical reproduction 
research, despite its advantages of recording every pertinent event on the time 
scale and having no observational time limit. This article constructs a life 
table for the purpose of computing fertility after ectopic pregnancy in IUD 
users. The study population was comprised of women who underwent surgery for an 
ectopic pregnancy at a Bergen hospital in 1979-83 and made subsequent attempts 
to conceive. These women were classified as current IUD users, and never users. 
Cumulative fertility rates were computed through use of 100% minus the 
cumulative proportion not achieving pregnancy. Columns in the life table 
included: postoperative observation time (in 6 month intervals), number of study 
subjects at the start of the interval, the total number of intrauterine 
pregnancies (including spontaneous abortion and legal abortion) during each 
interval, the number of women experiencing an ectopic pregnancy, the total 
number of women who conceived (intrauterine and ectopic) during each interval, 
the number of study subjects who withdrew or were lost to follow-up, the 
effective number exposed to the possibility of pregnancy during the interval, 
the proportion of subjects with intrauterine pregnancies, the proportion of 
subjects who did not experience conceptions resulting in an intrauterine 
pregnancy, the cumulative proportion of women experiencing conception resulting 
in intrauterine pregnancy during successive intervals, and the standard 
deviation of these cumulative proportions. Any research worker with access to a 
computer can easily produce a life table-based graphic display of time sequences 
of events in a population.

DOI: 10.3109/00016348909028666
PMID: 2618619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Zhonghua Shen Jing Jing Shen Ke Za Zhi. 1989 Aug;22(4):202-4, 252.

[A 3 to 6-year follow-up study of 414 cases of cerebral infarction and cerebral 
hemorrhage].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen QT.

To study the long-term prognosis, we performed annual follow-up examinations on 
414 patients who had survived cerebrovascular accidents, including 334 cases of 
cerebral infarction and 80 cases of cerebral hemorrhage. All patients had been 
admitted to the Neurological Service of our hospital from January 1, 1976 to 
December 31, 1980, and were followed up for 3-6 years. The life-table method, 
the log rank test, and the rank sum test were used to determine the cumulative 
marked improvement rate, the cumulative recovery rate of pathological reflexes, 
the cumulative survival rate, and the cumulative recurrence rate. The results 
revealed the marked improvement rate in cerebral infarction was 81.98%, while in 
cerebral hemorrhage 89.87% at the end of 3 years after discharge. The recovery 
rate of pathological reflexes was 52.59% in cerebral infarction, 54.75% in 
cerebral hemorrhage at the end of 4 years. The cumulative survival rate was 
58.67% in cerebral infarction, 53.36% in cerebral hemorrhage at the end of 6 
years. The cumulative recurrence rate was 49.39% in cerebral infarction, 49.81% 
in cerebral hemorrhage at the end of 6 years.

PMID: 2620587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Med Klin (Munich). 1989 Dec 15;84(12):569-73.

[Severe course of delirium tremens. Results of treatment and late prognosis].

[Article in German]

Horstmann E, Conrad E, Daweke H.

80 patients (P) (68 men and twelve women) with the diagnosis of delirium tremens 
were retrospectively analyzed and reexamined over a period of ten years (1974 to 
1984). Included were only patients who--after failure of oral 
medication--required intravenous therapy with Chlomethiazol and thereby 
intensive care treatment. Mean age was 46.2 (26 to 75) years. During the 
observation period delirium tremens increased in frequency by 11% each year. 
Nine patients had two, six patients three and two patients four episodes of 
delirium tremens. In 86.7% delirium tremens occurred with fatty liver and 
alcoholic hepatitis, epileptic seizures, cirrhosis and hepatic coma, 
gastrointestinal hemorrhage and pancreatitis. Eight patients (10%) died in 
hospital at a mean age of 53.2 years. None of the deceased had less than three 
(on average four) complicating or associated diseases. These were mostly 
pneumonia, cirrhosis, hepatic coma, and gastrointestinal hemorrhage. The mean 
duration of intravenous Chlomethiazol therapy was 4.7 (0.25 to 20) days, the 
applied dose 26.2 (0.8 to 78.6) grams, there being no significant difference 
between survivors and non-survivors. Of the 72 survivors 62 were invited for 
follow-up examination after an average of five years. During this period another 
twelve patients (15%) died of pneumonia, gastrointestinal bleeding, 
cardiocirculatory failure and accidents. Life expectancy was only 9.3 years. Of 
29 patients who came for follow-up, 55% showed clinical evidence of alcohol 
dependency, 65% had elevated gamma-glutamyl-transferase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

PMID: 2622419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Mol Gen Genet. 1989 Nov;219(3):480-5. doi: 10.1007/BF00259623.

Identification and nucleotide sequence of the delta-lysin gene, hld, adjacent to 
the accessory gene regulator (agr) of Staphylococcus aureus.

Janzon L(1), Löfdahl S, Arvidson S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bacteriology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

A Tn551 insertional mutation in the accessory gene regulator (agr) locus of the 
Staphylococcus aureus chromosome resulted in the decreased production of at 
least seven extracellular toxins and enzymes and a simultaneous increase in the 
production of protein A and coagulase (Recsei et al. 1986). Adjacent to this 
locus we have now identified another gene, hld, transcribed into a 0.5 kb RNA 
which codes for the staphylococcal delta-lysin. The expression of hld was 
totally repressed in a strain carrying the agr insertional mutation. 
Hybridization with strand-specific probes and primer extension analysis revealed 
that hld and agr are transcribed in opposite directions, starting 188 
nucleotides apart. The hld gene is mainly expressed during the post-exponential 
growth phase and is totally repressed during early exponential growth. 
Determination of hld mRNA half-life in different growth phases indicated that 
this regulation is at the level of transcription.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00259623
PMID: 2622452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Stud Fam Plann. 1989 Nov-Dec;20(6 Pt 1):360-4.

Mali 1987: results from the Demographic and Health Survey.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The Mail Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) for 1987 was national in scope 
and weighted for coverage of urban and rural areas. Data was collected from 3046 
households and complete interviews were conducted with 3200 women aged 15-49. 
Fieldwork took place between March and August 1987. Between 1965-1980 there were 
documented changes in the characteristics of the population. 1) The size grew 
from 5.1 to 7.0 million at 2.5% per year. 2) There were declines in both crude 
birth rates (from 51.2 to 50.8) and crude death rates (from 28.0 to 23.5). 3) 
There was an increase in life expectancy from 36.2 to 41.0. 4) Urban areas from 
12.6 to 17.3. 5) Fertility rates were estimated at 6.7% with the urban rates at 
6.1% and those of the rural at 7.0%. 6) 30.9% of urban dwellers had completed 
primary education as against 7.3% of the rural; only 4.3% of the urban dwellers 
had completed secondary education as against 0.0% for the rural. 7) The infant 
mortality rates between 1982-87 were estimated at 108/1000 with the rural areas 
estimated at 144/1000 and the urban areas at 92/1000. 8) The majority of Malian 
women (71.5%) are married between 15-19. 9) 88% of those in union are not using 
contraceptives as against 4% in unions who use contraception. 10) 43.2% of women 
claim to know about either a traditional or modern method of contraception with 
19.0% claiming to use a method of and 4.7% currently using a method during the 
survey. 11) Reasons given for nonuse of contraception included lack of 
information among 40.4% of those 30 and younger and 39.0 among those 30 and 
above. (author's modified).

PMID: 2623731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1989;3(4):321-5; discussion 325-6. doi: 
10.1016/1010-7940(89)90030-4.

Internal mammary artery bypass: effect on longevity and recurrent angina 
pectoris in 2900 patients.

Acinapura AJ(1), Rose DM, Cunningham JN, Jacobowitz IJ, Kramer MD, Zisbrod Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center, New 
York, NY.

Internal mammary artery bypass (IMA) to the anterior descending coronary artery 
was performed in 2900 patients from January 1978 to December 1987. The average 
age of the patients was 64 years. Males accounted for 68% (1972 patients) and 
82% (2378 patients) were in New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III. Left 
ventricular function was impaired in 51%. The average number of additional 
saphenous vein grafts per patient was 1.8. The operative mortality was 1.6%. 
Mediastinitis occurred in 29 patients (1%). Reoperation for bleeding was 
necessary in 32 patients (1.1%). Perioperative myocardial infarction (MI) was 
seen in 58 patients (2%) and neurological complications occurred in 32 patients 
(1.1%). Repeat coronary angiography was performed in 703 patients (25%) and 
demonstrated a patency rate of 96% in IMA grafts and 81% in saphenous vein 
grafts (SVG). Survival at 9 years was 90% from all causes and 95% when 
noncardiac deaths were excluded. Recurrence of angina occurred in 522 patients 
(18%) and reoperation was performed in 15 patients (0.5%). During the same time 
period, 1783 patients underwent coronary artery bypass utilizing a SVG. Survival 
at 9 years was 78% from all causes and 83% when noncardiac deaths were excluded. 
Recurrent angina was present in 546 patients (39%). These data suggest that a 
patent-IMA to the anterior descending protects against recurrent angina and 
death from cardiac causes and should be the conduit of choice.

DOI: 10.1016/1010-7940(89)90030-4
PMID: 2624804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Med Arh. 1989;43(1):9-15.

[Metastatic carcinoma of the neck--clinical analysis of our cases].

[Article in Croatian]

Lucić M, Mandilović M, Vukoje N.

The authors made a retrospective analysis of 155 metastatic carcinoma of the 
neck cases, with localization of primary lesion in head and neck area. We made 
analysis of patients' sex and age, localization, extension and range of 
differentiation of primary lesion, and five year period of life after complete 
therapy has been done. The number of male patients with metastatic carcinoma was 
almost twice as big as the number of female (1.8:1). As to the age, maximal 
incidence of metastatic lesion on the neck was in the seventh decade (38.1%). In 
tumors with larger anatomic scopes (T3 and T4) and larger degree of malignity, 
metastasis on the neck has been more frequently registrated, although its 
appearance in a great extent depended on localization of primary tumor. Five 
years of period has been characterized by high percentage of death rate which 
was, according to the authors' opinion, not only due to a nature of disease, but 
also to a late discover of the disease and insufficiency of conventional 
treatment (surgical, irradiational, cytostatical).

PMID: 2626077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1989;37(5-6):507-14.

Analysis of change over time.

Andersen PK(1).

Author information:
(1)Statistical Research Unit, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

A brief introduction is given to methods for analysis of epidemiological data 
where the exposure variable may change over time. The techniques discussed are 
related to both classical epidemiological methods for analysing the effect of a 
fixed, dichotomous exposure variable on a dichotomous response variable and to 
methods for analysis of life time data. Two examples are presented.

PMID: 2626592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Scand J Rheumatol Suppl. 1989;83:5-6. doi: 10.3109/03009748909101470.

The elderly patient: a special case.

Seda H(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept of Rheumatology Pontifícia Universidade Católica, Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil.

The elderly population represents an increasing part of the population, as life 
expectancy lengthens. As a consequence, rheumatic diseases, especially 
osteoarthritis, which is highly correlated with age, is increasingly prevalent. 
NSAIDs, the basic treatment of rheumatic diseases, are thus more and more widely 
prescribed to elderly patients. These patients must be regarded as a special 
population because of physiologic changes in absorption, distribution and 
excretion of drugs due to concomitant treatments of diseases (frequent in the 
elderly) which may alter metabolism. Specific studies have to be conducted in 
elderly patients in order to improve the evaluation of the benefit/risk ratio of 
drugs widely prescribed for this population. This explains why this symposium is 
devoted to NSAIDs and elderly.

DOI: 10.3109/03009748909101470
PMID: 2626679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Unfallchirurgie. 1989 Dec;15(6):279-84.

[Treatment of malignant pathologic fractures. Results of a retrospective study].

[Article in German]

Rosenberger J(1), Zieren HU.

Author information:
(1)Unfall-, Hand- und Wiederherstellungschirurgie Chirurgische 
Universitätsklinik Köln.

In malignant pathological fractures, surgery is an essential part of the whole 
oncologic conception. In most cases it is combined with adjuvant therapies. 
Various surgical procedures are available for the different sites depending on 
the fact whether the operation is performed in a curative or palliative intent. 
Even in case of palliative indication with only a limited life expectancy, the 
indication for surgery is adopted more and more generously. A very important 
point is the wish of the patient. With our low complication rates, we have been 
able to facilitate the hard fates of many patients even if they had only short 
survival times.

PMID: 2626810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1989;3(1):58-64. doi: 10.1016/1010-7940(89)90013-4.

Evaluation for left ventricular aneurysm resection: a prospective study of 
clinical and haemodynamic characteristics.

Mangschau A(1), Simonsen S, Abdelnoor M, Laake B, Geiran O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, National Hospital of Norway, Rikshospitalet, Oslo.

A consecutive series of 97 patients with a left ventricular aneurysm (LVA) was 
evaluated for aneurysmectomy. A wide range in left ventricular (LV) function was 
found. Angina pectoris was the primary indication (51%) in 55 patients who were 
operated upon, whereas poor LV function was the main reason (67%) for rejecting 
surgery in 42 patients. Operative mortality was 9% and exclusively seen in 
patients with congestive heart failure and/or sustained ventricular arrhythmias. 
Functional status improved from (NYHA) 3.0 +/- 0.7 to 2.3 +/- 0.5 (P less than 
0.0001) after surgery, while haemodynamics at rest remained unchanged. In the 
medically treated group, 10 patients underwent heart transplantation without 
mortality during follow-up. Of the remaining 32, 7 had died (22%), all with 
severely impaired LV function. The best prognosis with no deaths was observed in 
the 14 medically treated patients with moderate complaints and well preserved LV 
function. Those with poor LV function and/or ventricular arrhythmias had a poor 
prognosis whether they were treated medically or by conventional aneurysm 
surgery. In young selected patients with a short life expectancy, heart 
transplantation may represent an alternative.

DOI: 10.1016/1010-7940(89)90013-4
PMID: 2627452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1989;570:400-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1989.tb14939.x.

Vitamin E: the status of current research and suggestions for future studies.

Pryor WA(1).

Author information:
(1)Biodynamics Institute, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge 70803.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1989.tb14939.x
PMID: 2629609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Gig Tr Prof Zabol. 1989;(8):1-4.

[Epidemiological study of malignant neoplasm mortality among workers in the 
rubber footwear factory].

[Article in Russian]

Volkotrub LP, Koreshkova TP, Vasi'lev NV.

Oncoepidemic study was undertaken in order to determine the level of oncologic 
risk. The risk of death from malignant neoplasms in workers engaged in rubber 
production was higher by 4-4.7 times than in the city population. Maximum risk 
of death in males was associated with cancer of bladder and kidneys, esophagus, 
and larynx, in females with cancer of esophagus, larynx, and intestine. 
Standardized death rates from all malignant neoplasms in the males engaged in 
rubber production exceeded that of females by 1. 4. Life expectancy of workers 
of the main industrial shops was lower than in the control group.

PMID: 2630389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Z Gesamte Hyg. 1989 Dec;35(12):728-9.

[The role of migration in assessing age-specific event probabilities exemplified 
by the probability of death].

[Article in German]

Scholz RD, Schott J.

Estimating probabilities of age-specific events both in demography and in 
epidemiology (force of mortality, force of morbidity) will contain additional 
errors if the frequency of the respective events is influenced by net migration 
and if migration is not taken into consideration when estimating these events. 
The terms used in including migration into estimating the respective rates are 
refined terms. The influence of migration on age-specific events is demonstrated 
by age-specific mortality and the life expectancy computed on the basis of 
age-specific mortality rates for the GDR in 1984. The results demonstrate that 
the life expectancy of the population of Berlin will be underestimated by 0.28 
years if migration processes are not taken into consideration.

PMID: 2631468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Adv Contracept. 1989 Sep;5(3):179-88. doi: 10.1007/BF01849361.

Long-term experience with Multiload intrauterine devices.

van Kets HE(1), Thiery M, van der Pas H, Dieben TO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, University Hospital, Gent, Belgium.

This paper reports the joint experience of three investigators who used three 
types of the Multiload (ML) IUD (MLCu250 Short, MLCu250 Standard, and MLCu375) 
in 1987 consecutive insertions during which an experience of 56,005 woman-months 
of use was accumulated. The material was analyzed using the life-table method 
and complemented with a case by case investigation, the main purpose of the 
study being the specific analysis of IUD-related complications. The authors also 
evaluated return of fertility whenever a device was removed because of wish of 
pregnancy. Results indicate that serious IUD-related complications were rare, 
continuation rate high, and reversibility of fertility unaffected by the device.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01849361
PMID: 2633607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Bull Acad Natl Med. 1989 Dec;173(9):1209-16; discussion 1216-7.

[Cardiovascular complications of Marfan's syndrome: long-term results of 
surgical treatment].

[Article in French]

Thévenet A.

Surgery has changed the prognosis of the Marfan's syndrome. Cardiovascular 
manifestations (aneurysmal dilatation of the aortic root and its risk of 
dissection, aortic insufficiency, mitral insufficiency due to valvular 
anomalies) represent the vital risk of the disease and reduce the life 
expectancy in one-third of these patients during the first 32 years. Twenty 
seven patients (22 to 53 years of age, mean 38) surgically treated have been 
followed up to 14 years (mean 6.5 years). 12 had aortic valve and ascending 
aorta replacement with reimplantation of coronary arteries, 9 had mitral valve 
replacement and 6 had simultaneous correction of aortic and mitral lesions. All 
patients survived the operation and late mortality was 18.5% to 14 years, with a 
long term survival of 90% at 5 and 70% at 10 years. Echocardiographic studies 
permit nowadays to measure the aortic root diameter, to appreciate the left 
ventricular function, to reveal a mitral prolapse and to precise valvular 
insufficiency, in young patients with Marfan's syndrome and during family 
investigation. Indication of surgical repair can be stated at the right time to 
prevent dissection, aortic rupture or cardiac failure with excellent and durable 
long term results.

PMID: 2633861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 1989;29(2):95-102. doi: 10.2190/4LHT-Y4DM-73F6-N75L.

Consequences of gender differentials in life expectancy for black and Hispanic 
Americans.

Markides KS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventative Medicine and Community Health, University of Texas 
Medical Branch, Galveston 77550.

Increased survival by blacks and Hispanics is causing a widening of the sex 
imbalance of the elderly population much like we have observed in the general 
population. These demographic trends point toward greater widowhood among 
minority women and continuing high rates of poverty. In addition, we can expect 
increased rates of disability in minority elderly women, increased dependency, 
worsening intergenerational relationships, and higher rates of 
institutionalization.

DOI: 10.2190/4LHT-Y4DM-73F6-N75L
PMID: 2634026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Zhonghua Zhong Liu Za Zhi. 1989 Nov;11(6):437-40.

[Prognostic factors in epithelial ovarian cancers--clinical significance of 
morphologic indicators].

[Article in Chinese]

Gu MJ(1).
