
Author information:
(1)Tongji Hospital, Tongji University of Medical Sciences, Wuhan.

The main factors influencing prognosis (staging, histologic classification and 
grading, lymphocyte infiltration etc.) in 110 patients with epithelial ovarian 
cancers were analysed by life table technique to obtain 5 year cumulative 
survival rate. Multivariate statistical analysis (Cox Model) was used in 88 
patients in order to find out the most important prognostic factor. The results 
showed that degree of lymphocyte infiltration in the tumor was the most 
important; the next was clinical factors; moreover, the amount of residual tumor 
was more significant than staging. Specimen from reoperation revealed less 
lymphocyte infiltration than that from the first operation. The degree of 
lymphocyte infiltration as an expression of the local host defence can be used 
as a good prognostic indicator.

PMID: 2634543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1989;5(4):559-75. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300008461.

Utilities and quality-adjusted life years.

Torrance GW, Feeny D.

Utilities and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) are reviewed, with particular 
focus on their use in technology assessment. This article provides a broad 
overview and perspective on these two techniques and their interrelationship, 
with reference to other sources for details of implementation. The historical 
development, assumptions, strengths/weaknesses, and applications of each are 
summarized. Utilities are specifically designed for individual decision-making 
under uncertainty, but, with additional assumptions, utilities can be aggregated 
across individuals to provide a group utility function. QALYs are designed to 
aggregate in a single summary measure the total health improvement for a group 
of individuals, capturing improvements from impacts on both quantity of life and 
quality of life--with quality of life broadly defined. Utilities can be used as 
the quality-adjustment weights for QALYs; they are particularly appropriate for 
that purpose, and this combination provides a powerful and highly useful 
variation on cost-effectiveness analysis known as cost-utility analysis.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300008461
PMID: 2634630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Rev Odontostomatol (Paris). 1989 Jul-Aug;18(4):293-7.

[Surface treatment of rotary instruments with titanium nitride coating].

[Article in French]

Millet P, Severin C.

An under vacuum processing is able to procure a high mechanical resistance 
surface coating of few microns on rotating instruments. The results show an 
increase of the life expectancy of the instruments and an improvement of their 
mechanical qualities and their resistance to corrosion.

PMID: 2634869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Bull Cancer. 1989;76(10):1077-82.

[Prognostic value of prostatic acid phosphatase in stage B and C prostatic 
cancer. Apropos of 84 cases].

[Article in French]

Guerin JL(1), Canal P, Douchez J, Soula G.

Author information:
(1)Département de biologie clinique, centre Claudius-Regaud, Toulouse, France.

The authors have studied the prognostic interest of evaluating the prostatic 
acid phosphatase level before any treatment in 84 cases of stage B and C 
prostatic cancer. An abnormal PAP level did not significantly modify the 5-year 
life expectancy of patients, but was significantly correlated with a shorter 
period of disease-free survival. An abnormal PAP level increased the risk of 
recurrence; the higher the PAP level, the shorter the disease-free interval was. 
The disease stage (i.e., B or C) did not modify the 5-year survival period or 
the length of the remission. The prognosis is worse for a stage B prostatic 
cancer with a pathological PAP level than for a stage C cancer with a normal PAP 
level. A pathological PAP level seems to indicate the presence of occult 
metastases and should incite the clinician to actively investigate the matter.

PMID: 2635635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Kidney Int Suppl. 1989 Nov;27:S103-5.

The Verona experience on the effect of diet on progression of renal failure.

Oldrizzi L(1), Rugiu C, Maschio G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, University Hospital, Verona, Italy.

PMID: 2636642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Kidney Int Suppl. 1989 Nov;27:S173-6.

Dietary compliance to a low protein and phosphate diet in patients with chronic 
renal failure.

Cianciaruso B(1), Capuano A, D'Amaro E, Ferrara N, Nastasi A, Conte G, Bellizzi 
V, Andreucci VE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, University of Naples, Second School of Medicine, 
Italy.

PMID: 2636653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Rev Sanid Hig Publica (Madr). 1989 Jan-Feb;63(1-2):25-38.

[Health status and health expenditures in Spain. 1988].

[Article in Spanish]

Girón Sierra B, Dilme Obiols M, Velayos Florido J, Elola Somoza J.

Erratum in
    Rev Sanid Hig Publica (Madr) 1989 May-Jun;63(5-6):120-1.

PMID: 2636785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Exp Pathol. 1989;37(1-4):273-80. doi: 10.1016/s0232-1513(89)80067-2.

Effect of long-term inhalation of N-nitroso-dimethylamine (NDMA) and SO2/NOx in 
rats.

Klein RG(1), Janowsky I, Schmezer P, Hermann R, Spiegelhalder B, Zeller WJ, Pool 
BL.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Toxicology and Chemotherapy, German Cancer Research Center, 
Heidelberg.

This report focusses on preliminary results of a long-term inhalation assay with 
N-nitroso-dimethylamine (NDMA) at low concentrations. Chronic inhalation of 1 
ppm of NDMA (4 h/day, 5 days/week) was found to be toxic in rats and diminished 
life expectancy by about 8 months compared to the control group. Mostly tumors 
of the nasal region (25/36) were observed. Inhalation of 0.2 ppm of NDMA lead to 
a high tumor yield in rats (20/36). At a concentration of 0.04 ppm (= 0.12 mg/m3 
in air) 3 tumors of the nasal region have been found until now. In addition, a 
combined inhalation study of other air pollutants SO2 or NOx together with NDMA 
at the 0.2 ppm level is being performed. Tumors of the nasal region have been 
observed in the groups with SO2 + NDMA and NOx + NDMA as well as with NDMA 
alone. Differences in tumor response of the groups treated with NDMA alone or in 
combination with SO2/NOx cannot be assessed yet. The additional treatment with 
the air pollutants SO2 or NOx has not affected the body weight gain or any other 
observable parameters of the life quality of the rats.

DOI: 10.1016/s0232-1513(89)80067-2
PMID: 2637168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Zhonghua Min Guo Xiao Er Ke Yi Xue Hui Za Zhi. 1989 Sep-Oct;30(5):299-308.

An analysis of risk factor and survival in childhood acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia.

Chen BW, Lin DT, Lin KH, Chuu WM, Su S, Lin KS.

To study the survival and prognostic factor of childhood acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia, 78 newly-diagnosed cases between January 1982 and June 1987 in 
National Taiwan University Hospital were reviewed and analyzed. They were 
stratified into two groups, i.e. standard-risk (SR) and high-risk (HR), 
according to their pre-treatment leukocyte count and age. Following induction 
therapy, 97% of the SR patients and 80% of the HR patients attained complete 
remission. In the SR group, the 2- and 3-year failure-free survival rates were 
37% and 24%, with a median survival of 16 months. In the HR group, failure-free 
survival at the second and third year were 11% and 4%, respectively, with a 
median survival of 5.3 months. Three factors are strongly related to induction 
failure, i.e. high leukocyte counts (greater than 50*10(9)/1), massive 
hepatomegaly and large lymph nodes. Univariate analysis of failure-free survival 
showed six variables with significant detrimental effects on eventual outcomes, 
i.e. high leukocyte counts (greater than 50*10(9)/1), meningeal leukemia, marked 
lymphadenopathy, age younger than 2 years and older than 10 years, massive 
hepatomegaly (greater than 6 cm), and high LDH level (greater than 800 u/1). 
However, statistical survival models should also determine the joint effects of 
the prognostic factors so that the relative importance of each factor can be 
assessed. High initial leukocyte count, disclosed by multivariate analysis, was 
the single most important factor detrimental to the continuance of complete 
remission (P = 0.0004). Preliminary results also revealed poor compliance and 
early relapse in this study. Possible causes of early failure are discussed. 
Conceptual education for family members, as well as management with effective 
cytoreductive therapies are urgently needed.

PMID: 2637611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. World Health Forum. 1989;10(3-4):473-6.

More power to the people.

Reilly Q.

PIP: During the past 10 years, the trend has been to decentralize health 
services in developing countries. In Papua New Guinea changes in attitude take a 
long time. The principles of a widely available service were set out in the 
1974-78 National Health Plan. The 1986-90 plan reaffirmed them. The 
decentralized health service in Papua New Guinea is based on the type of 
administration that had existed in the Health Department. At the 1980 meeting of 
provincial health officers, the Secretary for the Western Highlands Department 
reported that services were not improving because of the skilled manpower 
shortage. He found that the national staff feared for their own status and 
ignored decentralization. They believed that it was a "passing phase." They 
refused to make decision, forcing responsibility on the provincial governments. 
The Secretary suggested that discipline should be broadened to include people 
affected. Many provincial health officers (PHO) were overseas contract workers, 
while headquarters staff were citizens of Papua New Guinea. Certain arguments 
against decentralization used by officials of the Papua New Guinea Department of 
Health were similar to arguments put forth by the New York City Health 
Department staff when decentralization was decided on in the mid-1970s. In late 
1982, the situation started to improve in Papua New Guinea. In the provinces, 
all health workers tended to see themselves as members of a single team. The 
former PHOs became Assistant Secretaries (Health) for the provincial 
departments. A course in community health was introduced at the University of 
Papua New Guinea. A diploma is now necessary for those who want senior 
provincial health positions. Improvements in health occurred from the 
decentralized primary health care (PHC) approach. Infant mortality decreased 
from 134/1000 live births in 1971 to 72/1000 in 1980; childhood mortality 
decreased from 79/1000 to 42/1000. Life expectancy at birth rose from 47.4 years 
to 49.6 years. Maternal mortality apparently remained high. The population had 
improved access to health services. The coverage of disease control programs 
improved when PHC was introduced. To give more responsibility and power to the 
people is the basic purpose of decentralization.

PMID: 2637737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Zhonghua Shen Jing Jing Shen Ke Za Zhi. 1989 Dec;22(6):324-6, 381.

[Natural history of spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage. A 1-7 year follow-up 
study of 74 cases].

[Article in Chinese]

Qin Z.

74 cases of spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) were followed up for a 
period of 1 to 7 years, most of them had been examined by CT-scan and/or 
cerebral angiography. The life-table method was used to determine the cumulative 
survival rate and cumulative recurrence rate. The mortality rates in both acute 
and chronic stages and the re-bleeding rate were found to be essentially similar 
to those of other series of SAH admitted to a tertiary care center as were 
reported in the Chinese and world literature. Hypertension was probably a risk 
factor for SAH. The incidence of diabetes mellitus in the present series was 
significantly higher than that found in the same age groups of general 
population in Shanghai, which fact deserves further evaluation. The clinical 
characteristics of the patients in the acute stage were not found to be related 
to their outcome.

PMID: 2638981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Vital Health Stat 5. 1989 Jan;(4):1-80.

Hospital use in France and the United States.

Kozak LJ(1), McCarthy E, Mizrahi A, Mizrahi A, Sandier S.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control, National Center for Health Statistics, 
Hyattsville, Md.

This report presents national statistics on hospital use from the U.S. National 
Hospital Discharge Survey conducted by the National Center for Health Statistics 
and the national survey of hospitalization conducted by CREDES, Centre de 
Recherche d'Etude et de Documentation en Economie de la Santé, previously the 
Medical Economics Division of CREDOC. The use statistics compared between the 
two countries include rates and percent distributions of discharges and days of 
care and average lengths of stay. These statistics are shown by sex, age, 
diagnostic category, and other hospital and patient characteristics. The 
similarities and differences between the two countries in population 
characteristics, causes of death, health care systems, and hospital systems are 
also described.

PMID: 2641728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Dent Clin North Am. 1989 Jan;33(1):11-8.

The need for geriatric dental education.

Yellowitz J(1), Saunders MJ.

Author information:
(1)Denver Veterans Administration Medical Center, Colorado.

The poor oral health status of the elderly and the structural and attitudinal 
barriers that prevent dental care utilization by them, present a serious 
challenge for the elderly as well as for the dental profession. This challenge 
becomes even greater when the importance of good oral health status to the 
quality of life is considered. The aged person's feeling of individual 
well-being and favorable self-image, ability to communicate and socialize, 
ability to maintain adequate nutrition, and to taste and enjoy foods can be 
dependent upon good oral health status and hygiene. Older patients benefit 
physically and psychologically from more efficient dental treatment and more 
compassionate care given by people who understand the problems they face. In 
short, a better understanding of the principles of geriatric care by health 
professionals and staff will save both public money and private anguish. 
Tomorrow's elderly are expected to demand more attention and intervention to 
meet their changing needs. There is no reason to believe that the extension of 
education and training cannot begin to achieve this goal.

PMID: 2642818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Dent Clin North Am. 1989 Jan;33(1):81-90.

Preventive dental services for the elderly.

Mandel ID(1).

Author information:
(1)Center For Clinical Research in Dentistry, School of Dental and Oral Surgery, 
Columbia University, New York, New York.

Preventive dentistry for the elderly is a two-track system: one for the haves 
and another for the have nots (not an uncommon duality). For those who have 
teeth, the major needs are prevention of new or recurrent caries and preventing 
further loss of supporting tissue. The strategies are essentially the same as 
for the younger populations, with some modification. For the have-nots, 
maintenance of denture function and denture hygiene becomes the counterpart. 
Both groups have the same needs for surveillance of soft tissue health and 
salivary gland function. The major challenge for the preventively oriented 
dentist concerned with the elderly is to develop an appreciation of the need for 
regular care in an age group that places a low priority on this service. This is 
an educational and a behavioral problem that has to be addressed by our social 
and behavioral scientists. The practitioner, however, has to build it into 
dental practice on an ongoing basis. People do not become elderly over night 
(although it may seem to happen that way). As people grow older, they lose the 
youthful sense of immortality and are very amenable to health education. We have 
to provide it. A well functioning dentition, artificial or, one hopes, natural, 
adds to well being, "quality of life" and is part of active life expectancy that 
to many is more important than mere survival.

PMID: 2642825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Transplantation. 1989 Jan;47(1):106-13. doi:
10.1097/00007890-198901000-00024.

Long-term survival following kidney transplantation in 100 type I diabetic 
patients.

Najarian JS(1), Kaufman DB, Fryd DS, McHugh L, Mauer SM, Ramsay RC, Kennedy WR, 
Navarro X, Goetz FC, Sutherland DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55455.

Between December 1966 and April 1978, 265 uremic patients with type I diabetes 
received primary renal allografts at the University of Minnesota. One hundred of 
the diabetic patients were alive with a functioning graft 10 years after 
transplantation. The actual 10-year patient and primary graft functional 
survival rates overall were 40% and 32%, respectively. For recipients of 
HLA-identical sibling (n = 45), mismatched living-related (n = 121), and cadaver 
donor grafts (n = 99), the actual 10-year patient survival rates were 64%, 33%, 
and 36%, respectively, and the actual 10-year graft functional survival rates 
were 62%, 28%, and 22%, respectively. The differences in patient and graft 
survival rates between HLA-identical graft recipients and recipients of 
mismatched related and cadaver grafts were significant (P less than 0.001). Of 
the 100 patients who survived into a second decade, at 15 years posttransplant 
51% were alive, and 41% had functioning grafts. For recipients of HLA-identical 
sibling, mismatched living-related donor grafts, and cadaver donor grafts who 
survived 10 years, 47%, 57%, and 43%, respectively, were alive at 15 years, and 
31%, 45%, and 43%, respectively, had functioning grafts. For recipients who made 
it to the second decade, patient and primary graft survival rates thereafter 
were not statistically different by donor source. Twenty-three patients died in 
the second decade after transplantation, 10 of cardiovascular disease. 
Twenty-five patients lost graft function in the second decade, 19 from death 
with a functioning graft. In regard to diabetic complications, recurrence of 
diabetic nephropathy was common, but only two patients lost graft function 
solely for this reason. In 21 patients (42 eyes) followed prospectively for 10 
years, visual acuity deteriorated in 26%, was stable in 64%, and improved in 10% 
of eyes. Neurophysiological test results indicated that correction of uremia 
does not stop the progression of diabetic neuropathy in recipients of kidney 
transplants alone. Even without cyclosporine, nearly two-thirds of recipients of 
HLA-identical kidney grafts, more than one-quarter of recipients of mismatched 
living-related donor grafts, and more than one-fifth receiving cadaver grafts 
enjoyed an extension of life for more than 10 years.

DOI: 10.1097/00007890-198901000-00024
PMID: 2643218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Am J Hum Genet. 1989 Feb;44(2):225-32.

Spina bifida and hydrocephalus: a population study over a 35-year period.

Bamforth SJ(1), Baird PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
Canada.

The records of the B.C. Health Surveillance Registry were used to analyze all 
live births with spina bifida and hydrocephalus (SBHC) in British Columbia 
between 1952 and 1986 inclusive. A total of 479 cases (218 males and 261 
females) occurred during this period in 1,298,267 consecutive live births, for 
an incidence of 3.7/10,000. There were more females, with the sex ratio being 
significantly different from that of the general population born over this 
period. No significant seasonal differences were observed over the time period. 
A comparison of life expectancy for individuals born 1962-1970 and 1970-1986 
showed significant improvement in the probability of surviving to the age of 1 
year for the latter group. There was also a small but statistically significant 
increased chance of surviving to age 7 years in the latter group but no 
difference in the probability of surviving from 7 years to 16 years. Life 
expectancy figures are shown in a format practical for counseling with regard to 
prognosis for affected individuals. Additional malformations not attributable to 
SBHC were observed in 6% (27 cases). These included renal anomalies, cleft lip 
and/or palate, tracheoesophageal fistula, and diaphragmatic hernia. The 
incidence of each defect was significantly greater than in the general 
population of births.

PMCID: PMC1715406
PMID: 2643314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. N Z Med J. 1989 Jan 25;102(860):3-5.

Should intramuscular vitamin K prophylaxis for haemorrhagic disease of the 
newborn be continued? A decision analysis.

Brown SG(1), McHugh G, Shapleski J, Wotherspoon PA, Taylor BJ, Gillett WR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, University of Otago Medical 
School, Dunedin.

Haemorrhagic disease of the newborn is now a rare life threatening disease due 
to the widespread use of effective prophylaxis with vitamin K at birth. In 
recent years the continued need for routine prophylaxis has been questioned and 
alternative strategies proposed. We have reviewed the literature and using 
techniques of decision analysis, we reaffirm the need for continued prophylaxis. 
The cost for each life saved by an oral programme is $4500 and $11,000 for 
intramuscular prophylaxis. The cost to the state of no prophylactic programme is 
$6.40 per child born and $0.81 for an oral prophylactic programme. It is 
recommended that the oral route of vitamin K prophylaxis be adopted as it is 
equally efficacious with the intramuscular route, but cheaper, more consumer 
acceptable, and has a lower risk of iatrogenic disease.

PMID: 2643775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1989 Jan;14(1):41-7. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-198901000-00008.

Surgical treatment of metastatic tumors of the spine.

Manabe S(1), Tateishi A, Abe M, Ohno T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Teikyo University School of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan.

The goal of surgical treatment of metastatic spinal tumors is to maintain 
neurologic functioning without pain for the duration of the life expectancy. Of 
28 patients in this series, 25 who had metastasis in the vertebral body 
underwent direct decompression by removal of the tumor, followed by vertebral 
reconstruction. A combined anterior or posterior instrumentation provided rigid 
spinal stability immediately after surgery. Three patients with involvement of 
the posterior part of the vertebra were treated by laminectomy for removal of 
the tumor, followed by posterior instrumentation. As a result, of nine patients 
who are alive with improved neurologic functions, seven have been ambulatory for 
an average duration of 13 months. Of 19 patients who have already died, 
recurrence of neurologic deficits was observed in five (26%), and 14 had no 
neurologic deterioration until they succumbed to the malignancy. Removal of the 
tumor and reconstructive surgery may be expected to produce satisfactory 
results.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-198901000-00008
PMID: 2643835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1989 Feb;139(2):303-7. doi: 10.1164/ajrccm/139.2.303.

Double-lung transplant for advanced chronic obstructive lung disease.

Cooper JD(1), Patterson GA, Grossman R, Maurer J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, University of Toronto, Canada.

We have achieved repeated success with unilateral lung transplantation for 
pulmonary fibrosis and have developed an en bloc, double-lung transplant 
procedure for patients with advanced lung disease of an obstructive or infective 
nature. Six such procedures have now been performed for end-stage emphysema, and 
all recipients are alive and well 5 to 15 months later. A seventh transplant for 
primary pulmonary hypertension was unsuccessful. All recipients were judged to 
have a life expectancy of 12 to 18 months on the basis of the degree of 
disability and the documented rate of disease progression. We feel the 
double-lung procedure is more appropriate than the combined heart-lung 
transplant for patients requiring replacement of both lungs when right heart 
function is adequate or deemed recoverable. With this procedure, the recipient 
is able to retain his or her own heart, avoiding the liabilities associated with 
cardiac transplantation. Furthermore, the donor heart is available for a 
separate recipient, and this sharing of the heart and lungs greatly increases 
the supply of transplantable lungs for patients with end-stage lung disease. 
Ischemia of the donor airway has been a source of complication, including the 
one death to date, but this appears to be a surmountable problem.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm/139.2.303
PMID: 2643898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Cardiovasc Clin. 1989;19(3):3-16.

Longevity in women.

Johansson S.

Cross-sectional and longitudinal studies on vital statistics and 
population-based samples document that women live longer than men. The sex 
mortality differential covers all ages and races in most developed nations. The 
magnitude of the sex mortality differential varies with age, being especially 
high at younger ages. The most important contributor to the difference in 
mortality between women and men is the major cause of death in men, i.e., 
cardiovascular diseases. The universality of the sex mortality differential in 
various geographical areas, the lower female infant mortality, and the possible 
hormonal-mediated relative protection of CHD in women all indicate that 
biological factors contribute to the lower mortality in women than in men. 
Secular changes in mortality of various diseases over short periods cannot be 
explained by innate endogenous alterations but instead have to be influenced by 
behavioral factors and other components of the environment. Longstanding 
biological differences between women and men might play a role in producing a 
relatively rapid emergence of sex mortality differential only by interaction 
with relatively new exogenous environmental factors. The vast majority of 
studies on the sex differential in mortality trends confirm the importance of 
smoking as a major contributor to the higher mortality in men than in women. 
Along this line, other behavioral factors also seem to influence longevity in 
women. With ongoing changes in society, especially increasing participation of 
women in the labor force, new components of the environmental setting will have 
to be assessed by comparable and identical instruments in different populations. 
Ongoing monitoring of trends in cardiovascular and noncommunicable diseases will 
provide valuable insight into the sex mortality differential and its 
determinants. Experimental studies on biological reactivity, sex endocrinology, 
and atherogenesis are also needed to help explain why women live longer than 
men.

PMID: 2644037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Chest. 1989 Feb;95(2 Suppl):161S-169S. doi:
10.1378/chest.95.2_supplement.161s.

A decision analytic view of anticoagulant prophylaxis for thromboembolism in 
heart disease.

Pauker SG(1), Eckman MH, Levine HJ.

Author information:
(1)New England Medical Center, Boston 02111.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.95.2_supplement.161s
PMID: 2644099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Vet Clin North Am Small Anim Pract. 1989 Jan;19(1):75-85. doi: 
10.1016/s0195-5616(89)50006-8.

Urologic disorders of the geriatric dog.

Krawiec DR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Clinical Medicine, University of Illinois College of 
Veterinary Medicine, Urbana.

Disorders of the urinary system are common in geriatric dogs. Common urinary 
disorders that are seen in older dogs include chronic renal failure, urinary 
incontinence, bladder tumors, and prostate problems. Therapy for chronic renal 
failure is aimed at both slowing the progression of the disease and ameliorating 
the signs of uremia. Therapeutic recommendations for the conservative medical 
management of chronic renal failure include reducing dietary protein, moderately 
reducing salt intake, maintaining normal serum phosphorus levels, providing free 
access to water, avoiding stress, supplementing water soluble vitamins, using 
anabolic steroids to treat the anemia of chronic renal failure, treating 
acidosis, and controlling hypocalcemia. Urinary incontinence can often be 
controlled or eliminated. The appropriate approach to management of this 
disorder is to identify and remove specific causes. Common causes of urinary 
incontinence are urethral incompetence, urinary tract infection, and polyuria 
and polydypsia. Bladder tumors are, fortunately, not a common tumor of dogs, but 
are more common in geriatric dogs than in the young. The most common bladder 
tumor is the transitional cell carcinoma. Therapy for this tumor is usually 
palliative because of its malignant nature and because it is usually located in 
the neck of the bladder. Its location in the bladder often makes it impossible 
to resect the tumor completely without removing the entire bladder and diverting 
the ureters. New chemotherapeutic modalities are being evaluated that may 
increase life expectancy after diagnosis and, therefore, improve prognosis. 
Prostate disease is also seen in older dogs. Types of prostate abnormalities 
seen in dogs include prostatic hyperplasia, cysts, abscesses, acute and chronic 
infection, and neoplasia. The institution of proper therapy requires an accurate 
diagnosis; neutering is often recommended as a part of therapy regardless of the 
type of prostatic disease present.

DOI: 10.1016/s0195-5616(89)50006-8
PMID: 2646820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Soc Sci Med. 1989;28(1):59-67. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(89)90307-9.

As children survive: dilemmas of aging in the developing world.

Bicknell WJ(1), Parks CL.

Author information:
(1)Health Policy Institute, Boston University, MA 02215.

The decline in infant mortality now occurring in the developing world assures a 
growing population of older persons with a chronic disease morbidity burden that 
is predictable and costly. The health needs and related social requirements of 
the elderly are not always well met even in countries where resources are 
substantial. In the developing world, this morbidity burden can quickly 
overwhelm fragile and often underfinanced health infrastructures already unable 
to meet fully the prevention and treatment needs of a younger population with 
relatively low-cost, easy-to-prevent, easy-to-treat illnesses. Inappropriate 
application of costly technology could easily result, accompanied by diversion 
of resources from existing primary-care services, and paradoxically poor service 
to the emerging aging population. This paper examines the dilemma, and spells 
out the issues by examining several chronic diseases in detail. We conclude with 
suggestions for a policy-oriented research agenda aimed at the development of 
affordable and humane approaches to the health needs of aging populations, and 
the prevention and care of chronic diseases in the developing world.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(89)90307-9
PMID: 2648594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Surg Clin North Am. 1989 Apr;69(2):371-82. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(16)44792-4.

The role of transplantation in liver disease.

Jenkins RL(1), Fairchild RB.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

Liver transplantation is rapidly emerging as the most effective treatment 
pathway for a growing number of acute and chronic liver disease states. 
Indications and contraindications to transplant are undergoing continuous 
revision and clarification as experience is accrued in the expanding number of 
treatment centers. For some disorders such as primary biliary cirrhosis, 
sclerosing cholangitis, and chronic active hepatitis with cirrhosis, the role of 
transplantation in patient management is obvious. For other hepatic diseases 
such as primary hepatic neoplasm, clear definition of the role of 
transplantation is likely to await development of improved early diagnostic 
techniques and more effective chemotherapy regimens. Standardization of the 
technical aspects of liver transplant and recent advances in graft preservation 
have led to reduction in the logistical problems that previously plagued this 
complex therapy. Refinements in immunosuppression with the introduction of 
cyclosporine and monoclonal antibody therapy have extended chances for survival 
and contributed to considerable improvement in quality of life following 
transplant. Further extension of transplantation as a treatment option to 
individuals with liver disease will require the concerned effort of the primary 
care or referral physician in the early recognition and management of patients 
with liver disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(16)44792-4
PMID: 2648619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Soc Sci Med. 1989;28(4):299-308. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(89)90030-0.

The use of QALYs in health care decision making.

Loomes G(1), McKenzie L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics and Related Studies, University of York, Heslington, 
England.

This paper seeks to highlight some of the critical issues concerning the use of 
the Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) to measure the outcome of health care 
choices, in decisions related to both individual patient care and social 
resource allocation. Much of the support for the QALY is based on its simplicity 
as a tool for resolving complex choices. However, it may be the case that the 
QALY is not sufficiently refined or robust, failing perhaps to take into account 
some of the critical factors which affect preferences over different health care 
scenarios.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(89)90030-0
PMID: 2649989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1989 Jan 15;44(2):50-4.

[Modification of pulmonary hypertension in patients with chronic obstructive 
lung diseases using calcium antagonists in an acute trial].

[Article in German]

Schauer J(1), Himmel W, Orschekowski H.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Pneumologie, Bereiches Medizin Karl-Marx-Universität Leipzig.

Since the life expectancy of the patients with chronic obstructive lung diseases 
(COLD) is essentially determined by the size of the pulmonary hypertension, 
today the efforts are directed to an early and effective therapy of the 
precapillary hypertension. Apart from a treatment of the pulmonary basic disease 
the therapy with vasodilators stands in the centre of interest. The influence on 
mean pressure of the pulmonary artery and vascular resistance of the lung by 
verapamil (39 patients) and nifedipine (21 patients) was investigated. In 
patients with latent pulmonary hypertension the two calcium antagonists showed a 
reduction of the pressure of the pulmonary arteries and vascular resistance of 
the lungs, which was more distinct when nifedipine was given. An influence on 
the haemodynamic parameters in patients with manifest pulmonary hypertension 
could not be ascertained. In correspondence with the findings in literature the 
results show that the use of calcium antagonists for part of the patients with 
precapillary hypertension appears as an enrichment of the therapeutic 
possibilities. At present a prerequisite for this, however, are still individual 
haemodynamic investigations. The question of the effectivity of a long-term 
therapy is not yet satisfactorily clarified.

PMID: 2650472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Compr Ther. 1989 Mar;15(3):45-52.

Update on Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Siegel IM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery and Neurological Sciences, 
Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center, Chicago, IL.

Treatment in muscular dystrophy should be prospective and aimed at maintaining 
maximal function so that the patient can be as independent as possible for as 
long as possible. DMD must be diagnosed early, not only to enable genetic 
counseling concerning future pregnancy and screening of female siblings, but 
also to stage physical therapy to delay muscle contracture. Surgery, when 
indicated, should anticipate realistic functional goals (standing, walking, 
transfer), and enable immediate postoperative mobilization. Bracing should be 
suitably provided and orthoses appropriately constructed to assure maximal 
support with minimal weight. Spinal deformity must be prevented when feasible 
and appropriately treated when present. Maximal function in wheelchair-confined 
patients can be enhanced through the use of an apparatus that encourages proper 
sitting posture and utilizes residual strength. Complications must be 
anticipated and vigorously treated. Attention should be paid to the psychic as 
well as the somatic aspects of this disease. Optimal treatment of the patient 
with DMD should be multidisciplinary, aggressive, and conducted in an atmosphere 
of intelligent concern. This approach minimizes the frustrating aspects of DMD 
while it maximizes the benefits obtained through available care. In this manner, 
the quality of life for the patient with muscular dystrophy can be significantly 
enhanced and his life expectancy extended.

PMID: 2650976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Salud Publica Mex. 1989 Jan-Feb;31(1):3-17.

[Universal history of mortality].

[Article in Spanish]

José MV, Borgaro R.

The history of human disease has to be based almost entirely on what we know 
about the changes in mortality and life expectancy; illness and suffering do not 
lend themselves to hard statistics, whereas births and deaths can be counted. To 
learn about the way diseases have been conquered in the past we have, therefore, 
to look at mortality. From this study we see that the major lethal diseases were 
conquered not so much by discovering how to treat them as by prevention. The 
decline on mortality began at the start of the past century, at a time of 
revolution and reform, and was greatly accelerated when the causes of many 
diseases were discovered at the end of the nineteenth century. Even in the 
twentieth century, the greatest improvements are still being achieved by 
preventive measurements.

PMID: 2652337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. S Afr Med J. 1989 Apr 15;75(8):367-70.

Beta-thalassaemia--the Johannesburg experience.

Poole JE(1), Cohn RJ, Roode H, Spector I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Johannesburg Hospital.

Twenty-nine patients with beta-thalassaemia major were treated in two 
Johannesburg hospitals between 1979 and 1984. They belonged to two ethnic 
groups--Mediterranean and Asian--and 53% were under the age of 6 years, the 
oldest being 20 years. Eight patients underwent splenectomy. All were regularly 
transfused and their quality of life greatly improved. The complication of 
regular transfusions is iron overload, which contributes to morbidity and 
mortality. Despite adequate iron excretion as a result of subcutaneous 
desferrioxamine (DFO) infusions, the patients showed significant iron overload, 
which suggested poor compliance in the home use of DFO and was the main 
long-term problem in the treatment of beta-thalassaemia major. Education needs 
to be directed at communities at risk and their doctors so that new cases can be 
prevented and the financial and emotional cost eased. If patients are given full 
support in complying with therapy, their life expectancy should be greatly 
increased.

PMID: 2652340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Am Psychol. 1989 Feb;44(2):180-7. doi: 10.1037//0003-066x.44.2.180.

Developmental psychopathology. Current research, issues, and directions.

Kazdin AE.

Developmental psychopathology refers to the study of clinical dysfunction in the 
context of maturational and developmental processes. Although the field 
encompasses the entire life span, the present focus is on childhood. Special 
characteristics make the study of childhood dysfunction somewhat unique, 
including the emergence, evolution, and attenuation of seemingly problematic 
behaviors over the course of development; the manner in which children are 
referred for clinical evaluation; and complexities in identifying the 
appropriate foci for clinical intervention. Notwithstanding these obstacles, 
recent work has advanced considerably in diagnosis, assessment, and treatment of 
childhood disorders. The present article highlights recent advances in these 
areas and promising extensions in current research. Many advances have relied 
heavily on the extension of paradigms developed in research with adults. 
Additional research is needed that draws on and integrates conceptual and 
empirical work from developmental psychology.

DOI: 10.1037//0003-066x.44.2.180
PMID: 2653129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Int J Health Serv. 1989;19(2):181-208. doi: 10.2190/L73V-NLDL-G7H3-63JC.

A review of the evidence concerning the impact of medical measures on recent 
mortality and morbidity in the United States.

McKinlay JB(1), McKinlay SM, Beaglehole R.

Author information:
(1)New England Research Institute, Watertown, MA 02172.

Because it still is widely believed that one deadly disease after another is 
being eliminated, or diminished, largely because of medical interventions, there 
is little commitment to social change and even resistance to a reordering of 
national priorities. In this article we examine the contribution of medical 
measures to recent mortality changes in coronary heart disease, cancer, and 
stroke, which together account for two-thirds of total U.S. mortality and 
consume the vast majority of available resources. Morbidity changes are also 
examined and found to be not declining in a manner congruent with mortality and, 
in fact, increasing for some subgroups. Using a combined measure of mortality 
and morbidity (the probability of a life free of disability), it is demonstrated 
that although overall life expectancy has increased over several decades, most 
of this increase is in years of disability. Our late 20th century approach to 
the emerging AIDS pandemic (the frantic search for a "magic bullet"--either a 
treatment or a vaccine) belies any suggestion that the arguments and data 
presented concerning the modest contribution of medical measures are now passé.

DOI: 10.2190/L73V-NLDL-G7H3-63JC
PMID: 2654039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Annu Rev Public Health. 1989;10:203-19. doi: 
10.1146/annurev.pu.10.050189.001223.

Is modest alcohol consumption better than none at all? An epidemiologic 
assessment.

Colsher PL(1), Wallace RB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Environmental Health, University of 
Iowa, Iowa City 52242.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.pu.10.050189.001223
PMID: 2655631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Cancer. 1989 Jul 1;64(1 Suppl):324-34; discussion 342-5. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19890701)64:1+<324::aid-cncr2820641334>3.0.co;2-b.

Cancer in the economically disadvantaged.

Freeman HP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, College of Physicians & Surgeons of Columbia 
University, Harlem Hospital Center, New York, NY 10037.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19890701)64:1+<324::aid-cncr2820641334>3.0.co;2-b
PMID: 2655875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1989 May;71(3):456-9. doi:
10.1302/0301-620X.71B3.2656719.

Total hip replacement in the renal transplant recipient.

Radford PJ(1), Doran A, Greatorex RA, Rushton N.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Research Unit, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, England.

Osteonecrosis of the femoral head is a severely disabling complication of 
steroid immunosuppression in renal transplant patients. We report 31 total hip 
arthroplasties in 21 renal transplant recipients with an average follow-up of 
six years. There were no problems with wound healing or infection despite full 
immunosuppression. Four hips developed symptomatic loosening but the other 
results were excellent, comparing well with other methods of treatment for 
osteonecrosis. Ten patients died during the follow-up period. Total hip 
replacement is a safe and effective treatment for transplant recipients and, in 
view of their limited life expectancy, should be considered at an early stage in 
their treatment.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.71B3.2656719
PMID: 2656719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Med Clin North Am. 1989 Jul;73(4):911-29. doi:
10.1016/s0025-7125(16)30645-9.

Primary biliary cirrhosis.

Moreno-Otero R(1), Lisker-Melman M, Jones EA.

Author information:
(1)Liver Diseases Section, National Institute of Diabetes, and Digestive and 
Kidney Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland.

Primary biliary cirrhosis is a chronic liver disease of unknown etiology 
characterized by slowly progressive intrahepatic cholestasis due to an 
inflammatory destruction of small intrahepatic bile ducts. The clinical course 
of PBC is variable ranging from a few years in rapidly progressive cases to a 
normal life-expectancy in a proportion of asymptomatic cases. The typical 
patient is a middle-aged woman who may present with pruritus, increasing 
pigmentation of the skin, and eventually jaundice. The level of serum alkaline 
phosphatase is almost invariably elevated, serum mitochondrial antibodies are 
present in more than 90 per cent, and an elevated serum IgM is usually present. 
PBC is associated with many immunologic abnormalities and appears to be a 
classic autoimmune disease. Some of the immune defects may be epiphenomena; 
others such as a marked defect in suppressor T cell function seem to be related 
to the pathogenesis of the disease. All drug therapy that is aimed at slowing 
the disease process is experimental. A place for immunosuppressive drugs in the 
management of PBC would be anticipated. However, no drug has to date been 
definitively shown to have a beneficial effect on the disease. Currently, the 
main treatments used are aimed at preventing or correcting the complications of 
intractable cholestasis. Patients with PBC and evidence of hepatic 
decompensation and/or poor quality of life make good candidates for liver 
transplantation. The current aim of therapy is to find an effective regime of 
immunosuppression that will make hepatic transplantation redundant for this 
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7125(16)30645-9
PMID: 2657267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Orv Hetil. 1989 Apr 30;130(18):937-43.

[Prognosis of stomach cancer patients in the age of complex diagnostic methods].

[Article in Hungarian]

Györffy A, Botos Z, Kiss B, Várhelyi I, Varga L.

A retrospective study was done in 1986-87 on the survival of patients with 
stomach cancer. Their disease was established with complete diagnostic methods 
between 1975-87. In 244 patients diagnosis had been set up more than five years 
before. The survival of these patients was 19.4%, i.e. 47 of them were alive 
five years after the diagnosis. Both operability and resectability improved when 
compared to the earlier results (between 1965-74.). The most favourable 5-year 
survival and resectability were found in patients with intestinal type cancer. 
Early cancer was 8.3% of total, however, when only those patients were taken 
into consideration who had been treated either surgically or underwent surgical 
or endoscopic polypectomy, the percentage markedly increased 22.7%. The survival 
of patients with early stomach cancer was excellent: 34/37 (91.9%). A 
significant decrease of the incidence of stomach cancer in the region so far 
could not be observed.

PMID: 2657565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Arch Neurol. 1989 Jun;46(6):705-7. doi:
10.1001/archneur.1989.00520420127038.

Cardiac transplantation in a patient with muscular dystrophy and cardiomyopathy.

Donofrio PD(1), Challa VR, Hackshaw BT, Mills SA, Cordell AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Wake Forest University, Bowman Gray School of 
Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27103.

A 17-year-old boy with muscular dystrophy developed a cardiomyopathy. His 
brother died of a cardiomyopathy, and muscle enzyme levels were elevated in 
asymptomatic family members. Examination revealed cardiomegaly, hepatomegaly, 
proximal muscle atrophy and weakness, and calf hypertrophy. Skeletal muscle and 
endomyocardial biopsy specimens were consistent with Becker's muscular 
dystrophy. Because of intractable heart failure, orthotopic cardiac 
transplantation was performed. Two years after transplantation, the patient has 
