returned to work and regained previous exercise tolerance. Heart transplantation 
can be an acceptable treatment of patients who have muscular dystrophy, with 
preserved ambulation and favorable life expectancy, and also life-threatening 
cardiomyopathy refractory to medical management.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1989.00520420127038
PMID: 2658928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Bibl Nutr Dieta. 1989;(43):13-30. doi: 10.1159/000416688.

Irradiation and food processing.

Sigurbj√∂rnsson B(1), Loaharanu P.

Author information:
(1)Joint FAO/IAEA Division and Head, Food Preservation Section, Vienna, Austria.

After more than four decades of research and development, food irradiation has 
been demonstrated to be safe, effective and versatile as a process of food 
preservation, decontamination or disinfection. Its various applications cover: 
inhibition of sprouting of root crops; insect disinfestation of stored products, 
fresh and dried food; shelf-life extension of fresh fruits, vegetables, meat and 
fish; destruction of parasites and pathogenic micro-organisms in food of animal 
origin; decontamination of spices and food ingredients, etc. Such applications 
provide consumers with the increase in variety, volume and value of food. 
Although regulations on food irradiation in different countries are largely 
unharmonized, national authorities have shown increasing recognition and 
acceptance of this technology based on the Codex Standard for Irradiated Foods 
and its associated Code of Practice. Harmonization of national legislations 
represents an important prerequisite to international trade in irradiated food. 
Consumers at large are still not aware of the safety and benefits that food 
irradiation has to offer. Thus, national and international organizations, food 
industry, trade associations and consumer unions have important roles to play in 
introducing this technology based on its scientific values. Public acceptance of 
food irradiation may be slow at the beginning, but should increase at a faster 
rate in the foreseeable future when consumers are well informed of the safety 
and benefits of this technology in comparison with existing ones. Commercial 
applications of food irradiation has already started in 18 countries at present. 
The volume of food or ingredients treated on a commercial scale varies from 
country to country ranging from several tons of spices to hundreds of thousands 
of tons of grains per annum. With the increasing interest of national 
authorities and the food industry in applying the process, it is anticipated 
that some 25 countries will use some 55 commercial facilities to treat different 
foods on an industrial scale by 1990.

DOI: 10.1159/000416688
PMID: 2658958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 1989 Mar;8(2):165-87. doi:
10.1016/0167-4943(89)90060-5.

Prostate cancer: a model of cancer in the elderly.

Balducci L(1), Khansur T, Smith T, Hardy C.

Author information:
(1)Bay Pines VAMC, FL 33504.

Prostate cancer is the most common malignancy in men over 70. Chronic course of 
the disease and multiple therapeutic options allow a customized management of 
the patient's individual problems. Prognostic factors are stage, size of primary 
tumors, serum acid phosphatase levels, number of metastases, ureteral 
obstruction and patient's age. In localized disease, surgery and radiation 
therapy are equally effective for patients with a life expectancy less than or 
equal to 10 years. Surgery may be superior to radiation if longer survival is 
expected. In locally advanced disease radiation therapy is preferred to surgery, 
due to a lower rate of complications. Management of metastatic disease requires 
offsetting androgen effects by castration or by antiandrogens. Orchiectomy, the 
safest way to produce castration, is unacceptable to 50% of patients. LHRH 
analogs are safer than estrogens, but more expensive; the risk of tumor flare up 
controindicates these compounds in life-threatening situations. The use of 
ketoconazole is limited by long-term toxicity, but may be life-saving in 
life-threatening situations, due to a rapid onset of action. Antiandrogens are 
as effective as castration, but are not commercially available in the USA. 
Alternative treatments include Estracyt, intermittent estrogentherapy, 
progesterone derivative and aminogluthetimide. Radical prostatectomy and 
radiation therapy to the prostate cause erectile impotence with persistence of 
orgasmic sensations. These patients are ideal candidates for erection-restoring 
interventions, such as intrapenile injections or penile implants.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-4943(89)90060-5
PMID: 2660761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. J Trop Med Hyg. 1989 Jun;92(3):133-91.

Identifying health problems and health research priorities in developing 
countries.

Feachem RG(1), Graham WJ, Timaeus IM.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, UK.

When we were invited to prepare this background paper on the health problems of 
the developing countries for the Commission on Health Research for Development, 
our first thought was to compile and organize available data on the causes of 
morbidity and mortality affecting different age groups in various populations. 
It soon became clear that this would not be especially useful. There are major 
gaps in the available data, particularly from the poorer countries and for 
people above 5 years of age. The data that are available are often of poor or 
uncertain quality, collected from unrepresentative or undefined subpopulations, 
and not strictly comparable due to different definitions and data-collection 
methods. Additionally, in the absence of agreed definitions and analytical 
frameworks, it is not clear what could or should be done with the data on health 
problems so amassed. More fundamentally, we have come to doubt whether the 
current array of epidemiological concepts and tools is sufficient for the task. 
We therefore decided that, while giving an overview of current knowledge on 
levels and trends of morbidity and mortality, the emphasis of this paper should 
be more towards concepts, methods, and data deficiencies. In Section 1, we set 
out definitions and frameworks for considering health problems and health 
research; we review recent conceptual models for the analysis of the 
determinants of child survival; and we outline a framework, focusing on 
modifiable determinants of health and life-cycle health effects, which is used 
in subsequent sections. In Section 2, relationships between national and 
societal level determinants and health are reviewed and then set aside. In 
Section 3, we review available data on world patterns and trends of morbidity 
and mortality, highlighting the data deficiencies and lacunae. In Section 4, we 
follow the life of a woman in a developing country and examine the health 
problems, and their determinants, which she and her children face. In Section 5, 
we draw these strands together and, having reviewed current approaches to 
prioritizing health problems and suggested some ways in which they could be 
improved, in Section 6 identify several research priorities, emphasizing the 
need for methodological research. This paper was commissioned in March 1987; 
prepared in draft and presented to a meeting at Chateau de Bossey, Geneva, 
Switzerland during 15-17 July; and revised and completed in September 1987. It 
is in no sense definitive or final.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PIP: The fact that economic progress has a bearing on health can be seen in most 
developing countries where widespread poverty causes poor health and high 
mortality. Childhood mortality is highest in Africa and in Southern Asia. The 
rate of decline in mortality has decreased in these areas since the 1950s. In 
Sri Lanka, approximately 5% of the children 5 years old die, yet yearly 1/3 of 
the children 5 Afghanistan and a few West African countries die. In less 
developed countries, adult mortality is high: in places where the life 
expectancy of a 15-year-old is under 50 years, 30-40% will die before age 60. 
80-90% of the deaths from water and food borne diseases are accounted for by 
diarrhea and dysentery, and 60-70% of the deaths from airborne diseases by 
pneumonia and bronchitis. Present estimates from 4 localities indicate that 
measles, malaria, tetanus, and acute respiratory infection account for more than 
90% of all child mortality. Various estimates suggest that there are 100-300 
million cases of malaria and 1-2 million malaria-related deaths annually. 
Estimates indicate a ratio of abortions varying between 9/1000 live births in 
East Africa to 325/1000 live births in Latin America. 1986 WHO data indicate 
that induced abortion is responsible for 7-50% of all maternal deaths in 
developing countries. More than 90 countries now that operational diarrheal 
disease control programs, 47 countries are producing oral rehydration solutions, 
8450 health personnel have been trained in diarrhea program supervisory skills, 
and oral rehydration use rates are slowly rising.

PMID: 2661849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Mech Ageing Dev. 1989 May;48(2):111-6. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(89)90043-2.

Economic correction; quantity and age-related rate of change.

Cinader B(1), Dubiski S, Greenwood C, Ponnappan U, Sauder DN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology and Clinical Immunology, University of Toronto, 
Hamilton, Canada.

Correlation between the relative magnitude of activity or concentration in youth 
and the relative magnitude of age-related decrease occurs in several systems. We 
have observed this correlation in density of D2-dopamine receptors of the 
striatal membrane, activity of lymphocyte activated killer cells, relative 
density of CD8 on thymocytes, augmenting activity of T splenocytes and mRNA, 
coding for IL-1 in Langerhans cells. We have suggested that this correlation 
should be considered in the context of balanced investment in lifespan and 
reproductive efficiency, that it may be the result of feedback regulation and 
have designated it as "economic correction".

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(89)90043-2
PMID: 2661929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Mech Ageing Dev. 1989 May;48(2):117-33. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(89)90044-4.

Effect of chronic caloric restriction on physiological variables related to 
energy metabolism in the male Fischer 344 rat.

Duffy PH(1), Feuers RJ, Leakey JA, Nakamura K, Turturro A, Hart RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration, 
National Center for Toxicological Research, Jefferson, Arkansas 72079.

In the present study, a number of physiological and behavioral measures that are 
related to metabolism were continuously monitored in 19-month-old male Fischer 
344 rats that were fed ad libitum or fed a caloric restricted diet. Caloric 
restricted rats ate fewer meals but consumed more food during each meal and 
spent more time eating per meal than did rats fed ad libitum. Therefore, the 
timing and duration of meals as well as the total number of calories consumed 
may be associated with life extension. Average body temperature per day was 
significantly lower in restricted rats but body temperature range per day and 
motor activity were higher in restricted rats. Dramatic changes in respiratory 
quotient, indicating rapid changes in metabolic pathway and lower temperature, 
occurred in caloric restricted rats when carbohydrate reserves were depleted. 
Lower body temperature and metabolism during this time interval may result in 
less DNA damage, thereby increasing the survival potential of restricted rats. 
Nighttime feeding was found to synchronize physiological performance between ad 
libitum and caloric restricted rats better than daytime feeding, thereby 
allowing investigators to distinguish the effects of caloric restriction from 
those related solely to the time-of-day of feeding.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(89)90044-4
PMID: 2661930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Mech Ageing Dev. 1989 May;48(2):145-55. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(89)90046-8.

Effects of aging and caloric restriction on hepatic drug metabolizing enzymes in 
the Fischer 344 rat. I: The cytochrome P-450 dependent monooxygenase system.

Leakey JE(1), Cunny HC, Bazare J Jr, Webb PJ, Feuers RJ, Duffy PH, Hart RW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Reproductive and Developmental Toxicology, National Center for 
Toxicological Research, Jefferson, AR 72079.

The effects of long-term caloric restriction on the hepatic cytochrome P-450 
dependent monooxygenase system were investigated in the 22-month-old Fischer 344 
rat. Caloric restriction decreased the age-related changes in hepatic 
testosterone metabolism, which are associated with demasculinization of the 
liver. Caloric restriction also increased hepatic microsomal testosterone 6 
beta-hydroxylase, lauric acid 12-hydroxylase and 4-nitrophenol hydroxylase 
activities over corresponding values in both ad libitum fed 22-month and 
60-day-old control male rats. This suggests that cytochrome P-450 isozymes, 
P-450 pcn1&2, P-452 and P450j may be induced by caloric restriction. Such 
changes in cytochrome P-450 isozyme profiles could result in altered carcinogen 
activation, radical formation or drug detoxication in the calorically restricted 
rat.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(89)90046-8
PMID: 2661932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1989;156:7-13. doi: 10.3109/00365528909091032.

Epidemiology of reflux disease and reflux esophagitis.

Wienbeck M(1), Barnert J.

Author information:
(1)Zentralklinikum Augsburg, Department of Internal Medicine III, FRG.

Symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux is a common medical problem. But only few 
data exist on the epidemiology of reflux disease (without inflammation) and 
reflux esophagitis. The literature is critically reviewed and ecological causes 
of gastroesophageal reflux are discussed. The prevalence of reflux esophagitis 
in Western countries is estimated to be 2% and that of reflux disease 5%. Sparse 
reports exist on the natural history of both diseases. They appear to have 
little if any effect on life expectancy. The main complications of reflux 
esophagitis are Barrett's esophagus, peptic stricture, ulceration and bleeding.

DOI: 10.3109/00365528909091032
PMID: 2662390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Ther Umsch. 1989 May;46(5):275-80.

[The contribution of epidemiology to the definition of obesity and its risk 
factors].

[Article in French]

H√©ra√Øef E.

Whereas up to the end of the last century overweight reflected the privilege of 
the high society and her relative good health, the recent epidemiological 
studies have assessed the relations between body weight and general or cause 
specific morbidity and mortality. The major diseases associated with obesity are 
hypertension, atherosclerosis and diabetes, as well as certain types of cancer. 
Less well known complications include hepatic steatosis, gallbladder diseases, 
pulmonary function impairment, endocrine abnormalities, obstetric complications, 
trauma to the weight bearing joints, gout, cutaneous diseases, proteinuria, 
increased hemoglobin concentration and possibly immunologic impairments. From 
these wide epidemiological studies arise the definition of obesity: with an 
excess of 20% beyond the desirable weight, the complications bound to the 
overweight become statistically more frequent. Over there a U or J shaped curve 
illustrates the relation between the overweight and the degree of these various 
complications. An excess of 45 kg or more represents the critical level which 
defined "morbid obesity" with its own complications, the most important are 
sudden unexplained death, ventilatory disorders, circulatory congestion and 
functional limitations in activities of daily living and of course psychological 
consequences. When for certain complications, such as diabetes, the relationship 
with the overweight is evident, discrepancies between certain studies, 
especially for the cardiovascular diseases, had focused the attention on the 
regional patterns of fat distribution. Cross-sectional studies have shown 
abdominal obesity to be strongly associated with risk factors for cardiovascular 
disease, stroke and death independent of the total degree of obesity.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2662468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Z Hautkr. 1989 May 15;64(5):374, 379-82, 387.

[Therapeutic possibilities in HIV infection and AIDS].

[Article in German]

Rasokat H(1).

Author information:
(1)Universit√§ts-Hautklinik K√∂ln.

Improvement regarding the diagnostics and therapy of secondary manifestations in 
HIV infection has had a positive influence on the quality of life as well as 
life-expectancy of AIDS patients. Early treatment with high doses, critical 
evaluation, and prophylactic therapy are of outstanding importance. Since 
recently, effective modes of antiretroviral therapy have been available. A 
number of cutaneous manifestations are valuable markers of incipient 
immunodeterioration, and thus can serve as indicative criteria regarding 
antiretroviral therapy. Whereas current possibilities of immunorestoration have 
been unsatisfactory as far, we expect more of the development of defined 
lymphokines and growth factors with defined and controllable effects.

PMID: 2662667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1989 Jul 14;114(28-29):1114-6. doi: 
10.1055/s-2008-1066727.

[Nightly home artificial respiration in juvenile Pompe's disease with pulmonary 
hypertension and right cardiac insufficiency].

[Article in German]

Budde-Steffen C(1), Gr√§vinghoff L, Albani M, Hellwege HH, Kohlsch√ºtter A.

Author information:
(1)Kinderklinik und Poliklinik, Universit√§tskrankenhaus Eppendorf, Hamburg.

A 17-year-old girl with type II glycogen storage disease (Pompe's) developed 
severe right-heart failure as a result of pulmonary hypertension due to, 
predominantly nocturnal, hypoventilation. At night the partial pressure of 
oxygen was only 30-50 mmHg, pCO2 70-100 mmHg. After persistent nightly 
intermittent positive pressure ventilation blood gases as well as 
electrocardiographic and echocardiographic findings have now--after 12 
months--become normal and the patient has been completely restored to a normal 
life. This case demonstrates that life expectancy and quality of patients with 
chronic forms of Pompe's disease (and probably also with other chronic 
neuromuscular diseases) can be markedly improved by nightly artificial 
ventilation which reduces nocturnal hypoventilation and resulting pulmonary 
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1066727
PMID: 2663410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. J UOEH. 1989 Mar 20;11 Suppl:13-29.

Nutrition and health.

Kesteloot H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Catholic University of 
Leuven, Belgium.

PMID: 2664943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Surg Clin North Am. 1989 Aug;69(4):869-94. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(16)44892-9.

Prevention and management of surgical complications during repair of abdominal 
aortic aneurysms.

Hermreck AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Kansas College of Health Sciences and 
Hospital, Kansas City.

Abdominal aortic aneurysms can be repaired with a mortality rate of 3 per cent 
or less under optimal conditions. To achieve these results, every effort must be 
made to prevent disastrous surgical complications in this elderly population. 
This review covers some of the more common and serious complications associated 
with aneurysm repair: their causation, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. The 
majority of these complications are preventable with a carefully planned and 
executed operation. The result will be a patient with a normal age-adjusted life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(16)44892-9
PMID: 2665152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1989 Jun 9;101(12):423-4.

[The Delphi panel "atherosclerosis report"--concept and experiences].

[Article in German]

Kunze M(1), Schwarz B.

Author information:
(1)Institut f√ºr Sozialmedizin, Universit√§t Wien.

While the overall mortality in Austria is decreasing and life expectancy is 
increasing the mortality rate from ischaemic heart disease has been stable for 
more than 15 years despite therapeutic progress. In many countries 
well-established prevention programs have helped to decrease the cardiovascular 
mortality by more than the overall mortality. In order to provide the basis of a 
nationwide program to reduce morbidity from cardiovascular diseases, their 
epidemiological importance must be documented convincingly, as well as the 
available strategies for their prevention and therapy. The most convincing form 
of documentation is a joint statement by leading medical experts. Hence, the 
"Delphi panel" method was chosen as the most appropriate approach. In Austria, 
the Institute of Social Medicine, University of Vienna and the Austrian Society 
of Hygiene, Microbiology and Preventive Medicine published the 
"Atherosklerosebericht" (atherosclerotic report), result of a written Delphi 
panel, in June 1988. Concept and practical experiences are reported below.

PMID: 2665322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Clin Dermatol. 1989 Apr-Jun;7(2):28-35. doi: 10.1016/0738-081x(89)90054-0.

Ochronosis.

Findlay GH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Pretoria, South Africa.

DOI: 10.1016/0738-081x(89)90054-0
PMID: 2667739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Bull Rheum Dis. 1989;38(4):1-8.

New therapies for the rheumatic diseases.

Klippel JH, Strober S, Wofsy D.

The investigational therapies of the rheumatic diseases reviewed in this issue 
are at various stages of clinical development. Methotrexate and sulfasalazine 
represent examples of chemotherapies in which the short-term efficacy and 
toxicities, at least in rheumatoid arthritis, have been carefully documented by 
controlled trials. The limited information available on cyclosporin A, 
combination chemotherapy, and radiotherapy is encouraging and appears to warrant 
additional, more extensive studies. In particular, randomized trials to 
determine the effects of these interventions on relevant long-term outcomes such 
as functional disability, organ failure, and life expectancy are necessary. 
Careful attention to the adverse consequences associated with these 
interventions, a limiting factor in many currently available therapies, will be 
mandatory. Disease modification by biologic agents holds the promise of ushering 
in an entirely new, more selective approach to therapy. A number of these 
biologic agents are currently at the threshold of clinical evaluation. In all 
likelihood, the scientific knowledge of pathogenic mechanisms operative in the 
rheumatic diseases gained through the use of these agents will be of equal 
importance to the therapeutic benefits.

PMID: 2670022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Drugs. 1989 Jul;38(1):77-122. doi: 10.2165/00003495-198938010-00004.

Salbutamol in the 1980s. A reappraisal of its clinical efficacy.

Price AH(1), Clissold SP.

Author information:
(1)ADIS Drug Information Services, Auckland, New Zealand.

Salbutamol (albuterol) is a beta 2-selective adrenoceptor agonist which accounts 
for its pronounced bronchodilatory, cardiac, uterine and metabolic effects. 
During the intervening years since salbutamol was first reviewed in the Journal 
(1971), it has become extensively used in the treatment of reversible 
obstructive airways disease. Numerous studies in this disease (including severe 
acute, childhood and exercise-induced asthma) have confirmed the bronchodilatory 
efficacy of salbutamol, and it has been shown to be at least as effective as 
most of the currently available bronchodilators, if not more effective. The 
onset of maximum effect of salbutamol is dependent on the formulation used and 
the route by which it is administered. In most patients inhaled salbutamol is a 
first-line therapy, since it offers rapid bronchodilation, usually relieving 
bronchospasm within minutes. Although oral salbutamol has often proved to be 
less efficacious than the inhaled formulation, it still affords clinically 
significant bronchodilation, and it is particularly useful in those patients 
unable to coordinate the use of inhalers. Parenteral formulations of salbutamol 
are generally reserved for the treatment of severe attacks of bronchospasm and 
they are one of the treatments of choice in these life-threatening situations. 
Studies of the concomitant use of salbutamol and other agents such as 
anticholinergics, methylxanthines and beclomethasone dipropionate have usually 
shown a complementary response in the majority of patients, as might be expected 
from the different mechanisms of action of these groups of drugs. Salbutamol is 
generally well tolerated and any side effects observed are a predictable 
extension of its pharmacology. Since the frequency of side effects is dose 
related, and therefore dependent on the route of administration, it is not 
surprising that they are much more common following intravenous and oral rather 
than inhalation therapy. Tremor, tachycardia and hypokalaemia are the most 
frequently reported adverse effects. After nearly 20 years of use, salbutamol is 
well established as a 'first-choice' treatment in reversible obstructive airways 
disease. Indeed, throughout this time many new bronchodilatory agents have been 
studied but none have proved more effective. Clinical evaluation of salbutamol 
in the treatment of premature labour, hyperkalaemia and cardiac failure awaits 
further studies, although to date some encouraging results have been reported.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-198938010-00004
PMID: 2670512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. J Urol. 1989 Sep;142(3):821-2. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)38903-6.

Pulmonary migration following periurethral polytetrafluoroethylene injection for 
urinary incontinence.

Claes H(1), Stroobants D, Van Meerbeek J, Verbeken E, Knockaert D, Baert L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Clinic of St.-Pieter, Leuven, Belgium.

Comment in
    J Urol. 1991 Apr;145(4):839-40.

We report a case of clinically significant migration of polytetrafluoroethylene 
(Teflon) paste particles to the lungs after periurethral injection. These 
particles were identified by standard and polarized light microscopy. Since the 
long-term effects in humans are not sufficiently known, we strongly warn against 
the use of polytetrafluoroethylene paste in children or young adults with a 
normal life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)38903-6
PMID: 2671416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. J Sports Med Phys Fitness. 1989 Mar;29(1):83-90.

Nutritional benefits of exercise.

Shephard RJ.

Specific nutritional benefits of regular exercise include the control of obesity 
and its complications, the improvement of blood lipid profile, the optimization 
of micro-nutrient intake and the assurance of a maximum quality-adjusted 
life-expectancy. While epidemiologists interpret various weight for height 
ratios in terms of obesity, such data can be misleading, particularly in older 
people (where an accumulation of fat is masked by lean tissue loss). Skinfold 
calipers provide a more unequivocal index of the amount and distribution of 
subcutaneous fat. Arguments against the treatment of obesity by exercise include 
the large energy yield of fat, the potential for compensating changes of resting 
metabolism, and an inherently high "set-point" of fat stores in the obese. 
Exercise cannot achieve rapid fat loss, but it has several advantages over other 
types of treatment, including the positive nature of the prescription, the 
associated elevation of mood and suppression of appetite, the conservation of 
lean tissue, and the establishment of an improved lifestyle. Moreover, blood 
pressure is reduced, insulin needs are decreased in the diabetic, and favourable 
changes of lipid profile are observed. Total cholesterol levels are not affected 
by exercise if body mass is held constant, but (provided a weekly threshold of 
exercise is exceeded) there is an increase of HDL cholesterol, particularly 
HDL-2 cholesterol. The intake of vitamins and most other micronutrients is 
increased by a high daily energy expenditure. Frank anaemia is not common in 
athletes, but a low iron saturation may be an indication for dietary 
supplements.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2671500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Semin Surg Oncol. 1989;5(4):240-6. doi: 10.1002/ssu.2980050406.

Treatment of localized prostatic cancer.

Smith JA Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Utah Health Sciences Center, Salt Lake 
City 84132.

Discovery of a localized prostatic cancer frequently creates a therapeutic 
dilemma. A significant number of patients do well for an extended period of time 
without treatment, while others suffer rapid tumor progression and death from 
prostatic cancer. Without treatment nearly one third of patients with stage B 
prostatic cancer can be expected to develop distant metastatic disease or death 
from prostatic cancer within 10 years. In patients who otherwise have a 
reasonable life expectancy of 10 years or more, aggressive therapy is justified. 
Long-term disease-free survival has been reported after both radical 
prostatectomy and external irradiation. The fact that nearly 50% of patients 
treated with external irradiation for stage B prostatic cancer have positive 
postirradiation biopsies is of concern, but the impact of this finding on 
overall survival is yet to be determined. The only randomized prospective study 
comparing radical prostatectomy with external irradiation showed a statistically 
significant decrease in the time to Nevertheless, as evidenced by the National 
Institutes of Health Consensus Development Panel, further randomized prospective 
trials are needed to determine the relative value of radical prostatectomy 
versus external irradiation for localized prostatic cancer. For the forseeable 
future, definitive scientific data on which to base treatment recommendations 
will not be available. Therefore, patients should be well informed of the 
various treatment options available, and the wishes of the patient are 
paramount. The clinician's roles are to interpret the data, present it in a 
meaningful manner to patients, be guided in discussions by patient preferences, 
and make recommendations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/ssu.2980050406
PMID: 2672230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Clin Plast Surg. 1989 Jul;16(3):577-86.

Reconstruction of the burned hand.

Parry SW(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic Surgery, Tulane University Medical Center, New Orleans, 
Louisiana.

Several basic principles of burned hand care must be kept in mind at all times. 
Intervention should be early and aggressive, small splints should be placed 
within 24 hours, and early tangential excision of the burn should be done within 
72 hours. Hemostasis should be absolutely meticulous prior to grafting. 
Depending upon the availability of donor site skin, full-thickness skin grafts, 
split-thickness grafts, or meshed split-thickness grafts (expanded or not 
expanded) are preferred. I have found the functional and cosmetic results to 
decrease with use in exactly the order stated. The skin graft should be placed 
with stent or bolster dressings and observed for "take" early. Light active 
range of motion is usually begun on the tenth postoperative day. Escharotomy or 
fasciotomy should be performed for any signs of ischemia. In order to control 
edema, one should be meticulous in the positioning of burned hands, emphasizing 
elevation, and early range of motion exercises. Pressure garments may be 
employed when the wound is stable and should continue for 6 to 12 months to 
control hypertrophic scar formation. Linear scars should not cross any hand 
joints; Z-plasties are employed over the web spaces. Whenever possible, flaps 
should be employed to preserve all web spaces and skin grafts used to cover the 
remainder of the hand. I am aggressive in releasing and reconstructing late 
deformities such as extension contractures of the wrist, the metacarpal hand, 
absence of the thumb, finger contractures, and burn syndactyly. These are listed 
in order of treatment priority. Only in this manner can the patient be returned 
to "normal life." Patient self-esteem will thus be increased markedly, as will 
quality of life. It is strongly urged that the surgeon be "captain of the team." 
The key person in this treatment regimen is the hand therapist, who uses 
appropriate splints, range of motion exercises, and desensitization programs. I 
encourage the use of multiple personnel on the "burn team." This may include 
psychotherapists and, in children, teachers with extraordinary qualities.

PMID: 2673637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. J Hum Hypertens. 1989 Jun;3 Suppl 1:89-95.

Cardiac arrhythmias--a new indication for angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitors?

Wesseling H(1), de Graeff PA, van Gilst WH, Kingma JH, de Langen CD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Groningen, The Netherlands.

Ventricular arrhythmias (VA) are a major cause of sudden death. Life-threatening 
VA may be present in a variety of both acute and chronic conditions in which 
cardiac function is compromised: during acute myocardial infarction and 
subsequent reperfusion; some weeks after acute myocardial infarction, due to 
residual damage (scar formation with zones of heterogeneity); and as a 
consequence of congestive heart failure (CHF) resulting from myocardial 
infarction, dilated cardiomyopathy, hypertension or other causes. Symptomatic 
suppression of potentially life-threatening VA is unlikely to decrease 
mortality, since classical antiarrhythmic drugs have failed, so far, to improve 
life expectancy. Drugs that influence the underlying causes of CHF seem to have 
a better chance of reducing mortality. There is evidence that ACE inhibitors may 
exert beneficial effects on arrhythmogenicity by several mechanisms in these 
situations. Under acute ischaemic conditions both cellular damage and undue 
increases in circulating catecholamines and angiotensin II may be prevented. 
This has been demonstrated in various animal models and confirmatory clinical 
evidence is emerging. Two week after experimental myocardial infarction, the pig 
heart is less vulnerable to programmed electrical stimulation when ACE 
inhibitors are administered. Finally, in CHF a variety of proarrhythmic factors, 
such as left ventricular dysfunction, raised catecholamine levels and, in 
particular, decreased potassium concentrations, are influenced beneficially by 
ACE inhibitors.

PMID: 2674445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Methods Enzymol. 1989;173:3-35. doi: 10.1016/s0076-6879(89)73003-2.

Structure and deformation properties of red blood cells: concepts and 
quantitative methods.

Evans EA.

The lamellar configuration of the red cell membrane includes a (liquid) 
superficial bilayer of amphiphilic molecules supported by a (rigid) subsurface 
protein meshwork. Because of this composite structure, the red cell membrane 
exhibits very large resistance to changes in surface density or area with very 
low resistance to in-plane extension and bending deformations. The primary 
extrinsic factor in cell deformability is the surface area-to-volume ratio which 
establishes the minimum-caliber vessel into which a cell can deform (without 
rupture). Within the restriction provided by surface area and volume, the 
intrinsic properties of the membrane and cytoplasm determine the deformability 
characteristics of the red cell. Since the cytoplasm is liquid, the static 
rigidity of the cell is determined by membrane elastic constants. These include 
an elastic modulus for area compressibility in the range of 300-600 dyn/cm, an 
elastic modulus for in-plane extension or shear (at constant area) of 5-7 X 
10(-3) dyn/cm, and a curvature or bending elastic modulus on the order of 
10(-12) dyn.cm. Even though small, the surface rigidity of the cell membrane is 
sufficient to return the membrane capsule to a discoid shape after deformation 
by external forces. Viscous dissipation in the peripheral protein structure 
(cytoskeleton) dominates the dynamic response of the cell to extensional forces. 
Based on a time constant for recovery after extensional deformation on the order 
of 0.1 sec, the coefficient of surface viscosity is on the order of 10(-3) 
dyn.sec/cm. On the other hand, the dynamic resistance to folding of the cell 
appears to be limited by viscous dissipation in the cytoplasmic and external 
fluid phases. Dynamic rigidities for both extensional and folding deformations 
are important factors in the distribution of flow in the small microvessels. 
Although the red cell membrane normally behaves as a resilient viscoelastic 
shell, which recovers its conformation after deformation, structural relaxation 
and failure lead to break-up and fragmentation of the red cell. The levels of 
membrane extensional force which is two orders of magnitude less than the level 
of tension necessary to lyse vesicles by rapid area dilation. Each of the 
material properties ascribed to the red cell membrane plays an important role in 
the deformability and survivability of the red cell in the circulation over its 
several-month life span.

DOI: 10.1016/s0076-6879(89)73003-2
PMID: 2674613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Surg Clin North Am. 1989 Oct;69(5):1061-80. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(16)44938-8.

Current management of chest-wall tumors.

Ryan MB(1), McMurtrey MJ, Roth JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston.

Chest-wall resection can be performed with low morbidity and mortality rates and 
remains the primary treatment for most chest-wall tumors. However, some lesions 
are best treated with a multimodality approach including preoperative 
chemotherapy. Therefore, pretreatment tissue diagnosis is essential in planning. 
The biopsy should be done at the medical center where the definitive treatment 
will be undertaken, and frequently, a needle biopsy will be sufficient. 
Osteosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma, and other small-cell sarcomas 
are sensitive to chemotherapy, which should be given preoperatively, continued 
postoperatively, and modified according to the tumor response. Chondrosarcomas 
and most adult soft-tissue sarcomas are well controlled by primary excision and 
selective use of adjuvant irradiation. Better systemic and local therapy is 
needed for the recurrent soft-tissue sarcomas and the aggressive unclassified 
sarcomas. Chest-wall resection continues to play a primary role in the 
management of locally and regionally recurrent breast cancer but is best 
combined with systemic chemotherapy. Chest-wall resection can provide a long 
disease-free survival in patients with isolated metastases from sarcomas or 
carcinomas. In addition, significant palliation can be afforded patients with 
symptomatic chest-wall metastases and a shortened life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(16)44938-8
PMID: 2675348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 1989 Jan-Mar;29(1):21-42.

Some features of mortality in postwar Hungary: the third epidemiological 
transition.

J√≥zan P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Statistics, Central Statistical Office of Hungary.

PMID: 2676106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 1989 Jan-Mar;29(1):5-20.

[Inequalities regarding death in the past].

[Article in French]

Blum A(1), Houdaille J.

Author information:
(1)Institut National d'Etudes D√©mographiques, Paris.

Was mortality differentiated socio-economically in past centuries, as it is 
nowadays? The issue has been hotly debated. Certain demographers admitted that, 
periods of famine excepted, the death risk was evenly distributed among the 
ancient populations, regardless of wealth, instruction or social status. On the 
other hand, the research project currently carried out at the French National 
Institute of Demographic Studies is evidencing wide mortality social 
differentials in the 19th century. In Paris, male life expectancy at the age of 
40 reached 29.7 years for the nobility and bourgeoisie, but decreased to 25.6 
years among merchants and 23.7 years among workers and day-labourers. Generally 
speaking, regional differentials were less pronounced than socioeconomic 
differentials. Mortality decline was found among the elites: life expectancy at 
40 of the Knights of the Holy Spirit, for instance, increased to 30.8 years in 
the 18th century, from 27.8 years in the 16th century. The same life expectancy 
today (at 40 years of age) reaches 35.7 years among French professionals. The 
main problem with this kind of research is how to identify and collect relevant 
information. The researchers make use here of marriage registers from the past 
century. These registers recorded not only particulars of the married couple but 
also those of their parents (occupation, age, and date of death, if any). This 
information allows the calculation of mortality rates (and life expectancy) of 
ancient birth cohorts in various occupational groups. The primary condition is 
that the registers have been well kept and soundly stored until now. This is the 
case in certain city halls: the 4th arrondissement of Paris (1860-1863), 
Ivry-sur-Seine (1817-1823)... etc...

PMID: 2676107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Cardiologia. 1989 Jun;34(6):525-9.

Hemodynamic and clinical effects of captopril in patients with severe congestive 
heart failure.

Nigri A, Mangieri E, Martuscelli E, Danesi A, Sardella G, Berni A, Sardella F.

In a group of 10 patients (9 male, 1 female, aged 16 to 56, mean 43 years) with 
severe congestive heart failure (CHF), due to ischemic heart disease (8 cases) 
or dilatative cardiomyopathy (2 cases), the acute hemodynamic response to 
captopril (CPT) (90 min after 50 mg po) was evaluated. CPT was then given 
starting with 15 mg q 8 hr, gradually increased within 2 or 3 days to 50 or 75 
mg q 8 hr. A hemodynamic re-evaluation was performed after 20 days, and, in 5 
patients, after 1 year of CPT treatment. The clinical follow-up done every 3 
months in the outpatient clinic. CPT acutely produced a decrease in mean 
pulmonary wedge pressure: 23.8 +/- 8.9 to 18.6 +/- 8.6 mmHg, p less than 0.01, 
and an increase in cardiac index: 2.43 +/- 0.73 to 2.91 +/- 0.85 l/min/m2, p 
less than 0.01; systemic and pulmonary resistances decreased significantly, with 
no significant changes in heart rate and in mean brachial artery pressure. This 
favourable hemodynamic response persisted after 20 days of CPT treatment. In the 
group of 5 patients, who underwent a third hemodynamic evaluation, no 
statistically significant differences were demonstrated in respect to the 
previous control values. All patients on chronic CPT treatment experienced a 
gradual clinical improvement, reaching a steady state after 2 to 3 weeks; the 
surviving patients remained stable in the improved functional class for at least 
6 months. The mortality rate was 30% in the first year, increasing to 50% in the 
second and to 60% in the third year of treatment. After a mean follow-up 35.7 
months (range 33 to 39) the 4 surviving patients remained in the same functional 
class as after the first year for therapy. In our CHF patients CPT improved the 
quality of life, with the best clinical and hemodynamic results the first few 
months of treatment; life expectancy probably was not affected.

PMID: 2676169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Diabetes. 1989 Oct;38(10):1320-5. doi: 10.2337/diab.38.10.1320.

Life-table analysis of progression to diabetes of anti-insulin 
autoantibody-positive relatives of individuals with type I diabetes.

Ziegler AG(1), Ziegler R, Vardi P, Jackson RA, Soeldner JS, Eisenbarth GS.

Author information:
(1)Joslin Diabetes Center, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02215.

Cytoplasmic islet cell antibody-negative (ICA-; less than 20 Juvenile Diabetes 
Foundation units, n = 1670) and ICA+ (n = 42) first-degree relatives of type I 
(insulin-dependent) diabetic individuals were studied for competitive insulin 
autoantibodies (CIAAs) with a radioassay. Overall, 3.7% of first-degree 
relatives (64 of 1712) were CIAA+. Of ICA- relatives, 2.7% (45 of 1670) exceeded 
the upper limit of our normal CIAA range (greater than 39 nU/ml), and 45% (19 of 
42) of ICA+ relatives exceeded this normal range. Follow-up serums for repeat 
CIAA determination have been obtained from 16 of the nondiabetic CIAA+/ICA- 
individuals (time between samples, 0.4-5.8 yr). Fourteen of these 16 (87%) 
CIAA+/ICA- relatives were found to still be positive on follow-up, and 2 of the 
relatives who were positive on the first determination were negative on their 
follow-up test. With a mean follow-up of approximately 2 yr, 4 of 45 (9%) of the 
CIAA+/ICA- relatives, 5 of 23 (22%) of the ICA+/CIAA- relatives, and 12 of 19 
(63%) of the CIAA+/ICA+ relatives developed diabetes. Life-table analysis 
indicated that, overall, 53% of CIAA+ relatives become diabetic after 5 yr of 
follow-up versus 65% of ICA+ relatives. Also by life-table analysis, the 
predicted risk after 5 yr of follow-up for progression to diabetes is 17% for 
CIAA+/ICA- relatives, 42% for ICA+/CIAA- relatives, and 77% for CIAA+/ICA+ 
relatives. The highest rate of progression to diabetes was found in ICA+ 
relatives with CIAA levels greater than 150 nU/ml (100% projected to be diabetic 
within 5 yr, P less than .008 vs. ICA+/CIAA- relatives).

DOI: 10.2337/diab.38.10.1320
PMID: 2676660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Trans Stud Coll Physicians Phila. 1989 Sep;11(3):237-49.

America's wellness policy and health promotion.

Greenberg MR, Schneider D.

PMID: 2678625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Versicherungsmedizin. 1989 Sep 1;41(5):162-5.

[Improved life expectancy by prevention of atherosclerosis. Results of 
intervention studies for treatment of lipid metabolism disorders].

[Article in German]

Richter WO, Schwandt P.

An elevated serum cholesterol level is one of the main risk factors for the 
development of atherosclerosis. In primary and secondary intervention trials it 
was shown that a reduction of total cholesterol in serum was accompanied by a 
reduction of the coronary risk: 1 percent decrease of serum cholesterol levels 
resulted in a reduction of coronary risk by 2 percent. Furthermore an increase 
of the antiatherogenic HDL cholesterol and lowering serum triglycerides cause a 
further decrease of the risk for the development of coronary heart disease. By 
controlled use of antilipidemic diets and drugs a prevention of atherosclerosis 
is possible resulting in an increase of life quality and expectancy.

PMID: 2678691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Am J Med. 1989 Sep 11;87(3B):53S-60S. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(89)80533-9.

Clinical experience with antithrombin III concentrate in treatment of congenital 
and acquired deficiency of antithrombin. The Antithrombin III Study Group.

Schwartz RS(1), Bauer KA, Rosenberg RD, Kavanaugh EJ, Davies DC, Bogdanoff DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Research, Cutter Biological, Miles Inc., Berkeley, 
California 94710.

Phase I clinical studies of antithrombin III (ATIII) concentrate demonstrated a 
mean in vivo incremental recovery of functional activity of 1.4 percent per 
unit/kg administered, an initial 50 percent disappearance time of 22 hours, and 
a biologic half-life of 3.8 days. Based on these observations, a treatment 
regimen designed to maintain plasma ATIII levels between 75 and 120 percent of 
normal has been developed. None of 10 subjects with congenital ATIII deficiency 
treated prophylactically had evidence of thromboembolism, including four 
pregnant women at the time of delivery. Five subjects treated for acute 
thrombosis and/or thromboembolism, four of whom were pregnant, recovered without 
further thrombotic extension or recurrence. Heparin resistance was reversed in 
two subjects, both pregnant. Nine subjects with acquired ATIII deficiency also 
received ATIII treatment for venous or arterial thrombosis or disseminated 
intravascular coagulation, all with low plasma ATIII levels. Two subjects with 
disseminated intravascular coagulation demonstrated improvement, one clinically, 
the other biochemically. All patients with congenital ATIII deficiency survived, 
but only five of nine with acquired deficiency survived, highlighting the 
importance in acquired ATIII deficiency of the underlying disease in prognosis. 
Survival rate was especially poor in subjects with arterial thrombosis in the 
setting of low plasma ATIII. Administration of ATIII concentrate was well 
tolerated. None of the subjects who received ATIII concentrate demonstrated 
evidence of an infectious transmissible agent. These studies demonstrate that it 
is now feasible to safely replace the deficient protein in congenital ATIII 
deficiency, either prophylactically or therapeutically.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(89)80533-9
PMID: 2679072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Clin Podiatr Med Surg. 1989 Oct;6(4):707-43.

Sensory and motor deficits of central nervous system origin.

Aravabhumi S(1), Izzo KL.

Author information:
(1)Temple University School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

The sensory and motor deficits of the CNS are varied, depending on the etiologic 
factors and the structures involved. Nevertheless, the clinical picture is 
predictable, provided one has an adequate knowledge of the neuroanatomy and the 
functions of the different fiber tracts, nuclei, and other specific regions of 
the brain and spinal cord. The purpose of this section is to provide an overall 
view of the sensory and motor deficits of the CNS, which will enable the 
clinician to treat these patients in a more objective and effective manner. 
Etiologically, the diseases affecting the CNS can be grouped under the following 
categories: congenital, traumatic, inflammatory, neoplastic, and degenerative. 
Congenital conditions usually manifest in infancy and childhood. Examples are 
hydrocephalus, spina bifida, and Arnold-Chiari malformation. There are a host of 
other conditions, but the discussion in this article is confined to the more 
common entities. Traumatic conditions such as cerebral concussion, contusion, 
laceration, hematomas--extradural, subdural, or intracerebral--and spinal cord 
injuries can occur in any age group, though their incidence is higher during the 
more active period of life (20 to 35 years). Automobile accidents are by far the 
most common etiologic factor for the traumatic lesions. Others, such as falls, 
gunshot and stab wounds, and so forth account for the remainder. Among the 
inflammatory conditions, three conditions are important: brain abscess, 
meningitis, and transverse myelitis. Though brain abscess develops by direct 
extension from an adjacent focus of infection, often it forms as a result of 
metastatic infection, chiefly from lung abscess or bronchoectasis. It behaves 
more like an intracranial space occupying lesion. Of the various types of 
meningitis, meningococcal meningitis is the commonest. Transverse myelitis may 
be caused by viruses or bacteria. The clinical picture resembles that of spinal 
cord injury. Neoplasms of the brain and spinal cord present a wide and varied 
spectrum. They may be benign or malignant. Meningioma and neurofibroma are 
essentially benign lesions. Malignant tumors can be primary or secondary. 
Gliomas and specifically astrocytomas are the commonest primary malignant 
tumors. The commonest sites of metastatic tumors are lung, breast, kidney, and 
gastrointestinal tract. The clinical picture will depend on the location of the 
tumor and the structures pressed upon or infiltrated. Any age group can be 
affected. Many of the malignant tumors are slowly and relentlessly progressive. 
Complete surgical extirpation where possible, followed by radiation therapy, is 
the treatment of choice. Chemotherapy has not been of much benefit.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2680039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Dan Med Bull. 1989 Sep;36(4):336-48.

The prognosis of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. An epidemiological 
approach.

Borch-Johnsen K(1).

