Author information:
(1)Steno Memorial Hospital, Gentofte.

PMID: 2680308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Chirurgie. 1989;115(2):114-21; discussion 121-2.

[Excision of cancer of the upper thoracic esophagus by initial right 
thoracotomy].

[Article in French]

Baulieux J, Ducerf C, Tete B, Caillon P, el Riwini M.

The authors present their experience with right thoracic first approach in 
resection of upper thoracic esophageal carcinoma followed by gastro-esophageal 
anastomosis. This technique has got many advantages: any degree of tumoral 
extension can be managed by an adapted strategy for the situation; and the 
technique is particularly suitable for resection of upper thoracic esophageal 
lesions which usually present many hazard for their removal. Thirty three 
patients have been operated according to this technique. A satisfactory rate of 
complete resection was obtained. Mortality rate one month after the operation 
was of 6%, an although the extensive character of the lesions encountered in 
this survey of patients, long-life survival rate was satisfactory and seems that 
it could be ameliorated by the application of a preoperative radio-chemotherapy 
protocol.

PMID: 2680331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Mech Ageing Dev. 1989 Sep;49(3):259-70. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(89)90076-6.

Relationship between life expectancy and endogenous DNA single-strand breakage, 
strand break induction and DNA repair capacity in the adult housefly, Musca 
domestica.

Newton RK(1), Ducore JM, Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, 
Texas 75275.

The objective of this study was to investigate the relationship between genomic 
damage and the physiological rate of aging. Endogenous DNA single-strand breaks, 
susceptibility of DNA to exogenously induced strand breaks and the capacity to 
repair strand breakage were compared, using the alkaline elution technique, in 
flies of the same chronological age but with different life expectancy. 
Distinctions between physiological and chronological ages were made (1) by 
experimentally altering the life spans of houseflies by varying the level of 
physical activity, and (2) by phenotypic selection of short- and long-lived 
cohorts from the same population. The degree of endogenous DNA single-strand 
breaks was found to be unrelated to physiological age. However, flies selected 
for relatively shorter life expectancy exhibited a greater susceptibility to 
exogenously-induced (gamma-irradiation) single-strand breakage. Flies with a 
longer life expectancy exhibited a more efficient repair capacity to reverse 
single-strand breakage than those with a shorter life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(89)90076-6
PMID: 2682059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Parasitology. 1989;99 Suppl:S59-79. doi: 10.1017/s0031182000083426.

Non-linear phenomena in host-parasite interactions.

Anderson RM(1), May RM, Gupta S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pure and Applied Biology, Imperial College, London University.

Comment on
    Parasitology. 1998 Nov;117 ( Pt 5):405-7; discussion 409-10.

The paper examines non-linear dynamical phenomena in host-parasite interactions 
by reference to a series of different problems ranging from the impact on 
transmission of control measures based on vaccination and chemotherapy, to the 
effects of immunological responses targeted at different stages in a parasite's 
life-cycle. Throughout, simple mathematical models are employed to aid in 
interpretation. Analyses reveal that the influence of a defined control measure 
on the prevalence or intensity of infection, whether vaccination or drug 
treatment, is non-linearly related to the magnitude of control effort (as 
defined by the proportion of individuals vaccinated or treated with a drug). 
Consideration of the relative merits of gametocyte and sporozoite vaccines 
against malarial parasites suggests that very high leves of cohort immunization 
will be required to block transmission in endemic areas, with the former type of 
vaccine being more effective in reducing transmission for a defined level of 
coverage and the latter being better with respect to a reduction in morbidity. 
The inclusion of genetic elements in analyses of the transmission of helminth 
parasites reveals complex non-linear patterns of change in the abundance of 
different parasite genotypes under selection pressures imposed by either the 
host immunological defences or the application of chemotherapeutic agents. When 
resistance genes are present in parasite populations, the degree to which 
abundance can be suppressed by chemotherapy depends critically on the frequency 
and intensity of application, with intermediate values of the former being 
optimal. A more detailed consideration of the impact of immunological defences 
on parasite population growth within an individual host, by reference to the 
erythrocytic cycle of malaria, suggests that the effectiveness of a given 
immunological response is inversely related to the life-expectancy of the target 
stage in the parasite's developmental cycle.

DOI: 10.1017/s0031182000083426
PMID: 2682486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol. 1989 Nov;10(11):521-4. doi: 10.1086/645939.

Outcome measurements in decision analysis: life versus quality of life.

Nettleman MD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, 
Iowa City 52242.

DOI: 10.1086/645939
PMID: 2685102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. J Prosthet Dent. 1989 Dec;62(6):685-703. doi: 10.1016/0022-3913(89)90594-5.

Veterans Administration Cooperative Dental Implant Study--comparisons between 
fixed partial dentures supported by blade-vent implants and removable partial 
dentures. Part II: Comparisons of success rates and periodontal health between 
two treatment modalities.

Kapur KK(1).

Author information:
(1)Dental Service, Veterans Administration Medical Center, West Los Angeles, 
Calif.

Five Veterans Administration centers have participated in a study to determine 
whether fixed partial dentures (FPDs) supported by blade implants offer an 
acceptable substitute for mandibular unilateral or bilateral distal-base 
extension removable partial dentures (RPDs). The study design and methodology 
have been described in Part I. A total of 232 patients received comprehensive 
dental care including RPDs for 118 patients and FPDs for 114. Prespecified 
criteria determined treatment failures. During the 60-month period, treatment 
failures occurred in 19 FPD patients and 30 RPD patients. Ten FPD failures 
occurred before and nine after the FPD insertion. Five RPD failures were caused 
by abutment tooth loss and 25 for not using the RPD while eating. Life table 
analysis showed 5-year success rates of 84.2% for the FPD and 74% for the RPD. 
The 17.9% higher FPD success rate in Kennedy class II patients was both 
statistically and clinically significant. Excluding the 10 early failures, the 
5-year FPD success rate was 91.5%. Of the 170 attempted implants, 26 failed, 
including 12 before the FPD fabrication. Radiographic assessments by a panel of 
three judges showed no bone deterioration during baseline to 60 months in 29.6%, 
slight in 25.4%, moderate in 15.9%, marked in 27%, and severe deterioration in 
2.1% of the implant posts.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-3913(89)90594-5
PMID: 2685260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. J Otolaryngol. 1989 Oct;18(6):306-10.

The carotid body tumor.

Warshawski SJ(1), de Souza FM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Six cases of carotid body tumor are the material for this report. The pathology 
and current thinking on physiology are reviewed. Diagnosis is made by 
angiography which must include both carotid systems. Ultrasound is the screening 
method of choice because it is safe, reliable, non-invasive, and inexpensive. 
Preoperative planning must consider the patient's medical condition and life 
expectancy as well as tumor size, blood supply, skull base erosion and condition 
of the carotid vessels. If surgery is undertaken, peri-adventitial dissection is 
advocated.

PMID: 2685340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1989 Oct 31;78(44):1231-7.

[Changes in medical care in the narrow Bern Oberland since the turn of the 
century].

[Article in German]

Horn-Kullak B, Abplanalp A, Horn-MÃ¼ller B.

An enormous transformation of health care delivery to the proper Bernese 
Oberland took place because of improvements in the transportation system, a 
raising number of practitioners, the nearly complete financial coverage of the 
population for the cost of this improved health care system and finally the 
raising awareness of the population for modern medicine. Expectations not only 
towards an increased life-expectancy but towards improved quality of life 
developed stormingly. According to valleys the changes in population, prominent 
types of physicians, birth, death and epidemics are reviewed. Financial and 
transportation-related problems, developments in care at home and outsiders are 
briefly highlighted.

PMID: 2685962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Salud Publica Mex. 1989 Jul-Aug;31(4):574-83.

[Mortality tables, their beginnings and progress. 1661].

[Article in Spanish]

Graunt J.

PMID: 2686042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Fortschr Med. 1989 Oct 30;107(31):657-61.

[Drug therapy of heart failure in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Michel D.

In the case of heart failure of any etiology, so common in the elderly, 
symptomatic treatment predominates; causal therapy is hardly ever possible. The 
aim of treatment is to improve myocardial contractility and influence secondary 
compensation mechanisms which, although associated with a favorable effect in 
the early stage, in the late stage lead to an unacceptable elevation of 
afterload and an overall uneconomical cardiac performance, thus producing a 
negative effect on cardiac failure and its prognosis. In contrast, suitable 
treatment improves the quality of the patient's life and prolongs life 
expectancy. In the aged, suitable therapy includes, where indicated, in 
particular digitalis (there is no alternative!), ACE-inhibitors and diuretics. 
The incidence and extent of adverse reactions and interactions in the elderly 
are greater than in the young and middle-aged patient.

PMID: 2687140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1989 Dec;37(12):1153-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1989.tb06681.x.

Airway obstruction due to goiter in older patients.

Zorrilla L(1), Tsai J, Freedman M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New York University Medical Center, NY 10016.

It has been shown that goiters can progressively enlarge to compress the 
surrounding trachea or esophagus and result in incapacitating obstructive 
symptoms or potentially fatal airway obstruction. The potential of a goiter to 
become hyperactive also exists. Recently, we have seen three older patients with 
longstanding untreated "benign" goiters who presented difficult management 
decisions. Given the likelihood of progressive growth of a goiter and the 
increased life expectancy of these patients with goiters, it is essential to 
perform flow-volume loop studies while following these patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1989.tb06681.x
PMID: 2687351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Scand J Rheumatol. 1989;18(5):251-60. doi: 10.3109/03009748909095027.

Auranofin (SK&F) in early rheumatoid arthritis: results from a 24-month 
double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Effect on clinical and biochemical 
assessments.

Johnsen V(1), Borg G, Trang LE, Berg E, Brodin U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Vest Agder Hospital, Kristiansand, Norway.

In a 2-year, randomized, double-blind Nordic multicentre trial, auranofin was 
compared with placebo in early (disease duration less than or equal to 2 years), 
active rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Efficacy and safety were analysed in 67 
patients receiving auranofin and 65 receiving placebo. Life table analysis 
demonstrated a significantly higher withdrawal rate due to insufficient 
therapeutic effect in the placebo group, whereas more patients dropped out due 
to side effects in the auranofin group. More auranofin than placebo patients (35 
vs. 24) completed the 2 years. Clinical and inflammatory activity improved in 
both groups, but consistently more so in the auranofin group, in spite of the 
greater consumption of local steroids and NSAIDs in the placebo group. The most 
frequent side effects leading to withdrawal in the auranofin group were 
cutaneous and gastrointestinal reactions. The study demonstrated that most 
patients exhibit improvement in clinical signs and symptoms and about half of 
all patients with early RA continue to take auranofin for at least 2 years.

DOI: 10.3109/03009748909095027
PMID: 2688083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Am J Ophthalmol. 1989 Dec 15;108(6):625-35. doi:
10.1016/0002-9394(89)90853-2.

Fluorouracil Filtering Surgery Study one-year follow-up. The Fluorouracil 
Filtering Surgery Study Group.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1990 May 15;109(5):613-6.

Two hundred thirteen patients participated in the Fluorouracil Filtering Surgery 
Study, a randomized clinical trial, to determine the efficacy and safety of 
subconjunctivally injected 5-fluorouracil after filtering surgery in eyes with 
poor prognoses. Twenty-eight (27%) of the 105 eyes in the 5-fluorouracil group 
and 54 (50%) of the 108 eyes in the standard group were classified as failures, 
defined by reoperation for control of intraocular pressure during the first year 
or an intraocular pressure greater than 21 mm Hg at the one-year visit (P = 
.0007, Mantel-Haenszel chi-square). Corneal epithelial toxicity and transient 
visual acuity loss were more common in the 5-fluorouracil group (P less than 
.001, chi-square); however, the visual acuities and the mean visual field 
sensitivities were not significantly different at one year. We recommend the use 
of subconjunctivally injected 5-fluorouracil after trabeculectomy in eyes with 
uncontrolled glaucoma and poor prognoses, specifically after previous cataract 
extraction or unsuccessful filtering surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9394(89)90853-2
PMID: 2688428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Cardiol Clin. 1989 Nov;7(4):783-9.

Complex angioplasty: single versus multiple dilatations in multivessel coronary 
disease patients.

Dorros G(1), Lewin RF, Mathiak LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, St. Luke's Medical Center, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) has become an accepted 
therapy in the management of selected patients with obstructive coronary 
disease, including selected patients with multivessel disease. This article 
reports the authors' experience with PTCA in patients who underwent single or 
multiple dilatation angioplasty, their outcome, and follow-up. It also provides 
an additional perspective to the multivessel coronary disease patient.

PMID: 2688882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Cardiol Clin. 1989 Nov;7(4):791-803.

Coronary angioplasty in patients with prior coronary artery bypass surgery: all 
prior coronary artery bypass surgery patients and patients more than 5 years 
after coronary bypass surgery.

Dorros G(1), Lewin RF, Mathiak LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, St. Luke's Medical Center, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) has been used successfully 
in patients who have had prior bypass surgery (CABG) as a means of 
revascularizing the myocardium and avoiding repeat myocardial revascularization. 
However, angioplasty has been considered inappropriate as a means of dilating 
old saphenous vein grafts. The first section of this article details the 
authors' experience with PTCA of prior CABG patients, and the second section 
discusses the results of PTCA in the subset of patients 5 or more years after 
their last coronary bypass surgery. These data may make individuals rethink the 
appropriateness of PTCA in old saphenous vein grafts.

PMID: 2688883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Cardiol Clin. 1989 Nov;7(4):837-51.

Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction.

Rothbaum DA(1), Hodes ZI, Linnemeier TJ, Landin RJ, Ball MW.

Author information:
(1)Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis.

Studies have suggested that intracoronary and intravenous thrombolysis and 
emergency PTCA result in decreased infarct size, improved left ventricular 
function, and decreased in-hospital mortality. Significant problems remain with 
all three treatment modalities. Thrombolysis is associated with significant 
bleeding, especially if acute catheterization also is performed. The 
intracoronary method of thrombolysis requires cardiac catheterization facilities 
and entails a significant delay in reperfusion. Lower rates of reperfusion 
initially were found with intravenous than intracoronary streptokinase, but the 
intravenous administration of t-PA has been associated with a reperfusion rate 
(75 per cent) similar to that of intracoronary streptokinase. Significant 
bleeding complications occur with t-PA just as with streptokinase. Furthermore, 
there are patients in whom thrombolysis is contraindicated because of the high 
risk of life-threatening hemorrhagic complications. Once thrombolysis is 
achieved, an underlying significant coronary artery lesion usually is present so 
that a significant risk of recurrent ischemia and/or reinfarction still exists. 
In controlled studies, the addition of cardiac catheterization and angioplasty 
after thrombolytic therapy is associated with a further increase in significant 
bleeding episodes. Also, in low-risk subgroups of patients randomized to 
emergency angioplasty versus elective angioplasty or noninvasive treatment after 
thrombolytic therapy, the complications of angioplasty may outweigh the benefits 
of further reduction in lesion severity. Potential problems of emergency 
angioplasty following thrombolytic therapy include: (1) hemorrhage into ischemic 
myocardium, which may have a deleterious effect on ultimate muscle recovery; (2) 
hemorrhage at the angioplasty site caused by thrombolytic therapy, with a 
resultant increased chance of occlusion of the vessel post-angioplasty, and (3) 
production of reperfusion arrhythmias and hypotension, predisposing to vessel 
reclosure and infarct extension. With primary angioplasty therapy, the 
reperfusion success rate is 85 to 90 per cent. This is higher than the 
approximately 75 per cent success rate with thrombolytic therapy alone. If 
angioplasty can be performed expeditiously, within 6 hours of the onset of 
ischemia, potential advantages of this technique include: (1) rapid reperfusion, 
possibly comparable to thrombolytic therapy alone; (2) higher success rate for 
reperfusion than thrombolytic therapy; (3) alleviation of underlying stenosis 
usually present after thrombolytic therapy alone; (4) avoidance of systemic 
thrombolysis, with a concomitant decrease in hemorrhagic risk; (5) possible 
avoidance of hemorrhagic infarction, which may have a deleterious effect on 
ultimate muscle recovery; and (6) applicability to patients in cardiogenic 
shock, who presently respond poorly to thrombolytic therapy alone. No large 
controlled randomized study exists comparing primary angioplasty with thr

PMID: 2688885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Eur J Clin Nutr. 1989;43 Suppl 2:31-41.

The Mediterranean diet: protective or simply non-toxic?

James WP(1), Duthie GG, Wahle KW.

Author information:
(1)Rowett Research Institute, Bucksburn, Aberdeen, UK.

There is clear evidence that populations living in Mediterranean countries enjoy 
a longer life expectancy than Northern Europeans. Genetic or racial factors do 
not explain these societal differences as revealed by migrant studies. The major 
causes of death in affluent societies, cardiovascular disease, cancers and 
digestive disorders, show markedly different incidence rates in different 
European countries. These differences seem to depend on the varied dietary 
patterns in Europe but the classic lipid hypothesis alone fails to explain the 
differing rates of coronary heart disease. Limiting the free radical damage to 
cholesterol thereby reducing the induction of atherosclerosis is a plausible 
explanation for the finding that some countries, e.g. France as well as 
Mediterranean countries with their high fruit and vegetable consumption, are 
well protected against coronary heart disease. The Mediterranean diet is low in 
saturated fat content but contains either a high or low content of starch and 
total fat. A high fat diet reveals the genetically determined individual 
propensity to obesity, e.g. in Greece, but does not predispose to cardiovascular 
disease or mitigate against the cancer protective properties derived from the 
vegetable component of the Greek diet. Studies in the Mediterranean area 
highlight the considerable dietary diversity which is possible for achieving 
longevity.

PMID: 2689163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Pediatr Res. 1989 Dec;26(6):598-602. doi: 10.1203/00006450-198912000-00016.

Cingulate sulcus development in preterm infants.

Slagle TA(1), Oliphant M, Gross SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, State University of New York-Health Science Center, 
Syracuse 13210.

Cranial ultrasounds performed during the first 3 d of life on 211 infants of 24 
to 40 wk gestational age were examined to determine the in utero development of 
the cingulate sulcus. The sulcus was identified between 24 and 28 wk of 
gestational age as fragmented echoes in the region between the thalamus and the 
anterior fontanelle. Over the next several weeks, these fragments coalesced into 
a single linear echo. Branches then appeared off of the primary cingulate 
sulcus, increasing in number until a complex pattern of branching was noted near 
term gestation. This maturational sequence was similar to postnatal cortical 
development determined from serial ultrasounds performed on 144 infants who were 
less than or equal to 32 wk of gestational age at birth. The timing of 
postconceptional cingulate sulcus development was independent of gestational age 
at birth. However, severe brain insult, defined as intraventricular hemorrhage 
complicated by ventriculomegaly or intraparenchymal extension or periventricular 
leukomalacia, was associated with significant delays in all stages of cingulate 
sulcus development. Cranial ultrasound examinations in preterm infants allow a 
noninvasive means of staging qualitative brain development during the early 
postnatal period.

DOI: 10.1203/00006450-198912000-00016
PMID: 2689985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1989;166:115-21; discussion 138-7. doi: 
10.3109/00365528909091258.

Structure and function of endocrine cells in the oxyntic (acid-secreting) mucosa 
of human stomach.

Bordi C(1), D'Adda T, Baggi MT, Pilato FP.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Pathology, University of Parma, Italy.

The morphological and functional characteristics of the endocrine cells of the 
oxyntic (acid-secreting) mucosa of the human stomach, a target of the trophic 
effect of gastrin, are reviewed. In healthy subjects these cells account for 
0.90 +/- 0.35% of the volume of the entire mucosa and for 1.21 +/- 0.44% of the 
volume of the epithelial mucosal component alone. The cells show no extension to 
the glandular lumen and show an intimate anatomic relationship with contiguous 
non-endocrine epithelial cells. This configuration indicates undefined local 
functions of the paracrine type not influenced by the gastric lumen content. 
Seven cell types were identified ultrastructurally, three of which 
(enterochromaffin-like (ECL), P and D) cumulatively account for more than 75% of 
the total endocrine cell mass. The secretory product(s) of the endocrine cells 
has not been demonstrated definitively with the exception of minor cell 
populations producing glucagon (only in the fetal life), somatostatin and 5-HT. 
Recently, production of histamine and glycoprotein hormone alpha-subunit by 
oxyntic endocrine cells of man have been reported. However, histamine seems to 
occur in these cells normally, whereas the production of glycoprotein hormone 
alpha-subunit appears to be virtually restricted to cells of patients with 
hypergastrinaemic conditions.

DOI: 10.3109/00365528909091258
PMID: 2690328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. ANNA J. 1989 Dec;16(7):489-93.

Progressive systemic sclerosis: Part 1--The disease and medical management.

Larrabee JH.

The incidence of scleroderma is approximately 700,000 people in the United 
States. Pathologic changes occur in a variety of body systems and can alter 
lifestyle, especially for people with diffuse scleroderma. Information from 
clinical practice and research concerning the nature, incidence, 
pathophysiology, complications, and medical management is discussed. Although 
there is no known cure for scleroderma, life expectancy has improved as 
management of renal hypertensive crisis and renal failure has improved.

PMID: 2690757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Hum Reprod. 1989 Oct;4(7):757-61. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a136980.

Artificial procreation with frozen donor semen: experience of the French 
Federation CECOS.

Le Lannou D(1), Lansac J.

Author information:
(1)CECOS de 1'Ouest, CHR Hotel Dieu, Rennes, France.

The French Federation CECOS (Centre d'Etude et de Conservation du Sperme Humain) 
sperm banks collate the results of its 20 centres and provides annual reports on 
their activity. Since its creation in 1973, approximately 17,000 pregnancies 
have been obtained using frozen donor semen either for artificial insemination 
by donor (AID) or for in-vitro fertilization. The recruitment of the donors was 
very strict, only 62% of the 6810 donor candidates were accepted. The overall 
mean success rate per cycle for all women who began AID was approximately 8%, 
and the theoretical cumulative success rate was 48% at six cycles and 66% at 12 
cycles. The population of recipient patients was very heterogeneous, including 
fertile, sub-fertile and infertile women. Some of these female factors have been 
analysed.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a136980
PMID: 2691525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1989;37(4):295-317.

[Toward health for all in the European region of the WHO. Survey of progress 
accomplished. II. Preliminary conditions: demographic and health status].

[Article in French]

Curtis SE(1), Taket A, Prokhorskas R, Shabanah MA, Thuriaux MC.

Author information:
(1)Queen Mary College, UniversitÃ© de Londres.

A review of recent progress towards the regional targets set for health for all 
by the Member States of the European Region of WHO, as regards preliminary 
conditions for health, and for indicators of mortality, morbidity and 
disability. Life expectancy, infant and maternal mortality, and mortality from 
ischaemic heart disease and from traffic accidents show an improvement, as does 
the incidence of several infectious diseases, but the situation has worsened or 
stagnated as regards suicide and cancer, and there is a lack of information on 
disability and chronic morbidity. Despite some progress, the goal of equity in 
health is still very far from being attained.

PMID: 2692104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Diabete Metab. 1989;15(5 Pt 2):338-42.

Impact of hypertension on prognosis in IDDM.

Hasslacher C(1), Borgholte G, Ritz E, Wahl P.

Author information:
(1)Medical University Clinic, Heidelberg, FRG.

In Type I diabetes, hypertension is usually associated with the development of 
diabetic nephropathy. In proteinuric patients hypertension has a deleterious 
effect on the progression of microangiopathy and macroangiopathy, which in turn 
impairs their quality of life and long-term prognosis. As shown in numerous 
studies, hypertension accelerates loss of renal function. After kidney 
transplantation, the percentage of functioning grafts is much lower in diabetic 
patients who remain hypertensive. Furthermore, the rate of development of 
proliferative retinopathy, a common complication in proteinuric diabetics, 
increases in the presence of hypertension. Finally, hypertensive blood pressure 
values at the start of maintenance hemodialysis are significant predictors of 
cardio-vascular death among diabetics of renal replacement therapy. It has 
recently been demonstrated that during the last two decades blood pressure 
control has improved in proteinuric Type I diabetic patients. These results are 
associated with better renal prognosis and higher life expectancy.

PMID: 2693153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1989 Oct;34(2):255-9. doi: 
10.1016/0091-3057(89)90308-0.

Characterization of the spontaneous diabetes obesity syndrome in mature male 
CBA/Ca mice.

Connelly DM(1), Taberner PV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Bristol Medical School, UK.

A spontaneous maturity onset diabetes obesity syndrome occurs in a small 
proportion (10-20%) of male CBA/Ca mice. Inbreeding can increase the incidence 
to 80%. It occurs at 12-16 weeks of age, and is characterized by hyperphagia, 
obesity, hyperglycaemia, hypertriglyceridaemia, hyperinsulinaemia, and an 
impaired glucose tolerance. The mice are also resistant to exogenous insulin. 
Female mice remain normal except for a slight increase in serum insulin. The 
male obese diabetic mice have a normal life expectancy. It is proposed that 
CBA/Ca mice can provide examples of a useful model for investigating the 
aetiology of type 2 diabetes and obesity, and the effectiveness of antidiabetic 
and antiobesity drugs.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-3057(89)90308-0
PMID: 2695942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Z Kardiol. 1989;78 Suppl 7:47-51.

[Long-term results following surgical treatment of tetralogy of Fallot].

[Article in German]

Lange PE(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik fÃ¼r Angeborene Herzfehler/Kinderkardiologie im Deutschen Herzzentrum 
Berlin.

The few published long-term studies regarding survival after corrective surgery 
of tetralogy of Fallot are based on patients operated 15 to 30 years ago during 
the developmental phase of the corrective technique. Interpretation of the 
results and conclusions for the present time based on these interpretations are 
thus difficult. It should be possible, however, to improve the reported life 
expectancy of less than 90% after 15 to 30 years for those who survived 
corrective surgery. Preservation of myocardial function, especially that of the 
right ventricle is most important for the improvement of life expectancy. 
Influencing factors are - besides degree of severity and duration of 
preoperative overload - residual defects, sequela and complications. The 
classical residual defects such as ventricular septal defect or stenosis of the 
right ventricular outflow tract are rarely observed today. Cardiac complications 
such as AV-block and arrhythmia may not always be preventable; local and diffuse 
fibrotic alterations of the right ventricular myocardium are probably the cause, 
which in turn may be induced by ventriculotomy, infundibulectomy as well as 
pressure overload and hypoxemia. Duration of overload is most likely the main 
contributing factor. The most important sequela is the postoperative pulmonary 
insufficiency. The larger the volume overload the more pronounced is the 
impairment of right myocardial function. Allograft implantation appears to be 
the most promising technique to prevent pulmonary insufficiency at the present 
time.

PMID: 2696257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 1989;227(6):569-74. doi:
10.1007/BF02169454.

Effect of postoperative subconjunctival 5-fluorouracil injections on the 
surgical outcome of trabeculectomy in the Japanese.

Nakano Y(1), Araie M, Shirato S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Japan.

A controlled study was carried out to evaluate the effect of postoperative 
subconjunctival 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) injections on the surgical outcomes of 
trabeculectomy in the Japanese (a total of 196 eyes in 157 patients). The eyes 
that had undergone trabeculectomy with postoperative 5-FU (5-FU group) included 
36 eyes with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and 17 with secondary glaucoma 
(SG) undergoing their first or second trabeculectomy. There were also 34 eyes 
with refractory glaucoma. The eyes that had had trabeculectomy without 
postoperative 5-FU (control group) included 46 POAG and 31 SG eyes undergoing 
their first or second trabeculectomy and 24 refractory glaucoma eyes. The 
surgical techniques and postoperative care were virtually identical between the 
two groups, except that the control group did not receive 5-FU. The results were 
analyzed by means of a life table method and a postoperative intraocular 
pressure (IOP) level equal to or less than 20 mmHg was adopted as the criterion 
for successful IOP control. In the 5-FU group, the success probability (%) at 
the 3-year follow-up was 93.9 +/- 4.2 (SE) for POAG eyes, 93.8 +/- 6.1 for SG 
eyes, and 86.7 +/- 5.6 for refractory glaucoma eyes. In the control group, it 
was 55.0 +/- 7.9, 37.2 +/- 13.5, and 16.1 +/- 7.4, respectively. The difference 
in success probability between the 5-FU and control groups was highly 
significant (P less than 0.001 or 0.01). In the POAG and SG eyes, the mean 
postoperative IOP was significantly lower in the 5-FU group than in the control 
group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF02169454
PMID: 2696671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1989;32:121-6. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-74621-5_20.

Leukemia cytogenetics in children: results of the German therapy studies.

Harbott J(1), Ritterbach J, Lampert F.

Author information:
(1)University Children's Hospital, Giessen.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-74621-5_20
PMID: 2696676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. J Mal Vasc. 1989;14 Suppl C:123-7.

[Epidemiology of Horton's disease. Is there an environmental factor, infective 
in particular?].

[Article in French]

Barrier JH(1), Ponge T, Billaudel S, de Haldat du Lys F, Mussini JM, Grolleau 
JY.

Author information:
(1)Service de MÃ©decine Interne II, HÃ´tel-Dieu, C.H.U., Nantes.

Epidemiological studies of temporal arteritis have essentially only been 
reported in the English literature. The authors of this study were concerned 
with this aspect of temporal arteritis in the Loire-Atlantique region of France 
over a period of 10 years (1970-1979). The high prevalence in white races has 
been confirmed. The annual incidence in France is comparable to that seen in 
Northern Europe and the USA. The incidence of the disease is especially high 
between 70 and 80 years. The apparent female predominance is related to the 
greater life expectancy in women. The study of several conjugal cases does not 
suggest the intervention of an infectious agent. The same is true for isolated 
cases where the responsibility of a bacterial or viral agent has not been 
demonstrated. Other environmental factors (sun exposure, life-style, 
socio-professional classification) do not affect the incidence of the disease. 
The genetic background would seem to be of particular importance. This study 
found a significantly higher prevalence of HLA DR4 antigen, confirming the 
results of American and British studies. However, in contrast to previous 
studies, this series did not confirm an increase in HLA B8 antigen.

PMID: 2696769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Eur J Haematol Suppl. 1989;51:105-10. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.1989.tb01501.x.

The Merlini, WaldenstrÃ¶m, Jayakar staging system revisited.

Merlini G, Gobbi PG, Ascari E.

At present, none of the routinely used staging systems is entirely satisfactory, 
since all of them require some reconsideration to account for the most recent 
prognostic factors. Among these, serum beta-2 microglobulin (S-beta-2M) has 
proved to be a powerful prognostic test assessable in most centers. In order to 
improve the Merlini, WaldenstrÃ¶m, Jayakar (MWJ) staging system, we have 
determined the prognostic significance of several factors in an independent 
population of 345 retrospective myeloma patients seen at our institution from 
1973 to 1988. The Cox regression hazards method showed that S-Creatinine, 
S-Albumin levels and percentage of bone marrow plasma cells accounted for 94% of 
total chi 2 achieved with all eight variables (including also: paraprotein 
index, S-Calcium, S-M-component, bone lesions and hemoglobin). The same 
analysis, applied to patients in whom S-beta-2M was available at presentation, 
selected S-beta-2M, S-Creatinine and percentage of bone marrow plasma cells 
(accounting for 92% of total chi 2), followed by platelet count, S-Albumin and 
S-M-component. The best discriminatory level of S-beta-2M was found to be 4 
mg/l. However, the prognostic power of S-beta-2M when used with binary values 
was remarkably reduced with respect to its application as a continuous variable. 
In patients with MWJ stage 1 and 2 disease, S-beta-2M had an independent 
prognostic significance. Grouping stage I and II patients with S-beta-2M less 
than or more than 4 mg/l presented a median survival of 70 and 40 months, 
respectively. In stage 3 patients S-beta-2M did not contribute additional 
prognostic information.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.1989.tb01501.x
PMID: 2697581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Postepy Hig Med Dosw. 1989;43(1):103-17.

[Development of epidemiologic studies of multiple sclerosis].

[Article in Polish]

Cendrowski W.

The description of temporal trends of average, annual age-adjusted or crude 
multiple sclerosis mortality rates in Europe (1921-1984) was presented. The 
significance of long-run epidemiological surveys was discussed in the paper.

PMID: 2697871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1989;569:288-310. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1989.tb27376.x.

Investments in women, economic development, and improvements in health in 
low-income countries.

Schultz TP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520.

PIP: Investments in human resources are more likely to have higher rates of 
return than investments in capital resources like factories, equipment, 
inventories, and infrastructure. There are a variety of studies that estimate 
the ratio of return from primary and secondary schooling to be between 5-40% 
annually. The primary factor affecting return is the level of development of the 
country in question. Developing countries are able to achieve higher rates of 
return than already developed countries. Determining the rates of return on 
public and private health investments and related research and developments is 
much harder because the major improvements that have occurred in the past were 
accompanied by other significant improvements in trade, nutrition, and income. 
However, there is a growing body of evidence that suggests that improvements in 
health were significantly responsible for the economic growth following World 
War II. Analysis of education expenditures indicates that the less educated a 
country's women are, the lower its standard of living. 90% of the intracountry 
variation in enrollment rates for men and women for 80 countries between 
1960-1980 indicate that this is the case. Studies conducted during the 1970s and 
1980s by demographers, economists, anthropologists, and sociologists clearly 
show a trend in education of women and child mortality. Every additional year of 
female education translates to a 5-10% reduction in child mortality. It is clear 
that women play a central role in the health determinants of family members. The 
education of women is a strong, although not clearly understood, force affecting 
child mortality, nutrition, health, and school achievement. Household resources 
and maternal education must always be determined before any study of health care 
delivery effectiveness is conducted. The same is true for any studies of the 
effectiveness of local family planning expenditures.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1989.tb27376.x
PMID: 2698095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Clin Neuropharmacol. 1989;12 Suppl 2:S1-12. doi: 
10.1097/00002826-198912002-00002.

Depression in Turkey in the 1980s: epidemiological and clinical approaches.

KÃ¼ey L(1), GÃ¼leÃ§ C.

Author information:
(1)Dispensary of Mental Health and Research, Ankara, Turkey.

A review is presented of knowledge about the following issues in Turkey: 
prevalence of depression, suicidal attempts and suicide, clinical picture of 
depression, and etiological factors responsible for causing depression. 
Epidemiological studies of depression are reviewed and their results are 
discussed in detail, with special emphasis on conclusions with valid 
generalizations. As in almost all countries, depression, though exhibiting some 
differences clinically, is a major public health problem in Turkey. The point 
prevalence rate for depressive symptoms is nearly 20% and clinical depression 
has a rate of approximately 10%. Besides, about one-third of depressive patients 
are chronically ill. Specific risk groups for depression by various 
sociodemographic characteristics include women, widowed persons aged 40 years 
and over, close relatives of depressive persons, and members of lower 
socio-economic classes. An increase in the prevalence rates of depression in 
Turkey is expected due to changes in public attitudes, which do not consider 
depression a medical disorder at present; increase in life expectancy; rapid 
changes in socio-economic, cultural environments; and in family structures and 
lifestyles.

DOI: 10.1097/00002826-198912002-00002
PMID: 2698267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Milbank Q. 1989;67(2):208-32.

The compression of morbidity: near or far?

Fries JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, CA 94305.

Compressing the period of infirmity into an ever-shorter period between the 
onset of morbidity and death might reduce the nation's illness burden; for this 
to occur, age-specific incidence of morbid states must decrease more rapidly 
than age-specific mortality rates. Recent data demonstrate that the onset of 
some major chronic illnesses is now being postponed and that increases in 
females' life expectancy have slowed. Large randomized controlled trials have 
shown an impact of primary prevention on morbidity exceeding that on mortality. 
These and other trends provide evidence for some degree of current compression 
of morbidity and suggest types of public health strategies required for further 
progress, including successful aging programs.

PMID: 2698444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Milbank Q. 1989;67(2):318-44.

Studying the cost of HIV-related illnesses: reflections on the moving target.

Scitovsky AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Department, Palo Alto Medical Foundation/Research Institute, 
CA 94301.

Although medical care costs of the HIV epidemic by 1991 may reach $6 billion, or 
1.2 percent of all estimated personal health care expenditures in the United 
States, costs per patient of treating AIDS appear to be declining. Calculating 
the epidemic's costs is difficult, however, in that data are lacking on health 
care expenditures for HIV-infected persons other than those with AIDS, 
intravenous drug users, women, and children. Shifts in demographic segments 
affected, changes in medical treatments, and diffusion beyond initial urban 
centers will alter the economics of AIDS. Prospective studies at both national 
and local levels are needed to gauge the epidemic's costs and demands on health 
services.

PMID: 2698447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Medicina (Firenze). 1989 Oct-Dec;9(4):375-9.

[Treatment of mycobacteriosis].

[Article in Italian]

Covi M, Velluti G, Bisetti A.

At present the increased incidence of infections with mycobacteria other than 
tuberculosis and leprae bacilli seems to be correlated with several causes: 
improved diagnostic techniques, prolonged life expectancy, immunodepression. 
Rational chemotherapy depends upon the identification of the etiologic 
mycobacterium and the determination of its drug susceptibility. Besides the 
"classic" treatment with 3 or 4 antituberculous and, sometimes, 
nonantituberculous chemotherapics, clinical trials are in progress to assess the 
effectiveness of new molecules: rifamycin derivatives, fluorinated quinolones, 
anti-lepromatous drugs, and the latest macrolides. Yet at present, national and 
international data do not permit to define a standard treatment for every 
mycobacteriosis; in fact, the drug resistance is high and varies not only 
between different strains but also within the same strain; moreover, there are 
discrepancies between in vitro and in vivo results. When possible, appropriated 
surgery for circumscribed disease is recommended.

PMID: 2699349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Adv Dent Res. 1989 Sep;3(2):265-71. doi: 10.1177/08959374890030022801.

Dental enamel hypoplasias in prehistoric populations.

Goodman AH.

Recent years have witnessed an impressive increase in research on enamel 
hypoplasias in archaeological populations. By reviewing a series of studies of 
enamel hypoplasias at Dickson Mounds, Illinois, North America (950-1300 A.D.), a 
prehistoric site involved in the transition from gathering-hunting to 
agriculture, this paper provides an illustration of this type of research. The 
location of linear hypoplasias on labial tooth surfaces of 111 adults was 
studied with a thin-tipped caliper, and this location was converted to an age at 
development. Most defects developed between two and four years of developmental 
age. Hypoplasias increased in prevalence from 45% in the pre-agriculture group 
to 80% in the agricultural group (p less than 0.01). The transition to 
agriculture occurred at a cost to infant and childhood health. Defects are 
associated with decreased longevity. Individuals with defects have a life 
expectancy of nearly ten years fewer than those without defects, suggesting that 
the development of a defect marks a significant and lasting health event. Enamel 
hypoplasias occur most frequently on anterior teeth, polar teeth in 
developmental fields, and the middle developmental thirds of teeth. Analysis of 
these data suggests that enamel may be differentially susceptible to growth 
disruption and that susceptibility varies both within and among teeth. The study 
of enamel defects at Dickson provides insights into the health and nutritional 
consequences of the economic change from hunting and gathering to agriculture. 
More generally, with the availability of teeth from genetically homogeneous 
populations, studies of enamel hypoplasias in prehistory should provide a useful 
complement to research on this condition in contemporary peoples.

DOI: 10.1177/08959374890030022801
PMID: 2701160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Acta Paediatr Scand Suppl. 1989;363:45-50; discussion 50-1. doi: 
10.1111/apa.1989.78.s363.45.

Hepatobiliary pathology in patients with cystic fibrosis.

Sinaasappel M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University Hospital/Sophia Children's Hospital, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Overt liver disease in cystic fibrosis is a rare condition. Only 1-5% of all 
patients show a severe disturbance of the liver cell function or portal 
hypertension. In contrast, liver architecture is much more often disturbed at 
post mortem examination. The experience is that liver pathology increases with 
age which will result in rising numbers of patients in the future parallel to 
the increasing life expectancy of the patients. Bile plugs are commonly found in 
the portal tract and probably represent the essential abnormality of the liver 
in CF. Recently new methods have been developed for the investigation of the 
