bile synthesis which will be helpful in the understanding of the CF defect in 
the liver.

DOI: 10.1111/apa.1989.78.s363.45
PMID: 2701924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Pol Tyg Lek. 1989 May 22-29;44(21-22):475-83.

[Molecular pathology of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (type I)].

[Article in Polish]

Tato≈Ñ J.

Since sufficiently long time the average life expectancy in IDDM did not change. 
Only new data concerning the causes and pathogenesis of the disease may improve 
such set-back. The most promising field of creating the better insight into 
etiology of IDDM are molecular pathological studies. This review attempts to 
summarize the state of art in this area choosing the problems of clinical 
relevance. Many of them are controversial, disturbing the immunogenetic 
hypothesis of IDDM etiology, majority positively support this idea. 6 topics are 
critically discussed in respective sub-chapters: 1) genetic control of 
autoimmunization processes as pertinent to beta cells; 2) genesis, actions and 
clinical significance of various types of autoantibodies against autoantigens; 
3) character of beta cell antigens; 4) suggested mechanism of beta cell 
destruction; 5) new idea of prediabetic state and 6) lessons from 
immunosuppressive therapeutical trials. Author brings the story of etiological 
mechanisms of IDDM up to date pointing that more direct and specific information 
is needed to be applicable in practice.

PMID: 2702336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Eur J Cancer Clin Oncol. 1989 Feb;25(2):337-41. doi: 
10.1016/0277-5379(89)90027-8.

The familial dysplastic nevus syndrome. Natural history and the impact of 
screening on prognosis. A study of nine families in the Netherlands.

Vasen HF(1), Bergman W, van Haeringen A, Scheffer E, van Slooten EA.

Author information:
(1)Foundation for the Detection of Hereditary Tumours, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Since 1982, nine families with the dysplastic nevus syndrome have been 
identified in the Leiden area (The Netherlands). A total of 50 primary melanomas 
were diagnosed in 38 persons. Nineteen of these melanomas had been diagnosed 
before the start of the screening programme (category I), 11 were detected at 
the initial examination of the families (category II), and 20 were found during 
the course of follow-up (category III). To assess the effect of screening, we 
compared these categories with respect to the developmental stage of the 
melanomas. One of the 19 melanomas in category I, two of the 11 in category II 
and seven of the 20 in category III were melanoma in situ. The average thickness 
of the invasive melanomas in categories I, II and III was 1.75, 0.80 and 0.54 mm 
respectively. Sixteen of the 19 melanomas in category I (84%) were Clark III or 
IV, whereas 15 of the 20 melanomas in category III (75%) were Clark I or II. 
From these findings it may be concluded that screening can lead to the detection 
of melanomas at an earlier stage, which in turn can permit curative treatment 
and improvement of both prognosis and life expectancy. The need for supervision 
based on central registration of affected families to guarantee the continuity 
of screening is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-5379(89)90027-8
PMID: 2702987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 1989 Feb;52(2):230-5. doi:
10.1136/jnnp.52.2.230.

Subarachnoid haemorrhage of unknown cause: a long term follow-up.

Hawkins TD(1), Sims C, Hanka R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, UK.

Three hundred and sixteen patients who suffered a subarachnoid haemorrhage of 
unknown cause were followed up by questionnaire after 2 to 23 years, the average 
interval being 10 years. Two hundred and fifty one (79.5%) are known to be 
alive, 49 (15.5%) had died, and 16 (5%) patients were untraceable. The 
cumulative survival for the whole group after 22 years was 69%, the expected 
survival being 89%. The certified cause of death of 30 patients was from 
diseases of the circulatory system, mainly myocardial infarction and 
cerebrovascular disease, the expected number being 21.8. The results of this 
survey show a reduced life expectancy for both males and females and suggest 
that a more guarded view should be taken than is presently the case about the 
long term prognosis of these patients.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.52.2.230
PMCID: PMC1032511
PMID: 2703839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Ophthalmology. 1989 Feb;96(2):217-22. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(89)32910-1.

Optic nerve involvement in retinoblastoma.

Magramm I(1), Abramson DH, Ellsworth RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Manhattan Eye, Ear & Thorat Hospital, New York, 
NY 10021.

This retrospective review of 814 retinoblastoma patients discloses 240 cases of 
tumor extension into the optic nerve. Optic nerve involvement was classified 
according to the degree of invasion; grade I is superficial invasion of the 
optic nerve head only, grade II is involvement up to and including the lamina 
cribrosa, grade III is involvement beyond the lamina cribrosa, and grade IV is 
involvement up to and including the surgical margin. The incidence of optic 
nerve involvement was 29.5% (240/814). The mortality rate of patients with optic 
nerve involvement with grade I was 10%; grade II, 29%; grade III, 42%; and grade 
IV, 78%. Actuarial life-table analysis shows an increased mortality rate with 
increasing grade of optic nerve involvement. Multivariate statistical analysis 
shows that the grade of optic nerve involvement and the age at diagnosis of 
optic nerve involvement are the factors most significantly associated with 
survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(89)32910-1
PMID: 2704542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Radiat Res. 1989 Apr;118(1):151-60.

Life shortening in mice exposed to fission neutrons and gamma rays. VIII. 
Exposures to continuous gamma radiation.

Thomson JF(1), Grahn D.

Author information:
(1)Biological, Environmental, and Medical Research Division, Argonne National 
Laboratory, Illinois 60439-4833.

Data are presented on the mean aftersurvival of male B6CF1 mice exposed for 22 h 
per day, 5 days per week, to 60Co gamma radiation at dose rates of 1.36 to 12.64 
x 10(-3) cGy/min for 23 weeks or 1.36 to 6.32 x 10(-3) cGy/min for 59 weeks. For 
deaths from all causes, linear dose-response curves were obtained with slopes 
(days of life lost/cGy) of 0.158 +/- 0.016 and 0.077 +/- 0.002 for 23- and 
59-week exposures, respectively. These values were not significantly altered 
when the analysis was restricted to those mice dying with tumors (92% of the 
total) or to those presumably dying from tumors (82% of the total). Analysis of 
mortality rates showed that about 90% of the radiation-specific excess mortality 
was tumor related. The 59-week exposure series induced only a small increase in 
the number of days of life lost/cGy/weekly fraction over that induced by 23 
weeks of irradiation, 4.53 +/- 0.15 compared to 3.64 +/- 0.36 days 
lost/cGy/weekly fraction. This lower than expected value for 59 weeks of 
exposure may signal the approach to the final linear, additive, injury term 
postulated from earlier studies at this laboratory with low-dose-rate, daily, 
duration-of-life 60Co gamma irradiation.

PMID: 2704786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Am J Cardiol. 1989 May 2;63(16):5H-8H. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(89)90108-2.

Epidemiologic considerations in cardiovascular diseases in the elderly: 
international comparisons and trends.

Simons LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.

As developed countries experience an "aging" of their populations, concern over 
cardiovascular disease, an important cause of death in the elderly, has grown. 
Improvements in the mortality rates of ischemic heart disease have been observed 
over the last 10 or 15 years in many nations, including Australia, the United 
States, Canada and Belgium. In other countries, mortality rates have remained 
unchanged and in some Eastern European countries, mortality rates have 
increased. In most instances where mortality rates have decreased, the reduction 
has been observed in both genders and has occurred across a wide age grouping, 
even in those aged 75 years and older. Truly representative data on risk factors 
for cardiovascular disease in the elderly are difficult to find; a new study has 
commenced in Australia and may provide more information.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(89)90108-2
PMID: 2705395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Conn Med. 1989 Jan;53(1):39-41.

State-specific estimates of smoking-attributable mortality and years of 
potential life lost--United States, 1985.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2706980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Exp Gerontol. 1989;24(1):83-92. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(89)90037-5.

Life extension by dietary restriction in the bowl and doily spider, Frontinella 
pyramitela.

Austad SN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138.

Longevity of free-living female adult bowl and doily spiders was compared with 
that of captive spiders fed at dietary regimes of one, three, and five 
Drosophila melanogaster per week. Adult females lived, on average, only 8 days 
in the field and the pattern of survivorship showed no evidence that senescence 
contributed to mortality. In the laboratory, mean adult life span was 81.3, 
63.9, and 42.3 days on the one, three, and five Drosophila diets, respectively. 
Decreased feeding rate also delayed egg laying and reduced total fecundity. 
Survival and reproductive patterns indicated the manifestation of spider 
senescence at all laboratory feeding levels, with a younger onset of senescence 
at the higher feeding rates.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(89)90037-5
PMID: 2707314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Farmakol Toksikol. 1989 Jan-Feb;52(1):56-8.

[Antihypoxic properties of GABA-containing vitamin derivatives].

[Article in Russian]

Karaev AL, Kovler MA, Avakumov VM, Kopelevich VM, Bulanova LN.

The antihypoxic properties of GABA-containing vitamin derivatives 
(pyridoxalphosphate-GABA, picamilone, pantogam, sodium homopantothenate) as 
compared with GABA were studied. All agents were found to increase mouse life 
expectancy under hypoxia in contrast to GABA.

PMID: 2707423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Farmakol Toksikol. 1989 Jan-Feb;52(1):90-3.

[Effect of sodium oxybutyrate on the development of a staphylococcal 
intoxication].

[Article in Russian]

Brill' GE.

Sodium oxybutyrate (200 and 400 mg/kg) was found to increase life expectancy of 
the animals poisoned with staphylococcus toxin. The improvement of the blood 
supply to the bulbar structure of the brain as well as normalization of 
hemorheological parameters probably underlie the protective effect of the drug.

PMID: 2707433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. J Perinatol. 1989 Mar;9(1):33-7.

Anencephalic infants: life expectancy and organ donation.

Pomerance JJ(1), Morrison A, Williams RL, Schifrin BS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA 90048.

Between 1978 and 1982, 205 anencephalic infants weighing more than 2,500 g were 
born alive in California. Although typically none were offered significant 
support, almost 9% lived more than one week. It seems reasonable to assume that 
modern intensive care would have increased survival times dramatically. In fact, 
preliminary data from centers specializing in neonatal organ transplantation 
demonstrate that seven to 14 days of ventilatory support can be accomplished for 
anencephalic infants without occurrence of brainstem death. Given these data and 
medical information that clearly establishes anencephalic infants as a "special 
case" of children who have not suffered brain death but could reasonably be used 
as organ donors, we believe that parents who wish to do so should be allowed to 
continue ventilatory support for their anencephalic children for whatever period 
of time is necessary to find organ recipients and arrange for organ donation. 
Arbitrary cutoff points for intensive care and artificial criteria for brain 
death should not be necessary to allow the use of anencephalic infants as organ 
donors. We believe that current laws should be changed to permit this scenario.

PMID: 2709149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1989 Mar 14;78(11):290-4.

[Health benefits and risks in sports: the other side of the coin].

[Article in German]

Marti B.

Regular exercise has varied health effects, ranging from well-documented 
benefits to suggested risks. Probably the most important benefit is the 
reduction of the risk of coronary death by approximately one half among male 
exercisers, who also have a slightly elevated life-expectancy. This 
cardioprotective effect of physical exercise is not offset by the immediate 
increase in risk of sudden death during strenuous exercise. Sports-related 
complaints and injuries of the locomotor system must however also be born in 
mind. Different sports have different injury rates, but often a dose-effect 
relationship can be seen within one type of activity. The long-term effects of 
exercise on bones and joints are of uncertain dignity, since they may range from 
desirable prevention of osteoporosis to sports-induced premature osteoarthritis. 
The potentially important health effects of exercise at old age are largely 
unknown. From a prevention perspective, one to two weekly hours of vigorous 
exercise or an additional energy expenditure of at least 1000 kcal per week 
(also with moderate-intensity exercise such as walking) can safely be 
recommended. At present, only one third to one half of the adult Swiss 
population are physically that active.

PMID: 2711074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. World Health Stat Q. 1989;42(1):26-41.

Excess mortality ratio with reference to the lowest age-sex-specific death rates 
among countries.

Uemura K(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiological Surveillance and Health Situation and Trend 
Assessment, World Health Organization, Geneva.

Indicators based on mortality data have long been used to measure the level of 
health status and to monitor and evaluate the progress and achievements of 
health programmes. Their usefulness is particularly obvious when dealing with 
preventable deaths. This article proposes the use of the lowest death rate 
recorded among industrialized countries for each age/sex group as an achievable 
target and as a reference for assessing the amount of excess mortality. The 
resulting indicator, excess mortality ratio (EMR), reveals some features of the 
mortality pattern which may not be easily noticed by means of other mortality 
indicators. Two sets of the lowest age-sex-specific death rates are considered, 
namely one comprising the lowest rates recorded in each calendar year (the 
current minimum) and the other comprising the lowest rates ever recorded since 
1950 (the historical minimum). The former may be used for monitoring whether a 
country is moving ahead in mortality reduction in pace with low mortality 
countries, while the latter may be considered as a realistic goal for a 
country's mortality reduction. In computing the EMR, the lowest death rates are 
first applied to the age-sex composition of the population of a given country 
for a given calendar year to obtain the number of deaths which would have been 
expected under the lowest mortality pattern; the expected number is then 
subtracted from the actual number of deaths recorded in the country during the 
calendar year to yield the "excess". The indicator is finally calculated by 
taking the ratio of the excess to the expected minimum. The historical minimum 
death rates found from the records maintained in WHO's mortality data base are 
shown in Table 2 (for country codes used, see Table 1). The minimum rates have 
themselves declined with time as seen in Table 4, especially in young age 
groups, and the declining trend has been more marked in females. These trends 
are seen also in individual countries' data (Table 3). A comparison of the 
cause-of-death pattern of a country with that of the world's lowest death rate 
will reveal the causes to which the country's excess mortality is attributable, 
as seen in Table 5. At the same time, the table also shows that even the lowest 
rates are made up of causes which are largely preventable. The world's lowest 
rate therefore may be regarded as conservative targets for mortality 
reduction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 2711702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. World Health Stat Q. 1989;42(1):50-6.

Years of potential life lost: application of an indicator for assessing 
premature mortality in Spain and Portugal.

Garcia Rodriguez LA(1), Cayolla da Motta L.

Author information:
(1)Medical Department, Ciba-Geigy Ltd, Basel, Switzerland.

In this article, the authors present an analysis of causes of death in Spain and 
Portugal in 1984 based on a calculation of the "years of potential life lost" 
(YPLL) between the first and the 70th birthdays, the latter age corresponding 
approximately to the average life expectancy in both countries. This analysis of 
the YPLL led to a substantially different ranking of the main causes of death, 
based on what might be termed "premature mortality" compared with that obtained 
from more conventional mortality indices. According to this criterion, which is 
especially appropriate for the planning and evaluation of health interventions, 
the main causes of premature death (1-69 years) in the two countries of the 
Iberian peninsula are malignant tumours and, particularly in Portugal, violent 
deaths (especially motor-vehicle accidents, but also suicides). This is in 
contrast to the predominance of cardiovascular diseases indicated by other 
weightings of age-specific mortality rates. Portugal shows significantly worse 
YPLL rates than Spain not only for general mortality (45% higher than in Spain), 
but also for several major groups of causes. In Spain only malignant neoplasms, 
diabetes and chronic rheumatic heart diseases show higher specific mortality 
rates than in Portugal, based on traditional mortality indicators.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2711705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Arch Surg. 1989 May;124(5):548-50; discussion 550-1. doi: 
10.1001/archsurg.1989.01410050038006.

Tamoxifen as an alternative to surgical resection for selected geriatric 
patients with primary breast cancer.

Margolese RG(1), Foster RS Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

Thirty elderly patients with primary operable breast cancer were treated 
initially, because of refusal of surgery or because of infirmity, only with the 
antiestrogen tamoxifen citrate. Nineteen patients had regression of the primary 
tumor (complete in five and partial in 14). Eight patients were stable with no 
change, and three had measurable increases in the size of their primary tumors. 
Nine of the 30 eventually required locoregional treatment with surgery or 
radiotherapy for progression or recrudescence of their tumors after initial 
regression. No patient developed uncontrollable locoregional disease. For 
selected geriatric patients, treatment with tamoxifen alone permits a delay of 
surgery, which for some exceeds life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1989.01410050038006
PMID: 2712696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Immunol Lett. 1989 Jan 15;20(1):83-5. doi: 10.1016/0165-2478(89)90073-4.

Low incidence of null alleles of the fourth component of complement (C4) in 
elderly people.

Kramer J(1), Rajczy K, F√ºst G.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Haematology and Blood Transfusion, Budapest, Hungary.

Allotype frequencies of three complement proteins (C2, factor B, and C4) encoded 
on the sixth chromosome were tested in 150 "young" (under 53 yrs) and 131 "old" 
(over 62 yrs) healthy Hungarian individuals. In women, we found significant 
differences in BF*F allotype frequencies between the two age groups. A marked 
decrease of null alleles for C4 was observed especially in men. In the "old" age 
group, the total frequency of the non-expressed, "null" (Q0) alleles of the C4 
protein dropped to almost one third of the "young" ones. The decrease was even 
larger (a 5.5-fold decrease in the incidence) among men. The relative risk of 
those having C4B*Q0 allele not to survive a "critical age period" of 53-62 yrs 
for males and 58-62 yrs for females was calculated to be 12.4 and 2.85, 
respectively. Our data substantiate the view that the expected life time is 
genetically determined and it can be forecast partly by the analysis of the 
antigens encoded on the sixth chromosome.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-2478(89)90073-4
PMID: 2714841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Int J Health Serv. 1989;19(2):221-55. doi: 10.2190/N1NJ-LW6J-URLA-D1EL.

Better health--but not for all: the Swedish Public Health Report, 1987.

Diderichsen F(1), Lindberg G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, Karolinska Institute, Sundbyberg, Sweden.

This article is a summary of the Public Health Report submitted to the Swedish 
Parliament in 1987. Health development, especially that of underprivileged 
groups, is regarded as an indicator of the quality of social and economic 
development of the country. Sweden is a very egalitarian country, but in spite 
of decreasing inequalities in living standards, the Report shows increasing 
inequalities in health. At the same time, the state has put restraints on health 
care spending, and the shift in the health care budget toward more primary care 
has stopped. This development seriously impairs the ability of the health and 
medical services to cope with inequities described in this Report.

DOI: 10.2190/N1NJ-LW6J-URLA-D1EL
PMID: 2714922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Holist Nurs Pract. 1989 Feb;3(2):30-8. doi:
10.1097/00004650-198902000-00008.

Home care and the older adult: illness care versus wellness care.

Benson ER, McDevitt JQ.

If older citizens are to maximize their potential for optimal functioning and 
independence, there will surely be a greater need for holistic nursing care. How 
can nurses fulfill this need in view of existing barriers? What can they do to 
ensure that home- and community-based holistic nursing care will be available to 
elderly citizens for whom the quality of life is at risk? Although there are no 
easy answers, there are several strategies that nurses might find useful in this 
current predicament. These strategies fall into four categories: Documentation. 
When restrictions are imposed, nurses must be prepared to challenge fiscal 
intermediaries. To do this, they must have strong documentation of the rationale 
for service. Every effort must be made to document those services that are 
reasonable and necessary for the treatment of a client's illness or injury. 
Client advocacy. Because of the restrictions on service that are imposed by the 
principal sources of public funding, nurses must seek wide support from other 
community sources. Gaining such support requires a knowledge of community 
structure, the display of activism and leadership, and a willingness to engage 
in the political process. Lobbying. As an extension of client advocacy, nurses 
must create an effective lobbying force to educate public policy makers and 
legislators. Nurses must persuade elected representatives that there is a need 
to develop a broader interpretation of what constitutes a "skilled nursing 
service." Research. Nursing research, sweeping but creative, must become part of 
every professional nurse's responsibility. Ways to measure the outcomes of 
holistic nursing must be found.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1097/00004650-198902000-00008
PMID: 2715218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Zh Obshch Biol. 1989 Jan-Feb;50(1):22-6.

[Distribution of the species-specific lifespan in various taxonomic animal 
groups].

[Article in Russian]

Muradian KhK.

A distribution of specific lifespan has been studied in different taxonomic 
groups of animals. A positive skewness has been observed in animal kingdom as 
well as in smaller taxonomic groups. The skewness is higher in groups with 
relatively short lifespan (Insecta, Rotatoria, Mollusca). A coefficient of 
variation and excess is also higher in the above groups. A comparison of these 
coefficients with paleontological age of the group allows to conclude that 
evolutionary progress of animals was accompanied by the increase in skewness, 
variation and excess of specific lifespan distribution.

PMID: 2718630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Am J Clin Nutr. 1989 May;49(5 Suppl):1042-7. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/49.5.1042.

Changes of nutrition patterns and health indicators at the population level in 
Greece.

Trichopoulou AD(1), Efstathiadis PP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Biochemistry, Athens School of Public Health, 
Greece.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/49.5.1042
PMID: 2718931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Bratisl Lek Listy. 1989 Mar;90(3):203-21.

[Nutrition in the prevention of ischemic heart disease].

[Article in Slovak]

Ginter E.

The survey presents current knowledge on the role of nutrition in prevention of 
hypercholesterolemia and ischemic heart disease. From the standpoint of their 
role in atherogenesis, nutritional factors can be divided into protective and 
risk factors. The group of protective factors includes n-3 and n-6 
polyunsaturated fatty acids, oleic acid, plant sterols, plant lecithins, some 
fiber components (e.g. pectin), plant proteins (e.g. soybean), vitamin C, 
vitamin E, magnesium, potassium, calcium, chromium, and selenium. The group of 
risk factors comprises saturated fatty acids, cholesterol, sucrose, sodium, 
vitamin D, and ethanol. After World War II the development of food consumption 
in Czechoslovakia resulted in an imbalanced state persisting for some decades 
now which is characterized by a high involvement of risk factors (high 
consumption of meat, sausages, animal fats, eggs, common salt, and alcoholic 
beverages) and by a low involvement of protective factors (low consumption of 
vegetables, fruit, potatoes, legumes, fish, and roughly milled grain). The 
imbalance of risk and protective factors in nutrition is conceivably one of the 
main causes of the extremely high mortality from cardiovascular diseases in 
Czechoslovakia. The current unfavorable trend in the rate of ischemic heart 
disease and in life expectancy of the population in Czechoslovakia can not be 
reversed without substantial changes in the composition of nutrition.

PMID: 2720447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Early Hum Dev. 1989 Apr;19(1):3-7. doi: 10.1016/0378-3782(89)90099-6.

Laterality of arm movement in full-term newborn.

Ottaviano S(1), Guidetti V, Allemand F, Spinetoli B, Seri S.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Neuropsichiatria Infantile, Universit√† La Sapienza, Roma, Italy.

We have investigated 20 healthy full-term newborns between the 4th and the 6th 
day of life in standard conditions for laterality of arm movements, before and 
after introduction of a target. The durations of recording were: (a) 5 min 
continuously before target introduction; (b) five 1-min units during target 
presentation. The movements studied were extension, flexion, movement with 
semiflexed arm with hand half-open or open toward the midline of the body, and 
total movements. Each of these items were counted separately and the counts were 
compared within and between sides. Spontaneous movements showed no side 
preference whereas in the presence of the target, movements toward the midline 
(target directed movements) showed a significant right-hand preference.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-3782(89)90099-6
PMID: 2721420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Geriatrics. 1989 Jun;44(6):69-70, 75-7, 80-2.

Breast cancer in older women: trends in diagnosis.

Rybolt AH(1), Waterbury L.

Author information:
(1)University of Tennessee, College of Medicine, Chattanooga.

Breast cancer is a disease of elderly as well as middle-aged women. Even in 
patients of advanced age, breast cancer shortens life expectancy. Early 
diagnosis, through preventative screening with mammography and physical 
examination, offers the best hope of cure. Deterrents to use of mammography have 
included radiation risk, unnecessary biopsies, and cost. However, current low 
radiation doses minimize radiation risks; test specificity is much better in 
older women, leading to fewer unnecessary biopsies; and new Medicare guidelines 
lower out-of-pocket patient cost. With increased education of older women and 
health care providers, methods to decrease mortality from breast cancer in the 
elderly can become widespread.

PMID: 2721970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Int J Epidemiol. 1989 Mar;18(1):227-31. doi: 10.1093/ije/18.1.227.

Would a healthier population consume fewer health service resources? A 
life-table analysis using hospital in-patient enquiry (HIPE) bed-usage 
statistics as a proxy for hospital treatment costs.

St Leger AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, University of Manchester, UK.

The long-term effects upon acute-care hospital costs of reductions of morbidity 
and mortality from various causes are explored. The daily number of beds used 
per million population for all diagnostic categories is suggested as a proxy 
measure of hospital costs. An index of lifetime bed usage for a hypothetical 
cohort of persons living out their lives under specified age-specific mortality 
and morbidity patterns is derived. Examples of the application of this index are 
given for differing assumptions about mortality and morbidity in males. It is 
shown that reducing ischaemic heart disease or cancer morbidity will lead to 
increased overall hospital costs whereas reductions in the rate of occurrence of 
accidents, injuries and poisonings would reduce overall costs. The assumptions 
underlying the use of the index are discussed and extensions to the population 
model are proposed.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/18.1.227
PMID: 2722369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Int J Epidemiol. 1989 Mar;18(1):281-3. doi: 10.1093/ije/18.1.281.

Linear Index of Mortality as a measure of health status.

Power M.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/18.1.281
PMID: 2722379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Isr J Med Sci. 1989 May;25(5):261-3.

Cardiovascular, skeletal and ophthalmologic manifestations in patients with 
Marfan's syndrome.

Algom M(1), Schlesinger Z, Madjar J, Tal S, Krakowsky D, Fried K.

Author information:
(1)Heart Institute, Assaf Harofeh Medical Center, Zerifin, Israel.

Cardiovascular, skeletal and ophthalmologic manifestations of Marfan's syndrome 
were evaluated in 36 patients with Marfan's syndrome, including 22 females and 
14 males whose ages ranged from 3 to 70 years. The patients complained mainly of 
palpitations and chest pain. Mitral clicks and/or systolic murmurs were heard in 
31 patients (86%); skeletal findings were found in 35 patients (97%) and ECG 
T-wave changes in 11 (30%). Chest X-rays showed cardiac enlargement in six 
patients (17%) and dilatation of the aorta in two (6%). Holter monitoring 
performed in 21 patients showed only a few premature atrial and ventricular 
beats in 4, although prolapse of the mitral valve was found in 18 patients. 
Echocardiography revealed mitral valve prolapse in 32 patients (89%), 21 females 
(95% of females) and 11 males (79% of males). Aortic root dilatation was found 
in 19 patients (53%). 11 males (79% of males) and 8 females (36% of females). 
This study demonstrates the variable clinical expression of Marfan's syndrome 
and the importance of clinical and noninvasive methods, mainly echocardiography, 
for its evaluation.

PMID: 2722473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. J Biosoc Sci. 1989 Apr;21(2):245-52. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000017934.

Life expectancy in less developed countries: socioeconomic development or public 
health?

Rogers RG, Wofford S.

Various studies have enquired into the influence of socioeconomic development or 
public health measures on life expectancies in less developed countries. 
Analysis of the effect of these two groups of factors upon life expectancy, 
using data for 95 less developed countries, indicates that mortality is 
primarily influenced by such socioeconomic development measures as urbanization, 
industrialization, and education, and secondarily by such public health measures 
as access to safe water, physicians, and adequate nutrition.

PIP: Using data collected from 5 major sources on life expectancy and the 
variables affecting it for 95 less developed countries (LDCs), the researchers 
examine life expectancies against some of Goldscheider's indicators of 
modernization: 1) percentage of population living in urban areas, 2) percentage 
of population engaged in agriculture, 3) percentage of population that is 
literate, 4) percentage of population with access to safe water, 5) mean daily 
caloric intake per head, and 6) population per physician. Results show that 
percentage of population in agriculture is the most highly correlated variable 
with life expectancy, followed by literacy, and safe water. Using standard 
multiple regression, the authors found that altogether, those variables explain 
79% of the variation in life expectancy. The variables contributing the most to 
the variance in life expectancy are 2 of the socioeconomic variables--literacy 
and percentage of population in agriculture, suggesting that socioeconomic 
conditions have a greater influence on life expectancy than health conditions. 
Using a socioeconomic index (composed of urban, literacy, and industries other 
than agriculture) and a health conditions index (composed of safe water, calorie 
intake, and number of physicians per 100,000 population), clearly showed the 
importance of socioeconomic development over health variables. Urbanization is 
less influential with regard to life expectancy than was anticipated, perhaps 
because of unhealthy conditions in LDC cities. More emphasis should be placed 
upon education, since increasing literacy may eliminate more factors associated 
with malnutrition and disease than further importation of public health 
measures.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000017934
PMID: 2722920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Rev Prat. 1989 Mar 9;39(8):653-7.

[Development of Parkinson's disease].

[Article in French]

Guillard A.

After a number of good years, most patients with Parkinson's disease are faced 
with various problems. Some of these are due to the progress of the underlying 
anatomico-biochemical process and others to interference of the disease with 
dopatherapy. Motor impairment takes multiple aspects: disturbances of 
equilibrium and gait, akinesia with unusual presentation, involuntary movements, 
fluctuations of the motor status. Mental disorders may appear as depressive 
syndrome, mental confusion and/or varying degrees of intellectual alterations. 
Despite these disorders, the treatments that are currently available give these 
patients a normal life expectancy.

PMID: 2727572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Theor Popul Biol. 1989 Apr;35(2):119-41. doi: 10.1016/0040-5809(89)90013-0.

The propagation of uncertainty in human mortality processes operating in 
stochastic environments.

Yashin AI(1), Manton KG, Stallard E.

Author information:
(1)International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Laxenburg, Austria.

This paper presents a model describing how the uncertainty due to influential 
exogenous processes combines with stochasticity intrinsic to physiological aging 
processes and propagates through time to generate uncertainty about the future 
physiological state of the population. Variance expressions are derived for (a) 
the future values of the physiological variables under the assumption that 
external factors evolve under a linear stochastic diffusion process, and (b) the 
cohort survival functions and cohort life expectancies which reflect the 
uncertainty in the future values of the physiological variables. The model 
implies that a major component of uncertainty in forecasts of the physiological 
characteristics of a closed cohort is due to differential rates of survival 
associated with different realizations of the external process. This suggests 
that the limits to forecasting may be different in physiological systems subject 
to systematic mortality than in physical systems such as weather where the 
concepts of closed cohorts and of mortality selection have no simple analog.

DOI: 10.1016/0040-5809(89)90013-0
PMID: 2727949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Urology. 1989 Jun;33(6):455-8. doi: 10.1016/0090-4295(89)90128-3.

Extended follow-up of stage A1 carcinoma of prostate.

Thompson IM(1), Zeidman EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Brooke Army Medical Center, Fort Sam Houston, Texas.

The prognosis and proper treatment of Stage A1 carcinoma of the prostate remain 
unsettled. We report on 60 patients with Stage A1 prostate cancer (less than 5 
foci of well-differentiated tumor) diagnosed between 1960 and 1980. Mean 
duration of follow-up was 7.5 years with a range of one to twenty years. Three 
patients (5%) suffered disease progression at two, five, and nineteen years of 
follow-up, and all died of their tumor. Thirty-four patients (56%) have died of 
other causes. Number of tumor foci had no correlation with chance of disease 
progression. Extended follow-up of these patients suggests that the vast 
majority with Stage A1 carcinoma of the prostate will not suffer from morbidity 
or mortality of the disease but will more commonly succumb to other intervening 
disease processes.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-4295(89)90128-3
PMID: 2728146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Am J Public Health. 1989 Jun;79(6):687. doi: 10.2105/ajph.79.6.687.

Biological markers of overall aging.

Butler RN.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.79.6.687
PMCID: PMC1349619
PMID: 2729462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Arch Intern Med. 1989 Jun;149(6):1453-4.

Bilateral vocal cord paralysis with respiratory failure. A presenting 
manifestation of bronchogenic carcinoma.

Baumann MH(1), Heffner JE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Medical University of South 
Carolina, Charleston 29425.

A patient with lung cancer presented with upper airway obstruction and 
hypercapnic respiratory failure resulting from bilateral vocal cord paralysis. 
Computed tomography demonstrated tumor extension into the superior mediastinum, 
with probable disruption of both recurrent laryngeal nerves. Unlike the more 
common unilateral cord paralysis, bilateral cord dysfunction is often associated 
with preservation of voice and varying degrees of stridor that may lead to 
potentially life-threatening delays in diagnosis and treatment. Proper 
management requires urgent translaryngeal intubation if airway obstruction is 
high grade, with subsequent consideration of laryngeal surgical procedures for 
long-term care.

PMID: 2730268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Bibl Nutr Dieta. 1989;(43):1-12. doi: 10.1159/000416686.

Effects of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids on coronary heart disease.

Gudbjarnason S(1), Benediktsd√≥ttir VE, Sk√∫lad√≥ttir G.

Author information:
(1)Science Institute, University of Iceland, Reykjavik.

The purpose of this paper is to discuss the role of n-6 and n-3 polyunsaturated 
fatty acids in coronary heart disease (CHD). The level of n-6 and n-3 fatty 
acids in plasma and cardiac phospholipids was examined in relation to CHD in 
man. The fatty acid profile of cardiac phospholipids was also examined in 
relation to various risk factors of CHD, such as the composition of dietary fat, 
aging and stress. Life expectancy in Iceland is higher than in other Nordic 
countries, and the cardiovascular diseases mortality is lower in Iceland in the 
older age groups. There is a positive correlation between the level of 
arachidonic acid (AA) in plasma phospholipids (PL) in the normal population and 
cardiovascular disease mortality in Nordic countries. The level of AA in plasma 
PL is significantly higher in patients with CHD than in normal subjects. Dietary 
intake of fish or fish oil lowers cellular levels of AA and favorably influences 
eicosanoid metabolism in platelets and leukocytes. The roles of n-6 and n-3 
fatty acids in heart muscle are less well understood. Rats fed diets containing 
either 10% butter, corn oil or cod liver oil showed markedly different fatty 
acid composition of individual phospholipids in sarcolemma. Dietary cod liver 
oil lowered the AA level in sarcolemmal phosphatidyl choline (PC) and 
phosphatidyl ethanolamine (PE) by 50% compared to butter or corn oil fed rats, 
replacing AA with docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). Adaptation to moderate to severe 
stress induced by repeated administration of catecholamines for 15 days resulted 
in marked but reversible alterations in the fatty acid profile of cardiac 
phospholipids. During severe stress the level of AA increased by 50% in PC 
replacing linoleic acid (LA), whereas in PE the DHA increased markedly replacing 
LA. Aging was accompanied by similar alterations in cardiac phospholipids, 
increased levels of AA in PC and increased DHA in PE. The incidence of 
ventricular fibrillation (VF) and sudden cardiac death induced by isoproterenol 
in adult rats fed different dietary fat was lowest in rats fed cod liver oil, 
with a low ratio of AA/DHA in cardiac phospholipids. Mortality due to VF was 
highest in rats fed corn oil with the highest ratio of AA/DHA. Sudden cardiac 
death in man was frequently associated with a higher ratio of AA/DHA than 
observed in people of the same age who died in accidents. The balance between 
n-6 and n-3 fatty acids in cellular phospholipids seems to play an important 
role in stress tolerance and survival.

DOI: 10.1159/000416686
PMID: 2730548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Mech Ageing Dev. 1989 Jun;48(3):281-9. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(89)90089-4.

The relationship between lifespan and reproduction in the rotifer Asplanchna 
brightwelli.

Enesco HE(1), Bozovic V, Anderson PD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Concordia University, W., Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

Lifespan is strongly correlated (0.7009) with the length of the reproductive 
period in the rotifer Asplanchna brightwelli. Lifespan is correlated to a lesser 
degree with the number of offspring produced (0.5545). When lifespan is extended 
by experimental means, it is the length of the reproductive period which is 
increased. Extension of the reproductive period appears to be the most important 
determinant of lifespan extension. These findings do not support most of the 
reproduction theories, but support the concept that the end of the reproductive 
period signals the end of the lifespan.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(89)90089-4
PMID: 2733466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Lakartidningen. 1989 May 3;86(18):1678-9.

[Cancer, aging and death from an epidemiologic point of view].

[Article in Swedish]

Adami HO.

PMID: 2733470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Lakartidningen. 1989 May 17;86(20):1871-2.

[Average life span and lost years--useful measures for distributing resources in 
a county council district].

[Article in Swedish]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2733491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Minerva Endocrinol. 1989 Jan-Mar;14(1):31-4.

[Osteoporosis: a new social disease?].

[Article in Italian]

Molinatti GM, Isaia GC, Salamano G.

Main epidemiological studies about osteoporosis are described: the availability 
of sophisticated techniques as double photon absorptiometry permits to establish 
that in U.S.A. there is at least 1.2 million osteoporosis fractures each year, 
mainly at trabecular level and in postmenopausal women. Moreover the hip 
fractures induce a significant reduction in life expectancy (between 12% and 
20%) with very important social costs. In Italy some recent data documented that 
the social costs in relation to osteoporosis fractures can be evaluated in 1983 
between 80 and 153 milliard liras. Some data about annual bone density decrement 
in normal population are reported: 0.38%/year in females and 0.22%/year in 
males. Moreover the theoretical fracture threshold, defined as B.M.D. level 2.5 
SD under the mean value founded in young age, was evaluated (0.67 gHA/cm2). 
Finally in 15% of our patients with more than 65 years almost one vertebral 
fracture was found.

PMID: 2733645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Rev Chir Orthop Reparatrice Appar Mot. 1989;75(1):1-10.

[Surgical treatment of metastases of the acetabulum].

[Article in French]

Duparc J(1), Huten D, Benfrech E.

Author information:
(1)Clinique de Chirurgie orthop√©dique, H√¥pital Bichat, Paris.

The lytic metastasis of the acetabulum are frequent, causing pathologic 
fractures, pain and disability. The authors analyze 42 acetabular metastases 
operated on between 1976 and 1986. Thirty-nine total hip replacements were made, 
9 conventional arthroplasties for minor lesions, and 30 metallo-acrylic 
reconstructive surgery of the acetabulum combined in 8 cases to bone grafting of 
more extensive lesions. These arthroplasties allowed immediate weight-bearing. 
In three cases of very extensive acetabular destructions, hip resections were 
only possible. The complications were essentially: 3 early deaths, 2 acetabular 
loosening by tumor osteolysis, and one deep infection. Mean follow-up was 15 
months. Results were assessed by pain and walking which are in the whole 
satisfactory in these patients with limited life expectancy. Surgical 
indications should be wide in disable patients. It is a palliative surgery 
aiming to improve the quality of life, giving the patient a functional autonomy.

PMID: 2734462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Versicherungsmedizin. 1989 May 1;41(3):97-102.

[Change in the panorama of chronic diseases and their insurability by life 
insurance].

[Article in German]

Fr√∂hlich EM.

The health condition of man has changed considerably since life insurance 
companies have been established. The initial problem of the companies was the 
fact that many young persons died from tuberculosis. For many decades persons 
from families with tuberculosis cases or with underweight were not accepted for 
insurance on their lives. Nevertheless companies observed many deaths causes by 
this disease. Medical directors and actuaries studied these cases in detail 
(dates and numbers), even of the deceased. The resulting statistics formed the 
premium calculation basis for persons with an increased risk. Comparative 
studies allowed acceptance for more people. Within the last decades when 
sulfonamides, antibiotics and insulin were discovered and produced the mortality 
ratio decreased. Nowadays, even persons who suffered from tuberculosis do not 
present an increased risk anymore. The life expectancy has doubled during the 
last century. This is why degenerative diseases increased, especially the 
coronary heart diseases. While thirty years ago the mortality ratio stood at 
about 500%, improved medical and surgical therapy made prognosis easier and when 
risk factors can be eliminated the mortality ratio tends to be less than 200%. 
Since insulin is available, patients with type I-diabetes do not die anymore in 
coma, the remaining risk is the sclerosis of the vessels. Diabetes with adults 
