increases with overweight, high blood pressure and hyperlipemia. The mortality 
ratio depends on these risk factors. Morbus Crohn, first described in 1932, 
seems to increase. Life insurance needs more long-term statistical data. For 
only some years we are confronted with the immunodeficiency "Aids".(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2734988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 1989 Apr;38(4):231-5.

[Treatment of persistent cardiac failure by ultrafiltration].

[Article in French]

Dussarat GV(1), Dalger J, Chateau J, Saissy JM, Talard P.

Author information:
(1)Service de Cardiologie, HIA Sainte-Anne, Toulon-Naval.

Ultrafiltration, a method of extra renal filtering, which accomplishes an 
iso-osmotic removal of water an sodium from the plasma, was used in twelve 
patients. It is reserved for terminal persistent heart failures. In one case, it 
preceded a heart transplant. Simple to carry out, this technique is well 
tolerated when the pulmonary pressure is elevated, respecting an ultrafiltration 
output inferior or equal to 500 ml/h. Immediate improvement of the patients is 
spectacular. A new treatment failure may impose long-term ultrafiltration 
sessions. Failure of the medical treatment, impossibility of heart transplant, 
must be an indication for ultrafiltration which improves the comfort, and most 
likely the life expectancy of patients with persistent heart failure.

PMID: 2735736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Can Assoc Radiol J. 1989 Jun;40(3):159-61.

Late-onset cystic hygromas: the role of CT.

Woods D(1), Young JE, Filice R, Dobranowski J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, St. Joseph's Hospital, Hamilton, Ontario.

Cystic hygromas usually present in the first two years of life. We report a 
retrospective study of nine patients who first presented with neck and 
mediastinal masses after two years of age. The clinical evaluation of size, 
margins, and presence of respiratory symptoms can be used to select those 
requiring preoperative computed tomography. The five patients who had this 
examination all demonstrated mediastinal or axillary involvement. Patients in 
this older subset appear to be different from those presenting as infants 
because of the incidence of extension and the frequency with which disease is 
found outside of the posterior triangle.

PMID: 2736412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1989 Jun;15(3):201-4.

Secondary cytoreductive surgery in ovarian cancer.

Michel G(1), Zarca D, Castaigne D, Prade M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Institut Gustave-Roussy, Villejuif, France.

During the 8-year period from 1976 to 1984, 202 patients with a primary ovarian 
cancer underwent a second-look laparotomy at the Institut Gustave-Roussy 
(Villejuif). One hundred and nine patients had a macroscopic tumour, in 77 of 
which there was clinical evidence of disease before the laparotomy. Fifty-seven 
patients underwent an optimal resection of the tumour (largest residual tumour 
less than 2 cm) and 52 underwent non-optimal cytoreductive surgery or isolated 
biopsies. In 22 cases the optimal resection necessitated a bowel resection. 
Survival curves suggest: (1) that the removal of macroscopic residual disease 
does not improve life expectancy except in the cases of optimal resection 
without bowel resection. (2) When there is evidence of disease before the 
second-look operation the prognosis remains the same whatever the surgery 
performed.

PMID: 2737306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Demography. 1989 Feb;26(1):161-70.

A state-based regression model for estimating substate life expectancy.

Swanson DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Pacific Lutheran University, Tacoma, Washington 
98447.

Life expectancy is an important indicator of the level of mortality in a 
population. However, the conventional way of calculating life 
expectancy--constructing a life table--has rigorous data requirements. As a 
consequence, life expectancy data are not usually available for substate areas. 
In this article, a regression model for estimating life expectancy is 
constructed, using state-level data, and is tested against two sets of 1980 life 
expectancy data: (1) a nationwide sample of metropolitan areas and (2) selected 
cities, their suburbs, and rural counties in Ohio. An additional test shows the 
sensitivity of the model's accuracy to errors in one of its input data elements. 
The results suggest that the model should be given serious consideration for 
generating life expectancy estimates for substate areas.

PMID: 2737356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Issues Law Med. 1989 Spring;4(4):427-54.

Medical treatment for older people and people with disabilities: 1988 
developments. National Legal Center.

[No authors listed]

In 1988, the United States Supreme Court determined that "primary alcoholism" is 
"willful misconduct" that disqualifies veterans for an extension of time for 
educational benefits eligibility based on disability. The Civil Rights 
Restoration Act, passed in 1988, broadened the scope of programs or activities 
which may be covered by federal civil rights statutes that prohibit 
discrimination by entities receiving federal financial assistance. Decisions by 
the highest courts in two states may signal a trend toward reestablishing 
protection for persons with disabilities who are incompetent and are being 
threatened with denial of life-sustaining food and fluids. Federal and state 
courts addressed the issue of withholding medical treatment from persons with 
disabilities. The rights of persons with AIDS to participate in programs 
receiving federal financial assistance continue to be litigated with increasing 
frequency. Lastly, thirty-eight states and the District of Columbia have "living 
will" legislation.

PMID: 2737856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. J Gerontol. 1989 Jul;44(4):S157-68. doi: 10.1093/geronj/44.4.s157.

Mortality decline and Chinese family structure: implications for old age 
support.

Tu EJ(1), Liang J, Li SM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Social and Demographic Analysis, State University of New York, 
Albany.

This study examined the effect of mortality change on the probabilities of 
survival for various family members and parent/child joint life expectation in 
Chinese mainland and Taiwan during the past 60 years. Major increases in life 
expectancy have led to the doubling of the average number of person years of an 
individual's life spent as a grandparent during that time. In a sense, the 
family burden of old age support is twice as much as before. It is concluded 
that the role of family in providing old age support needs to be complemented 
and reinforced by public programs.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/44.4.s157
PMID: 2738319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Mech Ageing Dev. 1989 May;48(2):199-205. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(89)90051-1.

The effect of dietary restriction on myc protooncogene expression in mice: a 
preliminary study.

Nakamura KD(1), Duffy PH, Lu MH, Turturro A, Hart RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration, 
National Center for Toxicological Research, Jefferson, AR 72079.

The effect of chronic dietary restriction on the expression of the c-myc 
protooncogene was determined in the livers of a hybrid mouse strain (C57Bl6 x 
C3H F1 hybrid) at three time points during a 24-h period: 1 h after lights on (1 
HALO), 5 h prior to feeding (12 HALO), and 2 h after feeding (19 HALO). In 
addition, in whole animals studies, changes in core body temperature were 
monitored. In mice which had been subjected to a chronic diet restriction (60% 
of the intake of ad libitum controls), c-myc expression was significantly 
reduced at 1 HALO and 19 HALO compared to corresponding ad libitum animals. In 
addition, significant differences in c-myc expression were found between time 
points, in both the ad libitum and restricted groups, suggesting that myc 
protooncogene expression in the liver may be regulated in a circadian fashion. 
C-myc expression may correlate with body temperature, suggesting a possible 
association with metabolic output.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(89)90051-1
PMID: 2739468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Orv Hetil. 1989 Apr 23;130(17):883-6.

[Myocardial calcification in chronic renal failure].

[Article in Hungarian]

Illy√©s G, Taraba I.

The authors present the case of a young man who--as a consequence of chronic 
renal failure and long-term dialysis--developed a calcific cardiopathy. The 
myocardial calcification was proved histologically by light microscopy. They 
established that the calcification started in damaged myofibers and was 
principally caused by the secondary parathyroid hyperfunction. The diagnosis and 
therapy of the myocardial calcification is discussed on the basis of references. 
The prevention of this complication may improve the life-expectancy of patients 
treated by chronic dialysis.

PMID: 2740142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Pediatrics. 1989 Jul;84(1):83-9.

Severe perinatal Marfan syndrome.

Gross DM(1), Robinson LK, Smith LT, Glass N, Rosenberg H, Duvic M.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Medical School, Houston 77225.

The cardiovascular manifestations of the Marfan syndrome in older children and 
adults have been well described. Clinical, radiographic, and echocardiographic 
data regarding three patients with severe perinatal Marfan syndrome are 
described. Two of these patients had the syndrome at birth and died in infancy. 
The syndrome was diagnosed in the third patient at 6 months of age and the child 
is still alive at 3 years of age. The possible relationship among the Marfan 
syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, and osteogenesis imperfecta is considered. 
Patients with Marfan syndrome and severe cardiorespiratory problems early in 
life tend to have a limited life expectancy.

PMID: 2740180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Salud Publica Mex. 1989 Mar-Apr;31(2):240-84.

[Distribution of educational and health services].

[Article in Spanish]

Aspe P, Berist√°in J.

This paper presents some ideas on the relation between personal income and the 
quantity and quality of education and health. It is suggested that the high 
degree of inequality in income in Mexico could be attributed to ancestral 
differences in educative and health care opportunities. In the short run, the 
desirable decrease in educative and health inequities will not modify the income 
concentration rates. However it is a powerful tool in the struggle against 
poverty and a necessary condition for the gradual reduction of inequities in the 
long run.

PMID: 2740950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Tunis Med. 1989 Jan;67(1):43-5.

[Evaluation of the social costs of traffic accidents].

[Article in French]

Ben Hamida A, Zbiba M, Hessairi M, Zouari B, Nacef T.

PMID: 2741233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Z Urol Nephrol. 1989 Apr;82(4):209-16.

[Autologous frozen sperm--an alternative in infertility in the patient with 
invasively treated testicular tumor?].

[Article in German]

Schubert J(1), Held HJ, Kelly LU, Tolkendorf E.

Author information:
(1)Klinik f√ºr Urologie, Medizinischen Akademie Carl Gustav Carus, Dresden.

Through an optimal treatment of testicular cancer the life expectancy of 
patients is improved, but more early and late complications were observed after 
different therapeutic procedures and mainly fertility problems come to the fore. 
In 70% of the patients (n = 30) an abnormal spermiogram was found prior to 
treatment. At this time 54% of all patients with testicular cancer (n = 61) were 
20 to 30 years old and 43% of these patients wish to have a child. After radical 
retroperitoneal lymph node dissection in 71% of cases (n = 45) a total or 
partial loss of ejaculation was found. The cytostatic chemotherapy and radiation 
treatment are the cause of reversible or irreversible reduction in 
spermatogenesis and possibly mutagenic alterations. There are several 
alternatives to treat the infertility problems of cured testicular cancer 
patients and autologous insemination is favoured by the half of these patients. 
In our experience with cryopreserved sperm (n = 22) only patients with 
appropriate sperm quality (greater than 10 Mill. sperms/ml, greater than 30% 
mobile sperms, greater than 30% thaw motility) are suited to this method. In 
consideration of these parameters only 25% of testicular cancer patients are 
suited for long-term sperm preservation. The technical problems of sperm 
preparation, storage and autologous insemination are described in detail.

PMID: 2741565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Am J Gastroenterol. 1989 Jul;84(7):711-2.

The haruspex and primary biliary cirrhosis.

Schaffner F(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Liver Diseases, Mount Sinai School of Medicine of The City 
University of New York.

PMID: 2741879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Ital J Surg Sci. 1989;19(1):37-40.

Cholelithiasis and urolithiasis in ileostomy patients.

Giunchi F(1), Balbi B, Giulianini G, Cacciaguerra G.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Chirurgica, Ospedale M. Bufalini, USL, Cesena.

Terminal ileostomy is at present less frequently performed in favour of the use 
of surgical techniques which allow for the maintenance of continence. The 
problem of long-term metabolic complications is still open, though it has been 
stated that 1 year postoperatively, the life expectancy of ileostomy patients is 
similar to that of the general population. The series here reported consists of 
13 patients only, however the increased risk of cholelithiasis and urolithiasis 
in ileostomy patients can be confirmed (15.4% in this study). These 
complications should be carefully examined in the follow-up of patients: while 
cholelithiasis cannot be prevented, for early diagnosis liver scanning every 
24-36 months is advisable. As for urolithiasis, the patients should be 
encouraged to drink large amounts of water daily. Water does not cause an 
increase in ileostomy output while allowing a satisfactory renal flow. For early 
diagnosis direct abdominal X-ray with renal tomography every 24-36 months is 
suggested. In case of suspected kidney or ureteral stones, perfusion urography 
should be performed.

PMID: 2745042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. South Med J. 1989 Jul;82(7):822-4. doi: 10.1097/00007611-198907000-00006.

Critical decisions in medical care: birth to death.

Lamm RD.

DOI: 10.1097/00007611-198907000-00006
PMID: 2749348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1989 Jun 30;109(19-21):2004-6.

[Recurrence or therapeutic resistance of acute myelogenous leukemia. Effect of 
mitoxantrone and cytosine arabinoside].

[Article in Norwegian]

Evensen SA, Brinch L, Wisl√∏ff F.

Adult patients with relapsed and refractory acute myelogenous leukemia usually 
demand further therapy aimed at achieving remission. The physician knows that 
life expectancy is limited. Care must be taken to choose a cytotoxic regimen 
where the potential gains outweigh the risks. Mitoxantrone and cytosine 
arabinoside were given in combination to 19 patients. Six achieved complete 
remission and increased survival. The side effects were acceptable.

PMID: 2749689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1989 May;79(1):51-61. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.1330790106.

Model life table fitting by maximum likelihood estimation: a procedure to 
reconstruct paleodemographic characteristics from skeletal age distributions.

Paine RR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Pennsylvania State University, University 16802.

A procedure is presented that uses the regression coefficients for the Coale and 
Demeny west model life tables to model selected demographic characteristics from 
skeletal age-at-death distributions. Model death distributions were constructed 
and compared to a given skeletal distribution, using methods of maximum 
likelihood estimation to determine the best fit. Two chi-square tests are 
employed to evaluate the degree of fit. The resulting model includes estimates 
of demographic characteristics including gross reproductive rate, crude birth 
rate and life expectancy. The procedure is applied to three archaeological 
skeletal samples as test cases: two from eastern North America and one from 
Mexico. These display a range of correspondence (between the best fitting model 
and the data) from good to poor. The proposed procedure is a potentially 
powerful tool for both reconstructing paleodemographic rates and illuminating 
differences between typical human patterns and those found in archaeological 
populations.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330790106
PMID: 2750878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Ann Intern Med. 1989 Aug 1;111(3):257-8. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-111-3-257.

Life expectancies: population or person?

Silver AL, Rose DN.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Mar 15;110(6):456-69.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-111-3-257
PMID: 2751182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Arch Tierernahr. 1989 Mar;39(3):299-309. doi: 10.1080/17450398909429534.

[The feeding of differently treated straw materials to piglets after various 
weaning times. 2. Fatty acids in the large intestine and parameters of protein, 
fat, carbohydrate and mineral metabolism in the blood serum during the feeding 
of untreated, HCl-treated and partly-hydrolysed straw meal].

[Article in German]

M√ºnchow H(1), H√§ger H, Hasselmann L, Finger M.

Author information:
(1)Sektion Tierproduktion und Veterin√§rmedizin, Humboldt-Universit√§t zu Berlin.

In feeding experiments with piglets of the country species variously treated 
straw materials were used in concentrate--straw meal mixtures after the 
traditional weaning date (49th day of life) and studies were made of the 
fermentation of volatile fatty acids (VFA) in the large intestine (colon) and of 
the concentration of selected parameters of the protein, fat, carbohydrate and 
mineral metabolism in the blood serum of the animals. The concentrate--straw 
mixtures with a 10% straw quota contained untreated (II), HCl treated (HCl 
treatment without steaming, without (III) and with neutralization, IV) as well 
as partly hydrolysed straw meal (HCl treatment with subsequent steaming, without 
(V) and with neutralization with CaCO3, VI) were tested in comparison with sole 
feeding of concentrate (I) and its combination with wheat bran (VII). With 
regard to the fermentation processes in the large intestine in a comparison of 
the feeding groups (I-VII) the highest concentration and production quota of VFA 
was registered in I and the lowest in II. The straw treatment variants (III, IV, 
V and VI) took a medium position with regard to this and did not differ from 
each other. After their application of a significant increase in the molar 
acetate quota was ascertained in comparison with the sole feeding of concentrate 
(I), which was also characteristic of the other crude fibre sources (II and VII) 
and was reflected in the extension of the C2: C3 relation. Only few of the total 
of 15 selected parameters in the blood serum showed reactions of the 
intermediary metabolism of the test groups caused by feeding. The decrease of 
the urea concentration in the serum after the feeding of the treated straw 
materials (III, IV, V and VI) is particularly remarkable. In general, the urea 
concentration in the serum was negatively related to growth performance of the 
test groups. The use of HCl treated straw materials (III-VI) proved to be 
advantageous in comparison to the sole feeding of concentrate (I) and the use of 
other crude fibre sources (untreated straw meal (II) and wheat bran, VII) in the 
feeding regime of the keeping stage 'weaned pigs'.

DOI: 10.1080/17450398909429534
PMID: 2751422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. J Trop Pediatr. 1989 Jun;35(3):133-6. doi: 10.1093/tropej/35.3.133.

Brazil's progress towards meeting WHO goal of health for all by the year 2000.

Giugliani ER.

DOI: 10.1093/tropej/35.3.133
PMID: 2754772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. G Ital Cardiol. 1989 Feb;19(2):114-20.

[Natural history of dilated cardiomyopathy].

[Article in Italian]

Razzolini R(1), Boffa GM, Stritoni P, Budano S, Ramondo A, Rampazzo C, Chioin R, 
Dalla Volta S.

Author information:
(1)Servizio di Emodinamica, Universit√† degli Studi di Padova.

Seventy-seven patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (50 M and 27 F, aged 38 +/- 
16 yrs) were followed up until Dec 31, 1985. Haemodynamic investigation was 
performed in all cases, and all pressure and left ventricular quantitative 
angiography parameters were collected. In no case did the coronary angiogram 
show significant lesions. Mean values of haemodynamic parameters for surviving 
and deceased patients were compared. Forty-six patients survived and 28 died 
during the follow-up period. Although all patients had an enlarged left 
ventricle and depressed contractility, survivors had either greater pressure/end 
systolic volume ratio or a greater stress/end systolic volume ratio. Survival 
curves confirm a particularly severe prognosis for patients with Suga index less 
than 1 or stress to end systolic volume ratio less than 2.5. Mass to volume 
ratio seems to affect two-year but not late survival. NYHA class does not 
indicate early survival. In conclusion, left ventricular function is obviously 
related to prognosis in these patients, but it seems still difficult to assess 
life expectancy from these parameters alone.

PMID: 2759391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. J Am Optom Assoc. 1989 Jul;60(7):503.

Life expectancy and diabetic retinopathy.

Kirstein MD.

Comment on
    J Am Optom Assoc. 1988 Nov;59(11):870-4.

PMID: 2760393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Med Decis Making. 1989 Jul-Sep;9(3):162-9. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8900900303.

Warfarin for dilated cardiomyopathy: a bloody tough pill to swallow?

Tsevat J(1), Eckman MH, McNutt RA, Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02111.

Although current recommendations for the treatment of dilated cardiomyopathy 
include long-term anticoagulation to diminish the likelihood of systemic 
embolization, there have been no clinical trials examining the effectiveness of 
anticoagulation in preventing systemic embolization in these patients. 
Furthermore, those recommendations do not address the issue of the quality of 
life associated with long-term warfarin therapy. Using decision analysis, the 
authors examined the benefits and risks of long-term anticoagulation for 
patients 35 to 75 years of age who have dilated cardiomyopathy. The results show 
that anticoagulant therapy increases quality-adjusted life expectancy by 76 to 
128 days, depending on the patient's age. Sensitivity analysis, however, 
demonstrates that the outcome is dependent on the disutility associated with 
long-term warfarin therapy. Interestingly, anticoagulation exerts most of its 
benefit by preventing pulmonary embolization, not systemic embolization. The 
authors conclude that the current recommendation to anticoagulate these 
patients, although probably correct for many patients, should take into 
consideration the change in lifestyle imposed by long-term anticoagulant 
therapy. For some patients, the benefit may not outweigh the sacrifice.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8900900303
PMID: 2761366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Med J Aust. 1989 Aug 21;151(4):196, 199-201. doi: 
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1989.tb115989.x.

Patients' socioeconomic background: influence on selection of inpatient or 
domiciliary hospice terminal-care programmes.

Komesaroff PA(1), Moss CK, Fox RM.

Author information:
(1)Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, VIC.

Data on 243 patients who were admitted to the Melbourne City mission inpatient 
and home-care programmes were collected prospectively over a 12-month period 
from September 1, 1985 and were analysed. The variables that were assessed 
included age, sex, marital status, country of birth, occupation, address, 
pension status, diagnosis, previous treatment and subsequent survival. It was 
found that the patients who were selected into the two programmes differed 
significantly. Hospice inpatients tended to be single (53% of subjects), older 
(50% of subjects were more than 70 years of age), uninsured (82% of subjects) 
pensioners who were very close to death (median survival, 2.6 weeks). By 
contrast, the patients in the home-care group were comparatively younger (21% of 
subjects were more than 70 years of age) and were more likely to have partners 
(37% of subjects were single), not to be pensioners and to have private 
insurance (48% of subjects); also, their median survival was significantly 
longer (six weeks). These findings should prove of considerable importance for 
the planning of terminal-care programmes. In particular, they suggest that the 
critical issue is not the efficacy of either inpatient or home care but rather 
the modification of each programme type so that it will serve better the needs 
of its particular constituency.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1989.tb115989.x
PMID: 2761461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. N Engl J Med. 1989 Aug 31;321(9):574-9. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198908313210904.

A preliminary trial of the programmable implantable medication system for 
insulin delivery.

Saudek CD(1), Selam JL, Pitt HA, Waxman K, Rubio M, Jeandidier N, Turner D, 
Fischell RE, Charles MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD 21205.

We undertook a trial to determine whether an implanted insulin-delivery system, 
the programmable implantable medication system (PIMS), could be used to treat 
patients with insulin-dependent diabetes. PIMS is a pulsatile, programmable pump 
with a battery life expectancy of five years. The reservoir is refilled 
transcutaneously every two months with a surfactant-stabilized human insulin 
preparation containing 400 U of insulin per milliliter. Eighteen patients 
received PIMS-delivered insulin for 4 to 25 months (mean, 18). The total 
PIMS-implantation experience comprised 28 patient-years. Good glycemic control 
was established and sustained during treatment (mean plasma glucose level, 7.3 
mmol per liter; mean glycohemoglobin level, 8 percent [upper limit of normal, 
7.5 percent]), with significantly reduced glycemic fluctuations. The total mean 
daily insulin dose did not change. Insulin solutions withdrawn from the pump 
reservoirs contained 92 percent native insulin and preserved biologic activity. 
There were no surgical or skin complications, severe hypoglycemic episodes, or 
instances of diabetic ketoacidosis. One pump was replaced because of a 
manufacturing defect, and four patients had catheter blockages due to 
omental-tissue encapsulation; two withdrew from the study and two had devices 
that were repaired successfully. The actuarial rate of survival of catheter 
function was 78 percent at 1.5 years. We conclude from this pilot study that 
insulin treatment with an implanted, variable-rate, programmable pump is 
feasible for periods up to two years.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198908313210904
PMID: 2761602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Percept Mot Skills. 1989 Jun;68(3 Pt 2):1040-2. doi: 
10.2466/pms.1989.68.3c.1040.

Left-handedness and life expectancy.

London WP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, NH 03755.

Halpern and Coren recently described an association between left-handedness and 
a lower life expectancy. This finding is not unexpected because left-handedness 
has been linked to three leading causes of death in our society--alcoholism, 
smoking, and breast cancer--as well as to several neurological and immune 
disorders.

DOI: 10.2466/pms.1989.68.3c.1040
PMID: 2762070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Soc Sci Med. 1989;29(3):469-77. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(89)90296-7.

Assumptions of the QALY procedure.

Carr-Hill RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, England.

The Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY) has been proposed as a useful index for 
those managing the provision of health care because it enables the 
decision-maker to compare the 'value' of different health care programmes and in 
a way which, potentially at least, reflects social preferences about the 
appropriate pattern of provision. The index depends on a combination of a 
measure of morbidity and the risk of mortality. Methodological debate has tended 
to concentrate on the technicalities of producing a scale of health; and 
philosophical argument has concentrated on the ethics of interpersonal 
comparison. There is little recognition of the fragility of the theoretical 
assumptions underpinning the proposed combination of morbidity and risk of 
mortality. The context in which the proposed indices are being developed is 
examined in Section 2. Whilst most working in the field of health measurement 
eschew over-simplification, it is clear that the application of micro-economics 
to management is greatly facilitated if a single index can be agreed. The 
various approaches to combining morbidity and mortality are described in Section 
3. The crucial assumptions concern the measurement and valuation of morbidity; 
the procedures used for scaling morbidity with mortality; and the role of risk. 
The nature of the valuations involved are examined in Section 4. It seems 
unlikely that they could ever be widely acceptable; the combination with death 
and perfect health poses particular problems; and aggregation across individuals 
compounds the problem. There are also several technical difficulties of scaling 
and of allowing for risk which have been discussed elsewhere and so are only 
considered briefly in Section 5 of this paper.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(89)90296-7
PMID: 2762872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1989 Jul-Sep;70(3):2.

Investment for an aging population.

Schwartz RG.

PMID: 2763016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1989 Jul-Sep;70(3):26-30.

Life expectancy remains at record level.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2763018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1989 Jul-Sep;70(3):3-10.

Projections of the population of states by age.

Wetrogan SI(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Projections Branch, U.S. Bureau of the Census.

PMID: 2763019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Z Alternsforsch. 1989 May-Jun;44(3):155-68.

[The aged in France].

[Article in German]

Jani-Le Bris H(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre de Liaison, d'Etude, d'Information et de Recherche sur les Probl√©mes 
des Personnes √¢g√©es (CLEIRPPA), Paris, Frankreich.

PMID: 2763577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Ann Thorac Surg. 1989 Aug;48(2):163-4. doi: 10.1016/0003-4975(89)90061-1.

Hazards of transthoracic needle biopsy of the lung.

Lillington GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary-Critical Care Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, University of California, Davis, Sacramento, California.

DOI: 10.1016/0003-4975(89)90061-1
PMID: 2764607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Biometrics. 1989 Jun;45(2):523-35.

Simple parametric and nonparametric models for excess and relative mortality.

Andersen PK(1), Vaeth M.

Author information:
(1)Statistical Research Unit, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

This paper studies two classes of hazard-rate-based models for the mortality in 
a group of individuals taking normal life expectancy into account. In a 
multiplicative hazard model, the estimate for the relative mortality generalises 
the standardised mortality ratio, and the adequacy of a model with constant 
relative mortality can be tested using a type of total time on test statistic. 
In an additive hazard model, continuous-time generalisations of a "corrected" 
survival curve and a "normal" survival curve are obtained, and the adequacy of a 
model with constant excess mortality can again be tested using a type of total 
time on test statistic. A model including both the multiplicative hazard model 
and the additive hazard model is briefly considered. The use of the models is 
illustrated on a set of data concerning survival after operation for malignant 
melanoma.

PMID: 2765636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 1989 Jul;75(1):110-7. doi:
10.1016/0016-6480(89)90015-4.

Plasma progesterone through pregnancy and the estrous cycle in the eastern 
quoll, Dasyurus viverrinus.

Hinds LA(1).

Author information:
(1)CSIRO Division of Wildlife and Ecology, Lyneham, A.C.T., Australia.

Plasma progesterone concentrations were measured every 2 or 3 days in eastern 
quoll, Dasyurus viverrinus, during pregnancy (20.5 +/- 0.8 days, n = 6, mean +/- 
SEM) and the estrous cycle (37.5 +/- 0.7 days, n = 20, mean +/- SEM). The 
pattern was not apparently different between the two reproductive states. There 
was a significant proestrus rise in progesterone (from 0.5 to 4 ng/ml) from 5 
days before until 1 day after mating. For the next 4 to 6 days, levels were low, 
but after Day 9 or 10 increased to maximum concentrations of 4.5 to 15 ng/ml 
which were maintained until about Day 17 to 19. In all females, progesterone was 
basal (less than 1.0 ng/ml) by Day 20 to 21 and thereafter remained low in 
lactating females, but nonpregnant females showed a proestrous rise about 5 to 7 
days before the next mating. The period of elevated concentrations of 
progesterone coincided with prominent corpora lutea (CL) on the ovaries. There 
was no evidence of CL of a previous cycle persisting into the next cycle. The 
results indicate that pregnancy occupies the luteal phase of the cycle and does 
not appear to influence the secretory life span of the CL.

DOI: 10.1016/0016-6480(89)90015-4
PMID: 2767400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Stat Med. 1989 Jul;8(7):845-59. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780080709.

Estimability and estimation of excess and etiologic fractions.

Robins JM(1), Greenland S.

Author information:
(1)Occupational Health Program, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 
02115.

This paper describes conditions under which epidemiologic data can provide 
estimates of the excess fraction (proportionate increase in caseload due to an 
exposure) and the etiologic fraction (fraction of cases caused by exposure). The 
excess fraction can be estimated under essentially the same conditions often 
cited for general study validity. In contrast, estimation of the etiologic 
fraction will usually require very specific non-identifiable assumptions about 
exposure action and interactions, although one can derive simple lower and upper 
bounds for the fraction from survival comparisons. Since the etiologic fraction 
is equivalent to the probability of causation, our results have implications for 
injury compensation in lawsuits involving the probability of causation.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780080709
PMID: 2772444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1989 Sep;169(3):235-7.

Splenectomy for massive splenomegaly.

Coon WW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor.

Several groups of authors have recently reported that removal of the massively 
enlarged spleen (1,500 grams or greater) is associated with a greater morbidity 
than that encountered in patients with spleens of smaller sizes. In our 
experience, 46 of 51 patients with massively enlarged spleens had a 
myeloproliferative disorder (leukemia, lymphoma or agnogenic myeloid metaplasia) 
and usually had a limited life expectancy. When morbidity in these patients was 
compared with that in patients with the same diagnosis but spleens of smaller 
size, no increase in complications or death was found other than a greater 
operative blood loss in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Limitation of 
operative morbidity in patients with very large spleens depends on careful 
selection and appropriate operative and perioperative management.

PMID: 2772794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Arch Exp Veterinarmed. 1989 May;43(3):367-77.

[The effect of UV rays on parasitic arthropods. 3. In vitro and in vivo studies 
of the effect of a fractionated UV irradiation on the development stages of 
Psoroptes cuniculi (Acaridida: Psoroptidae)].

[Article in German]

Hiepe T, Ribbeck R, Gehrt M, Reichhardt R.

In vitro studies were conducted into Psoroptes (Ps.) cuniculi larvae and nymphs 
of undefined age and gender. 30 males and females were involved in each of the 
experiments. Evidence was found the life expectancy of mites exposed to daily UV 
irradiation for 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 minutes was reduced with significance, as 
compared to non-irradiated mites or to those with only one irradiation of the 
same length. Developmental stages of Ps. cuniculi responded in differentiated 
ways to the same dose rate, when applied by one single extended or fractionated 
shorter irradiation. Fractionated irradiation was more often survived by females 
than one single extended irradiation, whereas earlier death occurred to larvae 
following exposure to fractionated irradiation. Mange mites were not eliminated 
from rabbits with moderate ear mange by fractionated locally delimited in vivo 
irradiation, up to 16 applications of 10 minutes each or 6 or 9 applications of 
10, 20 or 40 minutes each, with one-week intervals in between. Ear mange was 
clinically re-manifested, after irradiations had been discontinued.

PMID: 2774834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Med Decis Making. 1989 Apr-Jun;9(2):150-2. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8900900210.

DEALE-ing with life expectancy and mortality rates.

Stalpers LJ(1), Van Gasteren HJ, Van Daal WA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Radiotherapy, St. Radboud University Hospital, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.

Erratum in
    Med Decis Making 1989 Jul-Sep;9(3):219.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8900900210
PMID: 2775358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. J Gerontol Nurs. 1989 Sep;15(9):10-4. doi: 10.3928/0098-9134-19890901-05.

Rationing health care--should it be done?

Perrin K.

1. The utilitarian view supports allocation of goods to meet the needs of the 
greatest number of people; Lamm contends that the only just rationing would be 
according to age. 2. Some theorists assume that all individuals will live 
relatively healthily until the end of their natural lifespan; they do not 
distinguish between therapeutic medications and those that alleviate suffering. 
3. According to intergenerational arguments, children should receive priority in 
funding, with the elderly at the lower end of the scale. 4. The Advisory Panel 
of the Office of Technology Assessment recommends rationing based on prognosis 
and quality of life; however, good prognostic skills are lacking and there is no 
consensus on quality of life.

DOI: 10.3928/0098-9134-19890901-05
PMID: 2778271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. J Clin Epidemiol. 1989;42(9):895-904. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(89)90103-0.

Risk of functional decline among well elders.

Mor V(1), Murphy J, Masterson-Allen S, Willey C, Razmpour A, Jackson ME, Greer 
D, Katz S.

Author information:
(1)Brown University Center for Gerontology and Health Care Research, Providence, 
R.I.

Active lifestyles may delay the onset of the functional consequences of chronic 
disease, potentially increasing active life expectancy. We analyzed the 
Longitudinal Study of Aging (LSOA) to test the hypothesis that elders 
participation in an active lifestyle prevents loss of function. Focusing on the 
cohort aged 70-74 who reported being able to carry 25 lb, walk 1/4 mile, climb 
10 steps and do heavy housework without help and without difficulty at baseline, 
decline was defined as no longer being able to perform these tasks independently 
and without difficulty 2 years later. Using multivariate logistic regression, 
results reveal that those who did not report regularly exercising or walking a 
mile were 1.5 times more likely to decline than those who did, controlling for 
reported medical conditions and demographic factors. Similar findings (with 
different models) were observed for both men and women. Findings suggest the 
potential value of programs oriented toward the primary prevention of functional 
decline.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(89)90103-0
PMID: 2778468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. J Neurooncol. 1989 Jul;7(2):201-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00165105.

Interstitial hyperthermia of experimental brain tumor using implant heating 
system.

Kobayashi T(1), Tanaka T, Kida Y, Matsui M, Ikeda T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Nagoya University School of Medicine, Japan.

Erratum in
    J Neurooncol 1990 Feb;8(1):following 96.

New experimental system of induction hyperthermia for brain tumor using 
ferromagnetic implant with low Curie point has been developed. The metal implant 
is cylindrical needle and made of Fe-Pt alloy with low Curie point suitable for 
hyperthermia (50-60 degrees C). Induction coil and generator which produce 
maximum power of 200W and variable frequency of 100-500kHz, yielding magnetic 
power of 16.7Oe, have been developed. Interstitial hyperthermia was made on rat 
brain tumor model (T9 gliosarcoma) by this system. Significant effects of single 
hyperthermia (45 degrees C for 30 minutes) were observed by the extension of 
life span and morphological changes of the tumor.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00165105
PMID: 2778493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. JAMA. 1989 Oct 6;262(13):1844-5. doi: 10.1001/jama.262.13.1844.

From the Office of the General Counsel. Physician participation in assisted 
suicide.

Orentlicher D.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1990 Mar 2;263(9):1197-8.

KIE: Writing under the auspices of the American Medical Association's Office of 
the General Counsel, a member of its Ethics and Health Policy Counsel discusses 
the AMA's position on physician participation in assisted suicide for the 
hopelessly ill. Advocates for assisted suicide see it as a natural extension of 
the right of a patient to refuse life-prolonging treatment. Orentlicher disputes 
this view, maintaining that there is a distinction between acting to hasten 
death and refraining from delaying it. He argues against physician involvement 
with assisted suicide on the grounds that it violates the nature of the 
physician patient relationship and compromises the role of the doctor as healer.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.262.13.1844
PMID: 2778914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Prog Clin Biol Res. 1989;309:35-41.

Quality of life and life expectancy in thalassemic patients with complications.

Gabutti V(1), Piga A, Sacchetti L, Sandri A, Biginelli M, Saracco P, Ferri M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Turin, Italy.

PMID: 2780748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. P R Health Sci J. 1989 Apr;8(1):205-9.

Validation of single photon absorptiometry in estimating bone mineral mass in 
rhesus monkey skeletons.

Aguil√≥ F Jr(1), Cabrera R.

Author information:
(1)Endocrine & Metabolic Division, University of Puerto Rico, School of 
Medicine.

Recent emphasis on age-related morbidity addresses the increasing life 
expectancy of Western countries. Osteopenia is a multi-factorial process 
affecting a sizeable number of elderly individuals, with bone fractures 
producing significant morbidity and related mortality. A non-human primate would 
be a very useful experimental model for the study of age-related osteopenia, if 
