it could be shown that it is similarly afflicted by age and if non-invasive 
methods utilized among humans could give a valid estimation of bone mineral 
content in the animal. Our previous studies utilizing SPA (single-photon 
absorptiometry) suggest age-related decrease in BMC (bone mineral content) among 
rhesus macaque skeletons, similar to that observed in humans. The present 
studies were done in order to further validate the utilization of bone 
densitometry (SPA) in the rhesus macaque, comparing their BMC and bone density 
(BD) with the size and weight of their corresponding bones. Both radii and the 
right femur of 102 adult rhesus monkey skeletons (5 to 23 years old), were 
obtained from the Caribbean Primate Research Center (CPRC) Skeletal Collection. 
There were 55 females and 47 males. Bone parameters were obtained using a 
Norland Digital Bone Densitometer, model 2780 at 2 scanning sites: distal 1/3 of 
radii and proximal 1/3 of femurs. Bone lengths (cm) and weights (gm) were 
compared and correlated with densitometric parameters. Excellent correlations 
were consistently found, with r values 0.74 to 0.96 and p less than 0.0001. Thus 
it appears that SPA at distal 1/3 radius or proximal 1/3 femur are a valid 
estimate of total bone mineral mass in rhesus monkeys.

PMID: 2780965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Rehabil Nurs. 1989 Sep-Oct;14(5):248. doi:
10.1002/j.2048-7940.1989.tb01111.x.

The future is now.

Puetz BE.

DOI: 10.1002/j.2048-7940.1989.tb01111.x
PMID: 2781126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Rev Laryngol Otol Rhinol (Bord). 1989;110(2):141-4.

[Diffuse spontaneous cervical cellulitis caused by anaerobic bacteria].

[Article in French]

Pignat JC, Haguenauer JP, Navailles B.

Nine cases of diffusal cervical cellulitis due to anaerobes were analysed. Some 
of them had right away extensions (to the inferior mediastinum or to the face). 
From these cases, the authors argue their treatment protocol. Surgery was 
performed immediately after diagnosis, and associated with intensive management. 
The excision of the necrotic tissue and the aperture of all cervical spaces 
(particularly the floor to the buccal cavity and the prevertebral space) were 
made. The source of infection was looked for (most often this being the teeth) 
and treated at the same time. Bacteriologic aero and anaerobic prelevements were 
done. A thoracic or facial surgery, being necessary because of persistency or 
appearance of extension, was performed secondary, after the patient was better 
prepared with a hyperoxygenation and a triple antibiotic therapy. Life prognosis 
improved with this treatment protocol. The gravity of the conditions presented 
by our patients depended more on the presence of an underlying disease 
(diabetes, immunosuppression, age...) or the delay of the diagnosis than on the 
cellulitis extension.

PMID: 2781182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Sov Zdravookhr. 1989;(6):16-20.

[Use of a simplified method of calculating mean life expectancy by regions in 
the Ukraine].

[Article in Russian]

Grabovskaia TV, Mishchenko AN, Moroziuk MM.

PMID: 2781357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1989 Aug;14(8):784-9. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-198908000-00002.

Bone scintigraphy in patients with breast cancer, pulmonary cancer, uterine 
cervix cancer, and prostatic cancer. Statistical study of spinal accumulation 
cases.

Morishita S(1), Onomura T, Inoue T, Maeda H, Akagi H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Osaka Medical College, Japan.

This is a review of bone scintigraphy performed in patients with breast cancer, 
pulmonary cancer, uterine cervix cancer, and prostatic cancer from 1980 to 1985. 
The incidence of accumulation in the spine was 25.0% in breast cancer, 29.5% in 
lung cancer, 24.3% in cervical cancer, and 47.0% in prostatic cancer. The 
predominant location of the accumulation was the lumbar vertebra (68.9%), 
followed by the thoracic vertebra (45.0%), sacral vertebra (37.5%), and cervical 
vertebra (23.6%). The survivability after spinal accumulation was determined by 
the Kaplan-Meyer survival curve. The 1-year survival rate of breast cancer, 
pulmonary cancer, cervical cancer, and prostatic cancer was 88%, 19%, 74%, and 
90%, respectively, the record of pulmonary cancer being significantly lower. 
Hence, in the treatment of patients with metastatic spinal tumors, the 
therapeutic method should be selected according to the underlying disease.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-198908000-00002
PMID: 2781391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1989 Sep;140(3 Pt 2):S82-4. doi: 
10.1164/ajrccm/140.3_Pt_2.S82.

The epidemiology of cigarette smoking and its impact on chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease.

Davis RM(1), Novotny TE.

Author information:
(1)Office on Smoking and Health, Centers for Disease Control, Rockville, MD 
20857.

Since the first Surgeon General's report on smoking and health was released in 
1964, the United States has achieved substantial progress in curtailing smoking. 
Per capita cigarette sales for persons 18 yr of age or older have declined each 
year since 1973. Total cigarette sales have fallen an average of 1.8% each year 
since 1982, despite the increasing size of the population. National 
population-based surveys show that the prevalence of smoking has fallen steadily 
among adults during the past quarter century. Unfortunately, a parallel decrease 
in mortality from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), one of the most 
important smoking-related diseases, has not occurred. To estimate the current 
impact of smoking on mortality from COPD, we used a modified formula for 
population attributable risk to calculate the mortality and years of potential 
life lost due to COPD caused by smoking. In 1984, an estimated 51,013 deaths 
occurred from COPD caused by smoking: 35,638 among men (85% of total COPD 
mortality) and 15,376 among women (69% of total COPD mortality) (sum does not 
equal total due to rounding). These deaths resulted in a total loss of 501,290 
yr of life before the average life expectancy. We conclude that cigarette 
smoking continues to cause a heavy burden of premature death from COPD in the 
United States. This burden may increase in the coming years despite decreasing 
smoking rates because the residual risk of COPD mortality among former smokers 
persists for many years.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm/140.3_Pt_2.S82
PMID: 2782765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Lakartidningen. 1989 Feb 15;86(7):513-4.

[Rheumatologic diagnoses--how long a life do patients have?].

[Article in Swedish]

Hedfors E.

PMID: 2783987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Am J Dis Child. 1989 Jul;143(7):775-8. doi: 
10.1001/archpedi.1989.02150190025013.

Prognostic factors and life expectancy in children with acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome and Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.

Bernstein LJ(1), Bye MR, Rubinstein A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 
10461.

Eighteen children with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) were 
diagnosed as having Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) by either open lung 
biopsy or bronchoalveolar lavage. Seven patients (39%) died during the acute 
illness. Alveolar-arterial oxygen gradients at the time of presentation and 
lactate dehydrogenase levels did not distinguish survivors from nonsurvivors. 
Total lymphocyte and T4 cell counts were low in children who died during the 
initial PCP infection but had considerable overlap with survivors. Response to 
phytohemagglutinin was measured in 5 of the 7 patients who died initially. In 
these patients, the mean phytohemagglutinin response was 1977 cpm. Of the 11 
early survivors, 10 died within 27 months after PCP. Mean phytohemagglutinin 
response was 46,079 cpm in patients who died within 1 year, and 44,768 cpm in 
those who died later. Only 1 child is still alive 5 years after PCP illness. 
Children with AIDS and PCP infection have high initial mortality and poor 
long-term prognosis. Response to phytohemagglutinin is helpful in predicting who 
will survive initial PCP infection.

DOI: 10.1001/archpedi.1989.02150190025013
PMID: 2787098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Int J Epidemiol. 1989 Jun;18(2):295-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/18.2.295.

Evaluation of overdiagnosis of breast cancer in screening with mammography: 
results of the Nijmegen programme.

Peeters PH(1), Verbeek AL, Straatman H, Holland R, Hendriks JH, Mravunac M, 
Rothengatter C, Van Dijk-Milatz A, Werre JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Nijmegen University, The Netherlands.

After 12 years of screening for breast cancer in Nijmegen (1975-86), during 
which period six mammographic examination rounds were carried out, the extent of 
overdiagnosis was evaluated. Overdiagnosis is defined as a histologically 
established diagnosis of invasive or intraductal breast cancer that would never 
have developed into a clinically manifest tumour during the patient's normal 
life expectancy if no screening examination had been carried out. The whole 
12-year period shows an excess of 11% of breast cancer cases in Nijmegen, 
compared with the neighbouring city of Arnhem, where no mass screening was 
performed. The incidence of breast cancers in Nijmegen in the period 1975-78 is 
higher, compared with the incidence rates in Arnhem; the rate ratio is 1.30. For 
the time-intervals 1979-82 and 1983-86 the rate ratios are 1.03 and 1.01 
respectively with (0.89; 1.18) and (0.86; 1.16) as 95% confidence intervals. 
This leads to the conclusion that there is no evidence that screening programmes 
using modern mammography constitute a significant risk for overdiagnosis of 
breast cancers.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/18.2.295
PMID: 2788627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Gaoxiong Yi Xue Ke Xue Za Zhi. 1989 Apr;5(4):231-40.

Thalamic hemorrhage: a computed tomographic-clinical study in prognostic 
prediction.

Chui C, Howng SL.

A series of 50 patients with thalamic hemorrhage confirmed by CT Scan is 
reported. The size, location, extension, and ventricular perforation of the 
hemorrhage are accurately portrayed. The age of onset, sex, level of 
consciousness on admission, history of vomiting and headache and detailed 
neurological examination were studied and analyzed. All patients were evaluated 
6 months after the attack using the Kanaya's grading of ability in daily life 
(ADL). The authors conclude that the size of hematoma, initial consciousness 
loss, impaired level of consciousness on admission and bilateral Babinski's sign 
indicates the poor prognosis in thalamic hemorrhage.

PMID: 2788751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Retina. 1989;9(2):101-4. doi: 10.1097/00006982-198909020-00005.

Irradiation of choroidal melanomas before enucleation?

Kreissig I(1), Rohrbach M, Lincoff H.

Author information:
(1)University Eye Clinic, Department of Vitreoretinal Surgery, Tübingen, Federal 
Republic of Germany.

The eyes of 26 patients with choroidal melanomas were irradiated before 
enucleation at the University Eye Clinic in Tübingen. Preoperative external beam 
radiation therapy (PERT) was administered between July 1980 and July 1986. 
Follow-up ranged from 25 months to 8 years, 4 months with a mean follow-up of 53 
months. The average diameter of the tumor base was 15 mm and the height 10 mm. 
Before enucleation vertical stationary electron beam irradiation (10-12 meV) was 
applied to the tumor-containing eye and the orbit. The dose was increased during 
the course of the study from 12 to 40 Gy. Enucleation was performed by a 
technique that cauterized the vasculature before severing it and avoided 
maneuvers that would cause changes in intraocular pressure. The patients were 
reexamined between August and November 1988. Nine (34.6%) had died of metastases 
of melanoma, six of them during the second postoperative year; one patient was 
alive with metastases. Subsequent death occurred in all patients who had 
melanomas of epithelioid cell type (3 of 3) and in no patients who had melanomas 
of spindle A cell type (0 of 3). In this small series PERT had no apparent 
beneficial effect on the patient's life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/00006982-198909020-00005
PMID: 2788910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Biull Eksp Biol Med. 1989 Jun;107(6):743-5.

[The relationship of the intensity of liver microsomal oxidation to individual 
longevity].

[Article in Russian]

Paramonova GI.

Positive correlation between the activity of enzymes of microsomal oxidation of 
the liver and individual lifespan was shown in experiments on Wistar female 
rats. The use of test of duration of pentobarbital hypnosis provides for the 
distinction between the animals with low and high life expectancy.

PMID: 2790175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. CMAJ. 1989 Oct 1;141(7):677-82.

Mortality rates among patients with end-stage renal disease in Canada, 1981-86.

Silins J(1), Fortier L, Mao Y, Posen G, Ugnat AM, Brancker A, Gaudette L, Wigle 
D.

Author information:
(1)Vital Statistics and Disease Registries Section, Ottawa Civic Hospital.

We assessed the mortality rates by age, sex, race, blood type, primary 
diagnosis, treatment and transplantation history of 8432 patients in Canada for 
whom end-stage renal disease (ESRD) was diagnosed between 1981 and 1986. 
Significant differences in the probability of dying were found between those 
with and without diabetes mellitus, between those who had received a renal 
transplant and those who had not, between white and nonwhite patients and 
between various age groups. The mortality rates of the ESRD patients were at 
least three times higher than those of the general Canadian population. Primary 
diagnosis and treatment were significantly associated with the risk of dying 
among the ESRD patients. For those who had received a transplant, the length of 
time spent waiting for a transplant was positively associated with the risk of 
death from ESRD. Patients who had received peritoneal dialysis before 
transplantation had a higher risk of death than those who had received either 
hemodialysis (risk ratio 1.3) or transplantation (risk ratio 3.2) as the first 
treatment. No significant differences were found in the cause of death between 
those who had received peritoneal dialysis and those who had received 
hemodialysis. Almost half of the deaths among women without diabetes who had 
received a transplant were due to infection.

PMCID: PMC1452765
PMID: 2790603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Dis Colon Rectum. 1989 Oct;32(10):898-902. doi: 10.1007/BF02554566.

Survival analysis: a practical approach.

Reznick RK(1), Guest CB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Survival analysis is a statistical method used to calculate the probability of 
an event such as death or relapse of disease occurring in a patient over time. 
Survival analysis is important in the interpretation of clinical research, and 
is frequently encountered in the colorectal literature. In this article, the 
terminology used in survival analysis is explained, specific examples are 
presented, and common methods of calculation demonstrated.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02554566
PMID: 2791775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Fam Plann Perspect. 1989 Jul-Aug;21(4):184-7.

The Court edges away from Roe v. Wade.

[No authors listed]

PIP: On July 3, 1989, the US Supreme Court issued its decision in Webster v. 
Reproductive Health Services on the constitutionality of a 1986 Missouri 
abortion law. The Court upheld 4 of the 5 disputed provisions, with the justices 
issuing a plurality opinion, 2 concurring opinions, and 2 dissenting opinions. 
The Court did not overrule Roe v. Wade, although 3 justices issuing the 
plurality opinion abandoned the trimester framework, arguing that the state has 
a compelling interest is protection fetal life throughout pregnancy, not just 
after viability. The Court declined (5-4) to rule on the constitutionality of 
the statute's preamble defining conception at fertilization as the beginning of 
human life, rules (5-4) that the ban on the use of public facilities for 
abortions are not necessary to save the woman's life was a logical and 
permissible extension of the Court's earlier rulings that the states and the 
federal government do not have to pay for abortions for the indigent, and ruled 
that a doctor determine the viability and gestational age before aborting a 
fetus of at least 20 weeks. Justice Blackmun's dissent, joined by Marshall and 
Brennan, worries that the constitutional right of women to decide to terminate a 
pregnancy are not secure: that the plurality allows the state a 1st trimester 
interest in the fetus based merely on the "it-is-so-because-we-say-so" form of 
brute force jurisprudence, and that while the plurality pretends to leave Roe 
standing, it refuses to discuss the real issue: whether the Constitution 
includes an unenumerated right to privacy that encompasses a woman's right to 
decide whether to terminate a pregnancy.

PMID: 2792338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Gerontology. 1989;35(2-3):113-20. doi: 10.1159/000213008.

Actuarial aging rate is not constant within the human life span.

Ekonomov AL(1), Rudd CL, Lomakin AJ.

Author information:
(1)Anti-Aging Group, InterConcepts, Inc., Budapest, Hungary.

It is often believed that the mortality intensity in the modern human population 
undergoes an exponential growth after 40 years, i.e. the actuarial aging rate is 
regarded to be constant after 40 years. To check this assumption we have 
calculated local aging rate values for 13 age ranges (within the interval of 
30-92 years) for the male and female population of 48 states of the US 
(1969-1971). It was found that generally the male aging rate is not constant but 
lowers monotonically with time, while for females the aging rate has a 
pronounced approximately-shaped character with a minimum in the range of 45-60 
years and a maximum within the range of 70-80 years. The results obtained are a 
warning to those who boldly use Gompertz or Gompertz-Makeham formulas when 
describing human aging on the population level.

DOI: 10.1159/000213008
PMID: 2792778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 1989 Aug;52(8):1017. doi:
10.1136/jnnp.52.8.1017.

The prevalence of multiple sclerosis in south east Wales.

Martyn CN, Osmond C.

Comment on
    J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 1988 Dec;51(12):1520-4.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.52.8.1017
PMCID: PMC1031852
PMID: 2795062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1989 Nov 1;81(21):1640-7. doi: 10.1093/jnci/81.21.1640.

Increasing survival trend after cancer diagnosis in Sweden: 1960-1984.

Adami HO(1), Sparén P, Bergström R, Holmberg L, Krusemo UB, Pontén J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 1991 Apr 17;83(8):579-80.

We analyzed the survival trend after cancer was diagnosed by complete follow-up 
through 1986 of 591,456 (99.4%) of all those patients in whom a first malignant 
disease was diagnosed in Sweden from 1960 to 1984. From 1960-1964 to 1980-1984, 
the 5-year relative survival increased from 34.2% to 47.1% in males and from 
48.7% to 56.9% in females. The mean loss of expected life among cancer patients 
decreased from 9.6 to 7.0 years. During the first 5 years after diagnosis, the 
cancer-specific hazard rate decreased by 34% in males and 30% in females. Thus 
several analytical approaches revealed a substantial increase in cancer patient 
survival since 1960.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/81.21.1640
PMID: 2795692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. J Vasc Surg. 1989 Oct;10(4):400-7.

Postoperative predictive value of a new method of intraoperative angiographic 
assessment of runoff in femoropopliteal bypass grafting.

Karacagil S(1), Almgren B, Bergström R, Bowald S, Eriksson I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

In 96 consecutive patients undergoing primary femoropopliteal bypass grafting, 
the runoff was evaluated with a new grading system, based on findings at 
intraoperative postreconstruction serial angiography. This concept, which takes 
foot vessel involvement into account in patients with only one patent crural 
artery, is a modification of the traditional method of runoff assessment. Good 
runoff was defined as patency of two or three lower leg arteries to the foot or 
one patent, vessel continuous with intact anterior or posterior foot arch. In 
limbs with no patent vessel or one patent vessel with deficient or occluded foot 
arches, the runoff was classified as poor. The cumulative primary patency rates 
at 12 months in groups with good and poor runoff were 81% and 37%, respectively. 
The predictive value of the new method was superior to that of other comparable 
methods (traditional method, Society for Vascular Surgery and International 
Society for Cardiovascular Surgery criteria, and modified Society for Vascular 
Surgery and International Society for Cardiovascular Surgery criteria). This 
improved prediction can be ascribed to the optimal angiographic technique for 
visualizing distal vessels, selective evaluation of foot vessel runoff with a 
new concept, and the criteria used to define good and poor runoff.

PMID: 2795765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. J Vasc Surg. 1989 Oct;10(4):432-8.

Carotid endarterectomy in patients with intracranial vascular disease: 
short-term risk and long-term outcome.

Mackey WC(1), O'Donnell TF Jr, Callow AD.

Author information:
(1)New England Medical Center, Tufts University Department of Surgery, Boston, 
MA 02111.

To determine the influence of angiographically identifiable intracranial 
vascular lesions on the outcome of carotid endarterectomy, 597 patients from our 
carotid surgery registry who had had complete angiographic evaluation were 
divided into two groups: (1) significant intracranial disease identified by 
angiography (N = 134) and no significant intracranial disease identified by 
angiography (N = 463). The short- and long-term outcomes of carotid 
endarterectomy in the two groups were compared. Perioperative stroke morbidity 
(intracranial disease 1.9%, no intracranial disease 1.8%) and mortality 
(intracranial disease 0.5%, no intracranial disease 0.7%) were acceptable and 
not statistically different (p greater than 0.7). Late stroke prevention was 
nearly identical in the two groups, with 3-, 5-, and 10-year life-table of 
stroke-free rates of 93%, 87%, and 79%, respectively, versus 92%, 90%, and 85%, 
respectively, in the intracranial disease and no intracranial disease groups (p 
= 0.75). The incidence of recurrent transient ischemic attack was 9.7% in the 
intracranial disease group and 6.5% in the no intracranial disease group (p = 
0.22). In the clinical population studied in the described method, 
angiographically identifiable intracranial vascular disease did not appear to 
have a statistically demonstrable influence on the short-term or long-term 
prognosis after carotid endarterectomy.

PMID: 2795768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Kyobu Geka. 1989 Sep;42(10):806-10; discussion 811-3.

[Biological versus mechanical valves in the mitral position].

[Article in Japanese]

Shimoyama Y, Wanibuchi Y, Ino T, Terada Y, Takagi H, Furuta S, Soma Y, Yozu R, 
Shimizu H, Inoue T.

The long-term late results of isolated mitral valve replacement before April 
1981 were retrospectively evaluated in 54 patients receiving a Hancock valve 
(HX) with a total follow-up of 424 patient-years (py) and 37 patients receiving 
a Björk-Shiley valve (BS) with a total follow-up of 366 py. There was no 
significant difference in regard to preoperative age, cardiothoracic ratio, 
electrocardiogram, or New York Heart Association functional class between the 
two groups. All of the BS group and 43 of the HX patients received long-term 
anticoagulant therapy. No significant difference was notable between the two 
groups in hospital mortality. Actuarial survival rate excluding hospital deaths 
was 75.5 +/- 6.7% for the HX group, and 80.8 +/- 7.1% for the BS group at ten 
years (not significant). There was no significant difference between the two 
groups in overall incidence of thromboembolism (HX 1.4% py, BS 1.9% py), 
anticoagulant related bleeding (HX 0.5% py, BS 0.8% py), or endocarditis (HX 
0.5% py, BS 0.3% py). Actuarial freedom from reoperation at ten years was 69.6 
+/- 8.1% for the HX group, and 93.5 +/- 4.4% for the BS group (p less than 
0.01). Event free survival excluding hospital deaths at ten years was 49.2 +/- 
8.1% for the HX group, 70.6 +/- 8.3% for the BS group (p less than 0.05). We 
prefer a mechanical prosthesis except in patients over 65 years old, who have a 
short life expectancy, in whom anticoagulation is thought to be difficult, and 
who hope a biological valve.

PMID: 2796070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Ma Zui Xue Za Zhi. 1989 Jun;27(2):137-42.

Evaluation of inhospital cardiopulmonary resuscitation.

Peng TC, Sum DC, Tan PP.

Of 77 patients who received cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) for an 
inhospital cardiac arrest from Jan. 1987 to Mar. 1988. 48(68%) survived the 
initial resuscitation, but only 11(16%) survived to leave hospital. A follow-up 
survey to Oct. 1988, of these 11 patients showed that one died within 11 months 
of discharge, but that others were all alive and living independently. The major 
cause of cardiopulmonary arrest was airway obstruction. Survival rates were 
lower if resuscitation efforts lasted more than 30 minutes or if the event 
occurred between midnight and 8:00 AM. Thirty of the 48 patients who were 
successfully resuscitated initially were transferred to the intensive care unit 
for prolonged cardiac life support. Of the patients who had underlying disease 
or severe neurologic impairment due to hypoxic encephalopathy, 19(63%) were dead 
within a few days or even hours after CPR. Therefore, we recommend (1) programs 
for routine CPR assessment (2) extension of CPR training for key personnel, 
especially ward staff working night shifts (3) assessment by CPR providers as to 
whether or not to continue or to give DNR (do-not-resuscitate) orders.

PMID: 2796622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Med Decis Making. 1989 Oct-Dec;9(4):285-99. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8900900408.

Aortic aneurysm in a 74-year-old man with coronary disease and obstructive lung 
disease: is double jeopardy enough?

Hagen MD(1), Eckman MH, Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New England Medical Center, Tufts University School 
of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts.

A previous decision analysis examined a patient with severe CAD, diminished 
ventricular function, and an abdominal aortic aneurysm and also concluded that 
CABG followed by aneurysm repair was optimal. This patient, who had 
well-preserved cardiac function but severely compromised pulmonary status, stood 
to gain less from CABG than would a patient with more severe coronary disease, 
thus accounting for the "close-call" between the CABG-AAA and AAA only 
strategies. Nevertheless, the analysis did emphasize the benefit of aneurysm 
repair, whether done alone or after CABG. The analysis also highlighted the 
significant risk of aneurysm rupture the patient is exposed to while recovering 
from CABG surgery. The operative mortality risks of the two procedures are 
similar; thus, the patient's total operative risk is approximately doubled if he 
undergoes both procedures rather than aneurysm repair alone. The key question 
raised by the analysis is whether this double jeopardy is more than compensated 
by the degree to which prior CABG reduces both short-term cardiac risk at 
subsequent aneurysm repair and long-term cardiac mortality. For this patient, 
who had good cardiac function, the gains appeared sufficient to offset the 
interval risk of aneurysm rupture and the additional risk associated with a 
surgical procedures. THE REAL WORLD The patient indeed underwent and tolerated 
CABG, although he had a stormy prolonged postoperative course due to pulmonary 
failure. After discharge from the hospital, he declined readmission for repair 
of the aneurysm. We did not model that possibility, clearly an inadequacy in our 
tree. Some six months later, the patient was still alive and was, reluctantly, 
readmitted for aneurysmorrhaphy. At that time, however, his pulmonary function 
had deteriorated and both the anesthesiologist and the pulmonary consultant 
stated unequivocally that further surgery was now impossible. In retrospect, the 
expected utility of CABG without aneurysm repair (thus providing only a decrease 
in the long-term mortality risk from his CAD) would have been 1.95 (DEALE) or 
2.06 (Markov) years. Sensitivity analysis revealed that, even if long-term 
cardiac risk were completely eliminated by CABG, immediate aneurysm repair would 
have been a better approach had the patient's physicians known he would be 
likely to refuse or not be a candidate for the second operation. In summary, 
although the patient's comorbidities did indeed place him at significant 
operative risk for either aneurysmorrhaphy alone or two sequential procedures, 
the benefits to be gained were shown to far outweigh the risks when compared 
with expectant observation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8900900408
PMID: 2796636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Radiol Diagn (Berl). 1989;30(4):365-78.

[The development of radiology and the Society for Medical Radiology of the DDR].

[Article in German]

Angerstein W.

After a retrospective history of radiology since the discovery of x-rays the 
development of medical radiology and the Society for Medical Radiology of the 
DRG are described. Cornerstones of these development are the foundation of the 
Society for Medical Radiology in 1954, the continuous increase of the numbers of 
examinations until 1974, the significantly increased availability of modern 
imaging methods since 1985 and the introduction of special training courses for 
physicians in the fields of diagnostic radiology, radiation therapy and nuclear 
medicine in 1988. A bibliography was compiled, containing data on the numbers of 
available devices, costs in medical care and the impact on life expectancy.

PMID: 2798827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Surgery. 1989 Oct;106(4):702-8; discussion 708-9.

Incidence and diagnosis of C7-T1 fractures and subluxations in multiple-trauma 
patients: evaluation of the advanced trauma life support guidelines.

Gisbert VL(1), Hollerman JJ, Ney AL, Rockswold GL, Ruiz E, Jacobs DM, Bubrick 
MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Hennepin County Medical Center, Minneapolis, Minn 
55415.

A 5-year retrospective review was done to evaluate C-7 and C7-T1 cervical spine 
injuries and to assess the advanced trauma life support guidelines for cervical 
spine evaluation. Eighteen fractures of C-7 and four fracture-dislocation at 
C7-T1 were identified. Nineteen of the patients had neck pain, tenderness, or 
neurologic findings on initial examination. Three patients were awake and 
asymptomatic. The initial diagnosis could be made from lateral cervical spine 
x-ray film in only three of the 22 patients. In the remaining patients, the 
diagnosis was made by either swimmer's view (7 of 8 positive), oblique views (1 
of 1 positive), flexion-extension views (2 of 3 positive), or computed 
tomography (CT) scan (7 of 7 positive). In two patients, the diagnosis was not 
made in the first 24 hours. Follow-up x-ray films were positive in 3 of 22 
lateral cervical spine films, 10 of 14 swimmer's views, 2 of 3 oblique views, 2 
of 3 flexion-extension views, and 14 of 20 CT scans. The data support the 
advanced trauma life support recommendation for liberal use of cervical spine 
radiologic screening. We recommend that the screening examination consist of a 
lateral cervical spine film, and a swimmer's view, if necessary, to visualize 
C-7 and the C7-T1 interspace. We further recommend that strong consideration be 
given to the use of a five-view trauma series. CT scan should be viewed as 
complementary to conventional film techniques.

PMID: 2799645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Z Alternsforsch. 1989 Jul-Aug;44(4):229-36.

[Management of pre-retirement probands at the onset of retirement age--study 
exemplified by the Parchim district].

[Article in German]

Witte FD(1), Bürgermeister P, Erpenbeck F, Gulbin K.

Author information:
(1)Sozial-medizinische Betreuungsstelle Akademie für Arztliche Fortbildung der 
DDR.

Entering the age of retirement means a threshold situation affecting various 
relations in the living-conditions, medical provision not excluded. Based upon 
the WHO-authorizised concept of classification of impairments, disabilities and 
handicaps (ICIDH), disability status was checked up in 62 male and 113 female at 
the age of 65 respectively 60 years, the trial forming the respondents rate out 
of a population total of 179 persons reaching the age of retirement within a one 
year's space at a district town in the north part of GDR. Medical provision in 
this context was analysed.

PMID: 2800574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Z Gesamte Hyg. 1989 Jun;35(6):370-1.

[Incorporation of work disability into the prolonged life expectancy process].

[Article in German]

Scholz RD, Neumann H, Schippan U.

The various reasons of deficiency, as e.g., mortality, invalidity and 
notification of illness result in a decrease of the potential of work of the 
labour. Because of the mutual influence of these reasons, an isolated assessment 
of them only can be performed in a restricted manner. The loss of working years 
in male workers and clerks of the GDR (SV FDGB 1982) is calculated and assessed 
on the basis of the various reasons of deficiency.

PMID: 2800637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Acta Psychiatr Scand Suppl. 1989;348:7-9; discussion 167-78.

Psychiatric epidemiology. Scope and principles.

Strömgren E.

PMID: 2801181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Am J Gastroenterol. 1989 Oct;84(10):1288-93.

Nutritional status, gastrointestinal dysfunction, and survival in patients with 
AIDS.

Chlebowski RT(1), Grosvenor MB, Bernhard NH, Morales LS, Bulcavage LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, UCLA School of Medicine, Torrance.

Comment in
    Am J Gastroenterol. 1990 Apr;85(4):476.

The clinical course of 71 patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome 
(AIDS) was evaluated to determine relationships among nutritional status, 
gastrointestinal symptoms and survival. At baseline, weight loss was present in 
98%, hypoalbuminemia (less than 3.5 g/dl) was present in 83%, and 
gastrointestinal symptoms included pharyngitis (54%), diarrhea (42%), nausea 
(23%), dysphagia (21%), and anorexia (18%). Both the magnitude of body weight 
loss and the serum albumin level were strongly associated with life-table 
analysis of survival. For weight loss, median survival of 520 vs. 48 days 
occurred in patients with less than 10% versus greater than 20% baseline weight 
loss, respectively (p less than 0.01). The substantial influence of serum 
albumin on survival is outlined below. (table; see text) In almost all cases, 
serial evaluation demonstrated progressive linear decrease in body weight and 
albumin. In patients with normal baseline albumin, the rate of 0.7 mg/dl albumin 
decrease per day was less than half that in patients with baseline 
hypoalbuminemia. A projected "time to develop an albumin level less than 2.5 
g/dl" was calculated for patient groups based on initial albumin level and the 
rate of albumin decrease. The calculated interval was similar to the actual 
median survival time observed in these groups. We conclude that 1) nutritional 
status may represent a major determinant of survival in AIDS and 2) the rate of 
albumin decrease may define a function limiting survival of individual patients 
with AIDS.

PMID: 2801680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1989 Sep;80(1):49-58. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.1330800107.

Pattern matching of age-at-death distributions in paleodemographic analysis.

Milner GR(1), Humpf DA, Harpending HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park 
16802.

Model age-at-death distributions are generated from fertility and mortality 
rates derived from two present-day, traditional human societies with widely 
differing cultural systems: the !Kung hunters-and-gatherers and Yanomamo 
horticulturalists. Visual examination of these models demonstrates that 
fertility has more of an effect than mortality on the overall configuration of 
the age-at-death distributions of stable populations. Comparisons with a late 
prehistoric Oneota skeletal sample from the American Midwest illustrate how 
reference age-at-death schedules can be used 1) to identify whether a given 
skeletal sample approximates an age-at-death distribution expected of an extant 
human population and 2) to provide a basis for developing further testable 
hypotheses about the demographic and cultural characteristics of past 
populations.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330800107
PMID: 2801905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Arch Biochem Biophys. 1989 Nov 1;274(2):574-81. doi: 
10.1016/0003-9861(89)90472-4.

Vitamin K-dependent carboxylase: influence of the "propeptide" region on enzyme 
activity.

Cheung A(1), Engelke JA, Sanders C, Suttie JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, 
University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706.

The liver microsomal vitamin K-dependent carboxylase catalyzes the 
post-translational conversion of specific glutamyl to gamma-carboxyglutamyl 
(Gla) residues in precursor forms of a limited number of proteins. These 
proteins contain an amino-terminal extension (propeptide) that is presumed to 
serve as an enzyme recognition site to assure their normal processing. The free, 
noncovalently bound propeptide has also been shown to stimulate the in vitro 
activity of this enzyme. This peptide has now been shown to lower the app Km of 
a low-molecular-weight Glu site substrate while having no influence on the app 
Km of the other substrates, vitamin KH2, O2, and CO2/HCO3-. Propeptide addition 
was shown to have no influence on the ratio of the two products of the enzyme, 
Gla and vitamin K-2,3-epoxide. Stimulation of carboxylase activity by the 
propeptide from human factor X was observed in a number of rat tissues and in 
the liver of a number of different species. Stability of the enzyme in crude 
microsomal preparations was greatly enhanced by the presence of propeptide. 
These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that this region of the 
protein substrates for the carboxylase not only serves an enzyme recognition or 
docking function but also modulates the activity of the enzyme by altering the 
affinity for one of its substrates.

DOI: 10.1016/0003-9861(89)90472-4
PMID: 2802629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Ann Soc Belg Med Trop. 1989;69 Suppl 1:147-54; discussion 212-4.

Problems of field testing theoretical models: a case study.

Dransfield RD, Brightwell R.

The problems of field-testing models are discussed with reference to a 
population simulation model for the tsetse fly glossina pallidipes Austen 
developed by us at Nguruman in southwestern Kenya. Model predictions showed a 
reasonable fit to the changes in the biconical trap index of population size, 
but tended to overestimate some changes and underestimate others. A more 
rigorous test for the model is to manipulate one of the population parameters 
and compare model predictions with the observed population trends. This revealed 
that some changes in population size resulted more from fly movement than from 
changes in mortality rates. Fly movement must therefore be incorporated in the 
model for it to be a useful tool in the development of appropriate control 
strategies.

PMID: 2802817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Asia Pac J Public Health. 1989;3(2):118-28. doi: 10.1177/101053958900300206.

Child Survival and Development toward Health for All: roles and strategies for 
Asia-Pacific universities.

Raymond JS, Patrick W.

Recently, discussion among academics and practitioners has focused on the 
potential roles, strategies, and functions of universities in the Asia-Pacific 
region in the next ten to fifteen years in the global initiative commonly 
referred to as the Child Survival and Development Revolution toward Health for 
All. (1) The purpose of this paper is to capture the practical key elements of 
recent discussions and to extend the current thinking into potentially useful 
guidelines or frameworks for universities of the region. Universities may then 
be better prepared to move forward in ways which promote the goals and interests 
of the Health For All movement and the well-being of particularly the world's 
children.

PIP: The child survival and development movement in relation to universities in 
the Asia-Pacific region were the subject of recent discussions of medical 
practitioners and academics. There are 14 million deaths of children that could 
be avoided if they could benefit from immunizations, pure water, sanitation, 
nutrition, and oral rehydration therapy. Also there is a large loss of physical 
and mental ability. Many international agencies have helped improved children's 
health and survival, and life expectancy has risen 40% in the last 40 years. In 
countries such as China, India, Pakistan, Thailand, and Indonesia there has been 
an exceptional achievement in child survival and development. In many developing 
countries health services have been patterned after western medical systems that 
promote treatment rather than prevention. Universities' role in relation to 
these problems has been the conducting of research, providing instruction, 
education, and training. The areas of success are in vaccine development and 
mass communications research. New roles can be taken in technical assistance and 
introduction of technology in planning and evaluation. There are also 
possibilities in the pooling of information and resources to help in child 
survival and development. In long range strategies and roles, universities can 
use conventional methods. In midrange areas the universities can use new modes 
and share and interact with governments and international organizations. In the 
short term they can use the less conventional methods and follow the leadership 
of the international organizations. In short term, universities can provide help 
in planning of national campaigns, provide resources, and participate in 
evaluations of campaigns. In the mid-range they can be involved in joint 
initiatives in operations research, specialized training, and clinical trials. 
In the long range universities are best suited to conventional research, 
training, laboratory science and technology development.

DOI: 10.1177/101053958900300206
PMID: 2803842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Asia Pac J Public Health. 1989;3(2):139-44. doi: 10.1177/101053958900300208.

Epidemiological transition in Asian countries and related health policy issues.

Phoon WO.

The transition in morbidity and mortality from largely communicable diseases to 
largely non-communicable diseases has been effected in many Asian countries, 
particularly those which are newly-industrializing. Consequently, significant 
changes in national health policies have been made to cope with new problems 
such as the increasing numbers of old people, occupational diseases, accidents 
and cancer. AIDS, hepatitis B and the "tropical diseases" should, however, 
remind un that communicable diseases are still very important in Asian 
countries.

DOI: 10.1177/101053958900300208
PMID: 2803844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Br J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 1989 Oct;27(5):400-5. doi: 
10.1016/0266-4356(89)90080-6.

Experience with radical surgical treatment of maxillofacial tumours invading the 
base of the skull. Long term results.

Mailath G(1), Rasse M, Hollmann K, Schuster H.

Author information:
(1)Clinik of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, University of Vienna.

A review of patient data of maxillofacial tumours invading the base of the skull 
shows a relatively high fatality rate as a result of surgical intervention but 
also an unexpectedly high life expectancy. Surgical intervention seems to be the 
right choice whenever clinical examination suggest tumour removal is possible 
even if a tumour cannot be extirpated in one operation and a further operation 
from a second access is needed.

DOI: 10.1016/0266-4356(89)90080-6
PMID: 2804043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Cancer. 1989 Dec 1;64(11):2354-60. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19891201)64:11<2354::aid-cncr2820641127>3.0.co;2-#.

Dukes' classification revisited. Findings from the National Surgical Adjuvant 
Breast and Bowel Projects (Protocol R-01).

Fisher ER(1), Sass R, Palekar A, Fisher B, Wolmark N.

Author information:
(1)National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Projects, NSABP, Headquarters, 
Pittsburgh, PA.

The relative prognostic value of the Dukes, Astler, and Coller and TNM staging 
systems was evaluated for 745 pathologically evaluable patients with rectal 
cancer enrolled in protocol R-01 of the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and 
Bowel Projects. All three methods were found to be highly interrelated. However, 
the magnitude and consistency of prognostic discrimination among stages was best 
exhibited by the Dukes' and TNM systems. Survival was comparable among patients 
with Astler and Coller A and B1 and TNM T1N0M0 and T2N0M0 lesions. Since neither 
method improved on the predictability noted in Dukes' A cases it is suggested 
that the use of confusing subscripts is unnecessary. On the other hand, striking 
prognostic discrimination was observed when Dukes' C cases were subdivided 
according to depth of tumor penetration as proposed by Astler and Coller and 
designated as C1 and C2. Multivariate analyses revealed this feature to be 
independent of number of nodal metastases (1-4 versus 5+ positive), their site 
(near or far from the growth), or degree of tumor differentiation. The site of 
nodal metastases appeared to be related to numbers of nodal metastases rather 
than site per se. Considerations of the findings indicate that the Dukes' 
staging method is the simplest and most consistent algorithm related to 
prognosis. The only modification that would enhance its value in this regard 
would be the subdivision of C cases according to the criteria of Astler and 
Coller rather than that proposed by Dukes himself.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19891201)64:11<2354::aid-cncr2820641127>3.0.co;2-#
PMID: 2804927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Chirurgie. 1989;115(2):84-7; discussion 88.

[Total hip prosthesis: what is the life expectancy? Survey of 430 prostheses 
with a 10 to 12 year follow-up in 253 cases].

[Article in French]

Kenesi C, Martigny J.

In 1987 we made a review of all total hip prostheses inserted at Hopital Henri 
Mondor in 1974-1975-1976. These were of the metal-polyethylene Charnley-Muller 
or Lagrange-Letournel type (430 prostheses inserted in 349 patients). 178 hips 
were reexamined and 177 were lost to follow up. 61 patients had died. Overall, 
good results were found in 65% of patients reviewed - 12.5% had been reoperated 
upon. Although the newer models of prostheses are full of promise, none has 
stood the test of 10 years of use.

PMID: 2805925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Eur Heart J. 1989 Aug;10 Suppl C:19-24. doi:
10.1093/eurheartj/10.suppl_c.19.

Therapeutic targets and expectations for the treatment of heart failure.

Taylor SH(1).

Author information:
(1)University Department of Cardiovascular Studies, General Infirmary, Leeds, 
U.K.

Drug therapy for heart failure holds considerable promise. Direct support of 
cardiac pumping activity with positive inotropic drugs provides a specific 
correction for the failing myocardium. Vasodilatation of the systemic arteriolar 
resistance and venous capacitance systems affords a different but equally 
rational remedy. Volume and pressure load on the heart is reduced and this 
augments the pharmacodynamic effects of drugs with positive inotropic activity. 
For this reason, drugs possessing both pharmacodynamic attributes are an 
important development in heart failure. The precise clinical targets at which 
heart failure therapy must be aimed are: (i) relief of symptoms and improvement 
