in quality of life; (ii) reduced risk of morbid events, particularly ventricular 
arrhythmias; and (iii) extension of survival. Whilst the pathophysiological 
targets for drug intervention are the same at all stages of the syndrome, 
expectations of benefit are likely to depend on the stage at which therapy is 
instituted. In early or mild heart failure, when the patient is not markedly 
impaired by symptoms, the most that can be expected from treatment is a marginal 
improvement in quality of life but a major improvement in survival expectancy. 
In contrast, treatment of severe heart failure may be expected to improve the 
quality of life substantially by relieving the oppressive symptoms of the 
advanced syndrome, but only a relatively small increase, if any, in survival. 
Nevertheless, when the syndrome is terminal, improvement in quality of life 
carries a clinical priority far in excess of prolonged survival.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/10.suppl_c.19
PMID: 2806287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Fertil Steril. 1989 Oct;52(4):544-6. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)60960-3.

Use and abuse of statistics in reproductive research.

Whitman GF(1), Thompson WO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta 
30912.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)60960-3
PMID: 2806594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Gynecol Oncol. 1989 Nov;35(2):150-5. doi: 10.1016/0090-8258(89)90033-4.

Outcome of recurrent cervical carcinoma following definitive irradiation.

Sommers GM(1), Grigsby PW, Perez CA, Camel HM, Kao MS, Galakatos AE, Lockett MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecological Oncology, Washington University Medical Center, 
St. Louis, Missouri 63110.

This report is a retrospective analysis of 376 patients with recurrent cervical 
carcinoma, following definitive radiation therapy to 1054 patients with stage 
IB-IVA carcinoma of the uterine cervix treated at the Radiation Oncology Center, 
Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, from January 1959 through December 1982. 
The sites of failure after treatment by stage at initial diagnosis were 
classified as pelvic only (P), pelvic plus distant metastasis (P + DM), or 
distant metastasis only (DM). The sites of first failure were for stage IB, P = 
0.8%, P + DM = 7.4%, DM = 7.9%; for stage IIA, P = 1.7%, P + DM = 14.7%, DM = 
17.2%; for stage IIB, P = 10.4%, P + DM = 11.0%, DM = 14.9%; for stage III, P = 
15.4%, P + DM = 23.9%, DM = 18.9%; and for stage IV, P = 16.7%, P + DM = 61.1%, 
DM = 16.7%. The actuarial probability of pelvic failure at 5 years from initial 
therapy was 8% for stage IB, 16% for stage IIA, 21% for stage IIB, 42% for stage 
III, and 100% for stage IV. The incidence of distant metastasis at 5 years was 
14, 32, 28, 47, and 100% for stages IB, IIA, IIB, III, and IV, respectively. The 
therapy after failure was surgery, irradiation, irradiation plus surgery, or 
chemotherapy. There appeared to be no major difference in survival after 
recurrence by type of treatment or initial stage. The overall survival at 5 
years for all untreated patients was 1%. The median survival was evaluated as a 
function of time to failure after initial treatment. Patients who developed 
disease more than 36 months after initial treatment had a median survival of 
22.5 months. The median survival was 12.1, 7.6, 9.4, and 9.1 months for those 
failing less than 6, 6-12, 13-24, and 25-36 months after initial treatment. 
Severe treatment complications occurred in 3.6% (5/140).

DOI: 10.1016/0090-8258(89)90033-4
PMID: 2807004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Gynecol Oncol. 1989 Nov;35(2):219-23. doi: 10.1016/0090-8258(89)90047-4.

Pelvic exenteration: a morbidity and mortality analysis of a seven-year 
experience.

Anthopoulos AP(1), Manetta A, Larson JE, Podczaski ES, Bartholomew MJ, Mortel R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Pennsylvania State University, 
Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey 17033.

Twenty patients have undergone pelvic exenteration at the University Hospital of 
the Pennsylvania State University from 1979 to 1985. The majority of operations 
were performed for cancers of the cervix or vagina that recurred following 
radiotherapy. Operative mortality was 5.0%. Of those surviving the procedure, 16 
patients (84%) were rehospitalized for complications that occurred more than 30 
days after exenteration. The majority of these involved the gastrointestinal or 
urinary tracts. Fifty-eight percent of the complications requiring surgical 
intervention occurred more than 1 year after surgery while 74% of the 
complications managed conservatively occurred within 1 year of surgery. The 
2-year survival for all patients was 70%; survival decreased to 58% at 5 years. 
The most important risk factor for reduced survival was the extension of tumor 
laterally into the surgical margins.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-8258(89)90047-4
PMID: 2807013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Gynecol Oncol. 1989 Nov;35(2):251-4. doi: 10.1016/0090-8258(89)90054-1.

Stage II endometrial carcinoma treated with external-beam radiotherapy, 
intracavitary application of cesium, and surgery.

Podczaski ES(1), Kaminski P, Manetta A, Louk D, Andrews C, Larson J, DeGeest K, 
Mortel R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, 
Pennsylvania State University, Hershey 17033.

From September 1972 to September 1987, thirty-six patients with stage II 
carcinoma of the endometrium were treated with external-beam radiotherapy to the 
pelvis, a single intracavitary application of cesium-137, and extrafascial 
hysterectomy with adnexectomy. Patients were followed for a median of 54.4 
months. Overall 2- and 5-year actuarial survival rates were 83 and 58%, 
respectively. Survival was analyzed in terms of the independent variables 
surgical stage, presence of a gross cervical lesion, and residual disease within 
the myometrium or cervix. Factors contributing to patients survival were 
analyzed by the log-rank method. The 12 patients with a gross cervical lesion 
had an adverse prognosis, as compared to those without such a lesion (P less 
than 0.05). Seven of the twelve patients (58%) with a cervical lesion at 
clinical staging demonstrated persistent or recurrent disease. The presence of 
extrauterine disease at surgery was a major prognostic factor in patient 
survival (P less than 0.01). All six patients with extrauterine disease expired 
2.3 to 53.0 months after hysterectomy. Two patients with persistence of disease 
expired 2.3 and 7.5 months after hysterectomy. Eleven patients developed 
recurrent disease 2.1 to 56.5 months after hysterectomy. All presented with 
distant metastases. Four of the thirteen patients with persistent or recurrent 
disease had no residual tumor within the myometrium.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-8258(89)90054-1
PMID: 2807019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Imprint. 1989 Nov;36(4):33-7.

Shall I be a geriatric nurse?

Schwartz D.

PMID: 2807342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Int J Epidemiol. 1989 Sep;18(3):634-46. doi: 10.1093/ije/18.3.634.

Societies in transition: mortality patterns in Pacific Island populations.

Taylor R(1), Lewis ND, Levy S.

Author information:
(1)South Pacific Commission, Noumea, New Caledonia.

The 22 Pacific Island countries and territories are in a state of demographic 
and epidemiological transition. Mortality data for the period around 1980 were 
collected from various sources and are presented in this comparative study. 
Because death registration in many Pacific countries is deficient some data have 
been adjusted for underenumeration; and some mortality estimates have been 
calculated by indirect means, using data from censuses or surveys. Cause of 
death information is affected by diagnostic inaccuracy and often tabulated in 
broad categories only; in some Pacific countries cause of death data are only 
available on hospital deaths. The less developed Melanesian malarious countries 
and the less developed dispersed atoll nations manifest higher mortality, and 
higher proportional mortality from infectious disease compared with other 
states. The more developed US-associated states, two New Zealand-associated 
states, and New Caledonian Europeans all have reasonably low mortality, and 
relatively high proportional mortality from cardiovascular disease (CVD). 
Females have longer life expectancy at birth than males in all countries except 
Vanuatu and the Solomon Islands. The phosphate-rich island of Nauru presents an 
atypical picture with considerable adult male mortality from diseases associated 
with modernization.

PIP: The 22 Pacific Island countries and territories are in a state of 
demographic and epidemiological transition. Mortality data for the period around 
1980 were collected from various sources and are presented in this comparative 
study. Because death registration in many of these countries is deficient, some 
data have been adjusted for underenumeration; some mortality estimates have been 
calculated by indirect means, using data from censuses of surveys. Cause of 
death information is affected by diagnostic inaccuracy and is often tabulated 
only in broad categories. In some Pacific countries, cause of death data are 
only available on hospital deaths. The less developed Melanesian malarious 
countries and the less developed dispersed atoll nations manifest higher 
mortality and higher proportional mortality from infectious disease as compared 
with other states. The more developed US-associated states, 2 New 
Zealand-associated states, and the New Caledonian Europeans all have reasonably 
low mortality and relatively high proportional mortality from cardiovascular 
disease. Females have a longer life expectancy at birth than do males in all 
countries except Vanuatu and the Solomon Islands. The phosphate-rich land of 
Nauru presents an atypical picture with considerable adult male mortality from 
diseases associated with modernization.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/18.3.634
PMID: 2807667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Int J Epidemiol. 1989;18(3 Suppl 1):S137-44.

Trends and determinants of cardiovascular mortality in the Soviet Union.

Deev AD(1), Oganov RG.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Non-communicable Disease Prevention, USSR Research Centre for 
Preventive Medicine, Moscow.

The mortality data extracted from the USSR official vital statistics available 
up to the middle of 1988 show that age-adjusted total mortality for adults aged 
25-64 years increased from 1969-70 to 1985 by about 0.7 per 1000 in men and 
about 0.2 per 1000 in women. All the increase in total mortality resulted from 
the increase in mortality from cardiovascular diseases (CVD) most of which were 
from coronary heart disease (CHD). More specifically, mortality from rheumatic 
and hypertensive diseases decreased slightly (0.1-0.2 per 1000), while mortality 
from cerebrovascular and other CVD increased slightly (0.1-0.2 per 1000). The 
age-specific mortality at younger ages tended to decrease while in older decades 
it continued to rise. Life expectancy was about 64 years in men and about 73 
years in women. The state vital statistics data are supported by information 
from the USSR MONICA centres and also by the data on high coronary risk profiles 
of the population as evaluated by the prevalence of CHD symptoms and the 
distribution of major CHD risk factors in various centres of the Soviet Union.

PMID: 2807694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1989 Sep-Oct;30(5):848-51.

Limb salvage in elderly patients. Is aggressive surgical therapy warranted?

Friedman SG, Kerner BA, Friedman MS, Moccio CG.

With the continued increase in life expectancy in the United States, the number 
of elderly patients presenting with limb-threatening atherosclerotic occlusive 
disease will also rise. The risk of arterial reconstructive surgery has been 
considered prohibitive in many of these individuals. During a six-year period, 
50 patients aged 80 years or greater underwent a total of 64 surgical procedures 
for limb-threatening ischemia: 17 men (34%) and 33 women (66%). Ages ranged from 
80 to 97 with a mean of 84 years. The procedural mortality rate was 3.1%. 
Cumulative life table survival rates for these patients were at 1 year, 92%; at 
2 years, 76%; and at 3 years, 76%. The cumulative life table limb salvage rates 
were 92%, 88%, and 83% at the same intervals. Of the patients who died during 
the follow-up periods, 79% still had their previously-threatened limb intact. 
The results in these patients, as well as those from other series, support an 
aggressive policy of arterial reconstruction for elderly patients with 
limb-threatening ischemia. Age, per se, is not a contraindication to 
revascularization.

PMID: 2808509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. J Clin Epidemiol. 1989;42(11):1055-66. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(89)90047-4.

Years of life with good and poor mental and physical function in the elderly.

Snowdon DA(1), Ostwald SK, Kane RL, Keenan NL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55455.

A population of Roman Catholic sisters (nuns) were divided into a high education 
group (i.e. at least a Bachelor's degree) and a low education group (i.e. less 
than a Bachelor's degree). Prevalence data on 132, 75-94 year old, sisters 
indicated that the high-educated had better mobility and hand coordination, 
stronger handgrip, better distant and near visual acuity, and fewer mental 
impairments than the low-educated group. Life table analyses on 154 sisters 
indicated that the high-educated lived an average of 3.28 years longer after age 
75 than the low-educated. Years of life with relatively good and poor mental and 
physical function after age 75 were estimated by a mathematical model that used 
mortality and prevalence data. According to the model, high-educated sisters 
lived an average of 3.57 years longer with good function and 0.29 of a year less 
with poor function than low-educated sisters.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(89)90047-4
PMID: 2809661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. J Urol. 1989 Nov;142(5):1201-3. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)39028-6.

Nonrefluxing colonic conduits: a long-term life-table analysis.

Husmann DA(1), McLorie GA, Churchill BM.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas.

We evaluated 25 patients undergoing urinary diversion with a nonrefluxing 
colonic conduit. Renal scarring developed in 10% of the kidneys during a median 
followup of 12.7 years. In 11 renal units (22%) deterioration of the 
ureteroenteric anastomosis occurred due to the development of reflux or 
stricture. Of these kidneys 45% had scarring; no renal unit in which the 
anastomosis remained intact had renal scars (p less than 0.001). Of our patients 
96% had bacterial colonization of the colonic conduit but this was not 
associated with renal scarring if the urinary diversion was anatomically intact.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)39028-6
PMID: 2810492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. JAMA. 1989 Nov 10;262(18):2572-6.

Targeting AIDS prevention and treatment toward HIV-1-infected persons. The 
concept of early intervention.

Francis DP(1), Anderson RE, Gorman ME, Fenstersheib M, Padian NS, Kizer KW, 
Conant MA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Prevention Services, Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, Ga.

We propose establishing private and public outpatient facilities where persons 
with human immunodeficiency virus, type 1 (HIV-1), infection can receive 
state-of-the-art clinical and behavioral follow-up, treatment, and assistance. 
The possible advantages of enrolling HIV-1-positive persons into long-term 
follow-up are early treatment of clinical conditions and resulting gains in life 
quality and life expectancy, decreased transmission of HIV-1 to uninfected 
persons, more efficient use of scarce patient-care resources, and improved 
estimates of the total number of HIV-infected persons. The possible 
disadvantages of such a program are adverse psychological reactions to knowledge 
of HIV-1 infection, adverse societal actions against infected persons, and, 
finally, the economic cost of the program. These facilities, with the proper 
expertise and safeguards of confidentiality and trust, could prolong and improve 
the lives of infected persons while preventing infection of others.

PMID: 2810584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Med Clin (Barc). 1989 Sep 16;93(7):274-5.

[Premature mortality attributable to tobacco].

[Article in Spanish]

García Benavides F, Hernández Aguado I.

PMID: 2811500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1989 Sep 9;133(36):1784-9.

[Carcinoembryonal antigen and the follow up of patients after resection of colon 
carcinoma with curative intent: a Markov process in decision analysis].

[Article in Dutch]

Kievit J, van de Velde CJ, de Vries BC.

The follow-up of colon cancer patients by monitoring serum carcinoembryonic 
antigen has advantages (better survival after early detection of recurrence by 
CEA rise) as well as disadvantages (false-positive rise of CEA, and early 
detection of incurable recurrences in asymptomatic patients). The effects of CEA 
follow-up on quality-adjusted life expectancy (QUALE) of patients with 
curatively resected colon carcinoma have been simulated by a Markov analysis 
using literature data. The value of CEA seems insignificant and varies, 
depending on the literature data used, from a mean increase of QUALE by 6 days 
(+0.4%) to a mean decrease by 2 days (-0.07%). This value depends on 
patient-related variables; the negative effects of CEA especially predominate in 
older patients with favourable Dukes' stages of primary tumour.

PMID: 2812076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 1989 Apr-Jun;93(2):269-74.

Medical and relational significance in the pathologic behavioural risk.

Pirozynski T.

The pathologic behavioural risk comprises both psychiatric emergencies and an 
extensive area of processes in the evolution of which may occur situation of 
severe prejudice for the patient and his environmental relations. The medical 
significance of these situations emerges from a clear understanding of the 
notional medical emergency and the present-day extension of psychiatric care 
through which aggravations and crises which disturb or endanger life and the 
conditions of the values promoted by him may be brought into relief and 
anticipated. Both psychiatric emergency and the pathologic behavioural risk 
appear as a common element of dangerousness, a feature that can not be 
generalized or replaced with mental illness. The medical and relational 
significance of pathological behavioural risk contributes to the accuracy of the 
content of the actual problems of psychiatric care delivery and research work.

PMID: 2814043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Rev Prat. 1989 Oct 1;39(22):1945-50.

[Curative surgery treatment of cancer of the biliary tract and exocrine 
pancreas].

[Article in French]

Launois B.

Curative surgery for cancers of the biliary tract and pancreas varies according 
to their location. Cancer of the upper third of the extrahepatic bile duct is 
remarkable for the technical problems it raises, with the possible combination 
of partial or total liver resection followed by transplantation. Cancer of the 
lower third of this duct is similar to cancer of the pancreas as regards both 
diagnosis and treatment which consists of cephalic duodeno-pancreatic cancers. 
Cancer of the middle third should be treated, depending on its extension, as 
upper third or lower third cancer. The survival obtained by curative surgery is 
longer than that obtained by surgical or non-surgical palliative treatment, with 
an equal or higher operative risk, frequent cholangitis and an often mediocre 
quality of life.

PMID: 2814275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Soc Biol. 1989 Spring-Summer;36(1-2):114. doi:
10.1080/19485565.1989.9988724.

Mean age and life expectancy at birth in stationary populations: research note.

Morales V.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1989.9988724
PMID: 2814565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Trop Doct. 1989 Oct;19(4):164-8. doi: 10.1177/004947558901900408.

Psychosocial counselling of patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV) in Lusaka, Zambia.

Peltzer K, Hira SK, Wadhawan D, Kamanga J, Ferguson DC, Perine PL.

Comment in
    Trop Doct. 1990 Jul;20(3):129-30.

We describe a method of psychosocial counselling that we have used with 
HIV-infected patients in Zambia. The protocol included providing the patient 
with factual information about HIV infection, understanding the patient's 
concept of their illness, and teaching the need to change sexual behaviour, 
reduce alcohol consumption, prevent stress, and adjust to family changes. Our 
aims have been to enable HIV-infected persons to avoid behaviour that might 
damage their own health, to minimize further transmission of HIV, and to prolong 
the period of asymptomatic HIV infection and life expectancy.

PIP: This paper describes a method of psychosocial counseling that was used with 
HIV-infected patients in Lusaka, Zambia between February to August 1987 which 
aims to enable HIV patients to avoid behaviors that would damage their own 
health, minimize further HIV transmission, and prolong period of asymptomatic 
infection and life expectancy. The study population was composed of 130 patients 
(either asymptomatic, with AIDS-related complex or AIDS). The protocol included 
providing patients with factual information about HIV infection, understanding 
the concept of their illness, teaching the need to change sexual behavior, 
reduce alcohol intake, prevent stress, and adjust to family changes. Although 
all the patients stated that they had heard about AIDS, more than 90% and 60%, 
respectively, do not have any knowledge regarding the symptoms and mode of 
transmission. Moreover, promiscuity was found to be associated with excessive 
alcohol consumption, which was reduced because of illness. Reactions to HIV 
diagnosis during the second counseling session include denial, anger or fear, 
bargaining and depression, and acceptance and resignation. In conclusion, 
counseling helps HIV patients to behave in ways that could delay progression of 
the disease and reduce transmission. It could also help them cope better with 
their situation.

DOI: 10.1177/004947558901900408
PMID: 2815305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Vopr Onkol. 1989;35(9):1059-62.

[Intravital study of lymph outflow in rectal cancer].

[Article in Russian]

Bykov SA, Metelev VV.

Methods of life-time studies of lymph drainage in the rectum using 
lymphoscintigraphy were developed. The normal rectum was found to fall into two 
segments with a border at the level of 5 cm above the anus which revealed 
essentially different pathways of lymph drainage: mainly to inguinal and 
internal iliac lymph nodes (distal segment) or to superior rectal and inferior 
mesenteric lymph nodes (proximal one). Rectal cancer involves the switching-on 
of reserve and collateral pathways of lymph drainage from the organ which is 
determined by the local-regional extension of tumor.

PMID: 2815694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. World Health Stat Q. 1989;42(3):110-4.

[Consequences of disease and their measurement: introduction].

[Article in French]

Thuriaux MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Division de la surveillance épidémiologique et appréciation de la situation 
sanitaire et de ses tendances, Organisation mondiale de la Santé, Genève.

The measurement of the long-term consequences of disease, which are said to 
affect 7-10% of the world population in both developing and developed areas, 
presents both technical and conceptual problems. The development of 
classification schemes, foremost among which is the International Classification 
of Impairments, Disabilities, and Handicaps (ICIDH), has considerably changed 
our perception of these consequences, and has influenced the areas of 
rehabilitation, social insurance and legislation, disability surveys and health 
planning. More indirect applications have been the use of classifications in 
identifying, at local level, disadvantages in everyday life and ways to mitigate 
these disadvantages; at the macroplanning level, the concept of disability-free 
life expectancy is gaining increasing recognition. There is an increasing call 
for revising and updating ICIDH, particularly in the area of handicap, where 
societal and environmental factors have to be more explicitly taken into 
account. The operationalization of proposed modifications will require 
considerable thought and discussion in which persons with disabilities and their 
representatives will have an important role to play.

PMID: 2815815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1989 Jul-Aug;127(4):420-3. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1044692.

[Non-radical surgery of malignant pelvic tumors].

[Article in German]

Gradinger R(1), Rechl H, Scheyerer M, Hipp E.

Author information:
(1)Orthop. Klinik der TU München.

Because of an often excessive tumor extension, radical surgical resection of 
malignant tumors of the pelvis was possible in only half of our patients. Until 
now we refused to perform hemicorporectomy. In view of a temporary improvement 
of the quality of life it seems reasonable to perform these radical and 
palliative operations, even if a high recurrence rate can be anticipated. As for 
the survivor-rate, no exact conclusions can be drawn from our results. The 
possibility of a radical resection is largely dependent upon the tumor's 
localisation (I, III) i.e. most of the periacetabular tumors additionally 
involve several regions of the pelvis (II + III + I). In the region of the 
sacrum (IV) a radical resection could not be achieved in our patients. 
Functionally, type I and III resections show the best results. These days there 
is a good chance of achieving a satisfying result with endoprosthetic 
reconstruction of the pelvis following resection of periacetabular 
tumors--however a high complication rate has to be taken into account.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1044692
PMID: 2815945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Zentralbl Neurochir. 1989;50(1):48-54.

[New evaluation possibilities of therapeutic results in gliomas using 
computerized tomography].

[Article in German]

Kruminja GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Neurochirurgie der Lettischen SSR, Riga.

The therapy effect as well as the growing of the recidivity of gliomas is 
followed up by CT routine examinations because in this way the patient is not 
subjected to an unnecessary strain. The author establishes a CT syndrome of the 
growth activation of gliomas: Occurrence of a periofocal reaction around the 
focus, appearance of solid nodous structures in the tumour with enhancement, 
extension of the local cerebral oedema, development of a diffuse cerebral oedema 
with reaction of the ventricular system. The syndrome can already be proved 4 to 
6 months (in case of the glioma grading being I and II) or 2-3 months (in case 
of gradings III and IV) before the clinical manifestation. Thus it permits to 
make objective statements with respect to the "life quality" and its proceeding 
in time.

PMID: 2816170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Am J Public Health. 1989 Nov;79(11):1490-3. doi: 10.2105/ajph.79.11.1490.

Person-years of life lost due to cancer in the United States, 1970 and 1984.

Horm JW(1), Sondik EJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Cancer Institute, 
Bethesda, MD 20892.

The number of deaths due to cancer in the United States reached an all-time high 
of 453,450 deaths in 1984 and, due to the dynamics of population growth, will 
continue to increase if the risk of dying from cancer does not change. Between 
1970 and 1984, the total Person-Years of Life Lost (PYLL), the sum of the 
difference between the actual age at death and the expected remaining lifetime 
for each person who died of cancer, increased for most cancer sites as well as 
for all sites combined. In 1984, 6,881,281 person-years of life were lost due to 
cancer deaths, up from 5,303,668 in 1970. The exceptions are those cancers for 
which there has been major progress in either prevention or treatment; e.g., 
stomach and cervix uteri (prevention) and testicular, Hodgkin's disease, 
leukemia, and childhood cancers (treatment). The Average Years of Life Lost 
(AYLL) per person dying from cancer in 1984 was generally less than in 1970. 
Overall, each person who died from cancer in 1984 died 15.2 years earlier than 
his/her life expectancy. The greatest loss was for those who died of childhood 
cancers (66.9 years earlier), followed by testicular cancer (35.8 years 
earlier). The least loss relative to the expectation of life was for those who 
died of prostate cancer. The 25,400 men who died from prostate cancer in 1984 
died an average of nine years earlier than otherwise expected.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.79.11.1490
PMCID: PMC1349798
PMID: 2817158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Anat Anz. 1989;169(1):53-66.

The thickness, shape and arrangement of elastic fibres within the nuchal 
ligament from various animal species.

Bianchi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Veterinary Systematic and Comparative Anatomy, Torino, Italy.

As shown by statistical evaluation carried out within various animal species 
(e.g. ruminants, equids, carnivores and proboscidates) the thickness of elastic 
fibres of the nuchal ligament is a specific character, i.e. unrelated to the 
somatic size of taxonomically different specimens. On the whole, ruminants are 
characterized by thicker elastic fibres than those from equids and carnivores. 
Moreover, within ruminants a correlation between the thickness of elastic fibres 
and body size has consistently been found. However, this condition occurs only 
when comparison between zoologically related species is drawn. During postnatal 
growth clearcut structural changes were brought to light, represented by the 
following phenomena simultaneously taking place: a) increase in thickness and 
lenght of preexisting elastic fibres; b) a progressive increase in the number of 
fibre splittings as well as of collaterals given off by individual fibres along 
their extension; c) neoformation of elastic fibres, and their addition to 
preexisting ones. In the bovines, already at six months of postnatal life, the 
elastic fibres of larger caliber have attained their full size.

PMID: 2817413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Laryngorhinootologie. 1989 Oct;68(10):566-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-998402.

[The effect of tumor positive resection margins on the prognosis of squamous 
cell carcinoma of the mouth, pharynx and larynx].

[Article in German]

Wolfensberger M(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Otorhinolaryngologie, Hals- und Gesichtschirurgie des 
Universitätsspitals Zürich.

A multifactorial analysis of the survival data of 800 patients with carcinoma of 
the oral cavity, pharynx, or larynx was performed using Cox's multiple 
regression model. Histological examination of the resection margins was 
available for 285 of 338 surgically treated patients. Tumour-free resection 
margins (i.e. histologically radical resection) correlate with a favourable 
outcome. Patients with residual tumour at the resection margins had a 
significantly poorer prognosis, despite the fact that all of them were subjected 
to postoperative radiation therapy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-998402
PMID: 2818784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Ann ICRP. 1987;17(1):1-60.

Lung cancer risk from indoor exposures to radon daughters.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2820288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Therapie. 1987 May-Jun;42(3):295-9.

[Sequential analysis of randomized therapeutic trials in which the judgment 
criterion is survival. Use of the triangular test].

[Article in French]

Bénichou J, Chastang C.

PMID: 2821644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1987 Sep 26;117(39):1480-3.

[Clinical staging of bronchial carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Russi EW(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik, Universitätsspital Zürich.

Histology and stage make it possible to predict statistical life expectancy in 
patients with bronchial carcinoma. These data serve to select a therapeutic 
modality which may influence an individual patient's life expectancy and 
quality. If the patient's tumor is presumably resectable, a search for 
extrathoracic metastases is conducted by computed tomography and bone scan only 
if clinically suspected. If CT reveals enlarged and therefore probably malignant 
mediastinal lymph nodes, curative tumor resection is evaluated by 
mediastinoscopy. There are also correlations between stage and spontaneous 
course, as well as the probability of treatment-induced remission and 
life-prolongation in small cell lung cancer.

PMID: 2823376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. EMBO J. 1988 Jan;7(1):123-31. doi: 10.1002/j.1460-2075.1988.tb02791.x.

Alternative promoters and exons, somatic mutation and deregulation of the 
Bcl-2-Ig fusion gene in lymphoma.

Seto M(1), Jaeger U, Hockett RD, Graninger W, Bennett S, Goldman P, Korsmeyer 
SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Washington 
University School of Medicine, St Louis, MO 63110.

The most common translocation in human lymphoma, the t(14;18)(q32;q21), 
generates heterogeneous 4.2-7.2 kb Bcl-2-immunoglobulin (Ig) chimeric mRNAs 
resulting from alternative Bcl-2 5' exons and varied Ig 3' untranslated regions 
(UT). The normal human Bcl-2 gene has a three exon structure with an 
untranslated first exon, a facultative 220 bp intron I, but an enormous 370 kb 
intron II. S1 protection and primer extension analysis defined initiation sites 
in exon II associated with classic promoter elements and a decanucleotide 
(ATG-CAAAGCA) homologous with Ig variable region enhancers. Multiple initiation 
sites were also found in a GC-rich region with Sp1 binding motifs in exon I. 
Most t(14;18) breakpoints cluster within the 3' UT of Bcl-2 implicating that 
event in gene deregulation. The Bcl-2 gene introduced into the Ig constant (C 
gamma) locus of SU-DHL-6 displayed somatic mutation. While Bcl-2--Ig mRNAs 
demonstrated an unaltered 2.5 h half-life, the Bcl-2--Ig gene revealed an 
inappropriately high rate of transcription for a mature B-cell. This indicates 
the translocated Bcl-2 allele has escaped normal control mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1460-2075.1988.tb02791.x
PMCID: PMC454224
PMID: 2834197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. DNA. 1988 Apr;7(3):193-201. doi: 10.1089/dna.1988.7.193.

Cloning and expression in Escherichia coli of the gene for mouse tumor necrosis 
factor.

Shirai T(1), Shimizu N, Shiojiri S, Horiguchi S, Ito H.

Author information:
(1)Life Science Research Laboratories, Asahi Chemical Industry Co., Ltd., 
Shizuoka, Japan.

The mouse tumor necrosis factor (TNF) gene was isolated from a mouse genomic 
library. The entire sequence of the gene was determined using both an automated 
DNA sequencer with improved primer extension reaction conditions as well as the 
standard radioisotopic method. Comparison of the nucleotide sequence of the gene 
with that of mouse TNF cDNA showed that the mouse gene consists of four exons, 
like rabbit and human TNF genes. There is strong nucleotide sequence homology in 
the 5'-flanking region among the mouse, rabbit, and human TNF genes, suggesting 
that the mechanisms regulating TNF gene expression are highly conserved. Direct 
expression of mature mouse TNF was achieved using a plasmid constructed by 
site-directed mutagenesis. Purified mouse TNF produced in Escherichia coli 
showed cytotoxicity to mouse L cells.

DOI: 10.1089/dna.1988.7.193
PMID: 2836146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Compr Gerontol A. 1987 Jun;1(2):72-4.

Biological changes and diseases in aged CBA/Ca mice.

Beregi E(1), Pénzes L, Regius O, Izsák J.

Author information:
(1)Gerontology Center, Semmelweis Medical University, Budapest, Hungary.

Cold adaptation, apparent protein metabolism, life span, body and organ weights, 
organ indices, mitochondrial changes in the lymphocytes, and frequency of 
diseases were examined in 661 (untreated) inbred CBA/Ca male mice. The rectal 
temperature proved to be lower in aged mice, i.e. the rectal temperature of old 
animals immediately after cold exposure was more distinctly decreased than that 
of young ones. The apparent protein metabolism measured by 75Se-selenomethionine 
turnover showed that biological half-life (T 1/2) values in the aged are almost 
linearly elevated. In very old animals the values are decreased. Body weight 
decreased significantly and continuously, spleen and liver indices decreased and 
heart index increased with age in healthy animals. The number of diseased 
animals increased with age peaking at the age of 751-900 days. After 900 days 
the number of diseased animals decreased. The most frequent diseases in the old 
animals are: hepatocellular carcinoma, amyloidosis and pulmonary adenocarcinoma. 
The mitochondria of spleen lymphocytes showed degenerative changes not 
associated with diseases, thus they can be considered as age-related biological 
changes.

PMID: 2839295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Exp Gerontol. 1988;23(3):211-6. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(88)90008-3.

Effect of hydrogen peroxide administration on life span, superoxide dismutase, 
catalase, and glutathione in the adult housefly, Musca domestica.

Sohal RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, 
Texas 75275.

The general objective of this study was to further elucidate the relationship 
between oxidative stress and the aging process. H2O2 is known to be a progenator 
of reactive oxygen species, such as hydroxyl free radical, by various mechanisms 
involving, among others, a superoxide anion radical-driven Fenton cycle, or 
splitting of the 0-0 bond by hemoproteins. Effects of H2O2 administration on 
life span, activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, concentrations of 
endogenous H2O2, and glutathione in the housefly are described. Adult male flies 
were given various concentrations of H2O2, ranging from 0 to 100 mM H2O2, in 
their drinking water. Life span was shortened by H2O2 intake except in 10 mM 
H2O2 administrated flies, which exhibited the longest life span. Flies 
administered 10 mM H2O2 also contained the highest concentration of reduced 
glutathione (GSH). Superoxide dismutase and catalase activities were not 
affected by H2O2 intake. Compensatory elevation in GSH may be responsible for 
the increase in life span observed in 10 mM H2O2 administered flies.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(88)90008-3
PMID: 2849553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. J Comp Pathol. 1988 Oct;99(3):299-307. doi: 10.1016/0021-9975(88)90050-3.

High frequency of spontaneous histiocytic sarcomas in BDII/Han rats.

Kaspareit-Rittinghausen J(1), Deerberg F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Central Institute for Laboratory Animal Breeding, 
Hannover, FRG.

Histopathological findings and anatomical distribution of histiocytic sarcomas 
found in an uncommonly high frequency (50 of 399 rats) in the BD II/Han inbred 
strain are reported. The incidence of the tumours in male rats was significantly 
higher than in females. This was in part attributed to a shorter life expectancy 
of female rats. Tumours identified were composed of histiocytic cells. Other 
histological features included Langhans-type giant cells, palisading of 
histiocytes around necrosis and granuloma-like arrangements of cells. The 
highest incidence of histiocytic sarcomas was found in the subcutis. Other 
organs frequently involved were lungs and liver. The histopathological findings 
in BD II/Han rats are compared with previously reported histiocytic sarcomas in 
other strains of rat.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9975(88)90050-3
PMID: 2849611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Hepatogastroenterology. 1988 Dec;35(6):316-20.

Primary hepatic cancer--the role of limited resection and total hepatectomy with 
orthotopic liver replacement.

Funovics JM(1), Fritsch A, Herbst F, Piza F, Mühlbacher F, Längle F, Schemper M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery I, University of Vienna, Medical School.

Between 1977 and 1986, 172 patients with primary hepatic cancer were treated at 
the Department of Surgery I, University of Vienna Medical School. In 76 cases 
(80%) males, 20% females), cirrhosis of the liver was also present. Ninety 
patients underwent curative surgery (hepatic resection in 64, and liver 
transplantation in 26 cases). There were no early tumor stages. Forty-five large 
tumors were confined to one lobe, 42 involved both lobes, 3 even invaded 
adjacent structures, the majority (74%) being hepatocellular carcinomas. 
Forty-four of the 64 liver resections were performed in patients with otherwise 
normal livers (mortality 18%), while 20 patients had associated liver cirrhosis. 
In view of the extremely high mortality rates after extended liver resection, 
only limited local resections have been performed in cirrhotic malignancies 
since 1982 (mortality 25%). Perioperative mortality (25% overall) was due mainly 
to hepatic failure and sepsis; non-fatal complications occurred in 12 patients 
(26%). Seventeen of the 26 liver transplants were cirrhotic hepatomas. Nine 
deaths (34%) were caused by technical problems (graft failure, clotting disorder 
after massive transfusion) and systemic infections. The outcome for the patient 
after the immediate postoperative period was determined by tumor regrowth 
(residual liver tissue, graft, distant metastases) in both groups (median life 
expectancy 18.4 months after radical liver resection and 18.6 months after liver 
transplantation). Surgery is the only alternative for these patients (50% 
survival of untreated hepatoma: 2.6 months), improving both their quality of 
life and survival. We believe that in carefully selected candidates with 
non-resectable tumors liver replacement may be a useful alternative.

PMID: 2850984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1988;2(5):329-35. doi:
10.1016/1010-7940(88)90007-3.

Results of radical treatment of stage IIIa non-small-cell carcinoma of the lung.

Maggi G(1).

Author information:
(1)Thoracic Surgery Unit, University of Torino, Italy.

From 1979 to 1987, 907 patients with non-oat cell carcinoma of the lung were 
subjected to thoracotomy: of these, 685 (75.5%) underwent radical resection of 
the lung tumour. The 230 stage IIIa patients were studied in this paper. These 
were divided into three groups. First group: 93 patients with only local 
parietal or mediastinal spread without involvement of the mediastinal lymph 
nodes (T3N0-1M0); the 5-year survival of this group was 35% (44.1% when the ribs 
and muscles were not affected). A second group of 118 patients had tumour 
spreading to the mediastinal lymph nodes, but without local involvement 
(T1-2N2M0): this group had a 5-year survival of 22.3%. The 5-year survival was 
better in patients without metastases in the subcarinal lymph nodes than in 
patients with them (23.76% versus 12.89%). Skipping of lymphatic levels was 
frequent: 37% of patients with metastasis to mediastinal lymph nodes did not 
have metastases in the lymph nodes of the lung; 10% of tumours removed by 
lobectomy had metastases in the lymph nodes of the residual lobe. The third 
group with parietal and lymphatic mediastinal invasion (T3N2M0) had a poor 
survival (13.5% at 5 years). The author concludes that it is possible to achieve 
an acceptable 5-year survival in selected cases with metastasis to mediastinal 
lymph nodes: when the CT scan demonstrated mediastinal lymph nodes larger than 
1.5 cm, mediastinoscopy was carried out and, if positive, the patient was judged 
inoperable.

DOI: 10.1016/1010-7940(88)90007-3
PMID: 2856105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Int J Food Microbiol. 1988 Jun;6(4):269-80. doi:
10.1016/0168-1605(88)90020-7.

The influence of extrinsic factors on the microbiological spoilage pattern of 
ground beef.

von Holy A(1), Holzapfel WH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, 
Republic of South Africa.

Two hundred and thirty four samples of raw minced beef were subjected to storage 
at 0 and 7 degrees C over a period of 17 days. The samples were subjected to 
four different treatments where the controls (Treat 1) were aerobically packed. 
The vacuum-packed samples (Treats 2 and 3) differed only by the addition of 0.5% 
L-(+)-ascorbic acid to the Treat 3 samples. Treat 4 represented aerobically 
packed samples to which a commercial 'colour retainer' was added. The 
microbiological results showed clearly that temperature control around 0 degree 
C was the central element in achieving shelf life extension of raw minced beef. 
Vacuum packaging and additive treatments enhanced the effect of low storage 
temperatures. Identification of 128 psychrotrophic spoilage isolates revealed a 
predominance of Gram-negative bacteria (63%), most of which were classified as 
Pseudomonas spp. (72%), the rest being Enterobacteriaceae. Among Gram-positive 
isolates, lactobacilli and yeasts predominated (45% and 28%, respectively). 
Commonly observed oxygen relationships were not found in this study. 
Pseudomonads proliferated even in vacuum packaged samples throughout the entire 
storage period, whilst lactic acid bacteria were also found in high numbers in 
aerobically packaged samples. Identification of 71 isolates of lactic acid 
bacteria revealed a strong predominance of Lactobacillus saké (34%), followed by 
L. curvatus (23%), L. bavaricus (21%) and L. alimentarius (10%). Significant 
numbers of lactobacilli were isolated from samples in all treatment groups, 
including the aerobically packed categories.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-1605(88)90020-7
PMID: 2856347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Cancer. 1986 May 1;57(9):1717-24. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19860501)57:9<1717::aid-cncr2820570902>3.0.co;2-h.

Pathologic findings from the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast Project (protocol 
6). II. Relation of local breast recurrence to multicentricity.

Fisher ER, Sass R, Fisher B, Gregorio R, Brown R, Wickerham L.

One hundred ten local breast recurrences were observed in 1108 pathologically 
evaluable patients enrolled in NSABP protocol 6 who were treated by lumpectomy 
and followed for 5 to 95 months (average, 39 months). Eighty-six percent and 95% 
of all local breast recurrences were noted within 4 and 5 years, respectively, 
following lumpectomy. Life table analysis revealed their incidence to be 24% for 
those not and 6% for those receiving lumpectomy and breast irradiation. One 
hundred four (95%) of the breast recurrences involved the mammary parenchyma and 
the remaining 6 (5%) involved the skin and/or nipple only. Eleven (10%) of the 
former were noninvasive. The most common (86%) presentation of breast recurrence 
appeared to be a localized mass within or close to the quadrant of the index 
cancer. In 14% the recurrence not only involved the same quadrant, but was more 
diffuse within the breast extending to remote areas as well. This type was 
characterized pathologically by marked intralymphatic extension as well as 
involvement of the overlying skin and/or nipple after the fashion of so-called 
inflammatory or occult inflammatory breast cancer. The recurrences noted in the 
skin and/or nipple only were also pathologically characterized by intralymphatic 
involvement at these sites in the majority of instances. These two forms of 
breast recurrences appear to reflect the localized growth of highly aggressive 
invasive breast cancers. The concordance of histologic types and grades of the 
index and recurrent cancers implies that such events represent growth of 
overlooked tumor, a deficiency attendant with lumpectomy due to the extreme 
multifocal nature (not multicentricity) of some breast cancers and/or 
inadequacies in evaluating the lines of resection of lumpectomy specimens. 
Sources of error in regard to this latter are identified and guidelines for the 
examination of such specimens, as well as the assessment of margins, are 
presented. The observation that local breast recurrences noted following 
lumpectomy occurred within or close to the same quadrant as the index cancer, 
despite the presence of multicentric noninvasive cancers in 10% of the patients 
treated by total mastectomy, minimizes the biological and clinical significance 
of multicentric foci of cancer present in some breast cancers. Cancer measuring 
greater than or equal to 2.0 cm, having high histologic and nuclear grades, or 
intralymphatic extension, were found to have a statistically significant 
association with local breast recurrence in all patients following lumpectomy. A 
converse relationship was noted with tubular and scar cancers of types 1 and 
4.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19860501)57:9<1717::aid-cncr2820570902>3.0.co;2-h
PMID: 2856856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

