
628. Geriatrics. 1985 Mar;40(3):51-3 ,56, 59 passim.

Managing chronic airflow obstruction: Part II.

Ostrow DN.

The results of a well-controlled international study have shown no benefit in 
life expectancy, rate or duration of hospitalizations, lung function, or quality 
of life when intermittent positive pressure breathing is compared with an air 
compressor to deliver aerosol bronchodilators. Patients who are accepted on a 
home oxygen program should be vigorously managed with standard treatment, and 
only if hypoxemia persists after a month of such therapy should ambulatory 
oxygen be considered.

PMID: 2857675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Lancet. 1985 May 18;1(8438):1147-9. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(85)92444-4.

Should management of complete atrioventricular canal defect be influenced by 
coexistent Down syndrome?

Bull C, Rigby ML, Shinebourne EA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(85)92444-4
PMID: 2860347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 1985 Nov;60(2):187-95. doi:
10.1016/0016-6480(85)90313-2.

Evidence for somatostatin-like immunoreactivity in discrete cells of the 
anterior pituitary of camel (Camelus dromedarius).

Quéré M, el May A, Bouzakoura C, Dubois MP, Dubois PM.

Immunocytochemical methods were applied to camel pituitaries. ACTH, 
beta-lipotropin (LPH), LH beta, GH, TSH, and PRL immunoreactive cells were 
identified. They were located on different parts of anterior pituitary and had 
different organization and shape. In addition, somatostatin-like 
immunoreactivity was seen in cells situated at the top of pituitary cleft 
specially in a cone-shaped extension of the intermediate lobe. The role and the 
eventual origin of these cells have yet to be established and their occurrence 
related to age and life conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/0016-6480(85)90313-2
PMID: 2866144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Comp Biochem Physiol C Comp Pharmacol Toxicol. 1985;82(2):399-402. doi: 
10.1016/0742-8413(85)90181-1.

Effects of experimentally altered glutathione levels on life span, metabolic 
rate, superoxide dismutase, catalase and inorganic peroxides in the adult 
housefly, Musca domestica.

Allen RG, Toy PL, Newton RK, Farmer KJ, Sohal RS.

Effects of varied levels of glutathione, an intracellular redox buffer, were 
examined in the adult male housefly in order to study the inter-relationship 
between enzymic and non-enzymic antioxidant defenses. An increase of over 100% 
in the concentrations of glutathione was induced by the administration of 3 mM 
L-2-oxothiazolidine-4-carboxylate (LOC), which increases the intracellular level 
of cysteine. A decrease in glutathione concentration of up to 85% was achieved 
by the administration of L-buthionine-SR-sulfoximine (BUS), which irreversibly 
inhibits glutamylcysteine synthetase. Life spans of houseflies were shortened by 
a decrease in the glutathione concentration, but were not prolonged by 
augmentation of glutathione. Metabolic rate and superoxide dismutase activity 
were independent of glutathione concentration. H2O2 was increased by both 
experimental regimes, whereas catalase activity was decreased by BUS. Results 
suggest that catalase activity is influenced by glutathione concentration.

DOI: 10.1016/0742-8413(85)90181-1
PMID: 2866912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Lancet. 1986 Feb 1;1(8475):238-40. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(86)90775-0.

Life extension in heart disease: an animal model.

Tapp WN, Natelson BH.

In an experimental study to investigate the effect of constant light on 
longevity in heart disease male hamsters with inherited heart disease were 
housed in pairs in either constant light or 12 h light and 12 h dark cycles. All 
hamsters had free access to food and water. Constant light slowed the progress 
of heart failure, made the hamsters more likely to survive the early stages of 
failure, and extended their lives. This observation may open new avenues for the 
treatment of human beings with heart disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(86)90775-0
PMID: 2868256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Lancet. 1986 Feb 15;1(8477):383-4. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(86)92346-9.

Adverse drug reactions.

Inman WH.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(86)92346-9
PMID: 2868320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Lancet. 1986 Feb 15;1(8477):386.

Preventive medicine and morality.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2868324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Lancet. 1986 Mar 1;1(8479):499. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(86)92954-5.

Life extension in heart disease.

Sugden PH.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(86)92954-5
PMID: 2869231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Eur J Respir Dis. 1986 Mar;68(3):161-6.

Vasodilatory treatment of pulmonary hypertension.

Widimský J.

Vasodilatory treatment decreases exercise dyspnoea in the majority of patients 
with primary pulmonary hypertension, due to an increase of cardiac output. 
Pulmonary vascular resistance declines, but pulmonary arterial pressure 
decreases only in some patients. Basically, the cause of the difference among 
"responders" and "non-responders" to this type of therapy is not known. The 
presence of hypertensive vascular changes in the pulmonary circulation may be a 
possible explanation for a lack of positive response to vasodilator treatment. 
This treatment is not without side effects and needs careful clinical and 
haemodynamic evaluation. Calcium antagonists are probably the drug of choice. 
There are few studies about the effect of vasodilatory treatment of "secondary" 
pulmonary hypertension due to chronic lung diseases, with differing results. 
Whether vasodilatory treatment can improve the life expectancy in patients with 
primary or secondary pulmonary hypertension is not yet known. The quality of 
life seems, however, to be improved, at least in some patients.

PMID: 2870937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Acupunct Electrother Res. 1985;10(4):279-96. doi:
10.3727/036012985816714360.

Biorheology, Western medicine and acupuncture.

Copley AL.

An attempt is made by the author to show that biorheology and certain of its 
branches are expected to contribute towards a better understanding of mechanisms 
concerning beneficial effects known in the practice of acupuncture. Rheology, a 
branch of physics, founded as an organized science in 1929, is defined as the 
science of deformation and flow of matter. Biorheology comprises the science of 
deformation and flow of biological systems or of materials of biological 
significance. Recently, the author considered biorheology to be the missing link 
between the life sciences. Hemorheology, at present its most active branch, is 
concerned with the rheological (deformation and flow) properties of blood, 
including its cellular and plasmatic components, and of the structures of the 
vessel wall with which blood and its components come into direct contact. 
Hemorheology is the study of how the components of blood and of the vessel wall 
can function and interact rheologically. In 1981, the author defined the entity 
of the blood and its more or less leaky envelopes, the variety of blood vessels 
in a variety of tissues and organs, as an organ, named the 'vessel-blood organ'. 
It is a special organ penetrating all other organs and can be likened to some 
extent to the nervous system. Hemorheology is thus the rheology of the 
vessel-blood organ, its constituents and of the processes involved in both its 
two portions as well as in their interactions. There is an extension of 
hemorheology, termed recently by the author 'parahemorheology', which deals with 
processes and flow occurring within the interstitial spaces, across the 
parenchymal cell membranes, the lymph and the channels or lymphatics, in which 
it is contained, and its walls. Thus parahemorheology is intertwined with 
hemorheology. Applications of biorheology to the theory and practice of 
different fields in medicine is called medical or clinical biorheology. It is 
expected that clinical hemorheology and clinical parahemorheology are of 
particular significance in research on acupuncture. Such considerations have 
thus far not been taken into account in studies of mechanisms pertaining to 
acupuncture. It is obvious that biorheological processes occur in patients as a 
result of acupuncture, for example the release of muscular spasm. The crucial 
barrier in transcapillary transport is considered by the author to be the 
endoendothelial fibrin(ogenin) lining. Fibrinogenin is the term for the 
aggregation and gelation of fibrinogen without thrombin participation. The field 
of electro-biorheology is closely associated with parahemorheology.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.3727/036012985816714360
PMID: 2871699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Cardiol Clin. 1986 May;4(2):305-12.

Therapeutic goals: quality and quantity of life.

Arora R, Sager J, Butler RN.

The elderly population is projected to increase from the present 11 per cent of 
the overall population to 20 per cent by the year 2020. The efforts of the 
medical community are directed toward extending the quantity of life. However, 
economic necessity and technologic advance in medicine will dictate the health 
care delivery to the elderly, as quality of life becomes a major factor in 
therapeutic decision making.

PMID: 2871938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Lancet. 1986 Aug 9;2(8502):346. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(86)90035-8.

Life expectancy, truth, and the ABPI.

St George D.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(86)90035-8
PMID: 2874355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Lancet. 1986 Aug 16;2(8503):399-400. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(86)90087-5.

Effects of medical research on life expectancy.

Taylor D.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(86)90087-5
PMID: 2874397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Life Sci. 1986 Jul 21;39(3):269-77. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(86)90541-2.

Co-cultivation of astroglial enriched cultures from striatum and neuronal 
containing cultures from substantia nigra.

Hansson E.

A co-cultivation system was developed with neuron-containing (neuron-specific 
enolase (NSE) positive) primary cultures from the substantia nigra of 15 to 
17-day old embryonic rats which were grown 1 mm apart from astroglial-enriched 
(glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAp) positive) primary cultures from the 
striatum of neonatal rats. The astroglial cells went through a morphological 
differentiation with extension of processes after co-cultivation with the 
immunohistochemically-identified neuronal cells. The astroglial-enriched 
striatum cultures showed a higher active uptake of 3H-L-glutamate after 
co-cultivation for one week, compared to control cultures from striatum. Vmax 
(nmol X mg protein-1 X min-1 X was 58.4 +/- 8.3 after co-cultivation and 37.2 
+/- 6.3 for control cultures. The glutamine synthetase (GS) activity was 
slightly increased after co-cultivation. The validity and specificity of the 
results were ensured. The data suggest that astroglial cells in a primary 
culture are influenced by co-cultivation with fetal neuron containing cultures 
resulting in morphological differentiation, and increases in 3H-L-glutamate 
uptake and GS activity.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(86)90541-2
PMID: 2874462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Lancet. 1986 Sep 13;2(8507):633. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(86)92459-1.

Effects of animal research on life expectancy.

Taylor D.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(86)92459-1
PMID: 2875348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Lebensversicher Med. 1986 Jul 1;38(4):108-13.

[Life expectancy in heart failure].

[Article in German]

Holtz J.

PMID: 2875368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1986 Sep 15;136(17):417-25.

[Silent abuse].

[Article in German]

Barolin GS.

The rate of "silent abuse" is probably underestimated by the current esteem of 
1:200 in the general population. Because of the criterion of "silent 
inconspicuousness" most of the patients concerned elude statistical records. So 
much the more, however, they need medical attention. It is a highly urgent 
problem, involving individual as well as social medicine, and carrying the risk 
of massive damage to health, shortening of life expectancy and loss of ability 
to enjoy creativity and pleasure. The presenting symptoms are mainly headache, 
sleep disturbances and vegetative manifestations. The (over-)medication in use 
consists mainly of analgesics, tranquillizers and narcotics. The etiological 
background is made up (usually in close interdependency) of depression, external 
circumstances and neurotic development as well as a distinct type of personality 
(to be understood as the result of interaction between genetic and psychodynamic 
factors). Especially, there appears a personality structure according to the 
present ideal picture of achievement and order. Therefore, even from the medical 
point of view, hardly ever to be regarded as deviant or in need of therapy. In 
some cases out of this constellation arises a further enhancement of the 
mechanisms of abuse. Among rational objective measures we can propose: Increased 
information of the public and further special education of medical people, 
especially referring to rational therapy of depression and pain without the use 
of analgesics, furthermore, rational psychotherapeutic guidance; attempts at 
more specified and follow-up care of disaccustomed abusers; intensified public 
relation work in cooperation between medical doctors and politicians.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 2879388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Acupunct Electrother Res. 1986;11(2):111-7. doi: 10.3727/036012986816359139.

Electrical stimulation of the celiac plexus for pain relief in chronic 
pancreatitis. A clinical note.

Srikantha K, Choi JJ, Wu WH.

A patient with intractable abdominal pain due to chronic pancreatitis was 
successfully treated by direct electrical stimulation of the celiac plexus. The 
details of the procedure are presented. This simple innocuous technique could be 
of value in treating patients with pain due to chronic pancreatitis who would 
otherwise have a near normal life expectancy. Also, it can be used in patients 
suffering from cancer of the pancreas and upper abdominal viscera.

DOI: 10.3727/036012986816359139
PMID: 2879414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Lancet. 1987 Jan 17;1(8525):155-6. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(87)91982-9.

Serum cholesterol and mortality rates.

Dugdale AE.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(87)91982-9
PMID: 2879984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Ann Surg. 1987 Feb;205(2):157-66. doi: 10.1097/00000658-198702000-00010.

Surgical treatment of Takayasu's disease.

Lagneau P, Michel JB, Vuong PN.

Thirty-nine patients (mean age: 33 years) with Takayasu's disease were observed 
over the past 8 years. Among these patients, 33 had surgical intervention with a 
mean follow-up of 4 years. Lesions of the aortic arch were the most common (29 
patients, 69 lesions) and frequently were associated with lesions in another 
site as well. However, in this group of patients, the infrequent presence of 
signs of cerebral vascular insufficiency limited the number of suitable surgical 
candidates to 14 patients. Lesions of the renal arteries were noted in 25 
patients (37 lesions) and were associated with coarctation of the 
thoracoabdominal aorta in 12 patients. In contrast to lesions of the aortic 
arch, the presence of severe hypertension was a frequent indication for surgery 
in Takayasu's disease. Twenty-one patients had operation. Twenty of 21 patients 
were considered cured or improved of hypertension. The one patient who received 
no benefit was the only operative death of the study. In conclusion, although 
Takayasu's disease is progressive and the life expectancy is foreshortened, 
hypertension secondary to aortic and renal artery lesions is a frequent and 
important indication for aggressive operative treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-198702000-00010
PMCID: PMC1492814
PMID: 2880571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Lancet. 1987 Mar 14;1(8533):615-6.

Rationing health care.

Grimes DS.

KIE: Grimes criticizes the use of quality adjusted life years (QALYs) to 
allocate funds within Britain's National Health Service. Developed by health 
economists at the University of York, the QALY system determines how many years 
of patient life, adjusted for quality, a given treatment is likely to generate. 
QALYs tend to favor younger patients and acute conditions, because the longer a 
patient survives after treatment (with a given quality of life), the better 
value for the money, and a single treatment is less expensive than continuing 
care. Because QALYs are intended to aid macroallocation decisions rather than to 
be applied to individual patients, additional factors must be taken into account 
when rationing care. Grimes concludes that neither physicians, administrators, 
economists, nor politicians are willing to face the problems of justly 
allocating resources among individual patients, and that this unwillingness is 
detrimental to the "poor, the weak, and the inarticulate."

PMID: 2881143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Lancet. 1987 May 16;1(8542):1115-9. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(87)91674-6.

Selection-adjusted comparison of life-expectancy of patients on continuous 
ambulatory peritoneal dialysis, haemodialysis, and renal transplantation.

Burton PR, Walls J.

Erratum in
    Lancet 1987 Jun 6;1(8545):1330.

To investigate the controversy surrounding the life-expectancy of patients on 
continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) compared with that of patients 
on haemodialysis or transplantation mortality data from 389 patients accepted 
for renal replacement therapy in Leicester between July, 1974, and July, 1985, 
were retrospectively analysed with respect to a wide range of pre-treatment 
variables (6 scales and 115 binary variables), by a method (Cox's) that adjusts 
for the distorting influence of selection bias. 9 independent variables were 
identified as having a significant influence on survival. Adverse factors were 
age, amyloidosis, ischaemic heart disease, convulsions, and acute presentation. 
Beneficial variables were male sex, parenthood, pyelonephritis, and residence in 
Leicestershire. By correcting for the influence of these variables and using 
time-dependent treatment co-variates, the bias adjusted estimates of the 
relative risk of death were 1 for patients on CAPD, 1.30 for those on 
haemodialysis, and 1.09 for patients who received transplants. These risks do 
not differ significantly from one another and suggest that CAPD is at least as 
effective as haemodialysis or transplantation at preserving life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(87)91674-6
PMID: 2883445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Lebensversicher Med. 1987 Mar 1;39(2):50-5.

[Mean age at death for selected causes of death and the mortality rate in West 
Germany 1958 and 1978].

[Article in German]

Junge B, Hoffmeister H.

PMID: 2883541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Lancet. 1987 Jun 13;1(8546):1372-3.

Quality-adjusted life-years.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2884476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Lancet. 1987 Jun 27;1(8548):1473-7. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(87)92218-5.

Reduction of premature mortality by high physical activity: a 20-year follow-up 
of middle-aged Finnish men.

Pekkanen J, Marti B, Nissinen A, Tuomilehto J, Punsar S, Karvonen MJ.

The association of physical activity level with the risk of death was analysed 
for a cohort of 636 healthy Finnish men aged 45-64 years followed up for 20 
years. 39% of the cohort were classed as highly active physically at baseline in 
1964. Up to 1984 there were 287 deaths, 106 of them due to coronary heart 
disease (CHD). During the first-two thirds of the follow-up, men with high 
physical activity had a lower risk of death than did men with low physical 
activity. During the last third, the survival curves of the men with high and 
low physical activity gradually converged. Of the men who died, those with high 
physical activity lived 2.1 years longer (p = 0.002) than those with low 
physical activity, after adjustment for age, smoking, blood pressure, serum 
cholesterol, and body mass index. This difference was due mainly to fewer CHD 
deaths among the highly active group. Low physical activity was clearly weaker 
than smoking as a predictor of risk of death. High physical activity may thus 
independently prevent premature death among middle-aged men, but it probably 
does not prolong the maximum achievable life-span.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(87)92218-5
PMID: 2885461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Lancet. 1987 Jul 4;2(8549):46-7. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(87)93085-6.

Quality-adjusted life-years.

Smith A.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(87)93085-6
PMID: 2885536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Brain Res. 1987 Jul;388(2):99-103. doi: 10.1016/s0006-8993(87)80002-1.

Regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase gene expression during differentiation of 
neuroblastoma cells.

Summerhill EM, Wood K, Fishman MC.

Differentiation of N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells into neuron-like cells, with 
extension of neurites and acquisition of excitable membranes, can be induced by 
dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO). We have found this differentiation to be accompanied 
by an increase in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA, an increase disproportionate 
to changes in mRNAs for other measured, non-neuron-specific genes. The mRNA 
increases slowly over several days and falls gradually after removal of DMSO. 
Nuclear run-on studies suggest that a change in the rate of transcription cannot 
explain the increase in steady-state mRNA levels. TH mRNA half-life does, 
however, increase. This suggests that regulation is exerted in this case not at 
the level of transcription but rather at that of mRNA stability.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(87)80002-1
PMID: 2887236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Lebensversicher Med. 1987 Jul 1;39(4):107-9.

[Development of the life-diminishing effect of bronchial, breast and stomach 
cancer 1967 to 1982 in Saarland].

[Article in German]

Kolles H, Gräber S, Heinrich W.

PMID: 2887990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Lebensversicher Med. 1987 Sep 1;39(5):144-9.

[Increased life expectancy of patients with transverse spinal paralysis caused 
by modern special treatment].

[Article in German]

Meinecke FW.

PMID: 2890070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Lebensversicher Med. 1987 Sep 1;39(5):149-51.

[Life expectancy and prognosis for employment after contracting tuberculosis].

[Article in German]

Mortensen J, Lange P, Viskum K.

PMID: 2890071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Am J Med. 1987 Nov;83(5):847-52. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(87)90641-3.

Multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 2: the value of screening and central 
registration. A study of 15 kindreds in The Netherlands.

Vasen HF(1), Nieuwenhuijzen Kruseman AC, Berkel H, Beukers EK, Delprat CC, Van 
Doorn RG, Geerdink RA, Haak HR, Hackeng WH, Koppeschaar HP, et al.

Author information:
(1)Foundation for the Detection of Hereditary Tumors, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Since 1975, 10 families with the multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN)-2A syndrome 
and five with the MEN-2B syndrome, making a total of 101 patients, have been 
identified in The Netherlands. Twenty-three of the MEN-2A patients died before 
the start of the screening program. The average age of the patients whose death 
was due to pheochromocytoma (n = 11) or medullary thyroid carcinoma (n = 12) was 
34.9 and 49.2 years, respectively. Eighty-seven patients with the MEN-2A 
syndrome and eight with the MEN-2B syndrome underwent thyroidectomy for C-cell 
hyperplasia and/or medullary thyroid carcinoma. Eighteen patients had signs or 
symptoms caused by MEN-2A (group A), 60 were relatives of these patients who had 
been found to be affected at the first screening of the family (group B), and 
nine relatives had had negative screening results that later became positive 
(group C). Five patients had signs or symptoms due to MEN-2B (group A) and three 
were relatives of these patients who had been found to be affected at the 
initial screening (group B). To assess the effect of screening, we compared 
these groups with respect to the occurrence of metastatic medullary thyroid 
carcinoma at thyroidectomy and the results of the postoperative calcitonin 
tests. Among the MEN-2A families, 72 percent of group A, 33 percent of group B, 
and none of group C were found to have metastatic medullary thyroid carcinoma at 
surgery. In the MEN-2B families, all five patients in group A and one of the 
three patients in group B had metastatic disease. The "cure rates" in these 
three groups with MEN-2A, as determined by stimulated calcitonin assessment, 
were 11, 57, and 100 percent, respectively. One of the five patients with MEN-2B 
in group A and two of the three patients in group B showed normalization of the 
stimulated calcitonin value after surgery. From these results, it may be 
concluded that screening can lead to the detection of medullary thyroid 
carcinoma in an earlier stage, which in turn may permit curative treatment and 
improvement of both prognosis and life expectancy. The need for supervision of 
affected families by central registration to promote periodic examination and to 
guarantee the continuity of such screening is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(87)90641-3
PMID: 2890300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Cancer. 1987 Dec 1;60(11):2605-8. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19871201)60:11<2605::aid-cncr2820601104>3.0.co;2-t.

2'-Deoxycoformycin therapy in adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma.

Lofters W(1), Campbell M, Gibbs WN, Cheson BD.

Author information:
(1)University of the West Indies, Kingston, Jamaica.

Six Caribbean patients with histologically and immunologically characterized 
adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) were treated intravenously (IV) with 
2'-deoxycoformycin (DCF) at a dose of 5 mg/m2 on days 1, 2, 8, 15, and 22 with 
four additional weekly doses to convert any partial responses (PR) to complete 
responses (CR). Patients were considered eligible for this study if refractory 
to or relapsed from combination chemotherapy, had a life expectancy of 4 weeks 
or more, a performance status greater than or equal to 50%, normal renal and 
hepatic function, and no chemotherapy within 4 weeks. Clinical characteristics 
of the patients in this study included lymphadenopathy in five patients, skin 
involvement in four patients, bone marrow infiltration in five patients, and 
central nervous system involvement in two patients. Circulating ATL cells were 
present in four patients, and three were hypercalcemic. Of five patients 
evaluable for response, there was one PR of 1 month, and two minor responses 
lasting 2 and 3 weeks. The median duration of survival for all treated patients 
was 3 weeks or more. The DCF was associated with moderate side effects, 
including conjunctivitis in three patients, nausea and vomiting in two patients, 
progressive hepatic insufficiency in one patient, and moderate myelotoxicity in 
three patients. Infections occurred in four patients, including two cases of 
oral candidiasis and two cases of fatal neutropenic sepsis in patients receiving 
concurrent intrathecal methotrexate. As a single agent, DCF appears to have 
limited activity in advanced refractory/relapsed ATL. Studies in the future 
should explore DCF in combination with other cytotoxic agents as initial therapy 
in better-risk patients.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19871201)60:11<2605::aid-cncr2820601104>3.0.co;2-t
PMID: 2890428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Lancet. 1988 Feb 6;1(8580):281-3. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(88)90359-5.

Active-life expectancy and terminal dependency: trends in long-term geriatric 
care over 33 years.

Stout RW(1), Crawford V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Queen's University of Belfast.

To determine whether medical advances will result in an increasing number of 
dependent elderly people, or whether postponement of disability in a finite 
lifespan will lead to a decrease in terminal dependency, an analysis was made of 
24,117 admissions to a geriatric unit from 1954 to 1986. During this period, the 
average age on admission for long-term care rose by 0.24 years per year for 
women and by 0.09 years per year for men. The median length of stay also 
increased, more for women than for men, as did the proportion of the total 
lifespan spent in long-term care. Active-life expectancy became longer and 
terminal dependency was postponed, but the duration of terminal dependency 
increased. Active-life expectancy increased more rapidly in women than in men, 
as did the length of terminal dependency. As life expectancy continues to 
increase, high priority will have to be given to reduction of disability and 
dependency in advanced old age.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(88)90359-5
PMID: 2893091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Lancet. 1988 Jun 4;1(8597):1293.

AIDS and life insurance.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2897554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Ann Neurol. 1988 Mar;23(3):258-65. doi: 10.1002/ana.410230308.

X-linked myopathy with excessive autophagy: a new hereditary muscle disease.

Kalimo H(1), Savontaus ML, Lang H, Paljärvi L, Sonninen V, Dean PB, Katevuo K, 
Salminen A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Turku, Finland.

We report on 3 brothers with a myopathy that also affected their maternal 
grandfather and great-uncle. Characteristic features are onset in early 
childhood, very slow progression, normal life expectancy, weakness of proximal 
limb muscles, especially in the legs, elevation of serum creatine kinase, and no 
cardiac or intellectual involvement. In biopsy material muscle fibers are almost 
never necrotic but show excessive autophagic activity and exocytosis of the 
phagocytosed material. We suggest that this family has an undescribed type of 
congenital myopathy, for which we propose the name X-linked myopathy with 
excessive autophagy.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410230308
PMID: 2897824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. N Engl J Med. 1988 Jul 21;319(3):152-7. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198807213190306.

Costs and effectiveness of routine therapy with long-term beta-adrenergic 
antagonists after acute myocardial infarction.

Goldman L(1), Sia ST, Cook EF, Rutherford JD, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Epidemiology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 
02115.

We analyzed the costs and effectiveness of routine therapy with beta-adrenergic 
antagonists in patients who survived an acute myocardial infarction. On the 
basis of data pooled from the literature, this form of therapy resulted in a 25 
percent relative reduction annually in the mortality rate for years 1 to 3 and a 
7 percent relative reduction for years 4 to 6 after a myocardial infarction. The 
estimated cost of six years of routine beta-adrenergic-antagonist therapy to 
save an additional year of life was $23,400 in low-risk patients, $5,900 in 
medium-risk patients, and $3,600 in high-risk patients, assuming that the entire 
benefit of earlier treatment is lost immediately after six years. Under a more 
likely assumption--that the benefit of six years of treatment wears off 
gradually over the subsequent nine years--the estimated cost of therapy per year 
of life saved would be $13,000 in low-risk patients, $3,600 in medium-risk 
patients, and $2,400 in high-risk patients. As compared with coronary-artery 
bypass grafting and the medical treatment of hypertension, routine 
beta-adrenergic-antagonist therapy has a relatively favorable cost-effectiveness 
ratio.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198807213190306
PMID: 2898733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Lancet. 1988 Oct 8;2(8615):861.

The long-lived men of Greece.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2902312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Lakartidningen. 1988 Sep 14;85(37):2930.

[The ethical dilemma of intensive care units is not solved by the limitation of 
resources].

[Article in Swedish]

Zetterström H.

PMID: 2903274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Lancet. 1988 Dec 3;2(8623):1313. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(88)92924-8.

Life expectancy and planning care for the elderly.

Winblad B, Ljunggren G.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(88)92924-8
PMID: 2904036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Lancet. 1988 Dec 10;2(8624):1354-6. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(88)90881-1.

Life expectancy in Down syndrome adults.

Baird PA(1), Sadovnick AD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Canada.

Life expectancy for adults with Down syndrome was calculated from data for 1610 
liveborn affected individuals identified in over 1,500,000 consecutive live 
births in British Columbia from 1908 to 1981. Survival to 68 years of age, 
predicted from the available data, is better than in previous estimates, but is 
still much poorer than for the general population: about 44.4% and 13.6% of 
liveborn Down syndrome individuals will survive to 60 and 68 years, 
respectively, compared with 86.4% and 78.4% of the general population.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(88)90881-1
PMID: 2904063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Teratog Carcinog Mutagen. 1988;8(5):273-86. doi: 10.1002/tcm.1770080504.

Evaluation of sister chromatid exchange as an indicator of sensitivity to 
N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-induced carcinogenesis in rats.

Aitio A(1), Cabral JR, Camus AM, Galendo D, Bartsch H, Aitio ML, Norppa H, 
Salomaa S, Sorsa M, Husgafvel-Pursiainen K, et al.

Author information:
(1)International Agency for Research on Cancer, Lyon, France.

Sister chromatid exchange (SCE) frequencies in peripheral lymphocytes are a 
frequently used endpoint to indicate exposures to genotoxins in groups of 
humans. The aim of this study was to ascertain, in an experimental design, 
whether or not SCE rates have any association with the risk of cancer at the 
individual level in rats exposed to a known carcinogen. Individual SCE rates 
were determined in three consecutive analyses in cultured blood lymphocytes of 
50 adult male Wistar rats. Analyses were done before as well as 24 hr and 7 days 
after a single intraperitoneal administration of 0, 25, 50, or 75 mg/kg of 
N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU). The animals were followed until death; also, the 
relationship between SCEs and carcinogenic outcome, i.e., the presence or 
absence of tumors, and their latency period were examined. ENU significantly 
decreased the life expectancy of the rats. The tumor types most clearly 
associated with ENU treatment were various gliomas and thyroid-gland and 
testicular tumors. ENU induced a moderate (maximally 1.6-fold) increase in the 
mean frequency of SCEs/cell at both sampling times after treatment. The effect 
was somewhat more pronounced 1 day rather than 1 week after treatment. The mean 
SCE rates in rats with ENU-specific cancers or in animals with early or multiple 
tumors did not differ from those in animals that survived no less than 65 weeks 
or longer without developing tumors. In ENU-treated animals with tumors, no 
relationship was found between the mean SCE rate and survival time. It is 
concluded that in outbred Wistar rats the SCE response in cultured lymphocytes 
does not indicate individual susceptibility to the carcinogenic action of ENU. 
On a group basis, however, animals with high SCE rates were shown to have 
increased risk of cancer.

DOI: 10.1002/tcm.1770080504
PMID: 2905836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. JAMA. 1989 Jan 6;261(1):23-5.

Leads from the MMWR. State-specific estimates of smoking-attributable mortality 
and years of potential life lost--United States, 1985.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2908979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. JAMA. 1989 Jan 13;261(2):209.

Leads from the MMWR. Years of potential life lost due to cancer--United States, 
1968-1985.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2909012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. JAMA. 1989 Feb 3;261(5):686-7.

Leads from the MMWR. Impact of homicide on years of potential life lost in 
Michigan's black population.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 2911153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Am J Public Health. 1989 Feb;79(2):144-51. doi: 10.2105/ajph.79.2.144.

Effects of the antismoking campaign: an update.

Warner KE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Policy and Administration, School of Public 
Health, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109-2029.

In the absence of the antismoking campaign, adult per capita cigarette 
consumption in 1987 would have been an estimated 79-89 per cent higher than the 
level actually experienced. The smoking prevalence of all birth cohorts of men 
and women born during this century is well below that which would have been 
expected in the absence of the campaign. As a consequence, in 1985 an estimated 
56 million Americans were smokers; without the campaign, an estimated 91 million 
would have been smokers. As a result of campaign-induced decisions not to smoke, 
between 1964 and 1985 an estimated 789,200 Americans avoided or postponed 
smoking-related deaths and gained an average of 21 additional years of life 
expectancy each; collectively this represents more than 16 million person-years 
of additional life. The greatest health benefit lies in the future, however, as 
younger individuals reach the ages at which smoking claims its greatest toll, 
and as middle-aged former smokers realize relative reductions in smoking 
mortality risks as a result of long-term abstinence from smoking. For example, 
campaign-induced decisions not to smoke made prior to 1986 will result in the 
postponement or avoidance of an estimated 2.1 million smoking-related deaths 
between 1986 and the year 2000.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.79.2.144
PMCID: PMC1349923
PMID: 2913831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Int J Cardiol. 1989 Feb;22(2):185-93. doi: 10.1016/0167-5273(89)90067-3.

The atrial pacemaker: retrospective analysis of complications and life 
expectancy in patients with sinus node dysfunction.

Lemke B(1), Höltmann BJ, Selbach H, Barmeyer J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University Hospital Bergmannsheil, Ruhr University 
Bochum, F.R.G.

The safety of atrial pacemakers is still a remaining cause of controversy. Since 
1972, we have implanted 111 atrial pacemakers and we were able to follow-up 100 
patients continuously. Mean follow-up time was 47 +/- 36 months (maximum 154 
months) with a total population time of 391 patient years. Over a period of 10 
years, the cumulative incidence of complete atrioventricular block was 4% (2 
patients). The cumulative incidence of atrial fibrillation was 11% (5 patients). 
Lead-related complications were strongly dependent on the type of the lead and 
the mode of fixation. The cumulative incidence of all lead-related problems was 
19% over a period of 5 years and 33% over a period of 10 years. The cumulative 
survival rate was 85% for 5 years and 61% for 10 years. These survival rates 
were not different from the survival rate of a matched cohort of the normal 
population. We conclude that atrial pacing could be done in patients with sick 
sinus syndrome. The risk of developing a complete atrioventricular block seems 
to be rather low. The main problem of the atrial pacemaker is the fixation of 
the lead which could be reduced by using screw-in-type leads.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-5273(89)90067-3
PMID: 2914742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. J Clin Oncol. 1989 Feb;7(2):236-44. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1989.7.2.236.

Excellent outcome of stage II neuroblastoma is independent of residual disease 
and radiation therapy.

Matthay KK(1), Sather HN, Seeger RC, Haase GM, Hammond GD.

Author information:
(1)University of California School of Medicine, San Francisco.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 1999 Aug;17(8):2625-6.

The optimal management for patients with stage II neuroblastoma has not yet been 
established. In order to determine the impact of adding chemotherapy and/or 
radiation therapy to surgery, we reviewed by questionnaire 156 patients with 
stage II neuroblastoma treated by 28 Childrens Cancer Study Group (CCSG) 
institutions from 1978 to 1985. Survival and progression-free survival (PFS) 
were analyzed by life-table methods with respect to age at diagnosis, site and 
size of primary tumor, spinal cord involvement, extent of initial resection, and 
treatment in addition to surgery. The overall 5-year survival was 96%; the PFS 
was 90%, similar to previous CCSG studies. Age at diagnosis had a small impact 
on PFS, with 92% PFS for patients less than 2 years of age at diagnosis, and 84% 
for those greater than 2 (P = .10). The only site with an adverse outcome was 
the head and neck (n = 11), with a PFS of 68% compared with 93% for the 
remaining sites (P = .02). Size of primary and intraspinal extension of primary 
did not affect PFS. The extent of resection and subsequent treatment with 
radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy did not affect the PFS. The outcome for 75 
patients treated with surgery alone (6-year PFS, 89%) was not significantly 
different from that of 66 patients receiving radiation therapy (6-year PFS, 
94%). There was no significant difference between 40 patients with gross or 
microscopic residual disease treated with surgery alone (PFS, 92%) and 59 
patients with residual disease who also received radiation (PFS, 90%). Five of 
seven patients who progressed after surgery alone have been salvaged with 
further therapy and are now free of disease. One survives with disease, so that 
the 6-year survival is 98% for those treated initially with surgery alone, 
compared with 95% for those receiving radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy. 
These data suggest that surgery alone, even if complete resection is not 
achieved, is sufficient initial therapy for stage II neuroblastoma. The data 
also identify another stage of neuroblastoma, in addition to stage IV-S, for 
which almost all patients have a favorable prognosis because their tumor may be 
biologically limited in growth.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1989.7.2.236
PMID: 2915240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Br J Haematol. 1989 Jan;71(1):71-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.1989.tb06277.x.

Mortality and causes of death in Dutch haemophiliacs, 1973-86.

Rosendaal FR(1), Varekamp I, Smit C, Bröcker-Vriends AH, van Dijck H, 
Vandenbroucke JP, Hermans J, Suurmeijer TP, Briët E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, University Hospital Leiden, The Netherlands.

Mortality figures were calculated for a group of 717 Dutch haemophiliacs over 
the period 1973-86. Follow-up was on average 10.9 years; no patients were lost 
to follow-up. The data were compared to the general male population by actuarial 
methods and patient-year analysis. Forty-three patients died, while 20 deaths 
were expected in a hypothetical group of non-haemophiliacs of the same age 
distribution. Hence, overall mortality was 2.1 times higher than in the general 
population. This leads to a calculated life expectancy of 66 years, as compared 
to 74 years in the general male population. Mortality did not differ much by 
severity of haemophilia. A possibly beneficial effect of prophylaxis on 
longevity was observed. Haemorrhage occurred in half of all deaths and among 
these traumatic bleeding was the most prevalent. The number of deaths due to 
ischaemic heart disease was significantly lower (80% reduction) than expected 
and therefore the authors conclude that haemophilia offers protection against 
ischaemic heart disease. Cancer mortality was significantly higher (2.5 times) 
than expected.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.1989.tb06277.x
PMID: 2917132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. J Clin Epidemiol. 1989;42(2):127-36. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(89)90086-3.

Prognosis of gallstones with mild or no symptoms: 25 years of follow-up in a 
health maintenance organization.

Friedman GD(1), Raviola CA, Fireman B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program, Oakland, 
California.

Two-hundred ninety-eight patients with gallstones accompanied by mild or 
nonspecific symptoms, 123 with asymptomatic gallstones, and 46 with nonfunction 
on cholecystogram and mild or nonspecific symptoms were followed in the setting 
of a health maintenance organization for up to 25 years after diagnosis. In a 
life-table analysis, complications (severe events) developed in about 1% per 
year of patients with visualized gallstones and in about 2% per year of patients 
with nonfunction. During each of the first 5 years after diagnosis, all events, 
both severe and non-severe (including surgery for continuing mild symptoms) 
occurred in about 6% of the patients with mild symptoms accompanying either 
gallstones or nonfunction, and in about 4% of patients with asymptomatic 
gallstones. The annual probabilities for all events tended to decrease as length 
of follow-up increased. Among patients with stones and mild symptoms, women were 
more apt to develop any event than men (p = 0.02) and more obese patients were 
