more likely to develop severe events than those who were thinner (p = 0.05). The 
patients in this study are probably more representative of outpatients with 
gallstones seen by most primary care physicians than are most groups 
investigated previously for prognosis. Their event rates are sufficiently 
similar to those used in published decision analyses, that they should not alter 
previous conclusions that early elective cholecystectomy will have little 
positive or negative effect on average life expectancy of patients with 
gallstones.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(89)90086-3
PMID: 2918322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. J Clin Epidemiol. 1989;42(2):159-68. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(89)90089-9.

Survival in multiple sclerosis.

Poser S(1), Kurtzke JF, Poser W, Schlaf G.

Author information:
(1)Multiple Sclerosis Clinic, Georg-August University of GÃ¶ttingen, F.R.G.

Survival from onset of symptoms was calculated for two series of MS patients, a 
population-based epidemiologic series from southern Lower Saxony of 224 cases, 
and a revised hospital series of 1429 cases from 11 neurologic centers 
throughout the Federal Republic of Germany. Median survival for the 
epidemiologic series was 35-42 years, with no finer estimate possible. Observed 
survival was 3/5 expected survival after 35 years of illness. Survival in this 
series was similar to that from two other population-based reports. No 
significant difference was found between the sexes, though patients with onset 
at age 35 + had a significantly shorter survival than those with onset at age 
under 35 years. The much larger hospital series, where median survival was 30 
years, demonstrated significant differences separately favoring females and 
young onsets. However, the ratios of observed to expected survival from 
population life tables were strikingly similar among all four subgroups defined 
by sex and age at onset. While overall there is a substantial reduction in the 
expectation of life in MS, the differential survival by sex and age appears to 
be a reflection of the expected survival by sex and age per se, and not that of 
the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(89)90089-9
PMID: 2918325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. J Trauma. 1989 Feb;29(2):203-7. doi: 10.1097/00005373-198902000-00009.

Analysis of life expectancy and living status of elderly patients surviving a 
burn injury.

Manktelow A(1), Meyer AA, Herzog SR, Peterson HD.

Author information:
(1)North Carolina Jaycee Burn Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.

This study evaluates the long-term outcome of elderly patients discharged from 
hospital after a burn injury. Ninety-three patients over the age of 60 years, 
admitted to a regional burn center, were included in the study from January 1981 
to January 1986. The in-hospital mortality rate was 49.4%. Patients' living 
status was graded according to dependency: 47% of patients were reduced to a 
more dependent living status on discharge, and 36% of the survivors were 
followed up for between 1 and 5 years. During this time seven (19.4%) patients 
died, three (8.3%) became more independent, four (11.1%) less independent. Life 
table analysis of discharged patients showed no accelerated death rate in 
comparison with the normal population. The high mortality associated with burns 
in the elderly was confirmed. Half the survivors were at least temporarily less 
independent. Projected life expectancy for the elderly surviving a burn is 
comparable with his/her uninjured counterpart.

DOI: 10.1097/00005373-198902000-00009
PMID: 2918559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. JAMA. 1989 Mar 17;261(11):1604-9. doi: 10.1001/jama.261.11.1604.

The taxes of sin. Do smokers and drinkers pay their way?

Manning WG(1), Keeler EB, Newhouse JP, Sloss EM, Wasserman J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Management and Policy, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor 48109.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1989 Aug 18;262(7):901.

We estimate the lifetime, discounted costs that smokers and drinkers impose on 
others through collectively financed health insurance, pensions, disability 
insurance, group life insurance, fires, motor-vehicle accidents, and the 
criminal justice system. Although nonsmokers subsidize smokers' medical care and 
group life insurance, smokers subsidize nonsmokers' pensions and nursing home 
payments. On balance, smokers probably pay their way at the current level of 
excise taxes on cigarettes; but one may, nonetheless, wish to raise those taxes 
to reduce the number of adolescent smokers. In contrast, drinkers do not pay 
their way: current excise taxes on alcohol cover only about half the costs 
imposed on others.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.261.11.1604
PMID: 2918654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Anesth Analg. 1989 Mar;68(3):377-84.

Selection of implantable narcotic delivery systems.

Waldman SD(1), Coombs DW.

Author information:
(1)Kansas City Pain Consortium, Missouri.

Intraspinal narcotics have dramatically influenced the way pain of malignant 
origin is managed. There has been a rapid acceptance of this modality within the 
anesthesia community to treat a wide variety of cancer pain problems. In tandem 
the development of various implantable narcotic delivery systems has 
complemented and facilitated the expanded role of intraspinal narcotics in the 
treatment of cancer pain. Appropriate patient selection is crucial if optimal 
results are to be achieved. Factors to be considered in patient selection should 
include the results of the preimplantation spinal narcotic trial, infection 
trial, infection and local conditions, hematologic status, physiologic and 
behavioral abnormalities, cost, patient support systems and life expectancy. By 
interfacing these factors with the unique profiles that each of the five types 
of implantable narcotic delivery systems offer, improved results both in terms 
of pain relief and patient satisfaction can be expected.

PMID: 2919777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Clin Geriatr Med. 1989 Feb;5(1):41-51.

Aging of the United States population. The dermatologic implications.

Johnson ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Benedictine Hospital, Kingston, New York.

Clearly in the near and later future the older patient will augment 
significantly the burden of dermatologic disease and the consequent need for 
care. Increasing in numerical strength, those 65 years and older, carrying along 
the common problems prevalent in every adult age group, will, by living longer, 
have new problems related to wear, tear, and actinic exposure as well as 
pharmacologically induced problems arising from needed therapy for other 
conditions. The predictable challenge to our specialty is formidable.

PMID: 2920351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. J Intern Med. 1989 Feb;225(2):129-35. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2796.1989.tb00052.x.

Advanced cardiac life support in the prehospital setting: the Reykjavik 
experience.

Einarsson O(1), Jakobsson F, Sigurdsson G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Reykjavik City Hospital, Iceland.

Since 1982 a mobile emergency care unit (emergency ambulance) manned by a 
physician has been operated in Reykjavik. During 1982-1986 there were 138 
attempted resuscitations in sudden cardiorespiratory arrest from cardiac causes. 
Twenty-four patients (17%) were discharged home, all but one without mental 
impairment. Seventy-three patients presented with ventricular fibrillation, 21 
(29%) of which were discharged. The mean ambulance response time was 5 min. 
Bystanders initiated cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) in 40 cases (29%) which 
significantly improved the outcome. In witnessed arrests, 19 of 36 patients 
(53%) with bystander-initiated CPR were discharged compared to 5 of 62 patients 
(8%) where CPR awaited the arrival of the ambulance team. These results are 
comparable to those obtained in larger metropolitan areas. In small urban areas 
the size of Reykjavik (population of 110,000), an advanced and efficient 
prehospital care can be organized as an extension of the emergency departments 
role.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.1989.tb00052.x
PMID: 2921594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Midwife Health Visit Community Nurse. 1989 Jan-Feb;25(1-2):32-4.

"The politics of health".

North N.

PMID: 2921956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Prog Clin Biol Res. 1989;287:7-25.

Aging: where we have been and where we are going.

Brody JA(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Illinois, Chicago 60680.

PMID: 2922438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Ann Rheum Dis. 1989 Jan;48(1):7-13. doi: 10.1136/ard.48.1.7.

Factors predicting a poor life prognosis in rheumatoid arthritis: an eight year 
prospective study.

Erhardt CC(1), Mumford PA, Venables PJ, Maini RN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology of Rheumatic Diseases, Charing Cross Hospital, 
London.

This prospective study evaluates the usefulness of clinical features and 
measurements of circulating immune complexes and autoantibodies for 
identification of patients with rheumatoid arthritis with a poor life prognosis. 
One hundred and seven hospital clinic patients, 64 with extra-articular 
manifestations, were followed up for a mean period of eight years, during which 
50 deaths occurred. Comparison with an age and sex matched control population 
showed an increased incidence of deaths from myocardial infarction, pneumonia, 
and complications of rheumatoid arthritis. Patients with cutaneous ulcers, 
vasculitic rash, neuropathy, and scleritis had a higher mortality than patients 
whose disease was confined to the joints. Positive serological tests for 
precipitating antibodies to soluble cellular antigens and cryoglobulinaemia also 
predicted a poor prognosis. Eleven out of 12 patients (92%) with antibodies to 
soluble cellular antigens died compared with 21 out of 64 patients (33%) without 
antibodies. The presence of cryoglobulinaemia was associated with almost a 
twofold higher mortality. The laboratory measurements may reflect 
immunopathogenic mechanisms which lead to the occurrence of extra-articular 
disease features and reduce life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.48.1.7
PMCID: PMC1003667
PMID: 2923507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Cell. 1989 Mar 10;56(5):815-27. doi: 10.1016/0092-8674(89)90686-7.

In trypanosomes the homolog of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II is 
encoded by two genes and has a highly unusual C-terminal domain structure.

Smith JL(1), Levin JR, Ingles CJ, Agabian N.

Author information:
(1)Intercampus Program in Molecular Parasitology, University of California 
School of Pharmacy, San Francisco 94143-1204.

We have isolated the genes encoding the largest subunit of all three classes of 
RNA polymerase from Trypanosoma brucei. While the pol II largest subunit is 
encoded by a single gene in all organisms examined to date, trypanosomes contain 
two copies of the gene. Both genes are expressed in the procyclic and 
bloodstream stages of the trypanosome life cycle. The two pol II genes differ 
from one another in their coding sequences by 21 silent substitutions and 4 
amino acid substitutions. In the core part of the large subunit, the predicted 
polypeptides are similar to other eukaryotic RNA polymerases. Both trypanosome 
pol II polypeptides, like those of other eukaryotes, also have a unique 
C-terminal extension. However, this domain in the trypanosome polypeptides, 
unlike those of other eukaryotes, is not a tandemly repeated heptapeptide 
sequence.

DOI: 10.1016/0092-8674(89)90686-7
PMID: 2924350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. J Med Ethics. 1989 Mar;15(1):28-34. doi: 10.1136/jme.15.1.28.

Which of two individuals do you treat when only their ages are different and you 
can't treat both?

Lewis PA(1), Charny M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Computing and Statistics, University of Wales College 
of Medicine.

A relative value of life dependent on age has been produced from a survey of 721 
randomly selected individuals together with other observations of professional 
practice. The results are presented in diagrammatic form. If two identical 
people, except for age, present for medical treatment for a life-threatening 
condition and only one can be treated then the diagram indicates what the choice 
should be.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.15.1.28
PMCID: PMC1375759
PMID: 2926784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. S Afr Med J. 1989 Apr 1;75(7):344-6.

Amoebic lung abscesses. A case report.

Snyders FA(1), Welke HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Lung Unit, University of Stellenbosch, 
Parowvallei, CP.

A case of multiple amoebic lung abscesses without indication of direct extension 
from a subclinical liver abscess, which delayed correct diagnosis, is reported. 
Severe constitutional symptoms, life-threatening haemoptysis and large pulmonary 
lesions were the prominent clinical manifestations. The response to 
metronidazole was dramatic. It is postulated that haematogenous spread was 
responsible. The rarity of this form of amoebiasis is evident on published 
reports.

PMID: 2928887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. N Y State Dent J. 1985 Aug-Sep;51(7):413-6.

A dental health perspective: the consequences of an aging population.

Tillman RS.

PMID: 2931634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Basic Life Sci. 1985;35:181-91. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4899-2218-2_10.

The effects of dehydroepiandrosterone on the rate of development of cancer and 
autoimmune processes in laboratory rodents.

Schwartz A.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4899-2218-2_10
PMID: 2933026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Acta Med Scand Suppl. 1985;701:135-41. doi:
10.1111/j.0954-6820.1985.tb08897.x.

Intracoronary streptokinase in acute myocardial infarction. A review.

Hugenholtz PG, Simoons ML, Serruys PW, van den Brand M.

The attempt to salvage myocardium threatened by ischemia during temporary or 
permanent occlusion of one or more of the nutrient arteries, is based on the 
observation that the major determinant of survival is the extent to which 
myocardium has been lost through infarction. Modern clinical cardiology has 
therefore looked at various approaches which might limit unnecessary loss of 
potentially viable myocardium. These are attempts to reduce the oxygen 
consumption through pharmacological means, attempts at restoring the blood 
supply and oxygen delivery at an early stage by manipulations on the coronary 
arteries and interventions aimed at "protecting" cardiac cells threatened by 
ischemia or reperfusion. Endpoints considered to be proof of improved left 
ventricular function will be wall motion and ejection fraction measurements as 
well as reduction in death rate and other serious cardiovascular complications. 
Although final proof from prospective randomized studies, one of which is 
carried out at this institution with intracoronary streptokinase in over 300 
patients, will not be available at the time of this presentation, arguments will 
be provided which indicate that restoration of blood supply at an early stage, 
preferably supported by pharmacological therapy with beta-blockade and calcium 
antagonists, is to be preferred inasmuch as current data indicate improved 
function, and in certain subsets, improved life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1985.tb08897.x
PMID: 2933928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Bol Oficina Sanit Panam. 1986 Jan;100(1):33-46.

[Life expectancy and its relation to income, potable water, and medical visits 
in Peru].

[Article in Spanish]

Heysen S, Musgrove P.

PMID: 2937422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Inquiry. 1986 Spring;23(1):76-82.

Will quitting smoking help Medicare solve its financial problems?

Wright VB.

Although health promotion programs may increase the quality and length of life 
and worker productivity, they will increase the demands on Medicare's hospital 
insurance (HI) fund when those who benefit from such programs become eligible 
for Medicare. In this study, I develop and apply a procedure for estimating the 
net effect of quitting smoking on the HI fund. As the mortality rates of 
quitters begin to approach those for "neversmokers," contributions to the HI 
fund increase. The fund experiences a net decrease when these "additional 
quitters alive" begin to receive Medicare benefits. I found that the net effect 
of each male light smoker who quits at age 45 increases the present value (in 
1980 dollars) of the HI fund's net expenses by between $204 and $2,745, 
depending on the discount and interest factors used.

PMID: 2937733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. N Engl J Med. 1986 Apr 24;314(17):1070-4. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198604243141702.

Surgical treatment of aneurysms of the ascending aorta in the Marfan syndrome. 
Results of composite-graft repair in 50 patients.

Gott VL, Pyeritz RE, Magovern GJ Jr, Cameron DE, McKusick VA.

The life expectancy of patients with the Marfan syndrome is reduced by 
complications caused by dilatation of the ascending aorta. Because surgical 
therapy with a composite graft may alter this natural history, we analyzed the 
preoperative and long-term postoperative status of 50 consecutive patients who 
received such a graft. At surgery, the patients had a mean age of 32.2 years and 
a mean aortic diameter of 7.1 cm (range, 5.3 to 10). Dissection of the ascending 
aorta was present in 14 patients and was acute in 5. None of the 44 patients who 
underwent elective repair, and only one of the six patients who had emergency 
surgery, died in the hospital; thus, the overall hospital mortality was 2 
percent. Five of the 49 survivors died during a follow-up period of up to eight 
years (10.2 percent late mortality). During the most recent four years of 
evaluation of this series (38 patients), no postoperative deaths due to 
intrathoracic problems occurred. Actuarial survival was 87 percent at both two 
and five years. Composite-graft repair of the ascending aorta in patients with 
the Marfan syndrome can be performed with low operative and long-term mortality. 
Because of the unfavorable natural history of the Marfan syndrome and the 
potential for dissection in moderately dilated aortic roots, we recommend 
prophylactic repair when the aneurysm reaches a diameter of 6 cm.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198604243141702
PMID: 2938007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Presse Med. 1986 Mar 29;15(13):599-602.

[Treatment of Hodgkin's disease by chemotherapy with MOPP alone. Long-term 
results].

[Article in French]

Colonna P, Andrieu JM, Kubisz P, Malou M, Zouaoui Z, Abad MT, Touhami M, Faid L.

Between 1967 and 1978, 152 Algerian patients (31 children and 121 adults) with 
Hodgkin's disease were treated with the mechlorethamine, vincristine, 
procarbazine, prednisone combination (MOPP) alone and without radiotherapy. They 
were separated without lymphography into limited stage (n = 37) and extensive (n 
= 115) stage. The high initial failure rate (54%) was principally due to 
inadequate symptomatic treatment and to the patients' low socio-economic status. 
The complete remission rate was 45% (54% for limited stages; 42% for extensive 
stages) and significantly higher in women (58%) than in men (37%). In 20/23 
cases relapses occurred during the first 4 years of complete remission; however, 
the final relapse was observed during the 12th year of complete remission. The 
actuarial relapse rate at 15 years was 48%. The long-term (10-15 years) life 
expectancy was 31% overall and 70% in cases with complete remission. Prognosis 
was significantly better in patients with limited forms and/or without systemic 
symptoms.

PMID: 2939416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Med J Aust. 1986 May 12;144(10):508-9. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1986.tb112271.x.

Operative mortality after coronary artery surgery. A seven-year experience of 
1500 consecutive operations.

Horton DA, Hicks RG, O'Brien HD.

Between January 1978 and August 1985, 1500 patients underwent coronary artery 
bypass grafting by one surgical team, with a total mortality of 0.46% (seven 
patients). All these patients were suffering from class 3 or class 4 angina and 
more than half (54%) had evidence of preoperative infarction. The achievement of 
minimal mortality and morbidity is the immediate aim of surgery; a continuing 
long-term improvement in symptoms and life expectancy is the ultimate goal. 
Every physician should be aware of the risks of the invasive treatment of 
coronary artery disease either by bypass grafting or by angioplasty.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1986.tb112271.x
PMID: 2940444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Milbank Q. 1986;64(2):271-301.

Accounting for the historical rise in work-disability prevalence.

Chirikos TN.

The growth in prevalence of functional disability among adults is commonly and 
uncritically attributed to changes in demographic, medical, and socioeconomic 
factors. Detailed analysis of self-reported work disability over the past 25 
years shows that two-thirds of such disability is attributable to the growing 
prevalence of chronic diseases. Even as mortality rates continue to fall, the 
health status of adult Americans may be deteriorating.

PMID: 2940451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. J Ment Defic Res. 1986 Jun;30 ( Pt 2):101-10. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.1986.tb01303.x.

Survival in Down's syndrome.

Fryers T.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.1986.tb01303.x
PMID: 2942696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. J Ment Defic Res. 1986 Jun;30 ( Pt 2):111-20. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.1986.tb01304.x.

Mortality and life expectancy of Down's syndrome in Denmark.

Dupont A, Vaeth M, Videbech P.

Based on the register of all persons registered in the Danish National Service 
for the Mentally Retarded (DNSMR) with a diagnosis of Down's syndrome in the 
period 1 January 1976-31 December 1980, the persons were followed until 31 March 
1984 (a total of 2412 Down's syndrome patients). The difference in mortality for 
patients in institutions and living outside was significant, with a higher 
mortality for women with residence in institutions than women living outside. 
Among males the mortality rate was not significantly different between the two 
types of residents. Of the total group, a survival rate of 82.4 was found at the 
end of the age group 5-9 years and this result is similar to recent results from 
Salford and Japan. Although the life expectancy for the Down's syndrome group 
has increased, the life expectancy for Down's syndrome at any given age compared 
with life expectancy for the background population during the above mentioned 
period was still lower.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.1986.tb01304.x
PMID: 2942697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. J Gerontol. 1986 Sep;41(5):672-81. doi: 10.1093/geronj/41.5.672.

Past and future life expectancy increases at later ages: their implications for 
the linkage of chronic morbidity, disability, and mortality.

Manton KG.

Recently life expectancy increases have been noted at advanced ages in the 
United States. This means a more rapid growth of the elderly U.S. population in 
general, and of the "oldest-old" population in particular. Thus it is of 
considerable social and health policy interest to forecast the direction and 
magnitude of future changes in life expectancy at later ages and the changes in 
the prevalence of health and disability at later ages consequent to the 
increases in life expectancy. In the analysis, several prior efforts to predict 
life expectancy changes using standard demographic techniques are reviewed and 
reasons for the limitations of such efforts suggested. Results show that 
mortality changes at advanced ages have very different relations to risk factors 
than at earlier ages. The analysis also shows that linking morbidity, 
disability, and mortality in a complete projection of population health changes 
will require the extension of standard demographic methodologies to utilize 
information from multiple data sources.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/41.5.672
PMID: 2943788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. N Engl J Med. 1986 Dec 11;315(24):1519-24. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198612113152405.

A prospective study of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, mortality, and 
cardiovascular disease.

Barrett-Connor E, Khaw KT, Yen SS.

It has been postulated that dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and its sulfate ester, 
dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS), the major secretory products of the 
human adrenal gland, may be discriminators of life expectancy and aging. We 
examined the relation of base-line circulating DHEAS levels to subsequent 
12-year mortality from any cause, from cardiovascular disease, and from ischemic 
heart disease in a population-based cohort of 242 men aged 50 to 79 years at the 
start of the study. Mean DHEAS levels decreased with age and were also 
significantly lower in men with a history of heart disease than in those without 
such a history. In men with no history of heart disease at base line, the 
age-adjusted relative risk associated with a DHEAS level below 140 micrograms 
per deciliter was 1.5 (P not significant) for death from any causes, 3.3 (P less 
than 0.05) for death from cardiovascular disease, and 3.2 (P less than 0.05) for 
death from ischemic heart disease. In multivariate analyses, an increase in 
DHEAS level of 100 micrograms per deciliter was associated with a 36 percent 
reduction in mortality from any causes (P less than 0.05) and a 48 percent 
reduction in mortality from cardiovascular disease (P less than 0.05), after 
adjustment for age, systolic blood pressure, serum cholesterol level, obesity, 
fasting plasma glucose level, cigarette smoking status, and personal history of 
heart disease. Our conclusions are limited by the single determination of DHEAS 
levels, but the data suggest that the DHEAS concentration is independently and 
inversely related to death from any cause and death from cardiovascular disease 
in men over age 50.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198612113152405
PMID: 2946952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 1986 Oct;5(3):183-8. doi:
10.1016/0167-4943(86)90020-8.

Correlation between life expectancy, flightlessness and actomyosin adenosine 
triphosphatase activity in the housefly, Musca domestica.

Toy PL, Sohal RS.

Erratum in
    Arch Gerontol Geriatr 1986 Dec;5(4):371.

The objective of this investigation was to determine if actomyosin ATPase 
activity in flight muscles is correlated with life expectancy of houseflies. All 
houseflies lose flying ability before death which permits the identification of 
shorter-lived flightless 'crawlers' from their longer-lived cohorts, the 
'fliers'. Life expectancy of crawlers is about one-third shorter than that of 
the fliers. Flying performance of houseflies, as measured by the total duration 
of flying activity during 1 h periods, average duration of flights and the 
number of rest stops, was highest at 4 days of age and declined thereafter. 
Actomyosin ATPase activity was higher in the fliers than in the crawlers of the 
same age. Abolition of flight, by surgical removal of wings at 1 day of age, had 
no effect on the enzyme activity. Results are interpreted to suggest that 
actomyosin ATPase activity is correlated with physiological rather than 
chronological age of flies.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-4943(86)90020-8
PMID: 2948463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Cancer Treat Rep. 1987 Feb;71(2):195-6.

Cross-resistance of menogaril and mitoxantrone in a subline of P388 leukemia 
resistant to doxorubicin.

Chandrasekaran B, Dimling J, Capizzi RL.

Mice bearing the P388/S or P388/ADR (doxorubicin-resistant) leukemia were 
treated with menogaril or mitoxantrone. Both drugs were highly effective against 
P388/S but were ineffective against the doxorubicin-resistant subline, 
indicating cross-resistance. These observations may be of use in the design of 
clinical trials with these drugs.

PMID: 2948640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Gerontologist. 1986 Dec;26(6):622-9. doi: 10.1093/geront/26.6.622.

The aging developmentally disabled person: a review.

Walz T, Harper D, Wilson J.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/26.6.622
PMID: 2948887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. J Ment Defic Res. 1986 Dec;30 ( Pt 4):401-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.1986.tb01335.x.

Mortality of mentally retarded children to 17 years of age assessed in a 
prospective one-year birth cohort.

SimilÃ¤ S, von Wendt L, Rantakallio P.

Mortality among children with mental retardation (IQ less than 71) and mental 
subnormality (IQ: 71-85) up to the age of 17 years was studied in the 1966 
one-year birth cohort of Northern Finland. The 12,058 liveborn children included 
97 children, 8.0 per thousand, with severe mental retardation (IQ less than 50) 
and 68 children or 5.6 per thousand with mild mental retardation (IQ: 50-70). In 
addition, there were 162 children or 13.4 per thousand who were mentally 
subnormal (IQ: 71-85). The death rate among the children with mental retardation 
was 158 per thousand as compared to 22.6 per thousand among children with normal 
intelligence and was significantly higher among the mentally retarded of all 
ages. This is mainly an effect of the very high mortality in children with 
severe mental retardation, predominantly cases of Down's syndrome. It is 
concluded that mental retardation per se is not necessarily associated with an 
increased death rate, but the underlying etiology or additional complicating 
disorders may predispose the child to infections in particular, these being the 
leading cause of death among the mentally retarded children studied here.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.1986.tb01335.x
PMID: 2949081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Phlebologie. 1986 Oct-Dec;39(4):887-93.

[Saphenectomy in patients over 65. Indications and results].

[Article in French]

Beaurain D, Quillard J, Gillot C, Le Baleur A, Frileux C.

For 779 patients who underwent varicose vein surgery at BicÃªtre, between 1981 
and 1984, there were 61 elderly patients between 65 and 74 years and 15 "old 
age" patients over 75 years. Only one severe complication occurred. Almost all 
patients who were operated upon were satisfied or very satisfied to see that the 
functional discomfort had disappeared, the trophic disorders had regressed, the 
superficial phlebitis or hemorrhages had not recurred and the ulcer were healed. 
Statistics are in favor of a surgical treatment of varicose veins or phlebitis 
sequellae with severe degeneration of the superficial venous network, as soon as 
they become uncomfortable, because of the increased life expectancy, in Europe 
at this time. But, because of the tremendous progress of anesthesia techniques, 
it seems permissible to offer this surgical procedure to those who have passed 
the age previously considered as reasonable and are quite disabled.

PMID: 2951752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Med Decis Making. 1987 Apr-Jun;7(2):84-91. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8700700204.

Surgery or angioplasty for cost-effective renal revascularization?

England WL, Roberts SD, Grim CE.

The authors retrospectively compared the cost-effectiveness of percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty with that of renal artery bypass surgery for treating 
renal artery stenosis, using the experiences of 52 patients treated for 
renovascular hypertension between 1977 and 1983. The expected results of 
treatment for angioplasty and surgery were taken from published literature and 
from experience. Based on the analysis, angioplasty is recommended for treating 
patients with fibromuscular disease, and patients less than 50 years old, while 
surgery is the preferred treatment for older patients and those with 
atherosclerotic disease. These strategies not only minimize the cost per 
life-year gained from treatment, but also maximize the life expectancy of 
treated patients. The results are quite robust for the discount rate used in the 
cost calculations, for variations in the expected rate of stenosis recurrence, 
and for variations in the treatment outcome probabilities.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8700700204
PMID: 2952861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Monogr Am Assoc Ment Defic (1982). 1987;(7):1-73.

Life expectancy and mental retardation. A longitudinal study in a state 
residential facility.

Eyman RK, Grossman HJ, Tarjan G, Miller CR.

PMID: 2952876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. J Pediatr. 1987 Jun;110(6):849-54. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(87)80395-5.

Life expectancy in Down syndrome.

Baird PA, Sadovnick AD.

This study is part of a collaborative effort between the Division of Vital 
Statistics, Ministry of Health, Province of British Columbia and the Department 
of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia. Permission to use the 
provincial vital and health records was conditional on the strict observance of 
the oath of secrecy regarding the nonstatistical information contained in the 
records. To develop life expectancy data for Down syndrome, we studied 1341 
patients with Down syndrome identified by the British Columbia Health 
Surveillance Registry from more than one million consecutive live births from 
1952-1981 inclusive. Our results indicate that life expectancy is much better 
than generally believed. For patients with Down syndrome with congenital heart 
anomalies, survival to age 1 year is 76.3%; to age 5, 61.8%; to age 10, 57.1%; 
to age 20, 53.1%; and to age 30, 49.9%. For patients with Down syndrome without 
congenital heart anomalies, survival to the same ages is 90.7%; 87.2%, 84.9%, 
81.9%, and 79.2%, respectively. Survival for these patients without congenital 
heart defects is still significantly lower than that for a comparison group of 
mentally retarded persons without congenital heart defects.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(87)80395-5
PMID: 2953876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Presse Med. 1987 Sep 19;16(30):1465-8.

[Chronic refractory pain in cancer patients. Value of the spinal injection of 
lysine acetylsalicylate. 60 cases].

[Article in French]

Pellerin M, Hardy F, Abergel A, Boule D, Palacci JH, Babinet P, Wingtin LN, 
Glowinski J, Amiot JF, Mechali D, et al.

Several animal studies have demonstrated that pain is modulated by spinal 
mechanisms involving prostaglandins and that acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 
administered intrathecally has an analgesic effect. We report our experience of 
this treatment in 60 patients with proven and advanced cancer. An isobaric 
solution of lysine acetylsalicylate was administered by lumbar puncture in doses 
ranging from 120 to 720 mg of ASA. The results were evaluated using the habitual 
criteria: scoring system, behaviour, consumption of analgesic drugs. In this 
trial the method proved astonishingly effective (78% of the cases). Analgesia 
was strong, almost immediate and without influence on motricity. No thermic or 
neurovegetative changes were noted. The effect of one injection lasted from 3 
weeks to 1 month on average; it was reproduced and often more prolonged after a 
repeat injection. Pain associated with bone metastases seems to constitute the 
best indication, notably in breast and lung cancer and in myeloma. Visceral 
(pancreas) or neural pain requires higher doses to respond. Failures (22%) were 
due to such factors as insufficient dosage at the very beginning of our 
experience or severe depressive syndrome. The perineal and sphincteral pain of 
rectal cancer often resists treatment. This simple, inexpensive and very 
effective method with no other complication than a frequent tendency to fatigue 
should rank among other analgesic measures in cancer. The lack of respiratory 
depression is a major advantage over catheter spinal opiate analgesia. We 
consider that its main indications are pain associated with osteolytic 
metastases of adenocarcinomas, and myelomas. Owing to the absence of formal 
toxicological data, its use must be limited to cancer pain and to patients with 
a life expectancy of less than 2 years.

PMID: 2957675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Phys Ther. 1987 Oct;67(10):1537-42. doi: 10.1093/ptj/67.10.1537.

The graying of America. Opportunities for physical therapy.

Jette AM(1), Bottomley JM.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Physical Therapy, Massachusetts General Hospital 
Institute of Health Professions, Boston 02108-3402.

The "graying" of America has riveted the attention of policy makers in the 
United States on the potential specter of an excess population of sick, poor, 
disabled, aged Americans. The purpose of this article is to review demographic 
changes occurring in the United States and their effects on the increasing 
prevalence of disability among the elderly population. Fries' 
compression-of-morbidity formulation, which hypothesizes longer, healthier life 
spans, is used to highlight the opportunities and responsibilities for physical 
therapists to assert strong leadership in the area of health care promotion. 
Physical therapy is a key profession that could assume responsibility for 
developing scientifically based programs that postpone the dysfunctional 
manifestations of chronic disabling illness among aged individuals.

DOI: 10.1093/ptj/67.10.1537
PMID: 2958888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. J Gerontol. 1988 May;43(3):B71-8. doi: 10.1093/geronj/43.3.b71.

Life table analysis and pathologic observations in male mice of a long-lived 
hybrid strain (Af X C57BL/6)F1.

Wolf NS(1), Giddens WE, Martin GM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle.

We have utilized a long-lived (Af X C57BL/6)F1 hybrid strain of mice for a 
variety of aging studies. In this report we have characterized the life 
expectancy and pattern of spontaneous deaths in 202 mice, malignant and 
nonmalignant lesions in 64 male mice dying spontaneously, and organ weights and 
lesions in 39 male mice killed at selected ages. The maximum age observed was 
41.5 months. The principal causes of death were malignant lymphoma and 
alveologenic neoplasms, which were present in 56.3% and 45.3%, respectively, of 
the mice dying spontaneously. A variety of other neoplastic and non-neoplastic 
lesions that are not infrequently seen in older mice were observed in these 
mice. Neoplasms seen in these mice that are rare in other mice included 
disseminated mast cell tumors in two mice and gastric adenocarcinoma in one 
mouse. In comparing the diseases observed in this hybrid strain with those 
reported for the parent strains, there was an incidence of malignant lymphoma 
similar to the C57BL/6 parent, an incidence of alveologenic neoplasms 
intermediate between the parent strains, and a markedly reduced incidence of 
amyloidosis. This study provides a detailed background of baseline hematologic 
and morphologic data in a long-lived hybrid of two commonly used strains of 
mice.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/43.3.b71
PMID: 2966191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Presse Med. 1988 Mar 12;17(9):432-6.

[Retroperitoneal fibrosis].

[Article in French]

Chapelon C(1), Ziza JM, Godeau P.

Author information:
(1)Service de MÃ©decine interne, HÃ´pital de la PitiÃ©, Paris.

Neoplastic and non-neoplastic retroperitoneal fibrosis share the same 
macroscopic and histological features and the same clinical signs which mainly 
consist of abdominal pain followed by signs of compression. All carry a risk of 
extension to adjacent structures and may therefore produce serious 
complications. They may also be associated with a "systemic" syndrome with 
fever, altered general condition and high erythrocyte sedimentation rate. The 
necessary laboratory and radiological examinations are detailed. Non-neoplastic 
retroperitoneal fibrosis may be due to a variety of causes, the most frequent of 
which today are medications and aortic atheroma. Surgery is usually needed when 
the disease is life-threatening or of poor functional prognosis. Some authors 
have suggested that surgery should be combined with corticosteroid therapy. In 
some cases, regression of the fibrosis could only be obtained by giving steroids 
in high doses.

PMID: 2966384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Compr Gerontol A. 1987 Feb;1(1):16-24.

The linkage of health status changes and disability.

Manton KG(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University, Durham, NC 27706.

Forecasting health and functional status changes in elderly populations is a 
difficult task because forecasting must describe the linkage of chronic 
morbidity, and its progression, with different levels and types of disability. 
In this paper we present a model which links morbidity and disability and, with 
the use of multiple survey and epidemiological data sources, provide estimates 
of the long-term reduction in chronic disability that would result from changing 
the prevalence of specific chronic diseases by the control of major risk 
factors. The results show that many of the diseases which are currently the 
principal target of primary prevention have more impact upon mortality, and 
overall life expectancy, than they do on the age at onset of chronic disability. 
Thus, in order to increase the average number of years that elderly persons can 
expect to live with less disability, or less severe forms of disability, new 
prevention strategies and techniques may have to be developed.

PMID: 2968152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. J Diabet Complications. 1988 Jan-Mar;2(1):12-5. doi: 
10.1016/0891-6632(88)90019-0.

Microalbuminuria and its associated risk factors in a representative sample of 
Italian type II diabetics.

Garancini P(1), Gallus G, Calori G, Micossi P, Pozza G.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Epidemiology, Scientific Institute, H.S. Raffaele, University of 
Milan, Italy.

A multicenter population-based study was undertaken from 1983 to 1985 in 12 
diabetes centers in Lombardy, in order to assess the prevalence of 
microalbuminuria and clinical proteinuria. Out of a total population of 17,704 
diabetics, 1,155 were randomly selected within four strata of duration of 
disease and albumin excretion rate (AER) assessment was carried out in 541 
unselected subjects. Albuminuria was evaluated from an overnight urine 
collection using a radioimmunoassay. The overall prevalence rates were 25.8% for 
microalbuminuria (30 less than or equal to AER less than 350 micrograms/min) and 
3.0% for macroalbuminuria (AER less than or equal to 350 micrograms/min). In 
Type II diabetes the rate of microalbuminuria increases with duration of disease 
up to 10 years and then tends to level off. This could be due to the existence 
of two subgroups of diabetics with different life expectancy and different 
degree of risk of nephropathy. The Italian prevalence of microalbuminuria 
appears to be rather similar to that of other studies, while the prevalence of 
macroalbuminuria is quite low with respect to middle and northern Europe, 
indicating a rather slow rate of progression to clinical proteinuria. This could 
be explained on the basis of differing protein intakes. The cases with AER 
greater than or equal to 30 micrograms/min, greater than or equal to 70 
micrograms/min, and greater than or equal to 350 micrograms/min have been 
compared with matched diabetic controls with AER less than or equal to 15 
micrograms/min.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0891-6632(88)90019-0
PMID: 2968348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Nihon Ika Daigaku Zasshi. 1988 Jun;55(3):332.

[Food restriction during the growth stage is related to the extension of life 
span].

[Article in Japanese]

Nishimaki K, Nakajima S.

PMID: 2969916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Pain. 1988 Jun;33(3):323-331. doi: 10.1016/0304-3959(88)90291-6.

Expectancies and functional impairment in chronic low back pain.

Council JR(1), Ahern DK, Follick MJ, Kline CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, North Dakota State University, Fargo, ND 58105 
U.S.A. Brown University Program in Medicine, The Miriam Hospital, Chronic Pain 
Research Unit, Providence, RI 02906 U.S.A.

Perceived self-efficacy [2] and pain response expectancies [13] were examined as 
correlates of movement limitations and impaired functioning in a sample of 40 
patients with chronic low back pain. Self-efficacy was operationalized as 
patients' ratings of their ability to perform movements, while response 
expectancies were operationalized as ratings of the degree of pain expected to 
accompany the movements. Patients predicted their ability to perform 10 simple 
movements and the degree of pain that would accompany each movement; on a 
separate occasion, subjects' actual performance of the movements was assessed. 
In general, independent predictions of both movement ability and pain correlated 
significantly with performance of specific movements as rated from videotapes. 
Total movement scores correlated 0.55 and -0.54, respectively, with total 
self-efficacy and pain response expectancy ratings. Expectancy ratings were also 
predictive of average daily pain ratings and questionnaire ratings of physical 
impairment in everyday life. Multiple regression analyses, including causal 
modeling, indicated that actual performance was best predicted by self-efficacy 
ratings, which in turn appeared to be determined by pain response expectancies.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3959(88)90291-6
PMID: 2971153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Milbank Q. 1988;66(3):482-530.

On forecasting mortality.

Olshansky SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)National Opinion Research Center, University of Chicago.

Official forecasts of mortality made by the U.S. Office of the Actuary 
throughout this century have consistently underestimated observed mortality 
declines. This is due, in part, to their reliance on the static extrapolation of 
past trends, an atheoretical statistical method that pays scant attention to the 
behavioral, medical, and social factors contributing to mortality change. A 
"multiple cause-delay model" more realistically portrays the effects on 
mortality of the presence of more favorable risk factors at the population 
level. Such revised assumptions produce large increases in forecasts of the size 
of the elderly population, and have a dramatic impact on related estimates of 
population morbidity, disability, and health care costs.

PMID: 2974917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

