
719. Allergol Immunopathol (Madr). 1988 Sep-Oct;16(5):339-45.

A study of the functions of polymorphonuclear neutrophil in patients with Down's 
syndrome.

Rascón Trincado MV(1), Lorente Toledano F, Villalobos VS.

Author information:
(1)Pediatrics-Immunoallergy Section, University Clinical Hospital, Salamanca, 
Spain.

Patients with Down's syndrome (DS) are predisposed to infectious diseases, 
particularly of the respiratory tract. Together with the occurrence of cardiac 
defects, this is one of the main determinants of their life expectancy. The aim 
of the present work was to study a series of immunological parameters that would 
allow us to evaluate the functional behaviour of the neutrophil 
polymorphonuclears of the patients with trisomy 21 and the possible relationship 
between this and the susceptibility of this kind of patient to such infections. 
The results obtained point a significant decrease (p less than 0.001) in the 
adhesiveness index and in the two indexes relating to the evaluation of random 
mobilities of cells ("leading front" and "lower face of filter"). Although the 
neutrophil chemotactic responsiveness of these patients is decreased with any of 
the attractants employed (casein and activated sera), the differences observed 
with respect to the control population are more patent upon analyzing the 
function on the "lower face of filter". Study of phagocytosis of Candida 
albicans and candidicidal activity of PMN reveals a normal behaviour in the 
presence of autologous (patient) and heterologous (control) serum. We propose 
that the alterations found in the PMN cell functions of DS patients could be due 
to intrinsic cellular defects and that this would help to explain why such 
patients tend to undergo repetitive infective processes.

PMID: 2976258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Am J Clin Oncol. 1988;11 Suppl 2:S120-2. doi:
10.1097/00000421-198801102-00030.

LH-RH analogue treatment for advanced prostate cancer.

Alcini E(1), D'Addessi A, Destito A, Grasso G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Catholic University of the Sacred Heart, Rome, Italy.

The trial drug was ICI 118.630 (Zoladex). Inclusion criteria were histologically 
confirmed advanced prostate cancer (T greater than 2 or N+ or M+), life 
expectancy greater than 3 months, and no previous radiotherapy, orchiectomy, or 
chemotherapy. Treatment started in November 1984; 30 patients were recruited. 
The period of treatment ranged from 6 to 144 weeks (median of 59.5 weeks). One 
patient died after 6 weeks of rapidly progressive renal failure. Data were 
updated to the end of August 1987. The mean age was 67.9 years (53-83 years). 
Subjective response was evaluated by a mean symptoms score (using daytime 
micturition, nocturia, dysuria, hesitancy, and flow) and a score of three 
different items: patients' activity, bone pain, and use of analgesics. Only 7.1% 
of the patients showed a permanent positive response. Four different objective 
responses (complete, partial, stable disease, and progression) were possible 
after evaluating the T category, tumor dimensions, metastases, and prostatic 
acid phosphatase. Testosterone (T) and plasmatic LH levels rose after 
administration: T dropped below the castration level (1 ng/ml) within a few days 
and remained constantly low. The rate of progressive disease was 27.6%; disease 
control was possible in 72.4% of the patients (PR or SD).

DOI: 10.1097/00000421-198801102-00030
PMID: 2977266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1988 Oct;2(5):407-18. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.1988.tb00714.x.

Three computer models for the calculation of prevalence of peptic ulcer disease 
during long-term treatment.

Underwood DD(1), Amos JC, Venables CW, Bardhan KD, Beresford J, Haliburn C, 
McCarthy CF, Weir DG.

Author information:
(1)Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd, Welwyn Garden City, Herts, UK.

At present the effects of maintenance treatment for peptic ulcer disease are 
usually calculated by using 'life-table' analyses. Whilst these accurately 
demonstrate the speed with which an initial relapse occurs they make no 
allowance for the fact that, in clinical practice, a relapse often responds to a 
further course of full-dose treatment and the patient then returns to 
maintenance therapy. A further compounding factor is that, in any long-term 
study, patients will be lost to follow-up for a variety of reasons not all 
related to failure of the treatment. In this paper we describe the use of 
'prevalence rates' to better reflect the outcome of peptic ulcer management. 
Three 'computer models', which have been developed to address the problems of 
patients leaving the study for any reason during such a long time-period, are 
also described, as are the underlying assumptions made. Using the results from a 
long-term study of continuous treatment with cimetidine, the 'prevalence rates' 
of ulcer disease over 6 years were calculated. Observed relapse rates appeared 
to fall with time (from 2.7% for duodenal ulcer (DU) and 2.5% for gastric ulcer 
(GU) to 1% and 2% respectively). However, on applying the models to the data, 
prevalence rates tended to rise slowly with time for the first 3 years in each 
of the models tested. At 6 years, two of the models suggested that the 
prevalence rate for DU would be about 8%; this is not very different to the 
reported recurrence rate after surgical treatment by truncal vagotomy and 
pyloroplasty. It is concluded that 'prevalence rates' should be used to assess 
long-term medical treatments for ulcer disease. Similar methods could also be 
used to examine the medical treatment of any other disease where multiple 
relapses, capable of responding to re-treatment, occur. The use of models proved 
beneficial in compensating for patients lost during the study.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.1988.tb00714.x
PMID: 2979264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Med Vet Entomol. 1987 Oct;1(4):329-37. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00363.x.

The effect of Brugia pahangi infection on survival of susceptible and refractory 
species of the Aedes scutellaris complex.

Ibrahim MS(1), Trpis M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology and Infectious Diseases, School of Hygiene and 
Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21205.

Life table statistics were used to examine the survival functions of filarial 
susceptible and refractory species of the Aedes scutellaris (Walker) group of 
mosquitoes, following infection with high and moderate doses of Brugia pahangi 
(Buckley & Edeson). Survivorship curves and hazard function curves were 
generated, and the median survival times and the proportions of mosquitoes 
surviving beyond the extrinsic incubation period of the parasite were 
determined. In the susceptible populations of Aedes polynesiensis Marks, Ae. 
pseudoscutellaris (Theobald) and Ae.tabu Ramalingam & Belkin a dose-response 
relationship was detected between parasite load and mortality. This relationship 
was characterized by a significant reduction in the proportions of infected 
female mosquitoes surviving at days 1 and 9 postinfection, reduction in the 
median survival times and an increase in the hazard rates as the infectious dose 
increased. The survival of the refractory species, Ae.alcasidi Huang and 
Ae.katherinensis Woodhill was not significantly affected by the infection. A 
positive correlation between microfilaraemia in the vertebrate host and parasite 
load in the susceptible mosquito populations was also observed. Regression 
analysis of the number of parasites recovered from susceptible mosquitoes at the 
time of death showed that mosquitoes at highest risk of dying harboured from 
11.6 to 19.4 infective larvae when fed on a gerbil with sixty-five microfilariae 
per 20 microliters blood; this resulted in 34.4-40.2% mortality by day 9 
postinfection. A mean number of 32.6-46.9 infective larvae was observed when 
these populations were exposed to a gerbil with a microfilaraemia of 150 mf/20 
microliters and resulted in 72.8% to 80% mortality in these populations. Viable 
infective larvae were recovered from infected mosquitoes up to 50 days 
postinfection.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00363.x
PMID: 2979549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Med Vet Entomol. 1987 Oct;1(4):417-25. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00372.x.

The life expectancy of phlebotomine sandflies: first field estimates from 
southern France.

Dye C(1), Guy MW, Elkins DB, Wilkes TJ, Killick-Kendrick R.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.

1. A field study of Phlebotomus ariasi Tonnoir, the vector of Leishmania 
infantum Nicolle in southern France, addressed the following questions: Is it 
possible to estimate reliably the life expectancy of this sandfly; can spatial 
or temporal variation in the life expectancy be detected, and is such variation 
significant for disease transmission? 2. Life expectancy was estimated by 
examining follicular relics in the ovaries of more than ten thousand females 
caught in light traps at seven sites in the Cévennes and the Garrigues, 
throughout their active period in 1985 and 1986. Whilst the distinction between 
nulliparous and parous flies was easily made, assessments of the number of times 
a parous fly had laid eggs were unreliable. Best estimates of life expectancy 
were therefore calculated from the parous rate. 3. Large samples collected from 
one site in the Cévennes in both years gave very similar estimates of life 
expectancy. 4. There was also no significant difference between estimates 
obtained from the Cévennes and the Garrigues, despite their distinct vegetation 
and climates. Therefore, large regional differences in sandfly population size 
and the prevalence of canine leishmaniasis cannot be explained by a difference 
in adult survival rate. 5. With no systematic annual or regional variation, a 
useful mean life expectancy can be calculated from the data collected at all 
sites in both years. It is 1.54 (SE 0.04) ovarian cycles. However, this estimate 
is sensitive to the assumption that survival rate is a discrete rather than a 
continuous variable. 6. Local variation in the parous rate may be associated 
with the proximity of traps to P.ariasi emergence sites.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2915.1987.tb00372.x
PMID: 2979558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. J Surg Oncol. 1985 Feb;28(2):146-50. doi: 10.1002/jso.2930280216.

The significance of metastasis to the bones and soft tissues of the hand.

Morris DM, House HC.

We have treated six patients with cancer metastatic to the hand. All patients 
died within 6 months after the appearance of hand metastasis. We polled the 
combined membership of the American Association for Surgery of the Hand and the 
American Society for Surgery of the Hand to determine their experience with this 
problem. We also reviewed the pertinent literature concerning this subject. The 
information obtained from the literature and the poll confirmed our experience. 
We have managed these patients by amputation, feeling that reconstructive 
procedures were not indicated if the time necessary to rehabilitate the patient 
after reconstruction exceeds the patient's life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.2930280216
PMID: 2982063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. J Surg Oncol. 1985 Feb;28(2):90-6. doi: 10.1002/jso.2930280204.

Breast carcinoma at the extremes of age: a comparison of patients younger than 
35 years and older than 75 years.

Rosen PP, Lesser ML, Kinne DW.

We assessed the prognosis of patients with breast carcinoma at the extremes of 
the age distribution of the disease. The groups examined were 166 women 35 years 
or less and 169 at least 75 years old. Analysis of recurrence and survival 
showed no significant difference between the groups as a whole or when they were 
stratified by nodal status. Life expectancy of elderly women with breast 
carcinoma was significantly reduced when compared with a "normal" age-matched 
population. Medullary carcinoma was more frequent in young women while a 
relatively higher proportion of colloid and invasive lobular carcinoma occurred 
in elderly women. Bilateral carcinoma was found with nearly equal frequency in 
both age groups. However, elderly women were more likely to have been treated 
previously for contralateral carcinoma while young women tended to develop 
asynchronous, subsequent carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.2930280204
PMID: 2982064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Chest. 1985 Mar;87(3):399-401. doi: 10.1378/chest.87.3.399.

Two-dimensional echocardiographic abnormalities of right atrial metastatic 
tumors in hepatoma.

Chia BL, Choo MH, Tan L, Tan A, Oon CJ, Chew PH.

We describe two patients suffering from hepatoma who presented with right atrial 
metastatic tumors as a result of invasion of the inferior vena cava and 
extension into the right atrium. Two-dimensional echocardiographic studies 
detected the right atrial tumor during life in both patients and the invasion of 
the inferior vena cava in one patient.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.87.3.399
PMID: 2982553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Transfusion. 1985 Mar-Apr;25(2):162-4. doi: 
10.1046/j.1537-2995.1985.25285169212.x.

Extension of platelet concentrate storage by addition of sodium bicarbonate.

Shah GA, Lenferink JC.

Viability of platelet concentrate (PC) stored in polyvinylchloride bags in an 
elliptical rotator at 22 degrees C (standard PC) was assessed by in vitro tests, 
and an alternate approach to extending the shelf-life of PC by the addition of 
hypertonic sodium bicarbonate (test PC) was investigated. The fall in the pH 
which occurred during storage in standard PC was arrested in test PC. 
Furthermore, platelets stored under these test conditions maintained their 
morphology better than in standard PC as judged by their mean platelet volume 
and platelet distribution width. Recovery of stored platelets from hypotonic 
shock at 37 degrees C following resuspension in fresh plasma was better for test 
platelets. Results indicated that platelets in standard PC were viable up to day 
3 but were not viable at day 7. Platelets store better in PC to which sodium 
bicarbonate has been added and behave as viable platelets up to 7 days.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.1985.25285169212.x
PMID: 2984809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Am J Surg. 1985 Jul;150(1):44-51. doi: 10.1016/0002-9610(85)90008-x.

Breast carcinoma in situ. A retrospective review of 112 cases with a minimum 10 
year follow-up.

Sunshine JA, Moseley HS, Fletcher WS, Krippaehne WW.

We have retrospectively reviewed 112 cases of in situ carcinoma of the breast 
treated between 1960 to 1972, with a minimum 10 year follow-up to correlate 
treatment with outcome. We concluded that bilateral simple mastectomy with low 
axillary dissection is the treatment of choice for intraductal or lobular 
carcinoma in situ. This conclusion was based on the early age at diagnosis, the 
high incidence of bilaterality, and the long latency and probable progression 
from the in situ stage to the invasive stage. Lesser procedures can be endorsed 
for those patients of advanced age or who have associated medical problems whose 
life expectancy is estimated to be 10 years or less. Patients who refuse 
bilateral mastectomy should undergo biopsy of the involved or opposite breast at 
3 to 5 year intervals regardless of physical findings or mammographic 
suspicions, especially when severe epithelial dysplasia is encountered in the 
biopsy specimens. This nonpalpable but potentially curable lesion remains 
difficult to detect even by mammography.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9610(85)90008-x
PMID: 2990246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Life Sci. 1985 Oct 7;37(14):1301-8. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(85)90245-0.

Inhibition of [3H]nitrendipine binding by phospholipase A2.

Goldman ME, Pisano JJ.

Phospholipase A2 from several sources inhibited [3H]nitrendipine binding to 
membranes from brain, heart and ileal longitudinal muscle. The enzymes from bee 
venom and Russell's viper venom were most potent, having IC50 values of 
approximately 5 and 14 ng/ml, respectively, in all three membrane preparations. 
Inhibition of binding by bee venom phospholipase A2 was time- and 
dose-dependent. Mastoparan, a known facilitator of phospholipase A2 enzymatic 
activity, shifted the bee venom phospholipase A2 dose-response curve to the 
left. Pretreatment of brain membranes with bee venom phospholipase A2 (10 ng/ml) 
for 15 min caused a 2-fold increase in the Kd without changing the Bmax compared 
with untreated membranes. Extension of the preincubation period to 30 min caused 
no further increase in the Kd but significantly decreased the Bmax to 71% the 
value for untreated membranes. [3H]Nitrendipine, preincubated with bee venom 
phospholipase A2, was recovered and found to be fully active, indicating that 
the phospholipase A2 did not modify the ligand. It is concluded that 
phospholipase A2 acts on the membrane at or near the [3H]nitrendipine binding 
site and that phospholipids play a key role in the interactions of 1,4 
dihydropyridine calcium channel antagonists with the dihydropyridine binding 
site.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(85)90245-0
PMID: 2995742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Ann Intern Med. 1985 Nov;103(5):662-4. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-103-5-662.

The acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in gay men.

Jaffe HW, Hardy AM, Morgan WM, Darrow WW.

The acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a major health problem for gay 
men in the United States. About three fourths of all reported cases have 
occurred in this population, and the number is projected to double in the next 
year. In Manhattan and San Francisco, AIDS is now the leading cause of premature 
mortality in men aged 25 to 44 years who have never married. In a sample of a 
cohort of gay men enrolled in a San Francisco clinic, 2.7% of the men had the 
syndrome and 26% had related conditions in 1984. Antibody to human 
T-lymphotropic virus, type III/lymphadenopathy-associated virus was found in 
sera from 67% of the men, including 58% of asymptomatic men. Behavioral factors 
associated with an increased risk of AIDS include large numbers of sexual 
partners, receptive anal intercourse, and "fisting." The adoption of safer 
lifestyles is currently the basis of attempts to control the syndrome in gay 
men.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-103-5-662
PMID: 2996396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Ann Intern Med. 1985 Nov;103(5):723-6. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-103-5-723.

The acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in persons with hemophilia.

Levine PH.

The widespread use of coagulation factor concentrates prepared from the blood of 
numerous donors has doubled the life expectancy of persons with hemophilia, but 
parenteral exposure to alloantigens and infectious agents is not free of risk. 
The prevalence of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) now approaches 
1% in patients with hemophilia, and laboratory evidence of abnormal 
immunoregulation is found in at least 50% of treated patients with severe 
hemophilia. The immune defect is multifactorial. The attack rate of AIDS among 
patients with severe hemophilia appears to have reached a peak; further evidence 
suggests that only a minority of those infected with human T-lymphotropic virus 
type III will develop AIDS. The advent of improved donor screening methods and 
the application of heat treatment of coagulation factor concentrates should 
further reduce the risk of AIDS in persons with hemophilia.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-103-5-723
PMID: 2996407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Immun Infekt. 1985 Sep;13(5):203-9.

[Cytomegalovirus infections after kidney transplantation and passive 
immunization].

[Article in German]

Wienand P, Grundmann R, Runde A, Zippel C.

Cytomegalovirus infection after renal transplantation impairs the survival rate 
of patient and graft. An incidence of 24 to 92% of CMV infections after renal 
transplantation is reported, but only 15 to 77% of these patients show clinical 
symptoms. Contaminated donor organs, blood transfusions and reactivation by 
immunosuppression are the main causes of this infection. Active immunisation 
cannot prevent the reactivation of the infection, but also antiviral agents can 
hardly influence the course of the disease. Passive immunisation showed 
promising effects in bone-marrow transplantation and is now also tried in renal 
transplantation. The first results of a randomized study do not allow a final 
conclusion, but show less clinical symptomatic CMV infections, and statistically 
significant less herpes simplex infections in the group receiving anti CMV IgG 
prophylaxis.

PMID: 2998975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Isr J Med Sci. 1985 Oct;21(10):833-40.

Pulmonary resections in patients over 70 years of age.

Yellin A, Hill LR, Lieberman Y.

Fifty-one men and 7 women greater than 70 years of age (mean 72.3) underwent 
pulmonary resection over a 5-year period. Fifty-two of these patients had a 
malignancy, of which 48 were primary lung neoplasms, including 42 cases of 
non-small-cell lung cancer. The overall operative mortality rate was 10.3%. 
Mortality was correlated with several preoperative factors, including pulmonary 
function tests, arterial blood gas tension, age, extent of surgery, stage of 
disease, and additional systemic diseases. Only the extent of surgery (mortality 
of 36.4% for pneumonectomies compared with 4.3% for less extensive resections, P 
less than 0.01) and FEV1/VC (the ratio of forced expiratory volume in 1 sec to 
vital capacity) (P less than 0.05) had statistical significance. The 5-year 
survival rate for patients with primary lung malignancies was 40%. In view of 
the aggressive nature of lung tumors in any age-group, the life expectancy of 
greater than 10 years at age 70, and the reasonable operative risk compared with 
the high mortality rate in patients not operated upon, we advocate surgical 
treatment for most patients greater than 70 years of age with a curable disease.

PMID: 3000985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. J Biol Chem. 1986 Mar 25;261(9):4190-7.

The fatty acid synthase gene in avian liver. Two mRNAs are expressed and 
regulated in parallel by feeding, primarily at the level of transcription.

Back DW, Goldman MJ, Fisch JE, Ochs RS, Goodridge AG.

The rates of synthesis of fatty acid synthase and the levels of its mRNA are 
high in livers of chicks, ducklings, or goslings fed high-carbohydrate mash 
diets and low in livers of starved birds, indicating pretranslational regulation 
of fatty acid synthase activity. Determination of the step(s) at which the 
nutritional state regulates the fatty acid synthase mRNA level was the objective 
of this study. Total RNA extracted from gosling or duckling liver contains two 
discrete fatty acid synthase transcripts, one of about 12,200 nucleotides and 
the other about 10,800 nucleotides. Both mRNAs are transcribed from the same 
gene because there is only one fatty acid synthase gene/haploid genome. A 
combination of 1) comparison of restriction fragment lengths in genomic DNA and 
cloned fatty acid synthase cDNAs, 2) differential hybridization of cloned cDNAs 
to the two mRNAs, and 3) sequence analysis indicates that the longer mRNA is a 
3'-extension of the shorter one. The half-lives for fatty acid synthase mRNAs in 
fed ducklings and in starved ducklings were estimated from the rate at which 
mRNA level approached steady state during starvation or refeeding. The amount of 
fatty acid synthase mRNA in total liver RNA increased rapidly when starved 
ducklings were fed a high-carbohydrate mash diet, reaching an apparent steady 
state of 10 times the initial level after 9 h. The kinetics of accumulation 
suggested a half-life of 4-6 h for fatty acid synthase mRNA in fed ducklings. 
When fed ducklings were starved, fatty acid synthase mRNA decayed with a 
half-life of about 3 h. Therefore, the half-life for fatty acid synthase mRNA 
appeared to be little affected by feeding or starvation. The levels of both 
mRNAs changed in parallel indicating that half-lives of the two mRNAs were not 
regulated differentially. Transcription of the fatty acid synthase gene, as 
measured in isolated nuclei, increased about 10-fold when starved ducklings were 
refed for 24-30 h. Most of the increase in transcription occurred within 45 min 
after feeding was initiated. However, when fed ducklings were starved, the 
initial decrease in fatty acid synthase mRNA level occurred more rapidly than 
the decrease in transcription of the fatty acid synthase gene, indicating some 
degree of post-transcriptional regulation. Nevertheless, after 48 h of 
starvation, both mRNA level and transcription were decreased to the same extent. 
Nutritional state, therefore, regulates the transcription of two fatty acid 
synthase mRNAs from a unique gene. In addition, transient regulation occurs at 
an as yet undefined post-transcriptional step.

PMID: 3005324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1986 Mar 18;75(12):328-32.

[The climacteric syndrome and its management].

[Article in German]

Keller PJ.

PMID: 3008291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1986 May 24;292(6532):1392-3. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.292.6532.1392-a.

Oral contraceptives and hepatocellular carcinoma.

Goldberg A.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.292.6532.1392-a
PMCID: PMC1340386
PMID: 3011187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Health Phys. 1986 Aug;51(2):163-74. doi: 10.1097/00004032-198608000-00001.

Assessing the risks of Rn exposure: the influence of cigarette smoking.

Ginevan ME, Mills WA.

The principal hazard associated with exposure to Rn progeny is lung cancer. 
However, most lung cancer is caused by smoking, which raises a dual problem of 
deriving Rn-progeny cancer risk estimates from miner populations who, in large 
part, are smokers and applying these estimates to the general population whose 
lung cancer risk, in large part, is determined by smoking habits. We examine 
current risk estimates for Rn-progeny-induced lung cancer using a cohort life 
table methodology. Estimates of lifetime probability of dying of lung cancer, 
average loss in life expectancy due to premature lung cancer death, and loss in 
life expectancy per premature lung cancer death are calculated for the general 
population for 1969 and 1978, nonsmokers, and smokers. These calculations 
demonstrate that such risk estimates are affected by smoking, and by trends in 
smoking habits, in several ways. Major smoking-related factors in this 
interaction are the proportion of smokers in the mining population used to 
derive lung cancer risk estimates, the proportion of smokers in the "general" 
population, and the assumed interaction (additive or multiplicative) between 
lung cancer risk, Rn-progeny exposure, and smoking history. At this time the 
data are not sufficient to recommend one particular modeling approach. However, 
our evaluation demonstrates that broad statements about Rn-progeny lung cancer 
risk such as "x cancers/10(6) person working level month," while informative, 
are incomplete without further specification. Any risk assessment must clearly 
state the population assumed to be at risk and the risk model assumed to be 
operating. Finally, the caveats appropriate to these assumptions should also be 
enunciated.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-198608000-00001
PMID: 3015843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Med Decis Making. 1986 Jul-Sep;6(3):174-86. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8600600308.

Eaton-Lambert syndrome and small cell lung cancer: side effects and certainty.

Eckman MH, Robert NJ, Parkinson DR, Latzko G, Pauker SG.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8600600308
PMID: 3016451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. J Maxillofac Surg. 1986 Dec;14(6):329-31. doi:
10.1016/s0301-0503(86)80318-6.

Juvenile nasopharyngeal angiofibroma presenting as a facial swelling. A case 
report.

Mannai C, Schwartz HC.

Juvenile nasopharyngeal angiofibroma is a rare benign neoplasm occurring almost 
exclusively in adolescent males. When it is confined to the nasopharynx, surgery 
is often curative. In 20% of cases, there is intracranial extension, and 
radiotherapy may be used to avoid the risk of life-threatening haemorrhage. The 
authors report an unusual case which presented with a swelling of the cheek and 
an abducens nerve palsy. The lesion extended from the nasopharynx across the 
pterygomaxillary fissure, as well as intracranially. Radiotherapy was given, and 
the patient remains disease-free after one year.

DOI: 10.1016/s0301-0503(86)80318-6
PMID: 3025325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Life Sci. 1987 Apr 27;40(17):1683-6. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(87)90017-8.

Beta-endorphin and ACTH in plasma: effects of physical and psychological stress.

Oltras CM, Mora F, Vives F.

The effects of the expectancy of an official race (22000 m) and the performance 
of this last event on plasma levels of beta-Endorphin (B-End) and ACTH have been 
assessed. In a group of nine athletes, samples were obtained first in basal 
conditions; second in the day of the run before the warming up period and third 
after running. B-End immunoactivity was increased from 15.7 +/- 2.0 pg/ml to 
23.4 +/- 2.5 pg/ml before the run and up to 30.6 +/- 2.9 pg/ml after the trial. 
ACTH levels were increased from 8.4 +/- 1.2 pg/ml to 17.9 +/- 2.3 pg/ml before 
running and up to 36.2 +/- 3.9 pg/ml after running. The results suggest that 
psychological and physical stress act synergically to increase the levels of 
B-End and ACTH during the practice of physical exercise.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(87)90017-8
PMID: 3031408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Am J Dis Child. 1987 Jun;141(6):698-700. doi: 
10.1001/archpedi.1987.04460060114050.

Hepatocarcinoma in a child with the Alagille syndrome.

Kaufman SS, Wood RP, Shaw BW Jr, Markin RS, Gridelli B, Vanderhoof JA.

A child with the Alagille syndrome of intrahepatic bile duct paucity developed 
hepatocarcinoma. Disabling cirrhosis had rendered this child a suitable 
candidate for transplantation before the discovery of carcinoma. However, the 
extension of the tumor outside the liver precluded the performance of this 
potentially life-saving operation. Serial monitoring of the serum 
alpha-fetoprotein concentration may be of value in the early identification of 
tumors in pediatric candidates for transplantation.

DOI: 10.1001/archpedi.1987.04460060114050
PMID: 3034054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Biochem J. 1987 Feb 15;242(1):33-42. doi: 10.1042/bj2420033.

The insulin- and glucagon-stimulated 'dense-vesicle' high-affinity cyclic AMP 
phosphodiesterase from rat liver. Purification, characterization and inhibitor 
sensitivity.

Pyne NJ, Cooper ME, Houslay MD.

The hormone-stimulated 'dense-vesicle' cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase was 
solubilized as a proteolytically 'clipped' species, and purified to apparent 
homogeneity from rat liver with a 2000-3000-fold purification and a 13-18% 
yield. It appeared to be a dimer (Mr 112,000), of two Mr-57,000 subunits. 
Solubilization of either a liver or a hepatocyte membrane fraction, with sodium 
cholate in the presence of the protein inhibitor benzamidine, identified three 
protein bands which could be immunoprecipitated by a polyclonal antibody raised 
against the pure enzyme. The major band at Mr 62,000 is suggested to be the 
native 'dense-vesicle' enzyme, having a Mr-5000 extension which serves to anchor 
this enzyme to the membrane and which is cleaved off during proteolytic 
solubilization; the Mr-200,000 band is an aggregate of the Mr-62,000 species, 
and the Mr-63,000 species is possibly a precursor. The purified 'clipped' enzyme 
hydrolysed cyclic AMP with kinetics indicative of apparent negative 
co-operativity, with a Hill coefficient (h) of 0.43 and limiting kinetic 
constants of Km1 = 0.3 +/- 0.05 microM, Km2 = 29 +/- 6 microM, Vmax.1 = 0.114 
+/- 0.015 unit/mg of protein and Vmax.2 = 0.633 +/- 0.054 unit/mg of protein. It 
hydrolysed cyclic GMP with Michaelis kinetics, Km = 10 +/- 1 microM and Vmax. = 
4.1 +/- 0.2 units/mg of protein. Cyclic GMP was a potent inhibitor of cyclic AMP 
hydrolysis, with an IC50 (concn. giving 50% inhibition) of 0.20 +/- 0.01 
microM-cyclic GMP when assayed at 0.1 microM-cyclic AMP. This enzyme was 
inhibited potently by several drugs known to exert positive inotropic effects on 
the heart, was extremely thermolabile, with a half-life of 4.5 +/- 0.5 min at 40 
degrees C, and was shown to be distinct from the rat liver insulin-stimulated 
peripheral-plasma-membrane cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase [Marchmont, Ayad & 
Houslay (1981) Biochem. J. 195, 645-652].

DOI: 10.1042/bj2420033
PMCID: PMC1147660
PMID: 3036087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. J Biol Chem. 1987 Jul 15;262(20):9709-17.

Analysis of the tissue-specific expression, developmental regulation, and 
linkage relationships of a rodent gene encoding heart fatty acid binding 
protein.

Heuckeroth RO, Birkenmeier EH, Levin MS, Gordon JI.

The rat contains at least three homologous cytosolic proteins that bind long 
chain fatty acids, termed liver (L-), intestinal (I-), and heart (H-) fatty acid 
binding protein (FABP). I-FABP mRNA is confined to the gastrointestinal tract 
while L-FABP mRNA is abundantly represented in hepatocytes as well as 
enterocytes. We have isolated a rat heart FABP cDNA clone and determined the 
pattern of H-FABP mRNA accumulation in a wide variety of tissues harvested from 
late fetal, suckling, weaning, and adult rats. RNA blot hybridizations and 
primer extension analysis disclosed that the distribution of H-FABP mRNA in 
adult rat tissues is different from that of I- or L-FABP mRNA. H-FABP mRNA is 
most abundant in adult heart. This mRNA was also present in an adult slow twitch 
(type I) skeletal muscle (soleus, 63% of the concentration in heart), testes 
(28%), a fast twitch skeletal muscle (psoas, 17%), brain (10%), kidney (5%), and 
adrenal gland (5%). H-FABP mRNA was not detected in adult small intestine, 
colon, spleen, lung, or liver RNA. Distinct patterns of developmental change in 
H-FABP mRNA accumulation were documented in heart, placenta, brain, kidney, and 
testes. Myocardial H-FABP mRNA levels rise rapidly during the 48 h prior to and 
after birth, reaching peak levels by the early weaning period. The postnatal 
increase in myocardial H-FABP mRNA concentration and its relative distribution 
in adult fast and slow twitch skeletal muscle are consistent with its previously 
proposed function in facilitating mitochondrial beta-oxidation of fatty acids. 
However, the presence of H-FABP mRNA in brain, a tissue which does not normally 
significantly oxidize fatty acids in late postnatal life, suggests that H-FABP 
may play a wider role in fatty acid metabolism than previously realized. 
Mouse-hamster somatic cell hybrids were utilized to map H-FABP. Using 
stringencies which did not produce cross-hybridization between L-, I-, and 
H-FABP DNA sequences, we found at least three loci in the mouse genome, each 
located on different chromosomes, which reacted with our cloned H-FABP cDNA. 
None of these H-FABP-related loci were linked to the gene which specifies a 
highly homologous adipocyte-specific protein termed aP2 or to genes encoding two 
other members of this protein family, cellular retinol binding protein and 
cellular retinol binding protein II.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 3036869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Ann Trop Med Parasitol. 1988 Feb;82(1):91-101. doi: 
10.1080/00034983.1988.11812214.

Transmission dynamics and estimates of malaria vectorial capacity for Anopheles 
balabacensis and An. flavirostris (Diptera: Culicidae) on Banggi island, Sabah, 
Malaysia.

Hii JL(1), Kan S, Vun YS, Chin KF, Tambakau S, Chan MK, Lye MS, Mak JW, Cochrane 
AH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Services, Sabah, Malaysia.

Holoendemic malaria transmission in two small isolated forest communities and a 
coastal village was studied by (1) all night human bait collections of Anopheles 
species from inside and outside houses and (2) buffalo-biting and CDC 
light-trapping catches during March and November 1984. During the same period 
thick and thin blood films were collected from the human population, and spleen 
rates were determined in children from two to nine years of age. Using both the 
immunoradiometric assay (IRMA) and the dissection technique, more 
sporozoite-positive infections were detected in An. balabacensis and An. 
flavirostris in November than in March. IRMA confirmed the presence of 
Plasmodium falciparum sporozoites. An average of 76.2% of the An. balabacensis 
population lived long enough to have reached a point where infectivity with P. 
falciparum was possible in November. Although fewer than five adult females bit 
humans per night at any time, a resident could theoretically have received more 
than 160 infective bites in one year. A high frequency of feeding on humans, 
coupled with increased anopheline life expectancy, contributed to high estimates 
of falciparum malaria vectorial capacity (number of infections distributed per 
case per day); for An. balabacensis (1.44-7.44 in March and 9.97-19.7 in 
November) and for An. flavirostris (0.19-5.14 in March and 6.27-15.8 in 
November). These high values may explain the increased malaria parasite rates 
obtained from at least two forest communities. Correlation between actual and 
calculated rates of gametocytaemia was poorest in Kapitangan due to inadequate 
sampling of the human population. In Banggi island, malaria is stable and 
holoendemic, and the population enjoys a high degree of immunity.

DOI: 10.1080/00034983.1988.11812214
PMID: 3041932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Med Clin North Am. 1988 Sep;72(5):993-1014. doi:
10.1016/s0025-7125(16)30726-x.

Perinephric abscess: the missed diagnosis.

Hutchison FN(1), Kaysen GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of California, Davis.

Perinephric abscess is a life-threatening but treatable process. Most infections 
of the perinephric space occur as a result of extension of an ascending urinary 
tract infection, commonly in association with nephrolithiasis or urinary tract 
obstruction. A large portion of the mortality is the result of failure to 
diagnose this entity in a timely fashion. This failure may be because of the 
frequently obscure or nonspecific nature of the clinical presentation. Blood 
cultures as well as urine cultures may fail to identify correctly the bacterial 
pathogens responsible for the abscess. Perinephric abscess should be considered 
in the differential diagnosis of any patient presenting with a urinary tract 
infection that fails to respond promptly to antibiotic therapy, particularly in 
those known to have anatomical abnormalities of the urinary tract or diabetes 
mellitus. Consideration of this diagnosis should enter into the differential 
diagnosis of fever with abdominal pain or flank pain. Early recognition of 
perinephric abscess and prompt drainage, either percutaneously or surgically, in 
combination with appropriate antibiotic coverage, should reduce dramatically the 
morbidity and mortality from this infection.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7125(16)30726-x
PMID: 3045458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Reprod Nutr Dev (1980). 1988;28(2B):335-47. doi: 10.1051/rnd:19880301.

Mammalian reproductive strategies: genes, photoperiod and latitude.

Bronson FH(1).

Author information:
(1)Zoology Department, University of Texas, Austin 78712.

This paper considers how and why natural selection might promote or block the 
photoperiodic regulation of a mammal's reproduction. The factors most important 
in making this decision would seem to be the following: life expectancy, length 
of the female's cycle, feeding strategy, the presence or absence of survival 
mechanisms like hibernation, and the nature of the seasonal challenges offered 
by the mammal's habitat. A speculative scheme is offered for the potential 
utility of this type of regulation dependent upon life expectancy and latitude 
of residence.

DOI: 10.1051/rnd:19880301
PMID: 3045924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Am J Hypertens. 1988 Jul;1(3 Pt 3):173S-178S. doi: 10.1093/ajh/1.3.173s.

The case for treating hypertension in the elderly.

Smith WM(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley.

Not so long ago it was fashionable to ignore a little bit of hypertension in an 
elderly person. The rationalizations for this position included the limited 
epidemiological data establishing the risk of elevated blood pressure in the age 
group over 65, particularly for women; and concern that lowering the blood 
pressure might not be desirable, from the standpoint of reduced blood flow to 
vital organs. There was also concern over the known greater responsiveness or 
sensitivity of older people to customary doses. It was also argued by some that 
even if the blood pressure could be safely controlled it was hardly worth it, 
since age itself is the most powerful predictor of mortality in the elderly. 
Moreover, it seemed unlikely to many that the risk of hypertension could be 
reduced--that is, that life expectancy could be extended; at the same time it 
seemed fairly certain that the quality of life would be compromised by therapy. 
However, since systolic blood pressure continues to be predictive of coronary 
heart disease mortality well into the ninth decade, and since considerable life 
expectancy remains for those who have survived to their senior years, it seems 
logical to attempt to reduce the risk and preserve life expectancy by 
controlling blood pressure. The question is, is the evidence that treatment 
helps really convincing, or are we simply extrapolating from studies carried out 
in younger subjects? Review of the early literature, which focused almost 
exclusively on stroke survivors and the influence of hypertension on stroke 
recurrence, provides inconsistent, conflicting, and not persuasive 
information.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1093/ajh/1.3.173s
PMID: 3046624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Compr Ther. 1988 Jun;14(6):9-13.

Life span extension and food restriction.

Masoro EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San 
Antonio 78284-7756.

PMID: 3046838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Phys Ther. 1988 Sep;68(9):1386-90. doi: 10.1093/ptj/68.9.1386.

Needs of the elderly and the politics of health care. The social context of 
changes in the delivery system.

Guccione AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Boston University School of Medicine, MA 
02118.

The emergence of the elderly as a substantial subgroup within the population has 
been identified as signaling a crisis for the health care system. This article 
places recent changes in health care financing for the elderly in the context of 
biomedical, demographic, and social factors. These factors, in turn, are related 
to the larger economic and political structures that have shaped our national 
health care policies and programs. Current policies and programs are inadequate 
in meeting the needs of the elderly because they provide a limited array of 
services. This article also examines how the needs of the elderly have been 
portrayed to support age-based entitlements to limited health care coverage, 
irrespective of need across age strata. Physical therapists can use their 
understanding of the genesis of particular public policies to assist in 
developing a health care system that is responsive to the needs of all members 
of society.

DOI: 10.1093/ptj/68.9.1386
PMID: 3047755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Strahlenther Onkol. 1988 Aug;164(8):437-45.

[Radiation therapy of nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Retrospective study for the 
assessment of long-term results].

[Article in German]

Leipner N(1), Boldt I, Schüller H, Straehler-Pohl HJ.

Author information:
(1)Radiologische Klinik, Universität Bonn.

During the years from 1967 to 1986, 90 patients with nasopharyngeal carcinomas 
were irradiated at the Radiologic Hospital of Bonn University. The median 
overall survival time was 4.3 years which corresponded to 23% of the statistical 
life expectancy of the patients. 66% were still alive after two years and 46.5% 
after five years. Compared to the overall group, the prognosis was significantly 
worse in case of highly differentiated, keratinizing squamous cell carcinomas, 
penetration of the primary tumor into the base of the skull, or certain symptoms 
as ophthalmo-neurologic troubles, headaches, loss of body weight, night sweat, 
or fever. After partial tumor excision performed prior to irradiation or 
complete remission following to radiotherapy, the therapy results were better 
than the average with median survival times of about eleven years.

PMID: 3047896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Cardiovasc Clin. 1988;19(1):263-80.

Patient selection and results of cardiac transplantation in patients with 
cardiomyopathy.

Thompson ME, Kormos RL, Zerbe A, Hardesty RL.

Cardiac transplantation for the treatment of end-stage congestive heart failure 
has been shown to be of benefit regardless of the etiology. With few exceptions, 
the evaluation of patients with end-stage heart failure is the same, regardless 
of the etiology. In those with cardiomyopathy not as a result of CAD, special 
attention must be given to exclude secondary causes of cardiomyopathy such as 
amyloidosis, hemochromatosis, and sarcoidosis, as well as generalized systemic 
illnesses that may also involve the heart, either secondary or hereditary, 
because special consideration must be given to these patients on a case-by-case 
basis to determine that there is no general systemic involvement of the illness 
that would preclude satisfactory rehabilitation after transplantation. Before 
cardiac transplantation becomes widely available, there must be a greater number 
of donor hearts, the lack of which now severely limits the number of transplants 
performed in comparison with the estimated need.66 Additionally, more effective 
and specific immunosuppressive agents must be identified in order to reduce the 
incidence of rejection, infection, and accelerated atherosclerosis that now 
limits the longevity of transplant recipients. Furthermore, the ideal 
immunosuppressive agent should be associated with fewer side effects than those 
currently available. The emotional and economic burdens placed on the patient, 
the family, and society must be balanced against the benefits generated by the 
procedure. Despite these limitations, cardiac transplantation continues to offer 
hope for the terminally ill patient, which must be tempered by an understanding 
of the real limitations of transplantation.

PMID: 3048684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Health Psychol. 1988;7(4):355-86. doi: 10.1037//0278-6133.7.4.355.

The precaution adoption process.

Weinstein ND(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Ecology, Cook College, Rutgers, State University of New 
Jersey, New Brunswick 08903.

This article presents a critique of current models of preventive behavior. It 
discusses a variety of factors that are usually overlooked-including the 
appearance of costs and benefits over time, the role of cues to action, the 
problem of competing life demands, and the ways that actual decision behavior 
differs from the rational ideal implicit in expectancy-value and utility 
theories. Such considerations suggest that the adoption of new precautions 
should be viewed as a dynamic process with many determinants. The framework of a 
model that is able to accommodate these additional factors is described. This 
alternative model portrays the precaution adoption process as an orderly 
sequence of qualitatively different cognitive stages. Data illustrating a few of 
the suggestions made in the article are presented, and implications for 
prevention programs are discussed.

PIP: Current models of individual self-protective behavior are dominated by a 
cost-benefit, decision-making perspective. Although various theories differ in 
the range of costs and benefits considered and in the specific equation used to 
predict action likelihood, all assume that people weigh the expected benefits of 
a precaution against its costs and adopt the precaution if the balance appears 
favorable. Needed, however, is a new theory of preventive behavior that can 
accomodate more of its complexities. 1 such alternative approach is to 
conceptualize the precaution adoption process as a series of distinct stages. 
Stage theory suggests that people at different points in the precaution adoption 
process behave in qualitatively different ways and that the types of information 
and interventions needed to move people closer to action will vary from stage to 
stage. Among the variables that are best described by a series of cognitive 
stages rather than by their location on a continuum are beliefs about personal 
susceptibility; beliefs about severity, precaution effectiveness, and cost; and 
the decision to take action. According to this perspective, the decision to act 
in a self-protective manner will not occur until people have reached the final 
stages of all 3 relevant beliefs--susceptibility, severity, and precaution 
effectiveness. Another factor that must be considered is the gap between 
intentions and action; many people claim to be convinced that a precaution is 
worthwhile, state that they intend to act, but do not follow through on their 
intentions. This inaction can reflect the low priority of the action, 
situational obstacles, problems in initiating the action, or difficulties in 
maintaining precautions that prove arduous. The practical implication of the 
notion that people pass through qualitatively different stages as they move 
toward preventive action suggests that an effective program in 1 situation may 
be inappropriate in another.

DOI: 10.1037//0278-6133.7.4.355
PMID: 3049068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1988 Oct;36(10):919-37. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1988.tb05786.x.

Clinical decision-making in catastrophic situations: the relevance of age. 
Report of a conference convened by the American Geriatrics Society, April 17-18, 
1987.

Barondess JA(1), Kalb P, Weil WB Jr, Cassel C, Ginzberg E.

Author information:
(1)American Geriatrics Society, New York, NY 10021.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1988.tb05786.x
PMID: 3049750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. J Health Polit Policy Law. 1988 Fall;13(3):405-23. doi: 
10.1215/03616878-13-3-405.

Age as a basis for allocating lifesaving medical resources: an ethical analysis.

Kilner JF.

In light of the growing prominence of an age criterion in patient selection, it 
is essential to scrutinize the ethical legitimacy of arguments being offered 
both for and against using age as a criterion. Accordingly, the present study 
first explores the primary justifications for an age criterion, then examines 
the criterion's weaknesses. Weaknesses are grouped into two areas: deficiencies 
in the justifications of the criterion, and overarching critiques. Finally, a 
way forward in the midst of the present controversy is suggested. The study's 
conclusion is that an age criterion per se is unjustified, though age may play a 
carefully defined role in medical assessments relevant to patient selection.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-13-3-405
PMID: 3049771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

