
755. NCI Monogr. 1988;(7):7-11.

Consensus Development Conference on the Management of Clinically Localized 
Prostate Cancer. Overview: historical and contemporary.

Whitmore WF Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 
10021.

Recognition of the clinical importance of prostate cancer undoubtedly was 
delayed by the failure of clinicians or pathologists to distinguish consistently 
between benign and malignant prostatic growths until well into the 19th century. 
White used castration for prostatic enlargements in 1895, but Huggins and Hodges 
first placed endocrine therapy on a rational basis in 1941. Although a number of 
surgeons had attempted excision of prostate cancer, Young is credited with 
planning and performing the first radical perineal prostatectomy in 1904. 
Orthovoltage irradiation and various techniques of interstitial and 
intracavitary radium therapy were used in the treatment of prostate cancer early 
in the 20th century, but it was the development of megavoltage irradiation that 
reopened the door to the exploration of irradiation for localized prostate 
cancer following World War II. Endocrine manipulation, surgery, and irradiation 
remain the keystones of treatment. The management of prostate cancer is 
controversial for several reasons: 1) The disease occurs in an age range in 
which competing causes of mortality are high. 2) The natural evolution of the 
disease is varied, often long, and not consistently predictable. 3) Long-term 
survival has been reported for each of the principal modes of therapy, but 
randomized controlled studies have been limited. Uniformity in histologic 
grading, clinical staging, and evaluation of response to treatment would improve 
the quality of the data. Predictions of host life expectancy, tumor growth rate, 
metastatic potential, and tumor responsiveness to irradiation and endocrine 
therapy would enhance the rationale of treatment.

PMID: 3050541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Rev Rhum Mal Osteoartic. 1988 May;55(7):495-500.

[Surgery of primary hyperparathyroidism in 1988. Strategies during primary 
operations, in case of failure and in case of cancer].

[Article in French]

Mellière D(1), Kassab M, Becquemin JP, Etienne G.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire et Endocrinienne, CHU Henri-Mondor, Créteil.

In primary hyperparathyroidism, an operation is indicated when the calcemia 
exceeds 115 mg/l and phosphoremia is low in several successive instances, 
regardless of the symptoms, even if PTH levels and cervical ultrasonography are 
normal. In case of calcemia under 110 mg/l, the diagnosis must be confirmed by 
titration of the nephrogenic cyclic AMP and symptomatic patients must be 
operated upon as well as asymptomatic patients with a life expectancy exceeding 
10 years. In case of acute hypercalcemia, the procedure must be performed as a 
semi-emergency without waiting for a definite diagnosis, since the course may 
rapidly be fatal in spite of all medical treatments. Ultrasonography mostly 
presents the advantage of detecting intrathyroid parathyroids glands. The 
experience of the surgeon is essential for the mandatory locating of 4 glands, 
and the choice of the surgical strategy. In front of a secondary indication for 
failure or recurrence, one must take into consideration what was seen and done 
during the first procedure, the calcemia levels and clinical, radiological or 
biological consequences. Finally, in case of cancer (2 p. cent), the best 
prognosis rests in wide excision of the thyroid compartment and nodes areas, 
since medical treatments and radiation therapy are ineffective.

PMID: 3051311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 1988 Oct;112(10):1032-40.

Dietary cholesterol and human coronary heart disease. The epidemiologic 
evidence.

Stamler J(1), Shekelle R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Preventive Medicine, Northwestern 
University Medical School, Chicago, IL 60611.

For decades, dietary cholesterol has been recognized as the "materia peccans" 
(Anitschkow) for the induction of atherosclerosis in animals. In rabbits, 
chickens, and monkeys, long-term feeding of small amounts of cholesterol leads 
to atherosclerosis despite little or no rise in serum total cholesterol, 
indicating an independent contribution of dietary cholesterol to atherogenesis 
over-and-above its influence on serum cholesterol, possibly through effects on 
serum cholesterol fractions (eg, increased low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol 
and decreased high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol). In humans, ingestion of 
dietary cholesterol raises serum cholesterol, largely through its effect on 
low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol. Over the range of intake in usual American 
diets, this effect is substantial, eg, with 300 mg of cholesterol intake per 
1000 kcal, rather than 100, serum cholesterol is on average about 6% to 7% 
higher, equivalent to a 12% to 14% greater risk of coronary heart disease (CHD). 
In international studies based on the Food and Agriculture Organization and the 
World Health Organization (Geneva) data, mean per capita dietary cholesterol 
levels are consistently related to CHD mortality rates. In addition, since 1981, 
four prospective within-population studies have shown that dietary cholesterol 
intake of individuals is significantly related to their long-term CHD risk, 
independent of and in addition to serum cholesterol, blood pressure, and 
cigarette use. On average, a 200-mg/1000 kcal higher intake of cholesterol at 
baseline was associated with a 30% higher CHD rate (95% confidence interval, 1.1 
to 1.5). Conversely, lower intakes of cholesterol were associated with 
significantly lower risks of CHD, and of all causes mortality as well. For 
example, with 19 years of follow-up in the Chicago Western Electric Study, a 
200-mg/1000 kcal habitual lower cholesterol intake was associated with a 37% 
lower risk of death from any cause, equivalent to a life expectancy longer by 
3.4 years. The importance of a low-dietary cholesterol intake for prevention of 
CHD merits increased emphasis.

PMID: 3052353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Aust N Z J Ophthalmol. 1988 May;16(2):59-66. doi: 
10.1111/j.1442-9071.1988.tb01251.x.

Measurement of choroidal melanomas: a comparison of methods.

Favilla I(1), McKenzie J, Barry W, Gosbell A, McNeil J, Ellims P.

Author information:
(1)Monash Medical Centre, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

The prognosis for death from metastatic choroidal melanoma following enucleation 
has been shown to be strongly correlated with a number of risk factors of which 
the most important are age of onset, aggressive cell types and tumour volume. 
The advantages of enucleation for the treatment of choroidal melanomas are put 
into question by the singular lack of a parallel increase in life expectancy 
following this treatment, and evidence that it may promote the development of 
metastatic disease. Alternative forms of treatment have been introduced 
including observation of small and asymptomatic tumours. We are using a 
computer-aided system for serial measurement and statistical analysis of area 
and volume of choroidal melanomas. A comparison of results using our method and 
the conventional method of estimating volume by the product of basal area and 
height for 51 measurements on 15 eyes over a 6-month period showed an 
overestimation of volume by conventional methods which could be corrected by 
applying a "shape constant" determined by linear regression. Calculation of 
tumour growth rates is also shape-dependent, and a slowing in growth rate or 
even a reduction in melanoma size is possible.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.1988.tb01251.x
PMID: 3052524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Br J Haematol. 1988 Sep;70(1):31-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.1988.tb02430.x.

Upper and lower time limits in the decision to recommend marrow transplantation 
for patients with chronic myelogenous leukaemia.

Simon W(1), Segel GB, Lichtman MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biophysics, University of Rochester School of Medicine, N.Y.

Long-term survival of patients with chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML) requires 
marrow transplantation from a histocompatible donor. The optimal timing of the 
transplant is difficult to determine because of the high peritransplant 
mortality of 20-35% and the existence of a group of patients who can have the 
disease controlled by drug treatment for prolonged periods. We have developed a 
mathematical model implemented with a computer program which calculates lower 
and upper time limits for the timing of marrow transplantation. The lower time 
limit for transplantation is derived from the loss of life expectancy with 
delay, and the upper time limit is calculated by comparing the transplant 
survival probability with the probability of surviving an additional year 
without a transplant. Thus, an objective basis is provided for bracketing the 
most appropriate time for transplantation. This analysis suggests that the 
decision to transplant can be postponed in some patients for periods longer than 
may generally be recommended.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.1988.tb02430.x
PMID: 3052568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Blood Rev. 1988 Sep;2(3):178-85. doi: 10.1016/0268-960x(88)90023-9.

Cyclic neutropenia: a clinical review.

Dale DC(1), Hammond WP 4th.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle 
98195.

Cyclic neutropenia is a benign, hematologic disorder characterized by recurrent 
episodes of severe neutropenia at 21 day intervals. There are associated 
cyclical variations in other blood cells. Patients with this disease have 
malaise, stomatitis, cervical lymphadenopathy and fever during the recurrent 
neutropenic periods. The exact cause of cyclic neutropenia is unknown. About one 
third of human cases appear to be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. In 
the other cases, the disease appears to arise spontaneously with symptoms 
usually beginning in infancy or early childhood. In adult patients, the disease 
may be acquired and occur in association with a clonal proliferation of large 
granular lymphocytes. Clinical studies in man and investigations in grey collie 
dogs, which have a very similar disease, strongly suggest that cyclic 
neutropenia is due to an abnormality in the regulation of early hematopoietic 
precursor cells. Therapy for cyclic neutropenia involves local and symptomatic 
therapy for the recurrent mouth ulcers and pharyngitis, and antibiotics for 
episodes of sinusitis, pneumonia, peritonitis, or bacteremia. Therapy with 
glucocorticosteroids, androgens, and plasmapheresis has been efficacious in a 
few adult patients, but no therapy has been proven to alter the cycling of blood 
counts in children. Despite their repetitive illnesses, patients with cyclic 
neutropenia grow and develop normally. With the help of attentive physicians and 
dentists, their quality of life and life expectancy are good. Current research 
on hematopoietic growth factors offers promise of new approaches to therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/0268-960x(88)90023-9
PMID: 3052663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. J Am Optom Assoc. 1988 Oct;59(10):774-9.

Essential factors in the care of elderly patients.

Rosenbloom AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Chicago Lighthouse for the Blind, IL 60608.

With the increase in life expectancy since the turn of the century, all 
optometrists must have a good understanding of essential factors in the care of 
elderly patients. Some of the most important aspects of the clinical approach to 
and understanding of the elderly patient are considered here. Characteristic 
differences in symptomatology, the altered doctor-patient relationship, 
polypharmacy and compliance issues, and altered environmental needs are also 
described.

PMID: 3053864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Lakartidningen. 1988 Nov 16;85(46):3961, 3964-6.

[The art of prolongation of life--a medical utopia].

[Article in Swedish]

Johannisson K.

PMID: 3054370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Pathol Biol (Paris). 1988 Jun;36(5 Pt 2):706-10.

[Pharmacokinetics of ceftriaxone in intensive care].

[Article in French]

Bouget J(1), Garré M, Reyman JM, Guedes Y, Cartier F.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Réanimation Médicale, Urgences Médicales, CHR, Pontchaillou, 
Rennes.

Pharmacokinetic parameters of ceftriaxone were studied on day 1 and 5 in 21 
patients admitted in an ICU for severe infections. All patients received a 
single daily infusion of 2 g of ceftriaxone during 15 minutes. We have 
determined the ratio to the daily dose of serum ceftriaxone concentrations (peak 
level and trough level) and of areas under the curve. According to renal 
function and the existence of cholestasis, the results of our study showed: 1) 
In patients with creatinine clearance greater than 10 ml/mn and without 
cholestasis, a single daily infusion of 2 g ceftriaxone achieves therapeutic 
blood levels without any accumulation phenomenon. 2) In patients requiring 
hemodialysis without cholestasis, the period between two 2 g doses should be 
prolonged to 48 h. 3) Marked cholestasis and creatinine clearance greater than 
10 ml/mn prolong the elimination half-life of ceftriaxone leading to an interval 
extension of the single dose of 2 g. Further investigations are needed in the 
latter situation.

PMID: 3054752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Postgrad Med. 1988 Nov 15;84(7):44-6, 51-5. doi:
10.1080/00325481.1988.11700490.

Adenocarcinoma of the prostate. Stage-by-stage treatment alternatives.

Soloway MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Tennessee, College of Medicine, Memphis 
38163.

The best treatment for adenocarcinoma of the prostate depends on the patient's 
age, general medical condition, life expectancy, and willingness to accept such 
side effects as impotence. Radical prostatectomy or full-dose radiation therapy 
are usually curative when cancer is confined to the gland. The technique of 
prostatectomy has been improved and potency often can be preserved. Once the 
tumor extends beyond the gland, treatment alternatives are radiation or 
endocrine therapy. If lymph nodes are negative, radiation therapy may result in 
a long period without progression. If lymph nodes are positive, the expense and 
morbidity of radiation therapy may not be worthwhile because the likelihood of 
cure is low. Androgen deprivation, or endocrine manipulation, is preferred for 
metastatic disease. Response is varied and may depend on the patient's 
testosterone level when therapy is initiated. Survival is shorter in those with 
levels below normal.

DOI: 10.1080/00325481.1988.11700490
PMID: 3054850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Dec 1;109(11):913-9. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-109-11-913.

Management of asymptomatic gallstones in the diabetic patient. A decision 
analysis.

Friedman LS(1), Roberts MS, Brett AS, Marton KI.

Author information:
(1)New England Deaconess Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1989 Jun 15;110(12):1033-4.

The management of asymptomatic cholelithiasis in patients with diabetes is 
controversial. We used decision analysis to compare expectant management to 
prophylactic cholecystectomy in asymptomatic diabetic patients. Relevant 
probabilities were derived from the literature or expert opinion. Hypothetical 
cohorts of patients were followed for their lifetimes under each strategy. 
Expectant management was almost always the superior course. For example, a 
30-year-old diabetic man gains an average of 6.1 months of life by choosing 
expectant management over prophylactic surgery. The superiority of expectant 
management was invariant to changes in age, sex, and the extent to which major 
surgical complications affect the future quality of life. Prophylactic 
cholecystectomy was superior only with extremely high estimates of the 
likelihood of developing symptomatic disease, the probability of requiring 
emergency surgery after symptoms develop, and emergency surgical mortality 
rates. However, no single factor had sufficient impact to alter the optimal 
decision by itself; the probabilities of several untoward events had to be 
increased simultaneously to favor prophylactic cholecystectomy. Prophylactic 
surgery for silent gallstones in diabetic patients does not increase life 
expectancy or quality of life and may in fact reduce it. This result holds over 
a wide range of basic assumptions.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-109-11-913
PMID: 3056166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Geriatrics. 1988 Dec;43 Suppl:31-9.

Health promotion and disease prevention in the older adult.

Larson EB(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle.

Lengthened life expectancy, along with the increased chance that much time in 
late life may be spent with disabilities and terminal dependency, suggests the 
need for increased efforts in health promotion and disease prevention in elderly 
persons. Both goals can be achieved, partly through programs that stress both 
screening and early detection of some diseases, such as cancer, and decreasing 
the risk factors of others, such as hypertension, heart disease, and stroke. 
Efforts also need to be addressed at other common sources of disability and 
dysfunction like osteoporosis, falls, and fractures. Exercise is an important 
factor in such programs in order to extend active life expectancy and enhance 
vigor in later life. Habitual exercise is, however, one of the least prevalent 
of all the health promotion activities. A carefully designed exercise program 
that includes education about the reasons for exercise, as well as the proper 
methods of exercise, could considerably change the health profile of the 
individual patient and the increasing population over age 65 in this country.

PMID: 3056784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Sports Med. 1988 Aug;6(2):63-71. doi: 10.2165/00007256-198806020-00001.

Does regular exercise prolong life expectancy?

Heyden S(1), Fodor GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Family Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, 
Durham, North Carolina.

DOI: 10.2165/00007256-198806020-00001
PMID: 3062733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1988 Jun 15;43(12):335-7.

[Life expectancy of patients with chronic obstructive respiratory disease].

[Article in German]

Ulmer WT(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinischen Universitätsklinik, Berufsgenossenschaftlichen Krankenanstalten 
Bergmannsheil Bochum.

Using the nowadays available therapeutic means for patients with chronic 
obstructive lung diseases it is, even with severe forms of emphysema, possible 
to obtain excellent results. This is mainly due to elimination of increased flow 
resistance in the airways. These great advances should not conceal that the 
common life expectancy is not yet obtained in this group of patients. In spite 
of the fact that an acceptable quality of life can be provided during long-term 
therapy these patients are ill. It is hoped that with the available knowledge on 
prevention, early treatment and new therapeutic approaches progress to chronic 
disease may be avoided.

PMID: 3062932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Soz Praventivmed. 1988;33(3):186-92. doi: 10.1007/BF02078428.

[Sex differences in health and health behavior].

[Article in German]

Zemp E(1), Ackermann-Liebrich U.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Sozial- und Präventivmedizin, Universität Basel.

The higher life expectancy of women is contrasting with the higher female 
morbidity known from health interview surveys and statistics on use of health 
services. In the Swiss Health Survey SOMIPOPS, women report higher rates of 
complaints, diagnoses, chronical impairments and psychic illness, more frequent 
restrictions of their daily activities for health reasons and a worse overall 
health status. In men, only higher rates of indicators related to respiratory 
diseases and accidents were found. On the other hand, women have a stronger 
health orientation in daily life habits, seem to differ from men in health 
perception, are more willing to treat symptoms and use health services more 
often for preventive reasons. Comparison of survey and examination data reveal a 
different health perception and a higher female willingness to treat symptoms. 
The question is arised whether the different health behaviour have long-term 
effects, especially on life-expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02078428
PMID: 3062995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Hautarzt. 1988 Aug;39(8):498-503.

[Pathomechanisms in Candida albicans infections].

[Article in German]

Ollert M(1), Korting HC, Braun-Falco O.

Author information:
(1)Dermatologische Klinik, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München.

The adherence of the pathogen to the host cell is the first and decisive step in 
Candida albicans infections of the human organism. The mechanisms involved are 
mostly examined in human epithelial cells which are newly exfoliated and which 
therefore have a limited life expectancy. In this case, the glycoproteins on the 
cell surface of Candida albicans--mainly the mannan--are of central importance. 
They are the main component of the fungus to adhere to the host cell as well as 
to bind and activate the serum complement. Finally, the role of mannan in the 
interaction with host defence mechanisms is stressed.

PMID: 3065293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1988 Jun;42(2):200-3. doi:
10.1136/jech.42.2.200.

Improvements in general health among the elderly: a factor in the rising 
incidence of hip fractures?

Finsen V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Trondheim University Hospital, Norway.

Both hip fracture incidence and life expectancy are known to have increased 
during the last decades. Seventeen studies of hip fracture incidence from Great 
Britain and Scandinavia were collected from the literature. It was found that 
there was a good correlation for both men and women between the incidence of 
cervical but not trochanteric fractures in the 75-79 year age group and the mean 
life expectancy at 70 years of age at the time in the country concerned. The 
increased incidence is probably accounted for partly by the increased lifespan 
of the infirm. It is, however, suggested that increases in life expectancy among 
a majority of the elderly also entail better general health at any particular 
age, and that this may lead to a higher level of physical mobility which raises 
the risk of falls and fractures.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.42.2.200
PMCID: PMC1052717
PMID: 3065438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Cardiol Clin. 1988 May;6(2):187-218.

The dilated cardiomyopathies: clinical aspects.

Stevenson LW(1), Perloff JK.

Author information:
(1)UCLA School of Medicine, UCLA Medical Center.

The dilated cardiomyopathies are characterized by an increase in left 
ventricular internal dimensions without an appropriate increase in ventricular 
wall thickness. The myocardial injury often goes unrecognized until the 
offending cause is no longer apparent. Although specific diagnoses and treatment 
can sometimes be established, the majority of cases are designated idiopathic 
but are believed to result from previous viral infections, autoimmune or genetic 
predisposition, or abnormalities of the coronary microvasculature. Despite 
impaired contractility and ventricular dilatation, compensated dysfunction may 
prevail for some time. Excessive fluid retention, neurohumoral activation, 
systemic vasoconstriction, and atrioventricular valve regurgitation promote 
progressive hemodynamic deterioration. The meticulous matching of diuretic and 
vasodilator therapy to specific hemodynamic goals, particularly the 
normalization of ventricular filling pressure, frequently allows restoration and 
maintenance of reasonable functional capacity even in patients with severe heart 
failure. Nevertheless, sudden death due to ventricular arrhythmias and 
occasionally to systemic emboli remains a major threat. Prophylactic use of 
antiarrhythmic agents and anticoagulant therapy is not of proven efficacy. 
Cardiac transplantation results in significant improvement in life expectancy 
for patients with dilated heart failure but is available only to a relatively 
small number of patients because of the limited donor supply. Accordingly, 
programs providing cardiac transplantation should be equally committed to 
providing optimal medical management that is the only option for the majority of 
patients with dilated cardiomyopathy.

PMID: 3066482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. World Rev Nutr Diet. 1988;57:126-213. doi: 10.1159/000416399.

Is our knowledge of human nutrition soundly based?

Shorland FB.

DOI: 10.1159/000416399
PMID: 3067451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Br J Ophthalmol. 1988 Dec;72(12):881-9. doi: 10.1136/bjo.72.12.881.

Early trabeculectomy versus conventional management in primary open angle 
glaucoma.

Jay JL(1), Murray SB.

Author information:
(1)Tennent Institute of Ophthalmology, University of Glasgow, Western Infirmary, 
UK.

The results of a randomised, prospective, multicentre trial of the management of 
primary open angle glaucoma are presented at up to five years' follow up. 
Previously undiagnosed cases were selected with intraocular pressure of 26 mmHg 
or more on two occasions together with field loss characteristic of glaucoma. 
Analysis was performed on one eye selected at random from each of 99 patients. 
Conventional medical treatment followed in unsuccessful cases by trabeculectomy 
(group A) was compared with trabeculectomy at diagnosis followed when necessary 
by supplementary medical therapy (group B). The life expectancy of these 
glaucoma patients was found to be similar to that for the local population 
matched for age and sex. In group A after four years trabeculectomy had been 
performed in 53% of eyes because medical management had failed to control the 
disease. The rate of operation was lower in those patients with intraocular 
pressure less than 31 mmHg and mild relative field loss (17% at three years) 
than in those with intraocular pressure greater than 30 mmHg and dense scotomas 
(75% at three years). Early surgery provided much more stable control with fewer 
changes in treatment than in group A. The group mean intraocular pressure after 
trabeculectomy was 15.0 mmHg irrespective of the time of operation, and this was 
significantly lower than the intraocular pressure in those cases thought to be 
controlled on medical therapy alone at the end of the first year (20.8 mmHg). 
Early operation provided significantly better protection of visual field, and 
the extra loss of visual field with delayed operation occurred in the 
preoperative period. Changes in visual fields were not related to the use of 
miotics. There was no significant difference in the final visual acuity in the 
two groups, but six cases in group A lost central fixation because of 
progressive loss of visual field, and there were no such cases in group B. 
Cataract occurred in approximately 10% of cases in both groups, but in group A 
this happened with only half the number of operations and at a shorter 
postoperative follow-up than in group B. It appears that in cases of primary 
open angle glaucoma of this severity the risk of delaying operation are 
significantly greater than those of performing trabeculectomy as the primary 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.72.12.881
PMCID: PMC1041614
PMID: 3067743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Versicherungsmedizin. 1988 Nov 1;40(6):146-53.

[Improving life expectancy in heart failure. Newest results and their 
consequences].

[Article in German]

Holtz J, Lückhoff A.

PMID: 3070902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Wis Med J. 1988 Dec;87(12):11-9.

Theories of aging.

Shorr RI, Carnes M.

PMID: 3070968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Pediatr Neurol. 1988 Sep-Oct;4(5):313-6. doi: 10.1016/0887-8994(88)90073-2.

Lesion mistaken for hemorrhage in a premature infant: lipoma of corpus callosum.

Imaizumi SO(1), Pleasure JR, Zubrow AB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Medical College of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 
19129.

An infant, 26 weeks gestation, had a stormy neonatal course; at 10 hours of age, 
initial cranial ultrasound apparently demonstrated a left subependymal 
hemorrhage placed somewhat medially with possible extension into the lateral 
ventricle. These ultrasound findings were present up to and including a study on 
the seventeenth day of life. At 7 months of age, repeat ultrasound once again 
demonstrated supposed hemorrhage which involved both choroid plexuses and the 
third ventricle or basilar cisterns. Computed tomography revealed a lipoma of 
the corpus callosum with calcifications. This patient is one of the youngest 
reported in the literature with this tumor.

DOI: 10.1016/0887-8994(88)90073-2
PMID: 3072010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Gene. 1988 Dec 10;72(1-2):151-60. doi: 10.1016/0378-1119(88)90137-0.

Messenger RNA degradation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Brown AJ(1), Purvis IJ, Santiago TC, Bettany AJ, Loughlin L, Moore J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Genetics, University of Glasgow, U.K.

The analysis of 17 functional mRNAs and two recombinant mRNAs in the yeast 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae suggests that the length of an mRNA influences its 
half-life in this organism. The mRNAs are clearly divisible into two populations 
when their lengths and half-lives are compared. Differences in ribosome loading 
amongst the mRNAs cannot account for this division into relatively stable and 
unstable populations. Also, specific mRNAs seem to be destabilized to differing 
extents when their translation is disrupted by N-terminus-proximal stop codons. 
The analysis of a mutant mRNA, generated by the fusion of the yeast PYK1 and 
URA3 genes, suggests that a destabilizing element exists within the URA3 
sequence. The presence of such elements within relatively unstable mRNAs might 
account for the division between the yeast mRNA populations. On the basis of 
these, and other previously published observations, a model is proposed for a 
general pathway of mRNA degradation in yeast. This model may be relevant to 
other eukaryotic systems. Also, only a minor extension to the model is required 
to explain how the stability of some eukaryotic mRNAs might be regulated.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-1119(88)90137-0
PMID: 3072247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Baillieres Clin Obstet Gynaecol. 1988 Jun;2(2):241-59. doi: 
10.1016/s0950-3552(88)80003-8.

What is ageing?

Rudd AG, Millard PH.

The absolute numbers and proportion of elderly people within society is 
increasing and will continue to increase into the next century. An understanding 
of normal biology, physiology and anatomy of ageing are an essential 
prerequisite for the treatment of pathology in the elderly. Gerontology is a 
young scientific discipline where important developments are being made. 
Progress in increasing longevity has so far been limited, but continuing 
improvements in the quality of life for the elderly remain an attainable goal.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-3552(88)80003-8
PMID: 3073884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Baillieres Clin Obstet Gynaecol. 1988 Jun;2(2):289-316. doi: 
10.1016/s0950-3552(88)80006-3.

Menopause--a multi system disease.

Brincat M, Studd JW.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-3552(88)80006-3
PMID: 3073887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Baillieres Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1988 May;2(2):375-89. doi: 
10.1016/s0950-351x(88)80038-7.

Hypertension.

Drury PL.

The awareness of hypertension as one of the major risk factors for mortality and 
morbidity in NIDDM has increased greatly in the past few years. It is now 
accepted practice to measure BP at least yearly in all such patients. 
Unfortunately, one cannot yet be sure to what extent diabetics benefit from 
anti-hypertensive therapy, and the simple assumption that treatment of the 
increased risk reduces that risk must be constantly questioned. No specific data 
are yet available for NIDDM, though it would be remarkable if the benefits of 
decreased cerebrovascular mortality and probable reduced total mortality 
(Sleight, 1987) did not apply to the higher-risk diabetic subject, at least at 
the higher levels of diastolic pressure (greater than 105 mm Hg). There is, 
though, no evidence that mortality or morbidity of coronary artery disease, the 
major killer in NIDDM, is reduced even in non-diabetics and the present author 
does not consider there to be any evidence suggesting that thresholds for 
treatment of hypertension in uncomplicated patients with NIDDM should be lower 
than those for non-diabetics, unless progressive nephropathy is present. Current 
advice in the non-diabetic is that levels of blood pressure in adults 
consistently above 95 mm Hg warrant therapy, aiming to reduce it below 90 mm Hg 
(World Health Organization, 1986). While the importance of hypertension should 
not be underestimated, it should not deflect attention from the other risk 
factors. Cessation of smoking, and by implication its reduction, will, for all 
smoking patients but the most hypertensive, produce a greater reduction in 
cardiovascular and total mortality risk than will anti-hypertensive therapy. 
There are also early signs that effective dietary and/or drug treatment of 
significant hyperlipidaemia lowers cardiovascular mortality. Choice of 
anti-hypertensive therapy is especially important, not only for efficacy but 
also for quality of life, in patients who already suffer major restrictions on 
diet, freedom and life expectancy. While controlled trials in the subject are of 
immense importance in determining optimum therapy, there is currently no 
evidence to favour any particular group of drugs, and an individual patient's 
therapy should be decided on the basis of their own circumstances.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-351x(88)80038-7
PMID: 3075898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Compr Gerontol C. 1988 Dec;2(1):1-29.

The nature of time: implications for research on aging.

Schroots JJ(1), Birren JE.

Author information:
(1)TNO Institute of Preventive Health Care, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Contemporary research on aging gives little evidence of recognition of the 
underlying concepts of time. Researchers have been much concerned with age as a 
variable but little with the explication of aging as a process. Most authors do 
not define aging as they use the term or explain how time enters their causal 
explanations. In this article major concepts of time are reviewed and 
distinctions are made between physical, biological, psychological, and social 
time or age, which all might be classified as a variant of calendar time or 
calendar age, respectively. Recent developments in gerodynamics, however, have 
given rise to the concepts of intrinsic time and intrinsic age, which are 
generated by the dynamics of the system. The implications of the major concepts 
of time and age will be drawn for research on aging.

PMID: 3076507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1988 Oct-Dec;83(4):441-6. doi: 
10.1590/s0074-02761988000400008.

[The effect of feeding frequency on some population parameters of Rhodnius 
neivai].

[Article in Spanish]

Cabello DR(1), Lizano E, Valderrama A.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Ciencias, Departamento de Biología, Universidad de Los Andes, 
Mérida, Venezuela.

After changing feeding frequency to a weekly and biweekly basis, a statistical 
evaluation of the variation of some population and reproductive parameters was 
conducted. It was based on four cohorts experiments of Rhodnius neivai fed on 
hen or rabbit. We found a direct relationship between blood feeding frequency 
and the parameters adult average longevity, maximum longevity and life 
expectancy in the animals fed on hen. On the other hand, in the insect fed 
biweekly on rabbit, these three values were higher than the registered in the 
cohorts fed weekly. Reproductive output got bigger and age-specific fertility 
showed a small decrease when feeding frequency was weekly. Every population 
parameter, except generation time, was greater in the individuals fed weekly.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02761988000400008
PMID: 3078348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. CA Cancer J Clin. 1986 Jan-Feb;36(1):26-41. doi: 10.3322/canjclin.36.1.26.

Cancer incidence and survival in patients 65 years of age and older.

Baranovsky A, Myers MH.

The impact of cancer on persons 65 years of age and older has been assessed by 
examining incidence rates and survival rates. For all cancers combined, the 
incidence rate shown in Table 4 for males 65 and older (2,468.2 per 100,000) is 
four times the age-adjusted rate for males 45 to 64 years of age (586.7). For 
elderly females, the incidence rate is twice that for females aged 45 to 64 
(1,401.1 versus 609.7). Ratios of incidence rates for older versus younger males 
are about four to five for cancers of the stomach, colon, rectum, pancreas, and 
urinary bladder, and for leukemia; about three for cancers of the lung and 
kidney, and for non-Hodgkin's lymphomas; and 10 for cancer of the prostate. For 
females, the corresponding ratios are similar to those for males, although a 
little lower for cancers of the colon, rectum, and urinary bladder, and for 
leukemia, and a little higher for cancers of the stomach and pancreas. The 
ratios for breast, uterine cervix, uterine corpus, ovary, and lung are less than 
two. The relative survival rates for patients 65 and older are for many cancer 
sites only a few percentage points lower than rates for those 45 to 64 years of 
age (Table 5), suggesting that patients in this age group fare only a little 
worse than younger patients in escaping the effects of cancer once it has been 
diagnosed. Exceptions are cancer of the urinary bladder and non-Hodgkin's 
lymphomas for both men and women and cancers of the uterine cervix, uterine 
corpus, ovary, and kidney for women. For these sites, the survival rates for 
older patients are considerably lower than for their younger counterparts. For 
female breast cancer patients, there was no difference in the five-year relative 
survival rate for those 65 and older compared with those 45 to 64.

DOI: 10.3322/canjclin.36.1.26
PMID: 3080206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. CA Cancer J Clin. 1986 Jan-Feb;36(1):42-7. doi: 10.3322/canjclin.36.1.42.

National Institutes of Health Consensus Development Conference Statement: 
Adjuvant Chemotherapy for Breast Cancer. September 9-11, 1985.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.3322/canjclin.36.1.42
PMID: 3080207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1986 Jun;34(6):435-40. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1986.tb03411.x.

Correlation of pressure sores and nutritional status.

Pinchcofsky-Devin GD, Kaminski MV Jr.

As life expectancy increases, so do the problems of the elderly population. One 
major problem is that of protein calorie malnutrition; another is the 
susceptibility of this population to pressure sores. The purpose of this study 
was to determine if a correlation exists between deteriorating nutritional 
status and the development of pressure sores. The nutritional status of 232 
nursing home patients (mean age 72.9 +/- 12 years) was determined using 
biochemical and anthropometric measurements. Overall, the incidence of some 
degree of malnutrition was 59%. Seventeen of the patients were found to have 
pressure sores and were all malnourished. When classified as mild, moderate, or 
severe malnutrition, the patients with pressure sores were in the severe group. 
There was a significant difference (P less than .001) between the nutritional 
status of pressure sore patients and the malnourished patients. It appears that 
the development of pressure sores correlates with nutritional deficiencies. The 
authors' findings suggest a need for more aggressive nutritional support in the 
elderly, especially those with pressure sores.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1986.tb03411.x
PMID: 3084610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Public Health Rep. 1986 May-Jun;101(3):253-65.

The health of Hispanics in the southwestern United States: an epidemiologic 
paradox.

Markides KS, Coreil J.

Recent reports in the literature on the health status of southwestern Hispanics, 
most of whom are Mexican Americans, are reviewed critically. The review is 
organized into the following sections: infant mortality, mortality at other 
ages, cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes, other diseases, interview data 
on physical health, and mental health. Despite methodological limitations of 
much of the research, it can be concluded with some certainty that the health 
status of Hispanics in the Southwest is much more similar to the health status 
of other whites than that of blacks although socioeconomically, the status of 
Hispanics is closer to that of blacks. This observation is supported by evidence 
on such key health indicators as infant mortality, life-expectancy, mortality 
from cardiovascular diseases, mortality from major types of cancer, and measures 
of functional health. On other health indicators, such as diabetes and 
infectious and parasitic diseases, Hispanics appear to be clearly disadvantaged 
relative to other whites. Factors explaining the relative advantages or 
disadvantages of Hispanics include cultural practices, family supports, 
selective migration, diet, and genetic heritage. The recently completed Hispanic 
Health and Nutrition Examination Survey will go a long way to provide answers to 
many questions regarding the health of Hispanics in the Southwest or elsewhere.

PMCID: PMC1477704
PMID: 3086917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Soc Sci Med. 1986;22(7):775-80. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(86)90230-3.

Economics of health and nutrition in Kenya.

Mwangi WM, Mwabu GM.

This paper starts by outlining the present state of health and nutrition in 
Kenya. Health status for Kenyans has shown spectacular improvement since Kenya's 
attainment of independence in 1963. Both the infant mortality and crude death 
rates fell by about 30% between 1963 and 1982. Life expectancy at birth has 
risen dramatically from 40 years to 54 years over the same period. However, this 
picture could be misleading because it is possible for the morbidity rate to 
have risen, or declined only slightly, over the twenty-year period during which 
mortality rates in Kenya fell substantially. It is further indicated that 
despite Kenya having per capita availability of nutrients exceeding that 
recommended by FAO/WHO; about one-third of Kenya's population is unable to meet 
its food or nutritional requirements.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(86)90230-3
PMID: 3086981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1986 Jun 7;292(6534):1491-3. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.292.6534.1491.

Quality of life after myocardial infarction: effect of long term metoprolol on 
mortality and morbidity.

Olsson G, Lubsen J, van Es GA, Rehnqvist N.

A double blind randomised study of 154 patients with myocardial infarction 
assigned to metoprolol (100 mg twice daily) and 147 assigned to placebo compared 
the effects of treatment in relation to health state over three years. Health 
state was evaluated by a new method based on the average number of days spent in 
each of seven mutually exclusive categories of health. The scale took into 
account death, history of serious complications, functional state, and side 
effects of treatment. Of the maximum attainable 1095 days alive during the three 
years patients given metoprolol attained 992 days and those given placebo 964 
days. During the period alive the metoprolol treated group spent an average of 
278 days in an optimal functional state as compared with 176 days for the 
placebo treated group. This included 221 and 156 days respectively in a 
completely asymptomatic state (that is, without either cardiac symptoms or side 
effects of treatment). The time spent with a serious non-fatal complication was 
shortened by 56 days in the metoprolol group. The overall differences between 
the groups were statistically significant (p = 0.03). Aside from bringing an 
improved quality of life after myocardial infarction, metoprolol may add up to 
one month to life expectancy for three years of treatment.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.292.6534.1491
PMCID: PMC1340495
PMID: 3087488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Clin Obstet Gynecol. 1986 Jun;29(2):397-406. doi: 
10.1097/00003081-198606000-00021.

The "physiology" of the climacterium.

Haney AF.

The climacteric represents both a time of declining gonadal function and general 
aging with subsequent alterations in those organs responsive to sex hormones. 
Men and women differ in that in women sex hormone production is intimately 
linked to the presence of gametes. As the number of oocytes is fixed at birth 
and oocytes are lost at a relatively constant rate, gonadal failure is the 
inevitable result. When the human life expectancy did not exceed the age of the 
climacteric, this was not a clinical problem for our species. With our rapidly 
lengthening life span, however, the medical impact of an extended life span 
without reproductive hormones becomes significant. In order to address these 
clinical problems in a humane and cost-effective manner to improve the quality 
of life for our increasingly aging population, a thorough understanding of the 
climacteric is mandatory for any physician treating women. Like most concepts in 
medicine, this one is not new. Borner stated in 1887: The climacteric, or 
so-called change of life in women, presents, without question, one of the most 
interesting subjects offered to the physician, and especially to the 
gynecologist, in the practice of his profession. The phenomena of this period 
are so varied and changeable, that he must certainly have had a wide experience 
who has observed and learned to estimate them all....it is desirable in the 
interest of our patients of the other sex, that the greatest possible light 
should be thrown upon this question. The modern practitioner will need to apply 
all the skills and resources available to adequately deal with the multitude of 
interrelated problems that beset women beyond the climacteric.

DOI: 10.1097/00003081-198606000-00021
PMID: 3087669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1986 Jun 28;292(6537):1717-9. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.292.6537.1717.

Prenatal screening for congenital heart disease.

Allan LD, Crawford DC, Chita SK, Tynan MJ.

Routine ultrasound examination of the fetus is already established in most 
obstetric units in Britain. A simple method was devised to evaluate one section 
of the fetal heart systematically. Examination of this section, the four chamber 
view, may readily be incorporated into routine obstetric screening. Severe 
cardiac abnormalities detectable in this view occur in two per 1000 pregnancies. 
For six years the department of paediatric cardiology at Guy's Hospital, London, 
served as a referral centre for fetal echocardiography. As teaching became more 
widespread an increasing proportion of cases of cardiac anomaly were referred 
because the obstetrician suspected abnormality on examination of the four 
chamber view. Currently 80% of detected abnormalities are referred for this 
reason. Further extension and organisation of teaching might result in most 
severe cardiac malformations being detected in early prenatal life.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.292.6537.1717
PMCID: PMC1340642
PMID: 3089369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Health Serv Res. 1986 Jun;21(2 Pt 1):161-76.

Use of nursing homes by a high-risk long-term care population.

Manheim LM, Hughes SL.

Limited information exists concerning lifetime use of nursing home services by 
the aged. This article examines the longitudinal experience, over four years, of 
elderly individuals at high risk of institutionalization, and develops a simple 
model of nursing home use based on these observations. This model allows us to 
predict future lifetime use under alternative assumptions. The main observations 
drawn from this sample are that high-risk elderly tend to move from the 
community to nursing homes, but not back to the community except for short, 
