transitional stays. Further, despite high overall mortality rates, the expected 
nursing home use by these high-risk elderly is very high, due to long average 
stays by a minority of the sample that enters a nursing home and remains there 
longer than six months.

PMCID: PMC1068942
PMID: 3089970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Med Care. 1986 Aug;24(8):767-80. doi: 10.1097/00005650-198608000-00012.

Cost-effectiveness of the North Karelia Hypertension Program. 1972-1977.

Nissinen A, Tuomilehto J, Kottke TE, Puska P.

The North Karelia Hypertension Program was initiated in 1972 as part of the 
North Karelia Project. This article examines the costs and effects of the first 
5 years of the project. There were 288 fewer than expected fatal strokes and 
myocardial infarctions during the period; 134 of these are attributable to the 
hypertension program. The costs of the hypertension program totalled $5.16 
million. Drugs consumed 86% of this cost. Using the zero discount rate as an 
outside boundary, the program is expected to increase old age pension costs by 
$2.5 million for the 5 years but will decrease earnings losses by $7 million for 
the same period. With earnings excluded, the cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
gained is $3,612 at zero discount and $5,830 at 10% discount. Hypertension care 
is more cost-effective than many of the treatments applied after the appearance 
of coronary heart disease symptoms but would be much more cost-effective if 
hypertension could be treated as effectively without medications or if the costs 
of medications could be reduced.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-198608000-00012
PMID: 3090379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Semin Hematol. 1986 Jul;23(3 Suppl 1):14-9.

Therapy of epidemic Kaposi's sarcoma.

Groopman JE.

Epidemic Kaposi's sarcoma, a neoplasm associated with AIDS, is rapidly becoming 
common in the United States and Europe. The pathogenesis of this form of 
Kaposi's sarcoma has not yet been fully understood, but epidemiological clues 
point to the possibility that an infectious agent (in addition to the AIDS virus 
HTLV-III) or an environmental toxin may be involved. The natural history and 
clinical course of epidemic Kaposi's sarcoma is variable. The life expectancy of 
an AIDS patient with Kaposi's sarcoma is probably related to his underlying 
immunologic status as evidenced by propensity to develop life-threatening 
opportunistic infections. Patients with this neoplasm should be entered on 
experimental treatment programs when possible in order to improve our knowledge 
about rational management of this disease. Recombinant interferon alfa-2a, 
single agent chemotherapy, and radiation all have roles in the management of the 
disease.

PMID: 3090689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Soc Sci Med. 1986;22(10):993-9. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(86)90199-1.

Health status and medical expenditures: is there a link?

Wolfe BL.

Until now, cross-national studies have not demonstrated a positive relationship 
between health care expenditures and improved health status, as measured by such 
indicators as age-adjusted mortality rates. It has therefore been argued that 
cutting expenditures will not have a negative effect upon health status. Using 
health and life-style data from the OECD for Germany, the United Kingdom, The 
Netherlands, France, Sweden and the United States, this study finds that when 
one holds constant those changes in life style that have an impact upon health 
(e.g. smoking, drinking, traffic accidents, dangers on the job) and adjusts for 
inflation and population size, health care expenditures do bear a positive 
relationship to health status. This suggests that reductions in health care 
expenditures may well have some cost in terms of overall health.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(86)90199-1
PMID: 3090707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Jpn J Cancer Res. 1986 Jul;77(7):648-56.

Estimation of the number of cancer survivors in Japan.

Hanai A.

Cancer prevalence statistics are necessary for cancer control programs. Although 
a long-term cancer registry keeps files which cover incidence, prevalence and 
cured cases, the latter two categories are difficult to distinguish from each 
other. The Connecticut and the Finnish Cancer Registries therefore defined the 
sum of these two groups as "prevalence." The authors estimated the numbers and 
rates of survivors from cancer ("prevalence") in Japan as of January 1, 1985, 
based on the number of cancer patients for all sites diagnosed since 1960. The 
number of cancer patients in Japan diagnosed during the period from 1960 to 1984 
was estimated to be 4,686,352 (both sexes). Of these, the number of cancer 
survivors as of January 1, 1985 was estimated to be 952,870 (both sexes). Among 
the survivors, 430,940 were diagnosed in the final five years from 1980-84. The 
results were compared with those reported from the USA and Finland.

PMID: 3091552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. JAMA. 1986 Sep 12;256(10):1315-8.

Cost-effectiveness of nicotine gum as an adjunct to physician's advice against 
cigarette smoking.

Oster G, Huse DM, Delea TE, Colditz GA.

A nicotine chewing gum has recently become available for use as an aid in giving 
up cigarette smoking. Although its efficacy has been demonstrated in 
clinic-based smoking cessation programs, its value in a primary care setting is 
uncertain. We examined the cost-effectiveness of nicotine gum as an adjunct to 
physician's advice and counseling against smoking during routine office visits. 
Our findings indicate that the cost per year of life saved with this 
intervention ranges from $4113 to $6465 for men and from $6880 to $9473 for 
women, depending on age. This compares favorably with other widely accepted 
medical practices, eg, treatment of hypertension or hyperlipidemia. Our study, 
therefore, suggests that nicotine gum is a cost-effective adjunct to physician's 
advice against cigarette smoking in a primary care setting.

PMID: 3091857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. JPEN J Parenter Enteral Nutr. 1986 Jul-Aug;10(4):416-24. doi: 
10.1177/0148607186010004416.

A review of the current national status of home parenteral and enteral nutrition 
from the provider and consumer perspective.

Howard L, Heaphey LL, Timchalk M.

Home parenteral and enteral nutrition (HPEN) has grown rapidly in the past 
decade. By examining data from physician reports, patient surveys, and the 
infusion industry, this review attempts to delineate the diagnostic indications, 
age range, mortality, medical complications and rehabilitation potential of HPEN 
patients. A clear trend exists towards greater use of this expensive therapy in 
bowel obstructed cancer patients and in pediatric and geriatric age groups. 
Complications in parenterally fed patients appear to result in a readmission to 
the hospital, on average, once every 2 yr. Life expectancy depends heavily on 
the underlying diagnosis: whereas 50% of the patients with a malignancy survive 
only 6 months, 50% without a malignancy survive beyond 3 yr. Fifty to 60% of 
HPEN patients are able to work full time or part time, 15 to 20% are retired or 
of preschool age, and 20 to 30% are unable to work. The home care service 
options considered most important by patients are the pharmacy premixing of 
intravenous solutions, home delivery of supplies by the home service carrier, 
reimbursement management by the home care service and the availability of a 
nurse for an initial home visit and 24-hr emergency backup. In regard to fiscal 
concerns one of the difficult issues that should be addressed is the separation 
of medical coverage from disability status; another is that enteral feedings can 
sometimes be a less expensive alternative to parenteral feedings but little 
information exists about the complications and outcome with this modality and 
its fiscal reimbursement is much less assured.

DOI: 10.1177/0148607186010004416
PMID: 3091867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. J S C Med Assoc. 1986 Jul;82(7):437-40.

The crisis of increased life expectancy.

Donald AG.

PMID: 3091930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Cancer. 1986 Oct 15;58(8 Suppl):1902-3. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19861015)58:8+<1902::aid-cncr2820581418>3.0.co;2-d.

The value of parenteral nutrition support. Chemotherapy and radiation treatment.

Nixon DW.

Nutritional support in chemotherapy and radiation therapy patients is a very 
attractive concept. This group of patients frequently begins treatment 
malnourished, and the malnutrition becomes worse because of treatment-related 
nausea and vomiting, mucositis, fever and other side effects. Effective 
nutritional support would enhance wound healing and visceral function, improve 
cellular immunity and allow delivery of adequate drug and irradiation doses, 
thereby increasing response rates and prolonging survival. Unfortunately, 
standard techniques of parenteral nutritional support have had only limited 
success in advanced cancer patients. Weight gain is possible and immune function 
may be improved, but definite benefit in response rates and survival with 
chemotherapy and radiation remains to be proven. Currently the author believes 
that the following are acceptable indications for parenteral nutrition in 
chemotherapy and radiation patients: patients who cannot eat or digest properly 
because of tumor obstruction, surgical resection of gut, or other complications 
who have a reasonable life expectancy; cachectic patients with responsive 
neoplasms who could not tolerate aggressive treatment without short-term 
nutritional support; and patients suitable for trials of nutritionally modified 
solution or alterations in standard techniques. Future studies might consider 
longer periods of support, increased concentrations of nutrients or, conversely, 
decreased amounts of nutrients needed by the tumor, if such needs could be 
identified.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19861015)58:8+<1902::aid-cncr2820581418>3.0.co;2-d
PMID: 3093051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1986 Nov 1;293(6555):1174. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.293.6555.1174.

Prenatal diagnosis of Turner's syndrome: what to tell parents.

Price WH, Clayton JF, Collyer S, De Mey R, Wilson J.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.293.6555.1174
PMCID: PMC1341882
PMID: 3094827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1986 May;66(5):295-8, 320.

[A preliminary study on the relation of heredity to lifespan].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhu ZM.

PMID: 3094891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1986 Aug;66(8):501-3.

[Some epidemiologic aspects of the aged in China].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu BS, Li H.

PMID: 3096540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Cardiovasc Clin. 1987;17(2):251-64.

Combined heart-lung transplantation for end-stage right ventricular failure.

Morris AJ, Jamieson SW.

Combined heart-lung transplantation is an effective means of treating end-stage 
right ventricular failure in selected patients. Perioperative mortality is less 
than 30 percent, and may be further reduced by more-rigorous patient selection. 
About one-third of the patients can be expected to have good and lasting 
results, with a return to a fully active and normal life. Life expectancy is not 
known inasmuch as the longest follow up so far is four-and-a-half years. There 
are, however, three areas of serious concern: (1) The risk of developing 
progressive airway damage (obliterative bronchiolitis and bronchiectasis) is 
high. It occurs in about one-half of the patients surviving surgery and may 
occur as late as two years after the operation. The pathogenesis of this process 
is not yet understood, but it may be reversible if detected very early and 
treated aggressively with corticosteroids; otherwise, it follows a course of 
steady deterioration. (2) Cyclosporine as a maintenance immunosuppressive drug 
leads to progressive and irreversible renal impairment. Alternative means of 
long-term immunosuppression will need to be developed in the future. (3) Graft 
intimal proliferation affecting both the coronary and the pulmonary vessels may 
eventually limit graft survival.

PMID: 3096570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. J Neural Transm Suppl. 1986;22:107-15.

(-)Deprenyl in perspective: prophylaxis for Parkinson's disease?

Sandler M.

Idiopathic Parkinson's disease may derive from the action of an environmental 
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-like compound. Monoamine 
oxidase (MAO) B converts MPTP to an actual neurotoxin, 
1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+) whilst prior administration of an MAO B 
inhibitor, (-)deprenyl, prevents the conversion. There is preliminary evidence 
that this drug can interrupt the pathological process in Parkinson's disease and 
prolong life expectancy. Thus, markers should be sought to identify the 
premorbid parkinsonian condition, prior to long-term (-)deprenyl treatment. 
Possibly approaches are by monitoring putative overactivity of the dopamine 
degrading enzymes, phenolsulphotransferase and MAO B, narrowing the field down 
further by PET-scan after administering a positron-emitting dopa analogue, 
6-18F-labelled dopa.

PMID: 3097254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. J Neural Transm Suppl. 1986;22:219-25.

Effect of (-)deprenyl in long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease. A 10-years 
experience.

Birkmayer W, Birkmayer GD.

The effect of (-)deprenyl as additive to a Madopar treatment of parkinsonian 
patients has been investigated in a retrospective study over the past ten years. 
941 patients have been evaluated. Addition of (-)deprenyl to the standard 
Madopar treatment resulted in an improvement of the disability, in a 
prolongation of life expectancy, in a reduction of side effects caused by 
Madopar and a leveling down of the fluctuations in the clinical improvement. In 
addition the time from the onset of Parkinson's disease to significantly longer 
in the group of patients which were treated with Madopar and (-)deprenyl in 
combination.

PMID: 3097256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. J Neural Transm Suppl. 1986;22:91-105.

Pharmacology of MAO B inhibitors: mode of action of (-)deprenyl in Parkinson's 
disease.

Youdim MB.

The selective monoamine oxidase (MAO) type B inhibitor has proven to be a useful 
adjunct to L-dopa therapy of Parkinson's disease. Although not all features of 
its anti-Parkinson action is known, studies on brains obtained at autopsy from 
patients on (-)deprenyl show that the selective inhibition of MAO B with a 
concomitant increase of dopamine, but not of serotonin, in the basal ganglia may 
be responsible for its mode of action. The increased life expectancy noted in 
Parkinsonian patients on long term (-)deprenyl therapy (9 years) is another 
unexpected feature of the drug (Birkmayer et al., 1985). This exciting data, if 
confirmed in other long term clinical trials, may herald a new approach for the 
treatment of this degenerative disease, since more recent studies indicate that 
Parkinson's disease may eventually turn out to be a neurotoxic event (see Snyder 
and D'Amato, 1986, for review). Thus selective MAO type B inhibitors could 
represent a unique class of drug, having both therapeutic and preventive actions 
in one.

PMID: 3097263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. MMWR Suppl. 1986 Dec 19;35(2):1S-11S.

Premature mortality in the United States: public health issues in the use of 
years of potential life lost.

Centers for Disease Control (CDC).

PMID: 3097485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Public Health Rep. 1986 Nov-Dec;101(6):624-31.

Public health and food safety: a historical association.

Wagstaff DJ.

Since the initial passage in 1906 of the first Pure Food and Drug Act and the 
Meat Inspection Act, public health, as measured by mortality trends, has greatly 
improved. These acts have been amended several times, and other laws dealing 
with safety of foods and drinks have been enacted. Food- and 
beverage-transmitted infectious diseases that were so devastating after the 
Civil War have been controlled. Nutritional deficiencies such as pellagra are 
almost nonexistent. Mass episodes of poisoning of food by chemical contaminants 
that have plagued some other countries have not occurred in the United States. 
Other factors such as refrigeration and improved transportation have helped, but 
it is probable that food safety regulatory activities have contributed to the 
saving of the 1.8 million Americans who would die each year if the public health 
advances since 1900 had not been made. Effective use of information was a key 
factor in the improvement in public health. Now, as then, effective information 
systems are needed.

PMCID: PMC1477676
PMID: 3097743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Radiologe. 1986 Oct;26(10):474-8.

Reappraisal of the role of radiation therapy in the management of Hodgkin's 
lymphoma with large intrathoracic masses.

Dvorák E.

Patients diagnosed as having Hodgkin's lymphoma with large intrathoracic masses 
are nowadays generally treated with a combination of chemotherapy and radiation 
therapy. This approach is usually indicated for more advanced stages and for 
cases with extranodal extension and presentation. However, the same policy is 
often implemented even in patients with early stage disease whenever they 
present with voluminous mediastinal and/or hilar masses. Especially in young 
persons, this approach to treatment has life-long lasting repercussions on both 
their general health and social fulfillment. In this article, an alternative 
approach is suggested. It consists of protracted, high-dose radiation therapy to 
the large tumor masses using the shrinking field technique and with a dose in 
the range of 50 to 60 Gy delivered over an approximately 3-month period. This 
proposition is based on the author's clinical experience and is documented in 
the article.

PMID: 3097751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Am Surg. 1987 Jan;53(1):54-7.

Feeding jejunostomy (versus gastrostomy) passes the test of time.

Burtch GD, Shatney CH.

The authors previously reported a higher incidence of early postoperative 
complications after feeding gastrostomy compared to jejunostomy, prompting the 
recommendation of jejunostomy for chronic enteral feeding. Long-term follow-up 
has since been obtained on these 31 patients and an additional 25 patients 
undergoing surgical feeding procedures. The 26 feeding gastrostomies were 16 
Stamm, eight permanent mucosal-lined, and two Witzel. The 30 feeding 
jejunostomies consisted of 19 Roux-en-Y, nine Stamm, and two Witzel. Patients 
with gastrostomy have had a mean follow-up of 100 days. Adverse events have 
occurred in 15/26 (58%), including 9 patients with pulmonary aspiration (35%), 
two of which were fatal. Twenty-three additional patients have died of 
underlying diseases. All 11 patients with tube jejunostomy died of underlying 
diseases within 4 months of surgery. The complication rate was 36%, including 
pulmonary aspiration in both patients with Witzel jejunostomy. The 19 patients 
with Roux-en-Y jejunostomy have had mean follow-up of 169 days. Complications 
have occurred in 9 patients (47%); 16/19 patients (mean age 55 years) have died 
of underlying disease. The mean age of the patients still alive is 35 years. 
Feeding jejunostomy has a lower incidence of complications, especially pulmonary 
aspiration, than gastrostomy. Stamm jejunostomy should be used for enteral 
feeding in older patients and in patients with short life expectancy. In younger 
patients requiring lifelong enteral feeding, Roux-en-Y jejunostomy should be 
used.

PMID: 3099620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Chin Med J (Engl). 1986 Jun;99(6):485-9.

Social epidemiology of aging in the United States.

Wetle T.

PMID: 3100190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Chin Med J (Engl). 1986 Aug;99(8):619-27.

General situation and features of geriatric epidemiological study in China.

Liu BS, Li H.

PMID: 3100215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand Suppl. 1986;134:45-57. doi:
10.3109/00016348609157051.

Menopause, developing countries and the 21st century.

Diczfalusy E.

According to the independent projections of the United Nations Population 
Division and of the World Bank, the global population (presently: 4.7 billion) 
will continue to grow until the year 2100 or 2150, when it is expected to 
stabilize at an approximate level of 11 billion. Ninety-five per cent of this 
future growth will occur in developing countries, with an increasing number and 
proportion of women aged 45 and over; their number will exceed 700 million 
before the turn of the century. The past decade, or two, witnessed a dramatic 
increase in life expectancy at birth, especially in developing country women, 
but little, if any, information is available about the menopause in those 
countries. An urgent task of high priority is therefore to establish on a 
country-to-country basis the age distribution and sociocultural significance of 
the menopause and of the prevalence of various menopausal disorders, which to a 
huge extent will determine the health- and social service needs of individual 
developing countries. Furthermore, a rapid progress must be made in the 
diagnosis, prevention and treatment of osteoporosis, atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular disease, musculoskeletal disorders and senility. It is suggested 
that the establishment of a Special Programme of Research by the World Health 
Organization on the problems of aging would significantly accelerate progress in 
this field.

DOI: 10.3109/00016348609157051
PMID: 3101395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Am J Clin Nutr. 1987 Feb;45(2):414-22. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/45.2.414.

Changes of plasma levels of apolipoproteins A-I, A-II, and B and their isoforms 
in patients with intestinal failure receiving long-term parenteral nutrition.

Badimon JJ, Fleming CR, Patton J, Mao SJ.

We have studied the plasma lipid and apolipoprotein profiles of 19 patients with 
intestinal failure who are receiving long-term total parenteral nutrition (TPN). 
These patients had significantly reduced levels of total and HDL cholesterol and 
normal levels of triglycerides. Radioimmunoassay determination of 
apolipoproteins showed a 30% and 50% reduction in apo A-I and A-II levels, 
respectively. Apolipoprotein B was normal in all but three patients. Isoelectric 
focusing showed two major isoforms of apo A-I in patients as compared with four 
isoforms observed in normal subjects and one major isoform of apo A-II compared 
with multiple isoforms. Recent epidemiologic studies indicate that an increased 
apo B:apo A-I ratio may be an important factor in atherogenesis. We suggest that 
patients with small-bowel syndrome who are currently on TPN may be at greater 
risk for atherosclerosis. Since TPN has restored a reasonably normal life 
expectancy for these patients, long-term follow-up will likely provide answers.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/45.2.414
PMID: 3101479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1986 Aug;79(9):1311-7.

[Perioperative myocardial infarct following aortocoronary bypass. Clinical 
aspects, causes, consequences].

[Article in French]

Metzger JP, Tabone X, Montgermont P, N'Koua JL, Zannier-Marzari D, Aubry P, 
Cachera JP, Vacheron A.

Perioperative infarction is a significant factor of morbidity of coronary bypass 
surgery. The aim of this study was to review peri-operative infarction and its 
complications over a 10 year period (1974 to 1984) and to determine its 
consequences on left ventricular function and life expectancy. The material 
included 514 patients who underwent coronary bypass surgery. Perioperative 
infarction was defined as the association of a postoperative Q wave and increase 
in creatinine phosphokinase after the 24th postoperative hour: this diagnosis 
was made in 31 cases (Group A), 6 per cent of the series; 483 patients (Group B) 
had no signs of infarction. The necrosis involved the revascularised zone in 26 
cases and other zones in 5 cases. The acute phase of infarction was associated 
with major complications in 9 patients of Group A. In 22 patients (70 per cent 
of cases) the initial evolution was uncomplicated. There was no significant 
difference in the number of patients with unstable angina between Groups A and B 
(52 per cent vs 67 per cent), with single vessel disease (25 per cent vs 28 per 
cent), double vessel disease (45 per cent vs 34 per cent) or with triple vessel 
disease (30 per cent vs 38 per cent). The average number of bypasses was higher 
in Group A (2.06 per cent vs 1.4 per cent, p less than 0.05), as was the 
duration of cardiopulmonary bypass (117 min vs 91 min, p less than 0.05) and of 
aortic clamping (45 min vs 31 min, p. less than 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

PMID: 3101633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Apr;106(4):623-6. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-106-4-623.

The cholesterol saga: whither health promotion?

Becker MH.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-106-4-623
PMID: 3103512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1987 Feb 28;294(6571):572-3. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.294.6571.572-a.

AIDS and life years lost: one district's challenge.

Stevens AJ, Searle ES, Winyard GP.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.294.6571.572-a
PMCID: PMC1245599
PMID: 3103782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1987 Apr;9(4):920-35. doi: 10.1016/s0735-1097(87)80251-6.

A computer-based Markov decision analysis of the management of symptomatic 
bifascicular block: the threshold probability for pacing.

Beck JR, Salem DN, Estes NA, Pauker SG.

This review illustrates the use of computer-based Markov models to estimate 
cost-effectiveness and prognosis in a complex problem in clinical cardiology. 
Decision analysis and cost-effectiveness analysis were used to assess whether to 
implant a permanent cardiac pacemaker, treat with drugs, perform 
electrophysiologic studies or observe patients who have two clinical 
features--syncope and bifascicular block--that may or may not be causally 
related. Using a Markov process model, a computer program simulated the 
prognosis of five cohorts of such patients--one treated conservatively, one 
given empiric antiarrhythmic drug therapy, one receiving a pacemaker, one 
treated with empiric drugs and pacing and one tested with electrophysiologic 
studies. On the basis of data from published reports and expert opinion, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy was calculated by summing the average time a 
member of each cohort would survive with and without symptoms for each initial 
treatment choice. The costs were estimated from 1985 hospital charges. For 
patients with normal left ventricular function, electrophysiologic testing 
provides a benefit of 14 quality-adjusted months of life over observation, at an 
additional cost of $24,200. Empiric pacing would add 2.5 additional months, at a 
further cost of $14,300. In patients with poor left ventricular function, 
empiric drug therapy offers 1.5 additional quality-adjusted months over 
observation, at a cost of $6,900. Electrophysiologic testing provides a further 
16.5 months at an additional cost of $16,900. These results hold when the 
relation between symptoms and arrhythmia is not firmly established. Varying the 
probabilities of underlying ventricular tachyarrhythmias, bradyarrhythmic 
conduction defects or noncardiac causes of syncope affects the 
cost-effectiveness relative to the alternative treatments.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(87)80251-6
PMID: 3104436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1987 Mar 7;117(10):347-53.

[Long-term problems of levodopa therapy in Parkinson disease].

[Article in German]

Albani C, Asper R, Baumgartner G.

The dependence of motor side effects of L-DOPA therapy on clinical and 
pharmacodynamic parameters was investigated in 28 patients with Parkinson's 
disease. Duration of disease and degree of motor impairment were significantly 
less in a first group of 12 patients without motor side effects than in a second 
group of 16 patients with fluctuations of antiparkinsonian effects and 
dyskinesias. The two groups showed different pharmacodynamic patterns: the 
antiparkinsonian effect in the first group remained unchanged, with decreasing 
DOPA plasma concentrations (Type I), whereas in the second group a direct 
correlation between DOPA plasma levels and antiparkinsonian effect was observed 
(Type II). A possible mechanism for the different pharmacodynamic patterns and 
its relevance for therapy are discussed.

PMID: 3105050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. J Public Health Policy. 1987 Spring;8(1):86-105.

Health without wealth? Costa Rica's health system under economic crisis.

Morgan LM.

PIP: The recent history of Costa Rica's health system is reviewed, emphasizing 
the health-related effects of the economic crisis of the 1980s. This economic 
crisis has stopped and in some instances reversed the marked health improvements 
Costa Rica realized during the decade of the 1970s. The effects of the economic 
crisis emerge in 4 areas: deterioration in health status, as poverty contributed 
to higher disease rates; reductions in the government's ability to maintain 
public health and medical services; increased reliance on foreign aid to finance 
the health system; and growing national debate over the role of the state in 
health care. The result of the economic crisis was a reduction in health 
services and a questioning of the Costa Rican health model. This occurred 
following the implementation of an expensive health infrastructure and at a time 
when people most needed health services. During the 1941-70 period, domestic 
initiative can account for much of the expansion of Costa Rica's social security 
system, but also at this time international agencies such as the US Agency for 
International Development (USAID) and the Inter-American Development began to 
assist in the expansion of the health system. In 1971 a plan was initiated to 
create a nationalized health system. By 1980 the success of the health sector 
reorganization was evident in the statistics: marked improvements in life 
expectancy, infant mortality, and infectious disease mortality had surpassed the 
goals set by the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) and the Ministry of 
Health. Costa Rica's success was a vindication of both policy goals and funding 
priorities, for it has been "proved" that primary health care was capable of 
improving health indices, particularly where the agencies had the active and 
conscientious support of the national government. By 1977, foreign contracts for 
aid had expired, and the Ministry declared that the rural health program would 
be supported totally by the government. The Minister of Health continued in 1982 
to champion self-sufficiency despite a changed economic climate, but by early 
1984 Costa Rica had to abandon its plan to wean the health sector from outside 
aid. In 1982 the health sector became the center of a nationwide debate. 
Representatives of the large agricultural export sector, who usually support 
free-market solutions to economic problems, lobbied for "reprivatization" of 
medical care. Those committed to expansion of the welfare state argued from the 
other extreme. The government offered concessions to both groups. The debate did 
end in 1986, most likely because of the overall easing of the economic crisis. 
The government needs to maintain state control over the health system while not 
exceeding its austerity budget and not reducing health services.

PMID: 3108317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Recent Results Cancer Res. 1987;105:85-8. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-82964-2_13.

Projected benefits and risks from mammographic screening.

Feig SA.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-82964-2_13
PMID: 3108976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1987 May 23;294(6583):1311-2. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.294.6583.1311.

Why do women live longer and is it worth it?

Silman AJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.294.6583.1311
PMCID: PMC1246480
PMID: 3109630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. J Immunol. 1987 Jul 15;139(2):365-72.

Population kinetics of precursors of IL 2-producing peripheral T lymphocytes: 
evidence for short life expectancy, continuous renewal, and post-thymic 
expansion.

Rocha BB.

The fate of spleen T cell populations able to produce IL 2 after stimulation 
with Con A (IL 2p) was evaluated at different times after injection into IL 
2p-deficient, syngeneic nude recipients. Precise enumeration of transferred cell 
populations in recipient organs was performed by limiting dilution analysis. The 
results obtained confirm previous findings on the short life-span of IL 2p 
cells. They also demonstrate that: the transferred populations containing IL 2p 
were capable of continuous renewal and expansion in the host; IL 2p cell 
expansion, a transient event that takes place predominantly in lymph nodes, is 
much reduced when injected cells are depleted of recent thymus migrants; in 
steady-state conditions, IL 2p T cells do not lose their self-renewal ability 
and maintain population sizes by continuous cell production and death in 
peripheral pools. The self-renewal capacity, the expansion potential of 
peripheral IL 2p T cells and, in particular, of recent thymus migrants may allow 
extensive post-thymic modulation of peripheral T cell specificities, suggesting 
that post-thymic selection may have a major role in the establishment of the 
available and actual mature IL 2p T cell repertoire.

PMID: 3110267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Krankenpflege (Frankf). 1987 May;41(5):181-96.

[Health for all by the year 2000. Target of "Health for all". Implications for 
nursing and midwifery].

[Article in German]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 3110494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Acta Haematol. 1987;77(2):78-82. doi: 10.1159/000205958.

Splenectomy in advanced chronic lymphocytic leukaemia.

Gallhofer G, Melo JV, Spencer J, Catovsky D.

A group of 20 patients with stage C chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and 
marked splenomegaly refractory to anti-leukaemia treatment was evaluated in 
relation to clinical course and survival after splenectomy, and compared with a 
control group of non-splenectomised CLL patients at the same disease stage. 
Patients in the former group showed a significant clinical improvement after 
splenectomy, being reallocated to, and maintained in, stages A (85%) or B (10%) 
for more than 24 months. Ten patients were still alive 24-135 months after 
splenectomy. The 10 deaths observed in the group of splenectomised patients 
occurred 4-69 months after surgery, due to disease progression and/or 
immunoblastic transformation (4 cases), infectious complications (3 cases) and 
unrelated causes (3 cases). Analysis of survival from diagnosis showed a 
significantly better prognosis for patients in the splenectomised group (median 
survival 10 years, as compared to 3.5 years for the control group). The same 
statistical difference, p less than 0.001, with better life expectancy for 
splenectomised patients, was observed when the survival was calculated from the 
time of progression to stage C. These results strongly suggest a beneficial role 
for splenectomy in advanced CLL with significant splenomegaly, when the 
accumulation of resistant lymphoid cells precludes an adequate control of the 
disease by conventional forms of treatment.

DOI: 10.1159/000205958
PMID: 3111144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Jpn J Cancer Res. 1987 Jun;78(6):537-46.

Estimation of the number of cancer survivors according to site in Japan.

Hanai A.

Based on incidence and survival data from the Osaka Cancer Registry, the numbers 
of cancer survivors were estimated by site in this study. The method used for 
estimation of survivors from all sites of cancer in the previous study was 
simplified further by not subdividing the data according to age-group. The 
observation period was the 25 years from 1960 to 1984. The number of incident 
cancers at all sites that occurred during the 25 years was estimated as 
4,776,100. The leading sites of incidence during this 25-year period were the 
stomach (1,612,000), lung (427,100), and liver (329,100) for both sexes. The 
number of total cancer survivors on January 1, 1985 was estimated as 1,009,100. 
Among males, stomach cancer survivors accounted for 45% (180,100) of all 
survivors. The next most common sites were the rectum (7%, 27,000) and colon 
(6%, 25,600). Among females, the leading sites were the uterus (26%, 157,600), 
breast (22%, 132,100) and stomach (18%, 106,800). Most of the cancer survivors 
living at not more than 5 years after diagnosis were assumed to be receiving 
some kind of cancer medical care and were therefore regarded as an approximation 
of what is generally called "cancer prevalence." The number in this category for 
all sites was estimated as 417,900. The sites showing the largest numbers of 
these short-term survivors were again the stomach, followed by the rectum and 
colon among males, and the breast, uterus, and stomach among females. The 
reliability and utility of the results are discussed. The results are compared 
with other recently reported registry data from other countries and with other 
estimated data in Japan.

PIP: The numbers of cancer survivors by site in Japan are estimated for the 
period 1960-1984 using data from the Osaka Cancer Registry. The number of cancer 
incidents recorded was 4,776,100, and the number of survivors by the end of the 
25-year period was 1,009,100. Among males, there were more survivors of stomach 
cancer (45 percent), followed by cancer of the rectum (7 percent) and colon (6 
percent); among females, survivorship was highest among those with cancer of the 
uterus (26 percent), breast (22 percent), and stomach (18 percent).

PMID: 3112068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Public Health Rep. 1987 Jul-Aug;102(4):356-60.

The Indian Health Service record of achievement.

Rhoades ER, D'Angelo AJ, Hurlburt WB.

The Indian Health Service (IHS) was transferred from the Department of Interior 
to the Public Health Service in the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare 
in 1955. At that time, the general health of Indian people substantially lagged 
behind the rest of the U.S. population. This gap was reflected in mortality 
rates which were several-fold higher for Indians, or reflected in time; there 
were decades between the dates when the U.S. population achieved certain lower 
death rates compared with the dates when similar reductions were achieved by 
Indians. As a result of preventive health programs, improvements in sanitation, 
and the development of a number of medical advances, substantial progress has 
been achieved in improving the health of American Indians and Alaska Natives. 
Life expectancy of Indians has increased 20 years between 1940 and 1980. From 
1955 through 1982, the death rate for Indian infants dropped by 82 percent. 
Also, the age-adjusted death rate for tuberculosis decreased from 57.9 per 
100,000 population in 1955 to 3.3 in 1983. These and other improvements are 
summarized in this paper.

PMCID: PMC1477881
PMID: 3112843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1987 Mar;80(3):255-60.

[Extend or restrict the indications for myocardial revascularization?].

[Article in French]

Delahaye JP.

PMID: 3113349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Exp Gerontol. 1987;22(3):199-220. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(87)90040-4.

Successful selection for increased longevity in Drosophila: analysis of the 
survival data and presentation of a hypothesis on the genetic regulation of 
longevity.

Arking R.

Long lived strains of Drosophila melanogaster have been generated via 25 
generations of artificial selection. The mean and the maximum lifespans have 
been increased both absolutely as well as relative to the controls. The mean 
lifespan of the selected line now exceeds the maximum lifespan of the controls. 
The data shows that this increase is entirely accounted for by a genetically 
based delay in the onset of senescence. Identification and analysis of biomarker 
data involving reproductive functions supports this interpretation and leads to 
a suggestion of the processes involved in the lifespan extension. This increase 
in the duration of the pre-senescent period is under both genetic and 
environmental control. Senescence itself is not under genetic control and 
appears to occur stochastically. Selection for decreased longevity was 
unsuccessful, supporting the concept of a minimum species specific lifespan. A 
testable hypothesis regarding the biphasic mode of gene regulation of senescence 
is presented in which a gene-environment interaction takes place in larval life 
that results in a temporal reprogramming of other, presumably structural, genes 
which act in adult life at a time prior to the onset of senescence.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(87)90040-4
PMID: 3113991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Oct;107(4):597-8. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-107-4-597_2.

Posttransfusion cirrhosis, non-A, non-B hepatitis, and the acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome.

Schmidt PJ.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-107-4-597_2
PMID: 3115163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Exp Parasitol. 1987 Oct;64(2):165-77. doi: 10.1016/0014-4894(87)90140-8.

Schistosoma mansoni: male-biased sex ratios in snails and mice.

Liberatos JD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Science, Florida State University, Tallahassee 
32306.

Adult sex ratios of Schistosoma mansoni, in mice, were shown to be biased toward 
males (3:1) despite the finding that sex ratios of miracidia were 50:50. The 
adult male bias was caused by greater male infectivity of miracidia for snails 
and cercariae for mice. A significantly higher percentage of male miracidia 
developed to cercarial production in unimiracidial infections (57 male, 34 
female), and a significantly higher percentage of male cercariae developed to 
adulthood in mice (143 male, 79 female worms resulted from 900 male and 900 
female cercariae). No significant differences were found between male and female 
parasites for longevity of miracidia (both sexes, 10 hr) and cercariae (males 
21.3 +/- 5.75 hr, females 25.0 +/- 7.02 hr), prepatent periods in snail hosts 
(male 34 +/- 2.92 days, females 33 +/- 2.36 days), longevity of snail infections 
(males 96.6 +/- 25.15 days, females 115.2 +/- 82.43 days), and the numbers of 
cercariae produced per snail lifetime (males 30,751.44 +/- 18,064.33, females 
34,083.00 +/- 33,732.82). Present results provide a better understanding of the 
life cycle of S. mansoni, are of theoretical significance for theories of biased 
sex ratios (which at present cannot account for the male-biased ratio of S. 
mansoni), and also suggest that schistosomiasis transmission models assuming a 
50:50 sex ratio at all stages of the life cycle should be reassessed.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-4894(87)90140-8
PMID: 3115813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. JAMA. 1987 Nov 6;258(17):2381-7.

Cost-effectiveness of antihyperlipemic therapy in the prevention of coronary 
heart disease. The case of cholestyramine.

Oster G(1), Epstein AM.

Author information:
(1)Policy Analysis Inc, Brookline, Mass 02146.

Using cholestyramine as a model, we considered the cost-effectiveness of 
antihyperlipemic therapy in the primary prevention of coronary heart disease 
among men between 35 and 74 years of age with elevated levels of total plasma 
cholesterol. Our findings indicate that the cost-effectiveness of treatment 
varies substantially, ranging from about $36,000 to over $1 million per year of 
life saved. Cost-effectiveness was highest for younger patients, for those with 
additional coronary risk factors (eg, smoking or hypertension), and for those 
whose course of therapy is of less-than-lifelong duration. Conversely, it is 
lowest for older patients, for those with no additional coronary risk factors, 
and for those who are treated for a lifetime. Our results suggest that 
pharmacologic therapy may not be cost-effective for all patients with elevated 
cholesterol levels, especially those over 65 years of age. For many younger 
patients, however--those with additional coronary risk factors and more severe 
elevations in cholesterol levels--the cost-effectiveness of therapy may be 
comparable with other accepted medical practices.

PMID: 3118060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Public Health Rep. 1987 Jul-Aug;102(4 Suppl):62-7.

Health among older women in the United States.

Wingard DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Family Medicine, University of California at San 
Diego.

In the United States, women live longer than men, and they have lower death 
rates at virtually every age and for most causes of death. The sex differential 
in mortality has been increasing since the early 1900s, especially for those 
15-24 and 55-64 years of age. Since 1970, however, that trend has slowed for 
persons 45-74, and for the first time, the sex differential among those 55-64 
was actually smaller in 1980 than in 1970. While women have lower age-specific 
death rates than men for most causes of death, among adults 65 years old and 
older, the leading causes of death are the same for men and women: heart 
disease, cancer, and stroke. Despite their continuing mortality advantage, women 
generally experience more illness than men. They report more self-perceived poor 
health up to age 60. It has been frequently suggested that women may be more 
willing to acknowledge and report illness than men. Sex differences in illness 
among the elderly persist, however, when physical examinations are used for 
assessment of population-based samples. Injuries, one of the few conditions more 
common among men, are more common among women after age 55. Among the elderly, 
women appear to have more conditions that are disabling, such as arthritis, 
while men have more life-threatening conditions, such as heart disease. Women 
also use more health services than men, and they are institutionalized more 
frequently in their later years. Future health service planning must take into 
consideration women's greater health service needs. Future research needs to 
determine why women have more illness than men and whether women's greater life 
expectancy is associated with a greater active life expectancy, or if they are 
merely experiencing more years of disability and dependency.

PMCID: PMC1478021
PMID: 3120222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Soc Sci Med. 1987;25(8):883-8. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(87)90257-7.

Health status and medical expenditures: more evidence of a link.

Wolfe B(1), Gabay M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics and Preventive Medicine, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison 53706.

The hypothesis that one must include life-style changes in order to accurately 
capture the true relationship between medical expenditures and health status is 
explored, using data from 22 countries over a 20-year period. A simultaneous 
model is estimated using a variety of indicators for life style as well as 
health status. Changes in life style, aging of the population and changes in 
occupational risk are modeled as influences on medical expenditures: medical 
expenditures and changes in life style are modeled as having direct influences 
on health status. The results are consistent with the existence of a positive 
link between medical expenditures and health status.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(87)90257-7
PMID: 3120320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. S Afr Med J. 1987 Dec 5;72(11):799-801.

The health and wealth of South Africa.

Klopper JM(1), Taylor SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, University of Cape Town.

The per capita gross national product (GNP) in South Africa is examined as it 
relates to life expectancy and the infant mortality rate. Despite South Africa's 
relative wealth in per capita GNP terms, life expectancy at birth is 63-65 years 
and the national infant mortality rate according to Unicef, is unlikely to reach 
the target of 50/1,000 live births by the year 2000. The distribution of 
