expenditure on health is contrasted between the former provincial 
administrations, the major local authorities, the national states and the 
homelands. The health resources allocation distribution is unlikely to ensure 
health for all by the year 2000.

PMID: 3120325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1987 Dec 19-26;295(6613):1599-600. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.295.6613.1599.

Death by degrees.

Robinson A(1).

Author information:
(1)MRC Unit for Epidemiological Studies in Psychiatry, Royal Edinburgh Hospital.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.295.6613.1599
PMCID: PMC1257487
PMID: 3121088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1987 Aug;80(9):1333-40.

[Prognostic value of the hemodynamic study at rest and during the exercise test 
in 103 cases of primary dilated cardiomyopathies].

[Article in French]

Goldrach S(1), Haissaguerre M, Broustet JP.

Author information:
(1)l'Hôpital Cardiologique du Haut-Levêque, Pessac.

A population of 103 patients with primary dilated cardiomyopathy was studied and 
followed up for a mean period of 39.8 months. Several variables measured during 
maximum or symptom-limited exercise tests were compared with parameters recorded 
during haemodynamic exploration at rest, with the following results: 1. There 
was no satisfactory correlation between capacity for exercise and haemodynamic 
data at rest. 2. Some ergometric parameters were found to be of statistically 
significant value to determine the vital prognosis. The most important were: 
maximum systolic arterial pressure (SAPmax) at the end of exercise, increased 
systolic arterial pressure (delta SAP) and heart rate (delta HR) during 
exercise, product of maximum systolic arterial pressure and maximum heart rate 
at the end of exercise (SAPmax x HRmax) and variations of this product during 
exercise [delta(SAP x HR)]. 3. The algorithm: (maximum systolic arterial 
pressure x maximum heart rate) x ejection fraction x work performed expressed as 
Kpm makes it possible to establish a predictive index of life expectancy. These 
results indicate that the exercise test (maximum or symptom-limited)--a simple, 
inexpensive and easy to repeat examination with no major risk risk--constitutes 
a valuable means of determining the prognosis of dilated cardiomyopathy. One of 
its clinical applications would be prior to heart transplantation, when it is 
still difficult to choose the moment to inform candidates of this possibility.

PMID: 3122682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. J Neural Transm Suppl. 1987;25:149-55.

R-(-)-deprenyl as an adjuvant to levodopa in the treatment of Parkinson's 
disease.

Rinne UK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Turku, Finland.

As an adjuvant to levodopa, deprenyl (selegiline) has proved to have a 
significant beneficial effect in about 50-60% of patients with a deteriorating 
response to levodopa which has become complicated by fluctuations in disability. 
The addition of deprenyl to levodopa treatment improves both parkinsonian 
disability and fluctuating responses, particularly end-of-dose failure. Deprenyl 
is simple to administer (5-10 mg/day) and free from serious toxicity. It is 
possible to reduce the levodopa dose by 20-50% when deprenyl has been 
instituted, thus decreasing the frequency of side effects. During long-term 
treatment with deprenyl there is a clear-cut decline in the degree of 
therapeutic responses, due to the progression of the underlying Parkinson's 
disease. However, there is evidence that the life expectancy of these patients 
may be increased. Thus it is advisable to give deprenyl not only as a first 
adjuvant to levodopa in advanced patients but right from the early phase of the 
disease, hoping that it will render Parkinson's disease more benign, with 
long-term symptom control, fewer late complications and increased life 
expectancy.

PMID: 3123601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. J Neural Transm Suppl. 1987;25:5-12.

R-(-)-deprenyl and parkinsonism.

Yahr MD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, City University of New 
York, New York City.

L-deprenyl is a potent, well tolerated and safe inhibitor agent of MAO-B. 
Administration in daily dosage of 10 mgs produces an almost complete inhibition 
of the enzyme. Clinical trials of the use of l-deprenyl in Parkinson's disease 
have shown the following: l-deprenyl as monotherapy in Parkinson's disease does 
not control its symptoms. In those on a therapeutic regimen containing levodopa 
and experiencing fluctuating responses, particularly the "wearing off" type, the 
addition of l-deprenyl results in their attenuation or control. It is not fully 
agreed by all investigators whether such as effect is enduring or begins to wane 
after two or three years, nor that other symptoms of parkinsonism are improved. 
One investigator has reported that the combined use of these agents has resulted 
in an increase in life expectancy in Parkinson's disease. They have suggested 
that these findings indicate that l-deprenyl may be capable of preventing 
degeneration of the nigro-striatal system and halting progression of the 
Parkinson's disease process. This has raised the issue of initiating treatment 
with l-deprenyl during the early phases of Parkinson's disease.

PMID: 3123605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. J Vasc Surg. 1988 Feb;7(2):336-46. doi: 10.1067/mva.1988.avs0070336.

A decade of experience with the glutaraldehyde-tanned human umbilical cord vein 
graft for revascularization of the lower limb.

Dardik H(1), Miller N, Dardik A, Ibrahim I, Sussman B, Berry SM, Wolodiger F, 
Kahn M, Dardik I.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Englewood Hospital, NJ.

Between October 1975 and November 1985, 907 lower limb bypasses were constructed 
in 715 patients (799 limbs) with glutaraldehyde-stabilized umbilical veins 
(UV-G) used as the predominant, or sole, graft material. Each reconstruction was 
classified in one of eight categories depending on the site of the distal 
anastomosis: above- and below-knee popliteal, anterior and posterior tibial, 
peroneal, trifurcation, sequential, and crural (tibial or peroneal) bypasses 
with adjunctive distal arteriovenous fistulas. Primary and secondary cumulative 
graft patency rates were determined for each category as well as cumulative 
actual palliation that combines end points of graft failure, amputation, and 
death. Half-life patencies for popliteal, tibial, and peroneal bypasses were 
6.5, 2.3, and 1.7 years, respectively. Perioperative graft thrombosis occurred 
in 11% of popliteal reconstructions compared with 22% for the crural group. 
Nonocclusive graft failure caused by infection, aneurysm, or progressive foot 
gangrene occurred in 87 grafts (8%). The overall infection rate was 4.3%. 
Anastomotic aneurysms (1.4%) and strictures (2.1%) occurred infrequently as 
isolated phenomena. The incidence of graft dilatation and aneurysms assumed 
significant proportion after 5 years (36% aneurysms and 21% dilation); the 
diagnosis was particularly facilitated by B-mode imaging. Nevertheless, the 
overall clinical impact of graft degradation remained minimal (6% after 5 
years). Twenty-two of 26 graft aneurysms were excised with successful graft 
replacement achieved in 10. During this 10-year period, our attitudes did change 
with regard to the indication for UV-Gs in relation to the maturation of 
infrapopliteal reconstructive surgery, appreciation of the superior results 
attainable with in situ saphenous vein, recognition of morphologic changes in 
long-term UV-G implants, and the growing documentation of poor results with 
polytetrafluorethylene in the crural position. We believe that UV-G is an 
acceptable alternative to the absent or deficient autologous vein, particularly 
in patients with limited life expectancy and where expediency may be a critical 
factor.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1988.avs0070336
PMID: 3123718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Krankenpflege (Frankf). 1987 Dec;41(12):486-7.

[Strengthening of health--raised life expectancy--greater wellbeing for each of 
us].

[Article in German]

Michalski R.

PMID: 3123771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. JAMA. 1988 Mar 25;259(12):1811.

Cost-effectiveness of antihyperlipemic therapy.

Klevay LM.

PMID: 3125349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1988 Mar 18;37(10):155-7.

Premature mortality by income level--Multnomah County, Oregon, 1976-1984.

Centers for Disease Control (CDC).

PMID: 3126384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Mt Sinai J Med. 1988 Jan;55(1):67-74.

Extension of life span of rats by long-term (-)deprenyl treatment.

Knoll J.

PMID: 3126392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. JAMA. 1988 Apr 22-29;259(16):2409-13.

The cost-effectiveness of cervical cancer screening for low-income elderly 
women.

Mandelblatt JS(1), Fahs MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ambulatory Care, City Hospital Center, Elmhurst, NY.

Controversy surrounds prevention policy for the elderly. While some 
cost-effectiveness analyses have been done for the general elderly population, 
to our knowledge no study has examined the provision of preventive services to a 
low-income elderly population. We conducted a study of the cost-effectiveness of 
a cervical cancer screening program for infrequently screened elderly women 
attending an urban municipal hospital clinic. The results of Papanicolaou 
testing were abnormal (malignant or premalignant) in 11 of 816 women screened. 
This early detection of cervical neoplasia saved +5907 and 3.7 years of life per 
100 Papanicolaou tests. When average medical costs per year of life extended by 
screening were included, the program cost +2874 per year of life saved. 
Comprehensive sensitivity analyses performed on competing medical and economic 
points of view did not change the conclusion of a favorable cost-effectiveness 
ratio for screening. Our findings indicate that the benefits from some 
prevention programs for the elderly can offset the costs of these programs. More 
research is needed to guide public policy on prevention for selected population 
groups.

PMID: 3127608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Hinyokika Kiyo. 1987 Oct;33(10):1556-9.

[An assessment of the social welfare system in the United Kingdom].

[Article in Japanese]

Kohri K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, School of Medicine, Kinki University.

This report describes the British social welfare system with reference to 
expected future developments in Japanese medical care. In developed countries 
where the average life expectancy is high, a large percentage of the population 
is elderly, resulting in high social welfare expenditure. In Britain, the 
"social welfare state", the average life expectancy is similar to that of other 
developed countries, while expenditure by the Department of Health and Social 
Security is considered to be the lowest. For example, expenditure on medical 
care for an average elderly man is approximately 60% of that in Japan. Some of 
the reasons are as follows. The family practitioner services are medical 
services given to patients by doctors of their own choice. The family doctor 
undertakes the initial diagnosis and management, but may refer the patients for 
either specialized services or hospital consultation. The general basis for 
remuneration of the family doctor is a standard capitation fee and an allowance. 
This system does not lead to over diagnosis or excessive treatment. The numbers 
of medical consultations performed and prescriptions issued by British doctors 
is lower than that in Japan. In Japan the number of elderly persons who are 
incapable of caring for themselves is increasing and poses not only a financial 
burden, but also a social problem. In the UK, these patients are cared for by 
social welfare workers (Japanese nurses) or at health centres (unlike Japanese 
hospitals and homes for the aged) which is less costly than inpatient hospital 
care. The Government is responsible for the National Health Service.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3128070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Radiology. 1988 May;167(2):373-8. doi: 10.1148/radiology.167.2.3128840.

Cost effectiveness of chest CT in T1N0M0 lung cancer.

Black WC(1), Armstrong P, Daniel TM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Virginia Medical Center, 
Charlottesville.

The role of chest computed tomography (CT) in the evaluation of clinically 
staged T1N0M0 lung cancer is controversial. Using quantitative methods of 
decision analysis and data already available in the medical literature, the 
authors show how the clinical utility and cost effectiveness of chest CT are 
dependent on several variables: the prevalence of mediastinal metastases in 
T1N0M0 patients; the sensitivity and specificity of chest CT; patient life 
expectancy; and the morbidity, mortality, and monetary costs of CT, invasive 
mediastinal biopsy procedures, and curative surgical resection. When average 
values for these variables are used in the analysis, routine chest CT adds about 
1 day to a T1N0M0 patient's life expectancy and saves about $150 per patient. 
Furthermore, a true-positive yield of 6% is sufficient for chest CT to be both 
clinically useful and cost saving, provided CT is readily available.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.167.2.3128840
PMID: 3128840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Med Decis Making. 1988 Apr-Jun;8(2):110-9. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8800800207.

Urinary cytology screening: the decision facing the asymptomatic patient.

Ellwein LB(1), Farrow GM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Microbiology, University of Nebraska Medical 
Center, Omaha.

Voided-urine cytology as a screen for the early detection of urinary bladder 
cancer is analyzed to determine its potential in an asymptomatic population. 
Previous cost-effectiveness assessments predict that screening will extend 
life-span at a cost-per-detected-case that is comparable to those of other 
cancer screening efforts. The focus here is on investigating screening from the 
perspective of the individual contemplating the screening decision. The analysis 
is based on a computerized model of bladder cancer which integrates a Markov 
representation of the induction and progression of the disease with algorithms 
representing diagnostic and therapeutic intervention strategies, intervention 
effectiveness, and cost. It is shown that the utilities, as well as the 
probabilities, of true-positive, false-positive, and false-negative screening 
outcomes are affected by the particular testing regimen employed and the age at 
which screening takes place. Screening at age 55 or age 65 was analyzed for 
individuals of normal risk. Analyses predict that the predisposition of cytology 
screening to identify the high-grade, aggressive form of the disease will result 
in gains in life expectancy of more than three years for the asymptomatic 
true-positive case. Results support the decision to screen, and by requiring a 
repeatedly positive test result, the probability of a false-positive outcome 
will not exceed that of a true-positive outcome at age 65. Except for the risk 
of a false-positive outcome, cytology screening compares favorably with what 
could theoretically be obtained if a 100% accurate screening test were 
available.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8800800207
PMID: 3129632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Am J Med Genet Suppl. 1987;3:43-66. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.1320280508.

Embryologic and other developmental considerations of thirty-eight possible 
variants of the DiGeorge anomaly.

Thomas RA(1), Landing BH, Wells TR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory, Children's Hospital of Los Angeles, CA 90027.

The DiGeorge anomaly (DGA) represents a polytopic developmental field defect 
that can be caused by a number of different chromosomal, mendelian, toxic, or 
metabolic factors operating in early embryonic life. If the affected field is 
thought to be focused on either the fourth branchial arch or the third branchial 
pouch, with variable cephalad or caudad extension, 38 different combinations of 
malformations can include DiGeorge anomalies, 24 complete and 14 partial DGA, 
with the constraints that the field defect must be contiguous (involvement of 
more than one branchial arch or pouch requires involvement of all intervening 
arches or pouches) and complete (all derivatives of an affected branchial arch 
or pouch are deficient). The types and relative frequencies of abnormalities of 
structures other than the thymus and parathyroid glands in these possible 
"subsets" of DGA are discussed, and the need for more data on their occurrence 
in patients diagnosed as having DGA is emphasized.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.1320280508
PMID: 3130877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. In Vitro Cell Dev Biol. 1988 May;24(5):381-7. doi: 10.1007/BF02628489.

Human microvascular endothelial cells: coordinate induction of morphologic 
differentiation and twofold extension of life span.

Stein GH(1), St Clair JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, University of 
Colorado, Boulder 80309.

Human microvascular endothelial cells (HMVEC) from adult adipose tissue were 
cultured in MCDB 131 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum. Under 
these conditions, HMVEC from seven different donors had finite proliferative 
life spans ranging from 14.5 to 23.5 population doublings (PD), with a mean life 
span of 19 PD. Addition of 10% conditioned medium from activated human leukocyte 
cultures (BM Condimed) extended the life span of HMVEC to 31 to 41 PD, with a 
mean life span of 37 PD. At the end of lifespan, HMVEC cultures both with and 
without BM Condimed had very low labeling indices (0 to 5% [3H]thymidine labeled 
nuclei) and consisted of enlarged cells. However, the morphologies of the two 
types of HMVEC cultures were very different. Untreated HMVEC were polygonal 
endothelial cells that formed cobblestonelike monolayers with no cell 
overlapping. In contrast, BM Condimed-treated HMVEC were more elongated, less 
regularly shaped cells that were not strictly inhibited from overlapping. When 
old, these cells accumulated numerous vacuoles. The BM Condimed-treated HMVEC 
expressed Factor VIII antigen, which confirms their identity as endothelial 
cells. These cells reverted rapidly to the polygonal morphology of untreated 
HMVEC when they were removed from BM Condimed. Likewise, their proliferative 
capacity was not extended further once BM Condimed was removed. These results 
suggest that HMVEC can exist in two distinct morphologic states in which the 
cells have different finite proliferative life spans.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02628489
PMID: 3131297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1988 Mar 19;118(11):401-4.

[Current aspects of ambulatory long-term oxygen therapy].

[Article in German]

Russi W(1).

Author information:
(1)Departement für Innere Medizin, Universitätsspital Zürich.

Longterm O2-therapy increases life expectancy in hypoxemic patients suffering 
from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and may improve their quality of life 
as well. The efficiency of this treatment modality depends upon the duration of 
oxygen administration within 24 hours. Measures which prolong mobility through a 
long-lasting oxygen source improve patient compliance. Transtracheal oxygen 
delivery is a genuine advance in longterm O2-therapy. Other oxygen-conserving 
methods are of interest, but experience is lacking to assess their efficiency in 
longterm practice.

PMID: 3131872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Br Heart J. 1988 May;59(5):527-34. doi: 10.1136/hrt.59.5.527.

Cost benefit analysis of early thrombolytic treatment with intracoronary 
streptokinase. Twelve month follow up report of the randomised multicentre trial 
conducted by the Interuniversity Cardiology Institute of The Netherlands.

Vermeer F(1), Simoons ML, de Zwaan C, van Es GA, Verheugt FW, van der Laarse A, 
van Hoogenhuyze DC, Azar AJ, van Dalen FJ, Lubsen J, et al.

Author information:
(1)Working Group on Thrombolytic Therapy in Acute Myocardial Infarction of the 
Interuniversity Cardiology Institute of The Netherlands.

The costs and benefits of early thrombolytic treatment with intracoronary 
streptokinase in acute myocardial infarction were compared in a randomised 
trial. All hospital admissions were recorded and the functional class was 
assessed at visits to the outpatient clinic during a 12 month follow up of 269 
patients allocated to thrombolytic treatment and of 264 allocated to 
conventional treatment. Mean survival during the first year was calculated for 
patients with inferior and with anterior infarction and adjusted for impaired 
quality of life in cases where there were symptoms or hospital admission. In 
patients with inferior infarction mean survival was 337 days (out of a total 
follow up of 365 days) for patients allocated to thrombolytic treatment and 327 
days for controls. Quality adjusted survival was seven days longer in the 
thrombolysis group (307 vs 300 days in controls). In patients with anterior 
infarction mean survival was significantly longer (35 days) in the thrombolysis 
group than in the control group as was quality adjusted survival (38 days) (304 
vs 266 days in controls). The gain in life expectancy with thrombolytic 
treatment was 0.7 years for patients with inferior infarction, 2.4 years for 
patients with anterior infarction, and 3.6 years for the subset of patients with 
large anterior infarction who were admitted within two hours of the onset of 
symptoms. The costs of medical treatment, including medication, hospital stay, 
cardiac catheterisation, coronary angioplasty, and bypass surgery, in the first 
year follow up were higher inpatients allocated to thrombolytic treatment (an 
additional cost ofDfl 7000 in inferior and Dfl 9000in anterior infarction (1 
pounds sterling approximately Dfl 3.3.)) than in conventionally treated 
patients. The additional costs per year of life gained were Dfl 10 000 in 
inferior infarction, Dfl 3 800 in anterior infarction, and only Dfl 1 900 in 
patients with large anterior infarction admitted within two hours of onset of 
symptoms. Intracoronary thrombolysis can be recommended as a cost effective 
treatment in patients with extensive anteroseptal infarction.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.59.5.527
PMCID: PMC1276892
PMID: 3132962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Mil Med. 1988 Jun;153(6):298-303.

Radiation risk assessment for military space crews.

Wood DH, Pickering JE, Yochmowitz MG, Hardy KA, Salmon YL.

PMID: 3133599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1988 May 28;296(6635):1513-5. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.296.6635.1513.

Life expectancy and mortality data from the Soviet Union.

Ryan M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre of Russian and East European Studies, University College of Swansea.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.296.6635.1513
PMCID: PMC2546027
PMID: 3134093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. J Biol Chem. 1988 Aug 5;263(22):10894-902.

Detection of pur operon-attenuated mRNA and accumulated degradation 
intermediates in Bacillus subtilis.

Ebbole DJ(1), Zalkin H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana 47907.

Transcription of the Bacillus subtilis pur operon is regulated independently by 
adenine and guanine nucleotides (Ebbole, D. J., and Zalkin, H. (1987) J. Biol. 
Chem. 262, 8274-8287). Guanine nucleotides regulate transcription by a 
termination-antitermination mechanism in a 242-nucleotide, 5'-untranslated mRNA 
leader region. We have identified an apparently intact, terminated transcript of 
approximately 200 nucleotides in length, having a half-life of about 0.7 min. 
The terminated transcript is degraded in a series of discrete steps resulting in 
the accumulation of stable intermediates in vivo. We have used Northern blot 
analysis, primer extension, and nuclease S1 mapping to align the degradation 
intermediates with the nucleotide sequence and assign secondary structures that 
may contribute to the stability of the intermediates. Degradation is initiated 
by endonucleolytic cleavage of the approximately 200-nucleotide terminated 
transcript generating approximately 93- and approximately 97-nucleotide 5' and 
3' moieties, respectively. The approximately 93-nucleotide 5' and approximately 
97-nucleotide 3' intermediates are further degraded to approximately 88 and 
approximately 58 nucleotides, respectively. The 5'-end of pur operon mRNA and 
the attenuated transcript are degraded by different pathways.

PMID: 3134353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Am J Prev Med. 1988 Mar-Apr;4(2):102-9.

Tuberculosis prevention: cost-effectiveness analysis of isoniazid 
chemoprophylaxis.

Rose DN(1), Schechter CB, Fahs MC, Silver AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, 
NY 10029.

Isoniazid chemoprophylaxis is not recommended for all persons infected with 
tubercle bacilli. Because of the small but significant risk of isoniazid 
hepatotoxicity, chemoprophylaxis is reserved for only those at the highest risk 
of tuberculosis activation. To evaluate this policy, we performed a 
cost-effectiveness analysis of isoniazid chemoprophylaxis for two populations 
with positive tuberculin skin tests: recent tuberculin converters, who are at 
high risk for activation, and older tuberculin reactors, who have a low risk for 
activation and for whom chemoprophylaxis is not now recommended. The 
cost-effectiveness ratios found were stable, despite wide variations in model 
assumptions and probability estimates. For high-risk tuberculin reactors, 
chemoprophylaxis resulted in net medical care monetary savings, extended life 
expectancy, and fewer fatal illnesses. For low-risk tuberculin reactors, 
chemoprophylaxis resulted in positive, but small, health effects. Because the 
cost to gain these positive effects were also small, the resulting 
cost-effectiveness ratios were reasonable and in the realm of accepted 
prevention strategies: $12,625 to gain one year of life and $35,011 to avert one 
death. These findings suggest that the current policy is too restrictive and 
that many in the large population of low-risk tuberculin reactors should be 
considered for isoniazid chemoprophylaxis.

PMID: 3134928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Chest. 1988 Aug;94(2 Suppl):109S-115S. doi:
10.1378/chest.94.2_supplement.109s.

Immunologic aspects of cystic fibrosis.

Döring G(1), Albus A, Høiby N.

Author information:
(1)Hygiene-Institut, University of Tübingen, Federal Republic of Germany.

Bacterial infections determine life expectancy in the hereditary disease cystic 
fibrosis (CF). The dominant pathogens are Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa, which persist in the patient's respiratory tract. Current 
explanations of the chronicity of the infections in the apparently 
immunocompetent host are based on defective opsonophagocytosis. This may be 
caused by (1) bacterial exopolysaccharide production, leading to cryptic 
infection types; (2) cleavage of immunoglobulin, complement, and surface 
receptors on immunocompetent cells by host proteases; and (3) a change from 
opsonic to nonopsonic antibody isotypes. Continuous antigenic stimulation of the 
immune system leads to local immune complex formation and a high chronic 
hypersensitivity reaction as well as to temporary immune unresponsiveness. 
Progressive tissue damage caused by lysosomal enzymes and oxygen radicals from 
polymorphonuclear leukocytes is thought to be ultimately responsible for 
respiratory failure and death in CF. Besides antibiotic treatment, 
anti-inflammatory therapy is therefore currently considered beneficial.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.94.2_supplement.109s
PMID: 3135159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Public Health Rep. 1988 Sep-Oct;103(5):530-6.

Functional assessment as a model for clinical evaluation of geriatric patients.

Besdine RW(1).

Author information:
(1)Travelers Center on Aging, University of Connecticut Medical Center, 
Farmington.

PMCID: PMC1478110
PMID: 3140285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Am J Public Health. 1988 Nov;78(11):1417-21. doi: 10.2105/ajph.78.11.1417.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of exercise as a health promotion activity.

Hatziandreu EI(1), Koplan JP, Weinstein MC, Caspersen CJ, Warner KE.

Author information:
(1)Office of the Director, Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, GA 30333.

Erratum in
    Am J Public Health 1989 Mar;79(3):273.

We used cost-effectiveness analysis to estimate the health and economic 
implications of exercise in preventing coronary heart disease (CHD). We assumed 
that nonexercisers have a relative risk of 2.0 for a CHD event. Two hypothetical 
cohorts (one with exercise and the other without exercise) of 1,000 35-year-old 
men were followed for 30 years to observe differences in the number of CHD 
events, life expectancy, and quality-adjusted life expectancy. We used jogging 
as an example to calculate cost, injury rates, adherence, and the value of time 
spent. Both direct and indirect costs associated with exercise, injury, and 
treating CHD were considered. We estimate that exercising regularly results in 
78.1 fewer CHD events and 1,138.3 Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) gained 
over the 30-year study period. Under our base case assumptions, which include 
indirect costs such as time spent in exercise, exercise does not produce 
economic savings. However, the cost per QALY gained of $11,313 is favorable when 
compared with other preventive or therapeutic interventions for CHD. The value 
of time spent is a crucial factor, influencing whether exercise is a cost-saving 
activity. In an alternative model, where all members of the cohort exercise for 
one year, and then only those who like it or are neutral continue, exercise 
produces net economic savings as well as reducing morbidity.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.78.11.1417
PMCID: PMC1350231
PMID: 3140681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. J Public Health Policy. 1988 Autumn;9(3):429-33.

Current trends in Sweden: implications for public health policy.

Svanström L.

PMID: 3141477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Med Decis Making. 1988 Oct-Dec;8(4):268-78. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8800800408.

Cost-effectiveness of screening strategies for left main coronary artery disease 
in patients with stable angina.

Lee TH(1), Fukui T, Weinstein MC, Tosteson AN, Goldman L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

To define optimal strategies for screening for left main coronary artery disease 
(LMCAD), the authors evaluated the cost-effectiveness of exercise tolerance 
testing and cardiac catheterization in patients with mild stable chest pain, 
such as patients with definite or probable angina in the Coronary Artery Surgery 
Study registry (prevalence of LMCAD = 9%). Performance characteristics of the 
exercise test, operative mortality, long-term survival rates, and rates of 
crossing over to surgical therapy for patients initially managed with medical 
therapy were derived from pooled literature data; cost estimates were based on 
local charge data. Strategies using the exercise test to identify candidates for 
catheterization were associated with longer life expectancies than either the 
conservative strategy in which patients would be observed or the more aggressive 
strategy in which all patients would undergo coronary angiography. The most 
cost-effective option was to screen patients with an exercise test and to 
perform catheterization in patients with greater than or equal to 2 mm of 
ST-segment change. Compared with a strategy of catheterization for greater than 
or equal to 3 mm of ST-segment change only, this strategy increased life 
expectancy at marginal costs per year of life saved ranging from $11,263 to 
$18,100 for 40- to 70-year-old patients, respectively, while, compared with a 
strategy of observation unless symptoms worsened, its incremental 
cost-effectiveness was $6,510 to $12,428 per year of life saved. Thus, screening 
patients with stable chest pain syndromes with exercise tests and performing 
catheterization for patients with greater than or equal to 2 mm of ST-segment 
change has cost-effectiveness comparable to that of the treatment of moderate 
diastolic hypertension.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8800800408
PMID: 3141736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1988 Nov 18;37(45):689-93.

State-specific estimates of smoking-attributable mortality and years of 
potential life lost--United States, 1985.

Centers for Disease Control (CDC).

Erratum in
    MMWR 1988 Nov 25;37(46):708.

PMID: 3141767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. BMJ. 1988 Oct 22;297(6655):1007-11. doi: 10.1136/bmj.297.6655.1007.

Balloon dilatation of the aortic valve for inoperable aortic stenosis.

Sprigings DC(1), Jackson G, Chambers JB, Monaghan MJ, Thomas SD, Meany TB, 
Jewitt DE.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Department, King's College Hospital, Denmark Hill, London.

The place of balloon dilatation of the aortic valve in the treatment of calcific 
aortic stenosis is controversial. Thirty two patients (mean age 76) in whom 
valve replacement was contraindicated were followed up for three to 24 months 
(mean 8); 25 were in functional class III or IV according to the New York Heart 
Association's classification. Major complications of the procedure occurred in 
four patients. Echocardiography and Doppler studies were performed before 
operation and before discharge in 28 patients, and the area of the valve was 
measured again six to 50 (mean 23) weeks after operation in 11 patients. The 
peak to peak aortic pressure gradient fell from a mean of 65 (SD 24) to 46 (20) 
mm Hg, but the area of the aortic valve, measured by Doppler echocardiography, 
in 18 patients showed a modest but significant increase, from 0.61 (0.16) to 
0.74 (0.23) cm2. One month after dilatation, 29 patients were alive, of whom 17 
had improved symptoms. Only two had lasting clinical benefit. Sixteen patients 
died, 12 of a cardiac cause. The estimated one year survival rate was 49%. Six 
patients underwent or required valve replacement because of persisting symptoms. 
In view of its limited long term efficacy balloon dilatation of the aortic valve 
should be used only for patients with severe symptoms whose life expectancy is 
limited by other disease or who are considered to be unsuitable for valve 
replacement. It may have a role in improving the condition of patients who 
present with cardiogenic shock or pulmonary oedema before valve replacement is 
undertaken.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.297.6655.1007
PMCID: PMC1834782
PMID: 3142590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1988 Dec 9;37(48):747-9.

Years of potential life lost due to cancer--United States, 1968-1985.

Centers for Disease Control (CDC).

PMID: 3143059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. C R Acad Sci III. 1988;307(9):553-6.

[Natural infestation of domestic cats (Felis catus L.) by Echinococcus 
multilocularis Leuckart, 1863 (Cestoda): first case in France detected in 
peri-urban area].

[Article in French]

Pétavy AF, Prost C, Gevrey J, Gilot B, Deblock S.

A minute specimen of a tapeworm from the small intestine of a domestic cat is 
related to Echinococcus multilocularis. The natural infestation of the cat by 
this species of cestode is demonstrated in France for the first time. The cat 
was captured in the field around buildings of the neighbourhood of Annemasse 
(Haute-Savoie). This case illustrates the possibility of an urban life cycle 
extension of alveolar echinococcosis in the permanent endemic areas of the 
zoonosis in France and also the eventual risks of contamination for urban 
dwellers by parasite eggs laying on the ground or on the carnivorous domestic 
animal furs.

PMID: 3144426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Isr J Med Sci. 1988 Sep-Oct;24(9-10):611-8.

Leptomeningeal metastases--treatment results in 98 consecutive patients.

Pfeffer MR(1), Wygoda M, Siegal T.

Author information:
(1)Sharett Institute of Oncology, Hadassah University Hospital, Jerusalem, 
Israel.

We report 98 consecutive patients with leptomeningeal metastases from lymphoma 
and other solid tumors. Of 90 who had non-CNS primary tumors, 71 had a life 
expectancy of at least 2 months from their systemic disease and were treated 
according to a protocol including radiotherapy to the symptomatic areas of the 
CNS and chemotherapeutic agents (usually MTX) administered into the CSF. Eight 
patients with meningeal spread from CNS tumors received craniospinal irradiation 
and/or systemic or intra-CSF chemotherapy. Of those treated according to the 
protocol, 30 had lymphoma, 25 of whom achieved a CR and 4 a PR; 27 had breast 
carcinoma, 9 of whom achieved a CR and 6 a PR; 14 had other solid tumors, 7 of 
whom achieved a CR and 2 a PR. Median survival was 8 months (range 1 to 87+) in 
patients with lymphoma and 3 months (range 1 to 40) in breast carcinoma 
patients. Long-term survivors were seen in these groups. Treatment complications 
occurred in 30% of patients, resulting in 4 deaths. The indications for 
aggressive therapy of leptomeningeal metastases and means to reduce its toxicity 
are discussed.

PMID: 3144516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Mech Ageing Dev. 1988 Dec;46(1-3):237-62. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(88)90128-5.

The striatal dopamine dependency of life span in male rats. Longevity study with 
(-)deprenyl.

Knoll J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Semmelweis University of Medicine, Budapest, 
Hungary.

Long-term experiments on male rats revealed that better performers in the mating 
test are better learners in the shuttle box and the more active animals live 
significantly longer than their less active peers. It was established by the aid 
of (-)deprenyl, a highly specific chemical tool, which increases superoxide 
dismutase activity in the striatum, facilitates the activity of the 
nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons with utmost selectivity, and protects these 
neurons from their age-related decay, that the efficiency of a male rat in 
behavioral tests, as well as the duration of its life are striatal dopamine 
dependent functions. As a measure of striatal function, sexual activity was 
tested once a week in a group of male rats (n = 132) from the 24th month of 
their life. Because of the age-related decay of this function none of the 
2-year-old animals displayed full scale sexual activity. By dividing the group 
equally the rats were treated with saline (1 ml/kg, s.c.) and deprenyl (0.25 
mg/kg, s.c.), respectively, three times a week. In the saline-treated group (n = 
66) the last signs of sexual activity vanished to the 33rd week of treatment. 
(-)Deprenyl treatment restored full scale sexual activity in 64 out of 66 rats. 
The longest living rat in the saline-treated group lived 164 weeks. The average 
lifespan of the group was 147.05 +/- 0.56 weeks. The shortest living animal in 
the (-)deprenyl-treated group lived 171 weeks and the longest living rat died 
during the 226th week of its life. The average lifespan was 197.98 +/- 2.36 
weeks, i.e. higher than the estimated maximum age of death in the rat (182 
weeks). This is the first instance that by the aid of a well-aimed medication 
members of a species lived beyond the known lifespan maximum.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(88)90128-5
PMID: 3147347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Gac Sanit. 1988 Jul-Aug;2(7):181-4. doi: 10.1016/s0213-9111(88)70923-1.

[All a challenge for the coming decades (implications of the aging of the 
population for the strategic planning of health services in Spain)].

[Article in Spanish]

Durán A.

DOI: 10.1016/s0213-9111(88)70923-1
PMID: 3147960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Health Educ. 1988 Apr-May;19(2):4-7.

Exercise, aging and longevity.

Brown SP, Cundiff DE.

PMID: 3152221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Cir Pediatr. 1988 Oct;1(4):164-7.

[Bilirubin and bile acids: 2 prognostic factors in biliary atresia].

[Article in Spanish]

Vázquez J, Lilly JR.

PMID: 3153206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1986;3(1):1-9. doi: 10.3109/08880018609031195.

Randomized multicentric Italian study on two treatment regimens for marrow 
relapse in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Rossi MR(1), Masera G, Zurlo MG, Amadori S, Mandelli F, Bagnulo S, Carli M, 
Zanesco L, Dini G, Guazzelli C, et al.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Pediatrica dell'Università di Milano, Ospedale S. Gerardo, Monza, 
Italy.

This paper reports the results of a multicentric randomized clinical trial on 
the treatment of first hematological relapse in childhood ALL. Induction 
treatment consisted of vincristine, adriamycin, L-asparaginase, and prednisone. 
Patients achieving complete remission were randomized to two maintenance 
regimens (A and B). Regimen A consisted of five different drug associations 
including VM26 and IDMTX in a sequential schedule; Regimen B was essentially 
classical Spiers schedule for the first year, followed by a milder treatment. 
Eighty-four of 102 evaluable patients (82%) achieved second complete remission. 
The two maintenance regimens were similar as regards duration of second complete 
remission (median duration A, 32 weeks; B, 37 weeks) and toxicity. Better 
results were obtained in patients relapsing after 12 months from suspension of 
treatment in first complete remission than in those relapsing within the first 
year off therapy (82.8% vs. 31.4%). In group A fewer CNS relapses were reported. 
The two regimens produced results similar to those reported by other authors. 
The good prognosis in patients relapsing at least 1 year after treatment 
suspension in first complete remission must be emphasized.

DOI: 10.3109/08880018609031195
PMID: 3153213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1986;3(2):119-26. doi: 10.3109/08880018609031207.

Prognosis after relapse in acute lymphoblastic leukemia in childhood.

Gustafsson G(1), Kreuger A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

This is a survey of all the 265 relapses occurring in 515 children with ALL 
diagnosed in Sweden in the years 1973-1980. Two hundred and nineteen relapses 
occurred on therapy, and 46 after discontinuation of therapy. Bone marrow was 
involved in the relapse in 71% and 67% of the two groups, respectively. Only 
38/265 (14%) children with relapse were still alive at follow-up in January 
1985. Of these, 16/219 (7%) had relapsed during therapy (median survival time 
after relapse 9 months) compared to 22/46 children (48%) with a relapse after 
cessation of therapy (median 43 months). The prognosis was better if relapse 
occurred after cessation of therapy and in children with isolated testicular 
relapse. Thirteen children were bone marrow transplanted, and 6 of these were 
alive at follow-up. It is concluded that children with ALL relapse have very bad 
prognosis with cytostatic regimens used today, especially if the bone marrow is 
involved.

DOI: 10.3109/08880018609031207
PMID: 3153221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1986;3(3):195-204. doi: 10.3109/08880018609031219.

Childhood Cancer Registry of the Province of Torino: survival patterns since 
1967 and update of incidence rates.

Pastore G(1), Magnani C, Ghisetti V, Terracini B, Mosso ML, Zanetti R.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Biomediche e Oncologia, Università di Torino, Italy.

During 1967-1981, the population-based Childhood (ages 0-14 years) Cancer 
Registry of the Province of Torino has recorded 1057 resident children with 
incident cancer. The life status of each child has been ascertained as of 
December 31, 1983. Sex- and age-specific incidence rates have been stable 
throughout the period. Annual mortality rates (per million) from leukemias (all 
types) decreased from 34.0 in 1967-69 to 19.4 in 1979-81. Correspondingly, the 
survival percentage cumulative of leukemic children at 3 years after diagnosis 
increased from 16 for children diagnosed in 1967-69 to 57 for those diagnosed in 
1979-81. For other cancer types, no increases or debatable decreases in 
mortality rates and increases in survival rates were recognized.

DOI: 10.3109/08880018609031219
PMID: 3153233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1986;3(3):217-28. doi: 10.3109/08880018609031221.

Childhood non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and "leukemia-lymphoma syndrome": long-term 
results with the modified LSA2-L2 protocol.

Vecchi V(1), Serra L, Pession A, Rosito P, Paolucci P, Burnelli R, Vivarelli F, 
Mancini AF, Paolucci G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Bologna, Italy.

From June 1976 to December 1984, 48 previously untreated children with 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) were treated according to the LSA2-L2 protocol, 
modified by inclusion of cranial irradiation for patients in stage III and stage 
IV disease. According to the staging system proposed by Wollner, 4 patients were 
in stage I, 8 in stage II, 11 in stage III, 8 in stage IVA (less than or equal 
to 25% blasts in the bone marrow), 15 in stage IVB (greater than 25% blasts in 
the bone marrow), and 2 in stage IV central nervous system disease. The complete 
remission rate was 95.8%. The relapse-free survival (RFS) rate of 46 complete 
responders was 76% after a median observation time of 47+ months. Only 1 of 35 
high-risk responder patients developed CNS relapse after prophylactic treatment. 
Clinical stages were related to the RFS: 100% in stage I-II vs. 69% in stage 
III-IV. All 8 patients in stage IV were alive without evidence of disease with a 
median observation time of 59+ months. Fifteen patients in stage IVB who had 
leukemia-lymphoma syndrome attained 59% RFS with a median observation time of 
39+ months. After a median observation time of 38+ months, 29 of 37 patients are 
off therapy. The results emphasize the value of both the histologic and 
immunologic features and the stage of disease in predicting the outcome of NHL 
in children. The LSA2-L2 regimen appears to be a very effective protocol for 
children with lymphoblastic lymphoma, although it may be less efficacious for 
patients with large bone marrow involvement.

DOI: 10.3109/08880018609031221
PMID: 3153234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Clin Transpl. 1988:1-4.

The International Society for Heart Transplantation Registry.

Shumway SJ(1), Kaye MP.

Author information:
(1)Minnesota Heart and Lung Institute, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.

The Registry for the International Society for Heart Transplantation has 
collected data on some 6,500 heart transplant recipients and 344 heart-lung 
recipients. Operative mortality in heart transplantation has decreased 
substantially since 1985. There has been a recent increase in cardiac 
complications following heart transplantation. Congenital heart disease is a 
significant risk factor in heart transplantation. More patients are undergoing 
heart-lung transplantation for cystic fibrosis. Improved survival is seen with 
