triple-drug immunosuppression in both heart and heart-lung recipients.

PMID: 3154463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Clin Transpl. 1988:147-58.

Renal transplantation at Hartford Hospital: results of combined and flexible 
immunosuppression.

Schweizer RT(1), Bow L, Roper L, Hull D, Bartus SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Hartford Hospital, Connecticut.

1. Three groups of first cadaver kidney transplant recipients at Hartford 
Hospital were analyzed. All received AZA and P, and most received pretransplant 
blood transfusions. The first group, 41 patients transplanted from 1977-1979, 
had a 2 year graft survival of 49%; the second group, 72 patients transplanted 
from 1980 to 1984 had an emphasis on DR typing and 2-year graft survival of 61%. 
The third group had the addition of CsA (triple immunosuppression) from 1984 to 
October, 1988. These 200 patients had a 2-year graft survival of 87%. The 2-year 
patient survival was 82%, 85%, and 94% for the 3 groups, respectively. 2. Triple 
immunosuppression resulted in less frequent and less severe rejection activity. 
There was no increase in serious infection and no significant elevation in mean 
serum creatinine at a 2-year follow-up, when compared to a control group 
receiving AZA and P. 3. DST was used selectively for one haplotype 
living-related donor kidney transplants, and in HLA-identical sibling kidney 
transplantation. Triple immunosuppression was also used in living-related donor 
kidney transplants, but in a very low-dose range. Only 3 of 58 grafts in 
living-related donor kidney transplants have been lost in the past 4 years; none 
due to rejection. 4. OKT3 therapy has been used primarily for steroid-resistant 
rejection, usually resulting in reversal, but also in a significant increase in 
CMV infection. When an "OKT3 available" group of cadaver kidney transplant 
recipients was compared to a previous control group, OKT3 therapy did not appear 
to improve the overall results. 5. Patients receiving retransplantation 
experienced a better success rate than reported at many other centers, (72% 
graft survival at 2 years). The use of OKT3 or ATG and DR matching contributed 
to the success. 6. The average ATN rate for all perfused kidneys was 36%; 50% 
for those preserved longer than 28 hours. Imported kidneys preserved with Euro 
Collins solution had a 63% ATN rate versus 36% for locally procured kidneys. 
There was no significant difference in graft survival in patients with or 
without posttransplant ATN.

PMID: 3154467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Clin Transpl. 1988:237-48.

The effect of mismatching and sharing of HLA-A, -B, and -DR antigens on kidney 
graft survival in Eurotransplant 1982 to 1988.

Persijn GG(1), D'Amaro J, De Lange P, Schreuder GM, Thorogood J, Zantvoort F, 
Van Rood JJ.

Author information:
(1)Eurotransplant Foundation, University of Leiden, The Netherlands.

1. Cyclosporine significantly improved kidney graft survival by 10-15%. 2. 
Matching for HLA-DR, HLA-B + DR and HLA-A + B + DR improved kidney graft 
survival significantly in non-CsA-treated patients. 3. Matching for the HLA-A, 
-B, and -DR loci, apart and in combination, significantly improved kidney graft 
survival in CsA-treated patients. 4. The best kidney graft survival was observed 
in HLA-A + B + DR identical combinations treated with CsA (76% at 5 yrs).

PMID: 3154476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Clin Transpl. 1988:249-61.

Corneal transplantation: a single center experience 1976 to 1988.

VÃ¶lker-Dieben HJ(1), D'Amaro J.

Author information:
(1)Diaconessenhuis, Leiden.

PMID: 3154477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Clin Transpl. 1988:263-76.

Kidney transplant mortality relationships.

Mickey MR.

1. Patient mortality for adults was described by the sum of 3 components of 
risk: age-dependent risk; transplant-dependent risk, depending on time after 
first transplant; and failure-dependent risk, depending on time after failure. 
2. The age-dependent risk increased exponentially at a rate about two-thirds the 
rate of increase in the general population. This risk was about twice as large 
for recipients of cadaver kidneys as for those who received grafts from 
HLA-identical siblings; the risk for recipients of parent donor grafts was 
intermediate. The risk for transplant recipients was much larger than that for 
the general population over most of the age range. 3. The transplant-dependent 
component decreased exponentially with the time after transplant and was reduced 
by half after about 2.25 years. The component was about 4 times as large for 
recipients of cadaveric kidneys as from HLA-identical sibling donors. Since 
patients studied were limited to those who survived at least 3 months after 
transplant, the transplant-dependent component of risk, as defined, does not 
represent the larger and more rapidly decreasing loss that occurs within a month 
or two after transplant. 4. The failure-dependent component was large and 
decreased exponentially with time after graft failure; the risk was reduced by 
half in about 7.5 months. For recipients of cadaveric organs, "excess" of death 
in the first year after failure was about 10%--slightly more than percent excess 
death as in the first year after transplant. In the case of diabetics, the 
excess deaths in the year after failure was about 25%. 5. Life expectancy at 
various ages at transplant was calculated from the estimates of risk of death. 
The maximum loss for males transplanted from HLA-identical siblings was about 10 
years. The maximum occurred at age-at-transplant 20 years; life expectancy for 
patients transplanted at that age was about 42 years. Perhaps 5% to 10% of 
patients transplanted at age 20 from cadaveric donors might expect to survive 
into their 80's. 6. Survival analysis with allocation to graft failure of 
patient-death-with-functioning-graft fractionally (according to probability that 
the death was transplant related) provided a method of adjusting for patient age 
in studying graft survival. In younger patients, death was most likely 
attributable to the transplant, whereas in older patients, death was likely not 
attributable to the transplant. 7. Appropriate attribution of patient death to 
graft failure is important to the study of long-term graft survival, 
particularly among older patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 3154478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Clin Transpl. 1988:357-63.

Immune responsiveness.

Cook DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond.

1. In 1987 transplants, the association between the DR1 antigen and increased 
graft survival appears to have been lost. 2. Average preformed panel reactive 
antibodies, peak or current, were higher in grafts that were lost in the early 
posttransplant period, when compared to grafts with excellent function. 
Increased HLA-DR mismatches and female donors were also associated with early 
graft losses. 3. Recipient sex (male), HLA-DR mismatches, and donor age appeared 
to influence later graft losses. 4. Recipient age, HLA-B,DR and HLA-A,B,DR 
mismatches, and CITs were elevated in all graft loss groups.

PMID: 3154485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1985 Jan;67(1):133-7. doi:
10.1302/0301-620X.67B1.3155744.

The prevalence of skeletal dysplasias. An estimate of their minimum frequency 
and the number of patients requiring orthopaedic care.

Wynne-Davies R, Gormley J.

An attempt has been made to estimate the number of living people with skeletal 
dysplasias (osteochondrodysplasias) in Scotland, England and Wales, ascertained 
through five orthopaedic centres in different parts of Britain. Index patients 
and their affected relatives were sought and reassessed. Over the 30-year period 
between 1950 and 1979 inclusive a minimum prevalence was calculated (excluding 
stillbirths, perinatal deaths, and patients with chromosome anomalies, metabolic 
bone disease and short stature per se). The results indicate that there were in 
the community upwards of 10 000 individuals, at various ages over this period, 
with these largely genetic disorders. A more accurate estimate is of some 6000 
of them requiring substantial orthopaedic care, and who were physically 
handicapped throughout life, about half of them severely so.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.67B1.3155744
PMID: 3155744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. N Engl J Med. 1985 May 2;312(18):1159-68. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198505023121805.

Life extension.

Schneider EL, Reed JD Jr.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198505023121805
PMID: 3157059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Rehabilitation (Stuttg). 1985 Feb;24(1):39-46.

[Social security in the aged requiring nursing care--a review of status and 
perspectives].

[Article in German]

Schmollinger M.

Our current approach in the case of elderly people requiring nursing and 
care--namely, provision of supplementary social assistance benefits when old-age 
pension amounts are insufficient and if the incomes of children and 
grandchildren are below certain levels--is turning over 70 percent of all 
persons in residential care into recipients of rather modest amounts of 
pocket-money. Their financial provision for old age, built over decades, becomes 
null and void. In the case of home care, small invalid care allowances are 
granted to cater for additional needs, amounts, however, which are adequate 
neither to cover for the expenses involved nor to properly honour the caretaking 
efforts incumbent on the relatives. This reveals two decisive shortcomings in 
our present system for helping persons in need of care: benefit and service 
provision give undue priority to residential service delivery, instead of 
enhancing the necessary extension of community-based or ambulatory services; the 
current societal distribution of financial burdens is not compatible with the 
requirements of a publicly organized scheme for protection against general 
life-hazards that could hit everyone and should therefore be borne jointly. The 
article sets out the above situation through examples illustrating the various 
life situations of people needing nursing and care, and discusses three 
alternative approaches to achieving social security and protection: to extend 
health insurance coverage to non-curable/non-rehabilitable conditions; to create 
a separate social insurance branch to cover the life risk of needing nursing and 
care; and to initiate federal legislation for introduction of tax-financed, 
flat-rate invalid care allowances proportional to the care intensity required, 
while establishing user charges in the case of residential care 
services.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3157209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Nature. 1985 Jun 6-12;315(6019):463-6. doi: 10.1038/315463a0.

Prospects for an ageing population.

Brody JA.

DOI: 10.1038/315463a0
PMID: 3158823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Arch Inst Cardiol Mex. 1985 Jan-Feb;55(1):1-6.

[Socio-medical problems of senescence].

[Article in Spanish]

ChÃ¡vez Rivera I.

Epidemiological studies by international groups have shown a demographic 
structure which in Latin America, by the year 2000, will cause especially 
complex problems demanding important social, political and economic changes. 
Between them, they emphasize the overall increase of population size (more than 
doubling, from 280 to 600 million people), the large urban concentration (64% of 
the total population), with rural depopulation, on 18% decrease in fertility, 
and an increased life expectancy. With regard to this point, 36 Latin American 
and Caribean countries will have an average life expectancy of 65 years, and 19 
of 70 years. Increased longevity, causing a large elderly population, is an 
achievment of civilisation, but is also an overwhelming problem. 
Biophysiological and psychological considerations of the ageing process are 
raised, as are the inherent problems of forced retirement, which have influence 
in working, emotional and family sheres, in a poorly-understanding society, too 
disorganized to provide help. This, by feedback, creates a special emotional 
deterioration in the elderly individual (considered for this purpose as being an 
age of more than 60 years for men, and 55 years for women), which is made 
considerably worse by increased incidence of illness. The need for, and 
importance of, social care for this group, which concalves health as part of the 
greater concept of wellbeing and quality of life, is emphasized. It shows how 
the modern concept of social welfare as part of the state, with reference to 
securing the wellbeing of the elderly, should not be a charity which is offered 
but an obligation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3159355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. J Gerontol. 1985 Jul;40(4):426-33. doi: 10.1093/geronj/40.4.426.

Longitudinal analysis of functional disabilities in older men.

Chirikos TN, Nestel G.

This study examined the prevalence of functional disabilities in a 
representative sample of older American men. Longitudinal changes in various 
disabilities and the effects of such changes on self-appraised health, normal 
role function, mobility and self-sufficiency in personal care were analyzed. The 
relationship between disabilities and survivorship was also investigated. The 
analysis showed that sizable percentages of men report motor-sensory 
dysfunctions, with blacks experiencing higher prevalence rates than whites. The 
risk of functional disablement rises with age and increases the likelihood of 
reporting unfavorable health outcomes or handicaps. There is also some evidence 
that functional capacities are restored and that these changes lead to more 
favorable health outcomes. The analysis showed finally that functional 
disabilities are strong predictors of mortality.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/40.4.426
PMID: 3159784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Am J Surg. 1985 Jul;150(1):153-8. doi: 10.1016/0002-9610(85)90025-x.

Exigent ileostomy hemorrhage. A complication of proctocolectomy in patients with 
chronic ulcerative colitis and primary sclerosing cholangitis.

Peck JJ, Boyden AM.

The Portland experience with patients requiring proctocolectomy for chronic 
ulcerative colitis in association with primary sclerosing cholangitis has been 
reported. Nineteen patients had conventional ileostomy reconstruction, 5 of whom 
had development of stomal varices with recurrent hemorrhage due to cirrhosis and 
portal hypertension. When this combination of conditions exists, the therapeutic 
options must be carefully weighed. Perhaps ileal pouch to anal anastomosis 
should be considered when proctocolectomy becomes mandatory. Ileostomy is 
presently a contraindication to liver transplantation. In patients with 
ileostomies, control of hemorrhage by local measures, including ileostomy 
revisions, proved to be of only temporary value, yet it should be the preferred 
management of patients with a severely limited life expectancy. Successful 
shunts directed at portal decompression have always prevented further ileostomy 
hemorrhage, however, they have commonly accelerated liver failure and thus 
death. Furthermore, such shunts seriously complicate liver transplantation if it 
is considered.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9610(85)90025-x
PMID: 3160251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1985 Aug 3;291(6491):326-9. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.291.6491.326.

Economics of coronary artery bypass grafting.

Williams A.

To decide whether the number of operations for coronary artery bypass grafting 
should be increased, maintained at the present levels, or decreased we need to 
know how cost effective they are relative to other claimants on the resources of 
the National Health Service. For this purpose effectiveness is taken to be the 
effect on life expectancy adjusted for the quality of life. In an assessment of 
the cost per quality adjusted life year gained coronary artery bypass grafting 
rates well for cases of severe angina and extensive coronary artery disease. The 
cost, however, rises sharply for less severe cases. Bypass grafting seems to 
compare favourably with valve replacement for aortic stenosis and implantation 
of pacemakers for heart block; it is distinctly better than heart 
transplantation and the treatment of end stage renal failure but is probably 
less cost effective than hip replacement. If the number of operations for 
coronary artery bypass grafting were to increase it would be a fairly strong 
claimant only if restricted to the most severe cases. The data on which these 
judgments are based are crude and in need of refinement. The methodology is 
powerful, far reaching, and open to comment.

KIE: To decide whether the rate of coronary artery bypass surgery in Great 
Britain should be increased, maintained at present levels, or decreased, the 
costs and benefits of this operation were evaluated and compared to the cost 
effectiveness of other expensive procedures provided by the National Health 
Service (NHS). Bypass grafting for more severe cases compares favorably with 
valve replacement for aortic stenosis and pacemaker implantation for heart 
block. It is more cost effective than heart transplantation and treatment for 
end stage renal failure, and probably less cost effective than hip replacement. 
The author concludes that, before any decision is reached, reliable comparisons 
must be made with other potential uses of NHS resources based on further 
research focused more on quality of life and public and private costs than on 
rate of survival.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.291.6491.326
PMCID: PMC1416615
PMID: 3160430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. J Genet Hum. 1985 Jun;33(2):91-102.

[Huntington's disease. Contribution of clinical and epidemiological data to 
genetic counseling].

[Article in French]

Petit H, Salomez JL.

From a regional survey (northwestern part of France 3,9 millions population) and 
from recent publications, the authors described clinical and epidemiologic 
aspects useful for genetic counselling. Besides the chronic chorea, the other 
clinical features justified the denomination "Huntington's disease". 
Misdiagnosis is frequent especially if the familial disorder is unknown. A 
prevalence of 50 X 10(-6) corresponds to 2750 choreics and 14.000 at risk 
descendants in France. Interfamilial heterogeneity is described from mean age of 
death which is 54.2 for the whole study: one third of families of late onset, 
around fifty (mean age of death: 64.6), one third of early onset, around thirty 
(mean age of death: 44.6). The 17 juvenile and infantile cases of the survey 
belong to this last group. The influence of gene-transmitters sex is more 
obvious if two generations are taken in account with a preponderance of fathers 
and grand-fathers in the early onset group and, to a lesser degree, of mothers 
and grand-mothers in the late onset group. The authors criticize the preclinical 
detection tests and, from attitudes of families, underline the ethical problems 
for the future predictive tests by genetic markers. The role of lay 
organisations is all the more important.

PMID: 3160829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. N Y State Dent J. 1988 May;54(5):3.

The age of geriatrics.

Tillis BP.

PMID: 3164457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Int Dent J. 1988 Jun;38(2):112-8.

Restorations without conventional cavity preparations.

Elderton RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Conservative Dentistry, University of Bristol Dental School, 
UK.

Dentists in developed countries tend to provide highly restoration-oriented 
dental care, yet recent research has shown that restorations have many 
shortcomings and that a costly and repetitious restorative cycle is easily 
established. In particular, caries diagnosis and restorative treatment planning 
are subject to considerable idiosyncrasies. Coupled with mediocrity in cavity 
preparation and restorative technique, this results in many restorations having 
poor life expectancy. The non-invasive management of small carious lesions in a 
manner that will bring about some remineralization offers, under certain 
circumstances, a viable and superior alternative to conventional restorations. 
However, carious lesions in smooth surfaces of the teeth present very different 
diagnostic and assessment problems from those in fissured surfaces and the 
methods of clinical management differ markedly. Fissure sealants have been 
applied to early or moderately sized pit and fissure carious lesions in many 
studies during the last 20 years. Where the sealant has remained intact, 
evidence has been provided to show that the caries has not progressed. There 
would seem, therefore, to be a strong case for using fissure sealants more 
widely in the management of pit and fissure lesions and, in this way, to provide 
restorations without cavity preparations. In situations where invasive 
procedures are required, conventional 'Black' cavity preparations should not be 
used. Rather, they should be ultra-conservative and of very high quality. 
Clearly, a preventive philosophy in caries management should actively be 
encouraged in countries with developed dental services.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

PMID: 3165963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. J Clin Oncol. 1988 Sep;6(9):1417-24. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1988.6.9.1417.

Prognostic factors in adult chronic myelomonocytic leukemia: an analysis of 107 
cases.

Fenaux P(1), Beuscart R, Lai JL, Jouet JP, Bauters F.

Author information:
(1)Service des Maladies du Sang, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire, Lille, 
France.

Adult chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), as defined by the 
French-American-British (FAB) group, is associated with a variable survival, 
ranging from a few weeks to several years. From 1971 to 1986, we made the 
diagnosis of CMML in 107 cases, according to FAB criteria (except for patients 
with 20% to 30% bone marrow [BM] blasts who were also included). Median survival 
was 30 months (range 1 to 81 months) and life expectancy did not seem to be 
influenced by treatment modalities other than supportive care. Eighteen patients 
(17%) progressed to acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia (ANLL). In a Cox regression 
model, main factors associated with short survival were: an excess of marrow 
blasts (P = 10(-6], anemia (P = .17 x 10(-5], high peripheral blood (PB) 
monocytosis (P = .26 x 10(-5], presence of PB blasts (P = .49 x 10(-4], and to a 
lesser extent hyperleukocytosis (P = .001), presence of PB immature 
granulocytes, thrombopenia, and splenomegaly. Survival (less than 1 year v 
greater than 1 year) could be predicted at diagnosis in a multivariate stepwise 
discriminant analysis using two parameters only (percentage of BM blasts and 
hemoglobin level), with 82% accuracy. Among patients surviving greater than 1 
year, initial PB leukocyte count was higher in patients with intermediate 
survival (12 to 42 months) than in long survivors (greater than 42 months) and 
was the only discriminating factor between these two subgroups in multivariate 
analysis. Abnormal cytogenetic findings and increased lysozymuria were also poor 
prognostic factors, but could not be analyzed in the multivariate models, as 
they were determined in a minority of patients. Parameters associated with 
subsequent progression to ANLL included younger age at diagnosis, thrombopenia, 
increased BM blasts, and splenomegaly. Our study allows for the identification 
of subgroups with different prognoses in CMML, on the basis of a small number of 
hematologic parameters, particularly initial percentage of BM blasts, hemoglobin 
level, and leukocytosis. These subgroups probably require different therapeutic 
approaches.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1988.6.9.1417
PMID: 3166485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Can J Public Health. 1988 Jul-Aug;79(4):268-74.

Survival patterns of nursing home admissions and their policy implications.

Shapiro E, Tate R.

PMID: 3167752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Cancer. 1988 Oct 15;62(8 Suppl):1680-7. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19881015)62:1+<1680::aid-cncr2820621304>3.0.co;2-f.

Descriptive and analytic epidemiology. Bridges to cancer control.

Mettlin C(1).

Author information:
(1)Roswell Park Memorial Institute, Buffalo, NY 14263.

Epidemiology serves as a bridge between basic science and cancer control. The 
two major orientations of epidemiology are descriptive and analytic. The former 
is useful in assessing the scope and dimensions of the cancer problem and the 
latter is used to assess environmental and lifestyle sources of cancer risk. A 
recent development in descriptive epidemiology is the use of functional measures 
of disease such as lost life expectancy. In analytical epidemiology, there is 
new or renewed interest in several lifestyle factors including diet and exercise 
as well as environmental factors such as involuntary tobacco exposure and radon 
in dwellings. Review of the evidence should consider the strengths and 
weaknesses of different research procedures. Each method is inconclusive by 
itself but, the different research designs of epidemiology collectively may 
represent a hierarchy of proof. Although the roles of many factors remain to be 
defined, the aggregate epidemiologic data continue to demonstrate the special 
importance of personal behavior and lifestyle in affecting cancer risk.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19881015)62:1+<1680::aid-cncr2820621304>3.0.co;2-f
PMID: 3167786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Endoscopy. 1988 Aug;20 Suppl 1:223-6. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1018180.

Carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater: the endoscopic approach.

Huibregtse K(1), Tytgat GN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater is a rare tumor. Early and accurate diagnosis 
of carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater will lead to early treatment and subsequent 
better prognosis. Endoscopy and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreaticography 
(ERCP) has been shown to be one of the best diagnostic modalities. Furthermore 
an endoscopic biliary drainage procedure can be performed immediately following 
the diagnostic procedure. The tumors may be seen as large, fleshy, friable 
exophytic growths, as ulcerated tumors into the duodenal wall or as a mass 
behind the orifice of the papilla, covered with normal duodenal mucosa. Forceps 
biopsies do not always suffice to show malignancy. Large snare biopsies often 
are necessary. Occasionally the final diagnosis of malignancy can only be made 
by examination of the surgical resection specimen. Tumors arising inside the 
ampulla form a bulge, covered by normal duodenal mucosa. An impacted stone may 
mimic this picture. Endoscopic papillotomy is then mandatory to make the final 
diagnosis. Histologic examination of forceps biopsies reveals malignancy in only 
60% of cases. When snare biopsy is used, the diagnostic yield increases to 83%. 
The optimal treatment of carcinomas of the ampulla of Vater is surgical 
resection. Preoperative biliary drainage should theoretically be of benefit to 
the patient. The results of preoperative percutaneous drainage studies are, 
however, conflicting. Carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater is not resectable in 
25-50% of the patients because of metastatic disease, deep extension of the 
tumor or general contraindications for major surgery. Endoscopic papillotomy or 
stent placement as a definitive treatment modality should be reserved for poor 
surgical candidates and for those patients with limited life expectancy due to 
metastatic disease.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1018180
PMID: 3168950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Geogr Med. 1988;18:95-108.

A medical geographical investigation of natural resources in Hungary.

GecsÃ¶ O(1), Hahn G.

Author information:
(1)Geographical Research Institute, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest.

PMID: 3169572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Med Clin (Barc). 1988 Jun 11;91(3):101-4.

[Approach to health in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

del Llano J, DÃ­ez M, Sayalero MT.

Erratum in
    Med Clin (Barc) 1988 Sep 17;91(8):292. Saladero MT [corrected to Sayalero 
MT].

PIP: 2 closely related aspects of health assessment are the definition of health 
and the purpose of the measurement. Health indicators are variables that may be 
used to evaluate hospital or community health care, detect unsatisfied needs, 
quantify the impact of an illness in daily life, examine costs and benefits of a 
particular program, determination priorities, or for other purposes. Life 
expectancy and the infant mortality rate are considered more useful from an 
operational perspective and for comparisons than is the crude death rate because 
they are not influenced by age structure. Morbidity rates are less available and 
are subject to wide variations of quality. Significant changes have occurred in 
Spain's fertility and mortality rates in the past few decades. Between 1970-80, 
the crude birth rate declined from 19.55 to 15.21/1000, the crude death rate 
from 8.41 to 7.71/1000, the infant mortality rate from 26.30 to 12.34/1000 live 
births, and the perinatal mortality rate from 25.48 to 14.35/1000 live births. 
Life expectancy at birth increased from 34.8 years for both sexes in 1900 to 
73.3 in 1975. The changes in mortality and fertility rates have led to changes 
in Spain's age structure, primarily a gradual aging of the population. Chronic 
diseases have assumed new importance as causes of death. In 1980, circulatory 
diseases caused 43.8% of deaths, followed by tumors with 20.2% and respiratory 
diseases with 9.3%. The most important single cause of death in 1979 for 
children under 14 was accidents, for adults aged 15-64 it was tumors, and for 
persons over 65 it was cardiovascular diseases. The evolution of Spain's age 
structure is similar to that of other developed countries, although the 
proportion of children under 15 continues to be higher and that of persons over 
65 to be lower.

PMID: 3172907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Methods Inf Med. 1988 Jul;27(3):137-41.

Analysis of mortality data due to infectious diseases: life table methods 
complementary to direct rates.

Moussa MA, Khogali MM, Sugathan TN.

PMID: 3173120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Med J Aust. 1988 Oct 17;149(8):410-1, 414-5. doi: 
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1988.tb120700.x.

Clinical characteristics and outcomes in a cohort of patients who were assessed 
as in need of nursing-home care.

Lazarus R(1), Gray L.

Author information:
(1)Bundoora Extended Care Centre, VIC.

A cohort of 116 applicants who were assessed by the Bundoora Extended Care 
Assessment Team during the first six months of 1985 as requiring nursing-home 
care was followed-up in an attempt to detect the clinical characteristics that 
were associated with a delay in placement. The demographic and clinical features 
of this cohort are described. By the end of the follow-up period, 89 applicants 
had been admitted to nursing homes. The mean time from assessment to placement 
for this group was 97.1 days. A significant delay in placement was associated 
with an age of less than 80 years, an inability to speak English, the presence 
of an indwelling urinary catheter, and the need for assistance with feeding. We 
concluded that some clinical characteristics had an effect on the time to 
placement among the nursing-home applicants who were assessed in the catchment 
area of our team.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1988.tb120700.x
PMID: 3173202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. NCI Monogr. 1988;(7):117-22.

Long-term results of radical prostatectomy in clinically localized prostate 
cancer: experience at the Johns Hopkins Hospital.

Lepor H(1), Walsh PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, MD.

The objectives of our retrospective long-term analysis of radical prostatectomy 
at The Johns Hopkins Hospital are to determine the efficacy of radical 
prostatectomy and the optimal statistical method for ascertaining survival 
following therapeutic intervention for men with clinically localized prostate 
cancer. The duration of survival and the cause of death were ascertained for 57 
men with clinical stage B1 prostate cancer who had radical prostatectomies at 
The Johns Hopkins Hospital between 1951 and 1963. The absence of metastatic 
disease was determined by radiographic survey of the bones only. The survival 
curve determined by the direct method was virtually identical to the projected 
survival curve for a 62-year-old man in 1960. The cause-specific actuarial 
survival analysis indicated that only 14% of the men with stage B1 disease and a 
15-year life expectancy will develop metastatic prostate cancer following 
radical prostatectomy. The cause-specific survival curve plateaued after 10 
years, which indicated that the majority of men surviving 10 years free of 
disease are cured of the disease. Survival analysis was also determined by the 
direct method for 48 men with clinical stage B2 prostate cancer who had 
undergone radical prostatectomy between 1951 and 1963. Overall, the survival 
rates for these men were considerably lower than those for similarly treated men 
with clinical stage B1 disease. The survival curves following radical 
prostatectomy for men with stage B1 disease and clinical stage B2 disease 
pathologically confined to the prostate were similar. Radical prostatectomy for 
stage B1 disease was performed with minimal morbidity, and potency was preserved 
in most patients with the use of nerve-sparing modifications.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED 
AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3173497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. NCI Monogr. 1988;(7):85-94.

Definitive radiation therapy in carcinoma of the prostate localized to the 
pelvis: experience at the Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology.

Perez CA(1), Pilepich MV, Garcia D, Simpson JR, Zivnuska F, Hederman MA.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology Center, Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, St. Louis, MO 
63108.

Definitive radiation therapy was administered to 577 patients with 
histologically confirmed carcinoma of the prostate localized to the pelvis 
between January 1967 and December 1983. All patients were available for a 
minimal 3-year follow-up, and the median period of observation is 6.5 years. The 
actuarial survival without tumor in stages A2 and B at 5 years was 78% and at 10 
years 60%. In stage C, the corresponding survival figures were 60% at 5 and 40% 
at 10 years. The overall actuarial survival in stage B patients was 76% at 5 and 
56% at 10 years, which is similar to the life expectancy of a comparable cohort 
of normal males. In stage C, the actuarial survival was 65% at 5 and 35% at 10 
years. The pelvic failure rate in stage A2 was 12% (5 of 41), 17% in stage B (31 
of 185), 28% (93 of 328) in stage C, and 48% (11 of 23) in stage D1. Distant 
metastases were noted in 12% of the patients with stage A2, 20% stage B, 42% 
stage C, and 65% stage D1. In stage B, patients who had control of the pelvic 
tumor exhibited an 85% actuarial 5-year survival and a 60% one at 10 years. This 
compares with an actuarial survival of 30% at 5 and 10 years when there was 
evidence of pelvic recurrence alone or combined with distant metastases. In 
stage C patients with pelvic tumor control, actuarial survival was 81% at 5 and 
50% at 10 years, in comparison with 25% at 5 and 10% at 10 years when there was 
development of pelvic recurrence or distant metastases or a combination of both. 
There was a strong correlation between the survival and appearance of distant 
metastases with the histologic degree of differentiation of the tumor in all 
stages. However, the probability of tumor control in the pelvis was not 
significantly correlated with this parameter. The administration of hormones 
concomitantly with radiation therapy did not significantly influence the 
probability of tumor control, appearance of distant metastases, or survival. 
Major sequelae of therapy were noted in 2.2% of the patients, whereas minor 
sequelae were observed in approximately 12% of the patients. Radiation therapy 
has been shown to be an effective therapeutic alternative to radical 
prostatectomy or hormonal manipulation in patients with carcinoma of the 
prostate.

PMID: 3173506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1988 Sep 3;132(36):1665-9.

[Changes in mortality of diseases which have become (partially) preventable or 
treatable by medical care, 1950-1984].

[Article in Dutch]

Mackenbach JP, Looman CW, Kunst AE.

PMID: 3173551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Obstet Gynecol. 1988 Nov;72(5 Suppl):2S-5S.

Estrogen replacement therapy.

Sarrel PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Yale University School of Medicine, 
New Haven, Connecticut.

More than 40 million American women are menopausal; another 3.5 million women 
will be reaching the climacteric age each year for the next 12 years. These 
women will have a life expectancy of more than 30 years after menopause. In 
America, there are three widely recognized indications for postmenopausal 
hormone replacement: vasomotor symptoms, dyspareunia, and the progressive 
development of osteoporosis. Ovarian hormone research indicates a wide variety 
of nonreproductive effects of ovarian steroids. The recognition of the 
relationship between ovarian hormone imbalance and signs and symptoms of 
disturbed function in these systems provides a new frontier for continuing 
research and preventive health care.

PMID: 3173938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Pain. 1988 Aug;34(2):139-151. doi: 10.1016/0304-3959(88)90159-5.

Candidate risk factors for temporomandibular pain and dysfunction syndrome: 
psychosocial, health behavior, physical illness and injury.

Marbach JJ(1), Lennon MC, Dohrenwend BP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Sociomedical Sciences, Columbia University School of Public 
Health, New York, NY 10032 U.S.A. Division of Epidemiology, Columbia University 
School of Public Health, New York, NY 10032 U.S.A.

The purpose of this paper is to identify potential risk factors for the 
temporomandibular pain and dysfunction syndrome (TMPDS). The investigation 
focuses on the relations of TMPDS to personal, social and recent experiential 
factors, especially health behaviors and physical illnesses and injuries, that 
contribute to life stress. The data come from a retrospective case-control study 
of 151 TMPDS patients and 139 healthy controls. Results show that cases and 
controls are similar on most measures of personality characteristics although 
cases are somewhat more external in locus of control expectancy and appear far 
more distressed than do controls. There are no case/control differences in 
reports of desirable and undesirable life events that do not involve physical 
illness and injury. The social situations of cases and controls differ in that 
cases have fewer sources of emotional support than controls. No differences were 
found in the proportion of cases and controls who reported that they ever ground 
or clenched their teeth, although cases were told they do so more frequently by 
dentists than were controls. Excluding never married women, cases were less 
likely than controls to have children. This could not be explained on the basis 
of birth control and may provide a clue to a biologic base for the much higher 
rates of women than men who are treated for TMPDS. Cases reported more past 
pain-related illnesses, more life-threatening physical problems and more recent 
events involving injury and non-pain-related physical illnesses. There was no 
difference between cases and controls in reports of physical problems prior to 
age 13. TMPDS patients appear to be unusually distressed individuals who are 
beleaguered by physical illnesses and injuries as well as by pain, who tend to 
attribute their fate to external factors, and who have fewer sources of 
emotional support.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3959(88)90159-5
PMID: 3174153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Science. 1988 Oct 28;242(4878):513-4. doi: 10.1126/science.3175670.

Living in the fast track makes for small brains.

Lewin R.

DOI: 10.1126/science.3175670
PMID: 3175670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Soc Sci Med. 1988;27(4):321-6. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(88)90265-1.

The expectation of life without disability in England and Wales.

Bebbington AC(1).

Author information:
(1)PSSRU, University of Kent at Canterbury, England.

Erratum in
    Soc Sci Med 1993 Mar;36(5):713-4.

This paper calculates the Expectation of Life Without Disability (ELWD) for 
England and Wales, following the method of Robine et al. (Population 6, 
1025-1042, 1986), using a question about limiting long-standing illness from the 
General Household Survey. Trends over the last decade are estimated. At present 
ELWD from birth is about 59 years for men, 62 for women. The trend is upward, 
but by no more and possibly less than the rate of increase in expectation of 
life. Men live a greater proportion of their lives without disability than do 
women. The improvement in ELWD is most marked in the highest age-groups, but the 
evidence is that the health of the elderly in relation to that of the population 
as a whole has been poorer in England and Wales than in two other countries for 
which similar evidence is available.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(88)90265-1
PMID: 3175715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Stud Fam Plann. 1988 Jul-Aug;19(4):250-4.

Liberia 1986: results from the Demographic and Health Survey.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The Liberia Demographic and Health Survey, conducted by the Ministry of 
Planning and Economic Affairs, was a national survey in which data were 
collected from 5026 households and 5239 women between ages 15 and 49 were 
interviewed between 2/86 and 7/86. Statistical tables and graphs are presented 
here describing the characteristics of the population. The total population of 
Liberia was 1.9 million, with a crude birth rate of 49.2/1000, a crude death 
rate of 18/1000 and a life expectancy of 48 years. 62.6% of the population has 
had no education. The fertility rate has remained fairly constant in the past 30 
years, and is 6.7 for those with no education, but 4.8 for those with a 
secondary education. The mean ideal number of children is 6.5, and 68.7% of the 
women who delivered a child in the 12 months before the survey had wanted a 
child then. Only 6.4% of women use contraception, and the majority use birth 
control pills. However, 68% do know about modern contraception. 56.6% of women 
do not intend to ever use contraception. Infant mortality has declined from 185 
in 1955-60 to 144. Only 34.3% of children have health cards, and of those with 
health cards, only 23.6% have received their DPT vaccine, only 21.7% have 
received the polio vaccine, and only 53.6% are immunized against measles. Data 
are also provided concerning type of delivery, and postpartum factors. All data 
are broken down by rural versus urban, and by the level of maternal education.

PMID: 3176098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1988 Sep;19(4):153-62.

[Do the fittest survive? Psychosocial and demographic determinants of longevity 
from a 12-year longitudinal study on relocation of the aged].

[Article in Dutch]

Mertens F(1).

Author information:
(1)Intervakgroep Sociale Gerontologie, KUN.

In this article attention is paid to longevity and some predictors of longevity 
in 455 respondents in a 12-year longitudinal research that started in 1974 on 
relocation of older people. Participants in this research project stemmed from 
five groups, which can be distinguished by the degree of diminished autonomy of 
(desired) housing facility. The more autonomous the housing facility, the lower 
the mortality rate appeared to be. In this article a new measure for the 
respondents' longevity is presented, the 'overlevingsscore' (OS; 'survival 
score'). The people living autonomously in 1974 appeared to become a little 
older than indicated by their life expectancy in 1974. Those who lived in an 
institution at that time, however, lived shorter. Next, we tried to predict 
individual OSs by means of some demographic and psychosocial variables. A 
positive subjective health and an engaged attitude towards life in old age 
appear to indicate a long life. Frequency of relocation after 1974 did not 
influence the OS.

PMID: 3176126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Z Gesamte Hyg. 1988 Aug;34(8):442-5.

[Life expectancy in Europe--facts, trends, goals].

[Article in German]

Kant H.

PIP: Differences in life expectancy among the countries of Europe are reviewed, 
with particular reference to the situation in East Germany. Although life 
expectancy at birth rose to 69.5 for men and 75.5 for women, East Germany only 
ranks at 17 for men and 18 for women among the 24 countries studied. (SUMMARY IN 
ENG)

PMID: 3176563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1988 Jul 1;43(13):344-7.

[Indications for hip joint replacement. Early and late results].

[Article in German]

Faensen M(1), Rahmanzadeh R.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung fÃ¼r Unfall- und Wiederherstellungschirurgie, Klinikum Steglitz 
Freien UniversitÃ¤t Berlin.

Marked advances have been made in the application of hip joint endoprostheses 
since their extensive dissemination in the early 70's. Implantation material, 
surface structure, design of the prosthesis and surgical techniques have been 
better adapted to the biological and biomechanical conditions. Nevertheless, the 
long-term prognosis remains uncertain, and joint-saving interventions continue 
to take priority. The possibilities for the application of endoprostheses in 
cases of degenerative, posttraumatic and congenital changes and tumourous 
destructions have been improved by extended prostheses and additional measures. 
Whereas the indication for a prosthesis to save the mobility of the patient is 
established more frequently for older patients suffering from basic diseases 
with a limited life expectancy, osteolysis due to bone tumours or metastases, 
hip-joint replacement in younger patients should always be performed as a last 
resort, even if the prognosis is better.

PMID: 3176576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Z Gerontol. 1988 Jul-Aug;21(4):193-7.

[Life planning--consequences of a steadily growing life span 1650-2000. 
Considering the longer life span, do we need a life plan?].

[Article in German]

Imhof AE(1), Kloke IE, Plichta K.

Author information:
(1)FB Geschichtswissenschaften, FU Berlin.

Recent social historical studies on the development of life expectancy over the 
last 300-400 years have shown that the increasing certainty that the great 
majority of us will be able to live relatively healthy lives until the end is 
more decisive for most people than the lengthening of the life span itself. A 
premature death is no longer--as in previous generations--the rule. Today it is 
the exception. In an historical and worldwide context, we are the first who 
will--or could--be able to live our lives from the perspective of a relatively 
calculable, distant end. In order to do this to a greater degree and, above all, 
more consciously, a "life design" or "life plan" seems to be necessary. This 
means developing, as early in life as possible, the types of interests that will 
last a whole life long and will provide fulfillment, particularly in the "Fourth 
Age". The period of maturity (and waning activity) should not then be one of 
insufferable emptiness. "Maturity of life" can mean a chance and a goal for most 
of us today, provided that we structure this life appropriately ourselves. 
Contributions to discussions in this context in the USA and in two 
research-related seminars at the Free University of Berlin are presented.

PMID: 3176599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Acta Chir Belg. 1988 May-Jun;88(3):147-50.

[Construction of a jejunal pouch using stapling technics in total gastrectomy].

[Article in Dutch]

Haeck L(1), Bouckaert L.

Author information:
(1)Dienst Algemene Heelkunde, Kliniek O. L. V. van Lourdes, Waregem.

During the last four years we performed 16 total gastrectomies with construction 
of a jejunal pouch. The idea was that patients with a pouch should be able to 
eat larger meals. This was affirmed by the patients, also there were no 
complaints of regurgitation. Cachexia was not observed in the disease-free 
patients. Nevertheless the life expectancy stays poor. A description of the 
technique is given.

PMID: 3176791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Am J Clin Oncol. 1988 Oct;11(5):538-42. doi:
10.1097/00000421-198810000-00006.

Alternating cisplatin-5-fluorouracil and radiotherapy in head and neck cancer.

Merlano M(1), Grimaldi A, Benasso M, Bacigalupo A, Toma S, Scarpati D, CorvÃ² R, 
