Santelli A, Garaventa G, Rosso R.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Cancer Research, S. Martino Hospital, Genoa, Italy.

Thirty-four patients with advanced (stage IV) or relapsing squamous cell 
carcinoma of the head and neck (SCC-HN) were treated alternately with 
chemotherapy (CT) and radiotherapy (RT). Patients' characteristics were as 
follows: male: female ratio, 27:7; median age, 55 (34-76), median P.S., 1 (ECOG 
scale) (range 0-2). Patients studied had no renal, hepatic, or cardiac 
impairments, a life expectancy of greater than or equal to 3 months, and no 
previous treatment with RT or CT. Seventeen patients were previously untreated, 
and 17 had a relapse after radical surgery. The CT regimen consisted of 20 mg/m2 
cisplatin, with 2 h forced diuresis, from day 1 to 5, and 200 mg/m2 i.v., from 
day 1 to 5, every 3 weeks, administered four times. The RT was performed after 
the first, second, and third CT course, and consisted of three courses of 20 Gy 
each, 2 Gy daily, 5 days per week. Weekend intervals were planned between CT and 
RT treatments. The 17 previously untreated patients showed an overall response 
rate of 88.2% [eight complete response (CR), seven partial response (PR), one 
stable disease (SD), one progression disease (PD)]; the 17 patients treated at 
relapse after radical surgery reached an overall response rate of 64.7% (six CR, 
five PR, six PD). Actuarial median survival is 47 weeks: 51 weeks in untreated 
patients, and 42 weeks in previously treated patients. Toxicity was mild, and 
only 10 patients suffered from grade III (WHO scale) gastrointestinal (2 
patients), hematological (5 patients), mucosal (2 patients), and neurological (1 
patient) toxicity. Neither grade IV toxicity nor treatment-related deaths have 
been observed. In our study, cisplatin and 5-FU alternating with RT has shown an 
interesting antitumor activity and moderate side effects.

DOI: 10.1097/00000421-198810000-00006
PMID: 3177255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. APMIS Suppl. 1988;3:84-7.

Analysis of Kuwaiti mortality data (1981-83) due to infectious diseases using 
the life table methods.

Moussa MA(1), Sugathan TN, Khogali M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine and Behavioural Sciences, Faculty of 
Medicine, Kuwait University, Safat.

PMID: 3179081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. APMIS Suppl. 1988;3:88-90.

Potential gains in life expectancy of Kuwaiti nationals through partial and 
complete elimination of infectious and parasitic disease mortality.

al-Bustan MA(1), el-Zein FM, Kohli BR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine and Behavioural Science, Faculty of 
Medicine, Kuwait University.

This study attempts to estimate potential gains in life expectancy in 1984 
through partial and complete elimination of infectious and parasitic diseases 
among Kuwaiti nationals. For deriving these estimates, a multiple decrement life 
table approach was applied. The results of the study show that complete 
elimination of infectious and parasitic disease mortality would further add 0.45 
years to the life expectancy at birth of Kuwaiti males and 0.54 yr to that of 
Kuwaiti females. A partial reduction by 50% would result in gains of just 
one-half of the years gained through complete elimination of these causes. Also, 
as partial reduction is increased from 10% to 90%, the gains in life expectancy 
at birth would go up from 0.04 yr to 0.40 yr in the case of Kuwaiti males and 
0.06 to 0.48 yr for Kuwaiti females.

PMID: 3179082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Circulation. 1988 Nov;78(5 Pt 1):1150-6. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.78.5.1150.

Long-term outcome of patients undergoing surgical repair of isolated pulmonary 
valve stenosis. Follow-up at 20-30 years.

Kopecky SL(1), Gersh BJ, McGoon MD, Mair DD, Porter CJ, Ilstrup DM, McGoon DC, 
Kirklin JW, Danielson GK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, MN 55905.

In a group of 191 consecutive patients who underwent operation at the Mayo 
Clinic for isolated pulmonary valve stenosis between 1956 and 1967, late results 
were excellent. In patients surviving operation before the age of 21 years, 
long-term survival was similar to that in an age- and sex-matched control 
population. In the other patients, late survival and functional status were 
good, but survival was poorer than in the control population. This late 
attrition, most likely due to the sequelae of long-standing right ventricular 
hypertrophy, suggests the need for continued surveillance. Late sudden death 
occurred in only three patients, between 10 and 21 years postoperatively. The 
finding of normal life expectancy for such patients who survive operation before 
age 21 is important for actuarial purposes and for the patients' career and 
employment plans.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.78.5.1150
PMID: 3180374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Izv Akad Nauk SSSR Biol. 1988 Jul-Aug;(4):494-9.

[Theoretical prerequisites for determining the individual biological age of 
animals based on physiological indices].

[Article in Russian]

Obukhova LK, Potapenko AI.

PMID: 3183183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. J Gerontol. 1988 Nov;43(6):B168-73. doi: 10.1093/geronj/43.6.b168.

Serum hormones in diet-restricted gnotobiotic and conventional Lobund-Wistar 
rats.

Snyder DL(1), Wostmann BS, Pollard M.

Author information:
(1)Lobund Laboratory, University of Notre Dame.

In order to clarify the reasons for life extension due to the germ-free state 
and mild dietary restriction, serum levels of thyroid stimulating hormone, 
thyroxine, triiodothyronine, prolactin, and testosterone were determined in 
conventional and gnotobiotic (single microbe contaminations) Lobund-Wistar rats 
fed either ad libitum or restricted to 12 grams (70% of ad libitum) of diet per 
day from weaning. Thyroid hormone levels were slightly higher in gnotobiotic 
rats, declined between 7 and 30 months of age in all rats, and were not affected 
by dietary restriction. Prolactin showed a significant rise with age within the 
ad libitum rats only. Testosterone levels declined significantly with age in all 
rats, but were significantly higher in restricted rats at all ages. These 
results indicate that mild dietary restriction extends life span without 
reducing circulating levels of thyroid stimulating hormone, thyroxine, 
triiodothyronine, or testosterone in mature Lobund-Wistar rats, and prevents the 
age-associated rise in serum prolactin. Life extension in germ-free rats is not 
related to differences in endocrine function.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/43.6.b168
PMID: 3183303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. J Gerontol. 1988 Nov;43(6):S194-9. doi: 10.1093/geronj/43.6.s194.

Recent changes in mortality and labor force behavior among older Americans: 
consequences for nonworking life expectancy.

Hayward MD(1), Grady WR, McLaughlin SD.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern California, Los Angeles 
90089-0191.

Increment-decrement working life tables for 1972 and 1980 are used to assess the 
relative impact of recent changes in mortality and labor force behavior on the 
number of years older men and women can expect to spend out of the labor force 
(nonworking life expectancy). The life tables are based on data from the Current 
Population Surveys and pertain to the population aged 55 and older for the two 
observation points. The results indicate that nonworking life expectancy 
increased dramatically between 1972 and 1980 for both men and women. Although 
labor force behavior changed markedly for both population groups during the 
observation period, the results clearly identify that changes in mortality were 
responsible for the increases in nonworking life expectancy. Implications of the 
findings for social policy are briefly discussed.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/43.6.s194
PMID: 3183317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Med Klin (Munich). 1988 Oct 4;83(19):637-42.

[The significance of histopathology of bone marrow for the life expectancy of 
patients with chronic lymphatic leukemia].

[Article in German]

Bernhards J, DÃ¶hler U, Freund M, Rastetter J, Georgii A.

PMID: 3185422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Milbank Q. 1988;66(2):283-308.

Projecting the older population of the United States: lessons from the past and 
prospects for the future.

Guralnik JM(1), Yanagishita M, Schneider EL.

Author information:
(1)National Institute on Aging.

Projections of future populations are fraught with uncertainties based on past 
fertility and immigration trends, and assumptions about medical science and 
lifestyles. The U.S. Census Bureau and the Social Security Administration may be 
unduly cautious in their assumption that the mortality decline of the past two 
decades cannot continue; it may be sustained for the next half century. 
Alternative assumptions about rates of mortality and morbidity all indicate that 
the needs for health services, institutionalization, and home care of the 
disabled elderly--especially among the oldest old--will make ever greater 
relative and absolute demands on the nation's health care resources.

PMID: 3185428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1988 Aug;89(8):1302-5.

[A case of advanced gallbladder carcinoma of a 77-year-old female successfully 
resected with extended right hepatic lobectomy with caudate lobectomy and 
pancreatoduodenectomy].

[Article in Japanese]

Kondoh S(1), Nimura Y, Hayakawa N, Kamiya J, Koh K, Shimizu N, Sumida K.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Nagoya University School of Medicine, Japan.

A 77-year-old woman was admitted with obstructive jaundice. US and CT 
demonstrated a solid mass 2.5cm in diameter in the hepatic hilum. 
Cholangiography revealed not only severe stenosis of the hilar hepatic duct but 
also involvement of the right-posterior-inferior-ventral branch and right caudal 
branch. Angiography showed almost normal appearance except cystic artery. 
Duodenal invasion was also detected by per oral duodenography. These findings 
forced to plan extended right hepatic lobectomy with caudate lobectomy and 
pancreatoduodenectomy for radicality. In spite of the aged and her complications 
such as DM, hypertension, scoliosis and bradyacusia, liver function was good and 
she was mentally very active for life. Therefore, planned operation was 
performed and the suitability of this operation was proved by histological 
examination. She underwent resection of the abdominal wall for recurrence 8 
months after and now alive without the disease 27 months after the first 
operation. It is stressed that the most suitable operation should be selected 
conceiving the mode and severity of cancer extension which is revealed by 
precise preoperative examinations and extended operation may be indicated in 
even the elderly if various conditions are good.

PMID: 3185498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Orthopade. 1988 Sep;17(5):447-9.

[Technical orthopedic management of osteopathies in adulthood].

[Article in German]

Gisbertz D(1), Baumgartner R.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik fÃ¼r Technische OrthopÃ¤die und Rehabilitation, 
WestfÃ¤lischen Wilhelms-UniversitÃ¤t MÃ¼nster.

Some indications for orthopedic appliances in the treatment of bone disease in 
adult patients are discussed. The fit of an appliance and comfort in use are 
important factors in its acceptance, as are the duration of use required and the 
standard of maintenance available for it. The role of orthopedic appliances in 
the rehabilitation of adult orthopedic patients is discussed with reference to 
osteogenesis imperfecta. The provision of individually adapted chair seats or 
extension of the patients' area of activity by means of special wheel-chairs are 
possible ways of improving their quality of life and, indirectly, that of their 
families.

PMID: 3186253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Radiologe. 1988 Sep;28(9):401-8.

[Acute myocardial infarct. A changing clinical picture].

[Article in German]

Just H(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Innere Medizin III, Schwerpunkt Kardiologie, Medizinische 
UniversitÃ¤tsklinik Freiburg i.Br.

Acute myocardial infarction is a major complication of stenosing coronary artery 
disease and constitutes the most frequent single cause of death. It is caused by 
thrombotic occlusion of one of the major epicardial coronary arterial branches 
in most cases. Sudden death due to ventricular fibrillation is responsible for 
the majority of early fatalities. In 60% of all fatal infarcts, death occurs 
within 1 h of the onset of pain. The final extension of myocardial necrosis is 
reached within 2-4 h. An integrated programme has therefore been developed for 
the surveillance and treatment of patients suffering acute coronary attack; it 
has been shown that it can markedly lower infarct mortality. It includes mobile 
prehospital care, intensive care treatment in the hospital, and rehabilitative 
procedures for application during reconvalescence. Early antiarrhythmic 
treatment and myocardial reperfusion via fibrinolysis are the main therapeutic 
procedures in the earliest stage. In hospital an operating room and an operating 
team must be available round the clock for the performance of coronary 
angiography followed by percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or bypass 
surgery, which can be safely carried out in the acute stage providing the 
indications are strictly observed. Mortality and morbidity can be significantly 
lowered and both life expectancy and quality of life can be remarkably improved.

PMID: 3186975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1988;36(3):196-201.

[Demographic impact of AIDS mortality in France in 1990: AIDS before suicide and 
next to traffic accidents].

[Article in French]

Flandre P(1), Valleron AJ.

Author information:
(1)URBB, INSERM U 263, UniversitÃ© de Paris.

This paper presents an evaluation of the demographic impact of mortality by AIDS 
in the next future years, in France. Future cases are predicted by using a 
regression technique based on an exponential model. Three demographic indicators 
are computed: Years of Potential Life Lost (YPLL), Expectancy of Life (EL) and 
Expectancy of Active Life (EAL) for males. For example, in 1990 AIDS would be 
responsible of a loss of 0.67 and 0.38 years for EL and EAL respectively. These 
results would raise AIDS almost to the Accidents level and ahead of Suicide. 
Moreover, we consider that the estimations presented in this article are rather 
optimistic, taking into account the fact that there is an increasing proportion 
of IV drug abusers cases, younger than the other cases.

PMID: 3187145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1988;36(3):216-25.

Trends in mortality from major non-communicable diseases in the middle-aged 
population of Malta.

Tuomilehto J(1), Cacciottolo J, Vassallo A, Schranz A, Nissinen A, Grech A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, National Public Health Institute, Helsinki, 
Finland.

Trends in life expectancy and mortality from major non-communicable diseases in 
Malta were analyzed from the national vital statistics available. Most of the 
increased life expectancy during the 20th century in Malta took place between 
1930 and 1960 and since then only a minor increase was observed. The peak in age 
standardized total mortality in men and women aged 40-69 years was during 
1974-76. Total mortality in men was about 40% higher than that of women. The 
proportion of deaths from major non-communicable diseases (cardiovascular 
diseases, cancer and diabetes) of all deaths increased during 1968-82. In 
1983-84 in the age group 45-64 cardiovascular diseases accounted for 54% of 
deaths in men and 43% in women, cancer 27% and 34%, and diabetes 3% and 11% in 
men and women, respectively. The international comparison of mortality data 
showed that mortality from both cardiovascular diseases, cancer and diabetes was 
clearly higher than in other European Mediterranean countries ranking among the 
highest in the whole Europe. Public health intervention programmes have 
initiated in Malta to reduce these high death rates in the future.

PMID: 3187148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Res Aging. 1988 Sep;10(3):358-82. doi: 10.1177/0164027588103004.

The retirement process among older women in the United States. Changes in the 
1970s.

Hayward M, Grady WR, McLaughlin SD.

DOI: 10.1177/0164027588103004
PMID: 3187188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Salud Publica Mex. 1988 May-Jun;30(3):312-28.

[Biological and socioeconomic determinants of child survival].

[Article in Spanish]

Mosley WH.

PIP: This document describes advances in a conceptual framework under 
development since 1984 for research on child survival in developing countries. 
The framework links variables explaining biologically determined disease 
processes to social determinants in the family and community. The major addition 
is the extension of previous models of proximate determinants to include 
fertility-child survival interactions, as well as the interaction between child 
growth and child survival. The role of health policies within the framework of 
proximate determinants is also explored. A strategy oriented toward specific 
diseases will not prove successful in developing countries, where most infant 
and child deaths are not due to a single cause but rather are the final product 
of a series of episodes of infection combined with malnutrition. Health policies 
must therefore identify the risk factors that reduce probabilities of survival 
as well as the pathologies that actually cause death. Risk factors can be 
classified as proximate determinants, the basic biological mechanisms that 
directly influence risks of morbidity and mortality, and underlying 
determinants, all the other social and environmental determinants that operate 
indirectly through the proximate determinants to influence infant survival. The 
1st step in applying the focus on proximate determinants is to achieve a clear 
understanding of some measurable biological indicators of health and child 
survival or of their opposites, illness and death. Abnormal growth has been 
found to be a sensitive and nonspecific indicator of morbidity in children. 
Measurement of height and weight could serve as the social science counterpart 
of mortality measurement for a demographer. Mortality and permanent growth 
stunting are both indicators reflecting different points of chronic and 
irreversible physical deterioration on the continuum that ranges from good 
health to death. The proposed conceptual framework integrates Bongaarts' 
proximate fertility determinants with the proximate child survival determinants 
proposed in an earlier work by Mosley and Chen. 9 specific determinants are 
divided into 4 categories of factors that influence both child survival and 
fertility: factors regulating exposure to conception (sexual union, coital 
frequency), lactation, ecological risk (dietary deficiency, environmental 
contamination, accidents), and direct interventions (personal preventive 
measures, curative measures, and intentionally inflicted lesions). 5 groups of 
underlying determinants operate through the proximate determinants: individual 
factors, family factors, cultural factors, institutional factors, and 
environmental factors.

PMID: 3187731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Soz Praventivmed. 1988;33(4-5):226-32. doi: 10.1007/BF02083578.

[Strategies for the prevention of cardiovascular diseases in the German Federal 
Republic].

[Article in German]

Laaser U(1), Murza G, Gerdel W, Borgers D.

Author information:
(1)Institut fÃ¼r Dokumentation und Information, Sozialmedizin und Ã¶ffentliches 
Gesundheitswesen, Bielefeld.

The increased relevance of cardiovascular prevention for improved population 
health is mainly a result of recent epidemiologic research. The identification 
of essential risk factors of the arterio-sclerotic process as well as their 
interventive modification are generally accepted. The prolongation of the 
life-expectancy has been achieved more and more by preventive successes in 
higher age. Participation of the individual and cooperation of institutions are 
essential prerequisites of the necessary life style change. The German health 
offices have to be prepared for essential functions in health management.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02083578
PMID: 3188663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Acta Pathol Jpn. 1988 Aug;38(8):1053-60.

Ameloblastoma of mucosal origin.

Takeda Y(1), Kuroda M, Suzuki A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Pathology, School of Dentistry, Iwate Medical University, 
Morioka, Japan.

Histopathological, histochemical and ultrastructural findings of an extraosseous 
ameloblastoma occurring in an 89-year-old woman are reported. Rete pegs of the 
gingival epithelium covering the lesion showed marked extension into the lesion, 
and direct continuity between the extended rete pegs and tumor follicles was 
evident. Ultrastructural examination showed that the rete pegs gradually became 
transformed into double-stranded epithelial cords as they elongated deeply, and 
that the ends of these epithelial cords gradually became transformed into tumor 
follicles. These findings suggest that the potential for differentiation is 
maintained in the basal cells of the gingival epithelium throughout life, and 
can be triggered by unknown stimuli. The ultrastructure of the tumor follicles 
was similar to that of intraosseous follicular ameloblastoma, but was different 
from that of cutaneous basal cell carcinoma. Histochemical staining for keratin 
protein revealed that the central cells of tumor follicles and the covering 
epithelium were positive, whereas the peripheral cells of tumor follicles and 
the elongated rete pegs were negative.

PMID: 3188913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 1988;105(2):185-200.

[Comments on a basic publication of WHO].

[Article in Spanish]

Matilla GÃ³mez V.

PMID: 3189729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Biomed Pharmacother. 1988;42(4):227-36.

Cancer "cures" in children, adolescents and young adults versus general cancer 
cure failure after 50 years of age.

MathÃ© G(1).

Author information:
(1)Service des Maladies Sanguines, Immunitaires et Tumorales, HÃ´pital 
Paul-Brousse, Villejuif, France.

Cancer cure has principally concerned stem cell or embryonic cell tumors in 
children, adolescents and adults under 50 years of age. Cancers that are termed 
"curable" are those in which the patient survival curve rapidly becomes parallel 
to the normal life expectancy curve--a plateau in children--and "almost curable" 
those in which this phenomenon appears later on and/or which is not completely 
parallel to the normal life expectancy curve. The failure to cure cancer 
patients over 50 years of age by chemotherapy suggests that although cytostatics 
are able to reduce the neoplastic cell number to a level that can be eradicated 
by the lato sensu immunologic functions of the organism before that age, this is 
not the case in older patients in which even a low number of neoplastic cells 
cannot be destroyed in this manner. Experimental and clinical data on preventive 
and curative effects of immuno-restoration/stimulation after the age of 50 are 
presented and discussed, as well as both reduced cancer patient survival rate 
and decreased immunity which follows peri-surgical radiotherapy.

PMID: 3191201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. J Chir (Paris). 1988 Aug-Sep;125(8-9):497-500.

[Aortic sarcoma. A rare pathology].

[Article in French]

Lescalie F(1), Moreau P, Enon B, Chevalier JM, Pillet J, Simard C.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie vasculaire et thoracique, C.H.U. d'Angers.

In the light of a case of endotheliosarcoma of the thoracic aorta, the authors 
found in the literature 33 cases of aortic sarcomas and 13 of sarcomas of 
peripheral arteries. The clinical diagnosis of this rare tumor is difficult. The 
diagnosis can be made before surgery only on the basis of angiographic and CT 
scan findings, whilst in most instances common arterial lesions are suspected 
whether of atheromatous or embolic origin. The positive diagnosis of arterial 
sarcoma remains histological. The diagnosis of an endothelial tumor can be made 
with the help of the techniques of factor VIII, antigen H and, more recently, 
lectins. Surgical treatment by excision and restoration of continuity has most 
often been used. Alone or in combination with chemo and/or radiotherapy, it 
would seem to be inadequate to prevent progression which involves the invasion 
of adjacent tissues, tumor emboli or generalized metastases. The prognosis of 
such a tumor remains gloomy with an average life expectancy of one year and 7 
months, regardless of the histological type of arterial sarcoma.

PMID: 3192655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. J Clin Epidemiol. 1988;41(10):1031-6. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(88)90041-8.

Prognostic factors for life expectancy in multiple sclerosis analysed by 
Cox-models.

Riise T(1), GrÃ¸nning M, Aarli JA, Nyland H, Larsen JP, Edland A.

Author information:
(1)Section for Medical Informatics and Statistics, University of Bergen, 
Haukeland Hospital, Norway.

To determine if such factors as first symptom, sex, age at onset and initial 
clinical course have any influence on life expectancy of multiple sclerosis 
patients, a survival analysis from date of diagnosis for 598 MS-patients in 
Norway was performed. To study the effect of all the variables simultaneously we 
used the Cox proportional hazards regression model with incomplete data. Median 
survival time was 27 years after diagnosis. The variable which most strongly 
predicted the duration of the disease was age at onset. High age at onset and a 
progressive course of the disease were correlated with a more unfavourable 
prognosis. The onset symptom, vertigo, was also correlated with a shorter life 
expectancy. No significant effect of sex was found. We found in this material an 
indication of improved survival over the study period.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(88)90041-8
PMID: 3193137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. J Clin Epidemiol. 1988;41(10):985-94. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(88)90036-4.

Lifetime fracture risk: an approach to hip fracture risk assessment based on 
bone mineral density and age.

Melton LJ 3rd(1), Kan SH, Wahner HW, Riggs BL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences Research, Mayo Clinic and Foundation, 
Rochester, MN 55905.

Hip fractures occur late in life following a substantial reduction in skeletal 
mass. If risk for such fractures could be predicted early, efforts to prevent 
excessive bone loss would be more successful and could be directed at the 
individuals most likely to be affected. With this objective in mind, we devised 
an approach to estimating the lifetime risk of a proximal femur fracture based 
on age and on current femoral bone mineral density, using population-based data 
from ongoing studies of osteoporosis and fractures among Rochester, Minnesota, 
women. Our calculations indicate that, at any given age, the lifetime risk of a 
proximal femur fracture rises as current bone density diminishes. At any given 
level of femoral bone density, lifetime risk rises with younger age and 
increasing life expectancy. While these trends seem robust, estimates of risk 
vary substantially with the assumptions that underlie the model. Consequently, 
these assumptions must be validated before our findings can be applied 
clinically to predict risk for individual patients.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(88)90036-4
PMID: 3193143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Nurs Times. 1988 Oct 12-18;84(41):21.

Bridge that gap.

Howie C.

PMID: 3194303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Arch Intern Med. 1988 Dec;148(12):2537-8. doi: 10.1001/archinte.148.12.2537.

Inaccurate predictions of life expectancy. Dilemmas and opportunities.

Pearlman RA.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.148.12.2537
PMID: 3196120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Arch Intern Med. 1988 Dec;148(12):2540-3.

Predicting life span for applicants to inpatient hospice.

Forster LE(1), Lynn J.

Author information:
(1)Washington Home, Washington, DC.

The advent of hospice programs and their funding under Medicare has recently 
made eligibility for substantial insured services turn on whether a patient has 
less than three or six months to live. The implicit assumption is that 
physicians can provide this prediction accurately. To test this assumption and 
to improve predictions, the life spans of 108 consecutive applications for 
inpatient hospice care were estimated independently by two oncologists, an 
internist, an oncology nurse, and a hospice social worker, based on data in a 
ten-page multidisciplinary application packet. The applicants were followed up 
until death. Actual life span was correlated with predictions. The median (+/- 
SD) life span was 3.5 +/- 12.4 weeks. The predictions as a group were overly 
optimistic about survival by an average of 3.4 weeks. The best prognosticator's 
prediction was only moderately correlated with actual life span, and no two 
prognosticator's predictions correlated closely with one another. Predicting 
actual interval until death was more accurate than predicting a 90% confidence 
interval around the time of death, though the latter procedure was better at 
avoiding the error of unpredicted long-term survivors. This imprecision in 
"expert" estimation of life span poses substantial problems for hospice programs 
and policymakers.

PMID: 3196122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Brain Res. 1988 Oct 25;463(1):174-81. doi: 10.1016/0006-8993(88)90543-4.

Effect of age on collateral reinnervation of sweat glands in the mouse.

Navarro X(1), Kennedy WR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.

This study demonstrates that the number of sweat glands (SGs) innervated by 
individual peripheral nerves in the mouse hind paw decreases with aging but the 
ability for reinnervation by collateral sprouting is maintained throughout life. 
In one experiment, the saphenous, peroneal and tibial nerves were cut and tied, 
denervating all SGs of the hind paw except those receiving axons from the intact 
sural nerve. In another, the saphenous was the only nerve left intact. The 
initial number of SGs supplied only by the single intact nerve was significantly 
higher in young adult than older mice. The capacity of the sural and saphenous 
nerves to collaterally reinnervate the denervated SGs was followed by serial 
testing for the return of sensitivity to pilocarpine stimulation. Collaterally 
reinnervated SGs appeared during the second and third weeks postoperation 
adjacent to already active SGs, thereby increasing the total sweat area of the 
intact nerve, and its SG number about 3, 2 and 5 times for the sural, and 8, 2 
and 2 times for saphenous nerve, in young, adult and old animals respectively. 
Reinnervation was slightly faster and the degree of extension greater in young 
than adult mice, and the degree of extension was decreased in older mice. These 
observations suggest that the number of sudomotor axons in the peripheral nerve, 
as well as their capacity for collateral reinnervation, is reduced with aging.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(88)90543-4
PMID: 3196907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Exp Gerontol. 1988;23(4-5):281-95. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(88)90031-9.

Long-lived lines of Caenorhabditis elegans can be used to establish predictive 
biomarkers of aging.

Johnson TE(1), Conley WL, Keller ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, University of California, 
Irvine 92717.

Long-lived recombinant inbred lines, some of which have mean and maximum life 
spans up to 70% longer than wild type, were used in these analyses. Longer life 
results from a slower exponential rate of increase in mortality. General motor 
activity decreases with chronological age in all genotypes; this decay in 
general motor activity is a biomarker of aging in that it is a predictor of 
maximum life span. The aging process has also been dissected into component 
processes. The length of development and the length of reproduction are 
unrelated to increased life span; lengthened life is due entirely to an increase 
in post-reproductive life span. Development, reproduction, and life span are 
each under independent genetic control. General motor activity and life span 
share at least one common rate-determining genetic component.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(88)90031-9
PMID: 3197780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Nihon Juigaku Zasshi. 1988 Oct;50(5):1003-8. doi: 10.1292/jvms1939.50.1003.

Epidemiological studies on the expectation of life for dogs computed from animal 
cemetery records.

Hayashidani H, Omi Y, Ogawa M, Fukutomi K.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms1939.50.1003
PMID: 3199609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Lakartidningen. 1988 Dec 7;85(49):4297-300.

[The long life of women--a societal problem?].

[Article in Swedish]

Bengtsson C, MÃ¥rdh PA, Stenberg K, Linder B, Takolander R.

PMID: 3200046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1988;149:144-9. doi: 10.3109/00365528809096972.

Surgery for synchronous hepatic metastases of colorectal cancer.

Bismuth H(1), Castaing D, Traynor O.

Author information:
(1)UnitÃ© de Chirurgie HÃ©pato-Biliaire, Hopital Paul Brousse, Villejuif, France.

Over the last 10 years 32 patients have had synchronous hepatic metastases from 
colorectal cancer treated surgically in this unit. As a general policy the 
metastases were resected 3-4 months after resection of the primary tumour. At 
the end of this interval a thorough assessment was made for recurrent local, 
regional or extrahepatic metastatic disease before making a decision to perform 
liver resection. Eighteen patients had a conventional liver resection (13 major 
liver resections, 5 limited liver resections) and 14 patients had an atypical 
liver resection (metastasectomy). Patients were followed at 4 monthly intervals 
after operation using ultrasonography and CEA determination. The operative 
mortality (within 60 days) was zero. Twenty-six patients (81%) had a totally 
uncomplicated postoperative course. The period of hospitalization was 14 +/- 2 
days. Two patients had a second liver resection at a later date on account of 
tumour recurrence. The survival rates at 1, 2 and 3 years were 84%, 58% and 33% 
respectively. These results confirm that synchronous hepatic metastases from 
colorectal cancer can be resected with minimal morbidity and mortality and that 
worthwhile improvements in life expectancy result.

DOI: 10.3109/00365528809096972
PMID: 3201153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Pediatriia. 1988;(4):71-4.

[Socioeconomic aspects of malignant neoplasms in children].

[Article in Russian]

Aksel' EM, DvoÄ­rina IV.

PMID: 3205654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Bull Math Biol. 1988;50(2):187-92. doi: 10.1007/BF02459951.

On the incompatibility of Gompertz or Weibull survival dynamics with 
exponentially distributed individual lifespans.

Guess F, Witten M.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02459951
PMID: 3207951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Int J Cardiol. 1988 Aug;20(2):221-30. doi: 10.1016/0167-5273(88)90266-5.

Effect of age on long-term prognosis of patients with myocardial infarction.

CastellÃ³ R(1), AlegrÃ­a E, Merino A, Malpartida F, MartÃ­nez-Caro D.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Department, University Clinic, Pamplona, Spain.

We studied 181 patients aged under 65 years and 129 patients over 65 with acute 
myocardial infarction. There were no major differences in the prevalence of 
coronary risk factors, angina or previous myocardial infarction. A larger 
percentage of elderly patients had congestive heart failure (51.4% vs 32.6%, P 
less than 0.001) and complete heart block (17.1% vs 7.2%, P less than 0.01) 
during the acute phase. In-hospital mortality was significantly higher in the 
elderly patients (34% vs 16%, P less than 0.01). Late mortality rates correlated 
in both groups with the Killip class at the time of infarction and with the 
occurrence of reinfarction. In the elderly group, it was also associated with 
complete heart block during the acute phase. Five-year survival was 80% in the 
older and 72% in the younger patients (P = 0.1). Age did not affect survival of 
Killip class I patients (85% vs 86%, P = 0.83), but life expectancy was 
significantly reduced in elderly patients in Killip class greater than II (39% 
vs 60%, P less than 0.05). In conclusion, elderly patients cannot be considered 
a homogeneous group of high-risk patients. Clinical variables at the time of 
infarction can identify low- and high-risk subsets among them. Age constitutes 
an independent prognostic factor for late mortality when any degree of heart 
failure is present.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-5273(88)90266-5
PMID: 3209252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Klin Wochenschr. 1988 Jul 15;66(14):607-13. doi: 10.1007/BF01728801.

Malignant mesothelioma of the pleura. A prospective therapeutic study of 132 
patients from 1981-1985.

Calavrezos A(1), Koschel G, HÃ¼sselmann H, Taylessani A, Heilmann HP, Fabel H, 
Schmoll HJ, Dietrich H, Hain E.

Author information:
(1)HÃ¤matologische Abteilung des Allgemeinen Krankenhauses St. Georg, Hamburg.

Between March 1981 and February 1985, 93 out of 132 patients with a 
histologically confirmed diagnosis of malignant pleural mesothelioma were 
eligible for therapy and were prospectively assigned to receive either combined 
therapy or best supportive care, according to their personal preferences. 
Fifty-seven patients underwent multimodal therapy including surgical resection 
where possible, polychemotherapy, and radiation therapy in case of partial 
remission. Thirty-six patients received maximal supportive care only, as did 39 
patients who were not eligible for treatment. The median survival was 13 months 
for treated patients compared to 7 for those receiving best supportive care and 
5 for patients not amenable to treatment. Median progress-free survival was 6, 
2, and 1 month respectively. Surgical resection did not prolong life expectancy 
within the treated group. In view of significant differences in the distribution 
of various cofactors over the two study groups, stepwise Cox model analyses were 
performed. Prognostic nontreatment variables related to prolonged survival were: 
good performance status, stage I and II, absence of chest pain, age below 50 
years, and epithelial histology. Although in the Cox model analyses the survival 
improvement of patients being treated could be greatly attributed to other 
cofactors, multimodal treatment showed some prolongation of life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01728801
PMID: 3210656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Langenbecks Arch Chir. 1988;373(4):227-34. doi: 10.1007/BF01261814.

[Effect of serial CEA determination on diagnosis, therapy and prognosis of 
recurrent colorectal cancer].

[Article in German]

Mentges B(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik fÃ¼r Allgemein- und Abdominalchirurgie der Chirurgischen 
UniversitÃ¤tsklinik Mainz.

A rising CEA level did not indicate an early tumour recurrence in the follow-up 
of 660 patients with curative surgery because of colorectal carcinoma. In case 
of rectal carcinoma the first rise of the tumour marker preceded diagnosis of 
recurrence by other means 7.9 months on an average, in case of colonic carcinoma 
5.1 months. The long-term survival after secondary procedure was 17.5% for 
patients with normal CEA value at time of reoperation and surmounted life 
expectancy of patients with rising tumour-marker level significantly (5.9%). The 
worst prognosis was found for the collective with rising CEA before diagnosis of 
relapse by other means, none of whom was saved by reoperation. The resectability 
rate of metastases was higher than that of local recurrences with nearly 
identical survival for both groups. Because of the long CEA lead times advances 
in therapy by second-look procedures are to be expected mainly for patients with 
pelvic recurrences after abdominoperineal extirpation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01261814
PMID: 3210846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Psychol Rep. 1988 Aug;63(1):47-53. doi: 10.2466/pr0.1988.63.1.47.

Objective and subjective factors in estimating life expectancy.

Robbins RA.

DOI: 10.2466/pr0.1988.63.1.47
PMID: 3212139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Soz Praventivmed. 1988;33(3):140-3. doi: 10.1007/BF02078420.

Sex differentials in Swiss cancer mortality.

La Vecchia C(1), Levi F.

Author information:
(1)Institut universitaire de mÃ©decine sociale et prÃ©ventive, Lausanne.

Swiss national cancer mortality statistics from 1951 to 1984 and survival rates 
from the Vaud Cancer Registry datafile over the period 1974-1980 were considered 
in terms of sex ratios. Overall age-standardized cancer mortality for population 
aged 35-64 showed only a moderate decline in males (from 230 to 221/100,000), 
but a substantial one in females (from 191 to 152/100,000). Mortality from most 
cancer sites (except gallbladder and thyroid) was persistently higher in males, 
the male/female ratio ranging between 1.2 for intestines, skin, brain and 
lympho-reticular neoplasms to about 2 for stomach or pancreas, up to 7-10 for 
lung and cancers related to tobacco and alcohol (mouth or pharynx, oesophagus). 
The sex ratio for lung cancer increased between the early 1950's and the mid 
1960's, but noticeably declined thereafter, probably reflecting trends in 
smoking prevalence among subsequent generations of Swiss males and females. Less 
obvious is the substantial increase in the sex ratio for liver cancer (from 1.6 
to 5.7), which was evident in younger middle age, too. Population-based cancer 
survival statistics indicated that for most common sites rates were appreciably 
higher in females than in males. Thus, better survival explains part of the 
advantage in cancer mortality for women. This can be related to earlier 
diagnosis, better compliance or responsiveness to treatment, although there is 
no obvious single interpretation for this generalized more favourable pattern in 
females.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02078420
PMID: 3213232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Soz Praventivmed. 1988;33(3):162-6. doi: 10.1007/BF02078424.

[Impact of hormonal prevention on fractures of the proximal femur in 
postmenopausal women: a simulation study].

[Article in French]

Van der Loos M(1), Paccaud F, Gutzwiller F, Chrzanowski R.

Author information:
(1)Institut universitaire de mÃ©decine sociale et prÃ©ventive, Lausanne.

A simulation model of the effects of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) on hip 
fractures and their consequences is based on a population of 100,000 
post-menopausal women. This cohort is confronted with literature derived 
probabilities of cancers (endometrium or breast, which are contra-indications to 
HRT), hip fracture, disability requiring nursing home or home care, and death. 
Administration of HRT for life prevents 55.5% of hip fractures, 22.6% of years 
with home care and 4.4% of years in nursing homes. If HRT is administered for 15 
years, these results are 15.5%, 10% and 2.2%, respectively. A slight gain in 
life expectancy is observed for both durations of HRT. The net financial loss in 
the simulated population is 222 million Swiss Francs (cost/benefit ratio 1.25) 
for lifelong administration of HRT, and 153 million Swiss Francs (cost/benefit 
ratio 1.42) if HRT is administered during 15 years.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02078424
PMID: 3213235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Soz Praventivmed. 1988;33(3):173-80. doi: 10.1007/BF02078426.

[Are females healthier than males? On the health status of females in West 
Germany].

[Article in German]

Maschewsky-Schneider U(1), Greiser E, Helmert U.

Author information:
(1)Bremer Institut fÃ¼r PrÃ¤ventionsforschung und Sozialmedizin, Bremen.

Women live longer than men - are they healthier than men or do they live better 
than men? Morbidity data indicate that men and women differ regarding the types 
of illnesses they undergo. The life-expectancy for females is not the only 
indicator for a better or healthier life. Women feel more affected by health 
problems than man (indicators a.o.: complaints, handicaps to daily activities, 
use of medication). Objective morbidity data are insufficient but indicate 
significant disease occurrence in women (indicators a.o.: contacts with the 
physicians, self-reported history of diseases). Based on epidemiological studies 
the hypotheses of biological protective factors have not been proved or refuted. 
Women have a lower CVD-risk factor profile than men. Cluster analyses of the 
first Bremen health survey separated women into four groups related to health 
behaviour and risk status. The group with the highest risk factor prevalence had 
also the most social and family stress. For further research about women we have 
to work on epidemiological data as well as on qualitative and theoretical 
research on women and health.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02078426
PMID: 3213237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Eur Urol. 1988;15(1-2):73-6. doi: 10.1159/000473400.

Prognostic factors in renal cell carcinoma.

Dal Bianco M(1), Artibani W, Bassi PF, Pescatori E, Pagano F.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Urology, University of Padua, Italy.

In order to evaluate the prognostic factors of renal cell carcinoma (RCC), a 
retrospective study was carried out on 215 patients (150 men, 65 women) who had 
undergone surgical treatment from March 1979 to December 1986. The average age 
of the patients was 58 years (ranging from 15 to 85 years). The ratios of 
survival to tumor stage and grade, as well as to nodal and venous involvement, 
distant metastases at the time of diagnosis (as TNM classification) were 
evaluated by means of the actuarial method (life table). Corrected 5-year 
survival rates for stage T1-T4 were 100, 81, 68.9 and 0%, respectively. Grade 1 
and grade 2 tumors had a 5-year survival rate of 66.5 and 52.8%, respectively; 
grade 3 had a 3-year survival rate of 46.5%. Nodal involvement at the time of 
diagnosis had a prediction value for the 3- and 5-year survival rate of 39.8 and 
