34.5%, respectively. Metastases at time of diagnosis had a 14.1% prediction 
value for a 3-year survival rate. Tumor extension to the vena cava (21 patients) 
affected survival in a significant way (55.8% at 3 years). A definite tendency 
towards lower stage and grade was observed in incidentally diagnosed RCC (11%). 
In conclusion, stage, grade, nodal and venous involvement as well as metastases 
at the time of diagnosis have a significant prognostic value in RCC. These data 
and the lack of early diagnostic methods for RCC suggest the routine use of 
renal ultrasonography in clinically asymptomatic patients during examination for 
suspected abdominal diseases and in high-risk patients (Von Hippel-Lindau 
disease smokers).

DOI: 10.1159/000473400
PMID: 3215240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. J Hypertens Suppl. 1988 Nov;6(1):S11-4.

Hypertension, quality of life and functional status: the concept of active life 
expectancy.

Papsidero JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Community Health Science, Michigan State University, East Lansing 48824.

Mortality rates and measures of life expectancy are widely used to compare and 
monitor health within populations. However, there is a need to add dimensions of 
population health other than survival. An alternative measure, 'active life 
expectancy', is a way of quantifying the functional health of older adult 
populations and, in part, measuring quality of life. Life-table techniques are 
used to define the expected duration of well-being. Instead of death, the 
end-point of active life expectancy is loss of independence in activities of 
daily living. Initial studies showed that active life expectancy decreased with 
age, from 10 years to 4.7 years and 2.9 years, respectively, for people entering 
the age intervals 65-69, 80-84 and 85 years and over. Since cardiovascular 
disease is the major cause of disability in the older adult population, measures 
of active life expectancy can provide improved information about functional 
independence and dependence. Life tables with estimates of active life 
expectancy can be used as a basis for determining the needs of age cohorts of 
people with hypertension and other conditions.

PMID: 3216237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Mech Ageing Dev. 1988 Oct;45(1):1-7. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(88)90014-0.

The effect of low protein-high dextrin diet and subsequent food restriction upon 
life prolongation in Fischer 344 male rats.

Horáková M(1), Deyl Z, Hausmann J, Macek K.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physiology, Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, Prague.

Fischer 344 rats fed low protein-high dextrin diet exhibit a higher median (but 
not 10th percentile) survival as compared to controls. The effect of this diet 
appears already if the diet is administered between 6 weeks and 6 months of age; 
after this treatment median survival of experimental animals is increased by 96 
days while the 10th percentile is not different from standard diet-fed controls. 
Further treatment of animals with the same diet has minimum effect as animals 
that lived on this regimen throughout the whole life exhibited a median lifespan 
increase by 120 days and increase in the 10th percentile by 41 days. However, if 
such animals at the age of 6 months are transferred to a restricted (60%) food 
intake regimen (control diet, not carbohydrate enriched) a further increase in 
median and 10th percentile lifespan prolongation can be observed reaching +328 
and +396 days respectively as compared to controls. The effects of this early 
feeding (6 weeks to 6 months) with a low protein-high carbohydrate diet 
available ad libitum and the food restricted regimen (standard diet 60% 
controls) fed from the age 6 months onwards are additive, the final results 
being identical to those obtained if the animals were kept on the 60% food 
restricted intake throughout the whole life. The fact that animals fed the low 
protein-high carbohydrate diet and those kept on 60% standard diet food 
restriction had different survival though they were equal in daily (identical) 
protein intake is emphasized.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(88)90014-0
PMID: 3216725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Mech Ageing Dev. 1988 Oct;45(1):75-92. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(88)90021-8.

Effect of 2-mercaptoethanol on some metabolic indices of ageing of CBA/Ca inbred 
mice.

Pénzes L(1), Noble RC, Beregi E, Imre S, Izsák J, Regius O.

Author information:
(1)Gerontology Centre, Semmelweis University of Medicine, Budapest, Hungary.

It has been shown in several studies that 2-mercaptoethanol (2-ME) improves the 
life span and aspects of life performance of laboratory animals. To obtain 
further details on the beneficial effects of 2-ME, a long-term study has been 
performed on male CBA/Ca inbred mice treated with this antioxidant. Four 
month-old mice were each given 4 micrograms of 2-ME in physiological saline via 
intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection 3 x per week. Measurements were made of the 
following: cold tolerance (heat performance), apparent total body protein 
turnover (T1/2), changes in the major lipid and fatty acid compositions of the 
liver, superoxide dismutase activity and formation of malondialdehyde and 
observations on a range of pathological changes. It was found that the basal 
rectal temperatures of the treated mice were higher and in the oldest group, 
heat performance capacity was better than those of the controls. After about 1 
year of age the apparent biological half-life time of total body protein (T1/2) 
was observed to be shorter in the treated mice. Significant increases were 
observed to occur in the proportions of the polyunsaturated fatty acids in the 
lipids of the liver in the mice injected with 2-ME. Although no differences were 
observed in the superoxide dismutase activities, malondialdehyde concentrations 
in the livers of the experimental mice were significantly increased. Autopsy 
data showed that Dunn-sarcomas associated with amyloidoses occurred more 
frequently in the untreated mice.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(88)90021-8
PMID: 3216730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Neoplasma. 1988;35(5):565-9.

FAB classification of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia: heterogeneity revealed on 
the basis of bone marrow findings.

Yavòrkovsky LL(1), Solovei DY, Ryauzova LY, Schvidel LM, Zile MA, Sused SG, 
Teilane IY.

Author information:
(1)Riga Medical Institute, USSR.

We report on 12 patients who fulfilled the FAB diagnosis criteria of chronic 
myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML). Some clinical findings (splenomegaly) as well as 
biological parameters (WBC count, cellularity of bone marrow sections, presence 
of dyserythropoiesis in bone marrow smears) were subjected to particular 
analysis. This allowed the assignment of each patient onto one of three separate 
hematological syndromes: (1) RA or RAEB with monocytosis, (2) myelomonocytic 
dysplasia (a novel syndrome) and (3) true CMML. Such separation may have 
distinct prognostic significance and may, therefore, predict life expectancy.

PMID: 3216930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Sci Am. 1988 Aug;259(2):26-7. doi: 10.1038/scientificamerican0888-26.

So long, lefty.

Horgan J.

DOI: 10.1038/scientificamerican0888-26
PMID: 3217784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Soc Biol. 1988 Spring-Summer;35(1-2):110-22. doi:
10.1080/19485565.1988.9988693.

Fifty years of Canadian Jewish mortality.

Needleman L.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1988.9988693
PMID: 3217811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Soc Biol. 1988 Spring-Summer;35(1-2):158-63. doi:
10.1080/19485565.1988.9988696.

A note on the consistency of life tables for total populations with those for 
their subpopulations.

Das Gupta P.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1988.9988696
PMID: 3217814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1988 Aug;76(4):429-41. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.1330760403.

Mathematical hazard models of mortality: an alternative to model life tables.

Gage TB(1).

Author information:
(1)State University of New York at Albany, New York 12222.

A five-parameter competing hazard model of the age pattern of mortality is 
described, and methods of fitting it to survivorship, death rate, and age 
structure data are developed and presented. The methods are then applied to 
published life table and census data to construct life tables for a Late 
Woodland population, a Christian period Nubian population, and the Yanomama. The 
advantage of this approach over the use of model life tables is that the hazard 
model facilitates life-table construction without imposing a particular age 
pattern of mortality on the data. This development makes it possible to use 
anthropological data to extend the study of human variation in mortality 
patterns to small populations.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330760403
PMID: 3218669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Eur J Cancer Clin Oncol. 1988 Dec;24(12):1869-78. doi: 
10.1016/0277-5379(88)90100-9.

Important prognostic value of standardized objective criteria of response in 
stage D2 prostatic carcinoma.

Labrie F(1), Dupont A, Giguere M, Cusan L, Bergeron N, Emond J, Monfette G, 
Lacourciere Y, Boucher H, Lachance R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Laval University Medical Center, Quebec, Canada.

Comment in
    Eur J Cancer Clin Oncol. 1989 Aug;25(8):1255-60.

One hundred and eighty-six previously untreated patients with clinical stage D2 
prostate cancer have been followed according to the criteria of objective 
response of the National Prostatic Cancer Project (NPCP). All patients received 
combination therapy with the antiandrogen Flutamide and the LHRH agonist 
(D-Trp6, des-Gly-NH2(10)]LHRH ethylamide (or surgical castration, 10 patients) 
as first treatment. Forty-nine patients (26.3%) achieved a complete response as 
best response while 56 (30.1%) and 69 (37.1%) patients had partial and stable 
responses, respectively, and only 12 patients (6.5%) did not respond to 
treatment. The median times required to achieve stable, partial and complete 
responses were 155, 183 and 401 days, respectively. The best response achieved 
has a major influence on the probability of continuing response and survival. 
While the 50% probability of continuing response is more than 3 years for the 
complete responders, it is reduced to 630 and 517 days for partial and stable 
responders, respectively. While the non-responders have a median life expectancy 
of 10.0 months, this value is increased to 30.3 and 37.8 months for the stable 
and partial responders, respectively. The best probability of survival is for 
the complete responders with a 95.9% probability of survival at 3 years. There 
is no significant correlation between the time required to achieve a best 
response (phase 1) and the duration of the response before progression occurs 
(phase 2) or the time between progression and death (phase 3) for any of the 
categories of responses. A longer period of time required to achieve a complete 
response is associated with a longer survival. When analysis is made, in an 
attempt to predict response, of the baseline characteristics of the patients 
before treatment, a low number of bone metastases and better performance status 
are associated with a greater chance of achieving a complete response while 
partial, stable and progression responses cannot be predicted from the baseline 
characteristics. The present data show the importance of standardization of the 
objective criteria of response to treatment in advanced prostate cancer. Thus, 
the patients who achieve a complete response have a much more favorable 
prognosis while partial and stable categories of response have a closely similar 
prognosis which is inferior to the complete responders. Moreover, the present 
data indicate that the stable category of response has an important prognostic 
value which is almost superimposable and not statistically different from the 
partial response in terms of duration of response and survival.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0277-5379(88)90100-9
PMID: 3220084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Int J Pept Protein Res. 1988 Aug;32(2):153-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1399-3011.1988.tb00675.x.

Chemical modification of superoxide dismutase. Extension of plasma half life of 
the enzyme through its reversible binding to the circulating albumin.

Ogino T(1), Inoue M, Ando Y, Awai M, Maeda H, Morino Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Kumamoto University Medical School, Japan.

Protection of organisms from oxidative stress is one of the major prerequisites 
for aerobic life. Since intravenously injected Cu++/Zn++-type superoxide 
dismutase (SOD) rapidly undergoes renal glomerular filtration and appears in 
urine in its intact form, its clinical use as a scavenger for superoxide 
radicals has been highly limited. To test whether reversible interaction of SOD 
with plasma albumin might decrease the rate of disappearance of the enzyme from 
the circulation, the lysyl residues of the human erythrocyte-type enzyme were 
covalently linked with poly-(styrene-co-maleic acid) butyl ester (SMA) via amide 
linkage. Affinity chromatographic analysis by an albumin-Sepharose column 
revealed that the enzyme samples labeled with SMA (SMA-SOD) tightly bound to the 
column, while unmodified SOD was eluted in the unbound fractions. SMA-SOD bound 
to the column could be eluted by the buffer solution containing 0.1% sodium 
dodecylsulfate. In vivo analysis revealed that intravenously administered 
SMA-SOD circulated bound to albumin with an extremely long half-life (6 h), 
while unmodified SOD rapidly underwent renal glomerular filtration with a plasma 
half-life of 4 min. Thus, SMA-SOD may effectively dismutase superoxide radicals 
in the circulation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-3011.1988.tb00675.x
PMID: 3220661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. J Hum Ergol (Tokyo). 1988 Sep;17(1):43-56.

Follow-up study of life span of farmers in relation to physical fitness data in 
1963.

Onishi N, Sato S, Kimotuki K.

PMID: 3221081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Am J Community Psychol. 1988 Dec;16(6):825-37. doi: 10.1007/BF00930895.

Upsetting social interactions and distress among Alzheimer's disease family 
care-givers: a replication and extension.

Kiecolt-Glaser JK(1), Dyer CS, Shuttleworth EC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Ohio State University College of Medicine, Columbus 
43210.

Although several studies have suggested that negative aspects of relationships 
have a greater impact on mood than positive elements, the individuals in these 
studies have been victims of life crises. To assess the generality of these 
findings, social support and mood data were collected from two well-matched 
groups that differed with respect to the presence of a chronic stressor in their 
lives. The 34 family care-givers for Alzheimer's disease victims and 34 
comparison persons (non-care-givers) did not differ in the frequency of 
contacts, the closeness of their relationships, or ratings of the helpfulness or 
upset associated with the relationships. However, while upset accounted for a 
significant portion of the variance in care-givers' depressive symptoms in 
regression equations, neither upset nor helpfulness was significantly related to 
mood in non-care-givers. Care-givers whose relatives had more symptomatic 
Alzheimer's disease behaviors were more distressed and described their 
relationships with others as more upsetting. Implications for interventions and 
for the contextual importance of upsetting or negative support are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00930895
PMID: 3223487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Am J Prev Med. 1988 Sep-Oct;4(5):268-73.

Methodological alternatives for measuring premature mortality.

Wise RP(1), Livengood JR, Berkelman RL, Goodman RA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Surveillance and Epidemiologic Studies, Centers for Disease 
Control, Atlanta, Georgia 30333.

Although crude and age-adjusted mortality statistics are frequently used to 
quantify public health problems, they are heavily influenced by the underlying 
disease processes of the elderly. Alternative measures have been developed to 
reflect the mortality experience of younger age groups (i.e., premature 
mortality). We evaluated four different methods for tabulating premature 
mortality, one method weighted by the remaining life expectancy at death and 
three methods with constant end points using age spans from birth to 65 years, 
birth to 75 years, and 1 to 65 years. These alternatives provide dramatically 
different descriptions of premature mortality in the United States in 1984. In 
general, the constant end-point methods emphasize the different pattern of 
mortality among younger persons, while premature mortality computed by the 
remaining life expectancy method more closely resembles the pattern of crude 
mortality. Although no single method is preferable for all purposes, the 
constant end-point method best differentiates the leading causes of premature 
death.

PMID: 3224004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Biofizika. 1988 Sep-Oct;33(5):772-5.

[Age-related thermodynamic and mechanical properties of the rat collagen].

[Article in Russian]

Gasan AI, Perskiĭ EE, Maleev VIa, Utevskaia LA.

The age peculiarities of cross-linking degree, thermodynamic and mechanic 
properties of rat tail tendon collagen fibres were investigated. It is shown 
that during the period from 1 to 3 months the melting temperature decreases and 
the enthalpy difference increases, from 3 to 24 months the melting temperature 
increases and the enthalpy difference decreases. The strength of fibres 
increases during the whole life. The maximal relative extension increases during 
the first 12 months and tends to decrease in after-life. The Young's module in 
the elastic deformation region decreases during the period from 1 to 3 months, 
then increases. It is shown tht those changes in fibre properties may be 
connected with the age dynamics of collagen cross-linking degree observed here: 
its decreasing during the period from 1 to 3 months and its following continuous 
increasing in after-life.

PMID: 3224105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Int J Nurs Stud. 1988;25(3):171-7. doi: 10.1016/0020-7489(88)90043-0.

Health care in the Yemen Arab Republic.

Lambeth S(1).

Author information:
(1)University of North Dakota, College of Nursing, Grand Forks 58202.

The Yemen Arab Republic has health-care problems similar to other developing 
countries yet lacks the abundant oil reserves of its Arabian peninsula neighbors 
to address these problems. An ambitious 5 year health plan developed in 1977 has 
been impeded by a lack of material and human resources. The infant mortality 
rate remains one of the highest in the world, schistosomiasis drains the energy 
of the people, and tuberculosis and malaria remain endemic. Progress is, 
however, being made in health-care educational programs within Sanaa University 
and the Health Manpower Institutes to develop the resources of the Yemeni people 
to meet the health-care needs of their country.

DOI: 10.1016/0020-7489(88)90043-0
PMID: 3225123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. J Orthop Trauma. 1988;2(1):29-32. doi: 10.1097/00005131-198802000-00007.

Incidence and treatment of fractures in thalassemia.

Michelson J(1), Cohen A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Orthopaedic Surgery, Children's Hospital of 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Thalassemia major, a disorder of hemoglobin synthesis, contributes to skeletal 
deformities, marked osteopenia, and frequent fractures. Hypertransfusion therapy 
in the last 20 years has prolonged the life expectancy of thalassemics and 
decreased the orthopaedic manifestations of the disease. This study examines the 
incidence and treatment of fractures in hypertransfused thalassemics in whom the 
hemoglobin is kept above 8 g/dl. Over a 5-year period, there were eight 
fractures in 38 patients, which yields an incidence that is approximately 70% 
above the fracture rate in the general population. With the exception of one 
patient, all of the fractures healed in the expected time utilizing nonoperative 
treatment. The results of this study indicate that, although thalassemics are at 
moderately high risk for sustaining fractures, they respond well to standard 
casting methods. However, the iron overload found in thalassemia can deplete the 
body of vitamin C, which can subsequently retard fracture healing. Attention 
must, therefore, be paid to replenishing vitamin C very cautiously in order to 
avoid this complication.

DOI: 10.1097/00005131-198802000-00007
PMID: 3225698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Soc Sci Med. 1988;27(6):615-22. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(88)90009-3.

Occupation, marriage and disease-specific mortality concordance.

Fletcher B(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychology Division, School of Natural Sciences, Hatfield Polytechnic, 
Hertfordshire, England.

Mortality statistics for more than 500 different occupations were examined for 
all causes of death, neoplasms, circulatory diseases, respiratory diseases, and 
deaths from external causes. The paper shows that a married woman's life 
expectancy, and her cause of death, is reliably associated with the occupational 
mortality risk of her husband. It demonstrates that this is so when social class 
is controlled, when statistically contaminating 'outliers' are excluded, and 
when the correlation of any particular cause of death with other causes of death 
is partialled out. The findings suggest that specific occupational risks are 
transmitted between marital partners, perhaps through psychological mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(88)90009-3
PMID: 3227368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Soc Sci Med. 1988;27(9):889-94. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(88)90278-x.

Post-1950 mortality trends and medical care: gains in life expectancy due to 
declines in mortality from conditions amenable to medical intervention in The 
Netherlands.

Mackenbach JP(1), Looman CW, Kunst AE, Habbema JD, van der Maas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Social Medicine, Erasmus University 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

In order to assess the impact of medical care innovations on post-1950 mortality 
in The Netherlands, we analysed trends in mortality from a selection of 
conditions suggested by Rutstein et al.'s lists of "unnecessary untimely 
mortality". This selection covers 11 types of innovation, and includes 35 
conditions which have become amenable to medical care. Loglinear regression 
analysis shows that for most of these conditions mortality declined during each 
of two subperiods (1950-1968; 1969-1984). Mortality decline accelerated in the 
second subperiod for many conditions. Reductions in mortality from these 
conditions between 1950/54 and 1980/84 added 2.96 and 3.95 years to life 
expectancy at birth of Dutch males and Dutch females respectively. A priori 
evidence indicates that these mortality reductions are due to some extent to 
'spontaneous' incidence declines. Although the exact contribution of medical 
care innovations to these changes in mortality thus cannot be determined, the 
impact of medical care on post-1950 mortality in The Netherlands could well have 
been substantial.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(88)90278-x
PMID: 3227384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Southeast Asian J Trop Med Public Health. 1988 Jun;19(2):283-9.

Bionomics of Anopheles minimus and its role in malaria transmission in Thailand.

Ratanatham S(1), Upatham ES, Prasittisuk C, Rojanasunan W, Theerasilp N, 
Tremongkol A, Viyanant V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Mahidol University, Bangkok, 
Thailand.

The bionomics of Anopheles minimus, one of the main malaria vectors in Thailand, 
were conducted in Pakchong district, Nakhon Ratchasima province, from January 
1984 to June 1985. The prevalence of An. minimus was influenced by monthly 
rainfall, relative humidity, temperature and wind velocity, with a major peak of 
density from September to November. An. minimus preferred to feed on animal 
rather than on human, tended to bite human more outdoors than indoors, and thus 
exhibiting zoophilic and exophilic behaviour. The biting activity of the 
mosquitoes on animal exhibited high densities throughout the night in all 
seasons, whereas on human they tended to be an early evening biter in the dry 
cool season, and early morning biter in the wet season, and thus increasing the 
chance of man-vector contact. The life expectancy of An. minimus varied from 
month to month, ranging from 2.7 to 11.5 days, with the longest longevity during 
the dry cool season. The natural malaria infection rate of this species was very 
low. Out of 1,518 dissected guts, only 0.4% were found infected with oocysts. 
There were no sporozoites detected in the 1,560 dissected salivary glands.

PMID: 3227405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Versicherungsmedizin. 1988 Sep 1;40(5):117-9.

[Tobacco smoke as the most important life-shortening factor].

[Article in German]

Schmidt F.

PMID: 3227579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Ital J Surg Sci. 1988;18(4):339-46.

Billroth I versus Billroth II partial gastrectomy in the treatment of gastric 
ulcer.

Bechi P(1), Naspetti R, Mazzanti R, Castiglione G, Tonelli P, Amorosi A, Tonelli 
L.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinica Chirurgica Generale & Discipline Chirurgiche, Università 
di Firenze.

Short- and long-term results of B-I and B-II reconstructions were compared in 
order to assess which anastomosis is to be recommended after partial gastrectomy 
for gastric ulcer. All the patients (287) electively operated for gastric ulcer 
10-20 years ago were considered for the study. Operative mortality did not 
significantly differ, while duration of post-operative time before discharge and 
post-operative morbidity were significantly lower after B-I. Long-term 
percentage probability of survival was higher after B-I than after B-II (87.0 
and 63.7 after 19 years, respectively), while quality of life was similar in the 
two groups. In the 64 subjects (26 B-I and 38 B-II) who underwent the study 
protocol, fasting bile reflux appeared more abundant and bile acid concentration 
greater after B-II than after B-I. While bacteria and nitrite concentrations did 
not differ in the two groups, bile acid pattern differed in a greater 
deoxycholic acid percentage concentration in the B-II group. In spite of an 
increased deoxycholic acid concentration and therefore a probably more 
lithogenic bile, gallstones were shown in 23.11% and 39.41% of the B-I and the 
B-II subjects, respectively, without significant differences. In conclusion, 
when partial gastrectomy is indicated for gastric ulcer, B-I reconstruction 
seems preferable to B-II because of its lower post-operative mobility, less 
evident entero-gastric reflux and histological consequences, less evident bile 
acid pattern changes from normal, and an apparently longer life-expectancy after 
discharge.

PMID: 3229972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. J Comp Neurol. 1988 Dec 8;278(2):195-208. doi: 10.1002/cne.902780204.

Organization of the motor nuclei in the cervical spinal cord of salamanders.

Wake DB(1), Nishikawa KC, Dicke U, Roth G.

Author information:
(1)Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, University of California, Berkeley 94720.

The distribution and cytoarchitecture of motor nuclei of the cervical spinal 
cord were studied by using HRP techniques (whole mounts and sections) in 22 
species of salamanders (families Hynobiidae, Dicamptodontidae, Ambystomatidae, 
Salamandridae, and Plethodontidae) representing a wide variety of life histories 
and functional modes of feeding. The nucleus of the first spinal nerve extends 
from the level of, or slightly caudad to, the root of the tenth cranial nerve, 
almost to the ventral root of the second spinal nerve. Approximately one-half of 
this nucleus is situated in the brainstem. This anterior extension is longest in 
bolitoglossine plethodontids. The nucleus of the second spinal nerve extends 
from the root of the first spinal nerve to the dorsal root of the second spinal 
nerve. The nuclei of the first and second spinal nerves in all species except 
bolitoglossines have motor neurons arranged in two columns: a lateral one 
containing large spindle-shaped cells and a medial one containing pear-shaped or 
polygonal smaller cells. The primary dendrites of these lateral and medial cells 
are parallel and their arborization is relatively narrow. In contrast, 
bolitoglossines lack the lateral motor column. The nucleus of the first spinal 
nerve consists only of a medial band of pear-shaped and sometimes polygonal 
cells, and the nucleus of the second spinal nerve is a wider band of pear-shaped 
and polygonal cells which are always situated inside the periventricular gray 
matter. The arrangement of the somata in bolitoglossines is less organized and 
the primary dendrites are less parallel and have a broader arborization than in 
other salamanders. In all species, cells in the second spinal nucleus are 
arranged in a less orderly manner than those in the first. All salamanders 
studied possess a spinal accessory nerve whose motor neurons are located in the 
cervical spinal cord; the axons leave the brainstem with fibers of the vagus 
nerve. The rostrocaudal extent of this nucleus differs markedly among species. 
In bolitoglossines the nucleus is more or less restricted to the region of the 
nucleus of the second spinal nerve. In all other species studied, the accessory 
nucleus extends from the obex to the caudal end of the nucleus of the third 
spinal nerve. In the tribe Plethodontini the cytoarchitecture of the accessory 
nucleus is similar to that of the second spinal. In desmognathine and 
hemidactyliine plethodontids as well as in all nonplethodontid species studied 
the nucleus consists of pear-shaped and cone-shaped cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902780204
PMID: 3230160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Stud Fam Plann. 1988 Nov-Dec;19(6 Pt 1):381-5.

Senegal 1986: results from the Demographic and Health Survey.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Data for the Senegal Demographic and Health Survey from 1986 was collected 
from 2136 compounds in Senegal and includes information from 4415 women ages 
15-49. The results are depicted graphically throughout this report. Although 
birth rate has decreased, life expectancy and death rate has increased causing 
population size in Senegal to increase 62.9% from 1965-1980. 77.2% of the 
population is uneducated and only 9.3% have a secondary education or greater. 
Fertility trends from 1955-86 have not changed -- the highest fertility rate 
existing among rural uneducated residents between the ages of 20-30. The ideal 
number of children for all age groups is about 7. The desire to stop 
childbearing continuously increases with the number of living children. Birth 
spacing preferences tend toward either 12 months or 2 years. The women who use 
contraception (mainly urban, educated women) prefer traditional methods over 
modern. Those that use the modern methods (i.e. the pill, IUD) receive 
contraception mainly from private or public clinics or hospitals. The methods 
that women knew the most about were prolonged abstinence, gris-gris, female 
sterilization, and the pill. Vaginal methods, male sterilization, withdrawal and 
periodic abstinence all scored low. Women who intend to use contraception in the 
future tend toward the pill and prolonged abstinence. The main reason for nonuse 
of contraception is the desire to have another child. 41.9% of the women 
surveyed between the ages of 15-19 were married. Above age 30, over 90% of the 
women in all age groups were married. The median age of 1st union is 16.5 years, 
although the median is much higher among educated women (22.4 years). Postpartum 
nonsusceptibility lasts on the average of up to 16 months due to amenorrhea 
and/or abstinence. Rural, uneducated women have the highest occurence of 
postpartum amenorrhea and breastfeeding. Most births take place 12-23 months 
postpartum. Infant mortality has decreased 50% from 1955-86. Most infant deaths 
occur to rural uneducated mothers. Ever born and surviving children are surveyed 
vs. age of the mother. Urban, educated mothers have children with less problems 
of diarrhea than others and possess health cards at a higher rate than others. 
Rural mothers tend to deliver using traditional or other methods while urban 
mothers deliver with the help of a trained midwife or health clinic. 
Undernourishment is considered according to a child's weight-for-height and 
height-for-age measurements.

PMID: 3232167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. World Health Stat Q. 1988;41(3-4):255-66.

The global impact of noncommunicable diseases: estimates and projections.

Manton KG(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina.

With the aging of populations in developing countries there is both a 
demographic and an epidemiological transition which affects the impact of 
chronic degenerative diseases on the health status of the populations. 
Demographic transition takes place in countries where there are effective 
programmes of disease control which allow for survival during the early years of 
childhood and adolescence. This results in an increase in life expectancy which 
places larger proportions of the population in the age range (60 years and 
older) in which chronic degenerative diseases become the major determinants of 
health status. Epidemiological transition in diseases may also be brought about 
by shifts in social and economic patterns which favour detrimental changes in 
risk factors for the chronic degenerative diseases. Such changes may include 
health-related behaviour which augments dietary consumption of fats and alcohol, 
increases obesity, increases smoking and decreases physical activity. Such 
changes in risk-factor levels increase the prevalence of chronic degenerative 
diseases which manifest themselves at later ages, and for which early preventive 
actions could be cost-effective. In order to illustrate the impact of both 
demographic and risk-factor effects, analyses are made of the impact of 
increases in life expectancy on cause-specific mortality in both developing and 
developed countries. It is shown that there is great similarity in the effect of 
major noncommunicable diseases on the life expectancy of adults in both 
developed and developing countries. The major differences are seen to be in the 
proportions of deaths expected from such diseases as cancer, diabetes, heart 
disease, stroke and cirrhosis; but not in the distribution of age at death which 
is the better measure of disease impact. Demographic analyses, computing 
indirect estimates of mortality, also demonstrate that there are currently more 
chronic disease deaths in developing than developed countries and that as 
expectation of life increases in developing countries the global chronic disease 
burden will be greatly concentrated in the developing countries. Analyses of 
risk-factor reduction by feasible intervention strategies, e.g. smoking 
cessation campaigns, treatment of high blood pressure, using relationships 
between risk factors and diseases established in longitudinal studies carried 
out in developed countries, point out that the effect of risk-factor control in 
long-living populations can be hidden by the dependency of risk factors and 
various related causes of death, e.g. smoking has an impact on lung cancer, 
ischaemic heart disease and emphysema, but at different ages.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED 
AT 400 WORDS)

PIP: As public health measures decrease the number of deaths due to infectious 
diseases, life expectancy will increase and chronic and degenerative diseases 
will claim a greater part of the public health resources. Moreover, many of 
these diseases are directly related to certain preventable risk factors, which 
it would be advantageous to identify and eliminate before they become major 
problems in developing countries. First, demographic analyses, using multiple 
decrement life tables, were performed to show 1) the survival experience of 
persons in the population who would die of a disease, given the current 
cause-specific mortality rates, 2) the life expectancy at any age in the table 
for a given cause of death, and 3) the gain in life expectancy among persons 
expected to die of the disease. Second, models were constructed for assessing 
the effects of risk factors and their change over time. The 1st part of this 
analysis used hazard functions to relate the risk of disease or death to the 
values of the risk factor; the 2nd part used linear regression equations to 
project future values of the risk factors as a function of their past values. 
Data for the life tables were drawn from World Health Organization 
cause-specific mortality profiles for cancer, diabetes, cirrhosis, stroke, and 
heart disease in highly developed, moderately developed, and less developed 
nations. Data for assessing the effects of various risk factor interventions 
were drawn from the Framingham Study of cardiovascular disease. Risk factors 
used were serum cholesterol, blood pressure, smoking, Quetelet index, blood 
sugar, hemoglobin, vital capacity and age. Demographic analysis showed that the 
effects of major noncommunicable diseases on life expectancy was not 
significantly different in developed and developing countries; there were 
differences in the proportions of deaths from the 5 diseases analyzed but not in 
the distribution of age at death. Moreover, numerically there are currently more 
chronic disease deaths in developing than in developed countries, and as life 
expectancy increases and fertility declines, the impact of noncommunicable 
diseases will rapidly increase in those countries. Analysis of risk-factor 
reduction by intervention, such as nonsmoking campaigns and low cholesterol 
diets, showed that such interventions would be cost-effective, but less so at 
some ages than at others. Nevertheless, such interventions would be worthwhile 
if they prevented unhealthful life styles from gaining a foothold in these 
countries.

PMID: 3232413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Ann Soc Belg Med Trop. 1988 Dec;68(4):293-303.

[Malaria in the forest region of Mayombe, People's Republic of the Congo. I. 
Presentation of the region and entomologic data].

[Article in French]

Richard A, Zoulani A, Lallemant M, Trape JF, Carnevale P, Mouchet J.

PMID: 3233034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Clin Genet. 1988 Dec;34(6):366-72. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1988.tb02894.x.

Rates and survival of individuals with trisomy 13 and 18. Data from a 10-year 
period in Denmark.

Goldstein H(1), Nielsen KG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology Y, Rigshospitalet/University 
Hospital, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

Rates and survival figures for trisomy 13 and trisomy 18 have been calculated 
for Denmark (DK) based on a 10-year period (1977-86). The data have been 
ascertained through The Danish Central Cytogenetic Register, all cytogenetic 
laboratories in DK, paediatric departments throughout the country. The Medical 
Birth Register and The Register of Causes of Death in DK. Nineteen liveborn 
probands with trisomy 13 and 76 liveborn probands with trisomy 18 were found. No 
stillborn cases with trisomy 13 but 6 with trisomy 18 were found. By prenatal 
diagnosis 19 probands with trisomy 13 and 46 with trisomy 18 were found. Based 
on liveborn and stillborn probands, the prevalence at birth was 1 per 29,374 for 
trisomy 13 and 1 per 6806 for trisomy 18. The median survival for trisomy 13 was 
2.5 days, while the same figure for trisomy 18 was 6.0 days. The rates 
calculated seem rather low compared to earlier studies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1988.tb02894.x
PMID: 3233784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. East Afr Med J. 1988 Dec;65(12):862-6.

Problems in writing injury assessment reports. Part III: Spinal injury and 
paraplegia: the third of a series.

Hicks A.

PMID: 3234277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Demography. 1988 Aug;25(3):371-86.

Changes in the retirement process among older men in the United States: 
1972-1980.

Hayward MD(1), Grady WR, McLaughlin SD.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern California, Los Angeles 
90089-0191.

Recent changes in older men's retirement patterns are investigated for the 
United States. The results show that labor force incumbents, particularly those 
in secondary occupations, experienced increases in the volume of both retirement 
and reentry to the labor force. In addition, although working life expectancy 
remained relatively stable across occupations, men in secondary occupations 
spent increasingly greater portions of their work lives in postretirement jobs. 
Finally, large increases in nonworking life expectancy occurred because of 
substantial increases in life expectancy. In several occupations, however, 
declines in working life expectancy were major contributors to increases in 
nonworking life expectancy.

PMID: 3234574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Mech Ageing Dev. 1988 Nov 30;45(3):277-83. doi:
10.1016/0047-6374(88)90008-5.

An antioxidant induced alterations in peroxidase activity in ageing Zaprionus 
paravittiger (Diptera).

Wadhwa R(1), Kaur M, Sharma SP.

Author information:
(1)DNA Lab, Department of Human Genetics, Newcastle upon Tyne, U.K.

Sodium hypophosphite (1 x 10(3) microM) supplementation in the diet of Zaprionus 
paravittiger resulted in adaptive responses in the quantitative as well as 
qualitative activity of peroxidase. The changes in peroxidase were in compliance 
with the earlier reported sodium hypophosphite (SHP)-induced prolonged life span 
of flies (Wadhwa, R., Arch. Gerontol. Geriatr., 6 (1987) 141-147) and support 
the concept that antioxidative enzymes may serve as important longevity 
determinants.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(88)90008-5
PMID: 3236908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1988 Oct 11;77(41):1097-100.

[Do joggers live longer? 3 current epidemiologic studies of the effect of 
physical activity on life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Marti B, Pekkanen J.

PMID: 3238226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Trans Stud Coll Physicians Phila. 1988 Dec;10(1-4):95-102.

Of light bulbs and wine glasses: risk factors and mortality trends.

Cole P.

PMID: 3238746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Women Health. 1988;13(3-4):9-34. doi: 10.1300/J013v13n03_03.

Women's health and women's work in health services: what statistics tell us.

Hedman B(1), Herner E.

Author information:
(1)Statistics Sweden, Stockholm.

This article draws together statistical information in several broad areas that 
relate to women's health, women's reproductive activities and women's 
occupations in Sweden. The statistical analysis reflects the major changes that 
have occurred in Swedish society and that have had a major impact on the health 
and well-being, as well as on the social participation rate, of women. Much of 
the data is drawn from a recent special effort at Statistic Sweden aimed at 
influencing the classification, collection and presentation of statistical data 
in all fields in such a way that family, working, education, health and other 
conditions of women can be more readily and equitably compared with those of 
men. In addition, social changes have seen the shifting of the responsibility of 
health care from the unpaid duties of women in the home to health care 
institutions, where female employees predominate. These trends are also 
discussed.

PIP: Statistics from broad areas of health, work, reproduction and demography 
are compiled here and analyzed for their impact on women's health and wellbeing 
in Sweden. Women's labor participation rate has risen to 81%, compared to 90% 
for men. Women still work primarily in municipal daycare, teaching, health 
services, clerical and retail work. 67% of public sector workers are women. The 
mean number of children per woman is now 1.6. Swedish women can expect to live 
70 years. The infant mortality rate is only 7/1000. They have lower mortality 
rates than men from circulatory disease, accidents, and violence, but not cancer 
in the fertile years. Women report more sick-leave. This was interpreted as an 
indicator that women's lives are more pressured than men's lives, since women 
bear and care for children, do all domestic and social tasks for the family, as 
well as work full time. They may be subject to more infectious diseases because 
of exposure to children. Women report themselves in poor health and attend 
medical clinics slightly more often than men: this may be a behavioral 
difference between the sexes, since men's occupational environments are more 
dangerous. On the other hand, women report to a greater extent that they cannot 
plan or influence the pace of their work. Incidence of legal abortion remains at 
about 30,000/year in Sweden since legalization in 1975. Teenage abortions have 
fallen about 25%. Mammography and screening for cervical cancer are free; 
mortality from these cancers has fallen dramatically. Generally, women report 
less feeling of well-being than men in Sweden, probably because of the mean 3 
extra hours of domestic work they do compared to men.

DOI: 10.1300/J013v13n03_03
PMID: 3239084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Z Urol Nephrol. 1988 Oct;81(10):657-60.

[The elderly dialysis patient].

[Article in German]

Koban F(1), Heinrich HG, Hornak H, Rose W, Lincke HU.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Innere Medizin der Medizinischen Akademie, Carl Gustav Carus 
Dresden.

By the experience of two smaller dialysis centers the prognosis and problems of 
dialysis therapy in older patients are described. The age in the onset of 
dialysis treatment ranged from 45 to 54 years. In the beginning of dialysis the 
average life expectancy of older patients is markedly lower in comparison with 
younger patients, but remarkable in single cases with more than 4 and 5 years. 
The problems of adaptation and complications do require much attention and 
allowance. Contra-indications to dialysis therapy in older patients could not be 
explained. The demand for a stronger consideration of this patient group in 
planning of dialysis capacity is established through an international comparison 
and a possible rehabilitation of the patients.

PMID: 3239279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Soc Biol. 1988 Fall-Winter;35(3-4):198-213. doi:
10.1080/19485565.1988.9988702.

Multiple causes of death and the epidemiological transition in American Samoa.

Crews DE.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1988.9988702
PMID: 3241989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Eur Heart J. 1988 Nov;9 Suppl L:5-7. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/9.suppl_l.5.

The interaction between man-work-environment and the return to work of coronary 
patients. The philosophical aspects.

Renzulli AG(1), Gobbato F, Maisano G.

Author information:
(1)Deputato Parlamento Italiano, Roma, Italy.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/9.suppl_l.5
PMID: 3243299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Women Health. 1988;14(3-4):253-72. doi: 10.1300/j013v14n03_16.

Older women in developing countries.

Heisel MA(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, Rutgers University, Newark, NJ 07102.

Women's issues are markedly underrepresented in international policy and 
research discussions. This paper addresses these deficits by delineating the 
particular conditions of aging women in developing countries. While these women 
experience many of the age-related problems as their counterparts in developed 
countries, cultural and economic influences place them at a greater 
disadvantage.

DOI: 10.1300/j013v14n03_16
PMID: 3247755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1988;82(19):938-9.

[Health indicators based on general mortality conditions].

[Article in German]

Fritsche U(1), Knopf H.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozialhygiene und Organisation des Gesundheitswesens Maxim 
Zetkin, Berlin.

PMID: 3247766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1988;82(19):939-40.

[Rate of survival for the evaluation of sex-specific variations in the health 
status of the population].

[Article in German]

Knopf H(1), Fritsche U.

Author information:
