(1)Institut für Sozialhygiene und Organisation des Gesundheitswesens Maxim 
Zetkin, Berlin.

PMID: 3247767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Acta Med Hung. 1988;45(3-4):297-305.

Life expectancy in chronic liver disease.

Szalay L(1), Göndöcs C, Kárteszi M, Schaff Z, Lapis K, Fehér J.

Author information:
(1)2nd Department of Medicine, Semmelweis University Medical School, Budapest.

Life-table analysis is a suitable method for evaluating the effectiveness of 
therapeutical approaches to and the progression of, chronic diseases. The 
authors performed 324 liver biopsies in patients with liver disease between 1976 
and 1986. The cumulative life-table analysis of Cutler and Ederer was applied in 
this retrospective study. Survival rates of different groups of patients 
expressed as the 7-year life expectancy were as follows: toxic hepatitis 90%, 
steatosis hepatitis 87%, chronic persistent hepatitis 87%, nonspecific reactive 
hepatitis 76%, chronic active hepatitis 72%, acute alcoholic hepatitis 66%, 
liver cirrhosis 40%. There seems to be a correlation between the severity of 
histological alteration and live expectancy. A similar correlation between the 
inflammatory cell infiltration and life expectancy cannot be observed. The life 
expectancy of patients with chronic active hepatitis has significantly improved 
recently. Further improvement of survival of patients with liver cirrhosis can 
be expected only from a reduction of alcohol consumption. The results can be 
regarded as a reference data for life expectancy of patients with chronic liver 
disease in Hungary.

PMID: 3249656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Basic Life Sci. 1988;49:1057-65. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4684-5568-7_175.

The aging process.

Harman D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Nebraska College of Medicine, Omaha 
68105.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4684-5568-7_175
PMID: 3250468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Dokl Akad Nauk SSSR. 1988;303(3):733-5.

[Low-molecular weight nuclear RNAs increase the duration of loach anucleate 
embryo life].

[Article in Russian]

Burakova TA, Korzh VP, Khaĭnovskaia AM, Neĭfakh AA.

PMID: 3250836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1988 Aug;40(8):961-8.

[Cancer and therapy for it--from gynecological standpoints].

[Article in Japanese]

Sugawa T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Osaka City University Medical 
School.

Life phenomena have been studied scientifically for more than 160 years. 
Meanwhile many excellent technology and methodology which human race created 
have been used in the field of medicine. Analytical research for the 
constitution of life and impediments to life has remarkably advanced. 
Pathophysiology of many diseases has been clarified and reasonable and effective 
treatment for disorders has been organized. Many disorders which showed high 
mortality in the past are now listed as one of minor diseases in the textbook. 
However, the disease which cause is unclear and which deprives human race of 
life still exists. That is "CANCER". The society of medicine devotes the 
greatest energies to abolish the cancer. I am going to talk about the 
physiological characteristics of "the cancer in human race" from the 
gynecological standpoints and to present some facts of studies about the therapy 
for cancer in our department. I. Evolution of human and cancer 1. Life of 
species and life of individuals In the development from uni-nuclear cell 
creature to multicellular entity, to give new generation sexual reproduction was 
out-lasted for the adaptation to environment advantageously after the spread out 
of mutant gene in this entity. With this evolution, a living creature divided 
its cells into two types. One is somatic cells which would die in certain period 
and the other is germ cells which would not die on principle in good 
environment. In short well evolved living entity clearly established individual 
life span for the first time and its constituent, that is somatic cells 
demonstrated "AGEING" phenomena regulating life span.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

PMID: 3251965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1988 Mar;244(3):898-904.

Role of platelet activating factor in propagation of cardiac damage during 
myocardial ischemia.

Stahl GL(1), Terashita Z, Lefer AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Jefferson Medical College, Thomas Jefferson 
University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

The role of platelet activating factor (PAF) in acute myocardial ischemia (MI), 
produced by the ligation of the left main coronary artery, was studied in 
anesthetized rats. A significant loss of cardiac amino-nitrogen concentration 
and cathepsin D activity was observed 6 hr after permanent occlusion MI or 10 
min of MI followed by 6 hr of reperfusion in rats. A novel, potent, PAF 
antagonist, CV-6209 (160 nmol/kg or 1.6 mumol/kg) injected after the ligation, 
significantly retarded the loss of amino-nitrogen and cathepsin D activity in a 
dose-related manner. In another group of rats, CV-6209 (1.6 mumol/kg) 
significantly blocked the hypotension induced by repetitive injections of PAF 
(570 pmol/kg) with an apparent half-life of approximately 180 min. In isolated 
rat hearts perfused with Krebs-Henseleit solution, PAF (25 nmol/l) significantly 
increased coronary perfusion pressure by 15 +/- 2 mmHg and induced an increase 
in cardiac permeability using fluorescein isothiocyanate bovine albumin as a 
marker. Furthermore, the increase in cardiac permeability induced in isolated 
perfused rat hearts undergoing 15 min global ischemia followed by reperfusion 
was significantly attenuated by CV-6209 (250 nmol/l). These data indicate that 
PAF is an important mediator of ischemic damage in rat MI. Moreover, the 
extension of ischemic damage may be enhanced by the increase in cardiac 
permeability induced by PAF.

PMID: 3252036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. World Health Forum. 1988;9(3):439-43.

Costa Rica saves infants' lives.

Rosero-Bixby L.

PIP: Even though Costa Rica is underdeveloped economically, life expectancy has 
been increasing over the past decade and the illiteracy rate was only 7% in 
1984. Infant mortality rates have plummeted since 1972 when the 1st national 
health plan and social security were instituted (pre-1972: 2.3% annual reduction 
in infant mortality; 1972-1980: 13% decline annually). Decreased risk in the 1st 
postnatal month of life was responsible for 34% of the decrease from 1972-1980. 
Control of disease, especially diarrhea and acute respiratory infection, 
accounted for most of the decline (51%). Immunizations accounted for 8%, 
prevention of infectious diseases for 10%, control of malnutrition for 5%, and 
control of death due to premature birth for 14% of the decrease in mortality. 
Infant death due to pregnancy and delivery complications and congenital defects 
did not decrease during this period. Socioeconomic conditions normally influence 
survival rates strongly, but socioeconomic change in Costa Rica during 1970-1980 
accounted for only 1/3 of the reduction in infant mortality. These improvements 
included an increase in the number of educated women, economic growth and 
decline in fertility (a decrease from 7.6 to 3.4 births between 1960-1980). The 
majority of the reduction stemmed from utilization of family planning techniques 
and the reduction of health risk factors. By 1980, the health program initiated 
in the 1970's provided primary care to 60% of the population, immunized 95% of 
the children against poliomyelitis, diptheria, pertussis, tetanus, and measles, 
and by 1984, provided almost all households with a sewage system. Analyses of 
the impact of socioeconomic development, fertility regulation, hospital care, 
outpatient services, and primary health care on infant mortality showed that, 
before 1970, those areas with better economies had a lower mortality rate, and 
after 1970, the economy and mortality rate had become independent variables. 
Furthermore, the introduction of health programs in the 1970's correlated with 
the accelerated decrease in mortality.

PMID: 3252842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Ann Chir Gynaecol. 1988;77(4):160-3.

Austin Moore replacement hemiarthroplasty in femoral neck fractures of the 
elderly.

Kuokkanen H(1), Lehtonen J, Korkala O.

Author information:
(1)Lahti City Hospital, Finland.

162 femoral neck fractures were treated with Moore endoprostheses. Primary 
mortality was eight per cent, and after an average of seven years 
postoperatively 25 per cent of the patients were alive. Complications were 
recorded in 22 cases. Nine of the patients underwent a further operation. 
Thirty-one patients participated in a clinical follow-up study and eight 
patients answered a subjective questionnaire. Two hips showed excellent, eight 
good, ten fair and twenty-two hips poor results. The use of hemiendoprosthetic 
replacement should be reserved for displaced fractures and for patients with a 
short life expectancy. In cases of even initial osteoarthritis primary total hip 
arthroplasty should be performed if an endoprosthetic replacement is considered.

PMID: 3254098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. World Health Forum. 1988;9(1):50-2.

Health for all proves its worth in Kiribati.

Tira T.

PIP: In 1978 the health status of Kiribati was reported as one of the worst in 
the Pacific with a comparatively high infant mortality rate and a low life 
expectancy at birth. Since 1981, a nationwide primary health care development 
project has been set in motion. This article summarizes the activities of this 
project. A working group identified 28 major factors that had been responsible 
for failure to improve the situation. Orientation courses were held for all 
health staff and during the following year courses were given for long-term 
primary care workers. The communities decided how they would tackle the 
identified problems and appointed working committees that have now become 
village welfare groups. The communities are implementing the project on a 
voluntary basis. There have been reductions in morbidity associated with many of 
the most common diseases, in hospital utilization costs, and family planning 
coverage has increased sharply. A mechanism for program improvement in the form 
of regular monitoring, evaluation, research and review exercises has been 
developed.

PMID: 3254194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Practitioner. 1988 Jun 8;232(1450):660-4.

Effect on the pocket or fear of the grave? The reaction of smokers to 
information.

Holden J.

PMID: 3255955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Psychother Psychosom. 1988;50(2):102-8. doi: 10.1159/000288107.

Life changes related to the onset of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.

Keltikangas-Järvinen L(1), Pelkonen P, Kunnamo I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Helsinki, Finland.

Life changes preceding the onset of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA) were 
studied in 49 children with prolonged arthritis, and in 58 children with 
temporary arthritis. In addition, the frequency of changes experienced by 
patients during their life was compared with the expectancy scores for healthy 
children. The frequency of changes during the year prior to the onset of the 
disease did not differentiate children with JRA from children with temporary 
arthritis. During their lives, the children of both groups had experienced a 
higher frequency of life changes requiring considerable readjustment than 
healthy children of the same age.

DOI: 10.1159/000288107
PMID: 3255976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Ann Trop Med Parasitol. 1988 Oct;82(5):485-97. doi: 
10.1080/00034983.1988.11812281.

A mark-recapture method for ecological studies of schistosomiasis vector snail 
populations.

Woolhouse ME(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Zimbabwe, Harare.

Mark-recapture methods have been used only sporadically in studies of the 
population biology of the snail vectors of schistosomiasis, yet mark-recapture 
has potential advantages for obtaining estimates of absolute abundance and 
recruitment and loss rates for snail populations in the field. A case study is 
described that uses Bailey's triple catch design to estimate these parameters 
for Bulinus globosus and Biomphalaria pfeifferi in a small river in Zimbabwe. 
The assumptions inherent in the design and tests of these assumptions are 
described. The parameter estimates obtained are biologically plausible, 
suggesting significant recruitment into the population at the time of the study 
and a life expectancy for B. globosus of about three weeks. The major drawback 
is the lack of precision of these estimates. Means of improving precision are 
discussed, and mark-recapture is evaluated as a research tool for the study of 
vector snail population biology.

DOI: 10.1080/00034983.1988.11812281
PMID: 3257077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. J Nerv Ment Dis. 1988 Feb;176(2):101-6. doi: 10.1097/00005053-198802000-00005.

Empirically derived MMPI profiles. Coronary bypass surgery.

Clark C(1), Klonoff H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

A cluster analysis of eight clinical scales of the MMPI-168 was performed on 
data from 129 subjects awaiting coronary bypass surgery. Four abnormal profiles 
were derived and these profiles were consistent with clinical expectancy. The 
five empirically derived profiles were labeled as a) normal--that is, no 
elevated scales; b) marginal distress--elevated Hs; c) conversion V--elevated Hs 
and Hy; d) neurotic--elevated Hs, D, Hy, and Pt; and e) generalized 
distress--elevated D, Hy, Pd, Pa, Pt, and Sc. Subsequent postsurgical follow-ups 
were done at 3-, 12-, and 24-month intervals. These data suggest that the 
profiles retained their characteristic shape and were still statistically 
different from each other, but the overall elevation decreased significantly 
after successful surgical intervention. To externally validate these profiles, 
the five derived groups were compared in terms of Beck Depression scores and the 
State/Trait Anxiety Inventory. These results were consistent with the MMPI. 
These data are discussed in terms of developing models for assessing the 
interaction of personality and specific stressors.

DOI: 10.1097/00005053-198802000-00005
PMID: 3257518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Invasion Metastasis. 1988;8(3):159-76.

Changes in tumor cell adhesiveness affecting speed of dissemination and mode of 
metastatic growth.

Benke R(1), Lang E, Komitowski D, Muto S, Schirrmacher V.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Immunologie und Genetik, Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum, 
Heidelberg, BRD.

Adhesion variants can be isolated from suspension growing highly metastatic 
murine ESb tumor cells under reproducible conditions from uncloned as well as 
from cloned ESb tumor cells. One such variant, ESb-MP, has been analyzed in 
detail. In vitro it had similar growth properties and high invasive capacity as 
the parental ESb cells. In vivo, ESb-MP cells showed a reduced growth capacity 
as compared to ESb cells. This was seen at the site of tumor cell 
transplantation (increased latency period) as well as at the site of secondary 
tumor growth in internal organs. ESb-MP tumor cells disseminated much later than 
ESb cells from the primary tumor into the blood stream. Both tumor lines 
metastasized to the liver but they affected liver functions in a different way: 
ESb cells infiltrated the liver diffusely and exerted toxic effects on liver 
parenchyma very quickly. This resulted in early increase of liver enzyme 
activity in the blood. In contrast, liver infiltrated by ESb-MP cells showed a 
more focal type of colonization and the organs seemed to be functioning for much 
longer periods. In fact, animals inoculated with ESb-MP cells subcutaneously or 
intravenously had an increased life expectancy compared to ESb-tumor-bearing 
animals of about 300%. The organotropism of both tumor lines remained similar 
although there were kinetic and quantitative differences, especially with regard 
to the kidney. In late stages of tumor growth, ESb-MP-tumor-bearing animals 
developed a high percentage of metastases in the kidney and around and within 
the spinal cord, thereby causing a syndrome of hind-leg paralysis. This syndrome 
was remarkable in its reproducibility, especially after intravenous tumor cell 
inoculation. The changed adhesiveness thus seemed to have affected the tumor 
latency period, the speed of dissemination into blood and internal organs, the 
mode of organ infiltration (focal vs. diffuse) and of metastatic growth, 
parameters which all might contribute to the greatly reduced overall malignancy.

PMID: 3259567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Ann Thorac Surg. 1988 Jun;45(6):603-9. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)64759-5.

Early and late results in patients with carotid disease undergoing myocardial 
revascularization.

Schultz RD(1), Sterpetti AV, Feldhaus RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Creighton University School of Medicine, Omaha, NE 
68131.

A ten-year review of 1,360 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting 
(CABG) by the same surgeon was undertaken. Sixty-two patients with symptoms of 
coronary artery insufficiency underwent carotid endarterectomy prior to or at 
the time of CABG (Group I). Ninety-seven patients had asymptomatic carotid 
bruits but did not undergo carotid endarterectomy (Group II). Sixty of these 
patients were studied by ultrasonic duplex scanning or ocular 
pneumoplethysmography or both, and hemodynamically significant stenosis was 
detected in 50 (Group IIa). Group III included 80 patients without carotid 
artery disease matched with Group II for sex, age, and clinical status. Group IV 
consisted of 200 patients without carotid artery disease randomly selected from 
our series. Follow-up ranged from 3 to 120 months (median, 41 months). In 
patients with proven carotid artery disease (Groups I and IIa), operative 
mortality was greater than in the patients randomly selected (Group IV) (p less 
than 0.05) but similar to that in the matched Group III. Late neurological 
deficits were greater in patients with carotid disease not undergoing carotid 
endarterectomy (p less than 0.01). Patients with carotid artery disease had 
lower survival than Group IV patients (p less than 0.01) but similar survival to 
that in the matched Group III. This study suggests that (1) asymptomatic 
patients with carotid artery disease who undergo CABG are not at increased risk 
of perioperative stroke; (2) these same patients are at increased risk of late 
neurological deficit; and (3) carotid artery disease is an indirect sign of 
severe associated disease and therefore is associated with increased operative 
mortality and decreased life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)64759-5
PMID: 3259861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1988 Oct;12(4):1119-21. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(88)90490-1.

How to integrate cost-effective measures into your practice. Perspectives, 
epilogue and caveat.

McIntosh HD(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Section, Watson Clinic, Lakeland, Florida.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(88)90490-1
PMID: 3262129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Eur J Immunol. 1988 Sep;18(9):1307-14. doi: 10.1002/eji.1830180902.

Secondary antibody responses to thymus-independent antigens. Decline and 
life-span of memory.

Colle JH(1), Truffa-Bachi P, Freitas AA.

Author information:
(1)Département d'Immunologie, Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.

Immunological memory has been defined by the finding that upon a secondary 
injection of an antigen into an animal the immune response obtained differs from 
the response produced after the first inoculation of the antigen, independent of 
the length of time that can elapse between the first and second contact with 
antigen. In this report we have investigated the life-span of memory to a 
thymus-independent antigen, trinitrophenylated lipopolysaccharide (TNP-LPS), 
using a cell transfer system that allows the study of the function of isolated 
LPS-reactive "memory" B cells from C57BL/6 mice in histocompatible 
LPS-nonresponder C57BL/10ScCr hosts. We found that the longer the elapse of time 
between the transfer of TNP-LPS-primed C57BL/6 cells and the challenge of hosts 
with TNP-LPS, the lower the anti-TNP serum antibody level of the secondary 
response, i.e. in the absence of antigen, TNP-LPS memory cells have a short 
life-expectancy in the adoptive hosts as they do not persist for more than one 
or two weeks after transfer. Our present results suggest that induction and 
long-term persistence of memory to TNP-LPS in adoptive hosts cannot be solely 
explained by the long life-span of a subpopulation of antigen-specific memory B 
cells, but rather through the continuous recruitment of newly formed cells and 
probably antigen persistence.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.1830180902
PMID: 3262518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 1988 Jul-Sep;1(3):182. doi: 
10.1177/089198878800100314.

Dementia: the crisis of our times.

White NS.

DOI: 10.1177/089198878800100314
PMID: 3266999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Br J Neurosurg. 1987;1(1):153. doi: 10.3109/02688698709034352.

Life expectancy curves.

Flint G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham, U.K.

DOI: 10.3109/02688698709034352
PMID: 3267275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Br J Neurosurg. 1988;2(3):379-84. doi: 10.3109/02688698809001009.

The influence of unruptured intracranial aneurysms on life expectancy in 
relation to their size at the time of detection and to age.

Eskesen V(1), Rosenørn J, Schmidt K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Copenhagen County Hospital, Glostrup, Denmark.

A theoretical evaluation of the lifetime probabilities of different outcomes in 
patients with unruptured intracranial aneurysms (UA) has been made using a life 
table method. The calculations were performed for aneurysm presenting ages from 
20 to 70 years of age for men and women assuming an annual risk of aneurysm 
rupture of 1%, 2% and 3% and a rate of mortality after rupture of 50%. At 10, 
20, 30, 40, 50 and 60 years after the diagnosis of an UA the probability of 
survival without bleeding is reduced below the expected probability of survival 
according to the life tables by the following percentages (assuming an annual 
risk of bleeding of 2%): 19%, 34%, 46%, 56%, 64% and 72%, respectively. A survey 
of the lifetime probabilities of four different outcomes for patients with an UA 
indicates a substantial reduction in life expectancy after the diagnosis of an 
UA. In most ages the surgical risks are more than balanced by the risks 
associated with an untreated unruptured aneurysm.

DOI: 10.3109/02688698809001009
PMID: 3267320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Demography. 1988 Nov;25(4):611-24.

Changing mortality patterns that led life expectancy in Japan to surpass 
Sweden's: 1972-1982.

Yanagishita M(1), Guralnik JM.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology, Biometry, and Demography Program, National Institute on Aging, 
Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Between 1972 and 1982, Japan caught up to and then surpassed Sweden as the 
country with the longest life expectancy. The contributions of different causes 
of death and age groups to life expectancy changes in males during this time 
period are examined in detail for these two countries. Even though 
cerebrovascular disease mortality rates remained lower in Sweden over the entire 
interval, the rapid gain made by Japan relative to Sweden for this cause of 
death was a prime factor in Japan's ending the period with a higher life 
expectancy. Important contributions to life expectancy improvement in Japan came 
from declining mortality rates in those aged 55 and older.

PMID: 3267542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Demography. 1988 Nov;25(4):625-32.

The current differential in black and white life expectancy.

Keith VM(1), Smith DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Texas A&M University, College Station 77843.

The 1980 National Center for Health Statistics life tables for the U.S. black 
and white populations reveal a difference in life expectancy of 7 years between 
black and white males and 6 years between black and white females. Using 
cause-substituted life tables, we show that a number of causes of death 
contribute to the difference. The largest contributors are cardiovascular 
disease for both sexes and homicide and cancer for males.

PMID: 3267543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Dent Update. 1988 Jun;15(5):186, 188-91.

Gerodontology: the problem?

Walls AW, Barnes IE.

PMID: 3267593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Acta Odontol Venez. 1988 Jan-Aug;26(1-2):43-51.

[A mathematical model for a life expectancy table for permanent teeth].

[Article in Spanish]

Jimenez ES.

PMID: 3269162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Symp Soc Exp Biol. 1988;42:59-75.

Temperature and the distribution of plant species.

Woodward FI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany, University of Cambridge, UK.

An understanding of the mechanisms by which temperature influences the 
distribution of species and vegetation has been attempted by modelling 
population growth and establishing those stages of the plant life cycle which, 
when diminished by extremes of temperature, for example, may have the greatest 
impact on plant survival. This analysis suggests that the heat sum of the 
growing season, measured as day-degrees, controls the distribution of annual 
vegetation. For perennial vegetation both the heat sum of the growing season and 
the annual, absolute minimum temperature are critical. Climatic correlations and 
experimental analyses indicate that, in northern Europe, the northern 
latitudinal and upper altitudinal limits of lowland and southern vegetation are 
directly controlled by climate. In contrast, the southern and lower altitudinal 
limits of upland and northern vegetation are likely to be controlled by 
temperature-sensitive competition with southern or lowland species. Many of the 
temperature-sensitive processes of plant growth and development, such as the 
non-linearity of extension growth and variations in the threshold temperatures 
of processes, may increase the realized heat sum at a particular geographical 
location. However, in more northerly climates, photoperiodic control is crucial 
in avoiding precocious development in the highly variable climatic conditions of 
early spring.

PMID: 3270209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Child Nephrol Urol. 1988-1989;9(5):264-8.

Prognostic factors in the hemolytic-uremic syndrome.

Uszycka-Karcz M(1), Marczak E, Mierzewski P, Zurowska A, Schramm K, Gockowska Z.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Clinic of Nephrology, Gdańsk, Poland.

During 1972-1986, 142 children with the hemolytic-uremic syndrome were treated. 
Most of them were infants (73%). The total mortality rate reached 25.4%. 
Computer analysis revealed the following risk factors of a fatal outcome: severe 
gastrointestinal symptoms during the prodromal period, coma, convulsions, 
malignant hypertension, persistence of prodromal symptoms over 7 days, 
hyperkalemia over 7 mmol/l, acidosis with bicarbonate level less than 15 mmol/l, 
a delay of over 5 days in starting dialysis, and transport to dialysis unit of 
over 100 km. The greatest risk of death existed during the first 3 weeks from 
onset. Among 142 children, 106 survived the acute phase. They were followed up 
from 2 to 16 years. Nine were lost to follow-up. Twelve children developed 
chronic renal failure.

PMID: 3271592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Epidemiol Bull. 1988;9(3):2-9.

Health profiles, Argentina, 1980-1982.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 3274922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Rev Chil Obstet Ginecol. 1987;52(6):353-8.

[The third and fourth lives of women].

[Article in Spanish]

Lagrutta J.

PMID: 3274947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. NMR Biomed. 1988 Jun;1(3):127-30. doi: 10.1002/nbm.1940010305.

The effect of methotrexate upon tumour ATP as determined by in vivo 31P 
inversion spin transfer.

Haseler LJ(1), Irving MG, Doddrell DM.

Author information:
(1)School of Science, Griffith University, Brisbane, Australia.

The effect of methotrexate upon tumour growth in the hind leg muscle of rats 
containing a transplanted mammary adenocarcinoma was investigated by 31P 
magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Using inversion-transfer techniques, ATP 
resonances arising from the tumour could be distinguished from those arising 
from surrounding skeletal muscle. Methotrexate was shown to inhibit, but not 
prevent, tumour growth as evidenced by the tumour ATP resonances of methotrexate 
treated animals compared to those of control animals. These findings correlated 
with decreased tumour volume and enhanced life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1002/nbm.1940010305
PMID: 3275123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. J Neurosurg. 1988 Jan;68(1):85-98. doi: 10.3171/jns.1988.68.1.0085.

Gliomas of the optic nerve or chiasm. Outcome by patients' age, tumor site, and 
treatment.

Alvord EC Jr(1), Lofton S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington School of Medicine, 
Seattle.

A review of the literature revealed 623 cases of optic gliomas with sufficient 
information to permit actuarial (life-table) analysis concerning the prognosis 
of this disease by the patients' age, tumor site, treatment, and presence of 
concomitant neurofibromatosis or extension into the hypothalamus or ventricle. 
All of these factors are important. The development of mathematical models led 
to the conclusion that these tumors, generally regarded histologically as 
low-grade astrocytomas, actually have a very wide but continuous range of growth 
rates. Some grow rapidly enough to be explained by simple exponential doubling 
at a constant rate, but most behave as though their growth decelerates. 
Decelerating growth rates make comparisons of various groups of patients 
difficult. No support is found for the classical hypothesis that some may be 
hamartomas. Inadequately treated gliomas of the optic nerve or chiasm bear about 
the same poor prognosis. However, tumors of the optic nerve (intracranial as 
well as intraorbital) have an excellent prognosis following complete surgical 
excision and only a slightly poorer prognosis following irradiation. About 5% of 
optic nerve gliomas recur in the chiasm following "complete" intraorbital 
excision. Patients with neurofibromatosis have about twice the recurrence rate 
following complete excision of an intraorbital glioma. Optic chiasmal gliomas 
appear to respond to irradiation with doses above 4500 rads. Patients with 
neurofibromatosis have about the same prognosis as patients without 
neurofibromatosis following irradiation of a chiasmal glioma.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1988.68.1.0085
PMID: 3275755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1988 Jan;137(1):215-20. doi: 10.1164/ajrccm/137.1.215.

Isoniazid for the tuberculin reactor: take it or leave it.

Tsevat J(1), Taylor WC, Wong JB, Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New England Medical Center, Tufts University School 
of Medicine, Boston, MA 02111.

The management of the adult tuberculin reactor who has no other risk factors for 
the development of active tuberculosis is controversial. We performed a decision 
analysis to address the issue of whether adults 20 to 80 yr of age should take 
isoniazid to prevent the development of active disease. The analysis uses a 
Markov simulation, a regression model to calculate the risk of developing 
tuberculosis at any given time after the discovery of a positive skin test, and 
estimates from the literature for other probabilities. The analysis favors 
withholding INH for all age groups, but by only 4 to 17 days of life expectancy, 
depending on the age of the patient. Quality adjusting and discounting change 
neither the preferred strategy nor the closeness of the outcome. Sensitivity 
analyses also underscore the narrowness of the margin. Our analysis reaches 
different conclusions from previously published analyses. More important than 
the actual strategy preferred is the minute difference in expected utilities 
between administering and withholding INH. We suggest that the individual 
patient decide whether or not these differences are meaningful.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm/137.1.215
PMID: 3276255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. J Fam Pract. 1988 Jan;26(1):67-72.

Detection of and screening for endometrial cancer.

Jaber R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, School of Medicine, State University of New 
York, Stony Brook 11794-8461.

Endometrial cancer occurs more than twice as frequently as cervical cancer. The 
main risk factors are age, estrogen use, and obesity. Increasing life expectancy 
and more liberal use of estrogen to prevent postmenopausal bone loss will 
probably increase the magnitude of the problem. Endometrial cancer is a 
heterogeneous disease. Good prognosis is associated with obesity and estrogen 
use and with carcinomas preceded by precancerous hyperplasia. A bad prognosis 
may be found in women without major risk factors and is associated with a normal 
or atrophic endometrium. Because of a high prevalence of asymptomatic disease 
(6.9 per 1,000) and because the group with a poor prognosis is usually 
asymptomatic, all postmenopausal women should be screened at least one time. For 
screening, the use of one of the cytologic instruments is recommended; these 
instruments are safe, easy to handle, and can be used in the office setting 
without anesthesia. Yields are comparable to dilation and curettage. Family 
physicians are encouraged to familiarize themselves with cytologic instruments 
and to use them for screening postmenopausal women in their office.

PMID: 3276809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Br J Rheumatol. 1988;27 Suppl 1:44-54.

Mortality in rheumatoid arthritis.

Symmons DP.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is often regarded as a non-fatal disease. Yet patients 
with RA have a substantially reduced life expectancy. Increased mortality in RA 
is associated with a long disease duration, with severe disabling arthritis and 
with systemic involvement. Patients with chronic RA are particularly at risk of 
death from bacterial infection and renal disease. The influence of treatment on 
mortality remains unclear. In patients with mild RA, the treatments may be more 
toxic than the disease.

PMID: 3277684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg (1978). 1988;107(1):31-41. doi: 10.1007/BF00463522.

Massive bone allografts in large skeletal defects after tumor surgery: a 
clinical and microradiographic evaluation.

Delloye C(1), de Nayer P, Allington N, Munting E, Coutelier L, Vincent A.

Author information:
(1)St-Luc University Clinics, Brussels, Belgium.

Massive deep-frozen bone allografts were implanted in 13 patients after en bloc 
tumor resection. Patients were followed up for 14 months to 17 years. Most of 
the reconstructive procedures included a segmental bone allograft with knee or 
ankle fusion. Graft infections were the most critical complications in regard to 
the end results, finally requiring amputation in two cases. There were three 
stress fractures; two of which were successfully treated without further 
complication. Graft incorporation was assessed by bone scintimetry in four 
cases. Isotope uptake by the center of the graft was found to be superior to 
control bone segments at only 15 years after surgery. Two recovered allograft 
specimens were available for a microradiographic study. Creeping substitution 
was a very slow process, initiated at the outer surface of the graft and 
characterized at 2-3 years after implantation by large, incompletely filled 
osteons. The present investigation demonstrates that massive bone allografts are 
very slowly revascularized and are intimately anchored by the host bone. 
Provided that tumor control is effective and graft infection is avoided, 
reconstructive surgery with massive bone allografts represents a successful 
alternative to prosthetic implants in young adult with a long life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00463522
PMID: 3278701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Hypertension. 1988 Mar;11(3 Pt 2):II96-100. doi:
10.1161/01.hyp.11.3_pt_2.ii96.

Blood pressure monitoring outside the office for the evaluation of patients with 
resistant hypertension.

Pickering TG(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Center, New York Hospital-Cornell University Medical Center, 
NY 10021.

Although severe hypertension is associated with a poor prognosis, there exists a 
substantial number of patients who have persistently elevated blood pressures, 
but no signs of target organ damage, and nearly normal life expectancy. In such 
cases, measurement of blood pressure outside the clinic may give readings that 
are as much as 30 mm Hg lower than the clinic readings. The first step 
recommended in the identification of such patients is to use home blood pressure 
monitoring. If home blood pressures are low, 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure 
recording is indicated. If this also gives low readings, it is appropriate to 
treat patients according to their level of home blood pressure. Because of the 
unreliability of clinic pressures, ambulatory and home blood pressure monitoring 
may also be of value in assessing the response to treatment.

DOI: 10.1161/01.hyp.11.3_pt_2.ii96
PMID: 3280500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. J Nutr. 1988 Mar;118(3):286-9. doi: 10.1093/jn/118.3.284.

Food restriction, circadian disorder and longevity of rats and mice.

Nelson W(1).

Author information:
(1)Chronobiology Laboratories, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55455.

Evidence that food restriction alters circadian rhythms as it prolongs the 
healthful life of rats and mice is reviewed. Because rhythms in different 
variables are changed in different ways, the circadian organization that is 
characteristic of freely feeding animals is disrupted. In the case of daily food 
restriction (meal feeding), the extent of disruption depends on the timing of 
the meal in relation to the daily light-dark schedule. Recent studies indicate 
that the extension of life span by a given level of food restriction is similar 
regardless of mealtime, whether fixed or shifted at weekly intervals throughout 
life. Such results suggest that the effects of food restriction on circadian 
organization are not involved in the effect on survival. On the other hand, 
changes in any given rhythm (such as an increased amplitude and a decreased 
overall average of body temperature) could point to the mechanism by which 
longevity is increased.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/118.3.284
PMID: 3280755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. JAMA. 1988 Apr 15;259(15):2258-62.

Experience with single-lung transplantation for pulmonary fibrosis. The Toronto 
Lung Transplant Group.

[No authors listed]

Repeated success has now been obtained with single-lung transplantation for 
end-stage pulmonary fibrosis. Potential candidates for this procedure are 
individuals who are less than 60 years of age and who have progressive pulmonary 
deterioration with limited life expectancy. Since November 1983, eleven such 
transplantations have been performed; nine patients achieved discharge from the 
hospital and eight patients have remained alive up to 44 months after surgery. 
All of these recipients have good oxygenation on room air and good exercise 
tolerance and are capable of performing routine activities, including a return 
to previous employment. From our experience, it appears likely that single-lung 
transplantation can achieve the same success rates as other major organ 
transplantations.

PMID: 3280841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Ann Intern Med. 1988 May;108(5):669-74. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-108-5-669.

Gallium nitrate for acute treatment of cancer-related hypercalcemia. A 
randomized, double-blind comparison to calcitonin.

Warrell RP Jr(1), Israel R, Frisone M, Snyder T, Gaynor JJ, Bockman RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine whether gallium nitrate therapy is superior to 
maximally approved doses of calcitonin for acute control of cancer-related 
hypercalcemia.
DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind comparison of active treatments.
SETTING: Comprehensive cancer center.
PATIENTS: One hundred ninety-eight consecutive hypercalcemic events in 164 
patients screened for entry.
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA: hospitalization and intravenous hydration for at least 2 
days; persistent elevated serum calcium levels of 2.99 mmol/L or greater 
(adjusted for serum albumin); serum creatinine levels of 221 mumol/L or less; no 
cytotoxic chemotherapy, radiation, or mithramycin within the preceding 7 days or 
during study; no concurrent use of aminoglycoside antibiotics; life expectancy 
greater than 4 weeks; lymphoma and parathyroid carcinoma excluded. Patients were 
stratified by histologic type of tumor (epidermoid or nonepidermoid). Fifty 
patients were randomized and treated.
INTERVENTIONS: Gallium nitrate 200 mg/m2 body surface area for 5 days by 
continuous intravenous infusion, or salmon calcitonin 8 IU/kg body weight every 
6 hours for 5 days by intramuscular injection. Patients randomized to receive 
gallium nitrate received sham injections of saline to simulate calcitonin; 
patients randomized to receive calcitonin received 1000 mL 5%-dextrose solution 
to simulate gallium nitrate.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: All patients were evaluable. Eighteen of 
twenty-four patients who received gallium nitrate achieved normocalcemia 
compared with 8 of 26 patients who received calcitonin for an observed 
difference of 44% (95% confidence interval, 19% to 69%; P = 0.002). Median 
duration of normocalcemia before other cytotoxic or hypocalcemic therapy was 6 
days for patients treated with gallium nitrate compared with 1 day for patients 
treated with calcitonin (P less than 0.001). Median duration of normocalcemia 
regardless of intercurrent treatment and without adjustment for serum albumin 
was 11+ days for patients treated with gallium nitrate and 2 days for patients 
treated with calcitonin (P less than 0.01). Mean daily fluid intake and mean 
daily dose of furosemide were similar in both treatment groups. No additional 
benefit was seen in 9 patients randomized to receive calcitonin who incidentally 
received corticosteroids.
CONCLUSIONS: Gallium nitrate therapy is highly effective and superior to 
maximally approved doses of calcitonin for acute control of cancer-related 
hypercalcemia.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-108-5-669
PMID: 3282463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Br J Hosp Med. 1988 Mar;39(3):226-30.

Bone marrow transplantation for patients with chronic myeloid leukaemia.

Mackinnon S(1), Goldman JM.

Author information:
(1)Royal Postgraduate Medical School, Hammersmith Hospital, London.

Patients with chronic myeloid leukaemia may be rendered asymptomatic with 
conventional chemotherapy but this does not increase their life expectancy. Bone 
marrow transplantation provides not only the chance of increased survival but 
also an opportunity to cure the leukaemia.

PMID: 3282589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. J Cell Biol. 1988 Apr;106(4):1093-104. doi: 10.1083/jcb.106.4.1093.

Targeting of the hepatitis B virus precore protein to the endoplasmic reticulum 
membrane: after signal peptide cleavage translocation can be aborted and the 
product released into the cytoplasm.

Garcia PD(1), Ou JH, Rutter WJ, Walter P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San 
Francisco 94143-0448.

The major hepatitis B virus (HBV) core protein is a viral structural protein 
involved in nucleic acid binding. Its coding sequence contains an extension of 
29 codons (the "precore" region) at the amino terminus of the protein which is 
present in a fraction of the viral transcripts. This region is evolutionarily 
conserved among mammalian and avian HBVs, suggesting it has functional 
importance, although at least for duck HBV it has been shown to be nonessential 
for replication of infectious virions. Using in vitro assays for protein 
translocation across the endoplasmic reticulum membrane, we found that the 
precore region of the HBV genome encodes a signal sequence. This signal sequence 
was recognized by signal recognition particle, which targeted the nascent 
precore protein to the endoplasmic reticulum membrane with efficiencies 
comparable to those of other mammalian secretory proteins. A 19-amino acid 
signal peptide was removed by signal peptidase on the lumenal side of the 
microsomal membrane, generating a protein similar to the HBV major core protein, 
but containing 10 additional amino acids from the precore region at its amino 
terminus. Surprisingly, we found that 70-80% of this signal peptidase-cleaved 
product was localized on the cytoplasmic side of the microsomal vesicles and was 
not associated with the membranes. We conclude that translocation was aborted by 
an unknown mechanism, then the protein disengaged from the translocation 
machinery and was released back into the cytoplasm. Thus, a cytoplasmically 
disposed protein was created whose amino terminus resulted from signal peptidase 
cleavage. The remaining 20-30% appeared to be completely translocated into the 
lumen of the microsomes. A deletion mutant lacking the carboxy-terminal nucleic 
acid binding domain of the precore protein was similarly partitioned between the 
lumen of the microsomes and the cytoplasmic compartment, indicating that this 
highly charged domain is not responsible for the aborted translocation. We 
discuss the implications of our findings for the protein translocation process 
and suggest a possible role in the virus life cycle.

DOI: 10.1083/jcb.106.4.1093
PMCID: PMC2114996
PMID: 3283145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. J Occup Med. 1988 Mar;30(3):236-45.

Issues in assessing the carcinogenic hazards of ethylene oxide.

Austin SG(1), Sielken RL Jr.

Author information:
(1)Austin Health Consultants, Inc, Fort Collins, CO 80525.

Characterization of the health risks associated with occupational and 
environmental exposure to ethylene oxide (a gaseous sterilization agent and 
chemical building block) is made difficult by the limited dose-response 
