information contained in the few published epidemiologic studies available, and 
the absence of toxicologic data for chronic exposures in species other than the 
rat. Federal regulatory agencies have relied heavily on conventional 
quantitative risk assessment techniques in setting revised occupational exposure 
standards for ethylene oxide. This paper indicates the variability in risk 
assessment results that can be obtained using the multistage dose-response model 
and a single animal study depending on the method used to characterize risk, the 
health endpoint selected, the use of confidence intervals, and the method used 
to equate animal and human exposure levels. Selection of the most pessimistic 
options available in each of these four areas is shown to result in a virtually 
safe dose being characterized as 0.005 ppb, whereas other reasonable assumptions 
yield a safe dose estimate of 1.3 ppm.

PMID: 3283301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Med Decis Making. 1988 Apr-Jun;8(2):147. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8800800211.

Interpretation of "life expectancy".

Nease RF Jr.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8800800211
PMID: 3283492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Versicherungsmedizin. 1988 Jan 1;40(1):2-10.

[Coronary heart disease. Prognostic indicators and life expectancy as 
determining factors of insurability].

[Article in German]

Gubner RS.

PMID: 3284156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Basic Life Sci. 1988;43:183-90. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4684-5460-4_19.

Constitutional, somatic genetic and environmental aspects of the phenotypic 
diversity of aging in human subjects.

Martin GM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Genetics, University of Washington, Seattle 
98195.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4684-5460-4_19
PMID: 3284519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Sports Med. 1988 Mar;5(3):196-202. doi: 10.2165/00007256-198805030-00006.

Muscular coordination and strength training. Implications for injury 
rehabilitation.

Rutherford OM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University College London, Rayne Institute.

Strength training is commonly used in the rehabilitation of muscles atrophied as 
a result of injury and/or disuse. Studies on the effects of conventional leg 
extension training in healthy subjects have shown the changes to be very 
task-specific to the training manoeuvre itself. After conventional leg extension 
training for the quadriceps muscle the major improvement was in weightlifting 
ability with only small increases in isometric strength. The maximum dynamic 
force and power output during sprint cycling showed no improvement. These 
results suggest that the major benefit of this type of training is learning to 
coordinate the different muscle groups involved in the training movement rather 
than intrinsic increases in strength of the muscle group being trained. Other 
studies have shown changes in strength to be specific to the length and speed at 
which the muscle has been trained. The implication for rehabilitation is that 
strength training for isolated muscle groups may not be the most effective way 
of increasing functional ability. As the major changes are task-specific it may 
be better to incorporate the training into task-related practice. This would 
have the advantage of strengthening the muscle groups affected whilst increasing 
performance in those activities which are required in daily life.

DOI: 10.2165/00007256-198805030-00006
PMID: 3285437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1988 Apr 9;132(15):664-7.

[Life expectancy of man in adulthood and old age].

[Article in Dutch]

Vandenbroucke JP.

PMID: 3287186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1988 Jun;158(6 Pt 1):1347-53. doi: 
10.1016/0002-9378(88)90366-3.

The Zavanelli maneuver extended: progression of a revolutionary concept.

Sandberg EC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, CA 94305-5317.

Since description of the Zavanelli maneuver in 1984, 15 additional cases have 
come to light in which partially born but vaginally undeliverable fetuses have 
been returned to the vagina and subsequently extracted by cesarean section. Ten 
presentations were vertex, five breech. Half or more of each fetus had been 
delivered before vaginal reinsertion in eight of the 15. With one exception, all 
fetuses survived. There were no instances of fetal or maternal trauma. These 
cases represent a natural and progressive extension of the revolutionary concept 
behind the Zavanelli maneuver. Contrary to the age-old dicta, the process of 
vaginal birth, once initiated, does not have to proceed inexorably to completion 
with either life or death for the fetus in the balance. These cases demonstrate 
that delivery can be reversed at essentially any moment with excellent potential 
for fetal survival and relatively insignificant maternal risk.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(88)90366-3
PMID: 3289395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Vet Clin North Am Equine Pract. 1988 Apr;4(1):51-61. doi: 
10.1016/s0749-0739(17)30649-1.

Decision for surgery.

Ducharme NG(1), Lowe JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, New York State College of Veterinary 
Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca.

Based on the clinical impression and the current knowledge of the clinical 
variables (rectal examination, abdominal distention, abdominal fluid, 
intractable pain) most likely to differentiate between medical and surgical 
cases, three decision trees are provided as a guide to making the management 
decision in a horse with abdominal pain. Prior elimination of horses with 
limited life expectancy because of age or function or where financial 
constraints are present is understood. It must be emphasized that most of the 
information presently available originates from referral centers where the 
prevalence of surgical candidates is much higher than in general practice. This 
would influence the accuracy of the clinician in identifying horses with a 
surgical lesion or estimating survival (positive predictive value).

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-0739(17)30649-1
PMID: 3289696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. J Gerontol. 1988 Jul;43(4):S99-113. doi: 10.1093/geronj/43.4.s99.

The aging of Asia.

Martin LG(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Institute, East-West Center, Honolulu, HI 96848.

This article reviews some of the demographic characteristics of population aging 
and the elderly populations in 14 Asian countries: health and life expectancy; 
sex ratio, marital status, and living arrangements; and rural versus urban 
residence, labor force participation, retirement, and income. It also focuses on 
current programs for the elderly populations in Asia and discusses three general 
issues of importance in the development of aging policies: (a) to what extent 
should the West be used as a model; (b) what should be the role of the family 
versus the government in caring for elderly people who cannot care for 
themselves; and (c) should eligibility for programs be based on age or need?

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/43.4.s99
PMID: 3290316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Unfallchirurgie. 1988 Apr;14(2):64-73.

[History of the treatment of paralyzed patients in West Germany].

[Article in German]

Meinecke FW(1).

Author information:
(1)Querschnittgelähmten-Zentrum, Meinecke des Berufsgenossenschaftlichen 
Unfallkrankenhauses Hamburg.

Based on the fundamental work of Sir Ludwig Guttmann coping with the 
comprehensive treatment of sufferers from spinal cord injuries, the Federal 
Republic of Germany developed a network of specialized Spinal Injuries Units 
after the second world war. This is described. There is no problem to admit this 
people by specialized services in time, regardless whether of traumatic or non 
traumatic origin. According to the prolonged life expectancy there may occur 
some difficulties in providing adequate aftercare for lifetime. Some tasks for 
the future are briefly mentioned.

PMID: 3291356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Z Erkr Atmungsorgane. 1988;170(1):8-16.

[Development of mucoviscidosis management in East Germany].

[Article in German]

Dietzsch HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Kinderheilkunde der Medizinischen Akademie Carl Gustav Carus, 
Dresden, DDR.

The development of cystic fibrosis care in the GDR is reported by the activities 
of the "Working Group for Combatting Cystic Fibrosis" in the Pediatric 
Association of the GDR during the last 20 years. The mean incidence of the 
disease amounts to 1:4,100. It could be demonstrated that both the number of 
patients and their mean life expectancy have been increased continuously. At the 
end of 1985 803 patients were under care in the GDR, 10.6 per cent of them have 
reached the age of 18 years or more. New problems in medical care and 
psychological guidance arise in adolescents and in young adults with cystic 
fibrosis. By using linkage analysis of genetic markers new possibilities have 
been revealed in the field of prenatal diagnosis and of heterozygote detection.

PMID: 3291419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Compr Ther. 1988 May;14(5):24-8.

Diagnosis and management of vulvar carcinoma.

Fiorica JV(1), Lapolla JP, Cavanagh D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of South Florida College 
of Medicine, Tampa General Hospital 33612.

With the steady increase in life expectancy, invasive cancer of the vulva is now 
becoming more prominent among gynecologic malignancies. Early, careful 
examinations and informed patients can aid in early diagnosis. Carcinoma in 
situ, verified by biopsy, is best treated with wide local excision. Invasive 
vulvar carcinoma should be treated with radical vulvectomy and bilateral groin 
node dissection. The major source of morbidity is wound breakdown. The use of 
modified incision techniques and sartorius muscle transplantation have 
significantly decreased these postoperative complications. The clinical staging 
system for vulvar carcinoma is approved by the International Federation of 
Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO). The disease usually spreads systematically 
from the vulva to superficial groin nodes, to deep groin nodes, and then to 
pelvic nodes. Survival rates of 84% for stage I disease can be achieved. 
Evidence of positive groin nodes indicates a poor prognosis. However, even 
patients with advanced disease can be surgically cured by radical surgery. Five 
of ten patients (50%) with stage IV disease were alive and free of disease at 
five years with exenterative surgery. Any patient who is a reasonable medical 
risk, with a vulvar lesion that is resectable, should be treated surgically. 
Otherwise, the patients not only die, but they die in abject misery.

PMID: 3292135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Eur J Immunol. 1987 Jun;17(6):849-54. doi: 10.1002/eji.1830170618.

The majority of "natural" immunoglobulin-secreting cells are short-lived and the 
progeny of cycling lymphocytes.

Lévy M, Vieira P, Coutinho A, Freitas A.

Treatment of mice with hydroxyurea to selectively kill all cycling cells has 
been used to study population dynamics and life expectancy of "natural" 
immunoglobulin-secreting cells in the bone marrow and spleen of nonimmunized 
animals. The results show that 50 to 90% of those cells are eliminated 2 to 3 
days after one cycle of hydroxyurea administration, demonstrating their recent 
origin from cycling precursors. Using a protocol of long-term hydroxyurea 
treatment which abrogates cell production from the cycling precursors 
compartments, it was shown that "natural" immunoglobulin-secreting cells have a 
very short half renewal time, in the range of 15-60 h.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.1830170618
PMID: 3297735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. J Chronic Dis. 1987;40 Suppl 1:137S-158S. doi: 10.1016/s0021-9681(87)80043-7.

Measuring the effectiveness of heart transplant programmes: quality of life data 
and their relationship to survival analysis.

O'Brien BJ, Buxton MJ, Ferguson BA.

This paper explores the problems of benefit measurement in the economic 
evaluation of heart transplant programmes. We present data from our evaluation 
of the U.K. heart transplant programmes on both survival and quality of life and 
we examine the relationship between the two. The quality of life measure used, 
the Nottingham Health Profile (NHP), is described and results presented. We 
attempt to aggregate this profile measure into a single index score and combine 
these data with life expectancy gains to produce estimates of Quality Adjusted 
Life Years (QALYs) gained for heart transplantation. In addition we examine the 
extent to which pre-transplant NHP scores can be used as predictors of 
post-transplant survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s0021-9681(87)80043-7
PMID: 3298303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. J Neurobiol. 1987 May;18(3):295-313. doi: 10.1002/neu.480180305.

Extension and retraction of axonal projections by some developing neurons in the 
leech depends upon the existence of neighboring homologues. II. The AP and AE 
neurons.

Gao WQ, Macagno ER.

To assess the generality of our previous finding (Gao and Macagno, 1987) that 
segmental homologues play a role in the establishment of the pattern of axonal 
projections of the heart accessory HA neurons, we have extended our studies to 
two other identified leech neurons: the anterior pagoda (AP) neurons and the 
annulus erector (AE) motor neurons. Bilateral pairs of AP neurons are found in 
the first through the twentieth segmental ganglia (SG1 through SG20) of the 
leech ventral nerve cord. All AP neurons initially extend axonal projections to 
the contralateral periphery as well as longitudinal projections along the 
contralateral interganglionic connective nerves toward anterior and posterior 
neighboring ganglia. Although the peripheral projections are maintained by all 
AP neurons throughout the life of the animal, the longitudinal projections 
disappear in all but two segments: the AP neurons in SG1 maintain their anterior 
projections and extend them into the head ganglion, and those in SG20 maintain 
their posterior projections and extend them into SG21 and the tail ganglion. 
When single AP neurons are deleted anywhere along the nerve cord before 
processes begin to atrophy, however, the longitudinal projections are retained 
by their ipsilateral homologues in adjacent ganglia. The rescued processes 
appear to take over the projections of the deleted neurons. In cases where two 
or more AP neurons on the same side of the nerve cord are deleted from adjacent 
ganglia, a contralateral homologue sometimes extends projections to the 
periphery ipsilaterally or on both sides. We obtained similar results when we 
deleted single AE neurons from midbody ganglia. Thus, our experiments with three 
different identified neurons consistently show that the initial pattern of 
projections is the same in all ganglia, but that the existence of homologues in 
adjacent ganglia leads to the pruning of some of the initial projections. A 
consequence of this homologue-dependent process retraction is that neurons 
normally lacking neighboring homologues will have patterns of projections 
different from those neurons that do have such neighbors. Process loss by the 
HA, AP, and AE neurons may be the result either of competition for targets, 
inputs, or growth factors or of direct interactions among homologous cells.

DOI: 10.1002/neu.480180305
PMID: 3298543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Jpn J Exp Med. 1986 Dec;56(6):309-14.

Genetic recombination between closely linked markers of bacteriophage T4. II. A 
mutation which reduces the formation of heteroduplex heterozygotes.

Honda M.

A T4 phage mutant MCO4 was isolated as a mutant that reduced the frequencies of 
recombinants between multiple closely-linked markers but not those between two 
markers. MCO4 mutation was a non-lethal, recessive mutation and was located 
nearby gene 24 and gene 25. MCO4 mutation reduced the frequency of heteroduplex 
heterozygotes but not the frequency of terminally redundant heterozygotes. 
Therefore, MCO4 mutation appears to block the formation and/or the extension of 
heteroduplex regions or to shorten their life-time.

PMID: 3298748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Vet Pathol. 1987 May;24(3):216-25. doi: 10.1177/030098588702400304.

Spontaneous nonneoplastic gastric lesions in female Han:NMRI mice, and influence 
of food restriction throughout life.

Rehm S, Sommer R, Deerberg F.

A life span study of 900 female virgin Han:NMRI mice (300 outbred controls, 300 
of a fat subline, and 300 of a lean subline) was done to determine the 
occurrence of spontaneous disease with ad libitum or restricted feeding. Major 
nonneoplastic lesions in the glandular stomach were erosions, ulcers and 
adenomatous hyperplasia of the fundus. Ulcers, ranging in incidence with ad 
libitum feeding from 5 to 9% and with food restriction from 13 to 34%, either 
occurred secondary to other diseases or were due to stress associated with food 
restriction, causing death mainly in the lean subline. Adenomatous hyperplasia 
was most common in the control group (41%); the frequency increased with age and 
was significantly reduced by food restriction. The etiology of adenomatous 
gastric hyperplasia is yet unknown. However, a lack of antiparietal cell 
antibodies, as determined by an immunofluorescent technique, indicates that an 
autoimmune disorder is not involved and an increase in antral gastrin cells, as 
determined by avidin-biotin peroxidase immunocytochemistry, suggests a hormonal 
involvement in pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1177/030098588702400304
PMID: 3300004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. J Immunol. 1987 Sep 1;139(5):1379-84.

The stable and permanent expansion of functional T lymphocytes in athymic nude 
rats after a single injection of mature T cells.

Bell EB, Sparshott SM, Drayson MT, Ford WL.

Athymic nude rats (PVG.rnu/rnu) were injected at 6 to 10 wk of age with 1 to 200 
million thoracic duct lymphocytes (TDL) containing 40 to 60% mature T cells. 
Thereafter TDL-injected nude recipients were monitored for evidence of T cell 
function for up to 2 yr. W3/25+ T helper (Th) cells in lymph nodes (LN) 
increased from 7% at 2 wk to 30% at 8 wk after TDL transfer. The percent of 
W3/25+ cells remained elevated for the life of the recipient (up to 2 yr), 
approximating normal levels. The total size of the recirculating pool expanded 
in TDL-injected nude rats to reach 2/3 the level of euthymic controls by 16 wk, 
an increase of 10-fold to 15-fold in W3/25+ cells. The expansion of the W3/25+ 
population was independent of initial TDL dose. With time spleen and LN acquired 
a normal histological appearance including the development of germinal centres 
and a marked increase in cellularity in T cell traffic areas. TDL-injected nude 
rats rejected skin allografts with near normal kinetics. In addition graft vs 
host (GVH) responsiveness, assessed by the popliteal LN assay, progressively 
increased reaching a level 9 mo to 1 yr after replacement that resembled the GVH 
activity in euthymic controls.

PMID: 3305705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Am J Perinatol. 1987 Oct;4(4):275-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-999790.

Relationship between peri-intraventricular hemorrhage and neonatal 
hyperbilirubinemia in very low-birthweight infants.

Amato M(1), Fauchere JC, von Muralt G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Perinatal Medicine, University of Berne, Switzerland.

The incidence of hyperbilirubinemia (serum bilirubin values greater than 205 
mumol/l) in two groups of preterm infants (birthweight less than 1500 gm) with 
and without peri-intraventricular hemorrhage (PIVH) was studied. In the first 10 
days of life, 16 (39%) of the 41 infants with PIVH vs. 22 (46.8%) of those 
without PIVH (n = 47) had high bilirubin levels. No difference in peak serum 
bilirubin concentrations nor a need for phototherapy was noted between the two 
groups (P greater than 0.07). Forty-one infants had PIVH: 30 had PIVH grade I or 
II and 11 had grade III or IV. No statistically significant correlation was 
found between degree of PIVH and hyperbilirubinemia. Moreover, at 12 months 
corrected age, major and minor handicaps were equally distributed between the 
two groups. The neurologic outcome appeared to relate, in largest part, to the 
severity of the PIVH, and to not be influenced by the hyperbilirubinemia. We 
conclude that there is no positive relationship between incidence and extension 
of PIVH, plasma bilirubin levels, and outcome in very low-birth weight infants.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-999790
PMID: 3307797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Z Gastroenterol. 1987 Aug;25 Suppl 3:33-40.

[Effects of nicotine, alcohol and caffeine on the incidence, healing and 
recurrence rate of peptic ulcer].

[Article in German]

Holstege A(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Universitätsklinik Freiburg, Abteilung Gastroenterologie.

A causal relationship exists between the incidence of peptic ulcer and smoking: 
smoking is significantly associated with a higher prevalence of gastric duodenal 
ulcer. Either type of peptic ulcer demonstrates a lower healing rate in smokers 
as compared to non-smokers and impaired spontaneous and drug-induced healing. 
Smoking is a major factor for rapidity of duodenal ulcer recurrence. Incidence, 
healing rate, and recurrence rate correlate with the number of cigarettes 
smoked. Beyond this, smoking increases the likelihood of ulcer perforation. The 
normal life expectancy is reduced in smokers after gastric surgery for peptic 
ulcer disease. Moderate alcohol and caffeine consumption presumably have no 
effect on the incidence of peptic ulcer. However, continuous alcohol abuse seems 
to increase the prevalence of duodenal ulcer. In ulcer disease, it seems 
unwarranted to exclusively interdict caffeine-containing or alcoholic beverages 
while permitting other equally potent stimulants of gastric acid secretion like 
milk.

PMID: 3310431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1987;35(3-4):206-24.

[Indicators of disability-free life expectancy. Global indicators of the health 
status of populations].

[Article in French]

Robine JM(1), Brouard N, Colvez A.

Author information:
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, U.164, Unité de 
Recherches, Le Vésinet, France.

Disability free life expectancy (DFLE) is an index of mean length of healthy 
life. It aims at measuring the evolution in the populations state of health. The 
first calculations were achieved at the end of the 60s and about ten 
experimental calculations have been made until now, mostly in the United States, 
Canada, Japan and France. Nowadays this index is very well accepted. Its major 
qualities are its usefulness for setting health targets and determining the 
present and future needs. Is DFLE destined for becoming a conjonctural index of 
health state? The circumstances are undoubtedly propitious. Nevertheless, in 
order to be used in routine the DFLE index must answer three conditions, which 
the current approach does not fulfil i.e. the viability of disability 
measurement for comparisons in time; a registration of period data which is 
based on the incidence of entrance in disability; a calculation which is adapted 
to the disability whether it is reversible or not.

PMID: 3313574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Br J Ophthalmol. 1987 Oct;71(10):748-52. doi: 10.1136/bjo.71.10.748.

Intraocular reticulum cell sarcoma: diagnosis by choroidal biopsy.

Kirmani MH(1), Thomas EL, Rao NA, Laborde RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Southern California School of 
Medicine, Los Angeles 90033.

A patient with uveitis and retinal pigment epithelial detachments underwent an 
extensive medical examination and pars plana vitrectomy in an attempt to confirm 
the clinical diagnosis of reticulum cell sarcoma. None of these examinations 
revealed the presence of malignancy. Transscleral biopsy of subretinal lesions 
confirmed the histopathological diagnosis of reticulum cell sarcoma. The patient 
was begun on systemic chemotherapy and external beam radiation to the eye and 
orbit, with resultant preservation of the eye, vision, and probable extension of 
life because of early detection of reticulum cell sarcoma by choroidal biopsy. 
This technique may be advantageous in the diagnosis cases of eyes with clinical 
evidence of reticulum cell sarcoma, no systemic signs of malignancy, and 
negative vitreous biopsies.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.71.10.748
PMCID: PMC1041299
PMID: 3314978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Crit Rev Clin Lab Sci. 1987;25(3):211-29. doi: 10.3109/10408368709105883.

Additive solutions for better blood preservation.

Moore GL(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Blood Research, Letterman Army Institute of Research, Presidio of 
San Francisco, California.

For several decades the standard blood preservative solution consisted of 
citrate, dextrose, and, later, phosphate (ACD and CPD). In 1978 a new solution 
containing adenine (CPDA-1) was introduced to permit extension of red cell shelf 
life from 21 to 35 days. The success of CPDA-1 and the high percentage of blood 
units processed into components (estimated 87% in 1983) have stimulated a burst 
of research and development activity to develop improved red cell preservation 
systems. Most of these systems have taken the form of "additive solutions" in 
which the blood is drawn in CPD or CP2D and processed into components. Then the 
packed red cells are stored by addition of a solution customized for their 
preservation. This review evaluates these additive solutions in detail. 
Innovative systems for pH control (buffers and resins) have also been explored. 
Our review concludes with discussion of the safety aspects of new preservative 
solutions and the methodological problems of evaluating these solutions.

DOI: 10.3109/10408368709105883
PMID: 3315464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Drugs Exp Clin Res. 1987;13(5):311-9.

A study on the prevention of duodenal ulcer recurrence with pirenzepine.

Kohli Y(1), Fukumoto S, Kawai K.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, National Fukui Medical School, Japan.

A double-blind, controlled study with either 50 mg of pirenzepine or a placebo 
once a day was performed in 128 patients to determine the effect of pirenzepine 
against relapses of duodenal ulcer, the healing of the subjects' former ulcers 
having been confirmed endoscopically. The study lasted 12 months at longest; 
endoscopy was performed at 3,6,9 and 12 month intervals during the study, as 
well as when subjective symptoms developed. Cumulative non-relapse rates were 
obtained every 3 months according to the life expectancy table; at 3 and 6 
months, they were 85.7% and 73.0% for the pirenzepine group and 67.9% and 49.0% 
for the placebo group, thus indicating significantly lower relapse rates in 
favour of the pirenzepine group (p less than 0.05). There was no significant 
difference between the two groups with regard to the 12-month cumulative 
non-relapse rate. Comparison of background factors in relapsed and non-relapsed 
cases suggested that relapses were more frequent among pirenzepine-treated 
patients who had required a shorter course of treatment or had received H2 
antagonists in the treatment of their previous ulcer. Relapses of duodenal ulcer 
were closely correlated with relapses of subjective symptoms, but there was no 
significant difference between the pirenzepine group and the placebo group with 
regard to the frequency of subjective symptoms at the time of ulcer recurrence. 
Pirenzepine, like H2 antagonists, proved to prevent ulcer relapses temporarily. 
The relapse rate with the compound appeared to be higher in cases where the 
former ulcer had been treated with H2 antagonists.

PMID: 3315536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Med Hist. 1987 Oct;31(4):440-9. doi: 10.1017/s0025727300047281.

The extended life course. Reflections on a multidisciplinary European symposium 
in Berlin, 26-28 November 1986.

Imhof AE.

DOI: 10.1017/s0025727300047281
PMCID: PMC1139785
PMID: 3316878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Soc Sci Med. 1987;25(7):773-81. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(87)90035-9.

A critical review of international mortality data.

Murray CJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Merton College, Oxford University, England.

Mortality data have become increasingly important not only in health related 
studies but also in development studies as a whole. The demand for data on life 
expectancy and the infant mortality rate is met by five publications-the UN 
Demographic Yearbook, World Population Prospects, World Development Report, 
World Population Trends and Policies Monitoring Report, and World Population. 
Within these statistical publications, life expectancy and the infant mortality 
rate are available for nearly every country each year. However, recent empirical 
information on mortality in most developing exists only for a handful of 
countries. The estimates published in the World Development Report and World 
Population Prospects are based on old empirical data updated with assumed rates 
of improvement in mortality. Neither of these sources provide technical notes 
explaining the original data source, estimation technique, and updating model 
used. Fortunately, two sources, the World Population Trends and Policies 
Monitoring Report and World Population, publish only empirically based data 
clearly identifying source, year of applicability, and estimation technique. The 
work in the World Development Report and the World Population Prospects could be 
made more useful if they provided adequate technical documentation for each 
estimate. At present, the Monitoring Report and World Population are the only 
appropriate sources for quantitative analysis of mortality or of change in 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(87)90035-9
PMID: 3317888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. J Am Coll Dent. 1987 Winter;54(4):7-12.

Dentist health status and risks.

Zwemer JD, Williams JE.

PMID: 3320141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Basic Life Sci. 1987;42:49-74. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4613-1939-9_4.

Scaling of maximal lifespan in mammals: a review.

Prothero J(1), Jürgens KD.

Author information:
(1)Biological Structure, University of Washington, Seattle.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4613-1939-9_4
PMID: 3325028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Herz. 1987 Dec;12 Suppl 1:38-45.

[Effect of captopril on the life expectancy of patients with chronic heart 
failure].

[Article in German]

Kleber FX(1).

Author information:
(1)II. Medizinische Abteilung des Städtischen Krankenhauses München-Schwabing.

Since the introduction of vasodilator therapy, progress has been realized in the 
management of advanced congestive heart failure (CHF) of different etiologies. 
The most encouraging influences on hemodynamics, exercise tolerance and 
symptomatology have been reported with ACE-inhibitors. While hemodynamic 
parameters do correlate with prognosis in CHF [11, 14, 27], the overall 
prognosis in CHF is very poor [19], and there is no tight correlation between 
symptomatology, hemodynamics and prognosis [13]. A powerful influence of 
ACE-inhibitors has been demonstrated not only on hemodynamics and on the 
neuro-endocrine activation in CHF [10], but also on left ventricular hypertrophy 
[22] and myocardial morphology [16, 23]. On the background of these therapeutic 
options, we designed a double-blind, randomized, placebo controlled trial on the 
efficacy of captopril on mortality and morbidity in chronic CHF. The basic 
population studied consists of patients of a large community, 
university-affiliated hospital, with five sub-specialized divisions in internal 
medicine, and about 600 medical beds. All patients considered for participation 
live in the greater Munich area.
INCLUSION CRITERIA: With slight modifications, the criteria used in the 
Framingham Study were used as entrance criteria [19]. Patients were randomized 
if they were on stable therapy for their chronic congestive heart failure 
usually on digitalis and diuretics. Endpoints for the double-blind treatment 
period were either death or severe (with digitalis and diuretics) untractable 
heart failure NYHA Class IV. Follow-up examinations comprised office visits of 
the patients every three months for a precise cardiac history over the last 
three months based on a questionnaire. Captopril was used in a dose of 25 mg 
b.i.d.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3325395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Int J Psychoanal. 1987;68 ( Pt 4):453-63.

Infant observation from before birth.

Piontelli A.

This paper describes research on the extension of infant observation to 
pre-natal life with the aid of ultrasounds. First there is some mention of the 
technique of ultrasounds and of the advances in our knowledge of pre-natal life 
brought about by it. A description of the research follows: 5-6 ultrasonographic 
observations lasting about one hour each starting from the 14th-18th week of 
pregnancy are carried out at monthly intervals till the end of pregnancy. During 
such observations the behaviour of the foetus is observed and each time the 
behaviour of the mother is also taken into account. After birth mother and child 
are then followed at home with infant observations as described by Bick. So far 
this research seems to be pointing to the possibility of detecting early markers 
of character already in utero. Two examples are given to illustrate this thesis.

PMID: 3325439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Schizophr Bull. 1987;13(4):555-76. doi: 10.1093/schbul/13.4.555.

Studies toward the subcortical pathogenesis of schizophrenia.

Patterson T(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Department, Menninger Foundation, Topeka, KS 66601.

In addition to introducing the six articles joined by our thematic outlook, this 
article addresses the importance of subcortical structures as they may be 
related to information processing and the life experience of schizophrenic 
patients. This is a heuristic exercise aimed at bridging the conceptual gaps 
between clinical and research approaches to schizophrenia. A brief overview is 
then provided of current conceptualizations of a number of subcortical 
structures, each of which may play a part in the subcortical pathogenesis of 
schizophrenia in specific patients. The central concepts are failures in the 
"automaticity" with which prior experience may be recreated in parallel with 
current stimulus input in schizophrenia (with concomitant failures in future 
orientation or contextually generated expectancy), and the view of subcortical 
structures as constituting a "system" in which no single type of defect may be 
common to all schizophrenic patients.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/13.4.555
PMID: 3326160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Milbank Q. 1987;65 Suppl 1:100-28.

History of black mortality and health before 1940.

Ewbank DC(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Arts and Sciences, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 
19104-6298.

This article documents the history of black mortality between 1850 and 1940 and 
begins the process of placing that history into the context of the more general 
history of mortality decline in the United States. One aspect of this process 
has been to discuss the trends in mortality among blacks and whites living in 
the same general geographic areas--for example, comparing southern rural blacks 
with southern rural whites. A second part has been to relate black mortality to 
many of the factors that have been discussed as determinants of general 
mortality trends--such as water and sanitation, the urban disadvantage in 
mortality, and child care and feeding practices. During the second half of the 
nineteenth century, black mortality declined only slightly or not at all. 
Between 1850 and 1880 there may have been some decline in child mortality, but 
the trends in adult mortality are indeterminate. Between 1880 and 1900 both 
child and adult mortality rates were constant. Sometime between 1900 and 1910 
mortality rates among blacks began to decline at all ages, especially in urban 
areas. During the first four decades of this century mortality rates among 
American blacks declined substantially. Expectation of life at birth increased 
from about 35 years to about 54 years, which represents a significant 
improvement in health and living standards. The life expectancy among blacks in 
1940, however, was still two years below the value for whites in the death 
registration area in 1920. (This may exaggerate the difference slightly since 
the mortality rates for 1919 and 1920 were artificially low following the 
pandemic of influenza in 1918. In addition, the mortality rates in the DRA may 
not have been representative of the whole white population.) Throughout the 
period studied, blacks had substantially higher mortality rates than whites 
living in the same area. Although the amount of excessive mortality among blacks 
differed from place to place and period to period, we did not find a single area 
or time when black mortality rates were close to those of whites. The 
examination of causes of death among whites and blacks in 1920 showed that 
racial differences in the amount of tuberculosis explained a substantial part of 
the mortality differences in New York and North Carolina, but blacks probably 
had excessive mortality due to all causes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 3327004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Milbank Q. 1987;65 Suppl 1:129-99.

Health differentials between blacks and whites: recent trends in mortality and 
morbidity.

Manton KG(1), Patrick CH, Johnson KW.

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University, Durham, NC 27706.

Black Americans continue to have large numbers of premature and excess deaths, 
measured against white experience, from seven major causes. Major differences in 
chronic disease, disability and case fatality rates persist despite similarities 
in the amount of health care received; the nature and quality of care is likely 
to be dissimilar. Epidemiological and clinical evidence suggests various 
strategies to reduce these differentials through well-designed public health 
efforts at prevention. These will have to deal with harsh realities of 
sociocultural, economic, and political contexts.

PMID: 3327005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Milbank Q. 1987;65 Suppl 1:35-55.

Black demographic trends in the 1980s.

O'Hare WP(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Reference Bureau, Inc., Washington, DC 20005.

Most of the black demographic trends witnessed in the 1970s have continued 
during the first half of the 1980s, but the pace of demographic change has 
slowed in some areas and quickened in others. A short summarization of the major 
trends is provided below; 1. The black population is growing faster than the 
white population and blacks are becoming a larger share of the total population. 
2. Blacks continue to move out of the North and into the South and West. 3. 
Blacks continue to move out of central cities into suburbs, but blacks are not 
moving out of central cities as fast as whites and central city populations are 
becoming increasingly black. 4. The growth rates of preschool-age blacks 
increased in the 1980s, but the growth rates of the school age and young adult 
populations declined. 5. The fertility rates of blacks continued to fall and to 
approach convergence with those of whites, although there still is a significant 
gap between black and white fertility rates. 6. Teen birthrates for unmarried 
blacks continued to fall during the first half of the 1980s. 7. Life expectancy 
for blacks continued to increase during the 1980s, but at a somewhat slower pace 
than seen during the 1970s. 8. The share of black children living in single 
parent families continued to grow during the 1980s at a faster rate than seen 
during the 1970s. 9. The share of black children living with a never-married 
parent grew much more rapidly in the 1980s than in the 1970s.

PMID: 3327008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Tijdschr Kindergeneeskd. 1987 Dec;55(6):226-33.

[Prognosis in the cri-du-chat syndrome].

[Article in Dutch]

Oosterwijk JC(1), Verboom AJ, Bijlsma JB.

Author information:
(1)Klinisch Genetisch Centrum Utrecht.

Cri-du-chat syndrome (5p-) is one of the most frequently occurring chromosomal 
deletion syndromes in man. Clinical findings have been described extensively in 
literature, but documentation of the patients' mental development has been poor. 
Recently the clinical heterogeneity and variance in psychomotor development was 
studied in a large series of patients. Review of the literature revealed that 
some 15% of the cases were found to be familial, there appears to be a slight 
correlation between karyotype and phenotype and the positive effects of early 
stimulation programs on the patients' prognosis is pointed out. Some 60% of the 
patients need regular medical care and nearly all are mentally retarded. However 
a wide spectrum of developmental abilities is displayed and a number of patients 
can be reared at home for several years. Life expectancy depends on the number 
and severity of birth defects.

PMID: 3327195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Soc Biol. 1987 Fall-Winter;34(3-4):187-205. doi:
10.1080/19485565.1987.9988675.

Household influences on childhood mortality: evidence from historical and recent 
mortality trends.

Basu AM.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1987.9988675
PMID: 3330299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Yan Ke Xue Bao. 1986 Mar;2(1):26-32.

Intraocular lenses: changing indications.

Stark WJ, Terry AC, Maumenee AE.

PMID: 3333634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1987 Oct-Dec;82(4):511-24. doi: 
10.1590/s0074-02761987000400008.

[Vital statistics of Rhodnius neivai Lent, 1953 (Hemiptera: Reduviidae) under 
experimental conditions].

[Article in Spanish]

Cabello DR(1), Lizano E, Valderrama A.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Ciencias, Departamento de Biología, Universidad de Los Andes, 
Mérida, Venezuela.

A statistical evaluation of the population dynamics of R. neivai is based on six 
cohorts experiments conducted under controlled laboratory conditions. Two blood 
sources were offered to animals: rabbit and hen. Egg hatching, nymphal 
development time and mortality, adult longevity and age-specific mortality, 
female age-specific fecundity and fertility were determined. In addition, some 
population parameters were evaluated, such as: life expectancy, intrinsic rate 
of natural increase, net reproduction rate, finite rate of increase, 
reproductive value and stable age distribution. Life cycle was longer in the 
animals fed on rabbit, nymphal survival was slightly higher in the individuals 
fed on hen. Age of first reproduction was lower in the insects fed on hen, but 
reproductive output and total number of reproductive weeks were greater in the 
cohorts fed on rabbit. Intrinsic and finite rate of increase were greater in the 
animals fed on hen. Generation time was slightly greater in the cohorts fed on 
rabbit. Net reproduction rate was similar on both blood sources, although it was 
slightly bigger in the individuals fed on rabbit. Reproductive value in the 
insects fed on rabbit was twice as much as the registered in the animals fed on 
hen.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02761987000400008
PMID: 3333946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Cancer. 1988 Jan 1;61(1):89-95. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19880101)61:1<89::aid-cncr2820610115>3.0.co;2-0.

Acute leukemia and myelodysplasia in polycythemia vera. A clinical study with 
long-term follow-up.

Najean Y(1), Deschamps A, Dresch C, Daniel MT, Rain JD, Arrago JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Hôpital Saint-Louis, Paris, France.

The analysis of 288 cases of polycythemia vera (PV) with a minimal follow-up of 
10 years enabled us to study the characteristics of acute leukemia as observed 
in 33 patients (11.4%). In 50% of the patients (16 of 33), the malignant 
transformation is of the refractory anemia with excess of blasts (RAEB) type. 
Half of these further transform to acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL). Their 
life expectancy is not better than patients who abruptly develop ANLL. Leukemic 
transformation shows a frequency peak in the eighth year after initial 
evaluation in PV treated with chemotherapy and in the 11th year in patients 
treated with radiotherapy. In 30% of the patients myelofibrosis, or the spent 
phase of PV, is present before the transformation to acute leukemia (AL). This 
complication is, however, part of the natural history of PV and is observed in 
20% of PV patients at 10 years when leukemic transformation is absent. Marrow 
fibrosis can therefore not be considered as a preleukemic phase. It was also 
noted that the occurrence of myeloid metaplasia/myelofibrosis is more frequent 
and begins earlier in patients treated by phlebotomy alone, and who do not 
transform to leukemia. The clinical characteristics of these AL, including high 
frequency of partial marrow invasion, difficulties in cytologic classification, 
a peak incidence similar to that in patients treated by chemotherapy or 
radiotherapy for a prior malignancy, multiple chromosome abnormalities, and poor 
response to therapy are all highly suggestive of secondary leukemias.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19880101)61:1<89::aid-cncr2820610115>3.0.co;2-0
PMID: 3334954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. J Gerontol. 1988 Jan;43(1):B1-2. doi: 10.1093/geronj/43.1.b1.

The importance of basic biological science to gerontology.

Adelman RC.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/43.1.b1
PMID: 3335741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Am Heart J. 1988 Jan;115(1 Pt 2):288-94. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(88)90652-7.

Strategies to reduce risk factors in hypertensive patients who smoke.

Kaplan NM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Texas Health Science Center, 
Southwestern Medical School, Dallas 75235-9030.

Hypertensive patients who smoke have a high risk of developing premature 
cardiovascular disease. In addition to encouraging these patients to stop 
smoking, effective nondrug therapies include weight reduction, salt restriction, 
and alcohol limitation. For patients whose hypertension is severe or who have 
other health problems, antihypertensive drug therapy is also used. In the past, 
diuretics and beta-blockers have proved popular. However, these drugs have 
produced biochemical disturbances, such as diuretic-induced hypokalemia and both 
diuretic- and beta-blocker-induced alterations in blood lipids. The hazard of 
such drug-induced alterations may be greater in hypertensive patients, who may 
already suffer from hypercholesterolemia. Other drugs are available that can 
treat hypertension with no or beneficial influence on blood lipids. For smokers, 
the selective alpha 1-receptor inhibitors may be more attractive, since they 
also act to counteract the vasoconstriction produced by nicotine. In the future, 
inhibitors of hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase may offer potential for 
effective control of blood lipids in hypertensive patients who smoke.
