
DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(88)90652-7
PMID: 3336996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1988 Jan;70(1):123-6. doi:
10.1302/0301-620X.70B1.3339042.

Spondylothoracic and spondylocostal dysostosis. Hereditary forms of spinal 
deformity.

Roberts AP(1), Conner AN, Tolmie JL, Connor JM.

Author information:
(1)Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Orthopaedic Department, Yorkhill, Glasgow, 
Scotland.

Two siblings with spondylothoracic dysostosis, and two siblings and three 
unrelated children with spondylocostal dysostosis are described. Both conditions 
are inherited and characterised by malformed thoracic and lumbar vertebrae. 
Spondylothoracic dysostosis produces "crab-like" deformities of the ribs, and is 
usually fatal during early infancy due to respiratory failure. Spondylocostal 
dysostosis causes short-trunked dwarfism but does not usually reduce life 
expectancy. These clinical features are distinct from congenital scoliosis, 
although all three conditions are associated with a particular group of 
malformations.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.70B1.3339042
PMID: 3339042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. J Fam Pract. 1988 Jan;26(1):97-9.

Family medicine in Costa Rica: the beginning.

Baughan DM(1), Cartin Brenes M, Cedeno Gomez R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Family Medicine, School of Medicine, University 
of California, San Diego, La Jolla 92093.

PMID: 3339312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Nature. 1988 Jan 28;331(6154):288. doi: 10.1038/331288a0.

Insuring against AIDS.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1038/331288a0
PMID: 3340167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Radiat Res. 1988 Feb;113(2):362-74.

Tumor induction and life shortening in BC3F1 female mice at low doses of fast 
neutrons and X rays.

Covelli V(1), Coppola M, Di Majo V, Rebessi S, Bassani B.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Pathology, ENEA-CRE Casaccia, Rome, Italy.

Extension of previous investigations at this laboratory regarding life 
shortening and tumor induction in the mouse has provided more complete 
dose-response information in the low dose region of X rays and neutrons. A 
complete observation of survival and late pathology has been carried out on over 
2000 BC3F1 female mice irradiated with single doses of 1.5 MeV neutrons (0.5, 1, 
2, 4, 8, 16 cGy) and, for comparison, of X rays (4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256 
cGy). Data analysis has shown that a significant life shortening is observable 
only for individual neutron doses not lower than 8 cGy. Nevertheless, assuming a 
linear nonthreshold form for the overall dose-effect relationships of both 
radiation qualities, an RBE value of 12.3 is obtained for the 1.5 MeV neutrons. 
The induction of solid tumors by neutrons becomes statistically significant at 
individual doses from 8 cGy and by X rays for doses larger than 1 Gy. Linear 
dependence on neutron dose appears adequate to interpret the data at low doses. 
A separate analysis of ovarian tumor induction substantiates the hypothesis of a 
threshold dose for the X rays, while this is not strictly needed to interpret 
the neutron data. A trend analysis conducted on the neoplasm incidence confirms 
the above findings. Death rates have been analyzed, and a general agreement 
between the shift to earlier times of these curves and tumor induction was 
found.

PMID: 3340740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1988 Jan-Mar;69(1):18-23.

Women's longevity advantage declines.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 3340977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Ann Intern Med. 1988 Feb;108(2):313-4. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-108-2-313.

Cholesterol reduction and life expectancy.

Frommer PL, Verter J, Witters J, Castelli W.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-108-2-313
PMID: 3341670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Cardiology. 1988;75(1):56-64. doi: 10.1159/000174349.

Emergence of cardiovascular diseases in developing countries.

Dodu SR(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Diseases Unit, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.

Developing countries are subject to the same risks that have contributed to the 
high incidence of cardiovascular diseases in the already developed countries. 
Improvements in life expectancy at birth lead to predictable shifts in the 
cause-of-death structure over time. The stage at which cardiovascular diseases 
may be considered to be 'actively emerging' corresponds to a life expectancy 
level between 50 and 60 years and, at this level, cardiovascular disease 
mortality accounts for 15-25% of all deaths. The average life expectancy at 
birth in developing countries for the year 2000 is projected to be 60 years or 
more and it may be expected that by that time cardiovascular diseases would be 
actively emerging or established in virtually every country. In many developing 
countries today, life-style pattern that is associated with high rates of 
coronary heart disease is not yet widespread and it is therefore logical that a 
strategy of prevention should include efforts to inhibit the entrenchment and 
spread of unhealthy life-styles in the community (i.e., primordial prevention). 
At the country level, cardiovascular disease prevention and control cannot be 
considered in isolation and must be related to prevailing national health 
priorities and competing claims from other sectors of development. In poorer 
countries where life expectancy is below 50 years primordial prevention 
activities are likely to be restricted--perhaps to smoking and hypertension 
control. In middle-income countries a broader based approach to primordial 
prevention is feasible and is more likely to be acceptable.

DOI: 10.1159/000174349
PMID: 3342425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. N Engl J Med. 1988 Mar 17;318(11):708-9. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198803173181114.

Can you "run your heart out"?

Stoller JK, Adler DS, Holland J.

Erratum in
    N Engl J Med 1989 Jul 27;321(4):268.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198803173181114
PMID: 3344024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Radiobiologiia. 1988 Jan-Feb;28(1):75-7.

[Long-term consequences of the effect of ionizing radiation of different LET. 
Relation of changes in the intensity of light scattering by blood lymphocytes in 
the early postradiation stages to the prolongation of the life of rats].

[Article in Russian]

Vershinina SF, Vladimirskaia IK.

Optic properties of rat blood were studied 24 h following gamma- or 
gamma-neutron-irradiation with different doses. A comparative analysis of the 
changes observed was performed in relation to life span of animals. It is 
concluded that remote effects of radiation can be prognosticated by changes in 
light scattering of the peripheral blood lymphocytes 24 h following irradiation.

PMID: 3344338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1988 Mar;166(3):245-51.

Carotid endarterectomy in octogenarians and nonagenarians.

Schultz RD(1), Sterpetti AV, Feldhaus RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Creighton University, Omaha, Nebraska 68114.

Experience with carotid endarterectomy (CE) in patients 80 years of age and 
older is analyzed by reviewing results in terms of patient survival, quality of 
life and recurrence of symptoms of cerebral ischemia. During a 12 year period, 
90 octogenarians underwent CE. Ages ranged from 80 to 93 years with a mean of 83 
years. Two groups of patients younger than 80 years of age were selected from 
the series for comparison. There were no differences between age groups with 
respect to operative mortality and morbidity, with two deaths and one stroke in 
the elderly group. Follow-up periods ranged from one to 120 months with a mean 
of 39 months. There were two late strokes in patients older than 80 years of 
age. At late follow-up study, 87 per cent of patients operated upon for 
hemispheric symptoms were free of neurologic deficits; in contrast, only 67 per 
cent of those operated upon for nonhemispheric symptoms were symptom-free (p 
less than 0.05). The incidence of occlusive disease of the intracranial portion 
of the internal carotid artery was higher in the elderly group (p less than 
0.01). The presence of intracranial occlusive disease represented an unfavorable 
factor in regard to the results of CE in patients with nonhemispheric symptoms. 
The over-all five year survival rate was 60 per cent. These data indicate that 
advanced age alone should not be considered a contraindication to CE. Excellent 
results should be expected in instances of operations performed for hemispheric 
symptoms. In instances of nonhemispheric symptoms, results are less encouraging 
because of the high incidence of intracranial carotid occlusive disease.

PMID: 3344453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Am J Surg. 1988 Mar;155(3):517-9. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(88)80126-0.

Long-term prognosis of patients with severe radiation enteritis.

Harling H(1), Balslev I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

One hundred thirty-six patients (median age 59 years) presented with intestinal 
complications of previous radiotherapy. Seventy-eight had bleeding or stricture 
and 58 had perforation or fistula. One hundred twenty-four patients survived for 
more than 3 months and were followed for a median of 4.5 years. Sixty-eight 
patients were free of symptoms, whereas 16 experienced operation-related 
complications. Twelve patients had continuing symptoms of radiation enteritis, 
and new radiation-induced complications developed in 28. Sixteen of 51 patients 
with perforation or fistula had new complications compared with 12 of 73 
patients with bleeding of stricture (p = 0.05). Overall, 57 patients died during 
the study. Thirteen died from radiation-induced complications and 27, from 
recurrent malignancy. Radiation deaths occurred in the postoperative period but 
had no impact on long-term survival. Life expectancy was poorer in patients 
presenting with perforation or fistula compared with bleeding or stricture, the 
main reason being significantly more recurrences among patients with fistulas (p 
less than 0.05).

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(88)80126-0
PMID: 3344921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Ann Surg. 1988 Mar;207(3):318-22. doi: 10.1097/00000658-198803000-00016.

The improving long-term outlook for patients over 70 years of age with abdominal 
aortic aneurysms.

Bernstein EF(1), Dilley RB, Randolph HF 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic and Vascular Surgery, Scripps Clinic and Research 
Foundation, La Jolla, California 92037.

During the past decade, selective criteria for elective surgery for abdominal 
aortic aneurysms have been refined based on natural history and aneurysm 
expansion information. Using these criteria, contemporary preoperative 
preparation and newer intraoperative technical adjuncts, 123 consecutive 
patients underwent elective resection with 1 death (mortality rate: 0.8%). These 
include all patients operated on with both elective and urgent aneurysms at this 
institution since 1978, with the exception of those with frank rupture. Most 
importantly, however, the 5-year life-table survival of all of these patients 
(average age: 71.3 years, range 46-96 yr) was 72%, including both hospital and 
late mortality rates. More than half of the patients were over 70 years old (78 
cases), with no hospital deaths and a 5-year life-table survival probability of 
67%. For those under 70 years of age at the time of operation, the 5-year 
life-table probability of survival was 79%. We believe that these 
accomplishments were a direct result of an aggressive policy of screening for 
and selectively treating coronary disease and carotid stenosis preoperatively 
and the utilization of such intraoperative adjuncts as routine Swan-Ganz 
monitoring, autologous blood transfusion, the cell saver, and the frequent use 
of the tube grafting (50%). Thus, with proper selection, the outlook for the 
patient over 70 years old with an elective abdominal aortic aneurysm resection 
now approaches that of the normal population (67% vs. 69%).

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-198803000-00016
PMCID: PMC1493400
PMID: 3345117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. J Gerontol. 1988 Mar;43(2):B43-9. doi: 10.1093/geronj/43.2.b43.

A set of test life tables for theoretical gerontology.

Miller AR(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Illinois, Urbana.

Prediction of life tables, which provide the most empirical information 
available about the statistical properties of aging, provides a rigorous test 
for any theory of aging as manifested at the organismic level of biological 
organization. For this purpose, a set of test tables for the wild boar (Sus 
scrofa), domestic sheep (Ovis aries), Dall sheep (Ovis dalli dalli), African 
buffalo (Syncerus cafer), and hippopotamus (Hippopotamus amphibius) is 
reconstructed from primary data taken from the literature. The tables, which 
exhibit a broad range of survival characteristics, satisfy the criteria that (1) 
the data are statistically sound, (2) their survival functions are concave, 
except for the limiting case of the convex wild boar function, and (3) the 
species are natural populations (i.e., are in the same environment in which they 
evolved). Each test table is reported numerically and as a least-squares 
regression formula for the age-specific mortality rate over a given range of 
age.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/43.2.b43
PMID: 3346518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. J Neurosci. 1988 Mar;8(3):765-75. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.08-03-00765.1988.

Hormonal regulation of the shape of identified motoneurons in the moth Manduca 
sexta.

Truman JW(1), Reiss SE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Washington, Seattle 98195.

Motoneurons MN-1 and MN-3 in the moth Manduca sexta go through 3 distinct phases 
during postembryonic life. During larval life their neuritic fields show 
allometric growth in concert with larval growth. Larval neurites are then lost 
during the larval-pupal transition, which is followed by the outgrowth of 
adult-specific neurites during adult development. In MN-1, the adult-specific 
arbor typically results from the outgrowth of neurites ipsilateral to the cell 
body. However, in a small percentage of cells, ipsilateral branches are not 
present and contralateral branches extend across the midline to fill the vacant 
space. This altered form of MN-1 is thought to result from the early failure of 
ipsilateral neurite extension. The steroid hormones, the ecdysteroids, are 
responsible for the outgrowth of adult neurites. The onset of the latter is 
correlated with the ecdysteroid increase that promotes adult differentiation and 
does not occur under conditions such as diapause, in which the normal steroid 
rise is absent. Artificial replacement of ecdysteroids, however, induces the 
adult-specific growth. This action of ecdysteroids to cause a change in neuronal 
form requires the absence of juvenile hormone (JH). Application of JH mimics 
prior to the onset of the program of adult outgrowth blocks this outgrowth. MN-1 
and MN-3 show different times of JH sensitivity, which appear to be correlated 
with different times of neurite outgrowth. It is concluded that the role of JH 
is to maintain the status quo of central neurons and prevent changes in form in 
response to ecdysteroids. In the absence of JH, the ecdysteroids can then exert 
morphogenetic changes, but the nature of these actions, neurite outgrowth or 
regression, is likely a function of the developmental history of the cell.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.08-03-00765.1988
PMCID: PMC6569234
PMID: 3346720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. J Pers Soc Psychol. 1988 Feb;54(2):296-308. doi: 10.1037//0022-3514.54.2.296.

Mood and the mundane: relations between daily life events and self-reported 
mood.

Clark LA(1), Watson D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas 75275.

Daily mood ratings and corresponding diary entries were studied to determine 
relations between common events and two independent mood factors--Positive 
Affect (PA) and Negative Affect (NA)--in a sample of 18 young adults over a 
3-month period. In an extension of findings from earlier interindividual 
studies, PA (enthusiastic, delighted vs. sluggish, drowsy) was found to be 
associated with a wide range of daily events, whereas fewer correlations were 
found between these events and NA (distressed, nervous, angry vs. calm, 
relaxed). The relation between high PA and reported social interactions 
(particularly physically active social events) was especially robust, and its 
effects were noted repeatedly; NA was unrelated to social activity. As 
hypothesized, high NA was associated with physical problems; contrary to 
expectations, low PA also tended to be correlated with health complaints. 
Overall, the results reaffirm the importance of assessing NA and PA 
independently and suggest that PA is an interesting and important dimension that 
deserves more research attention. Theoretical considerations and clinical 
implications are discussed.

DOI: 10.1037//0022-3514.54.2.296
PMID: 3346815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. S Afr Med J. 1988 Mar 5;73(5):281-3.

Parkinson's disease in blacks. Observations on epidemiology in Natal.

Cosnett JE(1), Bill PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Natal, Durban.

Black patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) present for neurological 
consultation much less frequently than white or Indian patients. That this is 
due to true rarity of PD among blacks is suggested by the observation that 
blacks with motor neuron disease and secondary parkinsonism are treated in 
numbers comparable with whites and Indians. These conclusions are derived from a 
series of 2,638 inpatient neurological consultations and from data on levodopa 
usage in three major hospitals in Durban. Lower life expectancy and failure of 
old people to attend hospital may be factors in the apparent low prevalence of 
PD among blacks, but other undetermined factors must play a part.

PMID: 3347881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Acta Cytol. 1988 Mar-Apr;32(2):183-7.

The interval between the diagnosis of malignancy and the development of 
effusions, with reference to the role of cytologic diagnosis.

van de Molengraft FJ(1), Vooijs GP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

An analysis was made of the time lapse between the diagnosis of malignancy and 
the development of an effusion in relation to the sex and age of the patients 
and the site of the primary malignancy. The total number of patients studied was 
254; of these, 171 patients had a pleural and 83 patients a peritoneal effusion. 
In the total group, sex distribution was two men to three women: about equal in 
the pleural effusion group and about two men to nine women in the ascites group, 
with the latter ratio reflecting the large number of primary malignant processes 
in the breast and ovaries. The average age at the time of the effusion, whether 
it was located in the pleural or in the peritoneal cavity, was about 55 years. 
This figure was roughly 60 years for men and 51 years for women. The nine-year 
average age difference between sexes can be explained by the size of the four 
largest groups of different primary malignant localizations and their sex 
distribution. The interval between the discovery of the primary malignancy and 
the first fluid sample was longer for patients with a pleural effusion (average 
of 77.0 weeks) than for patients with ascites (average of 54.5 weeks). The 
longest interval was seen in the breast carcinoma group, with the shortest 
interval in lung carcinoma patients. The interval was significantly longer for 
women, being 111.9 weeks for pleural effusions and 57.9 weeks for ascites 
(average for both sites of 88.7 weeks). In 30.7% of the patients, the primary 
malignancy was discovered at the same time or later than the effusion; in 
patients with lung cancer, a strikingly higher percentage of 53.0% was found. In 
this respect, the cytologic diagnosis of effusions is of great importance not 
only for the detection and proper identification of a malignant process but also 
as an indicator of the life expectancy of a patient.

PMID: 3348059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1988 Mar;69(3 Pt 1):219-22.

Traumatic spinal cord injury complicated by AIDS related complex.

Meythaler JM(1), Cross LL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, University of Virginia Medical 
Center, Charlottesville 22908.

It is estimated that one to two million people in the US have antibodies to the 
human T-lymphotropic virus Type III/lymphadenopathy-associated virus 
(HTLV-III/LAV) and are consequently at risk for developing acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). As the number of carriers of this infection 
increases, so does the expected incidence of this population for acquiring 
disabilities that require rehabilitative services. We report a traumatic spinal 
cord injured patient with resultant quadriplegia who has HTLV-III/LAV infection. 
Presented are the difficulties in classifying the manifestations of the 
HTLV-III/LAV infection in such a patient. Many of the symptoms of AIDS may be 
attributed to complications of recently acquired quadriplegia. This is added to 
the psychologic and social strains on a patient who has already lost permanent 
function due to quadriplegia. Implementation of educational programs to meet 
staff, family, and patient needs regarding their concerns and questions 
significantly reduced anxiety on the rehabilitation unit. Because the possible 
life expectancy can still be quite long, AIDS patients warrant rehabilitation 
programs. This necessitates that health care professionals in rehabilitation 
become familiar with AIDS, as they are likely to be involved in the care of 
patients with AIDS in the future.

PMID: 3348725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Eur Heart J. 1988 Feb;9(2):228-34. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a062488.

Integrated reporting of quality and length of life--a statistician's 
perspective.

Gore SM(1).

Author information:
(1)MRC Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge, U.K.

The reporting of trials has been dominated by a concentration on single measures 
of response, such as survival or extent of side-effects, perhaps selected as 
giving an impressive P value for treatment comparisons. Relevant questions about 
trade-offs are seldom answered or even envisaged in the trial design. 
Cardiovascular trials should provide evidence on quality of life after 
myocardial infarction or during antihypertensive therapy. Examples from oncology 
are used to illustrate how the robustness of treatment recommendation can be 
explored through a grid of quality adjustments, ranging from complete 
intolerance of side-effects to absolute acceptance of them. Treatment 
recommendations may need to be specific to patients unless they are independent 
of the system of quality adjustment used.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a062488
PMID: 3350032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. J Rheumatol. 1988 Jan;15(1):150-1.

Parental mortality and rheumatoid arthritis.

Spector TD, Silman AJ.

PMID: 3351836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. JAMA. 1988 Apr 15;259(15):2205.

Leads from the MMWR. Premature mortality by income level--Multnomah County, 
Oregon, 1976-1984.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 3352108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Neoplasma. 1988;35(1):41-9.

A study on the effect of vitamin A deficiency and supplementation on 
tumorigenesis in mice.

Ghosh J(1), Das S.

Author information:
(1)Chittaranjan National Cancer Research Center, Calcutta, India.

The effect of vitamin A deficiency and supplementation on the incidence of 
tumors, tumor growth and life expectancy was assessed in a murine model. 
Although the nature of response varied with respect to the tumor types studied, 
in general an increase in incidence of tumor take and further growth was noted 
with a concomitant fall in the survival rates in the group maintained on a 
vitamin A deficient diet. Supplemental vitamin A produced a prolongation of the 
latent period and delayed appearance of the tumor, reduced incidence and growth 
and improved life expectancy. Such effects seem to be mediated by a direct 
action of the vitamin on tumor cells, as well as through the host immune system, 
as revealed by nucleic acid synthetic patterns and nature of changes in the 
lymphocyte/neutrophil ratio, thymus weight and PHA-induced blastogenesis of 
peripheral lymphocytes.

PMID: 3352836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Soc Sci Med. 1988;26(5):551-8. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(88)90388-7.

Workplace wellness participation and the becoming of self.

Kotarba JA(1), Bentley P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Houston, TX 77004.

This paper provides a sociological examination of workplace wellness 
participation as a process that occurs in two stages or levels. The existential 
model of self provides the theoretical orientation for this examination, and 
data are presented from an ethnographic study of a large workplace wellness 
program. The first stage or level of participation involves the establishment of 
a sense of competence. Competence refers to the perceived ability to 'fit in' 
with the program, to master the often subtle skills required for membership in 
the class. Once a minimal sense of competence is established, the employee may 
decide to join by viewing participation either as an extension of a commitment 
to wellness, or as a vehicle for experimenting with or establishing a new style 
of self, the identity of a 'well person' so highly valued in contemporary 
western culture. The dynamics of workplace wellness participation illustrate a 
more general cultural trend towards health-as-accomplishment.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(88)90388-7
PMID: 3353764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Med Monatsschr Pharm. 1988 Jan;11(2):72-8.

[Geriatrics. Can we prolong life?].

[Article in German]

Estler CJ.

PMID: 3357478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Biometrics. 1988 Mar;44(1):103-15.

Tests and confidence sets for comparing two mean residual life functions.

Berger RL(1), Boos DD, Guess FM.

Author information:
(1)Statistics Department, North Carolina State University, Raleigh 27695-8203.

The mean residual life function of a population gives an intuitive and 
interesting perspective on the aging process. Here we present new nonparametric 
methods for comparing mean residual life functions based on two independent 
samples. These methods have the flexibility to handle crossings of the functions 
and result in a new type of confidence set. We also discuss similar methods for 
comparison of median residual life functions.

PMID: 3358985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Br J Hosp Med. 1988 Feb;39(2):112-4, 116, 118 passim.

The ageing society.

MacLennan WJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Edinburgh.

Although there has been no change in maximum life span, there has been a 
dramatic rise in mean life expectancy in the UK over the last 100 years. Ageing 
has little effect on the self-care capacity of the elderly but diseases common 
in old age and environmental problems cause a great deal of distress and 
disability. As a result it has been necessary to develop specialized medical and 
social services for the elderly. These are outlined in this paper.

PMID: 3359079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Br J Hosp Med. 1988 Mar;39(3):181.

Do we really need to measure the quality of life?

Williams A.

PMID: 3359092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Brain Res. 1988 Feb 16;441(1-2):215-20. doi: 10.1016/0006-8993(88)91401-1.

Influence of aminopeptidase inhibitors on brain angiotensin metabolism and 
drinking in rats.

Wright JW(1), Quirk WS, Hanesworth JM, Harding JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Washington State University, Pullman 99164-4830.

The metabolism of [125I]angiotensin II (AII, octopeptide) and [125I]angiotensin 
III (AIII, heptapeptide) was determined in the cerebroventricular compartment 
following intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) pretreatment with artificial 
cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF) or the aminopeptidase B inhibitor, bestatin (BE). 
Microwave fixation was used to stop brain aminopeptidase activity followed by 
high-performance liquid chromatography methods to measure degradation. The 
resulting mean t 1/2 values were: aCSF/AII = 23.5 s, BE/AII = 32.0 s; aCSF/AIII 
= 8.2 s, BE/AIII = 16.0 s. A second experiment indicated that i.c.v. 
administered BE induced considerable water consumption, while amastatin (AM, an 
aminopeptidase A inhibitor) did not. Combined i.c.v. treatment with BE/AII or 
BE/AIII produced water consumptions that were equivalent with the sum of the 
water intakes due to independent treatments. Unexpectedly, combined treatment 
with AM/AII also significantly facilitated water consumption as compared with 
the independent treatments. These results suggest that i.c.v. BE-induced 
drinking is due to the extension of the half-life of endogenous AIII, and that 
both AM and BE facilitate drinking to i.c.v. AII and AIII by inhibiting the 
degradation of AII and AIII. This delay in degradation prolongs the action of 
AIII at central angiotensin receptors while also slowing the conversion of AII 
to AIII, thus providing a depot of available AII to be converted to AIII in an 
obligatory manner.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(88)91401-1
PMID: 3359232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Clin Genet. 1988 Mar;33(3):228-33. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1988.tb03441.x.

Life-span and Menkes kinky hair syndrome: report of a 13-year course of this 
disease.

Sander C(1), Niederhoff H, Horn N.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital, Baden-Baden, FRG.

The life-span of Menkes syndrome patients is discussed in connection with a boy 
suffering from this disease who lived to the age of 13.5 years. The copper 
metabolism defect is described. Therapeutic trials, mainly copper substitution, 
and prospects are summed up.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1988.tb03441.x
PMID: 3359680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Klin Wochenschr. 1988 Mar 1;66(5):181-6. doi: 10.1007/BF01728194.

[Spontaneous course of Wegener's granulomatosis].

[Article in German]

Adam O(1), Wiesinger H.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Poliklinik der Universität München.

Two cases of Wegener's granulomatosis are reported. During the 5 and 9 years 
course of the disease complete remissions and the disappearance of pulmonary 
opacities were found without specific treatment. Since 1970 cytotoxic drugs, 
e.g. cyclophosphamide, are frequently used for the treatment of Wegener's 
granulomatosis. The evaluation of the follow-up showed in these patients that in 
most cases the side-effects of the therapy, and not the primary disease, limited 
the life-expectancy. This especially applies for patients with mild forms of 
Wegener's granulomatosis, in which the initiation of a cytotoxic therapy should 
carefully be evaluated.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01728194
PMID: 3361797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1988 Mar 26;132(13):571-5.

[Regional differences in life expectancy in The Netherlands in 1972-1984].

[Article in Dutch]

van Poppel F.

PMID: 3362224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Soc Secur Bull. 1988 Feb;51(2):3-30.

Social Security area population projections: 1987.

Wade AH(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of the Actuary, Social Security Administration.

The following article, first published as Actuarial Study No. 99, describes the 
population projections that underlie the long-range cost estimates for the 
Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) program, which are included 
in the 1987 Report of the OASDI Board of Trustees. The projections start from a 
recent estimate of the population in the Social Security Area by age, sex, and 
martial status and from an estimate of existing marriages by age of husband and 
age of wife. Three separate projections, denoted Alternatives I, II, and III, 
are developed by analyzing historical data and making three different sets of 
assumptions about future net immigration, birth rates, and death rates.

PMID: 3363456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Basic Life Sci. 1988;43:177-82. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4684-5460-4_18.

Variability in life span functional capacity.

Smith DW(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, 
Maryland.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4684-5460-4_18
PMID: 3365218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Cancer. 1988 Jun 15;61(12):2487-96. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19880615)61:12<2487::aid-cncr2820611217>3.0.co;2-t.

Essential thrombocythemia. Clinical characteristics and course of 61 cases.

Hehlmann R(1), Jahn M, Baumann B, Köpcke W.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Poliklinik der Universität München, Germany.

Sixty-one patients with essential thrombocythemia (ET) were followed from 1974 
through 1987 at the Medizinische Poliklinik. Fifty-one patients (84%) presented 
with thromboembolic complications, and eight patients (13%) with hemorrhages. In 
seven patients (12%), a thrombocytosis was detected accidentally. Disturbances 
of the microcirculation (67%), mainly of the fingers and toes (53%), were the 
most frequent thromboembolic symptoms. The mean age of all patients was 58 years 
(male patients, 61 years; female patients, 56 years). The average platelet count 
at diagnosis was 897,000/microliter. The average maximal platelet count was 
1.231 X 10(6)/microliter (range, 500,000/microliter to 4 X 10(6)/microliter). 
Seventy-two percent had a moderate leukocytosis (average, 12,400/microliter), 
34% a splenomegaly, 29% a hepatomegaly. Signs of hypermetabolism were 
infrequent, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and uric acid elevations, if present, 
were moderate. Bleeding time and viscosity were normal in most patients. 
Spontaneous platelet aggregation was increased in 81% of patients (n = 40). 
Platelet aggregation studies with the aggregation inducing substances adenosine 
diphosphonate (ADP), platelet activating factor (PAF), thrombin, collagen, and 
adrenalin showed hypoaggregation in most patients. Adrenalin-induced aggregation 
distinguished best between ET-patients and reactive thrombocytosis showing 
hypoaggregation in all ET-patients tested (n = 16) and in none of 22 controls. 
Bone marrow studies were performed in 57 patients. The histologic studies (done 
in 49 patients) were consistent with a chronic myeloproliferative disorder in 
all cases. In 41 cases (84%) the picture of a megakaryocytic myelosis was found, 
in 12 of these a granulocyte-rich form of megakaryocytic myelosis. Cytologic 
studies only (eight patients) did not differentiate ET well from reactive 
thrombocytosis. Platelet aggregation studies and bone marrow histology may be of 
help in the diagnosis of difficult cases of thrombocytosis. The Philadelphia 
status was negative in all cases studied (14 patients). Fourteen patients died. 
The causes of death were thromboembolic complications in probably 11 and acute 
leukemia in two patients. The probability of 10-year survival is 64% after a 
mean follow-up time of approximately 5 years. It appears that considering the 
average age of ET patients at diagnosis, life expectancy is close to normal.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19880615)61:12<2487::aid-cncr2820611217>3.0.co;2-t
PMID: 3365670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Cesk Pediatr. 1988 Mar;43(3):165-7.

[New projections for the world population to the year 2025].

[Article in Czech]

Srb V.

PIP: The 1982 and 1984 population projection program of the United Nations 
containing estimations for the world's population for 2000-2025 had 3 
variations: the median projection figure for 2000 was 6.122 billion and for 2025 
8.025 billion. The respective figures of the high estimate were 6.340 and 9.088 
billion, and the low estimate envisioned 5.927 and 7.358 billion people, 
respectively. THe corresponding rate of growth is expected to slow down from 
1.67% during 1980-1985 to 1.38% during 2000- 2005, and to drop to 0.96% during 
2020-2025. The rate of growth of the global population is to decrease from 37.6% 
during 1980-2000 to 27.4% during 2000-2020. The difference of the projections of 
1982 and 1984 is only 29 million people (8.177 and 8.206, respectively). During 
the period 2000-2020 the population of Africa is expected to grow to make up 
11.5% of the world's population, Europe would make up 10.20% and Asia 58.2%. By 
2025 the respective figures would be 19.7%, 6.4%, and 55.3%. The rate of growth 
of 4 European regions would vary during 1980-2000 and 2000-2025: in Eastern 
Europe 10% and 7.3%, respectively, in Western Europe 2.0% and 0.0%, in Southern 
Europe 9.2% and 3.9%, and in Northern Europe 1.6% and -2.8%, respectively. The 
negative growth figures of the German Democratic Republic were revised from 1982 
estimates to show a 2.5% and 2.4% increase during the respective periods. The 
slight increases (1.8% and 0.2%) projected for Hungary were reversed to zero or 
negative growth (0.0% and -0.8%). During these periods the growth figures for 
Czechoslovakia would be 8.3% and 8.0%, for Poland 14.7% and 9.2%, for Romania 
15.2% and 11.4%, and for Bulgaria 7.6% and 4.6%, respectively. Life expectancy 
for the periods 1985-1990 and 2010-2025 is estimated at 61.1 and 70.5 years for 
the world, and 74.0 and 77.2 years for Europe.

PMID: 3365806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Med Hypotheses. 1988 Apr;25(4):197-207. doi: 10.1016/0306-9877(88)90031-x.

Aging: a non-regulated process.

Segal J(1).

Author information:
(1)Hubert H. Humphrey Center for Experimental Medicine and Cancer Research, 
Hebrew University, Hadassah Medical School, Jerusalem, Israel.

Aging is a non-regulated process. This perspective on aging derives primarily 
from the observation that all known regulated systems are subjected to 
aberration, whereas aging, and its ultimate phase death, is not. Moreover, 
within the same species, the cause of death of an individual varies widely, 
which again bespeaks against a regulatory mechanism. Rejuvenation, the antidote 
to aging and the essence of immortality, is exercised in the lowest animals, 
such as protozoa, but is suppressed in the developed animal, including man, 
where aging is irreversible and death is inevitable. Also introduced is the 
exhaustion theory for the process of aging which predicts that with advancing 
age there occur a progressive accumulation of metabolic-derived insults which 
act to gradually exhaust (age) the biological systems, and consequently cause 
the animal's death.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-9877(88)90031-x
PMID: 3367812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Postgrad Med. 1988 May 15;83(7):140-2, 145-7. doi: 
10.1080/00325481.1988.11700292.

Head trauma in the elderly.

Lehman LB(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurological Surgery, Coney Island Hospital.

Head trauma in the elderly is a major source of morbidity and mortality in this 
population. Prevention of the primary injury is ideal and requires that the 
primary care physician understands the neurosensory changes of aging. Failing 
prevention, rapid diagnosis and efficient management of the traumatized patient 
are of greatest concern. With the increasing life expectancy and improved 
overall healthcare in the United States, greater numbers of elderly patients 
will be seen for traumatic injuries. All physicians dealing with older patients 
would be wise to become familiar with the presentations, underlying causes, 
neurodiagnostic evaluation, and early management of head trauma in these 
patients.

DOI: 10.1080/00325481.1988.11700292
PMID: 3368420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Blood. 1988 Jun;71(6):1641-7.

Preparation of polyethylene glycol-tissue plasminogen activator adducts that 
retain functional activity: characteristics and behavior in three animal 
species.

Berger H Jr(1), Pizzo SV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Wellcome Research Laboratories, Reserch Triangle 
Park, NC 27709.

Conditions were defined for the derivatization of recombinant tissue plasminogen 
activator (rt-PA) with polyethylene glycol (PEG) so as to retain functional 
activity as a possible means of producing a t-PA species with a prolonged 
circulating lifetime. Derivatives with a wide range of retention of activities 
were prepared by varying the concentration and species of activated PEG. The 
specific activities of the PEG-rt-PA derivatives were dependent on the method of 
assay. Assays using preformed fibrin gave higher estimates of retention of 
activity than assays using soluble components. Plasma elimination studies in 
mice and rats indicated prolonged circulating lifetimes for the radiolabeled 
PEG-rt-PA derivatives after a rapid clearance and distribution phase; however, 
the disappearance of functional activity was much more rapid than the 
disappearance of radiolabeled material. The PEG-rt-PA derivatives appeared to 
accumulate in tissues above their interstitial fluid concentrations and were 
rapidly inactivated, apparently by reaction with the plasma protease inhibitors. 
These results were consistent with the inactivation of the PEG-rt-PA derivatives 
in rat plasma in vitro. A somewhat longer half-life (t1/2) of the one derivative 
studied was observed in dogs (t1/2, 16 minutes) as compared with the rat (t1/2, 
five minutes). This was sufficient to confer thrombolytic activity upon the 
derivative (administered by bolus injection) in contrast to native rt-PA. The 
potential of PEG-modified rt-PA as a long-lived thrombolytic agent in humans 
will depend, however, on whether there will be a further extension of the t1/2 
because of a reduction in clearance and/or a reduction in the rate of 
inactivation.

PMID: 3370312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Curr Eye Res. 1988 Apr;7(4):387-92. doi: 10.3109/02713688809031788.

Changes in corneal endothelial morphology in cats as a function of age.

Chan-Ling T(1), Curmi J.

Author information:
(1)Cornea and Contact Lens Research Unit, School of Optometry, University of New 
South Wales, Kensington, Australia.

A cross-sectional study of changes in cat corneal endothelial cell morphology 
with age was conducted. The central corneal endothelium of 12 kittens and 70 
adult cats was photographed using specular microscopy. Endothelial cell density 
(ECD), coefficient of variation of cell size (used as an index of 
polymegethism), and cellular shape factor (perimeter 2/area) were determined for 
each animal and analysed as a function of age. We found a rapid non-linear 
decrease in ECD and polymegethism in the first nine months of post-natal life. 
Subsequently there was a slight central cell loss of 11 cells/mm2 or 0.37% per 
year during adult life which was not statistically significant. However, 
polymegethism increased significantly with age during adult life. The shape 
factor for endothelial cells was 13.61 throughout adult life, indicating that 
the cat corneal endothelium consists predominantly of six-sided cells. Possible 
explanations for the finding of no significant decrease in cell density with age 
could include the higher peripheral ECD in the cat which may compensate for 
central loss, the short life expectancy of the cat and the large individual 
variation in corneal diameter.

DOI: 10.3109/02713688809031788
PMID: 3371074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Int Orthop. 1988;12(1):21-9. doi: 10.1007/BF00265737.

[Preliminary results of 79 massive bone allografts in the conservative treatment 
of malignant tumors in adults and children].

[Article in French]

Delépine G(1), Delépine N.

Author information:
(1)Unité d'Orthopédie, Clinique du pré Gentil, Rosny-Sous-Bois, France.

We have used massive allografts, preserved by freezing to -30 degrees C and 
sterilised by irradiation, to reconstruct large defects in bone after resection 
of high grade neoplasms. The average length of the defect was 20.5 cm. 
Complications included 3 deep infections, 8 pseudoarthroses, of which 4 joined 
after further operation and 3 are still under treatment, and 4 late fractures of 
the graft. Seventy two cases have been followed up, and the functional result 
was excellent in 30, very good in 22, good in 13, poor in 3 and bad in 4. In 3 
cases H.L.A. antibodies against the graft have been detected, but no clinical or 
radiological abnormality was noted. Bone scintigraphy showed progressive 
revascularisation of the graft from surrounding muscle. Reattachment of muscles 
to the allografts was successful, and contributed to the good functional 
results. Reconstruction with sterilised allografts, in association with long 
stemmed titanium prostheses or a cemented nail, gave a better functional results 
than using massive stainless steel prostheses in patients with a reasonable life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00265737
PMID: 3372098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. J Nutr. 1988 Jun;118(6):675-80. doi: 10.1093/jn/118.6.675.

Retinoic acid supplementation of a vitamin A-deficient diet inhibits retinoid 
loss from hamster liver and serum pools.

Shankar S(1), De Luca LM.

Author information:
(1)Differentiation Control Section, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD 
20892.

These studies were performed to follow a spectrum of relevant parameters in male 
Syrian golden hamsters fed either a vitamin A-deficient diet or the same diet 
supplemented with retinoic acid at 3 micrograms/g diet. Body weight and life 
span were not affected by the vitamin A-deficient diet until after 6-7 wk. 
Squamous metaplastic lesions of the Formalin-fixed tracheas were not generally 
observed in the hamsters fed the deficient diet until 6-7 wk, at which time 
blood retinol and liver retinyl palmitate levels had also decreased. Blood 
