glucose levels remained normal (90 mg/dl) until about 7 wk but declined to about 
40% of normal at 9 and 10 wk. Dietary retinoic acid supplementation of the 
vitamin-deficient diet (3 micrograms/g diet) inhibited the loss of retinol from 
blood and of retinyl palmitate from the liver so that these compounds were still 
present at 10 wk, but were not detectable in hamsters fed the vitamin 
A-deficient diet without retinoic acid.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/118.6.675
PMID: 3373332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. J Urol. 1988 Jun;139(6):1166-72. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)42848-5.

Surgical management of renal cell carcinoma with intracaval neoplastic extension 
above the hepatic veins.

Marshall FF(1), Dietrick DD, Baumgartner WA, Reitz BA.

Author information:
(1)James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, Division of Cardiovascular 
Surgery, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland.

Cardiopulmonary bypass, hypothermia, temporary cardiac arrest and exsanguination 
represent the next logical step in the evolutionary management of intracaval 
neoplastic extension with renal cell carcinoma. This method of management 
provides control of the circulation of the entire body and allows for careful 
dissection in a bloodless field with less risk of embolization. From 1981 to 
1986, 15 patients were treated with intracaval neoplastic extension of renal 
cell carcinoma above the level of the most inferior hepatic veins. In 6 patients 
mobilization of the vena cava with division of the hepatic veins to the caudate 
lobe allowed excision of the tumor and tumor thrombus without cardiopulmonary 
bypass (group 1). The remaining 9 patients underwent cardiopulmonary bypass and 
hypothermia (group 2). There was 1 postoperative mortality in the entire group. 
Most patients had advanced regional disease but the feasibility of this 
technique has been demonstrated. Survival appeared to be less in the bypass 
group. Although some of the patients have had metastatic disease, the quality of 
life and survival have been prolonged in many of these acutely ill patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)42848-5
PMID: 3373579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Life Sci. 1988;42(24):2509-14. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(88)90350-5.

Anticonvulsant effects of dextrorphan in rats: possible involvement in 
dextromethorphan-induced seizure protection.

Tortella FC(1), Ferkany JW, Pontecorvo MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Neuroscience, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, 
Washington, D.C. 20307-5100.

The major metabolite of the non-opioid anticonvulsant/antitussive 
dextromethorphan is dextrorphan. In the present study, the effects of 
dextrorphan were determined in an experimental model of seizure activity 
(maximal electroshock convulsions) (MES). Subcutaneous administration of 
dextrorphan produced dose-related blockade of tonic hindlimb extension (THE) and 
a decrease in the duration of tonic forelimb extension (TFE). The anticonvulsant 
effect of dextrorphan was linear and maximally efficacious. Compared to the 
prototypical anticonvulsant drug diphenylhydantoin, dextrorphan was 2.5 times 
more potent (ED50's = 30 mumol/kg and 12 mumol/kg, respectively). Pretreatment 
with naloxone failed to antagonize dextrorphan-induced blockade of THE. 
Moreover, pretreatment with dextrophan failed to significantly enhance the 
anticonvulsant potency of diphenylhydantoin. It is likely that the 
anticonvulsant effects of dextrorphan are related to its actions at the 
phencyclidine/N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex, whereas the anticonvulsant 
effects of dextromethorphan have been attributed to binding to a specific 
dextromethorphan site in the brain. Therefore, we suggest that while metabolism 
to dextrorphan could possibly contribute to the anticonvulsant effects of 
dextromethorphan, it is probably through an unrelated receptor mechanism.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(88)90350-5
PMID: 3374269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Ment Retard. 1988 Apr;26(2):97-102.

Prader-Willi syndrome in two institutionalized older adults.

Goldman JJ.

PMID: 3374317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Acta Chir Belg. 1988 Jan-Feb;88(1):21-5.

Treatment of unstable, intracapsular fractures of the femoral neck by the 
cementless self-locking cephalic endoprosthesis.

Vanclooster P(1), Broos P, Rommens P, Gruwez JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery and Traumatology, Katholieke Universiteit 
Leuven.

Between July 1981 and July 1986, 152 patients with an unstable, intracapsular 
fracture of the femoral neck were treated with a prosthetic replacement. In a 
selected group of 75 very old individuals, with an average age of 82 years, a 
self-locking cephalic endoprosthesis was chosen. These patients were closely 
followed prospectively, during 3 months. The operative technique, the pre- and 
postoperative management are discussed. There was no peroperative mortality. The 
postoperative mortality rate (30 days) was very low (5.3%). Accidental fracture 
of the proximal femoral shaft occurred twice, during insertion of the 
prosthesis. No postoperative luxation was seen. The walking capacity of the 
survivors, 3 months after surgery, was compared with the status before injury. 
The self-locking cephalic endoprosthesis is a safe and time-economizing 
operative procedure. In our opinion, it is the treatment of choice for unstable, 
medial neck fractures of the femur in elderly patients, with a poor general 
condition and a limited life expectancy.

PMID: 3376663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1988 Jun 11;132(24):1109-13.

[Income and mortality; results of a 25-year follow-up study in male civil 
servants in Amsterdam].

[Article in Dutch]

Mares NE, Aben DJ, Schouten EG, Kok FJ, van der Heide-Wessel C, van der Heide 
RM.

PMID: 3380197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Int J Epidemiol. 1988 Mar;17(1):122-8. doi: 10.1093/ije/17.1.122.

The infant mortality rate, life expectancy at birth, and a linear index of 
mortality as measures of general health status.

Murray CJ.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 1989 Sep;18(3):731-2.

The infant mortality rate is not a good indicator of overall mortality or health 
status. Based on new empirical life tables from the UN Population Division, it 
can only predict life expectancy with 95% confidence to within a 14-year range. 
Two infant mortality rates must be nearly 80 units apart to be 95% confident 
that life expectancy in the two communities is different. Life expectancy itself 
is not an ideal general measure of mortality, because it implicitly weights 
deaths at different ages in an inconsistent fashion. A measure of potential 
years of life lost is preferable because it is ethically more consistent.

PIP: This paper re-assesses the use of the infant mortality rate and the life 
expectancy at birth as indexes for general mortality in developing countries, 
and then suggests and alternative, called the linear index of mortality or LIM. 
The infant mortality rate is not a good indicator of overall mortality or health 
status because it is sensitive to socioeconomic changes, in particular to 
maternal education. Based on new empirical life tables from the UN Population 
Division, it can only predict life expectancy with 95% confidence to within a 
14-year range. Life expectancy itself is not an ideal general measure of 
mortality because it implicitly weights deaths at different ages in a 
inconsistent way. The linear index of mortality (LIM) is a measure of potential 
years of life lost. By weighting the number of deaths in each age group by 100 
minus the age of death, a composite index of general mortality can be calculated 
that is linear, uniform and ethically consistent. Using UN empirical life tables 
for 20 developing countries, it is possible from the LIM to get an idea how much 
the difference between high and low mortality countries is due to differences in 
infant, child and adult mortality. This kind of comparison is impossible with 
life expectancy because it is non-linear. The relationship between the natural 
log of life expectancy and LIM is linear. Alternative health status measures 
like LIM need to be developed, in order to make our statistical perception of 
the world's nations consistent with our ethical conception of how health should 
be measured.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/17.1.122
PMID: 3384530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Health Serv Res. 1988 Jun;23(2):203-35.

A general health policy model: update and applications.

Kaplan RM(1), Anderson JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Family Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla 92093.

This article describes the development of a General Health Policy Model that can 
be used for program evaluation, population monitoring, clinical research, and 
policy analysis. An important component of the model, the Quality of Well-being 
scale (QWB) combines preference-weighted measures of symptoms and functioning to 
provide a numerical point-in-time expression of well-being, ranging from 0 for 
death to 1.0 for asymptomatic optimum functioning. The level of wellness at 
particular points in time is governed by the prognosis (transition rates or 
probabilities) generated by the underlying disease or injury under different 
treatment (control) variables. Well-years result from integrating the level of 
wellness, or health-related quality of life, over the life expectancy. Several 
issues relevant to the application of the model are discussed. It is suggested 
that a quality of life measure need not have separate components for social and 
mental health. Social health has been difficult to define; social support may be 
a poor criterion for resource allocation; and some evidence suggests that 
aspects of mental health are captured by the general measure. Although it has 
been suggested that measures of child health should differ from those used for 
adults, we argue that a separate conceptualization of child health creates new 
problems for policy analysis. After offering several applications of the model 
for the evaluation of prevention programs, we conclude that many of the 
advantages of general measures have been overlooked and should be given serious 
consideration in future studies.

PMCID: PMC1065501
PMID: 3384669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. J Biosoc Sci. 1988 Apr;20(2):245-52. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000017478.

Mortality estimates for South Kampala based on 1980 Uganda Population Census.

Agyei WK, Nakintu-Kyeyune G.

PIP: In the absence of vital statistics data, analysis of the 1980 Uganda 
Population Census for South Kampala was able to provide estimates of infant, 
child, and adult mortality. Indirect techniques yielded estimated 1q0 values of 
0.0860 for male infants, 0.0680 for female infants, and 0.0774 for infants of 
both sexes. The infant mortality rate estimated for 1980 is somewhat higher than 
that estimated for Kampala city in 1969 (0.0750), supporting medical 
professionals' opinion that infant mortality increased during the 1970s due to 
political and economic factors in Uganda and the consequent deterioration of 
health services. Child mortality (4q1), estimated in this study as 0.0491, 
appears to have declined during the 1970s; however, this unexpected finding may 
reflect differences in coverage and content errors in the 2 sets of data for 
1969 and 1980. Adult mortality, based on the estimated survival rates from 
paternal and maternal orphanhood data and those from adjusted 12 values, is 
slightly lower than those for infant and child mortality. Expectation of life at 
birth estimates from various techniques show clearly that females have lower 
patterns of mortality than males. The estimated life expectation is 54.7 years 
for males, 59.3 years for females, and 57.0 years for both sexes. Overall, these 
estimates indicate a need for further reductions in mortality in Uganda as part 
of the overall development effort.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000017478
PMID: 3384840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Acta Chir Belg. 1988 Mar-Apr;88(2):126-9.

[Results of a policy of conservative treatment of breast cancer (146 cases)].

[Article in French]

Desaive C(1), Bradfer J, Colin C, Lavigne JP, Lemaire M, Minet P, Van 
Cauwenberge JR, Lavigne JC.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie, C.H.U. Liège.

Tumorectomy and irradiation for small cancer of the breast. Tumorectomy followed 
by breast irradiation and a single course of chemotherapy is the most accurate 
treatment for small cancer of the breast. The 5 and 10 years survival are 92.5% 
and 85% respectively: this demonstrates the efficacy of the conservative 
treatment in the control of most of the small breast cancer provided a strict 
selection of the cases was done. Patients who develop local recurrence have the 
same life expectancy than the other cases when they are soon treated by 
mastectomy.

PMID: 3389032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 1988 Apr;77(4):398-403. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0447.1988.tb05141.x.

The development of antisocial behaviour and sudden violent death.

Rydelius PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Karolinska Institute, Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, St. 
Göran's Children's Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

In order to detect possible relationships between antisocial behaviour and the 
incidence of "sudden violent death" in young people, information relating to 
mortality in antisocial Swedish adolescents has been traced and compiled. A 
register was drawn up covering those young persons (1,056; 832 boys and 224 
girls; mean age 16 years) who were admitted to Swedish probationary schools 
during the period 1 January - 31 December 1967. Using the registers of 
immigration and emigration, and causes of death kept by SCB (Statistiska 
Centralbyrån), mortality occurring between 1 January 1967 - 31 December 1985 was 
tabulated. One hundred and ten boys (13%) and 22 girls (10%) had died. The 
deaths had occurred at a rate of approximately seven new deaths per observation 
year, the youngest being still in their teens when they died. For comparison, 
the criteria set up by insurance companies for life insurance premiums are based 
on a death expectancy for healthy Swedish boys and girls in the age groups 
corresponding to the subjects under observation of 1.2-3.1% for boys and 
1.1-2.6% for girls. Eighty-eight percent of the dead boys and 77% of the dead 
girls had died "sudden violent deaths" - accidents, suicides, death from 
uncertain causes, murder/manslaughter, or alcohol/drug abuse. For both sexes, 
death from uncertain causes and suicides were the most frequent single causes of 
death. Death as a direct result of alcohol/drug abuse occurred only in boys. The 
results give support to the assumption that a link exists between childhood 
environment, the development of antisocial behaviour/mental insufficiency and a 
"sudden violent death" at an early age.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0447.1988.tb05141.x
PMID: 3389175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1988;526:245-57. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1988.tb55510.x.

Survival and causes of death in hemochromatosis. Observations in 163 patients.

Strohmeyer G(1), Niederau C, Stremmel W.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik, Universität Düsseldorf, Federal Republic 
of Germany.

Survival and causes of death were analyzed among 163 patients with 
hemochromatosis diagnosed between 1959 and 1983. Mean followup was 10.5 +/- 5.6 
years (+/- SD). Cumulative survival was 76% at 10 years and 49% at 20 years. 
Life expectancy was reduced in patients who presented with cirrhosis or diabetes 
compared to patients who presented without these complications at the time of 
diagnosis. Patients who could be depleted of iron during the first 18 months of 
venesection therapy had a markedly better prognosis compared to those patients 
who could not be depleted during this time period, probably due to greater 
amounts of excessive iron. Prognosis was not influenced by sex. Patients without 
cirrhosis or diabetes had a life expectancy that was virtually identical to that 
of an age-matched normal population. Analysis of the causes of death in 53 
patients showed that liver cancer (n = 16) was 219 times more frequent, 
cardiomyopathy (n = 3) was 306 times more frequent, liver cirrhosis (n = 10) was 
13 times more frequent, and diabetes mellitus (n = 3) was seven times more 
frequent compared to death rates expected for an age-matched normal population. 
The risk of death from other causes, including extrahepatic cancer (n = 7), did 
not differ from rates expected. Thus, patients with hemochromatosis diagnosed in 
a precirrhotic stage and treated by venesection have a normal life expectancy. 
Cirrhotic patients had a shortened life expectancy and a high risk of death from 
liver cancer even when complete iron depletion has been achieved.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1988.tb55510.x
PMID: 3389643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Can J Surg. 1988 Jul;31(4):256-8.

Clinical results with an uncemented plastic tibial component in unicompartmental 
knee replacement.

Cameron HU(1), Jung YB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Orthopaedic and Arthritic Hospital, Toronto, Ont.

To determine the role of unicompartmental knee replacement in knee arthroplasty 
and, in particular, the design and function of the ICLH (Finsbury Prosthetics 
Ltd., London, UK) knee prosthesis, the authors report their experience with 18 
patients (15 women and 3 men, mean age 73 years), who underwent unicompartmental 
knee replacement with this prosthesis. The prosthesis failed in five (27.8%) 
cases, but in the remainder the results were good to excellent over a follow-up 
extending to 6 years (mean 4.5 years). The main problem with the ICLH prosthesis 
is the linear wear of the plastic of the tibial component, caused by a sharp 
radius at the edge of the femoral component. This leads to fracture and 
breakdown of the tibial portion. Because the short-term results are good but the 
long-term results are poor, the authors suggest that the ICLH unicompartmental 
knee prosthesis should be reserved for use in patients whose life expectancy is 
short.

PMID: 3390774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Cancer Detect Prev. 1988;11(3-6):311-7.

Elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen and prognosis of breast cancer patients 
postmastectomy.

Paulick R(1), Caffier H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University of Würzburg, FRG.

To evaluate the clinical significance of elevated carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) 
titers in the follow-up of patients with breast cancer, 282 patients were 
analyzed retrospectively. All patients showed elevated CEA titers, ie, titers 
equal to or above 5 ng/ml on at least one occasion. The time interval from 
mastectomy ranged from 3 months to 7 years. Recurrent disease became clinically 
evident in 52% with a mean lead time of 5 months. No recurrence was found in the 
remaining patients despite a mean observation time of 20 months and repeated 
intensive search for metastases. However, taking into account the height and the 
further course of the titers, CEA measurement was helpful in predicting 
recurrent disease at an early stage. CEA titers above 30 ng/ml and constantly 
elevated or increasing titers were associated with a high frequency of 
recurrence. Although no correlation was found between site of recurrence and 
course of CEA, patients with soft tissue metastases exhibited lower CEA titers 
as compared with patients with visceral or osseous lesions. Furthermore, CEA 
titers encountered before clinical detection of recurrence were of prognostic 
value with regard to survival. Titers above 50 ng/ml and an increasing course of 
CEA were associated with diminished life expectancy. By summary, serial CEA 
assays were a helpful laboratory tool for early diagnosis of recurrent breast 
cancer.

PMID: 3390852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Eur J Biochem. 1988 Jun 15;174(3):491-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1432-1033.1988.tb14125.x.

Cloning and expression of a beta tubulin gene of Physarum polycephalum.

Werenskiold AK(1), Poetsch B, Haugli F.

Author information:
(1)University of Tromsø.

A beta tubulin gene of Physarum polycephalum has been isolated from a genomic 
library in the phage EMBL4. Southern-blot hybridization to genomic DNA indicates 
that the cloned DNA is derived from the betB1 locus of the beta tubulin gene 
family. A tubulin-specific subfragment of the phage DNA was used as a 
hybridization probe to construct a restriction map of the betB1 locus. The probe 
consisted of the almost complete coding region of the 5' half of the tubulin 
gene, interrupted by one intron. The derived amino acid sequence of this 
subclone deviates from the protein sequence for Physarum amoebal beta tubulin 
(amino acids 4-207) in two of 207 amino acids. We used both recA and recBC sbcB 
bacterial host strains, which have been recommended for cloning of 
instability-conferring sequences of the Physarum genome, but were unable to 
subclone the 3' part of the gene from the phage DNA. Primer-extension analysis 
indicates that the betB gene is expressed in the vegetatively proliferating 
amoebal and plasmodial stages of the life cycle as well as in differentiating 
(sporulating) plasmodia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-1033.1988.tb14125.x
PMID: 3391166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Hospitals. 1988 Jul 20;62(14):18.

Elderly demographics: impact on health care.

Rice DP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, University of California, San 
Francisco.

PMID: 3391542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. JAMA. 1988 Aug 12;260(6):797-802.

Patients' and families' preferences for medical intensive care.

Danis M(1), Patrick DL, Southerland LI, Green ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina, 
Chapel Hill 27514.

Medical ethics suggest that life-sustaining treatment decisions should be made 
with consideration for patients' preferences and quality of life. Patients were 
interviewed who were at least 55 years old and had experienced medical intensive 
care at a university hospital during a one-year period to determine their 
preferences regarding intensive care; family members were interviewed if the 
patient had died (n = 160). Seventy percent of patients and families were 100% 
willing to undergo intensive care again to achieve even one month of survival; 
8% were completely unwilling to undergo intensive care to achieve any 
prolongation of survival. Preferences were poorly correlated with functional 
status or quality of life and were not altered by life expectancy for 82% of 
respondents. Age, severity of critical illness, length of stay, and charges for 
intensive care did not influence willingness to undergo intensive care. These 
data suggest that personal preferences may conflict with any health policy that 
limits the allocation of intensive care based on age, function, or quality of 
life.

KIE: Patients over age 54 who had been cared for in the intensive care unit 
(ICU) of a university hospital or the families of such patients who had died 
were interviewed to determine their attitudes toward intensive care. Only 8% of 
the 160 people interviewed would reject intensive care to achieve any 
prolongation of life, while 70% would accept such care for even an additional 
month's survival. Choices were poorly correlated with functional status, quality 
of life, or life expectancy. Age, severity of illness, length of stay, or 
charges for the ICU did not influence the choice. The authors conclude that 
their data and similar studies on preferences for resuscitation suggest that, 
except in cases of extremely poor quality of life or prognosis, patient and 
family choices may pit self determination and individual wishes against a public 
policy to maximize general medical care by limiting costly services.

PMID: 3392810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Perspect Biol Med. 1988 Spring;31(3):407-28. doi: 10.1353/pbm.1988.0024.

Aging, illness, and health policy: implications of the compression of morbidity.

Fries JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, California 
94305.

DOI: 10.1353/pbm.1988.0024
PMID: 3393419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Am Heart J. 1988 Jul;116(1 Pt 1):37-43. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(88)90247-5.

Ventricular fibrillation induced by the interaction between acute myocardial 
ischemia and sympathetic hyperactivity: effect of nifedipine.

Priori SG(1), Zuanetti G, Schwartz PJ.

Author information:
(1)Unità di Studio delle Aritmie, Ospedale Maggiore, Milano, Italy.

Sympathetic hyperactivity plays a major role in the genesis of malignant 
arrhythmias during acute myocardial ischemia. An experimental model in which 
life-threatening arrhythmias are specifically and consistently induced by the 
interaction between acute myocardial ischemia and left stellate ganglion 
stimulation has been developed in alpha-chloralose anesthetized cats. In this 
preparation, drugs that share antiischemic, antiadrenergic, and specific 
electrophysiologic effects, such as verapamil, diltiazem, and amiodarone, were 
most effective. To evaluate the relative role of these different properties in 
mediating the effect of antiarrhythmic drugs, we used this same model to test 
nifedipine, a calcium channel blocker that is able to counteract the 
consequences of sympathetic stimulation on coronary circulation but has no 
electrophysiologic properties at concentrations relevant in the clinical 
setting. Nifedipine (15 micrograms/kg) prevented the occurrence of ventricular 
fibrillation in 10 of 13 animals (77%). Its efficacy was independent of changes 
in the peripheral hemodynamics. Plasma concentrations of nifedipine were within 
the therapeutic range in humans. To evaluate if this rather striking protective 
effect was specifically related to the prevention of the deleterious 
consequences of sympathetic stimulation, the effect of nifedipine on ventricular 
fibrillation threshold was studied in an additional group of 13 cats in the 
nonischemic state, during acute myocardial ischemia and during ischemia plus 
sympathetic stimulation. Nifedipine did not modify ventricular fibrillation 
threshold in nonischemic or in ischemic conditions. However, nifedipine 
specifically prevented the further reduction in ventricular fibrillation 
threshold occurring when sympathetic stimulation was superimposed on acute 
ischemia. These data suggest that the extension of ischemic damage by 
sympathetic stimulation is an important progenitor of arrhythmogenic action 
during acute ischemia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(88)90247-5
PMID: 3394631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Demography. 1988 May;25(2):265-76.

On the decomposition of changes in expectation of life and differentials in life 
expectancy.

Pollard JH(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Economic and Financial Studies, Macquaire University, North Ryde, 
New South Wales, Australia.

The projection of mortality rates requires inter alia close examination of the 
mortality experience of a population over a long period of time and will usually 
also involve the analysis of mortality trends by cause of death. In two of the 
more important recent contributions, techniques were devised for explaining 
change in life expectancy in terms of mortality changes in particular age groups 
and by different causes of death. The approaches adopted by the authors differ, 
and the purpose of this article is to reconcile the two and tie the results in 
with those obtained by earlier writers. A new method for explaining the change 
in a life expectancy differential in terms of the observed changes in the 
mortality differentials and the observed change in overall mortality level is 
also described.

PMID: 3396751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Demography. 1988 May;25(2):277-87.

Inherited frailty and longevity.

Vaupel JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 
55455.

The life spans of parents and children appear only weakly related, even though 
parents affect their children's longevity through both genetic and environmental 
influences. These influences can be summarized as a correlation between parents' 
and children's frailty. It is shown that even if children perfectly inherit 
their frailty from their parents, parents' life spans explain little of the 
variance in children's life spans, because the variance in life expectancies 
among people with different frailties is small compared with the variance in 
life spans among people at the same level of frailty. By interpreting frailty as 
a relative risk in a proportional-hazard model, longevity as a duration or 
waiting time, and inheritance as an invariance in relative risk over time, one 
can extend this result to repeatable events involving fertility, migration, 
marriage, unemployment, and so forth.

PMID: 3396752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. J Clin Epidemiol. 1988;41(7):623-33. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(88)90114-x.

Prognosis in SLE: comparison of Markov model to life table analysis.

Silverstein MD(1), Albert DA, Hadler NM, Ropes MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, IL 60637.

A Markov model of prognosis was evaluated by comparing the duration of disease 
activity states and life expectancy with Kaplan-Meier survival curves for 98 
patients with systemic lupus erythematosus with 1080 patient-years of 
observation. A four state (remission, active, flare and death) homogeneous 
Markov chain was constructed to determine the transition probabilities between 
disease states, the probability of disease states over the subsequent 25 years, 
time in each disease state, and life expectancy. Approximately 85% of the 
clinical course of patients was in the active disease state; no patient made a 
transition directly between remission and flare; virtually all deaths occurred 
from the flare disease state. The proportion of the patient population in each 
disease state over time provided a convenient graphic summary of the natural 
history of SLE that supplemented the Kaplan-Meier survival curves. A Markov 
model analysis yields a clinically useful description of outcome for multistate 
diseases that supplements survival curves.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(88)90114-x
PMID: 3397759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Med Decis Making. 1988 Jul-Sep;8(3):165-74. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8800800303.

Is there a role for surgery in the acute management of infective endocarditis? A 
decision analysis and medical claims database approach.

Abrams HB(1), Detsky AS, Roos LL Jr, Wajda A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

In the absence of good clinical evidence from a randomized trial, the authors 
performed a decision analysis to determine the potential value of early elective 
surgery (OPNOW) for patients with left-sided Staphylococcus aureus infective 
endocarditis. Initial impressions (before performance of decision analysis) and 
initial runs at the formal models using probability estimates derived from 
clinicians suggested that OPNOW (i.e., within a few days of starting 
antibiotics) offered no advantage over attempted medical cure (WAIT) (life 
expectancy: WAIT = 325 weeks; OPNOW = 255 weeks). Extensive sensitivity analyses 
identified critical variables that needed further empirical estimation. The 
Manitoba Health Services Commission database identified 127 incident cases of 
endocarditis between April 1, 1979, and March 31, 1985, enabling estimation of 
values for these critical variables. With these estimates, the early surgery 
strategy appeared much better than the previous analyses had suggested (life 
expectancy: WAIT = 208 weeks, OPNOW = 256 weeks). The authors believe that this 
approach of combining decision analysis with medical claims databases is useful 
as an alternative or precursor to randomized trials, especially where the 
resource requirements and logistic difficulties of performing randomized trials 
are great.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8800800303
PMID: 3398745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Neurophysiol Clin. 1988 Jun;18(3):235-41. doi:
10.1016/s0987-7053(88)80028-5.

[Focal lesions in infantile spasms].

[Article in French]

Cusmai R(1), Dulac O, Diebler C.

Author information:
(1)Service de neuropédiatrie, INSERM U-29, Hôpital Saint-Vincent-de-Paul, Paris, 
France.

Among 174 cases of infantile spasms examined by CT-scan between January 80 and 
December 85, 17 (9.8%) had a focal lesion without microcephaly. It consisted of 
an angioma (1 case), a cortical dysplasia (1 case) and porencephalic lesions (15 
cases). In 11 cases with porencephaly, an acute event had occurred between 28 
weeks of gestation and 3 months of life. In 7 cases, the lesion extended to the 
major part of one hemisphere. In the 10 others, it was localized either to the 
rolandic or to the temporo-occipital regions. In all the cases, the lesion 
concerned at least one of these areas. It involved the cortex in 15 cases but in 
the 2 others it seemed to only concern the white matter. The lesion was on the 
left in 14 cases. After steroids, the epilepsy recurred in 6 cases of which 5 
involved the frontal lobe (P less than 0.05). This study seems to show that it 
is mainly the rolandic and the temporo-occipital areas that favour the 
occurrence of infantile spasms, whereas extension to the frontal area is 
responsible of a later partial epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0987-7053(88)80028-5
PMID: 3398829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1988;82(5):203-4.

[Where one dies].

[Article in German]

Blumenthal-Barby K(1), Spyra K.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozialhygiene und Organisation des Gesundheitswesens Maxim 
Zetkin, Berlin.

PMID: 3400278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Am J Surg. 1988 Aug;156(2):103-7. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(88)80365-9.

Cardiac risk index as a predictor of long-term survival after repair of 
abdominal aortic aneurysm.

White GH(1), Advani SM, Williams RA, Wilson SE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, VA Wadsworth Medical Center, Los Angeles, California 
90073.

Life expectancy after aneurysm surgery was analyzed for male patients over the 
age of 60 years with known risk factors classified by the Goldman cardiac risk 
index, which has previously been utilized for prediction of immediate 
perioperative risks of surgery and anesthesia. The preoperative risk factors, 
Goldman cardiac risk index, and long-term survival rates were tabulated for each 
of 96 male patients over the age of 60 years who had elective repair of 
infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm. Follow-up data of up to 14 years (mean 4.2 
years) was entered into a SurvPak-PC biostatistical software program for 
construction of Kaplan-Meier survival curves and actuarial life tables to 
measure differences in survival between groups and for performance of 
nonparametric analysis (by log rank test) of the influence of preoperative risk 
factors. The operative mortality rate was 3.1 percent and the 5 year survival 
rate for the whole group was 61 percent, with a median survival of 8.7 years. 
Five year survival rates for patients in three age groups (60 to 70 years, 71 to 
80 years, and greater than 80 years), when compared with age-matched 
populations, were 67 percent versus 88 percent, 50 percent versus 73 percent, 
and 35 percent versus 39 percent, respectively. Patients in Goldman class 1, 2, 
and 3 or 4 had 5 year survival rates of 79 percent, 53 percent, and 41 percent, 
respectively. Factors that adversely affected long-term survival were Goldman 
classes 3 or 4 (median survival 2.1 +/- 0.4 years, p = 0.001), cerebrovascular 
disease (median survival 1.9 +/- 0.6 years, p = 0.004), history of cardiac 
disease (median survival 3.2 +/- 0.6 years, p = 0.012), and creatinine 
concentration greater than 3 mg/100 ml (median survival 3.1 +/- 1.6 years, p = 
0.034), whereas Goldman class 2 or the presence of hypertension, pulmonary 
disease, diabetes mellitus, peripheral vascular disease, and size of the 
aneurysm, although associated with a shortened length of survival, as 
independent variables did not reach statistical significance. A combination of 
any three of these risk factors, however, shortened the survival time markedly 
(median 1.9 +/- 0.7 years, p = 0.003). We believe that the Goldman cardiac risk 
index classification correlates with long-term survival in patients undergoing 
elective aortic surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(88)80365-9
PMID: 3400805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Ann Thorac Surg. 1988 Aug;46(2):187-91. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)65895-x.

Long-term performance of 555 aortic homografts in the aortic position.

Matsuki O(1), Robles A, Gibbs S, Bodnar E, Ross DN.

Author information:
(1)National Heart Hospital, London, England.

Long-term results with 555 aortic homografts used for isolated aortic valve 
replacement (AVR) between 1964 and 1986 were analyzed to assess valve 
performance and the time-related onset of valve-related events. The total 
follow-up was 2,931 patient-years. Twenty years after operation, overall 
survival was 51.6 +/- 8.1%, freedom from valve-related death was 67.1 +/- 8.9%, 
freedom from primary tissue failure was 12.4 +/- 4.8%, freedom from infective 
endocarditis was 82.7 +/- 4.3%, freedom from surgical technical failure was 88.1 
+/- 2.3%, and freedom from all complications including valve-related death was 
9.0 +/- 3.5%. The incidence of thromboembolism was 0.034% per patient-year (one 
potential event). Long-term results after homograft insertion for aortic 
stenosis were significantly better than those after insertion for aortic 
incompetence. It is concluded that the good quality of life and the median life 
expectancy, which extends more than 20 years after operation, make the homograft 
an excellent choice for AVR.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)65895-x
PMID: 3401078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 1988;4 Suppl 1:66-70. doi: 
10.1016/0168-8227(88)90017-4.

Epidemiology of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM).

Ekoé JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Treatment and Teaching Unit, University Cantonal Hospital, Geneva, 
Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8227(88)90017-4
PMID: 3402328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1988 May;192(5):572-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1050181.

[Report on the conservative treatment of melanoma of the uvea at the Lausanne 
University Ophthalmologic Clinic].

[Article in French]

Zografos L(1), Gailloud C, Perret C, Uffer S, Raimondi S, Chamot L, Carrel S, 
Greiner R.

Author information:
(1)Clinique Ophtalmologique Universitaire de Lausanne.

A great number of techniques are currently available for the conservative 
treatment of uveal melanomas: ocular applicators emitting gamma rays 60Co, 125I) 
or high-energy beta rays (106Ru/106Rh), light photocoagulation, surgical 
excision, and accelerated proton beam irradiation. Life expectancy following 
conservative treatment is equal to or better than that following enucleation. 
This is demonstrated by nonrandomized comparative studies, and by the authors' 
own long-term results following the conservative treatment of melanomas by 60Co 
applicators: mortality due to metastases of small melanomas was 3% (V = smaller 
than 10 x 10 x 3 mm), with medium-size melanomas it was 12% (V = 10 x 10 x 3-15 
x 15 x 5 mm), and with large melanomas 21% (V = larger than 15 x 15 x 5 mm). 
Accelerated proton beam irradiation of uveal melanomas is currently the method 
of choice for the conservative treatment of uveal melanomas. The sharp 
boundaries of the irradiated zone, the uniformly distributed irradiation dose, 
and beam-splitting are the main advantages of this technique. During the last 
three years, 310 cases of uveal melanoma have been treated in Switzerland with 
an accelerated proton beam. Of these, 214 were followed up for more than one 
year. Eight patients (3.9%) died of metastases. Visual acuity was identical or 
superior to initial visual acuity in 60.3% of the cases, while 39.6% exhibited a 
deterioration of vision or a functional loss. Favorable results achieved by 
conservative treatment of uveal melanomas considerably limited the indications 
for enucleation, which is now only performed in exceptional situations.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1050181
PMID: 3404968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Psychol Rep. 1988 Apr;62(2):442. doi: 10.2466/pr0.1988.62.2.442.

Subjective life expectancy as a correlate of family life expectancy.

Robbins RA.

DOI: 10.2466/pr0.1988.62.2.442
PMID: 3406259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Stat Med. 1988 Jul;7(7):787-94. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780070708.

A Markov process interpretation of Sullivan's index of morbidity and mortality.

Newman SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.

Using intuitive arguments Sullivan described a method of combining morbidity 
data and certain ordinary life table to produce an estimate of illness-free life 
expectancy. In this paper we use an increment-decrement life table specified in 
terms of a Markov process to characterize illness-free life expectancy. We show 
that when the illness under consideration satisfies certain properties 
Sullivan's approach provides a convenient method of approximation. We illustrate 
theoretical results with hospital morbidity data on Canadian males for 1981.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780070708
PMID: 3406606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1988 Jul-Sep;69(3):10-5.

New longevity record in the United States.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 3406887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 1988;105(1):65-81.

[The pathology of love].

[Article in Spanish]

Matilla Gómez V.

PMID: 3407863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Ann Neurol. 1988 Jun;23(6):570-4. doi: 10.1002/ana.410230607.

Complications of long-term anticoagulation.

Petty GW(1), Lennihan L, Mohr JP, Hauser WA, Weitz J, Owen J, Towey C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Neurological Institute, New York, NY 10032.

We used life-table techniques to determine risks of morbidity and mortality 
associated with long-term warfarin treatment in an anticoagulation clinic. 
Cumulative risks for life-threatening complications and warfarin-related death 
among all patients were 1% at 6 months, 5% at 1 year, and 7% at 2 and 3 years. 
Cox regression analysis using age as a continuous variable failed to show an 
effect of age on cumulative risks of complication. The occurrence of a minor 
complication during the course of therapy did not place patients at higher risk 
for developing a major complication that would prompt discontinuation of therapy 
or cause death. There was no statistically significant difference between the 
cumulative risks of patients anticoagulated for cerebrovascular disease and the 
cumulative risks of patients anticoagulated for other indications.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410230607
PMID: 3408237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Eur J Vasc Surg. 1988 Jun;2(3):183-9. doi: 10.1016/s0950-821x(88)80073-2.

Consequences of failure of femoro-popliteal grafts for claudication.

Blankensteijn JD(1), van Vroonhoven TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, St. Elisabeth Hospital, Tilburg, The Netherlands.

In order to evaluate the repercussions of failure of femoro-popliteal 
reconstruction undertaken for claudication the records of 219 patients with 251 
femoro-popliteal conduits were reviewed. Autogenous Saphenous Vein graft (SV) 
was used in 109 limbs, Polytetrafluoroethylene graft (PTFE) in 101 and human 
umbilical vein graft (HUV) in 41. Primary patency rates after 3 years of 
follow-up of 72% for all grafts, 81% for SV-grafts, 84% for HUV-grafts and 59% 
for PTFE-grafts were calculated: the difference between SV-grafts and 
PTFE-grafts is statistically significant (P = 0.0047). Accordingly the authors 
advise against the use of PTFE-grafts in femoro-popliteal reconstruction. 
Including reinterventions secondary patency rates after 3 years of follow-up of 
88% for all grafts, 86% for SV-grafts, 94% for HUV-grafts and 79% for 
PTFE-grafts were found: these differences were statistically not significant. 
Further analysis of the occluded grafts showed that in case of graft failure one 
or two re-operations are justified. The 12-months patency rate of 
reinterventions was 58%. Considering the life-expectancy and the natural history 
for the next five years of a patient with claudication the authors have become 
conservative towards femoro-popliteal reconstruction for claudication.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-821x(88)80073-2
PMID: 3410066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Health Phys. 1988 Aug;55(2):351-6. doi: 10.1097/00004032-198808000-00029.

Industrial risk perceptions.

Pochin EE(1).

Author information:
(1)National Radiological Protection Board, Chilton, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom.

The risks of occupational exposure to radiation need fuller and more explicit 
characterization. They also need a more developed quantitative comparison with 
more familiar occupational hazards. To achieve this, some criterion is needed 
for establishing the amount of detriment one should attribute to different 
harmful effects, e.g., from accidents at work which cause death, temporary or 
permanent disability; from fatal and nonfatal cancers; from developmental 
abnormalities and any likely nonstochastic effects; and from a range of genetic 
defects. No such criterion for comparing incommensurable kinds of harm can be 
scientifically defined, but one is essential if occupational exposure standards 
are to be put into perspective. A comparison of the frequency of fatal cancers 
and "severe" genetic defects with that of accidental deaths at work is 
admittedly incomplete. One possible starting point is from a review of the 
average length of healthy life and activity lost as a result of nonfatal 
industrial accidents and some curable cancers, or of gross impairment during the 
course of an active disease or as a result of many types of genetic defect, or 
of life expectancy lost absolutely owing to fatal accidents and diseases. 
Estimates are discussed to emphasize the areas in which opinion is most needed 
to translate measures of risk based simply on total time lost into acceptable 
criteria of perceived detriment. Standards of industrial safety are reviewed on 
this basis, both for risk from accidents at work and from radiation exposure, 
with evidence on the rate at which both types of risk are being reduced.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-198808000-00029
PMID: 3410702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. J Urol. 1988 Sep;140(3):544-9. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)41714-9.

Salvage radical prostatectomy for radiorecurrent adenocarcinoma of the prostate.

Neerhut GJ(1), Wheeler T, Cantini M, Scardino PT.

Author information:
(1)Scott Department of Urology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.

A total of 16 patients with persistent or recurrent prostate cancer 1 to 10 
years after definitive treatment with radiotherapy underwent salvage radical 
prostatectomy. Patients considered to be candidates for the procedure were in 
excellent health, with a life expectancy of at least 10 years and with no 
evidence of extension of tumor beyond the prostate. There was no operative 
mortality but major complications included rectal injury in 3 patients (19 per 
cent, 1 requiring colostomy), ureteral transection in 1 (6 per cent), 
anastomotic stricture in 4 (25 per cent), ureterovesical junction stricture in 1 
(6 per cent) and persistent urinary incontinence in 4. Whole organ step-section 
of the surgical specimen revealed positive surgical margins in 6 patients (37.5 
per cent). Margins usually were positive at the apex and not at the bladder 
neck, so that cystoprostatectomy would not have altered the positive margin 
rate. Although the followup is too short for analysis of tumor recurrence or 
patient survival rates, the results indicate that salvage radical prostatectomy, 
although technically demanding, is feasible and that in the majority of properly 
selected patients the tumor can be removed completely.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)41714-9
PMID: 3411670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. N Engl J Med. 1988 Sep 22;319(12):807-12. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198809223191234.

Japan's medical care system.

Iglehart JK.

