DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198809223191234
PMID: 3412412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1988;36(2):120-7.

[Premature mortality in France: relative importance of the main causes of death 
according to the number of years of life lost].

[Article in French]

Blanchon S(1), Hill C.

Author information:
(1)Département de statistique médicale, Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif.

The importance of major causes of deaths in France have been studied for 1972 
and 1982, using years of potential life lost before age 65 and in relation to 
life expectancy. These indicators of premature mortality have been compared to 
death rates. Unintentional injuries and malignant neoplasms are the two main 
causes of mortality before age 65. There is an important excess mortality for 
males, particularly for unintentional injuries. Total premature mortality 
declined between 1972 and 1982, but cancer mortality for males and suicide and 
chronic bronchitis mortality for both sexes have increased. Cardiac mortality 
decreased only for females.

PMID: 3413323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Stat Med. 1988 Aug;7(8):895-912. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780070808.

The parameters of death: a consideration of the quantity of information in a 
life table using a polynomial representation of the survivorship curve.

Anson J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Work, Ben Gurion University of the Negev, Beer Sheba, 
Israel.

How much unique information is contained in any life table? The logarithmic 
survivorship (lx) columns of 360 empirical life tables were fitted by a weighted 
fifth degree polynomial, and it is shown that six parameters are adequate to 
reproduce these curves almost flawlessly. However, these parameters are highly 
intercorrelated, so that a two-dimensional representation would be adequate to 
express the similarities and differences among life tables. It is thus concluded 
that a life table contains but two unique pieces of information, these being the 
level of mortality in the population which it represents, and the relative shape 
of the underlying mortality curve.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780070808
PMID: 3413369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1988 Jun;76(2):189-96. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.1330760207.

On generating birth rates from skeletal populations.

Horowitz S(1), Armelagos G, Wachter K.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University, California 94305.

Sattenspiel and Harpending (1983, American Antiquity 48(3): 489-498) have stated 
that the life expectancy at birth (e0(0] which paleodemographers calculate from 
skeletal population data is actually the mean age at death (ad) of the 
population. Yet, only when a population is neither growing or declining (i.e., 
is stationary) are these two statistics equivalent. They further assert, that 
the mean age at the death (ad) is more accurately interpreted as a measure of 
the fertility of the population. While we support their statement that since 
paleodemographic calculations use skeletal evidence of death, these do not a 
priori produce life expectancy values, we disagree that the inverse of the birth 
rate is a substitute for the average age at death (ad). The following pages 
demonstrate that: 1) An exact expression for the relationship between ad and 1/b 
can be derived using standard stable population theory, wherein ad = 1/b is 
shown to be a special case. 2) There are only two cases when ad = 1/b is an 
identity. 3) Whereas empirically ad and 1/b appear to correspond closely, this 
is an artifact of heavy mortality at early ages, which is a characteristic of 
the populations being considered. 4) Without insights into the behavioral 
dynamics of the situation any assessment of the demographics of the population 
is questionable.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330760207
PMID: 3414790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Ann Thorac Surg. 1988 Sep;46(3):262-3. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)65922-x.

Should aortic valve replacement be performed in elderly patients?

Sethi GK(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, V.A. Medical Center, Tucson, AZ.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)65922-x
PMID: 3415374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Arch Surg. 1988 Sep;123(9):1169-72. doi:
10.1001/archsurg.1988.01400330149023.

Arteriovenous graft life in chronic hemodialysis. A need for prolongation.

Bell DD(1), Rosental JJ.

Author information:
(1)Long Beach Surgical Group, CA.

As long-term hemodialysis has become well accepted over the last 25 years, so 
has the need for more exacting and updated techniques for arteriovenous graft 
construction. The death rate for patients with chronic renal failure undergoing 
biweekly or triweekly hemodialysis was once generally 10% per year. This 
pertained to a small, highly selected group of good-risk younger patients. 
Advancement in dialysis technology and experience has failed to reduce this 
rate. Essentially, all patients (including ill, elderly, and high-risk patients) 
are now candidates for long-term hemodialysis. In many cases, prolonged patient 
survival has added new importance to the extension of arteriovenous graft life. 
Over the last five years, approximately 1300 arteriovenous graft salvage 
procedures and new constructions have been performed. Of these, 70% were 
thrombectomies and revisions for graft salvage. Simple thrombectomy and removal 
of accumulated neointimal hyperplastic material along the course of the PTFE 
graft, and especially at the graft-venous anastomotic junction, can often extend 
graft life another six months to one year or more and permit immediate usage 
postoperatively. Graft life is even more prolonged with patch angioplasty at 
venous outflow stenoses or by adding a new segment of PTFE to bypass areas of 
venous stenosis. Conservation of unused extremities for future arteriovenous 
graft construction is our goal.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1988.01400330149023
PMID: 3415471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Health Care Women Int. 1988;9(3):185-99. doi: 10.1080/07399338809515817.

Historical and social context for birth planning in Iceland.

Swanson JM.

PIP: Iceland is a rugged subarctic island 600 miles from Norway and 500 miles 
from Scotland. From the mid-14th to the end of the 18th century the island was 
virtually isolated. Isolation and sociocultural factors interacted to delay the 
fertility transition in Iceland until late in the 20th century. In 1983 Iceland 
had the highest crude birth rate of any developed country -- 18.4/1000. Between 
1890-1982, the population almost tripled, to 235,501 inhabitants. The total 
fertility rate is 2.2, down from 4.17 in 1960. Combined with a high birth rate 
was a low mortality rate of 7.0/1000 of the population and a life expectancy of 
79.5 years for women and 73.9 years for men -- the highest in the world. Infant 
mortality is only 6.2/1000 live births. This combination of high fertility, low 
mortality, and low emigration caused the high population growth. By the end of 
the 18th century, Iceland had achieved near universal literacy, and education 
through university is free, but not until 1960 did a woman receive a doctorate 
from the University of Iceland. By 198, 2/3 of women in Iceland participated in 
the labor force, but their earnings were only 2/3 those of men. In 1983 a 
Women's Party was formed, and women now hold 15% of the seats in the Althing 
(Parliament). Marriage rates have declined to 5.22/1000 of the population. The 
unique marital pattern of Iceland contributes to the high (41%) illegitimacy 
rate. Icelandic couples cohabit and have a child or 2 before they marry. They 
therefore tend to marry late (25.5 for men, 23.3 for women). Health care, 
including family planning services, is free in Iceland; and there is a medical 
school, a school of pharmacy, and 2 nursing schools. 35% of Icelandic women 
20-40 years of age use either the pill or the IUD. Over-the-counter 
contraceptives are also available, and an average of 358 women are sterilized 
each year. The abortion rate is only 10.6/1000 females 15-49 years of age. The 
Birth Control Act of 1975 calls for the provision of sex education and 
counseling, including contraception, sterilization and abortion. Nurses can 
assist in family planning program by observing needs, offering birth planning 
for couples, and carrying out research in the factors that affect family 
planning in Iceland.

DOI: 10.1080/07399338809515817
PMID: 3417575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1988 Mar;42(1):89-95. doi:
10.1136/jech.42.1.89.

Changing mortality patterns in Nauruans: an example of epidemiological 
transition.

Schooneveldt M(1), Songer T, Zimmet P, Thoma K.

Author information:
(1)WHO Collaborating Centre for the Epidemiology of Diabetes Mellitus, Lions 
International Diabetes Institute, Melbourne, Australia.

An analysis of mortality data for the years 1982-5 was carried out for the 
Micronesian population (aged 15 years and over) of the central Pacific Island, 
Nauru. Among males, the most common causes of death were circulatory system 
disorders (33.3%), accidents (25.2%), and diabetes mellitus (12.1%). The 
majority of accidents occurred in the 15-34 year age group and involved motor 
vehicles. Among females, neoplasms (almost all lung and cervix) (22.4%), 
circulatory system disorders (20.7%), and diabetes mellitus (17.2%) were the 
most common causes of death. When accidents are excluded, 59.4% of deaths were 
in persons with diabetes. Compared with Australia, mortality rates in almost all 
age groups were at least five times higher for males and females for a 
comparable period. Nauruan life expectancy (39.5 years for men and 48.5 years 
for women) is one of the lowest in the world. These data confirm the high 
mortality associated with diabetes mellitus in Nauruans as evidenced in earlier 
studies. Modernization of this society through the affluence acquired by the 
mining of phosphate has led to serious public health problems relating to 
non-communicable diseases so that the mortality trends now mirror those of 
developed societies.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.42.1.89
PMCID: PMC1052687
PMID: 3418293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. N Engl J Med. 1988 Oct 6;319(14):918-24. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198810063191406.

Health and medical care in Ethiopia.

Hodes RM(1), Kloos H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Addis Ababa University, Ethiopia.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1989 Apr 27;320(17):1149-50.

PIP: Ethiopia is a country of 45 million people in northeast Africa. With a 
stagnant, agriculture-based economy and a per capita gross national product of 
$110 in 1984, it is one of the world's poorest nations. 70% of the children are 
mildly to severely malnourished, and 25.7% of children born alive die before the 
age of 5. Life expectancy is 41 years. The population is growing at the rate of 
2.9%/year, but only 2% of the people use birth control. After the 1974 
revolution, the socialist government nationalized land and created 20,000 
peasant associations and kebeles (urban dwellers' associations), which are the 
units of local government. The government has set ambitious goals for 
development in all sectors, including health, but famine, near famine, forced 
resettlement programs, and civil war have prevented any real progress from being 
made. The government's approach to health care is based on an emphasis on 
primary health care and expansion of rural health services, but the Ministry of 
Health is allocated only 3.5% of the national budget. Ethiopia has 3 medical 
schools -- at Addis Ababa, Gondar, and the Jimma Institute of Health Sciences. 
Physicians are government employees but also engage in private practice. A major 
problem is that a large proportion of medical graduates emigrate. Ethiopia has 
87 hospitals with 11,296 beds, which comes to 1 bed per 3734 people. There are 
1949 health stations and 141 health centers, but many have no physician, and 
attrition among health workers is high due to lack of ministerial support. 
Health care is often dispensed legally or illegally by pharmacists. Overall, 
there is 1 physician for 57,876 people, but in the southwest and west central 
Ethiopia 1 physician serves between 200,000 and 300,000 people. In rural areas, 
where 90% of the population lives, 85% live at least 3 days by foot from a rural 
health unit. Immunization of 1-year olds against tuberculosis, 
diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus, poliomyelitis, and measles is 11, 6, 6, and 12% 
respectively. Infectious diseases dominate the medical scene in Ethiopia. In 
1984, tuberculosis accounted for 11.2% of hospital admissions and 12.2% of 
deaths. The leading cause of childhood mortality in 1984 was diarrhea (45%). 
Malaria, trypanosomiasis, schistosomiasis, leishmaniasis, and meningococcal 
meningitis are endemic. Intestinal parasitism is rampant, and the nationwide 
prevalence of leprosy is 3/1000. Venereal diseases were the 9th most common 
cause of hospital outpatient visits in 1984, but AIDS is rare. The leading 
noninfectious diseases are rheumatic and syphilitic heart disease, hypertension, 
diabetes mellitus, hepatoma, and elephantiasis. Ethiopia has the highest number 
of cases of nonfilarial elephantiasis -- an estimated 350,000 cases -- in the 
world. Aside from a large influx of money, the most necessary changes to improve 
the health system are lowering the salaries of doctors and nurses, reorienting 
physician training toward primary health care, increasing the quality of 
existing health services, more efficient management, and better coordination 
between the Ministry of Health and the voluntary organizations.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198810063191406
PMID: 3419456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Radiobiologiia. 1988 Jul-Aug;28(4):513-7.

[Effect of external gamma radiation on shortening the life expectancy and rates 
of the formation of absorbed doses from incorporated 239Pu in dogs].

[Article in Russian]

Kalmykova ZI, Buldakov LA.

External gamma irradiation of dogs with doses of 103.2 and 51.6 mC/kg combined 
with the effect of inhaled plutonium-239 accelerates the formation of absorbed 
doses in secondary organs of the radionuclide deposition by 41.7 and 2.4 times, 
respectively, whereas the dose of 25.8 mC/kg is ineffective. As estimated by the 
rate of 239Pu accumulation and by the life span shortening, the minimum 
effective and the maximum ineffective doses are 104.8 and 80.5 cGy and 89.2 and 
79.2 cGy, respectively.

PMID: 3420225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Arch Surg. 1988 Mar;123(3):369-71. doi:
10.1001/archsurg.1988.01400270109017.

Splenectomy for thrombocytopenia due to secondary hypersplenism.

Coon WW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor.

The response to splenectomy of patients with thrombocytopenia due to secondary 
hypersplenism is frequently unpredictable. Our experience indicated that 
splenectomy is seldom justified for this indication in patients with chronic 
myelogenous or chronic granulocytic leukemia. Since patients with chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia, hairy-cell leukemia, and stage IV lymphoma may have a more 
prolonged life expectancy, removal of the spleen brings about a satisfactory 
response of thrombocytopenia in some instances. Elevation of platelet counts 
after splenectomy in patients with agnogenic myeloid metaplasia is most likely 
to occur in women with the primary form of the disease. In other nonmalignant 
conditions, splenectomy has resulted in a satisfactory response in the majority 
of patients.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1988.01400270109017
PMID: 3422554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Sov Zdravookhr. 1987;(10):35-8.

[Use of a standardized method for the calculation of the "lost vital potential" 
in relation to mortality in malignant neoplasms].

[Article in Russian]

Aksel' EM, Dvoĭrin VV.

PMID: 3423915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Teratology. 1987 Oct;36(2):217-20. doi: 10.1002/tera.1420360209.

Prenatal alcohol exposure shortens life span in rats.

Abel EL(1), Church MW, Dintcheff BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics/Gynecology, Wayne State University, Detroit, 
Michigan 48201.

In a study of the effects of in utero alcohol exposure on life span in rats, 
pregnant rats were intubated twice daily with 3.5 gm/kg alcohol on gestational 
days 11-21 or with an isocaloric sucrose solution. These latter animals were 
pair-fed and pair-watered to alcohol-treated animals. A third group served as 
nontreated ad lib-fed controls. At birth, all offspring were removed from their 
biological mothers, culled to eight per litter, and placed with nontreated 
surrogate dams. Alcohol-exposed animals died at a significantly younger age than 
pair-fed and ad lib controls and never attained the same maximum body weights as 
control animals. For females prenatally exposed to alcohol, life span was 
shortened by about 20 weeks; in male cohorts, life span was shortened by about 
2.5-7 weeks.

DOI: 10.1002/tera.1420360209
PMID: 3424207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Women Health. 1987;12(2):103-45. doi: 10.1300/J013v12n02_07.

Sex differentials in health and mortality.

Verbrugge LM(1), Wingard DL.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gerontology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109.

PIP: Data on physical health and mortality in the US, centered near the 1980 
Census year, are presented, focusing on sex differentials in mortality followed 
by sex differentials in health. The discussion covers possible explanations for 
these sex differentials and the apparent contradiction of why there is excess 
female morbidity but excess male mortality. In 1980, the estimated life 
expectancy at birth was 70.0 years for men and 77.5 years for women. 
Age-adjusted death rates in the US were 777 deaths/100,000 for men and 433 
deaths/100,000 for women, yielding a sex ratio of 1.79. Thus, in 1980, men had 
nearly an 80% higher age-adjusted death rate than women. Further, for every 
100,000 people, 200 more men than women died. The age-adjusted figure was 345. 
In the US in 1980 the age-adjusted mortality rate for each of the 12 leading 
causes of death was higher for men than women. The sex mortality ratios 
demonstrate that relative to women, men had higher mortality rates particularly 
between the ages of 15-34. The sex ratio of life expectation increases with age. 
A women over age 60 in 1980 could expect to live nearly 30% longer than a man 
her age. Accidents are the main contributor to the sex differential at young 
ages; heart disease is the primary contributor at older ages. Regardless of how 
health interviews word the questions, women consistently report worse health 
status than men. In interview data, females tend to have more acute conditions 
per year than males -- about 17% more in 1980, and with a similar excess in 
other years. The female excess appears for infective and parasitic diseases, 
respiratory conditions, digestive system conditions, and "all other acute 
conditions." The last group includes problems due to pregnancy and childbirth, 
yet, even when these are removed, female rates for "all other acute conditions" 
exceed male rates. Only for injuries do males have higher rates than females. 
The available data suggest that women have greater morbidity than men. After 
early childhood, females have both higher rates of acute conditions and more 
restricted activity per condition. Females are more likely to have a chronic 
condition, to have more doctor and dentist visits, and to use more drugs. These 
relationships remain even after pregnancy-related events are removed. Yet, men 
have higher prevalence for many "killer" chronic conditions, higher prevalence 
rates of heart disease at younger ages, and higher injury rates at all ages. Sex 
differences in 4 areas provide possible explanations as to why women tend to 
have poorer health but men tend to have shorter lives: inherited risks; acquired 
risks; illness and prevention orientations; and health and death reporting 
behavior.

DOI: 10.1300/J013v12n02_07
PMID: 3424846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Acta Orthop Scand. 1987 Oct;58(5):516-22. doi: 10.3109/17453678709146391.

Survival in soft tissue sarcoma. Prognostic variables identified by multivariate 
analysis.

Rööser B(1), Attewell R, Berg NO, Rydholm A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.

The prognostic influence of 15 separate factors on local recurrence and survival 
was analyzed in 144 patients with highly malignant (histologic Grades III and 
IV) soft tissue sarcoma of the locomotor system. The minimum follow-up time was 
6 years, or until death. Three factors, marginal excision, tumor necrosis, and 
extracompartmental tumor location were identified as risk factors for local 
recurrence. Five factors, local recurrence, Grade IV, male sex, tumor necrosis, 
and increasing tumor size were associated with decreased life expectancy.

DOI: 10.3109/17453678709146391
PMID: 3425281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. An Esp Pediatr. 1987 Sep;27(3):162-4.

[Potential years of life lost in Spain because of cancer. Social importance of 
childhood tumors].

[Article in Spanish]

Colomer Revuelta C(1), Alvarez-Dardet C.

Author information:
(1)Departemento de Pediatría, Universidad de Alicante, San Vicente del Raspeig.

The potential years of life lost are computed for deaths due to cancer in Spain 
an the results compared with those obtained using traditional mortality rates. 
Applying potential years of life lost the perception of the most important 
tumors is different, so the typically paediatric cancers as leukemias, lymphomas 
and central nervous system tumors, which are not among the 5 most frequent 
rumors in Spain, are the 4th and the 5th, if we perform a classification by the 
potential years of life lost. To analyze mortality data in this way may be 
useful to emphasize the importance of paediatric diseases because the potential 
years of life lost index take into account the social value of the premature 
deaths.

PMID: 3426003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 1987 Jul-Sep;27(3):191-219.

[Living better or living longer].

[Article in French]

Sauvy A(1).

Author information:
(1)Collège de France.

PIP: It has been just 2 centuries since France began to struggle seriously 
against mortality and excess fertility. Life expectancy, which for millenia had 
been under 30 years at birth, began to increase because of the discovery of 
effective treatments, improved production and standards of living, and access of 
large numbers of persons to health care. France, in the 2nd half of the 18th 
century, became the first country in which fertility regulation was achieved on 
a wide scale. The failure of England, a country of similar culture, to follow 
suit until a century later remains unexplained. After World War II, simple and 
fairly inexpensive means of mortality control, such as vaccines and water 
purifiers, became widely distributed throughout the developing world. These 
countries, which traditionally had mortality rates of 35 or 40/1000 and 
fertility of 40-45/1000, experienced rapid declines in mortality rates while 
their fertility remained constant or even increased. Because antinatal 
techniques diffused so much more slowly, the equilibrium of births and deaths 
was disturbed as rates of increase of 2 or 3% per year became common. Although 
the inhabitants of poor countries were not concerned, perhaps through ignorance 
of what was occurring, the rich countries were alarmed by the increase. Their 
principal objective became to spread contraception in the poor countries. The 
available methods at the time, however, were none too reliable. When oral 
contraceptive pills became available, fertility dropped to very low levels in 
Europe but such factors as cost and illiteracy discouraged use in many 
underdeveloped countries. Fertility declined in a few insular states such as 
Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Singapore even before the appearance of pills. Life 
expectancies in developing countries except a few in Africa have increased since 
World War II and are now higher than in Europe at the turn of the century. 
"Health for all by the year 2000" is an astonishing slogan for a serious 
organization such as the World Health Organization. Assurance of sufficient care 
to protect health would be a more realistic goal than the illusory "health for 
all". Future gains in mortality control will be made primarily in endogenous 
diseases such as cancer and cardiovascular disease that prolong life in the 
retirement years rather than in youth. Thorny moral and economic questions will 
ensue as health care for the elderly becomes more expensive and as the 
population ages. Contrary to a widely held belief, aging of the population is 
due to fertility decline rather than mortality decline. By the year 2000, health 
care in France may consume a larger part of household income than food. 
Sterilization of individuals with hereditary diseases, the influence of health 
care on the balance of payments, and the funding of social security systems are 
among the issues that will become more pressing in the future.

PMID: 3427520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Demography. 1987 Nov;24(4):615-22.

Life table transformations and inequality measures: some noteworthy formal 
relationships.

Hakkert R(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Regional Development and Planning (CEDEPLAR), Federal University 
of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

PMID: 3428456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 1987 Sep;90(3):177-86. doi: 10.1254/fpj.90.177.

[Drug interaction of imipramine hydrochloride to the pharmacodynamics and 
pharmacokinetics of oxazepam].

[Article in Japanese]

Okiyama M(1), Ueno K, Ohmori S, Igarashi T, Kitagawa H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemical Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Chiba University, Japan.

In this report, we studied drug interaction between oxazepam and imipramine in 
rats. Oxazepam (20 mg/kg) and imipramine (20 or 50 mg/kg) were administrated 
orally. The oxazepam concentration in plasma, brain and liver were measured by 
the method of HPLC. The concomitant use of imipramine induced extension of the 
elimination half life (T 1/2 beta) and an increase of the area under the 
concentration time-curve (AUC) on the plasma concentration of oxazepam. With the 
concomitant use of imipramine, the AUC of oxazepam brain concentration increased 
approximately 1.42 to 1.56 in contradistinction to oxazepam alone. The 
anti-pentylenetetrazol effect of oxazepam at 1 hr after administration was 
increased by the concomitant use of imipramine, but there were no combination 
effects at 4 hr. The motor incoordination effect of oxazepam and diazepam was 
measured by the rotarod method. Oxazepam has little effect on the motor 
incoordination as compared with diazepam. The plasma protein binding of oxazepam 
was not changed by the combined use of imipramine both in vitro and in vivo. The 
pharmacodynamic effects of oxazepam were increased by the concomitant use of 
imipramine, and these effects were in reasonably good agreement with the change 
in brain concentration of oxazepam.

DOI: 10.1254/fpj.90.177
PMID: 3428775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. J Appl Bacteriol. 1987 Sep;63(3):227-32. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2672.1987.tb04940.x.

A note on shelf-life extension of British fresh sausage by vacuum packing.

Adams MR(1), Baker T, Forrest CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Surrey, Guildford, UK.

Vacuum packing of British fresh sausage in a low oxygen permeability film 
(Diolon) extended the product shelf-life at 6 degrees C to more than 20 d 
compared with 9-14 d in conventional packs. After 10 d storage, counts of key 
spoilage organisms such as yeasts and Brochothrix thermosphacta were generally 2 
log cycles lower in vacuum packs. Vacuum-packed sausages also displayed a slower 
rate of loss of free sulphite. Variations in pack permeability to SO2 were not 
responsible for this. Losses of free SO2 in stored sausages are largely due to 
the production of sulphite-binding agents by yeasts. Selective enumeration of 
these yeasts showed them to be inhibited by conditions of vacuum packing. The 
extension of shelf-life observed is ascribed to the reduction in growth rate of 
the spoilage flora in vacuum packs coupled with the consequent maintenance of 
inhibitory levels of sulphite for a longer period.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2672.1987.tb04940.x
PMID: 3429357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. J Craniofac Genet Dev Biol. 1987;7(4):387-401.

Considerations about the cloverleaf skull.

Dambrain R(1), Freund M, Verellen G, Pellerin P, Francke JP, Dhem A.

Author information:
(1)Unité d'Anatomie humaine, Université Catholique de Louvain, Bruxelles, 
Belgique.

The study of four cloverleaf skulls (two fetuses, one infant, and a young adult) 
concerns two Pfeiffer syndromes, a thanatophoric dysplasia and an isolated case. 
Clinical and radiologic examinations showed malformations at the level of the 
calvarium, the base, orbital cavities, and, sometimes, limb abnormalities. 
Correlations between these findings and the microradiographic analysis of 
nondemineralized sections elucidate this trilobular appearance of the skull. 
Premature temporoparietal suture closure terminates at a constricted surface of 
the lateral sides of the skull during the fetal life. Extension of the 
synostosis to coronal and frontal sutures and thickening of the occipital bone 
squama block lengthening of the skull. The consecutive reduction in skull volume 
is compensated by the maintenance of the permeability during the neonatal period 
of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures. Microradiographic examination shows that 
this anomaly may be of vascular origin and associated with abnormal osteoclastic 
resorption.

PMID: 3429614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 1987;31(3):375-83.

Impact of technology on mass blindness in Asia.

Lim AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, National University Hospital, Singapore.

Mass blindness, a manifestation of poor organisation and poverty, will double by 
the year 2000. Blindness from cataract will increase with the increased life 
expectancy. The problem will be insoluble in many poorer developing countries 
where mass blindness is expected to become worse as we enter the 21st century. 
The main reason is poor organisation--the failure to translate knowledge and 
technology into effective action. However, mass blindness in the wealthier 
developing nations will gradually disappear. With affluence, there will be 
public demand for modern technology and implant surgery will develop initially 
in the cities and will slowly spread to the rural communities. Japan has a 
unique role in controlling mass blindness, especially in the poorer developing 
countries.

PMID: 3430855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Langenbecks Arch Chir. 1987;372:145-8. doi: 10.1007/BF01297805.

[Perioperative chemotherapy in squamous cell carcinomas of the esophagus].

[Article in German]

Fink U(1), Ries G, Siewert JR.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Hämatologie/Onkologie Technischen Universität München.

In the majority of patients with esophageal cancer local tumor infiltration 
and/or distant metastases are responsible for the poor prognosis. Therefore to 
improve life expectancy additional modalities - chemotherapy alone or in 
combination with simultaneous radiation - have been introduced perioperatively. 
In spite of a possible increase of resectability convincing data are lacking 
which could argue for an uncontrolled introduction of the neoadjuvant approach 
outside investigational studies.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01297805
PMID: 3431232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Neurobiol Aging. 1987 Nov-Dec;8(6):571-3. doi: 10.1016/0197-4580(87)90140-0.

Methodological considerations when assessing age related changes.

Scheff SW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Sanders-Brown Research Center on 
Aging, University of Kentucky College of Medicine, Lexington 40536.

DOI: 10.1016/0197-4580(87)90140-0
PMID: 3431634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1987 Sep-Oct;125(5):513-7. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1044748.

[Course of illness in malignant primary tumors with skeletal metastases].

[Article in German]

Kolles H(1), Schmitt O.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Universitätsklinik und Poliklinik Homburg/Saar.

About 70,000 malignant primary tumors with skeleton metastases are regarded with 
respect to tumor age, survival time with metastases respectively with primary 
tumor and life expectancy. Some cases with mamma carcinoma showed the vertebral 
type of bone metastasizing whereas the other primary tumors showed the typical 
type of spreading metastases over the lung. Patients with skeleton metastases 
are younger than the others. They have a longer survival time than the other 
patients without bone metastases but they die earlier. In those cases in which 
the primary tumor was diagnosed because of bone metastases without any earlier 
tumor treatment the survival time with metastases was longer than in other 
patients. Metastases with low grade histological differentiation were more often 
to be seen in patients who got their primary tumor in younger age. These 
metastases arose in a relatively late stage of the disease.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1044748
PMID: 3433906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Acta Neuropathol. 1987;75(1):104-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00686799.

Motor neuron disease, parkinsonism and dementia. Report of a case with diffuse 
Lewy body-like intracytoplasmic inclusions.

Delisle MB(1), Gorce P, Hirsch E, Hauw JJ, Rascol A, Bouissou H.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'Anatomie Pathologique, CHU Rangueil, Toulouse, France.

The clinicopathological findings in a 49-year-old man who presented 
multisystemic neurological degenerative disease are reported. The patient 
presented, at the age of 36, distal upper limb amyotrophy and 8 years later 
pyramidal signs with fasciculations. In his last year of life, he suffered 
extrapyramidal hypertonus and mental deterioration. Neuropathological 
examination showed anterior spinal root and cerebral atrophy. Myelin pallor was 
mild and predominated on posterior cords. Anterior horn neuronal loss was noted 
in the spinal cord as well as Alzheimer-type changes in the brain. Inclusion 
bodies consistent with Lewy bodies were diffusely apparent. The peculiar 
clinical progression in this case and the extension of neuropathological lesions 
with inclusion bodies mainly in the substantia nigra and cerebral cortex are an 
interesting subject of discussion.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00686799
PMID: 3434209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Basic Life Sci. 1987;42:145-59. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4613-1939-9_11.

Lifespan environmental influences on species typical behavior of Meriones 
unguiculatus.

Cheal ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Arizona State University, Tempe 85287.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4613-1939-9_11
PMID: 3435384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Basic Life Sci. 1987;42:235-45. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4613-1939-9_17.

Demographic consequences of natural selection.

Williams GC(1), Taylor PD.

Author information:
(1)Ecology and Evolution, State University, Stony Brook, NY 11794.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4613-1939-9_17
PMID: 3435390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Liver. 1987 Dec;7(6):316-24. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0676.1987.tb00362.x.

Follow-up study of 582 liver cirrhosis patients for 26 years in Japan.

Tanaka R(1), Itoshima T, Nagashima H.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, Okayama University Medical School, 
Japan.

A long-term follow-up study of liver cirrhosis (LC) was performed in 582 
patients diagnosed by peritoneoscopy and liver biopsy in the 26 years from 1958 
to 1984. The etiology of LC consisted of hepatitis B virus (HBV) in 21%, 
alcoholic in 39% and cryptogenic in 39%. Fifty-nine percent of patients had 
died. Causes of death were hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC 44%), liver failure 
(30%), rupture of esophageal varices (14%), gastrointestinal bleeding (4%) and 
non-liver-related causes (8%). HCC accounted for increasing percentages (68%) 
since 1980. In all groups classified by the etiology, the causes of death had 
the same order in incidence. The age of onset of LC increased by 10 years from 
42 to 52 years old and the age of death by 15 years from 43 to 58 in the 26-year 
period. The cumulative survival rate improved over the period. The 50% survival 
year was 7.9 in total patients, and 7.0, 8.5 and 10.0 in the three periods 
1958-64, 1965-74 and 1975-84, respectively. It was 9.5, 6.3 and 9.8 in HBV, 
alcoholic and cryptogenic, respectively. LC patients survived 40-44% of the life 
expectancy of the general population in Japan in all age groups. Cox's 
multiregression life-table method selected three important prognostic factors 
from 7 parameters: a poor prognosis with a history of heavy alcohol consumption 
and old age at onset, and a better prognosis with recent onset.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0676.1987.tb00362.x
PMID: 3437793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Stat Med. 1987 Dec;6(8):901-9. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780060805.

Models of the healthy worker effect in industrial cohorts.

Bell CM(1), Coleman DA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, Institute of Cancer Research, Sutton, Surrey, U.K.

The patterns of standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) with duration of follow-up 
and duration of service which are characteristic of the healthy worker effect in 
occupational cohort studies have been simulated using models of selection and 
survivor effects. The models support current theories about the population 
dynamics which underlie the selection effect but highlight inadequacies in our 
understanding of the survivor effect. Several possible models were tested and 
methods of generating appropriate data are discussed. It is important that the 
healthy worker effect should be better understood as it can present so large a 
problem in the interpretation of occupational risk estimates.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780060805
PMID: 3438616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Z Gesamte Hyg. 1987 Nov;33(11):569-71.

[Selected aspects of medical care of patients before the terminal stage].

[Article in German]

Oellerking D, Lorenz R.

PMID: 3439233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Rev Saude Publica. 1987 Apr;21(2):108-22. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89101987000200005.

[Haenzel's standardized coefficient of lost years of life. Comparison with the 
standardized coefficient of general mortality, used as a health status indicator 
of populations].

[Article in Portuguese]

Juliano Y, Novo NF, Goihman S, de Paiva ER, Leser W.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101987000200005
PMID: 3441742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1987;81(23):1207-10.

[Developmental trends and territorial differences in life expectancy in East 
Germany].

[Article in German]

Zimmermann N(1), Fichtner N.

Author information:
(1)Institut für medizinische Statistik und Datenverarbeitung.

PMID: 3442046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Haematol Blood Transfus. 1987;31:511-8. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-72624-8_107.

Repetition as the essence of life on this earth: music and genes.

Ohno S(1).

Author information:
(1)Beckman Research Institute, City of Hope Duarte, California 91010.

In prebiotic nucleic acid replication, templates appear to have been in short 
supply. A single round of tandem duplication of existing oligomers assured 
progressive extension of templates to the length adequate for encoding of 
polypeptide chains. Thus, the first set of coding sequences had to be repeats of 
base oligomers encoding polypeptide chains of various periodicities. On one 
hand, the readiness of these periodical polypeptide chains to assume 
alpha-helical and/or beta-sheet secondary structures contributed to the 
extremely rapid initial functional diversification of these polypeptide chains. 
It would be recalled that most, if not all, of the sugar-metabolizing enzymes 
had already achieved the inviolable functional competence before the division of 
prokaryotes from eukaryotes. On the other hand, a certain (dipeptidic?) of the 
peptidic periodicities was apparently chosen as the timekeeping unit by the 
biological clock. Musical compositions too apparently evolved originally as a 
timekeeping device. Accordingly, repetitiousness is evident in all musical 
compositions. Evolution of musical compositions from the early Baroque to the 
late Romantic parallels that of coding sequences from rather exact repeats of 
base oligomers to more complex modern coding sequences in which repetitious 
elements are less conspicuous and more varied. Inasmuch as the earth is governed 
by the hierarchy of periodicities (days, months and years), such reliance on 
periodicities is rather expected.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-72624-8_107
PMID: 3443409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Rev Saude Publica. 1987 Jun;21(3):200-10. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89101987000300005.

[The aging of the world population. A new challenge].

[Article in Portuguese]

Kalache A, Veras RP, Ramos LR.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101987000300005
PMID: 3445102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Rev Saude Publica. 1987 Jun;21(3):211-24. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89101987000300006.

[Population aging: a Brazilian reality].

[Article in Portuguese]

Ramos LR, Veras RP, Kalache A.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101987000300006
PMID: 3445103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Asia Pac J Public Health. 1987;1(2):39-43. doi: 10.1177/101053958700100208.

Changes in the health situation among the rural population and the challenges to 
the preventive services in China.

Wang TG, Chen YD, Yang H, Peng RC.

PIP: 80% of China's 1 billion population is rural. In response to the changing 
situation in rural health care work subsequent to profound economic rural 
structural reform, appropriate measures in Chinese rural health care work were 
taken. All levels of leaders in health care and other departments were 
instructed to continue the rural health care policy of "prevention first," and 
to expand the functions and tasks of prevention. Rural areas were to given top 
priority. To reform the current health organizational structure it was necessary 
to take into account several realities: The rural birth rate has dropped 
radically since liberation, as has the mortality rate. Life expectancy has 
increased, the combined effect being a population that is aging rapidly: people 
65+ years old comprised 4.91% of the population in 1982. 32.2% of rural families 
are 1-child families, and the safeguarding of the health of children continues 
to be a high priority, as does the prevention of cardio- and cerebrovascular 
disease and malignant tumors, which as cause of 54.91% of mortality, has 
replaced infectious diseases as the main health threat. Occupational disease 
have become alarmingly more common as the effort to expand rural industry 
advances. The 3-level health care network is to continue to be reinforced: 
county facllities for training and care of complicated diseases, integrating 
multiple functions that were previously separate, township rural health centers 
for the development of prevention teams, and village level doctors. The rural 
medical system must, among other things, transform the medical model to a 
"biological, psychological, and social" medical model, mobilize various social 
sectors, and attempt to collect funds from various sources to support health 
care work and the prevention of disease.

DOI: 10.1177/101053958700100208
PMID: 3452391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Rev Saude Publica. 1987 Oct;21(5):447-65. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89101987000500010.

Possible consequences of increasing life expectancy in Brazil. The perspective 
of a European historical demographer.

Imhof AE.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101987000500010
PMID: 3452918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. N Z Med J. 1987 Apr 8;100(821):213-4.

Health care in Sweden.

Nye ER(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Otago Medical School, Dunedin.

PMID: 3455483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. N Z Med J. 1987 Aug 12;100(829):477-81.

Mortality in Niue, 1978-82.

Taylor R(1), Nemaia H, Connell J.

Author information:
(1)South Pacific Commission, Noumea, New Caledonia.

This report is an analysis of mortality in the population of Niue Island over 
the years 1978-82. The overall level of mortality in Niue is low. Life 
expectancy at birth is correspondingly high (66.5 years). Because of the 
extensive migration of Niueans during the period of study the death rate may be 
underestimated and the life expectancy correspondingly overestimated. Infant 
mortality has dropped from over 200 deaths per 1000 live births during the 1940s 
to around 10 per 1000 during the period under study. The major causes of 
premature mortality in Niuean males were injury/poisoning followed by 
cardiovascular disease. In females infection, injury/poisoning and neoplasia 
were the major causes of mortality. The 1980 epidemic of dengue fever had an 
appreciable effect on mortality in this small population. Except for dengue 
fever, the pattern of mortality in Niue is similar to that in many developed 
countries. Preventive efforts against metabolic and cardiovascular disease 
(including hypertension and diabetes) should continue in order to control 
mortality from these causes, Mosquito programmes, and emergency measures if 
epidemics threaten, are required so that deaths from haemorrhagic dengue are 
prevented.

PMID: 3455511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. N Z Med J. 1986 Jan 22;99(794):1-3.

Cardiovascular mortality in New Zealand and Australia 1968-1983: how can the 
diverging trends be explained?

Beaglehole R, Bonita R, Jackson R, Stewart A.
