
Cardiovascular diseases are responsible for almost 50% of all deaths in New 
Zealand and Australia. In 1968 death rates were higher in Australia than in New 
Zealand for all causes of death, all cardiovascular disease, coronary heart 
disease and cerebrovascular disease. Over the period 1968-1983 death rates 
declined in both countries but at a significantly greater rate in Australia. By 
1983 death rates for all categories were higher in New Zealand than Australia. 
The decline in cardiovascular disease accounted for approximately 90% and 70% of 
the decline in all causes of death in New Zealand and Australia respectively. 
Life expectancy has increased more rapidly for Australian middle aged men and 
women. From the limited cardiovascular morbidity and risk factor data available, 
it is not possible to identify the reasons for the differential rates of 
improvements in the two countries. Both nations require comprehensive and 
complementary studies which monitor changes in health practices such as diet, 
smoking and exercise, as well as surveys that allow differences in the patterns 
of medical and surgical practices to be determined.

PMID: 3456096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. N Y State J Med. 1986 Feb;86(2):59-60.

Is the longevity gender gap decreasing?

Miller GH.

PMID: 3456522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. R I Med J (1976). 1986 Jan;69(1):23-6.

Cape Verdean life expectancy.

Lobban RA Jr, Coli W, Tidwell RJ.

PMID: 3456627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. N Z Med J. 1986 Apr 23;99(800):265-8.

Office encounters in general practice in the Hamilton health district II: Ethnic 
group patterns among employed males, 15-64.

Davis PB.

Differences in life expectancy and health chances between Maori and non-Maori 
are well-documented in New Zealand. On the evidence of such differentials, 
higher levels of health service use among the Maori would be expected. Data from 
a 1% survey of office encounters in general practice in the Hamilton health 
district showed Maori rates of utilisation that were on average 40% higher than 
those recorded for non-Maori males. Controlling for social class did not alter 
this discrepancy. Although the Maori/non-Maori difference in the rate of office 
encounters was greater than that reported for the equivalent social class 
comparison, it still fell far short of the ethnic difference in the burden of 
ill-health that was indicated by the available epidemiological evidence.

PMID: 3458076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Radiat Environ Biophys. 1986;25(1):75-80. doi: 10.1007/BF01209687.

Effect of static magnetic fields on survival of leukaemia-prone AKR mice.

Bellossi A.

The influence of a life-long exposure to static magnetic fields (SMF) on the 
lifespan of female AKR mice which develop spontaneous lymphoblastic leukaemia 
was investigated. Exposure all day long to a circular SMF, 4.6 mT maximal 
intensity or 2 h a day, 5 consecutive days a week to a uniform SMF of 400 mT did 
not modify the lifespan of mice. Exposure 2 h a day, 5 consecutive days a week 
to a uniform SMF of 600 or 800 mT modified the lifespan: about 50% of the 
population had a longer survival than the controls. Mice exposed 30 min a day 5 
consecutive days a week to a non-uniform SMF presented the same trend.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01209687
PMID: 3459209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Bol Asoc Med P R. 1986 Mar;78(3):114-6.

Health implications of obesity.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 3459467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1986 Jul;77(1):165-71.

Base-line data in a carcinogen-susceptible first-generation hybrid strain of 
Syrian golden hamsters: F1D Alexander.

Bernfeld P, Homburger F, Adams RA, Soto E, Van Dongen CG.

Base-line data in over 600 control animals of both sexes of the first-generation 
hybrid BIO F1D Alexander strain of Syrian golden hamsters are presented. They 
involve mortality, body weights, spontaneous tumor incidence, and incidence of 
nonneoplastic lesions. The results confirmed previously published data on 
smaller numbers of animals of this hamster strain. Spontaneous tumors with an 
incidence of more than 2% were limited to lymphomas (less than or equal to 6%), 
adrenocortical carcinomas (less than 8%), adrenal adenomas (9-14% in males; 3.5% 
in females), islet cell adenomas (less than 6%), and follicular adenomas of the 
thyroid gland (3.5% in females only). This low incidence of spontaneous tumors 
and the high survival rate (compared to those of hamsters from other sources), 
together with the previously established high susceptibility to tumor induction 
by carcinogen administration, render the F1D Alexander hamster an excellent 
animal model for lifetime carcinogenesis bioassays.

PMID: 3459910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1986 Sep;77(3):665-75. doi: 10.1093/jnci/77.3.665.

Comparison of temporal changes in U.S. and Swedish lung cancer, 1950-51 to 
1981-82.

Manton KG, Malker H, Malker B.

A comparison was made of temporal changes in lung cancer risk for the U.S. white 
and Swedish populations from 1950-51 to 1981-82 with the use of both life-table- 
and cohort-specific proportional hazard models to illustrate different features 
of the time series. Marked differences were noted for the two populations; 
Swedish lung cancer risks were generally lower than those in the United States. 
Sex-specific analyses were conducted that showed that Swedish males had a 
mortality rate roughly half that for U.S. males over the entire period. In 
contrast, U.S. white female mortality rates, though roughly equal to those for 
Swedish females in 1950-51, experienced a relatively more rapid increase; their 
rates were double the Swedish rates by 1980. The factors contributing to these 
patterns, such as marked cohort differences in risk, are identified by the 
various stages of analysis.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/77.3.665
PMID: 3462408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Br J Haematol. 1986 Oct;64(2):227-40. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2141.1986.tb04115.x.

Myelofibrosis in chronic granulocytic leukaemia: clinicopathologic correlations 
and prognostic significance.

Lazzarino M, Morra E, Castello A, Inverardi D, Coci A, Pagnucco G, Magrini U, 
Zei G, Bernasconi C.

We performed 221 marrow trephine biopsies in 139 patients with Ph1-positive 
(Ph1+) chronic granulocytic leukaemia (CGL) in order to assess the incidence, 
degree and prognostic significance of marrow fibrosis (MF) at various stages of 
the disease. We also attempted to elucidate the relationship between development 
of MF and the various clinical and haematological features of CGL. A significant 
correlation was found between the amount of fibrosis (graded from 0 to 3) and 
the stage of CGL, indicating that major fibrotic changes are associated with 
accelerated or blastic disease. Survival studies performed to assess the 
prognostic significance of the various degrees of MF, showed a progressively 
worse life-expectancy from grade 0 to grade 3 fibrosis. Multivariate regression 
analysis indicated Hb level, age, number of marrow megakaryocytes (MKs), time 
from diagnosis as the features most significantly correlated with the degree of 
MF. This study demonstrates that the natural history of CGL involves a 
progressive increase in reticulin deposition towards severe MF, although the 
rate of this progression varies widely. Monitoring changes of fibrosis with 
sequential biopsies could give a measure of the rate of progression of the 
disease and help in prognostic assessment of CGL patients. Our findings also 
confirm that among marrow features the number of MKs is the cytological variable 
most significantly correlated with MF.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.1986.tb04115.x
PMID: 3465364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Trans Ophthalmol Soc U K (1962). 1986;105 ( Pt 4):447-52.

Survival of patients following second eye cataract extraction.

Gilbert CE, Harcourt B.

One hundred and seventy-seven patients aged 65 years or older were studied 
retrospectively following second eye cataract extraction, having already had 
successful surgery to their first eye. The period of follow up was 5 to 13.5 
years and during this period 109 (62 per cent) patients had died. Analysis of 
the data showed being male was the only risk factor influencing survival, with 
female patients living significantly longer. The five year survival of the 60 
male patients was 47 per cent while that of 117 female patients was 75 per cent. 
The figures reflect the shorter life expectancy of males found in the general 
population and also support the hypothesis that the development of cataract 
reflects an ageing process in the patient as a whole.

PMID: 3466466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1986;477:261-4. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1986.tb40345.x.

Some comments on aging and a need for research.

Janicki MP.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1986.tb40345.x
PMID: 3468829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Br J Haematol. 1987 Jan;65(1):101-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2141.1987.tb06142.x.

Chronic and subacute myelomonocytic leukaemia in the adult: a report of 60 cases 
with special reference to prognostic factors.

Fenaux P, Jouet JP, Zandecki M, Lai JL, Simon M, Pollet JP, Bauters F.

We report 60 cases of chronic and subacute myelomonocytic leukaemias (CMML and 
SMML) in the adult, using the FAB group criteria. The M/F sex ratio was 3.3 and 
the mean age 67.5 years. Splenomegaly was found in 32% of cases, 
hyperleucocytosis in 52% of cases and mean blood monocytosis was 4.3 X 10(9)/l. 
Marrow smears showed an excess of blasts in 57% of patients, a moderate increase 
in monocytes in most cases and frequent myelodysplastic features. An increase in 
serum lysozyme and polyclonal hypergammaglobulinaemia were usual and clonal 
cytogenetic anomalies found in about half of the patients tested. Treatment was 
usually palliative and the median survival was 28 months, a blastic 
transformation being responsible for a third of the deaths. Prognostic factors 
at diagnosis were analysed retrospectively in the 46 patients who had sufficient 
follow up. Percentage of marrow blasts haemoglobin level and blood monocytosis 
at diagnosis, were subject to multivariate analysis, resulting in a discriminant 
'score'. This allowed assignment of each patient into one of two prognostic 
subgroups (10.9% probability of error): a poor prognosis one, with a life 
expectancy of less than 1 year and a high risk of acute transformation (subgroup 
termed SMML) and a better prognosis subgroup (termed CMML), with some CMML 
patients surviving over 5 years.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.1987.tb06142.x
PMID: 3468995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Dent Assist (1931). 1987 Jan-Feb;56(1):7-11.

A health prescription for the twenty-first century. Interview by Rosetta 
Gervasi.

Dychtwald K.

PMID: 3469113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. J Craniomaxillofac Surg. 1987 Apr;15(2):58-62. doi: 
10.1016/s1010-5182(87)80019-7.

In vitro clonality of carcinomas as a prognostic parameter for the survival time 
of patients.

Metelmann HR, Schlesinger S, Frucht U.

Clonal growth of tumour cell explants of squamous cell carcinomas of the jaw and 
face area can be induced in vitro. According to the clonality of tumours, the 
following 2 patient groups can be clearly distinguished: Patients with 
carcinomas whose in vitro growth involves a small number of clones (less than 
45/1 X 10(5) cells disseminated). Patients with carcinomas whose in vitro growth 
involves a large number of clones (more than 45/1 X 10(5) cells disseminated). 
Demonstrating the same prognostic factors, these two patient groups have a 
significantly different life expectancy (p = 0.0001) 24 months following 
establishment of the diagnosis and cloning: more than 70% of the patients with 
low-cloning carcinomas, and less than 30% of the patients with high-cloning 
carcinomas are still alive. In vitro clonality of tumours is thus a 
prognostically relevant indicator of the expected survival time of affected 
patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s1010-5182(87)80019-7
PMID: 3473081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1987 Jun;84(11):3777-81. doi:
10.1073/pnas.84.11.3777.

Aging can be genetically dissected into component processes using long-lived 
lines of Caenorhabditis elegans.

Johnson TE.

The aging process has been dissected by analysis of genetic variants of the 
nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Long-lived recombinant inbred lines were 
generated; some of these lines have mean and maximum life spans up to 70% longer 
than wild type. Longer life results from a slowing of the characteristic 
exponential increase in mortality rate that is typical of aging populations in 
all species. The length of developmental periods and the length of the 
reproductive period are unrelated to increased life span. Lengthened life is due 
entirely to an increase in postreproductive life span. Development, 
reproduction, and life span are each under independent genetic control. General 
motor activity decays linearly with chronological age in all genotypes. The 
decay in general motor activity is correlated with and a predictor of life span, 
suggesting that both share at least one common rate-determining component.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.84.11.3777
PMCID: PMC304959
PMID: 3473482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand Suppl. 1987;140:11-8. doi:
10.3109/00016348709156472.

Epidemiological aspects of urogenital complaints in older women.

Mellström D.

DOI: 10.3109/00016348709156472
PMID: 3475931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Aust N Z J Surg. 1987 Mar;57(3):177-80. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-2197.1987.tb01330.x.

Hydatid disease at Royal North Shore Hospital: results of surgical treatment.

Sullivan M, Delbridge L, Reeve TS, Crummer P.

A study of the results of surgery for hydatid disease was undertaken at Royal 
North Shore Hospital for the period 1966-83. There were 51 patients who 
underwent surgery for this disease and follow-up was obtained in all but eight 
cases. Comparison of cumulative survivals for this group with that of a matched 
Australian population showed that patients undergoing surgical treatment of 
their hydatid can anticipate a normal life expectancy. There was no evidence 
that patients with extrahepatic disease fared any worse than those with disease 
confined to the liver. Documented recurrence of hydatid disease occurred in 
eight cases following surgery and only one patient actually died from hydatid 
disease. This was a case in which spillage occurred at the initial procedure. 
This paper is presented as a reminder that hydatid disease still occurs with 
sufficient frequency to pose therapeutic problems for surgeons. Whilst total 
eradication of the parasite will only occur with enforcement of public health 
measures, surgery would still appear to be effective therapy for established 
hydatid disease so long as care is taken to avoid cyst rupture.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.1987.tb01330.x
PMID: 3476070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1987 Sep;79(3):577-84.

Long-term studies on carcinogenicity and promoting effect of phenylbutazone in 
DONRYU rats.

Meakawa A, Onodera H, Tanigawa H, Furuta K, Kanno J, Matsuoka C, Ogiu T, Hayashi 
Y.

The carcinogenicity and promoting effect of phenylbutazone were investigated in 
inbred DONRYU rats. In the carcinogenicity study, both sexes were administered 
the chemical at dietary levels of 0 (control), 0.125, or 0.25% for 2 years. 
Toxic lesions were associated with phenylbutazone treatment in the kidney and 
digestive tract, appearing to have an adverse effect on life expectancy. Various 
tumors were detected in all groups including the controls. With the exception of 
pheochromocytoma in the female high-dose group, no statistically significant 
increase in yield of any tumors, including leukemia, was apparent in the treated 
groups of either sex when the data were analyzed by Fisher's exact probability 
and/or chi-square tests. Application of an age-adjusted statistical analysis 
revealed a slight positive effect regarding the occurrence of pheochromocytomas, 
neoplastic liver nodules, and leukemias in females. However, these tumors are 
commonly observed to develop spontaneously in this rat strain, and no such 
effect was apparent in the male groups. In addition, no differences in 
incidences of relevant preneoplastic lesions were evident between control and 
treated groups. Thus phenylbutazone showed no carcinogenic activity in DONRYU 
rats when given continuously in the diet for 2 years. For the investigation of 
promoting effect, phenylbutazone was given as a dietary supplement for 2 years 
subsequent to initiation with N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea or N-propyl-N-nitrosourea. 
No enhancement of nitrosourea-induced leukemogenesis was apparent, although a 
slight promoting effect was demonstrated for renal and thyroid tumorigenesis.

PMID: 3476793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Acta Neurochir Suppl (Wien). 1987;39:163-5. doi:
10.1007/978-3-7091-8909-2_43.

Continuous intraventricular morphine- or peptide-infusion for intractable cancer 
pain.

Weigl K(1), Mundinger F, Chrubasik J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Stereotaxy, University Hospital, Freiburg i. Br., Federal 
Republic of Germany.

The continuous intraventricular administration of small daily doses of morphine 
by means of an implantable pump is an effective method of obtaining considerable 
pain reduction for patients suffering from otherwise untractable carcinoma pain. 
We consider this method of treatment to be an excellent alternative to the 
epidural and intrathecal application. Particularly in cases with obstruction of 
the spinal canal or in cases suffering from untractable pain in the face, neck 
or upper thoracic area. During the period of treatment, none of the patients 
involved in the study developed tolerance to morphine or specific opiate side 
effects. The programmable pump allows precise dosage which is adjusted to the 
requirements of the individual patient. The high cost of a pump is a justifyable 
investment in patients in good general condition with a life expectancy longer 
than 3 months. In most cases the patient may be cared for at home, making 
further hospitalization unnecessary.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-7091-8909-2_43
PMID: 3478979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Monatsschr Kinderheilkd. 1987 Dec;135(12):805-10.

[Prenatal diagnosis of cystic fibrosis with recombinant DNA methods].

[Article in German]

Schmidtke J(1), Krawczak M.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Humangenetik, Universität Göttingen.

Cystic fibrosis is one of the commonest genetic disorders with about 1 in 3000 
newborns being affected. The molecular etiology of the disease is still not 
known. In spite of improved therapy the life expectancy is markedly reduced. 
Many parents of a child affected by CF request a prenatal diagnosis, when a 
further child is expected. By using molecular genetic methods the prenatal 
detection of CF is possible now with great accuracy in most families. This 
review describes the principles of the genetics and the diagnosis of the 
disease. Case reports illustrate risk figure ascertainment. Preconditions for 
performing the diagnosis in individual cases are outlined, and a guide to the 
practical approach is given.

PMID: 3481436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Ups J Med Sci Suppl. 1987;44:76-82.

Mortality, life expectancy and causes of death of mildly mentally retarded in 
Denmark.

Dupont A(1), Vaeth M, Videbech P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychiatric Demography, Psychiatric Hospital, Risskov, Denmark.

Based upon the nationwide Danish registration, all cases with ICD 8 diagnoses 
310 and 311 were drawn; 71% lived outside institutions. 7,134 persons were 
studied for the period 1 January 1976-3 March 1984 and examined in the central 
register for death, emigration, etc. 5.86%, 446 died during the observation 
period from 1 January 1976 to 31 March 1984. Mortality tables show estimated 
survival probability at the end of the 5-year intervals and the life expectancy 
at the start of the age intervals. Only small differences were found when 
comparing differences of mortality for sex and residence (institutions or 
outside institutions). By a linkage study with the Danish Central Register for 
causes of death in the National Health Service of Denmark, the causes of death 
were obtained. For males of the age 15-64 an excess mortality of malignant 
neoplasms, of diseases of the respiratory system, of congenital malformations, 
and of accidents were found. For females the pattern was less significant.

PMID: 3481907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Zentralbl Chir. 1986;111(1):36-41.

[2d operations in coronary artery surgery].

[Article in German]

Warnke H, Bohm J, Luther B, Dübel HP.

In coronary heart surgery, reoperations are performed on about seven per cent of 
all cases, primarily for progressive coronary artery sclerosis and sclerosis in 
autologous bypass veins. The problems relating to progressive coronary artery 
sclerosis and bypass sclerosis are expounded in this paper by the example of 14 
patients, with reference being made to indications for recurrent surgical 
intervention for vascular reconstruction. Particular emphasis is laid on the 
surgical approach. With the given risk tolerable, coronary reoperation, today, 
is a genuine alternative in the treatment of recurrent angina pectoris, 
following bypass surgery. It is likely to enhance the patient's life expectancy 
and quality of life.

PMID: 3485333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Am J Public Health. 1986 Jun;76(6):647-56. doi: 10.2105/ajph.76.6.647.

Primary prevention and coronary heart disease: the economic benefits of lowering 
serum cholesterol.

Oster G, Epstein AM.

We examined the expected economic benefits of cholesterol lowering for adult men 
with significant elevations of total serum cholesterol (above 260 mg/dl), 
incorporating estimates of direct benefits from anticipated reductions in 
lifetime expenditures for medical care, and estimates of indirect benefits 
related to extension of work-life secondary to reductions in morbidity and 
premature mortality. Our findings yield discounted lifetime direct benefits of a 
15 per cent reduction in total serum cholesterol of $3 to $208 per person, and 
discounted lifetime indirect benefits of $1 to $8,946. Benefits increase with an 
individual's initial cholesterol level and decrease with the age at which an 
intervention is initiated. Economic benefits increase approximately twofold in 
the presence of other coronary risk factors, such as cigarette smoking and 
hypertension. Results suggest that cholesterol-lowering interventions, no matter 
what their cost, are unlikely to result in substantial direct savings to the 
health care system. However, the indirect benefits of intervention are quite 
high for young and middle-aged adults, as well as for those with severe 
elevations of cholesterol or with additional coronary risk factors.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.76.6.647
PMCID: PMC1646773
PMID: 3486601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. J Biol Response Mod. 1986 Apr;5(2):176-90.

Acceleration of age-associated immune decline and mortality by early repeated 
administration of bestatin to C57BL/6 mice.

Bruley-Rosset M, Payelle B, Rappaport H.

The effect of chronic treatment with an immunostimulating agent, bestatin, on 
age-associated immune decline was assessed in C57BL/6 mice. Animals were given 
weekly doses of bestatin (100 micrograms/mouse, i.p.) from 7 months of age until 
death, and immune responses (natural killer cell activity, T cell cytotoxicity 
in vitro and in vivo, delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction, 
lymphoproliferative responses to mitogens, production of interleukin-2, 
macrophage functions) were tested at 11, 15, and 20 months. Most of the 
functions were reduced in 15-17-month-old mice, but evidence of reduced 
macrophage activities appeared only in limiting conditions (low 
lipopolysaccharide stimulation for interleukin-1 production and low 
concentration of macrophages in the cytostatic test). Bestatin administration 
produced a transient increase in natural killer (NK) cell activity and in vivo T 
cell cytotoxicity, followed (15-20 months of age) by a depression of NK and T 
cell-mediated responses. Only macrophage functions were stimulated in 
20-month-old bestatin-treated mice. This unresponsiveness coincides with an 
accelerated mortality of bestatin-treated mice and a significant increase in the 
number of spontaneous tumor-bearing animals. The stimulation of T cells by 
bestatin seems to be mediated by a primary activation of macrophages to release 
immune mediators. Several reasons for the bestatin-induced immunodepression can 
be postulated including a high dose of bestatin, leading to toxicity or 
unresponsiveness; induction of suppressor cells; and overproliferation of T 
cells due to the mitogenic activity of bestatin, which may act as a promoting 
factor for tumor development.

PMID: 3488372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 1986;81(3-4):85-9. doi: 10.1007/BF01401226.

Craniopharyngioma in Finland. A study of 123 cases.

Sorva R, Heiskanen O.

We report on 123 patients with craniopharyngioma diagnosed in Finland from 1951 
to 1982. 45 patients were under 16 years of age at the time of diagnosis and 78 
over 16 years. The age-distribution had peaks at 11-20 years and at 41-50 years. 
115 patients were operated on; operation was radical in 67 cases (58%). Surgical 
mortality was 13%. The number of radical operations increased and surgical 
mortality decreased after 1970. Recurrence developed in 26 patients (21%), 11 
after a radical and 15 after a non-radical operation. Recurrence-free survival, 
10-year survival and life expectancy were best after radical operation. We 
consider that radical operation is the best treatment. For patients with a 
non-radical operation or with recurrence modern radiotherapy gives long-lasting 
relief.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01401226
PMID: 3489356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Bull World Health Organ. 1986;64(3):333-9.

Control of echinococcosis/hydatidosis: present status of worldwide progress.

Gemmell MA, Lawson JR, Roberts MG.

Progress in national and provincial control programmes directed against 
Echinococcus granulosus is reviewed. The results show that this parasite, 
because of the low basic reproductive rate in its domestic life-cycle, is 
unstable and is amenable to control or eradication by currently available 
methods. The difference between control and eradication is defined and some 
suggestions for extension of control are discussed.

PMCID: PMC2490883
PMID: 3490317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1986 Oct 10;98(19):635-42.

[Mental health in the aged].

[Article in German]

Häfner H, Weyerer S.

The life expectancy of the world population has increased considerably and the 
absolute number of 65-year olds will approximately triple in the next 40 years. 
Since the prevalence of chronic illness and disability increases steeply with 
advancing age, it is to be expected that the utilization of health services and 
services provided for the elderly will also increase. In the developed countries 
about one quarter of those aged 65 and over suffer from mental disorders. An 
important risk factor for mental disorders of old age seems to be the subjective 
awareness of loneliness, combined with a quantitative deficit in social 
relationships. Losses in personal relationships, above all conjugal bereavement, 
are, in general, associated with a higher mortality, a higher risk of suicide, 
various physical diseases and mental disorders, in particular depression. 
Dementia, one of the severest disorders in late life, increases steeply with 
advancing age, reaching rates of 20 to 30% among those aged 85 and over. 
Depressive disorders are among the most frequent psychogeriatric disorders. Due 
to the heterogeneity of their symptomatology and differences in case 
identification the prevalence rates vary substantially between countries. 
Prospective follow-up studies have revealed the mortality risk to be markedly 
higher in organic than in functional mental disorders. Care of the mentally ill 
elderly patient is characterized by a relatively low utilization of outpatient 
mental health services, whereas contact with GPs becomes increasingly important 
in late life.

PMID: 3491464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Jpn Circ J. 1986 Sep;50(9):888-94. doi: 10.1253/jcj.50.888.

Long-term results and its managements after coronary bypass surgery.

Okada M, Matsuda S, Kozawa S, Yasuoka S, Ogawa K, Nakamura K.

Erratum in
    Jpn Circ J 1994 Nov;58(11):866-7.

Between 1970 and 1985, 221 patients with coronary artery occlusive disease 
underwent aorto-coronary bypass (A-C bypass) and other procedures. Among these 
patients, 187 had A-C bypass alone and A-C bypass in addition to correction of 
valvular lesions or arterialization of the coronary vein, myocardial puncture by 
laser. The remaining 34 had surgical corrections for myocardial infarction and 
its complications. Subjects were 100 patients who underwent A-C bypass alone 
over 6 months ago and whose follow-up study could be performed in 93 survival 
cases [corrected]. Subsequently, 94% of the patients have met the criteria for 
grade I of NYHA functional capacity and have returned to normal work at a mean 
of 4 years and 2 months after surgery. Improved left ventricular function has 
been maintained postoperatively in the patients with complete revascularization. 
Improved operative technique, in addition to intraoperative balloon angioplasty 
and onlay patch grafting, have increased the patency rate (78% in 1 mm, 94% in 2 
mm of coronary diameter) of the grafts with postoperative anticoagulant therapy. 
On the basis of our long-term observations, coronary bypass surgery, 
particularly in complete revascularization, provides for significant improvement 
in both the quality and life expectancy of patients with severe coronary heart 
disease. Treadmill exercise test and magnetic resonance image (MRI) were useful, 
non-invasive and acceptable examinations in long-term follow up.

DOI: 10.1253/jcj.50.888
PMID: 3491912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Psychol Med. 1986 Nov;16(4):865-71. doi: 10.1017/s0033291700011879.

The abridged census method as an estimator of lifetime risk.

Chase GA, Kramer M.

The abridged census estimator, also known as Weinberg's shorter method, is a 
device used to estimate lifetime incidence from the observed age distribution of 
a population at risk coupled with data on the current prevalence of a mental 
disorder. This method, which still enjoys considerable popularity, should have 
been replaced many years ago by more accurate techniques for making such 
estimates using similar information. In particular, the abridged census method 
uses the assumption that the remaining life expectancy of incident cases equals 
that of non-cases. This assumption is likely to lead to an underestimate of the 
lifetime risk. Two examples are presented from published literature which 
illustrate some problems encountered with the use of the abridged census method. 
Some alternative estimation methods are presented which can be implemented using 
only a hand calculator and which lead to more accurate results.

DOI: 10.1017/s0033291700011879
PMID: 3493496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Soc Sci Med. 1986;23(10):919-28. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(86)90249-2.

Disaggregating regional variations in mortality by cause of death: a case study 
of the Republic of Ireland.

Pringle DG.

Significant regional disparities in life expectancy were found in a previous 
study of Irish mortality. An attempt is made in the present paper to assess the 
relative importance of each of the major causes of death to an understanding of 
regional disparities in total mortality, using a specially devised index known 
as a partial standardised mortality ratio. It is found that regional disparities 
created by each of the major causes of death tend to have a reinforcing effect, 
although cerebrovascular diseases tend to conform less closely to the patterns 
established by the other major causes (viz. cardiovascular diseases, malignant 
neoplasms and respiratory diseases). Cardiovascular diseases exert the strongest 
influence upon the overall pattern, but malignant neoplasms exert a much 
stronger influence than might be expected given the number of deaths from 
cancer. Regional disparities are stronger for males than for females, suggesting 
lines for further causal investigation.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(86)90249-2
PMID: 3493533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Experientia. 1987 Apr 15;43(4):378-81. doi: 10.1007/BF01940417.

Changes in pulse wave velocity with age in man: a longitudinal series over 20 
years.

Monnier M.

Measurements of pulse wave velocity (PWV) carried out systematically in the same 
60 healthy individuals over 20 years confirmed that average PWV progressively 
increases with age, and more rapidly after age 45. The PWV increase mainly 
results from the decreased extensibility of the thoracic aorta in the 
aortic-popliteat arterial system. This longitudinal study showed that PWVs of 
most individuals do not closely follow the average cross-sectional trend, but 
vary considerably in type. Therefore, PWV by itself is hardly a close correlate 
of an individual's physiological age or life expectancy. Individuals with a 
constantly high PWV or a late abrupt increase are exceptional; a possible 
relation to an increased mean arterial pressure and decreased arterial 
extensibility as in hypertonia is mentioned.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01940417
PMID: 3494629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Mt Sinai J Med. 1987 Jan;54(1):5-8.

The longevity revolution.

Butler R.

PMID: 3494918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Cancer Treat Rep. 1987 Jun;71(6):567-70.

Synergistic effect of recombinant interleukin-2 on the inhibition of growth of 
adenocarcinoma 755 by mitomycin.

Ligo M, Sakurai M, Saijo N, Hoshi A.

The increase in life-span (ILS) of tumor-bearing mice caused by recombinant 
interleukin-2 (RIL-2) was studied in the solid tumor adenocarcinoma 755 system. 
With long-term treatment (Days 5-12), RIL-2 (10(5) U/mouse) showed a weak effect 
(24% ILS), but short-term RIL-2 treatment (Days 5-8 or 9-12) had hardly any 
effect. Mitomycin, at 2 mg/kg (maximum nontoxic dose), caused 35% ILS with Days 
5-8 treatment and only 12% ILS with Days 9-12 treatment. Sequential treatment 
with mitomycin (Days 5-8) and RIL-2 (Days 9-12) markedly enhanced antitumor 
activity (88% ILS). This value is significantly greater than that of mitomycin 
alone or RIL-2 alone (P less than 0.01). Furthermore, mitomycin followed by 
RIL-2 markedly augmented killing activity of spleen cells that are cytotoxic in 
vitro. These results indicate that RIL-2 markedly affects the inhibition of 
growth of a tumor treated with an antitumor agent.

PMID: 3495334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 1987 May;50(5):523-31. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp.50.5.523.

Survival pattern and cause of death in patients with multiple sclerosis: results 
from an epidemiological survey in north east Scotland.

Phadke JG.

The mean survival period in a series of 216 multiple sclerosis deaths, which 
formed part of a large prevalence sample observed in the Grampian region of 
Scotland, was 24.5 years, with an insignificant difference between females (25.7 
years) and males (23.5 years). A third of the patients survived for over 30 
years after onset. The age at death ranged between 25-80 years, with majority of 
the deaths occurring in the seventh decade (37%). On comparing life expectancy 
with the Scottish general population using life tables, only a slight reduction 
in the short-term (less than 10 years from onset) survival was noted in all age 
groups, with the exception of those with onset over the age of 50 years. The 
long-term life expectancy was however markedly reduced in all age groups 
compared with the controls. The survival period could be accurately predicted 
from the degree of disability at a point in time, and could be correlated with a 
number of clinical features, the most important of which was the age at onset. 
Eighty five per cent of those with onset of multiple sclerosis over the age of 
50 years died within 20 years. Patients with a cerebellar disturbance at onset 
survived the shortest, and those with a brainstem lesion or retrobulbar neuritis 
the longest; those with a pyramidal dysfunction had an intermediate prognosis. 
Other parameters which could be correlated with the survival were: the timing 
and frequency of occurrence of psychiatric and urinary symptoms, interval 
between onset and first relapse and the course of the disease. As expected, most 
patients (89%) were significantly disabled (unable to walk) prior to death, only 
a minority, however, had become so within 10 years of the onset (10%). Sixty two 
per cent of the patients died of complications of multiple sclerosis. No unusual 
excess of any disease was noted amongst other causes. As expected, the majority 
of patients (55%) had bronchopneumonia as the terminal event, 11% had 
septicaemia, 15% had myocardial infarction and 4% had documented pulmonary 
embolism. This is the largest series of its kind where prognosis, judged by 
survival period, has been assessed amongst all multiple sclerosis patients 
derived from a prevalence sample and observed till death.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.50.5.523
PMCID: PMC1031962
PMID: 3495637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Dev Ophthalmol. 1987;14:146-51. doi: 10.1159/000414382.

Current concepts in intraocular lens implantation.

Bernitsky DA(1), Stark WJ, McCartney DL, Wong SK, Maumenee AE.

Author information:
(1)Wilmer Ophthalmological Institute, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Md.

PC IOLs appear to be safe and effective and there are few contraindications. 
Based on the available data we feel confident about implanting PC IOLs in 
healthy eyes of patients aged 40 or older. For younger patients, we do not 
recommended an IOL unless glasses or contact lens use is not feasible. Caution 
is urged however in the use of semiflexible, closed-loop AC IOLs as well as 
'soft' PC IOLs. Other questions regarding material of choice, bag versus sulcus 
fixation, and UV absorbers remain controversial.

DOI: 10.1159/000414382
PMID: 3498656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1987 Nov;136(5):1199-206. doi: 10.1164/ajrccm/136.5.1199.

Prognostic factors and life expectancy of patients with acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome and Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.

Brenner M(1), Ognibene FP, Lack EE, Simmons JT, Suffredini AF, Lane HC, Fauci 
AS, Parrillo JE, Shelhamer JH, Masur H.

Author information:
(1)Critical Care Medicine Department, National Institutes of Allergy and 
Infectious Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland.

To assess determinants of prognosis for 43 patients with the acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, objective 
clinical and histopathologic characteristics were analyzed for acute and 
long-term prognostic significance. Severe abnormalities on initial chest 
radiographs and alveolar-arterial oxygen differences (AaPO2) greater than 30 mm 
Hg were associated with higher mortality during the period of treatment for the 
acute episode (p less than 0.05). Decreased long-term survival after the 
diagnosis of Pneumocystis pneumonia correlated with the severity of interstitial 
edema (a component of diffuse alveolar damage) on initial transbronchial biopsy 
and elevation of AaPO2 at the time of diagnosis (Cox proportional hazards 
analysis, p less than 0.05). The persistence of Pneumocystis cysts after 3 wk of 
therapy was associated with significantly decreased long-term survival (p less 
than 0.05) when follow-up biopsy was performed in 27 of the patients. Patients 
with a diagnosis of Pneumocystis pneumonia before July 1985 had more advanced 
disease at the time of diagnosis and a worse prognosis than did those in whom 
the diagnosis was made after July 1985 (p less than 0.05). This study 
demonstrates that important prognostic information can be derived from 
information obtained at initial presentation and follow-up bronchoscopic 
evaluation in patients with AIDS and Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, and 
suggests that early detection and initiation of therapy may improve chances for 
survival.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm/136.5.1199
PMID: 3499836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Antibiot Med Biotekhnol. 1987 Dec;32(12):894-8.

[Penicillin-selective electrode based on a cellulose membrane with immobilized 
enzyme].

[Article in Russian]

Dobroliubov AG, Emel'ianov IuG, Grinshpan DD, Itsygin SB, Kaputskiĭ FN.

Modified cellulose films are recommended to be used as carriers in preparing 
enzymatic membranes for penicillin-selective electrodes. The results of 
laboratory testing of the enzymatic penicillin-selective electrode based on the 
cellulose membrane with immobilized penicillinase are presented. In principle it 
was shown possible to use the enzymatic electrode in determining penicillin 
concentration in solutions. Dependence of the electrode reading on the buffer 
capacity was revealed. Optimal characteristics of the enzymatic membranes and 
the life-expectancy of the enzymatic electrode were determined.

PMID: 3501939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Ann Vasc Surg. 1986 Nov;1(3):328-34. doi: 10.1016/S0890-5096(06)60128-3.

The human umbilical vein graft in below-knee femoropopliteal and femorotibial 
surgery: an eight year experience.

Nevelsteen A(1), D'Hallewin MA, Deleersnijder J, Wouters L, Suy R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, University Clinic St. 
Rafael-Gasthuisberg, Leuven, Belgium.

The authors present a series of 175 femoropopliteal (below-knee) and 65 
femorotibial reconstructions with the human umbilical vein (HUV) graft performed 
over an eight year period. With a mean follow-up of 36.7 months (range one month 
to 84 months) the early patency rate of 89% decreased to 54% after five years. 
Long-term patency was found to be primarily related to the location of the 
distal anastomosis and the quality of the outflow, showing a statistically 
significant decrease after repeat revascularization. Early thrombosis, even in 
the absence of a technical failure and late aneurysmal degeneration remain the 
major problems associated with the use of the HUV graft. It is therefore 
recommended that these reconstructions be preserved for patients with advanced 
ischemia or a limited life-expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/S0890-5096(06)60128-3
PMID: 3504345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Ann Vasc Surg. 1986 Nov;1(3):347-50. doi: 10.1016/S0890-5096(06)60131-3.

Infrageniculate thin-walled PTFE bypass: preliminary study of 53 cases.

Barral X(1), Youvarlakis P, Boissier C.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie, Vasculaire, CHU Nord, Saint-Etienne, France.

Between May 1, 1983 and May 1, 1985, 53 patients whose mean age was 75 years, 
and who presented with rest pain or ischemic changes had infrageniculate 
insertion of femoropopliteal or femorotibial thin-walled polytetrafluoroethylene 
(PTFE-TW) bypasses. Occlusive atherosclerotic disease was present in all 
patients. Postoperative follow-up ranged from 6 to 30 months. One patient died 
in the immediate post-operative period whereas 15 others died later during 
follow-up. There was one case of prosthetic sepsis. No anastomotic aneurysms 
occurred. Actuarial analysis of overall patency rates in significant population 
samples showed that 88% and 68% of bypasses were functional at one month and two 
years, respectively. The overall rate of early amputation was 17%. Overall limb 
salvage was 67% at 30 months. In patients over 75, 85% of bypasses were patent 
at one year whereas life expectancy for one year in this same group of patients 
was 49%. Although this is a preliminary study, results obtained with this new 
material suggest that an average gain of 20% in patency rates can be expected 
compared to those recorded with standard PTFE prostheses. The PTFE-TW vascular 
prosthesis may be the material of first choice for the geriatric patient in 
order to promote early hospital discharge and return to the home environment. 
Even though long-term patency rates of venous grafts are better, we believe that 
the use of PTFE-TW prostheses in elderly patients with limited life expectancy 
may be preferred.

DOI: 10.1016/S0890-5096(06)60131-3
PMID: 3504347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Sb Ved Pr Lek Fak Karlovy Univerzity Hradci Kralove Suppl.
1987;30(4):485-502.

[Trends in mortality and the average life span of the population of 
Czechoslovakia 1963-1983].

[Article in Czech]

Strnad L.

PMID: 3504608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. J Am Mosq Control Assoc. 1987 Jun;3(2):266-70.

Laboratory rearing techniques and adult life table parameters for Anopheles 
sergentii from Egypt.

Beier MS(1), Beier JC, Merdan AA, el Sawaf BM, Kadder MA.

Author information:
(1)Ain Shams Research and Training Center on Vectors of Diseases, Ain Shams 
University, Abbassia, Cairo, Egypt.

Techniques are presented for maintaining colonies of Anopheles sergentii, an 
important malaria vector in Egypt. Larval development time and survival rates 
were determined for 3 rearing solutions and 4 temperatures. Under optimal 
conditions larval survival rates averaged 85%. Mean life expectancy at emergence 
for mated An. sergentii was 23.3 days under insectary conditions of 27 +/- 2 
degrees C, 70-80% R.H. The net reproductive rate, mean generation time and 
instantaneous rate of increase were respectively, 45.8 females per female per 
generation, 29.7 days and 0.127. In the context of vector potential for malaria 
transmission, An. sergentii has a daily survivorship rate of 0.95.

PMID: 3504913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. J Am Mosq Control Assoc. 1987 Dec;3(4):619-25.

Studies on autogeny in Culex tarsalis: 3. Life table attributes of autogenous 
and anautogenous strains under laboratory conditions.

Reisen WK(1), Milby MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical and Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public 
Health, University of California, Berkeley 94720.

The reproductive biology and life table attributes of autogenous and 
anautogenous strains of Cx. tarsalis which were selected from the same parent 
colony were compared under laboratory conditions. Autogenous mosquitoes required 
1 day longer to complete immature development, but oviposited 1 to 2 days 
earlier than anautogenous mosquitoes. Autogenous females readily imbibed blood 
meals from restrained chickens if ovarian maturation had not progressed to 
Christophers' Stage III. Wing length and life expectancy were not significantly 
different between strains; however, autogenous females laid a significantly 
smaller number of eggs per raft during initial oviposition than anautogenous 
females. Egg raft size did not differ significantly between strains during 
subsequent ovipositions resulting in similar net reproductive rates (Ro). 
Earlier oviposition and a comparable Ro resulted in a greater intrinsic rate of 
increase (rm) and birth rate (b) for autogenous than anautogenous cohorts. Thus, 
highly autogenous populations would be able to exploit newly created surface 
water breeding sources more rapidly than highly anautogenous populations. 
However, highly autogenous populations probably would not be able to transmit a 
horizontally maintained arbovirus as efficiently as anautogenous populations, 
since autogenous females imbibe their initial blood meal later in life than 
anautogenous females.

PMID: 3504949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Indian J Public Health. 1987 Jul-Sep;31(3):133-4.

Women's health.

Karkal M.

PMID: 3507898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

