
233. J Immunol. 1986 Jan;136(2):466-9.

Two major classes of mitogen-reactive B lymphocytes defined by life span.

Freitas AA, Rocha B, Coutinho AA.

The relative numbers of short- and long-lived mitogen-reactive B cells in the 
peripheral pool were evaluated by studying the decay of lipopolysaccharide 
(LPS)-reactive B lymphocytes in LPS nonresponder, histocompatible hosts for 
periods of up to 3 wk after cell transfer. The results obtained demonstrate the 
existence of two major classes of mitogen-reactive B cells defined by life span. 
The "short-lived" cell component comprises about 80 to 90% of the reactive cells 
and decays with a life expectancy of 18 to 24 hr. The long-lived cell component, 
with life expectancies of 10 to 20 days, comprises about 10 to 20% of the 
reactive cells and is preferentially enriched in circulating B cells. The 
present ratio for short- and long-lived B cells implies a highly dynamic state 
for the immune system which must be advantageous in the selection of available 
repertoires.

PMID: 3510249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. J Laryngol Otol. 1986 Jan;100(1):97-103. doi: 10.1017/s0022215100098790.

The use of free tissue transfer in reconstruction following head and neck tumour 
resection.

Frampton MC, Breach NM, Archer DJ, Shaw HJ.

Experience in the use of free vascularised tissue flaps in reconstruction 
following major head and neck resections for malignant disease has been 
described. The benefits of the use of free flaps are improved function and 
cosmesis with more rapid rehabilitation and reduced in-patient stay in a group 
of patients, many of whom had a limited life expectancy. The disadvantages of 
this technique are the need for special equipment and for medical and nursing 
staff trained and experienced in this type of work.

DOI: 10.1017/s0022215100098790
PMID: 3511163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Sports Med. 1986 Jan-Feb;3(1):26-49. doi: 10.2165/00007256-198603010-00004.

Exercise in coronary heart disease.

Shephard RJ.

Population levels of habitual activity have probably contributed to both the 
recent epidemic of cardiovascular disease and its waning. Evidence supporting 
the exercise hypothesis can be drawn from comparisons of individuals with 
differing levels of occupational and leisure activity. Both suggest that 
regular, endurance-type activity may halve the incidence of cardiac morbidity 
and mortality. This is an important prophylactic benefit, although Bradford 
Hill's criteria of a causal association have yet to be fully satisfied. 
Following the onset of clinical disease, both uncontrolled and randomised 
controlled trials suggest that progressive exercise rehabilitation improves 
prognosis by a useful 20 to 30%, but formal statistical proof is again difficult 
for technical reasons. Although over-enthusiastic vigorous physical activity can 
cause an immediate rise of cardiovascular events, this disadvantage is 
substantially outweighed by long term gains from regular physical activity. 
Classical epidemiology has proven its case by the experimental step of removing 
exposure to the causal agent. It is difficult to carry out such an analysis 
linking physical activity with the recent epidemic of ischaemic heart disease, 
although the recent waning of the disease may be attributed in part to an 
increase of habitual physical activity in many western nations. Evidence linking 
exercise to the prevention of clinical disease ('secondary prevention') is 
derived from large scale surveys of groups with supposed differences in 
occupational activity, athletic participation, active leisure pursuits or 
overall lifestyle. The majority of occupational comparisons have shown 
advantages to active workers in terms of deaths from cardiac disease, sudden 
death, cardiac morbidity, ECG abnormalities, and cardiac abnormalities at 
postmortem. However, concerns have been raised with regard to the accuracy of 
job classification, the intensity of occupational activity relative to active 
leisure, the adequacy of disease classification, and confounding influences due 
to differences of social class, stress and potential alienation. Studies 
comparing athletes and non-athletes have been faulted on grounds of initial 
selection for sport by body-build and uncertainties regarding continuing 
differences of endurance activity between recognised university athletes and 
their classmates. In general, no advantage of life expectancy has been seen in 
athletes, Karvonen and associates reported a 4 to 5 year advantage of longevity 
in Finnish cross-country skiing champions, although this might be attributable 
to other facets of their lifestyle.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.2165/00007256-198603010-00004
PMID: 3511520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1986 Feb 28;111(9):350-4. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1068455.

[Single kidney--a risk or a tolerable loss of an organ?].

[Article in German]

Stahl RA, Oberle G, Neumann HP, Schollmeyer P.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1068455
PMID: 3512232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Nurs Clin North Am. 1986 Mar;21(1):111-23.

Changing factors and changing needs in women's health care.

Leslie LA, Swider SM.

The aforementioned social trends affecting women, including women in poverty, 
women in the labor force, and elderly women, are all ultimately related to 
problems of access to health care. In almost every age group, women use more 
health and medical services. Women are hospitalized more often, although their 
stays in hospitals tend to be shorter. Women also make more visits to health 
care providers for preventive health care, such as examinations and dental care. 
Access to care, however, is tied to ability to pay for the care. Medicaid 
payments for medical care are related to eligibility criteria in each state. 
Recent cuts in federal programs targeted eligibility for welfare and Medicaid. 
In 1982, 725,000 welfare recipients were declared ineligible. Given the earlier 
discussion of the predominance of women among those labeled poor in this country 
and the fact that two thirds of Medicaid recipients are women, these cutbacks 
have serious implications for women's health. Women are less likely to have 
medical insurance than men. Insurance coverage as a benefit is least likely to 
be offered in those areas where women work: part-time employment, small 
businesses, and manufacturing industries. Insurance eligibility is often 
dependent on a woman's marital status, despite the fact that 41.5 per cent of 
all American women are not spousal dependents. Insurance companies frequently 
adjust premiums for sex, age, income, race, and workforce characteristics, a 
policy which works against women. As the field of women's health expands and 
receives more emphasis, the data reflecting the experiences of large groups of 
women will have to be collected and analyzed ever more carefully. Information 
collected should include physiologic, psychosocial, and economic factors that 
together affect the health status of women. These data may then be used to guide 
health policy decision making, as well as provide a basis for health promotion 
and disease prevention interventions with individual clients.

PIP: As a result of decreases in maternal mortality and infectious diseases, 
women's life expectancy has increased rapidly in this century and is expected to 
reach 83 years by the year 2000. However, there are a large number of chronic 
conditions that negatively affect the quality of life of women today: urinary 
tract infection, menstrual cycle disorders, hypertension, diabetes, 
osteoporosis, arthritis, eating disorders, substance abuse, and mental 
depression. Although women's life expectancy is 7.5 years greater than that of 
men, the morbidity rates are significantly higher for women. As women continue 
to enter the labor force in large numbers, questions are being raised regarding 
the physical and psychological hazards of jobs traditionally considered to be 
women's work, the risks associated with jobs that are physically demanding or 
involve exposure to toxic substances, and the association between pregnancy 
outcome and employment. Further research is needed on the effects of multiple 
role stress on women's health. Another recent trend has been the feminization of 
poverty: 2/3 of all US adults classified as poor are women. The lack of 
financial resources has a detrimental effect on nutrition, access to health 
care, and other preventive behaviors. Yet another social change related to 
women's health is the increasing number of elderly in the population. Women 
comprise 72% of the elderly poor, and over 80% of all retiring female workers do 
not have pension benefits. Access to, availability of, and payment for health 
care are problems for elderly women. It is important that research address the 
physiologic, psychosocial, and economic factors that together affect women's 
health status.

PMID: 3513129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Int J Epidemiol. 1986 Mar;15(1):8-21. doi: 10.1093/ije/15.1.8.

A review of methodological issues of the standardized mortality ratio (SMR) in 
occupational cohort studies.

Tsai SP, Wen CP.

This paper is a review and clarification of methodological issues related to the 
standardized mortality ratio (SMR), widely used in occupational epidemiology. 
Although the SMR seems to be a simple statistic, it can be misused and 
misinterpreted. The paper discusses SMRs in relation to age-specific mortality 
ratios, relative risk, life expectancy, and statistics derived from direct 
standardization. Inter-SMR comparisons and the effect of the choice of the 
comparison population on the SMR are also discussed. Mathematical and empirical 
review of SMR use has led to the development of a correction procedure which 
permits direct comparisons of two SMRs by adjusting for the age distributions of 
the two populations. The paper also proposes a method for testing the trend of 
age-specific mortality ratios (MRs). If MRs are homogeneous, this method can 
also be used to compare two SMRs. If MRs are not homogeneous, the relative risk 
between two sets of age-specific MRs can be tested for significance, but no 
summary index, including the SMR, can accurately describe the mortality 
experience over the entire age range. It is suggested that the summary 
statistics of a cohort mortality experience should include relative risk, 
attributable risk, and life expectancy. These statistics are complementary and 
can be derived or approximated from the data that generated the SMR. A valid 
risk assessment should weigh the evidence from all three summary statistics.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/15.1.8
PMID: 3514499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. N Engl J Med. 1986 May 1;314(18):1140-5. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198605013141802.

Unilateral lung transplantation for pulmonary fibrosis.

Toronto Lung Transplant Group.

Improvements in immunosuppression and surgical techniques have made unilateral 
lung transplantation feasible in selected patients with end-stage interstitial 
lung disease. We report two cases of successful unilateral lung transplantation 
for end-stage respiratory failure due to pulmonary fibrosis. The patients, both 
oxygen-dependent, had progressive disease refractory to all treatment, with an 
anticipated life expectancy of less than one year on the basis of the rate of 
progression of the disease. Both patients were discharged six weeks after 
transplantation and returned to normal life. They are alive and well at 26 
months and 14 months after the procedure. Pulmonary-function studies have shown 
substantial improvement in their lung volumes and diffusing capacities. For both 
patients, arterial oxygen tension is now normal and there is no arterial oxygen 
desaturation with exercise. This experience shows that unilateral lung 
transplantation, for selected patients with end-stage interstitial lung disease, 
provides a good functional result. Moreover, it avoids the necessity for cardiac 
transplantation, as required by the combined heart-lung procedure, and permits 
the use of the donor heart for another recipient.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198605013141802
PMID: 3515192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Clin Geriatr Med. 1986 May;2(2):337-62.

Cigarette smoking. Health effects and cessation strategies.

Sachs DP.

During the last 15 years substantial advances in the fields of analytical 
chemistry, behavioral pharmacology, neurologic sciences, and the behavioral 
sciences have produced new understanding and insight into why people smoke and 
how they can stop. These fundamental research efforts have now produced 
treatment strategies that have objectively documented success rates and that the 
physician can now implement in his office. Impressive as current results can be, 
when the physician is willing to spend appropriate and necessary time, effort, 
and energy, current research indicates that our basic neurochemical 
understanding of cigarette smoking should improve substantially and lead to even 
more effective treatment interventions in the next 10 years.

PMID: 3516368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Chest. 1986 May;89(5 Suppl):434S-437S. doi:
10.1378/chest.89.5_supplement.434s.

Role of surgery in iliofemoral venous thrombosis.

Rutherford RB.

Thrombectomy has a limited but definite role in the clinical management of 
patients with iliofemoral venous thrombosis. It is best applied selectively to 
achieve specific goals in two different groups of patients at either end of the 
disease spectrum. In relatively active healthy young patients with phlegmasia 
alba dolens operated on relatively soon after thrombosis, better protection 
against the late postthrombotic sequelae can be achieved. Patients with 
malignancy, underlying coagulopathy, or those who are inactive or have a limited 
life expectancy due to age or concurrent disease should not be operated on for 
bland thrombosis. At the other extreme, when phlegmasia cerulea dolens causes 
painful tense swelling, increases compartmental or decreases ankle pressures, 
and threatens limb viability in spite of heparinization and leg elevation, 
thrombectomy should be performed.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.89.5_supplement.434s
PMID: 3516589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1986 Jun;34(6):455-71. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1986.tb03414.x.

Biological basis of the sex differential in longevity.

Hazzard WR.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1986.tb03414.x
PMID: 3517114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Nurs Clin North Am. 1986 Jun;21(2):195-206.

Pathophysiology related to peripheral vascular disease.

Wagner MM.

The problems of peripheral vascular diseases are varied and sometimes complex. 
The major and most common disease is arteriosclerosis obliterans. This problem 
will continue as the life expectancy increases. The severity of the disease 
compromises the quality of life. An understanding of the pathophysiologic 
process is necessary to enhance the quality of life and prevent the terrible and 
disfiguring complications which can arise as a result of insufficient knowledge.

PMID: 3517813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1986 Apr;69(4):541-8. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.1330690415.

Perinatal mortality at pre-Columbian Teotihuacan.

Storey R.

The skeletal population of 166 individuals from a low-status apartment compound 
of the pre-Columbian city of Teotihuacan contained 52 perinatal individuals. The 
most perilous time of the lifespan was around birth, as revealed by life table 
analysis. Femur length was not increasing during the last month of gestation, 
and individuals were probably shorter somatically at birth than modern standards 
or historic-period Arikara skeletal controls. The possibility of intrauterine 
growth retardation is investigated through paleo-pathological indicators of 
prenatal growth arrest. The evidence of prenatal stress and the high rate of 
mortality at birth seem to indicate that this New World preindustrial urban 
population faced similar health and nutritional stresses as Old World 
preindustrial cities.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330690415
PMID: 3521307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Arch Belg. 1986;44(1-2):3-44.

[Problems raised by the possible contamination of food by phthalates].

[Article in French]

Lederer J.

PMID: 3521514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Prenat Diagn. 1986 May-Jun;6(3):177-85. doi: 10.1002/pd.1970060304.

The prenatal diagnosis of the Walker-Warburg syndrome.

Crowe C, Jassani M, Dickerman L.

On the basis of physical features and autopsy findings, a child with congenital 
hydrocephalus, bilateral microphthalmia, myopathy, severe developmental 
retardation and multiple brain malformations was diagnosed to have the 
Walker-Warburg Syndrome (WWS). During a subsequent pregnancy in this family, a 
fetus at risk for this autosomal recessive condition was evaluated with serial 
ultrasound examinations. At 15 weeks of gestation an encephalocele was noted. 
Disproportionately slow growth of the head compared to the body was noted at 36 
weeks. At birth, the diagnosis of WWS was confirmed in the child due to the 
presence of microcephaly, an encephalocele, a meningocele and bilateral 
microphthalmia. This is the first reported case of the early prenatal diagnosis 
of this recently categorized genetic condition, in which the major features are 
hydrocephalus, multiple central nervous system malformations, microphthalmia 
with ocular malformations, severe psychomotor retardation, congenital myopathy 
and a very limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1002/pd.1970060304
PMID: 3523475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Med Interne. 1986 Apr-Jun;24(2):93-101.

Centrifugal extension of coronary intimal necrotic areas.

Velican C, Velican D, Tâncu I.

The use of serial cross-sections, camera lucida drawings and photographic 
reconstruction of longitudinally cut samples, revealed that about half of 
intimal necrotic areas present in the coronary arteries of subjects aged 41-50 
years exhibited a longitudinal diameter greater than 1.0 cm, occurring as very 
long lesions. In the 16 intimal necrotic areas included in a tridimensional 
study the longitudinal diameter was 7.8 times greater than the transverse one 
and 11.3 times greater than the luminal-medial diameter. The important 
centrifugal extension of coronary intimal necrotic areas during the fifth decade 
of life, particularly in male subjects, could not be detected grossly; it 
required a meticulous light microscopic examination of stained tissue section. 
This centrifugal extension was sometimes associated with the presence of a 
"border zone" of intermediate injury developed at the point where the intimal 
necrotic area irradiated in the direction of blood flow. This distal side of the 
lesion appeared as a highly irregular boundary with numerous peninsulas of 
interdigitating necrotic and apparently normal connective tissue. The present 
results, associated with those of our previous reports, support the view that 
human atherosclerosis has many attributes of a necrotizing arteriopathy.

PMID: 3523733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Stud Fam Plann. 1986 May-Jun;17(3):117-25.

Oral contraceptives and life expectancy.

Fortney JA, Harper JM, Potts M.

Life expectancy for women in the United States is 77.34 years; women who take 
oral contraceptives (OCs) for five years before the age of 30 can expect to live 
about four days longer. This is due primarily to protection against ovarian and 
endometrial cancers. For women taking pills for five years in their thirties 
there is a maximum loss of 18 days on the average that is attributable to OC 
use, and for women over 45 this rises to 80 days. The decreased life expectancy 
is due mainly to the increased mortality from myocardial infarction and stroke. 
This is substantially less than life lost due to use of a variety of other 
substances, most notably tobacco.

PIP: This report combines early and late mortality effects of oral 
contraceptives into a life table analysis based on epidemiological evidence 
using US data. An association between oral contraceptives and disease is 
included only if demonstrated by at least 2 previous independent studies; those 
included in the study are: pregnancy complications, cancer (ovarian, 
endometrial, cervical), cardiovascular disease, gallbladder disease, pelvic 
inflammatory disease, and rheumatoid arthritis. The model assumes women who use 
oral contraceptives continuously for 5 years and then stop, and compares this 
with a base population of US women aged 15-49 who are not using oral 
contraceptives. Results drawn from these data are that oral contraceptives taken 
for 5 years have no effect on life expectancy of women under 30; 5 years of use 
during the 30's reduces average life expectancy by 7-22 days; and among older 
women (over 40) life expectancy decreases up to 88 days. Protective effects of 
oral contraceptives against reproductive cancers cancels out risks due to 
myocardial infarction and stroke. This model does not account for different 
risks of smokers and non-smokers, therefore the small differences in longevity 
are probably exaggerated. The decreased life expectancy is due mainly to the 
increased mortality from myocardial infarction and stroke. This is substantially 
less than life lost due to use of a variety of other substances, most notably 
tobacco.

PMID: 3523849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Soc Sci Med. 1986;22(10):1001-13. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(86)90200-5.

Selective primary health care: a critical review of methods and results.

Unger JP, Killingsworth JR.

In the aftermath of the Alma Ata conference, three types of Primary Health Care 
(PHC), have been identified. Comprehensive PHC (CPHC) and Basic PHC (BPHC) both 
have a wide scope of activities, BPHC however does not include water and 
sanitation activities. Only one year after the Alma Ata conference, CPHC was 
attacked as not 'feasible' and selective PHC (SPHC) was offered as an interim 
alternative. SPHC only addresses 5 to 8 diseases, almost all of them falling 
within the realm of pediatrics. Our article critically analyses the methods and 
results of SPHC. It contrasts the lack of supportive data for SPHC and its 
methodological deficiencies with the extent of its adoption by bilateral 
cooperation agencies, foundations, academic and research institutions, and 
international agencies. We suggest that rather than health factors, the major 
determinants of this adoption have been political and economical constraints 
acting upon decision makers exposed to a similar training in public health.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(86)90200-5
PMID: 3526564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Biol Rev Camb Philos Soc. 1986 May;61(2):157-95. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-185x.1986.tb00465.x.

The biology of puberty.

Bronson FH, Rissman EF.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-185x.1986.tb00465.x
PMID: 3527285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Q J Med. 1986 Jun;59(230):535-47.

L-dopa treatment and Parkinson's disease.

Lees AJ.

Seventeen years after its introduction, L-dopa, now administered in combination 
with a peripheral dopa decarboxylase inhibitor remains the most effective 
palliative remedy for Lewy body Parkinson's disease. A therapeutic effect to 
large doses is so consistent that alternative diagnoses should be considered in 
any patient with a Parkinsonian syndrome who fails completely to respond. 
Despite improving the quality of life, it probably does not influence 
appreciably the reduced life expectancy in Parkinson's disease and the long-term 
therapeutic response is frequently marred by drug-induced oscillations in motor 
performance, dyskinesias and psychotoxicity. Experimental studies using 
continuous intravenous infusions of L-dopa in order to obtain constant plasma 
levels suggests that additional refinements in management may be achieved by the 
design of a practical controlled delivery system, and prototype pumps and 
sustained release formulations are already under evaluation.

PMID: 3529159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Urology. 1986 Sep;28(3):185-9. doi: 10.1016/0090-4295(86)90039-7.

Clinical experience with Mentor inflatable penile prosthesis in 206 patients.

Merrill DC.

The Mentor inflatable penile prosthesis (IPP) has been implanted in 206 patients 
with organic (95.2%) or psychologic (4.8%) impotency. The patients have been 
followed up for an average of 18.1 (4-42) months. A satisfactory result has been 
achieved in 98 per cent of these patients. A life analysis of the series shows 
that 88 per cent of all devices implanted will survive forty-two months without 
mechanical failure. One hundred sixty-four of these patients had not had 
previous penile surgery while 42 had had one or more penile prostheses implanted 
previously. The projected forty-two-month survival for the Mentor prosthesis in 
these subgroups is 94 per cent and 74 per cent, respectively. The improved life 
expectancy of the Mentor IPP, compared with the Scott IPP, is due to the 
superior durability of Mentor's polyurethane cylinders and to the increased 
reliability of the Mentor snap-on connector system. In this respect, there have 
been only one cylinder failure and 3 connector failures in the Mentor series. 
The connector failures occurred early in the series before the development of 
connector pliers; there have been no connector failures in the last 202 
consecutive implantations. Wear-induced tubing leaks, the most common cause of 
device failure, occurred in 2.9 per cent of all implantations. Tubing failures 
were more common in patients who have had previous surgery, occurring in 9 per 
cent of salvage procedures and 1.3 per cent of primary implantations. The reason 
for the difference in tubing survival in virgin and salvage procedures is 
unknown; possibly the subcutaneous scar tissue present in secondary surgical 
procedures increases the chance of tubing segments touching and abrasing each 
other. Laboratory studies suggest that the nylon-reinforced tubing used in the 
manufacture of devices implanted since 1985 is more durable than is the standard 
silicone tubing used in the construction of devices implanted previously.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-4295(86)90039-7
PMID: 3529572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. ANNA J. 1986 Aug;13(4):187-90.

Management of the diabetic transplant recipient.

Schanbacher B, Hasselman E.

PMID: 3530146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Aust N Z J Med. 1986 Apr;16(2):245-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-5994.1986.tb01168.x.

Parenthood after renal transplantation.

de Crespigny PC, d'Apice AJ.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-5994.1986.tb01168.x
PMID: 3530228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Blood. 1986 Nov;68(5):1055-64.

Variables influencing the timing of marrow transplantation in patients with 
chronic myelogenous leukemia.

Segel GB, Simon W, Lichtman MA.

The prognosis for patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) has improved 
only for patients who can receive marrow transplantation from a histocompatible 
sibling. The timing of the marrow transplant is made difficult by the high 
peritransplant mortality of 20% to 35% and a group of patients with a prolonged 
chronic phase of CML, which can be identified on the basis of prognostic indexes 
(age, percent blood myeloblasts, spleen size, and platelet count). We have 
developed a mathematic model and computer program that consider age, prognostic 
index, and projected survival rate by transplantation to balance the risk of 
peritransplant mortality against the risk of delaying the transplantation of 
patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive CML. The computation assesses the 
risk of delaying transplantation; it does not offer the option of avoiding 
transplantation, since long-term survival ultimately requires transplantation. 
Three prognostic groups were considered as described by Sokal and co-workers 
(Blood 63:789, 1984) (I, best; II, intermediate; III, worst prognosis). The 
computation used the projected survival rates of transplantation from the 
Seattle experience and from the International Bone Marrow Transplant Registry. 
As an example of the model's utility, we have determined the ratio of the 
calculated life expectancy to the normal life expectancy for hypothetical 
patients up to 50 years of age in each of the three prognostic categories. A 
value of 20% is used for patients who successfully receive transplants after the 
onset of the accelerated phase. The analysis allows assessment of the risk of 
delaying transplantation for a finite time in patients with CML. The importance 
of the method rests in its consideration of multiple variables, including the 
peritransplant mortality, transplant projected survival before and upon entering 
the accelerated phase, age, prognostic group, and other risk factors. The 
program permits a change in these parameters as new information or advances in 
treatment occur. This analysis does not replace the diagnostic deliberations of 
the clinician. Rather, it provides a numeric framework for prognosis based on 
the currently available data. The physician in conjunction with the patient, not 
the algorithm, makes the decisions of whether and when to transplant.

PMID: 3533178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Z Gerontol. 1986 Jul-Aug;19(4):228-34.

[Industrial work and old age in Wilhelmian Germany].

[Article in German]

Borscheid P.

Starting with Alfred Weber's research, one has considered the age of forty as 
the decisive turning-point in the careers of nineteenth century industrial 
workers. Contrary to previous investigations which deduced an impoverishment of 
these workers in old age from the reduction of the average wages, the present 
study shows by means of income figures that the financial situation of workers 
generally did not deteriorate at all after reaching the age of forty. Estimates 
of the amount of possessions held at different stages of life, which also 
include workers who left industry early, prove furthermore that even older 
workers profited more and more from the increase of wages and the extension of 
places of work. The impoverishment which in early industrial times started at 
the age of thirty-five did not set in before the age of sixty-five in high 
industrialization.

PMID: 3535278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Bull Cancer. 1986;73(1):61-4.

[Cancer of the prostate: current status of chemotherapy].

[Article in French]

Bollak C, Bergerat JP, Jacquemin D.

Life expectancy of patients with prostatic cancer is varying from one case to 
another and, sometimes, these patients have a very long life expectancy. Less 
than a third of this patients are dying from their cancer. This notion implies 
to be very careful in the choice of aggressive treatments. Isolated or combined 
chemotherapy assays permitted to select cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, 
cis-platinum or estramustine phosphate as active drugs in the treatment of 
prostatic cancer. But the randomized studies, in Europe or in U.S.A., are not 
demonstrative enough to propose these drugs for a routine treatment. Cancer of 
the prostate is usually represented by cellular groups that are more or less 
sensitive to the different kind of available treatments. Perhaps in the future 
the best results of treatment will be the association of 
chemotherapy-radiotherapy and hormonotherapy.

PMID: 3535934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Circulation. 1986 Dec;74(6 Pt 2):IV23-6.

Special resuscitation situations: near drowning, traumatic injury, electric 
shock, and hypothermia.

Ornato JP.

Special resuscitation situations are cardiopulmonary arrests requiring 
modification or extension of conventional life support techniques. Significant 
controversy exists with regard to several aspects of special resuscitation, 
including whether or not there is a need to clear the airway of a near-drowning 
victim with the Heimlich maneuver and whether CPR should be initiated in an 
unmonitored hypothermic patient showing no signs of life. The previous standards 
and guidelines almost entirely neglected the management of cardiac arrest due to 
traumatic injury. The conference panel on Special Situations recommended that: 
the Heimlich maneuver should only be performed on near-drowning victims when the 
rescuer suspects that foreign matter is obstructing the airway or the victim 
fails to respond appropriately to mouth-to-mouth ventilation, further 
investigation is needed to better define the need for, the risks of, and the 
timing of the Heimlich in the near-drowning victim, there should be an expanded 
section in the standards and guidelines describing the differences in the 
management of a victim whose cardiac arrest is due to traumatic injury, CPR is 
indicated and should be done on a pulseless, unmonitored hypothermic patient in 
the field, but that a longer time to check for a pulse (up to one minute) may be 
required, and guidelines that the panel proposed be used for management of the 
underwater submersion victim in cardiac arrest.

PMID: 3536161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Drug Alcohol Depend. 1986 Oct;18(2):133-8. doi:
10.1016/0376-8716(86)90045-1.

Premature mortality among prominent American authors noted for alcohol abuse.

Davis WM.

An array of 27 American authors noted in the literature for their excessive 
drinking was compared for their longevity to a control group of 54 writers. The 
latter were selected for having similar sex distribution and distribution of 
dates of birth, as well as for their peer recognition among American writers. 
The median (and range) for the alcohol-abusing writers was 65 (33-77) years, 
whereas the control group survived to a median of 76 years (range 32-90). This 
difference was highly significant (p less than 0.001). Thus, data from American 
authors support those epidemiologic studies reporting alcohol abuse to be a 
cause of premature mortality, rather than others that have failed to demonstrate 
such a relationship. The social cost of an alcohol-related decrement in lifespan 
is emphasized by these data from a highly talented selection of American 
writers.

DOI: 10.1016/0376-8716(86)90045-1
PMID: 3536376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. J Biol Chem. 1986 Dec 5;261(34):16148-54.

Novel expression of the angiotensinogen gene in a rat pancreatic islet cell 
line. Transcriptional regulation by glucocorticoids.

Brasier AR, Philippe J, Campbell DJ, Habener JF.

Angiotensinogen gene expression has a broad tissue specificity. Whereas 
angiotensinogen mRNA is undetectable in normal rat pancreas, we have identified 
angiotensinogen mRNA in all tumors and cell lines derived from a rat islet cell 
line, RIN-r. A subclone with the highest angiotensinogen mRNA levels, 1056A, 
secreted N-glycosylated angiotensinogen. Angiotensinogen mRNA of 1056A cells was 
approximately 200 nucleotides longer than that of liver, and this was shown to 
be due to an extension of the 3'-untranslated region. Dexamethasone increased 
angiotensinogen mRNA levels approximately 9-fold above control, and this 
increase was linear over 110 h, indicating a half-life of greater than 55 h for 
angiotensinogen mRNA during dexamethasone induction. This effect of 
dexamethasone was inhibited by the glucocorticoid antagonist RU 38486. 
Dexamethasone increased angiotensinogen gene transcription approximately 5-fold 
in a nuclear run-on assay. These results demonstrate that dexamethasone 
induction of angiotensinogen mRNA levels in 1056A cells is due, at least in 
part, to a transcriptional response and that 1056A cells will be useful for the 
study of angiotensinogen gene regulation and the identification of 
glucocorticoid regulatory sequences.

PMID: 3536923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Ann Trop Med Parasitol. 1986 Aug;80(4):403-19. doi: 
10.1080/00034983.1986.11812041.

Consequences of continuous mebendazole therapy in alveolar hydatid disease--with 
a summary of a ten-year clinical trial.

Rausch RL, Wilson JF, McMahon BJ, O'Gorman MA.

The assessment of a ten-year clinical trial of continuous therapy in eight 
patients revealed further evidence of a significant therapeutic effect of 
mebendazole on alveolar hydatid disease. Life-expectancy was increased when 
compared to untreated historical controls, especially in the patients over 55 
years of age. All symptomatic patients showed subjective improvement. In four 
patients, three had a 50% or greater reduction in the diameter of massive 
hepatic lesions, and in the fourth, progressively enlarging metastases were 
arrested. Fall in the IHA titre suggested that the causative organism had been 
destroyed in two additional patients. Of greater significance was the absence of 
progression of the disease process as measured by changes in the size of the 
hepatic lesion or lack of development of distant metastases in patients under 
therapy. In contrast, progressive enlargement of hepatic lesions or the 
appearance of distant metastases were cardinal features of untreated cases (15 
of the 16 cases followed). In vivo determination of viability of tissues of the 
larval Echinococcus multilocularis from patients receiving long-term therapy was 
considered important in evaluating efficacy of the drug. Such tissues, obtained 
by autopsy from two patients under continuous therapy for four and ten years, 
failed to proliferate when inoculated into rodents (red-backed voles), whereas 
similar inoculations from untreated patients or those receiving 15 months' or 
less of therapy brought about production of vesicles in rodents in eight of 11 
tests (73%). These two deaths, unrelated to therapy, resulted from late fibrotic 
constriction of end-stage parasitic lesions about the portal vein and major bile 
ducts. The clinical findings in combination with negative in vivo tests and 
other data indicate that the mebendazole therapy significantly alters the 
clinical course of alveolar hydatid disease. The evidence strongly indicates 
that long-term therapy may eventually have a lethal effect on the larval cestode 
in advanced disease.

DOI: 10.1080/00034983.1986.11812041
PMID: 3539043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Med Care. 1986 Dec;24(12):1161-72. doi: 10.1097/00005650-198612000-00008.

The lifetime risks and costs of nursing home use among the elderly.

Cohen MA, Tell EJ, Wallack SS.

In this paper, we estimate the risk of an individual of entering a nursing home 
throughout the aging process. We then estimate the expected lifetime costs of 
nursing home use both for an individual and for society as a whole. The model is 
based on double-decrement life-table analysis. Data are taken from a 1977 survey 
of 4,400 Medicare beneficiaries. At age 65, the upper bound for the lifetime 
risk of entering a nursing home is 43.1%. The risk of entering a nursing home 
increases with age until around age 80. At about age 85, the risk begins to 
decline significantly. At almost all ages, the lifetime risk of entry for 
females is twice that of males. The expected lifetime costs of nursing home care 
across all ages are between $10,500 and $13,600. These costs are distributed 
very unequally. Only 13% of the elderly account for 90% of all nursing home 
expenditures. Given current life expectancy, the expected annual cost per person 
over age 65 is between $532 and $760. In the year 2000, the expected annual 
average costs of nursing home care per elderly person will range from $450 to 
$650. The decline in the average annual cost per person reflects shifts in the 
age structure and increased life expectancy. These figures need not represent an 
unmanageable burden on society's resources. Figures presented here help 
establish the feasibility and desirability of long-term care risk-sharing 
arrangements among the elderly, like long-term care insurance, life care 
communities, and other models.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-198612000-00008
PMID: 3540477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. N Engl J Med. 1987 Jan 29;316(5):250-8. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198701293160505.

Decision analysis.

Pauker SG, Kassirer JP.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198701293160505
PMID: 3540670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Prim Care. 1986 Dec;13(4):667-77.

Update on pregnancy testing.

Fletcher JL Jr.

Laboratory testing is an extension of the physical examination, reaching sites 
that are otherwise inaccessible to the examiner. Pregnancy testing is one such 
diagnostic extension. Like physical examination, it must be used carefully. In 
choosing a pregnancy test for office use, many factors must be considered, so 
that accurate information will be available for patient management. Such factors 
as the technical skills and training of the office staff performing the test, 
shelf life of the test, need to refrigerate reagents, and frequency of usage are 
all important considerations. Test results must always be correlated with 
specific patients and clinical findings, and at times, doubts may be allayed by 
simply retesting patients with negative or equivocal results at a later time 
(currently a matter of days instead of weeks). Recent developments in pregnancy 
testing have been directed toward improved sensitivity and specificity, as well 
as speed, simplicity, and reduced cost. The clinical issue of greatest interest 
to most primary care physicians is the early diagnosis of normal pregnancy, 
where "early" may be defined as prior to the first missed menses. Diagnosis in 
the first 21 days of gestation is currently possible with more sensitive 
methods, and especially with enzyme-linked immunoassay. In this regard, because 
of its easy methodology and basic reliability, the enzyme-linked immunoassay may 
well become the new standard for office pregnancy testing.

PIP: Pregnancy tests aimed at detecting the presence of human chorionic 
gonadotropin (hCG) in maternal plasma and its excretion in urine have become a 
valuable diagnostic tool. The newer tests offer greater sensitivity and 
specificity than the older 2-minute slide tests or tube tests. At present, the 
most promising pregnancy tests are the enzyme-linked immunoassays. These are 
qualitative tests that involve enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and 
monoclonal antibodies. This technology is readily adaptable to most clinic and 
office settings and may be run on either serum or urine specimens. Advantages 
include its ready availability, simplicity, sensitivity, and specificity for the 
beta subunit of hCG. Over-the-counter pregnancy tests for use by 
nonprofessionals have been available since the mid-1970s; however, these tests 
have a relatively high (25%) false-negative rate. Among the problems that have 
arisen in testing for pregnancy by hCG determination are the interference of 
proteinuria with urine pregnancy tests, an irreducible level of technical error, 
the tendency of certain drugs to produce a false-positive result, and quality 
control. In general, physicians should consider several factors--the technical 
skills and training of the office staff performing the tests, shelf life of the 
test, the need to refrigerate reagents, and frequency of usage--in selecting a 
pregnancy test for office use. Test results should be correlated with specific 
patients and clinical findings, and patients with negative or equivocal results 
should be retested a few days later.

PMID: 3541014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Am J Clin Nutr. 1987 Jan;45(1 Suppl):271-6. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/45.1.271.

Obesity and carcinogenesis: historical perspective.

Simopoulos AP.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/45.1.271
PMID: 3541568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1986 Oct;71(2):233-50. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.1330710211.

Estimating mortality in skeletal populations: influence of the growth rate on 
the interpretation of levels and trends during the transition to agriculture.

Johansson SR, Horowitz S.

Traditional paleodemographic methods of estimating mortality have been based on 
unrealistic assumptions about the prevalence of closed and stationary 
populations. When a living closed population was growing, the mean age at death 
of its skeletal survivors will be shifted below its true life expectancy. For 
declining populations, the mean age at death will be higher than true underlying 
life expectancy at birth. The faster the rate of growth, the larger and more 
curvilinear is the displacement. Mortality estimates can only be extracted from 
skeletal populations via an independent estimate of the growth rate. Fertility 
levels, however, can be estimated directly. The empirical importance of growth 
rate-dependent mortality estimates is demonstrated by reinterpreting 
mean-age-at-death data from several populations before and after the 
agricultural revolution; with detailed consideration given to the Old World 
populations of Acsadi and Nemeskeri and a New World population from central 
Illinois.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330710211
PMID: 3541647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Arch Intern Med. 1987 Jan;147(1):166-9.

Biology of aging. Current state of knowledge.

Masoro EJ.

The nature of the primary aging processes has yet to be defined. Mortality and 
aspects of longevity (eg, life expectancy) do not provide significant 
information about aging. The maximum life span potential of a species does 
provide information about the comparative rate of aging between species, 
however, and also is a good marker for evaluating interventions aimed at 
modulating the rate of aging in a particular species. Physiological 
deterioration occurs with age, but it is not known how much is due to aging per 
se and how much is secondary to age-related disease and life-style. There are 
similar reservations about the changes in body composition that have been noted 
with increasing age. Many diseases are age related in terms of prevalence, but 
how these diseases relate to the primary aging processes remains to be defined. 
Finally, many claims have been made concerning interventions that will retard 
the aging processes; of these, only food restriction in rodents has been 
unequivocally shown to retard the aging processes of a mammalian species.

PMID: 3541821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Med Clin North Am. 1987 Jan;71(1):11-22. doi: 10.1016/s0025-7125(16)30879-3.

The physiology of the menopause.

Barbo DM.

The decline and eventual cessation of estrogen production by the ovary at 
menopause are reflected physiologically in tissues with estrogen receptors. The 
rate of decline of hormones is quite variable and often relates to symptoms 
experienced. At menopause women still have one third of their life expectancy 
ahead of them. The physician must determine which symptoms are aging, 
physiologic changes resulting from estrogen deprivation and which may herald 
more serious pathology in need of diagnosis and treatment. The knowledgeable 
physician can give good explanation, which is sometimes as beneficial as 
medications. Hormone replacement therapy may improve physiologic function of 
some tissues and relieve symptoms. When hormones are given for clear indications 
in as safe a method as possible and with adequate monitoring, the woman will 
have her symptoms relieved and will be grateful for her sense of well-being and 
ability to enjoy life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7125(16)30879-3
PMID: 3543538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Med Clin North Am. 1987 Jan;71(1):135-48. doi:
10.1016/s0025-7125(16)30888-4.

Physical fitness for the mature woman.

Idiculla AA, Goldberg G.

The ability to perform physical activity, whether at work or as recreation, is 
an important aspect of human experience for men and women of all ages. The 
extension of the range of physical power output that characterizes improvement 
in "physical fitness" is a desirable goal for all. It helps to make physical 
activity more enjoyable and less fatiguing, it can facilitate the learning of 
new skills and may actually improve cognitive functions, and it decreases the 
likelihood of physical injury and helps to speed recovery from injury. A sound 
mind in a sound body has been a medical ideal since Greek and Roman times. For a 
continuing state of good health, all systems--physical, mental, and 
spiritual--should be exercised in harmony. At the beginning of the twentieth 
century, the average life span for women was barely 5 years beyond the 
menopause. Menopause heralded the twilight years of life and enhanced 
susceptibility to disease and deterioration of health. Today, women look forward 
to 25 additional years, a full one third of a lifetime; menopause now heralds 
potential promise, adventure, and exploration, an exciting new phase of the life 
cycle. Exercise represents a vital part of a prescription to maximize quality of 
life throughout this period. Physical conditioning cannot be expected to 
complete reverse the unrelenting effects of passing time, but it appears that it 
can substantially modify this process. Functional losses that in the past have 
been attributed only to age may, in fact, represent a combined effect of 
biologic aging and physical inactivity. Exercise helps to maintain the 
physiologic adaptations that support an enhanced biologic reserve in body 
systems that tend to lose reserve capacity with advancing age. "If you don't use 
it, you lose it!," and its positive corollary, "If you use it, you enthuse it!," 
may be maxims that imply a natural law of deep consequence. An optimal diet and 
suitably vigorous activity are advisable for all women as they enter the 
postmenopausal phase of life. Every mature woman ought to carefully consider 
choosing to pursue an appropriate goal: active participation in a specific 
exercise program under medical supervision. The health care system should be 
fully responsive to the special needs of the mature woman, and the importance of 
providing programs of physical activity designed to address these needs should 
be recognized. For the postmenopausal woman, the advantages of achieving a state 
of physical fitness are many.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7125(16)30888-4
PMID: 3543540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Am J Med. 1987 Jan 26;82(1B):47-53. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(87)90271-3.

Aging and diabetes mellitus as risk factors for vascular disease.

Minaker KL.

During this century, cardiovascular diseases have become the major cause of 
death for elderly and diabetic patients. Although risk factors for vascular 
diseases have been identified, the interactions of aging and diabetes on the 
prevalence and incidence of vascular disease have not been systematically 
studied. A spectrum of such interactions appears to exist. Future research 
efforts are likely to permit accurate weighting of the influence that diabetes 
and aging have on vascular disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(87)90271-3
PMID: 3544832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Arch Intern Med. 1987 Feb;147(2):353-6.

Health benefits of exercise in an aging society.

Larson EB, Bruce RA.

The effects of regular aerobic exercise are important to an aging society 
increasingly preoccupied with exercise. Traditionally, most attention has been 
directed to the relationship between a physically active life-style and 
cardiovascular mortality. In an aging society, however, active life expectancy 
and maintenance of independence may be as important as effects of regular 
exercise on longevity. Regular exercise results in increased maximum aerobic 
capacity due to peripheral changes in muscle (increased capacity for aerobic 
metabolism and improved substrate and oxygen extraction with a widened 
arteriovenous oxygen difference) and also due to cardiovascular changes with 
increased stroke volume and cardiac output in normal persons. "Therapeutic 
benefits" of conditioning probably occur at submaximal work loads common to 
everyday activity, when cardiac work and myocardial oxygen consumption are less 
for any given work load, muscles are more efficient, and relative oxygen 
requirements are less. Aging is associated with a linear decline in maximum 
aerobic capacity. The rate of decline is twofold greater when comparing 
sedentary with physically active middle-aged men. Thus, regular exercise could 
conceivably lower functional aerobic age by slowing this functional decline. 
Exercise, particularly excessive exercise, is also associated with serious 
hazards, including sudden death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, excessive 
