fatigue, hyperthermia, and significant musculoskeletal problems. Accounts of the 
health effects of exercise should consider a wide range of risks and benefits, 
especially those related to improving function, minimizing disability, and 
prolonging independent living.

PMID: 3545119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. J Surg Oncol. 1987 Mar;34(3):202-7. doi: 10.1002/jso.2930340316.

Metastatic colon carcinoma to the jaw: a case report and review of the 
literature.

Mast HL, Nissenblatt MJ.

Presented is a case of adenocarcinoma of the cecum metastatic to the anterior 
mandible. The patient had a Duke's C2 cecal adenocarcinoma resected twenty 
months prior to her development of loose teeth, jaw pain, and jaw mass. A biopsy 
of the mass revealed metastatic adenocarcinoma, identical to her primary 
neoplasm. Metastatic carcinoma to the mandible is a rare event. A review of the 
literature reveals only nineteen cases of colon carcinoma metastatic to the jaw. 
When further subdivided, there is only one other case of cecal adenocarcinoma 
metastasizing to the jaw. Almost half of the other cases have been rectal 
carcinomas. Treatment of these patients has been uniformly unsuccessful, with 
life expectancy reported between one and seven months. The literature has shown 
that 5-FU and radiotherapy may produce palliation of symptoms. The patient 
presented here responded well to 5-FU and radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.2930340316
PMID: 3546952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Soc Sci Med. 1987;24(1):23-36. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(87)90135-3.

Defective modernization and health in Mexico.

Simonelli JM.

This paper uses data gathered in a semi-arid, mountain region of the border 
state of Sonora, Mexico to illustrate that modernization and the importation of 
urban ideas and values can influence health status in unexpected ways. It traces 
the historic process of modernization in a rural municipio, relating this to 
social promises and economic cycles in Mexico. Modernization is seen to 
encompass life standard improvements and access to medical care; extension of 
road and transportation systems; and the widespread availability of information 
and education, as well as lifestyle changes required to incorporate these 
'urban' influences. Reviewing the link between climate and health in arid lands, 
the paper notes that such modernization can be a well-meaning intrusion upon a 
set of cultural and social practices which had proved adaptive in dealing with 
climatic extremes. Initial modernization produces impressive declines in 
mortality and morbidity, as illustrated in an analysis of mortality figures and 
causes in relation to age cohorts and decades for the years 1955-1984. However, 
reductions in epidermic-related infant mortality are shown to be offset by 
increases in deaths due to trauma, chronic conditions and endemic disease. An 
analysis of morbidity for the year 1983-84 indicates that continuing high rates 
of infectious disease are related to conditions which result from increasingly 
defective modernization. To maintain technology, including water, electrical, 
and sewage systems, continual capital expenditure on both the public and private 
level is required. The economic crisis in Mexico is reducing available funds at 
a time when the community has adjusted its traditional lifestyle to incorporate 
technological improvements. In light of this, it is likely that inroads against 
infectious disease will not just continue to be stalemated, but could actually 
be reversed. This finding has implications for towns and villages on both sides 
of the Mexican-American border.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(87)90135-3
PMID: 3547687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Int J Health Serv. 1987;17(1):91-112. doi: 10.2190/J56K-HPBE-9H1K-XNQQ.

Health services and the legitimation of the colonial state: British Malaya 
1786-1941.

Manderson L.

This article is concerned with the establishment and extension of health care 
and medical services in British colonial Malaya. Initially, medical care was 
provided for the colonial elite and those in their direct employment. With the 
expansion of colonial control beyond trade centers into the hinterland and with 
the growth of agriculture and mining. Western medicine was extended both to 
labor involved in these export industries and to others whose ill health might 
jeopardize the welfare of the colonists. Public health programs in the twentieth 
century continued to focus on medical problems that had direct impact on the 
colonial economy, but programs were extended to ensure the reproduction as well 
as the maintenance of the labor force. This article develops the notion of a 
legitimation vacuum, and the role of the state provision of social services, 
including medical services, in legitimizing colonial presence and control.

PIP: This article is concerned with the establishment and extension of health 
care and medical services in British colonial Malaya. Initially, medical care 
was provided for the colonial elite and those in their direct employment with 
minimum medical care provided to the immigrant and local population when their 
health status, or rather the presence of infectious disease, implicated the 
health of the expatriate population. With the expansion of colonial control 
beyond trade centers into the hinterland and with the growth of agriculture and 
mining, Western medicine was extended both to labor involved in these export 
industries and to others whose ill health might jeopardize the welfare of the 
colonists. Public health programs in the 20th century continued to focus on 
medical problems that had direct impact on the colonial economy, but programs 
were extended to ensure the reproduction as well as the maintenance of the labor 
force. The move from the provision of curative medicine to preventive health 
care represented a final stage in all levels of social life. This article 
develops the notion of a legitimation vacuum, and the role of the state 
provision of social services, including medical services, in legitimizing 
colonial presence and control.

DOI: 10.2190/J56K-HPBE-9H1K-XNQQ
PMID: 3549590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Postgrad Med. 1987 Apr;81(5):13-6, 19, 22-3. doi: 
10.1080/00325481.1987.11699776.

Liver transplantation today.

Marsh JW, Makowka L, Todo S, Gordon RD, Esquivel CO, Tzakis A, Iwatsuki S, 
Starzl TE.

In summary, liver transplantation has truly come of age. To put things in 
perspective, the recipient waiting list at the University of Pittsburgh never 
includes fewer than 200 suitable candidates, and it continues to grow in spite 
of the fact that we are now doing essentially one transplant per day. There are 
many excellent transplant centers throughout the United States and Europe, the 
only limiting factor being the supply of donors. Orthotopic liver 
transplantation is now covered by most major health insurance carriers, and some 
form of government coverage is anticipated for the indigent. As the supply of 
donors increases with aggressive education programs, the need for 
transplantation centers will also increase. However, this should not be 
uncontrolled growth. Mandatory training in transplantation surgery will surely 
be required as a prerequisite to the establishment of transplant centers in the 
future. The field of organ transplantation is the newest and most dynamic in 
medicine today. The results are encouraging and acceptable and offer the only 
hope to many persons dying of end-stage organ failure. With improvements in 
immune modulation at hand, organ transplantation will soon become a commonplace 
procedure offering a completely normal life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1080/00325481.1987.11699776
PMID: 3550767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Br J Cancer. 1987 Mar;55(3):259-63. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1987.50.

Effects of in vivo modulation of splenic natural killer cell activity on the 
growth of spleen-seeking tumour variants.

Skinner MA, Thompson K, Ezaki T, Marbrook J.

A novel tumour system has been used to study the effect of natural killer cells 
on tumour growth by using agents which modify natural killer cell activity. The 
tumour cells are hybridoma cells which secrete antibody specific for red blood 
cells so that tumour growth can be quantitated by a haemolytic plaque assay. 
Spleen-seeking variants have been derived from original hybrids which are 
sensitive to natural killer cells. Treatment of mice with 
polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid substantially enhanced natural killer cell 
activity and correlated closely with a reduction in the growth of the hybridoma 
tumour cells in the spleen and life extension. Conversely, a single injection of 
anti-asialo GM, antibody resulted in a substantial increase in the number of 
plaque forming splenic tumour cells and virtual elimination of natural killer 
cell activity. These data demonstrate the important role of natural killer cells 
in constraining the growth of a tumour of B cell origin and establishes the 
usefulness of this tumour model in studying the biology of effects on tumour 
growth.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1987.50
PMCID: PMC2001739
PMID: 3552015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Dtsch Tierarztl Wochenschr. 1987 Feb 9;94(2):53-5.

[Spontaneous diseases as limiting factors in the life expectancy of laboratory 
rats].

[Article in German]

Deerberg F, Rapp KG, Kaspareit J.

PMID: 3552559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Med Clin North Am. 1987 May;71(3):569-83. doi:
10.1016/s0025-7125(16)30860-4.

Preoperative considerations in the geriatric patient.

Keating HJ 3rd.

Because of the "graying" of the population, the increasing availability of 
surgeons, and the improvement of surgical techniques and intensive care, more 
and more surgery will be done on geriatric patients. Sometimes, however, surgery 
will not be considered in a geriatric patient because of mistaken 
underestimation of life expectancy. The medical consultant is charged with 
confirming that surgery represents the consequence of the patient's informed 
decision, a task that is usually time consuming and often difficult. The medical 
consultant next identifies patient-related and procedure-related factors that 
affect surgical morbidity and mortality. General physiologic declines in all 
organ systems are characteristic of aging, but the most important ones affecting 
surgical risk are those of cardiovascular, pulmonary, immunologic, and central 
nervous systems. These systems must be assessed by an orderly preoperative 
evaluation that aims to optimize the patient's status and anticipate and 
minimize postoperative complication.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7125(16)30860-4
PMID: 3553780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Prog Clin Biol Res. 1987;228:11-8.

Workshop on Environmental Toxicity and the Aging Processes. Keynote address.

Butler RN.

PMID: 3554262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Prog Clin Biol Res. 1987;228:19-23.

Workshop on Environmental Toxicity and the Aging Processes. Concluding remarks.

McGinnis JM.

PMID: 3554263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Jun;106(6):846-52. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-106-6-846.

A logical approach to screening for coronary artery disease.

Detrano R, Froelicher V.

Although changes in lifestyle may increase the life expectancy of persons at 
high risk for coronary disease, there is no cost-effective screening test that 
can select these persons from the general population. Exercise testing has been 
considered, but epidemiologic studies have not proved that it effectively 
identifies persons at risk for myocardial infarction or cardiac death. 
Theoretically, exercise testing should have limited sensitivity in predicting 
events because abnormal responses occur only when sufficient atherosclerotic 
plaque has accumulated to impede coronary flow. Abnormal test responses cannot 
occur before plaque has reached such dimensions. A test that indicates the 
presence of any atherosclerotic plaque in the coronary lumen would be more 
useful than one that indicates compromise of blood flow. Data show that 
sensitive detection of coronary calcific deposits accurately predicts the 
presence of atherosclerotic plaque. Sensitive radiographic techniques such as 
digital subtraction fluoroscopy need to be developed as screening tests. 
Screening studies should be blinded and include only hard endpoints, and 
follow-up periods should be no less than 10 years so that the detected disease 
can develop to its symptomatic endpoint.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-106-6-846
PMID: 3555202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Biomed Pharmacother. 1986;40(10):386-8.

Simultaneous detection in the bone marrow of mammary cancer metastatic cells and 
of their labelling index as respective markers of the residual minimum 
submacroscopic disease and its proliferative condition (preliminary results).

Ginsbourg M, Musset M, Misset JL, Genty O, Mathé G.

A study of 200 patients with breast cancer carcinoma at different stages of the 
disease, was carried out for detecting in their bone marrow, mammary cells and 
their proliferative condition using a double labelling method with two types of 
monoclonal antibodies. The mammary cells were visualised with monoclonal 
antibodies raised against human breast epithelium and/or carcinoma. DNA 
synthetising cells (in S phase) were detected on the same slide, using a 
monoclonal antibody directed against an antigen associated with 
bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) after cell incubation with BrdU. Mammary cells could be 
detected in the bone marrow of 13 out of 20 cases presenting macroscopically 
visible metastasis, 12 out of 20 patients at diagnosis of their disease, 90 out 
of 160 patients in apparent disease free condition. The labelling index was 
6/13, 6/12 and 45/90 in those respective three groups of patients. The 
similarity of these three groups for both parameters suggests that the fate of 
breast carcinoma patients and their prognosis in three types (++, +-, --) is 
carried from the beginning of the disease. We have, with Eriguchi shown that the 
mammary (and other) cancer patients survival exponential curves do not express 
homogeneous populations but are in fact composed of three segments, the first 
with a rapid slope represents the acute type patients, at high risk of early 
relapse, the second, with a slow slope, represents the chronic type patients at 
risk of late relapse and the third, the slope of which is parallel to the 
general population life expectancy, represents the so called "cured 
patient".(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3555638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Clin Plast Surg. 1987 Apr;14(2):303-13.

Lymphedema.

Kobayashi MR, Miller TA.

Despite our improved knowledge of the lymphatic system, lymphedema remains an 
incurable disease. Its pathogenesis is still poorly understood, but fortunately 
the majority of patients can be satisfactorily managed by conservative means. 
Surgical intervention is offered only in cases of refractory disease and does 
not offer a surgical cure. At the present time, there are five major surgical 
options: lymphangioplasty, buried dermal flap, lymphaticovenous shunts, the 
Charles procedure, and the staged subcutaneous excision beneath flaps. 
Lymphangioplasty is usually limited to those patients with limited life 
expectancy, because the beneficial effects are transient. The most frequently 
used procedures--the buried dermal flap, the Charles procedure, and the 
subcutaneous excision beneath flaps--offer patients symptomatic improvement, 
primarily through the excision of lymphedematous subcutaneous tissue. Much 
controversy still exists as to the efficacy and future applicability of both the 
enteromesenteric bridge and microlymphatic surgery, which are currently under 
investigation. Long-term follow-up will be necessary. The discouraging fact 
remains that no procedure cures lymphedemia; however, we believe that, at this 
time, the subcutaneous excision beneath skin flaps offers the most reliable and 
consistently beneficial means of surgically managing the symptoms of lymphedema.

PMID: 3555946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Diabetologia. 1987 Mar;30(3):123-31. doi: 10.1007/BF00274216.

Mortality and survival in type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus.

Panzram G.

Erratum in
    Diabetologia 1987 May;30(5):364.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00274216
PMID: 3556287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Gerontology. 1986;32(6):340-8. doi: 10.1159/000212813.

Differentiation of regulatory cell interactions in aging.

Cinader B, Kay MM.

Age-related changes in different regulatory processes are polymorphic and differ 
in different strains and organs in terms of onset and progression. Membrane 
changes have been observed in terms of the association between receptors and 
class I major-histocompatibility-complex molecules as well as in terms of 
structural modification of membrane molecules. Various nutritional strategies 
can differentially affect age of onset and rate of progression. Tumor incidence 
and progression increase with age; and interesting exception has been described. 
Principles of experimental design for the exploration of aging processes and 
evolutionary aspects of aging processes are being discussed. Identification of 
alleles, which affect initiation and progression of deleterious aging processes, 
are being considered for their potential in strategies for preventive medicine.

DOI: 10.1159/000212813
PMID: 3556329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Demography. 1987 Feb;24(1):123-35.

Repeated resuscitation: how lifesaving alters life tables.

Vaupel JW, Yashin AI.

PMID: 3556687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Fam Med. 1986 Nov-Dec;18(6):389-93.

Rites of spring for medicine: discontent, discontinuity, and discovery.

Graham R.

PMID: 3556900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Gastroenterology. 1987 May;92(5 Pt 1):1159-68. doi: 
10.1016/s0016-5085(87)91072-9.

Early invasive cancer in adenomatous colonic polyps ("malignant polyps"). 
Evaluation of the therapeutic options by decision analysis.

Wilcox GM, Beck JR.

The management alternatives of segmental colonic resection versus follow-up 
alone for colonic adenomas containing early invasive carcinoma (i.e., 
polypectomy resection margin free of tumor) were evaluated by decision tree 
analysis. Using data from the literature, the major variables influencing the 
decision were as follows: probability of residual disease after polypectomy, 
operative efficacy (defined as the chance of curing a tumor that would otherwise 
recur without surgery), and operative mortality. For a hypothetical patient with 
low operative risk (operative mortality of 0.2%), resection would yield the best 
outcome in terms of life expectancy as long as the probability of residual 
disease was greater than 0.5%. Extensive analysis of the impact of changes in 
assumptions about the parameters characterizing the problem showed this 
conclusion to be unchanging over wide ranges of operative efficacy and 
probability of residual disease. However, the decision to do a secondary 
resection in this situation was still close because surgery was only marginally 
justifiable on economic grounds. Observation would be preferred in patients with 
higher operative risk (operative mortality greater than 2%).

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5085(87)91072-9
PMID: 3557011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Handchir Mikrochir Plast Chir. 1987 Jan;19(1):23-32.

[What demands does playing an instrument make on the hand?].

[Article in German]

Wagner C.

The frequency of occupational diseases of the locomotor system in musicians, 
illustrated by an investigation of 160 orchestral string players, leads to the 
question of whether manual preconditions might play a role in this respect. At 
first, the special manual demands in instrumental playing are explained by means 
of an example of piano literature. They are different from any other manual task 
in daily life or profession, qualitatively and quantitatively: isolation of the 
fingers as far as possible instead of the normal "co-operation"; unequal fingers 
have to perform equivalent tasks in respect to complexity, speed, and force; 
simultaneous movements in contrary directions with any combination of fingers 
and joints instead of the regularly used simultaneous movements in the same 
direction; equivalence of flexion and extension with conscious control of either 
action; each activity of posture and movement is committed to the timing preset 
by the music; extremely high frequencies of movement in many cases; to 
compensate for organic defects may be difficult in a professional level of 
performance. A method is presented for the examination of manual preconditions 
with regard to specific instruments. It considers a series of biomechanical 
characteristics (hand-size and joint mobility) which are able in principle to 
influence the dexterity of the hand. Results of investigations with about 600 
professional musicians are briefly summarized. According to the data available 
the characteristics investigated seem to be influenced rather by heredity than 
by training. Musicians who had serious difficulties with the instrument or who 
suffered from functional or organic disorders in the area of the upper 
extremities showed, as a rule, more disadvantageous manual prerequisites. The 
individual result of an examination can be displayed as a "Biomechanical 
Handprofile" showing deviations from the data of a corresponding reference 
group. Practical conclusions can be drawn, as with an aptitude test.

PMID: 3557203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 1986;23(3):195-205. doi: 10.2190/EWWW-QCB5-R9LP-0BYN.

Life expectancy of kibbutz members.

Leviatan U, Cohen J, Jaffe-Katz A.

Data are presented demonstrating that the life expectancy (LE) of kibbutz 
members--both men and women--is higher than that of the overall Jewish 
population in Israel. Closer inspection of the death rates at various ages 
reveals that, from age thirty, those of kibbutz women are lower than those of 
the Jewish population. Although those of kibbutz men are actually higher until 
age forty-nine, nevertheless the LE of kibbutz members (based on death rates) 
surpasses that of Jews in Israel. These data add to and support other research 
findings illustrating the more positive mental health and well-being found among 
kibbutz members than among other comparative populations. Similarly, the factors 
contributing to kibbutz members' life expectancy evolve from this quality of 
life, especially as this quality of life affects old age.

DOI: 10.2190/EWWW-QCB5-R9LP-0BYN
PMID: 3557637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Int J Zoonoses. 1986 Sep;13(3):162-73.

Community participation in veterinary public health and animal health in the 
Caribbean--results of a preliminary survey.

Arambulo PV 3rd, Aleta IR, Vallenas A.

Veterinary public health and animal health activities are said to be a good 
entry point to get the community interested in their own health. Because of the 
pastoral traditions of veterinary medicine and the accompanying privilege of an 
intimate link with agricultural community life, veterinary public health and 
animal health workers are in and ideal strategic position to spearhead community 
organization and education across a much broader spectrum of health issues. A 
preliminary study on community participation in veterinary public health (VPH) 
and animal health (AH) in the Caribbean is herein presented. This study was 
conducted to pre-test two questionnaires which were developed to determine the 
extent to which the community is participating in VPH and AH programs in the 
Caribbean, and to identify ways and means to strengthen intersectoral 
collaboration between the Ministries of Agriculture, Health and Local 
Governments. Two questionnaires were designed to collect primary data. 
Eighty-two staff profile questionnaires were completed by staff belonging to six 
categories from 12 Caribbean countries and political units. The categories 
included Animal Health Assistants, Veterinary Public Health Assistants, 
Veterinarians, Extension Officers, Public Health Inspectors, and Artificial 
Insemination Officers. This questionnaire sought to obtain basic information on 
services provided, participation of staff in farmers organization, coordination 
between agencies, and training. Eighty-seven (87) farm profiles were completed 
by livestock farmers from eleven Caribbean countries and political units. This 
questionnaire sought to obtain basic information as to number and types of 
animals raised, role and services of Government staff, and farmers 
participation. Analysis of the different responses between the two groups 
demonstrated the potential value and application of the information that could 
be obtained from such a study. The results are discussed.

PMID: 3557827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 1987;113(2):187-91. doi: 10.1007/BF00391442.

Prognostic significance of tumor volume in localized Ewing's sarcoma of bone in 
children and adolescents.

Göbel V, Jürgens H, Etspüler G, Kemperdick H, Jungblut RM, Stienen U, Göbel U.

A total of 60 consecutive patients with localized Ewing's sarcoma of bone who 
were entered into the Cooperative Ewing's Sarcoma Study of the German Society of 
Pediatric Oncology from January 1981 until April 1985 were evaluable for tumor 
volume at diagnosis. The tumor volume was calculated from plain X-rays and CT 
scans as ellipsoidal or cylindrical depending on the tumor configuration and 
presence or absence of a soft tissue component. The 3-year disease-free survival 
rate according to Kaplan-Meier life table analysis was 78% for tumors with a 
volume less than 100 ml compared to 17% for tumors greater than or equal to 100 
ml volume. These results were independent of the site of the tumor, though 
larger tumors were primarily located in central and proximal extremity sites. 
Maximal tumor extension was less precise than tumor volume in predicting 
prognosis. The ratio of tumor volume to body surface area, body length, or body 
weight did not increase the ability to separate prognostic groups compared to 
tumor volume. The better prognosis for patients following radical surgery seems 
to be in part due to a biased distribution of tumor volumes within local therapy 
groups, since more patients with smaller tumors had surgery for local control.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00391442
PMID: 3558454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Rev Clin Esp. 1987 Jan;180(1):52-4.

[Critical review of geriatric preparations].

[Article in Spanish]

Ribera Casado JM.

PMID: 3562972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1986;34(6):382-6.

[Impact of alcoholism mortality on the entire population and on the active 
French population].

[Article in French]

Leboucher L, Arrighi J, Valleron AJ.

Starting from the estimation of alcohol assigned deaths in the different causes 
of death of the CIM, 8th revision, the impact of alcoholism on the active and 
total french populations is measured using two demographic indices, life 
expectancy and active life expectancy, and the data of the year 1978. This 
impact is the same as accidents' one; for men it is more than double of the 
result obtained when "Alcoholic psychosis and alcoholism" and "Cirrhosis" causes 
of death are considered alone.

PMID: 3562997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Rev Esp Enferm Apar Dig. 1986 Dec;70(6):565-8.

[Descriptive epidemiological study of the mortality and morbidity in cancer of 
the esophagus in Spain from 1951 to 1979].

[Article in Spanish]

Silla Criado J, Martí Beltrán A, Sabater Pons A, Sánchez Buenaventura J.

PMID: 3563025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Bull Cancer. 1986;73(6):709-12.

[Can the quality and duration of life be integrated? Proposal for a new 
criterion for decision].

[Article in French]

Asselain B, Gremy F, Nguyen L.

Survival is an objective criteria, reliable, easy to measure and easy to 
analyse. But this criteria, the most important in almost all therapeutic trials, 
is a very rough one and not all fitted to many questions raised in cancer 
treatment decision making. We suggest a new criteria, combining quality and 
quantity of survival, which is equivalent in years of survival at a maximal 
quality level to the time of survival at a varying level of a cancer patient. 
This criteria could be usefull in the majority of "palliative" clinical trials 
(advanced cancers, recurrences, metastatic evolution...).

PMID: 3567377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Br J Radiol. 1987 Mar;60(711):231-4. doi: 10.1259/0007-1285-60-711-231.

Cancers induced and cancers detected in a mammography screening programme.

Law J.

The numbers of cancers which might be induced in a breast screening programme 
are compared with the numbers detected. The induction rate is estimated from 
reports of breast cancer in various groups exposed to high radiation doses, and 
also from International Commission on Radiological Protection risk estimates. An 
apparent discrepancy between these two approaches is discussed and removed. 
Detection rates are based on preliminary results in Edinburgh, and greatly 
exceed the induction rate. Whether such an excess is maintained if an X-ray grid 
requiring a higher dose is used on younger age groups is discussed.

DOI: 10.1259/0007-1285-60-711-231
PMID: 3567468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Drugs. 1986;32 Suppl 4:206-8. doi: 10.2165/00003495-198600324-00014.

Side effects of non-narcotic analgesics as a determinant of prescribing.

Miettinen OS.

In the prescription of non-narcotic analgesics the physician's main 
responsibility is to make sure that the quality-of-life improvement expected 
from the drug's use justifies the associated risk, low though it is, of fatal 
side effects. The range of acceptable risk depends, naturally, on the dosage and 
duration of the treatment and on those characteristics of the patient which bear 
on the drug's efficacy and safety. In the treatment of acute pain an additional, 
very important, factor is the patient's remaining life expectancy. 
Quantification of maximal acceptable risks is aided by formal decision-analytic 
considerations. Such analyses indicate that maximal acceptable risks vary by 
several orders of magnitude among various clinical situations and that they are 
more liberal than intuition might generally suggest.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-198600324-00014
PMID: 3569108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. J Comp Neurol. 1987 Mar 8;257(2):237-52. doi: 10.1002/cne.902570209.

Origin and morphology of nerve fibers in the aganglionic colon of the lethal 
spotted (ls/ls) mutant mouse.

Payette RF, Tennyson VM, Pham TD, Mawe GM, Pomeranz HD, Rothman TP, Gershon MD.

The lethal spotted mutant mouse (ls/ls) develops congenital megacolon because of 
the absence of ganglia in the terminal colon. This aganglionosis results from a 
failure of neural crest cells to colonize this area during fetal life. We have 
postulated that the microenvironment of the aganglionic segment of bowel is 
abnormal. Our hypothesis suggests that this abnormal enteric microenvironment 
fosters the sprouting of neuritic processes. We further propose that neural and 
glial precursors cease to migrate once they have extended their definitive 
processes. As a result, the area distal to the site where neurite extension is 
favored does not become colonized by neural or glial precursors. A prediction of 
this hypothesis is that the aganglionic tissue should be innervated by axons 
from neurons located both in the more proximal ganglionated bowel and in ganglia 
located outside the gut. Neurons and their processes in control and ls/ls 
terminal gut were located by the histochemical demonstration of 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity and their structure was classified as 
intrinsic (enteric) or extrinsic in type by electron microscopy. In ls/ls mice 
the submucosal plexus was much more severely affected than the myenteric plexus. 
No submucosal ganglia were found within 30 mm of the anus. In contrast, 
myenteric ganglia extended to within 4 mm of the anus on the mesenteric side of 
the gut and to within 15 mm on the antimesenteric side. Rostral to the areas 
that were absolutely aganglionic, both plexuses were hypoganglionic, especially 
the submucosal plexus, which was hypoganglionic throughout the entire colon. 
Both the aganglionic and caudal hypoganglionic zones of the ls/ls bowel were 
penetrated by large nerve trunks that had the ultrastructural characteristics of 
extra-enteric peripheral nerve. Unusual ganglia, outside the enteric musculature 
in the adventitia of the colon, were connected to these trunks. The location of 
the cell bodies of origin of the nerve fibers in the terminal colon of control 
mice and in the aganglionic segment of the bowel in ls/ls mice was determined by 
following the retrograde transport of tracers injected as close as possible to 
the anus. An extrinsic innervation originating from the inferior mesenteric 
ganglion and dorsal root ganglia (L6-S1) was found in both types of animal. In 
control but not ls/ls mice retrograde labeling was also observed in the sacral 
parasympathetic nucleus of the spinal cord. In addition, neuritic processes were 
traced to neurons in myenteric ganglia. In control mice, these labeled neurons 
were present in ganglia within the injection site as well as in bowel rostral 
and caudal to it.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902570209
PMID: 3571527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Seikagaku. 1986 Dec;58(12):1477-82.

[basic study of aging research].

[Article in Japanese]

Kator K.

PMID: 3572128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. J Nat Prod. 1986 Nov-Dec;49(6):995-1002. doi: 10.1021/np50048a005.

Antineoplastic agents, 120. Pancratium littorale.

Pettit GR, Gaddamidi V, Herald DL, Singh SB, Cragg GM, Schmidt JM, Boettner FE, 
Williams M, Sagawa Y.

The bulbs of Pancratium littorale collected in Hawaii were found to contain a 
new phenanthridone biosynthetic product designated pancratistatin (4a) that 
proved to be effective (38-106% life extension at 0.75-12.5 mg/kg dose levels) 
against the murine P-388 lymphocytic leukemia. Pancratistatin also markedly 
inhibited (ED50, 0.01 microgram/ml) growth of the P-388 in vitro cell line and 
in vivo murine M-5076 ovary sarcoma (53-84% life extension at 0.38-3.0 mg/kg). 
An X-ray crystal structure determination of pancratistatin monomethyl ether (4c) 
and a detailed high resolution (400 MHz) nmr study of pancratistatin and its 
pentaacetate (4b) completed assignment of structure 4a. Companion antineoplastic 
constituents of P. littorale were found to be narciclasine (2c) and its 7-deoxy 
derivative (2a). The structure of 7-deoxynarciclasine (2c) was also confirmed by 
an X-ray crystallographic analysis.

DOI: 10.1021/np50048a005
PMID: 3572427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Med Clin (Barc). 1987 Mar 7;88(9):390-1.

[Necessity of using homogeneous criteria for calculating the potential years 
lost in life].

[Article in Spanish]

Segura A, Gispert R, Doménech J.

PMID: 3573862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Psychopathology. 1986;19 Suppl 2:17-21. doi: 10.1159/000285127.

Epidemiology of depression (Europe and North-America).

Gastpar M.

The published prevalence rates of depressive disorders have steadily increased 
during the last 20 years. Despite many methodological and social cultural 
influences, the increase seems to be real and reasons for this trend are given. 
Among them, the increase of life expectancy, the urbanization, and the 
possibility for effective treatment are the most important. Among the 
interfering variables, symptom changes like actually from depression to anxiety 
should further be investigated.

DOI: 10.1159/000285127
PMID: 3575620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1986 Jan-Mar;67(1):16-21.

Recent international changes in longevity.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 3576439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Tohoku J Exp Med. 1987 Jan;151(1):15-24. doi: 10.1620/tjem.151.15.

Factors affecting the longevity of total Japanese population.

Araki S, Murata K.

To clarify the relative importance of social life factors in longevity by age 
and sex, the authors analyzed the effects of 8 social life factors on life 
expectancy at birth and at ages 20, 40 and 65 years for males and females in 46 
Japanese prefectures. The analysis was conducted twice at five-year intervals 
during the period of rapid urbanization using stepwise regression analysis after 
classification of twenty-two variables by factor analysis. The results indicated 
that urban residence was the major factor for life expectancy at birth for males 
and females and at ages 20 and 40 years for males; whereas proportions of old 
and young persons in the population were essential factors for life expectancy 
at age 40 years for females and at age 65 years for males and females. In 
addition, in males, proportions of old and young persons in the population also 
positively affected life expectancy at birth and at age 20 years; employment and 
high income factor positively affected life expectancy at birth and at ages 20 
and 40 years. Unique position of Japan in comparison with Western countries 
regarding social life factors for longevity is discussed in the light of these 
findings.

DOI: 10.1620/tjem.151.15
PMID: 3576610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1986 Dec 1;41(23):667-8.

[Life expectancy of diabetics].

[Article in German]

Schubert A.

The disease-specific life expectancy of diabetics is significant for the 
organisation of medical care. The investigations show that the disease-specific 
expectation of life of diabetics from the beginning of the disease is 
considerably more insignificant in comparison to the further life expectancy of 
the population in the younger and middle age groups. Only with increasing age of 
onset the life expectations of diabetics draw towards those of the population. 
Thus the lower life expectancy of the diabetics of younger age groups from the 
beginning of the disease now as ever may point to a higher risk in comparison to 
the disease population at the decline of life.

PMID: 3577260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Am J Med. 1987 May;82(5):871-9. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(87)90147-1.

Clinical features, survival rate, and prognostic factors in young adults with 
cystic fibrosis.

Huang NN, Schidlow DV, Szatrowski TH, Palmer J, Laraya-Cuasay LR, Yeung W, Hardy 
K, Quitell L, Fiel S.

The medical records of 142 patients with cystic fibrosis were reviewed. The 
patient group included 78 males and 64 females; three patients were black. 
Periods of observation ranged from two to 25 years (mean, 14.5 years). The 
analysis focused on clinical evaluation at age 18 years and included information 
gained at an earlier age. Evaluation at age 18 years was based on Shwachman and 
Kulczycki's (S-K) scoring system, Brasfield chest roentgenographic scoring 
system, pulmonary function measurements, height-adjusted weight percentile, 
sputum bacteriologic results, number of hospitalizations for treatment of 
pulmonary infections prior to the age of 18 years, time of onset of clubbing, 
and frequency of complications. There were no significant differences between 
the sexes in clinical features. Median survival from the time of diagnosis to 
the conclusion of the study period (1955 to 1984) was 22 years for females and 
25 years for males (NS). Median length of survival beyond the age of 18 years 
was eight years for females and 12 years for males (NS). Stepwise logistic 
regression and Cox regression analysis applied to 11 variables identified the 
S-K clinical score at 18 years of age as the best predictor of survival to the 
age of 23 years. The median durations of survival after the age of 18 years for 
patients with clinical scores of 30 to 49, 50 to 64, and 65 to 75 at age 18 were 
five, seven and a half, and 12 years, respectively (p less than 0.0001). Low 
clinical score, low weight percentile, and Pseudomonas cepacia colonization of 
the lower respiratory tract at the age of 18 years indicated a poor prognosis. 
On the other hand, high clinical score, good weight percentile, and colonization 
with Staphylococcus aureus alone were likely to be found in patients with mild 
disease and an increased likelihood of long-term survival with preserved 
pancreatic function.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(87)90147-1
PMID: 3578357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Arch Environ Health. 1987 Mar-Apr;42(2):100-7. doi: 
10.1080/00039896.1987.9935804.

Methylmercury exposure and mortality in Japan: a life table analysis.

Tamashiro H, Fukutomi K, Lee ES.

The effects on life expectancy from elevated methylmercury (MeHg) exposure were 
studied in five coastal towns of southern Japan. Hair concentrations of MeHg in 
the study area were 3 to 6 times higher than the surrounding areas. From 
1969-1972 to 1978-1982 life expectancy increased in the study area, with no 
appreciable difference between that area and the two control areas. When four 
major causes of death were deleted analytically in both study and control areas, 
malignant neoplasms contributed the most in recent years to potential gains in 
life expectancy for both sexes. For the duration of their working ages, however, 
accidents were the leading contributor for males, followed by malignant 
neoplasms, heart disease, and cerebrovascular disease. The relative contribution 
of these causes of death to gain in life expectancy in the study area population 
is discussed in the context of elevated MeHg exposure.

DOI: 10.1080/00039896.1987.9935804
PMID: 3579363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Clin Geriatr Med. 1987 May;3(2):289-95.

New perspectives to meet nutrition information needs of the older consumer.

McNutt KW.

Extension of life and improvement of the quality of the later years present 
significant challenges to health care providers, researchers, and educators. The 
"new older persons" population is, indeed, a segment of society that has never 
existed before. Many traditional approaches to health education will continue to 
be effective, but newer techniques must be explored. Changing circumstances 
mandate an openness of mind rarely before required of the health community. New 
alliances, based on the common goal of helping older persons enjoy life and 
mutual respect, founded on true professionalism, must be forged. Vital roles and 
responsibilities exist for both "hard" and "soft" scientists, for industry as 
well as for government. Most important, however, is establishing an active role 
for the individual older consumer.

PMID: 3581016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1987 Jun 5;112(23):919-21. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1068166.

[Alpha 2 -interferon therapy in metastasizing malignant melanoma].

[Article in German]

Landthaler M, Geyer C, Papendick U, Braun-Falco O.

Low doses of recombinant alpha 2-interferon were administered to 20 patients 
with stage III malignant melanoma. Dosage was 2.5 million IU intramuscularly 
daily in the first four weeks, then 2.5 million IU twice a week. The treatment 
was well tolerated, but there was no definitely demonstrable therapeutic effect. 
Only two patients are still alive (average survival time of the patients who 
died was 24 +/- 15 weeks). When there were distant organ metastases at the onset 
of treatment, survival time was 16 +/- 8 weeks, in case of distant skin 
metastases 37 +/- 16 weeks. Comparison of this group with a previously treated 
"control" group indicated that patients treated with interferon have a shorter 
survival time. However, all of them were far advanced cases with already 
shortened life expectancy, so that any comparison with the control group is 
limited.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1068166
PMID: 3582200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. J Hypertens. 1987 Feb;5(1):47-50. doi: 10.1097/00004872-198702000-00007.

Correlation between prevalence of hypertension and degree of acculturation.

Cruz-Coke R.

Erratum in
    J Hypertens 1987 Jun;5(3):following H34.

Epidemiological evidence indicates that the development of hypertension in human 
populations depends on the interaction of a genetic heterogeneity and multiple 
environmental factors. The purpose of this research is to demonstrate the 
hypothesis that the rise of prevalence of hypertension in developing countries 
is real and associated with the influence of environmental factors created by 
the process of 'acculturation'. I have studied all reported prevalence rates of 
hypertension in Chile between 1936 and 1984. Data from 31 studies in urban and 
rural populations were correlated to demographic markers of acculturation, life 
expectancy at birth and urbanization trend (%). Results showed that during this 
period life expectancy rose from 40 to 67 years and urbanization trend from 51 
to 80%. These correlated with the secular increase in the prevalence of 
hypertension, from a 5% level to almost a 20% level. The study of the cultural 
breakdown of six rural isolated populations showed after a mean of 15 years a 
highly significant increase in hypertension prevalence from 1.5 to 7.5%. These 
positive findings support the hypothesis that the change in prevalence of 
hypertension in the Chilean population during half a century may be associated 
with the process of cultural transition to an industrial state.

DOI: 10.1097/00004872-198702000-00007
PMID: 3584962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. J Neurol. 1987 Apr;234(3):163-71. doi: 10.1007/BF00314137.

Atypical form of X-linked proximal pseudohypertrophic muscular dystrophy.

Spiegler AW, Hausmanowa-Petrusewicz I, Borkowska J, Herrmann FH.

A series of 95 families, consisting of 317 patients with severe and mild 
X-linked proximal pseudohypertrophic muscular dystrophy (MD), was analysed by 
the use of two different and rigid clinical criteria based on the age when the 
patient became chairbound. Using these criteria the families from Erfurt and 
Warsaw could be clearly separated into classical Duchenne (DMD) and classical 
Becker (BMD) type patients. A third group of patients was found with atypical 
clinical course, who could not be identified as neither Duchenne nor Becker 
cases. Statistically highly significant differences were found between the 
groups of classical DMD and atypical MD cases on the one hand and between the 
groups of atypical MD and classical BMD cases on the other, especially with 
respect to age when chairbound and age at death. The comparisons of progression 
of the disease, life expectancy and of fertility between the three groups of 
X-linked MD show that classical DMD and atypical MD may be considered as 
separate types of severe X-linked proximal pseudohypertrophic MD. On the basis 
of these findings the authors offer conclusions for the general practice of 
neurology, paediatrics and genetic counseling.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00314137
PMID: 3585425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. J R Coll Physicians Lond. 1987 Apr;21(2):134-9.

Problems in comparative longevity.

Bayliss R, Clarke C, Whitfield AG.

PMCID: PMC5379454
PMID: 3585833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. J Ment Defic Res. 1987 Mar;31 ( Pt 1):41-59. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.1987.tb01341.x.

Changes in life expectancy of mentally retarded persons in Canadian 
institutions: a 12-year comparison.

Wolf LC, Wright RE.

A 12-year comparison of changes in the distribution of age, sex and level of 
functioning, as well as in life expectancy for mentally retarded persons in 
Canadian institutions has been reported. The major findings of the study 
corroborate, for the most part, studies from other parts of the developed world 
despite differences in measures of mortality. Several trends have emerged from 
the data which will have implications for long-term planning.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.1987.tb01341.x
PMID: 3585987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Neurol Neurochir Pol. 1986 Sep-Oct;20(5):444-7.

[Multiple sclerosis mortality in Poland].

[Article in Polish]

Cendrowski W.

The total annual number of deaths among multiple sclerosis patients in Poland 
had been dropping gradually from 561 to 452 in the period 1969-1973, then it 
remained at a relatively stable level (507-528) in the years 1977-1980. The mean 
