annual not age-adjusted mortality indices decreased from 1.72 to 1.34 and became 
stabilized at the levels 1.45-1.47 per 100 thousand population. The sex-adjusted 
mortality indices showed also an initial drop followed by a plateau. The mean 
life span of men with multiple sclerosis decreased slightly from 53.4 and in 
women from 52.7 to 50.4 years in both sexes in 1980. The author discusses the 
fluctuation of mortality indices and changes in the life span of patients with 
multiple sclerosis in Poland.

PMID: 3587514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Pol Tyg Lek. 1987 Jan 6;42(1):6-10.

[Prospects of health risk in the year 2000].

[Article in Polish]

Brzeziński ZJ, Wysocki M.

PMID: 3588392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Pathologe. 1987 Mar;8(2):108-11.

[Life expectancy and causes of death of pathologists].

[Article in German]

Steger G.

PMID: 3588547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Surg Neurol. 1987 Jul;28(1):10-6. doi: 10.1016/0090-3019(87)90199-6.

Geriatric neurosurgery.

Dujovny M, Charbel F, Berman SK, Diaz FG, Malik G, Ausman JI.

The "elderly," aged 65 and over, represent a rapidly growing proportion of the 
American population. Their percentage among the neurosurgical admissions at 
Henry Ford Hospital increased from 14.4% in 1978 to 22.4% in 1984. Occlusive 
cerebrovascular disease was the most frequent pathology seen, representing 40% 
of the population studied. Spinal degenerative myeloradiculopathy represented 
14%, tumors 7%, trauma 5.4%, and intracranial hematomas represented 4% of the 
population. Vascular anomalies represented 3.3% of the patient group, with 
almost the same number of patients presenting with intracranial hemorrhage. The 
percentage of patients who were surgically treated was 58%. Mortality was 6.5%, 
with only 2.5% of the patients requiring special-care-facility placement 
following release from the hospital. An older group, aged 85 and over, 
represented 4% of our geriatric population. In the age 85+ group, occlusive 
cerebrovascular disease was the leading pathology (18% of the population), 
followed by subdural hematomas (15%), spinal degenerative myeloradiculopathy 
(11.6%), trigeminal neuralgias (7%), hydrocephalus (4%), vascular anomalies 
(4%), and tumors (4%). Patients in the age 85+ group were surgically treated in 
41% of the cases, with a mortality of less than 10%. In the past, older age 
(greater than 65 years) was believed to be a contraindication to surgery, 
however, the increased life expectancy, number, and health of this population 
made reconsideration of this arbitrary age limit essential. We feel that age 
alone is not a barrier to proper neurosurgical treatment when other risk factors 
are adequately managed.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-3019(87)90199-6
PMID: 3589937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Thymus. 1987;9(2):123-5.

Effect of thymus transplantation on the number of granulocytes, antibody forming 
cells and on the life-span of aged mice.

Phan DT, Phuong DT, An VT, Khue P, Petrányi GG, Hollán SR.

PMID: 3590272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. World Health Stat Q. 1987;40(1):22-40.

Health implications of population aging in Europe.

[Article in English, French]

Heikkinen E.

PMID: 3590830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Acta Chir Belg. 1987 Mar-Apr;87(2):69-72.

[Abdominal aneurysms: long-term results].

[Article in Dutch]

Noyez L, Nevelsteen A, Suy R, Daenen W, Stalpaert G.

437 patients who underwent surgery for abdominal aortic aneurysm have been 
studied. Of these, 206 patients (medium age 63 years) had elective surgery, 231 
patients (medium age 73 years) had acute surgery. The five-year survival rate 
was 65% for the elective group and 40% for the acute group, but these 
percentages are influenced by the perioperative mortality. When the survival 
curves of the 198 survivors of elective surgery and the 153 survivors of acute 
surgery were compared with these of a demographically similar population, we 
noted lower survival probabilities than for the standard population in the 
elective group, whereas the patients who underwent emergency surgery have 
similar survival probabilities as the standard population. The influence of age 
is especially related to the perioperative period and arteriosclerosis is the 
most determining factor for long time survival.

PMID: 3591182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Jul;107(1):122-3. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-107-1-122_2.

Cholesterol reduction and life expectancy.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-107-1-122_2
PMID: 3592442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Ann Acad Med Singap. 1987 Jan;16(1):88-93.

The geriatric dental patient.

Loh FC, Neo J, Tan PH.

The life expectancy of our citizens has increased due to better living 
conditions and medical care. This poses new challenges to dental surgeons 
because geriatric dental patients have different needs brought on by ageing. 
Tooth loss, periodontal disease, alveolar bone resorption, mucosal changes, 
edentulism are just some of the problems faced by the elderly. Recognition of 
the dental needs of this special category of the population compels us to bear 
the responsibility of treating them now and in the future. We require a 
gerodontology programme that emphasizes prevention, maintenance of the oral 
health and understanding of their psychological status.

PMID: 3592599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Ann Surg. 1987 Jun;205(6):693-9. doi: 10.1097/00000658-198706000-00011.

Partial splenectomy for Gaucher's disease.

Rodgers BM, Tribble C, Joob A.

Gaucher's disease is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by deficiency of 
beta glucocerebrosidase, resulting in an accumulation of glucocerebroside in the 
reticuloendothelial system. These patients have massive splenomegaly and bone 
pain, but may have normal life expectancy. Traditionally, splenectomy has been 
used to treat hypersplenism, but may be associated with a high incidence of 
postsplenectomy sepsis and accelerated hepatic and bone lipid deposition. Two 
children are reported who had partial splenectomy for symptoms of Gaucher's 
disease. Both patients had laboratory evidence of hypersplenism. A 90% 
splenectomy was performed, and the residual splenic fragment was wrapped in 
Vicryl mesh. Both patients are currently asymptomatic with normal hematologic 
parameters. Postoperative radionuclide scans demonstrate increase in the size of 
the residual splenic fragment. Partial splenectomy may benefit patients with 
Gaucher's disease, but long-term follow-up care is necessary.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-198706000-00011
PMCID: PMC1493055
PMID: 3592812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Audiology. 1986;25(6):329-37. doi: 10.3109/00206098609078397.

Effects of dietary restriction on presbyacusis in the mouse.

Henry KR.

If dietary restriction can extend the human life span, it would be useful to 
know whether presbyacusis would continue its normal pace. This question was 
experimentally addressed, using the mouse as a model. Alternate-day feeding and 
fasting resulted in restricted mice of the AKR and AU/Ss inbred strains weighing 
less than their continuously fed controls. Restriction did not increase the life 
span or alter presbyacusis of the AKR mouse, but it improved both functions in 
the AU/Ss mouse. Their life spans were increased by 40%, and cochlear functions 
were better than controls at every age at which animals of both groups were 
still alive. Nonetheless, the oldest remaining restricted AU/Ss mouse had 
greater cochlear loss than was seen in any AU/Ss control mice. This study 
demonstrates that dietary restriction can slow the cochlear losses in a mammal 
which has a presbyacusis condition similar to that of humans.

DOI: 10.3109/00206098609078397
PMID: 3593092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Br J Haematol. 1987 May;66(1):103-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2141.1987.tb06897.x.

A benign form of thalassaemia intermedia may be determined by the interaction of 
triplicated alpha locus and heterozygous beta-thalassaemia.

Camaschella C, Bertero MT, Serra A, Dall'Acqua M, Gasparini P, Trento M, Vettore 
L, Perona G, Saglio G, Mazza U.

In this paper we report that the combination of a triplicated alpha globin locus 
with heterozygous beta-thalassaemia produces a clinical phenotype of 
thalassaemia intermedia in five Italian subjects from four unrelated families, 
while in two other cases the phenotype was thalassaemia minor. The 
haematological findings of the five patients were uniform, producing a benign 
form of thalassaemia intermedia, transfusion independent, with a long life 
expectancy. The pattern of inheritance of the two genetic determinants and the 
more pronounced beta/alpha globin chain imbalance, demonstrates that the genetic 
combination is indeed the cause of the phenotype. The pattern of restriction 
enzyme site polymorphisms suggests the presence of the beta IVS I 110 G----A 
mutation at least in three of these cases.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.1987.tb06897.x
PMID: 3593644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Ir J Med Sci. 1987 Apr;156(4):122-3. doi: 10.1007/BF02954636.

The oldest old.

Dean GR, Barry J.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02954636
PMID: 3597022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. J Gerontol. 1987 Jul;42(4):451-6. doi: 10.1093/geronj/42.4.451.

Association between lipid peroxidation and life-modifying factors in rotifers.

Sawada M, Carlson JC.

The rate of lipid peroxidation (LP) was measured in rotifers reared under 
conditions of continuous darkness (D:D), dietary restriction, vitamin E 
supplementation, or elevated temperatures. D:D, diet restriction, and vitamin E 
supplementation increased life span and caused a significant decline in LP; 
elevated temperatures decreased life span and increased LP. The addition of 
physiological levels of malonaldehyde, a product of LP, did not alter life span. 
The dietary uptake of Paramecia, the food source for rotifers, did not change 
under the conditions of D:D, vitamin E supplementation, and elevated 
temperatures. These results suggest that the LP process is inversely related to 
longevity in the rotifer and that it appears to be involved in the aging 
process.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/42.4.451
PMID: 3598094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. J Nat Prod. 1987 Jan-Feb;50(1):119-31. doi: 10.1021/np50049a016.

Isolation, structure, and synthesis of combretastatins A-1 and B-1, potent new 
inhibitors of microtubule assembly, derived from Combretum caffrum.

Pettit GR, Singh SB, Niven ML, Hamel E, Schmidt JM.

The principal antineoplastic constituent of the South African tree Combretum 
caffrum has been isolated and designated combretastatin A-1. The structure of 
this new cis-stilbene was unequivocally established by X-ray crystal structure 
determination and total synthesis. A Wittig reaction sequence in THF comprised 
the synthetic key step (92.5% yield) and provided a very favorable 9:1 ratio of 
the cis:trans [1c:2c, geometrical isomers]. Selective hydrogenation of 
combretastatin A-1 afforded combretastatin B-1, a companion cell growth 
inhibitory constituent of C. caffrum. Combretastatin A-1 provided 26-29% life 
extension at 2.75-11 mg/kg dose levels with ED50 0.99 microgram/ml against the 
murine P-388 lymphocytic leukemia in vivo and in vitro systems. Both 
combretastatin A-1 and combretastatin B-1 are potent inhibitors of microtubule 
assembly in vitro and among the most potent inhibitors of the binding of 
colchicine to tubulin yet described. The structural simplicity and ready 
synthesis of combretastatin A-1 and combretastatin B-1 suggest that these new 
biosynthetic products will become useful in a variety of biological endeavors.

DOI: 10.1021/np50049a016
PMID: 3598594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. J Pers Soc Psychol. 1987 Jun;52(6):1205-11. doi:
10.1037//0022-3514.52.6.1205.

Importance of attributions as a predictor of how people cope with failure.

Follette VM, Jacobson NS.

This study examined the extent to which causal attributions were predictive of 
depressed mood in college students who experienced a negative event. In a 
replication and extension of a study by Metalsky, Abramson, Seligman, Semmel, 
and Peterson (1982), we evaluated students' attributional style and their 
attributions for an examination performance in the college classroom. 
Additionally, an indirect probe was used to assess unsolicited attributions. 
Subjects were asked about their plans to prepare for the next examination in 
order to test for the motivational deficits predicted by the reformulated 
learned helplessness (RLH) model. Unlike Metalsky et al., attributional style 
did not predict depressed mood following a disappointing examination 
performance. Attributions for the particular examination performance were 
predictive of depressed mood for students who were disappointed in their 
examination performance. Few subjects, 31%, gave attributions in response to the 
indirect probe, and there was no support for the prediction that unexpected 
negative events would lead to subjects' making more attributions. Internal, 
stable, and global attributions for poor examination performance resulted in 
students making more plans to study for the next examination, a finding contrary 
to what is predicted by the RLH model.

DOI: 10.1037//0022-3514.52.6.1205
PMID: 3598862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Paraplegia. 1987 Jun;25(3):225-8. doi: 10.1038/sc.1987.40.

The epidemiology and economics of spinal cord injury.

Stover SL, Fine PR.

DOI: 10.1038/sc.1987.40
PMID: 3601432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Prog Clin Biol Res. 1987;227A:257-64.

Life span of springtail on 12-hr shifts at varying intervals of 12-hr 
alternation in ambient temperature.

Marques MD, Cutkomp LK, Cornélissen G, Marques N, Halberg F.

The effect of shifts at different intervals of a regimen of quasioptimal and 
nonoptimal ambient temperatures alternating at 12-hr intervals was tested on the 
springtail, Folsomia candida. Life span data demonstrate that shifts of the 
temperature regimen can be optimized to prolong life rather than to shorten it 
or to leave it unaffected. Optimal shift intervals are 7 days apart, in keeping 
with the results on effects of shifts of a regimen of alternating light and 
darkness in a giant alga, Acetabularia mediterranea, and in the face fly, Musca 
autumnalis.

PMID: 3601963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Semin Oncol. 1987 Jun;14(2 Suppl 3):48-53.

Psychosocial considerations in the therapy of epidemic Kaposi's sarcoma.

Holland JC, Tross S.

Since the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) burst into prominence in 
1981, it has claimed victims at an exponential rate and taxed the resources of 
physicians, health workers, and social support agencies. A sizeable minority of 
AIDS patients, mainly male homosexuals, have been presented with epidemic 
Kaposi's sarcoma (EKS). Although life expectancy with this presentation may be 
greater than with Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia or other opportunistic 
infection, the underlying immunodeficiency still foreshadows an untimely death, 
usually from infection. Those remaining months or years are frequently marked by 
a poor quality of life attended by pain, functional impairment, cosmetic 
stigmata, central nervous system (CNS) complications, loss of employment, 
poverty, ostracism, guilt, and anger. Psychologic burdens may disrupt the 
patient's efforts to deal with the disease. Health care workers must often 
overcome their own prejudices and fears about AIDS to provide effective 
management.

PMID: 3603057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 1986;80(5):774-92. doi:
10.1016/0035-9203(86)90384-6.

The epidemiology and control of intestinal helminths in the Pulicat Lake region 
of Southern India. I. Study design and pre- and post-treatment observations on 
Ascaris lumbricoides infection.

Elkins DB, Haswell-Elkins M, Anderson RM.

The study design of a project to investigate the epidemiology, population 
dynamics and control of intestinal nematode infections in fishing village 
communities in Southern India is described. The paper focuses on Ascaris 
lumbricoides infection and describes changes in prevalence and intensity (worm 
burdens) with host age, the aggregated frequency distributions of parasite 
numbers per person, a density-dependent relationship between parasite fecundity 
and worm burden and rates of reinfection following chemotherapeutic treatment. 
The age-intensity of infection profile is convex in form, where maximum worm 
burdens are attained in children in the age range five to nine years. On the 
basis of juvenile to adult worm ratioos, the life expectancy of Ascaris in man 
is estimated to be of the order of one year. Rates of reacquisition of worms 
after chemotherapy are shown to be dependent on host age. Wormy individuals with 
heavy infections are shown to be predisposed to this state such that they 
reacquire heavier than average worm burdens following treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/0035-9203(86)90384-6
PMID: 3603617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Trans Assoc Life Insur Med Dir Am. 1987;70:114-23.

Prognosis in patients with pacemakers.

Beanlands DS.

PMID: 3603931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1987 Mar 15;42(6):164-6.

[Management of elderly citizens dependent on outside help from the clinical 
viewpoint].

[Article in German]

Hintsche-Kilger B, Ruhnau KJ.

The increase of life expectancy has led to a higher percentage of the oldest and 
requiring help people. The present paper described the possibilities and 
situation of care for this part of the population on the basis of an analysis of 
a district of Berlin. It must be stated that the cooperation between social 
organizations and ambulatory institutions and hospitals can be improved. The 
hospitalisation of older people requiring help should be an exception and is 
ethically legitimated only then, when it is performed with the intention of the 
patient. The willingness for care on the side of the members of the patients' 
families is analysed and discussed in the sense of improvement.

PMID: 3604346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Am J Epidemiol. 1987 Aug;126(2):336-45. doi: 10.1093/aje/126.2.336.

Relations among standard epidemiologic measures in a population.

Preston SH.

Recent developments in population mathematics apply to measurement issues in 
epidemiology. In particular, they demonstrate explicitly the relations that 
prevail among incidence, prevalence, case-fatality, mortality, and duration of 
illness in a population at a moment in time, rather than in a cohort of persons 
followed through time (or in a population artificially assumed to be 
stationary). They indicate explicitly how certain common indicators such as the 
ratio of deaths to new cases should be interpreted. They also suggest possible 
new strategies for estimating certain measures, but these would require some 
reorientation of current approaches to measurement.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/126.2.336
PMID: 3605060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Am J Med. 1987 Jun;82(6):1182-90. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(87)90222-1.

Survival of patients with primary (AL) amyloidosis. Colchicine-treated cases 
from 1976 to 1983 compared with cases seen in previous years (1961 to 1973).

Cohen AS, Rubinow A, Anderson JJ, Skinner M, Mason JH, Libbey C, Kayne H.

Primary amyloidosis has a variable course, but is generally associated with a 
short life expectancy. To date, no specific therapy has been available. 
Fifty-three patients with AL amyloidosis seen between 1976 and 1983 were treated 
with colchicine, and their clinical course and survival were compared with that 
in 29 other patients seen between 1961 and 1973. Of the variables measured, the 
treatment, the patient's sex, and the time interval from diagnosis to referral 
of treatment were significantly associated with length of survival. Median 
survival for the colchicine-treated patients was 17 months, compared with six 
months for the non-colchicine-treated patients. A surprising finding was the 
longer life span in female patients (median eight months versus four and a half 
months in the non-colchicine-treated group, and 25.5 months versus 10 month in 
the colchicine-treated group). The study suggests that colchicine has improved 
the life expectancy in AL amyloidosis. Although it is not a specific therapy, it 
may be a reasonable form of adjunctive treatment in this complex disorder.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(87)90222-1
PMID: 3605135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Am J Med Genet. 1987 May;27(1):159-73. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.1320270117.

Melnick-Needles syndrome in males: a lethal multiple congenital anomalies 
syndrome.

Donnenfeld AE, Conard KA, Roberts NS, Borns PF, Zackai EH.

A male fetus with decreased calvarial mineralization and suspected omphalocele 
was identified prenatally in a woman with oligohydramnios and Melnick-Needles 
syndrome (MNS). At autopsy, exophthalmos, prune belly sequence with urethal 
atresia and megacystis, tetralogy of Fallot, atrioventricular canal defect, and 
complete malrotation of the gut were identified. Mandibular hypoplasia and 
delicate, bowed, irregular, long bones and ribs with widening and deep cupping 
of the metaphyses were found radiographically. In addition, we review 3 
previously reported cases of males with similar, lethal malformations, all born 
to mothers with MNS. It is our conclusion that these anomalies characterize the 
male MNS phenotype. A review of all reported viable individuals with MNS 
identified 2 distinct entities: a mild form found only in females, compatible 
with normal life expectancy in most cases and inherited in an X-linked dominant 
male lethal or sex limited autosomal dominant pattern, and a different, more 
severe disorder, termed precocious osteodysplasty, found in both males and 
females and inherited as an autosomal recessive trait.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.1320270117
PMID: 3605194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Aug;107(2):255-6. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-107-2-255_3.

Cholesterol reduction and life expectancy.

Citkowitz E, Leaf A.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 1987 Oct;107(4):604.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-107-2-255_3
PMID: 3605907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Fundam Appl Toxicol. 1987 May;8(4):465-73. doi:
10.1016/0272-0590(87)90132-1.

Three-dimensional dose-response models of competing risks and natural life span.

Raabe OG.

Three-dimensional dose-rate/time/response surfaces for chronic exposure to 
carcinogens, toxicants, and ionizing radiation dramatically clarify the separate 
and interactive roles of competing risks. The three dimensions are average dose 
rate, exposure time, and risk. An illustration with computer graphics shows the 
contributions with the passage of time of the competing risks of death from 
radiation pneumonitis/fibrosis, lung cancer, and natural aging consequent to the 
inhalation of plutonium-239 dioxide by beagles. These relationships are further 
evaluated by mathematical stripping with three-dimensional illustrations that 
graphically show the resultant separate contribution of each fatal effect. 
Radiation pneumonitis predominates at high dose rates and lung cancer at 
intermediate dose rates. Low dose rates result in spontaneous deaths from 
natural aging, yielding a type of practical threshold for lung cancer induction. 
Risk assessment is benefited by the insights that become apparent with these 
three-dimensional models. The improved conceptualization afforded by them 
contributes to the planning and evaluation of epidemiological analyses and 
experimental studies involving chronic exposure to toxicants.

DOI: 10.1016/0272-0590(87)90132-1
PMID: 3609533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Gastroenterology. 1987 Sep;93(3):569-75.

Hepatic vein thrombosis in paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. A spectrum from 
asymptomatic occlusion of hepatic venules to fatal Budd-Chiari syndrome.

Valla D, Dhumeaux D, Babany G, Hillon P, Rueff B, Rochant H, Benhamou JP.

In a series of 40 patients with Budd-Chiari syndrome, 5 (12%) were found to be 
afflicted with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. The clinico-pathological 
features in these 5 patients and in 26 well-documented previously reported cases 
could be ascribed to three groups of increasing severity: thrombosis limited to 
small-sized hepatic veins with no or transient ascites, partial thrombosis of 
large-sized hepatic veins with chronic ascites, and complete thrombosis of 
large-sized hepatic veins with a life-threatening course. These three groups did 
not differ with regard to sex, age, and duration and characteristics of 
paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. In view of the relationship between 
prognosis and the extent of hepatic vein obstruction, we suggest that early 
therapy directed toward limiting the extension of thrombosis, or toward 
dissolving formed thrombi, should improve the prognosis of this severe 
complication of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria.

PMID: 3609666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. J Pediatr Orthop. 1987 Jul-Aug;7(4):436-40. doi: 
10.1097/01241398-198707000-00011.

Scoliosis associated with Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Cambridge W, Drennan JC.

The pathoanatomy and natural history of scoliosis associated with Duchenne 
muscular dystrophy were established by a review of 105 patients. Scoliosis 
developed in 95% of these patients after the loss of ambulation. The direction 
of the curve was determined by asymmetrical contracture of the iliotibial band. 
Functional classification using the radiographic sitting kyphotic index proved a 
reliable guide to the age at loss of ambulation and life expectancy, as well as 
the rate of progression and eventual severity of spinal deformities. Spinal 
orthoses failed to control curve progression in 94% of patients (30 of 32). 
Fourteen patients underwent spinal fusion with excellent long-term results.

DOI: 10.1097/01241398-198707000-00011
PMID: 3611341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. J Neurol Sci. 1987 Aug;80(1):39-54. doi: 10.1016/0022-510x(87)90219-x.

Muscular dystrophy in the mdx mouse: histopathology of the soleus and extensor 
digitorum longus muscles.

Carnwath JW, Shotton DM.

We have used light microscopic histomorphometry to quantify the developmental 
histopathological changes induced by muscular dystrophy in the soleus and 
extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscles of the mdx mouse. We find that this 
X-linked disease exhibits early fibre necrosis with foci of invasive cells, 
clustering of affected fibres, hyaline fibres, and, in the mixed soleus muscle, 
a progressive increase in the proportion of type 1 fibres, the mdx soleus 
containing 58 +/- 5% type 1 fibres by 26 weeks, compared with 27 +/- 4% in 
control C57BL/10 ScSn mice. This increase is not due to atrophy or slow axon 
reinnervation of type 2 fibres. Although only 5% of all original fibres survive 
by 26 weeks in the EDL, the diseased mdx fibres are continuously and 
successfully replaced by new fibres with internal nuclei, the affected mice thus 
avoiding the end-stage histopathology and physical disability characteristic of 
the X-linked human Duchenne and Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophies. Homozygous 
mdx mice share the life expectancy of normal C57BL/10 mice and appear 
behaviourly normal. The mdx mouse is therefore an excellent mammalian model in 
which to study the processes of muscle fibre degeneration and regeneration.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-510x(87)90219-x
PMID: 3612180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. JAMA. 1987 Aug 21;258(7):910.

Discounting, isoniazid, and tuberculosis.

Rose DN, Schechter CB, Silver AL.

PMID: 3613017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Lab Anim Sci. 1987 Jun;37(3):320-5.

Growth rate of male germfree Wistar rats fed ad libitum or restricted natural 
ingredient diet.

Snyder DL, Wostmann BS.

Germfree life and feed restriction initiated at an early age are known to extend 
life span. We have examined growth rate and life expectancy in germfree (GF) and 
conventional (CV) male Lobund Wistar rats, fullfed (F) or restricted (R) to 12 
grams/day of natural ingredient diet L-485. GF-F and CV-F rats show comparable 
growth rates during the first 6 months of life. Thereafter, the GF-F rat falls 
behind, with its body weight stabilizing at 85% of the CV rat's weight at 2 
years of age (510 g vs 435 g). In contrast, GF-R rats become slightly, but 
significantly, heavier than CV-R rats after an initial 6 months of comparable 
growth. At 2 years of age GF-R rats weigh 12% more than the CV-R rats (340 g vs 
300 g). Physiological parameters were examined in each treatment group in 
animals that had to be sacrificed because of contamination. These gnotobiotic 
(GN) rats (see text) and their CV counterparts were grouped as adult (7 to 11 
months) and old (18 to 28 months) rats. The most significant findings were: GN-F 
rats have smaller hearts than CV-F rats, both on an absolute and relative basis; 
restriction did not affect absolute testes size but elevated serum testosterone 
levels; serum T4 was reduced by restriction only in CV rats, and declined with 
age in all groups; and serum T3 was higher in adult GN-F and GN-R rats, but fell 
to CV levels in old age.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3613511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Med Clin (Barc). 1987 May 9;88(18):738-9.

[A myth of the curse of the pharaohs].

[Article in Spanish]

Costa P.

PMID: 3613714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Med Decis Making. 1987 Jul-Sep;7(3):168-72. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8700700307.

Risk preference and laboratory use.

Nightingale SD.

One hundred thirty-seven physicians were asked to choose between a certain loss 
of five years of life expectancy and a 50/50 gamble of losing either ten years 
or zero years of life expectancy. These choices were presented as hypothetical 
options for a patient with cancer. The 46 who chose the certain loss ordered 23% 
fewer laboratory tests/patient visit in our General Medicine Clinic over an 
eight-week period than those who chose the gamble (p less than 0.05). This risk 
preference was further stratified by sequentially offering five, four, three, 
two, and one years of certain loss against the same 50/50 gamble of ten or zero 
years of loss; greater preference for the gamble correlated with greater 
laboratory use (p less than 0.002). To exclude physician knowledge or case mix 
as a cause of this result, this risk preference was correlated with total score, 
and with the cost of tests ordered in patient management problems, of 49 
physician on the American Board of Internal Medicine Certifying Examination. 
Cost of tests ordered was 23% less for the 17 who chose the certain loss (p less 
than 0.001); total score did not vary with risk preferences. There was no 
association between risk preference in the face of gain and laboratory use, and 
none between an individual's risk preferences in the face of gain and in the 
face of loss. The cognitive processes that determine risk preference in the face 
of loss, whatever they may be, appear to have a substantial influence on 
physician test-ordering behavior.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8700700307
PMID: 3613916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Risk Anal. 1987 Mar;7(1):91-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1987.tb00972.x.

A method for estimating lifetime cancer risks from limited epidemiologic data.

Enterline PE.

Partly because of the poor quality of exposure information on humans, most 
lifetime carcinogenic risk assessments have been based on animal data. There 
are, however, surrogate measures for exposure that have not been fully utilized. 
One of these is duration of exposure where data on mean exposure levels are 
available. A method is presented for the use of such data, and the method is 
illustrated by developing a risk assessment from the available epidemiologic 
literature on gasoline and kidney cancer. This risk assessment is fairly 
consistent across studies and close to a risk assessment based upon an 
experiment with rats. While there needs to be much improvement in the quality of 
environmental data available to epidemiologists, it is possible that a number of 
risk assessments can be made from existing epidemiologic data and efforts 
directed away from extrapolation from animal data.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1987.tb00972.x
PMID: 3615996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Soc Sci Med. 1987;24(10):851-62. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(87)90186-9.

Aging and health care utilization: new evidence on old fallacies.

Barer ML, Evans RG, Hertzman C, Lomas J.

The proportion of the population in the older age groups will increase 
dramatically over the next four decades. Furthermore, current per capita rates 
of hospital and medical care utilization rise sharply with age beyond the age of 
about 55. However, demographic trends alone do not imply health care cost 
increases in excess of what is supportable by normal economic growth. A 'cost 
crisis' will only occur if per capita rates of utilization among the elderly 
increase faster than for the general population. In this paper we present some 
descriptive data from published sources suggesting that this has been the case 
over the recent past in one Canadian province. The implications for the policy 
debate over the effects of an aging population are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(87)90186-9
PMID: 3616679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Vopr Onkol. 1987;33(6):23-8.

[A new family of distributions for the parametric analysis of data on the life 
expectancy of tumor carriers].

[Article in Russian]

Kamynina TV, Iakovlev AIu, Anisimov VN, Zhukovskaia NV.

PMID: 3617597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Sep;107(3):420-2. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-107-2-420.

Cholesterol and mortality: assumptions, possible errors.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-107-2-420
PMID: 3619229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 1987 Apr;8(2):114-6.

[Proposals on the improvement of sanitary and health services].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu RZ.

PMID: 3621325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Cytometry. 1987 Jul;8(4):377-85. doi: 10.1002/cyto.990080406.

Influence of systematic errors on the evaluation of the S phase portions from 
DNA distributions of solid tumors as shown for 328 breast carcinomas.

Haag D, Feichter G, Goerttler K, Kaufmann M.

The portion of cells in S phase has proved to be a valuable prognostic indicator 
of early relapse and life expectancy, particularly in breast carcinoma. 
Comparisons of published data on samples of primary breast carcinoma biopsies 
showed that the values obtained by analyses of flow cytometric DNA distributions 
were generally higher than those of determinations based on the tritiated 
thymidine (3H-ThdR) labeling index (LI). Flow cytometric DNA analyses of 328 
biopsy samples of primary breast carcinomas revealed that these differences 
could be explained by varying contributions of debris background. Since this 
influence is inversely proportional to the cell counts in each channel, it may 
cause considerable errors, particularly in the S phase channels, which normally 
contain the lowest counts of the DNA distributions. Two different mathematical 
rationales were tested in order to separate DNA distributions from the debris 
superimposition. No appreciable differences were found with respect to the 
essential results. After appropriate subtraction of the background levels, the 
previously reported discrepancies between cytometrically determined S phase 
portions and 3H-ThdR LI values disappeared, and good agreement was achieved for 
the comparable tumor samples of the present study. In conclusion, debris 
background subtractions should generally precede the DNA histogram analyses, 
particularly of solid tumors, in order to obtain reliable S phase values.

DOI: 10.1002/cyto.990080406
PMID: 3622159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Doc Ophthalmol. 1986;64(3):235-310. doi: 10.1007/BF00161733.

The Basel longitudinal study on aging (1955-1978). Ophthalmo-gerontological 
research results.

Brückner R, Batschelet E, Hugenschmidt F.

In the prospective Basel longitudinal study on aging (1955-1978) 123 men (age at 
entry from 6-61 years) were investigated in 2 year (average) intervals. Complete 
case histories are available on 67 subjects over the entire period (19.6 +/- 
0.85 years). Part I of the study was to confirm the hypothesis of Bernstein and 
of Steinhaus, according to which life expectancy can be estimated from the speed 
of development of presbyopia. Parallel to the measurement of accommodation range 
(after preliminary determination of refraction and visual acuity), the 
development of height, body weight, vital capacity, expiratory volume, chest 
circumference, abdominal circumference, blood pressure, ECG and pulse wave 
velocity were measured. Invasive investigations were not undertaken. Only when 
hypertension was combined with obesity was the diminution of accommodation range 
striking (Fig. 10c; however there were only 3 subjects in this risk group). 
Taking everything into consideration there was a concomitance between decrease 
of accommodation range and changes of medical parameters (Table 6). Intercurrent 
illness did not influence the accommodation range. Longitudinal measurements and 
cross-sectional comparisons (data averaged to the same point as of the same age) 
were carried out. The results did not always coincide. We could not confirm the 
hypothesis of Bernstein and of Steinhaus. In Part II the results of the 
objective measurements are given. Apparently growth of the skull does not stop 
entirely. The increase of interpupillary distance can be complete at 17 years of 
age, but also can continue to the 30th year. The palpebral fissure increases an 
average of 3 mm more horizontally between the 6th and the 20th year of life. The 
corneal diameter remains constant in all age classes, that is, the growth of the 
cornea should be complete before the 6th year of life. Early arcus senilis 
changes are found already in the 20-year-old. The increase in the course of time 
of arcus senilis is obvious, it is most pronounced in obese hypertensives. Still 
there are persons who at 65 years of age show no arcus senilis. In the 20th year 
degenerative deposits in the conjunctiva begin. They increase in number and 
above the 60th year all subjects showed degenerative deposits. Aqueous veins are 
less visible in younger subjects. With increasing age--as a result of 
degenerative thinning of the conjunctiva--they are recognizable in ever greater 
numbers. The depth of the anterior chamber attains its greatest extent between 
the 20th and the 30th year.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00161733
PMID: 3622222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. J Med Virol. 1987 Jul;22(3):269-76. doi: 10.1002/jmv.1890220311.

Extension of the epidemiology of hepatitis B in circumpolar regions through a 
comprehensive serologic study in the Northwest Territories of Canada.

Larke RP, Froese GJ, Devine RD, Petruk MW.

We conducted a seroepidemiologic study of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection 
among 14,198 Inuit (Eskimo), Dene (Indian), and non-native inhabitants of the 
Northwest Territories (NWT, total 1982 population 47,053) between April 1983 and 
March 1985. Participants represented almost all of the NWT communities and 
included approximately half of the total indigenous population. Sera were 
screened for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and antibody to hepatitis B 
surface antigen (anti-HBs) by radioimmunoassay. A total of 428 persons (3.0%) 
were positive for HBsAg; their mean age was 41.5 years and 68.7% were greater 
than 30 years old. Anti-HBs was detected concomitantly in 153 (35.7%) of these 
persons and present as a single marker in 2,943 sera (20.7%). Overall prevalence 
rates for HBsAg were marginally higher among Inuit than Dene (3.9% and 2.9%, 
respectively; P less than 0.05), as were rates for anti-HBs (24.5% and 21.5%, 
respectively; P less than 0.01). Marker rates among the 2,776 participants of 
other ethnic groups, predominantly whites, were distinctly lower (HBsAg 0.3%, 
anti-HBs 8.5%) than among Inuit or Dene populations (P less than 0.01). The 
prevalence of HBsAg and anti-HBs increased with each decade of life in all five 
geographic regions, but there were marked differences among the regions as well 
as among communities within regions. The greatest concentration of HBV markers 
was in the Baffin Region (36.0% positive for HBsAg or anti-HBs). Hepatitis B e 
antigen (HBeAg) was detected in only 37 of 421 persons (8.8%) positive for 
HBsAg; most were less than or equal to 20 years old and were clustered in a few 
communities with the highest HBV marker rates.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890220311
PMID: 3625175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. J Nutr. 1987 Aug;117(8):1353-9. doi: 10.1093/jn/117.8.1353.

Diet and health: scientific concepts and principles conference commentary.

Simopoulos AP.

The conference concluded that dietary guidelines are needed, but that they 
cannot apply to everyone in the population nor to the same extent. Furthermore, 
a mechanism or structure is needed in which the guidelines can be periodically 
reviewed and updated. In making dietary recommendations, genetic variability, 
age, sex and body size need to be considered. Survival, extension of life span, 
relief of selected symptoms and biochemical improvements of risk factors are 
some of the criteria to be used in assessing the role of diet in health and 
disease. The most important questions that remain unresolved in the nutritional 
sciences concern the relation of diet to the development of chronic disease. The 
science of nutritional epidemiology needs to be strengthened and etiologic 
research in epidemiology ought to be performed and evaluated with the same 
standards used in other branches of science. Therefore, there is a need to 
establish guidelines for the validity of methods in assessing dietary intake and 
for a minimum acceptable correlation for the reproducibility and repeatability 
of dietary intake data. Research on the role of genetic variation and nutrition, 
the metabolic effects of omega-3 fatty acids and their relationship to omega-6 
fatty acids, the energy expenditure after weight reduction and improving the 
scientific base of nutritional epidemiology will enhance the scientific basis of 
nutrition and our understanding of the role of diet in health and disease.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/117.8.1353
PMID: 3625309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. J Ment Defic Res. 1987 Jun;31 ( Pt 2):131-46. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.1987.tb01350.x.

The elderly mentally handicapped in hospital: a clinical study.

Day KA.

In a study of 99 long-stay hospital residents aged 65 years and over, two thirds 
were functioning in the moderately to mildly handicapped range, two thirds were 
under the age of 75 years and there was an overall female to male ratio of 2:1. 
As in the general population, mobility problems, a tendency to falls and 
fractures, cardiorespiratory disease, deteriorating eyesight, and hearing and 
urinary incontinence were commonly found; all increased in frequency with age. A 
fifth exhibited psychiatric disorder: the commonest conditions, as expected, 
were the psychoses and dementia. It is suggested that retirement provision for 
the elderly mentally handicapped should be made within the mental handicap 
services and that the small group with significant geriatric problems would be 
most appropriately cared for within the generic geriatric services. A plea is 
made for evaluative studies before large scale implementation of resettlement 
programmes for the elderly mentally handicapped in hospital.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.1987.tb01350.x
PMID: 3625760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Z Alternsforsch. 1987 Jul-Aug;42(4):219-26.

[Diabetes mellitus in advanced age. 6. On the life expectancy following diabetes 
manifestation (a 23-year mortality follow-up of diabetic patients in a regional 
district)].

[Article in German]

Schneider H, Mehls P, Lischinski M.

Of all 166 diabetics of all age groups of a rural district detected 23 years 
ago, the further course of the disease could be followed in 147 patients up to 
their death and to the present time, respectively. After 8 years 64.6% were 
still living, after 16 years 29.9% and after 23 years 13.6% of these patients. 
The body weight at the manifestation of the disease was prognostically only low 
of relevance. The prognostic importance of the higher-degree adiposity seems to 
lie prevailingly in the earlier manifestation of diabetes, less in shortening 
the remaining life span. The trend of the weight development of the patients 
presently still alive moved towards reaching or keeping normal weight, 
independent of the initial body weight, while the contrary tendency in long-term 
diabetics is exceptional. Test admissions covered by a glycosuria screening and 
deceased meanwhile lived on average 1 year longer than spontaneous admissions, 
the same age of manifestation supposed. Only 13.4% of all deceased patients had 
reached the higher expectation of life of a normal population of the GDR of the 
same age on manifestation, which underlines the presently still unsatisfactory 
long-term prognosis of the diabetic patients.

PMID: 3630223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Ann Neurol. 1987 Jul;22(1):8-12. doi: 10.1002/ana.410220105.

Multi-center study of Parkinson mortality with early versus later dopa 
treatment.

Diamond SG, Markham CH, Hoehn MM, McDowell FH, Muenter MD.

Four geographically diverse centers provided data on mortality in 359 patients 
with Parkinson's disease, the majority of whom began dopa treatment during the 
early experimental trials of 1968 to 1970. Patients were classified into three 
groups based on the duration of symptoms prior to starting dopa treatment: Group 
1, 1 to 3 years; Group 2, 4 to 6 years; Group 3, 7 to 9 years. After 15 years of 
treatment and 3,689 person-years of observation, Group 1 had an 
observed-to-expected mortality ratio of 1.43; Group 2, 2.44; and Group 3, 2.95 
(p less than 0.05). This result confirmed that increased duration of disease was 
associated with increased mortality risk. To examine the effect of the time of 
initiation of dopa treatment, duration of disease was held constant at 17 years 
for all three groups. Observed-to-expected mortality ratios were 1.43 for Group 
1; 2.66 for Group 2; 2.63 for Group 3. This statistically significant advantage 
for Group 1 (p less than 0.0001) led to the conclusion that early treatment with 
dopa has a beneficial effect on life expectancy. After 17 years of disease, 
causes of death in Group 1 were less likely (p = 0.027) to be due to Parkinson's 
disease than was found in the other groups.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410220105
PMID: 3631925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Nurs Times. 1986 Apr 16-22;82(16):39-42.

Systems of life. No 136. Senior systems. 1. Ageing.

Roberts A.

PMID: 3635854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Josanpu Zasshi. 1986 Feb;40(2):179.

[Mean remaining years for individuals and life expectancy].

[Article in Japanese]

Ojima N.

PMID: 3636444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. J Prof Nurs. 1986 Jan-Feb;2(1):10-9. doi: 10.1016/s8755-7223(86)80083-7.

