The future of disease and treatment. Changing health conditions, changing 
behaviors, and new medical technology.

Fries JF.

DOI: 10.1016/s8755-7223(86)80083-7
PMID: 3639098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Soins Psychiatr. 1986 Jun-Jul;(68-69):5-9.

[Aging from a demographic viewpoint and its medico-socio-economic implications].

[Article in French]

Hessel L, Tessier JF, Michel JP.

PMID: 3639602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Med Hypotheses. 1986 Nov;21(3):273-6. doi: 10.1016/0306-9877(86)90020-4.

Sleep apnea syndrome: is it a contributing factor to the sex differential in 
mortality?

Lavie P.

Sleep apnea syndrome is a relatively common disease, with an overwhelmingly male 
predominance. The female:male ratio is about 1:15-20, depending on the specific 
age group. In light of findings linking sleep apnea syndrome to essential 
hypertension, it is hypothesized that the syndrome may contribute to the sex 
differential in mortality. In most of the developed countries women have longer 
life expectancy than men even after adjustment for various lifestyles and 
biologica variables Mortality from heart disease accounts for 40% of the total 
sex differential. The fact that the 2-5 fold sex differential for heart disease 
mortality is reduced to much lesser extent by multivariate adjustment than the 
sex differential for mortality from all causes, and that it is minimally 
affected by the exclusion of all persons with a history of chronic diseases, 
indicates that other risk factors should be sought. I propose the hypothesis 
that Sleep Apnea Syndrome (SAS), which almost exclusively affects males, 
contributes to the sex differential in mortality from coronary heart disease. 
Sleep Apnea Syndrome is a relatively common disease. It is the most preponderant 
finding among patients referred to diagnostic sleep laboratories, particularly 
among patients complaining of excessive daytime sleepiness. Its incidence among 
the adult male population (age greater than 21 years) was estimated to be at 
least 1-1.5%. It is considerably higher than that, at least 5 to 7 fold, in the 
40 to 60 years age group, and in specific high-risk populations such as the 
morbidly obese. The female:male ratio is about 1:15-20, depending on the 
specific age group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0306-9877(86)90020-4
PMID: 3642199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. J Adv Nurs. 1987 Mar;12(2):151-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2648.1987.tb01315.x.

The World Health Organization's regions of the eastern Mediterranean and Europe: 
ageing of the population and nursing care.

Hirschfeld MJ.

This paper discusses the context and implications of nursing as a social force 
in regard to quality of care for the aged. The demographic transformations and 
its consequences in the WHO regions of the Eastern Mediterranean and Europe are 
discussed in their relation to socio-political, economic and educational 
developments and epidemiological changes. It is postulated that nursing has the 
choice of becoming a social force through raising its awareness of the new 
reality of a sizeable dependent population with chronic diseases. Nursing 
knowledge and research, the sharpening of political skills and the refinement of 
caring skills have the potential for influencing health care policy and 
long-term care services toward quality health care for the aged. Special 
attention is given to the use and misuse of concepts as self-care and 
appropriate technology. The final proof of nursing's willingness and ability to 
act as a social force will be in the allocation of efforts and resources in 
different countries. The value of nursing's contribution to the actual care of 
the aged will depend upon careful ethical considerations, as much as upon 
knowledge and influence.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2648.1987.tb01315.x
PMID: 3646266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. J Natl Black Nurses Assoc. 1986 Fall-1987 Winter;1(2):16-23.

Highlights from the Department of Health and Human Services Task Force on Black 
and Minority Health.

Savage DD.

PMID: 3647087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Health Care Women Int. 1987;8(4):249-60. doi: 10.1080/07399338709515789.

Healthy women and the future.

Hancock T.

DOI: 10.1080/07399338709515789
PMID: 3650264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Clin Genet. 1987 Aug;32(2):100-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1987.tb03333.x.

Heterogeneity of pseudoxanthoma elasticum: delineation of a new form?

Viljoen DL(1), Pope FM, Beighton P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, University of Cape Town Medical School, South 
Africa.

Sixty-four patients with pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) were investigated in a 
nationwide study within South Africa and Zimbabwe. Thirty-nine individuals 
formed a distinct clinical subgroup. These persons were found exclusively among 
people of Afrikaner descent, whose origins are mainly derived from Dutch and 
French-Huguenot stock. This disorder was inherited as an autosomal recessive 
trait and presented mild to moderate cutaneous and cardiovascular 
manifestations. However, after the third decade of life severe visual impairment 
developed and culminated in blindness in 8 people by the age of 50. The cause of 
the visual defect was progressive extension of angioid streaks into the macula 
with neovascularization and haemorrhage. Laser therapy may have prevented 
further bleeding in 4 instances. The severity of ocular involvement contrasted 
with the mildness of the skin changes, and in this respect the condition seems 
to differ from previously delineated autosomal recessive forms of PXE.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1987.tb03333.x
PMID: 3652487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Herz. 1987 Aug;12(4):248-54.

Cardiovascular risk factors and mortality in women.

Kesteloot H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, K.U. Leuven.

Men and women are subject to similar environmental influences but women have a 
markedly longer life expectancy, the difference in which is still increasing. In 
general, the level of saturated fat intake appears the most important 
determinant of life expectancy and it seems likely that this factor is even 
responsible for regional differences within a given country. In both men and 
women in Western populations, serum cholesterol levels are much higher than in 
Oriental populations. Women have higher total serum cholesterol than men in the 
age groups below 20 and over 50 years and this discrepancy may play a crucial 
role in the development of arteriosclerosis. Women also have markedly higher 
HDL-cholesterol levels than men in Western countries. Other important factors 
possibly accounting for the difference in life expectancy are the facts that in 
women less than 50 years of age, blood pressure is lower than in men and in 
women, smoking is much less prevalent. Overall, however, serum lipid levels and 
intake of saturated fat have a lesser influence on mortality in women than in 
men and, accordingly, they are lower predictors of mortality.

PMID: 3653835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. J Comput Assist Tomogr. 1987 Sep-Oct;11(5):804-9. doi: 
10.1097/00004728-198709000-00012.

Design of custom hip stem prostheses using three-dimensional CT modeling.

Robertson DD(1), Walker PS, Granholm JW, Nelson PC, Weiss PJ, Fishman EK, Magid 
D.

Author information:
(1)Orthopedic Biomechanics Laboratory, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 
02115.

Long life expectancy, demand for high activity levels, and bone loss at the time 
of revision motivate the search for reliable and successful noncemented hip stem 
designs. It is hypothesized that improved implant fit may increase the longevity 
of noncemented total joints. Quantitative X-ray CT has enabled the use of a 
computerized stem design program, which designs an optimal-fit hip stem for 
individual femurs. Computed tomography and interactive image processing methods 
are used to generate the individual three-dimensional femoral models, which are 
used by the stem design program. Optimal-fit design provides maximum stem-bone 
contact while satisfying the requirement of being surgically insertable. 
Previous methods of custom implant design, including those that use 
three-dimensional CT modeling, have not provided optimal stem-bone fit. 
Quantitative results of this new process are presented.

DOI: 10.1097/00004728-198709000-00012
PMID: 3655042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. J Pers Soc Psychol. 1987 Sep;53(3):531-41. doi: 10.1037//0022-3514.53.3.531.

Two conceptions of maturity examined in the findings of a longitudinal study.

Helson R(1), Wink P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Personality Assessment and Research, University of California, 
Berkeley 94720.

The third vector score (competence) of the revised California Psychological 
Inventory (CPI) and ego level as assessed by the Loevinger Sentence Completion 
Test (SCT) are measures of alternative ways of conceptualizing maturity: as the 
ability of the individual to function effectively in society or as the degree of 
intrapsychic differentiation and autonomy. A longitudinal study of women (for 
the CPI, N = 107; for the SCT, N = 90) provides these two measures of maturity 
at age 43. Competence and ego level were correlated with antecedent and 
concurrent measures selected from inventories and life history material 
concerning work, marriage, relations with parents, and so forth, to assess 
aspects of maturity adapted from Allport: self-extension in significant 
endeavors, reality orientation in perception of self and others and in the 
conduct of one's activities, capacity for intimacy, emotional security, and 
individuality of personal integration. Results from the age-21 data indicate 
that competence and ego level are enduring trait complexes. Despite considerable 
overlap, they differ conspicuously in the greater emphasis of competence on 
emotional security and of ego level on individuality of personal integration. 
Analysis of the patterning of competence and ego level in the whole sample and 
in homogeneous groups high on one or both measures suggests psychological 
reasons why the two types of maturity diverge and why the relation of ego level 
to adjustment seems to be curvilinear.

DOI: 10.1037//0022-3514.53.3.531
PMID: 3656084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. JAMA. 1987 Oct 16;258(15):2080-6.

Health and economic implications of a tobacco-free society.

Warner KE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Policy and Administration, School of Public 
Health, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109-2029.

Cigarette smoking causes more premature deaths than do all the following 
together: acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, cocaine, heroin, alcohol, fire, 
automobile accidents, homicide, and suicide. Attainment of a tobacco-free 
society ultimately would produce a national life-expectancy gain comparable with 
that that would accompany the complete elimination of all cancers not caused by 
tobacco use. In particular, each year 350,000 individuals who would have 
experienced tobacco-related deaths would realize a life-expectancy gain of 15 
years. Reflecting their higher smoking prevalence and rates of smoking-related 
diseases, blacks would benefit more than whites. By altering the mix of morbid 
conditions and fatal diseases, the end of tobacco-related diseases would shift 
the need for particular medical specialties and health care facilities. The 
tobacco industry implies that the demise of tobacco consumption would wreak 
havoc with the economy. By contrast, some antitobacco activists suggest that the 
end of tobacco use would yield a multibillion dollar fiscal dividend. Each 
argument is fundamentally flawed. The economic impacts of a tobacco-free society 
would be modest and of far less consequence than the principal implication: a 
significantly enriched quality and quantity of life.

PMID: 3656624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Pediatrics. 1987 Oct;80(4):575-8.

Native American postneonatal mortality.

Honigfeld LS(1), Kaplan DW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Practice, American Academy of Pediatrics, Elk Grove 
Village, IL 60009-0927.

Although dramatic gains have been realized in lowering the incidence of neonatal 
deaths among native American infants to a level lower than the white race, 
postneonatal death rates for this population remain twice as high as in the 
white race. The limited data available reveal that excessive postneonatal deaths 
among native American infants largely result from preventable accidents and 
treatable acute medical conditions, such as pneumonia and gastroenteritis. This 
suggests that native American infants leave the hospital healthy but go to 
unsafe environments, which decrease their chances of survival past 1 year. In 
particular, the poorer socioeconomic conditions that native American families 
experience and the related problems of alcoholism, unemployment, and family 
disorganization contribute to the high rate of postneonatal mortality. 
Intervention programs to lower native American postneonatal mortality should 
focus on promoting prompt recognition of and health seeking for treatable 
medical conditions and prevention of accidents and other postneonatal health 
problems. The roots of the problem of native American postneonatal mortality lie 
in the socioeconomic conditions of many Indian communities and cannot be 
addressed without recognition of how these factors combine with the health care 
delivery system to diminish life expectancy for native American infants.

PMID: 3658577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Prog Clin Biol Res. 1987;243B:289-320.

Natural history of prostatic cancer.

Hanash KA(1).

Author information:
(1)Georgegown University Medical Center, Washington, D.C.

PMID: 3659027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Scand J Gastroenterol. 1987 Aug;22(6):655-64. doi:
10.3109/00365528709011139.

Primary sclerosing cholangitis: a long-term follow-up study.

Aadland E(1), Schrumpf E, Fausa O, Elgjo K, Heilo A, Aakhus T, Gjone E.

Author information:
(1)Medical Dept. A, Rikshospitalet, University of Oslo, Norway.

During the 10-year period from 1 January 1975 to 31 December 1984, primary 
sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) was diagnosed in 45 patients. Twelve of the 
patients have died (26.7%), 10 of them of causes related to PSC. Inflammatory 
bowel disease was found in all patients; ulcerative colitis was found in 37, 
Crohn's disease in 6, and unclassified colitis in 2 patients. Of the patients 
alive, 27 were submitted to a follow-up study in 1985. At the follow-up 
examination no general progression of the liver disease, as measured on the 
basis of clinical examination and levels of transaminases, alkaline 
phosphatases, and bilirubin, was found. Cholangiographic evaluation in 24 
patients showed that the stage of ductal changes progressed from mild to 
moderate in 3 patients; in the other patients the stage was not altered. 
Morphologic examination of liver biopsy specimens in patients with a benign 
clinical course usually showed portal inflammation, fibrosis, and minor signs of 
piecemeal necrosis, whereas widespread piecemeal necrosis was found in patients 
who deteriorated and died. The 50% survival since diagnosis of liver disease was 
calculated to be 17 years in patients with PSC and 50 years in a comparable 
group among the general population. The estimated survival curve in PSC was 
displaced to the left, indicating a reduced life expectancy of about 30 years.

DOI: 10.3109/00365528709011139
PMID: 3659828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Science. 1987 Oct 9;238(4824):158-60. doi: 10.1126/science.3659906.

Why do women live longer than men?

Holden C.

DOI: 10.1126/science.3659906
PMID: 3659906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1987 Jul-Sep;68(3):8-14.

New high for expectation of life.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 3660219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Nov;107(5):697-713. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-107-5-697.

Idiopathic nephrotic syndrome. Puncturing the biopsy myth.

Levey AS(1), Lau J, Pauker SG, Kassirer JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New England Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts.

We used decision analysis to compare the conventional strategy of 
biopsy-tailored therapy with alternative strategies not using renal biopsy in 
treating adults with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome. We evaluated data on steroid 
and platelet-inhibitor therapies and a new clinical strategy, empiric sequential 
therapy. This sequential approach involves use of short-term alternate-day 
steroid agents, followed by long-term platelet inhibitors for persistent 
nephrotic syndrome. Our results indicate that, contrary to usual practice, use 
of renal biopsy is not necessary in caring for adult patients with idiopathic 
nephrotic syndrome; empiric short-term alternate-day steroid therapy is equally 
efficacious. If the benefits of platelet-inhibitor therapy for treating 
membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis are confirmed, empiric sequential 
therapy also will be equally efficacious. Our study shows how decision analysis 
can be used to identify superfluous diagnostic procedures.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-107-5-697
PMID: 3662284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Carcinogenesis. 1987 Nov;8(11):1635-43. doi: 10.1093/carcin/8.11.1635.

Combination experiments with very low doses of three genotoxic N-nitrosamines 
with similar organotropic carcinogenicity in rats.

Berger MR(1), Schmähl D, Zerban H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Toxicology and Chemotherapy, German Cancer Research Center, 
Heidelberg, FRG.

The study was designed to assess the syncarcinogenic activity of very low doses 
of N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA), N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPYR) and 
N-nitrosodiethanolamine (NDElA) in the liver of 1800 male Sprague-Dawley rats. 
The N-nitrosamines were administered throughout the rats' lives individually and 
in combination at three logarithmically spaced dose levels contained in drinking 
water. The dose levels in the individual dose-response experiments ranged from 
the lowest concentrations of previous experiments (NDEA, 0.1 mg/kg; NPYR, 0.4 
mg/kg; NDElA, 2.0 mg/kg) to dosages 10 times lower and comprised a high, medium 
and low dose (escalation factor: 3.16). The high dose of the combination 
contained the three nitrosamine concentrations used as the medium doses of the 
individual nitrosamines. The medium combination dose resulted from the combined 
administration of the three lowest dosages, and the low combination dose 
consisted of three nitrosamine dosages which amounted to one-third of the low 
dosages respectively. Administration of these dosages was associated with a 
dose-dependent incidence of liver cancer: NDEA induced 45, 3.8 and 2.5%; NPYR 
caused 21.3, 5 and 1.3%; NDElA generated 7.5, 1.3 and 2.5%; and the combinations 
induced 16, 4.2 and 1.7% respectively. Untreated controls showed 0.6% liver 
cancer incidence. Besides the liver, the gastrointestinal tract, the neurogenic 
tissue, the urinary tract and the hematopoietic and lymphatic tissue were 
affected by tumor incidences increased over that of controls. There was, 
however, no well-defined dose dependency as with the liver tumors. These results 
indicate dose dependency of liver tumor formation even at very low exposure 
levels of the individual agents. The carcinogenic effects of the hepatotropic 
N-nitrosamines summed up in combination. The observed additivity was linear. 
Dose levels, which alone would presumably not have been carcinogenic, effected a 
significant cancer risk in combination.

DOI: 10.1093/carcin/8.11.1635
PMID: 3664955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Izv Akad Nauk SSSR Biol. 1987 Jul-Aug;(4):527-35.

[Growth kinetics of nonexponentially growing tumors and the life expectancy of 
tumor carriers].

[Article in Russian]

Konradov AA, Dronova LM, Erokhin VN, Korman DB.

PMID: 3668064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1987 Nov;10(5):1100-4. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(87)80352-2.

Type Ia tricuspid atresia with extensive coronary artery abnormalities in a 
living 22 year old woman.

Voci G(1), Diego JN, Shafia H, Alavi M, Ghusson M, Banka VS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Episcopal Hospital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19125.

Type Ia tricuspid atresia, with extensive coronary artery abnormalities, is 
identified in the oldest living patient with this condition, a 22 year old 
woman. Clinical characteristics include severe cyanosis, effort dyspnea, 
myocardial infarction in the past and persistent angina pectoris. "Ideal" 
pulmonary flow and adequate left ventricular function, despite an akinetic 
apical segment, are substantive factors for this exceptional longevity. Coronary 
abnormalities consist of: 1) total proximal occlusion of the left anterior 
descending coronary artery; and 2) partial diversion of coronary artery flow to 
a segmental pulmonary artery branch. Nonvisualization of the coronary sinus is 
also noted. Factors other than atherosclerosis may account for total proximal 
occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Survival is 
threatened by adverse effects of ongoing ischemic coronary events.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(87)80352-2
PMID: 3668106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 1987 Sep;50(9):1142-7. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp.50.9.1142.

Prognosis of patients with retinal embolism.

Howard RS(1), Russell RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, St Thomas' Hospital, London, UK.

Eighty-five patients with retinal emboli, visible ophthalmoscopically, were 
studied retrospectively. All the patients had presented with transient or 
permanent visual loss. Follow up from the time of presentation was one year to 
12 years with a mean of 4.5 years. Life expectancy in the 58 medically treated 
patients who presented with cholesterol emboli was significantly reduced (p = 
0.028). Stroke was the commonest cause of death and was significantly more 
frequent than in the general population (p less than 0.001); there was also an 
increased total incidence of cerebrovascular disease (fatal and non-fatal) 
compared with the Oxfordshire Stroke Project (p less than 0.001). The mortality 
from ischaemic heart disease was not significantly increased. We report a series 
of 85 patients with retinal emboli, 69 of whom had cholesterol emboli (70 
fundi), 15 calcific emboli and one platelet-fibrin embolus. The natural history 
of medically treated patients with cholesterol emboli is compared both with an 
age and sex matched population and with patients with amaurosis fugax but no 
visible retinal emboli.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.50.9.1142
PMCID: PMC1032345
PMID: 3668564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. J Med Ethics. 1987 Sep;13(3):117-23. doi: 10.1136/jme.13.3.117.

QALYfying the value of life.

Harris J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Social Ethics and Policy, University of Manchester.

This paper argues that the Quality Adjusted Life Year or QALY is fatally flawed 
as a way of priority setting in health care and of dealing with the problem of 
scarce resources. In addition to showing why this is so the paper sets out a 
view of the moral constraints that govern the allocation of health resources and 
suggests reasons for a new attitude to the health budget.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.13.3.117
PMCID: PMC1375658
PMID: 3669036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. J Behav Med. 1987 Aug;10(4):377-94. doi: 10.1007/BF00846477.

Determinants of adherence to medical regimens by hypertensive patients.

Stanton AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Auburn University, Alabama 36849.

This study employed multivariate analyses and structural modeling procedures to 
examine a model for the determinants of adherence to medical regimens. Fifty 
adult hypertensive patients at a health maintenance organization completed 
questionnaires and participated in home interviews over a 10-week period. 
Knowledge of medical regimens, information communication between the patient and 
the medical professionals, satisfaction with health-care providers, health locus 
of control, social support, and treatment disruption to life-style were 
assessed. Adherence was assessed through self-report and behavioral (i.e., 
pill-count ratio, percentage of kept medical appointments) indices. Finally, 
repeated blood-pressure measurements were obtained. Structural modeling 
procedures revealed that greater expectancy for internal control over health and 
hypertension, greater knowledge of the treatment regimen, and stronger social 
support were significant determinants of adherence; in turn, higher levels of 
adherence facilitated blood-pressure reduction.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00846477
PMID: 3669072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. J Urol. 1987 Nov;138(5):1185-8. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)43544-0.

Radical prostatectomy for carcinoma in men more than 69 years old.

Middleton AW Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, University of Utah College of Medicine, Salt Lake City.

Between 1974 and 1986, 193 men with prostatic cancer were treated with bilateral 
pelvic lymphadenectomy and radical retropubic prostatectomy. Of the 193 patients 
65 were 70 years or older (5 were 78 years old). Of the 32 men in this series 
who underwent a potency-sparing modification of the radical prostatectomy 7 were 
70 years or older, the oldest being 77 years. A comparison of the morbidity and 
mortality of the 65 men in the older group with the 128 men in the group less 
than 70 years old revealed no significant difference. Long-term followup data 
demonstrated 57 men in the older age group to be well with no evidence of 
disease, with 10 in that group well with no evidence of disease greater than 5 
years after the radical prostatectomy. We recommend radical prostatectomy for 
patients with clinically localized prostatic carcinoma whose general health 
suggests a 10-year or greater probable life expectancy, aside from tumor.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)43544-0
PMID: 3669163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Med Sestra. 1987 May;46(5):8-10.

[Men's health].

[Article in Russian]

Virganskaia IM.

PMID: 3669972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1987;35(3-4):195-205.

Demographic aspects of population aging in developed countries.

Lopez AD(1).

Author information:
(1)World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.

There has been a dramatic growth of the elderly (aged 60+) population in the 
developed countries since 1950. By the year 2000, roughly 20% of the population 
in these countries will belong to the aged. Women far outnumber men among the 
elderly due to differential mortality trends between the sexes. Male life 
expectancy at age 60 varies from 19.1 years in Japan to 14.6 years in Hungary. 
Among females, the range is from 23.2 years (Canada) to 18.4 years (Romania). 
Mortality rates have declined dramatically in several countries since 1970 due 
primarily to declines in death rates from ischaemic heart disease and stroke.

PMID: 3671854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1987;35(3-4):225-35.

Changes in the healthfulness of life of the elderly population: an empirical 
approach.

Wilkins R(1), Adams OB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Montreal General Hospital, Quebec, Canada.

This paper presents an empirical approach to measuring the healthfulness of life 
of the elderly population. It discusses information related to trends in 
disability-free and quality-adjusted life expectancy in the context of the 
current debate concerning prospects for a possible future compression of 
morbidity. Trends in each of the components underlying health expectancy are 
examined: survivorship and remaining life expectancy in each state of health, 
rates of institutionalization, as well as incidence of disability and prevalence 
of activity restriction in the household population. The effects on health 
expectancy of changes in these components are noted.

PMID: 3671855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Brain Res. 1987 Sep 15;420(2):289-94. doi: 10.1016/0006-8993(87)91249-2.

Heightened blood pressure and drinking responsiveness to 
intracerebroventricularly applied angiotensins in the spontaneously hypertensive 
rat.

Wright JW(1), Sullivan MJ, Quirk WS, Batt CM, Harding JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Washington State University, Pullman 99164-4830.

The effects of bolus intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections of angiotensin 
II (AII) and angiotensin III (AIII) on blood pressure and water consumption were 
investigated in Okamoto-Aoki spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), and 
Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) and Sprague-Dawley (SD) normotensive controls. Heightened 
sensitivity to i.c.v. administered AII and AIII was observed in the SHR as 
compared with WKY and SD strains for both pressor and drinking responses. The 
results are consistent with the notion that the SHR has a genetic defect that 
directly perturbs central angiotensinergic transmission. Two types of defects 
appear plausible, an alteration in the central angiotensin receptor and its 
associated transduction system and/or a decrease in the efficiency of signal 
termination. The present results are interpreted to primarily support the second 
possibility that a dysfunction in central aminopeptidase activity results in an 
extended life expectancy of angiotensin, and perhaps other peptides, that 
contribute to the hypersensitivity seen in the SHR.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(87)91249-2
PMID: 3676761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Cancer. 1987 Dec 1;60(11):2712-6. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19871201)60:11<2712::aid-cncr2820601122>3.0.co;2-1.

Prognostic value of the lymphocyte doubling time in chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia.

Molica S(1), Alberti A.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia, Ospedale Regionale A. Pugliese, Catanzaro, Italy.

The prognostic value of lymphocyte doubling time (LDT), expressed in months and 
obtained by means of a linear regression, has been studied in 99 previously 
untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. LDT is defined as the 
period of time needed for lymphocytes to double in number the amount found at 
diagnosis. When the analysis was extended to the whole population, it showed 
clear differences in the life expectancy of patients with LDT of less than or 
equal to 12 months (median survival, 36 months; relative death rate [O/E]1.57) 
compared with those with LDT of more than 12 months (median survival not yet 
reached; O/E, 0.37) (P less than 0.001). The significance of LDT remained even 
after adjustments were made for age, sex, lymphocyte count, anemia, and 
thrombocytopenia. The lack of statistical significance after adjustment for 
Binet's clinical stage corresponds to the fact that clinical stages are not 
distributed homogeneously, high LDT being more frequently associated with 
earlier stages and low LDT with more advanced forms of the disease (P less than 
0.001). In this study LDT was a useful parameter in predicting disease 
progression. Patients in Stages A and B and with rapidly increasing lymphocytes 
counts became worse more frequently (33.3% and 29.1%, respectively, at 12 months 
after diagnosis) than those with a slow increase (no change in clinical stage at 
12 months). It is concluded that since LDT appears to predict the progression of 
the disease, it is useful in the clinical management of CLL.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19871201)60:11<2712::aid-cncr2820601122>3.0.co;2-1
PMID: 3677006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Cancer. 1987 Dec 1;60(11):2766-74. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19871201)60:11<2766::aid-cncr2820601129>3.0.co;2-0.

Transitional cell neoplasms of the urinary bladder. Can biologic potential be 
predicted from histologic grading?

Jordan AM(1), Weingarten J, Murphy WM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Baptist Memorial Hospital, Memphis, TN 38146.

Erratum in
    Cancer 1988 Apr 1;61(7):1385.

The concept that most transitional cell neoplasms of the urinary bladder exist 
as either nonaggressive lesions of low cytologic grade or aggressive anaplastic 
cancers is gradually gaining acceptance. The extent to which the biological 
potential of these neoplasms is revealed in their pathologic features is the 
subject of this article. Using guidelines developed in experimental models, a 
series of 400 transitional cell neoplasms selected for long-term follow-up were 
classified into the WHO system. The results indicate that (1) almost all 
transitional cell tumors can be grouped into low and high grades at initial 
presentation; (2) the low grade lesions (usually designated transitional cell 
carcinoma, Grade I) are benign and should be called papillomas rather than 
carcinomas; (3) the risk of progression is not a function of the number of 
recurrences for these noninvasive, low-grade, papillary tumors; (4) the 
high-grade neoplasms are aggressive whether papillary or nodular and account for 
greater than 93% of tumor-related deaths; (5) patients with high-grade lesions 
have a reduced life expectancy even if progression does not occur; (6) depth of 
invasion and growth pattern are limited as predictive factors compared with 
histologic grade; (7) histologic grading of the initial tumor tissue can be 
highly predictive of outcome.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19871201)60:11<2766::aid-cncr2820601129>3.0.co;2-0
PMID: 3677010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Chirurg. 1987 Oct;58(10):663-7.

[Is intrahepatic cholangiojejunostomy in liver hilus-localized malignant 
occlusive jaundice a better alternative to endoscopic transhepatic drainage?].

[Article in German]

Paquet KJ(1), Koussouris P.

Author information:
(1)Department für Chirurgie und Gefässchirurgie, Heinz-Kalk-Krankenhauses, Bad 
Kissingen.

The malignant obstruction of the hepatic confluence has a poor prognosis and no 
chance of cure. Therefore the therapy of choice today is usually a 
transpapillary drainage and surgical interventions are avoided. Before the 
indication for a transhepatic drainage is established the malignant etiology of 
this disease should be verified in every case and inoperability should be 
cleared in case of doubt by laparotomy. In a few cases a curative resection is 
possible. From January 1st, 1979 to September 1st, 1986 we succeeded in a 
curative resection in one out of fourteen cases; in thirteen cases an 
intrahepatic cholangio-enterostomy, eleven times with the left intrahepatic duct 
and two times with the right intrahepatic duct, was performed. Though the rate 
of postoperative complication was 54%, in hospital mortality was only 7%. The 
curatively operated woman is now living for six years postoperatively and the 
man with a benign intrahepatic stricture after right hepatectomy because of 
hepatocellular cancer is now living 44 months after the first operation. The 
mean survival time of the palliative operated patients is 12.3 months. Thus the 
intrahepatic cholangio-enterostomy seems to be superior to the endoscopic 
transpapillary drainage in comparable cases of tumor obstruction of the hepatic 
confluence concerning life quality and life expectancy.

PMID: 3677883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Demography. 1987 Aug;24(3):439, 441-2.

On "A new look at entropy and the life table".

Mitra S.

PMID: 3678544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Geriatrics. 1987 Dec;42(12):61-2, 65-9, 72.

Sleep disorders in the elderly: rationale for clinical awareness.

McGinty D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of California, Los Angeles.

Complaints about sleep are extremely common in the elderly, leading to an 
impression that aging-related sleep problems are virtually normal and benign. 
However, studies have shown that such complaints as habitual snoring, frequent 
awakening, nocturnal sweating, and awakening with anxiety, may be signs of 
genuine sleep disorders. The most prevalent and most serious aging-related sleep 
disorder is sleep apnea. There is recent evidence of an association between 
sleep apnea and circulatory disorders, including hypertension, stroke, and 
angina pectoris, and with reduced life expectancy. The older sleep apnea victim 
may not complain of daytime sleepiness, the usual symptom in younger patients. 
Sleep apnea, and several other sleep disorders of the elderly are treatable, 
once an accurate diagnosis is made. Physicians are urged to make questions about 
sleep as routine as the taking of blood pressure.

PMID: 3678842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. J Gerontol. 1987 Nov;42(6):674-80. doi: 10.1093/geronj/42.6.674.

Increase in life expectancy for mice fed diethylhydroxylamine (DEHA).

Heicklen J(1), Brown E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Pennsylvania State University.

ICR Swiss strain mice were fed diethylhydroxylamine (DEHA) for life starting at 
44 days of age at 10, 30, 100, and 300 mg/kg-day. The 10 and 30 mg/kg-day males 
and the 10 mg/kg-day females showed an increase in mean age of death of 76 
(12.7%), 45 (7.5%), and 51 (7.4%) days, respectively, compared to controls. The 
respective confidence levels are 99.2, 90.0, and 92.9% that these results are 
significant by Student's t test.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/42.6.674
PMID: 3680886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. J Neurol Sci. 1987 Sep;80(2-3):185-204. doi: 10.1016/0022-510x(87)90154-7.

The epidemiology of multiple sclerosis in Queensland, Australia.

Hammond SR(1), de Wytt C, Maxwell IC, Landy PJ, English D, McLeod JG, McCall MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Sydney, Australia.

An epidemiological survey of multiple sclerosis (MS) in the State of Queensland 
was undertaken with its prevalence day being the national census day on June 
30th, 1981, 20 years after a regional survey within the State. The relationship 
between increasing prevalence of MS and increasing south latitude within the 
State of Queensland which was suggested by the 1961 study was confirmed in the 
present study. The prevalence rate had increased significantly over the 20-year 
period between the studies but the State remained a medium frequency zone for MS 
(prevalence rate between 5 and 29 per 100,000 of population). Although a real 
increase in disease frequency could not be excluded as a contributing factor to 
the rise in prevalence, it was most likely due predominantly to an increase in 
life expectancy amongst the MS population and also in differential migration of 
a population at a greater risk of developing MS than the indigenous population. 
The proportions of Australian-born patients who had migrated to Queensland from 
the higher risk southern regions of Australia or travelled overseas to countries 
known to be high-risk for MS prior to disease onset, had fallen between the two 
surveys thus exerting, if anything, a negative influence on the change in 
prevalence. Analysis of MS prevalence rates amongst migrant populations in 
Queensland as compared to the more southerly city of Perth in Western Australia, 
suggested that the risk of acquisition of MS may extend over a wider age range 
than is generally accepted. Finally, there was an absence of MS cases amongst 
the Aboriginal population in Queensland but it can only cautiously be concluded 
from this study that the disease is rare in these peoples.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-510x(87)90154-7
PMID: 3681330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. J Clin Oncol. 1987 Nov;5(11):1853. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1987.5.11.1853.

Malignant melanoma in the elderly.

Taylor CD.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1987.5.11.1853
PMID: 3681372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Neurosurgery. 1987 Oct;21(4):484-91. doi: 10.1227/00006123-198710000-00008.

Long term intrathecal administration of morphine: a comparison of bolus 
injection via reservoir with continuous infusion by implanted pump.

Brazenor GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

Twenty-six cases of chronic intrathecal morphine administration are described: 
19 cases utilizing the Spinalgesic injectable subcutaneous reservoir and 7 cases 
utilizing the Infusaid implanted infusion pump. In 25 cases, the morphine was 
delivered into the spinal subarachnoid space, and in 1 case of thalamic pain it 
was delivered into the temporal horn of the ipsilateral cerebral ventricle. The 
average duration of usage of the system was 132 days. The efficacy of the method 
was excellent: 23 of 26 patients used no other analgesics or only minor ones 
such as aspirin, paracetamol, or dextropropoxyphene. The complication rate was 
low, with no infections under the author's care, and only 4 catheter blockages 
(1 by tumor). There have been no complications in the 7 patients with implanted 
pumps. From this experience, the author concludes that the implanted pump is now 
the method of choice in all patients who can afford it and for whom the life 
expectancy outside an institution is in excess of 60 days. A special and 
relatively absolute indication for the pump is the situation of pain in the arm, 
head, or neck areas, in which case the constant morphine levels likely to be 
achieved with the pump may prevent failure of the method due to intractable 
nausea or emesis. The subcutaneous reservoir is otherwise to be preferred if the 
patient's disease is progressing rapidly, if the patient is already 
institutionalized and likely to remain so, or where the cost of the implanted 
pump would cause hardship. Either method of delivery of morphine to the 
subarachnoid space can provide incomparable analgesia without clouding of 
consciousness, with a very low complication rate.

DOI: 10.1227/00006123-198710000-00008
PMID: 3683781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Soc Sci Med. 1987;25(7):813-24. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(87)90039-6.

Religion and differences in morbidity and mortality.

Jarvis GK(1), Northcott HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.

Religion and its effects on morbidity and mortality (with particular emphasis on 
mortality) are reviewed as are special issues which have in the past made the 
study of religion and death difficult. The morbidity and mortality experience of 
various religious groups is portrayed, including Protestants, Catholics, Jews, 
Muslims, the clergy, Seventh-day Adventists, Latter-day Saints, Parsis, 
Jehovah's Witnesses and Hutterites. Studies of religious effects on morbidity 
and mortality have broadened in focus from the study of specific health 
practices, or health-related behaviors, to include the study of social support, 
religious participation and health-related attitudes. Gaps in the literature are 
identified and a preliminary model of religion's effect on morbidity and 
mortality is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(87)90039-6
PMID: 3686110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Surgery. 1987 Dec;102(6):1068-74.

Acute airway distress due to thyroid pathology.

Shaha A(1), Alfonso A, Jaffe BM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, State University of New York Health Science Center, 
Brooklyn 11203.

Patients with multinodular goiter or related thyroid disorders rarely have acute 
airway distress due to tracheal deviation or compression. However, our 
institution cares for a large number of patients with untreated multinodular 
goiters, and in the progression of this disorder, tracheal deviation and airway 
problems are relatively common. During the past 4 years, we have cared for 24 
patients who were admitted with acute, life-threatening airway distress that 
required emergency intervention. Nine patients had emergency intubation, the 
remaining 15 had stridor on admission and underwent emergency operations. The 
series consists of 19 females and five males whose ages ranged from 37 to 89 
years. Only four patients had malignant thyroid lesions (two 
papillary-follicular, two anaplastic), and two of these had multiple pulmonary 
metastases. Fifteen of the patients with multinodular goiters had a mediastinal 
extension that led to marked tracheal deviation. Three patients had recurrent 
multinodular goiters decades after previous surgery. Twenty-one patients 
underwent surgery at our institution, and all did well. Only one patient 
required sternotomy for thyroidectomy. Two patients required tracheostomy 
procedures, one because of tracheomalacia and the other because of poor 
pulmonary reserve. Interestingly, two patients had acute symptoms when in their 
third trimester of pregnancy. We have routinely used the laryngoscope 
(fiberoptic rigid or flexible) for preoperative and postoperative evaluation of 
the vocal cords and for determination of the condition of the larynx. On the 
basis of our experience with acute airway distress, we strongly advocate 
elective surgery for patients with multinodular goiter at the first sign of 
tracheal compression, especially if they have mediastinal extension.

PMID: 3686346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Acta Neurol Scand. 1987 Sep;76(3):183-90. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0404.1987.tb03565.x.

Epilepsy in the elderly: life expectancy and causes of death.

Lühdorf K(1), Jensen LK, Plesner AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Frederiksberg Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.

All patients over the age of 60 who experienced seizures between 1979-83, were 
registered. The number of deaths was registered until July 2, 1985. Included 
were 162 patients who received no anti-epileptic drugs prior to the study 
period; 87 patients had established epilepsy at the time of admission. The 
number of deaths among previously untreated patients significantly exceeded 
expectation. Mortality was not significantly correlated to severity of epilepsy. 
In patients with brain tumor all but one died within the first year. Mortality 
among patients with postapoplectic seizures was significantly higher than 
expected being especially during the first year. Numbers of deaths among 
patients with seizures of unknown cause did not differ from the expected, 
neither did causes of death. Numbers of deaths in patients with established 
epilepsy at the time of admission was significantly higher than expected 
although none had malignant tumours and only 4 had postapoplectic seizures thus 
illustrating the influence of selecting patients with chronic active epilepsy. 
Eleven patients died suddenly and unexpectedly of unknown cause, which was more 
than expected. These patients were found dead under circumstances compatible 
with death occurring during seizure. Epilepsy was mentioned on the death 
certificate in only one case, indicating that the frequency of sudden, 
unexpected death among epileptics could easily be underestimated.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0404.1987.tb03565.x
PMID: 3687369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Arch Inst Pasteur Tunis. 1987 Jul;64(3):351-62.

[Skeletochronological determination of age and demographic analysis of a 
population of Acanthodactylus pardalis (Lischenstein, 1823) of the Kerkennah 
islands (Tunisia)].

[Article in French]

Nouira S(1).

