Author information:
(1)Département des Sciences Biologiques, Faculté des Sciences, Tunis.

The skeletochronological analysis of 34 adult lizards from population of 
Acanthodactylus pardalis of Kerkennah islands in Tunisia enabled to: determine 
the individual age of the animals; delineate four various cohorts making up the 
studied population; evaluate around 4 years life span in nature of this species; 
point out that the renewal rate accounts for 41% of its population. Moreover the 
method of "maximums successifs" is applied on sizeable sample in order to shore 
up the obtained results.

PMID: 3689058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Arch Neurobiol (Madr). 1987 Sep-Oct;50(5):285-93.

[Life tables and cerebrovascular disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Cisneros Linares A, Alvarez Muñoz M.

PMID: 3689088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. J Neurol Sci. 1987 Nov;81(2-3):155-8. doi: 10.1016/0022-510x(87)90092-x.

Life spans of Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients in the hospital care program 
in Japan.

Mukoyama M(1), Kondo K, Hizawa K, Nishitani H.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Neuroscience, NCPN, Tokyo, Japan.

Analysis of 176 autopsy cases of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) demonstrated 
that (1) hospitalized patients showed longer life spans than their 
non-hospitalized affected maternal uncles, (2) patients hospitalized recently 
lived longer than those hospitalized in the past, and (3) pulmonary infection 
has become a less frequent cause of death in recent years, whereas dystrophic 
changes of the cardiac and respiratory muscles are more closely related with 
recent fatal cases. These results indicate the changing life span expectancy of 
patients with DMD and the changes in cause of death over the last decade, 
probably owing to the benefits of a hospital care program.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-510x(87)90092-x
PMID: 3694224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. J Vasc Surg. 1987 Dec;6(6):566-71.

Surgical treatment of renal cell carcinoma involving the inferior vena cava.

Bintz M(1), Cogbill TH, Klein AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Gundersen/Lutheran Medical Center, La Crosse, 
WI.

Renal cell carcinoma extends into the inferior vena cava in 5% of patients 
undergoing exploratory surgery for this malignancy. If the tumor is left 
unresected, death within 1 year is certain. In addition, caval occlusion may 
result in massive lower extremity edema, ascites, hepatic failure, and pulmonary 
embolus. During the past 17 years, 12 patients with renal cell carcinoma 
extending into the inferior vena cava were treated at a single institution by 
radical nephrectomy and caval tumor extraction. There were 10 men (83%) and ages 
ranged from 50 to 78 years (mean 63 years). There was one operative death (8%) 
caused by refractory coagulopathy. Long-term follow-up was achieved for all 
survivors. One- and 3-year survival rates by life-table method were 73% and 27%, 
respectively. Mean survival time after resection was 32 months. Careful 
preoperative planning is essential. The optimal approach for venacaval tumor 
extraction or resection is dictated by the cephalad extent of tumor seen on 
preoperative thoracoabdominal CT scan, ultrasound, or inferior venacavography. 
Disease limited to the infrahepatic vena cava is best approached with a 
thoracoabdominal incision through the eighth intercostal space. Extension of 
tumor to the hepatic veins or right atrium requires median sternotomy in 
combination with an abdominal incision for complete removal. An ellipse of vena 
cava around the origin of the renal vein is excised with the specimen. The 
resultant incision is closed by lateral phleborrhaphy. Late sequelae of the mild 
caval narrowing were not observed. An aggressive multispecialty surgical policy 
for caval extraction and resection of renal cell carcinoma resulted in extended 
patient survival and excellent palliation.

PMID: 3694754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Med Clin (Barc). 1987 Nov 14;89(16):710-1.

[Effect of the evaluation interval on the rates of potential years of life 
lost].

[Article in Spanish]

Redondo Alvaro FL.

PMID: 3695706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Can J Psychiatry. 1986 Mar;31(2):97-100. doi: 10.1177/070674378603100203.

Suicide: ethical and moral issues from a theological perspective.

Best EE.

A historical review of the Jewish, Christian, Islamic, Hindu and Buddist 
attitudes of suicide. The evolution to the contemporary Christian perspective is 
discussed citing contributions of Aristotle, Augustine, Aquinas and Donne. 
Issues raised by life-extension technology are discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/070674378603100203
PMID: 3697909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1986 Apr;(205):43-8.

The total condylar prosthesis.

Insall JN, Kelly M.

Forty knees with total condylar prostheses have been followed for ten years or 
more. There were five failures, one due to infection and four directly related 
to either improper selection or technical reasons. Thirty-five knees (87.5%) 
have a satisfactorily functioning arthroplasty after ten years. There were no 
loose components and no complete radiolucent lines. Technique and correct 
alignment are most important and, provided that the operation is correctly 
performed, conventional polymethyl methacrylate cement fixation is completely 
adequate. The absence of progressive adverse radiologic changes suggests that 
knee arthroplasties have a considerable life expectancy.

PMID: 3698391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1986;55(1):14-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00422886.

Urinary excretion of free noradrenaline and adrenaline related to age, sex and 
hypertension in 265 individuals.

Lehmann M, Keul J.

Urinary excretion of free noradrenaline and adrenaline during 24 h in 265 
individuals was determined and related to sex, age, and hypertension as one 
indicator of the average sympathetic drive. Noradrenaline was found to correlate 
positively with age in healthy individuals. Noradrenaline and adrenaline were 
lower in healthy women than in men during the first half of life expectancy. 
Catecholamine excretion was similar in men and women in the second half of life 
expectancy. In hypertensive individuals, catecholamine excretion was slightly 
higher in the first half, and significantly higher in the second half of life 
expectancy. We assume that the differences in catecholamine excretion can 
contribute to the sex-and age-related differences in incidence of cardiovascular 
diseases, such as hypertension and coronary heart disease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00422886
PMID: 3698984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. J Health Polit Policy Law. 1986 Winter;10(4):729-47. doi: 
10.1215/03616878-10-4-729.

The AIDS epidemic and gay bathhouses: a constitutional analysis.

Rabin JA.

Some legal scholars propose that the right of privacy articulated by the United 
States Supreme Court should be extended to protect homosexual activity. In light 
of the advent of AIDS, should that extension include constitutional protection 
for homosexual men who frequent gay bathhouses? The author argues that although 
the government has the power to close the baths in the name of public health, it 
should not do so without careful and conscious balancing against the privacy 
rights infringed upon by its actions. Balancing the tension between public 
health policy and individual rights applies not only to the specific situation 
of the baths, but also to insurance companies' aim to test all single, young, 
male life and health policy applicants for exposure to the putative AIDS virus; 
to potential health department releases of names of those testing 
antibody-positive for HTLV-III; to the military's rumored plans to discharge all 
personnel suspected of having AIDS; and to school districts seeking to exclude 
children with AIDS.

KIE: In some American cities, health officials have proposed closing gay 
bathhouses in an attempt to slow the spread of acquired immunodeficiency 
syndrome (AIDS) by discouraging promiscuous sexual activity among male 
homosexuals. Rabin examines the constitutional implications of these closings. 
The rights of homosexuals as citizens to privacy, free association, and equal 
protection as members of a suspect class are weighed against the state's 
interest in protecting the public's health. While Rabin questions the necessity 
of closing bathhouses to slow the spread of AIDS, she concludes that courts are 
likely to rule that public health needs must prevail over the associational 
rights of homosexuals.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-10-4-729
PMID: 3701009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. J Theor Biol. 1986 Jan 7;118(1):73-81. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5193(86)80009-1.

Ontogenetic model of ageing and disease formation and mechanisms of natural 
selection.

Dilman VM.

It is known that increased mortality due to environmental hazards results, in 
the course of natural selection, in the shortening of maximum life span and 
acceleration of sexual maturation in a population subjected to an intensified 
pressure from external environment. As a consequence, the prereproductive 
period/maximum life span ratio appears to be approximately the same in each 
species. Mechanisms responsible for this are not clear yet. Since maximum life 
span is limited by both ageing and formation of certain diseases (in humans, the 
so-called main noninfectious diseases), the paper discusses four possible models 
of development of ageing and age-linked disease--ecological, genetic, 
degenerative (metabolic) and ontogenetic. It was found that it is the 
ontogenetic model only that can adequately account for the development of 
moderate shifts in the duration of both sexual maturation and maximum life span. 
It also provides the rationale for the pleotropic activity of genes during the 
development of the organism, its ageing and formation of age-connected diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5193(86)80009-1
PMID: 3702473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. N Engl J Med. 1986 May 8;314(19):1226-32. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198605083141905.

Progress against cancer?

Bailar JC 3rd, Smith EM.

We assessed the overall progress against cancer during the years 1950 to 1982. 
In the United States, these years were associated with increases in the number 
of deaths from cancer, in the crude cancer-related mortality rate, in the 
age-adjusted mortality rate, and in both the crude and the age-adjusted 
incidence rates, whereas reported survival rates (crude and relative) for cancer 
patients also increased. In our view, the best single measure of progress 
against cancer is change in the age-adjusted mortality rate associated with all 
cancers combined in the total population. According to this measure, we are 
losing the war against cancer, notwithstanding progress against several uncommon 
forms of the disease, improvements in palliation, and extension of the 
productive years of life. A shift in research emphasis, from research on 
treatment to research on prevention, seems necessary if substantial progress 
against cancer is to be forthcoming.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198605083141905
PMID: 3702918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Obstet Gynecol. 1986 Jun;67(6):771-5. doi: 10.1097/00006250-198606000-00005.

Birth injury as the cause of mental retardation.

Chaney RH, Givens CA, Watkins GP, Eyman RK.

Mental retardation, on initial impression, may appear to be caused by the birth 
process, but may be disproved by later clinical or autopsy examination. However, 
information often is lacking as to the basic pathology that may have been 
responsible for attributing the cause of the mental retardation to traumatic 
birth. From a 39-year period (1944 to 1983) 1146 records were evaluated at a 
state hospital for mentally retarded persons to determine how the intake 
impression compared with the final clinical and autopsy diagnoses of perinatal 
damage. Clinical evaluations provided some corrections of the intake diagnoses; 
autopsies provided more, but a combination provided the most reliable final 
diagnoses. Of 258 patients diagnosed as birth injury on intake, only 49.2% were 
confirmed by the best clinical and/or autopsy diagnoses. Although the cause of 
mental retardation was not ascertainable by either clinical or autopsy studies 
in 14.8% of cases, 31.4% were corrected to prenatal influences, and 4.6% to 
postnatal brain damage. Patients with perinatal cause of mental retardation 
usually were institutionalized at a young age and died young. If they do not 
require institutionalization until they are older, their life expectancy is 
longer, although still much less than that of normal persons.

DOI: 10.1097/00006250-198606000-00005
PMID: 3703404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Science. 1986 May 16;232(4752):810-1. doi: 10.1126/science.232.4752.810-d.

Nutrition policy controversies.

Harper AE.

DOI: 10.1126/science.232.4752.810-d
PMID: 3704627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. South Med J. 1986 May;79(5):540-2. doi: 10.1097/00007611-198605000-00006.

Kaposi's sarcoma: a comparative analysis in 17 white and 19 black patients.

Lee B, Mora RG.

Kaposi's sarcoma is a multicentric, malignant, neoplastic process that manifests 
itself as multiple vascular tumors. We present a comparative, retrospective 
analysis of demographic and survival data involving patients with Kaposi's 
sarcoma seen at Charity Hospital, New Orleans, over a 35-year period. The 
proportion of blacks and women is significantly higher than previously reported. 
Both blacks and men suffered relatively greater morbidity. In addition, the 
incidence of second primary malignancies in this group of patients is lower than 
previously reported.

DOI: 10.1097/00007611-198605000-00006
PMID: 3704719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1986 May;162(5):426-8.

Combined endoscopic and surgical treatment in Peutz-Jeghers syndrome.

van Coevorden F, Mathus-Vliegen EM, Brummelkamp WH.

A combined endoscopic and surgical treatment in Peutz-Jeghers syndrome is 
presented. Natural history in Peutz-Jeghers syndrome often leads to multiple and 
acute laparotomies, resulting in intestinal resections. This may lead to a short 
bowel syndrome. In order to gain control over the small intestinal polyposis, a 
combined approach by the gastroenterologist and surgeon is performed. At 
laparotomy, an endoscope is introduced orally into the small intestine which is 
then telescoped over it by the surgeon. The small intestine is inspected in 
retrograde order and existing polyposis is treated by endoscopic or surgical 
polypectomy, or both, or by minimal intestinal resection. Thus, a "clean small 
intestine" is created. Data on five patients thus treated are presented. No 
recurrences were seen after this procedure at a mean follow-up period of 21 
months. Combined endoscopic and surgical treatment of Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, 
together with top and tail endoscopy, results in a "clean intestine" and is 
supposed to diminish the need for multiple acute laparotomies and, therefore, 
the risk of a short bowel syndrome. There is also supposed to be an improvement 
in the quality of life and life expectancy.

PMID: 3704894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Am J Public Health. 1986 Jun;76(6):661-6. doi: 10.2105/ajph.76.6.661.

Economic development, political-economic system, and the physical quality of 
life.

Cereseto S, Waitzkin H.

Erratum in
    Am J Public Health 1987 Nov;77(11):1403.

This study compared capitalist and socialist countries in measures of the 
physical quality of life (PQL), taking into account the level of economic 
development. The World Bank was the principal source of statistical data for 123 
countries (97 per cent of the world's population). PQL variables included: 
indicators of health, health services, and nutrition (infant mortality rate, 
child death rate, life expectancy, population per physician, population per 
nursing person, and daily per capita calorie supply); measures of education 
(adult literacy rate, enrollment in secondary education, and enrollment in 
higher education); and a composite PQL index. Capitalist countries fell across 
the entire range of economic development (measured by gross national product per 
capita), while the socialist countries appeared at the low-income, 
lower-middle-income, and upper-middle-income levels. All PQL measures improved 
as economic development increased. In 28 of 30 comparisons between countries at 
similar levels of economic development, socialist countries showed more 
favorable PQL outcomes.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.76.6.661
PMCID: PMC1646771
PMID: 3706593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Am J Public Health. 1986 Jun;76(6):673-80. doi: 10.2105/ajph.76.6.673.

The health care reform in Mexico: before and after the 1985 earthquakes.

Soberón G, Frenk J, Sepúlveda J.

The earthquakes that hit Mexico City in September 1985 caused considerable 
damage both to the population and to important medical facilities. The disaster 
took place while the country was undertaking a profound reform of its health 
care system. This reform had introduced a new principle for allocating and 
distributing the benefits of health care, namely, the principle of citizenship. 
Operationally, the reform includes an effort to decentralize the decision-making 
authority, to modernize the administration, to achieve greater coordination 
within the health sector and among sectors, and to extend coverage to the entire 
population through an ambitious primary care program. This paper examines the 
health context in which the reform was taking place when the September 
earthquakes hit. After presenting the damages caused by the quakes, the paper 
analyzes the characteristics of the immediate response by the health system. 
Since many facilities within the system were severely damaged, a series of 
options for reconstruction are posited. The main lesson to be learned from the 
Mexican case is that cuts in health care programs are not the inevitable 
response to economic or natural crises. On the contrary, it is precisely when 
the majority of the population is undergoing difficulties that a universal and 
equitable health system becomes most necessary.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.76.6.673
PMCID: PMC1646758
PMID: 3706595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Br Heart J. 1986 May;55(5):449-58. doi: 10.1136/hrt.55.5.449.

Factors that influence the outcome of primary pulmonary hypertension.

Rozkovec A, Montanes P, Oakley CM.

Factors predicting life expectancy in primary pulmonary hypertension have not 
been well defined. Thirty four cases of primary pulmonary hypertension that had 
been followed up until death or for at least five years were reviewed 
retrospectively. Patients were divided into three groups: 18 patients who died 
within five years of presentation to hospital; 12 who survived more than five 
years; and four who improved and who lived for more than five years. The age at 
onset was similar in the three groups and, like symptoms and sex, did not 
predict life expectancy. Right heart failure during the course of the disease 
was associated with a poor outcome. Radiographic evidence of cardiac enlargement 
and evidence of right heart strain on electrocardiogram at presentation was also 
predictive of survival for less than five years. Pulmonary arteriolar resistance 
was higher and cardiac output lower in those with the shortest survival times. 
There was no relation between pulmonary artery pressure and length of survival. 
Systemic resistance varied directly with pulmonary resistance and served to 
maintain systemic pressure. Presentation in or after pregnancy and patency of 
the foramen ovale were associated with longer survival. In four patients there 
was evidence of regression of the disease by cardiac catheterisation and lung 
histology. Primary pulmonary hypertension is a heterogeneous condition in which 
life expectancy varies widely.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.55.5.449
PMCID: PMC1216380
PMID: 3707785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Can J Public Health. 1986 Mar-Apr;77(2):81-5.

National health strategies: time for a new "new perspective".

Angus DE, Manga P.

PMID: 3708503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Clin Reprod Fertil. 1986 Feb;4(1):55-64.

Fertility, infertility and generation replacement.

Borrie WD.

Throughout most of human history 'natural fertility' and life expectations of 
about 35 years kept population numbers reasonably balanced; but the achievement 
of life expectations of 75 or more years destroyed this 'natural' system. As 
longevity increased amongst Western peoples, explosive growth rates were only 
prevented by increasingly efficient checks on fertility. Today, these checks are 
so universal and so efficient in Australia and in many other Western countries 
that 'intrinsic' levels of fertility are below generation replacement level. 
Changes in fecundity were not a significant factor in this demographic 
revolution; at least 10-12% of couples remain without issue, but the prime cause 
of the change is the evolution of the two-child family, a process which now 
involves only about a sixth of a couple's fecund married life. For the rest of 
their years most couples are now voluntarily infertile. Correction of 
involuntary sterility is important to individual couples but has little 
significance in terms of generation replacement.

PIP: Increasing longevity in Western countries has required efficient checks on 
natural fertility to avert explosive population growth rates. In Australia 
today, intrinsic levels of fertility are below generation replacement level as a 
result of voluntary infertility. In recent years, total fertility has averaged 
only 1.9 births, although the effects of the baby boom years of the 1950s and 
1960s will continue to yield a positive natural growth until about the year 
2010. At least 10-12% of couples remain childless, but the major cause of the 
trend toward below replacement level fertility has been the evolution of the 
2-child family. Most couples are now voluntarily infertile for 5/6 of fecund 
married life. More efficient methods of fertility control, in particular 
sterilization, and the prevalence of abortion have enabled women to postpone 
their 1st birth and limit family size. Correction of involuntary sterility is of 
importance to individual couples, but has little significance in terms of 
generation replacement.

PMID: 3708509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Cardiol Clin. 1986 May;4(2):175-83.

Aging in America: a demographic perspective.

Guralnik JM, FitzSimmons SC.

This century has seen an enormous growth in the population aged 65 years and 
older. Future projections indicate that there will be increases in both the 
number of older persons and the proportion of the total population that is 
elderly. In this article, population characteristics and mortality and morbidity 
patterns are discussed. Consideration is given to the present and future impact 
that demographic changes in the elderly will have on health care utilization and 
expenditures.

PMID: 3708636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Environ Res. 1986 Jun;40(1):98-102. doi: 10.1016/s0013-9351(86)80085-8.

A mortality study of patients with Itai-itai disease.

Kawano S, Nakagawa H, Okumura Y, Tsujikawa K.

A follow-up study was carried out from April 1967 to October 1982 on 117 
patients with Itai-itai disease and 117 controls matched for age, sex, and 
residential area. The number of deaths during this period was significantly 
higher in the patients with Itai-itai disease (85, 72.6%) than in the controls 
(59, 50.4%). Comparison of the annual data from 1968 to 1982 showed that the 
number of deaths was significantly larger in the patient group. The mean 
survival time in years up to October 1982 was 76.4 in the patient group and 78.3 
in the control group; the difference is statistically significant. These results 
show a long-lasting influence of Itai-itai disease on the prognosis of the 
patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0013-9351(86)80085-8
PMID: 3709503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Eur Urol. 1986;12(3):145-50. doi: 10.1159/000472603.

Surgical management of renal cell carcinoma with vena cava tumor thrombus.

Giuliani L, Giberti C, Martorana G, Rovida S.

The results of the surgical management of 28 patients with renal cell carcinoma 
extending into the inferior vena cava have been analyzed. 8 patients had caval 
tumor thrombus extension at the level of the renal veins, 14 had infrahepatic, 5 
retrohepatic and 1 atrial tumor thrombus extension. The caval wall was 
infiltrated by tumor in 7 cases. 9 patients had metastases. Lymph node 
involvement was seen in 9 patients. Life-table analysis of all 28 patients 
revealed on overall probability of survival of 32 and 9% at 2 and 5 years, 
respectively. The patients with caval involvement alone (N0M0) had a 2-year 
survival rate of 69%. Those with distant metastases or caval infiltration had a 
2-year survival of 27 and 0% (p = NS). The level of caval tumor thrombus 
extension had a statistically insignificant influence on the survival of 
patients. In fact the 2-year survival rates of patients with caval thrombus at 
the level of the renal veins, below the large hepatic veins and above the large 
hepatic veins were 30, 36 and 32%, respectively. Our statistical data 
demonstrate that caval involvement has a very negative impact on the prognosis 
of patients with renal cancer.

DOI: 10.1159/000472603
PMID: 3709581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Demography. 1986 May;23(2):261-74.

A generalization of life expectancy which incorporates the age distribution of 
the population and its use in the measurement of the impact of mortality 
reduction.

Newman SC.

PMID: 3709899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Demography. 1986 May;23(2):275-82.

A new look at entropy and the life table.

Goldman N, Lord G.

PMID: 3709900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Mayo Clin Proc. 1986 Jul;61(7):579-85. doi: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)62008-4.

Breast reconstruction: current state of the art.

Woods JE.

Erratum in
    Mayo Clin Proc 1986 Nov;61(11):907.

The current state of the art makes breast reconstruction possible in any patient 
who has undergone mastectomy, whether simple, modified radical, or radical. 
Indications for reconstruction are a strong desire on the part of the patient 
and a reasonable life expectancy. Methods of reconstruction include the simple 
placement of a breast prosthesis alone (submuscularly when possible) or in 
combination with advancement of upper abdominal skin or rotation flaps. Expander 
implants are useful in patients with limited skin and musculature. For the 
patient with serious muscle and skin deficits, more complex reconstructive 
procedures with use of transverse rectus abdominis or latissimus dorsi 
myocutaneous flaps may be performed, with or without an implant. Several methods 
of reconstruction of the nipple and areola are also possible. Treatment of the 
opposite breast is often necessary if symmetry is to be achieved. When 
appropriate, augmentation, mastopexy, reduction, or subcutaneous mastectomy may 
be performed. There is no single preferred method of reconstruction. The 
approach should be tailored for each patient.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)62008-4
PMID: 3713262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Med J Aust. 1986 May 26;144(11):563-4. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1986.tb112308.x.

Causes of death in Australia, 1971-1981.

Pollard JH.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1986.tb112308.x
PMID: 3713583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1986 Apr;17(2):65-8.

[Urologic tumors in old age].

[Article in Dutch]

Debruyne FM.

Malignant urological diseases account for an important part of all malignant 
tumors in the elderly. It is obvious that in the elderly the same diagnostic 
tools should be applied for diagnosing and staging of a tumor. This screening is 
important to select those tumors which are accessible for curative therapy. 
Generally this is only possible when the tumor is limited within the borders of 
the organ. In these cases curative surgery with acceptable morbidity and minimal 
mortality is also possible in the elderly. Radical nephrectomy, prostatectomy 
and cystectomy are applied when a life-expectancy of approximately 10 years is 
present. When metastasized, only palliative measurements are possible. The 
quality of life now plays a major role and is more important than the survival 
time. This has to be taken into account when considering palliative treatment of 
any kind.

PMID: 3715964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1986;80(6):259-61.

[Mortality data and their processing in East Germany].

[Article in German]

Casper W, Giersdorf P, Berndt H.

PMID: 3716486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1986 Mar 1;41(5):126-31.

[Nutrition and aging].

[Article in German]

Kinner B, Reuter W.

Proceeding from experiences with animal-experimental studies is tried to show 
all those mechanisms which have influence on the ageing process of man. In these 
cases in the experimental part of the study is particularly investigated the 
influence of the restriction of food in obese patients on the cardiovascular 
system, the lipid metabolism and the biological age. In obese patients of middle 
age by isocaloric reduction diet a normalisation of the at present changed 
non-invasive cardiodynamic parameters could be achieved. Apart from a 
normalisation of cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol, however, a decrease of the 
HDL-cholesterol of the same intensity was found. The biological age could be 
influenced under restriction of food. To what extent overweight and food 
restriction in man closely correlate with the life expectancy remains the 
subject of further investigations.

PMID: 3716502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Biometrics. 1986 Mar;42(1):219-20.

Confidence intervals for the survival function in the presence of covariates.

O'Quigley J.

PMID: 3719061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Br J Psychiatry. 1986 Mar;148:310-6. doi: 10.1192/bjp.148.3.310.

Mortality and facial dyskinesia.

McClelland HA, Dutta D, Metcalfe A, Kerr TA.

In 1965 a psychiatric in-patient population was surveyed for the prevalence of 
facial dyskinesia. The present investigation reports on their survival time. 
Among male and female patients with functional disorders (mostly schizophrenia) 
there was a strong association between moderate or severe facial dyskinesia and 
shortened survival, but no clinical factors were found to explain this. Mild 
facial dyskinesia in functional disorders was not associated with reduced life 
expectancy and may be attributable to the general effects of ageing rather than 
to a specific pathological process. Among patients with primary organic brain 
syndromes, dyskinesia was not associated with reduced life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.148.3.310
PMID: 3719224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Dermatol Clin. 1986 Jul;4(3):371-7.

Aging of the United States population. The dermatologic implications.

Johnson ML.

Clearly in the near and later future the older patient will augment 
significantly the burden of dermatologic disease and the consequent need for 
care. Increasing in numerical strength, those 65 years and older, carrying along 
the common problems prevalent in every adult age group, will, by living longer, 
have new problems related to wear, tear, and actinic exposure as well as 
pharmacologically induced problems arising from needed therapy for other 
conditions. The predictable challenge to our specialty is formidable.

PMID: 3720031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 1986 May;21(5-6):347-55. doi: 
10.1016/0028-2243(86)90014-6.

New perspectives in early human development.

Prechtl HF.

A new hypothesis is presented concerning the maturation of the human nervous 
system and the duration of pregnancy. It has been found that many neural 
functions characteristic of the fetus continue after birth until a major 
transformation takes place at the end of the second postnatal month. From a 
comparative perspective the duration of pregnancy in man is relatively short 
among primates. An explanation may be found in metabolic constraint. The special 
energy demands of a large fetal nervous system and the build-up of a 
subcutaneous fat deposit may have prevented a proportional prolongation of 
pregnancy during evolution of hominids.

DOI: 10.1016/0028-2243(86)90014-6
PMID: 3721046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Gerontologist. 1986 Jun;26(3):298-302. doi: 10.1093/geront/26.3.298.

Trends in the health of the aged.

Palmore EB.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/26.3.298
PMID: 3721237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Int Urol Nephrol. 1986;18(1):37-43. doi: 10.1007/BF02082646.

Late results of surgical treatment of renal clear-cell carcinoma.

Czaplicki M, Borkowski A, Wesołowski S, Kuzaka B, Walecki S, Milewski JB.

Late results of surgical treatment are reported in a group of 140 patients 
operated for clear-cell renal carcinoma in the years 1960-1974. The mean 
survival time was 5.61 years for males and 6.59 years for females which is, 
respectively, 14.19 years and 15.39 years shorter than the mean life expectancy 
of their peers in the general population. The survival time of males depended in 
15.7% on the age at the time of operation and in 68.7% on the tumour progression 
grade (T). The respective data of females were 13% and 17.6%. The 5-year 
survival rate was 40% and the 10-year survival rate was 28.6%.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02082646
PMID: 3721763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Jpn Circ J. 1986 Feb;50(2):164-73. doi: 10.1253/jcj.50.164.

Evaluation of clinical factors involved in onset of myocardial infarction.

Sumiyoshi T, Haze K, Saito M, Fukami K, Goto Y, Hiramori K.

In order to discuss the mechanism of onset in myocardial infarction (MI), 
clinical cases were reviewed and various clinical findings were analyzed 
according to the premise that the onset of MI requires both a predisposition and 
a trigger. The majority of subjects did present conditions that constituted 
predispositions for MI, including a history of angina pectoris (especially 
unstable angina), poor therapeutic results for angina pectoris, organic stenosis 
of the coronary artery, life changes, and overwork. Patients with multiple 
factors tended to develop MI without a definite trigger, i.e., onset during 
sleep or rest whereas, in patients with fewer predisposing factors, it was 
obvious effort, excitation or stress that triggered MI. However, not a few of 
the patients presented with no organic stenosis of the coronary artery or no 
history of angina pectoris. There were patients without ST segment elevation at 
onset of MI, and patients in whom ST elevation was recorded after onset. These 
findings suggest the existence of mechanisms other than coronary occlusion in 
onset of MI. Occlusion of the coronary artery distributed to the infarct region 
occurred frequently among patients with delayed CPK efflux as well as prolonged 
chest pain and ST segment elevation. These lines of evidence suggest extension 
of infarction due to secondary coronary occlusion.

DOI: 10.1253/jcj.50.164
PMID: 3723778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Mech Ageing Dev. 1986 May;34(3):313. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(86)90083-7.

Does the capacity of ribosomes to control translation fidelity change with age.

Butzow JJ, Eichhorn GL, Filion AM, Laughrea M.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(86)90083-7
PMID: 3724257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Psychol Med. 1986 May;16(2):423-9. doi: 10.1017/s0033291700009259.

Psychological deviance in children attending general practice.

Garralda ME, Bailey D.

Parental questionnaires identified 22% of children aged 7-12 years attending 8 
general practices as psychologically deviant. Most attended for physical 
complaints. A comparison with general population rates showed that deviant 
children were over-represented among surgery attenders, particularly in the more 
socially advantaged areas. This finding may be explained through an excess of 
somatic symptoms in deviant children; increased parental concern about the 
child's health as an extension of concern about his behaviour; family stress. 
These possibilities are discussed.

DOI: 10.1017/s0033291700009259
PMID: 3726014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Radiologe. 1986 May;26(5):227-9.

[Skeletal age determination in adolescence and the 3d decade of life].

[Article in German]

Willich E.

The determination of bone age of hand and wrist focussing primarily on bone 
centre development is limited to childhood and during this period has diagnostic 
significance as well as therapeutic consequences. At puberty the fusion of 
epiphyseal growth plates is more important: it reflects the termination of 
growth and the biological stage of development. An extension of knowledge can be 
obtained by correlating age beyond 18 years into the third decade of life. This 
allows sex determination and reflects maturation processes through the 
appearance and fusion of the apophyses of the iliac crest and the ischial bone. 
The indications are mainly forensic and for an individual's identification.

PMID: 3726097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Radiother Oncol. 1986 Apr;5(4):271-6. doi: 10.1016/s0167-8140(86)80175-x.

Stage III carcinoma of cervix. The importance of increasing age and extent of 
parametrial infiltration.

Benstead K, Cowie VJ, Blair V, Hunter RD.

The relative importance of a number of potential prognostic factors was analysed 
for a sequential group of 296 patients with stage III carcinoma of the cervix 
who had been treated in a mature prospective clinical trial. Using a log-rank 
analysis of survival curves generated by the life-table method increasing age (p 
= 0.05) and extent of parametrial infiltration (p = 0.001) were found to be 
significantly related to prognosis. These two factors were further demonstrated 
to be independent variables and, of the two, parametrial extension (p = 0.002) 
was more significant than increased age (p = 0.035). Involvement of the lower 
third of the vagina, the presence of bullous oedema and the histological 
differentiation of the disease were not prognostically significant in this 
study. It is suggested that tumour volume as defined by extent of parametrial 
infiltration is a sufficiently good prognostic factor to be incorporated into a 
revised staging system.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-8140(86)80175-x
PMID: 3726165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Rev Infect Dis. 1986 May-Jun;8(3):467-75. doi: 10.1093/clinids/8.3.467.

Selective primary health care. XXV. Management priorities.

Foege WH, Henderson DA.

PIP: Provision of the greatest health benefits for the greatest number in 
developing countries requires setting priorities which will differ in each 
country according to its existing infrastructure. All programs are based on the 
foundation of immunization, control of diarrheal diseases, family planning and 
primary health centers. One of the major barriers to introduction of equitable 
health care in inadequate management, particularly at the provincial and local 
levels. In many countries solutions have been introduced with incomplete data, 
problem definition and monitoring. Typically health delivery systems of 
industrialized countries have been duplicated, emphasizing tertiary care 
facilities and curative treatment. The smallpox eradication campaign 
demonstrated the importance of surveillance, evaluation, management and the 
power of management. Major considerations in selection of priority programs are 
the major disease problems in terms of morbidity, mortality and cost, the 
existing health system, and skills needed. Successful programs have been 
remarkable for high literacy, particularly female literacy, and social 
organization acting beyond the individual. Development of an immunization 
infrastructure is one of the most important primary health care priorities, and 
forms the basis of the skills needed to supply other types of primary care. 
Besides traditional health problems, developing countries will need to deal with 
emerging issues brought on by smoking, alcohol, vehicle crashes and industrial 
exposure as they make the transition to development.

DOI: 10.1093/clinids/8.3.467
PMID: 3726396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Sud Med Ekspert. 1986 Apr-Jun;29(2):51-4.

[Social and medical consequences of alcohol drinking].

[Article in Russian]

Morozov GV, Tomilin VV.

PMID: 3726919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Vopr Onkol. 1986;32(6):44-9.

[Preoperative prognosis of the outcome of the surgical treatment of patients for 
lung cancer metastases to the brain].

[Article in Russian]

Lipattsev II, Mogil'ner AI.

Quantitative analysis of patients' history, catamnesis, clinical and X-ray data 
formed the basis for a statistically reliable evaluation of the significance of 
each factor or symptom in making prognosis for surgical treatment of patients 
with lung cancer metastases into the brain. Such data provide a rationale for 
admission of such cases to neurosurgical wards.

PMID: 3727481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 1986 Apr;73(4):366-71. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0447.1986.tb02697.x.

Duration of survival in senile dementia.

Diesfeldt HF, van Houte LR, Moerkens RM.

In this study 297 institutionalized patients with primary degenerative dementia 
were investigated. Age at onset of dementia was determined and individual 
longevity quotients (i.e. actual duration of survival divided by expected 
survival) were calculated. Expected survival was derived from the Dutch life 
tables for the general population. Age at onset of dementia was 75.6 +/- 7.8 
years (mean +/- SD). Duration of dementia until death was 7.2 +/- 4.1 years. 
Dementia of early onset (before age 76) was associated with a significantly 
reduced life expectancy (LQ = 0.70 +/- 0.30), but this was not found for onset 
after age 75 (LQ = 0.91 +/- 0.58). Duration of symptoms at the time of admission 
into a nursing home was not associated with severity of behavioural and 
cognitive impairments as measured with behaviour rating scales. However, the 
severity of behavioural impairments predicted 1-year survival after admission, 
as could be shown by multivariate analysis which corrected for the effects of 
age and sex.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0447.1986.tb02697.x
PMID: 3728061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Am J Med. 1986 Jun;80(6):1115-27. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(86)90674-1.

Postmenopausal estrogens in prevention of osteoporosis. Benefit virtually 
without risk if cardiovascular effects are considered.

Hillner BE, Hollenberg JP, Pauker SG.

Postmenopausal estrogens can delay or prevent osteoporosis and decrease the 
frequency of fractures, but they also increase the risk of endometrial cancer. A 
decision analytic model was developed using a Markov process with 18 different 
states to estimate quality-adjusted life expectancy with and without estrogen 
therapy. The model considered fractures of the hip, wrist, pelvis, humerus and 
spine with potential outcomes of short-term morbidity, long-term disability, 
nursing home placement, and death. Quality adjustments were based on expert 
opinions. In sensitivity analyses, various risks of endometrial cancer and 
hysterectomy due to estrogens were examined. The effect of estrogen therapy on 
cardiac mortality also was considered. For a cohort of 50-year-old white women 
who would take estrogens for 15 years, the analysis showed a benefit of 0.47 
years but 0.67 quality-adjusted years. For every five-fold increase in the 
relative risk of endometrial cancer, the benefit decreases by 0.07 quality 
years. The benefit would increase by 0.17 quality years for each 10 percent 
decrease in the fracture rate and 0.32 for each 10 percent decrease in 
cardiovascular mortality rate. Thus, estrogen therapy provides a significant 
gain in quality-adjusted life expectancy. In considering the efficacy of any 
drug, all the benefits of the drug as well as all its risks must be included. If 
the beneficial effect of estrogens on cardiovascular mortality is confirmed, it 
will overshadow all other effects. Any recommendation about postmenopausal 
estrogens with respect to osteoporosis that excludes their cardiovascular 
effects markedly underestimates the potential gains from therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(86)90674-1
PMID: 3728509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Am J Med. 1986 Jun;80(6):1169-76. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(86)90680-7.

Clinical decision consultation service.

Plante DA, Kassirer JP, Zarin DA, Pauker SG.

Since 1978, decision analysis consultations have been offered to help physicians 
manage particularly vexing clinical problems. Consultations were requested for 
decisions perceived as difficult because: the diagnosis was uncertain; the 
available therapy had uncertain efficacy or risks; the patient had a short life 
expectancy that limited the potential benefit of therapy; the risk of a given 
test or therapy was increased and the usual rules for applying the test or 
giving the treatment did not apply; the need for a therapeutic procedure was 
acknowledged, but competing risks created uncertainty about the optimal timing 
of the procedure; the optimal sequence of multiple necessary procedures could 
not be discerned readily; explicit patient input into decision-making was 
required; certain medical information could not be interpreted easily; and a 
rare, unique, or new problem was encountered. To carry out these consultations, 
standard techniques were used, including decision tree models, Bayes' theorem, 
Markov analysis, and utility assessment, but old approaches were modified to 
adapt decision analysis to individual patient problems. This experience 
demonstrates that decision analysis can be carried out effectively on a 
consultative basis for individual patients. A consultation service can also 
train analysts in decision-making and drive research in medical problem solving.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(86)90680-7
PMID: 3728511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Am J Surg. 1986 Jul;152(1):100-4. doi: 10.1016/0002-9610(86)90155-8.

Home support of patients with end-stage malignant bowel obstruction using 
hydration and venting gastrostomy.
