
Gemlo B, Rayner AA, Lewis B, Wong A, Viele CS, Ungaretti JR, DeLorimier AA, Hohn 
DC.

Palliative terminal care of patients with malignant bowel obstruction is a major 
clinical and ethical challenge. These patients are often mentally alert and 
ambulatory, but are kept in the hospital for hydration, nasogastric suction, and 
pain control. Parenteral nutrition requires frequent metabolic monitoring, is 
expensive, and is ethically questionable. We have used an alternative method of 
home management for 27 patients who met the following criteria: inoperable bowel 
obstruction due to untreatable cancer, an estimated life expectancy of between 2 
weeks and 3 months, and understanding of the goals and limits of therapy. 
Hydration was provided by 10 percent dextrose and electrolyte solutions 
administered as overnight infusions through long-term central venous catheters. 
Thirteen patients with complete bowel obstruction required a venting gastrostomy 
which, when connected to passive drainage, relieved nausea and vomiting. The 
mean duration of survival was 64 days (range 9 to 223 days). Acceptance by 
patients and families was excellent, although most acknowledged increased costs 
due to limited insurance coverage for outpatient care. Seven patients returned 
to the hospital for terminal care (average stay 3.2 days), and 20 chose to die 
at home. The mean daily expense for fluids and supplies was +73.50, with an 
overall cost decrease of $900,000 compared with inpatient care. Home support 
with fluids and gastric venting is a humane, cost-effective alternative to 
in-hospital care for selected patients.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9610(86)90155-8
PMID: 3728801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Br J Surg. 1986 Jul;73(7):573-5. doi: 10.1002/bjs.1800730720.

Synchronous abdominotrans-sphincteric resection of low rectal cancer: new 
technique for direct colo-anal anastomosis.

Lazorthes F, Fages P, Chiotasso P, Bugat R.

Sixty-five patients with low rectal cancer 4-9 cm from the anal margin were 
treated by rectal resection and direct colo-anal anastomosis. The procedure 
simultaneously combined abdominal dissection with the patient in the lateral 
position with a trans-sphincteric approach. In 57 cases a temporary 
defunctioning colostomy was performed. There were no postoperative deaths. Six 
patients (9 per cent) developed pelvic sepsis or anastomotic leakage. Faecal 
continence was normal in 46 of 51 patients (91 per cent) who were operated on at 
least 1 year previously. The remaining 5 complained of occasional minor soiling. 
No patients require a permanent colostomy for incontinence. Of 29 patients 
treated for potential cure greater than 3 years previously, 24 (82 per cent) 
were alive without recurrence. Local recurrence occurred in four patients (6 per 
cent). Direct colo-anal anastomosis using a combined abdominotrans-sphincteric 
approach has produced good functional results without impairing the patient's 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.1800730720
PMID: 3730792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Del Med J. 1986 Jun;58(6):411-4, 419-21.

Life insurance underwriting and the physician.

Mills WA.

PMID: 3732572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Ital J Orthop Traumatol. 1986 Mar;12(1):69-75.

Subcapital fractures of the femur. Treatment by reduction and fixation and 3 
spongy bone screws.

Adravanti P, Pisano F.

The authors reviewed 21 cases of subcapital fracture of the femur treated by 
reduction and fixation with 3 spongy bone screws (AO type) between 1980 and 
1983. There were 4 failures (2 non-union and 2 ischaemic necrosis, one definite 
and one suspected). In all patients with a reasonable life expectancy the 
treatment should be reduction and fixation, but the technique must be extremely 
accurate. If open reduction is necessary to ensure perfect reduction, it must be 
by the anterior route so as not to inflict further damage on the blood supply. 
Fixation must be rigid and sustained. This can be best achieved by using 3 
screws of the AO spongy type which also ensures a degree of compression which 
enhances consolidation.

PMID: 3733425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Mech Ageing Dev. 1986 Jun;35(1):31-8. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(86)90063-1.

Effects of increased lifespan on chromatin condensation in the adult male 
housefly.

Panno JP, Nair KK.

Analysis of the chromatin condensation pattern in optic lobe nuclei from the 
adult male housefly has shown significant differences in males from a long 
lived, low activity (LA) group as compared to a short lived, high activity (HA) 
group. The rate of chromatin condensation in the LA group was very much less 
than that observed in the HA group, leaving the nuclei from the former group in 
a permanently lowered condensation state. Moreover, a detailed comparison of the 
amount and spatial distribution of a single high density chromatin component 
(HDC) suggests that the low activity conditions not only lowers the rate of 
chromatin condensation but also alters the normal program controlling this 
process. Linear discriminant analysis showed that a consistently higher 
percentage of nuclei from the LA group, as compared to the HA group, could be 
classified with a 1-day-old model derived from the HA group. These results are 
discussed with respect to environmental influences on lifespan and are compared 
to the response of lipofuscin accumulation in low activity male houseflies.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(86)90063-1
PMID: 3736129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Sci Total Environ. 1986 May;51:125-47. doi: 10.1016/0048-9697(86)90296-2.

Public attitudes towards chemical hazards.

Lee TR.

Public concern over chemical hazards is increasing in a context where overall 
life expectancy has rapidly improved. However, people's expectations of safety 
continue to exceed the presently attained levels and a mistrust of technological 
expertise is pervasive. Paradoxically this may arise because the ordinary person 
has assimilated scientific notions of causality that partially replace religious 
or magical explanations for accidents and catastrophes. The public's perceptions 
of risk frequently diverge considerably (in either direction) from the 
probabilistic risk assessments made by engineers and scientists. Both 
assessments are usually wrong: reconciliation rather than confrontations should 
be sought. The public is not 'irrational', it has different reasons and values. 
A brief view is given of the methodology and main findings of research on 
perceived risk, both comparative approaches and those where perceptions of a 
single hazard are explored in detail. Illustrative studies of community 
attitudes to pesticides, chemical food additives and of people's beliefs about 
nuclear power are outlined.

DOI: 10.1016/0048-9697(86)90296-2
PMID: 3738488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1986 Jul-Sep;67(3):25-9.

Record longevity maintained.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 3738735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1986 Jun;17(3):99-103.

[The biological basis of aging. The free radicals theory].

[Article in Dutch]

Koster JF.

Several theories were formulated to explain the process of aging. Now they often 
appeared out of date. The free radical theory is a rather recent one that is 
based on the production of free radicals during normal physiological 
respiration. A lot of data indicate their role in the progress of aging. Clearly 
also other factors play a role in this process: the toxicity of free radicals 
may for instance depend on the availability of free iron. So on the one hand we 
need oxygen for existence and free radicals may destroy infectious bacteria; on 
the other hand oxygen appears to be toxic and may be supposed to underly the 
process of aging.

PMID: 3738973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Z Alternsforsch. 1986 May-Jun;41(3):143-5.

[Does chronic uptake of fluorine in an organism have an effect on life 
expectancy in man?].

[Article in German]

Schmidt CW.

Examinations of subjects with skeletal fluorosis indicated that the long-term 
deposition of fluorine in the human organism may possibly have a positive 
influence on the expectation of life.

PMID: 3739380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Verh K Acad Geneeskd Belg. 1986;48(1):5-31.

[Current gains in basic gerontology and clinical geriatrics].

[Article in Dutch]

Verdonk G.

PMID: 3739421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Acta Med Scand. 1986;219(5):481-7. doi: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1986.tb03343.x.

Tuberculosis in a developed country.

Lange P, Mortensen J, Viskum K.

All 515 patients notified for tuberculosis for the first time in 1972, 1977 and 
1982 in Copenhagen have been studied. Changes during the period and differences 
between Danes and immigrants were looked for. The percentage of immigrants 
increased during the period. The immigrants had a different age distribution, 
higher frequency of extrapulmonary tuberculosis with a distribution different 
from that of Danes, fewer complicating diseases and they drank less alcohol. No 
significant changes in the patient population took place in the decade studied, 
except for a decreasing number of Danes with tuberculosis, a decreasing number 
of abacillary patients and an increase in the percentage of extrapulmonary 
tuberculosis. At follow-up in 1983, none of the immigrants, but 147 of 407 Danes 
had died, mainly from complicating diseases. Life expectancy for the Danes, who 
survived the initial phase, was not significantly different from that for the 
population at large. None of the patients were bacillary at the time of the 
follow-up.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1986.tb03343.x
PMID: 3739753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1986 Jun;70(2):145-60. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.1330700202.

Poor growth prior to early childhood: decreased health and life-span in the 
adult.

Clark GA, Hall NR, Armelagos GJ, Borkan GA, Panjabi MM, Wetzel FT.

Previous studies in animal populations have shown that stunted neural and 
thymolymphatic growth early in development may result in permanently impaired 
neural and immune function, decreased body growth, vertebral wedging, and 
decreased life-span. In the human adult, small vertebral neural canal (VNC) 
diameters may reflect early stunted neural and immune development and impaired 
function that leads to decreased health (inferred by greater vertebral wedging) 
and life-span in the adult. VNC, which complete their growth by early childhood 
(age 4), are markers of early development in adults. On the other hand, features 
following general body growth, such as height, weight (represented here by 
vertebral body height) continues to grow until young adulthood. They are less 
reliable, because they readily experience catch-up growth (even in chronically 
stressed populations) and, unlike VNC, may mask poor early growth. To test 
associations between early growth and adult health and life-span in humans, we 
measured 2,060 VNC, vertebral heights, vertebral wedging, nerve-root tunnel 
lengths, severity of vertebral osteophytosis, and ages at death in 90 adult 
(aged 15-55 years) prehistoric skeletons (950-1300 A.D.). Tibial lengths were 
also measured in a subsample (n = 30). Multivariate, bivariate, and 
nonparametric analyses showed that small VNC are significantly associated with 
greater vertebral wedging and decreased life-span (P less than 0.05-0.00001). 
VNC are independent of vertebral body heights and tibial lengths (general body 
growth). VNC, but not statural components, are useful in predicting adult 
health, presumably because they reflect neural and immune development and do not 
readily experience catch-up growth. Thus, longitudinal retrospective measures of 
early growth and adult health were systematically linked within individuals 
regardless of confounding factors operating over the 350-year time period. Since 
this research was completed, this model has repeatedly been independently 
confirmed in four living urban industrial populations. Longitudinal 
retrospective analysis was employed together with direct measures of VNC, neural 
and immune function. Together these results suggested that it may be essential 
to improve growth prior to early childhood in order to maximize adult health and 
life-span.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330700202
PMID: 3740243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Basic Life Sci. 1986;38:543-9. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4615-9462-8_57.

Problems in interspecies comparisons.

Wilson R, Crouch EA.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-9462-8_57
PMID: 3741346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Can J Public Health. 1986 May-Jun;77(3):216-20.

Health expectancy by local area in Montreal: a summary of findings.

Wilkins R.

PMID: 3742407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Child Care Health Dev. 1986 Jul-Aug;12(4):251-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2214.1986.tb00504.x.

Practical and psychological problems for parents of children with epidermolysis 
bullosa.

Lansdown R, Atherton D, Dale A, Sproston S, Lloyd J.

Parents of children with epidermolysis bullosa were sent a questionnaire seeking 
information on problems associated with the condition; 45% replied and their 
responses are discussed in terms of reported needs. Epidermolysis bullosa (EB) 
is the name given to a group of distinct, inherited disorders which are manifest 
as an exceptional liability of the skin to blister and ulcerate following 
mechanical trauma. There are three principal groups: EB simplex, dystrophic EB 
and junctional EB. All forms of EB simplex are inherited as autosomal dominant 
traits. These diseases are generally relatively mild but some patients are 
sufficiently disabled to prevent their walking more than 200 yards at a time. 
Dystrophic EB is of variable severity; not unknown are problems such as fusion 
of the fingers, fixation of the tongue, shrinkage of the mouth and oesophageal 
stenosis. When severe this is an exceptionally disabling disorder associated 
with a significant reduction in life expectancy. Junctional EB is always serious 
and death within the first few years of life, often within the first few weeks, 
is usual. DEBRA, the Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa Research Association, is a 
self-help group of sufferers and their families. A questionnaire aimed at 
eliciting problems associated with this condition was sent to 138 members and 
their replies form the basis of this paper.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2214.1986.tb00504.x
PMID: 3742737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Circulation. 1986 Sep;74(3):449-54. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.74.3.449.

Cardiology 1985: 'Whither are we tending and what ought our aim to be?' 
Presidential address.

Ryan TJ.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.74.3.449
PMID: 3742747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Circulation. 1986 Sep;74(3):509-17. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.74.3.509.

Ten year survival after coronary artery bypass surgery for angina in patients 
aged 65 years and older.

Rahimtoola SH, Grunkemeier GL, Starr A.

We have assessed the long-term results of coronary bypass surgery for angina 
from 1974 to 1983 in 1304 patients aged 65 years and older (group 1). Using 
actuarial techniques, we determined that the 5 year and 10 year survival rates 
for patients 65 years old or older were 81 +/- 2% and 65 +/- 3% (mean +/- SE), 
respectively. The patients aged 65 years and older were further subdivided into 
those aged 65 to 74 years (group 1a) and 75 to 84 years (group 1b) and were 
compared with 1700 patients aged 55 to 64 years (group 2). The operative 
mortality in the three subgroups was 3%, 3%, and 2%, respectively (p = NS). For 
coronary bypass surgery, the duration of hospital stay was significantly longer 
(p less than .0001) by a mean of 1 to 2 days for group 1 patients and the cost 
of hospitalization was higher by a mean of $ 700 (p = .25). The cost of 
hospitalization was significantly higher only for group 1b patients (p = .005). 
The 5 year survival rates for the three subgroups (1a, 1b, and 2) were 83 +/- 
2%, 73 +/- 5%, and 91 +/- 1%, respectively, and the 10 year survival rates were 
66 +/- 3%, 65 +/- 7% (7 year rate for subgroup 1b), and 77 +/- 2%, respectively. 
The lower survival rates for subgroups 1a and 1b were significant (p less than 
.001); however, this lower survival was only seen in men.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.74.3.509
PMID: 3742752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Health Bull (Edinb). 1986 Jul;44(4):203-17.

Ten years after reorganisation: changes in mortality measures 1974-1983 in 
Scotland and health boards.

Carstairs V, Redpath A.

PMID: 3744817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. HNO. 1986 Jul;34(7):296-300.

[Significance of distant metastases and secondary cancers as a cause of death in 
patients with ENT cancers].

[Article in German]

Wolfensberger M, Krause M.

Hospital charts and autopsy reports of 148 patients with head and neck carcinoma 
were reviewed in order to assess the mortality from distant metastases and other 
primaries. 49% of the patients with uncontrolled local or regional disease died 
with distant metastases. Only 4% of these patients had a second primary. In 
patients with controlled local and regional disease the opposite was found. 
Distant metastases were uncommon (9%). Yet, 44% of the patients died of a second 
primary located in the upper aerodigestive tract or lungs. If life expectancy in 
patients with controlled head and neck carcinoma is to be improved, early 
detection of second primaries is important. As only 9% of patients with locally 
controlled disease die from distant metastases adjuvant chemotherapy is not 
indicated.

PMID: 3744914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. J Math Biol. 1986;24(2):119-40. doi: 10.1007/BF00275995.

Dependent competing risks: a stochastic process model.

Yashin AI, Manton KG, Stallard E.

Analyses of human mortality data classified according to cause of death 
frequently are based on competing risk theory. In particular, the times to death 
for different causes often are assumed to be independent. In this paper, a 
competing risk model with a weaker assumption of conditional independence of the 
times to death, given an assumed stochastic covariate process, is developed and 
applied to cause specific mortality data from the Framingham Heart Study. The 
results generated under this conditional independence model are compared with 
analogous results under the standard marginal independence model. Under the 
assumption that this conditional independence model is valid, the comparison 
suggests that the standard model overestimates by 4% the effect on life 
expectancy at age 30 due to the hypothetical elimination of cancer and by 7% the 
effect for cardiovascular/cerebrovascular disease. By age 80 the overestimates 
were 11% for cancer and 16% for heart disease. These results suggest the 
importance of avoiding the marginal independence assumption when appropriate 
data are available--especially when focusing on mortality at advanced ages.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00275995
PMID: 3746135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1986 Jun;40(2):97-102. doi:
10.1136/jech.40.2.97.

Mortality ratios, life expectancy, and causes of death in patients with Turner's 
syndrome.

Price WH, Clayton JF, Collyer S, De Mey R, Wilson J.

In a prospective study of 156 female patients with Turner's syndrome who had 
survived infancy and been followed up for an average of 17 years there were 15 
deaths. The expected mortality was 3.6. Sixteen of the patients had a congenital 
heart anomaly and five of the deaths occurred in this group. The 10 deaths in 
the remaining 140 were three times as many as expected. The reduction in life 
expectation was 12.5 years at age 1 year, 11 years at age 20, and 10 years at 
age 40. Deaths were due to a broad spectrum of diseases. In the sample as a 
whole there were eight deaths from diseases of the circulatory system. This 
number is significantly greater than expected, but four were due to congenital 
heart disease. When patients with congenital heart disease were omitted from the 
sample the mortality from circulatory disorders was not significantly increased. 
Within the category of circulatory disorders there were three deaths from 
dissection of the aorta, a number which is greatly in excess of the expected. 
Two of these patients had no previous evidence of heart disease.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.40.2.97
PMCID: PMC1052501
PMID: 3746185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. J Neurol Sci. 1986 Aug;75(1):23-32. doi: 10.1016/0022-510x(86)90047-x.

The effect of the myotoxic agent iodoacetate on dystrophic mice 129/Re.

Manda P, Kakulas BA.

Three groups of dystrophic and non-dystrophic mice 129/Re were used for studying 
the effect of the myotoxic agent iodoacetate on dystrophic muscle. The mice of 
the first group were given intramuscular injections of iodoacetate. The mice of 
the second group were injected with normal saline and the third group was 
maintained as untreated controls. The most severe histopathological changes were 
found in the dystrophic mice treated with iodoacetate. The non-dystrophic mice 
of the same group showed a significant increase in the number of internal 
nuclei. Moderate changes were observed in saline-treated dystrophic controls. 
There was no significant decrease in the life expectancy in any of the groups. 
The body weight of dystrophic mice was reduced throughout the experiment. On the 
contrary the non-dystrophic group showed an increased in weight, regardless of 
the treatment. The aggravation of the histopathological changes of dystrophic 
mice by iodoacetate would probably give support to the cyclical 
necrosis/abnormal regeneration theory of pathogenesis of muscular dystrophy.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-510x(86)90047-x
PMID: 3746339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Percept Mot Skills. 1986 Aug;63(1):111-30. doi: 10.2466/pms.1986.63.1.111.

Reaction and movement times in men of different ages: a population study.

Era P, Jokela J, Heikkinen E.

Tests of psychomotor and motor speed at different levels of complexity were 
studied in random samples of men aged 31 to 35, 51 to 55, and 71 to 75 yr. The 
study was performed as a part of a larger research project on health and 
functional aging. Analyses indicated significantly slower responses among older 
men at all levels of test complexity (maximal knee extension velocity, tapping 
rate, simple and choice reaction and movement times). There were marked 
differences both between the youngest and the middle-aged groups and between the 
middle-aged and the oldest groups. Within the age groups high psychomotor and 
motor speed were associated with a favourable functioning of certain senses 
(vibration sensitivity and postural balance), with a high isometric muscular 
force, and with a high directly assessed aerobic capacity. The most important 
covariants of the speed functions within the age groups were, however, cognitive 
performance, length of education, and perceived health.

DOI: 10.2466/pms.1986.63.1.111
PMID: 3748725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Nouv Rev Fr Hematol (1978). 1986;28(3):147-52.

Renal failure in multiple myeloma. A study of the presenting findings, response 
to treatment and prognosis in 26 patients.

Cavo M, Baccarani M, Galieni P, Gobbi M, Tura S.

The presenting clinical features, response to treatment and survival duration of 
26 consecutive multiple myeloma patients with renal failure at diagnosis were 
investigated. All but 1 of the patients had high tumour cell mass stage, as 
identified by one (3 cases) or more (22 cases) of the criteria defined by Durie 
and Salmon. Survival length of azotaemic patients was significantly shorter than 
that of stage III patients with normal renal function (median: 4 months vs 41 
months, respectively, P less than 0.0005), and was positively affected by 
reversal of renal failure following treatment (P less than 0.0005). Of the 26 
patients, 56% achieved reversal of renal failure. Recovery of normal renal 
function was prompt in most of the cases and appeared to be independent from 
both M component type and pretreatment serum creatinine levels. Finally, it was 
shown that patients with reversible renal impairment but with myeloma 
unresponsive to alkylating agents had early recurrence of impaired renal 
function and a shorter life expectancy than patients with a significant decrease 
in tumour cell mass.

PMID: 3748798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Salud Publica Mex. 1986 May-Jun;28(3):328-34.

[Evaluation of medical technology in developing countries and industrialized 
countries].

[Article in Spanish]

Fineberg HV.

PMID: 3750108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Z Kardiol. 1986 Jun;75(6):311-5.

[Choice of heart valve prosthesis--1985].

[Article in German]

Borst HG, Frank G, Frimpong-Boateng K, Bednarski P.

Improvement of materials, prosthetic function and perioperative treatment has 
led to positive results with regard to life expectancy, quality of life and 
complication rates in heart valve replacement. While mechanical valves are still 
associated with the risks of thromboembolism and anticoagulant bleeding, there 
is a continuing risk of early valve dysfunction in bioprostheses. We have 
preferred the latter during the last 8 years; however, certain disadvantages 
have become obvious during the follow-up of a group of 132 patients beyond the 
6th postoperative year. Anticoagulant treatment has been withheld in some 
patients in spite of a clear indication while others have received coumadin in 
the absence of obvious reasons. Valve degeneration as discovered by 
echocardiography often was not recognized in time, resulting in a significant 
reoperative mortality. As a result the indication for biological valve 
replacement, especially in the mitral position, has become more restrictive in 
our hands.

PMID: 3751217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1986 Sep;155(3):461-4. doi:
10.1016/0002-9378(86)90255-3.

Women in transition. Presidential address.

McCoy JB.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(86)90255-3
PMID: 3752168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Am J Surg. 1986 Sep;152(3):276-8. doi: 10.1016/0002-9610(86)90257-6.

Results of surgical treatment for familial polyposis coli.

Heimann TM, Bolnick K, Aufses AH Jr.

Seventy-seven patients with polyposis coli operated on at The Mount Sinai 
Hospital in the last 40 years were studied. Forty-two patients had a subtotal 
colectomy. Sixteen were found to have colon cancer at the time of operation, and 
a second rectal cancer developed in 50 percent of the survivors within 1 to 13 
years after subtotal colectomy. Rectal cancer subsequently developed in only 3 
of 23 patients without colon cancer. Thirty-five patients had total 
proctocolectomy or total colectomy with mucosal proctectomy and ileoanal 
anastomosis. Recurrent adenomatous polyps developed in two patients after 
mucosal proctectomy. A villous adenoma with carcinoma in situ of the ileum 
developed in one patient 30 years after total proctocolectomy and ileostomy. 
Another patient died from a periampullary carcinoma 24 years after subtotal 
colectomy. It seems that as the life expectancy of patients with polyposis 
improves, the incidence of small bowel and duodenal cancers may be expected to 
increase.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9610(86)90257-6
PMID: 3752376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1986 Sep;134(3):453-60. doi: 10.1164/arrd.1986.134.3.453.

Managing solitary pulmonary nodules. The choice of strategy is a "close call".

Cummings SR, Lillington GA, Richard RJ.

The best approach to the initial management of solitary pulmonary nodules is 
controversial. Using decision analysis, we compared the average life expectancy 
produced by alternative strategies for managing the patient with a solitary 
pulmonary nodule: thoracotomy for diagnosis and potential resection (IMMEDIATE 
SURGERY); needle aspiration biopsy or bronchoscopy (BIOPSY) followed by either 
thoracotomy or extended observation, depending on the results of the biopsy; and 
serial chest films with thoracotomy if the nodule grows at a potentially 
malignant rate (OBSERVATION). IMMEDIATE SURGERY produced a slightly longer 
average life expectancy when the probability of cancer was very high; BIOPSY had 
a narrow advantage when the probability of cancer was intermediate; and 
OBSERVATION produced slightly longer average life-expectancy when the 
probability of malignancy was very low. But the differences between strategies 
were so small that, in most circumstances, the decision was a "close call." 
Therefore, when choosing between these management strategies, physicians should 
give greater weight to considerations besides life expectancy, and should 
encourage patients to actively participate in the decisions about how to manage 
their solitary pulmonary nodules.

DOI: 10.1164/arrd.1986.134.3.453
PMID: 3752701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Actas Urol Esp. 1986 May-Jun;10(3):153-4.

[Life expectancy for the Spanish population: formulas, a table and a 
microcomputer program].

[Article in Spanish]

Llopis B, Gallego J, Jiménez JF.

PMID: 3755564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Exp Hematol. 1986 Oct;14(9):827-32.

Evaluation of the effect of age on hematopoiesis in the C57BL/6 mouse.

Williams LH, Udupa KB, Lipshitz DA.

The effect of age on hematopoiesis was studied in young (six-month) and old 
(24-month) C57BL/6 mice. In addition, studies were performed on very old 
(42-month) mice, housed either singly or in groups of five animals per cage. 
Although a reduction in hematocrit was found in the older mice, red cell mass 
was normal in both old and very old single-caged mice. A detailed evaluation of 
erythropoiesis that included plasma- and erythron-iron turnover (PIT and EIT), 
red cell survival, and quantitation of the marrow erythroid progenitor and 
differentiated cells demonstrated no age-related change in single-caged animals. 
Similarly, quantitation of marrow myeloid precursors was identical in these 
groups. These results indicate that no age-related change in basal hematopoiesis 
can be demonstrated even in animals approaching maximal life expectancy. When 
very old mice were routinely housed in groups of five per cage, however, a 
decrease in hematocrit was found which was accompanied by significant 
alterations in hematopoiesis, including reductions in total differentiated 
erythroid cells, erythroid burst-forming units (BFU-E), erythroid colony-forming 
units (CFU-E), and colony-forming-unit culture (CFU-C) levels. It is likely that 
in very old animals, group housing constitutes a sufficient stress to compromise 
hematopoiesis. These findings indicate that basal hematopoiesis is unaltered by 
aging, although the bone marrow's reserve capacity is markedly compromised.

PMID: 3758234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. J Urol. 1986 Oct;136(4):840-3. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)45098-1.

Long-term followup of young patients with stage A adenocarcinoma of the 
prostate.

Blute ML, Zincke H, Farrow GM.

A total of 23 men less than 60 years old with stage A adenocarcinoma of the 
prostate who were managed expectantly (that is untreated) and were at risk for 
10 to 25 years form the basis of this study. The original amount of tissue 
obtained at transurethral resection, number of chips involved and examined, and 
tumor grade (Mayo grades 1 to 4) were recorded and compared in an in-depth 
analysis whereby the entire tissue removed was examined without knowledge of 
previous grading attempts. On the basis of volume estimation of the amount of 
cancer present 8 patients were reclassified as having stage A2 disease. Of these 
8 patients 2 had disease progression and 1 died of metastatic adenocarcinoma of 
the prostate. At review 15 patients remained with stage A1 disease and 4 had 
disease progression (3 systemically and 1 locally) an average of 10.2 years 
after diagnosis. Because of longer life expectancy the young patient with stage 
A1 disease is at increased risk for local and/or systemic disease progression. 
Therefore, when incidental adenocarcinoma of the prostate is found in young 
patients consideration should be given to examination of all tissue resected, 
and to repeat transurethral resection and biopsy to ensure accurate staging. 
Lifelong careful followup is mandatory not only to detect local recurrence owing 
to heterogeneous adenocarcinoma of the prostate but also to detect a possible 
secondary clinical lesion.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)45098-1
PMID: 3761443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Mech Ageing Dev. 1986 Sep;36(1):71-7. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(86)90140-5.

Relationship between life expectancy, endogenous antioxidants and products of 
oxygen free radical reactions in the housefly, Musca domestica.

Sohal RS, Toy PL, Allen RG.

The general objective of this study was to identify biochemical correlates of 
life expectancy in the adult male housefly. All houseflies lose flying ability 
prior to death, whereby, in an aging population, shorter-lived flies can be 
identified as flightless 'crawlers' from their longer-lived cohorts, the 
'fliers'; the average lifespan of crawlers is about one-third shorter than the 
fliers. Neither crawlers nor fliers exhibited any physical damage to their 
chemoreceptive tarsi, thereby ruling out starvation as a probable cause of 
death. Levels of antioxidant defenses (superoxide dismutase, catalase and 
glutathione) and products of oxygen free radical reactions (inorganic peroxides 
and thiobarbituric acid [TBA]-reactants) were compared between crawlers and 
fliers. The fliers showed higher superoxide dismutase and catalase activities 
and glutathione concentration than crawlers, whereas, the amount of inorganic 
peroxides (H2O2) and TBA-reactants was higher in the crawlers than in fliers. 
Results of this study demonstrate, for the first time, that longer life 
expectancy of organisms belonging to the same cohort group is associated with 
relatively higher levels of antioxidants and lower concentrations of products of 
oxygen free radical reactions.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(86)90140-5
PMID: 3762235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Milbank Q. 1986;64(3):355-91.

The fourth stage of the epidemiologic transition: the age of delayed 
degenerative diseases.

Olshansky SJ, Ault AB.

Gains in longevity in the United States since the mid-nineteenth century 
occurred as a result of an epidemiologic transition: deaths from infectious 
diseases were replaced by deaths from degenerative diseases. Recent trends in 
cause-specific mortality suggest a distinct new stage, one of postponement of 
degenerative diseases. Projections based on these data must be applied 
cautiously; their implication for health and social policies are likely to be 
profound.

PMID: 3762504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Neurology. 1986 Oct;36(10):1335-9. doi: 10.1212/wnl.36.10.1335.

Decision analysis of the management of incidental intracranial saccular 
aneurysms.

van Crevel H, Habbema JD, Braakman R.

We used decision analysis to approach the dilemma "surgery or not?" in patients 
with incidental intracranial saccular aneurysms. To decide if a patient should 
undergo surgery, the following factors are of primary importance: age and 
general health of the patient, chance of rupture of the aneurysm, surgical 
mortality and morbidity, and patient preference for immediate and long-term 
risks. In a fictitious patient (a woman of 45 with migraine, otherwise healthy), 
surgery was the option with the greatest expected utility. Sensitivity analysis 
showed the influence of different factors. Other patients are also discussed, 
and "break-even" points for age versus surgical results are given.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.36.10.1335
PMID: 3762939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Rev Med Liege. 1986 Sep 1;41(17):637-48.

[Method of global evaluation of life expectancy and quality of life in bronchial 
cancer].

[Article in French]

Minet P, Pire F, Lennes G.

PMID: 3764235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1986 Apr-Jun;67(2):2-6.

Increased chances of a golden wedding anniversary.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 3764665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Z Erkr Atmungsorgane. 1986;167(1-2):87-90.

[Smoking habits, life expectancy and cause of death].

[Article in German]

Tetzner W.

With increasing consumption of tobacco the number of deaths caused by 
respiratory carcinoma is growing. There was, however, not found any shortening 
of the duration of life. Other neoplasms, heart and vascular diseases and all 
the other kinds of disease are distributed in the four groups of smokers without 
any evident influences of smoking.

PMID: 3765719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1986 Aug 1;41(15):427-30.

[Longevity in patients manifesting diabetes in 1962/1963 in the Neustrelitz 
district in relation to body weight].

[Article in German]

Schneider H, Lischinski M, Mehls P.

Out of 147 of the 166 diabetics detected in the District of Neustrelitz in 
1962/1963 (drop-out rate 11.45%) after 22 years lived still 14.3%. In comparison 
to an age and sex-adapted normal population the further life expectancy of the 
in the meantime decreased patients was on an average diminished by 6.2 years in 
the male sex and by 7.0 years in the female sex. In contrast to the expectance 
diabetics who were obese at manifestation concerning their mean age of death 
scarcely differed from patients with primarily normal weight (73.2 or 74.1 
years) so that the predictive value of the initial body weight is insignificant 
with regard to the long-term prognosis. 65.1% of the diabetics died from 
diseases of the circulatory system, only 6.35% died of malignant neoformations. 
Only in 4.76% the diabetes itself was the actual cause of death.

PMID: 3765745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Am J Ophthalmol. 1986 Oct 15;102(4):463-7. doi:
10.1016/0002-9394(86)90074-7.

Optic atrophy in familial dysautonomia.

Rizzo JF 3rd, Lessell S, Liebman SD.

We examined three patients with classic findings of familial dysautonomia 
(Riley-Day syndrome) whose visual impairment was associated with optic atrophy. 
The presence of an optic atrophy in familial dysautonomia is indicative of 
central nervous system involvement, at least in these cases. Each of these 
patients was first noted to have visual impairment after the first decade. The 
late onset of optic atrophy may partly explain its apparent rarity. Since the 
life span of patients with familial dysautonomia is increasing, optic atrophy 
may be more commonly recognized in the future.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9394(86)90074-7
PMID: 3766661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1986 Aug;70(4):525-36. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.1330700411.

Differential mortality in Turkana agriculturalists and pastoralists.

Brainard J.

Nomadic pastoral populations appear to have much lower rates of growth than the 
otherwise very high growth rates now characteristic of populations in developing 
nations. Because dramatic declines in infant mortality have been a primary 
contributor to increased population growth rates in these countries, it has been 
assumed that nomadic pastoral populations are still characterized by high levels 
of mortality in the first few years of life. Few studies, however, have been 
undertaken to estimate demographic parameters for nomadic pastoral populations, 
and even fewer of a comparative nature have been undertaken to document the 
impact of subsistence strategy on demographic processes. This study compares 
indirect childhood mortality estimates for Turkana nomadic pastoralists with 
childhood mortality in a settled agricultural group within the same population 
and finds that pastoralists have substantially higher levels of mortality. Based 
on the childhood mortality estimates, model life tables are selected for 
pastoral and agricultural groups from which values for mean life expectancy and 
infant mortality are estimated and compared. Recent improvements in primary 
health care for the settled agricultural group are ruled out as being an 
important cause of their lower mortality levels, and some aspects of life-style 
associated with subsistence strategy are discussed as likely determinants of the 
mortality differences.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330700411
PMID: 3766717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Ann Med Interne (Paris). 1986;137(3):229-34.

New inotropic-vasodilating drugs in acute and chronic heart failure.

Goenen MJ.

Clinical trials with new inotropic, non-adrenergic agents with vasodilating 
properties have open new perspectives for the treatment of acute and chronic 
heart failure. If their mechanism of action is not exactly known, they are 
likely to increase C.AMP by phosphodiesterase inhibition. A clear distinction 
has to be made concerning short- and long-term administration of these drugs. 
Amrinone (A) has been administered to 10 patients with low postoperative cardiac 
output as unique inotropic therapy and to 34 patients in severe cardiogenic 
shock, despite optimal treatment. In the latter group, A was added to the 
preliminary drugs. In both groups of patients, hemodynamics improved 
significantly, except in 4 patients in group II, who died. Except in one case 
with thrombocytopenia and one with supraventricular dysrhythmias, no serious 
side-effects were noted. No long-term treatment has been carried out in our 
institution. The literature has widely reported that the new inotropic drugs 
used in class III and IV patients, are likely to increase patient's well-being 
and exercise capacity, but not life expectancy.

PMID: 3767191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Bull Pan Am Health Organ. 1986;20(1):31-44.

Interdepartmental differences in life expectancy at birth in Peru as it relates 
to income, household drinking-water, and provision of medical consultations.

Heysen S, Musgrove P.

PMID: 3768590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Eur J Epidemiol. 1986 Mar;2(1):15-25. doi: 10.1007/BF00152712.

Epidemiologic characteristics of the United States elderly population in the 
20th century.

Brody JA, Brock DB.

In 1900 approximately 25 percent of all deaths occurred in people age 65 years 
of age and over while by 1980 30 percent of deaths occurred in those over age 
80. The greatest declines in age-specific mortality for those 65 and over 
occurred from 1920 to 1945 and since 1970. Some evidence exists that illness and 
disability may be rising in all age groups. Understanding the reasons for the 
declines in mortality for the elderly in this century and basic research in 
chronic disease causation and prevention are urged.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00152712
PMID: 3770147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol. 1986 Sep;11(3):287-93. doi: 
10.1016/s0165-5876(86)80041-6.

Hearing loss in children with congenital heart disease: a preliminary report.

Arnold SA, Brown OE, Finitzo T.

Life expectancy for children with serious congenital heart defects has 
dramatically increased in recent years due to advances in medical and surgical 
care. Anatomic studies of temporal bones in patients with non-syndromic 
congenital heart disease have demonstrated a high incidence of middle and inner 
ear anomalies. Systematic study of auditory function in these patients has not 
been reported. Fifty children with serious congenital heart disease have been 
evaluated with otologic examination and auditory brainstem-evoked response (ABR) 
testing. The patients ranged in age from 3 days to 17 years-8 months. Eight 
patients had hearing loss and normal otologic examinations, 14 patients had 
hearing loss and associated otitis media with effusion, and 28 patients had 
normal hearing by ABR testing. These results show a high incidence (16%) of 
hearing loss not associated with otitis media with effusion in the study 
population. We suggest that children with serious congenital heart disease are 
at high risk for hearing loss. This patient group will benefit from early 
identification, and appropriate medical and audiologic management.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-5876(86)80041-6
PMID: 3771108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. J R Coll Physicians Lond. 1986 Oct;20(4):290-3.

The female life span.

Bayliss R, Clarke C, Whitfield AG.

PMCID: PMC5371035
PMID: 3772851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. J Toxicol Environ Health. 1986;19(3):345-57. doi: 10.1080/15287398609530933.

Lack of carcinogenicity of triethanolamine in F344 rats.

Maekawa A, Onodera H, Tanigawa H, Furuta K, Kanno J, Matsuoka C, Ogiu T, Hayashi 
Y.

The carcinogenic potential of triethanolamine was examined in F344 rats. 
Triethanolamine was dissolved in distilled water at levels of 0 (control), 1, 
and 2%, and groups of 50 males and 50 females were given these doses ad libitum 
as drinking water for 2 yr. The dose levels in females were reduced by half from 
wk 69, because of associated nephrotoxicity. A variety of tumors developed in 
all groups, including the control group, and all tumors observed were 
histologically similar to spontaneous tumors in this strain of rats. No 
statistically significant increase of the incidence of any tumor was observed in 
the treated groups of both sexes by the chi-square test. In this study, however, 
there was an increase in nephrotoxicity, which appeared to have an adverse 
effect on the life expectancy of the treated animals, especially of females. 
Therefore, an age-adjusted statistical analysis on incidences of main tumors or 
tumor groups of both sexes was also done by methods recommended by Peto et al. 
(1980). The result showed that a positive trend (p less than 0.05) was noted in 
the occurrence of hepatic tumors (neoplastic nodule/hepatocellular carcinoma) in 
males and of uterine endometrial sarcomas and renal-cell adenomas in females. 
These tumors, however, have been observed spontaneously in this strain of rats, 
and their incidences in the control group of the present study were lower than 
those of our historical controls. These results may indicate that a positive 
trend in the occurrence of these tumors is not attributable to triethanolamine 
administration. Increased incidence of renal tumors in the female high-dose 
group may have been connected with renal damage. Histological examination of 
renal damage observed in the treated groups, especially in the female high-dose 
group, revealed acceleration of so-called chronic nephropathy. In addition, 
mineralization of the renal papilla, nodular hyperplasia of the pelvic mucosa, 
and pyelonephritis with or without papillary necrosis were also observed. Thus, 
it is concluded that under these experimental conditions triethanolamine is not 
carcinogenic in F344 rats but is toxic to the kidneys.

DOI: 10.1080/15287398609530933
PMID: 3772984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. JAMA. 1986 Nov 14;256(18):2531-5.

