Use of carotid endarterectomy in five California Veterans Administration medical 
centers.

Merrick NJ, Brook RH, Fink A, Solomon DH.

Although carotid endarterectomy is a controversial and frequently performed 
surgical procedure, little is known about the clinical appropriateness of its 
use in actual practice. Are the majority of procedures performed for highly 
accepted clinical reasons? We studied the clinical appropriateness of 107 
procedures performed on 95 patients in 1981 in five Veterans Administration 
teaching medical centers. Standards for judging appropriate use were based on 
the recommendations of a multidisciplinary panel of nine physicians. Fifty-five 
percent of the procedures studied were judged clearly appropriate, 32% 
equivocal, and 13% clearly inappropriate. The rate of serious operative 
complications was 5.6%. These results suggest that carotid endarterectomy is 
overutilized within at least some segments of the Veterans Administration 
population.

PMID: 3773153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. JAMA. 1986 Nov 21;256(19):2709-13.

The age threshold for isoniazid chemoprophylaxis. A decision analysis for 
low-risk tuberculin reactors.

Rose DN, Schechter CB, Silver AL.

Isoniazid chemoprophylaxis recommendations include its use in persons who have 
positive tuberculin reactions, but neither recent conversion nor other 
activation risk factors, only if they are under age 35 years. Above this 
threshold, the isoniazid hepatitis risk is said to outweigh the benefit of 
preventing activation. Because this policy is controversial, we performed a 
decision analysis contrasting those who take with those who decline isoniazid 
therapy according to three outcome measures: life expectancy, likelihood of 
illness (isoniazid hepatitis and active tuberculosis), and likelihood of fatal 
illness. We found no threshold between ages 10 and 80 years by the measures of 
life expectancy and likelihood of fatal illness; isoniazid benefits outweigh 
risks for all, though the margin is small for the elderly. A threshold exists 
only in the likelihood of illness: isoniazid risks outweigh benefits for those 
aged 50 to 65 years. Only extreme variations of assumptions affect these 
findings. Chemoprophylaxis recommendations should include low-risk tuberculin 
reactors over age 35 years.

PMID: 3773178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Prev Med. 1986 Sep;15(5):549-60. doi: 10.1016/0091-7435(86)90030-7.

Economics and cigarettes.

Schelling TC.

Economic facts on cigarette consumption and production are summarized, and the 
health consequences of cigarette smoking are reviewed. The magnitude and 
distribution of these health consequences among the population are discussed in 
economic terms, that is, in an "accounting framework" comprising such disparate 
elements as lost lives, lost livelihoods, pain, fear, discomfort, medical costs, 
excise taxes, and the costs of regulating smoking behaviors. The importance of 
these factors and their potential influence on public policy and individual 
behavior are considered. Difficulties include assigning a monetary value to an 
expected extension of life, the "voluntary" nature of smoking (even though most 
smokers wish they could quit), deciding what to include as economic consequences 
of smoking, and the attribution to smoking of some share of the costs for 
diseases known to be affected by smoking. "Transfers," or purely financial 
transactions, in contrast to expenditures for goods and services, are explained 
as one assessment component of the economic impact of smoking-related diseases. 
The issue of the economic benefit to the United States as a whole and to the 
population engaged in the cigarette industry, because of the earnings and 
employment generated by cigarette purchases, is examined, as is the issue of 
cigarette purchases as a significant source of federal and state revenue.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-7435(86)90030-7
PMID: 3774784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1986 Oct-Dec;67(4):12-7.

Longevity gains by state.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 3775643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Teratology. 1986 Oct;34(2):129-39. doi: 10.1002/tera.1420340202.

Further characterization of the distribution and metabolism of nitrofen in the 
pregnant rat.

Brown TJ, Manson JM.

Nitrofen (2,4-dichloro-4'-nitrodiphenyl ether) is an herbicide with potent 
teratogenic activity in rodent species. The present study was an extension of 
previous efforts to characterize the distribution and metabolism of nitrofen in 
pregnant rats. Following a single p.o. exposure to radiolabeled compound on day 
10 of pregnancy, maternal and embryonic tissues were collected at intervals from 
1.5 to 72 hours. Radioactivity was accumulated and retained in maternal fat for 
over 72 hours. Peak levels were reached in other maternal organs at 3-12 hours. 
The half-life in maternal plasma was estimated to be 42 hours. Radioactivity was 
first detected in the embryonic compartment at 3 hours and continued to increase 
through the 72-hour time point. HPLC analysis indicated that the parent compound 
is initially deposited in maternal fat and after 48 hours redistributes to other 
maternal organs and to the embryo. The 5-hydroxy derivative was the major 
nitrofen metabolite found in maternal tissues, while the 4'-amino and 
4'-acetylamine derivatives were found at lower levels and all exhibited 
single-phase kinetics. The parent compound alone was found in the embryo, and 
levels increased gradually as nitrofen redistributed from the fat at 48 hours 
after exposure. The results of this and other studies of nitrofen metabolism in 
pregnant rats suggest that its teratogenicity is not mediated via generation of 
mutagenic intermediates through nitroreduction of the parent compound. Rather, 
the embryo is exposed to the parent compound alone and appears to be a deep 
compartment for accumulation of nitrofen.

DOI: 10.1002/tera.1420340202
PMID: 3775667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1986 Jul-Aug;124(4):372-6.

[Nutrition as a prosperity killer].

[Article in German]

Diehl HA.

PMID: 3776320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Ann Rech Vet. 1986;17(1):69-73.

The use of tracer lambs for monitoring protostrongylid infection on extension 
pastures of Morroco.

Cabaret J, Pandey VS.

Three tracer lambs were grazed each month from December 1979 to September 1980 
on pastures infected by Muellerius capillaris. At slaughter, the lesions on the 
lungs and the parasite population in lungs and jejunal, mediastinal and 
bronchial lymph nodes were examined. The density and infection of the 
malacofauna were also recorded. The infection of slugs reached a maximum in 
February-March, and that of sheep in April-May. The internal life-cycle was 
characterized by the long duration of third-stage larvae in lymph node. It is 
postulated that infection of sheep was mainly due to the ingestion of larvae 
liberated onto the grass after the death of slugs.

PMID: 3777804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Exp Pathol. 1986;30(2):109-17. doi: 10.1016/s0232-1513(86)80069-x.

Studies on lipid and lipoprotein metabolism in rat liver cirrhosis induced by 
different regimens of thioacetamide administration.

Zimmermann T, Franke H, Dargel R.

In female Wistar rats the animal model of TAA-induced liver cirrhosis has been 
tested for reliability and usefulness for studies on lipid and lipoprotein 
metabolism in cirrhosis. From our results we draw the following conclusions: 
Application of 300 mg TAA/l drinking water from the 4th to the 6th month of life 
leads in all treated rats to liver cirrhosis which is rather uniformly of 
micronodular surface morphology. Under this treatment the survival rate is about 
90 percent. Increasing the administered dose (450 and 600 mg/l) and/or extension 
of TAA administration time (4 or more months) leads to decreasing survival 
rates, and to a shift from micronodular towards macronodular cirrhosis. To 
produce macronodular cirrhosis it is suggested to extent the application time 
rather than to increase the dose since in the latter case the survival rate is 
very low. The alterations of lipid and lipoprotein metabolism observed in this 
animal model, i.e. decrease of pre-beta-lipoproteins, increase of 
beta-lipoproteins, decrease of serum triglyceride concentration and decrease of 
hepatic VLDL-TG output into the serum are in good agreement with those observed 
in human cirrhosis. Thus, the TAA-induced chronic liver injury proved to be a 
reliable and useful model for studies on lipid and lipoprotein metabolism in 
liver cirrhosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0232-1513(86)80069-x
PMID: 3780937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. J Neurooncol. 1986;4(2):131-9. doi: 10.1007/BF00165373.

On a method of dosimetry planning and implantation of 125I for interstitial 
irradiation of malignant gliomas.

Eddy MS, Selker RG, Anderson LL.

Utilizing a treatment concept geared to the cell cycle of the glioma, a CT 
determined tumor volume and boundaries, 125I dosimetry data and a reference 
probe template system, it is now feasible to produce a volume implant of an 
intracranial mass based on prospective planning with accurate postimplant 
correspondence. The cell cycle oriented treatment plan is felt perhaps to be 
more beneficial in the treatment of the highly malignant glioblastoma, 
considering its wide range of cell cycle times, large irregular volumes and 
large dormant segment, than would be a similar isotope source delivering a 
high-dose rate, but short-term course irradiation. Seeds are contained within 
Lexan tubes, thereby allowing accurate assessment of postoperative dosimetry 
planning, negating seed migration and possible 'cold spots' within a volume 
implant as would be noted with unrestrained seeds. The implant described in this 
communication is designed to remain in place for approximately 20 months, a 
period of time well beyond the life expectancy of any group of failed glioma 
patients. Although ultimately the system may prove most beneficial in newly 
diagnosed glioblastomas, the current trial in patients having previously 
undergone 5-6000 rads of external beam therapy is not considered hazardous to 
surrounding brain.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00165373
PMID: 3783208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Radiat Res. 1986 Nov;108(2):176-88.

Life shortening in mice exposed to fission neutrons and gamma rays. VI. Studies 
with the white-footed mouse, Peromyscus leucopus.

Thomson JF, Williamson FS, Grahn D.

Some of the studies on late effects of neutron and gamma radiation previously 
carried out with the C57BL6 X BALB/c F1 hybrids of Mus musculus have been 
repeated with the white-footed mouse, Peromyscus leucopus, a cricetid rodent of 
a different subfamily, with differing physiological characteristics and a 
different spectrum of pathologies. Among the more important findings were the 
following: For both species, the life shortening per rad at low doses of either 
radiation was the same percentage of the life span. The limiting values of the 
relative biological effectiveness for life shortening from all causes of death 
were about the same for the two species, ranging from 8 to 16, depending on the 
method of calculation. Fractionated neutron exposures failed to produce 
significant life shortening in Peromyscus over that observed at single doses. 
Tumor-related deaths accounted for at least 70 to 75% of the radiation-specific 
excess mortality in Peromyscus.

PMID: 3786676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Soc Secur Bull. 1986 Oct;49(10):24-48.

Life expectancy and health status of the aged.

Chapman SH, LaPlante MP, Wilensky G.

There are several research issues which need further exploration if we are to 
better understand the implications of what appears to be increased levels of 
morbidity. Three general areas require additional research: the time of onset of 
chronic illness, the progression rate of illness, and the overlap and 
interaction between chronic and non-chronic conditions as well as multiple 
chronic conditions in a single individual. A major reason for the present 
uncertainty about morbidity is that information is unavailable regarding the 
incidence of chronic illness. However, incidence of chronic disease is difficult 
to measure unless there are either clear clinical indications or functional 
limitations. Work by survey researchers in defining initial reports of 
functional limitations associated with chronic illness would be very helpful. 
Furthermore, an understanding of incidence is necessary to further our 
understanding of the rate of progression of illness. The concept of a 
progression rate of illness makes sense only if we can have agreed upon measures 
of the onset of the illness. Both of these issues clearly require the use of 
longitudinal data. In fact any serious attempt to predict changes in health 
status over time as well as to relate changing patterns of mortality with 
changing patterns of morbidity will require a longitudinal data base. The 
difficulty in establishing a longitudinal data base is not only the time and 
expense of follow given set of individuals over a prolonged period of time, but 
also the problem of having a sample large enough to include individuals with 
specific chronic conditions of illness. One way to resolve the problem of 
sufficient sample size may be to do a combined survey which includes both a 
national probability sample of individuals as well as a sample of individuals 
with specific chronic diseases. Monitoring a group of individuals known to have 
specific chronic conditions would provide information about the progression and 
impact of the disease over time. Including a national probability sample of the 
entire population would provide information on the impact over time of changing 
health conditions for the entire population. While screening for specific 
conditions is an expensive procedure, it is likely to be far cheaper than 
including a sample size large enough to provide reliable estimates for specific 
conditions based on a national probability sample. Because the effects of 
postponed social security benefit eligibility will not be felt for many years, 
the opportunity for fruitful research is great. For now, we will summarize what 
we know from current research.

PMID: 3787421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1986 Oct 10;98(19):642-6.

[Similarities and differences in the therapy of drug-dependent and alcoholic 
patients: advantages and disadvantages of combined treatment].

[Article in German]

Glatt MM.

Alcoholics and (other) drug addicts show similar and different qualities. 
Differences affecting their "combined treatment" are based mainly on age and 
life style and much less on pharmacological nature of the drug concerned. 
Therapists and patients experience certain problems in "combined treatment" of 
addicts and alcoholics but also an extension of mental horizon-having to deal 
with such a heterogeneous population. Close, daily contact with older, more 
mature, experienced alcoholics offers young drug addicts an opportunity for a 
more rapid development of motivation, cooperation with treatment, and emotional 
maturation, than may be possible in a community formed by young addicts only. 
According to Wanke, in drug dependence the foundation of scientific 
understanding is even more insecure than in dependence on alcohol and 
medicaments. He quotes Lothar Schmidt's view that it is important to create a 
motivating framework for the patient (during his treatment) which determines 
motives for lifelong abstinence and maturation of personality. Possibly it is 
the close collaboration with older alcoholics which creates this motivating 
framework for certain young drug misusers.

PMID: 3788181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Am Heart J. 1986 Dec;112(6):1278-84. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(86)90360-1.

Beneficial effect of taurine in rabbits with chronic congestive heart failure.

Takihara K, Azuma J, Awata N, Ohta H, Hamaguchi T, Sawamura A, Tanaka Y, 
Kishimoto S, Sperelakis N.

To examine the effect of daily treatment with taurine on improving the status of 
congestive heart failure (CHF), we used rabbits with artificially induced aortic 
regurgitation. Ten rabbits were treated daily with taurine (100 mg/kg by mouth) 
and eight with guanidinoethyl sulfonate (GES) (100 mg/kg by mouth) immediately 
after induction of aortic regurgitation. The cumulative mortality rate at 8 
weeks in the taurine-treated CHF group was 10% (1 of 10) compared with 53% (16 
of 30) in the nontreated CHF group and 75% (6 of 8) in the GES-treated CHF group 
(p less than 0.05). Although cardiac function (max dP/dt) in CHF rabbits was 
significantly decreased (p less than 0.001), taurine-treated CHF rabbits 
maintained the same values as control rabbits. Taurine content of the left 
ventricular tissue of the CHF rabbits was significantly increased (p less than 
0.01). Administration of taurine and GES to control rabbits for 8 weeks affected 
neither the hemodynamics nor the taurine content of the heart. It was concluded 
that taurine slowed the rapid progression of heart failure and consequently 
prolonged life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(86)90360-1
PMID: 3788775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Cancer. 1987 Feb 1;59(3):506-15. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19870201)59:3<506::aid-cncr2820590326>3.0.co;2-#.

Carcinoma of the ampulla of vater. A clinicopathologic study and pathologic 
staging of 109 cases of carcinoma and 5 cases of adenoma.

Yamaguchi K, Enjoji M.

A total of 109 cases of carcinoma and 5 cases of adenoma of the ampulla of Vater 
were studied by preparing 5-mm step-wise whole tissue sections in each case. 
Carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater could be divided into four stages (I, II, III 
and IV), according to the microscopically verified extent of involvement by the 
tumor. All 12 patients with a Stage I tumor, defined as one restricted to within 
the muscle of Oddi as a boundary, showed no lymph node involvement and carried 
an excellent life expectancy with a relative 5-year survival rate of 85%. Thus, 
categorization of such a tumor as early carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater is 
valid. Excluding two unclassifiable cases, the remaining 95 patients with Stage 
II, III, or IV tumors extending beyond the boundary of Oddi carried relative 
5-year survival rates of 11%, 25%, or 24%, respectively. Of the 109 carcinomas, 
20 had areas of unequivocal adenoma at the margins, and of the five adenomas, 
two larger ones had foci of atypical epithelium suggestive of carcinoma in situ. 
These findings show the close relationship between adenoma and adenocarcinoma of 
the ampulla of Vater.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19870201)59:3<506::aid-cncr2820590326>3.0.co;2-#
PMID: 3791159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Dev Biol. 1987 Jan;119(1):268-74. doi: 10.1016/0012-1606(87)90228-4.

Differential expression of early and late embryonic histone genes in adult 
tissues of the sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus.

Halsell SR, Ito M, Maxson R.

The sea urchin synthesizes distinct classes of histone mRNAs at different stages 
of development. "Early" embryonic histone mRNAs are synthesized in large amount 
in cleavage and blastula stage embryos. "Late" embryonic histone mRNAs are the 
predominant forms in postblastula embryos. To learn more about how early and 
late histone genes are regulated during the life cycle of the sea urchin and to 
search for additional classes of developmentally regulated histone mRNAs, we 
examined histone mRNAs in sea urchin adult tissues. Using methods of primer 
extension and S1 nuclease protection, we found that tube foot, intestine, 
testis, and ovary contain a subset of the several H2b mRNA species synthesized 
by the embryo. We detected early H2b mRNA in ovary, but not in other tissues. 
Three late H2b mRNA species were present in all tissues tested, while a fourth 
late H2b was not detected. Using a probe that hybridized specifically with 
transcripts of a single-copy late H2b gene, we found that this gene was 
transcribed in both embryos and adults. Interestingly, its level of expression 
relative to other late H2b genes varied among tissues. Finally, we identified 
two H2b mRNA species that were distinct from early and late embryonic forms and 
were synthesized only in adult tissues.

DOI: 10.1016/0012-1606(87)90228-4
PMID: 3792631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. J Pediatr Orthop. 1986 Nov-Dec;6(6):666-73. doi: 
10.1097/01241398-198611000-00005.

Natural history of flexion deformity of the hip in myelodysplasia.

Shurtleff DB, Menelaus MB, Staheli LT, Chew DE, Lamers JY, Stillwell A, Wolf LS.

For definition of the incidence and natural history of hip flexion contracture, 
5,147 serial measurements of the range of hip extension in 966 patients with 
spina bifida were analyzed. Contractures were generally present in the first few 
months of life (physiologic flexion posture); this then diminished during the 
first 27 months in all but those with thoracic lesions. Hence, surgical 
management is seldom appropriate until after that age. In general, contractures 
reappear or worsen between the ages of 3 and 6 years, but few patients with 
sacral lesions develop this deformity. Our findings also demonstrate that hip 
flexion contracture is not merely due to muscle imbalance, sitting posture, or 
these factors in combination.

DOI: 10.1097/01241398-198611000-00005
PMID: 3793887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. J Pediatr Orthop. 1987 Jan-Feb;7(1):8-13. doi:
10.1097/01241398-198701000-00002.

Fibular transfer for congenital absence of the tibia: a reassessment.

Loder RT, Herring JA.

Six children (nine limbs) underwent fibular centralization for complete paraxial 
tibial hemimelia. The preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative criteria 
as described by Brown (J Bone Joint Surg [Am] 1965; 47:695-704) were strictly 
met. At initial postoperative evaluation, three limbs had active knee extension, 
and five limbs had minimal flexion contractures. However, at final follow-up, 
20-123 months later, all knees had ligamentous instability and poor active range 
of motion; eight had significant flexion contractures. All were classified as 
poor results. Based on this series and other reports, it is recommended that 
knee disarticulation instead of fibular centralization be performed for complete 
paraxial tibial hemimelia, preferably within the first year of life.

DOI: 10.1097/01241398-198701000-00002
PMID: 3793917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. J Fam Pract. 1987 Jan;24(1):47-51.

Use of long half-life parenteral cephalosporins in ambulatory practice.

Sauerwein M, Deamer RL, Prichard JG.

Cefonicid (Monocid) and ceftriaxone (Rocephin) are long half-life cephalosporins 
that may be used for serious infections in the outpatient setting. They may be 
used as an extension of initial hospital treatment, or therapy can be initiated 
and completed in many cases with the patient remaining at home. Sufficient 
clinical experience exists with both ceftriaxone and cefonicid to recommend 
these agents for selected patients having pyelonephritis, osteomyelitis, or soft 
tissue infections. Cefonicid, perhaps in combination with erythromycin, will 
provide excellent coverage for complicated community-acquired pneumonias. 
Ceftriaxone is effective as single-dose therapy for even complicated gonococcal 
infections. The use of long half-life cephalosporins in ambulatory practice may 
result in substantial cost savings for certain patients.

PMID: 3794613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Med Care. 1986 Dec;24(12):1067-83.

Modeling the supply of nurse labor. Life-cycle activity patterns of registered 
nurses in one Canadian delivery system.

Kazanjian A, Brothers K, Wong G.

Using 1980 membership data made available by the provincial nurses' association, 
a simple, age-specific projection model was developed that comprised two 
submodels: a Markovian one to monitor yearly movements from one membership state 
to another and a linear submodel for the infusion of new members. The model 
assumes that the likelihood of moving to any membership state depends only on 
the nurse's current age and membership state. A comparison of actual/projected 
data for 1981-1984 indicates a fairly high level of accuracy, despite the 
oscillatory pattern of the nurse labor market in the Province of British 
Columbia since 1982. The details of the projections of labor force over time 
show a particular age cohort's characteristic behavior and delineate the effect 
of childbearing and aging on the supply of nurses. As well as projecting future 
manpower, the age-specific transition matrices were used to estimate the 
professional life expectancy of registered nurses. This information includes the 
average number of continuous years of practice for each age, as well as the 
average total number of years of practice until being deleted from the system at 
the age of 75. The forecasting capability developed from this work attempts to 
address two questions central to manpower planning: how many nurses will there 
be in the province in the next 5 years? and what is the time-frame involved in 
nurses' life-cycle activity patterns?

PMID: 3796076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Vestn Akad Med Nauk SSSR. 1986;(10):58-62.

[Effect of various food rations on the level of biogenic amines in the 
hypothalamus, energy metabolism and life expectancy of old rats].

[Article in Russian]

Kozlovskaia SG, Grigorov IuG, Semes'ko TM.

PMID: 3799038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Chirurg. 1986 Nov;57(11):684-90.

[Alternatives to endoprostheses of the hip and knee joint].

[Article in German]

Cotta H, Niethard FU, Pfeil J.

Total hip and knee replacement is one of the most successful operative 
procedures in orthopaedic surgery. With respect to greater life expectancy, 
however, loosening of the implant and revision surgery with all its sequelae 
must be taken into account. Therefore joint preserving procedures resp. 
arthrodesis of the hip and knee joint are still of great importance. The best 
long term results can be achieved by operations which can improve the 
biomechanics of the joint. Operative procedures which aim at the biology of the 
joint only lead to temporary pain relief. Arthrodesis of the hip and knee joint 
should always be considered in young patients with no possibility for joint 
preserving techniques.

PMID: 3803022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1986 Sep;20(5):272-5.

[Analysis of potential years of life lost in the mortality data of Suzhou 
(1973-1983)].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu WZ.

PMID: 3803076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. J Gen Intern Med. 1987 Jan-Feb;2(1):25-8. doi: 10.1007/BF02596246.

Risk preference and laboratory test selection.

Nightingale SD.

The risk preferences in situations of potential gain, and of potential loss, 
expressed by 67 physicians were correlated with the numbers of laboratory tests 
they selected after review of identical copies of two outpatient charts. 
Physicians who chose a 50/50 gamble of losing ten or no years of life expectancy 
over an equivalent certain loss of five years selected twice as many tests as 
those who chose the loss (p less than 0.025). Risk preferences may provide some 
insight into why some physicians order more laboratory tests than do others.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02596246
PMID: 3806268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Mayo Clin Proc. 1987 Feb;62(2):119-23. doi: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)61880-1.

Temporal changes in the causes of aortic stenosis: a surgical pathologic study 
of 646 cases.

Passik CS, Ackermann DM, Pluth JR, Edwards WD.

Among 646 patients with pure aortic stenosis who underwent valve replacement at 
our institution between 1981 and 1985, the three most frequent causes were 
calcification of congenitally bicuspid aortic valves (38%), degenerative 
(senile) calcification of tricuspid aortic valves (33%), and postinflammatory 
(presumably rheumatic) calcification and fibrosis (24%). Among the 324 patients 
younger than 70 years of age, calcified bicuspid valves were observed in 50%. In 
contrast, among 322 patients 70 years of age or older, degenerative 
calcification accounted for 48% of the stenotic aortic valves. During the 5 
years of the study, the relative frequency of postinflammatory disease decreased 
from 30% to 18%, and that of bicuspid valves decreased from 37% to 33%. In 
contrast, the relative frequency of degenerative calcification increased from 
30% to 46%. Consequently, degenerative (senile) calcification is currently the 
most common cause of aortic stenosis among patients undergoing valve replacement 
at our institution. This finding may be related to changes in life expectancy in 
the general population, alterations in patient referral practices, and an 
increased willingness of surgeons to operate on older patients. Regardless of 
cause, the observed temporal changes in etiologic factors for aortic stenosis 
may indicate a potential source of increasing health-care costs among the 
elderly population.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)61880-1
PMID: 3807436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Ophthalmology. 1986 Dec;93(12):1632-8. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(86)33519-x.

Diffuse choroidal melanocytoma in a child. A lesion extending the spectrum of 
melanocytic hamartomas.

Haas BD, Jakobiec FA, Iwamoto T, Cox M, Bernacki EG, Pokorny KL.

A 10-year-old white boy presented with a diffuse pigmented lesion of the choroid 
of his right eye that had led to a partial secondary retinal detachment. Because 
of the fear of a diffuse choroidal melanoma (a lesion never before reported in 
an individual within the first two decades of life), the eye was enucleated. An 
incisional P-32 study, compared with an uninvolved region, was positive at 154% 
uptake. Pigmented tissue was discovered surrounding the distal meninges of the 
optic nerve, on the posterior surface of the eye, and within the orbital soft 
tissues adherent to the globe. This led to fear of extraocular extension of a 
malignant melanoma. Light microscopic examination of the enucleated globe 
demonstrated that the choroid was diffusely and massively thickened by 
polygonal, hyperpigmented tumor cells that were also present in compressed 
spindled forms between the lamellae of scleral collagen, in the scleral 
emissaries, on the surface of the eyeball, and in the distal optic nerve dura. 
The choroidal tumor cells had the features of those normally encountered in 
localized optic nerve head benign melanocytomas. Electron microscopy 
demonstrated the presence of large, well-melaninized melanosomes (but no 
macromelanosomes), confirming the diagnosis of a diffuse uveal melanocytoma. The 
differential diagnosis of this new entity and its relationship to previously 
reported pigmented lesions of the uvea is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(86)33519-x
PMID: 3808622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Respiration. 1986;50 Suppl 1:26-30. doi: 10.1159/000195085.

Acetylcysteine: a drug with an interesting past and a fascinating future.

Ziment I.

N-acetylcysteine (NAC) possesses a free sulfhydryl group that can rupture 
disulfide bridges. Although it is considered to be a mucolytic, its mucokinetic 
actions include expectorant, bronchorrheic and mucoregulatory contributions. New 
uses include the management of acetaminophen poisoning and the scavenging of 
free radicals liberated by cancer chemotherapy drugs. The antioxidant effects 
may be of prophylactic value in lungs at risk from smoking, pollution and 
infection. Other uses proposed for NAC include the therapy of connective tissue 
diseases and its use as a component in life extension diets.

DOI: 10.1159/000195085
PMID: 3809740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Toxicology. 1987 Feb;43(2):183-91. doi: 10.1016/0300-483x(87)90008-4.

The influence of sodium ascorbate, menadione sodium bisulfite or pyridoxal 
hydrochloride on the toxic and antineoplastic action of N-methylformamide in P 
388 leukemia or M 5076 sarcoma in mice.

Osswald H, Herrmann R, Youssef M.

The toxicity of daily subcutaneously applied 500 mg/kg N-methylformamide (NMF) 
during a period of 8 days in female CD-mice was ameliorated when 100 mg/kg 
sodium ascorbate, 60 mg/kg menadione bisulfite or 80 mg/kg pyridoxal 
hydrochloride were applied simultaneously. The comparison of the daily s.c. 
application of 360 mg/kg NMF with the intermittent s.c. injection of 720 mg/kg 
NMF with an interval of 48 h in P 388 leukemia showed that the daily application 
of NMF induced an increase of life span of 82% whereas the intermittent schedule 
effected a 142% increase of life span. The simultaneous combination of 360 mg/kg 
NMF with 60 mg/kg sodium ascorbate applied daily caused a 133% increase of life 
span and the simultaneous combination of 360 mg/kg NMF with 30 mg/kg menadione 
sodium bisulfite lead to a 126% increase of life span. The combined daily s.c. 
application of 360 mg/kg NMF with 30 mg/kg pyridoxal hydrochloride induced only 
a minimal difference compared to the daily application of 360 mg/kg NMF alone. 
The combination of 720 mg/kg NMF with 120 mg/kg sodium ascorbate applied in 
intervals of 48 h showed a 164% increase of life span. In advanced M 5076 
sarcoma the daily s.c. application of 360 mg/kg NMF effected a 82% increase of 
life span and the combination of 360 mg/kg NMF with 60 mg/kg sodium ascorbate 
effected a 135% increase of life span.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-483x(87)90008-4
PMID: 3810660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 1986;80(4):525-7. doi:
10.1016/0035-9203(86)90129-x.

The burden of blindness in adult males in the savanna villages of West Africa 
exposed to onchocerciasis.

Prost A.

Cross-sectional surveys for the prevalence of blindness in West African savanna 
villages misrepresent the actual burden which blindness imposes on communities. 
High mortality in the blind, resulting in a shorter life expectancy as compared 
to non-blind, is associated with high incidence rates and with a rapid turn-over 
in the blind population. Data collected in Burkina Faso indicate that, in 
hyperendemic villages, 46% of males and 35% of females aged 15 are likely to 
become blind before they die. Respective rates in mesoendemic villages are 14% 
in males and 9.8% in females. The results presented in this paper reinforce the 
conclusion that blindness, especially onchocerciasis associated blindness, is of 
greater social and economic significance than usually estimated.

DOI: 10.1016/0035-9203(86)90129-x
PMID: 3810784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Transfusion. 1987 Jan-Feb;27(1):6-9. doi: 
10.1046/j.1537-2995.1987.27187121476.x.

Extension of platelet concentrate storage to 7 days in second-generation bags.

Simon TL, Nelson EJ, Murphy S.

Platelet concentrates stored for 7 days in 50 ml of plasma in both thin film and 
enlarged variations of the standard 5-day CLX plastic bags were evaluated for pH 
maintenance and in vivo viability by two laboratories working independently. 
51Cr-labeled platelets were reinfused into normal volunteers at the end of 
storage and recovery and half-life calculated. The pH was maintained well; less 
than 10 percent of units fell below 6.0 at 7 days. Mean 7-day recovery for both 
laboratories was 43.6 +/- 11.6 percent in the thin-film bag and 45.4 +/- 8.52 
percent in the enlarged bag, compared with 43.6 +/- 8.8 percent at 5 days in the 
5-day plastic licensed bag. After 7 days storage the half-life was 3.6 +/- 0.9 
days in the thin-film bag and 3.7 +/- 0.6 days in the enlarged bag, compared 
with 3.6 +/- 0.5 days in the previously licensed CLX plastic bag after 5 days. 
Thus, platelet viability was maintained well at 7 days of storage in both of the 
container variations that allowed increased gas exchange.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.1987.27187121476.x
PMID: 3810827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1986 Sep-Oct;124(5):587-91. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1045004.

[Life expectancy deficit (LED). A criterion for evaluating the course of 
malignant tumors. A statistical survey based on 70,231 malignant diseases with 
special reference to cases with spinal metastases].

[Article in German]

Schmitt O, Kolles H.

The deficiency of life expectancy (DLE), calculated as the difference between 
the statistical life expectancy at a given age and the survival time with the 
tumor disease, is a useful measure to extend the concept of tumor malignancy. 
Both the evaluation of the success of the tumor treatment and the prognosis of 
the metastatic spread in the vertebral column can be determined with the DLE. 
For the 9 most frequent tumor localizations the DLE is calculated with the 
material of the register of cancer in the Saarland/W. Germany (N = 70,128). In 
an extra part, the DLE for 50 metastases of the spine is compared to the whole 
cases.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1045004
PMID: 3811483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Br J Haematol. 1987 Jan;65(1):73-81. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2141.1987.tb06138.x.

Utility of the FAB classification for myelodysplastic syndromes: investigation 
of prognostic factors in 237 cases.

Kerkhofs H, Hermans J, Haak HL, Leeksma CH.

The utility and prognostic significance of the FAB classification was studied in 
237 patients with a myelodysplastic syndrome. No significant differences in 
actuarial survival and probability of transformation to acute leukaemia were 
found in patients with RA, AISA or CMML. The median survival time for the RA 
group was 50 months, for the AISA and CMML subclasses more than 60 months. The 
probability of transformation for the RA, AISA and CMML subgroups showed a 
linear trend with a probability of 25% for the RA, 16% for the AISA and of 18% 
for the CMML groups after a 5 year observation period. A uniformly poor 
prognosis was found for the RAEB and RAEB/t subgroups with median survival times 
of respectively 9 and 6 months. Chromosomal abnormalities were found in 68 out 
of 155 patients (44%). Patients with only normal metaphases or with abnormal 
metaphases together with karyotypic normal cells had a longer median survival 
time and a lower probability for transformation as compared to those with only 
abnormal metaphases. The most important factor in prognosis is the number of 
blast cells in blood and bone marrow. Age and sex, and certain quantitative and 
qualitative abnormalities in the peripheral blood appear of limited prognostic 
value for patients with RA, AISA and CMML. The longer life expectancy of 35 
patients with CMML as compared to other series seems to be related to the 
percentage of blast cells at the time of diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.1987.tb06138.x
PMID: 3814528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Blut. 1987 Mar;54(3):153-63. doi: 10.1007/BF00320369.

Refractory cytopenias: clinical course according to bone marrow cytology and 
cellularity.

Riccardi A, Giordano M, Girino M, Cazzola M, Montecucco CM, Cassano E, Danova M, 
Ucci G, Castello A, Coci A, et al.

One hundred and one patients with refractory cytopenia were reviewed for 
morphological classification (using bone marrow, BM, imprints for cytology and 
Jamshidi biopsies for BM cellularity) and clinical course. Final diagnoses were: 
moderate aplastic anemia (MAA), myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and hypoplastic 
acute leukemia (HAL). Ninety-two patients received high dose testosterone 
enanthate (TE) as first treatment (starting dose = 7-10 mg/week i.m. for at 
least three months). Median survival was significantly longer in MAA than in MDS 
and in HAL. Among MDS patients, those with primary acquired sideroblastic (AISA) 
and refractory (RA) anemia had median survival similar to those with MAA, but 
distinctly longer (p = 0.01) than patients with RA with an excess of blasts 
(RAEB), RAEB in transformation (RAEBtr) and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia 
(CMMoL). Acute leukemia (AL) developed more rarely (p less than 0.02) in MAA, 
AISA and RA than in RAEB, RAEBtr and CMMoL. Response to TE was seen in about two 
thirds of MAA and in a half of MDS and HAL patients. Among MDS patients, those 
with hypocellular BM developed leukemia less frequently, responded to androgens 
more often and survived longer than those with normocellular and, especially, 
with hypercellular BM. These data indicate that the cytohistological 
classification of refractory cytopenias identifies essentially two groups with 
different clinical behaviour, one (MAA, AISA and RA) having long life expectancy 
and a low probability of developing AL and the other (RAEB, RAEBtr, CMMoL) with 
a short survival and relatively frequent leukemic complication. Bone marrow 
hypocellularity seems to be a favourable prognostic factor in MDS. Patients with 
refractory cytopenias, especially those with a hypocellular BM, can be 
advantageously treated with androgens.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00320369
PMID: 3814832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Child Dev. 1987 Feb;58(1):276-81.

A life-span study of the interaction of selectivity and knowledge in memory.

Azmitia M, Merriman WE, Perlmutter M.

Preschool children, young adults, and old adults viewed a series of familiar 
scenes and were asked to remember 1 item from each. The incidental memory of 
both children and old adults was less accurate than that of young adults. The 
result for children contrasts with the typical result of selective memorization 
research. Memory for high-expectancy items exceeded that for low-expectancy 
items by a greater margin when items were incidental, suggesting that even 
preschool children activate scene schemas during encoding. Only the young 
adults, however, showed the predicted tendency to recognize low-expectancy items 
better than high-expectancy items when items were intentional. These results may 
be reconcilable if some, but not all, schema-mediated encoding effects on memory 
depend on strategic encoding.

PMID: 3816349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Eur J Nucl Med. 1986;12(9):421-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00254744.

A new radiographic method for cardiac output and cardiac shunt determination in 
vivo.

Meyer H, Vyska K, Bourgeois M, Reinhardt D, Feinendegen LE.

The present paper describes a new method for the measurement of cardiac output 
(CO) and cardiac shunt (CS). The CO method is based on the accurate 
determination of the concentration of the indicator in large vessels. For the 
measurement of the left to right shunting volumes, a double tracer technique is 
used by which radioactively labeled transferrin or erythrocytes are applied 
together with radioactively labelled human-serum-albumin (HSA) microspheres. The 
results obtained using these methods were compared with the data obtained by 
invasive methods. High correlation of both sets of data suggests that the 
proposed methods might provide an excellent extension of noninvasive procedures 
in the first months of a childs life.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00254744
PMID: 3816843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Helv Paediatr Acta. 1986 Dec;41(5):389-98.

[Diagnosis and therapy of candidiasis in the premature infant].

[Article in German]

Hering F, Otten A, Bauer J, Egidi R, Weismüller H, Pascu F.

Extension of intensive care seems to have increased the risk of systemic candida 
infection. We report the incidence of systemic candida infection in 8 
low-birth-weight infants (gestational age 27-32 weeks, birth weight 710-1,550 
g). All infants required respiratory treatment. Various silastic catheters were 
inserted. Antibiotic therapy was started on the first day of life, usually a 
combination of ampicillin and gentamycin. Candida septicaemia was diagnosed at 
the age of 8-69 days of life based on blood and urine cultures, in two children 
at autopsy. There were no specific clinical symptoms in regard to candida 
infection. Sonographic technique revealed hydronephrosis in 3 infants due to 
candida mycelium. Antimycotic therapy included amphotericin B (dosage 0.44-1.0 
mg/kg X day) and 5-fluorocytosine (80-100 mg/kg X day) as well as a monotherapy 
of 5-fluorocytosine (100-200 mg/kg X day). Four children were treated 
successfully. We like to advice a regular search for candida in urine, blood, 
tracheal secretion, stool and skin in low-birth-weight infants under intensive 
care conditions. If antimycotic therapy is started in time, therapy can be 
successful.

PMID: 3818326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. J Gerontol. 1987 Mar;42(2):165-7. doi: 10.1093/geronj/42.2.165.

Locus of control and retirement preparation.

Abel BJ, Hayslip B Jr.

Locus of desired control and participation in a retirement preparation program 
were investigated in relation to retirement attitudes and adjustment. Fifty-nine 
older workers and retirees, approximately half of whom had participated in a 
retirement preparation program, completed measures assessing locus of control, 
attitudes toward work and retirement, life satisfaction and self-esteem. 
Retirement preparation was found to maintain both the desirability and 
expectancy of internal control and positive retirement attitudes among the 
worker participants relative to controls. Retirees did not differ on measures of 
adjustment; those with retirement preparation, however, evidenced higher 
externality than those without. Although the results indicated that internal 
expectancies were associated with positive psychological functioning, the role 
of retirement preparation in maintaining such expectancies into retirement 
remained equivocal.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/42.2.165
PMID: 3819342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Instr Course Lect. 1986;35:144-8.

Mechanical properties of porous metal total hip prostheses.

Crowninshield RD.

The forged condition is the strongest form of the Co-Cr-Mo and Ti-6Al-4V alloys 
used in orthopaedics. Both the Co-Cr-Mo alloy and the Ti-6Al-4V alloy lose 
strength when incorporated into porous implants. The strength loss in the 
Co-Cr-Mo alloy is a generalized condition and is largely a result of the 
microstructure of these cast and then gravity-sintered prostheses. The greatest 
fatigue strength achieved throughout these porous Co-Cr-Mo implants is that of 
the cast alloy. The strength loss in diffusion-bonded, porous titanium-alloyed 
implants is largely a result of notch sensitivity. This strength loss is not a 
generalized condition; it is localized on the implant to regions of porous 
coating attachment. In implant regions apart from the porous coatings, these 
titanium implants can have the strength of other wrought or forged titanium 
alloy implants. To achieve a functionally strong implant, porous implant design 
needs to account for these losses in material strength. Implant strength should 
be verified experimentally and communicated to the orthopaedic surgeon for 
assessment of implant adequacy for a particular patient. Patient weight, 
activity, and life expectancy are important elements in judging the adequacy of 
an implant's strength.

PMID: 3819401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. J Rheumatol. 1986 Oct;13(5):903-6.

The age of death of the parents of patients with rheumatoid arthritis: a 
preliminary study.

Kaplan D.

The hypothesis was tested that the shortened life expectancy of patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is, partially at least, due to a familial factor which 
independently shortens life expectancy, whether the person has RA or not. We 
therefore compared the ages of death of the parents of patients with RA with the 
ages of the death of the parents of a control group. The parents of the patients 
with RA had a mean age of death of 64.76; 18.23 years versus 68.29; 18.24 years 
for the parents of the control group (p = 0.006). This finding is compatible 
with the hypothesis: whether genetic or environmental factors are involved is 
unknown.

PMID: 3820199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. J Vasc Surg. 1987 Feb;5(2):222-7.

Late survival in abdominal aortic aneurysm patients: the role of selective 
myocardial revascularization on the basis of clinical symptoms.

Reigel MM, Hollier LH, Kazmier FJ, O'Brien PC, Pairolero PC, Cherry KJ Jr, 
Hallett JW Jr.

Coronary artery disease is recognized as the major cause of perioperative and 
late death after abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair. Routine coronary 
angiography and prophylactic myocardial revascularization for all significant 
lesions, regardless of symptoms, have been recommended as a means of reducing 
this mortality risk. We have advocated a more selective approach in which 
coronary angiography and myocardial revascularization are performed on the basis 
of cardiac symptoms. Studies have shown that this selective approach is just as 
effective as the prophylactic approach in reducing perioperative deaths. To 
evaluate the effect on late survival of selective myocardial revascularization 
on the basis of symptoms, we reviewed the preoperative coronary status and 
course of 485 patients who successfully underwent AAA repair between 1980 and 
1985. Late survival was evaluated by means of the Kaplan-Meier method and 
compared with life expectancy of an age- and sex-matched population. Late 
survival of the entire group of patients was no different from that of the 
matched population. Patients with no preoperative evidence of coronary artery 
disease did significantly better than expected (p = 0.05), whereas those 
patients with uncorrected or previously bypassed coronary disease had survival 
no different from that expected. When age was considered as a variable, patients 
in their 50s and 60s had survival significantly worse than the matched 
population (p less than 0.001 and p = 0.003, respectively). Patients in their 
70s and 80s had survival as good as or better than the matched population, 
regardless of coronary status.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 3820399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Soc Sci Med. 1986;23(10):1003-10. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(86)90257-1.

Medical pluralism and infant mortality in a rural area of Bangladesh.

Bhardwaj SM, Paul BK.

This paper examines some aspects of the health search behavior of parents in a 
rural area of Bangladesh who were unsuccessful in their attempt to save their 
infant's life. This issue is analyzed within the pluralist medical milieu and 
very high infant mortality rates prevalent in Bangladesh. There are several 
different medical cultures in Bangladesh each with their distinctive ideologies 
about disease causation and the nature of medical intervention. Practitioners of 
the modern cosmopolitan or western system of medicine are only one of the major 
types among several types of healers. The choice of a healer by the parents of 
infants is a complex process depending on a great variety of conditions such as 
the health status of the infant, relative proximity of the healer, cost of 
health care, transportation facilities, gender of the infant, attitude of the 
parents toward different systems of medicine, the past experience of the parents 
and the like. We posit that the choice of healer of a particular type may be 
related less to the traditional or modern orientation of the parents than to the 
