severity of the infant's condition and the expectancy of cure. Thus, infants 
exhibiting acute symptoms of a disease may be more likely to be placed under the 
care of a 'western' type physician than taken for treatment to an indigenous 
medical practitioner. Such attitude on the part of the parents may, however, 
result in the loss of precious time at the most critical moments, and thus may 
reduce their chances of success to save their infant's life.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED 
AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(86)90257-1
PMID: 3823968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Soc Sci Med. 1986;23(12):1353-62. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(86)90298-4.

Population aging in the People's Republic of China.

Liang J, Tu EJ, Chen XM.

This paper provides a factual assessment of China's population aging and its 
social and economic consequences. It is projected that China will have a 
substantially older population in the middle of the 21st century. Major policy 
implications concerning old age support and health care have been examined.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(86)90298-4
PMID: 3823990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1987 Jan-Mar;68(1):10-7.

Trends in longevity after age 65.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 3824150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1987 Jan-Mar;68(1):2-9.

Profile of centenarians.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 3824151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1987 Feb;18(1):1.

[Altered time perspective].

[Article in Dutch]

Munnichs JM.

PMID: 3824438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Am J Public Health. 1987 Apr;77(4):425-31. doi: 10.2105/ajph.77.4.425.

What are the odds that smoking will kill you?

Mattson ME, Pollack ES, Cullen JW.

Erratum in
    Am J Public Health 1987 Jul;77(7):818.

We calculated the long-term risks of death from smoking for individuals of 
various ages and smoking status in terms of the excess mortality contributed by 
smoking, over and above the baseline mortality from the same diseases caused by 
factors other than smoking using standard life table procedures. Since mortality 
data for specific smoking categories were available only from prospective 
studies in the late 1950s, we scaled these to the 1982 mortality levels. We 
assumed, for lung cancer, that the death rates for nonsmokers have not changed 
and, for other smoking-related diseases, that the risks of death for smokers 
relative to those for nonsmokers have not changed since the 1950s. Probabilities 
that result from alternative assumptions were also investigated and are 
presented. As many as one-third of heavy smokers age 35 will die before age 85 
of diseases caused by their smoking. The probabilities of death from smoking 
when compared with other causes may be persuasive as public education tools. 
Their effective use for this purpose is affected not only by the deficiencies in 
the public's factual knowledge of the magnitude of the risks from smoking, but 
also by numerous apparent misconceptions relating to the interpretation of risk 
information. Risk data should be presented to the public in a manner that 
clarifies these misconceptions and facilitates their understanding of the 
overwhelming risk imposed by smoking.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.77.4.425
PMCID: PMC1646951
PMID: 3826460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Ann Acad Sci Fenn A. 1986;175:9-15.

Population genetic analysis of the Bashkirs on the basis of the material of the 
Soviet-Finnish expedition.

Raphikov HS, Khusnutdinova EK, Dolmatova IY, Naphikova AH, Kuzeev RG.

PMID: 3826767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Apr;106(4):605-14. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-106-4-605.

Cholesterol reduction and life expectancy. A model incorporating multiple risk 
factors.

Taylor WC, Pass TM, Shepard DS, Komaroff AL.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 1988 Feb;108(2):314.

In deciding whether to undertake a dietary program to reduce serum cholesterol 
levels, a person must consider how much benefit to expect. We developed a model 
that assumes cholesterol reduction is effective and safe in reducing the risk 
for death from ischemic heart disease. In the model, we considered asymptomatic 
adults with total serum cholesterol levels between 180 and 300 mg/dL. We defined 
risk status on the basis of blood pressure, smoking habit, and 
high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol level. For persons aged 20 to 60 years who 
are at low risk, we calculate a gain in life expectancy of 3 days to 3 months 
from a lifelong program of cholesterol reduction. For persons who are at high 
risk, the calculated gain ranges from 18 days to 12 months. Knowledge of the 
magnitude of the calculated benefits in increased life expectancy afforded by 
cholesterol reduction can assist persons in making decisions about dietary 
change.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-106-4-605
PMID: 3826960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Ann Intern Med. 1987 Apr;106(4):621-3. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-106-4-621.

Cholesterol reduction and health policy: taking clinical science to patient 
care.

Epstein AM, Oster G.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-106-4-621
PMID: 3826961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Arch Intern Med. 1987 Apr;147(4):705-8. doi: 10.1001/archinte.147.4.705.

Bulimia. An underlying behavioral disorder in hyperlipidemic pancreatitis: a 
prospective multidisciplinary approach.

Gavish D, Eisenberg S, Berry EM, Kleinman Y, Witztum E, Norman J, Leitersdorf E.

Between 1978 and 1985, we conducted a prospective study of 21 patients who 
survived several attacks of pancreatitis and were diagnosed as having primary 
hyperlipidemia. None of the patients suffered from chronic alcoholism, primary 
diabetes, or cholelithiasis or was receiving prolonged steroid therapy. Lowering 
of plasma lipid values toward normal was achieved in all patients following a 
program of combined dietary and drug (bezafibrate) therapy. Five patients had 
recurrent episodes of pancreatitis during the treatment program. These patients 
were diagnosed subsequently as suffering from bulimia and were all given 
cognitive behavioral therapy. One patient died following an attack of 
pancreatitis. An underlying eating disorder should be suspected in patients who 
relapse after treatment for pancreatitis and hyperlipidemia. Multidisciplinary 
treatment should be used in these patients to improve therapeutic efficacy and 
uncover behavioral patterns that have a direct impact on their life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.147.4.705
PMID: 3827458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 1987 Feb;24(1):3-19. doi: 
10.1016/0169-2607(87)90060-5.

Analysis of underlying and multiple-cause mortality data: the life table 
methods.

Moussa MA.

The stochastic compartment model concepts are employed to analyse and construct 
complete and abbreviated total mortality life tables, multiple-decrement life 
tables for a disease, under the underlying and pattern-of-failure definitions of 
mortality risk, cause-elimination life tables, cause-elimination effects on 
saved population through the gain in life expectancy as a consequence of 
eliminating the mortality risk, cause-delay life tables designed to translate 
the clinically observed increase in survival time as the population gain in life 
expectancy that would occur if a treatment protocol was made available to the 
general population and life tables for disease dependency in multiple-cause 
data.

DOI: 10.1016/0169-2607(87)90060-5
PMID: 3829647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 1985 Dec;6(6):353-5.

[Mortality analysis of malignant neoplasms and cardiovascular diseases 1979-1983 
in Tianjin].

[Article in Chinese]

Guo Z.

PMID: 3833379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Exp Gerontol. 1985;20(6):347-57. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(85)90015-4.

The quantitative relationship between life span, food ingestion, egg production, 
mating, and flight-activity of protein-fed blowfly Phormia terrae novae females.

Collatz KG, Wilps H.

The age-dependent variations in the amount of food ingestion, egg production, 
and flight activity of protein-fed female Phormia terrae novae were analyzed. 
Also the influence of mating and forced physical performance on the time course 
of these parameters and on life span were tested. In virgin females, the life 
span with the investigated factors is generally delayed, together with mean and 
maximum life span. In comparison to mated females virgin females exhibit a 40% 
prolongation of mean life span and ingest more sugar with a later intake 
maximum. Their egg production starts 5 days later (Day 10) but reaches only half 
the amount occurring in mated females. Flight performance is generally higher in 
virgin females, reaching its maximum 2 days later (Day 14), with a more gradual 
decline instead of the sudden drop in flight performance seen in mated flies. 
Females receiving their food by flight only ("forced fliers") show a shorter 
mean life span (which is more pronounced in virgin flies). The maximum of sugar 
intake shifts forward to an earlier point after eclosion, and the amount is 
reduced by about 30% over the entire life span. Similarly, the egg production 
rate reaches lower values and tends to have an earlier maximum in comparison to 
corresponding groups that had access to sugar on the cage floor. The results 
further support the hypothesis that Phormia exhibits a strictly programmed aging 
pattern. Its time course depends on reproduction sufficiency and physical 
performance. Both factors act to shorten life expectation.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(85)90015-4
PMID: 3833546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Exp Gerontol. 1985;20(6):359-66. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(85)90016-6.

Life span and age-related changes in activity level of the rotifer Asplanchna 
brightwelli: influence of curare.

Beauvais JE, Enesco HE.

The rotifer Asplanchna brightwelli shows a continuous decline in swimming 
activity through the course of its 5-day life span. This activity loss occurs at 
a slower rate when rotifers are treated with very low dosages (0.00025% to 
0.0005%) curare. Rotifers treated with these low dosages of curare have a 
significantly longer life span than that of untreated control rotifers.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(85)90016-6
PMID: 3833547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Med J Malaysia. 1985 Jun;40(2):62-79.

Population 70 million: a consideration of health aspects.

Zulkifli SN, Yusof K.

PIP: A 70 million population for Malaysia by the year 2010 has been officially 
targeted for in the mid-term review of the Fourth Malaysia Plan, 1981-1985. In 
response to this, a preliminary investigation was undertaken into the health 
aspects of population growth; infant mortality rates are used as the health 
indicators. In recognition of the relevance of the medical, economic, and 
education factors to health, trends in Malaysia's population ratio, per capita 
gross national product (GNP), and rates of school enrollment are also drawn. The 
characteristics associated with low mortality and high life expectancy are 
identified as low population growth, high literacy, and high per capita GNP. 
Whatever the ideology--Malthusian or Marxist--there is no doubt that population 
is closely linked to development variables, of which health is a part. Linear 
regressions on West Malaysian trends show a very high correlation between 
percent school enrollment and number of medical doctors. Selected cross-country 
comparisons show that the real issue is not the size of the population but its 
pace of growth and the social and economic climate at the time. The most 
dramatic reduction in mortalities from 1957-1980 has been for infant mortality 
rates (IMR), which have fallen from 76 to 25/1000 live births. Significant 
control over IMRs has been achieved by effective treatment of malaria, smallpox, 
tuberculosis, whooping cough, and diarrheal diseases. Attempting a prediction on 
health outcome at population 70 million, various health statistics from selected 
countries near that population size were compiled. It is apparent that certain 
relevant features are associated with low infant mortalities and high life 
expectancy at birth: 1) low population growth rates, crude birth rates, and 
fertility; 2) high literacy rates; and 3) high per capita GNP. Overall, health 
improved for the nation as a whole, and this is highly correlated with school 
enrollment and health service ratios.

PMID: 3834289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Tierarztl Prax. 1985;13(4):479-97.

[Domestication and its sequelae].

[Article in German]

Boessneck J.

The domestication of the dog took place in the late Glacial. Its earliest record 
comes from Oberkassel near Bonn and its age is some 14000 years B.C. On the 
other side the domestication of the farm animals began about 10000 years ago, 
during the so-called Neolithic Revolution, when man's way of life changed 
basicly from the hunter-and gatherer-culture to agriculture and animal 
husbandry. This change took place in the valleys and on the slopes of the 
mountains surrounding the basin of the Euphrat and Tigris rivers which is called 
the Fertile Crescent. Sheep and goat were succeeded by pig and cattle. 
Immediately after the transition to domestication with protection by human being 
taking the place of natural selection the livestock animals and the dog 
underwent a decrease in size. This reduction in size is one of the most 
important criteria for distinguishing prehistoric domestic livestock from their 
wild forms. In high developed cultures domestication resulted in a hardly 
imaginable morphological and physiological extension of variability, in a 
richness of forms not to be guessed by the whole potential of the corresponding 
ancestors. But all these rich appearing forms were due to intraspecific 
procedures. They don't create new species. By the way of the increasing 
influence of man and its domestic animals on the environment the procedure of 
domestication is more and more shifted in the foreground and increasingly 
intervenes with the interests of wild life.

PMID: 3834643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Med Sect Proc. 1985:41-3.

Stable angina.

Hill JA.

PMID: 3836409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Med J Aust. 1985 Oct 28;143(SP9):S49-54. doi: 
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1985.tb120102.x.

An analysis of aboriginal mortality in NSW country regions, 1980-1981.

Thomson N, Smith L.

The total number of Aboriginal deaths occurring in selected country regions of 
New South Wales in 1980 and 1981 has been estimated, based on the deaths 
reported by Aboriginal health workers and those identified on the newly modified 
Form of Notification of Death. Aboriginal mortality was more than four times 
that of the total NSW population, with young and middle-aged adults having death 
rates up to 12 times higher. The Aboriginal expectation of life at birth was 
estimated at 48 years for men and 57 years for women. The principal causes of 
death were diseases of the circulatory system and injuries. The effect of 
alcohol appeared to be substantial, particularly in the 35-44 year age group.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1985.tb120102.x
PMID: 3840567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Med War. 1985 Sep-Dec;1(3):177-86. doi: 10.1080/07488008508408640.

World population perspectives 1985.

Loraine JA.

PIP: Some progress has been made in curbing global population growth, yet much 
remains to be done, particularly in 3rd world countries. Population growth 
reached its zenith between 1950-70. The growth rate then remained at 2% per 
annum. By the early 1970s, the pace began to slow, and by 1985 it was down to 
1.7%. UN sources anticipate a further drop to 1.5% by 2000. The decline has been 
due primarily to falling birthrates in some developing nations. China with its 
1-child policy has been responsible for a major effect, but also there have been 
notable declines in other Asian and in Latin American countries. One important 
factor is the inherent dynamic of the population process. The momentum of 
population growth is remarkable; world numbers are destined to increase for 
decade upon decade. Fertility levels and overall rates of population growth will 
determine when different regions of the world are likely to realize stability . 
Regarding the level at which the world population will stabilize eventually, the 
figures most commonly quoted by international agencies range from 8000-10,000 
million. This total would strain the earth's carrying capacity to an 
unacceptable degree and produce ecological malpraxis. In 1985 the developed 
nations accounted for about 1/4 of the world's population. The rate of growth 
had been slow for over 20 years and currently is 0.6% per annum. The 2 major 
demographic changes in the area are continuing low birthrates and a marked rise 
in the relative and absolute numbers of elderly people. In 1985 the less 
developed world of Africa, Asia, and Latin America housed 3700 million people, 
about 3/4 of the world's total. During the next 15 years, 85% of the births are 
expected to occur in the less developed world. Developing countries show great 
variations with respect to such demographic indices as birthrates, death rates, 
and infant mortality rates, but they share with developed nations the marked 
increase in their numbers of old people. This trend is becoming particularly 
evident in Latin America. Asia, with numbers approaching 3000 million in 1985, 
is the most populous continent of the developing world and illustrates the 
variability in reproductive activity characteristic of the 3rd world. In 1985 
the population of South America reached just over 400 million with a rate of 
growth of 2.3% per annum. As in Asia population patterns vary with the common 
tendency for births to fall. As of 1985 the population situation in Africa 
continues to be very serious. Little change has taken placed in the crude 
birthrate over the 1950-85 period. The average life expectancy at birth is only 
50 years, and the percentage of the population under age 15 is 45%. As the 21st 
century nears, the salience of the world's population problem must be 
increasingly appreciated by national governments and by international 
development agencies.

DOI: 10.1080/07488008508408640
PMID: 3842505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Arch Latinoam Nutr. 1985 Dec;35(4):603-19.

Effect of heat treatment and milling on the seed, flour, rheology and baking 
quality of some amaranth ecotypes.

Sánchez-Marroquín A, Maya S, Domingo MV.

Forty-five harvests corresponding to the two predominating domestic species of 
amaranth in Mexico were studied. The proximate analysis revealed some 
statistically significant differences throughout three years of observation. The 
Ca, P and Fe content did not vary greatly in 15 samples. No chemical differences 
were either manifested in the Mercado and Aztec types of A. hypochondriacus, nor 
in the Mexican type of A. cruentus. The latter exhibits a higher grain yield and 
a shorter life cycle; however, its baking quality is apparently inferior to that 
of the Mercado type of A. hypochondriacus. The heat treatment of the seeds 
(toasting, popping and cooking) affected protein and lysine contents as does in 
cereals and leguminous seeds although toasting in particular improves its 
sensory characteristics without altering digestibility and PER. Popping only 
improves PER. Heating at 90 or 170 degrees C for three to five minutes, at the 
usual seed's moisture rate of 6 to 15%, does not affect protein content and does 
so only slightly in the case of the fatty acids content. Amylographic and 
farinographic values of the starchy fractions indicate similarities to C. quinoa 
and differences with respect to wheat. In the case of "amaranth milk", viscosity 
and gelatinization temperature produced satisfactory values. The extension of 
amaranth cultivation in the country is hereby suggested in view of the seed's 
nutritional quality, and considering the behavior of whole amaranth flour and 
its fractions.

PMID: 3842924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Risk Anal. 1985 Sep;5(3):241-51. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1985.tb00176.x.

Medical decision making and elective surgery: the case of hysterectomy.

Travis CB.

Review and analyses of three sources of data are presented indicating that 25% 
of hysterectomies are elective. Annual mortality associated with elective 
hysterectomy is estimated to be 319, or about 12,122 woman years. Cost-benefit 
analyses of mortality, life expectancy, morbidity, psychological sequelae, as 
well as dollar expenditures, reveal high costs and relatively limited benefits. 
Explanations for this apparent anomaly in decision making are explored and 
include economic incentives, system structure, sexism, and cancer prophylaxis. 
Principles of risk perception are discussed in terms of potential biases 
associated with the cancer prophylaxis motive. It is suggested that physicians' 
judgements of risk may be more salient to the decision process than those of 
prospective patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1985.tb00176.x
PMID: 3843683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Ciba Found Symp. 1985;110:126-42. doi: 10.1002/9780470720912.ch9.

Control of tobacco-related disease.

Peto R.

As ways of discouraging tobacco consumption, the effects of increases in price 
and in quantitative information may have been under-emphasized. To decrease the 
hazards of tobacco, switches from cigarettes to pipes, cigars or 'smokeless' 
tobacco may be useful, as may a reduction in cigarette tar delivery. Indeed, the 
spread of existing tar level reductions from capitalist to socialist countries 
might prevent tens of thousands of lung cancer deaths each year in the early 
decades of the next century, and (perhaps by attempts to engineer cigarettes so 
that smokers of lower tar cigarettes are less likely to 'compensate' by taking 
more smoke) it should eventually also be possible to change cigarettes so as 
also to reduce their effects on heart and lung disease. Changes in consumption 
and in composition of tobacco products are complementary, not competing, 
strategies. If both are pursued effectively, then although the life expectancy 
of old people may not be much improved, the proportion of adults who die before 
reaching old age will decrease substantially.

DOI: 10.1002/9780470720912.ch9
PMID: 3845881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Kango Gijutsu. 1985 Apr;31(6):829-39.

[Prolongation of mental life expectancy].

[Article in Japanese]

Mizuno H, Hasegawa K.

PMID: 3847607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Nurs Res. 1985 Sep-Oct;34(5):283-8.

Goal setting and health risk reduction.

Alexy B.

The effectiveness of client participation in goal selection aimed at health risk 
reduction was compared with the effectiveness of provider-selected goals and of 
no goal setting. No difference in goal attainment was found between the two 
groups with goals. However, analyses of covariance for selected subsamples of 
individuals at risk revealed a significant difference between goal-setting 
groups for weight reduction, with the collaborative goal-setting group being 
more effective. Covariance analyses for other subsamples at risk showed 
significant differences between the goal-setting groups for current health age 
and potential for life expectancy increase; the provider goal-setting group 
proved to be more effective. Paired t tests within groups revealed that the 
provider goal-setting group made significant change in alcohol intake, seat belt 
use, and exercise as well as in global measures of current health age, estimated 
life expectancy, and potential for life expectancy increase. For the 
collaborative goal-setting group, significant change was found in weight 
reduction, exercise levels, and the global measures of estimated life expectancy 
and potential for life expectancy increase. The control group made a significant 
change in exercise, but not in any of the global measures of risk reduction.

PMID: 3850489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. J Sch Health. 1985 Dec;55(10):413-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1746-1561.1985.tb01167.x.

A comparison of two HRAs for use in the university classroom.

Neutens JJ, Pursley RJ.

Current interest in health and wellness combined with the proliferation of 
Health Risk Appraisals (HRAs) has made classroom use of such instruments 
increase rapidly in recent years. This study compared two HRAs in terms of 
appraised age, attainable age, the list of positive lifestyle factors for 
reinforcement, the list of lifestyle factors to be changed, and the variables of 
desirable weight and blood pressure as well as observed differences in display 
and unique comment characteristics. One hundred and thirty-three students at a 
large southeastern university comprised the sample. Though no significant 
differences were found in appraised age or attainable age, significant 
differences existed in the number of positive lifestyle changes listed, number 
of suggested lifestyle changes to be made by students, and several observable 
differences in display including graphics and tables. Implications for health 
educators are noted.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1746-1561.1985.tb01167.x
PMID: 3853036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 1985 Nov;21(2):107-11. doi: 
10.1016/0169-2607(85)90069-0.

A computer algorithm for the assessment of age reporting bias in censal 
population estimates using Myers' 'blended' method.

Ayiomamitis A.

A population's age structure is widely used in the computation of many vital 
statistics. The importance of highly accurate vital statistics cannot be 
overemphasized--such statistics are used extensively by governments to determine 
the proper allocation of health resources and services, and by demographers, 
sociologists and epidemiologists to study secular trends. A computer program has 
been developed for use on an Apple II+ microcomputer for the analysis of 
population age profiles and determination of age reporting bias.

DOI: 10.1016/0169-2607(85)90069-0
PMID: 3853482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Osterr Krankenpflegez. 1985 Nov;38(11):265-8.

[Value of life-preserving methods and diagnosis in aged and terminal 
persons--from a nurse's viewpoint].

[Article in German]

Kieler M.

PMID: 3853771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Midwife Health Visit Community Nurse. 1985 Dec;21(12):438-42.

Overpopulation.

Loraine JA.

PMID: 3854162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Med Sestra. 1985 Oct;44(10):3-7.

[Risk factors for premature aging and its prevention].

[Article in Russian]

Korkushko OV.

PMID: 3854691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1985 Dec 28;115(52):1881-5.

[Chronic myeloid leukemia: multivariant analysis of initial findings regarding 
its effect on mean life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Hirschberg T, Berchtold W, Rhyner K, Gmür J.

Clinical signs, complete blood counts and bone marrow differential counts at the 
time of diagnosis were investigated in 75 consecutive patients with chronic 
myelogenous leukemia in a study of prognostic parameters. All patients were 
followed until death (62 patients) or for a mean follow-up time of 69 months (13 
patients). Clinical signs and hematological values were analyzed by univariate 
and multivariate statistical methods. The only parameter relevant to mean 
survival time in multivariate analysis is the percentage of bone marrow 
myeloblasts at diagnosis. Patients with less than 5% myeloblasts at diagnosis 
had a mean survival time of 48 months compared with 16 months for those with 
greater than or equal to 5% (p less than 0.01).

PMID: 3867133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Arch Toxicol Suppl. 1985;8:124-7. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-69928-3_18.

The incidence of neoplasms in Syrian hamsters with particular emphasis on 
intestinal neoplasia.

Fabry A.

The incidence of neoplasms is presented for 600 Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus 
auratus) used as controls in the evaluation of carcinogenicity of various 
experimental viral vaccines administered as a single subcutaneous injection at 
birth. Approximately 30% of the animals had neoplasms with no appreciable sex 
difference in the overall tumor incidence. The most frequent tumor types were 
those of the adrenal cortex (13.5%), the lymphoreticular system (3%), and the 
endometrium (3%). Small intestinal adenocarcinomas occurred in 0.8% of the 
animals. In this laboratory, the incidence of intestinal tumors is greater and 
more variable than that in the mouse or the rat. Furthermore, several unusual 
morphologic and biologic features of this tumor type were identified. These 
findings raise questions about the suitability of the Syrian hamster in 
carcinogenic bioassays.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-69928-3_18
PMID: 3868341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Sb Ved Pr Lek Fak Karlovy Univerzity Hradci Kralove. 1985;28(1-2):81-9.

[How some serious diseases affect the mean life span of the Czechoslovak 
population].

[Article in Russian]

Strnad L.

PMID: 3870444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Rehabilitation (Stuttg). 1985 Feb;24(1):20-5.

[Methodology of geriatric research].

[Article in German]

Neuser J.

Starting from the basic equation of research on aging [behaviour = f (age)], 
various issues involved in defining the subject-matter of that research are 
discussed. Advantages and disadvantages of aging research methods (i.e. 
cross-sectional, longitudinal, and time-lag study, cohort analysis), evolved by 
extension of the basic equation, are put forth and are critically discussed in 
terms of the relevancy of the findings obtained.

PMID: 3872469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Bull World Health Organ. 1985;63(1):1-10.

Cystic fibrosis. A WHO/ICF(M)A meeting.

A WHO/ICF(M)A Meeting.

Cystic fibrosis represents a major health problem in developed countries. 
Although its distribution is worldwide, in most developing countries there is 
little awareness of its prevalence and little opportunity to provide treatment. 
The improvements in survival of cystic fibrosis patients in developed countries 
over the past two decades have brought mean life expectancy to 20 years or more, 
and many adult patients with cystic fibrosis at present are fully integrated in 
society and have an acceptable lifestyle. Improvements in standard of living, 
general health, diet, surgical and medical care, including nutritional support, 
pancreatic enzyme supplementation and antibiotic therapy have all contributed to 
extended survival of patients and improved quality of life. The role of the 
community is important in providing support for cystic fibrosis patients and 
their families. Cystic fibrosis organizations, and mutual-help parent groups 
play a vital part in educating the public about the disease, disseminating 
information, and supporting research.The lack of knowledge regarding the 
fundamental defect of the disease and the lack of appropriate methods for fetal 
diagnosis and heterozygote detection, limit the possibility of controlling the 
disease. International collaboration is required to provide internationally 
useful guidelines for treatment, to promote initiatives in public health, and to 
assist in the dissemination of educational material. In practice this will be 
most important in developing countries, where underdiagnosis of cystic fibrosis 
is widespread. Definition of the gene for cystic fibrosis and its resultant 
metabolic defect will require intensive specialized and systematic fundamental 
research, which could also be accelerated by international collaboration.

PMCID: PMC2536359
PMID: 3872728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Mt Sinai J Med. 1985 Apr;52(4):253-8.

Tuberculosis chemoprophylaxis for diabetics: are the benefits of isoniazid worth 
the risk?

Rose DN, Silver AL, Schechter CB.

PMID: 3873602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr. 1985 Aug;53(8):273-90. doi:
10.1055/s-2007-1001973.

[Schizophrenia research using psychiatric case registries].

[Article in German]

Häfner H, an der Heiden W.

Almost 60 years after the establishment of the National Register of Psychoses in 
Norway psychiatric case registers have become an indispensable instrument of 
psychiatric research. By enabling a consecutive, person-related registration of 
contacts with the health care services of a geographically circumscribed region 
over long periods they have opened up new perspectives for epidemiological and 
followup studies and the evaluation of the care provided for schizophrenics. The 
severity of the illness and the fact that it frequently takes a long-term course 
are highly likely to lead to contacts with psychiatric services in areas with 
well-developed service structures. In this way case registers permit relatively 
reliable estimates of the treatment prevalence and first contacts, providing 
indicators of the true incidence. In the Federal Republic of Germany, however, 
as the only country in the world, cumulative psychiatric case registers have 
become illegal. An examination of long-term ecological, social and individual 
distribution processes among persons fallen ill with schizophrenia shows that 
the uneven distribution becomes effective even prior to the first onset. This is 
reflected in the marriage rates--the more so among males than females--, in the 
choice of occupation and the social chances of the schizophrenics to-be. In 
contrast, there is no reliable evidence for an increased risk of falling ill 
with schizophrenia after exposure to severe stress over a longer period of time. 
The age at first onset is some 10 years lower for males than females. Neither 
for this finding nor for the deviating birth season distribution, exhibited by 
approximately 10% of the schizophrenics, has any conclusive explanation been 
found. Even after the successful combat against tuberculosis falling ill with 
schizophrenia clearly reduces further life expectancy. The linkage of data from 
psychiatric case registers with twin, adoption and birth registers confirms the 
assumption that the probability of falling ill with schizophrenia is increased 
by genetic factors, thus refuting the alternative hypothesis of an 
environment-related transmission of the illness. Case registers are an 
indispensable means for the evaluation and cost analysis of the care provided 
for schizophrenics, above all in the establishment of new programmes of 
community-based complementary care for the chronically ill. Furthermore, they 
provide a solid basis for methodological studies on questions such as the 
stability of or transitions in the diagnosis over time.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1001973
PMID: 3875540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Res Nurs Health. 1985 Sep;8(3):269-74. doi: 10.1002/nur.4770080309.

Recalled life expectancy information, phase of illness and hope in cancer 
patients.

Stoner MH, Keampfer SH.

In this study two research questions were addressed: What is the relationship 
between recalled life expectancy information and hope in cancer patients? What 
effect does phase of illness have on the level of hope in cancer patients? A 
scale to measure hope was developed, used, and evaluated. In 55 cancer patients, 
an analysis of variance showed a significant main effect on hope for recalled 
life expectancy; difference in level of hope was found in cancer patients at 
different phases of illness. The findings indicated that individuals having no 
recollection of receiving information regarding their prognosis were more 
hopeful. The results have implications for determining what, how much, when, and 
how to communicate life expectancy information to patients who have cancer or 
other life-threatening illnesses.

DOI: 10.1002/nur.4770080309
PMID: 3877952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Gerontologist. 1985 Feb;25(1):78-82. doi: 10.1093/geront/25.1.78.

Misinterpretations of increases in life expectancy in gerontology textbooks.

Yin P, Shine M.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/25.1.78
PMID: 3884460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Med J Aust. 1985 Apr 1;142(SP7):S2-8. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1985.tb116079.x.

Obesity: definition, diagnosis and disadvantages.

Bray GA.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1985.tb116079.x
PMID: 3884986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Br J Haematol. 1985 Apr;59(4):593-602. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2141.1985.tb07353.x.

Life expectancy of Swedish haemophiliacs, 1831-1980.

Larsson SA.

Life expectancy of Swedish haemophiliacs has been estimated for the period 
1831-1980. The data were derived from 948 haemophiliacs of whom 580 survived 
throughout 1980. Applying standard demographic techniques, median life 
expectancy of patients with severe haemophilia was found to have increased 
fivefold, from a mere 11 years during the period 1831-1920 to 56.8 years during 
1961-80. The corresponding estimates for patients with moderate haemophilia were 
27.5 and 71.5 years, respectively. The limited data on patients with mild 
haemophilia did not indicate any significant improvements in mortality. From the 
beginning of this century to 1980 median life expectancy for Swedish males 
increased from 61.7 years to 75.6 years, an increase of 23%. Analysing the last 
12 years of the study (1969-80), death rates for patients with severe 
haemophilia below the age of 45 were not much different from those of Swedish 
males in the population as a whole. The investigation implies that the mortality 
of haemophiliacs in Sweden is approaching that of the total male population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.1985.tb07353.x
PMID: 3885998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Clin Gastroenterol. 1985 Jan;14(1):209-32.

Prevention of recurrent variceal bleeding: non-surgical procedures.

Schalm SW, van Buuren HR.

Patients with cirrhosis, who have survived an episode of variceal bleeding, 
often have far-advanced liver disease and therefore, on average, a severely 
restricted life expectancy. Still, the prognosis for the individual patient 
varies greatly depending on the presence or absence of large varices and the 
Child classification. Centres evaluating treatment of variceal bleeding often 
attract different patient populations. Comparison of the outcome of the complete 
series of patients is usually meaningless since results reflect the composition 
of the patient population rather than the applied therapy. The natural history 
of patients with variceal bleeding should be defined by Child category, allowing 
more precise definition of the therapeutic aims and subsequently assessment of 
the results. Persistent lowering of the portal pressure by pharmacological 
modulation of the portal haemodynamic system is now feasible due to the 
availability of long-acting oral medication. Propranolol is still the leading 
drug and, in one centre, its use in predominantly Child A patients was 
associated with a marked reduction in recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding and 
subsequently mortality rate. These results could not be reproduced in another 
centre. Both the restricted indication as well as the uncertain efficacy limit 
the current use of propranolol, but further pharmacological developments are 
bound to appear. Endoscopic sclerotherapy has become the treatment of choice in 
the prevention of recurrent variceal haemorrhage. The proponents of paravasal 
injection report excellent efficacy in combination with a low incidence of 
side-effects, whereas mainly theoretical reasons are advanced by users of 
intravariceal injections. Still, variceal haemorrhage remains an important 
clinical problem in the period between the start of sclerotherapy and the 
eradication of varices. Combination of sclerotherapy with portal 
antihypertensive medication might become the treatment of choice until 
eradication of varices has been achieved; thereafter either continued medication 
or repeated endoscopy will maintain an avariceal state and effective prevention 
of recurrent variceal bleeding.

PMID: 3886214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Nutr Rev. 1985 Feb;43(2):33-40. doi: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.1985.tb06850.x.

The health implications of overweight and obesity.

Simopoulos AP.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.1985.tb06850.x
PMID: 3887232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Psychiatry. 1985 May;48(2):141-58. doi: 10.1080/00332747.1985.11024276.

Recollections of Harry Stack Sullivan and of the development of his 
interpersonal psychiatry.

Rioch DM.

Some of us who knew Harry Stack Sullivan during the last two decades of his life 
and followed the development of his though estimated that his professional 
career, starting with the completion of the course work at the Chicago College 
of Medicine and Surgery, 1915, could be divided roughly into four separate 
periods of some eight years each in duration. The first period may be called the 
Chicago period, 1915-1921; the second the Washington-Baltimore period, 
1921-1931; the third the New York period, 1931-1939; and the fourth, the period 
of the Washington School of Psychiatry, 1939 to approximately 1947. This leaves 
a period of about a year, or possibly a little longer, which I wish to designate 
as the fifth period, cut short by Sullivan's sudden death in January 1949. The 
last period consisted of his separating himself from the Washington School of 
Psychiatry and from teaching the theory of interpersonal psychiatry while 
simultaneously exploring the feasibility of a psychiatry of social groups or 
even of society itself. The first name for this extension of the concept of 
interpersonal relations to the entire social field was the title given to the 
White Memorial Lectures delivered by Dr. G. Brock Chisholm in 1945, namely, 
"Psychiatry of Enduring Peace and Social Progress."

DOI: 10.1080/00332747.1985.11024276
PMID: 3887444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Chirurg. 1985 Apr;56(4):238-42.

[Abdominal aortic aneurysm. Change in diagnosis and therapy].

[Article in German]

Vollmar J.

The improved diagnostic approach using computerised tomography and ultrasound 
investigation resulted recently in a remarkable increase of early diagnosed 
abdominal aortic aneurysm. Simultaneously in the last decennium the number of 
elective interventions has been increased 4-6 times. As a result of 
simplification and standardisation of the operative technique (dissection resp. 
inlay-technique) the operative mortality for elective surgery has decreased to 
1-3%. Statistical datas proved a significant increase of life expectancy for 
operated patients. Interventions for ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms are 
still loaded with a high risk (mortality rate 40-75%). Both elective and 
emergency vascular repairs should be done by well trained vascular surgeons and 
should not be a challenge for general surgeons to do sporadic vascular surgery.

PMID: 3888551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1985 Jun 7;110(23):929-35. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1068935.

[Treatment of terminal kidney insufficiency with dialysis or transplantation].

[Article in German]

Kindler J, Sieberth HG, Wing AJ.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1068935
PMID: 3888596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. J Fam Pract. 1985 Jun;20(6):539, 542, 544-6.

Hospice care: not available to everyone.

Holman KG, Noce JJ, Montgomery PJ.

PMID: 3889220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Nephron. 1985;40(2):129-38. doi: 10.1159/000183448.

Treatment of the uremic diabetic.

Shyh TP, Beyer MM, Friedman EA.

Improved patient survival and rehabilitation have been continuously reported 
over the last decade for diabetics in irreversible kidney failure. There have, 
however, been no controlled prospective trials of the relative merits of CAPD, 
maintenance hemodialysis, or kidney transplantation in the uremic diabetic. As a 
generalization, younger, more rehabilitatable diabetics have been offered a 
kidney transplant, while older, often sicker diabetics have been relegated to 
CAPD, leaving most diabetics in the subset managed by maintenance hemodialysis. 
Treatment preference has reasonably been based on a team's experience and 
available facilities. Furthermore, nonuniform criteria for patient selection, 
and timing of the onset of uremia therapy, preclude direct comparisons between 
series of treated diabetics. While survival of diabetics treated with 
maintenance hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis has improved substantially in 
recent years, survival and rehabilitation after kidney transplantation are 
superior to other forms of uremia therapy. Cumulative data suggest that a 
treated uremic diabetic patient has a 50% chance of living 3 years on 
hemodialysis, a 50% chance of surviving 5 years if he receives a well 
functioning cadaveric kidney transplant, and an even longer anticipated survival 
of 50% for 7.5 years if transplanted with a well-functioning living-related 
kidney. Even better results may be attainable with kidneys from HLA-identical 
siblings, particularly when transplanted early and employing cyclosporine rather 
than azathioprine, thereby allowing reduction of steroid dosage to minimal 
levels. Kidney transplantation, when judiciously undertaken by a team skilled in 
overall diabetic management, is the treatment of choice for the uremic diabetic. 
Dialytic therapy, however, has appreciable value, not only as an alternative in 
patients in whom transplantation is contraindicated, or for whom a kidney is not 
available, but as life-sustaining therapy while awaiting surgical intervention. 
No matter how treated, diabetic nephropathy need no longer be viewed as a 
disease of desperation. Unfortunately, proffering a substitute for the diabetic 
patient's own renal function does not, in and of itself, diminish progression of 
preexisting multisystem micro- and macrovascular disease. Implantation of a 
functioning kidney transplant in a failing diabetic with the renal-retinal 
syndrome provides a firm base upon which, with careful attention to regulation 
of blood glucose, reduction of hypertensive blood pressure, and provision of 
emotional support, a new, tenuous life may be built.

DOI: 10.1159/000183448
PMID: 3889674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Rev Clin Esp. 1985 Mar;176(4):161-3.

[Aging and cancer].

[Article in Spanish]

Senra Varela A, Millán Núñez-Cortés J.

PMID: 3890037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
