

584. Adv Cardiol. 1985;32:69-80. doi: 10.1159/000410755.

Cardiac digital angiography: applications in ventriculography and coronary 
arteriography.

Borer JS, Goldberg HL, Carter J, Herrold E, Levin A.

Clearly, computer-based digital subtraction offers several advantages over 
conventional approaches to contrast angiography. Using the newer method, in many 
situations contrast loads can be beneficially reduced, radiation exposure can be 
markedly diminished, and right ventricle evaluations can be simplified. In 
addition, storage of data on magnetic tape is less space consuming, and less 
costly, than storage on film. Over the 5- to 10-year life expectancy of a 
digitally equipped laboratory, these advantages probably justify the 30-50% 
increase in the initial monetary outlay for equipment in excess of that required 
for a conventionally equipped laboratory. However, the greatest promise of 
digital angiography is in the area of coronary arteriography. If 
three-dimensional reconstruction of coronary lesions and determination of 
regional flow can be effected, important advances in diagnosis and in 
prognostication theoretically might be expected, leading to more appropriate 
selection of therapy for individual patients than now can be achieved. However, 
currently available information does not yet indicate the extent to which such 
potential advantages will be realized. Thus, it will be several years before we 
will know whether the exciting potential of digital angiography in this area can 
be reached.

DOI: 10.1159/000410755
PMID: 3890476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Parasitology. 1985 Apr;90 ( Pt 4):629-60. doi: 10.1017/s0031182000052288.

Community control of helminth infections of man by mass and selective 
chemotherapy.

Anderson RM, Medley GF.

The design of mass and targetted community-based chemotherapy programmes for the 
control of the major helminth infections of man is discussed in relation to the 
population and transmission dynamics of the parasites. Rapid reinfection 
following a single mass or targetted anthelmintic application is shown to be a 
universal feature of helminth transmission, as a consequence of the regulatory 
or feed-back mechanisms controlling population abundance within both individuals 
and the community as a whole. Control of reinfection requires repeated community 
treatment where the intensity of application and the interval between treatments 
are dependent on the reproductive life-expectancy of the adult worm, the net 
force of transmission prior to control (the basic reproductive rate) and the 
factors which create aggregation in the distribution of parasite loads within 
the population. Selective or targetted treatment is shown to be most effective 
for the control of morbidity as opposed to the control of transmission. The 
impact of targetted treatment depends critically on the factors that generate 
heterogeneity in parasite burdens and on whether or not selectivity is based on 
a single or repeated identification of the 'wormy' fraction of the community. 
Monte Carlo simulation studies are employed to assess the likely impacts of 
different control strategies on average parasite abundance/person and the 
distributions of parasite loads within populations. Future epidemiological 
research needs are discussed in relation to theoretical work and recent field 
studies of predisposition to heavy infection.

DOI: 10.1017/s0031182000052288
PMID: 3892436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1985;445:37-44. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1985.tb17173.x.

The interaction of coexistent alpha-thalassemia and sickle cell anemia: a model 
for the clinical and cellular results of diminished polymerization?

Embury SH.

Review of the studies on the interaction of alpha-thalassemia and sickle cell 
anemia reveals a consistently beneficial effect on the severity of anemia and 
the rheologic and cellular properties of sickle cells. The predominantly 
vaso-occlusive clinical aspects of sickle cell anemia studied are not uniformly 
benefited by the presence of alpha-thalassemia. These variable results may be 
related to the detrimental effects of higher hematocrit on whole blood 
viscosity. The effects of alpha-thalassemia on sickle cell anemia are probably 
related to a fundamental effect on MCHC and polymerization, although coexistent 
effects on other properties of sickle cells and the possibility that the MCHC 
differences may be secondary to sickling effects cannot be excluded. In total, 
alpha-thalassemia is an imperfect model for the effects of polymerization on the 
clinical consequences of sickle cell disease. An important inference from the 
published literature is that the severity of anemia may be a more important 
determinant of the ultimate clinical consequence of sickle cell anemia, life 
expectancy, than has previously been appreciated. Although the effect of 
alpha-thalassemia is an imperfect model for modified polymerization, studies of 
the phenotypic result of the interaction of these two genotypes will provide 
further insight into the causes of clinical diversity in sickle cell disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1985.tb17173.x
PMID: 3893275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Psychol Med. 1985 Aug;15(3):543-53. doi: 10.1017/s003329170003141x.

Subtypes of Alzheimer's dementia: a conceptual analysis and critical review.

Jorm AF.

Criteria necessary for establishing the existence of qualitatively-different 
subtypes of a disorder are proposed. A review is made of the existing literature 
on Alzheimer's Dementia which proposes subtypes on the basis of either 
psychological or neuropathological data. It is concluded that, as yet, this 
research has not met the criteria for establishing qualitatively-different 
subtypes. However, Alzheimer's Dementia does seem to show quantitative 
variability in a number of respects and this appears to be related to factors of 
aetiological significance. The possibility that this quantitative variability 
could provide the basis for subtyping is discussed.

DOI: 10.1017/s003329170003141x
PMID: 3901058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Acta Med Scand. 1985;218(1):5-17. doi: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1985.tb08818.x.

Comparison of ecology, ageing and state of health in Japan and Sweden, the 
present and previous leaders in longevity.

Svanborg A, Shibata H, Hatano S, Matsuzaki T.

PIP: A comparative analysis of the factors associated with longevity in Japan 
and Sweden is presented. The authors first note that Japan has recently taken 
over the position, previously held by Sweden, of having the highest life 
expectancy in the world. Factors considered include nutrition, smoking, alcohol 
consumption, profession-related risks, family structure, and general standard of 
living. The data are from official sources in the two countries concerned.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1985.tb08818.x
PMID: 3901682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Contraception. 1985 Jul;32(1):1-22. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(85)90112-x.

Fertility regulation--the present and the future. Status report by a marsian 
from the planet called Earth.

Diczfalusy E.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(85)90112-x
PMID: 3902355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Am J Epidemiol. 1985 Dec;122(6):1007-16. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a114182.

Survival and expectation of life from the 1400's to the present. A study of the 
Knighthood Order of the Golden Fleece.

Vandenbroucke JP.

The author used standard methods for the analysis of retrospective cohort 
studies, to investigate survival and life expectancy at age 25 years and older 
in 1,282 European noblemen who had been members of the Knighthood Order of the 
Golden Fleece between its foundation in 1430 and the early 1960's. This 
experience was compared with figures published for British peerage families 
since the 1600's and with Dutch population figures of the 1980's. For all ages, 
there was a gradual increase in survival and life expectancy from the 1700's 
onward, continuing until the present.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a114182
PMID: 3904413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Basic Life Sci. 1985;35:15-73. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4899-2218-2_3.

Antioxidants and longevity of mammalian species.

Cutler RG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4899-2218-2_3
PMID: 3904717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1985 Dec;(201):2-8.

The future of life expectancy.

Medawar PB.

PMID: 3905130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Med Clin North Am. 1985 Nov;69(6):1265-80. doi:
10.1016/s0025-7125(16)30986-5.

Obesity and hormonal factors in sleep and sleep apnea.

Wittels EH.

The presence of obesity, defined as weight 20 per cent or more above ideal body 
weight or increased body fat content, significantly increases risk of pulmonary, 
cardiovascular, metabolic, and gastrointestinal problems. Obesity is a major 
cause of shortened life expectancy. While obesity is not essential for the 
development of the obstructive sleep apnea syndrome, a significant percentage of 
patients with obstructive sleep apnea are obese. When evaluating these patients 
who have obstructive sleep apnea, it is important to search diligently for 
medical problems that are commonly found among the obese. While there is an 
increased incidence of obese patients among those who have obstructive sleep 
apnea, the exact reason for this is uncertain. The study of endorphins and 
enkephalins may expand our understanding of obesity, ventilatory regulation, and 
obstructive sleep apnea. This may, in fact, enable us to understand better the 
interrelationship between obesity and obstructive sleep apnea. The role that 
thyroid hormone, testosterone, and progesterone play in obstructive sleep apnea 
has also been reviewed. Patients who have obstructive sleep apnea should not be 
treated with testosterone. All patients given testosterone should be observed 
quite closely for the possible signs and symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea. 
Progesterone seems to be of some help in patients who have obesity 
hypoventilation syndrome. Its effectiveness in patients with obstructive sleep 
apnea is less clear. The obesity hypoventilation syndrome as described by 
Burwell is relatively uncommon. Many of the manifestations of the obesity 
hypoventilation syndrome, however, are found in patients with obstructive sleep 
apnea. The recognition that the symptoms stem from underlying obstructive sleep 
apnea offers great potential for therapy. Weight reduction is valuable therapy 
for patients with obesity and pulmonary dysfunction, obesity and obstructive 
sleep apnea, and obesity hypoventilation syndrome. Weight reduction and weight 
maintenance, while difficult, are essential in patients with obesity, obesity 
and obstructive sleep apnea, and the hypoventilation syndrome. Obesity should be 
viewed as a medical problem deserving medical attention and long-term medical 
follow-up.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7125(16)30986-5
PMID: 3906303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Rev Med Brux. 1985 Sep;6(7):497-504.

[Aging in the female].

[Article in French]

Asiel M.

PMID: 3909287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Ups J Med Sci. 1985;90(2):107-14. doi: 10.3109/03009738509178646.

Surgery of renal cancer with extensive caval invasion. Suggestion for a new 
approach.

Andréen T, Aberg T, Fritjofsson A.

Radical surgery for renal cancer with invasion of the inferior vena cava can 
improve the patient's quality of life and, in some cases, offer longer survival 
or even cure. With a carefully planned surgical approach it is possible to 
remove renal tumours with thrombotic extension to the most proximal part of the 
inferior vena cava without necessity for cardiopulmonary bypass and without 
undue risk to the patient. In the operative procedure, good access and visual 
control of the proximal vena cava and all the contributing veins seem to be 
crucially important.

DOI: 10.3109/03009738509178646
PMID: 3909590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1985;190:161-70. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4684-7853-2_5.

Genetics and aging; the Werner syndrome as a segmental progeroid syndrome.

Martin GM.

The maximum lifespan potential is a constitutional feature of speciation and 
must be subject to polygenic controls acting both in the domain of development 
and in the domain of the maintenance of macromolecular integrity. The enormous 
genetic heterogeneity that characterizes our own species, the complexities of 
numerous nature-nurture interactions, and the quantitative and qualitative 
variations of the senescent phenotype that are observed suggest that precise 
patterns of aging in each of us may be unique. Patterns of aging may also differ 
sharply among species (for example, semelparous vs. multiparous mammals). Some 
potential common denominators, however, allow one to identify progeroid 
syndromes in man that could lead to the elucidation of important pathways of 
gene action. (The suffix "-oid" means "like"; it does not mean identity.) 
Unimodal progeroid syndromes (eg., familial dementia of the Alzheimer type, an 
autosomal dominant) can help us understand the pathogenesis of a particular 
aspect of the senescent phenotype of man. Segmental progeroid syndromes (eg. the 
Werner syndrome, an autosomal recessive) may be relevant to multiple aspects of 
the senescent phenotype. Some results of research on the Werner syndrome may be 
interpreted as support for "peripheral" as opposed to "central" theories of 
aging; they are consistent with the view that gene action in the domain of 
development (adolescence, in this instance) can set the stage for patterns of 
aging in the adult; they point to the importance of mesenchymal cell populations 
in the pathogenesis of age-related disorders; finally, they underscore the role 
of chromosomal instability, especially in the pathogenesis of neoplasia.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4684-7853-2_5
PMID: 3909765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Arch Gynecol. 1985;237(2):67-73. doi: 10.1007/BF02199710.

A comparison between the results of simple mastectomy and tumorectomy for breast 
cancer: the problem of local recurrence.

Kindermann G, Genz T.

Between 1963 and 1981, 1139 patients had surgery for unilateral breast cancer at 
the Charlottenburg Gynaecological Clinic of the Free University Berlin. A total 
of 948 patients had a simple mastectomy and 191 patients had an extended 
tumorectomy (or lumpectomy) with subsequent radiotherapy (40 Gy). Retrospective 
analysis of "matched cases" treated by tumorectomy or mastectomy showed the rate 
of local recurrence after tumorectomy to be nearly double that after simple 
mastectomy (8.7% after tumorectomy, 4.7% after mastectomy). Life expectancy with 
a local recurrence after conservative surgery, was however, better than that 
after simple mastectomy.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02199710
PMID: 3909970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Arch Geschwulstforsch. 1985;55(6):421-8.

Cancer and aging.

Anisimov VN.

In the experiments with various carcinogenic agents (chemical, radiation, 
hormonal) it was established that in aging sensitivity of different tissues to 
initiating action of carcinogens changes unequally. It could be attributed both 
to peculiarities of an agent (of indirect or direct action and others) and to 
age-related changes in the activity of DNA-repair systems and proliferative 
activity of target tissues. It appeared that old age, as a rule, facilitated 
transplantability and growth rate of various grafted tumors. There has been 
suggested a model according to which age-related increase of tumor incidence 
results from total action on the organism of stochastic (independant of age, 
environmental carcinogenic factors) and non-stochastic internal factors, 
developing with age in the organism. Stochastic constituent is determined by the 
effective dose of a carcinogen and could be constant in any age. Accumulation of 
such a dose adds to the increase of cancer incidence with age. Nonstochastic 
constituent reflects the rate of age-related changes of the factors, determining 
the effective dose of a carcinogen and sensitivity of a target-tissue to its 
action (activity of carcinogen-metabolizing enzymes, DNA-repair, proliferative 
activity of the tissue in the moment of action) and factors of promotion and 
progression of carcinogenesis (immunity and hormono-metabolic status). The value 
of this parameter is different for every tissue. With regard to this model, 
organization of primary prevention of cancer should provide alongside with 
measures aimed at prevention of environmental carcinogenic action on the 
organism, those, inhibiting age-related shifts in the organism, which facilitate 
cancer development.

PMID: 3909982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Cardiol Clin. 1985 Nov;3(4):515-26.

Temporary cardiac pacing: modes, evaluation of function, equipment, and trouble 
shooting.

Haffajee CI.

Artificial cardiac pacing has become a sophisticated therapeutic and diagnostic 
tool in the management of arrhythmic cardiac emergencies. Major innovations have 
occurred in the last three decades since the advent of temporary pacing, and 
today, pacing can be effected "physiologically" in both chambers. This has been 
the result of improved venous access techniques, technologic improvements in 
electrode design, and the development of sophisticated external pulse 
generators. It has become clear that ventricular pacing alone does not improve 
the hemodynamic derangement consequent upon ventricular bradycardia and AV 
dyssynchrony. The restoration of AV synchrony either by atrial pacing preceding 
ventricular events or by ventricular pacing at a defined AV delay following a 
sensed atrial event (P wave) can often reverse the hemodynamic derangement and 
result in both extension of life and more rapid reversal of the clinical 
compromise in certain cases of acute heart block. Temporary pacing has always 
been used for bradyarrhythmias, but more recently, antitachycardia pacing is 
being utilized increasingly in the acute care setting.

PMID: 3910235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Jpn J Antibiot. 1985 Nov;38(11):3358-77.

[Basic and clinical trials of aztreonam in the field of pediatrics].

[Article in Japanese]

Motohiro T, Kawakami A, Tanaka K, Koga T, Shimada Y, Tomita N, Sakata Y, 
Fujimoto T, Nishiyama T, Tominaga K, et al.

Serum and urinary concentrations and recovery rates of aztreonam (SQ26,776, 
AZT), a newly developed antibiotic, were studied for a total of 20 pediatric 
cases by one-shot intravenous injections of 10, 20 and 40 mg/kg to 3, 4 and 3 
cases, respectively, and by intravenous drip infusion of 10, 20 and 40 mg/kg to 
3, 4 and 3 cases for 1 hour, respectively. Clinical and bacterial effects of AZT 
were studied by administering 76.7 mg/kg per day on average for a total of 36 
cases of tonsillitis (6), pneumonia (13), otitis media and pneumonia 
complication (1), pleurisy (1), sinusitis (1) and UTI (14). The above daily dose 
was given t.i.d. (9 cases) or q.i.d. (27 cases), by intravenous drip infusion 
for 30 minutes for one t.i.d. case and by one-shot intravenous injection for 7 
days for the remaining 35 cases. Also, side effect and laboratory values were 
examined for 43 cases including 7 dropouts. Serum concentration of AZT in 10 
pediatric cases were measured by dosing 10, 20 and 40 mg/kg by one-shot 
intravenous injection to 3, 4 and 3 cases, respectively. In every dosage group, 
the serum concentrations were highest 5 minutes after the intravenous injection 
with average values of 91.0, 174.0 and 175.3 mcg/ml, respectively. Dose response 
was observed between 10 mg/kg dose group and 20, 40 mg/kg dose groups, but it 
was not between 20 mg/kg group and 40 mg/kg group. This was considered to be 
attributable to the individual case-fluctuations in the 2 groups and to a high 
concentration case of 240.0 mcg/ml in the 20 mg/kg group. Half-life of each 
dosage group was 1.55, 1.65 and 1.93 hours. Serum concentrations of AZT in 10 
pediatric cases at the dosage level of 10, 20 and 40 mg/kg for 3, 4 and 3 cases, 
respectively, by 1 hour intravenous drip infusion were highest at the end of the 
administration with average values of 95.7, 126.0 and 170.7 mcg/ml, 
respectively. There was a dose response among the 3 groups and the half-life of 
them were 1.02, 1.41 and 2.48 hours, respectively. A longer half-life of the 3rd 
group with 40 mg/kg administration than the other 2 groups was due to 1 
particular case of 4.44 hours with unknown cause of such an exceptional 
extension.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 3912525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Clin Geriatr Med. 1985 Feb;1(1):15-27.

The cell biology of aging.

Hayflick L.

It is only within the past ten years that biogerontology has become attractive 
to a sufficient number of biologists so that the field can be regarded as a 
seriously studied discipline. Cytogerontology, or the study of aging at the 
cellular level, had its genesis about 20 years ago when the dogma that 
maintained that cultured normal cells could replicate forever was overturned. 
Normal human and animal cells have a finite capacity to replicate and function 
whether they are cultured in vitro or transplanted as grafts in vivo. This 
phenomenon has been interpreted to be aging at the cellular level. Only abnormal 
somatic cells are capable of immortality. In recent years it has been found that 
the number of population doublings of which cultured normal cells are capable is 
inversely proportional to donor age. There is also good evidence that the number 
of population doublings of cultured normal fibroblasts is directly proportional 
to the maximum lifespan of ten species that have been studied. Cultures prepared 
from patients with accelerated aging syndromes (progeria and Werner's syndrome) 
undergo far fewer doublings than do those of age-matched controls. The normal 
human fibroblast cell strain WI-38 was established in 1962 from fetal lung, and 
several hundred ampules of these cells were frozen in liquid nitrogen at that 
time. These ampules have been reconstituted periodically and shown to be capable 
of replication. This represents the longest period of time that a normal human 
cell has ever been frozen. Normal human fetal cell strains such as WI-38 have 
the capacity to double only about 50 times. If cultures are frozen at various 
population doublings, the number of doublings remaining after reconstitution is 
equal to 50 minus the number of doublings that occurred prior to freezing. The 
memory of the cells has been found to be accurate after 23 years of preservation 
in liquid nitrogen. Normal human cells incur many physiologic decrements that 
herald the approach of their failure to divide. Many of these functional 
decrements are identical to decrements found in humans as they age. Thus it is 
likely that these decrements are also the precursors of age changes in vivo. The 
finite replicative capacity of normal cells is never seen to occur in vivo 
because aging and death of the individual occurs well before the doubling limit 
is reached.

PMID: 3913498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Clin Geriatr Med. 1985 Feb;1(1):29-35.

The extension of maximum life span.

Walford RL.

Maximum life span can be increased by dietary modulation in rodents to a degree 
well beyond what is seen in "normal" laboratory animals, and probably well 
beyond the "potential" that wildlife animals might achieve if predation could be 
eliminated. With a fairly high order of probability, the same might be obtained 
in humans. There is no reason to insist that maximum life span in humans is 
irretrievably fixed.

PMID: 3913503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 1985;21(2):155-60. doi: 10.2190/k9b2-pgfr-a65d-jcqw.

Only the bad died young in the ancient Middle East.

Arnett WS.

Biblical writers generally viewed old age as a reward for righteousness and 
piety. Consequently, they stressed the belief that the elderly were blessed and 
that they should be venerated. While life expectancy was usually below forty 
years, there are exceptional cases on record of individuals--men and 
women--living to advanced old ages. An analysis of these special few cases and a 
discussion of extra-Biblical texts shows that other ancient Middle Eastern 
societies held attitudes toward aging and the aged comparable to those expressed 
in the Hebrew Bible.

DOI: 10.2190/k9b2-pgfr-a65d-jcqw
PMID: 3913648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 1985;102(4):431-44.

[Bicephalic monstrosities (anterior diplogenesis). Prospects for survival].

[Article in Spanish]

Orts Llorca F.

PMID: 3914219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1985 Mar 29;34(12):161-3.

Surveillance and assessment of alcohol-related mortality--United States, 1980.

Centers for Disease Control (CDC).

PMID: 3919265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1985 Mar 15;110(11):415-9. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1068838.

[Development of respiratory function in patients with chronic obstructive 
respiratory disease].

[Article in German]

Höffe G, Ulmer WT.

Follow-up assessments were done in 18 patients with chronic obstructive airways 
disease, mainly chronic obstructive bronchitis, over a mean of 9.4 (6-18) years. 
Two hospital admissions were required for periods of three years. In addition, 5 
of the patients had concomitant severe emphysema (chronic obstructive 
emphysematous bronchitis). During the observation period development of 
emphysema and airways resistance had not increased to any measurable degree. The 
patients' mean age by the end of the study was 63.6 years. Reversibility of the 
disease could not be influenced during clinical treatment. Patients with serious 
emphysema had neither worse airways resistances nor worse arterial blood gases 
than patients with obstructive airways disease without emphysema. As expression 
of increasing distribution disorder only arterial oxygen pressure decreased 
during the observation period when compared to normal age-related changes. The 
investigation demonstrates the great relevance of persistent treatment for 
prevention of exacerbations as well as for interval periods. This has decisively 
influenced the course of the disease: life expectancy of patients has clearly 
improved as respiratory function can be maintained constant over many years.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1068838
PMID: 3920038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Early Hum Dev. 1985 Jan;10(3-4):287-93. doi: 10.1016/0378-3782(85)90060-x.

A critical analysis of 75 therapeutic abortions.

Leschot NJ, Verjaal M, Treffers PE.

An analysis is presented of the first 75 therapeutic abortions based on the 
results of laboratory investigations on midtrimester amniotic samples from 2816 
pregnancies. The reasons for the abortions were: chromosome aberration (n = 36), 
male fetus at risk for X-linked disorder (n = 23), neural tube defect (n = 14), 
and metabolic disorders (n = 2). An estimation was made of the life expectancy 
of these 75 fetuses if no termination of pregnancy had taken place. We estimate 
that a maximum of about 40% of the aborted fetuses would have resulted in 
malformed children at the age of 1 year, or in boys developing serious 
disabilities during infancy. Financial (cost-benefit analysis) and psychologic 
aspects are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-3782(85)90060-x
PMID: 3921339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Health Phys. 1985 May;48(5):635-47. doi: 10.1097/00004032-198505000-00005.

Cancer risk from the lifetime intake of Ra and U isotopes.

Mays CW, Rowland RE, Stehney AF.

From extensive human data on the induction of skeletal cancers (bone sarcomas 
and carcinomas of the head sinuses) by 226Ra, 228Ra and 224Ra, the cumulative 
lifetime risk to 1 million people, each ingesting 5 pCi of a Ra isotope per day, 
was calculated to be nine bone sarcomas plus 12 head carcinomas for 226Ra, 22 
bone sarcomas for 228Ra, and 1.6 bone sarcomas for 224Ra. Assuming that the risk 
per rad of average skeletal dose is equal for 226Ra and the U isotopes with 
half-lives exceeding 1000 yr and that the equilibrium skeletal content is 25 
times the daily ingestion of 226Ra, but 11 times the daily ingestion of 
long-lived U, the cumulative life-span risk to 1 million persons, each ingesting 
5 pCi per day of 233U, 234U, 235U, 236U or 238U, is estimated to be about 1.5 
bone sarcomas. The U risk is not well established and additional research is 
needed on the metabolism of U in humans and its carcinogenicity in laboratory 
animals. These estimates assume linear dose responses. However, if incidence 
varies with the square of dose, virtually no induced cancers would be expected 
from these levels of radioactivity.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-198505000-00005
PMID: 3921492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Public Health Rep. 1985 May-Jun;100(3):255-60.

The limits of prevention.

McGinnis JM.

Recent years have been marked by unprecedented accomplishments in preventing 
disease and reducing mortality. More gains can be expected, but there are 
limits. The forces shaping the nature and potential of prevention programs can 
be characterized as points falling along a spectrum ranging from the purely 
scientific to the purely social. This paper focuses on four elements of that 
spectrum, discussing some of the limitations to prevention that are presented by 
biological, technical, ethical, and economic factors. The author concludes with 
an essentially optimistic perspective on the prospects, special opportunities, 
and imperatives inherent in each of the categories of limitations discussed.

PMCID: PMC1424764
PMID: 3923530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1985 Jun;42(6):537-43. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1985.01790290015001.

The economic costs of schizophrenia. Implications for public policy.

Andrews G, Hall W, Goldstein G, Lapsley H, Bartels R, Silove D.

The direct and indirect costs associated with schizophrenia in Australia were 
calculated using the incidence approach and compared with similar costings of 
myocardial infarction in Australia and the United States. In Australia 
schizophrenia affects one-twelfth as many people as does myocardial infarction, 
yet costs half as much. This is because the stream of costs associated with each 
case of schizophrenia is six times the stream of costs associated with 
myocardial infarction. To illustrate the utility of this costing approach, the 
information was used to estimate the cost-benefit ratio likely to follow the 
introduction of social intervention strategies. The information also showed that 
Australian support for research in schizophrenia is inadequate when compared 
with that for myocardial infarction and quite out of proportion to the cost of 
schizophrenia to the community.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1985.01790290015001
PMID: 3923997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1985 Jun 15;290(6484):1797-9. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.290.6484.1797.

Ten year mortality and causes of death in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

Mutru O, Laakso M, Isomäki H, Koota K.

Five hundred men and 500 women, aged 40 or over, with rheumatoid arthritis, 
together with a control population matched for age and sex, were observed over 
10 years. During that time 352 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (208 men, 144 
women) and 221 controls (148 men, 73 women) died. The overall mortality was 
significantly higher (p less than 0.0001) in both men and women with rheumatoid 
arthritis than in the controls. Infections and cardiovascular and renal diseases 
(especially amyloidosis) appeared to be the main causes of death in rheumatoid 
arthritis.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.290.6484.1797
PMCID: PMC1415924
PMID: 3924262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Women Health. 1985 Summer-Fall;10(2-3):1-16. doi: 10.1300/j013v10n02_01.

Older women and health: an overview.

Lewis M.

Older women's health issues are unique. There are more older women than ever 
before. They are living increasingly longer than men, yet they report more acute 
and chronic illness and disability than men. They are disproportionally 
represented in nursing homes, since many women are alone: twenty-five percent 
aged 70 or over have no living children and over 60 percent of older women are 
widowed, divorced, or single. Older women have fewer personal financial 
resources for health care than men. Health care reimbursement does not meet 
their needs for financial coverage of chronic outpatient and nursing home care. 
They face age and sex discrimination on the part of many health care providers 
and are subject to a growing tendency to be seen as "burdens" and "problems" in 
the American health care system.

DOI: 10.1300/j013v10n02_01
PMID: 3927595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Women Health. 1985 Summer-Fall;10(2-3):63-73. doi: 10.1300/j013v10n02_06.

Reproductive cancer.

Mann WJ.

The increasing life expectancy of our population will mean that by the year 2000 
we may expect a large number of women to be in age groups at significant risk 
for malignancies of the female reproductive tract. It is very unlikely that we 
will soon understand the cause of cancer, and effective new therapies are not to 
be anticipated. Rather, improved survival and diminished morbidity must be 
obtained by insuring ready and equal access to state of the art treatment, for 
the patient and physician.

DOI: 10.1300/j013v10n02_06
PMID: 3927597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Dig Dis Sci. 1985 Sep;30(9):813-8. doi: 10.1007/BF01309509.

[14C]Aminopyrine breath analysis and conventional biochemical tests as 
predictors of survival in cirrhosis.

Henry DA, Kitchingman G, Langman MJ.

Twenty-eight patients with histologically confirmed cirrhosis were followed for 
up to 3.8 years after [14C]aminopyrine breath analysis. Survival rates were 
calculated by life-table method and outcome analyzed by log rank test. A normal 
breath test score was associated with a higher probability of survival than a 
low score, although the difference was not statistically significant. A normal 
serum albumin was a better predictor of outcome. Survival curves constructed 
according to the results of breath analysis and serum albumin differed in that 
the former appeared to predict early survival and the latter late survival. For 
this reason, data were reanalyzed by subjects' results for both tests. A normal 
breath test score and a normal serum albumin was associated with a significantly 
higher probability of survival than an abnormal result for either test.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01309509
PMID: 3928286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Dig Dis Sci. 1985 Sep;30(9):860-5. doi: 10.1007/BF01309517.

Cost benefits of hemoccult screening for colorectal carcinoma.

Allison JE, Feldman R.

Hemoccult screening for colorectal carcinoma was begun in 1979 at the Kaiser 
Permanente Medical Center, Oakland, California, as part of a program for 
periodic health examinations. A concomitant cost-benefit analysis was conducted 
to determine the long-term medical care costs and survival benefits of this 
procedure. Of 14,041 patients greater than or equal to 45 years of age mailed 
hemoccult slides, 10,255 (70.3%) returned them at the time of their examination. 
One hundred twelve (1.1%) were positive, and 12 colorectal carcinomas were 
detected. Additionally, 13 patients with one or more polyps greater than or 
equal to 1 cm and 45 patients with other gastrointestinal sources of blood were 
found. Of the screened cases of colorectal carcinoma, 50% were in Dukes' stage A 
compared with 25% found in this stage in our institution in 1974, when screening 
was not done. Five-year Dukes' stage-specific medical care costs and mortality 
rates were developed from the 1974 cases and were then applied to the screened 
cases of colorectal cancer. A savings in medical care costs of +14,685 and a 
projected increase of 22 years in life expectancy was found.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01309517
PMID: 3928287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Med Care. 1985 Sep;23(9):1067-85.

Elective hysterectomy. Benefits, risks, and costs.

Sandberg SI, Barnes BA, Weinstein MC, Braun P.

This study evaluated the effect of hysterectomy or hysterectomy and bilateral 
salpingo-oophorectomy (hysterectomy and oophorectomy) versus alternative medical 
management on life expectancy, quality of life, and direct medical costs. Using 
techniques of decision analysis and available data on sequelae, it was found 
that gains in life expectancy and quality of life can be expected when women 
ages 30-60 undergo hysterectomy for benign neoplasm, disorders of menstruation, 
acquired abnormal anatomy, cervical disease, or endometriosis, owing primarily 
to prevention of reproductive tract cancers, which outweighs the impact of 
operative mortality. However, women who have relatively high operative risk or 
low expected cancer risks, beyond thresholds estimated in sensitivity analyses, 
suffer losses in life expectancy. Women younger than 35 not treated with 
replacement estrogens following hysterectomy and oophorectomy can expect net 
losses in life expectancy with surgical intervention due to increased risks of 
heart disease and osteoporosis. For women in the reproductive years who wish to 
preserve their potential to bear children, sterilization may be an unacceptable 
consequence of elective hysterectomy in the quality of life.

PMID: 3928987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Soc Sci Med. 1985;21(1):13-21. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(85)90283-7.

Health care in Costa Rica: boom and crisis.

Mesa-Lago C.

In 1960-1980 Costa Rica experienced a health boom, achieving significant 
improvements which moved that country into the number two position in Latin 
America for indicators such as population coverage, infant mortality, life 
expectancy and health services. In addition, there was a gradual process of 
integration of health services. But in the same period, the cost of health care 
as a percentage of GNP increased almost 5-fold and in 1980 was the fourth 
highest in the region. The economic crisis of the 1980s aggravated the financial 
difficulties; to cope with them, the government introduced an austere program to 
reduce costs and plans to transform the current model of health care into a more 
efficient one capable of maintaining Costa Rica's high health standards in the 
future. The paper is divided into five sections: summary of the historical 
development of health care, and description of its current organization and of 
its gradual process of integration; estimation of population coverage and its 
trends, evaluation of inequalities in coverage, and identification of the 
non-covered group; analysis of health-care financing and its sources, as well of 
the recent financial desequilibrium, its causes and measures to restore the 
equilibrium; description of health care benefits and their differences among 
groups and regions, analysis of the country's advances in health-care facilities 
and standards, and measurement of the impact of the health care system in income 
distribution; and description of the rising cost of health care and the current 
crisis, analysis of the causes of both phenomena, and review of the measures 
that have been and should be implemented to solve these problems.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(85)90283-7
PMID: 3929390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Clin Immunol Immunopathol. 1985 Dec;37(3):369-76. doi: 
10.1016/0090-1229(85)90106-0.

The influence of Yaa on anti-DNA responses of B6-lpr mice.

Pisetsky DS, Klatt C, Dawson D, Roths JB.

The anti-DNA autoantibody responses of mice congenic for lpr and the Y-linked 
autoimmune accelerator (Yaa) genes were studied to evaluate genetic interactions 
in murine autoimmunity. Male B6-lpr, + mice failed to generate significant 
anti-DNA responses in comparison to B6-+, + mice. In contrast, B6-lpr mice 
bearing Yaa (B6-lpr, Yaa) had markedly increased IgG anti-DNA levels in 
comparison to both B6-+, + and B6-lpr, + mice. To determine whether anti-DNA 
levels reflected the overall B-cell response to lpr and Yaa, total IgG and IgM 
levels were also determined. This analysis demonstrated that the increase in IgG 
anti-DNA produced by mice with the Yaa gene was far greater than the increase in 
total IgG. Taken together, these results indicate that an impaired anti-DNA 
response related to one gene-determined mechanism for the development of 
autoimmunity does not preclude the response to another. Furthermore, it appears 
that the polyclonal B-cell activation during murine autoimmunity may be 
associated with the preferential expression of certain autoantibodies.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-1229(85)90106-0
PMID: 3931946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Exp Gerontol. 1985;20(3-4):171-7. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(85)90034-8.

Genetic control of adult lifespan in Drosophila melanogaster.

Baird MB, Liszczynskyj J.

Two temperature-sensitive X-linked adult lethal mutations were induced by ethyl 
methane sulfonate in Drosophila melanogaster. These mutations exhibited both a 
temperature-sensitive and effective lethal phase in adult flies. The existence 
of this new class of gene mutations provides experimental support for the 
hypothesis of H.J. Müller (1963, p. 235) that "development is a continuous 
process of which senility forms the last state." Furthermore, their existence 
demonstrates that the role of genes in controlling adult lifespan may be 
dissected by those methods that have been used to successfully probe the genetic 
control of preadult development.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(85)90034-8
PMID: 3933995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. J Health Polit Policy Law. 1985 Fall;10(3):439-67. doi: 
10.1215/03616878-10-3-439.

Illusions of necessity: evading responsibility for choice in health care.

Evans RG.

Discretionary power is commonly defended by denial of its existence, the 
allegation of inevitability. Objective external conditions and forces are 
claimed to dictate policy decisions with tangible distributional effects. In 
health policy, such forces include the aging of the population, the extension of 
technology, and the demands of ethical standards. Taken together, these forces 
create relentless upward pressure on costs, to levels which society "cannot 
afford," necessitating sacrifice of the interests of the "less eligible." Yet 
quantitative analysis of these forces does not sustain the argument; in each 
case the source of cost escalation is not external pressure but the way in which 
the health care system itself reacts. Less costly and equally effective options 
are demonstrably available, but would threaten provider interests and broader 
ideologies. A spurious cloak of inevitability serves to promote and justify 
political choices.

KIE: Health policy analysts generally attribute the recent rise in health care 
costs to the inexorable pressures of an aging population, new biomedical 
technologies, and an ethical imperative to provide those health services which 
providers consider appropriate. These forces are seen as driving costs to a 
level that society cannot afford, thus necessitating cuts in services to groups 
such as the elderly and economically disadvantaged. Basing his analysis 
primarily on Canada's success in containing the growth of its acute care system, 
Evans argues that such external pressures are not the true source of cost 
escalation; rather, the problem is rooted in the nature of the U.S. health care 
delivery system. He contends that the "medical-industrial complex" ought to be 
brought under control through the judicious use of incentives for competition.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-10-3-439
PMID: 3935713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. J Health Polit Policy Law. 1985 Fall;10(3):469-87. doi: 
10.1215/03616878-10-3-469.

Caring for the elderly: a European perspective on today and tomorrow.

Culyer AJ, Birch S.

There is always a temptation to suppose that one's own problems (whether 
personal or national) are unique. They rarely are. The "problem" of the elderly 
is no exception and so there is no particular point in looking to the specific 
characteristics of one's own health, social service, and social security systems 
for causes. There is, however, every reason to be looking at them for the 
consequences. They can also exacerbate the causes. In this paper we sketch the 
principal features (economic, social, and demographic) that have contributed to 
the "problem" of the elderly in Europe and then outline the main intellectual 
issues that need to be explored and resolved. That sounds a bit pompous but, if 
one is to avoid an intellectual morass consisting of the various assertions 
about needs, obligations, and so on that emanate from rival concerned parties 
and various professional interests on the one hand, and simplistic political 
slogans whose only virtue is that they cut the Gordian Knot (but provide no real 
enlightenment) on the other, then we need to be doing just this. We shall take a 
few things for granted: that cost-containment is not the be-all-and-end-all of 
policy; that value for money depends equally on what you get as on what you 
spend; that overall expenditure per head is mainly determined by income per head 
(though some countries have managed to get and stay below the regression line); 
and that it "ain't so" that all one needs to do is to "leave it to the market." 
To have justified each of these would have taken too much space so we can only 
assert them and trust that, in swallowing these camels, you won't strain at the 
gnats to come.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-10-3-469
PMID: 3935714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. J Neural Transm. 1985;64(2):113-27. doi: 10.1007/BF01245973.

Increased life expectancy resulting from addition of L-deprenyl to Madopar 
treatment in Parkinson's disease: a longterm study.

Birkmayer W, Knoll J, Riederer P, Youdim MB, Hars V, Marton J.

In an open, uncontrolled study the longterm (9 years) effect of treatment with 
Madopar alone (n = 377) or in combination with l-deprenyl (selegiline, selective 
monoamine oxidase type B inhibitor) (n = 564) have been compared in Parkinsonian 
patients. In patients who lost their response to conventional Madopar therapy 
the addition of l-deprenyl resulted in a significant recouping of levodopa 
effect. The survival analysis revealed a significant increase of life expectancy 
in Madopar--l-deprenyl group regardless of the fact whether or not the 
significant demographic differences between the two groups were taken into 
account. Although the mechanism underlying this action of l-deprenyl is not 
known, the results are interpreted as indicating l-deprenyl's ability to prevent 
or retard the degeneration of striatal dopaminergic neurons. l-Deprenyl is the 
first anti-Parkinson drug having such a property. This hypothesis is not far 
fetched since l-deprenyl selectively prevents the degeneration of striatal 
dopaminergic neurons induced in animals by the illicit drug 
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Since latter compound is 
known to cause Parkinsonism in man and primates or Parkinson-like neurochemical 
and pathological changes in other animals the implications of the present study 
involving monoamine oxidase activity and l-deprenyl are apparent.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01245973
PMID: 3935752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Riv Inferm. 1985 Dec;4(4):227-37.

[Africa today].

[Article in Italian]

Bonifacino MP, Tognoni G.

PMID: 3938873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Med Decis Making. 1985 Fall;5(3):263-78. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8500500303.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of screening for carcinoma of the prostate by 
digital examination.

Love RR, Fryback DG, Kimbrough SR.

While screening for carcinoma of the prostate by digital examination has been 
promoted as low in cost, safe, and effective, recent reviews have questioned its 
cost-effectiveness. Critical analysis has been lacking because of limited 
understanding of the preclinical phase of the disease and because of the absence 
of pertinent large-cohort data. We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis of 
digital examination for prostate cancer using computer simulation of a 
large-cohort study. The simulation allowed for study of variations in critical 
assumptions about the disease and the screening procedure and keeps track of 
outcome descriptors such as total cost of the screening program and total years 
of life saved over the life of the cohort. Under assumptions favoring 
demonstrations of benefit from screening, modest increases in life expectancy 
were found in direct proportion to frequency and increasing costs of screening.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8500500303
PMID: 3939246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. J Urol. 1986 Jan;135(1):29-32. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)45505-4.

Therapeutic ureteral occlusion in advanced pelvic malignant tumors.

Kinn AC, Ohlsén H, Brehmer-Andersson E, Brundin J.

A technique for ureteral occlusion, combining insertion of nylon plugs with 
injection of polidocanol, is described. The method was used in 15 patients with 
vesicovaginal fistulas after operation and irradiation for advanced 
gynecological malignancy, or with severe malfunction and fibrosis of the bladder 
after radiotherapy for bladder carcinoma. The urinary leakage ceased in 11 
patients, was greatly diminished in 2 and was unchanged in 2. Migration of plugs 
to the renal pelvis was the most serious complication and may have been the 
cause of pyelonephritis in 1 case. The technique is recommended for patients 
with a short life expectancy and uncontrolled, distressing leakage of urine.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)45505-4
PMID: 3941463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Surg Neurol. 1986 Jan;25(1):49-54. doi: 10.1016/0090-3019(86)90114-x.

