Long-term follow-up of large or invasive pituitary adenomas.

Hashimoto N, Handa H, Yamashita J, Yamagami T.

A long-term follow-up study of pituitary adenomas showed that 60 out of 83 
patients with mild or moderate suprasellar extension, but only three out of 19 
patients with huge or invasive adenomas, were alive at a mean post-operative 
period of 12.8 and 12 years, respectively. Cerebral ischemic attacks and 
complications of radiotherapy affected their fate and quality of survival. 
Patients in the post-computed tomography scan era had a good prognosis, and this 
may be due partly to the brevity of the postoperative period.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-3019(86)90114-x
PMID: 3941968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Int J Cardiol. 1986 Jan;10(1):43-56. doi: 10.1016/0167-5273(86)90164-6.

The coronary arterioles in newborns, infants and children. A morphometric study 
of normal hearts and hearts with aortic atresia and complete transposition.

Kurosawa S, Kurosawa H, Becker AE.

The state of development of the intramyocardial coronary arterioles in normal 
hearts and hearts with congenital malformations is unknown, although these 
vessels play an important role in regulating myocardial blood flow. To remedy 
the situation, we studied 64 normal hearts (ranging in age from 23 weeks 
gestational age to 75 years), 13 hearts with complete transposition (5 with 
intact ventricular septum and 8 with a defect) and 11 hearts with classical 
aortic atresia. The medial thickness of arterioles with an external diameter 
from 20 to 100 microns was measured. The number of arterioles was calculated per 
mm2; a distinction was made between vessels between 20 and 100 microns and those 
smaller than 20 microns. The results show that the arteriolar vascular bed is 
not yet full grown at term. Within the first year of life the medial smooth 
muscle mass increases, most likely due to growth and peripheral extension onto 
the smaller branches. In the hearts of patients with aortic atresia who lived 
for a week or less, the arteriolar media appeared to lag behind that in normal 
hearts. In those patients who survived into the second post-natal week, however, 
the arteriolar bed was almost as anticipated for normal. The normal values 
obtained in the latter group could be due to intrinsic differences, rather than 
expressing actual and rapid growth.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-5273(86)90164-6
PMID: 3943928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Am J Cardiol. 1986 Feb 12;57(5):45C-51C. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(86)91026-x.

Epidemiology of systolic and diastolic systemic blood pressure elevation in the 
elderly.

Schoenberger JA.

The percentage of the U.S. population older than 65 years has increased faster 
than the U.S. population as a whole, from 8.1% in 1950 to 11.2% in 1979. Primary 
among the many factors contributing to increased life expectancy are the 
improved detection, treatment and control of blood pressure (BP), which has 
contributed to lower cardiovascular and cerebrovascular mortality in the 
elderly. The relation of elevated diastolic BP to increased risk of 
cardiovascular disease in the elderly is well documented; recent findings show 
increased risk associated with systolic hypertension, as well. More than half of 
the elderly population of 22 million has borderline or definite systemic 
hypertension. Almost 60% of the mortality associated with elevated BP is 
attributable to mild hypertension, i.e., diastolic BP of 90 to 104 mm Hg. In 
addition, more than 10% of persons older than 65 years have isolated systolic 
hypertension, i.e., greater than or equal to 160 mm Hg. The value of treating 
mild, moderate and severe elevation of diastolic BP in reducing mortality in the 
elderly is well known; the value of treating isolated systolic hypertension in 
this population is under investigation.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(86)91026-x
PMID: 3946249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Am J Cardiol. 1986 Feb 15;57(6):500. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(86)90792-7.

Natural model for the expected lifespan of right atrial to pulmonary artery 
conduits.

Silverman NH.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(86)90792-7
PMID: 3946276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Curr Probl Dermatol. 1986;15:290-302. doi: 10.1159/000412111.

Quantity, quality and mode of UV administration as denominators of 
photocarcinogenesis.

Forbes PD, Davies RE.

DOI: 10.1159/000412111
PMID: 3948526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1986 Mar 21;111(12):447-52. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1068472.

[Life expectancy after gastric resection for gastroduodenal ulcer].

[Article in German]

Junginger T, St√ºtzer H.

Retrospective analysis of 1045 patients who had had a Billroth II partial 
gastric resection for benign gastroduodenal ulcers revealed a significantly 
shorter life expectancy for them than for a control group matched for age and 
sex (mean and maximal periods of observation 14.6 and 22 years, median 17.6 
years; 15 217 observation years). After resection for duodenal ulcer there were 
more deaths from bronchial carcinoma, liver cirrhosis or suicide than after 
resection for gastric ulcer. Gastric stump carcinoma was more frequent in 
patients with gastric ulcer and was the cause of death in 5.8% of all patients 
who had died after the fifth postoperative year. The results suggest that life 
expectancy after gastric resection depends less on the operation than on the 
existing risk factors.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1068472
PMID: 3948711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1986 Feb;12(2):203-10. doi: 
10.1016/0360-3016(86)90095-7.

Solid tumor models for the assessment of different treatment modalities: XXV. 
Comparison of the effect of one radiation fraction per day with multiple 
fractions per day (MFD) given either continuously or intermittently on tumor 
response and normal tissue reaction.

Looney WB, Hopkins HA.

A series of experimental studies has been carried out to assess the relationship 
between the effectiveness of tumor control, normal tissue reaction and median 
survival following different radiation fractionation schedules on the solid 
tumor model 3924A in the ACI rat. The total radiation dose of 7500 rad and the 
dose per fraction of 250 rad were held constant. Tumor control and life 
expectancy improved with 250 rad given continuously as multiple fractions per 
day (MFD) (1, 2 and 3 fractions per day over 30-, 15- and 10-day periods, 
respectively). However, the maximum acute skin reaction surrounding the tumor 
was greater for MFD given continuously than for single daily fractions. We have 
also completed studies of the therapeutic effectiveness of MFD given 
intermittently at 11-day intervals. Tumor control following MFD given 
intermittently was comparable to that following the daily fraction schedule 
given continuously, and the normal tissue reaction was acceptable at a total 
radiation dose of 7500 rad. Experimental and clinical results in head and neck 
cancer indicate that large total radiation doses in the order of 7000 rad given 
as continuous MFD are associated with unacceptable normal tissue reaction. 
However, these clinical and experimental results also indicate that large total 
radiation doses can be given as MFD intermittently and effectively used in 
cancer management. The marked superiority of alternating chemotherapy and 
radiotherapy in obtaining a tumor cure rate of greater than or equal to 50% in 
our experimental system and the superiority of alternating chemotherapy and 
radiotherapy in extensive Hodgkin's disease (complete response rate--87%) over 
chemotherapy alone, radiotherapy alone, or the two modalities given together or 
as split course provides the clinical and experimental basis for the development 
of more effective protocols in the treatment of tumors responsive to 
chemotherapy and radiotherapy. A complete response rate of 78% in patients with 
head and neck cancer, and a complete response rate of 89% in patients with 
limited small cell carcinoma of the lung using alternating chemotherapy and 
radiotherapy indicate that it is now possible to proceed rapidly in clinical 
protocol design for these two additional tumors responsive to both chemotherapy 
and radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.1016/0360-3016(86)90095-7
PMID: 3949571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. J Gerontol. 1986 Mar;41(2):282-9. doi: 10.1093/geronj/41.2.282.

Cause specific mortality patterns among the oldest old: multiple cause of death 
trends 1968 to 1980.

Manton KG.

Trends in sex specific mortality from six conditions (hip fracture, septicemia, 
pneumonia, cancer, heart disease, and stroke) were examined for the period 1968 
to 1980 to determine if recent increases in life expectancy at advanced ages 
were associated with significant shifts in the pattern of cause specific 
mortality at those ages. Changes in life table parameters were assessed both at 
birth and age 85 to determine if the relative significance of certain conditions 
had increased or decreased at advanced ages. In particular, I examined whether 
three conditions (hip fracture, septicemia, pneumonia), often viewed as being 
associated with mortality among debilitated persons, had increased in the 
proportion of deaths they affected at advanced ages and if there had been 
changes in the mean age at death for persons with these conditions. I also 
examined trends in the mortality rates of three conditions (heart disease, 
stroke, cancer) that often are viewed as primary disease processes with high 
mortality risks. Overall there seemed to be little evidence that mortality for 
conditions associated with a debilitation had increased markedly at later ages.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/41.2.282
PMID: 3950356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Perspect Biol Med. 1986 Winter;29(2):180-98. doi: 10.1353/pbm.1986.0005.

A world food system: actuality or promise?

Johnson DG.

DOI: 10.1353/pbm.1986.0005
PMID: 3951954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Am J Public Health. 1986 Apr;76(4):430-3. doi: 10.2105/ajph.76.4.430.

Passage to Methuselah: some demographic consequences of continued progress 
against mortality.

Vaupel JW, Gowan AE.

How will progress against mortality affect the size and age composition of the 
United States population over the next century? To gain some insight into this 
question, three scenarios are examined: no future progress against mortality; 
steady reductions in mortality at all ages at a rate of 2 per cent per year; and 
a radical breakthrough in the year 2000 that cuts mortality in half. All three 
scenarios substantially shift the composition of the US population toward older 
ages, steady progress resulting in the most radical change. If mortality is 
reduced 2 per cent per year, by 2080 almost two-fifths of the population would 
be above age 65 and the number of centenarians would approach 19 million. The 
social, economic, and public health consequences of this new demography, 
although speculative and uncertain, are so important that detailed analysis and 
planning are warranted.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.76.4.430
PMCID: PMC1646521
PMID: 3953921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Int J Health Serv. 1986;16(1):163-76. doi: 10.2190/JTNM-2D1H-8TK8-63DV.

Socio-medical indicators of health in South Africa.

Jinabhai CC, Coovadia HM, Abdool-Karim SS.

Socio-medical indicators developed by WHO for monitoring progress towards 
Health-for-All have been adapted to reveal, clearly and objectively, the 
devastating impact of state planning based on an outmoded immoral and 
unscientific philosophy of race superiority in South Africa on the health of the 
disenfranchised majority within the context of social and economic 
discrimination; Health policy indicators confirm that the government is 
committed to three options (Bantustans, A New Constitution, and A Health 
Services Facilities Plan) all of which are inconsistent with the attainment of 
Health-for-All; Social and economic indicators reveal gross disparities between 
African, Coloured, Indian, and White living and working conditions; Provision of 
health care indicators show the overwhelming dominance of high technology 
curative medical care consuming about 97 percent of the health budget with only 
minor shifts towards community-based comprehensive care; and Health status 
indicators illustrate the close nexus between privilege, dispossession and 
disease with Whites falling prey to health problems related to affluence and 
lifestyle, while Africans, Coloureds, and Indians suffer from disease due to 
poverty. All four categories of the indicator system reveal discrepancies which 
exist between Black and White, rich and poor, urban and rural. To achieve the 
social goal of Health-for-All requires a greater measure of political commitment 
from the state. We conclude that it is debatable whether a system which 
maintains race discrimination and exploitation can in fact be adapted to provide 
Health-for-All.

PIP: This report evaluates the effects of race discrimination on the health 
status of South Africa using a socio-medical indicator system derived by WHO. 
The indicator system consists of 4 categories: health policy indicators, social 
and economic indicators related to health, indicators of provision of health 
care, and health status indicators. Political commitment is essential for the 
attainment of health for the population; the government of South Africa is 
committed to 3 different options influencing health, all described in detail. 
Budget allocation is an objective measure of commitment; 3.2% of the GNP was 
spent on health in 1981, and only 2.2% of the total health budget is devoted to 
preventive medicine. Absence of democratic structures for all to express needs 
and demands results in racially biased allocation and distribution of health 
services. Social and economic indicators relating to health include rate of 
population increase, gross national product, income distribution, work 
conditions, literacy rates, housing needs, and food availability. Indicators of 
basic health status include nutritional status, child mortality rates (15.6/1000 
for Africans, 1.1 for whites) and life expectancy at birth (for black males 45.0 
yrs and for black females 47.3, for white males 65.5 and white females 71.9). In 
order to achieve health for all, action is needed at the political level to 
eliminate apartheid, and at policy and decision making levels, to improve living 
and health conditions.

DOI: 10.2190/JTNM-2D1H-8TK8-63DV
PMID: 3957510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Langenbecks Arch Chir. 1986;367(2):119-27. doi: 10.1007/BF01259261.

[Roux-Y reconstruction following distal stomach resection using only staplers].

[Article in German]

Thiede A, Fuchs KH, Wirtz HJ, Hamelmann H.

The spreading of stapled suture techniques has also entailed the utilization of 
staplers in gastric surgery. A functional, up-to-date, and exclusively stapled 
reconstruction procedure, Roux-Y-reconstruction, after subtotal gastrectomy was 
established and analyzed in a pilot study (n = 25). In doing so, one proceeded 
as follows after subtotal gastrectomy and systematic lymphadenectomy in cases of 
carcinoma: duodenal closure (GIA or TA30), gastric resection (TA90), 
jejunojejunostomy (EEA25), gastrojejunostomy (EEA25/28), closure of the 
projecting efferent loop (GIA). This study intended to achieve the following 
advantages: increased suture safety, saving of time, reduction of complications, 
and especially the extension of indications regarding age and localization of 
the tumor. A special program to eliminate mistakes in handling is required for 
the sole and systematic application of staplers in the upper gastrointestinal 
tract. Every complication occurring during and after surgery was carefully 
recorded in this study and the attainable quality of life after subtotal 
gastrectomy was assessed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01259261
PMID: 3959680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Stat Med. 1986 Jan-Feb;5(1):85-96. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780050111.

Regression analysis of censored survival data with the generalized F family--an 
alternative to the proportional hazards model.

Ciampi A, Hogg SA, Kates L.

We show that the generalized F family is a useful tool for regression analysis 
with censored survival data. We discuss maximum likelihood estimation and give 
asymptotic procedures for calculating confidence intervals, tests of 
significance for the parameters, life expectancy, quantiles and survival rates. 
Survival data on 704 ovarian carcinoma patients serve to demonstrate the utility 
of the model.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780050111
PMID: 3961317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Salud Publica Mex. 1986 Jan-Feb;28(1):3-13.

[Importance of chronic degenerative diseases in the current epidemiological 
panorama in Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Gonz√°lez Caama√±o A, P√©rez Balmes J, Nieto S√°nchez CM, V√°zquez Contreras A, 
Gayt√°n Flores E.

PMID: 3961583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Theor Popul Biol. 1986 Feb;29(1):16-37. doi: 10.1016/0040-5809(86)90003-1.

Optimal allocation of energy to growth and reproduction.

Koz≈Çowski J, Wiegert RG.

The optimal allocation of energy to growth and reproduction is considered for 
three different cases, i.e., a single reproduction (semelparity), reproduction 
through repeated discrete clutches, and continuous reproduction. The problem 
reduces to optimizing age and size at maturity. The best strategy is to continue 
growth until the change of production rate with respect to increasing body size, 
multiplied by life expectancy for those attaining adulthood and reproducing 
successfully, is greater than one. The time at which semelparous species 
reproduce may also be optimized; for the other modes of reproduction only 
physiological factors or seasonality can limit the maximum age. A brief growing 
season or high mortality rate are factors leading to early maturity and small 
adult body size.

DOI: 10.1016/0040-5809(86)90003-1
PMID: 3961710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Urol Clin North Am. 1986 May;13(2):307-20.

The Boyce-Vest operation for exstrophy of the bladder. 35 years later.

Boyce WH, Kroovand RL.

Twenty-four patients with exstrophy of the urinary bladder (23 patients) or 
epispadias (1 patient) who were treated by the Boyce-Vest operation have been 
followed for a total of 482 patient-years (range 3 to 34 years, mean 22 years). 
In all patients upper urinary morphology and renal function have remained 
normal, and those with preoperative compromise have stabilized or improved. 
Postoperatively, no patient has developed an electrolyte imbalance or metabolic 
acidosis requiring treatment, urinary calculi, or malignant change in the 
vesicorectal reservoir. Although the procedure and the exstrophy-epispadias 
complex present many unresolved of management. The infant with exstrophy of the 
urinary bladder appears best served by early neonatal closure of the exstrophic 
bladder as described by Jeffs, 6,8 with attempts at establishing urinary 
continence later in childhood. 6,8,11 When other methods to establish urinary 
continence are unsuccessful and satisfactory anal continence has been 
demonstrated, the Boyce-Vest procedure offers an acceptable long-term 
alternative to establish sphincteric urinary continence. Properly managed, the 
newborn with uncomplicated exstrophy should have a life expectancy equal to that 
of any other neonate. More importantly, it is within our ability to provide such 
patients with adult social acceptability and relative freedom from urinary 
disease.

PMID: 3962030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Cancer. 1985 Feb 1;55(3):658-65. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19850201)55:3<658::aid-cncr2820550331>3.0.co;2-p.

Long-term survival of 458 young breast cancer patients.

Rutqvist LE, Wallgren A.

The authors report the long-term survival of 458 young breast cancer patients 
with follow-up times ranging from 20 to 51 years. Patients with distant 
metastases at diagnosis were not included in the study. An excess breast cancer 
mortality was observed for at least 40 years after diagnosis. At 40 years, the 
actuarial breast cancer survival for all patients was 32% +/- 3% (standard 
error). For patients with localized and regional disease, it was 53% +/- 6% and 
19% +/- 3%, respectively. A persistent excess mortality after 40 years, however, 
could not be ruled out because too few patients remained at risk. It is 
concluded that a cured fraction of patients defined as a group subject only to 
normal mortality risks, in practice, can only be identified in young patients 
with a low expected mortality, since older patients give only minor 
contributions to long-term survival results. In an unselected series of breast 
cancer patients, an excess breast cancer mortality will probably persist during 
a period that is longer than the life expectancy of the average patient. A 
parametric survival model, the log-normal model, was found to provide a good fit 
to the observed survival data. The cured fraction of patients predicted by the 
model was similar to the actuarial breast cancer survival at 40 years. These 
results suggest that the model could be used as a tool for analyzing observed 
survival patterns in breast cancer. It might thus provide an alternative to the 
conventional 5- to 10-year rates. The good fit of the model also suggests that 
late recurrences represent one end of a continuous, broad spectrum of behavior 
in disseminated breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19850201)55:3<658::aid-cncr2820550331>3.0.co;2-p
PMID: 3965114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Geriatrics. 1985 Jan;40(1):42-51, 54.

Atherogenesis: why women live longer than men.

Hazzard WR.

The total LDL:HDL cholesterol ratio, at higher levels, appears sufficient to 
account for the risk of clinical atherosclerosis in both sexes. At lower levels, 
however, women continue to enjoy less risk of atherosclerosis even at LDL:HDL 
cholesterol ratios equivalent to those in men. Median LDL levels are higher in 
men than in women until the menopause, beyond which a crossover occurs, and 
median levels become higher in women. However, though the difference narrows in 
the post-menopausal years, the LDL:HDL ratio is never higher in women than in 
men.

PIP: This article addresses the question of why women seem to be more protected 
than men from the consequences of premature atherosclerosis. At higher levels, 
the total low density lipoprotein (LDL): high density lipoprotein (HDL) 
cholesterol ratio seems to account for the risk of atherosclerosis in both 
sexes. However, at lower levels, women appear to be at less risk of 
atherosclerosis than men even when LDL: HDL cholesterol ratios are equivalent. 
The median LDL level is greater in males from puberty until menopause, and 
greater in females after menopause. Although gender differences narrow in the 
postmenopausal period, the LDL: HDL ratio is always higher in men. Thus, it is 
hypothesized that the sex differential in the secretion of sex hormones accounts 
for the sex differential in lipoproteins, which in turn explains the sex 
differential in atherogenic risk and produces sex differences in relative 
longevity. Consistently lower levels of LDL and higher levels of HDL cholesterol 
have been noted among women taking exogenous estrogens for postmenopausal 
replacement compared with women not taking hormones. Studies of various 
combinations of oral contraceptives have indicated that the strength of the 
progestin component compared to that of estrogen determines whether HDL levels 
are higher, the same, or lower than in women not taking these preparations. In 
contrast, the administration of androgenic substances to postmenopausal women is 
associated with increases in LDL cholesterol and decreases in HDL cholesterol.

PMID: 3965355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Med J Aust. 1985 Jan 21;142(2):98-102.

Effect of influenza epidemics on Australian mortality.

Scragg R.

The effect of influenza epidemics on all major causes of death has been 
examined. The results showed an increase in total mortality, and a fall in life 
expectancy, during epidemic years. Using the 1974 epidemic as an example, an 
increase in mortality was found in all age groups, with the greatest percentage 
in increases occurring in the very young and the very old. For all ages 
combined, the greatest percentage increases in mortality were for respiratory 
diseases, while the greatest absolute increases in mortality were for 
cardiovascular diseases, especially ischaemic heart disease. A thrombotic 
mechanism is suggested to explain the increase in mortality from cardiovascular 
diseases.

PMID: 3965919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Am J Public Health. 1985 Feb;75(2):149-55. doi: 10.2105/ajph.75.2.149.

Mortality patterns in the modernized Pacific Island nation of Nauru.

Taylor R, Thoma K.

Nauru is a small phosphate-rich independent island country situated in the 
Central Pacific. The population is Micronesian and was estimated to be 4,680 in 
mid-1981. An analysis of mortality data for the years 1976-81 indicates a high 
adult male mortality due to accidents, injuries, cardiovascular disease, and 
diabetes. The life expectancy estimate at birth for men was 49 years, and for 
women 62 years. The male life expectancy is among the lowest in the region. The 
considerable adult male mortality appears to be related to the rapidly acquired 
affluence and the ready availability of motorcycles, cars, imported foods, 
tobacco, and alcohol. The data suggest that modernization of the economy in 
Pacific Island nations can lead to new and serious public health problems.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.75.2.149
PMCID: PMC1645974
PMID: 3966620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1985 Jan;67(1):97-102. doi: 
10.1302/0301-620X.67B1.3968154.

Injection-induced contractures of the quadriceps in childhood. A comparison of 
proximal release and distal quadricepsplasty.

Jackson AM, Hutton PA.

Thirty-two contractures of the quadriceps induced by injection in 17 children 
have been reviewed. The average age at presentation was 3 years 4 months. All 
the children had suffered a severe illness within the first few weeks of life 
and all had received intramuscular injections into the thigh. Three methods of 
treatment were used: conservative, distal quadricepsplasty, and proximal 
release. At follow-up none of the patients treated by proximal release had an 
extension lag, which was present in 70% of those treated by distal 
quadricepsplasty. Apart from one case with slight improvement in the range of 
knee flexion, conservative treatment, at best, could only prevent further loss. 
The clinical presentation and management is described, and the advantages of 
proximal release are discussed.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.67B1.3968154
PMID: 3968154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. J Am Diet Assoc. 1985 Feb;85(2):171-2.

Some relations between nutrition and aging.

Sandstead HH.

PMID: 3968353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1985 Feb;33(2):151-2. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1985.tb02282.x.

Survival for 88 years with sinus venosus atrial septal defect.

Bates ER.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1985.tb02282.x
PMID: 3968371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Med J Aust. 1985 Feb 4;142(3):233.

Therapeutic trial in hypertension.

Johnstone JR.

PMID: 3969045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Am J Med. 1985 Jan 21;78(1A):12-4. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(85)90239-6.

Epidemiology of cancer in rheumatoid arthritis: methodologic pitfalls.

Fries JF.

Studies that try to associate immunoinflammatory disease, typified by rheumatoid 
arthritis, and malignancy have been limited by several important methodologic 
difficulties. Usually the hypothesis examined has been one of an increase in 
incidence of one or more specific neoplasms, and sometimes this hypothesis has 
been generated after examining the data. Some of the more common methods for 
assessing risk, including case reports and small series, case-control studies, 
hospital-based studies, and animal studies, and the competing risk fallacy can 
create problems of interpretation and can skew the results. The ideal study is 
one in which a random sample of 1,000 or more patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
are followed prospectively from disease onset to death and the data compared 
with total population data over the same period. Ideally, there would be perfect 
follow-up and autopsy information available on all patients and all control 
patients. Such studies of course will not be available. However, those studies 
that are designed best fail to associate rheumatoid arthritis with malignancy, 
although certain specific malignancies do appear associated with alkylating 
agent therapy for rheumatoid arthritis.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(85)90239-6
PMID: 3970035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Am Rev Respir Dis. 1985 Feb;131(2):197. doi: 10.1164/arrd.1985.131.2.197.

Surgery for bronchogenic carcinoma in the elderly.

Yellin A, Benfield JR.

DOI: 10.1164/arrd.1985.131.2.197
PMID: 3970449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Cancer. 1985 Mar 15;55(6):1414-21. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19850315)55:6<1414::aid-cncr2820550641>3.0.co;2-d.

Survival in bilateral breast cancer.

Fracchia AA, Robinson D, Legaspi A, Greenall MJ, Kinne DW, Groshen S.

The presence of bilateral invasive breast cancer places the patient in a state 
of double jeopardy. At Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, the overall 
10-year recurrence rate for unilateral Stage I breast cancer was 16%, whereas 
the recurrence rate for simultaneous, bilateral Stage I breast carcinoma was 
29%: almost twice as high. The average 10-year survival of all patients with 
negative axillary nodes was 57%. In this retrospective analysis of 403 patients 
with bilateral primary operable breast cancer treated at Memorial 
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, significant differences were noted in the 
disease-free survival between patients with bilateral noninvasive cancer, 
bilateral invasive cancer, and the combination of invasive and in situ cancers. 
Bilateral intraductal cancer and lobular carcinoma in situ offered an excellent 
prognosis. The combination of preinvasive cancer on one side and infiltrating 
carcinoma on the other had the next best survival. The in situ lesion, when 
treated by mastectomy, did not alter the patients' life expectancy from that of 
the general population with unilateral breast cancer, thus indicating that 
surgeons should strive to detect breast cancer in its preinvasive form. The 5- 
and 10-year relapse-free survival of patients with bilateral invasive disease, 
regardless of axillary nodal status and tumor size, was 60% and 51%, 
respectively, for patients with a bilateral presentation and 54% and 38%, 
respectively, for carcinomas presenting metachronously. More important in 
determining prognosis, however, was the number of axillary nodes involved and 
the level of involvement. Invasion of bilateral axillary nodes at all levels 
predicted a poor prognosis. Because of this shortened survival, systemic 
adjuvant therapy should be considered for patients with bilateral invasive 
disease. The most common preinvasive breast cancer was lobular carcinoma in situ 
and the most frequently invasive tumor was infiltrating duct cancer. Since a 
contralateral breast cancer at the time of definitive treatment of the first 
side does not always present as a mass or with positive mammography, a random 
biopsy of the second breast is recommended. This should be done in the upper, 
outer quadrant and should include the subareolar area. With prompt adequate 
treatment, it is expected that survival from bilateral breast cancer should 
improve.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19850315)55:6<1414::aid-cncr2820550641>3.0.co;2-d
PMID: 3971312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Cesk Zdrav. 1985 Jan;33(1):1-8.

[The effect of serious diseases on the average life span of the population in 
Czechoslovakia].

[Article in Czech]

Strnad L, Kopeck√Ω L.

PIP: Changes in life expectancy in Czechoslovakia since 1920 are examined by 
sex. The authors note that although life expectancy has increased over time, the 
trends since 1960 have been less favorable, particularly for men. The major 
causes of death are described. The authors suggest that further improvements in 
life expectancy will more likely be achieved through preventive measures rather 
than curative medicine. (summary in ENG, RUS)

PMID: 3971458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. J Biosoc Sci. 1985 Jan;17(1):91-6. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000015492.

Abridged life tables for Pakistan based on the 1971 Population Growth Survey.

Yusuf F, Hussain M.

PIP: A new set of abridged life tables for Pakistan is presented. Data from the 
1971 Population Growth Survey were 1st analyzed to estimate the degree of 
completeness of the reporting of male and female deaths; female deaths were 
substantially more underreported than male deaths. Age-sex specific mortality 
schedules were adjusted accordingly. Life expectancy was around 50 years at 
birth, but increased by 8-9 years for those surviving the substantial risks of 
dying in the 1st year of life. No significant sex differential in mortality 
could be discerned from the life tables. The present life tables exhibit 
mortality levels which are very similar to those observed in the life tables 
based on the 1962-64 Population Growth Estimation data. The only exception in 
the present life tables is the lack of a significant improvement in female 
mortality beyond the reproductive ages possibly because the extent of 
underreporting of femal deaths found in the 1971 Population Growth Survey was 
substantially higher than that for males.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000015492
PMID: 3972859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. JAMA. 1985 Apr 19;253(15):2187-8.

Leads from the MMWR. Surveillance and assessment of alcohol-related 
mortality--United States.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 3974106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Soc Sci Med. 1985;20(1):71-84. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(85)90314-4.

The persistence of high fertility in Kenya.

Sindiga I.

Like many underdeveloped countries, Kenya's demographic structure is in a state 
of flux. Its annual population growth rate is now about 4% and half of the 
population is under 15 years of age. This rapid growth has put additional 
pressure on regional development in a country which is struggling to transform 
its predominantly agrarian economy into a modern one. Rural poverty is a 
persistent problem, life expectancy is depressed, and malnutrition is endemic in 
many parts of the country. Despite a national fertility control programme, 
contraceptive use in Kenya is almost negligible. The current family planning 
programme emphasizing maternal and child health care will have little impact on 
family size in the long term. The programme's basically coital contraception 
aimed at women runs against the complex individual and societal norms which 
control fertility in African communities. The paper presents one view of 
fertility differentials in Kenya and its relationship with the incidence of 
poverty. It posits that in the absence of broad-based socio-economic changes 
current efforts at fertility control will have few short-term benefits and hold 
little long-term promise.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(85)90314-4
PMID: 3975673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Z Alternsforsch. 1985 Jan-Feb;40(1):29-40.

[Social medicine sequelae of femoral fractures near the hip in elderly 
patients].

[Article in German]

Kopp P.

On the basis of uni- and multivariant statistic analyses on 1700 old-age 
patients suffering from hip-joint near femur fractures, socio-medical initial 
and final parameters of treatment are shown the correlations between the quality 
of osteosynthesis, psycho-physical ability to walk at the time of discharge and 
subjective assessment of the personal living circumstances being pointed to. 
With the help of a long-term study covering a period of 13 years after the 
accident, it is established that the further posttraumatic life expectancy of 
old people decidedly depends on the development of their ability to walk after 
their discharge from the hospital.

PMID: 3976249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Z Alternsforsch. 1985 Jan-Feb;40(1):9-14.

[Problems in the definition of biologic aging--methodologic and method 
positions].

[Article in German]

P√∂thig D.

The author presents the actual cognitive-theoretical and methodological 
positions for the assessment of the biological age, reviewing the most essential 
contents and usual definitions of this term. She points, furthermore, to the 
methodical and interpretational conclusions (selection and evaluation of 
age-indicators) resulting from the actual theoretical level of knowledge for 
corresponding diagnostical procedures.

PMID: 3976254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Am J Public Health. 1985 Apr;75(4):414. doi: 10.2105/ajph.75.4.414.

Life expectancies recalculated.

Taylor R.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.75.4.414
PMCID: PMC1646244
PMID: 3976975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Clin Genet. 1985 Jan;27(1):59-61. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1985.tb00184.x.

Survival in trisomy 18. Life tables for use in genetic counselling and clinical 
paediatrics.

Carter PE, Pearn JH, Bell J, Martin N, Anderson NG.

Clinical management of neonates with Trisomy 18 depends on a knowledge of life 
expectancy. True estimates of potential life span are required for genetic 
counselling purposes when parents interpret the genetic threat, not only in 
terms of the mathematical odds involved, but also in terms of the quality and 
length of life of an affected infant, should such be born. This paper reports 
the findings from a study to generate life tables for Trisomy 18. This study is 
a total population study over 10 years based on a primary population of 2.2 
million. Forty-eight cases of Trisomy 18 were identified, five at amniocentesis. 
Four of the 43 clinical cases (9%) were mosaics. The median life expectancy for 
live-born infants was five days (range one hour to 18 months). Mean age at death 
was 48 days. Life tables, by sex and by sub-types (associated congenital 
abnormalities) are presented. The annual incidence is 14 per 100,000 total 
births, with a prevalence estimate of 0.06 per 100,000 total population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1985.tb00184.x
PMID: 3978839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1985 Apr 4;110(14):544-9. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1068862.

[Heart surgery with extracorporeal circulation in long-term hemodialysis 
patients].

[Article in German]

Schlosser V, Lang K, H√∂rl WH.

Prolongation of life expectancy achieved by chronic dialysis permits occurrence 
of correctable cardiac disease to an increasing degree. In contrast to the 
previously poor prognosis in dialysis patients with coronary and valvular heart 
disease the present series demonstrates successful management of such 
interventions. Nine patients are presented (8 bypass operations, one aortic 
valve replacement) with a mean age of 51 years and a mean duration of dialysis 
treatment of 47 months. Patient risks are not markedly increased by this 
additional disease. Patients with chronic renal insufficiency and chronic 
continuous dialysis should not generally be excluded from surgery due to an 
assumed increased risk of operation.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1068862
PMID: 3979292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Int J Cardiol. 1985 Mar;7(3):223-33. doi: 10.1016/0167-5273(85)90045-2.

Pulmonary arterial development in infants with large perimembranous ventricular 
septal defects associated with overriding of the aortic valve.

Juaneda E, Gittenberger de Groot A, Oppenheimer-Dekker A, Haworth SG.

Intracardiac anatomy and pulmonary vascular structure were studied in 13 cases 
having large perimembranous ventricular septal defects associated with 
overriding of the aortic valve, 12 of whom died aged 2 days-9 months. In all 
cases the ventricular septal defect and aorta were of the same size, but the 
diameter of the pulmonary orifice was usually greater. Quantitative morphometric 
techniques were used to study the lungs. Structural adaptation to extra-uterine 
life was shown to have occurred normally in the 4 patients who died as neonates. 
In the cases aged 2 months-4 years, there was an increase in arterial medial 
thickness and extension of muscle, while the intra-acinar arteries were larger 
than normal in size and normal in number. Intimal proliferation was seen in 1 
case at 4.5 months, but such proliferation caused significant obstruction only 
in one child aged 4 years. These findings emphasize the rapidity with which 
structural adaptation to extra-uterine life can occur in the patient with a 
large unrestrictive ventricular septal defect. A rapid increase in muscularity 
can be seen by 2 months of age. Should banding of the pulmonary artery be 
required in patients with more complicated intracardiac abnormalities in whom it 
is desirable to achieve a normal pulmonary vascular bed, our findings encourage 
its early performance, particularly in those destined for a Fontan repair.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-5273(85)90045-2
PMID: 3980126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. J Surg Oncol. 1985 Apr;28(4):263-9. doi: 10.1002/jso.2930280405.

Prognostic value of preoperative serum CEA level compared to clinical staging: 
III. An approach to scoring of prognostic factors in colorectal cancer.

Br√ºmmendorf T, Anderer FA, Staab HJ, Hornung A, Stumpf E, Kieninger G.

In a clinical study of observed postoperative survival of colorectal cancer 
patients, we investigated the application of a risk score based on tumor-related 
prognostic parameters. Six hundred seventy-four patients have been registered 
for primary surgery of colorectal cancer since 1974 who did not receive further 
postoperative treatments. The prognostic parameters included operability, tumor 
extension, and preoperative serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) level. The 
scoring system was based on the average death-rate ratios of subgroups of 
patients and their age and sex-matched reference groups derived from the general 
life table of the population of the Federal Republic of Germany. The individual 
score sums of the patients exhibited score sum ranges which characterized groups 
of patients with entirely different observed survival. The prediction of 
individual survival after primary operation was only partly possible. In the 
plot of individual survivals vs individual score sums, a marginal risk zone was 
obtained which evidently represents the zone of maximum expected survival of 
patients who do not receive further postoperative treatment.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.2930280405
PMID: 3982036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Union Med Can. 1985 Feb;114(2):154-7.

[Life expectancy in good health].

[Article in French]

Blanchet M.

PMID: 3984109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Acta Neurol Scand. 1985 Feb;71(2):97-106. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0404.1985.tb03173.x.

Result of chronic levodopa therapy and its modification by bromocriptine in 
Parkinson's disease.

Hoehn MM.

15 years' experience with Parkinson's disease treated with levodopa was compared 
to the 15 years before the advent of levodopa. Progression to severe disability 
and death was prolonged, at each stage of severity, by 3 to 5 years. At each 
duration of illness, the percentage of patients with severe disability was 
reduced significantly. There was some indication that independence was prolonged 
by early treatment. Life expectancy was increased to approximately that of the 
unaffected population. However, especially with patients with onset of disease 
before the age of 50, fluctuations of therapeutic response and severe abnormal 
involuntary movements interfered with satisfactory therapeutic results. 
Supplemental bromocriptine produced a smoother therapeutic response and 
decreased "off" period dystonia and leg pains in over 70% of patients. At 
dosages below 20 mg daily, it was not particularly effective in severely 
affected disabled patients. Adverse reactions prevented the use of bromocriptine 
in less than 20% of patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0404.1985.tb03173.x
PMID: 3984685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Am J Public Health. 1985 May;75(5):553-5. doi: 10.2105/ajph.75.5.553.

Working life of New York State physicians, 1980.

Tu EJ.

Physicians' working life tables are constructed to summarize the New York State 
physicians' activity patterns. Male physicians could be expected to spend 47.0 
years in full-time activity, 65 per cent of their total lifetime. Female 
physicians could be expected to spend 41.3 years, 53 per cent of their total 
lifetime, in full-time activity. Full-time activity refers to working 30 hours 
or more per week in clinical practice, research, teaching, or other professional 
activity.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.75.5.553
PMCID: PMC1646265
PMID: 3985246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Gerontologist. 1985 Apr;25(2):201-8. doi: 10.1093/geront/25.2.201.

Negative trends in life expectancy in the USSR, 1964-1983.

Medvedev ZA.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/25.2.201
PMID: 3988084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Int J Epidemiol. 1985 Mar;14(1):9-21. doi: 10.1093/ije/14.1.9.

Epidemiology and the challenge of ageing.

Davies AM.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/14.1.9
PMID: 3988446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Mol Biochem Parasitol. 1985 Apr;15(1):61-82. doi:
10.1016/0166-6851(85)90029-5.

Structure of mRNA encoded by tubulin genes in Leishmania enriettii.

Landfear SM, Wirth DF.

Both the alpha- and beta-tubulin genes of Leishmania enriettii are encoded by 
mRNA of 2.0-2.2 kb in length. We have shown previously that the alpha- and 
beta-tubulin genes are arranged in separate, tandem repeats of 2 and 4 kb, 
respectively, and now report the mapping of mature mRNA onto these cloned genes. 
Here we show that the alpha-tubulin gene contains a very short intergenic region 
(100-200 bases) whereas the larger, tandemly repeated beta-tubulin gene contains 
a 1.8-2.0 kb region not found in mature mRNA. Comparison of S-1 mapping and 
primer extension results indicates that the messenger RNAs for both alpha- and 
beta-tubulin contain a sequence of about 35 base pairs located at the 5' end 
that is not encoded contiguously with the rest of the mRNA. This short 5' 
sequence may be added to the body of the tubulin mRNAs either through splicing 
of a precursor RNA molecule or by a novel post-transcriptional processing 
reaction. The alpha- and beta-tubulin genes are arranged identically in the two 
developmental stages of the parasite life cycle and are present in equal copy 
number.

DOI: 10.1016/0166-6851(85)90029-5
PMID: 3990710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Scand J Haematol. 1985 Mar;34(3):213-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.1985.tb02779.x.

High expression of lymphocyte surface immunoglobulin in chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia may be a bad prognostic sign.

Berntorp E, Zettervall O.

Lymphocytes from 27 patients with B-type chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) 
were tested with immunofluorescence for expression of surface membrane 
immunoglobulin (SmIg) and the B cell antigen 7420. When age at time of testing, 
sex, clinical stage according to Binet, disease progression according to Levin 
and percentage of SmIg and 7420 antigen-expressing cells were used as 
explanatory variables for survival in a linear logistic regression model, only 
the SmIg variable was significant (p less than 0.025). A high proportion of SmIg 
bearing cells (greater than 61%) was associated with short survival, large 
tumour mass and aggressive disease. The tentative conclusion is drawn that the 
differentiation stage of the tumour cells in CLL determines the clinical course 
