of the disease and is inversely correlated to the SmIg expression.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.1985.tb02779.x
PMID: 3992185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Soc Sci Med. 1985;20(5):453-60. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(85)90360-0.

Socioeconomic and health effects on mortality declines in developing countries.

Pendleton BF, Yang SO.

It has been argued that mortality declines in developing countries have not been 
associated with social and economic factors because of the diffusion from the 
developed countries to the developing countries of health and medical 
techniques. This paper examines the relationship between socioeconomic 
development and health and mortality declines in developing countries which are 
in two different stages of the demographic transition. A path model linking 
socioeconomic and health variables and mortality is developed and tested for 
early and late transition nations. The empirical findings indicated that the 
network of socioeconomic variables and their effects on mortality were much more 
significant in late transition countries than in early transition countries. 
While the impact of health services on crude death rates is large in the early 
transition nations, its impact declines considerably as countries reach a more 
transitionally 'mature' stage.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(85)90360-0
PMID: 3992286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Surgery. 1985 May;97(5):569-73.

Surgical strategy in nonfamilial primary parathyroid hyperplasia: long-term 
follow-up of thirty-nine cases.

Bondeson AG, Bondeson L, Ljungberg O, Tibblin S.

The extent and result of surgery in 39 cases of nonfamilial primary parathyroid 
hyperplasia followed from 2 to 20 years are reported. Thirteen patients had been 
subjected to subtotal parathyroidectomy leaving no gland intact, while 26 had 
undergone less extensive surgery leaving at least one grossly normal or 
near-normal gland intact without biopsy. In the former group two patients (15%) 
developed permanent hypoparathyroidism requiring vitamin D treatment. In the 
latter group there were two patients (8%) with persistent hypercalcemia, which 
might have been avoided with a subtotal parathyroidectomy. Judging from these 
results, we believe that an individualized surgical approach is justifiable in 
nonfamilial primary parathyroid hyperplasia. Subtotal parathyroidectomy, leaving 
no gland intact, is advocated as the method of choice only when all four glands 
are enlarged. If one or more glands are grossly normal or near normal, factors 
such as degree of hypercalcemia, symptoms, age, general condition, and life 
expectancy should be taken into consideration when the extent of the operation 
is decided. A more conservative operation leaving at least one grossly normal 
gland intact without biopsy appears to be sufficient for cure in most of these 
cases and minimizes the risk for development of permanent hypoparathyroidism.

PMID: 3992479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Suicide Life Threat Behav. 1985 Spring;15(1):27-42. doi: 
10.1111/j.1943-278x.1985.tb00786.x.

Suicide and suicide attempts in the European Economic Community: an analysis of 
trends, with special emphasis upon trends among the young.

Diekstra RF.

An attempt is made to explain the increase in adolescent suicidal behavior 
reported for most countries in the European Economic Community over the last two 
decades, within the framework of a social learning theory. A typology of 
suicidal acts based on an outcome-expectancy model is proposed that would make 
intelligible the observed positive correlation between the incidence of lethal 
and nonlethal suicidal acts, the latter having grown to epidemic proportions 
among the young. This epidemic can be attributed to the interplay of three 
groups of factors, namely, the socialization of a specific problem-solving 
behavior repertoire, socioeconomic conditions, and attitudes toward suicide. The 
implications for suicide prevention are briefly discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1943-278x.1985.tb00786.x
PMID: 3992615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1985 Feb 28;135(4):93-5.

[So-called benign papilloma of the bladder. A retrospective study].

[Article in German]

Flamm J.

A retrospective study of 34 patients with histologically verified, so called 
"benign" papilloma of the mucuous membrane of the urinary bladder (pTa GO) 
served as a basis for investigation of the course of the condition, the tendency 
to recurrence and the development of carcinoma. A histologically identical 
recurrent tumour was found in 53% of the patients, while 85% developed a 
urothelial carcinoma in a period of between 1 and over 10 years. From the time 
of the diagnosis of papilloma, the 5-year survival rate was 87% and the 10-year 
survival rate was 76%. From the time of the carcinoma diagnosis the 5-year 
survival rate was 40%, none of the patients survived 10 years.

PMID: 3993047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Z Alternsforsch. 1985 Mar-Apr;40(2):78-85.

[Health status of elderly and aged people].

[Article in German]

Paul W.

PMID: 3993082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 1985;75(1-4):125-35. doi: 10.1007/BF01406333.

Surgical therapy of lesions within the hypothalamic region.

Fahlbusch R, Schrell U.

On one hand pituitary microadenomas with autonomous character and those, which 
had been influenced by hypothalamic disorders, are summarized and discussed. On 
the other hand, the neurosurgical management of tumours, adjacent to or involved 
with the hypothalamus, are described. Endocrinologically active pituitary 
adenomas are characterized by their hormone excess of ACTH, GH, and prolactin. 
In Cushing's disease endocrine and clinical remission occurred in 74%. 3 
patients out of this group showed a reincrease of ACTH after a period of 
remission, indicating a possible hypothalamic influence. In acromegaly the 
hypothalamic influence is also discussed. One patient with an ectopic 
GRF-producing tumour showing a reincrease of GH levels after successful 
transsphenoidal adenomectomy has been described. In microprolactinomas, 7 
patients out of 45 showed a reincrease of prolactin-levels after a period of 
normalization, we also discussed hypothalamic disorders. Tumours with 
suprasellar extension such as macroadenomas without endocrine activity and 
meningiomas are removed nowadays with minimal risk for the life of the patients. 
In craniopharyngiomas radical excision is accompanied by a high risk of 
hypothalamic defects caused by mechanical lesions and possible secondary 
vasospasm. Finally the excision of a hamartoma growing from the floor of the 
third ventricle into the interpeduncular cistern is discussed. Up to now the 
successful excision could be documented by endocrinological data, which give no 
sign of further growth of the hamartoma.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01406333
PMID: 3993448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Atherosclerosis. 1985 Jan;54(1):43-7. doi: 10.1016/0021-9150(85)90152-2.

Serum lipoproteins in Japanese rural community with low cardiovascular 
mortality.

Hosaki S, Kishimoto T, Yamauchi M, Shiina S.

The lipid profiles of sera obtained from the adult inhabitants of a rural 
community with low cardiovascular mortality named Kin-cho in Okinawa were 
studied by the lipoprotein profiling system. The results were compared with 
those of the control sera obtained from healthy adults in Tokyo. Serum lipid 
profiles of the inhabitants in Kin-cho revealed significantly higher HDL 
cholesterol and significantly lower atherogenic indices than those of the 
control group in both sexes. The favorable lipid profiles as well as the 
open-minded temperament of Kin-cho inhabitants and favorable weather conditions 
are supposed to contribute to their long life expectancy and low cardiovascular 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9150(85)90152-2
PMID: 3994779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Blood. 1985 Jun;65(6):1407-11.

High-dose cytosine arabinoside and daunorubicin as consolidation therapy for 
acute nonlymphocytic leukemia in first remission: a pilot study.

Wolff SN, Marion J, Stein RS, Flexner JM, Lazarus HM, Spitzer TR, Phillips GL, 
Herzig RH, Herzig GP.

High-dose (HD) cytosine arabinoside (ARA-C) is more effective treatment than 
conventional-dose ARA-C regimens for patients with relapsed acute nonlymphocytic 
leukemia (ANLL). We report here that HD ARA-C given during the first remission 
of ANLL has resulted in long remission durations and a high proportion of 
patients who survive more than three years free of disease. From August 1979 to 
September 1983, 36 adult patients with ANLL in first remission received one to 
three courses of HD ARA-C (3 g/m2 by one-hour infusion every 12 hours for 12 
doses on days 1 through 6) alone or with daunorubicin (30 mg/m2 for two or three 
doses on days 7 through 9). Three patients died of sepsis or hemorrhage during 
consolidation, and 14 patients have relapsed from five to 48 months after 
diagnosis. The remaining 19 patients are in continued complete remission (CCR) 
from 11 to 62 months. Denoting all deaths in remission as relapse, the actuarial 
probability of CCR is 42% at 62 months, with an apparent plateau in the survival 
curve. Of the first 22 patients treated, ten remain in CCR from 37 to 62 months 
with no therapy for at least three years. Due to its heightened anti-leukemic 
activity, HD ARA-C allows brief but effective consolidation of ANLL in first 
remission, with long-term disease-free survival comparable to other approaches.

PMID: 3995177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Gerontology. 1985;31(2):106-11. doi: 10.1159/000212688.

Rate of aging, rate of dying and non-Gompertzian mortality - encore...

Economos AC.

That the steep increase of mean life expectancy in the developed countries 
during the first decades of this century has now come to a halt is neither news 
nor reason for panic. Mean life span cannot exceed the apparent biological limit 
for the human species, a maximum life span LSmax of 100-110 years, that has 
remained unchanged across time, races and civilizations; it will moreover remain 
about 20% less than LSmax even if major diseases were to be eliminated due to 
the inherent individual differences - only a few individuals are endowed with a 
genetic-physiologic profile that allows them to reach LSmax. Some concepts on 
the relation of rates of aging and dying and the mechanism of mortality are here 
pertinent and are amplified. Finally, though the author has extensively 
criticized the general applicability of the Gompertz 'law of mortality', he has 
some reservations concerning the recently expressed view that the course of the 
rate of increase of force of mortality with age may be different in men and 
women, chiefly slowing down versus continuously increasing; this conclusion may 
well be an artifact of the analysis.

DOI: 10.1159/000212688
PMID: 3996922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Hypertension. 1985 May-Jun;7(3 Pt 1):311-2.

Hypertension--where do we go from here?

Haber E.

PMID: 3997216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Int J Cardiol. 1985 May;8(1):45-56. doi: 10.1016/0167-5273(85)90262-1.

Life expectancy analysis in patients with Chagas' disease: prognosis after one 
decade (1973-1983).

Espinosa R, Carrasco HA, Belandria F, Fuenmayor AM, Molina C, González R, 
Martínez O.

We studied the evolution of chronic Chagas' disease in 107 patients with a 
positive Guerreiro-Machado reaction and 22 non-chagasic, non-heart disease 
control subjects for a follow-up period of 3 to 10 years (mean follow-up of 4.9 
years). After completion of invasive and non-invasive studies, chagasic patients 
were classified into four groups: IA (normal ECG, without heart disease; 18 
patients); IB (normal ECG, early left ventricular segmental abnormalities; 13 
patients); II (abnormal ECG, advanced myocardial damage, no signs of heart 
failure; 42 patients); and III (abnormal ECG, end-stage, congestive heart 
failure; 34 patients). One out of five group IA patients re-studied with 
invasive methods evolved to group IB (20%); 4 group IB patients evolved to group 
II (33%) and 6 group II patients evolved to group III (15%). The life expectancy 
of patients in groups IA and IB (normal ECG) was similar to that of our control 
group, whereas in groups II and III it was significantly decreased (P less than 
0.001). Nine group II patients (23%) and 28 group III patients (82%) died during 
the follow-up period. Main terminal events were refractory congestive heart 
failure, sudden death and systemic thromboembolism. Our findings suggest that 
chronic Chagas' disease follows an evolutionary course from asymptomatic, normal 
ECG group I stage to arrhythmic (II) and congestive (III) stages. Subjects with 
a positive Guerreiro-Machado reaction showed a significantly lower life 
expectancy than our control group, but only when clinical and/or ECG 
abnormalities were identified.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-5273(85)90262-1
PMID: 3997291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. J Clin Oncol. 1985 May;3(5):680-5. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1985.3.5.680.

Intraocular retinoblastoma group V: an analysis of prognostic factors.

Rubin CM, Robison LL, Cameron JD, Woods WG, Nesbit ME Jr, Krivit W, Kim TH, 
Letson RD, Ramsay NK.

A retrospective analysis of the University of Minnesota (Minneapolis) experience 
with retinoblastoma is presented. Seventy-five patients were diagnosed with 
retinoblastoma between 1958 and 1983, of which 53 (71%) had at least one 
Reese-Ellsworth group V eye. Nineteen group V patients and one group II patient 
developed extraocular disease recurrence. The cumulative actuarial rate of 
recurrence at 12 years was 36% for patients with group V disease. The median 
time from diagnosis to recurrence for unilateral patients was seven months and 
for bilateral patients 28 months (P = .001). Patients developing extraocular 
disease had a 10-year actuarial survival rate postrecurrence of 34%. The four 
long-term survivors of extraocular recurrences had had isolated orbital or local 
soft tissue recurrences only. Features of group V patients associated with 
extraocular recurrences were identified by univariate life table analyses. 
Clinical poor-risk factors included the nongenetic form of the disease (P = .03) 
and male sex (P = .02). Pathologic poor risk factors included rubeosis (P = 
.01), undifferentiated histology (P = .03), large tumor size (P = .05), and 
intraocular extension to the anterior segment (P = .02), retinal pigment 
epithelium (P = .03), choroid (P less than .001), and optic nerve beyond the 
lamina cribrosa (P = .02). Treatment-associated poor-risk factors included an 
optic nerve length of less than 5 mm removed at enucleation (P = .003). 
Multivariate life table analyses demonstrated the following parameters to be 
independent poor-prognostic factors: optic nerve length of less than 5 mm 
removed at enucleation (P = .001), optic nerve involvement (P = .004), and large 
tumor size (P = .01). These results will help to identify patients with 
retinoblastoma who are at greatest risk for extraocular recurrence.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1985.3.5.680
PMID: 3998784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Med Hypotheses. 1985 Mar;16(3):233-7. doi: 10.1016/0306-9877(85)90004-0.

Climacteric in women: an evolutionary defect?

Dickmann Z.

This is a theoretical paper. Climacteric in women has two basic consequences: 
(i) Sterility, which is interpreted here as a positive feature, because it 
protects the older woman from the hardships of pregnancy. (ii) Hormonal 
deficiency, which is interpreted here as a negative feature, because it leads to 
deleterious changes in various parts of the body. Can these negative features be 
regarded as evolutionary defects? The answer is no, if the following points are 
considered. Through human innovations, women's natural lifespan of less than 30 
years has been extended to almost 80 years. Had the lifespan not been 
manipulated, most women would not reach climacteric, which normally does not 
begin before the fourth decade of life. When interpreting climacteric as a 
phenomenon precipitated by man rather then by Nature, it follows that the 
negative features of climacteric should not be regarded as evolutionary defects.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-9877(85)90004-0
PMID: 4000002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. N Engl J Med. 1985 Jul 4;313(1):52-3. doi: 10.1056/nejm198507043130120.

Double product of blood pressure and heart rate and maximal life span in 
mammals.

Gillum RF.

DOI: 10.1056/nejm198507043130120
PMID: 4000230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Nature. 1985 May 23-29;315(6017):319-20. doi: 10.1038/315319a0.

Patterns of mortality and age at first reproduction in natural populations of 
mammals.

Harvey PH, Zammuto RM.

There is great variation in the age at which females of different mammalian 
species first breed. Recent comparative analyses have focused on the 
relationship between age at first reproduction and body size, but differences in 
patterns of mortality experienced by natural populations are expected to have 
major effects on selection for age at first reproduction. Here we show that the 
age at which females first reproduce is strongly correlated with expectation of 
life at birth, after the effects of body size have been removed, within and 
among species of mammals living in natural populations.

DOI: 10.1038/315319a0
PMID: 4000262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Neoplasma. 1985;32(2):257-63.

Survival patterns of female breast cancer patients in the Estonian SSR in 
1968-1981.

Aaredeid T.

Survival of 4090 female breast cancer patients in the Estonian SSR in 1968--1981 
was studied on the basis of the republic-wide, population-based Estonian Cancer 
Registry. Using the life table method, the overall estimated 5-year relative 
survival rate was 55.9%. Survival was related to stage of disease and patient's 
age at diagnosis. Breast cancer, the most frequent malignancy in females in 
Estonia, considerable reduces patient's life expectancy. During the entire 
13-year follow-up period the patient population under study experienced excess 
cancer mortality.

PMID: 4000313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Minerva Med. 1985 Apr 14;76(16):793-6.

[The role of plasmapheresis in the treatment of primary and secondary 
cryoglobulinemia].

[Article in Italian]

Vitti MP, Torriani A, Fugazza M, Fornasari PM, Stanziale D.

The data on monoclonal or mixed cryoglobulinaemia patients admitted to Pavia 
University's 1st Medical Division since 1970 were examined. Complications 
included peripheral microangiopathies caused by immune complexes and especially 
kidney lesions of varying severity caused by immune complexes precipitated in 
the basal membrane. Although the course of the condition was ameliorated in all 
patients given immunosuppressive treatment alone, this could not prevent the 
appearance of progressively worsening kidney conditions. Terminating in severe 
renal failure these were often complicated by encephalopathies, disturbed 
microcirculation in the brain and hypertension patients given plasmapheresis at 
an early stage, at the first sign of renal or brain circulation problems, 
responded brilliantly with regression of all clinical symptoms. Where 
plasmapheresis was not given until an advanced stage of the kidney disease, a 
satisfactory improvement was obtained and the quality and expectancy of life 
enhanced, even though a total cure was not achieved. Regular cycles of 
plasmapheresis indubitably protect the patient from irreversible renal or 
microvascular conditions so that immunosuppressive treatment can effectively 
control the cryoglobulinaemia.

PMID: 4000524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Rev Infect Dis. 1985 Mar-Apr;7 Suppl 1:S164-9. doi: 
10.1093/clinids/7.supplement_1.s164.

Delayed manifestations of congenital rubella.

Sever JL, South MA, Shaver KA.

The manifestations of congenital rubella syndrome (CRS) can be grouped according 
to time of onset into newborn, extended, and delayed CRS. The delayed 
manifestations are not present in early life and include the following: 
endocrinopathies: diabetes, thyroid disease, and growth hormone deficiency; 
deafness; ocular damage: glaucoma, keratic precipitates, keratoconus, corneal 
hydrops, and absorption of the cataractous lens; vascular effects: fibromuscular 
proliferation of the intima, sclerosis of arteries, systemic hypertension 
secondary to renal disease, and subretinal neovascularization; and progressive 
rubella panencephalitis. Several mechanisms of pathogenesis of the damage have 
to be considered for the delayed manifestations, including growth of the virus 
in tissues, resulting in a reduced growth rate and shortened life-span of the 
cells; autoimmune responses, initially stimulated by the infection; genetic 
susceptibility; vascular damage by the viral infection with further stenosis or 
occlusion of the vessels later; reactive hypervascularization; and chronic 
persistence of the virus in the tissue with subsequent extension of the 
infection to other areas.

DOI: 10.1093/clinids/7.supplement_1.s164
PMID: 4001724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 1985 Apr;71(4):366-79. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0447.1985.tb02536.x.

Psychiatric disorders (DSM-III) and cognitive impairment among the elderly in a 
U.S. urban community.

Weissman MM, Myers JK, Tischler GL, Holzer CE 3rd, Leaf PJ, Orvaschel H, Brody 
JA.

Results are presented on the current prevalence rates of psychiatric disorder in 
2,588 non-institutionalized persons aged 65 and older who were drawn from a 
probability sample of New Haven, Connecticut, and 12 surrounding towns in South 
Central Connecticut. Based on the Diagnostic Interview Schedule (DIS), 6.7% of 
the respondents had a psychiatric diagnosis (DSM-III), and based on the 
Mini-Mental Status Exam (MMS), 3.4% had severe cognitive impairments during the 
past 6-month period. Therefore, more than 10% currently had either a psychiatric 
or a severe cognitive problem. Overall, these rates of psychiatric disorders are 
lower than those found in adult populations under age 65. As with younger 
samples, anxiety and affective disorders were among the most common psychiatric 
problems. The majority of elderly reported themselves in good emotional and 
physical health and felt they had sufficient finances to meet their needs. The 
rate of severe cognitive impairment did not increase until after age 79. Among 
those 80 years and older, cognitive impairments were more common in women than 
men, probably due to differential survival rates. Since less than 6% of the 
elderly sample are living in institutions these results among 
non-institutionalized elderly point to the relative psychiatric well-being of 
the majority of the elderly. However, in view of the longer life expectancy, the 
next decade will see an increase in the absolute number of persons with 
cognitive impairments.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0447.1985.tb02536.x
PMID: 4003102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Am J Public Health. 1985 Jul;75(7):754-7. doi: 10.2105/ajph.75.7.754.

Pursuing longevity: delay vs elimination of degenerative diseases.

Olshansky SJ.

Using a new model which allows for projection of mortality change resulting from 
preventive health care measures, prospective changes in longevity for the 
resident United States population in 1978 were compared with projections of 
longevity gains occurring under a standard single cause-elimination model. 
Results indicate that equal or greater gains accrue from the prevention or delay 
of several major degenerative diseases, than from the complete elimination of 
some single major degenerative diseases. Observed declines in mortality from 
1960 to 1978 have resulted in gains in longevity equivalent to the successful 
elimination of some major degenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.75.7.754
PMCID: PMC1646303
PMID: 4003651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Ann Acad Med Singap. 1985 Jan;14(1):12-5.

Problems in the management of stroke.

Rose FC.

Cerebral vascular accidents are the third commonest cause of death in the 
western world, after heart disease and cancer. Although they occur at any age, 
the risk greatly increases as we get older and, as life expectancy is increasing 
in all countries, cerebral vascular accidents are becoming commoner. In addition 
to being a major cause of death, stroke is the single most common cause of 
chronic disability, the care of which requires considerable financial resources, 
both to the individual patient, who suffers loss of earning power, to his 
family, and to the state. This paper reviews the many different drugs that are 
used in stroke and points out their advantages and disadvantages.

PMID: 4004116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Int J Cardiol. 1985 Jun;8(2):125-36. doi: 10.1016/0167-5273(85)90278-5.

Risks and benefits of cardiac pacing in children.

Ennker J, Stegmann T, Luhmer I, Oelert H.

Forty-nine patients aged 2 days to 14 years (30% below 1 year of age) required 
implantation of a permanent pacemaker system. Surgically induced bradyarrhythmia 
was the main indication for treatment (84% of patients). In the follow-up period 
(ranging from 2 to 140 months) 16 reoperations became necessary for 
complications in 12 children. Twelve of these were caused by problems related to 
function of the epicardial electrode (threshold rise 9, lead fracture 2, 
dysfunction 1). Four patients died, but pacemaker function had remained intact 
in all. Our experience confirms that artificial cardiac stimulation has become a 
reliable instrument for improving quality of life and life expectancy of 
children endangered by postsurgical, congenital and acquired rhythm disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-5273(85)90278-5
PMID: 4008104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Health Phys. 1985 Jul;49(1):37-48. doi: 10.1097/00004032-198507000-00003.

Population doses, excess deaths and loss of life expectancy from mass chest 
x-ray examinations in Japan--1980.

Kumamoto Y.

The number of mass chest x-ray examinations in Japan in 1980 was 26.6 million 
and the average effective dose equivalent was 26 mrem per examination. The 
genetically significant dose was .017 mrem per person per year, the per caput 
mean marrow dose was 5.9 mrem, the leukemia significant dose was 5.2 mrem and 
the malignancy significant dose was 2.8 mrem. The excess deaths were calculated 
to be 70-280 depending on the risk model used. Those would be in excess to the 
3.7 million cancer deaths normally expected among the examined population. The 
loss of life expectancy calculated with a relative risk model was 38 yr for 
males and 43 yr for females due to leukemia with a latent period of 2 yr and an 
expression period of 25 yr, and 12 yr for males and 14 yr for females due to 
other cancers with a latent period of 10 yr and an expression period of lifetime 
in the 20-24 age group.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-198507000-00003
PMID: 4008262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Med Hypotheses. 1985 May;17(1):67-8. doi: 10.1016/0306-9877(85)90020-9.

New trend in medicine in the developed countries.

Yabrov A.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-9877(85)90020-9
PMID: 4010583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Scand J Soc Med. 1985;13(2):49-52. doi: 10.1177/140349488501300201.

Survival rates among Seventh Day Adventists compared with the general population 
in Poland.

Jedrychowski W, Tobiasz-Adamczyk B, Olma A, Gradzikiewicz P.

The purpose of the work was to test the hypothesis that the survival rate is 
higher among the Seventh Day Adventists (SDA) than in the general population of 
Poland, because of the strictly respected customs adhered to by members of this 
church community, such as abstinence from smoking and from alcohol. The data on 
life expectancy in the SDA community covered a total of 236 members of this 
denomination in Kraków (86 males and 150 females). The survival probability 
rates were estimated by the life table method, for both men and women 
separately, and were subsequently compared with the corresponding parameters of 
the Polish Life Tables. Over a period of 10 years, in which these data were 
studied, there were 11 deaths in males and 24 deaths in females. Mean age at 
death was 71.9 years among men and 75.1 among women. The survival curves traced 
over the age groups of both sexes of SDA members were fairly similar, but they 
were markedly higher than in the general population of Poland. In the general 
population the survival rates for people over 40 years old were higher in 
females than in males, whereas no corresponding sex differences in rates 
concerning SDA members were observed. The greater benefit in life expectancy is 
gained in the SDA group in comparison with men in the general population. This 
is attributable to their abstinence from very harmful habits, otherwise more 
widespread in this sex group.

DOI: 10.1177/140349488501300201
PMID: 4012231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Soc Sci Med. 1985;20(10):1023-7. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(85)90258-8.

The nature, meaning and measurement of health and illness: an economic 
viewpoint.

Williams A.

Health can be seen as a capital asset, subject to depreciation due both to the 
passage of time (ageing) and to 'wear and tear'. It is valued for the flow of 
pain-free time and energy it offers us, and we can increase the quantity and 
quality of this 'flow' by appropriate care and maintenance, which may take the 
form of adopting a healthy life style or in seeking health care. The valuation 
of health (as a capital stock) can then be seen as the valuation of the time 
profile of the stream of pain-free time and energy we expect to get out of it. 
This in turn depends on the uses to which this time and energy can be put. Its 
use in paid work is relatively easily valued but unpaid work (especially work in 
the home) continues to be a source of difficulty, both in principle and in 
practice, in the search for appropriate money values. Leisure time is still more 
difficult, though for those in paid work whose remuneration is sensitive to the 
work/leisure balance, foregone net earnings at that margin may be used in the 
marginal value of leisure time. But the appropriateness of any valuation depends 
on the use to which it is to be put, and it is important to distinguish whether 
it is to reflect 'individual' or 'group' values, and whether it is for ex post 
compensation associated with some particular event, or for use in ex ante 
decision making where it is not known who the particular gainers and losers will 
be.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(85)90258-8
PMID: 4012347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Salud Publica Mex. 1985 Mar-Apr;27(2):155-60.

[Life tables for the affiliated populations at the Mexican Institute of Social 
Security, state delegation in Jalisco. 1983].

[Article in Spanish]

García de Alba JE, Barba Maravel OJ, Guerrero A.

PMID: 4012427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Am J Med Genet. 1985 Jun;21(2):213-23. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.1320210203.

Survival analysis of the severely and profoundly mentally retarded.

Kaveggia FF.

Life-table analyses were performed on 1,915 severely/profoundly retarded 
institutionalized persons. Data on probability of death and hazard rates are 
presented according to sex and previously described diagnostic/etiologic 
categories. The median remaining lifetime for a resident of Central Wisconsin 
Center on admission was found to be greater than 25 years. The average age of 
admission was 7.3 years with a range of 0-66 years. The highest death rate was 
noted in residents with inborn errors of metabolism; the lowest death rate was 
in residents with primary seizures disorders. On admission, the median remaining 
lifetime was 8.81 +/- 4.16 years (95% confidence interval) for residents with 
inborn errors of metabolism, 18.56 +/- 4.26 years for residents with primary CNS 
malformations, and 24.66 +/- 4.05 years for residents with known syndromes. 
Residents of all other diagnostic/etiologic categories had a median remaining 
lifetime of greater than 25 years.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.1320210203
PMID: 4014308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Am J Med Genet. 1985 Jun;21(2):231-42. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.1320210205.

The effect of Mendelian disease on human health: a measurement.

Costa T, Scriver CR, Childs B.

We describe an attempt to measure effects of Mendelian phenotypes on human 
health (homeostasis) in man. We used the McKusick Catalogs as the source for 
descriptions of autosomal dominant, recessive, and X-linked phenotypes. Three 
hundred and fifty one entries (76% of the initial sample) were disadaptive 
causing an impairment, disability, or handicap. (Terms used are in accordance 
with World Health Organization (WHO) definitions.) Phenotypic effects were 
scored to measure impact on life-span, reproductive capability, and psychosocial 
characteristics. We found 1) 25% of the disadaptive Mendelian phenotypes were 
apparent at birth and over 90% by the end of puberty; age at onset is unimodal 
in distribution for autosomal recessive and X-linked diseases, and trimodal for 
autosomal dominant (with modes during morphogenesis, infancy, and early adult 
life); 2) 58% of phenotypes involved more than one anatomical or functional 
system; autosomal dominants were more likely to involve only a single system; 3) 
life-span was reduced in 57%, particularly in those with onset in pre- or 
intra-reproductive life, and more often in recessive and X-linked diseases (data 
corrected for genetic lethals); prognosis varied with system involvement; 4) 
reproductive capability was impaired in 69% of phenotypes; and 5) most 
phenotypes compatible with life beyond infancy caused psychosocial handicap and 
limited the access to schooling and work. These findings have implications for 
medical care.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.1320210205
PMID: 4014310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Am J Med Genet. 1985 Jun;21(2):243-55. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.1320210206.

The effect of Mendelian disease on human health. II: Response to treatment.

Hayes A, Costa T, Scriver CR, Childs B.

We describe an attempt to measure efficacy of treatment in the Mendelian 
diseases of man. We used the McKusick Catalogs to identify 351 single gene 
diseases. We scored the impact of each disease in seven phenotypic categories: 
lifespan, reproductive capability, somatic growth, intellectual development, 
learning ability, capacity to work, and cosmetic effect. We then scored the 
success of treatment in ameliorating each of these component manifestations 
separately and together. The response to treatment was slight in the whole 
sample (n = 351): lifespan was increased in 15%, reproductive capability in 11%, 
and social adaptation in 6%. We observed that the mutant gene product was known 
in only 15% of the conditions comprising our sample. Since the mutant 
polypeptide is known in most inborn errors of metabolism, the diseases of this 
type (n = 65) in our sample of Mendelian traits were studied separately. In each 
of the seven categories of phenotypic impact, only a few of the hereditary 
metabolic diseases responded in any degree to specific treatment: the treatment 
gave complete relief in 12%, there was a partial response in 40%, and none in 
the remaining 48%. These findings have implications for prognosis, genetic 
counseling, and medical care of patients with Mendelian disease.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.1320210206
PMID: 4014311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1985 Aug 2;110(31-32):1206-11. doi: 
10.1055/s-2008-1068985.

[Size of cell nuclei in non-Hodgkin lymphomas. Prognostic and diagnostic 
significance].

[Article in German]

Donhuijsen K, Leder LD.

Morphometric analysis of cell-nucleus size was undertaken in 300 cases of 
malignant non-Hodgkin lymphomas. The results were compared with histological 
findings and survival time. It was found that the histological lymphoma groups 
differ significantly only occasionally with regard to nucleus size. Within the 
groups the values have such wide scatter that in the individual case it is not 
possible to assign it on morphometric data. This scatter mirrors the 
difficulties encountered in histological classification which - as the objective 
data indicate - are due to numerous transitions between different types of 
lymphoma. Analysis of survival data shows that nucleus size is of considerable 
prognostic value, if certain exceptions such as lymphoblastic lymphoma are taken 
into account. The results favour tripartite division of malignant lymphomas for 
prognostic purposes.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1068985
PMID: 4017888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Int J Epidemiol. 1985 Jun;14(2):285-92. doi: 10.1093/ije/14.2.285.

The Swedish mortality pattern: a basis for health planning?

Wall S, Rosén M, Nyström L.

In response to new Swedish health legislation, which gives local county councils 
formal 'epidemiological' responsibility for the health of the whole population, 
the regional mortality pattern is presented here for the period 1969-78. The 
findings show that total mortality has decreased somewhat during the ten-year 
period, while at the same time the difference in life expectancy between men and 
women has increased to six years. The concept 'lost years before 65' is used as 
a measure of premature death. Suicide is the cause of death that has resulted in 
the greatest number of lost years among men as well as women. During the 1970's 
positive changes have come about for leukaemias, cervical cancers and motor 
vehicle accidents, changes that can be interpreted as being due to better 
treatment, increased screening and efficient prevention. On the other hand, 
failures are obvious when considering, for example, a twofold increase in 
premature alcohol-related mortality over the decade. The report also discusses 
the quality of mortality statistics as a basis for health planning.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/14.2.285
PMID: 4018996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. JAMA. 1985 Aug 16;254(7):936-43.

Health and health services in Central America.

Garfield RM, Rodriguez PF.

Despite rapid economic growth since World War II, health conditions improved 
only slowly in most of Central America. This is a result of poor medical, 
social, and economic infrastructure, income maldistribution, and the poor 
utilization of health investments. The economic crisis of the 1980s and civil 
strife have further endangered health in the region. Life expectancy has fallen 
among men in El Salvador and civil strife has become the most common cause of 
death in Guatemala, Nicaragua, and El Salvador. Large-scale US assistance has 
done little to improve conditions, and refugees continue to pour into North 
America. It is estimated that there are more than a million refugees within 
Central America, while a million have fled to the United States. Costa Rica and 
Nicaragua are partial exceptions to this dismal health picture. An effective 
approach to the many health problems in Central America will require joint 
planning and cooperation among all countries in the region.

PMID: 4021026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Mech Ageing Dev. 1985 May 13;30(2):143-52. doi:
10.1016/0047-6374(85)90003-x.

Relationship of body temperature stability to mortality in aging mice.

Reynolds MA, Ingram DK, Talan M.

An age-related decline in the capacity for thermoregulation among homeothermic 
animals has been observed frequently under conditions of extreme ambient 
temperatures. We investigated the temporal stability of the internal body 
temperature of 69 C57BL/6J mice from 25 months of age until death in a 
controlled, neutral thermal environment. Estimates of temporal variability were 
calculated over consecutive 1-month intervals using (colonic) body temperature 
data collected weekly. The results of this longitudinal analysis indicated that 
the regulation of body temperature, as measured by its temporal stability, 
became increasingly less precise with advancing age. Body temperature exhibited 
a significant decline as the animal approached death. Individual differences in 
body temperature and the temporal regulation of body temperature were 
significantly correlated with lifespan, although the direction of the relations 
were opposite. Body temperature correlated positively with lifespan, whereas the 
temporal stability of body temperature correlated negatively with lifespan. 
Thus, animals exhibiting higher body temperatures and greater temporal stability 
also tended to live longer than their cohorts.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(85)90003-x
PMID: 4021553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1985 Jun;16(3):115-7.

[Problems of aging in China].

[Article in Dutch]

Hijmans W.

A WHO consultancy to the 'National Seminar on Geriatrics' in Beijing provided an 
opportunity to get some ideas about the problems of ageing in China. Since 1949 
life expectancy has doubled and it has been estimated that between now and the 
end of the century the 65+ group will double to a total of approximately 100 
million people. This will be the fastest growing ageing population in history. 
With more than 1000 million inhabitants China is the largest country in the 
world and also because of epidemiological facilities it offers unique 
opportunities to study for instance maximum life-span. Results sofar support the 
view that this will not exceed the generally accepted figure of 120 years. 
Institutional care is limited, but this is at least partly offset by the 
structure of society, having the family as the central unit. Preventive medicine 
scores high and one should hope that it will contribute to geriatrics, as it has 
contributed to other parts of medicine.

PMID: 4024223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Am J Clin Nutr. 1985 Aug;42(2):329-41. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/42.2.329.

Ischemic heart disease: footprints through the data.

Slater CH, Smith DP, Nichaman MZ, Slattery ML.

This study addresses the question of whether the rise in ischemic heart disease 
mortality has been just "a paper epidemic" as asserted in an earlier issue of 
this journal. Age-standardized death rates, proportions expected to die, mean 
ages at death, and cause specific contributions to changes in overall life 
expectancies were calculated for acute and chronic ischemic heart disease and 
for males and females for the years 1931 to 1980 using published vital 
statistics data. These multiple analyses reveal: a true epidemic of acute 
ischemic heart disease has occurred, affecting males exclusively or to a greater 
degree than females and it is now on the decline, fairly stable and more nearly 
comparable mortality for both males and females for chronic ischemic heart 
disease, and continuing problems of classification obscure the true levels of 
mortality for both the acute and chronic entities.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/42.2.329
PMID: 4025203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Aviat Space Environ Med. 1985 Jul;56(7):714-7.

Age and space flight.

Mohler SR.

Criteria for space flight crew and passenger selection should be based on the 
following three considerations: (1) freedom from impairing disease, (2) ability 
to perform mission requirements and (3) motivation to undertake the mission. 
Chronologic age of itself is not a valid criterion. Forecast life expectancy and 
vitality relative to mission duration are valid criteria and can be applied on 
an individual basis using modern assessment techniques. The good health and 
vitality characterizing the upper ages of today's population widens the 
opportunity to utilize increasingly broad fields of experience and skills in 
future space flights, further enhancing the odds for total mission 
accomplishment.

PMID: 4026755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Can J Surg. 1985 Sep;28(5):401-4.

Fate of claudicants after femoropopliteal vein bypass: prospective, long-term 
follow-up of 100 patients.

Sladen JG, Gilmour JL.

Femoropopliteal bypass grafting for claudication is a controversial procedure. 
One hundred consecutive patients so treated were analysed for vein-graft 
patency, subsequent operation and survival. Initial success, treatment of 
incipient graft failure and attrition from death were the three critical factors 
influencing long-term benefit. Cumulative graft patency, after revision when 
necessary, was 89%, 86% and 78% at 2, 5 and 10 years respectively. In assessing 
the real benefit of surgery in this group, it is important to consider the 
effect of late deaths, as the life expectancy of these patients is so often 
shortened by related disease; the "cumulative palliation" (patient alive and 
graft patent) was 82%, 67% and 28% at the same time intervals. The concept of 
cumulative palliation sets a high standard in assessing results of vascular 
surgery, adding important information to the usual graft patency rates that 
ignore the effect of death. These results suggest a place for femoropopliteal 
vein bypass grafting in selected claudicants.

PMID: 4027783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Clin Nephrol. 1985 Jun;23(6):278-84.

Children with chronic renal failure in the Federal Republic of Germany: II. 
Primary renal diseases, age and intervals from early renal failure to renal 
death. Arbeitsgemeinschaft für Pädiatrische Nephrologie.

Pistor K, Schärer K, Olbing H, Tamminen-Möbius T.

In a retrospective survey, 623 children with chronic renal failure (CRF) 
comprising a 7-year period were registered in the Federal Republic of Germany. 
The primary renal disease could be classified in 91% of the patients. 
Pyelonephritis was the most frequent diagnosis (31%), followed by 
glomerulopathies (20%), renal hypoplasia or dysplasia (14%), cystic kidney 
disease including nephronophthisis (12%), other hereditary nephropathies (7%), 
and vascular nephropathies (4%). At the time of first presentation, 23% of the 
children with preterminal chronic renal failure were younger than 5 years, 34% 5 
to 10 years and 43% 10 to 16 years old. At the time of renal death, the serum 
creatinine level was below 10 mg/dl in 84% of the children below 5 years, 
compared to 5% in the patients older than 10 years. The mean interval from the 
first presentation of CRF to the terminal stage was 6 months in vascular 
nephropathies, 19 months in cystic renal disease, 26 months in glomerular 
disorders, 32 months in pyelonephritis, and 36 months in hereditary 
nephropathies and in renal hypoplasia or dysplasia. The range of these intervals 
is so large, even when diagnostic subgroups are considered, that a reliable 
prediction of the individual course from the underlying kidney disease is not 
possible.

PMID: 4028524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Eur Urol. 1985;11(3):161-2. doi: 10.1159/000472482.

Nonrefluxing colon conduits with a modified ureterocolonic anastomosis.

Pagano F, Lembo A, Dal Bianco M, Zattoni F.

Urinary diversion by means of a colon conduit is particularly advantageous. In 
comparison with the ileal conduit an antireflux ureterocolonic anastomosis can 
be created, thus preventing renal damage in patients with a long life 
expectancy. Herein the authors present the results of 5 years experience with 
colon conduits and Pagano's ureterocolonic anastomosis.

DOI: 10.1159/000472482
PMID: 4029231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Fortschr Ophthalmol. 1985;82(3):231-4.

[Life expectancy following operations for senile cataract].

[Article in German]

Cvetković D, Radovanović Z, Hentova-Sencanić P, Velimirović A.

PMID: 4029840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Hum Hered. 1985;35(4):250-4. doi: 10.1159/000153554.

A genetic and demographic study of hemophilia A in Brazil.

Alexandre CO, Roisenberg I.

A genetic and demographic study was made of patients with hemophilia A in Rio 
Grande do Sul, Brazil, during a 15-year period. The study comprised 104 patients 
belonging to 70 pedigrees. Life expectancy at birth increased from 32.2 to 44.5 
years, mean age of death from 11.1 to 14.6 years, and survival to maturity from 
33 to 38%. However, fertility decreased from an average number of 1.6 to 0.8 
children. Among the normal brothers, the average number of offspring was 
decreased from 2.2 to 1.5 children. The fitness of patients in this population, 
in spite of the increase of the average life expectancy, was decreased due to 
the decrease of fertility, from 0.47 to 0.43 using the normal brother as 
control, and from 0.35 to 0.20 using the general population as control.

DOI: 10.1159/000153554
PMID: 4029964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. N Engl J Med. 1985 Sep 19;313(12):760-1. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198509193131220.

Life extension.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198509193131220
PMID: 4033705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
