

714. World Health Stat Q. 1985;38(2):176-92.

Health development in Japan: determinants, implications and perspectives.

[Article in English, French]

Ohno Y.

PMID: 4036162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1985 Jun 1;40(11):330-5.

[Results of long-term conditioning in patients with myocardial infarction during 
phase III rehabilitation].

[Article in German]

Schauer J, Orschekowski H, Bosse A, Claus R, Himmel W, Kuhnert W.

The active kinesitherapy is an essential constituent of the whole rehabilitation 
process of patients with infarction. Despite the decrease due to the physiology 
of ageing and the progression of the coronary disease the physical functional 
capacity can be kept relatively constant also over many years. Thus the quality 
of the patients' lives can be favourably influenced. Whether the life expectancy 
alone can be improved at long date by the active conditioning, further on 
remains unclarified. Aimed differentiated medication, psychosocial measures, the 
consideration of secondary bronchopulmonary diseases and the well-timed 
selection for the coronary-surgical intervention must be included into the 
process of complex rehabilitation of patients with myocardial infarction. In 
these cases diagnostics and therapy of the somatic risk factors must 
particularly be taken into consideration during the whole process of 
rehabilitation in order to decrease the progressing of the basic disease.

PMID: 4036209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Z Gerontol. 1985 May-Jun;18(3):164-9.

[Aging of lens epithelial cells and their possible effect on lens opacity 
(senile cataract)].

[Article in German]

Rink H.

Proliferation capacity, synthesis of lens-specific proteins, DNA alterations 
after UV- and X-ray irradiation as well as their repair capacity have been 
investigated in tissue cultures with isolated lens epithelial cells of different 
species and different donor ages, respectively. The in-vitro life span of 
diploid lens epithelial cells is limited. It is correlated positively with the 
life expectancy and negatively correlated with the donor age of the investigated 
animals. The capacity to synthesize lens-specific proteins is lost in late 
cultures of lens epithelial cells. The capacity to repair UV- and X-ray-induced 
DNA alterations does not change during aging in vitro, however, it decreases to 
75% in cultures derived from old donor animals (bovine). Together with the 
special growth pattern of the organ lens, the in-vitro results are discussed in 
order to point out a possible mechanism which might contribute to the 
development of age-dependent lens opacities. The system "lens epithelial cells 
in vitro" is considered as a well-suited model system to study age-dependent 
alterations in the organ lens.

PMID: 4036251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Z Kinderchir. 1985 Jun;40(3):146-50. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1059734.

[Ultrashort segment Hirschsprung disease. An objective picture of the disease 
substantiated by biopsy].

[Article in German]

Meier-Ruge W.

The enzyme histotopochemical characteristics of 18 cases with ultrashort 
Hirschsprung's disease - investigated during the past 20 years - are analysed. 
The aganglionic segment, having an extension of 1-3 cm, is characterised by an 
increase of acetylcholinesterase activity in parasympathetic nerve fibres of the 
muscularis mucosae. A similar increase of acetylcholinesterase in the nerve 
fibres of the lamina propria mucosae - as characteristic in Hirschsprung's 
disease - is usually absent. Strip biopsies which include mucosa of the linea 
dentata and the distal rectum often show the transition from the aganglionic to 
the innervated mucosa. To avoid a faulty diagnosis by overlooking an ultrashort 
Hirschsprung's disease, it is recommended to take the first biopsy from the 
linea dentata, and biopsies 1 cm, 2 cm and 4 cm above this level, or to conduct 
a strip biopsy of 1-2 cm length taken from this area. 2/3 of the cases 
investigated were diagnosed during the first year of life. In 1/3 of the cases 
the diagnosis was made in patients who were 4 to 21 years of age. The average 
incidence of the ultrashort Hirschsprung's disease is 10% in relation to all 
aganglionoses studied. In recent years, however, diagnosis of this particular 
rectum disease was made more often (14%) due to a better knowledge of the 
disease (6.8% of all investigated inborn innervation failures of the colon). 
Ultrashort Hirschsprung is a rare disease, although it is observed more often 
than total aganglionosis of the colon (Zuelzer-Wilson syndrome). The sex ratio, 
being 5 male male: 1 female, is within the range of Hirschsprung's disease. 
Hence, enzyme histotopochemical means enable substantiation of ultrashort 
Hirschsprung's disease as a special form of an aganglionosis of the distal 
rectum.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1059734
PMID: 4036366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1985 Mar;39(1):33-8. doi:
10.1136/jech.39.1.33.

Mortality ratios and life expectancy in X chromatin positive males.

Price WH, Clayton JF, Collyer S, de Mey R.

In a prospective study of 466 X chromatin positive males an increase in 
mortality of about 50% has been observed. The increase is associated with a loss 
of about five years in life span. There is no convincing evidence that the 
increase is concentrated at any particular age group but this possibility could 
not be excluded. No effect of mode of ascertainment could be demonstrated. From 
this study we conclude that it is likely that the mortality experienced by 
chromatin positive males in general is at least 115% of that experienced by 
normal men and could be more than 200%.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.39.1.33
PMCID: PMC1052397
PMID: 4039353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1985 Oct;(199):68-71.

Measurement of the motion range in the loaded ankle.

Lindsjö U, Danckwardt-Lillieström G, Sahlstedt B.

In an easily practicable method of measuring the motion range in the ankle under 
load, the patient is asked to put his foot on a 30-cm-high stool and then lean 
forward as much as possible without lifting his heel from the supporting stool. 
In this position the knee is flexed and the greater part of the body weight is 
on the examined foot. Dorsal extension is then measured with a protractor as the 
angle between the support line of the foot and the long axis of the leg. The 
loaded plantar flexion is measured in the same position but with the heel raised 
as much as possible. In a study of 317 healthy ankles, this method was found to 
give greater and more reproducible values than measuring on unloaded ankles in 
sitting or supine positions. Measurements of the loaded dorsal extension were 
also made on radiographs of 66 healthy ankles. The mean value was 32.5 degrees; 
the mean talar forward tilt was 5.0 degrees. In normal daily life, at least 10 
degrees are required; for performing athletics and sports activities, a loaded 
dorsal extension range of 20 degrees-30 degrees is necessary.

PMID: 4042498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. J Am Coll Nutr. 1985;4(4):481-4. doi: 10.1080/07315724.1985.10720090.

The saga of BHT and BHA in life extension myths.

Llaurado JG.

The phenolic antioxidants BHT and BHA have been widely used for many years in 
small concentrations for foods, pharmaceutical preparations and cosmetic 
products to prevent oxidation of labile lipoid components. Recently, in an 
aggressive campaign, daily 2 g doses of these compounds have been recommended, 
without scientific grounds, to combat senescence, genital herpes and cancer. 
However, information in the bio-medical literature reveals that the recommended 
human dose of 2 g/day is simply one order of magnitude below the lethal dose in 
animals. Obviously, these high dose levels, if not immediately lethal for 
humans, must produce pathological effects. Physicians and health authorities 
should be familiar with the consequences of prolonged administration of large 
doses of BHT and BHA and forbid their use except as fat stabilizers for food and 
pharmaceutical products.

DOI: 10.1080/07315724.1985.10720090
PMID: 4045049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 1985 Sep;48(9):902-5. doi:
10.1136/jnnp.48.9.902.

Mortality and stroke after amaurosis fugax.

Poole CJ, Ross Russell RW.

One hundred and ten patients who had presented with amaurosis fugax and were 
treated medically were studied retrospectively. Follow up from the time of 
presentation was six to nineteen years with a median of eight years. The 
mortality and frequency of strokes in this group was compared with populations 
matched for age and sex. Life expectancy in patients with amaurosis fugax was 
reduced. Ischaemic heart disease was the most frequent cause of death and 
occurred at a greater rate than in the general population (p less than 0.01). 
The indicence of stroke was higher than in the Oxfordshire Community Stroke 
Project 1981-1983 (p less than 0.01). Comparing our results to those published 
for cerebral transient ischaemic attacks, patients with amaurosis fugax have a 
similar mortality rate but probably have a lower incidence of stroke. Patients 
with amaurosis fugax who have an occluded or narrowed proximal internal carotid 
artery have a greater risk of subsequent stroke than those with a normal carotid 
artery, or an arteriogram (p less than 0.01).

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.48.9.902
PMCID: PMC1028491
PMID: 4045484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Pediatr Infect Dis. 1985 Sep-Oct;4(5):532-7. doi: 
10.1097/00006454-198509000-00018.

Evolution of paradigms of child health in developing countries.

Mohs E.

In 1982 Costa Rica had an infant mortality of 18 per 1000 live births and a life 
expectancy at birth of 76 years for women and 72 years for men. In the evolution 
of infant health in Costa Rica two paradigms were identified. One developed in 
the decades before 1970 and the other during the 1970s. The necessity of 
conceptualizing a third new paradigm compatible with health needs of the present 
and the immediate future is recognized. The first or "malnutrition paradigm" was 
orthodox in its derivation; it identified the lack of food as the underlying 
base for the major health problems and placed its emphasis on institutional 
medicine. The paradigm was influenced by foreign schools of nutrition and 
pediatrics and led to the development of an infrastructure for the delivery of 
medical services and the programs for food distribution. The "infectious disease 
paradigm" recognized infectious diseases as the main determinants of morbidity, 
mortality and malnutrition in childhood. The strategies derived from such a 
revolutionary paradigm aimed at the control and eradication of infectious 
diseases, and they resulted in a rapid improvement of child nutrition and 
health. However, the infectious disease paradigm does not seem to reduce infant 
mortality below the present level.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PIP: Costa Rica had an infant mortality rate of 18/1000 live births and a life 
expectancy at birth of 76 years for women and 72 years for men in 1982. 2 
paradigms were identified in the evolution of infant health in Costa Rica. The 
first, the "malnutrition paradigm", emerged in the decades before 1970. It was 
orthodox in its derivation and identified the lack of food as the underlying 
base for the major health problems. The paradign emphasized institutional 
medicine, and was influenced by foreign schools of nutrition and pediatrics and 
led to the development of an infrastructure for the delivery of medical services 
and the programs for food distribution. The 2nd paradigm, "the infectious 
disease paradigm," developed during the 1970s. It recognized infectious diseases 
as the main determinants of morbidity, mortality, and malnutrition in childhood. 
The strategies derived from such a revolutionary paradigm aimed at the control 
and eradication of infectious diseases, and they resulted in rapid improvement 
of child nutrition and health. Yet, the infectious disease paradigm does not 
seem to reduce infant mortality below the present level. Thus the "holistic 
health paradigm" is proposed in which the control and prevention of infectious 
diseases are maintained but priority is given to the prevention of perinatal 
problems, noninfectious diseases, and various disabilities. This paradigm copes 
with lifestyles, individual responsibility, and coordination of public and 
private health and medical care. The paradigm concentrates on emerging health 
problems that previously were not apparent or were masked by the prevalence of 
malnutrition and infectious diseases. The dramatic results observed in Costa 
Rica and in a few other tropical countries demonstrate that health can be 
improved without undergoing urbanization and industrialization. The malnutrition 
paradigm should be discarded. The infectious disease paradigm should guide 
public health action in underdeveloped countries to ensure a reduction in 
malnutrition and infant mortality. The holistic health paradigm emerges as the 
option for countries like Costa Rica in which a further improvement of present 
health status no longer depends on control of infectious diseases alone.

DOI: 10.1097/00006454-198509000-00018
PMID: 4047963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Toxicol Pathol. 1985;13(2):128-34. doi: 10.1177/019262338501300210.

The value and significance of life span and scheduled termination data in 
long-term toxicity and carcinogenesis studies.

Solleveld HA, McConnell EE.

Consideration is given to the age association of lesions, the duration of 
long-term toxicity and carcinogenesis studies, and to the value and significance 
of including scheduled termination in such long-term studies. There is now 
enough evidence that age and cancer are associated. It is argued that the 
increase in incidence of lesions with age has such disadvantages that extension 
of the duration of the long-term toxicity and carcinogenicity study beyond 2 
years is not warranted in most cases. Incorporation of scheduled termination in 
long-term studies gives more insight into the biologic behavior of toxic lesions 
and cancer and may enable one to make a distinction between "incidental" and 
"fatal" lesions. This distinction may be important for the statistical 
evaluation of data from chemical carcinogenesis studies.

DOI: 10.1177/019262338501300210
PMID: 4048767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Soc Sci Med. 1985;21(5):545-51. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(85)90039-5.

Gender differences in life expectancy among kibbutz members.

Leviatan U, Cohen J.

A literature review of findings reveals that the life expectancy (LE) of females 
is longer than that of males and that a strong relationship exists between LE 
and gender differences in LE. The arguments of biological vs societal reasons 
for such gender differences are presented and the kibbutz society is offered as 
a setting to test the rivaling hypotheses. It is argued that the kibbutz society 
offers more similar roles for both genders than outside the kibbutz and 
therefore the gender differences in LE should be reduced in comparison to what 
is expected, given the very high LE of kibbutz members. Statistical data of the 
kibbutz population between the years 1975-1980 are analyzed and the results 
support the following conclusions: female members have higher LE but the 
difference is much less than expected on the basis of a regression analysis of 
data from 73 societies; the difference is smaller due to the relatively higher 
gain in LE by males; the gender differences are even smaller at age 50 compared 
to LE differences at birth. The Discussion section dwells upon interpretations 
of the findings and argues against alternative interpretations that assume 
selection processes for the kibbutz population. Suggestions for further studies 
are also made.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(85)90039-5
PMID: 4049023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Ter Arkh. 1985;57(7):11-4.

[High life expectancy in multiple myeloma].

[Article in Russian]

Antipova LG, Andreeva NE.

The authors describe the main clinicolaboratory finding of 9 patients with 
multiple myeloma (MM) who survived 10 and more years. The number of the 
"long-lived" survivors among 256 patients with MM seen from 1966 to 1980 
amounted to 3.5%. The main characteristics of the disease of the "long-lived" 
survivors were correlated to those of 247 MM patients who survived for less than 
10 years. In principle, no differences were revealed between the compared groups 
in term of the size of the initial tumor mass, red blood, and the degree of 
osteolysis. It was established that the 10-year and higher survival was observed 
in relatively young people without signs of renal insufficiency, who responded 
well to the cytostatic treatment. In 8 out of the 9 survivors, a long-term 
remission was attained by combining sarcolysine and prednisolone. The median 
survival rate for the entire group amounted to 25 months, that for the 
"long-lived" survivors to 133 months. In the authors' opinion, an unusually high 
survival rate among MM patients cannot be only attributed to successful 
cytostatic therapy. Among the 247 MM patients, 60% responded to the treatment 
fairly well. However, only 3.5% of the patients survived over 10 years. The 
prognosis of MM is likely to be determined by some individual features of the 
tumor and by the patients' antitumor defence mechanisms.

PMID: 4049260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Vopr Onkol. 1985;31(9):45-50.

[Outcome of untreated lung cancer].

[Article in Russian]

Bidiak NV, Dudareva LA.

The study was concerned with postdiagnostic survival time in 933 cases of 
unresected lung cancer. The course of the disease was found to be in correlation 
with patient's age as well as stage, clinico-anatomical type and morphological 
pattern of tumor.

PMID: 4049800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Z Alternsforsch. 1985 Jul-Aug;40(4):235-44.

[Sex differences in biologic aging. Results of an experimental study].

[Article in German]

Pöthig D, Ries W.

The authors report on first experimentally verified findings concerning the 
sex-specific ageing dynamism of man. The study is based on reference values of 
biological age which could be gathered by employing a clinical complex 
technique. This technique is conspicuous for its high precision; the 
reference-value quality of the model curves likewise satisfying all test 
theoretical criteria. The reference values of biological age characterize the 
dynamism of ageing within a randomized population group, i.e. 197 male and 168 
female citizens aged between 18 and 75 years who were living in urban Leipzig 
and mainly employed in the working process. Remarkably enough, there hardly 
appear to be any differences between the two sexes as far as the rate of ageing 
is concerned. This causes the authors to emphasize the great importance of 
sex-differentiated morbidity for an increased mortality among men in the 
industrialized countries. A genetically predetermined higher rate of ageing 
among men and a resulting lower life expectancy exclusively contingent on it 
does not seem to exist. These experimentally obtained results correspond in 
tendency to epidemiological data.

PMID: 4049926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1985;79(10):415-8.

[Assessment of mortality in East Germany in 1982 using the cause of death to 
compute life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Schulz I, Radoschewski M.

PMID: 4049931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Verh K Acad Geneeskd Belg. 1985;47(3):173-205.

[Life expectancy and senescence].

[Article in Dutch]

Verdonk G.

PMID: 4050075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Cas Lek Cesk. 1985 Oct 18;124(41-42):1288-91.

[Analysis of the life span of alkaptonuric patients].

[Article in Slovak]

Srsen S, Vondrácek J, Srsnová K, Svác J.

PMID: 4053167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Eur Heart J. 1985 Aug;6(8):640-6. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a061915.

Personal view: In-hospital patient management strategies after acute myocardial 
infarction.

Nienaber CA, Bleifeld W.

The coronary patient after the striking experience of a myocardial infarction 
faces a completely new situation possibly affecting lifestyle, occupation and 
life expectancy. A dedicated post-infarction diagnostic strategy for the 
evaluation of the individual risk of suffering from a future coronary event, or 
of dying, requires profound knowledge of the impact of medical and surgical 
therapies on the survival rate and on the quality of life after infarction.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a061915
PMID: 4054133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Diabetologia. 1985 Aug;28(8):590-6. doi: 10.1007/BF00281993.

The effect of proteinuria on relative mortality in type 1 (insulin-dependent) 
diabetes mellitus.

Borch-Johnsen K, Andersen PK, Deckert T.

Comment in
    Diabetologia. 2012 Sep;55(9):2301-6.

We followed 1,134 patients with Type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes, diagnosed 
between 1933 and 1952, until 1982 or death or until their emigration. Their age 
at onset of diabetes was under 31 years. Information concerning the development 
of persistent proteinuria was sought in every case. In 104 cases, the data were 
either questionable or the patient could not be traced. Twenty-nine patients 
developed non-diabetic proteinuria. Among the remaining 1,001 patients, 406 
developed persistent proteinuria (350 died) and 595 did not (166 died). The 
incidence of persistent proteinuria was highest among men; it decreased with 
increasing year of diabetes onset from 1933 to 1952, and decreased with 
increasing age at onset. The relative mortality was extremely high among 
patients with persistent proteinuria, increasing to a maximum of about 100 at 
age 35 years. Patients not developing proteinuria had a relatively constant low 
relative mortality of about 2. The decreasing incidence of persistent 
proteinuria and the decreasing mortality with increasing calendar year of 
diabetes onset resulted in a 50% increase in life-expectancy among patients 
diagnosed in 1950 compared with patients diagnosed in 1935. In patients who 
developed persistent proteinuria, relative mortality was higher in women than 
men at all ages. In patients who did not develop proteinuria, relative mortality 
was similar in men and women after the age of 35. Uraemia was the main cause of 
death in patients with persistent proteinuria, although cardiovascular deaths 
were more frequent than in patients without proteinuria. Thus, proteinuria is 
associated not only with death from uraemia but also from cardiovascular 
disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00281993
PMID: 4054448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Geogr Med. 1985;15:40-64.

Epidemiologic approach to the biology of human life span.

Gavrilov LA, Gavrilova NS, Semyonova VG.

The present work suggests a new, epidemiologic approach to the study of the 
biological mechanisms determining human life span. The proposed approach is 
based on revealing the biological component of human mortality with a subsequent 
analysis of its regional and sex variability. The biological component of 
mortality is defined as a component which is age-dependent, but historically 
stable with respect to socio-economic transformations. It has been shown that 
the Gompertz function elaborated in the Gompertz-Makeham Law known since 1860 
can serve as the biological component. The Gompertz function values, being 
historically stable. For the first time ever, biological mortality maps have 
been drawn for the male and female population of Europe. Possible mechanisms of 
these regional and sex-related biological distinctions are likewise considered.

PMID: 4054626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Int Surg. 1985 Apr-Jun;70(2):121-4.

Thyroid cancer: surgical experience with 322 cases.

Marchegiani C, Lucci S, De Antoni E, Catania A, Grilli P, Pierro A, Di Matteo G.

From November 1970 to July 1983, a total of 322 thyroid cancers were treated 
surgically in our clinic. Total thyroidectomy was the treatment of choice. In 
131 patients, modified neck dissection (unilaterally in 23 and bilaterally in 
108) was added. Of the latter patients, 33 also required upper mediastinal lymph 
node dissection. There were no operative deaths. No recurrent laryngeal nerve 
iatrogenic palsy was observed. Permanent parathyroid insufficiency developed in 
only about 4% of patients. The low morbidity and good long-term results justify 
the use of this procedure in all patients with thyroid malignancies. Despite 
conservative arguments in the controversial issue of lobectomy versus total 
thyroidectomy, skilled surgeons should be able to perform total thyroidectomy 
safely. It is recommended as the treatment of choice because of the 
well-documented multicentricity of thyroid cancers and the good prognosis of 
differentiated cancers associated with a near-normal life expectancy, to permit 
radioactive iodine therapy of possibly functioning metastases and the easier 
control of hypothyroidism with thyroid supplement medication.

PMID: 4055275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. J Appl Physiol (1985). 1985 Sep;59(3):826-31. doi:
10.1152/jappl.1985.59.3.826.

Effect of voluntary exercise on longevity of rats.

Holloszy JO, Smith EK, Vining M, Adams S.

The purpose of this study was to obtain information regarding the effects of 
exercise on longevity in rats. The exercise used was voluntary activity wheel 
running. The runners gradually decreased their running from approximately 4 to 
approximately 1 mile/day as they aged from 9 to 30 mo. The runners lived 
slightly but significantly longer than sedentary freely eating controls and 
sedentary pair-fed controls (1,012 +/- 138 vs. 923 +/- 160 and 928 +/- 186 days) 
but significantly less long than food-restricted paired-weight sedentary 
controls (1,113 +/- 150 days). Although the exercise improved survival, it did 
not result in an extension of life-span. In contrast, the food-restricted 
paired-weight sedentary rats showed a true increase in life-span. The 
paired-weight rats also had a significantly reduced incidence of malignancies 
compared with the other three groups. However, there was no significant 
difference between the runners and the freely eating or pair-fed sedentary 
controls in the cause of death. These results provide evidence that exercise 
improves survival but does not result in an extension of life-span in rats.

DOI: 10.1152/jappl.1985.59.3.826
PMID: 4055572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. J Fla Med Assoc. 1985 Apr;72(4):241-4.

Population aging as progress, not as burden.

Sheppard HL.

PMID: 4056718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. J Neurol. 1985;232(5):295-300. doi: 10.1007/BF00313868.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. A study of its presentation and prognosis.

Gubbay SS, Kahana E, Zilber N, Cooper G, Pintov S, Leibowitz Y.

All identified Israeli patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) with 
onset of the disease from 1959 through 1975 (n = 318) were evaluated clinically. 
Most of our patients (63%) presented with weakness; only 10% presented with 
atrophy and 3% with fasciculations. In 31% of the cases, the onset of the 
disease was focal and 22% of the patients presented with bulbar signs, but only 
6 patients presented with emotional lability (pseudo-bulbar). Twelve per cent of 
the patients presented with muscle cramps, pain or paraesthesia. Atypical signs 
such as motor cranial nerve lesion, dementia, sphincter disturbance and deep 
sensation loss are discussed. A relatively high proportion of our patients 
suffered from malignant tumour, but with no association with any specific 
tumour. The median survival time was 3 years. Patients with onset of their 
disease with bulbar signs had a shorter life expectancy (2.2 years): Twenty nine 
per cent of our patients survived for more than 5 years and 16% for more than 10 
years.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00313868
PMID: 4056836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. J Urol. 1985 Nov;134(5):889-91. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)47510-0.

Treatment of bladder carcinoma in patients more than 80 years old.

Ogawa A, Yanagisawa Y, Nakamoto T, Wajiki M, Hirabayashi N, Nakama M.

We reviewed 26 patients more than 80 years old with bladder carcinoma to 
determine if an active surgical policy is justified. Ten patients with 
superficial carcinoma were treated with transurethral resection; none died of 
cancer and half have survived 5 years. Of 16 patients with invasive carcinoma 9 
underwent total cystectomy with urinary diversion and 2 underwent partial 
cystectomy. There was no operative mortality. Postoperative complications were 
not serious. Five of the 9 patients who underwent total cystectomy are alive, 
with a mean survival of 35 months. The 4-year crude survival rate was 50 per 
cent. Both patients who underwent partial cystectomy died within 2 years. One 
patient treated with radiotherapy alone and 1 without any treatment have 
survived 2 years. These results suggest that contrary to the general tendency 
towards conservative treatment, a curative operation is worth attempting in 
elderly patients with bladder carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)47510-0
PMID: 4057371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Klin Wochenschr. 1985 Sep 2;63(17):793-801. doi: 10.1007/BF01732283.

Decline in mortality in Japan, USA, and the Federal Republic of Germany--the 
contribution of the specific causes of death.

Junge B.

In Japan, total mortality of men and women in the age groups of 45-54, 55-64, 
and 65-74 years decreased, within the last three decades, by 50-60% to values 
which are now among the lowest in the world. During the same period, death rates 
of men decreased by approx. 20% in the USA and approx. 10% in the Federal 
Republic of Germany (FRG). As to women, decreases in both countries were over 
30%. The decrease between 1968 and 1978 (period of validity of the 8th Revision 
of the ICD) in the three countries was mostly due to the diseases of the 
circulatory system: In Japan, mostly to cerebrovascular diseases, in the USA, to 
ischaemic heart diseases, and in the FRG, to other forms of heart diseases. 
Second to the diseases of the circulatory system, stomach cancer and infective 
and parasitic diseases contributed most to the total decrease in Japan, 
accidents and diseases of the respiratory system in the USA, and diseases of the 
respiratory and digestive systems in the FRG. The highest percentage increases 
of death rates for the specific causes were recorded for lung cancer in all 
three countries and for other forms of heart diseases in the USA.

PIP: Changes in causes of death in Japan, the Federal Republic of Germany, and 
the United States for the period 1968 to 1978 are compared using data from 
sources published by the World Health Organization (WHO). The main reason for 
the mortality decline recorded in all three countries during this period was a 
decline in mortality from diseases of the circulatory system: cerebrovascular 
diseases in Japan, ischemic heart diseases in the United States, and other forms 
of heart diseases in the Federal Republic of Germany. The highest percentage 
increase in mortality was for lung cancer in all three countries and for other 
forms of heart diseases in the United States.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01732283
PMID: 4057912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Laryngoscope. 1985 Nov;95(11):1332-6. doi: 10.1288/00005537-198511000-00007.

Counseling before laryngectomy.

Berkowitz JF, Lucente FE.

Counseling of laryngectomy patients was studied by a questionnaire survey among 
294 fellows of the American Society for Head and Neck Surgery and otolaryngology 
house officers (77% attendings and 23% residents). Seventy-nine percent of 
respondents spent less than one hour counseling patients. Subjects emphasized 
during preoperative counseling included: extent of surgery, loss of speech, 
alternatives to surgery, immediate postoperative disfigurement, possible effects 
of surgery on life expectancy, and possibility of recurrence. At least 24% of 
physicians were unwilling to discuss the psychosocial effects laryngectomy. 
Ninety-five percent of respondents often or always included family members in 
preoperative counseling sessions. The speech pathologist was utilized by at 
least 80% of the respondents to help with preoperative counseling. Differences 
in counseling practices between attendings and residents are discussed.

DOI: 10.1288/00005537-198511000-00007
PMID: 4058210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. N Engl J Med. 1985 Nov 14;313(20):1256-62. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198511143132004.

Survival and causes of death in cirrhotic and in noncirrhotic patients with 
primary hemochromatosis.

Niederau C, Fischer R, Sonnenberg A, Stremmel W, Trampisch HJ, Strohmeyer G.

We analyzed survival and causes of death among 163 patients with primary 
hemochromatosis diagnosed between 1959 and 1983. The mean follow-up period was 
10.5 +/- 5.6 years (+/- S.D.). Cumulative survival was 92 per cent at 5 years, 
76 per cent at 10 years, 59 per cent at 15 years, and 49 per cent at 20 years. 
Life expectancy was reduced in patients with cirrhosis of the liver as compared 
with those without cirrhosis (P less than or equal to 0.05), in patients with 
diabetes mellitus as compared with those without diabetes (P less than or equal 
to 0.002), and in patients who could not be depleted of iron during the first 18 
months of venesection therapy as compared with those who could be depleted (P 
less than or equal to 0.001). Prognosis was not influenced by sex (P less than 
or equal to 0.5). Patients without cirrhosis had a life expectancy that was not 
different from that expected in an age- and sex-matched normal population. 
Analysis of the causes of death in 53 patients, as compared with the normal 
population, showed that liver cancer was 219 times more frequent among the 
patients (16 patients), cardiomyopathy was 306 times more frequent (3 patients), 
liver cirrhosis was 13 times more frequent (10 patients), and diabetes mellitus 
was 7 times more frequent (3 patients). Death rates for other causes, including 
extrahepatic carcinomas (seven patients), were not different from the rates 
expected. We conclude that patients with hemochromatosis diagnosed in the 
precirrhotic stage and treated by venesection have a normal life expectancy, 
whereas cirrhotic patients have a shortened life expectancy and a high risk of 
liver cancer even when complete iron depletion has been achieved.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198511143132004
PMID: 4058506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Pol Tyg Lek. 1985 Aug 12;40(32):914-7.

[Comparison of life expectancy parameters in members of the Church of 
Seventh-Day Adventists and in the general population].

[Article in Polish]

Jedrychowski W, Tobiasz-Adamczyk B, Olma A, Gradzikiewicz P.

PMID: 4059116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Pol Tyg Lek. 1985 Aug 19;40(33):926-8.

[Multi-year remission in 316 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus].

[Article in Polish]

Kardaszewicz E, Gryłka AH.

PMID: 4059117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Psychopathology. 1985;18(2-3):66-81. doi: 10.1159/000284218.

Are mental disorders increasing over time?

Häfner H.

The impression that the prevalence of mental disorder has been increasing during 
the last decades is only partially justified. The considerable increase in the 
demand for psychiatric and psychotherapeutic help is influenced by quite a 
number of factors that vary in nature and direction. The most essential 
contribution was made by changes in the age composition of the population - and 
here primarily by the growing number of mentally ill elderly persons - and by 
the enormous increase in life expectancy. In milder psychiatric disorder the 
increase in the utilization of medical help is mainly due to new ways of 
treatment and to the great enlargement of psychiatric and psychotherapeutic 
services in most industrial countries, for which the zeitgeist of transition 
from a predominance of natural science to a more psychological understanding of 
life forms the background. Civilizational factors in a closer sense, like the 
raising of the achievement level for school beginners or alterations in the 
threshold of tolerance between mental illness needing medical intervention and 
mental suffering to be borne with submission to God's will, play an essential 
role particularly for the widening of the disease concept and thus for changes 
in the frequency of certain deficits of achievement and feeling, such as 
'reading disorder' or depressive states. The fact that the age-corrected risk of 
falling ill with schizophrenia has remained stable over many decades - wherever 
it could be investigated - does not point to a relation with variable 
environmental factors like industrialization, civilization or social order. In 
contrast with this disease in a closer sense, the rates of psychiatrically 
relevant forms of deviant behaviour - suicidal attempts, drug- and 
alcohol-related disorders - show rapidly changing upward and downward 
variations. Thus, they are more comparable to criminality rates that vary over 
time and culture. There is obviously a relation between changes in the frequency 
of deviant behaviour and changing patterns of values in society, such as the 
reduction of educational intensity and the commitment of adolescents to norms 
and convictions of their parents. This is why the most distinct changes in these 
rates occur at the age most accessible to contemporary or fashionable 
influences: in youth and younger adult age. Except for age-related changes, we 
do not seem to have become more ill than the generation of our parents, but more 
pessimistic.

DOI: 10.1159/000284218
PMID: 4059492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Rev Sanid Hig Publica (Madr). 1985 Jan-Feb;59(1-2):173-88.

[Evaluation of potential years of life lost because of cancer in Valencia, 
1979].

[Article in Spanish]

Moya García C, Vanclocha Luna H, Sabater Rodríguez G, Martínez-Navarro F.

PMID: 4059837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1985 Jul-Sep;66(3):20-3.

Slight gains in U.S. longevity.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 4060059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Ann Intern Med. 1985 Dec;103(6 ( Pt 2)):1037-42. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-103-6-1037.

Obesity in Europe.

Kluthe R, Schubert A.

The high prevalence of obesity in Europe is similar to that in other 
industrialized areas. Obesity and its related diseases, such as hypertension, 
hyperlipidemia, diabetes, and hyperuricemia, have become a major problem, 
particularly in terms of cost. Prospective studies in Scandinavia strongly 
suggest obesity and its related diseases lower life expectancy. Divergent 
results from the Seven Countries Study are critically discussed.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-103-6-1037
PMID: 4062121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Aviat Space Environ Med. 1985 Oct;56(10):1000-3.

The impact of life events on pilots: an extension of Alkov's approach.

Sloan SJ, Cooper CL.

Recent psychological thinking has expressed dissatisfaction with life 
events/life changes research. The cornerstone of such research in aviation 
studies is the work of Alkov. We adapted Alkov's approach and used it to see if 
we could extend our understanding of the mechanisms involved in the life 
events/accident and incident relationship. Alkov's 22-item questionnaire was 
expanded and administered by post as part of a much larger study. Replies were 
received from 442 commercial pilots working for British companies. Multivariate 
analysis revealed that the pilots merely regarded the 22 items as comprising 
three trends--Emotional Losses, Pilot Characteristics, and Emotional Gains. The 
overall conclusion proposes that, while Alkov's approach is interesting, 
expansion of it reveals that background contextual factors should be examined. 
Additionally, pilots' perception of the effects of life events on 
accident/incident potential is made on relatively broad discriminations, rather 
than on finely tuned judgements.

PMID: 4062764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Clin Exp Immunol. 1985 Oct;62(1):57-64.

Defective host defence mechanisms in a family with hypocalciuric hypercalcaemia 
and coexisting interstitial lung disease.

Auwerx J, Boogaerts M, Ceuppens JL, Demedts M.

An extensive in vitro investigation of the host defence system was performed in 
11 sibs of a large kindred with unexplained combination of familial 
hypocalciuric hypercalcaemia (FHH), interstitial lung disease and increased 
susceptibility to respiratory infections. The impairment of host defence 
mechanism was most likely related to granulocyte dysfunction. A severe 
myeloperoxidase deficiency was the most consistent granulocyte defect (P less 
than 0.001) and it was associated with a relatively diminished chemiluminescence 
(P less than 0.001). Moreover, a significantly diminished antistaphylococcal 
phagocytic (P less than 0.001) and killing (P less than 0.001) activity was 
found which in the absence of any opsonizing defect implicates an intrinsic 
granulocyte dysfunction. We found no abnormalities in number of B and T 
lymphocytes nor in the balance between helper and suppressor cells determined 
with monoclonal antibodies. Despite the recurrent infections no elevations of 
the immunoglobulin subclasses were found. The relationship between the inherited 
FHH, interstitial lung disease and susceptibility to respiratory infections 
remains obscure. It is, however, clear that impairment of the host defence might 
contribute to a decreased life expectancy in this family.

PMCID: PMC1577417
PMID: 4064377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Gastroenterol Clin Biol. 1985 Oct;9(10):704-11.

[Cancers of the rectum and colon in the Côte-d'Or department: treatment, 
prognosis].

[Article in French]

Hillon P, Faivre J, Milan C, Bedenne L, Piard F, Klepping C.

The population based registry of digestive cancers in the french county of 
Côte-d'Or enables a study of the treatment and prognosis of colorectal cancers. 
During 1976-1981, 587 rectal cancers and 717 colon cancers were diagnosed. 
Curative resection was performed in 61 p. 100 of rectal and colon cancers. 
Operative mortality after curative resection was 9.7 p. 100 for rectal cancers 
and 13.1 p. 100 for colon cancers. The overall 5 year observed survival rate was 
26.5 p. 100 for rectal cancers and 29.8 p. 100 for colon cancers. After curative 
surgery, 5 year corrected survival rates was 57.2 p. 100 for rectal cancers and 
66.9 p. 100 for colon cancers. Five year survival rate was related to the 
topography of the cancer (it was lower for caecal cancers), to the macroscopic 
type of growth (it was higher for exophytic carcinomas than for infiltrative 
carcinomas) and to the size (it was higher for tumors less than 3 cm than for 
larger tumors). The major determinant of the survival was the pathological stage 
of the tumor. Patients with Dukes' A lesions at the time of curative surgery had 
almost the same life expectancy as persons without rectum or colon cancer. These 
data suggest that a substantial improvement in prognosis might result from 
earlier diagnosis of the disease. This commands modifications in the policy of 
detection of colorectal cancers.

PMID: 4065494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr. 1985 Oct;53(10):384-93. doi:
10.1055/s-2007-1001983.

[Coping with stress as a paradigm of the psychopathology in childhood and 
adolescence].

[Article in German]

Reinhard HG.

Stress coping can be valid for a paradigm of psychopathology of children and 
adolescents. This concept is supported by an extensive literature which shows 
the way of coping from a "footnote to stress theory" (Lazarus) to its central 
concept. Neither the "objective" stress (stimulus side) nor the specificity of 
stress reaction (adaptation syndrome) are the important factors, but rather the 
mediation between stress coping and the individual, the transaction in the sense 
of an exchange process. Above all, permanent personality attributes have been 
examined here, most intensively extraversion/introversion and neuroticism, and 
recently, more and more often coping processes. The research situation also 
confirms in its approach the concept of Lazarus (1981) in the field of child and 
adolescent psychiatry. According to Lazarus, stressors are less meaningful as a 
cause of psychiatric disturbances than cognitive-emotional reaction mediating 
coping processes. They should be examined preferably under natural conditions; a 
combination of standard research strategies with individual case analyses is 
recommended. Therapeutically, it is essential to help children and adolescents 
to achieve an adequate correlation between their own capabilities and 
limitations on the one hand, and of conflicts and stress situations on the other 
hand, whereby the adolescent (young) patient is interested in a quick solution 
to personal and interpersonal crises. He is not at all interested in its 
extension in the sense of a 'Sturm-und-Drang'-idea of adolescent age. Hence 
coping cannot be confined only to coping with a functional crisis; it must 
rather aspire to achieve a schematisation of the situation in accordance with 
the truth.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1001983
PMID: 4065802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Nihon Eiseigaku Zasshi. 1985 Aug;40(3):679-84. doi: 10.1265/jjh.40.679.

[Trends in mean age at death by major causes in Japan standardized in terms of 
the age structure of the population].

[Article in Japanese]

Hamajima N, Sasaki R, Mizuno S, Aoki K.

PIP: A method for calculating mean age at death, standarized in terms of a 
population's age structure, is demonstrated using Japanese vital statistics data 
for the period 1955-1980. The results are compared with mortality estimates 
developed from life tables and age-adjusted death rates for various major causes 
of death. The value of the proposed measure for epidemiological studies is 
emphasized. (summary in ENG)

DOI: 10.1265/jjh.40.679
PMID: 4068323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Surgery. 1985 Dec;98(6):1154-61.

Transsternal operations in thyroid cancer.

Niederle B, Roka R, Fritsch A.

Large thyroid carcinomas extending into the anterior mediastinum were removed 
from six patients by a transsternal surgical approach (partial median 
sternotomy). Transcervical mediastinal dissection offers obscure exposure and 
therefore entails the risk of the operation not being radical. The transsternal 
procedure was used as an alternative to remove affected lymphatic and fatty 
tissue from an additional nine patients. Sternal metastases were extirpated from 
10 patients. Irrespective of the stage of the tumor, the indications for a 
transsternal approach to onocologically radical extirpation of tumors and 
mediastinal lymphatic fatty tissue should be more liberal, particularly with 
differentiated and medullary thyroid carcinomas. The prognosis for 
differentiated carcinomas is improved by radioiodine treatment, and optimal 
conditions for this therapy are ensured by the most radical possible removal of 
the tumor with its affected lymph nodes and sternal metastases. In the case of 
mixed differentiated/anaplastic and medullary carcinomas, this operative 
procedure ensures favorable conditions for other adjuvant forms of therapy. 
Although it was not possible to extend the life expectancy of patients suffering 
from anaplastic carcinomas, their quality of life was at least improved by the 
prevention of mechanical dyspnea caused by the mediastinal tumor.

PMID: 4071390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Vet Rec. 1985 Oct 26;117(17):426-9. doi: 10.1136/vr.117.17.426.

Comparison of the serum pharmacokinetics of a long acting and a conventional 
oxytetracycline injection.

Davey LA, Ferber MT, Kaye B.

A crossover study was carried out in cattle to determine the serum 
pharmacokinetics of a standard dose (20 mg/kg bodyweight) of oxytetracycline 
given either as a conventional injectable formulation or as a long acting 
formulation. For reference purposes, an intravenous treatment (also given at 20 
mg/kg) was included in the trial protocol. A comparison of the two treatment 
regimes showed that the long acting formulation gave a significantly lower peak 
oxytetracycline serum concentration, with a significant extension of drug serum 
concentration. The long acting formulation also showed a longer serum half life 
and a significantly greater area under the curve value, calculated from 36 hours 
onwards, together with serum oxytetracycline concentrations which exceeded 0.5 
microgram/ml for 86.8 as opposed to 51.5 hours for the conventional formulation. 
It is concluded that the use of the long acting formulation in cattle leads to a 
more sustained serum oxytetracycline concentration than does the same dose of 
conventional formulation.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.117.17.426
PMID: 4071932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Vrach Delo. 1985 Sep;(9):36-8.
