
[Clinico-anatomical comparisons in hypertension based on autopsy findings].

[Article in Russian]

Petrenko AG, Poliakov NF.

PMID: 4072136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Bull Int Union Tuberc. 1985 Mar-Jun;60(1-2):55-7.

[WHO program concerning acute respiratory infections in children].

[Article in French]

Leowski J.

PMID: 4074972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Drug Nutr Interact. 1985;4(1-2):83-5.

Some thoughts on nutrition and aging.

Sandstead HH.

PMID: 4075985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Int J Vitam Nutr Res. 1985;55(3):315-22.

A new nutrient index for measuring nutritional well-being of Indian states.

Ganganna P, Johnson AA.

A composite nutrient index was computed for ten states of India by using 
principal component analysis based on the average intake of eight nutrients, 
namely protein, calories, iron, vitamin A, thiamin, riboflavin, niacin and 
vitamin C. The new nutrient index is significant from a nutritional point of 
view in a community or a country. Two factors from the list of eight variables 
and the matrix of factor loadings after making orthogonal rotation have been 
extracted and named as the Energy Factor and the Vitamin Factor. The PQLI was 
computed for ten Indian States and a rank correlation of the nutrient index and 
PQLI was computed. The rank correlation was not significant. A negative 
significant regression coefficient of the value of food consumption with the 
nutrient index was found in the regression equation. Further statistical 
analysis of the energy factor with independent variables reconfirmed a very high 
negative relationship between the GINI Coefficient and the degree of literacy. 
The higher the literacy levels the lower were the intake of nutrients.

PMID: 4077404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Invest Radiol. 1985 Dec;20(9):928-32. doi: 10.1097/00004424-198512000-00007.

Development of rabbit brain tumor model for radiologic research.

Cochran ST, Higashida RT, Holburt E, Winter J, Iwamoto K, Norman A.

A rabbit brain tumor model using transplanted VX-2 carcinoma had an 85% rate of 
successful implantation. Rabbits lived 8.5 +/- 1.3 days. The tumor doubling time 
was 0.5 to 2.6 days. Some tumors were shown as early as four days after 
implantation and all tumors were seen by ten days after implantation. Two of 
three rabbits receiving radiation therapy to the tumor had significant extension 
of life. This model is a useful radiologic research tool.

DOI: 10.1097/00004424-198512000-00007
PMID: 4077447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. J Natl Med Assoc. 1985 Dec;77(12):969-75.

Toward a lower-sodium lifestyle in black communities.

Kumanyika S, Bonner M.

Reducing sodium intake among black Americans is an especially complex area of 
hypertension treatment and prevention. Not only are salty foods characteristic 
of the typical American diet, but certain highly salted and salt-cured foods are 
also particularly important to black Americans as ethnic foods.A 
consciousness-raising approach to stimulating community-wide sodium-reduction 
activities in black communities is needed. Such an approach can be incorporated 
into ongoing community education programs and is a natural extension of the 
hypertension control activities of indigenous health workers.Three stages of 
program activity are out-lined to gradually guide community food attitudes and 
behaviors toward more moderate sodium consumption. This social-change-oriented 
alternative to the customary patient-education approach is based on the belief 
that an eating pattern more favorable to health should be phased into black 
lifestyles and culture.

PMCID: PMC2571249
PMID: 4078925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Jpn J Surg. 1985 Sep;15(5):355-60. doi: 10.1007/BF02469930.

Sexual and urinary dysfunction following surgery for sigmoid colon cancer.

Tomoda H, Furusawa M.

We investigated sexual and urinary dysfunction following surgery for sigmoid 
colon cancer. Thirteen (46.4 per cent) of the 28 male patients with a normal 
sexual life prior to surgery could no longer ejaculate, but all could maintain 
erection. With the extension of lymph node dissection, the incidence of a 
disappearance of ejaculation tended to increase. In particular, in patients 
undergoing an extended lymph node dissection, the incidence was 53.8 per cent. 
Urinary dysfunction occurred in 7 (10.3 per cent) of the 68 patients (37 men and 
31 women), but was slight to mild. There were no significant differences between 
the extent of lymph node dissection and urinary dysfunction. In surgery for 
sigmoid colon cancer, care should be taken to preserve the hypogastric nerves.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02469930
PMID: 4079142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Med Clin (Barc). 1985 Oct 26;85(13):539-41.

[Smoking addiction: an epidemic of our time].

[Article in Spanish]

Pardell Alenta H.

PMID: 4079519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1985 Nov 16;129(46):2206-9.

[The epidemiology of senile dementia].

[Article in Dutch]

Tanja TA, Hofman A.

PMID: 4080012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Radiat Res. 1985 Dec;104(3):420-8.

Life shortening in mice exposed to fission neutrons and gamma rays. V. Further 
studies with single low doses.

Thomson JF, Williamson FS, Grahn D.

Data are presented on the mean after survival of female B6CF1 mice exposed to 
single doses of neutrons (1 to 40 rad) or gamma rays (22.5, 45, and 90 rad). For 
gamma-ray exposures and for neutron exposures up to 10 rad, the dose-response 
curves are indistinguishable from linear; higher neutron doses produce 
significant departures and linearity. Consequently, in these data, an upper 
limit of the relative biological effectiveness (RBE) exists for life shortening 
from all causes of death after single neutron exposures; this value is 15.0 +/- 
5.1. The RBE depends on the cause of death, ranging from 2 to 5 for 
lymphoreticular tumors to 23-24 for lung tumors.

PMID: 4080984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Rev Med Chil. 1985 Jan;113(1):22-6.

[Follow-up of patients with permanent pacemakers. Evaluation over a decade].

[Article in Spanish]

Fernández C, Wilson C, Pumarino R, Valdebenito J, Figueroa M.

PMID: 4081380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Scand J Prim Health Care. 1985 Nov;3(4):194-5. doi:
10.3109/02813438509013947.

Obesity and mortality--still at issue!

Sørensen TI.

DOI: 10.3109/02813438509013947
PMID: 4081398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Strahlentherapie. 1985 Dec;161(12):775.

Re-irradiation of advanced tumours of the head and neck with fast neutrons.

Catterall M, Errington RE.

PMID: 4082210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1985 Sep-Oct;123(5):808-14. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1044760.

[Prosthesis for tumor of the hip joint (indications and results)].

[Article in German]

Jäger M, Löffler L, Kohn D.

Between 1972 and 1982 34 tumour prostheses (23 total replacements, 11 semitotal 
replacements) of various designs were implanted at the State Orthopedic Clinic 
in Munich-Harlaching and at the University Orthopedic Clinic in Grosshadern. The 
indications were primary and secondary malignant tumours, potentially malignant 
tumours, peritrochanteric pseudarthroses, and loosening of prostheses where bone 
conditions were poor. Since 1977 only the "Harlaching" femoral tumour 
prosthesis, a locally developed model, has been used. Its distinguishing feature 
is the modular or kit principle, which renders it possible to adapt the 
prosthesis and define its length accurately during surgery. On the basis of 13 
long-term observations, in some cases extending over 8 years, it was established 
that this tumour prosthesis need not be regarded as merely a palliative 
intervention (this applies also to younger patients with a longer life 
expectancy); the slight and transitory complications and the relatively good 
long-term functional results are encouraging.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1044760
PMID: 4082739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Acta Neurol Scand. 1985 Oct;72(4):407-13. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0404.1985.tb00892.x.

A survival analysis of 155 cases of progressive muscular atrophy.

Chiò A, Brignolio F, Leone M, Mortara P, Rosso MG, Tribolo A, Schiffer D.

We performed a survival analysis of 155 cases of progressive muscular atrophy 
(PMA). In about half the cases, hands were involved first, the lower limbs in 
30% and the shoulder girdle in 23%. The lifetables of PMA, adjusted to the 
expected mortality, showed a survival rate of 61.3% and 56.4% at three and five 
years, respectively. The location of onset symptoms did not modify the life 
expectancy, whereas the age of the patients at the moment of first diagnosis had 
a great influence on the course of the disease. The patients were further 
subdivided in two groups on the basis of the diffusion of the neuromuscular 
damage at the moment of the diagnosis. The course of the patients with a 
localized disease was markedly better than that of subjects with widespread 
disease. Some hypotheses are made about the latter group of cases.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0404.1985.tb00892.x
PMID: 4082906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Alcohol Alcohol. 1985;20(4):435-43.

Estimation of life years lost from alcohol-related premature death.

McDonnell R, Maynard A.

This paper presents estimates of life years and working years lost from 
alcohol-related premature death in 1983. It is then suggested that since lives 
saved or changes in the quality of life are outcomes of health care policies, 
measures of the value of life and quality of life years saved are needed for 
economic evaluation and efficient decision-making. Three methods of valuing life 
are outlined and ways of measuring the quality of life years gained from health 
care interventions are discussed. These methods are still at an early stage of 
development and are intrinsically complex and contentious. Nevertheless, it is 
argued that all outcomes of health policies need to be measured in order to make 
more efficient health care decisions. The estimate of life years lost from 
alcohol-related premature death presented in this paper is one indicator of the 
magnitude of this aspect of social cost. An important and natural extension is 
to assess the outcomes of policies aimed at reducing the number of premature 
deaths. Such research would greatly improve our knowledge of alcohol misuse and 
the effects of policies used to alleviate its associated problems.

PMID: 4084374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Environ Health Perspect. 1985 Oct;62:267-76. doi: 10.1289/ehp.8562267.

Trends in health in the United States.

Feinleib M, Wilson RW.

The National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) conducts a variety of surveys 
designed to provide cross-sectional estimates of the prevalence of various 
factors measuring the health of Americans. When these cross-sectional estimates 
are put together and plotted over time, they provide a picture of the trends in 
the health of the population. However, differences in methodology, completeness 
of coverage, validity and reliability of the information, and changing attitudes 
about health and illness influence these trend patterns and sometimes make them 
difficult to interpret. Six different measures of the health of Americans 
discussed include trends in life expectancy, which is related to the total 
mortality rate; trends in mortality by specific causes; trends in morbidity or 
the prevalence of various illnesses, including both acute and chronic 
conditions; trends in the estimates of various types of disabilities and 
impairments in the population; trends in expenditures for medical care and 
services; and finally, some assessments of trends in several risk factors and 
physiological characteristics obtained by direct measurements of individuals.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.8562267
PMCID: PMC1568714
PMID: 4085430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Gerontologist. 1985 Dec;25(6):577-83. doi: 10.1093/geront/25.6.577.

The 1983 Robert W. Kleemeier Award lecture. The destiny of cells: mechanisms and 
implications of senescence.

Cristofalo VJ.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/25.6.577
PMID: 4085870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Int J Epidemiol. 1985 Dec;14(4):637-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/14.4.637.

Detection of late effects of ionizing radiation: why deaths of A-bomb survivors 
are a valuable resource.

Darby SC, Doll R, Pike MC.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/14.4.637
PMID: 4086152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1985 Dec;39(4):330-6. doi:
10.1136/jech.39.4.330.

Causes of death in X chromatin positive males (Klinefelter's syndrome).

Price WH, Clayton JF, Wilson J, Collyer S, De Mey R.

The causes of death in 466 X chromatin positive males (Klinefelter's syndrome) 
studied prospectively over the last 25 years have been analysed. We have 
previously reported the overall mortality to be increased by 50% and life 
expectancy reduced by about five years. A highly significant increase in 
mortality from cerebrovascular disease was observed in the sub group considered 
to be most representative of X chromatin positive males in general. In the age 
group up to 45 years this increase could be attributed to deaths from 
subarachnoid haemorrhage. An increase in mortality from respiratory diseases was 
observed in those ascertained in psychiatric hospitals. In the sample as a whole 
there were small but highly significant numbers of deaths from carcinoma of the 
breast and aortic valve disease. The deaths from carcinoma of the breast were 
comparable with those expected if female mortality rates were applied.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.39.4.330
PMCID: PMC1052467
PMID: 4086964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. J Pediatr Surg. 1985 Dec;20(6):845-51. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3468(85)80053-1.

Prevention and management of laryngeal stenosis in infants and children.

Cotton RT.

Acquired laryngeal stenosis is a well-documented complication of endotracheal 
intubation. Premature infants requiring ventilatory support for respiratory 
distress syndrome are at increased risk for developing laryngeal stenosis. Until 
recently, the techniques for repair of laryngeal stenosis have required a 
temporary tracheotomy which complicates the management and has an associated 
mortality. In 1980 the use of an anterior cricoid split was described to treat 
laryngeal stenosis in infants. The technique has been modified: the anterior 
cricoid split procedure as originally described required a single midline 
vertical incision through the anterior cartilaginous ring of the cricoid 
cartilage and the upper 2 tracheal rings; the modification is an extension of 
the superior limit of the incision in the thyroid cartilage to within 2 mm of 
the thyroid notch. The technique has been used in 45 children whose ages range 
from 4 days to 28 months. In addition to being of value for the treatment of 
laryngeal stenosis in premature infants (29 patients), 2 other clinical groups 
of children who benefit from the produce have been identified; 11 infants who 
developed laryngeal stenosis in the first 2 years of life secondary to 
intubation and in whom the anterior cricoid split was used as an alternative to 
tracheotomy; 5 infants under 2 years of age, each with a tracheotomy for 
laryngeal stenosis in whom the anterior cricoid split was used as an alternative 
to more extensive methods of laryngotracheal reconstruction. Of the premature 
infants (29), 18 were successfully extubated, 5 still required a tracheotomy, 
and 6 died before extubation was accomplished; the predominant cause of death 
was respiratory failure secondary to the underlying bronchopulmonary 
dysplasia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3468(85)80053-1
PMID: 4087111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Mech Ageing Dev. 1985 Nov;32(2-3):141-77. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(85)90077-6.

A return to time, cells, systems, and aging: III. Gompertzian models of 
biological aging and some possible roles for critical elements.

Witten M.

In this paper, I continue my investigation into the modeling of senescence in 
biological hierarchies. Making use of my previous discussion on 
non-reestablishable biological components, I derive a mathematical model which 
has Gompertzian-like dynamics. I show how this model may be approximated, in 
certain instances, by a Gompertzian equation. I then demonstrate how our 
approach yields a biological interpretation for the parameters in the 
Gompertzian equation. I then demonstrate how changes in the parameter values may 
be interpreted in light of the biology. Subsequently, I review the literature on 
the allometry of aging, and I demonstrate how my reliability model may be used 
to obtain--in a qualitative manner--some of the lifespan curves found in the 
literature. I close my discussion by constructing a more complex reliability 
model which incorporates the deterministic failure of biological components with 
stochastic aspects of senescence.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(85)90077-6
PMID: 4087941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Mech Ageing Dev. 1985 Nov;32(2-3):193-204. doi:
10.1016/0047-6374(85)90079-x.

Growth rate and life spain in Drosophila. IV. Role of cell size and cell number 
in the biphasic relationship between life span and growth rate.

Economos AC, Lints FA.

The patterns of variation of wing cell size and number were studied under 
developmental conditions leading to a biphasic relationship between life span 
and growth rate while duration of development remained constant (development on 
an agar-only medium with a varying added yeast amount, constant temperature (25 
degrees C) and constant larval density). Across the yeast range, a 125% increase 
of body weight was accompanied by a roughly 30% increase in the wing linear 
dimensions, wing cell size and wing cell number while estimated duration of cell 
division and its reciprocal mitotic division rate remained constant. 
Furthermore, cell size (but not cell number) varied with growth rate in a 
similar biphasic pattern to that observed for life span. Finally, from a 
simultaneous examination of the covariation patterns of life span, growth rate, 
cell size and cell number with decreasing yeast amount, it became apparent that 
there was a "critical" yeast amount, approximately 125 mg/120 eggs, below which: 
(a) cell number abruptly started to decrease linearly from a roughly constant 
value; (b) the rate of the slow decrease of cell size now tripled and that of 
growth rate increased even more; and (c) life span which, in the upper yeast 
range, increased slowly with decreasing yeast, apparently reached a maximum at 
the critical yeast level and decreased three times faster below that level. 
These data taken together suggest that: (i) the decrease of all parameters 
(including life span) below the critical yeast level results from a presumably 
suboptimal or disturbed development because of and in proportion to the lack of 
nutrients and (ii) the increase of life span with decreasing yeast amount above 
the critical yeast level has not been definitely explained but some 
possibilities are suggested such as changes in subcellular organelle numbers, 
size and/or functional properties, or other changes due to a phenomenon 
equivalent to food restriction in rats, probably without changes in overall 
metabolic rate of the flies.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(85)90079-x
PMID: 4087942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Mech Ageing Dev. 1985 Nov;32(2-3):299-309. doi:
10.1016/0047-6374(85)90087-9.

Phenotypes associated with early clonal death in Paramecium tetraurelia.

Aufderheide KJ, Schneller MV.

The aging characteristics of various known mutations of Paramecium tetraurelia 
have been studied. Among the mutations which had been previously isolated on the 
basis of the inability of the cell to do exocytosis of its trichocysts, one 
group was identified which had clonal life spans which were indistinguishable 
from, or were somewhat shorter than, the life span of wild-type. Another group 
of trichocyst mutations, however, had clonal life spans which were 1/3 to 1/4 
that of wild-type. Further study of the phenotypes of these various mutations 
revealed that members of the short-lived group all had a common phenotypic 
defect: a frequent inability to properly divide the macronucleus during cell 
division. Another mutation which has normal trichocysts, but which shows 
macronuclear division defects, also has an extremely short life span. Thus, the 
short clonal life spans seen are not associated with the inability to do 
trichocyst exocytosis but rather are associated with the inability to properly 
divide the macronucleus. An hypothesis is presented which relates macronuclear 
misdivision to the short clonal life spans of the mutants expressing it. By 
extension of the hypothesis, the significance of normal macronuclear divisions 
to the normal aging process in P. tetraurelia is proposed.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(85)90087-9
PMID: 4087946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Stat Med. 1985 Oct-Dec;4(4):397-412. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780040402.

The pattern of ischemic heart disease 1931-1980.

Smith DP, Slater C.

The rise in ischemic heart disease in the U.S. after 1920 has been described in 
the literature both as a 20th century epidemic and as an artifact of the decline 
of competing causes of death, particularly the infectious, parasitic and 
diarrheal diseases. Shifting medical terminology and occasional major revisions 
in cause of death codes have aggravated efforts to resolve the debate. Through 
regression analysis and ordinary and cause-deleted life tables we trace the 
course of the disease. The accumulated evidence points to a major epidemic but 
one largely confined to males. Reversals in patterns are now beginning.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780040402
PMID: 4089345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Community Med. 1985 Nov;7(4):241-7.

The pill 30 years on: a new perspective.

Potts M.

PMID: 4092419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Ir J Med Sci. 1985 Nov;154(11):427-30. doi: 10.1007/BF02937217.

A statistical method for evaluating a tumour treatment.

Kinsella A, Dunne A, Maddock PG.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02937217
PMID: 4093269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. J Behav Med. 1985 Dec;8(4):321-41. doi: 10.1007/BF00848367.

Trying to stop smoking: effects of perceived addiction, attributions for 
failure, and expectancy of success.

Eiser JR, van der Pligt J, Raw M, Sutton SR.

This paper reports the results of a postal questionnaire completed by 2343 
smokers who had contacted a television company for help with stopping smoking. 
Of these, 1848 (78.9%) completed a follow-up questionnaire 1 year later. This 
indicated that 797 had tried to stop, 709 had tried to cut down, and 164 had 
become abstinent. Analyses show that the intention to try to stop smoking was 
dependent not only on the perceived health benefit, but also on the subjects' 
confidence that they would succeed if they tried to stop. As predicted by 
Weiner's [(1979). J. Educ. Psychol. 71: 3-25] model of achievement motivation, 
those who attributed other smokers' failures at quitting to stable factors had 
lower expectancies of success, as had those who saw themselves as more addicted. 
When the follow-up data are considered, reported attempts at quitting were 
strongly related to previously declared intentions, and reported abstinence was 
related to previous confidence (expectancy of success) and perceived addiction. 
There is no support for hypotheses concerning self-other differences in 
attribution, or defensive attribution, in subjects' attributions for their own 
failures at cessation. Implications for antismoking interventions are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00848367
PMID: 4093971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Rev Saude Publica. 1985 Jun;19(3):251-62. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89101985000300006.

[Mortality in Recife: application of a competitive risk model].

[Article in Portuguese]

Paes NA.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101985000300006
PMID: 4095482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Soc Sci Med. 1985;21(12):1349-53. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(85)90442-3.

Teaming up for better health.

Aminu J.

The concept of the health care team, as it exists in Nigeria, is discussed. The 
view is taken that medical care is not just conquest of disease, but the 
promotion of health. Clearly, because Nigeria is a developing country, the 
sophisticated 'team' seen in the more developed nations cannot exist. That type 
of health team must still be a legitimate ambition for the developing countries. 
An appraisal is made of health problems as they are currently found in Nigeria. 
Epidemiology shift and the magnitude of the changing problems in health are 
focussed upon. Poverty, maldistribution of population and services, shortage of 
manpower, education, enlightenment and mobilisation of society are discussed. 
Special emphasis is devoted to roles of the nurse and midwife in the tropics. 
The paper includes an assessment of the role of Government, what has previously 
been achieved and what is likely to be achieved. The principal thrust is that 
all factors must be taken into account in order that the health team can 
function.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(85)90442-3
PMID: 4095590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Soc Sci Med. 1985;21(12):1367-71. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(85)90445-9.

State of health and stress factors in occupation: the mass media profession.

Fischer HD.

The phenomenon of stress is analysed in terms of work conditions and work 
behaviour of a heterogeneous cross-section of journalists, publicists and media 
professionals in Western Germany. The enquiry revealed several interdependencies 
between professional status and job satisfaction. Stress factors in 
communication occupations, of psychic and physical origins, and their effects on 
the state of health and on the life expectancy of the people affected, of whom 
there are estimated to be 25,000 in the Federal Republic of Germany, are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(85)90445-9
PMID: 4095593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Sante Publique (Bucur). 1985;28(1):65-78.

Biological age and people's health condition.

Shafranovskiy AK.

Erratum in
    Sante Publique (Bucur) 1987 Jan-Mar;30(1):following 51.

PMID: 4095655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Ulster Med J. 1985 Oct;54(2):109-21.

Ageing in the 80s.

Stout RW.

PMCID: PMC2448130
PMID: 4095800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Z Versuchstierkd. 1985;27(6):240-83.

Influence of food restriction and body fat on life span and tumour incidence in 
female outbred Han:NMRI mice and two sublines.

Rehm S, Rapp KG, Deerberg F.

PMID: 4096131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Basic Life Sci. 1985;36:317-35. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4613-2127-9_22.

The meiotic process and aneuploidy.

Grell RF.

Normal females developing at 25 degrees C produce their first population of 
oocytes at 132 +/- 2 hr post oviposition. Entrance of the oocytes into 
premeiotic interphase signals initiation of DNA replication which continues for 
30 hr. Coincidentally, extensive SCs appear, averaging 50 microns (132 hr), 
peaking at 75 microns (144 hr), and continuing into early vitellarial stages. 
Recombinational response to heat, evidenced by enhancement or induction of 
exchange, is limited to the S-phase with a peak at 144 hr coinciding with 
maximal extension of the SC. Coincidence of synapsis and recombination response 
with S at premeiotic interphase is contrary to their conventional localization 
at meiotic prophase. The interrelationship between exchange and nondisjunction 
has been clarified by the Distributive Pairing Model of meiosis. Originally 
revealed through high frequencies of nonrandom assortment of nonhomologous 
chromosomes, distributive pairing has been shown to follow and to be 
noncompetitive with exchange, to be based on size-recognition, not homology, and 
as a raison d'etre, to provide a segregational mechanism for noncrossover 
homologs. Rearrangements, recombination mutants, and aneuploids may contribute 
noncrossover chromosomes to the distributive pool and so promote the 
nonhomologous associations responsible for nondisjunction of homologs and 
regular segregation of nonhomologs. Further information concerning early meiotic 
events and their relation to segregation has been revealed by studies of the ts 
rec-1(26) mutant. Application of the restrictive temperature (31 degrees C) at 
sequential times during development shows wild-type activity to be drastically 
reduced beginning at 126/132 hr, terminating at 162 hr, and so coinciding with S 
and the heat-sensitive period of the normal genome. EMs of serially sectioned 
oocyte nuclei maintained at the restrictive or control temperature reveal SCs to 
be indistinguishable, and implicate recombination rather than synapsis as the 
target of the mutant. Activity of rec-1(26) in the range 17 degrees to 31 
degrees C reveals a sharp decline between 28+ degrees and 31 degrees C, typical 
of a denaturation curve. If denaturation of the rec protein by the restrictive 
temperature marks its active phase, it follows that recombination terminates at 
the end of S when the restrictive temperature becomes ineffective. The notion 
that synapsis ensures regular segregation (35) is invalidated by rec-1(26) whose 
normal synapsis at the restrictive temperature is followed by a 200-fold 
increase in nondisjunction at segregation, as compared to the control.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4613-2127-9_22
PMID: 4096695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Z Neurol. 1970;198(3):309-14.

[Malignant tumors in epileptics].

[Article in German]

Ziegler HK.

PMID: 4102129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Circulation. 1971 Oct;44(4):617-25. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.44.4.617.

Mortality study of the significance of extrasystoles in an insured population.

Rodstein M, Wolloch L, Gubner RS.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.44.4.617
PMID: 4106156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Lancet. 1972 Apr 8;1(7754):793-4. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(72)90547-8.

Beta-blockers and life expectancy in ischemic heart-disease.

Lambert DM.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(72)90547-8
PMID: 4111268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Lancet. 1972 Aug 5;2(7771):286. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(72)91730-8.

Athletic activity and longevity.

Largey G.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(72)91730-8
PMID: 4114546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1972 Aug 12;122(33):485-9.

[Intermittent polychemotherapy in inoperable bronchial cancer].

[Article in German]

Sighart H, Wrbka E, Simml G.

PMID: 4115554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Lancet. 1972 Sep 16;2(7777):605. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(72)92007-7.

Athletic activity and longevity.

Schnohr P.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(72)92007-7
PMID: 4115784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Lancet. 1972 Oct 14;2(7781):808-9.

Sequels of success.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 4116243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Cancer. 1973 Jan;31(1):17-25. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(197301)31:1<17::aid-cncr2820310104>3.0.co;2-b.

Improved palliation of pancreatic carcinoma.

Lemon HM, Foley JF, Paustian FF, Kessinger A, Delevan J, McLaughlin CW Jr.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(197301)31:1<17::aid-cncr2820310104>3.0.co;2-b
PMID: 4118913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Cancer. 1973 Jan;31(1):1-5. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(197301)31:1<1::aid-cncr2820310101>3.0.co;2-8.

A surgeon looks at radiotherapy in cancer of the colon and rectum.

Quan SH.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(197301)31:1<1::aid-cncr2820310101>3.0.co;2-8
PMID: 4118914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Lancet. 1974 Feb 23;1(7852):304-6. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(74)92607-5.

Stopping smoking after myocardial infarction.

Burt A, Thornley P, Illingworth D, White P, Shaw TR, Turner R.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(74)92607-5
PMID: 4130482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Lancet. 1974 Apr 27;1(7861):777-9. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(74)92843-8.

Pain relief by implanted electrical stimulators.

Miles J, Lipton S, Hayward M, Bowsher D, Mumford J, Molony V.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(74)92843-8
PMID: 4132710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Zentralbl Chir. 1974 Jan 18;99(18):65-77.

[Therapy of cardia cancer].

[Article in German]

Hoffmann E, Gebhardt C, Moschinski D, Kremer K.

PMID: 4133867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Ann Thorac Surg. 1974 Jul;18(1):1-15. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)65712-8.

An exclusive right thoracic approach for cancer of the middle third of the 
esophagus.

Belsey R, Hiebert CA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)65712-8
PMID: 4134810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Lancet. 1974 Jun 15;1(7868):1179-90. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(74)91001-0.

Inequality and the health service.

Townsend P.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(74)91001-0
PMID: 4134916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1974 Sep 28;124(39):565-9.

[Prognosis for patients with inoperable bronchial carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Jenny RH.

PMID: 4137457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Lancet. 1974 Nov 30;2(7892):1323-4. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(74)90185-8.

Letter: Screening for diseases of the lung.

Fletcher CM, Peto R.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(74)90185-8
PMID: 4139564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Langenbecks Arch Chir. 1974;337:721-8. doi: 10.1007/BF01278752.

[Strauma maligna (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Keminger K.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01278752
PMID: 4141406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Environ Res. 1974 Dec;8(3):243-383. doi: 10.1016/0013-9351(74)90043-7.

Chronic radium intoxication: clinical and autopsy findings in long-term New 
Jersey survivors.

Sharpe WD.

DOI: 10.1016/0013-9351(74)90043-7
PMID: 4141963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Comp Biochem Physiol A Comp Physiol. 1973 Mar 1;44(3):793-806. doi: 
10.1016/0300-9629(73)90143-6.

The feeding response of the larva of the Egyptian cotton leafworm, Spodoptera 
littoralis boisd., to sugars and related compounds. 3. Biochemical and 
enzymological aspects of sucrose consumption.

Meisner J, Flowers HM, Ascher KR, Ishaaya I.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-9629(73)90143-6
PMID: 4145425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Lebensversicher Med. 1973 May;25(3):49-54.

[Life expectancy of alcoholics].

[Article in German]

Reuerlein W, Busch H.

PMID: 4147353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. J Med Primatol. 1973;2(6):324-40.

New concepts in primate production. Report on the Battelle Seattle Research 
Center Conference, August 11-12, 1972.

Bermant G, Lindburg DS.

PMID: 4151881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Lebensversicher Med. 1974 May;26(3):66-7.

[Prolongation of life expectancy in patients with gout through improved 
diagnosis and therapy].

[Article in German]

Mertz DP.

PMID: 4153856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Lebensversicher Med. 1974 May;26(3):55-8.

[Chronic bronchitis and life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Bopp KP.

PMID: 4153936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Br Med J. 1974 Nov 9;4(5940):337-9. doi: 10.1136/bmj.4.5940.337.

Blood and neoplastic diseases. Acute myeloblastic leukaemia.

Willoughby ML.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.4.5940.337
PMCID: PMC1612881
PMID: 4154793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Lebensversicher Med. 1974 Nov;26(6):121-4.

[Increasing life expectancy through hygienic measures].

[Article in German]

Habs H.

PMID: 4155033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Lebensversicher Med. 1974 Sep;26(5):111-3.

[Life expectancy of patients with valvular defects].

[Article in German]

Anschütz F.

PMID: 4155116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Acta Med Scand. 1969 Apr;185(4):319-22. doi:
10.1111/j.0954-6820.1969.tb07340.x.

The prognosis of conservatively treated diabetic gangrene.

Viskum K.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1969.tb07340.x
PMID: 4185143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Can J Ophthalmol. 1973 Apr;8(2):234-40.

Ophthalmic care in Greenland.

Clemmesen V.

PMID: 4196423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. C R Acad Hebd Seances Acad Sci D. 1973 Feb 12;276(7):65-6.

[Evolution of the average age of members of the Academy of Sciences since the 
foundation of the Academy].

[Article in French]

Kastler A.

PMID: 4196622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. C R Acad Hebd Seances Acad Sci D. 1973 Feb 5;276(6):1029-32.

[Effect of radioprotection at different periods on the longevity of Drosophila 
melanogaster].

[Article in French]

Giess MC, Planel H.

PMID: 4196768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Hum Biol Oceania. 1973 Feb;2(1):42-9.

Present status and future problems of medical care in Japan.

Nishio M.

PMID: 4196851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Am J Med Sci. 1973 Jun;265(6):432-45. doi: 10.1097/00000441-197306000-00001.

