
699. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 1980;18(6):438-9. doi: 
10.1002/j.1879-3479.1980.tb00536.x.

Fertility problems associated with cystic fibrosis.

Neri A, Ovadia Y.

A case of a cystic fibrosis patient with two pregnancies that ended in 
deliveries at 30 and 29 weeks' gestation, respectively, is presented. The author 
suggests that the increased life expectancy of cystic fibrosis patients because 
of therapeutic advances will increase the need to examine the association and 
effects of fertility in individuals with this genetic disease.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1879-3479.1980.tb00536.x
PMID: 6111482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Lebensversicher Med. 1981 Feb 12;33(2):27-30.

[Life expectancy in Crohn disease].

[Article in German]

Malchow H, Riker U, Dietz K.

PMID: 6111717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Lebensversicher Med. 1981 Feb 12;33(2):42-7.

[Effect of certain causes of death on life expectancy in the Federal Republic of 
Germany].

[Article in German]

Cornelius I, Lengsfeld W.

PIP: The authors present an analysis of the 10 major causes of death in the 
Federal Republic of Germany in 1970 and 1976 with regard to their impact on life 
expectancy. The relative impact of eliminating each of the 10 causes of death on 
life expectancy by sex is considered. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 6111721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Med Radiol (Mosk). 1981 Mar;26(3):71-9.

[Prevention of radiation-induced shortening of life expectancy].

[Article in Russian]

Aleksandrov SN.

PMID: 6111736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Lancet. 1981 May 2;1(8227):984-7. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(81)91742-6.

Malignant mesothelioma and radiological chest abnormalities in two villages in 
Central Turkey. An epidemiological and environmental investigation.

Baris YI, Saracci R, Simonato L, Skidmore JW, Artvinli M.

A comparative epidemiological and environmental study in two neighbouring 
villages, Karain and Karlin, in Central Turkey showed an excess adult mortality, 
shortening of life expectancy, and an excess of pleural radiological 
abnormalities in Karain. This supports an earlier report of an endemic of 
pleural mesothelioma in the village. Concentrations of airborne respirable 
fibres were uniformly very low in Karlik and higher in some of the air samples 
from Karain, the fibres being similar in composition to those of erionite-a 
mineral of the zeolite family and the major contributor to the Karain clouds. 
This is compatible with the hypothesis of a causal association between endemic 
mesothelioma and inhalation of erionite fibres, but the fibre concentrations in 
all samples are so low as to leave in question the aetiological role of 
erionite. In addition to their local importance these results may have relevance 
for the wider scientific and public-health issue of long-term inhalation of 
mineral fibres at low concentrations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(81)91742-6
PMID: 6112395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Lancet. 1981 May 16;1(8229):1090-3. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(81)92251-0.

Smoking, health, and survival: prospects in Bangladesh.

Cohen N.

Smoking is an increasingly prevalent habit in Bangladesh, particularly among 
men. In the past 10-15 years cigarette consumption has more than doubled. Over 
100000 acres (405 Km2) of land that could produce food are planted with tobacco, 
and cereal imports making up for these production losses generally do not reach 
the below-subsistence cultivator and landless. Cancer of the lung is already the 
third commonest cancer among males, and annual deaths from this cause can be 
expected to increase by 12000 within 15 years. At present respiratory disease is 
the best-recognised direct health consequence of smoking. However, a more 
important health risk may be the reduction in nutritional status of young 
children which results from expenditure on smoking in households whose income 
for food purchase is already marginal. Smoking of only 5 cigarettes a day in 
poor household in Bangladesh might lead to a monthly dietary deficit of 8000 
calories (33.5 MJ). The existence of young children in Bangladesh is already 
precarious owing to poor nutrition. If, as seems likely, expenditure on smoking 
means that they get even less food, then the survival of a large number of 
children is being seriously endangered.

PIP: Cigarette production and consumption patterns in Bangladesh were examined 
and the health, nutritional, and economic consequences of these patterns was 
assessed. Consumption of cigarettes and biri, hand-made tobacco rolls, is 
increasing. Annual per capita consumption of cigarettes, taking into account all 
males and females over the age of 15, is 350 cigarettes. Previously conducted 
surveys of 2 villages indicated that 67% of the males and 1% of the females, 
over the age of 15, smoked 1 or more cigarettes or biri each day. Smoking is 
more prevalent among younger aged adults than among older aged adults. Cigarette 
smoking is promoted as a status symbol and is widely advertised. Most of the 
cigarettes and biri sold in Bangladesh are locally produced. Each month 
approximately 1500 million cigarettes and 3000 million biri are produced. 57% of 
all commercially produced cigarettes are manufactured by 1 company, which is 
affilated with the British American Tobacco interest group. Biri are generally 
produced in cottage industries. Cigarette production is expected to increase by 
40% between 1980-1985. The cigarette industry is not labor intensive and it 
provides only a small number of jobs for the population. 123,000 acres of land 
are currently devoted to the production of tobacco. This constitutes a serious 
loss of land which might otherwise be used to raise needed rice. It is estimated 
that the annual rice production loss attributable to the use of land to raise 
tobacco is equal to 1/2 of the country's yearly food grain deficit. Food must be 
imported to make up this deficit, but the poor of Bangladesh cannot afford the 
cost of imported food. As a result cigarette production has a negative impact on 
the nutritional status of the poor. Furthermore, among the poor, who must spend 
the vast majority of their income on food, the purchase of cigarettes reduces 
the amount of money available for purchasing food. Despite the low life 
expectancy extant in Bangladesh, lung cancer is already the 3rd most common form 
of cancer among the male population. The rate of chronic and acute respiratory 
disease is high and smoking probably aggravates these conditions. Policies, 
aimed at altering the trend toward increased cigarette consumption, are clearly 
needed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(81)92251-0
PMID: 6112456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Lebensversicher Med. 1981 May 7;33(4):84-6.

[Effect of medical therapy of cancer on life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Gericke D.

PMID: 6116132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Lebensversicher Med. 1981 May 7;33(4):87-9.

[Life expectancy in chronic pancreatitis].

[Article in German]

Rösch W, Haschke H, Phillip J.

PMID: 6116133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Aktuelle Gerontol. 1981 Mar;11(2):64-7.

[Preparation for anesthesia and surgery of the aged patient with circulatory 
disease (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Stoyanov M, Müller H, Hempelmann G.

Higher life-expectancy and progresses in operative medicine and anaesthesiology 
increasingly confront the anaesthesist with the necessity of performing 
anaesthesia in elderly patients. The most frequent disease in this group of 
patients are related to the cardiovascular system (hypertension, coronary heart 
disease, arrhythmia and myocardial insufficiency. Preoperative cardiovascular 
therapy with regard to anaesthesia is outlined.

PMID: 6116448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Lebensversicher Med. 1981 Sep 10;33(7):147-52.

[Is antihypertensive therapy a preventive measure for increasing life 
expectancy?].

[Article in German]

Jahnecke J.

PMID: 6117771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Lancet. 1982 Jan 16;1(8264):160. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(82)90396-8.

Control of communicable diseases by age-specific immunization schedules.

Anderson RM, May RM.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(82)90396-8
PMID: 6119527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Lebensversicher Med. 1981 Dec 3;33(9):204-6.

[Prognosis (life expectancy) in colorectal cancer].

[Article in German]

Jessen K, Classen M.

PMID: 6121267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Lebensversicher Med. 1982 Jan;34(1):1-3.

[International relations in life-insurance medicine].

[Article in German]

Tanner E.

PMID: 6121271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Lebensversicher Med. 1982 Feb 11;34(2):33-6.

[Improvement of life-expectancy for diabetics through preventive measures].

[Article in German]

Standl E, Janka HU, Mehnert H.

PMID: 6121279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Lebensversicher Med. 1982 Feb 11;34(2):36-41.

[Life expectancy in diabetes mellitus].

[Article in German]

Petzoldt R, Schöffling K.

PMID: 6121280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Lebensversicher Med. 1982 Mar 24;34(3):60-3.

[Improved life expectancy in melanoma patients?].

[Article in German]

Altmeyer P.

PMID: 6122144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Lebensversicher Med. 1982 Mar 24;34(3):71-4.

[Relative body weight and life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Kather H, Simon B.

PMID: 6122147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Aktuelle Gerontol. 1982 May;12(3):83-7.

[Determinants of aging processes-medical and biochemical aspects (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

Platt D.

PMID: 6124142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Lebensversicher Med. 1982 May 4;34(4):81-4.

[Life expectancy and disability risk in rheumatic heart valve disease].

[Article in German]

Bernsmeier A, Schöttler M.

PMID: 6124849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Lebensversicher Med. 1982 Jun 14;34(5):98-102.

[Life expectancy in men with peripheral occlusive arterial disease].

[Article in German]

Schoop W, Levy H.

PMID: 6125861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Lebensversicher Med. 1982 Jul 25;34(6):122-9.

[Medical insurance aspects of pacemaker therapy].

[Article in German]

Diewitz M, Kraus H.

PMID: 6126787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Exp Aging Res. 1982 Spring;8(1 Pt 1):3-24. doi: 10.1080/03610738208258390.

Age-associated lesions in barrier-reared male Sprague-Dawley rats: a comparison 
between Hap: (SD) and Crl:COBS[R]CD[R](SD) stocks.

Anver MR, Cohen BJ, Lattuada CP, Foster SJ.

Age-associated lesions were characterized in two outbred stocks of 
barrier-reared male Sprague-Dawley rats. Seventy-two virgin Hap:(SD) between 
6-29 months of age and 113 retired breeder Crl:COBS[R]CD[R]CDR(SD) between 12-38 
months of age were evaluated for the presence of lesions in all major organ 
systems. Rats of both stocks developed a spectrum of neoplastic, inflammatory 
and degenerative diseases with highest prevalence in the oldest age groups. In 
general, the shorter-lived Hap:(SD) rats had greater incidences and severity of 
lesions when compared to Crl:COBS[R]CD[R]SD of similar ages. Many of these 
differences were not apparent when the two stocks were compared over their 
respective life spans. The study provides baseline pathology data relevant to 
the use of these rats in gerontologic research.

DOI: 10.1080/03610738208258390
PMID: 6127217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Lancet. 1982 Oct 30;2(8305):980. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(82)90172-6.

Dietary fibre and survival.

Walker AR, Segal I, Hathorn S.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(82)90172-6
PMID: 6127472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Lebensversicher Med. 1982 Oct 20;34(8):185-7.

[Life expectancy after lung cancer resection].

[Article in German]

Wassner UJ, Zastrow F.

PMID: 6128645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Lebensversicher Med. 1983 Jan 1;35(1):15-20.

[Life expectancy in silicosis].

[Article in German]

Wohlberedt F.

PMID: 6131349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Lebensversicher Med. 1983 Feb 10;35(2):29-32.

[Coronary angiography studies as a measure of life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Schaefer J.

PMID: 6133190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Lebensversicher Med. 1983 Feb 10;35(2):36-45.

[Life expectancy and late results following resection of postinfarction heart 
wall aneurysm].

[Article in German]

Frank G, Spieker K, Klein H.

PMID: 6133192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Circulation. 1983 Jun;67(6 Pt 2):I110-1.

Beta-adrenergic blockade after myocardial infarction: clinical and public health 
implications of the reported beta-blocker clinical trials.

Friedewald WT.

PMID: 6133641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Life Sci. 1983 Jun 13;32(24):2769-75. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(83)90398-3.

A novel opioid peptide, leumorphin, acts as an agonist at the kappa opiate 
receptor.

Suda M, Nakao K, Yoshimasa T, Ikeda Y, Sakamoto M, Yanaihara N, Numa S, Imura H.

The primary structure of the common precursor of porcine beta-neo-endorphin and 
dynorphin (preproenkephalin B) has shown the existence of a third 
leucine-enkephalin (leu-enkephalin) sequence with a C-terminal extension of 24 
amino acids. This nonacosapeptide, named leumorphin, was approximately 70 times 
more potent than leu-enkephalin in inhibiting the contraction of the myenteric 
plexus-longitudinal muscle preparation of the guinea pig ileum. This action of 
leumorphin, like those of beta-neo-endorphin and dynorphin, was antagonized less 
effectively by naloxone than that of leu-enkephalin, but more effectively by 
Mr2266, an antagonist relatively specific for the kappa type opiate receptor. 
The inhibitory action of leumorphin or beta-neo-endorphin on the contraction of 
the guinea pig ileum muscle strip was reduced in a dose-dependent manner by 
pretreatment with dynorphin and vice versa. Leumorphin as well as 
beta-neo-endorphin and dynorphin inhibits the contraction of the rabbit vas 
deferens which is known to have only the kappa type opiate receptor. This action 
was also effectively antagonized by Mr2266. It is concluded that leumorphin has 
potent opioid activity and acts at the kappa receptor, like other opioid 
peptides derived from preproenkephalin B.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(83)90398-3
PMID: 6134225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1983 Feb;76 Spec No:117-22.

[The limits of the medical treatment of angina pectoris].

[Article in French]

Delahaye JP, Milon H, Saint-Pierre A, Gaspard P, Ninet J.

The limitations of medical treatment in angina pectoris depend on its efficacity 
and indications. 1. Efficacity of medical treatment.--Anti-anginal drugs are 
able to relieve anginal pain in at least 3/4 of cases. However, the ability of 
medical measures (diet, exercise, stopping smoking, hypolipidemic drugs, 
antihypertensive drugs, anticoagulants, platelet anti-aggregants, 
antiarrhythmics, inotropic agents, vasodilators and diuretics) to prevent 
coronary atherosclerosis delay its progression and prevent its complications--so 
increasing the life expectancy of coronary patients--remains very uncertain. 2. 
Frontiers and judications of medical treatment.--Coronary patients with few or 
no symptoms appear to be best suited for long-term anti-anginal treatment with 
long acting nitrate derivatives and/or betablockers. The ability of the latter 
group to increase the life expectancy of all coronary patients remains to be 
shown. The limits of the indications of medical treatment are more difficult to 
define either by purely subjective criteria (incapacitating angina after trials 
of anti-anginal drugs at adapted doses) or by "objective" criteria (ergometry, 
coronary angiography).

PMID: 6134504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Int J Vitam Nutr Res. 1983;53(2):199-209.

Biochemical study of malnutrition. Part VI: Histidine and its metabolites.

Antener I, Verwilghen AM, Van Geert C, Mauron J.

The present study, as a part of a broader investigation on 
protein-energy-malnutrition (PEM) in rural Zaire, was undertaken in order to 
clarify varying aspects of histidine metabolism in patients suffering from 
protein-energy malnutrition (PEM). Measurement of histidine and its derivatives 
was performed on blood samples, in urine and in stool ultrafiltrates of healthy 
rural controls, of PEM mothers and PEM children, before and during dietary 
treatment, and after histidine oral overloading. In stool ultrafiltrates, 
unusually high concentration of histidine and of three major catabolites 
(imidazoleacetic acid, imidazolelactic acid and imidazolepropionic acid) were 
identified, contrasting with undetectable levels of urocanic acid. On the 
contrary, very large amounts of urocanic acid may be recovered in the urine of 
PEM patients, especially in those characterized by very poor life expectancy. 
Urinary urocanic acid level thus appears as a very sensitive indicator of liver 
malfunction, in a manner similar to low plasma prealbumin and/or high A-alpha 
1-gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase values. These findings point to the severe 
impairment of histidase and urocanase, two enzymes regulating the histidine 
catabolic pathway. Under appropriate refeeding, all biochemical abnormalities 
described in surviving PEM patients are reversible. The persistence of high 
urinary urocanic acid excretion indicates a worsening of the patient's 
condition.

PMID: 6136484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Lancet. 1983 Aug 27;2(8348):503-5. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(83)90524-x.

Sickle-cell anaemia: an explanation for the ancient myth of reincarnation in 
Nigeria.

Onwubalili JK.

The belief in reincarnation, widely held in Nigeria for many centuries, has 
waned in the past 30 years. It is most probable that the "reincarnate" child had 
sickle-cell anaemia, since this disease would explain all the clinical features 
and natural history of "reincarnation". Most reincarnate children died of 
Plasmodium falciparum or bacterial infection. The prevailing high birth rate and 
familial predisposition almost ensured that another sickler was born to the 
family. The widespread introduction of antimalarial chemoprophylaxis and 
therapy, the recognition of sickle-cell disease, and some measure of improvement 
in health care and socioeconomic standards have resulted in an increase in life 
expectancy for children with HbSS and consequently near-total total extinction 
of the people's belief in reincarnation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(83)90524-x
PMID: 6136656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Aktuelle Gerontol. 1983 Jul;13(4):129-32.

[Peripheral arterial occlusive disease of the lower extremities].

[Article in German]

Becker HM, Walter P.

Disturbance of the arterial perfusion of the lower limbs with occlusion in the 
aorto-iliac area presents a broad field of operative treatment in younger 
patients below 70 years of age. In older people caution is necessary depending 
on preexisting multiple morbidity. If necessary, extra-anatomic bypass 
operations have to be taken into consideration in order to save a jeopardized 
leg. Limb salvage should be accomplished whenever possible. In case of 
involvement of the femoro-popliteal region even in old age patients aggressive 
surgery for limb salvage is important because of high mortality due to primary 
amputation and last not least because of better life quality and for 
cardiovascular training. Conservative treatment of occlusions in the aorto-iliac 
area is not promising much success. Therefore in this area vascular surgery is 
the treatment of choice. In contrary arterial occlusion of the 
femoro-popliteocrural region--especially if both are combined--can be positively 
influenced by conservative angiological regimen. Hence conservative therapy 
should always be tried first, before difficult and long lasting vascular 
reconstructions are taken into consideration. One should not forget that surgery 
of occlusive vascular disease is only a symptomatic therapy, not a curative one. 
Life expectancy is not enhanced, but only ability of walking is saved. Generally 
spoken, the patient with occlusive vascular disease of the lower limbs nowadays 
can be offered a differentiated and individualized therapy including, also, 
non-surgical procedures. Well planned reconstructive vascular surgery has a good 
long time prognosis saving the physical integrity and efficiency of the older 
patient suffering from disabling vascular alterations.

PMID: 6137154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Comp Biochem Physiol A Comp Physiol. 1983;75(4):529-33. doi: 
10.1016/0300-9629(83)90416-4.

Soft tissue potassium, magnesium, sodium and ash contents throughout the life 
span of highly inbred rats.

McBroom MJ, Weiss AK.

K, Mg, Na and ash contents were determined in nine tissues from short-lived 
Fischer rats at ages ranging from 1-21 months and from longer-lived A X C rats 
ranging from 1-28 months. K and Mg generally declined with aging in the tissues 
of both rat strains with higher rates of decline occurring in the shorter-lived 
Fischer rats. Na showed no consistent, strain-specific changes, but the majority 
of observed changes were age-related declines. Tissue ash contents generally 
declined during aging with the longer-lived A X C rats showing larger decreases.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-9629(83)90416-4
PMID: 6137309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Teratog Carcinog Mutagen. 1983;3(5):395-405. doi: 
10.1002/1520-6866(1990)3:5<395::aid-tcm1770030502>3.0.co;2-d.

Dosimetry of ethylene oxide in the rat by quantitation of alkylated histidine in 
hemoglobin.

Osterman-Golkar S, Farmer PB, Segerbäck D, Bailey E, Calleman CJ, Svensson K, 
Ehrenberg L.

Blood samples were obtained from male Fischer 344 rats exposed to controlled air 
concentrations of ethylene oxide; 0, 10, 33, and 100 ppm, 6 h/day, 5 days/week, 
for 2 years. N tau-(2-hydroxyethyl)histidine was isolated from hemoglobin 
hydrolysates and analyzed quantitatively by means of gas chromatography--mass 
fragmentography and by amino acid analysis. The degrees of alkylation found were 
1.3 and 2.8 nmol hydroxyethylhistidine per gram hemoglobin in two groups of 
unexposed rats, and 14, 34, and 82 nmol per gram hemoglobin, respectively, at 
the three air levels of ethylene oxide. Rats of the same breed were given two 
concentrations of radiolabeled ethylene oxide by IP injection. The degrees of 
alkylation of amino acids in hemoglobin and of guanine-N-7 in DNA from livers 
and testes were determined. The degrees of alkylation of liver and testicular 
DNA were about 150% and 50%, respectively, of the values expected from the 
degree of alkylation of hemoglobin, basing the expectancy on a direct 
proportionality between the reactivity of the specific nucleophilic sites and 
the degree of alkylation obtained at these sites, assuming that the dose of 
ethylene oxide was the same in the different tissues studied. The in vivo dose 
of ethylene oxide determined from data on hemoglobin alkylation thus gives a 
reasonable approximation of the DNA dose. The data were in agreement with a fast 
elimination of ethylene oxide from the tissues, the biological half-life being 
estimated as about 10 min.

DOI: 10.1002/1520-6866(1990)3:5<395::aid-tcm1770030502>3.0.co;2-d
PMID: 6139887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Lebensversicher Med. 1983 Nov 15;35(9):206-13.

[Thyroid diseases and life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Stahmer E, Ziegler R.

PMID: 6140610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Recent Results Cancer Res. 1984;89:100-6. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-82028-1_11.

Control of cancer pain with analgesics acting in the central nervous system.

Wörz R.

Systemic administration of opioids is one of the traditional, but by no means 
optimized therapeutic procedures in cancer pain. Besides the underlying 
pathophysiology, appropriate treatment has to take into account the 
psychodynamics and behavior of the patient as well as his life expectancy. In 
view of this, therapy with centrally acting analgesics can be considered after 
administration of analgesics with peripheral action first and then of 
psychoactive agents. Nefopam is a centrally (but not spinally) acting analgesic 
with a novel activity profile. Its advantages and disadvantages in the treatment 
of carcinoma pain are outlined. The opiate agonist-antagonist principle has the 
advantage of a lower dependence and tolerance potential. In addition, the 
preparations pentazocine, tilidine plus naloxone, and buprenorphine deviate from 
the morphine derivatives in various constituent effects. Their actions and side 
effects are outlined. The optimization of control of cancer pain is not possible 
without taking into account the time dimension. In 50 pain patients with 
advanced cancer, the following main errors were observed in previous treatment 
of pain syndromes: (1) too early parenteral administration in the course of the 
disease; (2) underdosage; (3) application intervals that were too long; and (4) 
use of analgesics as needed by the patient or on request and not according to a 
time schedule.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-82028-1_11
PMID: 6141626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Lancet. 1984 May 5;1(8384):1008-9. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(84)92339-0.

An eye on old age.

Weale RA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(84)92339-0
PMID: 6143921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Lebensversicher Med. 1984 May 2;36(4):75-9.

[Improved life expectancy in chronic obstructive lung diseases with 
anti-obstructive therapy?].

[Article in German]

Hamm J.

PMID: 6145069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Lancet. 1984 Jul 28;2(8396):211-2. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(84)90493-8.

Effect of L-dopa on course of Parkinson's disease.

Curtis L, Lees AJ, Stern GM, Marmot MG.

A review of the progress of 176 patients with Parkinson's disease who were given 
maximum tolerated doses of L-dopa between November, 1969, and December, 1972, 
showed that the ratio of observed to expected deaths after 12 years' sustained 
therapy was 2.59 (2.14 for males and 3.64 for females). This contrasts with the 
overall 6-year follow-up figure for the same patients of 1.45 (1.29 for males 
and 1.85 for females). These findings indicate that although L-dopa may improve 
life expectancy during the first 6 years of therapy the protective effect 
subsequently declines.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(84)90493-8
PMID: 6146763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Lancet. 1984 Aug 11;2(8398):350. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(84)92716-8.

Medicine and the market.

Marx P.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(84)92716-8
PMID: 6146891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Lebensversicher Med. 1984 Jul 18;36(6):129-36.

[Life expectancy of patients with cirrhosis].

[Article in German]

Eisenburg J.

PMID: 6148664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Lebensversicher Med. 1984 Jul 18;36(6):136-9.

[Isolated hepatomegaly and its sequelae on life expectancy. With a comparative 
study on excessive alcohol drinking].

[Article in German]

Fessel M, Scholl L, Hefti ML.

PMID: 6148665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Lebensversicher Med. 1984 Aug 27;36(7):159-62.

[Improvement of life expectancy by pancreas transplantation?].

[Article in German]

Schwedes U, Usadel KH.

PMID: 6148673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Am J Cardiol. 1980 Jan;45(1):108-16. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(80)90227-1.

The surgical decision in tetralogy of Fallot: weighing risks and benefits with 
decision analysis.

Garson A Jr, Gorry GA, McNamara DG, Cooley DA.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(80)90227-1
PMID: 6153136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Soc Sci Med Med Econ. 1980 Jun;14(2):67-70. doi:
10.1016/0160-7995(80)90028-3.

Health, population and development.

Knowles JH.

DOI: 10.1016/0160-7995(80)90028-3
PMID: 6157194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 1980;52(3-4):173-84. doi: 10.1007/BF01402072.

Gammathalamotomy in intractable pain.

Steiner L, Forster D, Leksell L, Meyerson BA, Boëthius J.

Thalamotomy aiming at the CM-Pf complex and using stereotactic gamma irradiation 
has been performed in a series of 52 patients with severe pain due to 
malignancy. Lesions were produced either contra- or ipsilaterally to the side of 
the pain as well as bilaterally. Eight patients experienced good pain relief, 18 
had moderate relief, and in 24 the operation did not significantly influence the 
pain. A second operation following recurrence of pain was rarely of value. There 
was a tendency towards more efficient relief of pain located in the face or in 
the arm and shoulder than of pain in the lower part of the body. Although 
contralateral lesions seem to be most effective, ipsilateral operations may also 
give some relief. The best results were obtained when the lesions were placed 
close to the wall of the third ventricle and at the level of the posterior 
commissure. Postmortem examination of 21 brains disclosed that the mean error in 
the placing of the lesions was about 1 mm. It is concluded that medial 
thalamotomy may be tried as a last resort in the treatment of cancer pain in 
selected patients with a short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01402072
PMID: 6158844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Aust N Z J Surg. 1980 Oct;50(5):462-4. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-2197.1980.tb04169.x.

The objectives of palliative surgery in pancreas cancer: a retrospective study 
of 73 cases.

Eastman MC, Kune GA.

In 73 cases of pancreas cancer, histological diagnosis was not obtained in 43 
(59%). Relief of obstructive jaundice was not satisfactorilly achieved in 14 of 
39 patients at risk (36%), while gastric outflow obstruction developed 
subsequent to surgery in eight of 31 patients at risk (26%). Fine needle 
aspiration cytology is advocated to improve the rate of positive peroperative 
tissue diagnosis. To relieve bile duct obstruction, cholecystojejunostomy is 
advocated only in patients with pancreas cancer who have a very short life 
expectancy, and only when the cystic duct is patent. Choledochojejunostomy and 
gastrojejunostomy "double bypass" is advocated for cancers which are 
macroscopically localized to the pancreatic area. The selective use of this 
double bypass will improve surgical palliation and minimize reoperations in 
cancer of the pancreas.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.1980.tb04169.x
PMID: 6160844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Klin Wochenschr. 1980 Aug 15;58(16):811-21. doi: 10.1007/BF01491101.

[Sequential combination chemotherapy with vinblastine/bleomycin and 
adriamycin/cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum (II) in non-seminomatous testicular 
cancer. I. Results of a prospective randomized phase III-study with 71 patients 
with disseminated disease (stage IV) (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Scheulen ME, Higi M, Schilcher RB, Meier CR, Seeber S, Schmidt CG.

74 patients with disseminated non-seminomatous testicular cancer were randomly 
entered on a prospective sequential combination chemotherapy regimen with 
mandatory crossover, consisting of either vinblastine/bleomycin or 
adriamycin/cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum (II) (DDP) as initial therapy. 
Independent of the randomization the overall remission rate in 71 evaluable 
patients was 89% including 54% complete remissions. 35% of the patients remained 
disease-free at 2+ to 28+ months with a median of 12 months. By additional 
surgical removal of residual pulmonary metastases in two patients the complete 
remission rate was increased to 40/71 (56%), and the number of patients with no 
evidence of disease to 27/71 (38%). According to the life-table method the 
two-years survival rates were 63% for complete responders and 29% for all other 
patients, which was significantly lower. 53 patients (75%) were alive at 3 to 28 
months with a median of 9 months. Additional advanced abdominal disease, 
initially elevated beta-HCG and LDH and extension of pulmonary disease were of 
significant negative influence on the prognosis. The evaluation of single 
chemotherapy courses revealed equal efficacy of both combinations. However, 
response to adriamycin/DDP occurred in 46% of the courses, when 
vinblastine/bleomycin had failed, while response to vinblastine/bleomycin 
occurred only in 21% of the courses when adriamycin/DDP had failed. Thus 
different patterns of cross-resistance between these alternative regimens may 
exist.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01491101
PMID: 6161273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Ann Parasitol Hum Comp. 1980 Sep-Oct;55(5):541-52.

[Additional data on superficial argentophilic structures of the miracidium and 
cercaria of Fasciola gigantica (Cobbold, 1855) (Trematoda:Fasciolidae) and on 
the epidemiology of this parasite].

[Article in French]

Albaret JL, Bayssade-Dufour C, Diaw OT, Vassiliades G, Gruner L.

The life cycle of a senegalese strain of Fasciola gigantica was carried out in 
France from adults recovered in the liver of naturally infected cattle (Bos 
taurus). Laboratory-reared Lymnaea natalensis experimentally infected shed 
numerous cercariae. Metacercariae were used for successful infection of sheep. 
In the miracidium, variations are observed in the disposition of the 
medio-ventral epithelial cell of the second tier. The distribution of the 
superficial argentophilic structures is similar to that of the miracidium of F. 
hepatica. The chaetotaxy of the cercaria is very closely related to that of the 
cercaria of a strain of F. gigantica from Madagascar shed by Lymnaea hovarum but 
it differs clearly from that of the cercaria of F. hepatica. The encystment of a 
great number of cercariae (25 %) on the surface of water suggests that this is 
an important factor in the extension of the foci of contamination, and therefore 
increases greatly the risks of infection not only for animal but also for man. 
It is possible that human fascioliasis caused by F. gigantica is a disease, the 
importance of which is under-estimated.

PMID: 6164333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Gen Hosp Psychiatry. 1981 Jun;3(2):95-101. doi:
10.1016/0163-8343(81)90050-5.

Prediction and management of pain in patients with advanced cancer.

McKegney FP, Bailey LR, Yates JW.

In a prospective controlled study, patients with incurable cancer and an 
estimated prognosis of three months to one year were allocated to two patient 
groups for evaluation of supportive interventions. One group, called 
"intensive," received home visits by a nurse practitioner acting as an extension 
of a multidisciplinary team; the other, termed "nonintensive," did not receive 
such visits. Both patient groups were periodically evaluated in their homes by 
an observer and by self-ratings, to measure changes in quality of life as their 
disease progressed. Several methodologic problems were identified, which have 
implications for future research. Pain problems later in the course of cancer 
seem to be predictable in those patients with higher scores on the Cornell 
Medical Index M-R scales (greater emotional disturbance) and on the Rotter Locus 
of Control (I-E) scale (expectation of more external control of self). The study 
also found that the home visiting nurse practitioners, specially trained in pain 
treatment, improved pain control in the "intensive" group of patients over the 
last 90 days of life, when pain was an increasingly major problem. Such nurses 
can significantly improve the quality of life for patients dying outside of 
institutions.

DOI: 10.1016/0163-8343(81)90050-5
PMID: 6166512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Folia Haematol Int Mag Klin Morphol Blutforsch. 1981;108(2):185-90.

[Clinical picture and course of adult lymphoblastic leukemia (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Rák K, Jakó J, Kiss A.

PMID: 6168525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1981 Aug;29(4):212-5. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1023479.

Life expectancy after coronary artery bypass surgery.

Hacker RW, Torka M, von der Emde J.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1023479
PMID: 6179187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 1982;64(1-2):39-50. doi: 10.1007/BF01405617.

The late results of antero-lateral cordotomy for pain relief.

Cowie RA, Hitchcock ER.

The operation of antero-lateral cordotomy was carried out on 56 patients with 
intractable pain between 1968 and 1978. The follow-up of these patients was 
continued for at least three years or until death to determine the late success 
of this procedure. Of the 33 patients who underwent surgery for malignant pain 
95% of survivors had effective relief on discharge from hospital, the success 
rate falling to 73% at six months, and 55% at one year of follow-up. The 
operation was judged successful for patients with malignant disease because of 
short life expectancy. Thirteen patients had chronic pain from non-malignant 
conditions, and 85% obtained initial relief, the success rate falling to 35% at 
one year, and 20% at three years of follow-up. Two patients died from 
respiratory failure, giving an operative mortality of 3.5%. The results and 
complications of open cordotomy are compared with those of the percutaneous 
method, and the role of this procedure discussed in relation to alternative 
stimulatory analgesic procedures.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01405617
PMID: 6181657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Ann Pathol. 1982;2(3):199-211.

[Tumor markers].

[Article in French]

Franchimont P, Zangerle PF, Collette J, Hendrick JC, Reuter A, Vrindts-Gevaert 
Y, Hustin J.

Several substances, referred to as tumor markers, are associated with neoplasms 
development. The specificity of these cancer related substances or antigens 
depends on their nature (onco-fetal antigens, placental antigens) or on their 
concentration and physico-chemical forms (hormones, exocrine products, 
enzymes,...). On the basis of physico-chemical, immunochemical and biochemical 
analogies which exist between these tumor markers and substances normally found 
at particular times of life, a classification of these markers may be proposed. 
Tumor markers are almost constantly found within carcinoma cells by 
immunocytochemical techniques and are secreted by carcinoma explants in culture 
medium. On the hand, the release of tumor markers in biological fluids (blood, 
cerebrospinal fluid, urines,...) is less frequently detected by sensitive 
methods such as radioimmunoassay. Several factors are responsible for this 
discrepancy between the intra-tumoral presence of tumor markers and the lower 
incidence of their detection in biological fluids. These factors are discussed. 
These tumor markers have attracted considerable attention from pathologists and 
clinicians. Thus, detection of these substances, especially by 
immunocytochemical methods, may be related to a situation of neoplastic 
transformation and allow a functional classification superimposed to 
histological classification superimposed to histological classification of 
tumors. Moreover, ectopic production of hormones and/or neuromediators explains 
some clinical symptoms in cancer processes. Furthermore, products of normal cell 
activity at the origin of cancer (hormones, enzymes, exocrine products) when 
evidenced within the neoplastic cells or within serum might constitute a 
hormonal dependence index useful for therapeutical orientation. Finally, tumor 
marker levels are related to the local and systemic extension of the neoplasia 
and may be considered as valid index of prognosis. The determination of the 
levels of these tumor markers provides a quantitative criterion of the evolution 
of the neoplastic disorder and for following the efficacy or inefficacy of 
treatment.

PMID: 6181793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Endeavour. 1982;6(4):162-7. doi: 10.1016/0160-9327(82)90071-0.

Aging of cells: accident or programme?

Knook DL.

DOI: 10.1016/0160-9327(82)90071-0
PMID: 6185327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. J Clin Gastroenterol. 1982 Dec;4(6):525-32. doi: 
10.1097/00004836-198212000-00009.

A strategy against pancreatic cancer.

Warshaw AL, Richter JM, Podolsky DK, Mueller PR, Ferrucci JT Jr, Shipley WU.

Pancreatic cancer kills 99% of those it afflicts. Despite an increasing array of 
expensive diagnostic tests, the disease manifests itself and is identified too 
