late for the possibility of complete resection in most patients. Palliation and 
extension of comfortable and useful life, therefore, become prime goals, cure 
being rare. This essay suggests an efficient, pragmatic program for the 
diagnosis and treatment of pancreatic cancer based upon the current experience 
of the Massachusetts General Hospital.

DOI: 10.1097/00004836-198212000-00009
PMID: 6186718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. World Health Stat Q. 1982;35(3-4):133-202.

Demographic aspects of the health of the elderly to the year 2000 and beyond.

[Article in English, French]

Siegel JS, Hoover SL.

PMID: 6194621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Bull Pan Am Health Organ. 1983;17(2):111-25.

Selected health conditions in the Americas: a guide for health research policy.

Ehrlich SP Jr.

PMID: 6194839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Exp Pathol. 1983;24(1):3-13. doi: 10.1016/s0232-1513(83)80002-4.

Inventory and biological impact of polycyclic carcinogens in the environment.

Grimmer G, Stöber W, Jacob J, Mohr U, Schoene K, Brune H, Misfeld J.

The rapid development of the natural sciences and the technical progress during 
the last century have significantly changed our society and environment. During 
this period the average life expectancy for people in industrialized countries 
has doubled. A prolongation of life expectancy to this extent, due to for 
example, understanding of the relationship between various diseases and their 
corresponding causative agents, had never before occurred in mankind's history. 
It resulted in specific hygiene precautions. The recognition of such causal 
relationship was facilitated by the fact that infection diseases generally 
become apparent after a short incubation time, i.e. that an environmental 
situation causes health damage. At present, we are searching for origins of 
diseases of which the causal correlations with environmental influences are far 
more difficult to recognize than those of infection diseases, since long-term 
effects have to be observed. Do we have a situation similar to that which we had 
for infections at the end of the last century ? For diseases such as lung and 
larynx cancer, there are significant indications of carcinogenic compounds in 
the environment. Since both types of cancer are about 10 times more common among 
cigarette smokers who inhale than among non-smokers, a correlation to the risk 
factor "smoking" is beyond doubt. Living and working in larger cities or highly 
populated areas are additional factors which many enhance the lung cancer 
incidence ("urbanisation factor"). The air quality of these areas is supposed to 
be the reason for this effect. However, the present "bad air quality" at most 
doubles the disease incidence. A large number of epidemiological studies report 
on local differences of the incidence rates as well as significant increases or 
decreases of the mortality rates for some cancer diseases during comparatively 
short periods. A summary recently has been published by Misfeld (1). As an 
example, the mortality rate due to lung cancer for males in the F.R.G. has 
almost doubled during 1955-1975 from 36.5 per 100,000 to 65.9 per 100,000. This 
holds true for cancer of the rectum which increased from 8.8 per 100,000 to 18.9 
per 100,000 during the same period. In contrast, mortality due to stomach cancer 
decreased from 59.3 to 36.6 per 100,000 and uterine cancer in females decreased 
from 16.6. to 8.5 per 100,000 (2). The pronounced changes in mortality rates 
cannot be explained by alterations of the genetic disposition during such a 
short period. Improved diagnostic and therapeutic techniques might explain 
decreases but not increases of mortality rates.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/s0232-1513(83)80002-4
PMID: 6195011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1983 Dec;31(6):331-3. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1022012.

Late complications of major thoracic surgery.

Laros CD.

Long-term consequences of major lung surgery were evaluated by: a prospective 
study of 206 pneumonectomy patients operated upon between 1947 and 1952 for 
tuberculosis; a retrospective study of 449 pneumonectomy patients operated upon 
between 1946 and 1974 for bronchial carcinoma at an age of 60 or over; a 
prospective study of 80 patients who underwent bilateral resection for 
bronchiectasis between 1940 and 1974. The main conclusions of these studies are: 
After pneumonectomy for non-malignant disease, life expectancy is slightly 
reduced in comparison with a matched group from the general population. 
Thoracoplasty and pneumonectomy proved less favorable. From the spirographic 
data the actual vital capacity (VC) showed the closest relation to life 
expectancy. In patients with bronchial carcinoma there was no relation between 
survival and the postoperative spirographic data. Preoperative and postoperative 
mortality was the same in the elderly as in the younger group of patients. 
Survival depended mainly on the malignancy itself. In bronchiectasis the results 
were good when a normal qualitative function was present. Unsatisfactory results 
were found in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The VCs after 
surgery are well above the predicted values for the remaining segments. The 
presence from early youth on of non-functioning lung tissue, and its removal 
apparently result in a compensatory increase of the VC of the remaining 
segments. Life expectancy is good, even if the number of resected segments 
surpasses that of a right-sided pneumonectomy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1022012
PMID: 6198750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Z Gastroenterol. 1983 Dec;21(12):690-9.

[Therapy of esophageal varices--comparison between shunt surgery and endoscopic 
sclerosing therapy].

[Article in German]

Schumpelick V, Schreiber HW.

The results of the treatment of esophageal varices by portosystemic shunts vs. 
endoscopical sclerotherapy are compared on the base of own experience and the 
literature. The author's decision, to do no more shunts routinely, is explained 
by 10 "contra"-arguments, as well as the preference for endoscopical 
sclerotherapy is demonstrated by 10 "pro"-arguments. This comparison is not free 
of bias by subjectivity and the regional (endoscopical) experience, but despite 
this limitation, we think it can be accepted more generally. The definitive 
decision between both will be open till the first comparative prospective 
controlled trial: portosystemic shunt vs. endoscopical sclerotherapy.

PMID: 6198808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Oncology. 1984;41(2):114-9. doi: 10.1159/000225804.

Carcinogenicity of bleomycin sulfate and peplomycin sulfate after repeated 
subcutaneous application to rats.

Habs M, Schmähl D.

Bleomycins (BLM) are widely used as antineoplastic agents either alone or in 
combination regimens. Results of earlier studies in experimental animals were 
said to be inadequate to evaluate the carcinogenicity of BLM, which is a known 
mutagen. In a dose-response study, BLM and peplomycin (PEP) were investigated in 
Sprague-Dawley rats of both sexes. For the first 10 weeks weekly doses of 0.35, 
0.70, 1.40, and 2.80 mg/kg BLM and of 0.32, 0.63, 1.25, 2.50, and 5.0 mg/kg PEP 
were applied subcutaneously (BLM: 30 male and 30 female rats/group; PEP: 25 male 
and 25 female rats/group). In the case of BLM, thereafter the doses were given 
once every fortnight either for 1 year (BLM: 1.40 and 2.80) or for life (lower 
doses). In the case of PEP, application of the high doses was stopped after the 
13th time (5.0: 10 X 1/week and 3 X 1 every 2 weeks) and the 19th application 
(2.5 mg: 10 X 1/week and 9 X 1/every 2 weeks). After the 10th dosing, the 
remaining groups were treated once every fortnight for life. 60 male and 60 
female rats served as solvent-treated (physiological saline) controls. The 
animals were observed for life. Repeated doses of BLM and PEP reduced body 
weight and life expectancy of the animals in a dose-related pattern. Tubular 
cell damages and cell proliferations were seen as a symptom of major toxicity in 
the kidneys. In this model BLM and PEP are carcinogenic: treatments resulted in 
significant dose-related incidences of animals with tumors at the site of 
application (fibrosarcomas) and with renal tumors (adenomas, adenocarcinomas, 
sarcomas).

DOI: 10.1159/000225804
PMID: 6200809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Minerva Med. 1984 May 31;75(22-23):1379-82.

[Clinical aspects and surgical therapy of cerebral metastases].

[Article in Italian]

Paoletti P, Gaetani P.

Authors describe clinical presentation, signs and symptoms and diagnostic 
procedures in case of metastatic brain tumors. Incidence and different 
pathological aspects are considered. Surgical treatment is discussed in its 
limits and indications. Surgical management of intracranial metastasis is 
palliative but it leads to pathological diagnosis, permits clinical improvement 
and adjuvant therapies.

PMID: 6203059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Minerva Med. 1984 May 31;75(22-23):1383-6.

[Radiotherapy of cerebral metastases].

[Article in Italian]

Soffietti R.

Radiotherapy of brain metastases is almost always palliative, as histologically 
documented cures are exceptional. Radiotherapy alone improves neurological 
symptoms in two-thirds of cases, but median survivals do not generally exceed 6 
months. Whole brain radiation is mandatory as the lesions are often multiple, 
even when they escape clinical demonstration. There is no definite difference in 
prognosis after conventional rather than concentrated treatments. The role of 
steroids in the prevention and/or control of the acute effects of radiotherapy 
is controversial. Favorable prognostic factors are a good neurological and 
performance status, a solitary brain metastasis of a primary tumor under 
control, some histological types (i.e.: metastases from "oat" cell carcinomas, 
breast carcinomas, non-Hodgkin lymphomas are more responsive). Surgical excision 
before radiotherapy improves survival (6-12 months), especially in solitary 
metastases from melanomas, colon and renal tumors. Reirradiation can be useful, 
but the risk of delayed damage to the normal tissue in patients with longer 
survival (solitary operated and irradiated metastases) must be considered. The 
search for new radiotherapeutic modalities must be based on a deeper 
understanding of the biological factors involved in the response to radiation 
through controlled anatomo-clinical studies and biological research on 
experimental models.

PMID: 6203060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Surgery. 1984 Jun;95(6):635-9.

Radiologic, endoscopic, and surgical considerations of melanoma metastatic to 
the gastrointestinal tract.

Reintgen DS, Thompson W, Garbutt J, Seigler HF.

Malignant melanoma is the most common malignancy to metastasize to the 
gastrointestinal tract. In a retrospective computer-assisted data search of over 
2500 patients with melanoma registered over the past 10 years, 110 patients have 
been identified to have premortem gastrointestinal metastatic disease 
(metastatic disease identified at least 6 months before death). The small 
intestine (35%), colon (14.5%), and stomach (7%) are the most common sites for 
metastases. Polypoid or ulcerating masses and intramucosal nodules are typical 
radiologic presentations for gastric and colonic lesions, while over 50% of the 
small bowel metastases are polypoid masses that many times act as leading points 
for intussusception. Endoscopic studies are helpful in the preoperative 
diagnosis of these lesions. In a subset of 38 patients with symptomatic small 
bowel metastatic disease, complete resections were performed in 26% of patients, 
with palliative bypasses being performed in 40%, despite the fact that over 50% 
of the patients had documented visceral metastasis in other body sites. The 
operative morbidity rate was 15% with no operative deaths. Ninety percent of 
patients gained relief of symptoms, and overall survival from the time of 
confirmed small bowel disease averaged 17.3 months, with a range of 6 months to 
9 years. It would seem that patients with melanoma with gastrointestinal 
metastatic disease can benefit from aggressive radiologic and endoscopic 
procedures for diagnosis and staging. Only through surgical interventions for 
symptomatic gastrointestinal disease can the quality of life be improved and 
life expectancy be extended.

PMID: 6203181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Endocr Rev. 1984 Spring;5(2):185-99. doi: 10.1210/edrv-5-2-185.

The cold thyroid nodule: an analysis of diagnostic and therapeutic options.

Molitch ME, Beck JR, Dreisman M, Gottlieb JE, Pauker SG.

We applied decision analysis to the controversy over the management of the 
solitary nonfunctioning thyroid nodule. Three standard management plans were 
considered: immediate subtotal thyroidectomy; a six month trial of thyroid 
suppression with L-thyroxine, with non-suppressible lesions being removed 
surgically; and aspiration cytology followed by surgery or thyroid suppression 
based on the cytologic examination. The literature formed the basis for 
quantitative assumptions of the analysis, including the consequences of 
thyroidectomy, the probability of malignancy, the types and prognoses of cancers 
found at operation, the likelihood of successful suppression adn relapse, and 
the possible results of aspiration cytology. We used Bayes' rule to revise the 
probability of cancer on the basis of cytological results. The relative worths 
of the 59 possible diagnostic and therapeutic outcomes were expressed as 
quality-adjusted life expectancies. The expected utility of each management plan 
was determined by "folding back" the decision tree. Although we found that each 
possible approach yielded a quality-adjusted life expectancy very close to that 
of the healthy population, aspiration biopsy with cytologic examination appeared 
slightly superior. Extensive sensitivity analyses demonstrated that either 
aspiration biopsy or immediate thyroid suppression was the treatment of choice 
over a wide range of assumptions, although in no case did the benefit exceed 1 
year of life. We conclude that all therapies for cold thyroid nodule are 
essentially equal, viewed in terms of mortality and morbidity. The decision to 
operate, suppress or aspirate is thus a " tossup ", dependent in the individual 
case upon such subjective factors as psychological disutility , relative cost, 
and attitudes toward operative risk and long-term medical therapy. The 
controversy concerning the "best" management of the cold thyroid nodule is an 
illusion: quantitative analysis shows the futility of pursuing the debate any 
further.

DOI: 10.1210/edrv-5-2-185
PMID: 6203730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Surgery. 1984 Sep;96(3):467-70.

Substernal gastric bypass of the excluded esophagus--results of an ill-advised 
operation.

Orringer MB.

Substernal gastric bypass of the excluded thoracic esophagus for palliation of 
esophageal carcinoma was proposed as a method of providing maximum patient 
comfort with minimum morbidity. Our results with this operation in 37 patients 
are reviewed and indicate that the procedure carries unacceptable complication 
and mortality rates. Among our patients, there have been nine (24%) hospital 
deaths, seven (19%) anastomotic leaks, and six (17%) disruptions of the divided 
distal thoracic esophagus. Major postoperative complications have occurred in 
59% of these patients. Only 15 (54%) of the 28 survivors were discharged 
swallowing within 3 weeks of operation, and 10 (36%) required hospitalization 
for 1 month or longer after operation. The average survival time in those 
leaving the hospital alive has been only 5.9 months. Only seven patients (25% of 
the survivors) have achieved good palliation with the bypass procedure. It is 
concluded that substernal gastric bypass of the excluded thoracic esophagus is 
too much of an operation for patients with unresectable tumors who have a life 
expectancy of only several months.

PMID: 6206582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1984 Oct;159(4):397-412.

Management of malignant ascites.

Lacy JH, Wieman TJ, Shively EH.

The management of malignant ascites is a significant clinical problem. Although 
most of the patients who have this complication develop have rather 
significantly limited life expectancy rates, they may be successfully palliated 
if appropriate steps are taken to provide them with the proper therapy. All of 
the aforementioned treatment modalities, specifically intracavitary 
radiotherapy, radioactive colloids, intracavitary chemotherapy, peritoneovenous 
shunting and immunotherapy have distinct advantages and limitations. With the 
proper selection of the modality to fit the individual patient, a relatively 
good result can be obtained, providing, of course, that proper care is taken to 
anticipate the potential complications, which occur frequently in the treatment 
of malignant effusion.

PMID: 6207599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. N Engl J Med. 1982 Jul 22;307(4):221-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198207223070404.

Long-term care for the elderly and disabled: a new health priority.

Somers AR.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198207223070404
PMID: 6211618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Eur J Cancer Clin Oncol. 1982 Mar;18(3):271-9. doi: 
10.1016/0277-5379(82)90046-3.

A comparison of the requirements for antitumour activity and antibacteriophage 
lambda activity for a series of non-intercalative DNA-binding agents.

Robertson IG, Baguley BC.

A series of non-intercalative DNA-binding agents, comprising mainly 
bisquaternary ammonium heterocyclic compounds, has been found to inhibit 
strongly the production of bacteriophage lambda following its induction in 
Escherichia coli. The inhibition is much greater than that found with a number 
of DNA intercalating agents, including 9-aminoacridine, ethidium and 
Daunorubicin. The inhibition correlated significantly with antitumour effect, as 
measured in a life extension assay with L1210 leukaemia. Activity in both 
biological systems demanded the presence of strongly charged groups and a rigid 
co-planar aromatic skeleton, these requirements being almost identical to those 
needed to displace ethidium efficiently from DNA in a simple assay system. It is 
suggested that biological activity is associated with the ability of these 
agents to bind in the minor groove of the DNA double helix. Data on the 
antibacteriophage action of one of these agents suggests possible models for 
antitumour activity.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-5379(82)90046-3
PMID: 6212240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. J Clin Neuroophthalmol. 1981 Jun;1(2):101-17.

Management of primary optic nerve meningiomas. Current status--therapy in 
controversy.

Alper MG.

The diagnosis, pathology, and management of primary optic nerve meningiomas are 
described from a study of 55 patients collected from the author's own series and 
the files of the Registry of Ophthalmic Pathology at the Armed Forces Institute 
of Pathology. Diagnosis may be confusing in childhood, especially in the 
presence of neurofibromatosis when it must be differentiated from optic nerve 
glioma. The disease is especially aggressive and life-threatening in the young. 
Of 15 patients under age 20 years, four died from intracranial extension, five 
are alive with recurrence, and two without recurrence. In the age group of 
patients between 20 and 35 years, the disease becomes less aggressive but still 
life-threatening. Of 14 patients in this group, one died of intracranial 
extension, four are alive with recurrence and seven without recurrence. In the 
older groups, the condition becomes more indolent in its growth pattern. In this 
series, no patients over 35 years of age have died from their disease. Surgical 
excision of the optic nerve and tumor for diagnosis, followed by craniotomy with 
total removal by unroofing the orbit and optic canal is advocated in the young. 
If there is orbital spread, exenteration should be performed. Craniotomy and 
more radical therapy are only indicated if intracranial extension is 
demonstrated. Radiotherapy is reserved as an alternative to surgery in the older 
age group.

PMID: 6213649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Ortop Travmatol Protez. 1982 Jul;(7):57-8.

[Traumatism and its effect on the mean life expectancy of the population].

[Article in Russian]

Demichev NP, Iakovlev IuG, Vinnikova IuG, Konovalov VP, Serdiukov AG.

PMID: 6215605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. J Ment Defic Res. 1982 Sep;26(Pt 3):177-92. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.1982.tb00144.x.

Longevity and mortality in Down's syndrome.

Thase ME.

The life span of individuals with DS has gradually increased since the 1920s. 
The DS individual now has an average life expectancy of 35 years. Despite 
advances in the health care of the retarded and improvements in the quality of 
institutional care, the overall mortality rate remains elevated by five-fold. 
Specific mortality rates from respiratory diseases (particularly pneumonia), 
infectious diseases, congenital heart disease, leukaemia and neurological 
disorders are still substantially increased. Disorders of immunological 
functioning, particularly T-cell mediated, appear related to this increased 
vulnerability, although further research is necessary. The periods of highest 
risk are during infancy, when congenital heart disease, leukaemia and 
respiratory diseases are most lethal, and late adulthood, when Alzheimer-type 
dementia and declining immunological function appear to be significant factors.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.1982.tb00144.x
PMID: 6217345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Scand J Soc Med. 1982;10(3):73-6. doi: 10.1177/140349488201000301.

Survival experience of semi-skilled disability pensioners in Denmark.

Jeune B.

The purpose of this study was to estimate the survival prognosis of semi-skilled 
disability pensioners. The survival experience of 1353 invalid male members of 
the Danish Semiskilled Workers Union (SID) awarded disability pensions in 1975 
was compared with a control group of members of the same union, matched 
geographically and by age. The two groups were followed until Nov. 30, 1978. For 
the follow-up period as a whole, the mortality risk among disability pensioners 
was estimated to be 6.8 times as high as that of controls. The relative risk of 
mortality was higher at the period's inception than at the end. A very high 
mortality level was found among disability pensioners awarded the highest level 
of disability pension, but no differences in mortality were found between 
disability pensioners awarded the lower levels of disability pension and the 
corresponding control group. The significance of medical and social factors in 
reducing the ability to work is discussed, as it relates to grounds for the 
awarding of disability pensions. The prognosis of one category of disability 
pensioners is very poor, while the survival prognosis of another is not 
significantly worsened, despite a considerable deterioration in the ability to 
work.

DOI: 10.1177/140349488201000301
PMID: 6218607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Int J Epidemiol. 1983 Jun;12(2):224-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/12.2.224.

Potential gains in life expectancy free of disability: a tool for health 
planning.

Colvez A, Blanchet M.

This paper describes a method for ranking pathological causes according to both 
mortality and disability. This method consists of measuring the theoretical gain 
which could be obtained on life expectancy free of disability by eliminating 
deaths and disabilities resulting from the considered cause. An application to 
United States mortality and disability data is then given as an illustration. 
Using the proposed method, chronic conditions of the locomotor system appear as 
the second in order of importance, after cardiovascular diseases. Respiratory 
diseases, which have consequences for both mortality and disability, rank third 
among health problems whereas malignant neoplasms rank fourth because of their 
relatively small effect in terms of disability. The application of this method 
by planning agencies, could contribute to better allocation of resources among 
various intervention programmes or various research programmes which health 
administrations may decide to support.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/12.2.224
PMID: 6223894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Sov Zdravookhr. 1983;(6):16-9.

[Longevity and life expectancy of men and women in Kirghizia].

[Article in Russian]

Burmin LS.

PMID: 6225186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Ann Hum Genet. 1983 Jul;47(3):205-14. doi:
10.1111/j.1469-1809.1983.tb00989.x.

Huntington's Chorea in the Netherlands. The problem of genetic heterogeneity.

Went LN, Vegter-van der Vlis M, Bruyn GW, Volkers WS.

For 1100 patients with Huntington's Chorea in 102 families from The Netherlands 
the average age at death per family is presented. This average ranges from 72 to 
38 years. An analysis of variance of the data is strongly indicative of genetic 
heterogeneity. For the patients with the relatively high age at death little or 
no difference is observed from the age at death of their non-affected parents 
and non-affected sibs. Eleven children who presented with the juvenile form of 
the disease had all inherited the abnormal gene from their father. These 11 
children were found only in families with an average age at death below 57 
years. Other factors that might possibly influence the variation of average age 
at death between families are discussed, but cannot explain the observed 
differences.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-1809.1983.tb00989.x
PMID: 6225372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Am J Med. 1983 Sep 26;75(3A):4-11. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(83)90111-0.

Prevalence and natural history of electrocardiographic left ventricular 
hypertrophy.

Kannel WB.

Left ventricular hypertrophy, particularly on the electrocardiogram, is an 
ominous, not an incidental accompaniment of hypertension and cardiovascular 
disease. The prevalence of electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy 
increases with age with a slight male predominance, and one in 10 persons aged 
30 to 62 can expect to have it within 12 years. At any age, cardiac enlargement 
on roentgenograms is twice as prevalent as electrocardiographic left ventricular 
hypertrophy, and in only 16 percent of those with x-ray evidence of cardiac 
enlargement does electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy subsequently 
develop. Hypertension predisposes and at systolic pressures exceeding 180 mm Hg 
evidence of electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy develops in 50 
percent, with no closer relation to diastolic, than to systolic pressure. In 
addition to drastic curtailment of life expectancy, electrocardiographic left 
ventricular hypertrophy is a harbinger of serious cardiovascular disease. 
Definite electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy is associated with an 
eightfold increase in cardiovascular mortality and a sixfold increase in 
coronary mortality. Electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy with 
repolarization criteria more than doubles the risk of hypertension alone and 
carries a greater risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality than cardiac 
enlargement. It identifies hypertensive patients with a compromised coronary 
circulation and myocardial damage. Risk of stroke, cardiac failure, and every 
clinical manifestation of coronary heart disease is substantially increased. In 
those with electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy risk of cardiac 
failure is three times that in those with hypertension alone. 
Electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy based solely on voltage 
criteria reflects chiefly the severity and duration of associated hypertension, 
carrying only half the cardiovascular risk of electrocardiographic left 
ventricular hypertrophy with repolarization abnormality. The precise pathologic 
and anatomic meaning of electrocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy is 
unclear in view of the modest correlations with anatomic, x-ray, 
ventriculographic, and electrocardiographic measures of cardiac hypertrophy. The 
electrocardiographic aberrations are as much a product of myocardial damage as 
hypertrophy, and their appearance must be regarded as a grave prognostic sign in 
the course of cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(83)90111-0
PMID: 6226193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1983 Nov 12;287(6403):1429-30. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.287.6403.1429-a.

Protracted survival in patients with Down's syndrome.

Howell SJ, Foster KJ, Reckless J.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.287.6403.1429-a
PMCID: PMC1549605
PMID: 6227364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Presse Med. 1983 Dec 29;12(48):3030-5.

[An estimation of the incidence of cerebrovascular accidents in France].

[Article in French]

Fagnani F, Benedittini M, Cereni C.

In the absence of epidemiological data concerning France, indirect assessment 
was undertaken of the incidence and prevalence of cerebrovascular accidents 
(CVA) at a national level. An international comparison of mortality data 
concerning diseases of the circulatory system was first made. This analysis 
reviewed the existence of a certain number of inherent difficulties in the use 
of available statistics. It is probable that a notable proportion, increasing 
with age, of cases of CVA, are situated in undefined causes. A similar 
phenomenon should be noted with regard to cardiac causes (changes in diagnostic 
practice in the case of ischemic heart disease). Furthermore, mortality data for 
CVA are very sensitive to the effect of the age and sex structures of the 
populations considered. Between the years 50 and 80, the absolute number of 
annual deaths by CVA roughly rose from 60 000 to 70 000 in France. However, 
after adjustment taking into account changes in numbers, age and sex and 
undetermined causes, there is a marked decrease in comparative levels (almost 
40%). This decrease is of the same order of magnitude as that for mortality of 
circulatory system diseases taken overall, as well as that of general mortality. 
CVA remains the 3rd cause of death (in terms of numbers) but it is only in 8th 
place, in terms of loss of life expectancy. Taking as the reference the American 
National Survey of Stroke, using a certain number of hypotheses, it is possible 
to estimate the incidence of CVA in France. This gives an annual number of cases 
of the order of 140 000, including approximately 100 000 cases of initial CVA. 
The corresponding prevalence is estimated at 470 000 (mean numbers of 
individuals suffering one or more CVA).

PMID: 6228909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Stroke. 1984 Mar-Apr;15(2):371-5. doi: 10.1161/01.str.15.2.371.

The patient with transient ischemic attacks--is this the time for a new 
therapeutic approach?

Adams HP Jr, Kassell NF, Mazuz H.

Current and future improvements in treatment to prevent cerebral infarction 
among patients with transient ischemic attacks may reduce neurological morbidity 
but may not lead to a proportional improvement in life expectancy. Because the 
long-term primary cause of death in these patients is myocardial infarction, it 
is most likely that the most important way to prolong survival may be the 
vigorous investigation of their cardiac status and the treatment of their 
coronary artery disease, even if asymptomatic.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.15.2.371
PMID: 6230779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1984 Apr 6;109(14):523-6. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1069226.

[Local infusion therapy in liver metastases of colorectal cancers. Results of a 
phase-II study].

[Article in German]

Brückner R, Rothmund M, Hinterberger R.

The course of 32 patients with liver metastases of colorectal carcinoma, treated 
with liver infusions (5-fluorouracil, 500 mg/m2, or floxuridine, 12 mg/m2 daily) 
was compared with that of 40 regularly examined but untreated patients (control 
group) in whom, at most three months after a previous negative examination, 
non-resectable bilateral metastases with initially less than 25% liver 
involvement had been found. The two groups were comparable with respect to onset 
pattern and volume of liver metastases. CEA values, ultrasound and computer 
tomography were obtained in both groups within three months. Mean survival time 
in the control group was 7.3 (4-14) months. In the treatment group the catheter 
had been placed either transvenously or transarterially. Mean survival time in 
this group is at present 17 (4-46) months, with a remission rate of 81%; 18 of 
the 32 patients are still alive. The high catheter complication rate with the 
external systems has recently been completely avoided by using implantable pump 
systems. Liver infusion treatment is judged to be a hopeful measure in liver 
metastases from colo-rectal carcinoma, with respect to survival time, tumour 
regression and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1069226
PMID: 6231176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Bol Oficina Sanit Panam. 1984 Feb;96(2):160-7.

[Life expectancy of the problem drinker in Santiago, Chile. I. Methodological 
and population aspects].

[Article in Spanish]

Naveillan P, Vargas S.

PMID: 6231936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Z Kinderchir. 1983 Dec;38 Suppl 2:100-2. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1063090.

A study of deaths and handicap in a consecutive series of spina bifida treated 
unselectively from birth.

Hunt GM.

In a consecutive series of spina bifida operated unselectively at birth 62% 
reached the twelfth birthday and 54% could be expected to reach the nineteenth. 
Many of the most severely affected cases survived; if they died the cause was 
usually renal failure. Bronchopneumonia was the main cause of death in infants 
and hydrocephalus in the older children. Girls outnumbered boys by 1:1.3 and, 
although they were more severely affected, their survival equalled the boys'. 
Awareness of the high survival rate which results from the treatment of spina 
bifida is important for the parents of a newborn baby. It is also a prerequisite 
in planning provision for the young adult.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1063090
PMID: 6232775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Annu Rev Public Health. 1984;5:83-106. doi:
10.1146/annurev.pu.05.050184.000503.

Interpreting trends in illness and disability: health statistics and health 
status.

Wilson RW, Drury TF.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.pu.05.050184.000503
PMID: 6232929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Bol Oficina Sanit Panam. 1984 Mar;96(3):222-8.

[Life expectancy of the problem drinker in Santiago, Chile. II. Estimation of 
the number of deaths].

[Article in Spanish]

Naveillan P, Vargas S.

PMID: 6232933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Bol Oficina Sanit Panam. 1984 Apr;96(4):334-41.

[Life expectancy of problem-drinkers in Santiago, Chile. III. Estimation of 
specific mortality rates].

[Article in Spanish]

Naveillan P, Vargas S.

PMID: 6233993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Ann Acad Med Singap. 1983 Jul;12(3):377-9.

Psychological aspects of spinal cord injuries--an important point in the outcome 
of rehabilitation.

Jochheim KA.

With modern management of spinal cord injury, the mortality rate has reduced and 
life expectancy increased, and psychological and social counselling have become 
an integral part of the total rehabilitation process. Observation and 
exploration as well as some additional tests form the basis for a proper 
evaluation of the individual coping mechanism. Typical behaviour patterns are 
discussed and therapeutic approaches with specific indications, analysed. The 
most important issue, however, is the willingness of the family and the 
community to accept the disabled cocitizen as an equal partner in all activities 
concerned.

PMID: 6234847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Z Alternsforsch. 1984 Jul-Aug;39(4):215-21.

[Nutritional characteristics of persons in middle and old age in an area with a 
high life expectancy (the Abkhazian ASSR)].

[Article in German]

Grigorov JuG, Koslovskaja SC, Medovar BJa.

Using questionnaires an investigation was made into the diet habits of 68 people 
aged 60-74 years, 64 people aged 75-89 years and 46 people of expectionally old 
age (90 years and older). This group of people lives in an agricultural region 
of the Abkhazian ASSR, a region with one of the highest life expectancy rates in 
the Soviet Union. It was found that the diet is characterized by a high 
lactovegetarian content, a well-balanced proportion of the most important 
nutrients, more or less perfect concurrence with the recommended diet for this 
age group and some particularities of the diet (amino acid composition, 
antioxidation protection) which possibly raise life expectancy, at least on 
experimental grounds. Alimentary risk factors could not be established.

PMID: 6236620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Bol Oficina Sanit Panam. 1984 Jul;97(1):54-62.

[Life expectancy of the problem drinker in Santiago, Chile. IV. Relation to his 
occupational category].

[Article in Spanish]

Naveillan P, Vargas S.

PMID: 6236829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Soc Sci Med. 1984;19(4):405-9. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(84)90198-9.

Opportunities for health promotion: including the chronically ill and disabled.

Brooks NA.

One of the aims of health promotion and illness prevention is to reduce the 
prevalence of chronic disease that is so apparent in the developed countries, 
yet the very individuals who already have chronic diseases and disabling 
conditions constitute a sizeable population which could contribute to health 
promotion programs. There are two chief elements which argue for an extension of 
health promotion toward the chronically ill and disabled: (1) the lifestyle 
management which is characteristic of health promotion is similar in many 
respects to the comprehensive self-care regimens followed by chronically ill 
persons, and (2) the philosophy of independent living for disabled persons 
shares social foundations with the concept of health promotion and could add the 
strength of social advocacy to health promotion. This paper examines social and 
medical variables linking the two health trends of health promotion and 
independent living for disabled persons. Observations of a U.S. independent 
living program, The Timbers, are reported to illustrate an active combination of 
the two philosophies. Finally, sociological implications are presented, with a 
focus on the potential of health promotion programs.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(84)90198-9
PMID: 6237415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Am J Orthod. 1984 Oct;86(4):342-6. doi: 10.1016/0002-9416(84)90145-3.

In vivo studies on the carcinogenic potential of an orthodontic bonding resin.

Miller EG, Thompson LR, Zimmermann ER, Bowles WH.

Data from another laboratory have indicated that the individual components of an 
orthodontic bonding resin might contain a carcinogen. Since that report, the 
formulation of the product was changed. The purpose of this study was to 
determine whether the new product is safe. Three groups of rats were used for 
the experiment. One group served as a control, while the other groups ingested 
the sealant resin or sealant catalyst. The materials were suspended in an 
alcohol-aqueous mixture and the solutions were given to the animals as their 
only source of fluid. The exposure was for 1 year. After this period of time, 
all the rats were given tap water and observed until day 600. The animals were 
autopsied at time of death or at the end of the experiment. During the 
treatment, there were significant differences (p less than 0.01) in water intake 
among the three groups. The average intake per day for the animals in the 
control group, the resin group, and the catalyst group was 50.2 cc, 37.8 cc, and 
42.2 cc, respectively. Several animals died during the experiment, but there was 
no significant differences in the life expectancy of the animals in the three 
groups. The autopsies uncovered one malignant neoplasm, an undifferentiated 
sarcoma, in a rat from the control group and four benign tumors in rats from the 
three groups. All of these results indicate that the new formulation of the 
orthodontic bonding resin is not carcinogenic when ingested at a dose level of 
50 ppm.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9416(84)90145-3
PMID: 6237589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Bol Oficina Sanit Panam. 1984 Aug;97(2):150-8.

[Life expectancy of the problem drinker in Santiago, Chile. V. Projection of 
results from 1960 to 1980].

[Article in Spanish]

Naveillan P, Vargas S.

PMID: 6238605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Bol Oficina Sanit Panam. 1984 Sep;97(3):252-60.

[Life expectancy of the problem-drinker in Santiago, Chile IV. Work-days lost. 
Years 1960-1980].

[Article in Spanish]

Naveillan P, Vargas S.

PMID: 6239630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Mech Ageing Dev. 1984 Nov;28(1):111-21. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(84)90157-x.

The effect of sequential multiple grafting of syngeneic newborn thymus on the 
immune functions and life expectancy of aging mice.

Hirokawa K, Utsuyama M.

Enhancement of the immune functions and extension of the mean life expectancy 
were successfully performed in aging mice by sequential multiple grafting of 
syngeneic newborn thymus. In the first experiment, 2-month-old female C57BL/6 
mice were grafted with either syngeneic newborn thymus or newborn spleen every 2 
months, 5 or 6 times. A significant enhancement of T cell dependent immune 
functions were observed in the group sequentially grafted with newborn thymus, 
in comparison to that grafted with multiple sequential newborn spleen or with a 
single newborn thymus and that without a graft. In the second experiment, the 
same sequential grafting protocol was performed in middle aged mice at monthly 
interval for 4-5 consecutive months and the immune functions and survival rate 
were compared between the experimental and control groups. The immune functions 
were only partially rejuvenated, but an extension of the mean remaining life 
expectancy was observed in the experimental group (312 +/- 38 days) as compared 
with control (214 +/- 42 days), although maximal life-span was the same in both 
groups (1100 days).

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(84)90157-x
PMID: 6239958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Arch Belg. 1984;42(7-8):400-17.

[Social injustice in relation to illness and death].

[Article in Dutch]

Vuylsteek K.

PMID: 6240231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Bol Oficina Sanit Panam. 1984 Nov;97(5):451-64.

[Health and population].

[Article in Spanish]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 6240275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Zhong Xi Yi Jie He Za Zhi. 1984 Nov;4(11):703-5.

[Present status and prospect of research in traditional Chinese medicine and 
western medicine in life expectancy experiments].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang W.

PMID: 6241523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Endocrinology. 1980 Sep;107(3):671-6. doi: 10.1210/endo-107-3-671.

A longitudinal hormonal profile of the genetically obese mouse.

Garthwaite TL, Martinson DR, Tseng LF, Hagen TC, Menahan LA.

Obese mice (C57BL/6J ob/ob) and their lean littermates were studied at various 
ages from immediately post weaning until 62 weeks of age, at which mortality 
increased markedly. Several age-related changes were noted. 1) Plasma glucose 
levels were elevated in obese mice 5-20 weeks and 62 weeks of age, but were 
similar to those in the lean mice at 20-60 weeks of age. Plasma insulin levels 
were elevated in obese mice, and there were no age-related differences. 2) Brain 
serotonin was elevated in obese mice at all ages and increased with age in both 
obese and lean animals. 3) Pituitary contents of ACTH and beta-endorphin were 
elevated in young obese mice and increased further as these mice approached 
their life expectancy. 4) The ratios of ACTH to beta-endorphin 
immunoreactivities were similar in obese and lean mice, except in obese mice 
over 50 weeks of age where this ratio was increased. We conclude that: 1) the 
obese mouse is characterized by hyperinsulinemia and hyperadrenocorticism 
throughout its life; 2) the insulin resistance of the obese mouse improves at 20 
weeks of age, yet deteriorates as its life expectancy is approached; 3) the 
obese mouse has an elevated brain serotonin content similar to previously 
described elevations of the putative neurotransmitters dopamine and 
norepinephrine in these mice; and 4) as the obese mouse approaches its life 
expectancy, abnormalities may occur in the synthesis, processing, or secretion 
of ACTH and/or beta-endorphine.

DOI: 10.1210/endo-107-3-671
PMID: 6249569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Med Trop (Mars). 1980 Sep-Oct;40(5):509-19.

[Tick-borne encephalitis in Europe (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Hannoun C.

Tick-borne encephalitis is the major european arbovirosis. It is observed in 
Soviet Union, Central and Western Europe and Scandinavian countries. In France, 
natural foci have been detected in Alsace (more specialy in Illkirch forest, 
near Strasbourg). In the United Kingdom exists a sheep encephalomyelitis 
(loupingill) caused by an arbovirus not much different from the tick-born 
encephalitis virus. The tick-born encephalitis virus is a flavivirus transmitted 
by tick bites. Tick is also a virus reservoir; it remains infected all along its 
life, through its metamorphosises and transmits the virus to its progeny. 
Vector-ticks belong to various species of a same genus; Ixodes persulcatus in 
Far-Eastern Soviet Union, Ixodes ricinus in other european foci. Small rodents 
(field-mouse, vole) are mainly the prime vertebrate hosts. Man is more often 
infected by the tick bite, more rarely by ingestion of new milk from infected 
domestic animals. Prognosis of the disease is under geographical variations: 
severe in Far-Eastern Russia and much milder in Central Europe. Natural foci are 
detected by serological surveys in patients recovering from neurologic diseases, 
human populations and in domestic animals. Natural foci beeing localized, 
isolation and identification of the virus from ticks and local rodents are 
tried. Extension and creation of new natural foci are caused by big mammalians 
and by migratory birds which carry over virus and vector ticks. Prophylaxis for 
people going to or living in registered natural foci, consists of avoiding ticks 
bites by wearing tight clothes and using repellents. Immunization by a recent 
vaccine produced in Austria from cultures on chicken embryo has given promising 
results.

PMID: 6255281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Rev Infect Dis. 1980 Jul-Aug;2(4):546-50. doi: 10.1093/clinids/2.4.546.

Ketoconazole in early and late murine coccidioidomycosis.

Levine HB, Cobb JM.

Ketoconazole (35 mg/kg) was administered orally to mice twice daily, beginning 
at different intervals after intranasal infection with arthrospores of 
Coccidioides immitis. When treatment was begun on the fourth day after 
infection, before extensive extrapulmonary dissemination of the infection had 
occurred, all animals survived, and extension of the disease from lungs to 
