liver, spleen, and kidneys was prevented. Mortality was 90% in untreated control 
animals. In most of the drug-treated animals, lung lesions were not rendered 
free of fungus after 21 days of treatment. When treatment was begun on the 12th 
day of infection, after extrapulmonary dissemination had occurred, the drug was 
life-preserving. However, lesions of the peritoneal organs of 30%--60% of the 
surviving animals and pulmonary lesions of 90% of these animals harbored viable 
fungi after 82 days of treatment. Mortality was lower when treatment was given 
from the 35th through the 120th day after infection to survivors of a challenge 
dose that was lethal to 28% of the animals within 30 days. These data indicate 
that the antifungal activity of the drug observed in vitro also operates in 
vivo. Mycologic cure was optimal when infections were treated early. It became 
difficult to eradicate the fungus once it became entrenched in lesions of the 
peritoneal organs or lungs.

DOI: 10.1093/clinids/2.4.546
PMID: 6255530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Boll Ist Sieroter Milan. 1980 May 31;59(2):126-32.

[Seroepidemiologic survey of the spread of rotavirus infection in a Milan 
population].

[Article in Italian]

Ferrante P, Fasan M, Barbi M.

The increasing evidence of involvement of Rotaviruses in the etiology of viral 
gastroenteritis prompted us to carry on a seroepidemiological survey on the 
population of Milan. The aim was to get informations on the extension of the 
circulation of these agents in our population. Utilising a commercial antigen 
prepared with the "Oslo" bovine strain, c.f.a. were titrated in sera from 575 
healthy subjects (age 0 to > 60 years). Of them 232 were children under 4 years 
of age homogeneously distributed into 6 age classes: at birth, 1 day to 3 
months, 4-6 months, 7-12 months, 13-24 months, 2-4 years. Rotavirus infection 
appears very common. About 80% of the subjects over 10 years have c.f.a. As it 
is shown by the sharp increase of antibody acquisition after an initial drop in 
the first 6 months (82% positive at birth and 41% between 4-6 months), the 
infection seems to occur very early in life, as much as the plateau is reached 
under 10 years of age. Moreover consistent antibody titers (greater than or 
equal to 1:32), which could indicate recent infection, first appear in babies 4 
to 12 months of age. Such titres are absent in the adults and could be found 
again in people over 50. Positivity was significantly higher in females than in 
males (0.01 < P < 0.025). Transplacental c.f.a. passage was studied in paired 
sera of 37 women at delivery and in cord blood sera of their babies; 28 matched 
pairs of sera had coincidental titres, but there were additional three cord 
blood specimens with c.f.a. from newborns whose mothers were negative.

PMID: 6257252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Surgery. 1981 Mar;89(3):279-89.

Treatment of early cancer of the breast (T1N0M0 and T2N0M0) on the basis of 
histologic characteristics.

Nealon TF Jr, Nkongho A, Grossi CE, Ward R, Nealon C, Gillooley JF.

This is a retrospective study of the results of various types of surgical 
treatment of early breast cancer staged histologically using the following 
characteristics: (1) poor cytologic differentiation, (2) lymphatic permeation, 
(3) blood vessel invasion, or (4) invasion of the tumor into the surrounding 
soft tissue. Four hundred and three patients who had early tumors of the 
breast--228 T1N0M0 (tumor 2 cm or less in diameter, no nodal involvement, and no 
metastasis) and 175 T2N0M0 (tumor 2 to 5 cm in diameter, no nodal involvement, 
and no metastasis)--were treated at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center 
between January 1, 1965, and December 31 1976. Eighty-three were classified as 
being at low risk 190 at intermediate risk, and 130 at high risk. At 10 years, 
100% of the low-risk group were alive; 99% were free of disease, and any type of 
mastectomy performed--radical, modified radical, or total--was adequate. At 10 
years, 44% of those at high risk were alive, and 30% were free of disease. 
Radiotherapy improved life expectancy when added to radical mastectomy in the 
high-risk group. We recommend a prior excisional biopsy for proper histologic 
evaluation to allow a more appropriate choice of surgical procedure.

PMID: 6258255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Aust Fam Physician. 1981 Jan;10(1):27-30.

General principles of management of the paraplegic.

Burke DC.

The management of patients with traumatic paraplegia and tetraplegia has 
improved markedly in recent years. Survival now approaches the normal life 
expectancy, due to modern intensive care and understanding of potential 
complications of the spinal paralysis. Rehabilitation techniques lead to 
excellent physical and psychological adjustment, and community-based follow up 
with cooperation from the specialized spinal units has ensured continued good 
care after discharge.

PMID: 6263237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Br J Dis Chest. 1981 Jan;75(1):40-54. doi: 10.1016/s0007-0971(81)80006-x.

Lung cancer, immune status, histopathology and smoking. Is oat cell carcinoma 
lymphodependent?

Anthony HM, Madsen KE, Mason MK, Templeman GH.

Life table analysis and partial correlation analysis have been used to examine 
the importance and interaction of those factors reported to affect prognosis in 
lung cancer, in a group of men taking part in a recent trial (Anthony et al. 
1978). In patients with squamous carcinoma the lymphocyte count at diagnosis was 
a genuine correlate of survival, those with higher counts living longer. 
Patients who had smoked more heavily were younger when their tumours were found, 
had better differentiated carcinomas and longer survival. Those with poorer 
differentiation had weaker skin test reactivity but the expected shorter 
survival was seen only when controls for symptom pattern history and 
resectability were applied. These data could be explained by control of tumour 
extension by cell-mediated immunity, earlier induction of better differentiated 
tumours in heavier smokers, more insidious onset of symptoms in those with 
better differentiated tumours and the depression of cell-mediated immunity by 
poorly differentiated tumours. In contrast, the longer survivors among patients 
with oat cell carcinoma had lower lymphocyte and monocyte counts at the time of 
diagnosis. Lymphocyte and monocyte counts contributed independently to survival 
in keeping with oat cell carcinoma being lymphodependent (Prehn 1977) and 
resistant to immune cytolysis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0007-0971(81)80006-x
PMID: 6266445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. J Am Med Womens Assoc (1972). 1981 Apr;36(4):123-6, 129-30.

Influences on medical education in the United States.

Sutnick AI, Hartman ME, Grover PL.

PMID: 6270202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Krankenpflege (Frankf). 1981 Oct;35(10):387-9.

["Rearing" of prematurely born and full-term infants].

[Article in German]

Riegel K.

PMID: 6270454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Health Phys. 1982 Apr;42(4):449-57. doi: 10.1097/00004032-198204000-00005.

Radon daughter exposure to uranium miners.

Cohen BL.

Radon exposures to U.S. uranium miners under present conditions average about 
1.3 WLM per year approximately or equal to 60 WLM per full working lifetime. 
This is intermediate between (a) the lowest exposures for which there have been 
excess lung cancers reported among U.S. miners (120-240 WLM) and (b) average 
environmental radon exposures (16 WLM), so models based on these two situations 
are used to estimate expected effects on present uranium miners. In Model A, the 
loss of life expectancy is 45 days, the SMR (standardized mortality ratio) for 
lung cancer is 1.10, and the SMR for all causes between ages 18 and 65 is 1.013. 
In Model B these are 10 days, 1.03 and 1.002 respectively. It is shown that the 
radon exposures to miners are similar to those to millions of Americans from 
environmental exposure, and that miner health risks are comparable to those of 
other radiation workers. Their lung cancer risk from radon is 7-50 times less 
than their job-related accident mortality risk, and represents 0.7-4% of their 
total risk in mining. Miners suffer from many diseases with SMR very much larger 
than that for radon-induced lung cancer, and there are many other occupations 
and industries with far higher SMR for lung cancer than that from radon exposure 
to miners.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-198204000-00005
PMID: 6282781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. J Hyg Epidemiol Microbiol Immunol. 1982;26(1):65-73.

Study of persistence of maternal antibodies to varicella-zoster virus by 
indirect haemagglutination, with result control by radioimmunoassay.

Trlifajová J, Pokorný J, Svandovă E, Ryba M.

The persistence of maternal antibody against varicella-zoster virus was studied 
by the method of indirect haemagglutination (IH) and a control of the results 
was performed by radioimmunoassay (RIA). The findings were analysed with 
reference to the constant half-life of passively acquired IgG and the titre 
range and frequency of antibodies in 220 persons of fertile age representative 
of the normal population. Statistical analysis of expected and the 
experimentally obtained data was performed. Among the normal population, the 
expectancy is a gradual decrease in maternal IH antibody titres to negativity 
during the first 10 months of life and 100% sero-negativity by the 11th and 12th 
month. The experimental data showed a decrease in IH seropositivity from the 
initial 100% in 1-month infants to 27% in 6-month and 7% in 12-month infants. 
Nine out of twelve of the experimentally found positive titres in infants during 
the second half of their first year of life deviated from the normal population 
sample. The results obtained by both of the methods used were in good agreement.

PMID: 6282961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. J Urol. 1982 May;127(5):888-91. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)54116-6.

Primary malignant renal tumors in the second decade of life: Wilms tumor versus 
renal cell carcinoma.

Hartman DS, Davis CJ Jr, Madewell JE, Friedman AC.

Primary renal malignancies occur least frequently in the second decade of life. 
Of the 4,798 cases of renal cell carcinoma and Wilms tumor referred to the Armed 
Forces Institute of Pathology 53 renal cell carcinomas and 56 Wilms tumors 
occurred in the 10 to 20-year age group. Pathologically, both tumors in this age 
range are similar to those occurring at a more typical age, and histologic 
differentiation between renal cell carcinoma and Wilms tumor is seldom a 
problem. While radiographic evaluation is useful to characterize the neoplasm, 
evaluate the contralateral kidney and detect the presence of tumor extension, 
current imaging techniques cannot confidently distinguish these 2 tumors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)54116-6
PMID: 6283183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. J Am Vet Med Assoc. 1982 Jul 1;181(1):54-8.

Insulin-secreting islet cell tumors: establishing a diagnosis and the clinical 
course for 25 dogs.

Kruth SA, Feldman EC, Kennedy PC.

Twenty-five dogs with insulin-secreting neoplasms of the pancreas were studied. 
The diagnosis in each case was determined by histologic evaluation of pancreatic 
tissue obtained at surgery. The breed distribution revealed that German Shepherd 
Dogs, Irish Setters, and Collies were most commonly represented. Physical 
examination, complete blood counts, serum biochemical analysis, and urinalysis 
were of little diagnostic value, aside from the finding of hypoglycemia in 21 of 
25 dogs. Radiographs of the thorax and abdomen were noncontributory to the 
ultimate diagnosis. Prior to surgery, fasting immunoreactive insulin 
concentrations and blood glucose concentrations were studied. Insulin:glucose 
ratios, glucose:insulin ratios, and amended insulin:glucose ratios were 
determined from the insulin and glucose concentrations in a single blood sample 
in each of 28 trials. In addition, glucagon tolerance tests were performed on 12 
dogs. The amended insulin:glucose ratios proved to be the most reliable for 
diagnosis. Pancreatic masses were evident at surgery in 23 of 25 dogs; the 
remaining 2 dogs had microscopic evidence of an islet cell tumor. Nineteen of 
the islet cell tumors were carcinomas and 6 were simply described as "islet cell 
tumors." The mean life expectancy after surgery was 12.3 months. Treatment for 
malignant islet cell tumours included frequent feeding glucocorticoids, and 
diazoxide.

PMID: 6286582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Mech Ageing Dev. 1982 Nov;20(3):195-203. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(82)90087-2.

Age-related changes in 5'-nucleotidase and alkaline phosphatase activities in 
mouse thymocytes.

Menahan LA, Kemp RG.

Enzymatic activities of thymocytes isolated from Swiss albino mice were studied 
at various ages from immediately post weaning until 100 weeks of age, 
approaching the life expectancy of these animals. Between 5 and 10 weeks of age, 
the activities of lactate dehydrogenase and alkaline phosphatase decreased to a 
level that was maintained throughout the remainder of the aging profile. Neutral 
beta-glycerophosphatase (pH 7.5) activity in a thymus membrane preparation was 
similar in all age groups. The activity of membrane-bound 5'-nucleotidase, that 
is, AMP-hydrolyzing activity inhibited by 100 microM alpha, 
beta-methyleneadenosine 5'-diphosphate, progressively increased as a function of 
age, indicating thymocyte population changes occurring very late in life. In 
thymocytes of the oldest mice examined (100 weeks of age), 5'-nucleotidase 
specific activity was approximately ten-fold greater than the activity found in 
5-week-old mice. Thus, membrane-bound 5'-nucleotidase activity in thymocytes 
increased markedly as a function of age in Swiss albino mice; yet several other 
enzymatic activities, including alkaline phosphatase, remained relatively 
unchanged in mature mice.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(82)90087-2
PMID: 6298508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1983 Jul 1;108(26):1008-13. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1069684.

[Completely implantable infusion pump. A new therapeutic possibility for 
selected patients with liver tumors].

[Article in German]

Balch CM, Urist MM.

The action of floxuridine depends greatly on its concentration for treatment of 
liver metastases of colorectal carcinomas and other tumors. In isolated liver 
metastases it is best infused regionally in order to achieve a high 
concentration and to reduce systemic toxicity, particularly as it is almost 
entirely extracted by the liver. A totally implantable infusion pump has 
established itself as an effective, safe and reliable device of regional 
chemotherapy with floxuridine for palliative treatment of selected patients with 
metastases of colorectal carcinomas and other tumors. Life expectancy of 
patients with metastases of colorectal carcinomas was prolonged by 12-18 months 
when compared to a precedent control group without regional chemotherapy. This 
results require confirmation in a randomised phase III study. Patients with 
hepatocellular carcinoma can be treated with intraarterial doxorubicine and 
floxuridine infusions. Preliminary results are encouraging. The implantable 
system represents a major advance in drug administration, not only for the 
treatment of malignant disease but also a large number of other diseases. 
Continuous infusion of drugs using an implantable pump system will probably 
achieve greater importance in the future in the treatment of cancer.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1069684
PMID: 6303741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Sem Hop. 1983 Mar 10;59(10):665-70.

[Primary retroperitoneal tumors in adults].

[Article in French]

Lauru Y, Coupier L, Garbay M.

The authors report a series of eight primitive retro-peritoneal tumors, which 
were difficult to diagnose because of the late appearance of the symptoms. The 
intravenous urogram is the only satisfactory fundamental examination, possibly 
completed with ultrasound, CT scanning, and, if necessary, angiography. 
Extensive surgery allowed total exeresis in most cases. But histological 
examination remains difficult. Mesenchymomas, the most frequent, are very often 
malignant. Two cases of association with other malignant tumors were observed. 
Adjuvant procedures add little to life expectancy and total surgery is alone 
likely to be effective.

PMID: 6304886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Biomed Pharmacother. 1982;36(6-7):275-6.

Female superiority.

Reizenstein P.

The median expected survival in Swedish women is 10% longer than that in men and 
still increasing, while that in men stopped going up 10 years ago. Women have a 
better prognosis than men in chronic myelocytic leukemia, in acute lymphatic and 
myeloid leukemias, in multiple myeloma and in malignant lymphoma given 
immunotherapy. There are some early indications that women may be more resistant 
than men to malignant transformation induced by radiation or smoking.

PMID: 6305441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Blood. 1983 Aug;62(2):286-90.

Alpha-thalassemia is related to prolonged survival in sickle cell anemia.

Mears JG, Lachman HM, Labie D, Nagel RL.

We have determined the frequency of deletional alpha-thalassemia in black 
populations in the USA and Africa that harbor sickle cell anemia. In normals, 
the frequency of the chromosome bearing a deletion of one of the two normal 
alpha gene loci, designated (-alpha), ranged from 0.12 to 0.16, and in sickle 
trait subjects, the frequency ranged from 0.18 to 0.20. By contrast, in sickle 
cell anemia subjects, the frequency was significantly greater and ranged from 
0.22 to 0.33. Analysis demonstrated that the greater frequency in the last group 
was primarily a result of an increased number of subjects with alpha-thalassemia 
trait (also called homozygous alpha-thalassemia-2). In addition, the frequency 
of the (-alpha) chromosome was found to increase progressively with age, 
supporting the hypothesis that alpha-thalassemia is favorable to the survival of 
subjects with sickle cell anemia. Thus, individuals who inherit 
alpha-thalassemia and sickle cell anemia may represent a subgroup of patients 
with a longer life expectancy.

PMID: 6307429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Obstet Gynecol Surv. 1983 Aug;38(8):445-55. doi: 
10.1097/00006254-198308000-00001.

Cost-effectiveness of hormone replacement therapy in the menopause.

Weinstein MC, Schiff I.

Costs, risks, and benefits of estrogen-progestin therapy in the menopause were 
compared with those for estrogen alone, using techniques of cost-effectiveness 
analysis. With the progestin added, reduced costs of endometrial monitoring and 
treatment of endometrial lesions more than offset the increased cost of the drug 
regimen with a net saving of $230-$430 per patient, depending on the duration of 
treatment. An estimated gain in life expectancy with estrogen-progestin compared 
to estrogen alone may be partly offset by a perceived reduction in the quality 
of life owing to the prolongation of menstruation in women receiving progestin. 
Overall, based on currently available evidence, estrogen-progestin therapy 
appears to be cost-effective, except in women who consider the adverse effects 
of continued menstruation to offset the relief of menopausal symptoms. These 
conclusions must be viewed as tentative, pending further clarification of the 
roles of estrogens and progestins in cardiovascular disease and breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1097/00006254-198308000-00001
PMID: 6310460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Life Sci. 1984 Feb 13;34(7):639-46. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(84)90227-3.

Identification of alpha 1 adrenergic receptors in rabbit aorta with [125I] 
BE2254.

Tsujimoto G, Bristow MR, Hoffman BB.

Alpha-adrenergic receptors may play an important role in regulating vascular 
tone and reactivity. To study alpha-adrenergic receptors in blood vessels, we 
have developed a method to characterize and quantitate alpha-adrenergic 
receptors in a particulate fraction of individual rabbit aortas using the high 
specific activity alpha antagonist [125I] BE2254. [125I] BE2254 specifically 
labels a single class of binding sites with a dissociation constant of 286 pM 
and a maximal binding capacity of 16.7 fmoles/mg protein. Catecholamines compete 
for [125I] BE2254 binding stereospecifically and with the characteristic 
alpha-adrenergic potency series of (-)epinephrine greater than or equal to 
(-)norepinephrine much greater than (-)isoproterenol. The alpha 1-selective 
antagonist prazosin (KD = 0.7 nM) is much more potent in competing for [125I] 
BE2254 binding than is the alpha 2-selective antagonist yohimbine (KD = 1000 
nM), which suggests that the alpha adrenergic receptor identified is 
predominantly of the alpha 1 subtype. Also, the dissociation constants from 
these binding studies were in good agreement with those reported in rabbit aorta 
from classical pharmacological experiments where contraction was found to be 
mediated via alpha 1 receptors. This extension of radioligand binding techniques 
to individual rabbit aortas should simplify the study of vascular alpha 
adrenergic receptor regulation, and provide a basis for broadening the 
understanding of vascular alpha adrenergic receptors.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(84)90227-3
PMID: 6321870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. S Afr Med J. 1984 Mar 17;65(11):425-8.

[Physiological dangers of the use of Cannabis sativa].

[Article in Afrikaans]

Theron A.

The increasing use of Cannabis sativa (dagga) raises the question whether it 
could cause physical harm to the user. The earlier belief that cannabis could be 
used effectively in the treatment of various illnesses contributes to the 
tendency of cannabis users to reject the possibility that it may be harmful to 
their health. Scientific research, however, indicates that cannabis has no 
medicinal value. On the contrary, it may cause serious physical damage.

PMID: 6322360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Mech Ageing Dev. 1984 Feb;24(2):175-83. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(84)90069-1.

Effects of diethyldithiocarbamate on life span, metabolic rate, superoxide 
dismutase, catalase, inorganic peroxides and glutathione in the adult male 
housefly, Musca domestica.

Sohal RS, Farmer KJ, Allen RG, Ragland SS.

The effect of inactivation of superoxide dismutase, by diethyldithiocarbamate, 
on life span, metabolic rate, superoxide dismutase activity, catalase activity, 
inorganic peroxide concentration and glutathione levels in adult male houseflies 
was determined. The general objective was to examine the role of free radical 
defenses in the aging process. Houseflies were administered 0. 1 and 10 mM 
diethyldithiocarbamate in their drinking water. Administration of 
diethyldithiocarbamate caused an extension in the average life spans of the 
populations while the metabolic rates were depressed. Superoxide dismutase 
activity was significantly reduced. Inorganic peroxide concentration and 
catalase activity declined in rough correspondence to the decrease in the 
metabolic rate. The levels of reduced glutathione were significantly elevated 
whereas oxidized glutathione concentrations remained relatively unaffected. The 
results are interpreted to indicate that a decrease in superoxide dismutase 
activity in the housefly, by diethyldithiocarbamate administration, is 
compensated by an elevation in reduced glutathione levels and reduction of 
oxygen consumption, suggesting the existence of alternative free radical 
defenses in vivo.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(84)90069-1
PMID: 6325831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Bull Environ Contam Toxicol. 1984 Jun;32(6):724-31. doi: 10.1007/BF01607563.

Survivorship of meadow voles, Microtus pennsylvanicus, from sewage 
sludge-treated fields.

Maly MS.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01607563
PMID: 6331555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Ann Genet. 1984;27(2):79-82.

[Oto-palato-digital type II syndrome].

[Article in French]

Kaplan J, Maroteaux P.

A new case of the recently described oto-palato-digital type II is reported. The 
authors insist on the characteristic anomalies, the facial dysmorphism, the 
overlapping and deviation of the digits, the proximal implantation and 
hypoplasia of the big toe, and the deafness. Radiologically, the massive 
appearance of the bones, their incurvation, their defective modeling are 
characteristic of the syndrome. Life expectancy is often reduced. X-linked 
inheritance with minor stigmata in the heterozygous females is well established.

PMID: 6331793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1984 Sep;81(18):5831-5. doi:
10.1073/pnas.81.18.5831.

Influence of early or late dietary restriction on life span and immunological 
parameters in MRL/Mp-lpr/lpr mice.

Kubo C, Day NK, Good RA.

Reduced food intake doubles and even triples the life span of (NZB X NZW)F1 
(B/W) mice and greatly influences of food intake while keeping vitamin and 
mineral intake constant in mice of the MRL/Mp-lpr/lpr (MRL/l) strain. 
Restriction of food intake greatly prolongs life. This influence also was seen 
when dietary restriction was imposed later in life. Dietary restriction 
inhibited development of lymphoproliferative disease and greatly decreased the 
numbers of cells in thymus, lymph nodes, and spleen. It also delayed development 
of glomerulonephritis and maintained certain immunological responses. 
Proliferative responses to phytohemagglutinin, pokeweed mitogen, or allogeneic 
spleen cells were maintained in the mice fed a low-calorie diet from 6 wk. 
Imposing diet at 12 wk had a lesser influence than earlier restriction. These 
dietary influences did not depress formation of anti-DNA antibodies or 
circulating immunocomplexes. MRL/l mice show an apparently extremely low 
production of interleukin 2, and dietary restriction increased the capacity of 
lymph node cells but not spleen cells to produce this immunomodulator.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.81.18.5831
PMCID: PMC391805
PMID: 6333026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Chirurgie. 1983;109(9):702-13.

[14 years of experience in direct myocardial revascularization surgery].

[Article in French]

Hahn C.

PMID: 6335075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Med Decis Making. 1984;4(3):315-29. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8400400307.

Preferences for health outcomes. Comparison of assessment methods.

Read JL, Quinn RJ, Berwick DM, Fineberg HV, Weinstein MC.

This study compared standard gamble (SG), time trade-off (TTO), and category 
scaling (CS) methods for assessing preferences among hypothetical outcomes of 
coronary artery bypass surgery. High correlations among assessment methods, as 
found in some previous studies, do not assure the absence of systematic 
differences in rating obtained by different methods. This study used analysis of 
variance to test for differences among the three assessment methods. 
Questionnaire responses were obtained from 67 of 109 physicians participating in 
a postgraduate course on clinical decision making, following a lecture and 
workshop on utility theory. SG and CS were used to rate multivariate 
combinations of angina (none, moderate, and severe) and survival (0, 5, and 10 
years); and SG, TTO, and CS were used to rate univariate outcomes with angina 
(none, moderate, and severe) for the remainder of their life expectancy. SG 
ratings were higher than TTO ratings, which were higher than CS ratings (p less 
than 0.001 for all comparisons). Multivariate responses revealed a significant 
interaction between angina and survival dimensions using CS, but not using SG. 
We conclude that these methods are not interchangeable and that differences 
between SG and CS require a more complex explanation than differences in 
attitude toward risk.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8400400307
PMID: 6335216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Methods Enzymol. 1984;108:348-57. doi: 10.1016/s0076-6879(84)08101-5.

Use of the nude mouse in immunological research.

Giovanella BC, Hunter JT.

DOI: 10.1016/s0076-6879(84)08101-5
PMID: 6335553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Med Clin North Am. 1983 Mar;67(2):295-313. doi:
10.1016/s0025-7125(16)31205-6.

Nutrition, aging, and the aged.

Young EA.

Nutrition plays a significant modulating role in the aging process and is an 
important component in the health care of the elderly. While considerable study 
of the nutritional needs of the elderly has been accomplished in recent years, 
we are as yet very limited in our knowledge and understanding of the nutrient 
requirements of the elderly, the methodology for assessing nutritional status, 
and the impact of disease on the nutritional status of the elderly. Clearly, the 
dynamic interrelationships of nutrition, aging, and the aged emerge as pressing 
and important aspects of modern medicine. To probe into the intricacies of these 
relationships is a monumental challenge. This challenge will certainly 
accelerate in the future.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7125(16)31205-6
PMID: 6338317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1983 Mar;156(3):377-83.

Colonic interposition for esophageal substitution.

Postlethwait RW.

Sufficient information has now accumulated to permit a better definition of the 
role of colonic interposition for substitution of the esophagus. For children 
and young adults with a long life expectancy, the interposed colon provides a 
well-functioning and durable conduit. When the stomach cannot be used, the colon 
is the best alternative in most patients. Necrosis of the colon remains the most 
frequent fatal complication; leakage and stenosis of the proximal anastomosis 
remain problems. Although results of the usual radiologic examinations with 
barium show that the colon empties by gravity, manometric results may 
demonstrate progressive peristalsis, particularly in response to stimulus from a 
bolus of dilute acid.

PMID: 6338613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Am J Kidney Dis. 1983 Mar;2(5):501-11. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(83)80091-2.

Consequences of renal donation in man.

Ogden DA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(83)80091-2
PMID: 6338707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Am J Clin Nutr. 1983 Apr;37(4):669-81. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/37.4.669.

Coronary heart disease--an epidemic related to diet?

Harper AE.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/37.4.669
PMID: 6340457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. JAMA. 1983 Jun 3;249(21):2913-6.

Self-monitoring of blood glucose levels and intensified insulin therapy. 
Acceptability and efficacy in childhood diabetes.

Geffner ME, Kaplan SA, Lippe BM, Scott ML.

Prospective studies have shown that children and adolescents with diabetes have 
a high prevalence of serious complications and a sharp reduction in life 
expectancy. Recently, self-monitoring of blood glucose levels has become 
available and, for the first time, provides a method for determining the 
concentration of blood glucose with considerable accuracy. We have introduced 
this method of control assessment to our pediatric diabetic patient population 
in conjunction with a program of intensified insulin administration (two or more 
injections per day). This is a report of the ready acceptance of these methods 
by children and adolescents and their parents (53/63, or 84%). The effectiveness 
of this program is evidenced by a progressive and significant reduction in the 
percentage of glycosylated hemoglobin during a period of 18 months in a majority 
of the subjects. These observations suggest that improved glycemic control can 
be achieved in young diabetics by using multiple insulin injections and 
self-monitoring of blood glucose levels. Whether such control can lead to a 
better long-term outlook for diabetics remains to be seen.

PMID: 6341648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Cancer. 1983 Jun 15;51(12 Suppl):2401-9. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19830615)51:12+<2401::aid-cncr2820511302>3.0.co;2-7.

Progress in cancer management. Keynote address.

DeVita VT Jr.

Management of cancer has changed drastically since the end of World War II. From 
the turn of the century up to that time, surgery had been the bulwark against 
cancer. Now in addition, over 2000 medical oncologists and over 1000 
radiologists play a large role in cancer management. The majority of these were 
trained within the past decade through resources provided by the National Cancer 
Act. Early radiotherapeutic equipment caused such toxicity that scientific 
articles in the 1920s and 1930s questioned the utility of radiotherapy, just as 
they would chemotherapy at a later date. Improvement in cancer cure rates due to 
surgery, modern anesthesia, blood transfusions and antibiotics for serious 
cancers, had plateaued at about 30%. Since the introduction of the first cobalt 
units and then linear accelerators into medical practice in the mid-1950s, an 
additional 90,000 patients a year are curable by the use of radiotherapy alone, 
or in combination with surgery (1980 data). The first chemotherapy was 
introduced in about 1950, but effective treatment with drugs in the clinic 
really began in the 1960s. By 1970, some 11,000 patients were curable by drugs 
alone. Now, with the capability for combining all three therapies, chemotherapy 
alone, or in conjunction with radiotherapy and surgery, is responsible for the 
eradication of cancer in some 46,000 patients a year. There are two prime 
therapeutic targets for the 1980s: First, those approximately 100,000 patients 
treated with radiotherapy for cure who subsequently develop local recurrences; 
and second, the approximately 200,000 patients who, when operated on or treated 
with radiotherapy for localized tumors, still develop recurrent cancers at sites 
distal to the primary due to micrometastases. Prospects for controlling both 
types of treatment failures are bright and will be reviewed.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19830615)51:12+<2401::aid-cncr2820511302>3.0.co;2-7
PMID: 6342749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Radiat Res. 1983 May;94(2):359-73.

The effects of a fractionated gamma irradiation on life shortening and disease 
incidence in BALB/c mice.

Maisin JR, Wambersie A, Gerber GB, Mattelin G, Lambiet-Collier M, Gueulette J.

BALB/c male mice (12 weeks old) were exposed to a single or fractionated 
exposure of 137Cs gamma rays. The fractionated dose was split into 10 equal 
doses delivered at an interval of 1 day. The causes and possible causes of 
spontaneous death were ascertained by autopsy and histological examination, and 
the data were treated by competing risk analysis. Life shortening followed a 
linear dose dependency and was about the same for fractionated (38.1 +/- 3.1 
days/Gy) as for single (46.2 +/- 4.3 days/Gy) exposure. Death from tumor disease 
was enhanced and that from nonstochastic lung and kidney diseases was reduced 
after fractionated compared to single exposure.

PMID: 6344131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Radiat Res. 1983 May;94(2):374-89.

Life shortening and disease incidence in BALB/c mice following a single d(50)-Be 
neutron or gamma exposure.

Maisin JR, Wambersie A, Gerber GB, Gueulette J, Mattelin G, Lambiet-Collier M.

Male BALB/c mice, 12 weeks old, were given a single exposure of either 137Cs 
gamma rays or d(50)-Be neutrons at a dose rate of 3 Gy/min. The animals were 
kept until death, and causes of death or possible causes of death were 
ascertained by autopsy and histology. The data were evaluated by competing risk 
methods. The survival time dose-effect curve for both types of exposure was 
linear and did not differ significantly (slopes: 55.8 +/- 4.0 days/Gy for 
neutrons and 46.2 +/- 4.3 days/Gy for gamma rays). The incidence of different 
diseases also was similar for both groups except that more carcinomas, sarcomas, 
and myeloid leukemias seemed to occur after neutron exposure and that 
nonstochastic lung and kidney diseases seemed to arise at lower doses.

PMID: 6344132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Soc Sci Med. 1983;17(6):321-33. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(83)90234-4.

Sex differences in human mortality: the role of genetic factors.

Waldron I.

This paper reviews evidence concerning genetic factors that influence sex 
differences in human mortality, with attention to the interactions between 
genetic and environmental factors. Some widely quoted earlier conclusions, for 
example, that males have consistently higher fetal mortality than females, are 
not supported by current evidence. For example, for late fetal mortality, males 
had higher rates than females in earlier historical data, but not in recent data 
for several advanced industrial countries. This reflects a changing balance 
between an inherently greater female vulnerability for one major type of late 
fetal mortality and inherently greater male vulnerability for several other 
types of late fetal mortality that have declined in importance as health care 
has improved. Males appear to be inherently more vulnerable than females to 
infant mortality, although the causes of this vulnerability are poorly 
understood. X-linked immunoregulatory genes appear to contribute to greater 
female resistance to infectious diseases. Despite these apparent inherent 
advantages for females, in some situations females have had higher infant 
mortality and higher infectious disease mortality than males, apparently due to 
environmental disadvantages for females, such as less adequate diet and health 
care. Inherent sex differences in reproductive physiology and anatomy contribute 
to higher female mortality for breast cancer and maternal mortality. For these 
causes of death, as for the other categories discussed, the death rates and thus 
the contributions to sex differences in total mortality vary considerably 
depending on environmental conditions. Several hypothesized contributions of sex 
hormones to sex differences in mortality are at present controversial due to 
contradictions and limitations in the available data. There may be effects of 
male sex hormones on sex differences in behavior which contribute to males' 
higher death rates for accidents and other violent causes. Women's endogenous 
sex hormones may reduce women's risk of ischemic heart disease. For both violent 
deaths and ischemic heart disease it appears that any genetic contributions to 
sex differences in mortality are strongly reinforced by the cultural influences 
that foster more risky behavior in males, including more use of weapons, 
employment in hazardous occupations, heavy alcohol consumption and cigarette 
smoking. It appears that these cultural influences on sex differences in 
behavior are widespread cross-culturally in part because of the effects of 
inherent sex differences in reproductive functions on the cultural evolution of 
sex roles. These examples illustrate the complexity and importance of 
interactions between genetic and environmental factors in determining sex 
differences in human mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(83)90234-4
PMID: 6344225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Isr J Med Sci. 1983 May;19(5):471-8.

Evaluation of the treatment of hypertension.

Labarthe DR.

Recent reports have demonstrated the efficacy and safety of community-wide 
hypertension control. This new evidence, which offers great potential for 
improving health and life expectancy, can be viewed as the culmination of 
decades of research on the treatment of hypertension. Over this period, as a 
number of approaches to treatment have become available, their evaluation has 
been conducted with increasing rigor and, especially recently, with 
progressively broader community applicability. This historical development 
illustrates the impact that long-term trials can have. Looking ahead, we ask 
what are the main challenges of the future in the control of hypertension? 
Several areas of interest are suggested: 1) To what degree can the demonstrated 
benefits of hypertension control be realized in different populations today? 
What are the obstacles to this achievement and how can they be overcome? 2) How 
much of the demonstrated benefit of hypertension control can be achieved by 
nonpharmacologic means, or by reduced pharmacologic intervention? 3) Can true 
primary prevention avert the development of high blood pressure itself? How does 
elevated blood pressure arise in relation to the normal biologic process of 
human development, characterized by marked "growth" of blood pressure during 
childhood and adolescence? The extent to which these questions might be 
approached through long-term trials is discussed.

PMID: 6345465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Geriatrics. 1983 Aug;38(8):34-7.

Get ready for the era of geriatric care.

Davis K.

PMID: 6347808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Nutr Rev. 1983 May;41(5):133-42. doi: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.1983.tb07172.x.

Nutrition and longevity.

Morrison SD.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.1983.tb07172.x
PMID: 6348602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1983 May 20;103(14):1149-54.

[Recruiting of Norwegian physicians in the 19th century].

[Article in Norwegian]

Hjort EF.

PMID: 6349005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Gynakologe. 1983 Jun;16(2):82-6.

[Current views on the epidemiology and etiology of endometrial carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Kaiser R, Schulz KD.

PIP: Endometrial carcinoma (EC) shows a worlwide trend toward increase in 
industrialized nations which cannot be explained solely by the longer life 
expectancy of women although the incidence of EC increases at later age 
(10-20/100,000 women overall; 1/1000 women in 50-70 year olds). Mortality rate 
of EC has decreased and 5-year survival rate has increased. Besides age factors 
and individual disposition, endocrine factors are important in the etiology of 
EC. Obesity effects estrogen metabolism: in extraglandular aromatization fo 
androstanedione estrone is formed which, in turn, is metabolized to estradiol in 
the endometrium. A higher plasma level of estradiol is found in obesity with a 
correspondingly lower sex hormonebinding globulin capacity. Anovulation, corpus 
luteum insufficiency (as in the polycystic ovary syndrome) and nulliparity are 
risk factors because of uninhibited estrogen-induced endometrial proliferation 
with increased cell-turnover rate. This may lead to precancerous conditions and 
EC. Whearas estrogens of themselves are not carcinogenic they promote EC; 
epidemiologic studies have shown an increased risk and incidence of EC in 
postmenopausal women on longterm estrogen therapy. Although these studies are 
thus far inconclusive there appears to be a dose and time-dependent risk factor. 
Continued administration carries a greater risk than cyclic administration. Risk 
and incidence increase with duration of use; likewise, a 1.25 mg dose of 
conjugated estrogens carries twice the risk of a smaller dose. On the other had, 
estrogen-related EC is diagnosed earlier and treated more successfully (92% 
survival). Progestins inhibit estrogen-induced proliferation; the incidence of 
endometrial and/or ovarian carcinoma related to the use of hormonal 
contraceptives has dropped since the advent and use of combination pills with 
their low estrogen content.

PMID: 6350118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Surg Clin North Am. 1983 Aug;63(4):905-14. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(16)43091-4.

Esophageal procedures to control bleeding from varices.

Wexler MJ.

Portal-systemic shunting of all types has failed to improve long-term survival 
in patients with bleeding esophageal varices and carries a high morbidity and 
prohibitive mortality in the emergency setting. Direct esophageal approaches are 
receiving renewed attention. Sclerotherapy promises to be the simplest, safest, 
and most effective treatment for acute bleeding. Rebleeding is frequent with 
this technique unless all the varices are subsequently obliterated. Even then, 
rebleeding may be a recurring hazard, albeit with reduced frequency and 
increasing interval. For the nonalcoholic patient with a significant life 
expectancy or in the young patient with cirrhosis, this can be a significant 
factor. Simple esophageal resection-transection using stapling devices is a 
rapidly accomplished, simple, and effective operative approach if combined with 
coronary vein ligation. This procedure deserves a trial earlier in such patients 
and in those who are failures of repeated sclerotherapy. Extensive 
esophagogastric devascularization preserving the paraesophageal veins--the 
Sugiura procedure--is a more extensive undertaking that is probably unnecessary 
for most and too dangerous for some. At present, it should be reserved for 
failures of other techniques. It shows promise of long-term effectiveness if 
performed safely on only certain patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(16)43091-4
PMID: 6351300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Klin Padiatr. 1983 Jul-Aug;195(4):252-5. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1034378.

[Psychosocial care in the overall therapeutic concept of the management of 
children with chronic kidney diseases].

[Article in German]

Korsch BM.

In terms of physical health, degree of rehabilitation and the personal 
assessment of the affected patients, kidney transplantation represents the 
optimal therapy for children with chronic renal insufficiency. The best results 
are achieved by transferring organs from relatives. However, this can only be 
accomplished if medical treatment is accompanied and supported by continuous 
psychosocial care of the patient, the family and the treatment team. The problem 
of noncompliance requires special attention, since it may be the reason for 
rejection of transplants; it can, however, be recognized by preliminary 
preventive investigations and prevented by appropriate therapy. Our positive 
overall experience concerning parenthood following kidney transplants does not 
appear to justify dissuading such patients from having children if they so wish. 
However, we consider that especially young women who already have impaired 
function with a transplanted kidney should be advised of the risk of further 
deterioration during pregnancy, and that the possibility of reduced life 
expectancy should be discussed with these patients as a matter of urgency.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1034378
PMID: 6353055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Pediatr Ann. 1983 Sep;12(9):668-84.

Long-term complications of type I (insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus.

Rosenbloom AL.

PMID: 6355999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1983 Dec;(181):107-14.

Total hip arthroplasty in renal transplant recipients.

Bradford DS, Janes PC, Simmons RS, Najarian JS.

Sixty total hip arthroplasties (THA) were performed in 39 renal transplant 
recipients as the treatment for painful osteonecrosis of the femoral head. The 
average age was 32 years (range, 16-54 years). The average preoperative Harris 
hip score was 38, while the average postoperative score was 95 after an average 
follow-up period of 44 months. Ten hip dislocations occurred. The etiology 
appeared to be multifactorial. One femoral component loosened, and one patient 
died from a deep wound infection. Although renal transplant patients have a 
reduced life expectancy and chronic corticosteroid immunosuppression leads to 
osteoporosis of bone, THA is well tolerated and is recommended as the procedure 
of choice in patients with painful osteonecrosis.

PMID: 6357584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Kidney Int. 1983 Oct;24(4):516-25. doi: 10.1038/ki.1983.188.

Graft survival after renal transplantation: agenda for analysis.

Gore SM.

Simple life-table analyses have not identified the reasons for the steady 
improvement over the years in graft survival. The use of more sophisticated 
multifactorial statistical techniques is indicated to identify prognostic 
factors and to explore the "center effect" on graft survival. An agenda for 
retrospective analysis of graft survival is proposed as follows. The first item 
is organizing and checking both survival and covariate data to provide a general 
description of the transplant series so that one knows, for example, which 
covariates are interdependent. Plotting lifetables and the time-specific risk of 
graft failure for one covariate at a time is the next step. The limitations of 
such analyses are easy to demonstrate and are illustrated with examples which 
motivate a multifactorial approach. Standard regression models for survival 
data, such as the exponential, Weibull, proportional hazards, and log-logistic, 
are described with the caveat that in medical applications, particularly the 
relevance of covariates, may be time-dependent, not constant on a particular 
scale (hazard or log odds). The method which is described for exploring how the 
relevance of covariates changes with elapsed time since transplantation is a 
