simple step-function extension of the idea of proportional hazards. Because 
discrepancies in graft survival between centers, the "center effect," may owe 
something to the patient's rehabilitation before transplantation, a scoring 
system for rehabilitation or performance status would be useful as a summary 
covariate. Even careful retrospective analysis will not usually promote or 
indict a treatment policy without confirmation from randomized comparisons. A 
survey of renal units to elicit research priorities is suggested and factorial 
designs are recommended as an efficient way of investigating several specific 
questions. Multicenter collaboration in clinical trials would ensure that 
answers were speedily available.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.1983.188
PMID: 6358640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Parasitology. 1983 Oct;87 (Pt 2):343-69. doi: 10.1017/s0031182000052689.

A comparative study of the life-histories of mammalian schistosomes.

Loker ES.

Available data in the literature pertaining to the life-history characteristics 
of all known species of mammalian schistosomes have been gathered, and 
correlations between such variables as length of pre-patent period, adult worm 
size, rate of progeny production and progeny size have been explored. 
Accommodation of the schistosome life-cycle to the constraints imposed by 
certain host characteristics such as life-expectancy and size is discussed. Of 
the 23 known species of mammalian schistosomes, 20 species apparently rely to a 
major extent on relatively large-bodied and long-lived mammals such as primates, 
ungulates and proboscideans for their transmission. Only 1 species, 
Schistosomatium douthitti, is exclusively dependent on rodents for its 
transmission. S. douthitti attains maturity within its definitive host faster 
than any other mammalian schistosome, and is the only species known to be 
capable of producing viable eggs by facultative parthenogenesis. For all species 
of mammalian schistosomes, adult worm size, as estimated by female length, is 
positively correlated with the number of uterine eggs contained within the 
female (r = 0.682). For the 7 species for which data exist, rate of egg 
production/worm pair/day is positively correlated with uterine egg counts (r = 
0.873) and inversely correlated with egg length (r = -0.787) and miracidium 
length (r = -0.953). Length of the pre-patent period is positively correlated 
with egg length (r = 0.503). With respect to the molluscan host, the number of 
cercariae produced by snails is positively correlated with the shell size of the 
snail (r = 0.657). For the 5 species for which data exist, the rate of egg 
production is inversely correlated with shell size of the intermediate host (r = 
-0.955) and the common logarithm of the number of cercariae produced (r = 
-0.893). Comparisons between species suggest that exceptionally low rates of 
cercariae production in the intermediate host may be compensated for by rapid 
rates of egg production in the definitive host, implying a degree of integration 
in the schistosome life-cycle not previously appreciated. Most species of 
mammalian schistosomes have long-lived definitive hosts, and snail hosts capable 
of producing many cercariae; compensatory relationships are therefore less 
obvious in such species. Additional quantitative data on all aspects of 
schistosome life-histories, particularly rate and duration of egg production, 
are needed to confirm or refute the relationships discussed above.

DOI: 10.1017/s0031182000052689
PMID: 6359028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1983 Oct;14(5):187-94.

[Immune function and aging in man].

[Article in Dutch]

Schuurman HJ, Lokhorst HM.

Ageing in immune reactivity is described at the level of lymphoid cells, at that 
of lymphoid organs and organ function, and at that of regulation of cell and 
organ function. Apart from shifts in numbers of lymphoid cell subpopulations, 
the decrease in communication capacity between lymphoid cell populations and in 
binding of invaders (like bacteria) is an important aspect of ageing. These 
aspects may contribute to the decreased immune reactivity to invaders and the 
enhanced incidence of immune reactions to self-components (autoimmune 
reactivity). Studies on the physiology and pathophysiology of ageing in the 
immune system lead to improvement in prevention and therapy of immunological 
diseases of ageing, with prospect on an enhanced life quality of aged people and 
an extension of the mean lifespan of man.

PMID: 6359590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Ciba Found Symp. 1983;101:186-200. doi: 10.1002/9780470720820.ch12.

Protective effect of vitamin E on intraventricular haemorrhage in the newborn.

Chiswick ML, Johnson M, Woodhall C, Gowland M, Davies J, Toner N, Sims D.

Forty-four consecutively born babies of birth weights under 1751 g were randomly 
selected to receive a daily intramuscular injection of vitamin E 
(all-rac-alpha-tocopheryl acetate) from the day of birth (Day 0) until Day 3, or 
were allocated to a non-supplemented control group. Frequent ultrasound 
examinations of the brain were made during the first week of life and babies 
were classified as having 'no haemorrhage', 'subependymal haemorrhage (SEH) 
only' or 'intraventricular haemorrhage' (IVH). The incidence of SEH or IVH was 
similar in supplemented (42.9%) and control babies (43.5%). SEH or IVH was 
observed only in babies of less than 32 weeks gestation; when only babies under 
32 weeks were considered, IVH was less common in those supplemented (18.8%) than 
in the controls (56.3%). Babies with IVH had lower median plasma vitamin E 
concentrations when compared with babies without any haemorrhage and compared 
with those with only SEH. Three supplemented babies suffered IVH and they were 
the three with the lowest plasma vitamin E concentrations among the babies 
supplemented with vitamin E from Day 0 to Day 3. We speculate that vitamin E 
protects endothelial cell membranes of capillaries in the subependymal layer of 
the brain against oxidative damage and disruption and thereby limits the 
magnitude of haemorrhage in the subependymal layer, and reduces the risk of 
extension into the ventricles.

DOI: 10.1002/9780470720820.ch12
PMID: 6360588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Plast Reconstr Surg. 1984 Jan;73(1):105-10. doi: 
10.1097/00006534-198401000-00025.

Prolonged life and improved quality for stored skin grafts.

Hurst LN, Brown DH, Murray KA.

This study is presented as both a follow-up and an extension of previous work on 
storage techniques for the preservation of skin by refrigeration. Rabbit skin 
grafts were used to compare the merits of various storage media. One of the 
media, McCoy's 5A plus serum, gave improved skin graft take and storage 
half-life. The ability to improve skin graft storage techniques is most 
beneficial to all aspects of plastic and reconstructive surgery where skin 
grafting is required. Prolonged graft viability and improved graft quality are 
of major clinical importance.

DOI: 10.1097/00006534-198401000-00025
PMID: 6361826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Ann Intern Med. 1984 Feb;100(2):285-95. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-100-2-285.

Body weight, health, and longevity.

Simopoulos AP, Van Itallie TB.

In the United States, the weight associated with the greatest longevity tends to 
below the average weight of the population under consideration, if such weights 
are not associated with a history of significant medical impairment. Overweight 
persons tend to die sooner than average-weight persons, especially those who are 
overweight at younger ages. The effect of being overweight on mortality is 
delayed and may not be seen in short-term studies. Cigarette smoking is a 
potential confounder of the relationship between obesity and mortality. Studies 
on body weight, morbidity, and mortality must be interpreted with careful 
attention to the definitions of obesity or relative weight used, preexisting 
morbid conditions, the length of follow-up, and confounders in the analysis. The 
terminology of body weight standards should be defined more precisely and cited 
appropriately. An appropriate database relating body weight by sex, age, and 
possibly frame size to morbidity and mortality should be developed to permit the 
preparation of reference tables for defining the desirable range of body weight 
based on morbidity and mortality statistics.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-100-2-285
PMID: 6362514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1983 Dec 17;113(50):1903-7.

[Surgical treatment of coronary circulation disorders].

[Article in German]

Althaus U.

The objectives of aorto-coronary bypass surgery are threefold: relief of angina 
pectoris, increase in exercise performance and prolongation of life. The effect 
of surgery on ischemic pain and exercise tolerance is widely accepted, but the 
influence of bypass grafting on life expectancy is still controversial. Recent 
results of prospective randomized trials, however, have shown significantly 
better survival for surgically treated patients with specific anatomic 
characteristics such as left main disease and three-vessel disease. Among the 
operative risks, hospital mortality (1% in our experience) and incidence of 
perioperative myocardial infarction (around 5%, usually asymptomatic clinical 
course) have decreased with growing surgical practice and application of cold 
cardioplegia. Postoperative angiographic studies reveal 85% to 90% graft patency 
rate at one year; later the mean annual occlusion rate is reported to be less 
than 3%. The aorto-coronary bypass operation is indicated mainly for the 
following two groups of patients: 1. those in whom angina or drug therapy 
results in a restriction of working capacity or an undesirable change in 
lifestyle despite appropriate medical treatment; 2. the two subsets of patients 
being exposed to a particularly high risk of myocardial infarction or sudden 
death: patients with left main disease and patients with three-vessel disease. 
The benefits of coronary bypass surgery depend on several conditions: major 
determinants are completeness of revascularization, suitability of distal 
coronary segments for bypass grafting, and degree of ventricular impairment.

PMID: 6364336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Annu Rev Public Health. 1984;5:215-36. doi:
10.1146/annurev.pu.05.050184.001243.

Modifying and developing health behavior.

Green LW.

The literatures on both behavior modification and behavioral development have 
engendered innovations in public health programs, addressing problems of patient 
adherance to preventive and therapeutic regimens, delay in seeking diagnosis of 
illness symptoms, risk-taking behavior, and other aspects of lifestyle 
associated with health. Because most of this literature derives from psychology, 
there has been a distinct bias in the construction of interventions, pointing 
them directly at individuals, usually in a counseling or small group mode of 
delivery. These developments served public health well enough during a decade or 
so when the preoccupation was with utilization of health services and medical 
management of chronic diseases. With the publication of the Lalonde Report in 
Canada in 1974, the passage of Public Law 94-317 in 1976 in the United States, 
and similar initiatives in other English-speaking and European countries, the 
recognition of the greater complexities of lifestyle development and 
modification in the absence of symptoms has taken hold. Policy makers and public 
health workers seek a more efficient and equitable set of strategies to meet the 
behavioral health challenges of modern society without placing the entire weight 
of responsibility for behavior on the individual or on therapeutic 
practitioners. Concurrently, on a more global scale and in the developing 
countries, a concern has emerged for strategies that give individuals, families, 
and communities a greater role in deciding their own health priorities. The 
convergence of these two trends--one seeking to distribute responsibility for 
lifestyle more equitably and the other seeking to distribute responsibility for 
planning health programs more equitably --calls for policies, strategies, and 
interventions that will place similar emphasis on health education and 
organizational, economic, and environmental supports for health behavior. The 
combination of these elements of support for behavior calls, in turn, for 
research and more inventive applications of theory from sociology, political 
science, economics, and anthropology. Public health workers will need to become 
more conversant and facile in these social sciences, as they have in psychology 
and its applications in the recent past.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.pu.05.050184.001243
PMID: 6372810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Annu Rev Public Health. 1984;5:433-58. doi:
10.1146/annurev.pu.05.050184.002245.

The sex differential in morbidity, mortality, and lifestyle.

Wingard DL.

In the United States women live longer than men, and they have lower death rates 
at virtually every age and for most causes of death. Similar relationships 
prevail in most developed nations. The sex differential in mortality has been 
increasing since the early 1900s , especially for those 15-24 and 55-64 years of 
age. Since 1970, however, that trend has slowed for persons 45-74, and in 1980 
the sex differential was actually lower than in 1970 among those 55-64. Although 
the female sex advantage in respect to most causes of death has been increasing, 
the differential for coronary heart disease has recently stabilized; and the 
lung cancer mortality rate among women is now increasing faster than that among 
men. Recent statistics for these two important causes of death may indicate that 
the previous, more favorable trend in women than in men may be reversing in 
response to changes in lifestyle. Women's health may be improving at a slower 
rate because they are exposed to more job stresses and other risk factors, such 
as cigarettes, than before; alternatively, men's health may be improving at a 
faster rate because they are exercising more, smoking cigarettes less, and 
following healthier diets in recent decades. Despite their continuing mortality 
advantage, women experience more illness than men. This may reflect women's 
greater utilization of medical services, and physicians' diagnostic patterns, as 
well as women's greater willingness to acknowledge and report illness. Sex 
differences in illness persist, however, when physical examinations are used for 
assessment in population-based samples. Women appear to have higher rates of 
conditions that rarely cause death, for example, rheumatoid arthritis; whereas 
men tend to have more fatal conditions, such as coronary heart disease. At least 
two categories of lifestyle characteristics are associated with male-female 
differences in health: (a) social roles, such as marriage, parenthood, and 
employment; and (b) behaviors, such as cigarette smoking and Type A behavior. 
Preliminary evidence indicates that some of these lifestyle characteristics may 
act synergistically on health. Several aspects of lifestyle thus underlie sex 
differences in morbidity and mortality. There is also evidence that biological 
factors influence male/female mortality differences, particularly in infancy and 
prenatal life. A substantial sex differential remains, however, even after 
adjusting for numerous lifestyle and biological variables. This is especially 
true for heart disease mortality.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.pu.05.050184.002245
PMID: 6372818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. JAMA. 1984 Jun 22-29;251(24):3277-81.

Migration and granulomatous reaction after periurethral injection of polytef 
(Teflon).

Malizia AA Jr, Reiman HM, Myers RP, Sande JR, Barham SS, Benson RC Jr, Dewanjee 
MK, Utz WJ.

Although patients with urinary incontinence have been treated successfully by 
periurethral injection of polytef paste, this study in continent animals 
demonstrates migration of polytef particles from the injection site. We injected 
polytef paste periurethrally into female dogs and male monkeys. Particles were 
found at 50 to 70 days in pelvic nodes in six of seven animals and lungs in four 
of seven (the kidneys and brain were not studied); and at 10 1/2 months in 
pelvic nodes, lungs, and brain in seven of seven; kidneys in four of seven; and 
spleen in two of seven. X-ray microanalysis confirmed that the particles were 
polytef. At 10 1/2 months, polytef granulomas were found at all injection sites 
and some sites of distant migration. Since these granulomas signify chronic 
foreign-body reaction, we believe that until the long-term effects in humans are 
known, polytef paste should not be used in children or young adults with normal 
life expectancy.

PMID: 6374180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Physiologist. 1984 Apr;27(2):98-101.

Nutrition as a modulator of the aging process.

Masoro EJ.

PMID: 6374701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Urol Clin North Am. 1984 May;11(2):205-20.

Natural history and staging of prostate cancer.

Whitmore WF Jr.

The natural history and staging of prostatic cancer, directly or indirectly, 
involve natural expectancy of the host, malignant potential of the tumor, extent 
of the tumor, and response of the tumor to treatment. Discussion of these topics 
is followed by a description of the systems of clinical staging of the disease.

PMID: 6375067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Ann Acad Med Singap. 1983 Jul;12(3):358-67.

The compression of morbidity.

Fries JF.

The nature of the international health burden, its changes, its problems, and 
even its solutions over the next quarter century are surprisingly apparent at 
this time and are more positive than often supposed. The average period of 
lessened physical status is likely to shorten, and the need for and cost of 
hospitalization in the later life of the individual is likely to decrease. The 
period of infirm physical status will become increasingly compressed between the 
increasing age at onset of infirmity and the genetically determined lifespan of 
the individual. Illness at the end of life will come relatively suddenly, be 
multi-factorial in cause, will be highly resistant to further medical 
intervention, and will be characterized by increasing inevitability. 
Implications for retirement age, availability of useful work for older 
individuals, and programmes designed to stimulate rather than support are 
discussed.

PMID: 6378050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. N Engl J Med. 1984 Nov 1;311(18):1196-200. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198411013111833.

The Medicare debate--round one.

Aiken LH, Bays KD.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198411013111833
PMID: 6384789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Br J Radiol. 1984 Oct;57(682):861-5. doi: 10.1259/0007-1285-57-682-861.

Descartes versus Hippocrates--a conflict resolved? The Silvanus Thompson 
memorial lecture, April 1984.

Lenihan J.

DOI: 10.1259/0007-1285-57-682-861
PMID: 6386092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Conn Med. 1984 Sep;48(9):615.

Reflections from the dean's office. What about mortality?

Massey RU.

PMID: 6386321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Hum Biol. 1984 Sep;56(3):559-82.

Mortality change in America, 1620-1920.

Kunitz SJ.

PMID: 6386657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. J Am Dent Assoc. 1984 Nov;109(5):739-44. doi:
10.14219/jada.archive.1984.0157.

In search of treatment longevity--a 30-year perspective.

Maryniuk GA.

Consumers spent $10 billion on restorative dental treatment in 1979. Little 
information is available regarding the life expectancy of these restorations or 
what proportion of these restorations replaces previous ones. A critical 
literature review was presented, covering all available longevity data of 
posterior restorations. Necessary methodologic standards for evaluation of the 
studies were outlined and used in the review. The lack of these critical 
variables--patient selection, missing follow-up data, and judgment criteria for 
determining need for replacement or failure (or both)--minimized the usefulness 
of the results. Study results are generalizable only to similar patient 
populations and not all patients. Much more controlled research needs to be 
done.

DOI: 10.14219/jada.archive.1984.0157
PMID: 6386927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Radiat Res. 1984 Nov;100(2):348-64.

Influence of age on life shortening and tumor induction after X-ray and neutron 
irradiation.

Covelli V, Di Majo V, Bassani B, Rebessi S, Coppola M, Silini G.

The main object of this study is to investigate the role of age on the 
susceptibility to radiation carcinogenesis and life shortening for different 
qualities of radiation. Over the last few years, a line of research at the 
Laboratory of Pathology, C.R.E. Casaccia, has been set up to study the effects 
of exposure to neutron irradiation, including observations on late effects (both 
neoplastic and nonneoplastic) as a function of radiation dose and of age at 
irradiation. Graded single doses of X rays or attenuated fission neutrons have 
been given to male BC3F1 mice 3 and 19 months old and to animals in utero at 17 
days postcoitum. The analysis of data from over 3000 mice indicates that 
irradiation at 3 months of age causes life shortening which is associated with 
the incidence and rate of radiation-induced neoplasms. Prenatal irradiation or 
irradiation at 19 months of age does not show a clearly measurable life 
shortening for both X-ray and neutron exposures. However, significantly higher 
incidence and rate of solid tumors and reticulum cell sarcomas were observed. In 
general the data confirm the higher biological effectiveness of neutrons 
compared with X rays. The estimates of neutron relative biological effectiveness 
for different end points were found to be in the range of 3 to 18 and their 
variation was closely dose dependent.

PMID: 6387779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Methods Find Exp Clin Pharmacol. 1984 Sep;6(9):513-29.

Rectal administration of insulin.

Ritschel WA, Ritschel GB.

According to recent statistics for the time span 1951-1970, the mortality ratio 
of diabetics to non-diabetics was 335% (46). For those diabetics who were 
younger than 15 years when entering the study, the mortality ratio was 1127%, 
with a mean life expectancy of another 32 years, as compared to 59 years for 
non-diabetics. Among the major causes of disablement and early death are 
ischemic heart disease, retinopathy, nephropathy, peripheral vascular disease 
and neuropathy. In spite of newer, more potent and highly purified insulins, 
development of human insulin, change of once-daily injection to twice-daily 
insulin therapy (47), and the introduction of portable insulin infusion pumps, 
diabetes is still a high-risk disease, far from being controlled. Considering 
that the present mode of insulin administration is by the subcutaneous route by 
which the insulin is presented to the body in a nonphysiological manner, because 
the insulin is peripherally administered to the systemic circulation instead of 
portally, new therapeutic ways for insulin administration are worth study. 
During the past years, considerable interest has arisen in the rectal route of 
administration. Based on a physiological-kinetic model presented in this paper, 
utilization of the first-pass effect inherent to the rectal anatomy offers a 
physiological insulin input via the rectal route of administration. A review on 
the present state of rectal insulin administration is given, and experimental 
data from our laboratories are presented. The usefulness of sorption promoters 
on rectal insulin absorption is discussed. The "effectiveness" of rectal insulin 
preparations is suggested to be evaluated by four criteria: the pharmacological 
availability via the area under the % glucose reduction-time profile, the 
maximum glucose concentration reduction, Cmax, the time to reach the maximum 
reduction, tmax, and the mean residence time for glucose reduction, MRT.

PMID: 6392794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Biometrics. 1984 Sep;40(3):587-600.

A comparison of reflected versus test-based confidence intervals for the median 
survival time, based on censored data.

Slud EV, Byar DP, Green SB.

The small-sample performance of some recently proposed nonparametric methods of 
constructing confidence intervals for the median survival time, based on 
randomly right-censored data, is compared with that of two new methods. Most of 
these methods are equivalent for large samples. All proposed intervals are 
either 'test-based' or 'reflected' intervals, in the sense defined in the paper. 
Coverage probabilities for the interval estimates were obtained by exact 
calculation for uncensored data, and by stimulation for three life distributions 
and four censoring patterns. In the range of situations studied, 'test-based' 
methods often have less than nominal coverage, while the coverage of the new 
'reflected' confidence intervals is closer to nominal (although somewhat 
conservative), and these intervals are easy to compute.

PMID: 6394062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Drugs. 1984 Dec;28(6):565-76. doi: 10.2165/00003495-198428060-00005.

Osteoporosis. An update on management.

Woolf AD, Dixon AS.

Osteoporosis is the reduction of expected bone mass. This results in structural 
failure with an increased risk of fracture and it is the most common bone 
disorder encountered. Bone mass declines with age, and in some people will fall 
below the threshold for easy fracture. This loss is accelerated in the 
postmenopausal period. Trauma and the internal trabecular structure of bone are 
additional determinants of risk of fracture. Effective management of 
osteoporosis depends on identifying and treating those at risk before reaching 
the critical bone mass and presenting with skeletal failure. There are 
limitations to methods available for assessing bone loss, and the final arbiter 
of any treatment is prevention of fracture. Primary prevention involves 
maximising peak adult bone mass and reducing the rate of bone loss. This may be 
attained by exercise, adequate dietary calcium, and the identification and 
treatment of risk factors such as postmenopausal hormone replacement. Once 
skeletal failure has occurred, long term treatment is required to have a 
clinically significant effect. Increasing bone mass cannot be assumed to reduce 
the risk of fracture, and such a reduction has not been directly demonstrated 
for several agents. Calcium supplements, hormone replacement therapy and 
fluoride are probably effective in reducing fracture rate, particularly when 
used in combination, whereas the efficacy of anabolic steroids, calcitonin and 
diphosphonates is yet to be established. Vitamin D is only of use in coexistent 
osteomalacia. The limitation of significantly strengthening the skeleton during 
the life expectancy of the elderly must be realised.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-198428060-00005
PMID: 6394266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1984 Dec 1;114(48):1711-20.

[Pulmonary embolism: epidemiology and pathology].

[Article in French]

Laissue JA, Gebbers JO, Musy JP.

The following facets of pulmonary embolism (PE) are reviewed: 1. Main 
pathological aspects. 2. When can death be attributed to PE? 3. PE and life 
expectancy. 4. Mortality trends from PE in Switzerland from 1920 to 1982. The 
incidence of PE, as assessed from published data on approximately 300 000 
autopsies, is plotted versus time and compared with death certificate diagnoses 
from Switzerland and other countries. In spite of the discrepancies between 
death certificate and autoptic diagnosis of PE, the results are consistent with 
a marked increase in mortality from PE during recent decades, at least in some 
countries. However, the rate of increase has slowed since 1975.

PMID: 6395325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. West J Med. 1984 Dec;141(6):846-54.

Physicians' own health--some advice for the advisors.

Clever LH, Arsham GM.

Information about physicians' health and health practices is sparse and 
scattered. With a few exceptions, however-notably suicide and substance abuse-it 
appears that physicians' health and health-promotion activities are at least 
similar to those of the general public. In some areas, such as smoking 
cessation, physicians have far outstripped the general public. As physicians 
gain more insight into their own health and health habits, advice to patients 
can be realistic and effective. Indeed, several personal health activities, 
including immunization, have direct, salutary impacts on patient care. 
Physicians should analyze and change their own health practices as indicated and 
pay special attention to "high yield" health habits, such as seat-belt use.

PMCID: PMC1011219
PMID: 6395499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Aust N Z J Med. 1984 Oct;14(5):705-18. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-5994.1984.tb05038.x.

Aboriginal health--current status.

Thomson N.

An analysis of the limited available data confirms that the health status of 
Australia's Aborigines remains much worse than that of non-Aboriginal 
Australians. Despite significant improvements over the past decade Aboriginal 
fetal and infant mortality is still approximately three times that of 
non-Aborigines. Aboriginal life expectancy remains at least twenty years less 
than that of the total Australian population. Levels of Aboriginal 
hospitalisation have declined markedly, but remain well in excess of overall 
levels, particularly for infants and children. For Aborigines, the reduced 
overall impact of the communicable diseases has been balanced by a worsening of 
the "lifestyle" diseases, particularly hypertension, coronary heart disease and 
diabetes mellitus. Alcohol abuse plays an important role in these diseases, and 
in the level of accidents and violence amongst Aborigines. The current patterns 
require a reassessment of Aboriginal health priorities, with more attention 
being directed at the health problems of Aboriginal adults. Special Aboriginal 
health programs need to be expanded, and integrated with broad wide-ranging 
programs aimed at alleviating Aboriginal social inequality.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-5994.1984.tb05038.x
PMID: 6397181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. IARC Sci Publ. 1984;(53):339-65.

Nickel--an essential element.

Anke M, Groppel B, Kronemann H, Grün M.

Nickel is necessary for the biosynthesis of the hydrogenase, carbon monoxide 
dehydrogenase, and of factor F 430, found in a number of genera of bacteria. 
Urease from jack beans and several species of plants is also a nickel protein. 
These plant enzyme systems can affect animals via the microbiological digestion 
of food in the rumen. Nickel is a constituent part of all organs of vertebrates. 
Its absorption can be controlled. Low nickel offers reduce growth; this is 
particularly true of intra-uterine development. Such offers also decrease the 
life expectancy of reproducing animals. Nickel deficiency is accompanied by 
histological and biochemical changes and reduced iron resorption and leads to 
anaemia. It can disturb the incorporation of calcium into skeleton and lead to 
parakeratosis-like damage, which finds expression in disturbed zinc metabolism. 
Nickel deficiency results in lower activities of different dehydrogenases and 
transaminases and, above all, of alpha-amylase, and particularly affects 
carbohydrate metabolism. A marked decrease in metabolism was observed in the 
case of the energy sources fat, glucose, and glycogen. Nickel therefore performs 
a vital function in metabolism: it is an essential element. The nickel 
requirements of human beings and animals amount to less than 500 micrograms/kg 
and are probably even considerably lower. It therefore follows that, in view of 
the available nickel offer, primary nickel deficiency in human beings and 
animals can be excluded, at least in the present state of knowledge. On the 
other hand, it should be remembered that, 25 years after the discovery of the 
essentiality of manganese, this element was included among the trace elements of 
academic importance only, whereas today it is a feed additive.

PMID: 6398286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Am J Pathol. 1983 Feb;110(2):236-45.

Comparative rates of decline in the primary cloning efficiencies of smooth 
muscle cells from the aging thoracic aorta of two murine species of contrasting 
maximum life span potentials.

Martin GM, Ogburn CE, Wight TN.

Primary cloning assays of thoracic aortic smooth muscle cells from an F1 hybrid 
strain of Mus musculus demonstrated linear regressions of replicative potentials 
as functions of donor age (6-30 months), with regression coefficients, in two 
independent cohorts, of -1.69 +/- 0.27 (SE) and -1.88 +/- 0.19 (SE) clones per 
milligram wet weight of intima-media per month and correlation coefficients of 
-0.83 and -0.92 (P less than 0.001). Secondary cloning (dilute plating from 
first passages) also demonstrated a high negative correlation (r = -0.90) 
between donor age and cloning efficiency, thus implicating intrinsic differences 
in cell populations. Comparable primary cloning assays on the aortas of aging 
cohorts of Peromyscus leucopus, a murine species with a maximum life span 
potential approximately twice that of Mus musculus, yielded about twice the 
number of clonable smooth muscle cells per unit weight; the rate of decline with 
age was slightly but significantly greater (P less than 0.01). 
Electron-microscopic studies revealed cellular alterations confined to the first 
subintimal layer of aortas from mice (Mus musculus) 18 months and older.

PMCID: PMC1916149
PMID: 6401930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. South Med J. 1983 Mar;76(3):367-72.

Clinicopathologic conference; University of Kentucky Medical Center Intensive 
care.

Thompson JS, Ryberg ML, Allen DT, Wiegert HT.

PMID: 6402821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1983 Mar 19;286(6369):929-33. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.286.6369.929.

Treatment of haemophilia and related disorders in Britain and Northern Ireland 
during 1976-80: report on behalf of the directors of haemophilia centres in the 
United Kingdom.

Rizza CR, Spooner RJ.

A five year survey of the treatment of patients in the United Kingdom suffering 
from haemophilia and related disorders was carried out on behalf of the 
directors of haemophilia centres. The survey showed an increase in the number of 
patients receiving treatment from the centres, a substantial increase in the 
total amount of therapeutic materials used, and an increase in the average 
amount of factor VIII or factor IX used yearly per patient. Home treatment 
became established for severely affected patients and accounted for roughly half 
of the total amount of material used. Study of the acquisition of factor VIII or 
factor IX antibodies (inhibitors) in patients with haemophilia A or haemophilia 
B showed no increase in antibodies during the survey period, despite the 
increased use of factor VIII and factor IX concentrates. The occurrence of acute 
hepatitis in treated patients was also studied and no increased incidence was 
observed. A near normal median expectation of life in patients with severe 
haemophilia A was found.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.286.6369.929
PMCID: PMC1547325
PMID: 6403138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Lab Anim Sci. 1983 Apr;33(2):168-71.

A retrospective study of infant mortality of cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus 
oedipus) in captive breeding.

Kilborn JA, Sehgal P, Johnson LD, Beland M, Bronson RT.

Fifty of 156 (32%) colony bred cotton-top tamarins were stillborn, and 31 (20%) 
died within the first week after birth. The stillbirth rate was related to 
litter size and parity in captivity. A higher percent of single births were 
stillborn (69%) compared to those of twin births (26%) (p less than 0.005). A 
higher percent of infants born of the first litter in captivity (42%) were 
stillborn than those of subsequent litters (23%) (p less than 0.025). 
Stillbirths were not related to season of birth or sex of infant. Survival of 
live infants was unrelated to season of birth, sex, litter size, or number of 
litters.

PMID: 6406761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Lab Anim. 1983 Jan;17(1):35-41. doi: 10.1258/002367783781070867.

Factors influencing population growth of a colony of cotton-top tamarins.

Kirkwood JK, Epstein MA, Terlecki AJ.

43% of full-term births in a colony of Saguinus oedipus oedipus occurred during 
April and May. Interbirth interval was usually 12 months in females which reared 
live young and 7 months in those whose young died perinatally. 81% of all 
full-term births were of twins, the rest were singles. High mortality among 
neonates was seen with a group of bought-in animals which had been taken from 
their parents at an early age without participating in the rearing of siblings, 
and was attributable to parental incompetence. Colony management aiming to 
ensure that animals gain experience in caring for young before breeding is 
described. Mortality among all animals older than 7 days was very low. Marginal 
protein deficiency may have been involved in a chronic diarrhoea and weight loss 
syndrome seen in some animals. They recovered after addition of hard-boiled egg 
to the diet.

DOI: 10.1258/002367783781070867
PMID: 6408301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Postgrad Med. 1983 Aug;74(2):279-87. doi: 10.1080/00325481.1983.11698397.

Preventive gerontology. Strategies for healthy aging.

Hazzard WR.

While aging per se cannot be prevented, many of its attendant disabilities can 
be forestalled until the upper limit of the human life span (about 85 years) is 
approached. This is the belief that underlies preventive gerontology. Dr Hazzard 
makes a compelling case for the need to prevent protracted disability and 
dependency among the increasingly large population of elderly. His strategies 
reach across the total life span to include early interventions, particularly in 
the atherosclerotic process, on the theory that the earlier the intervention, 
the greater the benefit. "Tell me more" was one reviewer's reaction.

DOI: 10.1080/00325481.1983.11698397
PMID: 6410363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Health Phys. 1983 Sep;45(3):687-97. doi: 10.1097/00004032-198309000-00011.

Discounting in assessment of future radiation effects.

Cohen BL.

There is a question as to whether cancer fatalities to be experienced in the 
distant future as a result of radioactivity produced today should be treated on 
a par with those experienced now, or whether there should be discounting in 
analogy with accounting principles for money to be spent in the future. It is 
shown that recent trends in cancer cure rates justify about an 0.7% per yr 
discounting. Other rationales for discounting are developed. Money can, and 
always will be usable for saving lives; setting up a trust fund for future 
generations to use for this purpose is much more cost-effective than spending 
money now to reduce their exposure to radiation. The history of interest rates 
over the past 5000 yr indicates that at least 3% real annual interest can be 
expected. It may not be necessary to actually set up a trust fund as its purpose 
is largely accomplished by the decrease in the public debt when money is not 
spent. The trust fund approach is mathematically equivalent to discounting lives 
lost in the far future at 3% per yr. As an alternative to the trust fund, money 
can be invested in biomedical research. It is shown that per dollar spent, this 
is usually far more beneficial to the health of future generations than 
protecting them from radiation as that art is currently practiced, and for 
purposes of cost-benefit analysis, it corresponds to discounting lives lost in 
the future by a factor of the order of the number of years before they are lost; 
e.g. the number of lives calculated to be lost 1000 yr from now should be 
divided by 1000. Implementation of the biomedical research alternative requires 
only that about 0.1% of taxes from nuclear plants and 0.1% of government support 
for biomedical research be re-defined as contributions from nuclear plants to 
this research.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-198309000-00011
PMID: 6411657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. J Hand Surg Am. 1983 Sep;8(5 Pt 2):644-8. doi:
10.1016/s0363-5023(83)80233-0.

Costs, risks, and benefits of hand surgery.

Chase RA.

The major criticism of all medicine today is spiraling cost of health care. This 
is fanned in intensity by economists, politicians, and social scientists who add 
up the costs, which, in fact, have skyrocketed, and they have concluded that it 
"isn't worth it." The major basis for that conclusion is that despite the fact 
that health care costs are gobbling up 11% of the gross national product (+189 
billion), there has been an increase in life expectancy of only 1 year. Use of 
life expectancy as the outcome measure is simple-minded, misleading, and 
inappropriate, and it is used only because the objective data are clear-cut and 
available. Mortality is a clear endpoint. Some of the greatest advances in 
medicine and all of those in the field of hand surgery have nothing to do with 
duration of survival (quantity of life), but contribute with major impact to the 
productivity, adjustment, and self-satisfaction of patients (quality of life). 
We have the opportunity to challenge and counter some of the adverse public 
image that is the current portrait of all of medicine. Much of that image is 
based on flimsy, inaccurate data that are extrapolated into gross untruth by 
nonmedical, short-sighted adversaries. Hand surgeons must collect objective 
evidence of the rehabilitation benefits of hand surgery care to persons 
suffering deformity and associated disability. Such data may be extrapolated to 
show the true cost-risk-benefit ratios produced by hand surgeons.

DOI: 10.1016/s0363-5023(83)80233-0
PMID: 6415154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. J Occup Med. 1983 Oct;25(10):731-6. doi: 10.1097/00043764-198310000-00012.

Adaptation of the lifetime health monitoring concept to defined employee groups 
not at exceptional risk.

Guidotti TL.

DOI: 10.1097/00043764-198310000-00012
PMID: 6415248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Vital Health Stat 3. 1983 Sep;(23):1-35.

Changing mortality patterns, health services utilization, and health care 
expenditures.

Rice DP, Rosenberg HM, Curtin LR, Hodgson TA.

PMID: 6417904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Soc Sci Med. 1983;17(23):1907-14. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(83)90168-5.

Does smoking increase medical care expenditure?

Leu RE, Schaub T.

The impact of smoking on medical care expenditure is analyzed, challenging the 
widespread belief that smoking imposes a large cost burden on health services 
systems. The results imply that lifetime expenditure is higher for nonsmokers 
than for smokers because smokers' higher annual utilization rates are 
overcompensated for by nonsmokers' higher life expectancy. Population 
simulation, taking into account the effects of past smoking on present 
population size and composition, suggests that 1976 expenditure would have been 
the same if no male born since 1876 had ever smoked. The male population would 
have been larger, particularly at older ages, increasing medical care 
expenditure, but this increase would have been offset by lower annual medical 
care utilization rates. Thus the results imply that smoking does not increase 
medical care expenditure and, therefore, reducing smoking is unlikely to 
decrease it.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(83)90168-5
PMID: 6419350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Can Med Assoc J. 1984 Jan 15;130(2):118-20.

Costs and "benefits" of cigarette smoking in Canada: comment.

Woodfield AE.

PMCID: PMC1875884
PMID: 6420033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1984 Mar 3;288(6418):663-4. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.288.6418.663.

Mortality and morbidity among the old.

Grundy E.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.288.6418.663
PMCID: PMC1444409
PMID: 6421423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Intensive Care Med. 1984;10(1):43-4. doi: 10.1007/BF00258069.

Upper airway obstruction caused by massive subcutaneous emphysema.

Gibney RT, Finnegan B, FitzGerald MX, Lynch V.

Acute upper airway obstruction is a potentially life-threatening event. The most 
common causes include foreign body inhalation, thermal injury, inflammation, 
angioedema and trauma. Airway obstruction caused by submucosal extension of 
subcutaneous emphysema has only been previously reported once. We report the 
case of a patient who suffered a respiratory arrest as a result of 
hypopharyngeal and laryngeal swelling associated with massive subcutaneous 
emphysema.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00258069
PMID: 6421917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Stroke. 1984 Mar-Apr;15(2):324-8. doi: 10.1161/01.str.15.2.324.

Glucagon stimulates ketone utilization by rat brain slices.

Kirsch JR, D'Alecy LG.

Glucagon has been shown previously to increase further the enhanced tolerance 
for hypoxia observed in mice with elevated blood ketones. Glucagon is also known 
to increase blood glucose and to alter directly the metabolism of some (liver) 
cells. Both the increase in blood glucose and altered cellular metabolism could 
contribute to the increase in tolerance for hypoxia observed in mice given 
glucagon in combination with the ketone, beta-hydroxybutyrate. To evaluate the 
systemic component of this hypothesis, blood glucose, beta-hydroxybutyrate, and 
glucagon were elevated alone or simultaneously and hypoxic tolerance of mice was 
measured. To identify possible cellular effects of glucagon on glucose or ketone 
metabolism, we measured the incorporation of radiolabeled glucose or 
beta-hydroxybutyrate into CO2 or total lipid in isolated rat brain slices. Both 
glucagon and glucose increased hypoxic tolerance of ketotic mice but our data do 
not support the hypothesis that glucagon's action was only through an elevation 
of blood glucose. In brain slices glucagon stimulated the incorporation of 
beta-hydroxybutyrate into CO2 both in the presence or absence of additional 
glucose. These results demonstrate that glucagon has a direct effect on brain 
metabolism which may contribute to the increased tolerance for hypoxia. They, 
however, do not exclude the possibility that glucagon is working in addition to 
increase hypoxic survival in ketotic mice by increasing the availability of 
glucose to the brain.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.15.2.324
PMID: 6422589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1983 Dec;76(12):1475-80.

[Indication for and the future of valvular bioprosthesis].

[Article in French]

Leroy G, Desnos M, Bouajina A, Jach-Kornacewicz S, Gay J, Gerbaux A.

Two fundamental characteristics distinguish bioprostheses from mechanical 
prostheses: disadvantage: reoperation inevitable after a variable delay; 
advantage: the problems of anticoagulation are avoided in the majority of cases 
and, above all, thromboembolic complications are reduced, thus improving the 
quality of life even if anticoagulation proves necessary. Before weighing up 
these considerations and making the difficult choice of the best prosthesis, two 
factors must be taken into account: the advances in cardiac surgery have enabled 
surgical therapy to be considered even in asymptomatic patients with the object 
of ensuring longer and better quality life; the concept of reoperation is still 
too often synonymous with surgical failure whilst thromboembolic complications 
are referred to fatality. To delay reoperation is to significantly increase the 
risks, so falsifying the statistical mortality rate and making it impossible to 
answer the fundamental question: "does the use of bioprostheses prolong life 
expectancy compared to mechanical prosthesis?".

PMID: 6422883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Ann Thorac Surg. 1984 May;37(5):387-92. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)60761-8.

Performance of glutaraldehyde-preserved porcine bioprosthesis as a mitral valve 
substitute in a young population group.

Antunes MJ, Santos LP.

Porcine bioprostheses were implanted in the mitral position in 289 patients. The 
mean age was 25.8 +/- 13.7 years. One hundred thirty-five patients (47%) were 20 
years old or younger. Most patients had chronic rheumatic valvulitis (74%). 
Mitral regurgitation and mixed mitral valve disease were the dominant lesions. 
Hancock, Angell-Shiley, and Carpentier-Edwards prostheses were implanted in 84, 
14, and 191 patients, respectively. There were 19 early and 64 late deaths. Mean 
follow-up was 5.04 +/- 1.03 patient-years. Fifty-eight patients (6.71% per 
patient-year) were reoperated on for degenerated prostheses, with 13 deaths. 
Twelve patients died without reoperation, and 17 await reoperation for 
degenerated valves. The rate of structural failure (total, 87 patients) was 
21.07% and 3.04% per patient-year for patients less than and older than 20 
years, respectively (p less than 0.001). The 6-year actuarial survival for these 
two groups was 50% and 68%, respectively. However, for patients 20 years old or 
younger, survival free from degeneration was only 20% at 6 years (p less than 
0.001). Bioprostheses have a high failure rate and should not be implanted in 
young patients or in patients with a life expectancy exceeding 10 years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)60761-8
PMID: 6424591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Vnitr Lek. 1984 Apr;30(4):351-5.

