[Blood groups ABO, RHo(D) factor and the life expectancy of patients with 
malignant tumors].

[Article in Czech]

Pejchl S, Chaloupka F.

PMID: 6428045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Acta Neurol Scand Suppl. 1983;95:103-5. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0404.1983.tb01522.x.

Deprenyl (selegiline) in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

Birkmayer W.

Deprenyl combined with levodopa and a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor is of 
therapeutic value in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. This conclusion is 
substantiated by the improvement of akinesia, on-off phases, fluctuations of 
disability and rigidity. Levodopa doses can be reduced. The onset of adverse 
reactions is later and side-effects are even milder when compared to those with 
combined levodopa treatment. The most significant effect of deprenyl, however, 
is its ability to prolong the life expectancy of parkinsonian patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0404.1983.tb01522.x
PMID: 6428140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Public Health Rep. 1984 May-Jun;99(3):221-2.

Health, make it last a lifetime.

Heckler MM.

PMCID: PMC1424572
PMID: 6429711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Arzneimittelforschung. 1984;34(4):412-6.

The effect of naftidrofuryl on cyanide-induced hypoxic damage to glucose and 
energy metabolism in brain cortex of rats.

Hoyer S.

Increasing life expectancy increases diseases of old age. Dementia is a highly 
age-related brain disease in which the metabolic rates of oxygen and glucose are 
predominantly disturbed. However, related changes in metabolism at the molecular 
level are rather little known. Knowledge on pharmacotherapeutic modification of 
the metabolic variations in the brains of demented people is also scanty. Since 
the vascular type of primary dementia is found to be associated with metabolic 
variations which resemble that of a cerebral hypoxia, hypoxic brain damage was 
produced by means of a sublethal dosage of cyanide in two-year-old rats. The 
cyanide-induced damage in brain metabolism was characterized by an increase of 
the tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates succinate, fumarate and malate. This 
indicates disturbances of NAD+- and FAD+-dependent redox reactions also 
including pyruvate oxidation. Lactate production was found to be increased, and 
creatine phosphate formation reduced. Application of 3 mg/kg naftidrofuryl after 
cyanide damage produced a normalizing effect on the cyanide-induced changes in 
glucose and energy metabolism of brain cortex of rats. The tentative conclusion 
may thus be drawn that naftidrofuryl may have a beneficial effect on 
cyanide-induced hypoxic brain damage. Whether this drug might be useful in other 
brain hypoxic conditions remains to be investigated.

PMID: 6430304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Med Clin North Am. 1984 May;68(3):601-15. doi:
10.1016/s0025-7125(16)31118-x.

Congenital bleeding disorders: hemophilia and von Willebrand's disease.

Gill FM.

Treatment of hemophilia and von Willebrand's disease has become easier in recent 
years because of the development of more effective factor replacement products. 
The median age and the life expectancy of patients with hemophilia have risen 
markedly, as has the median age at death.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7125(16)31118-x
PMID: 6431208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Sov Med. 1984;(5):64-8.

[Economic aspects of the fight against cancer].

[Article in Russian]

Shubin BM, RutgaÄ­zer VM, Khadzhiev MA, Aleksandrorva LA.

PMID: 6431616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Acta Med Scand Suppl. 1983;686:81-7. doi:
10.1111/j.0954-6820.1984.tb09894.x.

Cost-benefit in treatment of mild hypertension.

Harvald B, Christiansen T, Pedersen KM, Rasmussen K, Strate M, Thygesen K.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1984.tb09894.x
PMID: 6433656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Arch Neurol. 1984 Sep;41(9):975-7. doi:
10.1001/archneur.1984.04050200081022.

Prognostic factors for life expectancy after penetrating head injury.

Corkin S, Sullivan EV, Carr FA.

Survival curves were made for 190 World War II veterans with penetrating head 
injuries, and for 106 WW II veterans with peripheral nerve injuries who matched 
the subjects with head injuries with respect to age at injury, years of formal 
education, and preinjury intelligence-test score. The results indicated that 
penetrating head injury coupled with posttraumatic epilepsy shortened life 
expectancy in subjects who survived the early postinjury period, but that head 
injury alone did not. Educational level was also a significant variable 
independent of seizures: subjects with more education survived longer than those 
with less education. Age at injury and the difference between preinjury and 
postinjury intelligence-test scores did not predict survival status.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1984.04050200081022
PMID: 6433861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Public Health Rep. 1984 Sep-Oct;99(5):468-75.

Facts, projections, and gaps concerning data on aging.

Brody JA.

In 1900, approximately 25 percent of all deaths occurred in people 65 years of 
age and over, while today the age at death has been pushed back so that, by 
1980, 30 percent of deaths occurred in those over age 80. The greatest declines 
in age-specific mortality for those 65 and over occurred from 1920 to 1945 and 
since 1970. Illness and disability rise with age, and there is some evidence 
that rates of disability in all age groups may be increasing. Measurement of 
morbidity and disability is the area where data are weakest and our needs for 
data are perhaps greatest. Agreement is needed on the use, limitations, and 
interpretations of surveys and of data relating to functional status. In a few 
years, medical students and physicians will be computer literate. We should plan 
now for a better utilization of the already available Federal data sets as well 
as implementation of computerized health care information on individual 
patients. Some modifications of privacy legislation will probably be necessary 
in order for physicians to give better care to their patients, and to provide 
epidemiologic research opportunities in critical areas of public health needs. 
Caution is urged in order to maintain credibility in health promotion by 
avoiding overstatement of knowledge in areas where scientific evidence is weak 
or lacking. Better utilization and development of epidemiologic and statistical 
information as well as basic research in chronic diseases are urged to prepare 
for the year 2025, when there will be some 60 million Americans age 65 and 
over--about 20 percent of the total population.

PMCID: PMC1424619
PMID: 6435159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Mech Ageing Dev. 1984 Sep;27(1):1-13. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(84)90078-2.

Growth rate and life span in Drosophila. I. Methods and mechanisms of variation 
of growth rate.

Economos AC, Lints FA.

It has been suggested that development and ageing may be linked and it has been 
shown, in Drosophila, under conditions of varying developmental temperature and 
larval crowding that the rate of development may be inversely related with the 
duration of adult life. In order to test this hypothesis systematically, precise 
methods were devised for varying, in Drosophila, either growth rate or each of 
its components, i.e. body weight and duration of development, while holding the 
other constant. These methods are described in the present paper. Moreover, we 
report studies that shed some light on the mechanisms underlying the effects of 
temperature and larval crowding on Drosophila development. The major novel 
findings from these studies were: (a) the restriction of the amount of yeast per 
larva as larval density increases accounts entirely for the effect of larval 
crowding on duration of development but only for about two-thirds of its effect 
on body size; and (b) the increased size of flies grown at lower temperatures 
may be due to assimilation of more food rather than to more efficient 
assimilation of food.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(84)90078-2
PMID: 6436587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. World Health Organ Tech Rep Ser. 1984;706:1-84.

The uses of epidemiology in the study of the elderly. Report of a WHO Scientific 
Group on the Epidemiology of Aging.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 6437089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Life Sci. 1984 Nov 26;35(22):2219-25. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(84)90463-6.

Mode of death and post-mortem time effects on 3,3',5-triiodothyronine 
levels--relevance to elevated post-mortem T3 levels in SIDS.

Chacon MA, Tildon JT.

Post-mortem T3 levels have been reported to be increased in victims of SIDS. 
Recent animal studies suggest, however, that elevated T3 in SIDS may be a 
non-specific post-mortem phenomenon. Therefore, we studied the possible effects 
of post-mortem time on T3 levels in 10- and 20-day-old rats killed by various 
methods including: Sodium pentobarbital overdose, injection of KCl, cervical 
dislocation or asphyxia with 100% N, 95% N-5% CO2 or 100% CO2. In both age 
groups T3 remained unchanged or increased slightly when the animals were killed 
with Na Pentobarbital or KCl. Greater increases were observed when rats were 
killed by cervical dislocation or asphyxia (100% N, 95% N-5% CO2 or 100% CO2). 
T3 levels did not become elevated in asphyxiated adult rats in which the 
inferior vena cava was ligated immediately following death. By extension to the 
human infant, the results of this study support the possibility that elevated T3 
levels in SIDS victims may result from post-mortem processes. However, these 
results also suggest that the post-mortem elevation in T3 levels may be directly 
related to the mode of death.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(84)90463-6
PMID: 6438425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Med J Aust. 1984 Dec 8-22;141(12-13):848-50. doi: 
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1984.tb132967.x.

Liver transplants in Australia?

Cox K.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1984.tb132967.x
PMID: 6438452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1984 Nov;77(12):1329-36.

[Results of singular valve replacement with a mechanical prosthesis or 
bioprosthesis in valve diseases with advanced myocardial failure].

[Article in French]

Bensaid J, Christides C, Virot P, Doumeix JJ, Blanc P.

Surgery may prolong survival in some patients in advanced cardiac failure due to 
valvular heart disease refractory to digitalo-diuretic and vasodilator therapy. 
The operative risk is high and myocardial dysfunction after surgery is also a 
problem. However, in some cases, surprising improvement is observed. An analysis 
of the principal publications in the literature on the natural history of 
valvular heart disease and the results of surgery in the last ten years show 
that: In chronic aortic valve disease complicated by congestive heart failure, 
the natural prognosis does not exceed 2 to 3 years in either aortic stenosis or 
regurgitation. On the other hand, prosthetic valve replacement is associated 
with a 57% 4 years survival in aortic regurgitation, and a 70% 5 years survival 
in aortic stenosis, but with an operative mortality of 20 to 27%. Surgery is 
even more valuable in acute aortic regurgitation due to endocarditis, leading to 
a 60% 2 years survival compared to only 6% with medical therapy alone. In 
chronic mitral valve disease with advanced cardiac failure, the natural 
prognosis does not exceed 4.5 years in mitral regurgitation, 8 years in mitral 
stenosis and an intermediate period in mixed mitral valve disease. On the other 
hand, prosthetic valve replacement with an operative risk of 21 to 26% is 
associated with a life expectancy of 56 to 60% at 5 years, and 46% at 10 years, 
operative mortality included. The surgical results depend on good myocardial 
protection and intensive pre-, per- and post-operative care using positive 
inotropic agents, vasodilators and, when necessary, intra aortic balloon 
pumping.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6439158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Bull World Health Organ. 1984;62(5):795-802.

Cost-effectiveness of blindness prevention by the Onchocerciasis Control 
Programme in Upper Volta.

Prost A, Prescott N.

The article presents a cost-effectiveness analysis of the Onchocerciasis Control 
Programme in Upper Volta. The analysis uses a new approach to the measurement of 
health project effectiveness, by considering the number of healthy years of life 
added by the prevention of permanent disability and premature death attributable 
to onchocercal blindness. The approach emphasizes the central role of social 
value judgements in allocating health resources-in particular the relative 
weights assigned to preventing disability and postponing death, present and 
future health benefits, and health gains among productive and non-productive 
individuals. The quantitative results yield the following cost-effectiveness 
estimates for blindness prevention through onchocerciasis control: US$20 per 
year of healthy life and per productive year of healthy life added, and US$150 
per discounted year of healthy life and per discounted productive year of 
healthy life added. As an illustrative example, a comparison is made with 
estimates of the cost-effectiveness of measles immunization.

PMCID: PMC2536219
PMID: 6439428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1984 Sep 14;96(17):642-6.

[Transurethral electroresection with postoperative betatron irradiation in 
bladder cancer: indication and results].

[Article in German]

Haschek H, KÃ¤rcher KH, Studler G.

100 patients suffering from infiltrating urinary bladder cancer underwent 
transurethral resection followed by external megavolt irradiation (Betatron) are 
presented. The value of irradiation and its role in the actual therapeutic 
concept is discussed. The results of the combined therapy in infiltrative 
urinary bladder cancer using transurethral resection and megavolt irradiation 
are demonstrated according to stage (T2, T3) and histological grading (G2, G3). 
The 5-years survival rate amounts around 80%, in deep infiltrating bladder 
cancer about 50%. The morbidity of postoperative megavolt therapy was 
negligible. The results are superior to megavolt therapy alone and approach the 
one achieved by radical surgery; in addition the possibility of 
salvage-cystectomy remains open.

PMID: 6440368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Hum Biol. 1984 Dec;56(4):637-49.

On the number of members of the genus Homo who have ever lived, and some 
evolutionary implications.

Weiss KM.

PMID: 6442261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Zdravookhr Ross Fed. 1980;(2):13-6.

[Mortality and median longevity trends of the working-age population].

[Article in Russian]

VoÄ­tsekhovich BA.

PMID: 6444480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Inquiry. 1980 Spring;17(1):3-17.

Rethinking health policy for the elderly: a six-point program.

Somers AR.

PMID: 6445332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Sov Zdravookhr. 1980;(6):39-43.

[Methodological approaches to using a screening system for demographic 
assessments and prognoses].

[Article in Russian]

Zhuravleva KI, Fedorov AG.

PMID: 6446765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Am J Clin Pathol. 1980 Sep;74(3):247-53. doi: 10.1093/ajcp/74.3.247.

Immunology and aging Philip Levine Award.

Walford RL.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcp/74.3.247
PMID: 6447997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Bol Oficina Sanit Panam. 1980 Sep;89(3):189-94.

[Life expectancy trends in Costa Rica].

[Article in Spanish]

Villegas H, Valverde CA.

PMID: 6449945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Offentl Gesundheitswes. 1980;42(9):599.

[Surplus mortality rate in men (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Arnold H.

PMID: 6450378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1980 Apr 30;28(1):69-79.

[Cardiovascular mortality in industrial and developing countries (author's 
transl)].

[Article in French]

Garros B, Cantrelle P, Hatton F.

In developing countries when causes of death are registered cardiovascular 
mortality levels revealed themselves surprising. For instance, they appear to be 
more important in Tebessa (Algeria) during 1974-1975, Mauritius (1973-1976) or 
Egypt (1971-1973) than in france, United States or Sweden before the age of 45 
and very near after this age. These results are consistent with the mortality 
patterns by causes of death proposed by Preston according to life expectancy at 
birth. Before the age of 45, rheumatic heart diseases can explain this 
overmortality. After this age the recent observations in the Third-World, 
especially in Africa, show that cardiomyopathy, cardiomegaly and principally 
hypertension are widely spread to-day. On the other hand, ischemic heart 
diseases are still rare. For many authors, cardiovascular diseases are 
increasing in Africa because ways of life in developing and developed countries 
are becoming identical. In fact, this trend could be a little artificial. 
Formerly indeed, disparity in population age structures and mortality 
differences for all other causes were not enough taken into account.

PIP: The authors analyze trends in cardiovascular mortality in developed and 
developing countries between 1973 and 1976. Factors contributing to higher 
mortality in developing countries are examined. The relationship between the 
increase in heart disease mortality and the age structure of the population, 
life style, and mortality differences for all other causes is studied (SUMMARY 
IN ENG)

PMID: 6451007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Women Health. 1980 Summer;5(2):49-69. doi: 10.1300/j013v05n02_05.

Depo-Provera: a critical analysis.

Minkin S.

This article discusses the research which has led to the controversy of 
Depo-Provera, and delineates the risks discovered as a result of the studies. 
Questions are raised as to the advisability of the continued use of this drug.

PIP: Currently Depo-Provera has not been approved by the FDA (Food and Drug 
Administration) for contraceptive use in the U.S., although USAID is allowed to 
distribute it for use in population programs in developing countries. The FDA 
denied Upjohn's petition for approval of the basis of tests showing that 
Depo-Provera has caused an increased incidence of mammary carcinoma in 
laboratory dogs. A review of additional tests conducted on laboratory animals, 
the results of which were not released to the public, indicates that adverse 
results were withheld from the public by the manufacturer. Tests with laboratory 
dogs and monkeys have revealed many serious side effects from the drug. 
Endometrial carcinoma, shortened life expectancy, interference with carbohydrate 
metabolism, and suppression of immune responses are the most major of these side 
effects. The immunosuppressive effects make women more vulnerable to infection 
and also seem to promote malignancy. Exposure to Depo-Provera, as to other 
progestogens, in utero is associated with an increased risk of congenital 
malformation in children. In view of the seriousness of the findings, questions 
are raised as to the advisability of continued contraceptive use of 
Depo-Provera.

DOI: 10.1300/j013v05n02_05
PMID: 6451987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Cardiovasc Clin. 1981;11(2):117-27.

Insurability and employability of young cardiac patients.

Manning JA.

PMID: 6452203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Scand J Soc Med Suppl. 1980;16:50-2.

The mortality experience of early old-age and disability pensioners from 
unskilled- and semiskilled labour groups in Fredericia.

Olsen J, Jeune B.

Survival of early old-age and disability pensioners from unskilled and 
semiskilled labourers was compared with the employed workers from the same local 
trade union. All members receiving early old-age or disability pensions during 
the period October 1, 1969 to September 30, 1973 were assigned to the index 
group provided they were still alive September 30, 1973. 2 active workers were 
selected as controls for each pensioner according to the closest age match. The 
pensioners had about 7 times higher mortality risk than their active fellow 
workers in the follow-up period from September 30, 1973 to January 1, 1979. It 
is emphasized that proper comparison is needed if excess mortality associated 
with early retirement is to be estimated.

PMID: 6452687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Sov Zdravookhr. 1981;(3):7-11.

[Medical aspects of demographic policy in a large city].

[Article in Russian]

Miniaev VA, Poliakov IV, Sokolova NS, Boiarinova EA.

PIP: In Leningrad the population is characterized as follows: 1) it is aging, 
with an increase in the proportion 60 years of age or older; 2) 20 years ago 
fertility started to decline; in 1968 it started to rise, but this was 
temporary, and in 1977 it was 25.1% lower than the average for the country; 3) 
the rate of natural population increase does not exceed 3%; 4) the average life 
expectancy for men is 64.61 years, and for women 73.31; by 2000 it will grow to 
69.02 for men and to 75.88 for women; 5) the indices of physical development of 
newborn infants has remained about the same in recent years; the largest group 
of infants are ones weighing at least 4 kilograms and at least 52 cm in length; 
and 6) the morbidity statistics do not reveal a clear pattern of development; 
there are more lung diseases, a slight increase in chronic diseases, and, among 
the newborn, the most common conditions are birth trauma and genetic defects. It 
is important to study not only the birthrate but also the health of the infant 
and of the developing child, using not only traditional indices of yearly 
morbidity, but also indices of morbidity for the total number of years lived. It 
is also necessary to elaborate a set of factors influencing public health for 
the different periods of life. Such factors could be: educational and working 
conditions, living and recreational conditions, climatic and geographical 
conditions, public health conditions at the place of residence, characteristics 
of the individual (sex, age, cultural level, inheritance, and behavior), and 
available medical services. We have tried to develop a method for bringing 
medical services to the population. Our polyclinic is conducting experiments in 
the greater use of dispensaries. An acute problem is defining the need for 
medical rehabilitation and the optimal way of organizing that. We are also 
working on various forms of prevention, especially in connection with pregnancy. 
This all involves the processing of much information, which is not possible 
without using computers and statistical techniques. At a later stage we will 
gather such information not only on groups but also on each individual member of 
the population.

PMID: 6452702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. J Gerontol. 1981 May;36(3):259-79. doi: 10.1093/geronj/36.3.259.

Histopathological profile of a Wistar rat stock including a survey of the 
literature.

Kroes R, Garbis-Berkvens JM, de Vries T, van Nesselrooy HJ.

This study is concerned with the histopathological changes and tumors and their 
incidences in the Wistar SPF Tox rat. Also included are data on survival, growth 
and haematology. The animals were untreated and were investigated for 30 months. 
The data are compared with those from two Wistar substocks, which had been used 
in the same laboratory: the Wistar CPB and the Wistar Conv. The results are 
summarized in tables and figures and are compared with data from the literature. 
A survey of studies dealing with spontaneous lesions and tumors in rats is 
given. A wide variety of tumor types and a relatively high tumor incidence were 
found in the Wistar SPF Tox rats. Since most of the tumors were found after 24 
months, this high incidence was correlated with the life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/36.3.259
PMID: 6453149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Morphol Embryol (Bucur). 1980 Jul-Sep;26(3):275-8.

Data concerning the histogenesis of intrahepatic biliary ducts in human 
embryofetal life.

Seres-Sturm L, Maros T, Seres-Sturm M, GogolÃ¡k E.

The development and histostructural organization of intrahepatic biliary ducts 
were studied on a human embryofetal material 6 to 32 weeks old. These formations 
appeared during the whole study period, in close connexion with the extension of 
the portal vasculo-connective spaces. In the epitheliomesenchymal contact area, 
the liver cells of limiting plates possessing an increased histogenetic 
plasticity will generate, through a metamorphosis process, the bordering 
epithelia of intrahepatic biliary structures.

PMID: 6453290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Vopr Onkol. 1981;27(5):75-80.

[Life expectancy of lung cancer patients registered at the Leningrad City 
Oncological Dispensary in 1968].

[Article in Russian]

Drukin EIa, Iaritsyn SS.

Out of 1,240 lung cancer patients, a five-year survival was registered in 5.2% 
of cases (0.5% of unoperated patients, 34.3% of radically-operated among those 
who underwent surgery and 39.5% of patients discharged from hospital after 
operation). No relationship between the sex and age unoperated patients and 
prognosis was established. Among those radically-operated, 34.8% of young all 
28% of aged patients survived for five years. Resectability should be considered 
the only reliable criterion of evaluation of diagnosis and treatment of lung 
cancer.

PMID: 6454299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Br J Obstet Gynaecol. 1981 Jul;88(7):761-4. doi: 
10.1111/j.1471-0528.1981.tb01280.x.

Tubal patency testing in a programme of artificial insemination with donor 
semen.

Edmonds DK, Matthews CD, Cox LW.

The value of investigating tubal patency by hysterosalpingography, before 
artificial insemination with donor semen (AID), was studied retrospectively in 
167 patients. The results suggest that unless there is a history of pelvic 
inflammatory disease preliminary hysterosalpinography is unnecessary. Conception 
rates were similar in women who had a normal hysterosalpingogram (44%), in those 
who had an abnormal hysterosalpingogram (46%), and in those who had no 
preliminary tubal investigation (39%) before AID. Life table analysis of 
expectancy of conception suggests that tubal patency testing should be delayed 
until after AID has been unsuccessful for four cycles. Laparoscopy is then the 
most worthwhile investigation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.1981.tb01280.x
PMID: 6454438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Geriatrics. 1981 Aug;36(8):123, 126, 130.

What is the maximum human life span?

Kent S.

PMID: 6454610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Am J Hum Genet. 1981 Jul;33(4):629-39.

Mortality and survival for Down syndrome in Japan.

Masaki M, Higurashi M, Iijima K, Ishikawa N, Tanaka F, Fujii T, Kuroki Y, Matsui 
I, Iinuma K, Matsuo N, Takeshita K, Hashimoto S.

Mortality and survival data for 1,052 Japanese patients with Down syndrome who 
were born between 1966 and 1975 were analyzed. The survival rate at age 10 was 
estimated to be about 86%. Mortality in each age group for Down syndrome was 
elevated over that of the general population. In the survival rate at age 10, 
there was no significant difference between males and females, but the 
difference between cases with and without congenital heart disease was highly 
significant. Using data from this study-for mortality up to age 10-and from the 
study of institutionalized cases for mortality over age 10, a hypothetical life 
table was constructed; it shows that the life expectancy at birth for cases with 
Down syndrome is nearly 50 years.

PMCID: PMC1685087
PMID: 6455063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1981 Aug 22;125(34):1377-81.

[Life expectancy following heart infarct].

[Article in Dutch]

de Feyter PJ, Roos JP.

PMID: 6456420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. J Rehabil. 1981 Oct-Dec;47(4):19-27.

Disabled older persons: a demographic analysis.

Blake R.

PMID: 6459456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Bol Oficina Sanit Panam. 1981 Dec;91(6):512-9.

[Aging and the developing nations of the Americas].

[Article in Spanish]

Ehrlich SP Jr, Litvak J.

PMID: 6459791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. No Shinkei Geka. 1984 Mar;12(3 Suppl):339-46.

[Sellar fibrosarcoma following radiotherapy for prolactinoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Nagatani M, Ikeda T, Otsuki H, Mizuta T, Mori S, Ushio Y, Hayakawa T, Mogami H, 
Matsumoto K, Mori H.

A 51-year-old house woman visited the Department of Neurosurgery, Osaka 
University Hospital for examination of the head injury on Oct. 7, 1975. 
Neurological examination was normal. Endocrinological examination showed 
galactorrhea. The patient had a past history of premature menopause. Plain skull 
films revealed enlargement of sella turcica and CT scan showed sellar tumor with 
suprasellar expansion which was enhanced by contrast medium. The serum prolactin 
(PRL) level was 3,290 ng/ml. Diagnosis of PRL secreting pituitary adenoma 
(prolactinoma) was made. Though surgical removal of the tumor was recommended, 
it was refused by the patient. Therefore, careful observation was continued as 
an out-patient until May 1979 when she noticed a temporal hemianopsia of her 
left eye. She was admitted and had partial removal of the tumor via frontal 
route and subsequent irradiation (total dose of 5,000 rad by Lineac). The tumor 
was verified to be a prolactinoma by the immunohistochemical staining. 
Postoperative course was uneventful and she lead a normal life. In Oct. 1981, 
severe faceache began and she was readmitted. Sella was destructed extensively 
and CT scan revealed a hugh sellar tumor with multi-directional extrasellar 
extension which was less enhanced than that of the first study. The serum PRL 
level was 588 ng/ml and the regrowth of prolactinoma was suspected. High dose 
bromocriptine (40 mg/day) therapy was started. The serum PRL level rapidly fell 
to the negligible value, however, shrinkage of the tumor was not observed. On 
Jan. 20, 1982, suddenly she developed a left hemiparesis and her level of 
consciousness gradually deteriorated. On Mar. 11, 1982, the second operation was 
performed and a solid firm tumor in the base of the skull was partially removed. 
The tumor was histologically verified to be a fibrosarcoma. After the second 
operation bromocriptine therapy was discontinued, however expected elevation of 
the serum PRL level was not recognized. She died on Apr. 4, 1982.

PMID: 6462342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Vopr Onkol. 1984;30(7):24-32.

[Basic tasks of the statistical analysis of data on the survival of cancer 
patients].

[Article in Russian]

Kadyrova NO, Antipova TV, Zherbin EA, Iakovlev AIu.

PMID: 6464399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Aesthetic Plast Surg. 1984;8(2):123-8. doi: 10.1007/BF01575255.

Aesthetic cervicofacial surgery for head and neck tumor patients.

Barrett BM Jr, Rose FA.

Carefully selected head and neck tumor patients can safely undergo a wide 
variety of aesthetic surgical procedures. The malignancy must first be 
adequately treated and clinically controlled before elective surgery. Each tumor 
patient's general health and life expectancy must be honestly assessed prior to 
aesthetic surgery, because operating on an individual who cannot survive to 
enjoy the benefits is injudicious. Through the combined efforts of sophisticated 
oncology and plastic surgery, the patient survival rate can be improved as 
quality of life is enriched in appropriately selected and carefully managed 
individuals.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01575255
PMID: 6464837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Dis Colon Rectum. 1984 Sep;27(9):579-84. doi: 10.1007/BF02553840.

The significance of DNA distribution pattern in rectal carcinoma. A preliminary 
study.

Forsslund G, Cedermark B, Ohman U, Erhardt K, Zetterberg A, Auer G.

The DNA distribution pattern was determined retrospectively in 25 rectal 
carcinomas and the possible correlation to clinical outcome evaluated. The DNA 
content in individual cells was measured according to a cytophotometric method 
based on light transmission measurement of Feulgen-stained nuclei. Tumor cells 
with DNA content exceeding an upper limit, i.e., the 90 percentile of the 
control cells, were considered to be nondiploid (aneuploid). Virtually all 
long-term survivors had less than 50 per cent of the tumor cells exceeding the 
upper diploid level, whereas those developing only a local recurrence had 50 to 
70 per cent. Patients with disseminated disease and short survival time had all 
of their tumor cells exceeding the upper diploid level. There was a highly 
significant correlation between Dukes' stage and aneuploidy and probably a 
significant correlation between histologic grading and aneuploidy. The clinical 
significance of these results lies in the fact that DNA can be measured in 
biopsy specimens. It might thus be possible to "tailor" the operation according 
to the future clinical course to be expected. It could be hypothetically argued 
that patients with a DNA profile heralding disseminated disease and short life 
expectancy should have surgery that preserves quality of life, whereas those 
tending to develop a local recurrence should have more aggressive surgery. It 
may also be possible to define groups of patients thought to prosper from a more 
intense postoperative surveillance. The scientific basis for these suggestions 
is still lacking, and further studies on a prospective basis are currently in 
progress.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02553840
PMID: 6468195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Growth. 1984 Summer;48(2):209-20.

Factors affecting growth and survival of neonatal genetically obese and lean 
swine: cross fostering experiments.

Mersmann HJ, Pond WG, Stone RT, Yen JT, Lindvall RN.

Obese and lean lines of pigs were developed previously by genetic selection for 
thick and thin backfat thickness, respectively. A greater proportion of these 
obese than lean pigs survive to weaning. A cross-fostering experiment was 
designed to study neonatal piglet growth and to attempt to decipher some of the 
causes of the increased survival rate. At about 24 h postpartum, lean and obese 
sows were paired, the litters standardized to six pigs and three pigs from each 
sow transferred to a dam of opposite genetic line. The smaller birthweight of 
obese than lean piglets and the lesser growth of either obese or lean pigs 
raised on obese compared to lean sows were both observations that might support 
greater survival of lean rather than obese piglets. Positive factors that might 
contribute toward the greater survival of obese than lean piglets were the 
greater lipid content of milk from obese than from lean sows during the first 2 
wk postpartum and possibly greater physiological maturity of obese than lean 
pigs at birth as reflected in greater hemoglobin, hematocrit, plasma protein and 
plasma albumin.

PMID: 6469054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Hygie. 1984 Jun;3(2):41-9.

[A possible objective from now to the year 2000: reducing infant mortality by 
one half in Third World countries].

[Article in French]

Berthet E.

Every day 40.000 children die throughout the world. Most of them in developing 
countries. There is a close relationship between infant mortality, life 
expectancy at birth, the adult illiteracy rate and national income per capita. 
Why such huge differences between the infant mortality rate of 7 per 1.000 (live 
births) in Sweden and 208 in Upper Volta? The four scourges which afflict 
developing countries: hunger (malnutrition), disease, ignorance and poverty are 
responsible for this state of affairs. The author suggests that coordinated 
action by governments and International Agencies should be taken to halve the 
infant mortality rate by the year 2.000. He notes that in the past three 
mistakes were made which should not be repeated. The first was to improve the 
living conditions of the population. The green Revolution in India provides a 
striking example of an important progress which benefited only the wealthier 
farmers. A second mistake was to believe that only a medical approach reduce the 
infant mortality rate. A third error was to overlook the importance of health 
education and not to seek the active participation of the people concerned. The 
author recalls that the International Union for Health Education carried out a 
sanitary and social programme from 1975 to 1978 in Africa, south of the Sahara. 
To this effect, the IUHE had to find out what the people really wanted, could be 
motivated, to increase the welfare of the villagers by measures adapted to 
existing possibilities, to study how the people could recruit among the 
villagers health workers and train them, to create village health 
committees.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6469255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 1984;108(2):192-6. doi: 10.1007/BF00402466.

Spontaneous tumors and lifespan of female NMRI mice of the outbred stock 
Sut:NMRT during a lifetime study.

LÃ¶hrke H, Hesse B, Goerttler K.

A group of 150 female NMRI mice of the outbred stock Sut:NMRT was kept until 
they died naturally, at which time they were necropsied and examined 
histologically for spontaneous tumors. The natural life expectancy (median) was 
782 days. Life expectancy was markedly reduced by mammary and pulmonary 
adenocarcinoma, and by tumors of the hypophysis. The spontaneous tumor rate was 
58%. That is to say, 87 of the 150 mice had spontaneous tumors: 57 animals each 
had one tumor, 20 animals each had two tumors, and 10 animals each had three 
tumors. The organs most commonly affected by tumors were those of the 
lymphoreticular and haematopoietic systems, followed by the respiratory tract in 
second place and the breast in third place. Data reported in the literature 
generally show the same organ distribution, but the total tumor rate given is 
generally somewhat lower as the animals are seldom left alive until they die 
naturally (spontaneously).

DOI: 10.1007/BF00402466
PMID: 6470026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1984 Sep;32(9):670-5. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1984.tb02258.x.

Contrasts in the health of elderly men and women: an analysis of recent data for 
whites in the United States.

Wylie CM.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1984.tb02258.x
PMID: 6470387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. J Math Biol. 1984;19(3):335-50. doi: 10.1007/BF00277104.

Demography in stochastic environments. I. Exact distributions of age structure.

Tuljapurkar S.

The steady state distribution of age structure is studied for populations with 
two age classes and stochastic vital rates. For a serially uncorrelated 
dichotomic vital rate the distribution of age structure is found analytically to 
be a singular steplike function; outside a specific region of vital rate values 
the singular function crosses a threshold to a smooth function. For a vital rate 
following a correlated two state Markov process the joint distributions of age 
structure and environment are found analytically to be singular steplike 
functions; again a threshold marks a transition to a smooth function. For 
fecundities which are serially uncorrelated but continuously distributed the age 
structure distribution is obtained as a smooth analytic function for all 
parameter values. These explicit results have applications to studies of age 
structure and average growth rate.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00277104
PMID: 6470584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Med Decis Making. 1984;4(2):177-94. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8400400206.

The risk ratio is insufficient for clinical decisions. The case of prophylactic 
cholecystectomy.

Kottke TE, Feldman RD, Albert DA.

The medical literature contains studies that recommend both for and against 
prophylactic cholecystectomy when cholelithiasis is present. To investigate 
whether differing analytic techniques contribute to these disparate 
recommendations, we analyzed the decision to "wait and see" or "operate now," 
using both risk ratio and life expectancy analysis on the same data base. With 
intermediate symptom incidence estimates the risk ratio strongly favored an 
"operate now" approach, because it lessened the risk of death from gallbladder 
disease by up to 19-fold. In the group most favored by immediate surgery, 
25-year-old men, risking death with immediate surgery increased life expectancy 
by only one percent (168 days). The risk ratio increased to over 30 for this 
group with the low incidence estimates, but the difference in life expectancy 
decreased to 120 days. With the high incidence estimates, the risk ratio 
declined to 16.4 and the life expectancy difference increased to 186 days. These 
data demonstrate that (1) the risk ratio can imply a course of action that is 
different from that implied by life expectancy analysis, and (2) the maximum 
expected return on the risk of immediate death with elective surgery for silent 
gallstones is only a one percent increase in life expectancy. This analysis 
suggests that single measures of effect such as the risk ratio and life 
expectancy do not capture all the information necessary to make an informed 
decision.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8400400206
PMID: 6472065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Mutat Res. 1984 Aug;128(1):73-103. doi: 10.1016/0027-5107(84)90049-6.

The load of genetic and partially genetic disorders in man. I. Congenital 
anomalies: estimates of detriment in terms of years of life lost and years of 
impaired life.

Czeizel A, Sankaranarayanan K.

This paper represents an attempt to estimate quantitatively, the detriment 
associated with spontaneously arising congenital anomalies in man. The system 
used in the International Classification of Diseases (Chapter XIV, entries 
740-759) has been followed to classify the congenital anomalies. Detriment was 
assessed using estimates of the years of life lost, years of life potentially 
impaired and years of life actually impaired, as indicators. The data on birth 
prevalences for the various conditions were derived from several epidemiological 
surveys carried out in Hungary and from the Hungarian Congenital Malformation 
Registry. Most of the information on mortality profiles was obtained from the 
records of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, Budapest. An overall 
comparison of the prevalence figures in Hungary with those for the U.S. (this 
study aimed at complete ascertainment) and for the Canadian province of British 
Columbia (in this study, ascertainment is believed to be incomplete) showed 
that, in Hungary, at least certain classes of congenital anomalies, particularly 
some of the less severe ones, have been under-ascertained. Since detriment 
estimates are heavily dependent on accurate estimates of birth prevalences, we 
believe that the estimates of detriment arrived at using the Hungarian data may 
also be underestimates. In Hungary, the total birth prevalence of all isolated 
major congenital anomalies is of the order of about 600/10(4). Our calculations 
show that these congenital anomalies may cause, per 10(4) livebirths, about 4800 
years of life loss, about 37000 years of potentially impaired life and about 
4500 years of actually impaired life. In these calculations, it has been assumed 
that the average life-expectancy at live birth for the general population is 70 
years. These estimates are considerably higher than those made by Carter for 
detriment associated with spontaneously arising monogenic disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/0027-5107(84)90049-6
PMID: 6472308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Radiologe. 1984 Jun;24(6):257-63.

[Noninvasive first-pass study of the heart with the short-lived radionuclide 
gold 195m].

[Article in German]

Schad N, Nickel O, SchÃ¶n H, Bruzzone F, Le Thi O, Baumgartl W, Hartmann A.

The new shortlived radionuclide Aurum 195 m (T1/2: 30.5 sec) has been used for 
1,596 first-pass examinations of 792 patients. During first-pass the same 
maximum count rates of an average of 300,000 cts/sec and after background 
subtraction the same enddiastolic counts over the left ventricle averaging 
10,000 cts/sec can be achieved as with the previously used Tc-99 m pertechnetate 
injections. The short half-life and fast regeneration of Au-195 m within 3 
minutes allow repeated, subsequent injections with significant reduction in 
radiation exposure. Half of the studies were done at rest and exercise, one 
third in two oblique projections, RAO and LAO. Examinations in two projections 
improve the information facilitating the localization of ischemic or infarcted 
LV-regions particularly with respect of septal and/or lateral extension. 
Strictly lateral dysfunction may sometimes be only recognizable in the second 
LAO-projection. The RAO-view best discriminates the extension along the anterior 
and infero-posterior wall.

PMID: 6473759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Singapore Med J. 1984 Apr;25(2):104-14.

