Increasing life expectancy in Singapore during 1969-1981.

Saw SH.

PMID: 6474199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Sangre (Barc). 1984;29(2):156-63.

[Chronic lymphatic leukemia: does it shorten life?].

[Article in Spanish]

Rozman C, Montserrat E, Rodríguez Fernández JM, Ayats R, Vallespí T, Parody R, 
Ríos A, Prados D, Morey M, Gomis F, et al.

PMID: 6474308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Z Gerontol. 1984 May-Jun;17(3):167-75.

[Similar findings on different backgrounds: different effects of a longer life 
expectancy in Japan and Germany].

[Article in German]

Imhof AE.

From October 27 to 29, 1983, a Japanese-German Colloquium on 'Time' took place 
in Kyoto. One of the main topics being discussed was 'Human Life Time'. The 
first section of this report deals with some common demographic findings - 
actual as well as historical ones - such as developments of life expectancy, 
aspects of life planning, attitudes towards different stages of life, grids of 
inheritance and transmission systems, etc. The second part concentrates upon the 
consequences of a standardized long life in both societies today against the 
background of two different cultures, above all in view of the religiously 
conditioned differences in attitudes towards a life/no life after death. In 
Japan, a 'good dying and death' traditionally means the transition into a state 
where there is neither life nor death (and thus no eternal life), whereas in 
Europe, dying and death meant during nearly two thousand years only a passage 
between an earthly and the eternal part of 'Life'. And even after 
'dechristianization', most of us still know what we have lost--fully or 
partly--only very recently: our belief in eternity. As a result, many elderly 
people in Japan may prove 'only' economic or family and generational problems, 
whereas in the West, the deepest concern of the aged still more often may be a 
metaphysical one.

PMID: 6475194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Am Heart J. 1984 Sep;108(3 Pt 2):794-6. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(84)90673-2.

Coronary heart disease mortality/morbidity and risk in blacks. II: Access to 
medical care.

Haywood LJ.

Since the cardiovascular disease mortality is higher, life expectancy shorter, 
and socioeconomic conditions lower for black persons compared to the majority 
population, speculation arises as to the possible role of distribution of health 
resources for this segment of the population. Data from the City of Los Angeles, 
collected by health districts allowing the parallel use of census tract data, 
confirm that deaths caused by ischemic heart disease occur at a lower age in 
blacks and that a dramatic fall in these rates (which are lower than for the 
majority population) has not occurred during the 1970-1979 period. Observations 
on some relevant factors and suggestions for further monitoring of health care 
needs and resources are offered.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(84)90673-2
PMID: 6475748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Am Ind Hyg Assoc J. 1984 Aug;45(8):517-24. doi: 10.1080/15298668491400205.

Application of gas adsorption kinetics--II. A theoretical model for respirator 
cartridge service life and its practical applications.

Yoon YH, Nelson JH.

A previously introduced theoretical model addressing respirator cartridge 
contaminant breakthrough was further developed in this study. This development 
involved the introduction of a new theoretical parameter, a, to complement the 
parameters k' and tau employed in the initial theoretical approach. The 
extension of the theory permits the theoretical investigation of the following: 
(1) the effect of contaminant concentration on breakthrough time; (2) the effect 
of flow rate on breakthrough time; (3) the influence of contaminant 
concentration on percentage of breakthrough; and (4) the effect of contaminant 
concentration on the weight of adsorbed contaminant at a given time. We also 
compared new theoretical expressions with previously published empirical 
equations. Utilizing the parameter a, we derived a set of equations of 
significant practical value. These equations relate the ratio of two contaminant 
concentrations (one experimental reference concentration and any other 
concentration of interest) to either the ratio of the corresponding breakthrough 
times or the corresponding weights of adsorbed contaminant. Three practical 
examples are provided demonstrating that the new theoretical model reduces 
experimental work required to predict respirator cartridge service life.

DOI: 10.1080/15298668491400205
PMID: 6475759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Am J Cardiol. 1984 Aug 27;54(5):2C-6C. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(84)90849-x.

The magnitude and nature of the decrease in coronary heart disease mortality 
rate.

Feinleib M.

The age-adjusted cardiovascular mortality rate has fallen by 40% in the United 
States over the last 30 years, primarily since the late 1960s. Although 
cardiovascular disease is still the leading cause of death in this country, the 
rate of deaths from cardiovascular disease have dropped to below 50%, and the 
rate continues to decrease. In actual numbers, it has been estimated that as 
many as 300,000 people between the ages of 35 and 65 years would have died from 
coronary heart disease between 1968 and 1978 if the mortality rate had remained 
unchanged. The extent of the decline varies with different areas of the country 
and most dramatically affects the black population. Between 1970 and 1980, life 
expectancy increased by 2.7 years for white men, 2.5 years for white women, 3.7 
years for black men, and 4.0 years for black women. Attempts to analyze the 
decline in mortality must take 2 features of mortality into consideration: 
incidence and case fatality, which reflect changes in primary prevention factors 
and in treatment methods, respectively. However, data on cardiovascular disease 
conflict and are difficult to interpret. Many methods of estimating the 
potential effect of altering or eliminating potential risk factors such as 
smoking, hypertension and cholesterol have been explored, with encouraging 
results.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(84)90849-x
PMID: 6475763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1984 Sep;65(9):537-41.

Osteogenesis imperfecta: rehabilitation approach with infants and young 
children.

Binder H, Hawks L, Graybill G, Gerber NL, Weintrob JC.

A rehabilitation approach, consisting of initial handling and positioning 
followed by functional and formal strengthening exercises, was developed for the 
child with severe progressive osteogenesis imperfecta (OI). The program was 
developed because of the increased life expectancy for infants and children with 
severe progressive OI, combined with the lack of published reports dealing with 
their rehabilitation. The program can be followed easily by parents or 
therapists with regular monitoring by a psychiatrist. The goals are to improve 
the life span as well as the quality of life of these children by preventing the 
following: (1) positional contractures and deformities, (2) muscle weakness and 
osteoporosis, and (3) malalignment of the lower extremity joints prohibiting 
weight-bearing. Implementation of the program requires full cooperation of the 
parents. The initial results in four children between the ages of 3 and 11 years 
are encouraging. The benefits of increased strength and mobility leading to more 
age-appropriate activities and behaviors outweigh the only observed negative 
result, that is trauma-related lower extremity fractures in children with milder 
disease, and therefore greater mobility and higher activity levels.

PMID: 6477088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Can J Psychiatry. 1984 Aug;29(5):412-6. doi: 10.1177/070674378402900510.

A fifteen-year psychogeriatric patient follow-up study.

Grauer H, Mueller D, Zelnicker R.

Two hundred and ninety-one patients, with an average age of 69 in 1965, referred 
to a psychogeriatric clinic were studied. All but 20 were traced. 167 died and 
104 remained alive. 73 were institutionalized. Medical, psychiatric and social 
data was available for all. Using mortality tables, we calculated the time of 
death for each patient. The group that exceeded their life expectancy was 
compared to the group that died prematurely. Significant positive correlations 
with longevity were self-referral, higher education, skilled work, independent 
income and absence of dementia. Females and orphans also lived longer. Living 
alone, dependency on children and conflict with one's spouse predisposed to 
institutionalization. Curiously, the hardships of being in wartime Europe and/or 
in a concentration camp increased life expectancy and mitigated against 
institutionalization. An attempt is made to correlate our findings with other 
studies and to explain our results.

DOI: 10.1177/070674378402900510
PMID: 6478385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Clin Immunol Immunopathol. 1984 Oct;33(1):31-8. doi: 
10.1016/0090-1229(84)90290-3.

Effect of mizoribine on lupus nephropathy of New Zealand black/white F1 hybrid 
mice.

Kamata K, Okubo M, Uchiyama T, Masaki Y, Kobayashi Y, Tanaka T.

Therapeutic trials with mizoribine (MZR), an imidazole nucleoside 
immunosuppressant, on experimental lupus nephropathy of NZB/W F1 mice resulted 
in the following. The MZR treatment, 20 mg per kilogram of body weight every 
other day, starting at 14 weeks of age, caused a significantly prolonged 
survival time of mice with a mean life span of 54.3 +/- 4.2 weeks, compared with 
the untreated controls, who had a mean survival time of 38.1 +/- 2.9 weeks (P 
less than 0.01). In addition, MZR suppressed the elevation of serum anti-DNA 
antibody titers, the spontaneous development of splenomegaly, and the 
histological development and progression of glomerulonephritis observed in 
untreated animals. Although no definite explanation is available at present to 
explain how MZR caused decreased anti-DNA antibody production and delay in the 
development of glomerulonephritis in these animals, it is suggested that it acts 
by directly suppressing the hyperfunctioning B cells of lupus mice. MZR may 
prove to be a promising immunosuppressant for the treatment of human lupus, in 
view of its lesser side effects such as bone marrow suppression or 
hepatotoxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-1229(84)90290-3
PMID: 6478655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1984 Mar;18(2):82-5.

[Analysis of life tables of Shanghai municipality from 1951 to 1980].

[Article in Chinese]

Gu XY.

PMID: 6478956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Demography. 1984 Aug;21(3):297-307.

Changes in widowhood and divorce and expected durations of marriage.

Goldman N.

A new interpretation of mathematical formulas developed by Keyfitz illustrates 
how the concept of entropy (H) can be applied to the analysis of marriage 
dissolution. The quantities H(divorce) and H(widowhood) indicate the changes in 
marriage duration which would result from small, constant changes in 
duration-specific divorce and widowhood rates, respectively. An examination of 
values for the United States, Nepal and Colombia illustrates the utility of H(i) 
in assessing the impact of changes in widowhood and divorce and clarifies the 
relationship between H and changes in life expectancy.

PMID: 6479390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Gerontologist. 1984 Aug;24(4):346-53. doi: 10.1093/geront/24.4.346.

Compression of mortality: myth or reality?

Myers GC, Manton KG.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/24.4.346
PMID: 6479647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Gerontologist. 1984 Aug;24(4):354-9. doi: 10.1093/geront/24.4.354.

The compression of morbidity: miscellaneous comments about a theme.

Fries JF.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/24.4.354
PMID: 6479648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Med Clin (Barc). 1984 Jun 2;83(1):19-20.

[Limits of respiratory resuscitation].

[Article in Spanish]

Estopà i Miró R.

PMID: 6482542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1984;32(2):122-33.

[Model for evaluation of occupational mortality related to asbestos (the case of 
the asbestos industry in France between 1950 and 1980)].

[Article in French]

Le Gales C.

This article presents an evaluation model of the mortality attributed to 
asbestos occupational exposure. French workers exposed at least ten years 
between 1950 and 1979 constitute the population studied. Exposure-risk relations 
are used to estimate mortality from lung cancer, mesothelioma, or asbestosis, 
and the associated reduction of life expectancy among 76 groups (about 18,500 
workers) defined by their level of asbestos exposure. The most important results 
are presented and discussed as are the main hypotheses regarding historical 
exposure parameters.

PMID: 6484259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Rehabilitation (Stuttg). 1984 Aug;23(3):106-9.

[Changes in the age structure of mentally handicapped patients in Sweden between 
1973 and 1982].

[Article in German]

Wallner T.

Analyzed for the first time in 1973, the age distribution in the Swedish 
mentally retarded population was reexamined in 1982. Within a decade 
considerable changes were found to have taken place, whereas the numbers of 
disabled persons as well as their share in the total population had remained the 
same. The share of children and, above all, young people up to age 20 is 
declining considerably per age group. This could be accounted for by the 
introduction, in the early 70ies, of prenatal diagnosis and its growing impact, 
as well as by a considerably higher share of abdominal deliveries. The age-group 
proportion of mentally retarded in the total population of the 25-34 year olds, 
on the other hand, is markedly higher today than it had been 10 years ago. This 
fact is thought to be associated with the introduction of antibiotics in Sweden 
in 1948. The life expectancy of the other, older mentally retarded persons, too, 
is higher today than in 1973. This is most obviously explained by the 
substantial improvements that have occurred since in the living conditions for 
mentally retarded persons.

PMID: 6484293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Res Commun Chem Pathol Pharmacol. 1984 Aug;45(2):261-70.

Beneficial effect of taurine on congestive heart failure induced by chronic 
aortic regurgitation in rabbits.

Azuma J, Takihara K, Awata N, Ohta H, Sawamura A, Harada H, Kishimoto S.

Taurine (2-aminoethanesulfonic acid) is known to have a cardiotonic action. The 
present study was designed to see whether oral treatment with taurine could 
improve the status of congestive heart failure induced by aortic regurgitation. 
Nine rabbits were treated daily with taurine (100 mg/kg) after producing aortic 
regurgitation. Cumulative mortality at 8 weeks in the non-treated group was 52% 
compared with 11% in the taurine-treated group (p less than 0.05). Cardiac 
function (max dP/dt) was significantly decreased in rabbits with aortic 
regurgitation, whereas in taurine-treated rabbits, cardiac function was 
maintained the same as control. The present data suggest that taurine prevented 
the rapid progress of heart failure, and consequently prolonged the life 
expectancy.

PMID: 6484312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Rev Saude Publica. 1984 Apr;18(2):108-21. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89101984000200004.

[Potential life years lost according to cause, in Fortaleza (Brazil), 1978-80].

[Article in Portuguese]

da Silva MG.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101984000200004
PMID: 6484472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Acta Med Scand. 1984;216(1):119-25. doi: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1984.tb03780.x.

Permanent pacemaker treatment in older age groups.

Breivik K, Ohm OJ.

Of 693 patients on permanent pacemaker treatment between 1962 and 1981, 282 
(40.7%) were above the age of 75. Of this number, 142 patients were 75-79 years, 
95 80-84 years and 45 85-93 (mean 87) years old at the time of the first 
pacemaker implantation. The patients were followed for 13-154 months (mean 37.1) 
with special attention being paid to morbidity and mortality after the 
implantation. Complications occurred in 65 (23%) of the elderly patients, with 
no significant difference between the three age groups. Excessive threshold rise 
with stimulation failure (6%) and infections or skin erosions (4.9%) were the 
most frequent complications. Mortality increased in all age groups during the 
first 6-12 months compared with the age- and sex-matched Norwegian population. 
Five-year survival rates were 56, 32 and 25% respectively. We conclude that 
cardiac pacemaker treatment in the elderly is a safe symptom-relieving 
therapeutic procedure and that the prognosis for these patients is similar to 
that for their fellow senior citizens after the first year of treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1984.tb03780.x
PMID: 6485873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Ann Intern Med. 1984 Nov;101(5):613-6. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-101-5-613.

Survival in chronic hepatitis B. An analysis of 379 patients.

Weissberg JI, Andres LL, Smith CI, Weick S, Nichols JE, Garcia G, Robinson WS, 
Merigan TC, Gregory PB.

Survival data from 379 patients with chronic hepatitis B were analyzed to 
determine life expectancy for the patient from the time of first contact. One 
hundred twenty-one patients had chronic persistent hepatitis, 128 had chronic 
active hepatitis, and 130 had chronic active hepatitis with cirrhosis. The 
frequency of symptoms (p less than 0.001), stigmata of chronic liver disease (p 
less than 0.001), and liver function test abnormalities (p less than 0.001) 
increased as the histologic features worsened, whereas the percentage of 
patients with circulating hepatitis B DNA polymerase declined (p less than 
0.001). Women were uncommon in our series and had less severe disease than men 
(p less than 0.02). Fifty-one patients had died by the time of this analysis. 
The estimated 5-year survival rates were 97% for patients with chronic 
persistent hepatitis, 86% for those with chronic active hepatitis, and 55% for 
those with chronic active hepatitis with cirrhosis. The usual cause of death was 
liver failure and its sequelae. A multivariate analysis found age of 40 years or 
more, total bilirubin level of 1.5 mg/dL or more, ascites, and spider nevi to be 
factors that identified patients at a higher risk of death. The prognosis for 
patients with chronic hepatitis B is similar to that for patients with chronic 
hepatitis of other causes.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-101-5-613
PMID: 6486592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Arch Neurol. 1984 Nov;41(11):1147-51. doi:
10.1001/archneur.1984.04050220041012.

Cooperative study of intracranial aneurysms and subarachnoid hemorrhage: a 
long-term prognostic study. III. Subarachnoid hemorrhage of undetermined 
etiology.

Nishioka H, Torner JC, Graf CJ, Kassell NF, Sahs AL, Goettler LC.

Among 6,638 cases reported to the Cooperative Study of Intracranial Aneurysms 
and Subarachnoid Hemorrhage were 477 cases in which the cause of hemorrhage 
could not be determined after carotid and vertebral angiography. These patients 
were followed up for up to 24 years after hemorrhage. Twenty patients were 
subsequently found to have an aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation missed by 
the first angiographic survey. After six-month survival, the rate of recurrent 
hemorrhage was a maximum 0.86% per year. Survival was significantly better than 
that of patients with verified ruptured aneurysms managed conservatively in this 
cooperative study. For normotensive patients who survived the first six months, 
the life expectancy for the next 20 years equaled that of an age- and 
sex-matched US population. Hypertensive patients had a higher mortality than 
normotensive patients.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1984.04050220041012
PMID: 6487097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1984 Oct 26;109(43):1629-34. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1069425.

[Clinical aspects and fine structure of papillary cancer. With special reference 
to morphological carcinogenesis].

[Article in German]

Büchler M, Rampf W, Baczako K, Lobeck H, Merkle P, Bittner R, Krautzberger W, 
Beger HG.

Course of the disease and microscopic work-up of the operative specimens with 
special consideration of morphological carcinogenesis were analysed in 72 
patients with tumour of the ampulla of Vater. Mean duration since onset of 
symptoms was 6.6 weeks. Cardinal symptoms were jaundice, loss of weight and 
abdominal pain. Endoscopic-retrograde cholangio-pancreatography, computed 
tomography and percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography had the highest 
diagnostic accuracy. Resection rate of the carcinoma was 55%, hospital mortality 
was 6.7% for partial duodenopancreatectomy and 15.4% for palliative surgery. The 
mean survival rate was 20 months after partial duodenopancreatectomy and 5 
months after palliative surgery. The survival rate was significantly decreased 
if tumour size was above 2 cm and lymph nodes were positive for tumour. In 82.8% 
of the examined operative specimens moderate to high-grade epithelial dysplasias 
were found in carcinoma-free portions of the ampulla, and in 91.4% there were 
adenomatous structures. It is to be assumed that carcinoma of the ampulla 
develops via dysplastic epithelial changes or from adenoma of the ampulla.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1069425
PMID: 6489176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1984 Nov 2;109(44):1669-70. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1069432.

[Therapy of hemosiderosis with deferoxamine].

[Article in German]

Strohmeyer G, Stremmel W.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1069432
PMID: 6489179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Gastroenterology. 1984 Dec;87(6):1222-7.

Development and prognosis of histologic cirrhosis in corticosteroid-treated 
hepatitis B surface antigen-negative chronic active hepatitis.

Davis GL, Czaja AJ, Ludwig J.

To determine the frequency and prognosis of histologic cirrhosis developing 
during or after corticosteroid therapy of hepatitis B surface antigen-negative 
chronic active hepatitis, we followed 83 patients for 90 +/- 5 mo after 
administration of corticosteroids. Thirty-three patients satisfied histologic 
criteria for cirrhosis after 30 +/- 5 mo. In 25 patients, cirrhosis developed 
during treatment; in 8 patients, cirrhosis eventuated after remission and 
cessation of therapy. The probability of developing histologic findings of 
cirrhosis was 59% if remission had not been achieved after 3 yr of continuous 
therapy. Longer requirements for treatment and deterioration during therapy 
characterized these patients. Once remission was achieved, the mean annual 
incidence of cirrhosis was only 2.6%. Patients who manifested evidence of 
cirrhosis in their biopsy specimens could not be distinguished by initial 
clinical, biochemical, or histologic findings. Ascites, encephalopathy, and 
esophageal varices developed infrequently; 5-yr survival after documentation of 
cirrhosis was 93%. We conclude that histologic features of cirrhosis develop 
commonly during therapy, especially if remission is not achieved quickly. After 
remission, cirrhosis develops infrequently. The development of histologic 
cirrhosis does not influence immediate morbidity and 5-yr life expectancy.

PMID: 6489694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Hum Biol. 1984 Sep;56(3):503-25.

Age overstatement and Puerto Rican longevity.

Rosenwaike I, Preston SH.

PMID: 6489994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Int J Biomed Comput. 1984 Sep-Oct;15(5):341-56. doi: 
10.1016/0020-7101(84)90040-0.

A parametric algorithm for computing model period and cohort human survival 
functions.

Mode CJ, Jacobson ME.

A parametric algorithm was developed for computing model cohort and period 
survival functions used in making projections of human populations. Two levels 
of parameters were used in developing the algorithm. The algorithm provides a 
method for calculating model period survival functions as a function of an 
expectation of life at birth; model cohort survival functions are calculated as 
a function of a time series of period expectations of life at birth. 
Expectations of life at birth ranging from about 35 to 110 years in both sexes 
may be accommodated by the algorithm.

DOI: 10.1016/0020-7101(84)90040-0
PMID: 6490198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Ir J Med Sci. 1984 Sep;153(9):302-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02939890.

Smoking-related cancers and potential years of life lost attributable to 
cigarette smoking, Ireland, 1968 to 1978.

Haslett D.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02939890
PMID: 6490349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. J Biosoc Sci. 1984 Oct;16(4):531-40. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000015352.

Housing quality and child mortality in the rural Philippines.

Johnson NE, Nelson MR.

PIP: Factors influencing child survival to age 5 are investigated for a rural 
sample in lloilo Province, Philippines. Considered are construction materials in 
walls, doors, windows, and floors and the typpes of toilet facilities. 707 women 
were asked how many children they had borne alive; the sexes and dates of each 
live birth; whether each child was still living; and if not at what age the 
child had died. This study focused retrospectively on mortality among 2359 
children born between 1960 and 1973. About 4.9% had died before age 5. This is 
1/2 of what was observed nationally for rural children in the 1978 fertility 
survey. Health conditions in rural Iloilo Province may have been more favorable 
than in other rural parts of the nation. Income generated from shipping, 
lumbering, and fish culture may have also contributed to the lower rate of child 
mortality observed in this sample. The sex ratio of the children was 102, well 
within the range regarded as typical. A logit regression was employed. Of the 
207 girls with low demographic risk and worse quality housing, 249 were 
estimated to survive to age 5 and 18 to die before age 5. Sex was not an 
important factor in child mortality. Boys and girls had about equal chances of 
surviving. A social-demographic risk factor commonly linked with infant 
mortality is breast feeding. Breastfed infants from a number of developing 
countries have had lower rates of infant mortality. A slightly larger % of 
nonbreastfed children (96.9%) survived to age 5 than did breastfed children. 
Living in a poorly constructed dwelling reduced the odds of a child's survival. 
Estimates from the Brass method showed that the expected probability of children 
dying before age 5 was .073 and .035, representing life expectancies at birth of 
63.4 and 69.9 years.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000015352
PMID: 6490690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. J Urol (Paris). 1984;90(3):201-6.

[Is the improvement of survival in advanced bladder cancer possible?].

[Article in French]

Gilloz A, Heritier P, Crochet J, Tostain J, Melka R, Chandrasekar D.

A retrospective study included 41 cases of bladder cancer, with deep invasion of 
the muscles (C) or perivesicular cellular tissue (D), but without detectable 
metastases, treated curatively by total cystectomy. Comparison was made between 
a first group of 19 patients not treated by cellulolymphadenectomy and another 
group of 22 patients in whom curettage was performed to remove cells and nodes 
and who also received 2 concentrated radiations of 7-5 Gy of telecobalt to the 
bladder during the immediate pre-operative period. Only 10 patients in the 
latter group were given routine postoperative chemotherapy. Postoperative 
mortality was unaltered (10,5% in the first group and 9% in the second), but 
postoperative survival was markedly affected: 10,5% after 5 years in the first 
group as against 41% in the second. Five-year life expectancy was therefore 
increased by a factor of 4 in spite of 9 N+ cancers. In the 2nd group of 19 
patients operated upon and regularly followed up 3 years and more 7 are alive. 
True 5 year survival rate in the 2nd group was therefore 35% as against 10% in 
the first group. Note that 2 of the 9 N+ patients are alive after 3 years. 
Aggressive therapy in the 2nd group also drastically reduced pelvic recurrence 
rate, which dropped from 8 (42,1%) in the first group to 1 (4,5%) in the second. 
In contrast, the major cause of death (7 cases = 31,8%) in the 2nd series was 
the development of metastases, without evidence of any pelvic recurrence. The 
effect of routine chemotherapy is being investigated.

PMID: 6491356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Mech Ageing Dev. 1984 Sep;27(1):43-62. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(84)90081-2.

Survival and aging of a small laboratory population of a marine mollusc, Aplysia 
californica.

Hirsch HR, Peretz B.

In an investigation of the postmetamorphic survival of a population of 112 
Aplysia californica, five animals died before 100 days of age and five after 200 
days. The number of survivors among the 102 animals which died between 100 and 
220 days declined approximately linearly with age. The median age at death was 
155 days. The animals studied were those that died of natural causes within a 
laboratory population that was established to provide Aplysia for sacrifice in 
an experimental program. Actuarial separation of the former group from the 
latter was justified by theoretical consideration. Age-specific mortality rates 
were calculated from the survival data. Statistical fluctuation arising from the 
small size of the population was reduced by grouping the data in bins of unequal 
age duration. The durations were specified such that each bin contained 
approximately the same number of data points. An algorithm for choosing the 
number of data bins was based on the requirement that the precision with which 
the age of a group is determined should equal the precision with which the 
number of deaths in the groups is known. The Gompertz and power laws of 
mortality were fitted to the age-specific mortality-rate data with equally good 
results. The positive values of slope associated with the mortality-rate 
functions as well as the linear shape of the curve of survival provide actuarial 
evidence that Aplysia age. Since Aplysia grow linearly without approaching a 
limiting size, the existence of senescence indicates especially clearly the 
falsity of Bidder's hypothesis that aging is a by-product of the cessation of 
growth.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(84)90081-2
PMID: 6492887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Respiration. 1984;46(3):320-2. doi: 10.1159/000194705.

Uncontrollable life-threatening status asthmaticus--an indicator for termination 
of pregnancy by cesarean section.

Gelber M, Sidi Y, Gassner S, Ovadia Y, Spitzer S, Weinberger A, Pinkhas J.

Two pregnant women with severe status asthmaticus unresponsive to intensive 
medical treatment are reported. Termination of pregnancies by cesarean section 
was followed by a dramatic improvement within 24 h. Termination of pregnancy is 
indicated in life-threatening status asthmaticus.

DOI: 10.1159/000194705
PMID: 6494627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Ann Acad Med Singap. 1984 Apr;13(2):264-71.

Providing primary health care with non-physicians.

Chen PC.

The definition of primary health care is basically the same, but the wide 
variety of concepts as to the form and type of worker required is largely due to 
variations in economic, demographic, socio-cultural and political factors. 
Whatever form it takes, in many parts of the developing world, it is 
increasingly clear that primary health care must be provided by non-physicians. 
The reasons for this trend are compelling, yet it is surprisingly opposed by the 
medical profession in many a developing country. Nonetheless, numerous field 
trials are being conducted in a variety of situations in several countries 
around the world. Non-physician primary health care workers vary from medical 
assistants and nurse practitioners to aide-level workers called village 
mobilizers, village volunteers, village aides and a variety of other names. The 
functions, limitations and training of such workers will need to be defined, so 
that an optimal combination of skills, knowledge and attitudes best suited to 
produce the desired effect on local health problems may be attained. The 
supervision of such workers by the physician and other health professionals will 
need to be developed in the spirit of the health team. An example of the use of 
non-physicians in providing primary health care in Sarawak is outlined.

PIP: The definition of primary health care is basically the same, but the wide 
variety of concepts as to form and type of worker required is largely due to 
variations in economic, demographic, sociocultural, and political factors. 
Regardless of the form it takes, in many parts of the developing world, it is 
increasingly clear that primary health care must be provided by nonphysicians. 
The reasons for this trend are compelling, yet it is surprisingly opposed by the 
medical profession in many developing countries. Nonetheless, numerous field 
trials are now being conducted in a variety of situations in several countries 
around the world. Nonphysician primary health care workers vary from medical 
assistants and nurse practitioners to aide level workers called village 
mobilizers, village volunteers, village aides, and a variety of other titles. 
The functions, limitations, and training of such workers will need to be 
defined, so that an optimal combination of skills, knowledge, and attitudes best 
suited to produce the desired effect on local health problems may be attained. 
The supervision of such workers by the physician and other health professionals 
will need to be developed in the spirit of the health team. An example of the 
use of nonphysicians in providing health primary care in Sarawak is outlined.

PMID: 6497324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Arch Dis Child. 1984 Oct;59(10):976-82. doi: 10.1136/adc.59.10.976.

Pilot study of revised stillbirth and neonatal death certificates.

Gedalla B, Alderson MR.

Draft revised stillbirth and early infant death certificates were sent with a 
short questionnaire to certifying doctors for 206 stillbirths and 198 neonatal 
deaths for which death certificates had been received in the Office of 
Population Censuses and Surveys over a three week period in 1982. The new 
certificates complied with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation 
and asked for details of the cause of death, including separate sections for 
maternal and fetal conditions. Replies were received for 163 stillbirths and 151 
neonatal deaths. Questionnaires were examined clerically and answers and 
comments analysed. Draft certificates were processed by computer to examine any 
differences between the causes of death given on the new forms and information 
given on the original certificates. This testing suggested that revised 
certificates are acceptable. Extension of the early infant death certificate to 
cover all neonatal deaths does not seem to create problems and should provide 
information on the association between maternal conditions and deaths occurring 
in the second to fourth weeks of life. If the full potential of the new 
certificates is to be realised, attention needs to be given to the detailed 
layout of the forms and clearer notes of guidance. Certifiers need to be 
encouraged to give appropriate details of any obstetric problems.

DOI: 10.1136/adc.59.10.976
PMCID: PMC1628876
PMID: 6497434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. J Toxicol Clin Toxicol. 1984;22(3):291-301. doi: 10.3109/15563658408992561.

Dietary carcinogens and anti-carcinogens.

Ames BN.

The scientific understanding of cancer and degenerative disease is being aided 
by new methodologies which are now used to approach the problem of environmental 
and occupational carcinogens and anticarcinogens. This paper reviews these 
powerful new tools and relates them to "natural" mutagens and carcinogens in 
food. It also discusses the use of oxygen radicals as a cause of degenerative 
disease associated with aging. Since no human diet can be totally free of 
carcinogens or mutagens, it is necessary to consider the risks of alternative 
courses of actions and to quantitate the magnitude of the risks through the 
"quantification" of these risks. Since carcinogens and anticarcinogens differ in 
their potency in animals over one million fold, the extrapolation of risks from 
rodents to humans is difficult but it is a first step. Despite better 
understanding of all of these risks, it is important to realize that the overall 
trend in life expectancy in the United States is continuing steadily to improve.

DOI: 10.3109/15563658408992561
PMID: 6502792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 1984 May;21(3):183-90.

[Some problems associated with aging].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamagata S.

PMID: 6502996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 1984 May;21(3):214-8.

[Physiological parameters of aging process].

[Article in Japanese]

Nagasaki H.

PMID: 6503001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. J Stud Alcohol. 1984 Sep;45(5):440-52. doi: 10.15288/jsa.1984.45.440.

Mortality of treated alcoholics and drug addicts: the benefits of abstinence.

Barr HL, Antes D, Ottenberg DJ, Rosen A.

A study of 2-yr treatment outcome and of mortality in the following 8 yr was 
conducted on all first admissions to Eagleville Hospital in 1970 (503 alcoholics 
and 221 drug addicts; 9% women). The average age of the alcoholics was 41.6 vs 
23.0 for the drug addicts. Status (misusing vs not misusing) 2 yr after 
admission for treatment or at death was ascertained for 92% of the subjects. The 
108 known deaths occurred in 18.5% of the alcoholics and 6.8% of the addicts. 
Death rates per 1000 person yr at risk were compared with expected general 
population rates, controlling for age, race and sex. Overall, mortality per 1000 
person yr was 25.9 for alcoholics and 8.8 for addicts, each higher than 
expectancy (p less than .001). Ratios of observed to expected rates were similar 
(2.5 and 3.1, respectively). Excess mortality occurred only among those misusing 
alcohol or drugs at 2 yr; nonmisusers had expected death rates. Disease and 
violent deaths were excessive among alcoholics, but only violent deaths exceeded 
expectancy among drug addicts. Of the 108 deaths, 66 were excess deaths, 
attributable to substance misuse and the associated way of life. However, among 
the 254 who were not misusing on follow-up, 19 died rather than the 51 who would 
have died if their mortality had been that of the persistent misusers.

DOI: 10.15288/jsa.1984.45.440
PMID: 6503290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Prev Med. 1984 Jul;13(4):396-410. doi: 10.1016/0091-7435(84)90031-8.

Economics and extended longevity: a case study.

Gori GB, Richter BJ, Yu WK.

Preventive and therapeutic advances have brought life expectancy in the United 
States to well over 70 years and have shifted mortality causes from acute to 
chronic diseases, the determinants of which are genetics, lifestyle, the 
environment, and aging itself. Plausible approaches to chronic disease 
prevention are likely to increase longevity further, with some foreseeable 
effects on demographic and economic projections. Primarily, longevity advances 
would swell forecasts of population size, and would thus have to be met by 
production advances in order to maintain or improve living standards. This 
study, a restricted example, considers the probable demographic and economic 
consequences of a limited prevention program in the context of the Ford Motor 
Company, based on actual experience and certain expectations up to the year 
2000. According to the results, prevention would reduce outlays for life 
insurance, disability, and health care, but would also generate the higher costs 
of extending pension plans. Undoubtedly, prevention will continue to be highly 
ranked in society's pursuit of happiness, and society must prepare to meet its 
effects with appropriate social and economic policies.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-7435(84)90031-8
PMID: 6504868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Sante Publique (Bucur). 1984;27(1):31-44.

[Methodology of tables on the causes of death and their use for assessing 
mortality relationships of the East German population in a longitudinal 
comparison].

[Article in German]

Scholz D, Schulz I, Hummel P, Radoschewski M.

PMID: 6505924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Sante Publique (Bucur). 1984;27(1):89-94.

Considerations on the use of some health indicators in the assessment of the 
population's living standard.

Huszar T.

PMID: 6505926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Urol Clin North Am. 1984 Nov;11(4):585-98.

An assessment of the impact of urine cytology screening using a computer-based 
model of bladder cancer.

Ellwein LB, Farrow GM, Friedell GH, Greenfield RE.

Utilizing a computer-based model of bladder cancer, the applications of various 
urine cytology screening strategies are assessed. Outcomes for patients 
diagnosed by screening with respect to numbers of cases diagnosed, mean length 
of life, and numbers of cancer deaths are compared with a similar population of 
patients diagnosed after the development of symptoms. Diagnostic and treatment 
modality costs can be used to predict the cost per man-year of life extension 
afforded by a screening program.

PMID: 6506371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1984 Sep 15;39(18):453-7.

[Longitudinal studies on the prognostic significance of plasma fibrinogen in 
diabetes mellitus].

[Article in German]

Schmechel H, Beiküfner P, Panzram G.

In 243 diabetics of different duration of the disease the prognostic value of an 
initial estimation of plasma fibrinogen for life expectancy and development of 
macroangiopathy was controlled over a period of ten years. Diabetics with a 
cardiovascular cause of death showed at the beginning with 3.68 in contrast to 
3.24 g/l weakly significantly higher fibrinogen values than the surviving 
patients. In analogy to this in the surviving patients the diabetics with a 
meanwhile appearing myocardial infarction, chronic ischaemic heart disease or 
manifest disturbances of the peripheral blood supply differed by higher 
fibrinogen concentrations from test persons without manifest macroangiopathy. 
There was a close correlation between plasma fibrinogen level and development of 
hypertension. The increase of plasma fibrinogen is apparently associated with 
the atherogenesis without rendering a secure prognosis in the individual case on 
account of a critical limiting value.

PMID: 6506821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Am J Med Genet. 1984 Oct;19(2):217-23. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.1320190203.

GAPO syndrome: report of three affected brothers.

Gagliardi AR, González CH, Pratesi R.

We present a sibship of three brothers affected with the GAPO syndrome. This is 
a rare and very characteristic autosomal-recessive trait whose main 
manifestations are growth retardation, alopecia, pseudo anodontia, and optic 
atrophy. So far nine affected individuals are known (4 males and 5 females). Two 
of them, the patient of Andersen and Pindborg cited in Tipton and Gorlin [1983] 
and one of the cases of Wajntal et al [1982], died at 39 and 37 years 
respectively.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.1320190203
PMID: 6507472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Biull Vsesoiuznogo Kardiol Nauchn Tsentra AMN SSSR. 1984;7(2):78-82.

[Algorithm for calculating socioeconomic loss in relation to premature 
mortality].

[Article in Russian]

Evdakov VA.

Methods for assessing the social and economic losses due to premature death are 
considered. The calculation algorithm of such an assessment including economic 
and demographic aspects has been devised. The calculation methods are 
illustrated by the results of carrying out the arterial hypertension preventive 
programs at one of the Moscow large enterprises. Unaccounted discount 
coefficient and survival expectancy rates are shown to contribute to the 
increase in the amount of economic losses due to premature death by 30-50%. It 
is also shown that measures promoting decrease in death rates caused by 
myocardial infarction and stroke, due to the prevention of arterial hypertension 
in the organized population groups within 4 years is followed by decrease in 
labour losses and by increase in economic effect by more that 160 thousand 
roubles (at the rate per 100 patients with arterial hypertension).

PMID: 6508933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Exp Gerontol. 1984;19(5):289-96. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(84)90001-9.

Effects of U.V. radiation on the lifespan of the rotifer Asplanchna brightwelli.

Sawada M, Enesco HE.

Groups of rotifers of the species Asplanchna brightwelli were exposed to U.V. 
irradiation at dosages ranging from 50 to 4800 J/m2. The lifespan of the 
rotifers was significantly reduced by exposure to U.V. in the range of 200 to 
4800 J/m2. A logarithmic decline in lifespan was seen as the U.V. dose 
increased. Rotifers were most sensitive to U.V. exposure during the 
prereproductive stage at the beginning of their lifecycle. Exposure of rotifers 
to visible light following U.V. radiation provided no evidence that 
photoreactivation could influence lifespan in this species.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(84)90001-9
PMID: 6510474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Exp Gerontol. 1984;19(5):335-43. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(84)90007-x.

The effect of light, dark or altered circadian cycle on the lifespan of the 
rotifer Asplanchna brightwelli.

Sawada M, Enesco HE.

Rotifers were maintained in various light conditions for at least 20 
generations. In the first set of experiments lifespan and fecundity data were 
compared for groups of rotifers maintained under LL (continuous light), DD 
(continuous dark) or LD 12:12 (control, 12 hr. light 12 hr. dark). The mean 
lifespan of the rotifers cultured in DD conditions was significantly increased 
as compared to the LL or LD 12:12 groups but there were no fecundity 
differences. There was no alteration in lifespan or fecundity of the LL group as 
compared to the LD 12:12 control. In a second set of experiments, an LD 6:18 
cycle was imposed to determine whether a shift in the circadian cycle would 
influence lifespan. Rotifers exposed to the LD 6:18 cycle and to the DD 
conditions showed an 18% and 22% increase in mean lifespan respectively. The 
results are interpreted to demonstrate that lifespan is influenced by the 
circadian cycle.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(84)90007-x
PMID: 6510478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. J Hand Surg Am. 1984 Nov;9(6):887-93. doi: 10.1016/s0363-5023(84)80073-8.

Tendon transfer for the restoration of upper limb function after a cervical 
spinal cord injury.

Freehafer AA, Kelly CM, Peckham PH.
