
During the past 22 years, 68 patients with cervical spinal cord injuries had 142 
tendon transfers and tenodeses. The procedures were performed to provide 
improved upper limb control, including elbow extension, finger grasp, and thumb 
pinch for better prehension. The operations were effective in increasing 
function in all but four patients, who did not improve because of insufficient 
muscle strength. The educational, vocational, recreational, and social aspects 
of life improved for many patients. Tendon surgery should be considered for all 
tetraplegics 1 year after injury, provided that they have undergone an effective 
rehabilitation program and that their neurologic examination is stable.

DOI: 10.1016/s0363-5023(84)80073-8
PMID: 6512207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. J Nat Prod. 1984 Sep-Oct;47(5):796-801. doi: 10.1021/np50035a007.

Antineoplastic agents, 99. Amaryllis belladonna.

Pettit GR, Gaddamidi V, Goswami A, Cragg GM.

Amaryllis belladonna bulbs were examined for constituents inhibitory against the 
murine P-388 lymphocytic leukemia (PS system). Two in vitro active alkaloids, 
acetylcaranine (2; 9PS ED50 0.23 microgram/ml) and ambelline (3; 9PS ED50 1.6 
micrograms/ml), were isolated accompanied by undulatine. However, the non-chiral 
anhydrolycorinium chloride (5) was found to be the principal antineoplastic (3 
PS, 64-69% life extension at dose levels 10 to 20 mg/kg in vivo, ED50 1.4 
micrograms/ml in vitro) component. Quaternary chloride 5 has not been located 
previously among plant or animal biosynthetic products.

DOI: 10.1021/np50035a007
PMID: 6512532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Lab Anim Sci. 1984 Oct;34(5):458-64.

A comparison of life-span and spontaneous tumor incidence of male and female 
Han:WIST virgin and retired breeder rats.

Rehm S, Deerberg F, Rapp KG.

In a long-term study, the life-expectancy of 320 female virgin Han:WIST rats was 
significantly lower than that of 320 male virgins, whereas no major differences 
existed in a successive study with retired breeders (296 females and 252 males) 
of the same stock. Within the sexes, the female retired breeders lived on 
average longer than the virgins, whereas the male retired breeders had a higher 
mortality between the 33rd and 36th month than their virgin counterparts. 
Differences in life-expectancy were mainly due to varying incidences of uterine 
adenocarcinomas in the females and an adverse development of pituitary gland 
tumors in the males. A sexual difference was found in both groups for tumors of 
the pituitary gland, the islet cells of the pancreas, mammary gland, subcutis 
and mesenteric lymph nodes. A possible hormonal influence on tumorigenesis is 
discussed.

PMID: 6513505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Neurosurgery. 1984 Dec;15(6):820-7.

Spinal metastatic disease: analysis of factors determining functional prognosis 
and the choice of treatment.

Barcena A, Lobato RD, Rivas JJ, Cordobes F, de Castro S, Cabrera A, Lamas E.

The authors surveyed 31 surgical and radiotherapy series comprising over 2300 
patients with spinal metastases to determine the influence of factors such as 
tumor biology and topography, pretreatment neurological status, the presence of 
a myelographic block, the progression rate of symptoms, and the general medical 
condition of the patient on both the functional prognosis and the choice of 
treatment. Both life expectancy and the functional results after therapy are 
mainly dependent on tumor biology, which in turn determines radiosensitivity. 
The remaining factors seem to have only complementary predictive power. Because 
radiotherapy has been found to be as effective as operation plus radiotherapy in 
the management of the majority of patients with spinal metastases, it is very 
important to improve the selection of surgical candidates (less than 42% of the 
total cases) to prevent unnecessary surgery-related morbidity and mortality. 
Factors considered important in the selection of therapy are the location of the 
tumor within the spinal canal, the neurological status at the time of treatment, 
and the systemic condition of the patient.

PMID: 6514154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Radiobiologiia. 1984 Nov-Dec;24(6):820-2.

[Application of the Gompertz mortality law to the prognosis of lifespan 
shortening due to chronic internal irradiation].

[Article in Russian]

Panteleev LI, Shvedov VL.

In experiments on albino rats received strontium 90 in daily doses of 1.85 to 
185 kBq/day the regularities of death were studied. It was shown that death of 
animals exposed to chronic internal radiation followed the Gomperz B. mortality 
law.

PMID: 6515012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Rehabilitation (Stuttg). 1984 Nov;23(4):160-2.

[Autoaggressive behavior of the mentally retarded--results of a survey].

[Article in German]

Wallner T.

An initial mail survey in Sweden has shown that, roughly, at least 4 percent of 
all mentally retarded persons display self-abusive behaviour. Those concerned 
usually are severely or profoundly mentally retarded, and the autoaggressive 
behaviour occurs very frequently, in most instances daily. Almost three quarters 
of self-abusing retarded persons live in institutional settings, such as special 
hospitals or residential homes for the mentally retarded. The age distribution 
found in the self-abusing population deviates substantially from the expected 
distribution. Life expectancy seems reduced. Gender-specific differences have 
not been found. A social-psychological care approach (empathy, improved life 
conditions, meaningful activities, systematic behavioural modification) may have 
an alleviating, or even remedial, influence.

PMID: 6515106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Tissue Cell. 1984;16(5):767-77. doi: 10.1016/0040-8166(84)90008-9.

Possible migration of imaginal myoblasts from adjacent nerve sheath into the 
developing flight muscle of Chironomus.

Lebart-Pedebas MC.

The emplacement of the first imaginal myoblasts along the larval muscles which 
are precursors of the dorsal longitudinal flight muscles, has been studied in 
Chironomus (Diptera, Nematocera), by light and electron microscopy. At the 
beginning of larval life there are no imaginal myoblasts stored along these 
muscles. These cells are discerned only at the beginning of the last larval 
instar. They first appear in the median region of the muscles near the 
neuromuscular junction. Prior to this, however, there are cells possessing the 
same cytological characteristics as the imaginal myoblasts inside the sheath of 
the motor nerves that supply the muscles. These observations suggest that 
myoblasts could arrive by the nerve sheath. The presence of a thick, continuous 
basal lamina around the larval muscles seems to exclude all other possibility of 
access to these muscles. The extension of this hypothesis to the Cyclorrhaphan 
Diptera is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0040-8166(84)90008-9
PMID: 6515642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Vestn Oftalmol. 1984 Nov-Dec;(6):13-5.

[Life expectancy of patients with glaucoma].

[Article in Russian]

Akhrorova ZD.

PMID: 6516098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Soz Praventivmed. 1984;29(6):258-64. doi: 10.1007/BF02078261.

Using national mortality data to study the changing sex differential in 
mortality.

Lopez AD.

Sex differences in mortality vary widely among the developed countries. Male 
overmortality is highest in Finland and the USSR, followed closely by France, 
Poland, the USA and Canada. The differential is lowest in Japan, Ireland and in 
south-eastern Europe. The sex mortality ratio is highest at ages 15-24 years 
with a second peak generally occurring around age 60. The excess mortality of 
males at the younger ages is due largely to motor vehicle accidents while higher 
death rates from heart disease and lung cancer in particular account for a 
substantial proportion of male excess mortality during the later years of 
working life. During the course of the 20th century, the impact of sex 
differences in mortality from the infectious and parasitic diseases has 
declined, as has the contribution from maternal mortality. Males have also 
benefited from a decline in industrial accidents but this has been more than 
countered by rising death rates from heart diseases, lung cancer and motor 
vehicle accidents.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02078261
PMID: 6516586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Ann Acad Med Singap. 1984 Jan;13(1):12-5.

The importance of autopsy examination in major disasters.

Mason JK.

It is appreciated that there are national and jurisdictional variations in 
regard to post-mortem dissections following accidental death. The purpose of 
this paper is to plead that, since there will be nationals of many states 
involved in an aircraft disaster, there should be a uniform system of forensic 
investigation on a world wide basis. The justification for this recommendation 
is illustrated through the investigation of accident causes and through the 
solution of the many problems relating to the settlement of probate which arise 
in accidental death. The causes of accidents which may be discovered by autopsy 
include crew incapacitation and criminality of all types. The emergency status 
may also be revealed and the type of accident, particularly whether in a 
controlled or uncontrolled phase, may become clear. The medico-legal problems to 
be resolved include those concerning payment of insurance policies, including 
the degree of life expectancy, and especially the disposal of estates when 
members of a family apparently die together. The resulting payments to 
beneficiaries may be quite different depending on the quality of the autopsy. 
These investigations are complementary to, and do not interfere with, the 
identification process but they are time consuming and expensive.

PMID: 6517499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Arch Belg. 1984;42(5-6):294-310.

[Life expectancy of mentally handicapped persons].

[Article in French]

Beckers J.

PMID: 6517635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Demography. 1984 Nov;21(4):459-73.

The threshold hypothesis: evidence from less developed Latin American countries, 
1950 to 1980.

Cutright P, Hargens L.

Historical research among European countries finds large differences in the 
level of social, economic or demographic development among countries, or regions 
within countries at the time marital fertility rates began their decline from 
traditional high levels. This research tests a threshold hypothesis which holds 
that fertility will decline from traditional high levels if threshold levels of 
life expectancy and literacy are surpassed. Using a pooled regression analysis 
of 1950, 1960, 1970 and 1980 crude births rates (CBRs) in 20 less developed 
Latin American countries, in conjunction with 10-year lagged measures of social, 
economic and family planning program development, analyses reveal statistically 
significant effects of passing Beaver's (1975) threshold levels of 1950 
literacy, or 1950 life expectancy, that are independent of levels of lagged 
literacy (or lagged life expectancy), economic and family planning program 
development, as well as measures that control period effects.

PMID: 6519318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Gerontologist. 1984 Dec;24(6):572-5. doi: 10.1093/geront/24.6.572.

Recent changes in the U.S. age at death distribution: further observations.

Myers GC, Manton KG.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/24.6.572
PMID: 6519513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. J Rheumatol. 1984 Dec;11(6):819-27.

The lifetime economic costs of rheumatoid arthritis.

Stone CE.

The lifetime economic costs of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) were estimated in a 
cohort with initial onset of RA in 1977. These costs included medical care 
expenses as well as the costs associated with illness-related work loss, overall 
and by age/sex category. The present value of the lifetime economic costs of RA 
was estimated to be $20,412/case in 1977 dollars, which is nearly as great as 
that for stroke and coronary heart disease. The study also highlighted the need 
for improved data on disease incidence, treatment costs, and survival experience 
of RA patients.

PMID: 6520836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Kardiologiia. 1984 Dec;24(12):36-9.

[Determination of the life expectancy of patients undergoing continuous 
endocardial stimulation].

[Article in Russian]

Grigorov SS, Votchal FB, Kostyleva OV.

Using an actuarial analysis, the authors studied the time of survival in 120 
patients with continuous endocardiac electrostimulation. There were 37 lethal 
outcomes by the end of the fourth year of the follow-up, with 31 of these 
patients aging from 65 to 100 years. The study of the survival rate in different 
age groups showed that the highest survival rate was in the group below 55 years 
and the lowest in the group of patients aged 75 to 100 years. The study of 
survival in different age groups is important for the prognosis of the necessary 
amount of cardiostimulators with energy sources varying in relation to their 
operational life time.

PMID: 6521224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1984 Dec;15(6):239-44.

[A retrospective study of duration of illness in a group of nursing home 
patients with a dementia syndrome].

[Article in Dutch]

van Houte LR, Diesfeldt HF, Diepeveen CJ.

In this study 127 patients with dementia were investigated, with known age of 
onset (mean age: 75.6 years), who died between 1979 and 1983 in a 
psychogeriatric nursing home. The mean period between onset of illness and 
admission into the nursing home was 4.8 years, while the mean total duration of 
illness was 7.7 years. These data were compared with the mean life expectancy of 
the Dutch population (CBS, Life tables of the population of the Netherlands by 
sex and age). There appeared to be little difference between the survival time 
from onset of illness and the mean expected life span, controlled for age and 
sex. After admission however, there was a 53% reduction of life expectancy. Life 
expectancy from both age at onset and age on admission, was better for women and 
the eldest patients.

PMID: 6523559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1984 Oct 12;96(19):708-12.

[Endocurie therapy of breast cancer I. Indication and value of the implantation 
of iridium 192 within the total concept of conservative organ-preserving therapy 
of breast cancer].

[Article in German]

Seitz W.

The goal of conservative surgery is reduction of macroscopic tumour masses and 
lymph node sampling. In combination with adequate radiotherapy the local control 
rates reported by some authors are as good as those of radical surgery. 
Interstitial implantation of Ir192 offers the possibility of applying very high 
radiation doses without early complications and late effects. This method could 
also be carried out effectively as primary treatment, even for locally advanced 
stages. The recurrence rates for early breast cancer in a few reports are lower 
than 10%. Combined with systemic therapy the treatment results even in T3 and T4 
lesions are relatively satisfactory. These treatment concepts remain to be 
tested in controlled clinical trials.

PMID: 6523886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Women Health. 1984 Winter;9(4):87-100. doi: 10.1300/J013v09n04_09.

The women's movement and older women's health: issues and policy implications.

Kahn ED.

Since women are an increasing proportion of the older population, the health 
issues that affect older Americans must be regarded in large part as women's 
issues. Women experience aging differently from men. The advantage in life 
expectancy of women over men is not always a boon. Older women have 
substantially lower incomes and higher poverty rates, are more likely to be 
widowed and living alone, and depend more on entitlement and social service 
programs. This paper traces the evolution of the women's movement and identifies 
some of the health care problems of older women in terms of psychological, 
socio-cultural, and economic factors. The role of the medical establishment and 
federal regulations that affect older women are examined. The White House 
Conference on Aging (1981) is seen as a prelude to the current policies of the 
Administration that affect older women. Necessary policy changes on the Federal 
and local levels are discussed as well as the need for redirection in the 
women's health movement.

DOI: 10.1300/J013v09n04_09
PMID: 6523898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Z Kardiol. 1984 Dec;73(12):740-7.

[Value of inpatient rehabilitation measures following myocardial infarct].

[Article in German]

Mathes P.

The primary goal of rehabilitation is to slow down the progression of coronary 
heart disease via secondary preventive efforts and to reduce the negative social 
and psychosomatic sequelae of a myocardial infarction to the unavoidable 
minimum. Cardiac rehabilitation has developed into an active strategy of 
secondary prevention, based on sufficient diagnostic evaluation, aiming at the 
modification of risks factors and including the entire psychosocial field into 
the long-term therapeutic concept. After myocardial infarction the patient 
carries, in comparison to the normal population, approximately a tenfold risk to 
die suddenly or to suffer another myocardial infarction. Following a first 
infarction, risk factors such as smoking, hypercholesterolemia and hypertension 
are of increased epidemiologic importance. A lower social class will in itself 
lead to an increase of the incidence of reinfarction and to a decrease in life 
expectancy. One of the central goals therefore is to convey the importance of a 
health-oriented behavior pattern, which is achieved in single and group-therapy 
sessions as well as with the help of physiotherapy. Controlled physical 
exercise, however, does not only serve as an educational vehicle, but also has 
direct effects on cardiovascular physiology, leading to a decrease in heart rate 
and blood pressure for a given work load and thus to an increase of the angina 
pectoris threshold. Moreover, controlled physical exercise has a substantial 
antidepressive effect in the critical phase following acute myocardial 
infarction, and will lead to increased self-confidence.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

PMID: 6523972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Z Gerontol. 1984 Nov-Dec;17(6):303-5.

[Increasing life expectancy--interdisciplinary aspects].

[Article in German]

Lehr U.

PMID: 6523985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Z Gerontol. 1984 Nov-Dec;17(6):306-10.

[Aspects of demographic development in West Germany].

[Article in German]

Wingen M.

This report starts by giving some information on the aim and purpose of 
model-computations of the population development and shows some fundamental 
tendencies of this development. In the author's view it is not only the 
numerical population decline but especially the changes in age structure and 
ethnical composition, in household and family structures as well as the changing 
patterns of regional distribution and development of population that must be 
considered. All these different aspects are discussed in the light of the total 
development and, using the three-generations' contract as an example, are 
analysed with regard to the consequences for policy and planning. The author 
doubts that either simple solutions or a mere strategy of adaptation could help 
managing the problems to come. He emphasizes that counter measures should be 
taken including as one of the main subjects a demographic orientated 
family-policy which also takes into account the necessary solidarity among 
generations ("generationensolidarische Familienpolitik").

PMID: 6523986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Z Gerontol. 1984 Nov-Dec;17(6):311-4.

[Increasing life expectancy--effects on the care of the aged?].

[Article in German]

Grossjohann K, Rückert W.

This contribution represents data from two population projections which--in 
contrast to other studies and official documents--do not maintain mortality at a 
constant level, but shows some consequences of mortality trends until the year 
2000.

PMID: 6523987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Acta Med Scand. 1984;216(5):485-93.

The Kockum study: twenty-two-year follow-up. Coronary heart disease in a 
population in the south of Sweden.

Persson B, Johansson BW.

The Kockum study of risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) consists of 
464 individuals, one third white collar workers, one third heavy workers and one 
third well trained firemen, all of whom have now been followed for 22 years. 
Important risk factors for CHD seem to be heredity, smoking, stress, lack of 
physical activity, diabetes mellitus hypertension, high body weight, ECG 
abnormalities, hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia and baldness. In 
addition to the common risk factors, baldness seems to be of importance. A high 
cholesterol value predisposes for an increased death rate not only due to CHD 
but also to malignant disease. A Cox analysis shows a markedly decreased life 
expectancy in multirisk factor patients caused not only by CHD but also by 
cancer.

PMID: 6524453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Cell Tissue Res. 1984;238(3):649-52. doi: 10.1007/BF00219884.

Flow cytometric analysis of mouse hepatocyte ploidy. II. The development of 
polyploidy pattern in four mice strains with different life spans.

Severin E, Willers R, Bettecken T.

The development of liver ploidy in mice aged up to 24 months was investigated by 
flow cytometry in four mouse strains. A mathematical procedure was applied for 
correction of flow cytometry histograms. In two of the mouse strains, C3H and 
DBA, both cellular and nuclear ploidy proceed in the same way. The octoploid 
cell with two tetraploid nuclei is the most numerous cell type in adulthood. On 
the other hand, strain NZB and the out-bred strain NMRI show at the 
corresponding age a higher proportion of diploid cells with strikingly low 
proportions of 4c cells. In addition, high values of 16c cells and nuclei are 
present in NMRI. In all strains the proportion of binucleate hepatocytes is in 
the same range (60%). However, the strains differ in ploidy classes of 
binucleate cells. Development of liver polyploidization does not depend on life 
span of the specific strain.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00219884
PMID: 6525626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Environ Health Perspect. 1984 Dec;58:1-8. doi: 10.1289/ehp.84581.

The TD50: a proposed general convention for the numerical description of the 
carcinogenic potency of chemicals in chronic-exposure animal experiments.

Peto R, Pike MC, Bernstein L, Gold LS, Ames BN.

A generally accepted format for the numerical description of the carcinogenic 
potency of a particular chemical in a particular strain of animals is desirable 
so that statements from different sources about potency and attempts by 
different authors to correlate potency with particular laboratory measurements 
will be comparable. The choice of an appropriate standard format is to a certain 
extent arbitrary. In this paper we recommend that the TD50 (tumorigenic dose 
rate 50) be used. TD50 can be calculated for a single target site or combination 
of sites. The TD50, in analogy with the LD50, is defined as that chronic dose 
rate (in mg/kg body weight/day) which would halve the actuarially adjusted 
percentage of tumor-free animals at the end of a standard experiment time--the 
"standard lifespan" for the species. This paper consists of a brief discussion 
of the TD50, sufficient to make the general reader familiar with the properties 
of such an index, an appendix discussing methods for its estimation and certain 
conventions we have adopted for use in analyzing "nonstandard" experiments. A 
major problem in calculating any index of carcinogenic potency is that much 
published material gives only the final crude percentage of tumor-bearing 
animals at each dose, instead of percentages adjusted for the effects of 
intercurrent mortality or data from which these adjusted percentages can be 
derived. If the dose level administered to the animals is toxic, then premature 
death from nonneoplastic causes may prevent some dosed animals that would have 
developed tumors from actually doing so. This will particularly affect the 
high-dose group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.84581
PMCID: PMC1569426
PMID: 6525991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Environ Health Perspect. 1984 Dec;58:9-319. doi: 10.1289/ehp.84589.

A carcinogenic potency database of the standardized results of animal bioassays.

Gold LS, Sawyer CB, Magaw R, Backman GM, de Veciana M, Levinson R, Hooper NK, 
Havender WR, Bernstein L, Peto R, et al.

The preceding paper described our numerical index of carcinogenic potency, the 
TD50 and the statistical procedures adopted for estimating it from experimental 
data. This paper presents the Carcinogenic Potency Database, which includes 
results of about 3000 long-term, chronic experiments of 770 test compounds. Part 
II is a discussion of the sources of our data, the rationale for the inclusion 
of particular experiments and particular target sites, and the conventions 
adopted in summarizing the literature. Part III is a guide to the plot of 
results presented in Part IV. A number of appendices are provided to facilitate 
use of the database. The plot includes information about chronic cancer tests in 
mammals, such as dose and other aspects of experimental protocol, histopathology 
and tumor incidence, TD50 and its statistical significance, dose response, 
author's opinion and literature reference. The plot readily permits comparisons 
of carcinogenic potency and many other aspects of cancer tests; it also provides 
quantitative information about negative tests. The range of carcinogenic potency 
is over 10 million-fold.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.84589
PMCID: PMC1569423
PMID: 6525996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. G Ital Cardiol. 1984 Nov;14(11):881-91.

Newer concepts in the pathophysiology of ischemic heart disease.

Kirk ES, Factor S, Sonnenblick EH.

Thus the thrust of these studies suggests that blood flow is the overwhelming 
factor in determining the consequences of the imbalance of oxygen supply and 
demand. Moreover, the factors that determine the requirements for tissue 
survival in the presence of deep ischemia are not the same as those shown for 
the normal myocardium in figure 1. In deep ischemia, contraction ceases, and 
metabolism shifts from aerobic to anaerobic pathways. Survival rather than 
contractile function then becomes the agenda. Not only does supply tend to 
overshadow demand in determining extent of transmural necrosis, but the 
anatomical pattern of supply precisely delineates the region at risk following a 
coronary occlusion as well as the ultimate extent of infarction. These views are 
summarized in the model presented in figures 12 and 13. The anatomic 
distribution of the ligated artery determines the lateral limits of the ischemic 
region (Fig. 12) and thus the lateral extension of necrosis (Fig. 13). The 
extension of the necrosis across the heart wall depends largely on the status of 
perfusion within the ischemic region. Extension of an infarct, should it occur, 
has to be explained by other mechanisms. These might include: (i) vascular 
obstruction in adjacent vascular systems that were not involved in the first 
occlusion, (ii) relative ischemia in the normal tissue surrounding the ischemic 
tissue due to an increased wall stress at the demarcation between contracting 
and noncontracting tissue, or (9) interruption of vessels supplying large 
interdigitations of normal tissue within the originally ischemic tissue due to 
changes associated with the process of infarction of ischemia. Alternatively, 
much that is called extension of infarction may involve more of the wall 
transmurally without lateral extension. Additional features of the development 
of myocardial infarction in figures 12 and 13 include: (i) the development of 
collateral vessel function resulting in an increased capacity to supply the 
ischemic area, and (ii) a redistribution of collateral blood flow from necrotic 
to surviving myocardium within the ischemic area. Thus, as coronary collaterals 
develop, collateral blood flow becomes increasingly heterogeneous within the 
ischemic area. Following a coronary occlusion, blood flow is reduced more in the 
subendocardium, and infarction occurs. Resistance to flow in infarcting tissue 
increase and causes a redistribution of flow to adjacent surviving layers of 
myocardium that life toward the epicardium. The process continues and combined 
with the enlargement of collateral vessels results in a sufficient flow to the 
epicardial layers so that they may survive.

PMID: 6526205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Gac Med Mex. 1984 Jul-Aug;120(7-8):257-68.

[The limits of life expectancy].

[Article in Spanish]

Jinich H.

PIP: A general review of human life expectancy is presented from a global 
perspective. Consideration is given to the possibilities for increasing human 
longevity.

PMID: 6526213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Int Rehabil Med. 1984;6(4):162-5. doi: 10.3109/03790798409165951.

Major amputation in paraplegic and tetraplegic patients.

Grundy DJ, Silver JR.

In the 1940s major amputation in paraplegic and tetraplegic patients was 
performed mainly for the complications of pressure sores. With the increased 
understanding of paraplegia, life expectancy has greatly improved, with the 
consequence that the chief indication for amputation is now gangrene due to 
atherosclerosis. The special problems of the spinal-cord-paralysed amputee are 
reviewed.

DOI: 10.3109/03790798409165951
PMID: 6526577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Hip. 1984:3-13.

Pelvic osteotomy: an alternative to total hip replacement in the young adult.

Dunn HK, Smith JT, Coleman SS.

For the young adult patient with a painful hip in whom there is acetabular 
dysplasia, innominate osteotomy is not only an alternative to total hip 
replacement, but rather it is the procedure of choice. If the prerequisites for 
a Steel or a Chiari osteotomy are met and if the procedures are adequately 
carried out, satisfactory relief of pain and return to function can be expected. 
The length of the satisfactory result is unknown as yet because an insufficient 
number of patients have been followed over a long enough period to determine the 
life expectancy of these procedures. It would appear, however, that it is going 
to be more than 10 years, which is certainly longer than one could expect for 
the current generation of cemented total joint replacements to last. Cementless 
total joint replacements are so new that a comparison cannot be made, but 
intuitively, a procedure that can leave the patient with his own tissue is the 
procedure of choice. Certainly, in a well-executed Steel or Chiari osteotomy, 
later reconstruction or total joint replacement will not be compromised.

PMID: 6526674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. J Public Health Policy. 1984 Dec;5(4):563-72.

Policy implications of health changes in rapidly developing countries: the case 
of Malaysia.

Harlan WR, Harlan LC, Oii WL.

PIP: Malaysia offers an instructive case study of health care changes in a 
rapidly developing country. The pace of improvements in life expectancy and 
maternal and child health has been even more rapid than that in the US in the 
1st half of the 20th century. Life expectancy at birth increased from 57 years 
in 1957 to 69 years in 1976, whereas comparable levels in the US were reached in 
1915 and 1941. Infant and child mortality declined in 1947-76, and deaths from 
the major infectious diseases (including tuberculosis and malaria) were markedly 
reduced. It is not possible to point to a single intervention or program that 
can be credited with these advances, although public health changes, a 
considerable increase in the provision of personal health services, health 
education, the development of vaccines and antibiotics, and social changes such 
as increased literacy and family planning no doubt contributed. Improvements in 
child health have been counterbalanced, however, by increases in mortality and 
morbidity from chronic diseases and trauma. Age-specific rates of cardiovascular 
and cerebrovascular disease nearly doubled between 1967-76. The distribution of 
risk factors in the population and environmental correlates must be determined 
before interventions to reduce the rate of cardiovascular disease can be 
planned. It is unclear whether emphasis should be placed on primary prevention, 
or on improving medical care, or both. It is important for developing countries 
such as Malaysia to seek the most cost-effective approach given the relatively 
modest resource base. A preventive strategy would provide for more equitable 
distribution of care and not penalize rural areas with fewer technical 
resources. Although a growing demand for specialty care has paralleled the 
increasing affluence of the population, the limited availability of hospital 
beds and health manpower will probably prevent a move toward high technology, 
curative care. As rapidly developing countries seek alternate, cost-effective 
solutions to health problems common to industrialized nations, they may generate 
useful lessons for the medical sector in the developed world.

PMID: 6526940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. J Med Eng Technol. 1984 Jul-Aug;8(4):181-3. doi: 10.3109/03091908409074871.

A portable syringe driver: design and applications.

Derlien ML.

Applications of a battery-operated portable syringe driver are reviewed and the 
Graseby MS16 device is described. Its value in permitting long-term slow 
infusion of drugs--in preference to intermittent injections--is illustrated by 
reference to a variety of uses. In size and weight the driver is small enough to 
permit a patient to wear it even while leading an active life. A custom 
integrated circuit and a high-efficiency mechanical drive result in such low 
power consumption that an inexpensive 9V battery will last for up to three 
months. Applications include heparin infusion, post-operative analgesia, hormone 
infusions, cancer chemotherapy, domiciliary analgesia in terminal cancer, 
antibiotics, neonatal infusions, and in human and animal research. One of the 
most interesting applications has been in the treatment of thalassaemia, 
extending life expectancy from about 15 years to an indefinite span. The driver 
incorporates comprehensive safety features.

DOI: 10.3109/03091908409074871
PMID: 6527367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Ann Chir Main. 1984;3(1):76-80. doi: 10.1016/s0753-9053(84)80065-4.

Some thoughts on the current state of treatment of the upper limb in traumatic 
tetraplegia.

[Article in English, French]

Lamb DW.

Traumatic tetraplegia often affects healthy young men. The medullary lesion is 
located at C6 in 75% of cases. The author on the basis of 20 years of experience 
believes it possible to improve independence and life quality by surgical 
procedures such as tendon transfers, which are the most often used, for 
restoring two important functions: active elbow extension and active hand grip. 
The restoration of elbow extension is accomplished by Moberg's procedure of 
transferring the posterior tendon of the deltoid onto the triceps. The results 
are very satisfactory. To restore hand grip the author makes use of the first 
radial tendon transferred onto the deep common flexor, and for the thumb, the 
long supinator onte the long flexor of the thumb. Definite functional 
improvement was found in 33 of 45 cases.

DOI: 10.1016/s0753-9053(84)80065-4
PMID: 6529286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Scand J Gastroenterol. 1984 Oct;19(7):971-6.

The prevalence and clinical spectrum of primary biliary cirrhosis in a defined 
population.

Eriksson S, Lindgren S.

We studied 33 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis representative of a 
well-defined population (240,000) during the decade 1973-82. Mean annual 
incidence was 13.7 per 10(6) and point prevalence, 92 per 10(6) inhabitants in 
1982. An accumulation of asymptomatic cases, constituting 45% of all patients, 
with a normal life expectancy accounted for this high prevalence. During the 
study period no disease progress was seen in asymptomatic patients, in contrast 
to a 50% mortality in the symptomatic group. Disease progress in the latter 
group was reflected by deterioration of N-demethylating capacity and increasing 
bilirubin levels. Although our data confirm an increasing prevalence of primary 
biliary cirrhosis, the mortality rate during the study period was almost 
identical to that in an earlier period, 1951-60.

PMID: 6531666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Trans Assoc Life Insur Med Dir Am. 1984;66:26-42.

Supplementary observations on the 1979 Build and Blood Pressure Study.

Wilber JA, Lew EA.

PMID: 6531838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Child Care Health Dev. 1984 Nov-Dec;10(6):349-58. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2214.1984.tb00192.x.

Assessment of the nutritional status of Nigerian rural children and mothers' 
perceptions of quality of life.

Ojofeitimi EO.

One hundred and fourteen preschool school children and their 30 mothers from 
three selected villages in Ile-Ife, Nigeria were assessed for nutritional status 
using selected and sensitive anthropometric techniques. The mothers' dietary 
patterns, their perceptions as to components of a good quality of life, infants' 
immunization status and major cause of infant death were also examined. 
Approximately 56% of the children and 80% of the women were identified to be 
suffering from mild to moderate malnutrition. The major cause of infant death as 
reported by the mothers was high fever and convulsion. Practically all the 
children under 3 years had not received any form of immunization. Ability to 
have plenty of children, good health and money, were highly perceived as 
measures of essential components of quality of life by all the mothers, while 
20% listed good feeding, housing, clothing, and only 7% listed potable water. 
The need for effective health services, regular home visits, supplementary 
feeding programmes for school children and an effective health education 
campaign on the importance of immunization and nutrition for rural people are 
discussed. The training of agricultural extension workers in the use of simple 
anthropometric techniques to identify covert malnutrition is also highlighted.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2214.1984.tb00192.x
PMID: 6532569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Med Pr. 1984;35(6):435-42.

[Prospective evaluation of occupational risk].

[Article in Polish]

Jankowski J.

The paper presents the risk of life-loss at work due to ionizing radiation, as 
compared to work in other professions. Average life-expectancy loss in exposure 
to ionizing radiation, mean annual dose of 0,5 radium, comes to 12 days, whereas 
in other industries life-expectancy reduction comes to 500 days.

PMID: 6535058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Pediatr Pathol. 1984;2(4):469-87. doi: 10.3109/15513818409025895.

Bronchopulmonary dysplasia: a morphometric study with emphasis on the pulmonary 
vasculature.

Tomashefski JF Jr, Oppermann HC, Vawter GF, Reid LM.

Using morphometry, the pulmonary vasculature in lungs obtained at autopsy from 8 
patients with bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) was studied. In these specimens 
the axial arterial pathway was similar in length to those of equivalently aged 
fetuses and increased with lengthening survival. The internal diameter of axial 
arteries was variable--excessively wide in 2 patients and diffusely narrow in 3. 
Microscopically, the percent medial thickness of muscular pulmonary arteries was 
reduced compared to fetal values and tended to be less in older patients. 
Compared to normal fetuses, there were more muscularized intraacinar arteries, 
suggesting peripheral extension of smooth muscle. Arterial concentrations were 
elevated in 2 long-term survivors. The weight of the cardiac right ventricle was 
reduced in 4 patients. These findings indicate that in patients with BPD there 
is a complex dual process of pathological remodeling and an attempt at normal 
anatomic adaptation of the pulmonary vasculature to extrauterine life.

DOI: 10.3109/15513818409025895
PMID: 6536000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. IARC Sci Publ. 1984;(63):263-9.

WHO cancer control programme in the African region.

Chuwa C.

The control of communicable diseases, malnutrition and birth complications has 
been the main preoccupation of the Member States of the African Region of WHO. 
As a result of these control measures, death rates, particularly among infants 
and young children, have continued to decline. This has increased life 
expectancy to the extent that we are now witnessing the emergence of the 
diseases prevalent in the industrial world: they have already become a major 
public health problem in Africa. Carcinoma of the cervix and hepatocellular 
carcinoma are the commonest forms of cancer afflicting the people of this 
Region. Others include cancers of the breast, skin, prostate, oesophagus, 
stomach and bladder. Burkitt's lymphoma is the commonest childhood malignancy. 
The causal factors of some of these tumours are known, and can therefore be 
eliminated by primary prevention. This is shown by the almost total absence of 
carcinoma of the penis in those communities that practise male circumcision, and 
the decrease in the incidence of squamous-cell carcinoma of the skin that 
resulted from the prevention of tropical ulcer, thanks to effective care of 
injuries and wounds. The priorities of the WHO cancer programme are therefore 
primary prevention, early detection and the provision of adequate pain relief. 
The success of the programme will depend mainly on whether the services provided 
will benefit the majority of the population.

PMID: 6536617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Theor Med. 1984 Feb;5(1):93-104. doi: 10.1007/BF00489249.

Delineating paternalism in pediatric care.

Sorenson JH, Bergman GE.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00489249
PMID: 6537026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Life Sci. 1984 Jan 9;34(2):179-85. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(84)90588-5.

Are both the nocturnal and diurnal prolactin surges necessary to maintain 
pseudopregnancy in the rat?

Gala RR, Haisenleder DJ.

Experiments were performed to determine whether both prolactin (PRL) surges are 
required to maintain pseudopregnancy (PSP) in the rat. Vaginal cycles were 
followed and animals that exhibited 2-3 normal cycles were cervically stimulated 
electromechanically to induce PSP. In one set of experiments the afternoon PRL 
surge was blocked by i.p. injection of 100 micrograms of 2Br-alpha-ergocryptine 
(CB-154) at 1200 and 1600h while the nocturnal surge was blocked by injecting 
100 micrograms of CB-154 at 2400 and 0400h immediately after cervical 
stimulation. Pseudopregnancy was maintained only in those animals receiving 
CB-154 injections in the afternoon. In another series of experiments the initial 
CB-154 injection, given to block either surge, was delayed for one day. Once 
again only the nocturnal surge was capable of maintaining PSP in all animals. 
For those animals who had an initial nocturnal surge but all subsequent 
nocturnal surges were blocked, the afternoon surge was able to support PSP in 
only 50% of the animals. In those animals whose afternoon PRL surge was blocked, 
the duration of the nocturnal surge was extended so that it provided 85% of the 
total PRL produced by control PSP animals. In those animals whose nocturnal 
surge was blocked, the duration of the afternoon surge was also extended, 
however, in this case the extended surge only accounted for 58% of the total PRL 
produced by control PSP animals. The results indicated that when the diurnal PRL 
surge was blocked the nocturnal surge was extended so that the amount of PRL 
released was nearly equivalent to the amount released by both surges, however, 
when the nocturnal surge was blocked the extension of the diurnal surge did not 
provide adequate PRL to maintain PSP in all animals.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(84)90588-5
PMID: 6537984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Exp Clin Endocrinol. 1984 Mar;83(1):93-100. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1210316.

Epidemiologic data on excess mortality and life expectancy in insulin-dependent 
diabetes mellitus--critical review.

Panzram G.

Generalizations of prognosis with regard to insulin-dependent diabetes (IDDM) in 
epidemiological statistics are impaired not only by great intraindividual 
variations, but also due to methodical difficulties. Due to recent prognostic 
studies IDDM, particular in young age, must be considered as a rather serious 
disease with a 5 to 10 fold higher excess mortality in comparison with the 
general population. There are only few exact data about the extent of life 
shortening. Age of onset represents the most significant factor in life 
shortening. The younger the patient is at the age of onset the shorter he lives. 
From about 70 years onward diabetes has little or no effect on longevity. 
Whether the prognosis of IDDM has improved within the last decades remains 
uncertain. Long-term studies clearly indicate that IDDM is compatible also with 
a long life in a good health. Why many diabetics develop life shortening 
complications and why some patients do not cannot be answered with conclusive 
evidence.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1210316
PMID: 6539218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Res Aging. 1984 Dec;6(4):490-514. doi: 10.1177/0164027584006004003.

Life expectancy and the older population. Demographic implications of recent and 
prospective trends in old age mortality.

Crimmins EM.

DOI: 10.1177/0164027584006004003
PMID: 6544994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1984 Jul-Sep;65(3):18-23.

Gains in U.S. life expectancy.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 6545064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Instr Course Lect. 1984;33:179-90.

Femoral head preservation following subcapital fracture of the femur.

Waddell JP.

Primary fixation of displaced subcapital fractures offers a low morbidity and 
low mortality approach to a very common problem. The vast majority of patients 
receiving this form of treatment will not require further surgery. When 
contrasted with the problems of primary arthroplasty which included a higher 
morbidity and higher mortality, a higher infection rate, and the possibility of 
prosthetic loosening, prosthetic dislocation, acetabular wear to subsequent 
pain, and protrusio, the choice seems very clear. We would reserve arthroplasty 
for the following: Patients with pathologic fractures of the femoral neck 
secondary to metastatic disease. Patients with displaced fractures of the 
femoral oral neck who have primary hip disease such as rheumatoid arthritis. 
Patients with coexistent serious illness with a grossly limited life expectancy. 
Enfeebled elderly patients with minimal demands (senile, demented, minimal 
ambulatory or not ambulatory before fracture. (We would not perform primary 
arthroplasty in patients with neurologic disorder leading to spasticity or 
contracture, since we found the dislocation rate in such patients to be 
unacceptably high). In patients under 60 years of age with displaced subcapital 
fractures of the femoral neck we would advocate the following: Anatomic 
reduction (open, if necessary); Sound secure fixation; Staged muscle pedicle 
graft to promote increased fixation and ideally femoral head vascularity; No 
