weight bearing until the fracture unites. In patients greater than 60 years of 
age we would advocate the following: Anatomic or slight valgus reduction of the 
fracture; Sound secure fixation; Impaction of the fracture; Weight bearing as 
tolerated. If these principles are followed, the results of a policy of femoral 
head preservation in displaced subcapital fractures will be very acceptable for 
both the patient and surgeon alike. In our opinion, prosthetic replacement 
equals salvage surgery, and it should be delegated to that role.

PMID: 6546099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Clin Exp Metastasis. 1984 Jul-Sep;2(3):213-22. doi: 10.1007/BF00132928.

Involvement of cell-cell adhesion molecules in liver colonization by metastatic 
murine lymphoma/lymphosarcoma variants.

McGuire EJ, Mascali JJ, Grady SR, Nicolson GL.

Metastatic variant sublines of the murine RAW117 large cell lymphoma or 
lymphosarcoma have been established in vitro by sequential cycles of harvesting 
of liver tumor nodules after intravenous inoculation of tumor cell suspensions 
into syngeneic BALB/c mice. After five and ten in vivo selections for liver 
colonization, variant sublines RAW117-H5 and -H10, respectively, were 
established, and these formed significantly more surface liver tumors than the 
parental RAW117-P line. RAW117 sublines were tested for their abilities to 
adhere to embryonic mouse liver or brain cells in an in vitro cell-cell adhesion 
assay. Liver colonizing RAW117-H10 cells adhered with greater selectivity to 
liver cells than to brain cells. Parental RAW117-P cells were more homotypically 
adhesive, but they were nonselective in their organ cell adhesion properties. We 
examined RAW117 cells for the presence of liver cross-reactive antigens using 
polyclonal xenoantibody preparations directed against embryonic murine liver 
cells. These antibody preparations block organ-specific homotypic adhesion of 
embryonic murine liver cells in vitro. The amount of fetal liver antigen(s) 
expressed on RAW117 sublines correlated with liver colonization potentials (H10 
greater than H5 greater than P) in quantitative absorption assays. Treatment of 
the highly metastatic RAW117-H10 subline with polyclonal anti-embryonic murine 
liver F(ab')2 or Fab' antibody fragments had no effect on RAW117-H10 cell 
viability or growth in vitro or in vivo, but inhibited liver colonization 
(median liver tumor colonies reduced from greater than 200 to 0) and prolonged 
life expectancy. In contrast, pretreatment of RAW117-H10 cells with polyclonal 
anti-H-2 did not modify the in vivo biologic properties of these metastatic 
cells.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00132928
PMID: 6549550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Nurs Mirror. 1983 Apr 6;156(14):30.

Law: extension of life.

Finch J.

PMID: 6551884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. J Sch Health. 1983 Sep;53(7):440-1. doi: 10.1111/j.1746-1561.1983.tb03159.x.

Management of the obese child in the school.

Little J.

Improving the nation's health depends on changing lifestyles that are 
detrimental to health. The school nurse can bring about significant changes in 
the lifestyles of obese children through the formation of a Health Club. Through 
participation in the club, children learn to make informed decisions about 
health. The club aides in health promotion through behavior modification 
techniques that offer incentives to adopt healthy lifestyles, with the goals of 
improved health status, quality of life and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1746-1561.1983.tb03159.x
PMID: 6556398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Rev Enferm. 1983 Sep;6(61):15-8, 21-3.

[Socioeconomic factors and health development].

[Article in Spanish]

Martínez Piédrola M, Castro Molina M.

PMID: 6556729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Kurinikaru Sutadi. 1983 Oct;4(10):1224-31.

[Report from an acute protective psychiatric ward for men. Attempts at extension 
of life activities and continuation of therapeutic actions (4)].

[Article in Japanese]

Takahashi K.

PMID: 6557292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Kurinikaru Sutadi. 1983 Sep;4(9):1093-100.

[Report from a psychiatric acute care ward for men. An attempt at extension of 
therapeutic life activities and continuation of therapeutic activities].

[Article in Japanese]

Takahashi K.

PMID: 6557305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Soins Chir. 1983 Aug-Sep;(30-31):21-3.

[The remaining kidney after nephrectomy].

[Article in French]

Durand L, Girod C.

PMID: 6557620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. J Sch Health. 1983 Dec;53(10):600-4. doi: 10.1111/j.1746-1561.1983.tb01118.x.

Secondary school students' attitudes and beliefs about breastfeeding.

Ellis DJ.

The incidence and prevalence of breastfeeding has increased in the United States 
and Canada in the past decade, but in spite of its known benefits it is often 
abandoned before infants are two months of age. Society lacks the attitudes and 
knowledge necessary for breastfeeding success. A survey of the knowledge, 
beliefs and attitudes of 409 secondary school students in British Columbia, 
Canada, revealed misconceptions about the nature of breastfeeding. A high 
percentage felt it was unacceptable in social situations. The findings point to 
a need for the integration of information about breastfeeding into school health 
programs, biology, home economics/nutrition and family life/sexuality courses. 
Increased knowledge and discussion to foster positive attitudes could increase 
breastfeeding duration among parents in the future.

PIP: The incidence and prevalence of breastfeeding has increased in the United 
States and Canada in the past decade, but in spite of its known benefits it is 
often abandoned before infants are 2 months of age. Society lacks the attitudes 
and knowledge necessary for breastfeeding success. Most mothers assume that one 
either can or cannot breastfeed. They know little about normal or optimal 
frequency and duration of feeding and the supply and demand principle of the 
lactation process. The result is the early discontinuance of breastfeeding due 
to perceived insufficient milk. A survey of the knowledge, beliefs and attitudes 
of 409 secondary school students in British Columbia, Canada, revealed 
misconceptions about the nature of breastfeeding. The majority believed that it 
was an instinct rather than a socially learned behavior. Another misconception, 
although to a lesser degree, was the belief that breastfeeding capability is 
related to breast size. A prevalent belief (among 1/6 of the students) is that 
breastfeeding is associated with the lower socioeconomic class. This association 
is likely an extension of the belief that breastfeeding is "uncivilized." The 
survey also revealed a difference in the desired duration of breastfeeding 
compared to bottlefeeding. This is likely a reflection of observed feeding 
behavior in society. One does not see any older babies being breastfed openly 
while older infants and toddlers holding bottles are frequently observed. Also, 
a large % of women discontinue breastfeeding by the time their infants are 3 
months old. These factors contribute to the feeling among students that 
breastfeeding is unacceptable in social situations. The findings point to the 
need for the integration of information about breastfeeding into school health 
programs, biology, home economics/nutrition and family life/sexuality courses. 
Increased knowledge and discussion to foster positive attitudes could increase 
breastfeeding duration among parents in the future.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1746-1561.1983.tb01118.x
PMID: 6558283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. J Assoc Pediatr Oncol Nurses. 1984 Winter;1(1):10-5.

The truly cured child and the Tower of Babel.

van Eys J.

PMID: 6563075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Milbank Mem Fund Q Health Soc. 1984 Summer;62(3):475-519.

Longer life but worsening health? Trends in health and mortality of middle-aged 
and older persons.

Verbrugge LM.

PMID: 6566016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. AORN J. 1984 Jul;40(1):118-23. doi: 10.1016/s0001-2092(07)69429-0.

OR nursing in the future. Impact of projected demographics.

Schultz PR.

Implications of these population factors for operating room nursing are 
summarized as follows. Continued need for obstetric-related surgery throughout 
this decade and into the 21st century. Continued need for multilingual skills to 
care for non-English speaking individuals and continued need for sensitivity by 
health care professionals to other cultural norms with regard to illness and 
treatment. Increasing number of older adults needing perioperative care. 
Increasing use of surgery common to older adults. Continued pressure to reduce 
costs of care. Operating room nurses can ask several questions to discover 
demographic trends affecting their hospitals and areas. What is the age profile 
of patients in the health care facility? What are the patients' geographical 
origins? What percent of that population is served by the health care facility? 
What are the population trends in the geographical area from which they draw 
their patients? age proportions over time, fertility rate, migration trends, 
mortality rates over time, life expectancy What proportion of the hospital days 
are used by elderly? What is the rate per 1,000 for surgery among the elderly? 
Answers to these questions will give OR nurses the basis for anticipating change 
and planning to meet that change in their perioperative areas.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-2092(07)69429-0
PMID: 6566533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Nurs Clin North Am. 1984 Sep;19(3):521-35.

Surgical repair of cyanotic cardiac defects in young adults. The Fontan 
procedure and use of the extracardiac valved conduit.

O'Brien P.

Improvement in the health status of young adults with complex cyanotic 
congenital cardiac defects has been realized with recent advances in 
cardiovascular surgical techniques. The Fontan procedure and its modifications 
have allowed physiologic correction of tricuspid atresia by separating the 
pulmonary and systemic circulations and creating a direct connection from right 
atrium to pulmonary artery. The extracardiac valved conduit has been 
successfully used in the repair of pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal 
defect, and the triad of transposition of the great vessels, ventricular septal 
defect, and pulmonary stenosis. Nursing implications for the care of these 
patients in the postoperative period and their long-term management has been 
addressed. Advances in surgical techniques have brought these anomalies into the 
realm of surgical repair and have increased the life expectancy of these 
patients, and thus more patients with these cardiac defects will be seen in 
adult cardiology settings.

PMID: 6567149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Kurinikaru Sutadi. 1984 Aug;5(8):994-1000.

[The "life" extended by the development of hemodialysis].

[Article in Japanese]

Tomoe H, Ota K.

PMID: 6567750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Milbank Mem Fund Q Health Soc. 1983 Summer;61(3):420-9.

The relation of extended life to extended employment since the passage of social 
security in 1935.

Butler RN.

PMID: 6571682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. J Prosthet Dent. 1983 Jan;49(1):113-20. doi: 10.1016/0022-3913(83)90250-0.

Current and future considerations for a geriatric population.

Wescott WB.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-3913(83)90250-0
PMID: 6571891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Rev Stomatol Chir Maxillofac. 1983;84(3):138-43.

[Cranio-facial and dental manifestations of erythrocyte abnormalities].

[Article in French]

Lemonnier MP, Kahyat D, Szpirglas H, Chateau M, Schaison G, Laufer J, Marchac D.

Various types of erythrocyte lesions are observed: hemoglobin anomalies, enzyme 
disorders, membrane anomalies. This leads to a reduction in the duration of life 
of the erythrocytes or to abnormal erythropoiesis with, in both cases, reactive 
development of hematopoietic tissue. This extension of the medullary field in 
bones results in alterations that are initially visible on radiography, and 
then, in the severe forms, in the development of mainly craniofacial and dental 
dysmorphia with, in some cases, additional secondary enamel and dentine 
anomalies of the hemolytic origin. These anomalies were present to varying 
degrees in a series of patients in whom cranial radiographies were performed. In 
two cases there was a fortuitous association of dental anomalies of the 
melanodontia and opalescent dentine types. These patients may raise particular 
problems during dental care and treatment: risk of infection, respect of drug 
contraindications, latent cardiac insufficiency.

PMID: 6575433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. J Tenn Dent Assoc. 1983 Apr;63(2):23-5.

Our aging society.

Clarke CL.

PMID: 6578382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. N Z Med J. 1983 Jul 13;96(735):513-5.

The longevity of international rugby players.

Beaglehole R, Stewart A.

The longevity of New Zealand international rugby players (All Blacks) is 
compared with the New Zealand male population to test the hypothesis that 
vigorous leisure time physical activity in the form of rugby in early adulthood 
is associated with an increased longevity. Data on 822 All Blacks since 1884 are 
compared with information from New Zealand life tables for males. The life 
expectancy of All Blacks is the same as the general population although 
non-Maori All Blacks live almost ten years longer than Maori All Blacks.

PMID: 6578423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1983 Nov;71(5):947-54.

Dietary practices of early life and age at death of rats with tumors.

Ross MH, Lustbader ED, Bras G.

The association between the age at death of rats that develop spontaneous tumors 
and their early life dietary practices and growth responses was investigated. 
The data were obtained from outbred male Charles River CD Crl:COBS CD (SD)BR 
rats maintained for life on a self-selection dietary regimen that permitted them 
to regulate their protein intake apart from energy intake. A series of 
multivariable models was derived, after the rats were grouped by tumor type, 
that accurately accounted for the age of death of the individuals in each class. 
The models that explain the variance in death age of rats that develop tumors 
also differed from the combination of factors for rats that do not develop 
tumors but succumb to other age-related diseases. Although dietary protein and 
measures of growth are ubiquitous features in these models, no one set of 
idealized conditions for longevity can be proposed.

PMID: 6580496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. J Clin Periodontol. 1984 Jan;11(1):21-32. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-051x.1984.tb01305.x.

New concepts of destructive periodontal disease.

Socransky SS, Haffajee AD, Goodson JM, Lindhe J.

The most common forms of destructive periodontal disease have been thought to 
slowly and continuously progress until treatment or tooth loss. Recently, data 
have become available which are inconsistent with this "continuous disease" 
hypothesis. Data from longitudinal monitoring of periodontal attachment levels 
and alveolar bone in humans and in animals suggest that periodontal disease 
progresses by recurrent acute episodes. In addition, rates of attachment loss 
have been measured in individual sites which are faster than those consistent 
with the continuous disease hypothesis or slower than those expected from 
estimates of prior loss rates. To account for these observations, a model of 
destructive periodontal disease is described in which bursts of activity occur 
for short periods of time in individual sites. These bursts appear to occur 
randomly at periodontal sites throughout the mouth. Some sites demonstrate a 
brief active burst of destructive periodontal disease (which could take a few 
days to a few months) before going into a period of remission. Other sites 
appear to be free of destructive periodontal disease throughout the individual's 
life. The sites which demonstrate destructive periodontal activity may show no 
further activity or could be subject to one or more bursts of activity at later 
time periods. Comparison of monitored loss rates for a year with mean loss rates 
prior to monitoring suggested that there may be relatively short periods in an 
individual's life in which many sites undergo periodontal destruction followed 
by periods of extended remission. An extension of the random disease model is 
also suggested in which bursts of destructive periodontal disease activity occur 
with higher frequency during certain periods of an individual's life.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-051x.1984.tb01305.x
PMID: 6582072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Tumori. 1983 Dec 31;69(6):521-6. doi: 10.1177/030089168306900606.

Characterization and treatment of the non-lymphoblastic crisis of chronic 
myelogenous leukemia.

Mariani G, Annino L, Solinas S, Mandelli F.

Fifty-six consecutive patients affected by the non-lymphoblastic-like crisis of 
chronic myelogenous leukemia were the subjects of this study. The cytologic and 
cytochemical features, together with the extension of clinical involvement, were 
investigated in all the patients. The most frequent cytologic variant was the 
"myeloid" one (60% of the patients). All the patients received a standard 
treatment (hydroxyurea, 6-mercaptopurine +/- prednisone). The overall median 
survival was 5.1 months; however, 22% of the patients survived for one year or 
more. The length of survival was independent of the cytologic variety and 
clinical conditions (previous splenectomy, organomegalies, etc.). There was no 
correlation between drug dosage and length of survival, whereas the 
disappearance of blast cells from the peripheral blood appeared to be directly 
correlated with a longer survival. The treatment was well tolerated (slight 
hematologic and hepatic toxicity) and allowed a reasonably good quality of life: 
most of the patients were treated on an out-patient basis.

DOI: 10.1177/030089168306900606
PMID: 6582679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Am J Hum Genet. 1984 Jan;36(1):131-42.

Segregation and linkage analyses of von Hippel Lindau disease among 220 
descendants from one kindred.

Go RC, Lamiell JM, Hsia YE, Yuen JW, Paik Y.

Von Hippel Lindau disease (vHL), an autosomal dominant precancerous condition, 
had segregated in a large kindred. Fourteen relatives were known to have been 
affected; record reviews disclosed features of vHL in 15 previously undiagnosed 
relatives; presymptomatic evaluations detected vHL in 13 additional members of 
this kindred. Altogether, among 220 descendants of an ancestral couple, 41 had 
vHL. We screened for HLA haplotypes and for polymorphic gene markers at 31 loci 
in 102 direct descendants and 16 spouses from this kindred, including 23 with 
vHL. Linkage analyses failed to reveal a significant lod score with any locus 
tested, or any HLA linkage disequilibrium. Expression of vHL among the affected 
relatives was compared with 384 other reported cases of vHL. The age of onset, 
tissue involvement, and life expectancy in this family were similar to the other 
reported cases. The sigmoid age-of-onset distribution for vHL most closely 
matched a square-foot transformation (mean = 26.2(-2) years; variance = 1.224).

PMCID: PMC1684404
PMID: 6582782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1984 Apr;72(4):929-40.

Natural history of body weight gain, survival, and neoplasia in the F344 rat.

Solleveld HA, Haseman JK, McConnell EE.

This study involved the fact that knowledge of the natural incidence of 
neoplastic lesions is essential for interpretation of experiments designed to 
reveal the effects of potential carcinogens. Although the F344 rat is widely 
used in chronic (2-yr) testing programs, the natural history of neoplasia after 
24 months is not known; thus this study, with 529 male and 529 female inbred 
F344 rats, was designed to deal with this aspect. This report also included 
information on growth and longevity. In addition, the tumor rates found in this 
study were compared with 2-year historic control tumor rates; results revealed 
the following. 1) Maximum mean body weights were 468 and 330 g for males and 
females, respectively. Peak weight in males was reached at 77 weeks of age and 
in females, at 107 weeks of age. 2) There was no clear sex difference in 
longevity; a median life-span (50% survival age) or 28 months was recorded in 
both sexes. 3) Variety of neoplastic lesions in animals that were allowed to 
live out their life-span was not greater than that in animals that were killed 
between 110 and 116 weeks of age; thus older age was not characterized by unique 
neoplasms. 4) The incidence of certain neoplasms increased markedly after 
110-116 weeks. The data indicated that life-span studies in F344 rats had no 
advantages over 2-year studies. However, availability of life-span data is 
essential for interpretation of the 2-year studies.

PMID: 6584668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1984 Jun;72(6):1317-21.

Forecasting cancer trends to optimize control strategies.

Janerich DT.

Population projections and age-stratified cancer rates were used to forecast the 
trends for cancer occurrence for the United States during the coming decades: A 
progressive increase in the number of new cases is already predetermined by the 
high birth rate that occurred during the middle part of the century, and it will 
lead to nearly a doubling in the number of cases in about 4 decades. The 
demographic circumstances that determine the per capita costs of cancer are 
likely to worsen, because expected population trends will produce a 
deteriorating per capita economic base. Furthermore, the high costs of emerging 
treatment technologies are likely to magnify the deterioration ever further. 
Development of methods for cancer trend forecasting can provide a sound and 
accurate foundation for planning a comprehensive national strategy for optimal 
partitioning of research resources between the need for development of new 
treatments and the need for new research directed toward primary preventive 
measures.

PMID: 6587151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1984 Jun;72(6):1383-95.

Spontaneous ovarian tumors in Han:NMRI mice: histologic classification, 
incidence, and influence of food restriction.

Rehm S, Dierksen D, Deerberg F.

In a life-span study with female Han:NMRI virgin mice (300 of a fat subline, 300 
of a lean subline, and 300 controls), a total of 424 mice developed 673 ovarian 
tumors. Half of the mice in each group were fed ad libitum, and for the other 
half food was restricted. Most prevalent were tubular adenomas followed by 
granulosa and Sertoli cell tumors. Altogether, 42 neoplasms were classified as 
tubular adenocarcinomas, and 21, as luteomas . The general incidence of tumors 
increased sharply beyond the 18th month of age. Granulosa cell tumors arose 
relatively early, and tubular adenocarcinomas occurred very late in life. The 
occurrence of ovarian tumors depended mainly on life expectancy. All animals 
subjected to food restriction lived longer and developed more ovarian neoplasms 
than those fed ad libitum.

PMID: 6587157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Salud Bucal. 1983 Apr-May;10(57):9-14.

[Preventive dentistry for the 3rd age group].

[Article in Spanish]

Bellagamba H, Groiso de Storch B.

PMID: 6587537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Radiobiologiia. 1984 May-Jun;24(3):368-70.

[Effect of late consequences of radiation on shortening the life-span].

[Article in Russian]

Borisova VV, Il'in BN, Zapol'skaia NA.

Experiments were conducted on mongrel male albino rats injected with 90Sr (12.9 
kBq/g) and 45Ca (48.0 kBq/kg). It was shown that death of animals from lung 
inflammations markedly influenced the average life of a cohort.

PMID: 6588420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Scand J Soc Med Suppl. 1984;33:97p..

Functional capacity of men born in 1906-10, 1926-30 and 1946-50. A basic report.

Heikkinen E, Arajärvi RL, Era P, Jylhä M, Kinnunen V, Leskinen AL, Leskinen E, 
Mässeli E, Pohjolainen P, Rahkila P, et al.

This interdisciplinary study aims at describing the functional capacity of men 
belonging to different generation cohorts. The development of methods for the 
assessment of functional capacity is also the purpose of the study. Functional 
capacity is defined as a hierarchy comprising physical, mental and social areas 
into which individuals can be placed depending on the levels of the assessed 
functions. The study also aims at analyzing environmental and individual factors 
which are assumed to cause variation in the levels of functions. The purpose of 
this first report is to describe the framework of the study, the methods and 
main results concerning differences between cohorts and occupational groups. The 
sampling frame consisted of the population register of Jyväskylä town in January 
1981. The basic populations were men in three age groups, born in 1946-50, 
1926-30 and 1906-10. From each age group a systematic random sample of 250 men 
was made. Persons who had moved or died by the end of August 1981 or were living 
in institutions (6 men) were removed from the samples. The sample sizes were 
further randomly reduced so that the final samples consisted of 183, 188 and 176 
men. At the time of the study the ages of the cohorts were 31-35, 51-55 and 
71-75. The study included postal questionnaires, interviews and laboratory 
examinations. The basic questionnaire dealt with the background information, 
living conditions, life history, occupational history, social contracts and 
social participation, close human relations, use of time, health status and 
living habits. The second postal questionnaire dealing with psychic capacity 
included the following main items: life changes, self-realisation, personal 
trait anxiety, social fears, coping, self-respect, and the purpose of life. The 
basic questionnaire was checked in an interview when the subjects came for the 
laboratory examinations. The entrance interview also included questions about 
the most important events of previous 24 hours. In addition the subjects filled 
in a questionnaire on situational anxiety. The laboratory examinations included 
the following tests: cognitive capacity (4 tests), audiometry, speech 
understanding, visual tests, vibration threshold, posture control, reaction and 
movement time, tapping rate, leg extension velocity, anthropometric 
measurements, skin measurements, bone mineral density, physiotherapist's 
examination, physician's examination, blood analyses, isometric strength of 
muscles (5 muscles), anaerobic power, aerobic power and anaerobic 
threshold.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 6589767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Scand J Soc Med Suppl. 1984;34:67-73.

Inequalities in health: an economic comment.

Waaler HT.

PMID: 6589775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. N Z Med J. 1984 Sep 26;97(764):655.

Coronary artery surgery.

Hull FT.

PMID: 6591053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Psychiatr Med. 1983 Dec;1(4):429-43.

Relationship between nutrition and dementia in the elderly.

Vatassery GT(1), Maletta GJ.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center, Veterans Administration 
Medical Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

The complexities of physiologic interactions between the nutritional status of 
the aged and the incidence of dementia in the elderly should be obvious from 
this partial survey of the field. Investigations aimed at delineating the role 
of individual nutrients in mentation among the elderly are extremely difficult 
to design and perform. However, the potential for practical applications of the 
results is indeed very high. The studies discussed in this article permit the 
following conclusions. Although many attempts have been made to enhance average 
life expectancy through nutritional manipulation, no such panacea currently 
exists. There is a well-documented decrease in caloric intake among the elderly. 
However, this does not seem to put them at any higher risk of developing overt 
deficiencies of specific nutrients. The elderly population in this country has a 
strong tendency to consume nutritional supplements, with vitamins C and E being 
the most popular. It is unknown at present whether this practice has any health 
value. Several attempts have been made to alter the course of dementia in the 
elderly through nutritional means. Attempts to ameliorate the symptoms of 
Alzheimer's disease through use of choline and lecithin have been overwhelmingly 
unsuccessful. The postulate that aluminum toxicity is an etiologic factor in 
this disease remains unproven, and therapies with chelating agents are not now 
advisable. Vitamin B12 has to be seriously considered as a causative factor in 
dementia; it is hoped that methods to test vitamin B12 nutriture in humans that 
are both more reliable and more capable of revealing marginal deficiency states 
will emerge. Although folic acid is intimately related biochemically and 
nutritionally to vitamin B12, its potential role in normal mental function 
remains largely unknown. Clearly, when considering nutrition and dementia in the 
elderly, there are many areas that still require thorough scientific 
investigation. Hopefully, the future will see an increase in research activity, 
resulting in answers to many of the questions posed in this paper.

PMID: 6599862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Hum Biol. 1983 Feb;55(1):115-29.

Family patterns in longevity and longevity patterns of the family.

Swedlund AC, Meindl RS, Nydon J, Gradie M.

PMID: 6601609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Ann Surg. 1983 Jul;198(1):80-6. doi: 10.1097/00000658-198307000-00016.

Life expectancy and late stroke following carotid endarterectomy.

Bernstein EF, Humber PB, Collins GM, Dilley RB, Devin JB, Stuart SH.

A review of the UCSD experience with 456 consecutive carotid endarterectomy 
procedures confirms the acceptably low operative mortality and morbidity 
associated with this operation. Immediate complications were not different when 
routine or selective shunting was performed, but the patients with a low 
internal carotid artery back pressure had higher operative complication rates. 
The coexistence of atherosclerosis in other parts of the body severe-enough to 
warrant surgery for them was not associated with either higher early or late 
carotid surgery complication rates. Following both coronary bypass and carotid 
procedures, the late mortality was decreased, and the late incidence of stroke 
was particularly low in comparison to the remainder of the patient group. Late 
follow-up emphasized the high continuing attrition rate from all causes in these 
patients. Late strokes continued to occur, particularly in patients with prior 
strokes and severe preoperative bilateral carotid disease. The late course of 
patients with posterior circulation transient ischemic attacks treated by 
carotid endarterectomy was quite similar to that of patients treated for 
anterior circulation transient ischemia attacks (TIAs). Newer postoperative 
screening procedures may decrease the incidence of late postoperative stroke by 
identifying recurrent carotid stenosis while it is still in the asymptomatic 
stage.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-198307000-00016
PMCID: PMC1352937
PMID: 6602597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Public Health Rep. 1983 Jul-Aug;98(4):343-9.

The life expectancy of nonsmoking men and women.

Miller GH, Gerstein DR.

The pronounced difference in life expectancy between men and women in the United 
States and other industrialized countries has been attributed to a variety of 
causes, among them, differential rates of cigarette smoking. A study was 
undertaken to eliminate the confounding factors of imprecision in the taking of 
smoking histories and exaggeration of early traumatic deaths in life expectancy 
calculations. Survey data were collected on the lifetime smoking habits of 
adults in Erie County, Pa., as of 1972-74. In the survey interviews, careful 
distinctions were made between respondents who had formerly smoked and 
respondents who had never smoked. The survey data were combined with data 
collected from surviving relatives about the smoking habits of people who had 
died in Erie County during the years 1972-74. After deaths attributable to 
traumatic causes (accidents, suicides, and homicides) were removed, life tables 
were calculated for male and female nonsmokers over age 30. The resulting life 
expectancy figures for nonsmoking men and women of parallel age were virtually 
identical. Thus, differential rates of cigarette smoking are apparently the 
overwhelming cause for the male-female longevity difference. Actuarial tables 
should be divided by smoking behavior to reflect this finding. The results of 
the study suggest that the present longevity difference between men and women 
will disappear.

PMCID: PMC1424467
PMID: 6604290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Radiobiologiia. 1983 Jul-Aug;23(4):549-51.

[Relation between the state of the vestibular analyzer in rabbits and their 
individual radiosensitivity when irradiated with a dose of 150 Gy].

[Article in Russian]

Grigor'ev AIu, Stepanov VS.

The authors have revealed a relationship between the original functional state 
of the vestibular analyzer of rabbits and their individual radiosensitivity. The 
coefficient of correlation between the vestibular analyzer sensitivity threshold 
and the life expectancy after exposure to gamma-rays at a linear accelerator of 
electrons (7.6 MeV, 150 Gy) was 0.505.

PMID: 6604296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Cancer Treat Rep. 1983 Jan;67(1):59-62.

Identical efficacy of methotrexate regimens with N5-methyltetrahydrofolate 
rescue or with leucovorin rescue for treatment of L1210 murine leukemia.

Nixon PF, Wilson L.

PMID: 6604578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Br J Hosp Med. 1983 Oct;30(4):259-60, 262-3.

Coronary artery bypass surgery.

Treasure T.

Coronary artery surgery entirely relieves or very much reduces angina in over 90 
per cent of patients and it can now be undertaken with a very low operative 
risk. Furthermore, it increases life expectancy for many angina sufferers. It 
has been shown to increase the probability of surviving for 5 years in those who 
have life-threatening forms of coronary artery disease and as figures have 
become available for 10-year results they confirm that this improvement in 
prognosis is sustained in the second 5 years after surgery. The data now 
available indicate that the prognosis is improved by surgical treatment in all 
except those with only one vessel involved or with the less hazardous forms of 
two-vessel disease who have a good outlook however they are managed. At present 
it is thought appropriate to offer surgery to all those with angina that is 
severe enough to limit a reasonable life style and that adequate medical 
treatment has failed to control. At a relatively early stage in the assessment 
it is desirable to know the result of a formally conducted exercise ECG test and 
this together with the outcome of a trial of medical management decides whether 
or not coronary angiography should be performed. With this further information 
available it is possible to take into account the improvement in prognosis with 
surgical treatment in patients with the more dangerous forms of coronary artery 
disease. Depending on the severity of the angiographic appearance, perseverance 
with medical measures may be appropriate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6605776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Ann Intern Med. 1984 Mar;100(3):465. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-100-3-465_1.

Severe von Willebrand's disease: incidence and prevalence.

Velez R, Magruder-Habib K.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-100-3-465_1
PMID: 6607694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1984 Mar;81(6):1835-8. doi: 10.1073/pnas.81.6.1835.

Effects of food restriction on aging: separation of food intake and adiposity.

Harrison DE, Archer JR, Astle CM.

Restricted feeding of rodents increases longevity, but its mechanism of action 
is not understood. We studied the effects of life-long food restriction in 
genetically obese and normal mice of the same inbred strain in order to 
distinguish whether the reduction in food intake or the reduction in adiposity 
(percentage of fatty tissue) was the critical component in retarding the aging 
process. This was possible because food-restricted obese (ob/ob) mice maintained 
a high degree of adiposity. In addition to determining longevities, changes with 
age were measured in collagen, immune responses, and renal function. Genetically 
obese female mice highly congenic with the C57BL/6J inbred strain had 
substantially reduced longevities and increased rates of aging in tail tendon 
collagen and thymus-dependent immune responses, but not in urine-concentrating 
abilities. When their weight was held in a normal range by feeding restricted 
amounts, longevities were extended almost 50%, although these food-restricted 
ob/ob mice still had high levels of adiposity, with fat composing about half of 
their body weights. Their maximum longevities exceeded those of normal C57BL/6J 
mice and were similar to longevities of equally food-restricted normal mice that 
were much leaner. Food restricted ob/ob mice had greatly retarded rates of 
collagen aging, but the rapid losses with age in splenic immune responses were 
not mitigated. Thus, the extension of life-span by food restriction was 
inversely related to food consumption and corresponded to the aging rate of 
collagen. These results suggest that aging is a combination of independent 
processes; they show that reduced food consumption, not reduced adiposity, is 
the important component in extending longevity of genetically obese mice.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.81.6.1835
PMCID: PMC345016
PMID: 6608731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Acta Med Scand Suppl. 1984;684:1-72.

Hemophilia in Sweden. Studies on demography of hemophilia and surgery in 
hemophilia and von Willebrand's disease.

Larsson SA.

Demography: All known hemophiliacs in Sweden, 564 cases, were subjected to a 
demographic survey in 1980. The ratio of hemophilia A/B was 81/19. The severe 
cases constituted 30% and the mild 54%. Mean and median ages for mild and 
moderate hemophiliacs did not differ from those of Swedish males but were 
approximately 10 years lower in the severe cases. The prevalence was 7 per 
100,000 population. The incidence remained constant at 1.7 (+/- 0.1) per 10,000 
live-born males in the period 1957-1978. Mortality: In the period 1957-1980, 
there was a substantial increase in the median age at death among 118 deceased 
hemophiliacs. This increase was most pronounced in severe hemophilia, from 19 to 
50.5 years. Intracranial hemorrhage accounted for one third of the deaths. Six 
deaths were attributed to hepatic dysfunction caused by hepatitis. Age related 
deaths (ischemic heart disease and malignancy) increased from 8 % to 32 %. 
Longevity: Median life expectancy of hemophiliacs in Sweden increased faster 
than the median life expectancy of the male population. In the beginning of the 
century, severe hemophiliacs faced a median life expectancy of about 11 years 
which had increased to 58 years by 1969-1980. Median life expectancy in mild and 
moderate hemophilia was 72 years, only three and a half years less than the 
corresponding age for Swedish males. Surgery in hemophilia and von Willebrand's 
disease: Three hundred and twelve operations (225 in hemophilia and 87 in von 
Willebrand's disease) were performed on 180 patients (121 hemophiliacs) in the 
period 1956-1983 at the General Hospital in Malmö. During the first years 
reconstructive orthopedic surgery dominated among young, severely affected, 
hemophiliacs but in recent years surgical diseases unrelated to the bleeding 
disorders increased. Ninety-seven operations were indicated by ailments caused 
by the bleeding disorders, mainly hemophilic arthropathy and pseudotumours. In 
another 72 operations the bleeding disorders were considered a contributing 
factor, mainly gastric surgery for ulcers, hysterectomy indicated by 
menometrorrhagia and subdural hematomas. Reconstructive orthopedic surgery was 
almost exclusively performed in hemophilia but gastric surgery was more common 
in von Willebrand's disease. The operations claimed three fatalities. It was 
considered essential to extend the substitution therapy to at least two weeks, 
especially in orthopedic surgery and in severe hemophilia. Furthermore, it was 
of the utmost importance to have access to laboratory facilities for repeated 
determinations of VIII:C/IX:C in hemophilia, Duke bleeding time in von 
Willebrand's disease, and to exclude the presence of inhibitors.

PMID: 6611018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Singapore Med J. 1983 Apr;24(2):71-81.

Expectation of life in Singapore 1956-1971.

Saw SH.

PMID: 6612359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Acta Med Leg Soc (Liege). 1983;33(1):1049-52.

[Life expectancy of the spinal cord injured].

[Article in French]

Girard R, Eyssette M, Bourret J, Demolin P.

PMID: 6613624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 1983 May;32(3):181-6.

[Medical treatment of the threat syndrome with heparin. Long-term prospective 
study].

[Article in French]

Ruggiero HA, Previde O, Califano SE, Beilis P, Val A.

A 19-year study of 119 patients stricken with a threat syndrome and treated with 
heparin is presented. The average observation period is 10.15 years. The total 
mortality was 33.94 per cent. The cumulative annual mortality was 1.79 per cent. 
The life expectancy for treated patients was identical to that of the general 
population in Argentina. The survivors (60.51% of the cases) were either 
asymptomatic (45.83%) or presented varying cardiac pathology (54.17%).

PMID: 6614811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Cancer Treat Rep. 1983 Jan;67(1):45-50.

Model studies in adjuvant chemotherapy.

Mulder JH, de Ruiter J, Edelstein MB, Gerritsen TF, van Putten LM.

We have focused on three aspects of adjuvant chemotherapy applied to mice with 
one of the metastasizing tumors: Lewis lung carcinoma (LL) or mammary carcinoma 
2661 (M2661). The first aspect concerned the timing of adjuvant chemotherapy. To 
investigate this, tumor-bearing mice were treated postoperatively with 
cyclophosphamide using a standard regimen. In M2661, adjuvant therapy was 
marginally effective in contrast to the clearly significant results obtained in 
LL. Any delay in the initiation of adjuvant therapy decreased the efficacy of 
the treatment. The effect of administering chemotherapy before surgery was also 
studied; normally, marginally effective adjuvant therapy was found to become 
effective when started preoperatively in M2661. In LL, effective adjuvant 
therapy was found to become less effective when started preoperatively. The 
second aspect considered was the comparability between the increase in 
relapse-free survival time and the increase in cure rate as alternate goals of 
adjuvant therapy. To study this, mice with small, medium, or large residual 
tumor loads were subjected to surgery and subsequently treated with 
cyclophosphamide. While the effect of adjuvant therapy on the cure rate 
increased proportionally with decreasing tumor load, the increase in lifespan in 
nonsurvivors was not related to tumor load. The final aspect of study was the 
selection procedure for drugs to be applied in adjuvant treatment in our models. 
Taking the volume response of large tumors as being predictive for the 
successful use of the same agent in adjuvant therapy, we obtained both 
false-negative and false-positive results in our tumor lines.

PMID: 6616492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. J Physiol. 1983 Aug;341:441-52. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.1983.sp014815.

Modification by diet and environmental temperature of enterocyte function in 
piglet intestine.

Dauncey MJ, Ingram DL, James PS, Smith MW.

Intestinal morphology, enterocyte life span and alanine transport have been 
studied in the small intestine of piglets fed different amounts of food at high 
and low environmental temperatures. Villus height and crypt depth were both 
greater in pigs maintained on a high energy intake. Environmental temperature 
produced negligible effects on intestinal structure. Enterocyte life span 
increased from 45 h in pigs kept at 35 degrees C to about 70 h in animals living 
at 10 degrees C. A low energy intake prolonged enterocyte life span at an 
environmental temperature of 10 degrees C. The Na-dependent fraction of alanine 
uptake, judged by analysis of autoradiographs and by measurement of 
alanine-dependent short-circuit current, was greater in intestines taken from 
pigs maintained on a restricted diet. This effect, which appeared to be due to 
changes in the number of carriers (Jm) rather than the apparent affinity of the 
carrier for the amino acid (Km) was most noticeable using intestines taken from 
pigs kept at 10 degrees C. The Na-independent fraction of alanine uptake 
remained unchanged either by alterations in diet or in the environmental 
temperature at which pigs were kept. Restricting the diet of pigs at low 
environmental temperature leads to a relative increase in the capacity of the 
intestine to absorb alanine through an Na-dependent process. This increase 
appears to be caused by an extension of enterocyte life span rather than by any 
change in the time of onset or rate of expression of carrier function in a 
single enterocyte.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.1983.sp014815
PMCID: PMC1195343
PMID: 6620186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. J Ment Defic Res. 1983 Jun;27 (Pt 2):133-42. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.1983.tb00286.x.

Mortality and dementia among ageing defectives.

Tait D.

From a detailed case-register of the ascertained mentally handicapped in a 
defined population, 382 individuals were identified with an IQ of 50 or under, 
and of age 57 or over at follow-up 12 years later. In the 277 patients initially 
in hospital, case records and clinical examination of the survivors showed a 
life expectancy and a prevalence of dementia similar to that found in the 
general population. The 105 individuals originally resident in the community had 
made little demand upon hospital services over the period. The survival to old 
age of the mentally handicapped poses a quantitative problem for mental 
deficiency hospitals, but no evidence was found to suggest that provision of 
high-dependency care above the level required for the general population is 
needed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.1983.tb00286.x
PMID: 6620359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Prosthet Orthot Int. 1983 Aug;7(2):113-5. doi: 10.3109/03093648309166985.

Life expectancy and social consequences of through-knee amputations.

Steen Jensen J.

Amputation surgery for gangrene of the lower limb has two primary goals, to save 
life and to bring the patients back to their previous living conditions. If this 
can be achieved with restored walking ability the result of the treatment is 
considered a full success. The purpose of this paper is to describe the risk of 
death and possibility of returning through-knee amputees to their own home, 
relating the results to other major levels of amputation of the lower limb.

DOI: 10.3109/03093648309166985
PMID: 6622229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1983 Aug 20;113(33):1157-60.

[Prognosis in complications of acute myocardial infarction requiring artificial 
