respiration].

[Article in German]

Speiser K, Baumann PC.

From 1978 to 1981, 818 consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction 
were admitted, 112 (13.7%) of whom required artificial ventilation because of 
complications. Their mean age (62) corresponded to the mean age of all acute 
myocardial infarction patients (63). 28 (25%) survived the hospitalization and 
were followed after discharge. 2 were lost to follow-up. After a mean follow-up 
period of 26 months, 8 patients had died and 18 were still alive, none of them 
free of symptoms. There was no difference of age, duration of respirator therapy 
and maximal creatine kinase activity between survivors (group A) and 
nonsurvivors (group B). In 50% of patients cardiac failure leading to 
endotracheal intubation was triggered or made worse by arrhythmias. The 
remaining 50% of patients showed pure pump failure. Again in these two subsets, 
cardiac failure was significantly less marked in group A than in group B 
according to the hemodynamic findings. In conclusion, inpatient mortality in 
patients with acute myocardial infarction requiring artificial ventilation was 
high (75%) and hemodynamic findings were significantly worse in those not 
surviving. Patients discharged from the hospital also had a reduced life 
expectancy (less than 50% after 3 years).

PMID: 6623039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Stat Bull Metrop Life Found. 1983 Jan-Jun;64(1):12-6.

Life expectancy in the United States.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 6623348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Surgery. 1983 Oct;94(4):591-7.

The current position of nonresective treatment for abdominal aortic aneurysm.

Karmody AM, Leather RP, Goldman M, Corson JD, Shah DM.

This is a review of our 5 1/2-year experience with the treatment of infrarenal 
abdominal aortic aneurysms by thrombosis induced by outflow obstruction while 
adequate lower limb perfusion is simultaneously ensured by axillofemoral bypass. 
Sixty high-risk patients who were considered to be unsuitable for direct aortic 
replacement have been so treated. Preoperative angiographic investigation of the 
pelvic and visceral vessels is mandatory. Thrombosis of the aneurysm occurred in 
42 patients within 72 hours after surgical interruption of the iliac outflow, 
while in the remainder, persistent patency was dealt with by radiologic 
deposition of thrombotic material in the remaining outflow arteries. Contrary to 
our previous report, an augmented computerized tomographic scan has proved to be 
more accurate than radionuclide flow studies for the determination of complete 
aneurysmal thrombosis. There were four deaths within 40 days (7%), and the 
remaining patients were followed for 6 to 48 months. There were three fatal 
ruptures, all as the result of inaccurate indication of thrombosis by 
radionuclide flow scan. The rate of survival by life table analysis was 55% at 
24 months. There has been no evidence of proximal extension of the infrarenal 
thrombosis to visceral vessels. This experience suggests that this technique 
offers a reasonable alternative to the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms 
when the indication is compelling and the risk of direct graft replacement is 
excessive.

PMID: 6623359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Am J Psychother. 1983 Jul;37(3):400-10. doi: 
10.1176/appi.psychotherapy.1983.37.3.400.

Outcome of eclectic psychotherapy in private psychological practice.

Koss MP, Graham JR, Kirkhart K, Post G, Kirkhart RO, Silverberg RS.

The outcome of eclectic psychotherapy in a private psychological practice was 
examined in 69 clients. Target symptoms, life-adjustment ratings, 
social-adjustment ratings, and therapy expectancy were obtained before and after 
four months of psychotherapy from clients, therapists, and independent clinical 
raters. Results indicated that significant change had occurred after four months 
of psychotherapy for 6 of 10 categories of target complaints, in 9 of 11 areas 
of life adjustment and in 14 of 22 areas of social adjustment. Overall, 70 
percent of clients showed improvement in their symptoms; 14 percent were 
unchanged and 17 percent deteriorated. The major value of the study is an 
exploration of psychotherapy outcome under naturalistic conditions in a growing 
but rarely studied treatment setting.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.psychotherapy.1983.37.3.400
PMID: 6625024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 1983 Jun;4(3):178-80.

[Preliminary report on long-term disease surveillance in Liaoning Province].

[Article in Chinese]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 6627368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Fortschr Med. 1983 Sep 15;101(35):1568-71.

[Aneurysm of the abdominal aorta. Results of surgical therapy].

[Article in German]

Becker HM, Stelter WJ.

According to experiences in treating more than 400 patients with abdominal 
aortic aneurysms (AAA) following statements can be made: 1. Diagnosis of an AAA 
is identical with indication for surgical treatment. Only in cases of extremely 
high operative risk (aggravating organ deficiencies especially of heart and 
lungs) an expectant attitude is justified. 2. Preoperative angiography is 
considered to be desirable. 3. Rupture of the aneurysm depends on size and form, 
but small sized aneurysms can rupture as well. 4. It is of advantage to have the 
patients prepared preoperatively for several days for minimizing the operative 
risk. 5. Long follow-up results are good, the operation is able to prolong life 
expectancy of these patients.

PMID: 6629290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Hawaii Med J. 1983 Apr;42(4):90-2, 94-5, 98.

Ethnic differentials in health in Hawaii.

Haas M.

PMID: 6629754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. J Forensic Sci. 1983 Oct;28(4):871-6.

Morphological variations in ulnar supinator crests and fossae as identifying 
markers of occupational stress.

Kennedy KA.

Recent morphometric studies of ulnae of prehistoric skeletal remains from 
populations known to have used spears, atlatls, and similar projectile weapons 
for hunting and warfare reveal a high incidence of hypertrophy of the ulnar 
crest, to which the supinator muscle is attached, along with pronounced depth of 
the adjacent supinator fossa, especially in the upper extremities of males. 
Similar features occur in the right ulnae of living persons of both sexes who 
are habitually engaged in certain occupational and athletic activities involving 
angular displacement of the forearm as a result of medial rotation of the arm at 
the shoulder, shoulder and arm rapid extension, and abrupt shifts from forearm 
supination to pronation. Aside from its forensic science implications in 
determination of right- or left-handedness as a trait peculiar to the 
individual, observation of these markers of stress on the proximal end of the 
ulna are significant in identification of skeletal remains of persons known to 
have engaged in specific brachial activities during life. The biomechanics of 
these movement patterns and activities in which they occur, when properly 
interpreted, are relevant to forensic science problems of individual 
identification and paleoanthropological studies of occupational stress factors 
in extinct populations for which a skeletal record is available.

PMID: 6631369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Mech Ageing Dev. 1983 Jun;22(2):113-20. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(83)90104-5.

Pituitary-thyroid activity and longevity in neonatally thyroxine-treated rats.

Ooka H, Fujita S, Yoshimoto E.

Wistar rats were made hypothyroidic by intraperitoneal thyroxine (T4) injection 
during the first 10 days of neonatal life. Levels of T4, 3,3',5-triiodothyronine 
(T3), thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) and prolactin in the blood of these rats 
were measured by radioimmunoassay. The T4 levels are about two-thirds of control 
values up to 20 months of age. T3 level is low only at a young age. TSH level 
shows no significant difference from control, but is about half that of control 
after the stimulation of secretion by 6-propyl-2-thiouracil. The level of 
prolactin is much higher in the T4-treated group than in controls. In male rats, 
life duration of hypothyroid rats was longer than control by about 4 months. The 
life extension effect of hypothyroidism was observed also in females, although 
the difference was smaller than that in males. The concentration of T4 in the 
blood of male rats is higher than females, and the decrease in T4 level by 
neonatal T4 treatment is also more marked in males.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(83)90104-5
PMID: 6632988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Mech Ageing Dev. 1983 Jul-Aug;22(3-4):233-51. doi:
10.1016/0047-6374(83)90079-9.

The anti-aging action of hypophysectomy in hypothalamic obese rats: effects on 
collagen aging, age-associated proteinuria development and renal histopathology.

Everitt AV, Wyndham JR, Barnard DL.

Hypophysectomy in young male Wistar rats aged 70 days, like food restriction 
begun at the same age, retarded the life-long rate of collagen aging in tail 
tendon fibres and inhibited the development of age-associated proteinuria and 
renal histopathology. Hypothalamic lesions which increased the food intake of 
hypophysectomized rats from 7 g to 15 g/day and produced obesity did not alter 
the rate of either collagen aging or proteinuria development, nor reduce life 
expectancy, but increased the incidence of abnormal glomeruli. In the intact 
rats elevation of food intake from 7 g to 15 g/day increased the rate of 
proteinuria development, but did not affect the rate of collagen aging. 
Hypophysectomy was found to have a greater anti-collagen aging effect than food 
restriction, when food intakes were the same in both groups. These studies 
suggest a pituitary-hormonal effect on collagen aging and a 
food-pituitary-hormone-mediated effect on the development of age-associated 
proteinuria.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(83)90079-9
PMID: 6632996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Med J Aust. 1983 Oct 29;2(9):434-6.

Surgery for abdominal aortic aneurysms. With special reference to high-risk 
patients.

Nash T, Gold J.

Between 1973 and 1980, 150 patients with an abdominal aneurysm underwent 
aneurysmectomy at St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney. Of these, 52 were high-risk 
patients with significant medical disease, including myocardial ischaemia, 
angina pectoris, obstructive airways disease, portal hypertension, and end-stage 
renal disease. The operative mortality for the 150 patients was 4.6%; it was 
9.6% in the high-risk group. The predicted overall survival rate at seven years, 
with a minimum of two years' follow-up, was 55%, which compares favourably with 
that reported in other series, particularly in view of the advanced age of most 
of the patients--43% were in the eighth decade of their lives. The predicted 
survival rate of 26% for the high-risk group is nearly four times the survival 
rate predicted by Szilagyi for patients with untreated aneurysms. This increased 
life expectancy justifies the adoption of the widest possible selection criteria 
for elective aneurysmectomy.

PMID: 6633407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. N Engl J Med. 1983 Nov 17;309(20):1218-24. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198311173092005.

Active life expectancy.

Katz S, Branch LG, Branson MH, Papsidero JA, Beck JC, Greer DS.

This study was designed to demonstrate the feasibility of forecasting functional 
health for the elderly. Using life-table techniques, we analyzed the expected 
remaining years of functional well-being, in terms of the activities of daily 
living, for noninstitutionalized elderly people living in Massachusetts in 1974. 
The expected years, or active life expectancy, showed a decrease, from 10 years 
for those aged 65 to 70 years to 2.9 for those 85 or older. Active life 
expectancy was shorter for the poor than for others, and women had a longer 
average duration of expected dependence than men. The measure of active life 
expectancy provides important information about health at a given population 
level, in terms other than death. This information can be used for actuarial 
purposes in planning and policy making. It is also useful in identifying 
high-risk populations for which preventive health care and medical care can 
compress morbidity during the last years of life.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198311173092005
PMID: 6633571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Ophthalmic Res. 1983;15(4):198-203. doi: 10.1159/000265258.

Biochemistry of the ageing rat lens. I. Lens wet weight and lens dry weight with 
respect to sex differences.

Bours J, Hockwin O, Fink H.

The lens wet weight differed from the age of 136 days: the male lenses were 
significantly heavier than the female lenses. The dry weight, in percent of the 
lens wet and dry weight, of the water-soluble proteins decreased and the dry 
weight of the water-insoluble proteins increased during ageing. At an age of 870 
days, when the dry weight curves crossed each other, the lens contains equal 
amounts of water-soluble and water-insoluble proteins. At the end of the life 
expectancy, the relation between the water-soluble and water-insoluble moiety 
was 0.7 for the rat and 3.5 for the bovine lens. The dry weight percent of the 
water-soluble proteins was lower for the female lens, whereas that of the 
water-insoluble proteins was higher for the female lens. The male lens, on the 
contrary, showed a higher percentage of water-soluble and a lower percentage of 
water-insoluble proteins with increasing age. The ratio R of the dry weight of 
water-soluble to water-insoluble proteins was, from the age of 429 days, lower 
for the female lens. During ageing, the proportion of the lens-water was higher 
for the male lens.

DOI: 10.1159/000265258
PMID: 6634054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Vox Sang. 1983;45(5):398-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.1983.tb01935.x.

Does blood donation prolong life expectancy?

Casale G, Bignamini M, de Nicola P.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.1983.tb01935.x
PMID: 6636663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1983 Jun 24;95(13):443-7.

[Skin metastases of malignancies of internal organs].

[Article in German]

Gschnait F, Schwarz T, Wuketich S, Alth G, Denck H, Luger A.

In 4 cases with cutaneous metastases from internal cancer the primary tumours 
were found in the gallbladder, the breast, the lung and the kidney. The 
cutaneous metastases were the first symptom of the disease in 2 of 4 cases and 
led to the diagnosis. Course, treatment and prognosis of secondary skin tumours 
are discussed in detail.

PMID: 6636774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Z Urol Nephrol. 1983 Jul;76(7):453-9.

[Urinary calculi and the single kidney].

[Article in German]

Hoffmann L, Serfling D, Bast R, Schönhals C.

The problems and interactions of urolithiasis and monorenality are presented in 
a survey covering four essential parameters: --Urolithiasis as an indication for 
nephrectomy: One nephrectomy in four is performed because of urolithiasis. This 
rate of nephrectomy has not changed in the last 50 years. --Recidive 
urolithiasis in the residual kidney: Around 37% of all monorenal persons have a 
diseased single or residual kidney. On average one in four cases of residual 
kidney disease is caused by urolithiasis. This recidive calculus quota has also 
not significantly changed in recent decades. --Lethality of operations on the 
residual kidney: Urolithiasis is becoming almost the only indication for 
operating on a residual kidney; due to postrenal anuria, uraemia and urosepsis a 
large percentage of such operations are emergency operations under extremely 
unfavourable initial conditions. Despite the use of modern methods of medical 
treatment the lethality rate is for this reason still relatively high (7-15%). 
--Life expectancy of monorenals with urolithiasis: The life expectancy of 
monorenals with urolithiasis is clearly limited due to further complications 
(chronic pyelonephritis, hypertonia, urinary stasis and uraemia). It is 
therefore absolutely necessary for monorenal persons with urolithiasis to have 
intensive observation and urological treatment.

PMID: 6637173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1983 Aug;61(4):728-30. doi: 
10.1111/j.1755-3768.1983.tb04363.x.

Survival time among patients with glaucomatous visual field defects.

Thorburn W, Lindblom B.

During our studies on glaucoma we have made an important and surprising 
observation. We think it is urgent to report that we have found the survival 
time of glaucoma patients seems to be substantially shortened. To the best of 
our knowledge this has not been previously reported.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.1983.tb04363.x
PMID: 6637432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Ann Thorac Surg. 1983 Nov;36(5):529-31. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)60681-9.

Postpneumonectomy empyema does not improve survival in bronchogenic carcinoma.

Witz JP, Roeslin N.

There is much disagreement in the literature about the beneficial effect of 
postpneumonectomy empyema on survival following operation for bronchogenic 
carcinoma. We had the opportunity to gather data on 407 patients with this 
serious complication. The survival data for a group of patients with 
postpneumonectomy empyema and fistula were compared with those for another group 
without such complications. Our statistical analysis confirms that 
postpneumonectomy empyema does not improve life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)60681-9
PMID: 6639192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 1983 Aug;4(4):236-9.

[Surveillance of diseases in Tianjin Municipality in 1980--analysis of illness, 
wounds and death among inhabitants].

[Article in Chinese]

Guo ZY.

PMID: 6640639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1983 Jul;17(4):198-201.

[Effects of certain groups of causes of death on the life expectancy of the 
Shanghai civilian population].

[Article in Chinese]

Song GX.

PMID: 6641410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1983 Jul;17(4):219-20.

[A calculation for constructing a life table after excluding a certain causes of 
death].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang ZN.

PMID: 6641416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 1983 Oct;7(5):484-513. doi: 
10.1016/0147-6513(83)90088-x.

Population ecology of rotifers as a bioassay tool for ecotoxicological tests in 
aquatic environments.

Halbach U, Siebert M, Westermayer M, Wissel C.

The population dynamics of the monogonont rotifer Brachionus rubens were used 
under controlled experimental conditions as a sensitive bioassay for toxic 
substances in sublethal doses. Even slight reductions in organism fertility and 
life expectancy were reflected at the integrated level of population dynamics. 
Serving as bioindicators for the standard test are the population parameters 
"intrinsic rate of natural increase" (r), "carrying capacity" (k), "frequency" 
(f), and "pregnancy" of the density oscillations (p). The optimal spreading 
power (steepest slope of the response curves) lies at different concentration 
areas for each parameter, so that they can be used specifically in standard 
tests.

DOI: 10.1016/0147-6513(83)90088-x
PMID: 6641585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Int J Health Serv. 1983;13(4):649-60. doi: 10.2190/6GE4-8EC6-JXD5-QJ2Q.

Plundering the poor: the role of the World Bank in the Third World.

Feder E.

The World Bank, the most important so-called development assistance agency, 
annually dispenses billions of dollars to Third World governments, ostensibly to 
"develop" their economics through a variety of loan projects. But even a 
superficial analysis reveals that the Bank is the perfect mechanism to help 
(i.e., subsidize) the large transnational corporations from the industrial 
countries to expand their industrial, commercial, and financial activities in 
the Third World, at the expense of the latter and particularly at the expense of 
the rural and urban proletariat. This article discusses Cheryl Payer's recent 
book, The World Bank: A Critical Analysis, in which she analyzes the Bank's role 
in the Third World and sets forth the major reasons why poverty, hunger, and 
malnutrition, as well as unemployment, and all the adverse social phenomena 
associated with them, are on the increase.

PIP: In this review of Cheryl Payer's recent book, The World Bank: A Critical 
Analysis, the World Bank's role in the third world and the reasons why poverty, 
hunger, malnutrition, and unemployment are on the rise are discussed. The World 
Bank annually gives billions of dollars to third world governments, supposedly 
to develop their economies through a variety of loan projects. In reality, the 
loans subsidized the transnational corporations from the industrial countries 
and expand their industrial, commercial and financial activities in the third 
world. Capitalism has brought technological innovations, lowered infant 
mortality rates, and lengthened life expectancy in the third world. But it has 
also resulted in rapid population growth and an increase in other problems. 
Food, water, medical services, sanitary facilities and housing are becoming 
scarce to the poor. The World Bank has used its large resources, distributed 
annually on an increasing scale to its member countries, to expand capitalism in 
the third world and to fortify the business activities of the transnational 
corporations, including the large transnational banks. Many of the 
underdeveloped economies are having a difficult time due to an immense debt 
burden from all the lending activities of the World Bank. It is believed that 
the World Bank and capitalism will not be able to resolve the economic and 
social problems of the third world, and that socialism holds more hope for the 
masses worldwide. Under socialism, the World Bank would cease to exist. The 
World Bank and other UN agencies speak much, but really care nothing about 
problems facing the third world. It is believed that the growth of these 
problems are the prelude to the coming revolution that so frightens the World 
Bank and its supporters.

DOI: 10.2190/6GE4-8EC6-JXD5-QJ2Q
PMID: 6642815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. J Am Med Womens Assoc (1972). 1983 Nov-Dec;38(6):166, 169.

Equality in insurance.

England MJ.

PMID: 6643893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. J R Soc Health. 1983 Dec;103(6):222-6. doi: 10.1177/146642408310300607.

Demographic changes and the need for health technology.

Marshall WA.

PIP: Discussion focusses on recent trends in demand, giving consideration to how 
these trends might change between now and the end of the century. Attention is 
directed to the UK, but to put the situation in perspective a brief review of 
the worldwide importance of some diseases, as reflected by mortality figures, is 
included. In 1970 about 7% of the world's population were scarcely affected by 
the potential benefits of modern technology, and about 30% lived in countries 
which were only beginning to change from a pattern of very low technology and 
high mortality to the pattern of lower mortality found in the more developed 
nations. The expectation of life, at birth, in the whole group of less developed 
countries in 1970 was 53 years as compared with 32 years in 1935-39. The 
improvement in expectation of life in some countries in Latin America, Asia, and 
Africa has been marked. In the developed countries, as a whole, the estimated 
expectation of life at birth increased from 65 years in 1950-54 to about 71 
years in 1970. The future trend of mortality and morbidity in countries with a 
well organized administrative structure for the application of health technology 
depends primarily on the progress they can make in the reduction of infant 
mortality, accidents at all ages, and the cardiorespiratory disorders of later 
life. In the UK the need for health technology is largely determined by the 
incidence of those diseases which make demands upon it. This incidence is poorly 
represented by mortality figures because a decline in mortality may reflect an 
increased survival rate with no reduction in incidences. Much of the technology 
for the diagnosis and treatment of disease exists only in hospitals, and most 
patients are admitted to hospitals in order to benefit from the technology they 
can provide. In 1968 the principal causes for admission of males were diseases 
of the digestive and respiratory systems or injuries, other than fractures. 
Together, these accounted for about 30% of cases. In females, diseases of the 
breast and genital system, followed by those of the digestive and respiratory 
systems, accounted for a similar proportion of admissions. Admission rates are 
reviewed for infective and parasitic diseases, malingnant diseases, diseases of 
the nervous system and sensory organs, cardiovascular and respiratory disorders, 
digestive and urinary systems, gynecological disorders, and congenital 
abnormalities. When admissions are related to age groups and combined with 
predictions of demographic trends, they probably provide one of the best 
indications of the demand for health technology in the future.

DOI: 10.1177/146642408310300607
PMID: 6644730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. J Natl Med Assoc. 1983 Oct;75(10):957-63.

Preventive issues and the black elderly: a biopsychosocial perspective.

Lightfoot OB.

Of 26 million black Americans, 8 to 10 percent are elderly. Life expectancy for 
blacks is on the average 5.5 years less than for whites. Black men on the 
average live only 64.1 years. Preventive services in an elderly population must 
focus on maintaining physical health, supporting psychological well-being, and 
sustaining an adequate economic base and a dependable social-service network. 
High-risk factors in the elderly include being black, being poor, living alone, 
experiencing major life changes, being recently bereaved, or being recently 
discharged from a hospital. Important issues involved in maintaining good 
psychological and mental health include previous psychological health, previous 
intellectual capability, and the response to diminished physical health and to 
other major life changes. An adequate social network must include maintaining or 
developing friendships, capitalizing on the strengths of subcultural 
identifications, and having ready access to social, legal, health, and 
political-action groups.

PMCID: PMC2561610
PMID: 6644838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Med Decis Making. 1983;3(3):313-38. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8300300309.

What to do when the patient outlives the literature, or DEALE-ing with a full 
deck.

Moroff SV, Pauker SG.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8300300309
PMID: 6645821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Stat Med. 1983 Jul-Sep;2(3):373-80. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780020309.

Parameters of mortality in human populations with widely varying life spans.

Siler W.

A three-component, competing-risk mortality model, developed for animal survival 
data, fits human life table data for all ages over a range of mean life spans 
from 16 to 74 years. The competing risks are a novel exponentially-decreasing 
hazard, dominant during immaturity; a constant hazard, dominant during 
adulthood; and an exponentially increasing Gompertzian hazard, dominant during 
senescence. By fitting the model to a specific life table using non-linear 
techniques, estimates of the five model parameters and their standard errors 
obtain; the proportion of deaths expected from each hazard alone may then be 
calculated. Preliminary analysis of 13 life tables indicates that for human 
populations under heavy stress, with very short mean life spans of about 20 
years, the three hazard components account for roughly equal numbers of deaths; 
for modern populations, with mean life spans of about 75 years, nearly all 
deaths are due to the hazard of senescence. Factor analysis of the correlation 
matrix of parameter values for the 13 populations shows a two-factor structure. 
One factor involves only the multiplicative constants (initial values) of the 
three hazards, but not the hazard rates of change; the second factor involves 
only the parameter of the immaturity hazard and the rate of acceleration of the 
senescence hazard, but not the constant hazard nor the multiplicative constant 
(initial value) of the senescence hazard.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780020309
PMID: 6648150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Stat Med. 1983 Jul-Sep;2(3):381-6. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780020310.

A comparison of two methods for calculating expected mortality.

Hartz AJ, Giefer EE, Hoffmann RG.

A number of statistics based on person-years of survival have use in mortality 
studies. However, calculation of an expected number of deaths based on 
person-years of survival and standard death rates cannot be justified. We derive 
a new method to estimate expected mortality based on a model which assumes that 
each individual contributes to expected mortality from the time he enters the 
study until the study ends, regardless of whether he dies during the study. This 
model shows that what is referred to as expected mortality in the person-years 
method is a biased estimate of expected mortality. The variance of observed 
mortality under this new model is substantially less than the variance commonly 
used with the person-years method.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780020310
PMID: 6648151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Skeletal Radiol. 1983;10(4):209-20. doi: 10.1007/BF00357893.

Radiology of postnatal skeletal development. VIII. Distal tibia and fibula.

Ogden JA, McCarthy SM.

Initially the distal tibial physis is a relatively transverse structure. As the 
epiphysis matures, undulations develop within the physis and lappet formation 
occurs peripherally. Within the first two years a significant physeal undulation 
develops anteriorly above the medial malleolus. This undulation must not be 
misinterpreted as premature epiphyseodesis following distal tibial fracture. 
Secondary ossification in the distal tibia begins centrally and initially 
expands to fill the area over the tibial plafond. At the lateral side of the 
tibial epiphysis the ossification center may be wedge-shaped. The medial margin 
adjacent to the medial malleolus is often irregular and may show small 
peripheral foci of ossification. By seven to eight years, the secondary center 
extends into the medial malleolus, with complete distal extension often not 
occurring until adolescence (although usually complete by ten to eleven years). 
The malleolar tip may exhibit an accessory ossification center. However, this 
center also may be a traumatic avulsion in the symptomatic patient. Physiologic 
epiphyseodesis begins over the medial malleolus and subsequently extends 
laterally. This pattern of closure appears to predispose to fracture of the 
lateral portion of the distal tibial epiphysis (fracture of Tillaux), as well as 
to triplane fractures. The articular surface curves onto the lateral side of the 
distal tibia to form an articulation with the lateral malleolus (distal 
tibiofibular joint). A similar extension occurs along the medial side of the 
fibula. These surfaces extend proximally as a recess to the level of the distal 
tibial physis, at which point the syndesmosis begins. The initially transverse 
distal fibular physis becomes a convoluted structure, with extensive peripheral 
lappet formation. Within these regions of physeal overlap there may be small 
areas of accessory ossification (both medially and laterally) that should not be 
misinterpreted as fractures. This overlapping also minimizes specific physeal 
separation and displacement (especially when compared to the incidence of distal 
tibial physeal injuries). Stress views may be necessary to show such an 
undisplaced fracture. The fibular physis normally is level with the tibial 
articular surface or distal extent of the tibial ossification center, especially 
after the second year of life (however, it may be more proximal in infants). As 
in the medial malleolus, there may be accessory ossification at the tip of the 
fibula. While this usually is a normal variant of secondary ossification, 
occasionally it also may result from trauma. Extensive porosity of the distal 
fibular metaphysis predisposes to buckling or torus injuries that may have 
severe, multiangular deformation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00357893
PMID: 6648559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Soc Sci Med. 1983;17(22):1693-702. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(83)90379-9.

Cataract: the leading cause of blindness and vision loss in Africa.

Steinkuller PG.

Senile cataract is a non-preventable disease of aging, having its biggest impact 
in the over-60 age group. Published clinic and hospital data, population-based 
surveys and World Health Organization estimates indicate that 1.2% of the entire 
population of Africa is blind, and that cataract causes 36% of this blindness. 
Ocular disease and ophthalmic manpower status questionnaires mailed to every 
African country in 1982 by the International Eye Foundation support these 
contentions, and further demonstrate that cataract is the biggest single cause 
of blindness on the continent. Taking the population of Africa as a whole, this 
means that 6,000,000 people are blind, and that 2,000,000 of them are blind due 
to cataract. As this form of blindness is so closely related to aging, an 
estimate of the annual incidence of the condition can be made. One method is to 
use the formula I = P/D, where I = annual incidence, P = overall prevalence and 
D = duration of the condition. A 5-year survival has come to be a commonly used 
estimate in developing world epidemiology for the longevity of a person who 
becomes blind due to senile onset cataracts. In Africa then, I = P/D = 
2,000,000/5 = 400,000 people blinded annually by cataract. An alternate method 
for this computation is to multiply the number of people entering the 60 and 
above age group annually by 0.08. This factor is derived from knowing the 
prevalence of cataract blindness in this age group, the life expectancy on 
becoming 60, and the number of people turning 60 annually. This gives an annual 
incidence of 160,000 and would signify that the development of cataract 
blindness does not reduce longevity. Follow-up prevalence surveys in the same 
population group will tell us which method (if either) is correct. The average 
number of cataract operations done annually by each ophthalmologist in Africa is 
surprisingly low, 120. The two most cost-effective ways of raising the number of 
cases done are: (1) shorten the average hospital stay, and (2) train more 
ophthalmic clinical officers to perform cataract surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(83)90379-9
PMID: 6648586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Z Urol Nephrol. 1983 Sep;76(9):561-5.

[Long-term observations following urinary drainage into the intact large 
intestine].

[Article in German]

Rummelhardt S, Donner G.

A report is given on 21 patients who have survived for at least 5 years after 
drainage of urine into the non-eliminated large intestine (Coffey-Mayo). 
Uretero-intestinal anastomosis was performed in 19 children, because of extrophy 
of the bladder, and in 2 women, following a malignant primary disease. In around 
half the patients there have been no complications during the post-operative 
observation period (on average 16.5 years), while new drainages had to be 
performed in the other half because of structures of the anastomoses. The 
patients have to adapt their daily lives to the "Coffey" and know the symptoms 
of an imminent electrolyte disturbance. Post-operative care must be arranged 
with the patient. Coffey's operation may be indicated when life expectancy is 
short; otherwise an antirefluxive ureterocolic anastomosis is recommended.

PMID: 6649943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Ann Med Interne (Paris). 1983;134(5):428-35.

[Outcome, treatment and prognosis of Horton's disease].

[Article in French]

Barrier J, Tournemaine N, Maulaz D, Mainguy-Fonteneau B, Rojouan J, Potel G, 
Grolleau JY.

Precise information was obtained by a computerized analysis of the treatment, 
prognosis and clinical outcome of 108 representative cases selected from a 
series of 160 patients with Horton's disease (HD) diagnosed between 1970 and 
1981. At the end of the study, 18 patients had died (16,6 p. 100), the commonest 
cause of death being a cerebrovascular accident. Death occurred during the first 
two years of the illness in half these cases. Despite these early complications 
of the disease, from a statistical point of view, the patients did not die of HD 
or the complications of its treatment. The 5 years survival rate 80,1 p. 100 
(actuarial analysis). Most deaths were from natural causes; an intercurrent 
disease was often implicated; the lower probability of survival for men (69,9 p. 
cent at 5 years, compared to 85,4 p. cent for women) is compatible with the 
lower life expectancy which is well established. The roles of intercurrent 
disease and sex were statistically significant. On the other hand, there was no 
difference in the probability of 5 year survival when the different presenting 
of the disease, the terrain (HLA-DR4) and choice of corticosteroid therapy were 
compared. The initial dose of prednisone or prednisolone should exceed 0,5 
mg/kg/day, if relapse is to be avoided. No additional benefits were observed 
with doses in excess of 1 mg/kg/day except in cases with complications from the 
onset (ocular, coronary insufficiency, stenosis of the main large arteries, 
without being able to prejudge their mechanism).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

PMID: 6651063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Can J Psychiatry. 1983 Nov;28(7):552-4. doi: 10.1177/070674378302800709.

The aging physician and retirement.

Grauer H, Campbell NM.

The attitude of physicians toward retirement was studied using a questionnaire 
sent to physicians aged 65 and older. The information obtained was supplemented 
by organizing a study group of interested doctors. Of the 58 respondents whose 
average age was 71, 54 were still in practice and 65% had no plans for 
retirement. There was a strong urge to maintain the status quo. The group 
discussion centered around the loss of control over one's declining practice and 
the fear of diminishing competence with advancing age. The dedicated lifetime 
pursuit of a medical practice makes retirement extremely difficult for today's 
older physician. This study supports surveys on the working life span, longevity 
and mortality of North American physicians.

DOI: 10.1177/070674378302800709
PMID: 6652607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Cor Vasa. 1983;25(5):339-48.

Long-term prognosis in juvenile hypertension--a 20 and 28-year experience.

Jandová R, Widimský J.

In 1952-1954, 96 out 256 students aged 14-29 years and registered for juvenile 
hypertension, had systolic BP of 170/100 mmHg or higher. Of this original group, 
73% and 74% could be reexamined after 20 and 28 years, resp. After 20 years, a 
spontaneous regression of hypertension (HPT) without any therapy occurred in 
35.5%. In the remaining patients HPT or borderline HPT was still present, but 
only 17.1% showed evidence of progression, i.e. development of new organic 
changes. The examination performed after 28 years showed the same distribution 
of BP as 8 years ago, and no significant progression of HPT. The prognosis of 
juvenile HPT was significantly related to the initial values of BP and body mass 
recorded in 1952-1954, to the family history of hypertension and to familial 
life expectancy. Juvenile HPT has not a poor prognosis and need not continue 
into middle or higher age.

PMID: 6653127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Int J Clin Pharmacol Ther Toxicol. 1983 Nov;21(11):587-90.

Evaluation of tolerance in long-term treatment of cancer pain with epidural 
morphine.

Caputi CA, Busca G, Fogliardi F, Giugliano F.

The effect of epidural morphine as a pain reliever was evaluated. A catheter was 
placed in the epidural space in 43 patients suffering from cancer pain related 
to dermatomeres of the thorax and lumbosacral region for an average period of 38 
days (range 3-257 days). The daily dose of morphine hydrochloride varied from 1 
to 5 mg with an average dose of 4.23 (+/- 2.4) mg. The treatment was divided 
into 10-day periods and for each of these periods the average daily dose 
relative to the total number of cases was calculated. The results showed no 
significant increase of the dose of epidural morphine in the first 10 decade 
periods. The authors concluded that pain relief treatment with equal doses 
maintains its effect for quite a long period of time in patients with often 
limited life expectancy.

PMID: 6654534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Int J Epidemiol. 1983 Dec;12(4):455-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/12.4.455.

Mortality pattern and life expectancy of Seventh-Day Adventists in the 
Netherlands.

Berkel J, de Waard F.

The mortality pattern of Seventh-Day Adventists (SDAs) in the Netherlands was 
assessed during a ten-year study period, 1968-1977. Of 522 deceased SDAs the 
causes of death of 482 could be ascertained. Standardized Mortality Ratios (SMR) 
for total mortality (SMR = 0,45), cancer (SMR = 0,50) and cardiovascular 
diseases (SMR = 0,41) as well as for various subgroups differed significantly 
from the total Dutch population. Mean age at death as well as life-expectation 
at baptism were significantly higher in SDAs, both in males and females, as 
compared with Dutch males and females. A health survey among a sample of the 
total SDA population and a group of 'friend' controls' was done in order to try 
to explain the differences in mortality pattern and life expectancy. It is 
concluded that evidence was found for the thesis that abstinence from cigarette 
smoking is the main factor explaining the low mortality from ischaemic heart 
diseases among SDAs, while presumably an appropriate (prudent) diet confers 
additional benefit for example on colon cancer mortality.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/12.4.455
PMID: 6654568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Int J Psychiatry Med. 1983-1984;13(3):221-32. doi:
10.2190/19cn-7715-vlkq-9f25.

Fear of death, death attitudes, and religious conviction in the terminally ill.

Smith DK, Nehemkis AM, Charter RA.

The way in which an individual's belief system about death affects fear of death 
(FOD) has been largely neglected in the thanatology literature. The present 
study addresses the dimension of certainty or uncertainty with which beliefs 
about death are held and examines the way in which such attitudes might affect 
the FOD in dying patients. Twenty terminally ill patients were administered 
three FOD measures and a death perspective scale which assessed eight death 
attitudes. FOD among the terminally ill at both the conscious and fantasy level 
was low. Increased age was associated with declining conscious FOD, independent 
of life expectancy. Of the eight death perspectives, the attitudes toward death 
as afterlife-of-reward most directly tap the dimension of certainty or 
uncertainty. A significant curvilinear relationship emerged between this death 
perspective and FOD, suggesting that beliefs are a less critical determinant of 
death fear than is the certainty with which these beliefs are held. The study 
raises research and clinical issues pertinent to understanding FOD in dying 
patients.

DOI: 10.2190/19cn-7715-vlkq-9f25
PMID: 6654612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. J Dairy Sci. 1983 Nov;66(11):2400-7. doi: 10.3168/jds.S0022-0302(83)82098-0.

Factors affecting calf livability for Holsteins.

Martinez ML, Freeman AE, Berger PJ.

A total of 136,775 records from Holstein calvings was obtained from the National 
Association of Animal Breeders. Calf mortality (scored as dead at birth plus 
dead by 48 h) was greater for males (7.6%) than for females (5.6%). First 
parities of dams showed about two times as much calf mortality as later parities 
(10.5 versus 5.6%). Relationship was nonlinear between calf livability and size 
of calf, regardless of parity-of-dam and sex-of-calf effects. Dead calves 
averaged 1.2 days shorter gestation than live calves (279.6 days). Sex of calf, 
parity of dam, and linear and quadratic gestation length affected calf 
livability when the model also included sires. Percentage of calf mortality of 
progeny of individual sires ranged from 1 to 16% for sires with at least 60 
progeny. Mixed model estimates of heritabilities of livability were 1.02% (when 
coded as 1-alive at 48 h, 2-dead at birth, and 3-dead within 48 h) and 1.54% 
(when coded as 1-alive, 2-dead by 48 h). Heritability decreased 26% when 
gestation length was ignored. Attempts to normalize scores did not improve 
estimates of heritability. Heritability for livability was small.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.S0022-0302(83)82098-0
PMID: 6655094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1983 Dec;31(12):766-79. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1983.tb03397.x.

The Willard Thompson lecture. Interesting aspects of the aging process.

Burch GE.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1983.tb03397.x
PMID: 6655179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Neuropediatrics. 1983 Nov;14(4):202-5. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1059579.

Hyperextension of neck and trunk and shoulder retraction in infancy--a 
prognostic study.

Touwen BC, Hadders-Algra M.

Hyperextension of the neck and trunk associated with shoulder retraction is 
often regarded as an early sign of a developing neurological impairment, which 
may lead to cerebral palsy. Follow-up results over the first 18 months of life 
in a group of 105 infants presenting this symptomatology showed that the 
presence of additional neurological symptomatology rather than hyper-extension 
as an isolated phenomenon determines prognosis. Neonatal neurological 
abnormality increases the risk for an abnormal development. Although more boys 
than girls presented hyperextension, no clear sex differences were found with 
regard to the influence of additional neurological symptomatology. Physiotherapy 
appeared to be of limited value only.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1059579
PMID: 6657007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1983 Nov 12;113(45):1645-50.

[Long-term evolution of children operated on for tetralogy of Fallot].

[Article in French]

Friedli B, Girod M, Gersbach P, Hahn C, Rouge JC, Faidutti B.

While open heart surgery has much improved the prognosis of tetralogy of Fallot, 
surgical repair does not usually restore completely normal anatomy. Residual 
defects include some degree of pulmonary stenosis, pulmonary regurgitation 
(unavoidable if the pulmonic valve and valve ring need to be widened by patch), 
and, sometimes, residual ventricular septal defect. In addition, left and right 
ventricular dysfunction of mild to moderate degree, unrelated to residual 
lesions, may be observed. Other late complications may arise from conduction 
disturbances and ventricular arrhythmias. The occurrence of late sudden death is 
related to such rhythm disturbances, it occurs particularly in patients with 
ventricular premature beats on routine ECGs and is probably due to ventricular 
fibrillation. Patients with such premature beats must therefore be treated with 
antiarrhythmic drugs. In spite of these late complications, the majority of 
patients lead a normal life and professional integration is usually excellent. 
Many patients practise sports. Exercise tests late after surgery show mild or 
moderate decrease in maximal exercise performance if there are residual lesions 
of significance, and especially when there is more than one such residua (e.g. 
pulmonic stenosis and regurgitation). Life expectancy should be normal, at least 
for postoperative patients with minimal residual lesions.

PMID: 6658404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Stroke. 1983 Sep-Oct;14(5):703-9. doi: 10.1161/01.str.14.5.703.

Hemiplegics after a first stroke: late survival and risk factors.

Solzi P, Ring H, Najenson T, Luz Y.

Scanning 3000 cases admitted for rehabilitation after cerebrovascular accident 
over a 20 year period produced a sample of 1369 subjects, without age 
restrictions, admitted within six months of a first stroke of thrombotic 
etiology. In this sample, survival rates showed no significant difference 
between men and women. Age at onset, however, clearly influenced survival 
changes; the expected mean survival was 6 years at 40 and 2 at age 80; average 
loss of life was 14 years for the whole sample, meaning a vital prognosis two to 
three times worse than that of the general population. At least 86% of the 
sample presented one or more of five etiological antecedents to stroke: 
hypertensive heart disease, peripheral vascular disease, diabetes mellitus, 
myocardial infarction and atrial fibrillation. In 87% of those, HHD and/or PVD 
were present. Presence of hypertension significantly lowered life expectancy and 
so did PVD; their influence is felt from the earliest stages. In contrast, 
diabetes mellitus, the next most common factor, has a late influence, starting 
about the fifth year after stroke. MI and AF were present in relatively fewer 
patients, but they contributed towards a considerable decrease in life 
expectancy, evident from the first stages, the more drastic reduction being 
observed in the AF group.

