DOI: 10.1161/01.str.14.5.703
PMID: 6658953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Z Gesamte Hyg. 1983 Oct;29(10):592-8.

[The example of socialism and the fight of revolutionary powers of the 
anti-imperialistic liberation movement against poverty and the misery of the 
masses].

[Article in German]

Horn K.

PMID: 6659598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Z Gesamte Hyg. 1983 Sep;29(9):545-6.

[Estimation of disease-specific life-span].

[Article in German]

Radoschewski M.

PMID: 6659627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Z Gesamte Hyg. 1983 Sep;29(9):547-51.

[Life expectancy of diabetics].

[Article in German]

Radoschewski M, Schulz I.

PMID: 6659628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Am J Otolaryngol. 1983 Nov-Dec;4(6):437-41. doi:
10.1016/s0196-0709(83)80059-3.

Thorium-dioxide--induced pharyngeal hemorrhage.

Stanley RB Jr.

Thorium dioxide, a producer of alpha particle radiation, was used in the United 
States from 1930 to 1950 for carotid and cerebral angiography. Cervical thorium 
dioxide granuloma is a well-recognized sequela of extravasation of this material 
near the carotid bifurcation. Radical neck dissection to remove the granuloma 
for aesthetic and functional reasons may lead to massive postoperative 
hemorrhage if a patent, but radiation-weakened, carotid artery is present. 
Additionally, hemorrhage may occur spontaneously because of pharyngeal necrosis 
or following infection of a pharyngeal biopsy site. The case described 
illustrates that life-threatening, thorium-dioxide--induced pharyngeal 
hemorrhage may occur even with an occluded carotid system. The bleeding site may 
go unrecognized, and laryngopharyngectomy with radical neck debridement may be 
required for hemostasis. Extension of an infection into the retroesophageal 
space and thoracic inlet requires exteriorization of the entire neck wound to 
prevent placing the great vessels of the superior mediastinum at risk for 
rupture. Spontaneous rupture of the aorta may occur due to 
thorium-dioxide--induced necrosis of its wall.

DOI: 10.1016/s0196-0709(83)80059-3
PMID: 6660378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. J Clin Psychol. 1983 Nov;39(6):878-92. doi: 
10.1002/1097-4679(198311)39:6<878::aid-jclp2270390611>3.0.co;2-c.

"Self-control" concerns for men and women: refinement and extension of a 
construct.

Shapiro DH Jr, Shapiro J.

This study develops and refines aspects of the construct of self-control 
according to a four-quadrant model: Assertive-positive, assertive-negative, 
yielding-positive, and yielding-negative. Twenty-six men and 78 women evaluated 
areas of their life in terms of the perceived degree to which they utilized 
these various dimensions of control. Results indicated that, depending on the 
specific area of clinical concern (e.g., interpersonal relationships, 
professional pursuits, emotional expression, health), there were significant 
differences in the kinds of self-control strategies that Ss tended to employ. 
From a clinical perspective, while Ss in this sample exercised a high degree of 
assertive-positive control in their professional lives, in the interpersonal and 
affective spheres they perceived themselves to be more out of control and 
exercising more negative-assertive control.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-4679(198311)39:6<878::aid-jclp2270390611>3.0.co;2-c
PMID: 6662939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Monatsschr Kinderheilkd. 1983 Dec;131(12):830-2.

[Hypertension in cardiovascular diseases].

[Article in German]

Keck EW.

The clinical signs of coarctation of the aorta are easy to recognize. Praeductal 
stenosis may be masked by patent duct in the newborn. The treatment is surgical. 
The indications for angiography and for surgery are determined by clinical 
findings and symptoms of hypertension or cardiac failure. Stenoses of the 
abdominal aorta or stenoses of other arteries causing hypertension are rare in 
comparison to classical coarctation. Since the life time expectancy is reduced 
and the complications of hypertension due to aortic or arterial stenosis are 
numerous and grave early detection and surgical treatment of this disease are 
mandatory.

PMID: 6664354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Paraplegia. 1983 Dec;21(6):364-73. doi: 10.1038/sc.1983.60.

Survival in traumatic spinal cord injury.

Geisler WO, Jousse AT, Wynne-Jones M, Breithaupt D.

The present study was conducted on 1510 persons between 1 December 1973 and 31 
December 1980. Of these, 1478 (97.9 per cent) were traced by questionnaire. Of 
those traced, 1252 were male and 226 were female. There were 194 deaths of whom 
160 were male and 34 female. The main causes of death are cardiovascular, renal, 
respiratory, suicide and neoplastic. Compared with the 1973 study, there has 
been a marked decrease in deaths due to renal disease and a marked increase in 
deaths due to suicide and liver disease and the abuse of alcohol. A study of the 
new deaths allowed one to note a relative mortality rate to be 186 per cent for 
partial paraplegics, 209 per cent for partial tetraplegics; 318 per cent for 
complete paraplegics and 767 per cent for complete quadriplegics. The 
approximate application of these rates to current (1975-77) mortality tables 
permitted the calculation of theoretically derived life expectation at various 
ages. These indicated an improved life expectation for all categories.

DOI: 10.1038/sc.1983.60
PMID: 6664686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Verh K Acad Geneeskd Belg. 1983;45(3):227-59.

The general growth hypothesis.

Joossens JV, Geboers J.

PMID: 6666286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Ann Med Interne (Paris). 1983;134(7):614-8.

[Anticipation of surgical results in calcified aortic stenosis as a function of 
age].

[Article in French]

Luxereau P, Vahanian A, Ducimetière P, Caillet D, Garnier D, Acar J.

The effects of age on the risks and results of heart valve replacement are often 
discussed in aortic stenosis, a degenerative condition of elderly patients. We 
assessed this factor in a study based on two groups of patients operated 
consecutively between 1968 and 1980. Group A comprised 127 patients of over 65 
years of age (range 66 to 79 years, mean 70 +/- 3 years), and Group B: 259 
patients of less than 65 years of age (21 to 65 years, mean 53 +/- 9 years). 
Preoperative assessment showed a higher proportion of women and significantly 
more severe lesions in Group A: a greater number of patients in functional class 
3 or 4, cases of congestive cardiac failure, greater cardiac volumes, lower 
cardiac index. The incidence of coronary artery disease was also higher. A 
greater number of aortic valve bioprostheses was used in Group A. Operative 
mortality was significantly higher in Group A (15 p. 100, compared to 6 p. 100 
in Group B: p less than 0.01). The influence of age was independent of other 
risk factors as shown by a multifactorial analysis taking several prognostic 
factors into account simultaneously. Long term survival was significantly lower 
in Group A, but their life expectancy did not differ from that of a control 
group. The causes of postoperative or late death were the same in both groups. 
At the end of the 6th year, 66 p. 100 of the survivors of surgery in Group A 
were in functional classes I or II compared to 77 p. 100 in Group B (NS). These 
results justify this type of surgery in elderly patients, even at advanced 
stages of their disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6666898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Med Decis Making. 1983;3(4):419-458. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8300300403.

The Markov process in medical prognosis.

Beck JR, Pauker SG.

The physician's estimate of prognosis under alternative treatment plans is a 
principal factor in therapeutic decision making. Current methods of reporting 
prognosis, which include five-year survivals, survival curves, and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, are crude estimates of natural history. In 
this paper we describe a general-purpose model of medical prognosis based on the 
Markov process and show how this simple mathematical tool may be used to 
generate detailed and accurate assessments of life expectancy and health status.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8300300403
PMID: 6668990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Rev Sanid Hig Publica (Madr). 1983 Mar-Apr;57(3-4):319-24.

[A new indicator for the material quality of life appropriate for measuring the 
social and health development in the various provinces and autonomous regions of 
Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Gómez Pomar FL.

PMID: 6669906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1983 Dec 1;38(23):637-40.

[Prognostic significance of the resting ECG of diabetics--results of a 10-year 
analysis].

[Article in German]

Schmechel H, Lippold C.

On 226 diabetics at the age of greater than or equal to 40 years the prognostic 
evidence of the ECG after resting using the Minnesota code was prospectively 
analysed with regard to the life expectancy in the subsequent 10 years. During 
this period 65 diabetics died, 46 of them of vascular and 19 of another cause of 
death. Essential results of the analysis are Diabetics with Q/QS types (code 
1.1-1.2) as well as repolarisation disturbances (code 4.1-4.3/5.1-5.3) in the 
ECG showed a higher lethality rate in the observation period (48.8%) than those 
ones with an ECG unsuspicious of ischaemic heart disease (15.9%). When a 
hypertension is simultaneously present the prognosis is additionally loaded. The 
proportion of ECG-findings suspicious of ischaemic heart disease was initially 
only 62.3% in diabetics with coronary cause of death. A relation between 
codation pattern and year of death in a temporary interval to the 
ECG-registration could not be established.

PMID: 6670339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Acta Chir Hung. 1983;24(4):215-30.

Surgical treatment of mitral valve disease: late results with valve replacement.

Felkai B, Boda K, Fazakas S, Gaál T, Kovács GS, Matievics I, Nagy ES, Pásztor L.

Computer aided data processing of the results of surgery in 504 patients with 
mitral (and mitral + aortic + tricuspid) valvular disease, operated on by the 
Szeged cardiosurgery group between 1966-1983 are discussed. Late results after 
valve surgery are investigated from the point of view of survival time, 
functional state and social rehabilitation. Statistical evaluation of 
postoperative complications and the functional life-time of the Cross-Jones 
prosthesis are reported. The functional rehabilitation following the operation 
is mathematically assessed.

PMID: 6670428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 1983;17(1):43-55. doi: 10.2190/99QB-A8N4-CBVJ-YU87.

Issues of institutionalization: five percent fallacies and terminal care.

Rosenberg E, Short C.

Place-of-death data are analyzed for King County, Washington (1971) and Whatcom 
County, Washington (1971, 1975, 1978), allowing comparisons with previous 
studies on "the five percent fallacy." The King County findings agree with past 
research on a major metropolitan area. For large urban areas, sex is found to be 
a significant correlate of place of death for whites (but not nonwhites), and 
race is found significant for females (but not males). Whatcom County data 
differ from earlier findings on a smaller geographic area. Changes in 
place-of-death distributions over time for Whatcom County are noted. 
Explanations are proferred for differences between the current data and past 
research, and for changes observed over time in one location. The implications 
of the findings for nursing homes and other extended care facilities, hospitals, 
health and old-age agencies, and the elderly themselves are discussed.

DOI: 10.2190/99QB-A8N4-CBVJ-YU87
PMID: 6671805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 1983;17(1):57-69. doi: 10.2190/BCM0-BH5N-5PF5-L8YD.

A note on methodological fallacies in the "X% fallacy" literature.

McConnel CE.

This article demonstrates that the numerical estimate of an approximately 25 
percent risk of nursing home institutionalization reported in the "4-5% fallacy" 
literature is based on an invalid set of implicit assumptions. Using the most 
recent national level statistics on nursing home residency and discharge, a 
measurement technique is introduced to provide an estimate of the maximum and 
minimum number of nursing home residents in 1976, and a corresponding range for 
the annualized risk of institutionalization between 6 and 9 percent, within 
which the true risk must lie.

DOI: 10.2190/BCM0-BH5N-5PF5-L8YD
PMID: 6671806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Vutr Boles. 1983;22(5):57-63.

[Possibility for studying the life expectancy of patients with Balkan endemic 
nephropathy by dispensary observation].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Tanchev I, Naĭdenov D, Chepel N, Nankov M.

The follow-up cards of 1100 patients that died of Balkan endemic nephropathy 
(BEN) within the period 1962-1981 were studied with a view to establishing the 
incidence of the disease in Vratza district, affection of sex and age and 
chiefly--the duration of the disease. The authors established that the disease 
was found in 47 settlements of Vratza district, that the females were more often 
affected as compared with the males and that the subjects aged from 30 to 70 
were most frequently affected. More that the half of the patients with BEN was 
established by the authors, to die with--in the first 5 years since the onset of 
the disease, whereas the rest--live longer, in single cases, over 20 years.

PMID: 6673334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Am J Otolaryngol. 1983 Mar-Apr;4(2):147.

Longevity of otolaryngologists.

Mostafa MS, Freeman RA.

PMID: 6673604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Iyodenshi To Seitai Kogaku. 1983 Sep;21(5):343-6.

[Artificial organs and the concepts of normalcy and health].

[Article in Japanese]

Okajima M.

PMID: 6677742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Vopr Pitan. 1983 Nov-Dec;(6):56-8.

[Effects of a diet with various protein contents on the life span of rats].

[Article in Russian]

Medovar BIa.

A study was made of the effects of 3 food diets containing 22, 12 and 12% of 
protein (the latter diet included hydrolysates) on the lifespan of old animals. 
Protein metabolism was studied concurrently from excretion of nitrogenous 
metabolism products with urine, from the level of free amine acids in the 
tissues, the content of proteins and its fractions in the blood serum, and urea 
in the tissues. The biological value of the diets proposed was estimated in 
experiments on young animals. The mean lifespan of old animals was found to 
decrease if the animals were fed the diet containing protein hydrolysates.

PMID: 6678076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. J Community Health. 1983 Winter;9(2):135-44. doi: 10.1007/BF01349876.

Health hazard appraisal in a family practice center: an exploratory study.

Bartlett EE, Pegues HU 2nd, Shaffer CR, Crump W.

Health Hazard Appraisal (HHA), a tool of primary prevention, has been advocated 
for use in family practice. Yet little evidence exists regarding its 
effectiveness in clinical settings or its acceptability to practitioners or 
patients. In this study, 69 family practice patients completed a HHA 
questionnaire. Their responses were computer-analyzed and returned in two to 
three weeks. The patients were telephoned three to five months later to assess 
the effectiveness of HHA in terms of desired behavioral changes. Of the patients 
who were recommended to undertake specified behavioral changes, 41.3% reported 
that they had begun an exercise program, 27.8% had stopped smoking cigarettes, 
20.0% had limited their alcohol intake, 23.5% had reduced their driving mileage 
to under 10,000 miles, and 75.0% of the women started breast self examinations. 
Although the patients' self-reports may have been exaggerated, they nonetheless 
represent encouraging results. Evaluations by patients revealed little objection 
to the personal questions, length of time to complete, or cost of the HHA form. 
Physician evaluations expressed the consensus that HHA was beneficial to the 
doctor-patient relationship, but a few indicated they did not feel comfortable 
discussing the HHA results with the patient.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01349876
PMID: 6678263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Ji Sheng Chong Xue Yu Ji Sheng Chong Bing Za Zhi. 1983;1(3):129-33.

[Comparisons on life table characteristics among various geographical strains of 
Anopheles sinensis from Zhengzhou (Henan), Shanghai and Youxi (Fujian)].

[Article in Chinese]

Su SZ, Qu CZ.

PMID: 6678661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Ecol Dis. 1983;2(1):1-8.

Mortality, cause of death and social class in the Belfast urban area, 1970.

Pringle DG.

Intra-urban variations in standardised mortality ratios are investigated for 
Belfast using data extracted from death certificates. Although the standardised 
mortality ratios do not exhibit a high degree of spatial order, it is observed 
that they appear to reflect variations in social class. The relationship between 
social class and each of the major causes of death is investigated at two scale 
levels: an ecological (i.e. aggregate) level, and the individual level. It is 
found that there is a relationship between mortality and social class for almost 
every major cause of death, but that the nature of this relationship varies 
between causes of death. It is argued that these variations may provide useful 
clues as to the causes of these diseases. The findings also suggest that the 
results of studies conducted at only an ecological level need to be interpreted 
with extreme caution.

PMID: 6678761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Transfusion. 1983 May-Jun;23(3):207-12. doi: 
10.1046/j.1537-2995.1983.23383224896.x.

Extension of platelet concentrate storage.

Simon TL, Nelson EJ, Carmen R, Murphy S.

Extension of the storage time of platelet concentrates in a satellite bag which 
is part of a new blood bag system was studied by reinfusing autologous 
51Cr-labeled platelets into normal volunteers, and measuring postinfusion 
platelet counts and bleeding times in patients requiring platelet transfusions. 
This satellite bag, made of polyvinylchloride plasticized with a new agent, was 
found to protect platelet concentrates against fall of pH better than other 
containers studied. This protection was felt to be due to the greater gas 
permeability of the new plastic. Mean in vivo recovery and half-life (greater 
than 31% and 3.3 days, respectively) of autologous reinfused platelets were 
satisfactory following 5 days of storage. Following 7 days of storage, mean 
recovery was 41 percent and half-life was 2.8 days. Peripheral platelet count 
increments in patients following platelet transfusions with concentrates stored 
4 to 7 days in the new plastic were comparable to increments following 
transfusion of platelets stored 2 to 3 days in the other plastics studied. 
Bleeding times shortened in three of four patients receiving platelet 
concentrates stored from 4 to 6 days in the new plastic. Platelet concentrates 
stored in the new bag at 20 to 24 degrees C with flat-bed or elliptical 
agitation could be transfused for up to 5 days following phlebotomy with 
acceptable clinical results. The new plastic container is promising for storage 
of platelet concentrates for up to 7 days. Due to the higher pH of 50-ml 
platelet concentrates stored in bags made with the new plastic, the concentrates 
were superior at any storage interval to those stored in bags made of the other 
plastics studied.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.1983.23383224896.x
PMID: 6679373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. J UOEH. 1983 Mar 20;5 Suppl:169-73.

Dose response of radiation induced cancer.

Kato H.

PMID: 6679667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Soc Biol. 1983 Summer;30(2):228-33. doi: 10.1080/19485565.1983.9988537.

A note on the reduction of a risk of death.

Tsai SP, Hardy RJ, Lee ES.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1983.9988537
PMID: 6680252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Tohoku J Exp Med. 1983 Dec;141 Suppl:631-8. doi: 10.1620/tjem.141.suppl_631.

The features of causes of death in Japanese diabetics during the period 
1971-1980.

Sakamoto N, Hotta N, Kakuta H, Kamei I, Kimura M, Fukazawa H, Koh N, Kosaka K.

The principal causes of death among 9,737 diabetics who died in 280 hospitals 
all over Japan during the period 1971-1980 have been analyzed retrospectively in 
this study. The main cause of death in Japanese diabetics was vascular 
complications. The mortality from vascular complications was 41.5%, 37.9% for 
males and 46.8% for females, increasing with the duration of diabetes and with 
age. The most interesting findings were of cardiovascular disease which was the 
cause of death in 12.3% of the subjects in our study as compared to 54.6% of the 
Joslin Clinic patients (1971). However, our incidence rate was almost twice that 
reported in Japan in 1967 by Goto (Japan). In contrast, cerebrovascular disease 
and nephropathy are much more common in Japanese than in American diabetics. 
Recently cancer has become more common in Japanese diabetics and 25.3% of the 
deaths have been assigned to it. In contrast, diabetic coma due to hyperglycemia 
accounted for only 4.1% of deaths. The average life span of Japanese diabetics 
is still over 10 years shorter than that of non-diabetics.

DOI: 10.1620/tjem.141.suppl_631
PMID: 6680540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Riv Patol Nerv Ment. 1983 Jul-Aug;104(4):145-9.

[Foix-Chavany-Marie syndrome. Case report].

[Article in Italian]

Colombo A, Crisi G, Guerzoni MC, Awni M, Panzetti P.

Foix-Chavany-Marie syndrome is characterized by diplegia involving the face, the 
pharynx, the tongue and the masticatory muscles, with automatic-voluntary 
dissociation due to vascular damage of both operculi. The prognosis is usually 
good for life expectancy. The authors describe a 46-year-old man in whom one 
operculum was destroyed because of a birth trauma, the other one was injured by 
an ischemic infarct in the territory of the middle cerebral artery. The clinical 
correlations to the site of the lesions are discussed. They confirm the 
diagnostic value of CT scan in evaluating this syndrome.

PMID: 6681329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Int J Health Serv. 1983;13(1):89-106. doi: 10.2190/LJUY-KQ4B-UC2K-1CWK.

Inequality and mortality: demographic hypotheses regarding advanced and 
peripheral capitalism.

Gregory JW, Piché V.

This paper analyzes mortality differences between social classes and between 
advanced and peripheral regions of the world economy. The demographic analysis 
of mortality is integrated with the study of political economy, which emphasizes 
the entire process of social reproduction. As part of this dialectic model, both 
the struggle of the working class to improve health and the interest of capital 
in maximizing profits are examined. Data from Québec and Upper Volta are used to 
illustrate the hypothesis that substantially higher mortality rates exist for 
the working class compared with the bourgeoisie and in the less developed 
peripheral regions compared with the more developed regions.

PIP: Paper analyzing mortality differences between social classes and between 
advanced and peripheral regions of the world economy. The demographic analysis 
of mortality is integrated with the study of political economy, which emphasizes 
the entire process of social reproduction. As part of this dialectic model, both 
the struggle of the working class to improve health and the interest of capital 
in maximizing profits are examined. Data from Quebec and Upper Volta are used to 
illustrate the hypothesis that substantially higher mortality rates exist for 
the working class compared with the bougeoisie and in the less developed 
peripheral regions compared with the more developed regions.

DOI: 10.2190/LJUY-KQ4B-UC2K-1CWK
PMID: 6682091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Neurology. 1983 Aug;33(8):1095-7. doi: 10.1212/wnl.33.8.1095.

Dominant chondrodysplasia punctata with neurologic symptoms.

Curless RG.

There are few descriptions of major neurologic dysfunctions in either the 
recessive or the dominant form of chondrodysplasia punctata. In the dominant 
trait, often called Conradi-Hünermann disease, a normal life expectancy with 
normal neurologic development is the usual course for those who survive the 
first few weeks of life. We studied an affected infant with a severe spinal cord 
abnormality that was present at birth and has not been reported in either 
recessive or dominant chondrodysplasia punctata.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.33.8.1095
PMID: 6683813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Vet Rec. 1983 Jul 30;113(5):107-11. doi: 10.1136/vr.113.5.107.

Culling and wastage in dairy cows in East Anglia.

Young GB, Lee GJ, Waddington D, Sales DI, Bradley JS, Spooner RL.

A culling survey in 80 Friesian dairy herds in East Anglia over four years 
investigated the age at, and reasons for, disposal or death. Failure to conceive 
was the most important reason except in very old animals. Low production was the 
second most common reason, culling being particularly heavy in the first two 
lactations. Mastitis was the major disease influencing wastage and increased 
with age until the sixth lactation. The percentage of culls for multiple reasons 
increased with age. There was a high proportion of young animals in most herds 
and the median lactating life of cows was about three years, equivalent to three 
lactations. Considerable variation in herd life demonstrated that there was 
substantial scope for improving herd longevity. Long living herds culled fewer 
animals for breeding problems in the early lactations and for mastitis in the 
later ones, enabling more animals to be culled as surplus and for production 
factors.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.113.5.107
PMID: 6684822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Cancer Treat Rep. 1983 Dec;67(12):1067-74.

Effectiveness of "two-route chemotherapy" using cisplatin and its antidote, 
sodium thiosulfate, on lifespan of rats bearing metastatic liver tumors.

Uozumi J, Sagiyama K, Aoki K, Iwamoto Y, Baba T.

The therapeutic efficacy of "two-route chemotherapy" (TRC) using cisplatin (DDP) 
and its potent antidote, sodium thiosulfate (STS), was studied on rat metastatic 
liver tumors. Twenty mg/kg of DDP was given to rats via the hepatic artery in 
combination with systemic STS at a dose of 1054 mg/kg (100-fold molar ratio to 
20 mg/kg of DDP) or at two doses of 1054 mg/kg. As controls, 5 or 4 mg/kg of DDP 
alone was given intra-arterially or iv. Antitumor effects were evaluated by 
prolongation in lifespan after the tumor cell inoculation. Side effects were 
assessed by weight loss, BUN, and serum transaminases after the chemotherapy. 
TRC resulted in the longest lifespan, with a minimum weight loss and without 
elevation of BUN or serum transaminases. The therapeutic efficacy of TRC was 
enhanced by temporary ligation of the portal vein for 5 minutes, performed 
simultaneously with DDP infusion. Our findings clearly indicate the 
effectiveness of TRC using intra-arterial DDP in a high dose and in combination 
with iv STS.

PMID: 6686083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Soc Sci Med. 1983;17(16):1149-57. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(83)90007-2.

Health systems as defences against the consequences of poverty: equity in health 
as social justice.

Mburu FM.

The main development problems in the Third World are known to be gross 
socioeconomic inequality, widespread poor health status accompanied by high 
fertility and infant mortality rates, low life expectancy, mass illiteracy and 
mass poverty. In most of these countries governments invest a great deal of 
scarce resources toward the consequences of poverty rather than it causes. The 
paucity of resources for such social services is exacerbated by continuously 
increasing demands and needs which have to be satisfied. Unmet needs tend to 
cause apathy in the population. For purposes of controlling poverty and its 
consequences, these must be clearly formulated and relevant policies, a 
commitment to implement such policies, adequate administrative capacity and 
reasonably adequate resources. In the case of the health services system, the 
same requirements apply. Above all, the health system has to be directed toward 
the greatest needs of the population. This must involve policy makers, 
implementors and the consumer community. This paper argues that health systems 
cannot be an effective weapon against the consequences of poverty unless the 
above kinds of policy exist and are implemented.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(83)90007-2
PMID: 6688682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. JAMA. 1984 Jan 27;251(4):495-7.

Cancer in southeast Asia. Strategies for control.

Sutnick AI, Lynch HT, Miller DG.

The incidence and mortality from cancer has been increasing steadily in 
southeast Asia, probably related to increased life expectancy resulting from 
control of some of the major diseases. There are many impediments to cancer 
control in that part of the world, including poverty, limited access to health 
services, primarily rural distribution of population, and the dependence on 
treatment by traditional healers. There are potentially controllable 
environmental factors associated with some cancers commonly seen in countries of 
southeast Asia. We have proposed changes in the approach to cancer control in 
these countries. These include political organization, professional education 
programs, manpower development in special areas of need, public education in 
cancer prevention, early detection, team approaches to diagnosis and treatment, 
and emphasis on epidemiology in research.

PMID: 6690816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Am J Surg. 1984 Jan;147(1):2-8. doi: 10.1016/0002-9610(84)90026-6.

Presidential address. The role of research in the surgery of tomorrow.

Thompson JC.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9610(84)90026-6
PMID: 6691546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Ann Surg. 1984 Jan;199(1):61-8. doi: 10.1097/00000658-198401000-00011.

Biodegradation and aneurysm formation in umbilical vein grafts. Observations and 
a realistic strategy.

Dardik H, Ibrahim IM, Sussman B, Kahn M, Sanchez M, Klausner S, Baier RE, Meyer 
AE, Dardik II.

In a series of 756 glutaraldehyde-stabilized umbilical vein grafts implanted 
over a 7 1/2-year period, aneurysms were identified in seven cases. The earliest 
aneurysm was seen at 31 months after implantation and the remainder between 43 
and 79 months after surgery. Corrective surgery was performed in five cases and 
succeeded in four. Although definite mechanisms have not been identified, 
mechanical fatigue, reversal of aldehyde crosslinks, and immunologic factors may 
be operative. The pathologic changes include: (1) actual dilation of both graft 
and mesh with or without intraluminal thrombus and, (2) maintenance of graft 
diameter with erosion of the umbilical vein and polyester mesh rupture leading 
to perigraft hematoma and false aneurysm formation. Microscopic examination and 
infrared spectral analysis confirmed the presence of host-contributed lipid in 
some specimens. Although this is a low incidence of aneurysm formation, 
umbilical vein grafts should be selected primarily for patients with limited 
life expectancy or for whom alternative materials with comparable or superior 
patency rates are not available or acceptable. Periodic angiography, 
particularly after 3 or 4 years, is recommended as a routine part of follow-up 
examinations. Improved graft materials and control of host environmental factors 
are potential means to reduce the noted degradation.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-198401000-00011
PMCID: PMC1353259
PMID: 6691733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Arch Neurol. 1984 Feb;41(2):157-60. doi:
10.1001/archneur.1984.04050140055023.

Changes in the incidence of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in Israel.

Kahana E, Zilber N.

The incidence of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in Israel was determined 
for the period 1959 through 1974. A total of 246 patients with ALS was 
ascertained. The male-female ratio was 1.62:1. The average annual age-adjusted 
incidence per 100,000 persons increased during this period by 41%. The increase 
was almost entirely due to a higher rate in persons more than 60 years of age 
and was greater in women than in men. This led to a decrease in the male-female 
ratio. The mean age of onset increased from 52.8 to 58.6 years during the same 
period. The increment in incidence could not be explained by better case 
ascertainment or increased life expectancy, but greater precision in diagnosis 
of ALS in the aged may have partially contributed to the increase.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1984.04050140055023
PMID: 6691816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Br J Cancer. 1984 Jan;49(1):49-55. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1984.8.

A bioassay for cyclophosphamide in blood, lung and tumour.

Begg AC, Smith KA.

A bioassay has been developed to detect and quantify the concentration of 
cytotoxic metabolites of cyclophosphamide (CY) in blood, tumour, and lungs of 
mice. Extracts were made of blood or solid tissues taken from mice given CY and 
these were used to treat log phase Chinese Hamster V79 cells in culture for up 
to 24 h. The amount of cell killing was tested by colony formation 7 days later. 
The effects of incubation time, CY dose, and the time of tissue sampling after 
CY injection were investigated. The bioassay could detect cytotoxic metabolites 
in blood after doses as low as 10 mg kg-1 CY given i.p. The half life of these 
metabolites in blood after giving 400 mg kg-1 i.p. decreased over a 2 h period 
from 14 to 9 min. The method was then modified to define the pharmacokinetics of 
CY metabolites in two different types of tumour and in lung. The half life of 
the cytotoxic metabolites in the lung was longer than in blood, falling from 35 
to 11 min over a 2 h period. In tumours, the half lives were longer again, i.e. 
approximately 61 min. The maximum metabolite levels achieved were similar in the 
two tumour types, although these differed markedly in their therapeutic response 
to CY. The bioassay for CY is a relatively simple and rapid procedure, and the 
extension of its application from body fluids to solid tissues makes it a useful 
tool in experimental pharmacokinetic studies.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1984.8
PMCID: PMC1976679
PMID: 6691899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. N Engl J Med. 1984 Mar 8;310(10):659-60.

Aging, natural death, and the compression of morbidity.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 6694680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Am J Public Health. 1984 Mar;74(3):243-8. doi: 10.2105/ajph.74.3.243.

The value of medical care for health promotion.

Roemer MI.

A "rediscovery" of the value of prevention in the 1970s has led to the 
denigration of medical care, which had been occurring also for other 
reasons--aversion to high technology, demonstrable abuses, spiraling medical 
costs, etc. The achievements of prevention in conquering infectious diseases had 
long been recognized, and preventive strategies in the 1970s and 1980s were 
beginning to show reductions in mortality from the non-communicable chronic 
diseases as well. Yet the benefits of medical care in extending life expectancy 
over recent decades have often been overlooked. The quality of life in the later 
years has also been substantially improved by effective medical care. Most 
important, access to medical care has definite value in facilitating the 
prevention of disease and the promotion of health, both in developing and 
developed countries. It is too often forgotten that prevention embodies a range 
of activities, merging from general health promotion through specific disease 
prevention and early case-detection to rehabilitation and prevention of 
disability. Medical care, in other words, should not be counterposed to 
prevention, but rather should be integrated with it for the benefit of both 
health strategies.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.74.3.243
PMCID: PMC1651453
PMID: 6696154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1984 Feb;65(2):79-82.

Psychosocial aspects of death and dying in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Madorsky JG, Radford LM, Neumann EM.

An exploratory survey of need and availability of life expectancy information 
and counseling was conducted among 32 patients who have Duchenne muscular 
dystrophy, 75 parents, and 43 professional health care workers in the muscular 
dystrophy clinics of the greater Los Angeles area. Regardless of their ages, 
which ranged from 12 years to 21, the majority of the patients, as well as the 
majority of the parents, rated life expectancy information and counseling as an 
important, but relatively unmet, need. Professionals perceived these services as 
more available than did the patients and their parents. Implications for 
intervention include restructuring psychosocial services for the entire family 
and providing a network of liaison services to assist the family as the disease 
progresses.

PMID: 6696607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 1984;12(2):94-7. doi: 10.1007/BF00254597.

Effect of administration of sodium cyanate and melphalan on the lifespan of P388 
tumor-bearing CD2F1 mice.

Dufour M, St Germain J, Skalski V, Dorato A, Lazarus P, Panasci LC.

Sodium cyanate (NaOCN) at a dose of 250 mg/kg was shown to decrease protein 
synthesis in P388 leukemia tumor cells to approximately 52% of control values at 
2 h and 32% at 5 h after NaOCN administration, without a corresponding decrease 
in various normal tissues of the tumor-bearing CD2Fl mice. CD2Fl mice that had 
received P388 tumor cells IP 1 day prior to drug administration underwent 
various schedules of treatment with NaOCN and melphalan (MLN). NaOCN (200 mg/kg 
or 250 mg/kg) administered IP has no significant antitumor activity (increased 
mean lifespan [ILS] less than 20%). The simultaneous IP administration of NaOCN 
(250 mg/kg) plus MLN (15 mg/kg) resulted in a significantly greater antitumor 
activity (approximately 265% of control, with 21 of 30 animals being long-term 
survivors) than MLN (15 mg/kg) alone (approximately 156% of control, with 11 of 
30 animals being long-term survivors). This synergism was not observed when MLN 
was administered 4 h after NaOCN administration. The synergistic activity of MLN 
with NaOCN does not appear to be secondary to alterations in the absorption from 
the peritoneal cavity into the systemic circulation as determined by 3H2O. NaOCN 
does not increase the intracellular concentration of [chloroethyl-14C]MLN into 
P388 cells. The mechanism of the synergistic antitumor activity of simultaneous 
IP administration of NaOCN and MLN is unknown.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00254597
PMID: 6697430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Mayo Clin Proc. 1984 Feb;59(2):91-4. doi: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)60242-0.

Meningeal carcinomatosis in patients with primary breast or lung cancer.

Sorensen SC, Eagan RT, Scott M.

We reviewed the records of 35 patients with meningeal carcinomatosis and primary 
lung or breast cancer in an effort to identify prognostic factors. No definite 
associations were found. The prognosis for these patients continues to be poor; 
the median duration of survival after the diagnosis of meningeal carcinomatosis 
was 43 days in our study group.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)60242-0
PMID: 6700268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Oncology. 1984;41(1):8-12. doi: 10.1159/000225782.

Cases of carcinoma of thyroid following iodine-131 therapy for hyperthyroidism.

Gossage AA, Neal FE, Ross CM, Talbot CH, Blake GM, Munro DS.

DOI: 10.1159/000225782
PMID: 6700935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Strahlentherapie. 1984 Jan;160(1):31-4.

[Adjuvant therapy in breast cancer (high risk). Randomized study: radiotherapy 
versus combination radiotherapy and chemotherapy].

[Article in German]

Bendel V, Emminger A, Renner K.

108 patients with high risk stage of a mammary carcinoma (four or more positive 
axillary lymph nodes) were submitted after surgery to a prospectively randomized 
study: a postirradiation in three series with additional administration of 
tamoxifen was opposed to a reduced-dose irradiation and subsequent simultaneous 
combination of polychemotherapy and irradiation. In patients with an age of less 
than 50 years, the combination of chemotherapy and radiotherapy caused a 
significant prolongation of the recurrence-free interval (greater than 57 months 
versus 12,75 months). The comparison with literature shows that an average 
interval of 39.1 months without recurrences for the total group of patients 
treated with combination therapy corresponds to the result of a high-dose 
adjuvant CMF therapy. With respect to mean life expectancy, there was no 
significant difference between both groups of randomization.

PMID: 6701925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1984 Jan-Feb;122(1):20-6. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1044578.

[Hip joint replacement in young patients].

[Article in German]

Mittelmeier H.

The recent standard of hip-joint replacement after Charnley with 
metal-polyethylene combination and fixation by bone cement is charged with long 
term problems by wear (with foreign body reaction) and cement destruction by 
fatigue. Therefore the indication was limited to old patients with short life 
expectancy and left the problem of joint replacement in younger patients 
unresolved. By the use of highly wear resistant alumina ceramic and return to 
cementless anchorage, according to the principle of surface increase, a new 
technique of joint replacement by means of selflocking 
ceramic-autophor-prosthesis was created. The clinical experience is now 9 years. 
It shows that after some problems in the beginning mostly good results can be 
achieved. Therefore an extension of the indication for joint replacement for 
younger patients is justified.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1044578
PMID: 6702258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Behav Brain Res. 1984 Feb;11(2):103-8. doi: 10.1016/0166-4328(84)90132-3.

Diphenylhydantoin extension of short-term and intermediate stages of memory.

Gibbs ME, Ng KT.

Diphenylhydantoin was shown to extend the duration of maximum availability of 
both short-term and intermediate memory in day-old chicks following a single 
trial passive avoidance learning task. Diphenylhydantoin also extended the time 
of susceptibility of long-term memory to inhibition by cyloheximide, suggesting 
that the extention of the life of intermediate memory was accompanied by a delay 
in long-term memory formation. Furthermore, while diphenylhydantoin counteracted 
amnesia induced by cycloheximide given 5 min before or immediately after 
learning, it had no effect on amnesia induced by cycloheximide administered 5 
min or later after learning. For the latter, a second injection of 
diphenylhydantoin was necessary. This is consistent with the argument that the 
first injection of diphenylhydantoin extended the life of intermediate memory 
and delayed the formation of long-term memory.

DOI: 10.1016/0166-4328(84)90132-3
PMID: 6704231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Cas Lek Cesk. 1984 Mar 9;123(10):278-80.

[Genetic studies on the life span and longevity in man. Review].

[Article in Czech]

Topinková E.

PMID: 6705016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1984 Mar 23;109(12):450-3. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1069212.

[Radical nature and life expectancy in the surgical treatment of esophageal and 
cardial carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Kunath U, Fischer P.

Fifty-four patients with carcinoma of the oesophagus and cardia were selected to 
have either a two-cavity radical operation or blunt oesophagectomy without 
thoracotomy. Squamous-cell carcinomas were randomized for postoperative 
radiotherapy or none. Neither the two-cavity radical operation nor additional 
radiotherapy prolonged life expectancy. The results cast doubt on the 
effectiveness of local radical or curative surgery for carcinoma of the 
oesophagus and cardia. The only objective in the choice of treatment must be to 
decrease operative mortality and to make the course of the disease tolerable to 
the patient.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1069212
PMID: 6705695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Fiziol Zh (1978). 1984 Jan-Feb;30(1):59-64.

[Rubner's constant as a criterion of species-specific life expectancy].

[Article in Russian]

Zotin AI, Alekseeva TA.

PMID: 6705955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Dev Biol. 1984 Apr;102(2):368-78. doi: 10.1016/0012-1606(84)90201-x.

The Caenorhabditis elegans dauer larva: developmental effects of pheromone, 
food, and temperature.

