Golden JW, Riddle DL.

Three environmental cues influence both the entry into and exit from the 
developmentally arrested dispersal stage called the dauer larva: a 
dauer-inducing pheromone, food, and temperature. The pheromone, which is a 
measure of population density, induces dauer larva formation at the second (L2) 
molt and inhibits recovery in a dose-dependent manner. Food acts competitively 
to reduce the frequency of dauer larva formation and to enhance recovery. The 
pheromone causes a specific extension of the second larval stage, coupled with a 
transient decrease in the growth rate of the L2. Second-stage larvae grown in 
the presence of added pheromone are morphologically distinguishable from L2 
larvae grown without pheromone. We have named the pre-dauer L2 larva the L2d. 
Commitment to dauer larva formation can occur at the L2d molt. When L2d larvae 
are shifted out of pheromone to a lawn of E. coli just before the L2d molt, a 
few worms complete development into dauer larvae. In contrast, worms are 
essentially committed to the non-dauer life cycle by the first larval molt if 
the L1 larvae are not grown in appropriately high levels of pheromone. In the 
presence of pheromone, the percentage of dauer larva formation is enhanced at 
higher temperatures within the normal growth range. Temperature down-shifts 
induce dauer larva recovery. Temperature-shift experiments show that the 
enhancement of dauer larva formation requires exposure to the higher temperature 
around the L1 molt. Two sensory mutants defective in thermotaxis are altered in 
their sensitivity to the dauer-inducing pheromone, but their pheromone response 
retains temperature dependence. Response of dauer larvae to environmental cues 
is highly age dependent, with older dauer larvae exhibiting an increased 
tendency to recover.

DOI: 10.1016/0012-1606(84)90201-x
PMID: 6706004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. J Urol. 1984 Apr;131(4):670-3. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)50572-8.

Long-term evaluation of the inflatable penile prosthesis.

Joseph DB, Bruskewitz RC, Benson RC Jr.

An in-depth evaluation of 88 patients who received inflatable penile prostheses 
generated survival plots for the prosthesis as a total unit and for each of the 
component parts. A plot of the prosthesis survival for first implantation 
revealed that 50 per cent survived 2.5 years without failure. Cylinder 
malfunction was responsible for the greatest decrease in prosthesis life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)50572-8
PMID: 6708180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1984;16(1):8-13.

Exercise, functional aerobic capacity, and aging--another viewpoint.

Bruce RA.

Currently, there is strong public interest in exercise conditioning, especially 
endurance types of dynamic exercise. In addition to the short-term benefits of 
enhanced fitness and health, there is a growing expectation of long-term 
benefits in relation to possible reduction of morbidity, disability, and 
mortality from chronic disease, especially cardiovascular disease. Physical 
exercise increases aerobic metabolism and the associated pulmonary and 
cardiovascular responses needed to deliver the required oxygen. Functional 
aerobic capacity or maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max) defines the functional 
limits of the cardiovascular system. Aerobic capacity can be measured or be 
reasonably estimated by appropriate methods of exercise testing, and is probably 
the best integrated measure of the functional limits of the whole body which can 
define the effects of the aging process. The rate of decline in VO2max observed 
in longitudinal studies of the same subjects substantially exceeds that observed 
in cross-sectional studies sampling male subjects of different ages. This rate 
is twice as great in sedentary as in physically active male subjects. When these 
provocative findings are considered in relation to trends observed in survival 
of populations vs the nearly constant limit of the average life span, the need 
for appropriately designed long-term prospective, definitive studies becomes 
apparent.

PMID: 6708785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Soc Secur Bull. 1984 Mar;47(3):3-10.

Sex-specific equivalent retirement ages: 1940-2050.

McMillen MM.

This article presents four measures of equivalent retirement ages to be 
considered when analyzing retirement age issues. Insofar as previous research 
reveals significant sex differences in life expectancy at the older ages, the 
analysis here extends the question of equity when increased retirement age is 
considered by examining each measure separately for men and for women. The 
measures are applied to data from 1940 to 2050. In the first two measures, all 
improvements in life expectancy at retirement are assigned to the labor force 
ages; in the second two measures, increases in life expectancy are shared 
between expected time in the labor force and expected time in retirement. In 
each case, the increase in life expectancy at retirement was measured both as 
the expected years in retirement among those surviving to retirement and as the 
expected years in retirement among all persons entering the labor force. The 
findings have different implications in terms of equity when an increased 
retirement age is considered. The article concludes that although it may not be 
appropriate to establish separate retirement age schedules for men and women, an 
awareness of existing life expectancy differences between the sexes should help 
in selecting a middle-range choice.

PMID: 6710288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1984 Jan 20;96(2):60-4.

[Causes of death in patients with pacemakers - with respect to the indication 
for implantation].

[Article in German]

MÃ¼ller C, Glogar D, Schemper M, Scheibelhofer W, Pacher R, Laczkovics A, Kaliman 
J.

We compared the life expectancy of 1559 patients with an implanted pacemaker 
(PM) with a normal age-matched population and found a significantly reduced 
survival rate in paced patients. Patients paced for heart failure have the 
lowest survival rate, whilst those paced for Adams-Stokes attacks do slightly 
better. Patients with Adams-Stokes equivalents do not differ significantly from 
our normal population. 54% of patients with PM implanted for heart failure died 
due to heart failure despite PM implantation. The relative percentage of sudden 
death after PM implantation is high in groups with Adams-Stokes attacks (16%) 
and Adams-Stokes equivalents (20%). In both of these groups sudden death 
occurred especially during the first two years after PM implantation. The high 
risk of sudden death after PM implantation should increase our efforts to 
monitor patients carefully after PM implantation for the occurrence of malignant 
tachyarrhythmias.

PMID: 6710997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Am J Hematol. 1984 Apr;16(3):235-42. doi: 10.1002/ajh.2830160305.

An analysis of prognostic factors in preleukemia: interest of bone marrow 
scintigraphy.

Chomienne C, Najean Y, Vigneron N, Dresch C, Rain JD.

Simultaneous bone marrow scintigraphy with 99m Technetium colloids and 111 
Indium transferrin was performed on 34 cases of preleukemic anemias and was 
shown to be of good prognostic value. Groups of different outcome were defined: 
for a normal and parallel uptake of the two markers, 90% of the patients died of 
acute leukemia; for a low Indium and high Technetium uptake, only 1 patient out 
of 15 died of leukemia (P less than 0.001). Standard clinical and hematological 
data were of no predictive value. Iron kinetic data and CFU/GM colony growth 
were correlated to the scintigraphic results. Taken together, these three 
kinetic parameters have a good sensitivity and specificity for the prognosis of 
preleukemic states.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.2830160305
PMID: 6711555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Ann Surg. 1984 Apr;199(4):461-6. doi: 10.1097/00000658-198404000-00014.

Relation of doubling time of plasma calcitonin levels to prognosis and 
recurrence of medullary thyroid carcinoma.

Miyauchi A, Onishi T, Morimoto S, Takai S, Matsuzuka F, Kuma K, Maeda M, 
Kumahara Y.

Plasma calcitonin (CT) levels were measured serially in 54 patients surgically 
treated for medullary thyroid carcinoma. Patients with postoperative basal CT 
levels higher than 1 ng/ml measured within 1 month after surgery had a higher 
recurrence rate than those with lower CT levels (p less than 0.002). Patients 
with postoperative basal CT levels higher than 2 ng/ml had a lower survival rate 
than those with lower CT levels (p less than 0.01). However, preoperative basal 
CT levels had no significant correlation with life expectancy or recurrence 
during the present observation period. Serial measurements in 23 patients with 
elevated postoperative CT levels showed exponential increases in basal CT levels 
in 19 patients (p less than 0.05 in nine patients, 0.05 less than p less than 
0.1 in four patients) and slight decreases in four (p less than 0.05 in one 
patient). Doubling time of CT levels calculated from the regression line in each 
patient showed the highest correlation with 3-year survival, recurrence within 5 
years, and time interval between surgery and clinical recurrence of the tumor, 
allowing quantitative prediction of the prognosis.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-198404000-00014
PMCID: PMC1353366
PMID: 6712322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Demography. 1984 Feb;21(1):83-96.

Measuring and explaining the change in life expectancies.

Arriaga EE.

A set of new indices for interpreting change in life expectancies, as well as a 
technique for explaining change in life expectancies by change in mortality at 
each age group are presented in the paper. The indices, as well as the new 
technique for explaining the differences in life expectancies, have been tested 
and examples using United States life tables are presented. The technique for 
explaining life expectancy differentials can be used for analyzing change in 
mortality or mortality differentials by sex, ethnicity, region, or any other 
subpopulations. The technique can be applied to life expectancies at birth or 
temporary life expectancies between any desirable ages.

PMID: 6714492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. J Chir (Paris). 1984 Feb;121(2):73-6.

[Vater's ampulla neoplasms. Diagnostic and therapeutic approach. Apropos of 18 
cases].

[Article in French]

Clot JP, Mislawski R, Chigot JP, Mercadier M.

Diagnostic and therapeutic aspects of neoplasms of the ampulla of Vater are 
discussed in relation to a relatively small but homogeneous series of 18 cases. 
The presenting sign is almost always jaundice, with or without associated 
manifestations of the angiocholitic type, sometimes regressive but recurrent. A 
rapid diagnosis should now be possible by ultrasound imaging of the dilated 
intra- and extra-hepatic biliary pathways, complemented by either fibroscopy 
with or without retrograde catheterization or 
trans-parieto-hepatic-cholangiography. The most effective therapy appears to be 
cephalic duodeno pancreatectomy, pathologic examination of fresh specimens of 
possible adenopathies being of doubtful interest since the presence of N + lymph 
nodes does not prevent prolonged life expectancy. The principal technical 
problem is related to the pancreatic stump, since this is formed of healthy 
parenchyma capable of provoking a fistula whether or not a pancreatico-digestive 
anastomosis has been performed. It might be possible in the future to use 
substances blocking the external secretion of the pancreatic stump left in 
place, in order to diminish the risk of fistula and its well-known consequences. 
Tumors of the ampulla of Vater have a relatively favorable prognosis when 
compared with that of other neoplasms in the biliopancreatic intersection zone, 
and an aggressive attitude to their therapy is therefore fully justified.

PMID: 6715443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. J Public Health Policy. 1984 Mar;5(1):131-42.

Health in Egypt.

Carney K.

PMID: 6715532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1984;78(3):83-7.

[Trends in the mortality of middle-aged males].

[Article in German]

Giersdorf P, SchÃ¼ler H.

PIP: Trends in the mortality of men aged 30-70 are analyzed using data for the 
German Democratic Republic. The data indicate that between 1952 and 1981, male 
mortality declined for all age groups from 30 to 65. Comparisons are made with 
data for other European countries, and the relationship of these trends to 
various causes of death is discussed.

PMID: 6719945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Am J Epidemiol. 1984 May;119(5):677-91. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a113789.

Hypertension among Asians and Pacific islanders in California.

Stavig GR, Igra A, Leonard AR.

Hypertension is investigated among Asians and Pacific islanders in California. 
Descriptive rates are provided for four Asian and Pacific islander 
ethnic-sex-age subgroupings. Overall, Filipinos have rates of hypertension 
nearly equal to those of American blacks and, in some large demographic 
categories, have prevalence rates comparable to blacks. Uncontrolled 
hypertension is shown to be related to overall health levels measured by life 
expectancy, chronologic age, and relative body weight. Change in dietary 
patterns toward the adoption of American foods increases both relative body 
weight and the risk of hypertension. The adjusted rates of hypertension are 
similar for men and women after the effects of relative body weight, alcohol 
consumption, and other variables are removed. A psychologic dimension of 
variables, including excess alcohol intake and proneness to depression and 
boredom, increases prevalence of high blood pressure. Social support mechanisms 
such as marriage, religious affiliation, and a large number of friends are 
associated with lower levels of hypertension. Many predictor variables are 
analyzed along with reasons for the high prevalence rates of hypertension for 
Filipinos and low rates for Japanese.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a113789
PMID: 6720667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Br Vet J. 1984 Mar-Apr;140(2):115-23. doi: 10.1016/0007-1935(84)90071-X.

An approach to canine geriatrics.

MacDougall DF, Barker J.

DOI: 10.1016/0007-1935(84)90071-X
PMID: 6722498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 1984 Jan-Mar;24(1):5-42.

[A health system caught in the trap of ill-development: the case of Brazil].

[Article in French]

Postal P.

PMID: 6722616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Drug Alcohol Depend. 1984 Mar;13(2):107-16. doi:
10.1016/0376-8716(84)90050-4.

International drug treaties: the connexion between ratification and social and 
economic conditions.

Smart RG, Murray GF.

This study examines social and economic conditions in 152 countries and relates 
them to ratification of the two major international drug control treaties , the 
Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs and the Convention on Psychotropic 
Substances. The findings show that: (i) countries which ratified only the Single 
Convention had the greatest drug problems; (ii) ratifications were more common 
among developed countries than developing ones; (iii) ratifications were not 
more common among larger countries or those having higher expenditures on health 
and education, but they were more common among older U.N. member countries and 
those having ratified more non-drug treaties ; (iv) the best predictors of 
ratifications were a high level of life expectancy, a high degree of economic 
development and a substantial drug problem. The trend has been for more 
countries to ratify these treaties over time. However, a shorter-term solution 
would involve international support for those poorer countries which have not 
yet ratified them. Technical advice in the form of legal experts and translators 
is one example of such support.

DOI: 10.1016/0376-8716(84)90050-4
PMID: 6723512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Injury. 1984 May;15(6):411-4. doi: 10.1016/0020-1383(84)90209-2.

Determining factors for the mortality following hip fractures.

Jensen JS.

In this study 518 patients with hip fractures were followed up prospectively for 
an average of 3 years (range 2.5-3.5 years). On admission to hospital the 
patients were allocated to one of 4 social function groups according to their 
dependence on the social welfare system. The life expectancy was analysed at 
follow-up and found to be determined primarily by the patient's social 
dependence prior to fracture, and secondarily by the age of the patient. Other 
generally accepted determining factors were not found to have any significant 
influence on the survival rates.

DOI: 10.1016/0020-1383(84)90209-2
PMID: 6724688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. J Neurol Sci. 1984 Mar;63(3):403-9. doi: 10.1016/0022-510x(84)90163-1.

Dopamine-beta-hydroxylase activities in serum and cerebrospinal fluid of aged 
and demented patients.

Miyata S, Nagata H, Yamao S, Nakamura S, Kameyama M.

Age-related changes in dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH) activities in serum and 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were determined. In normal subjects, serum DBH 
activity increased gradually from the 3rd to the 8th decade, but decreased 
prominently in the 9th decade. DBH activity in CSF did not differ between 
younger and older subjects. Serum DBH activity decreased significantly in senile 
dementia of Alzheimer's type (SDAT, 12.2 +/- 8.8 nmoles/min/ml, P less than 
0.05), but not in multi-infarct dementia (MID, 13.9 +/- 9.1 nmoles/min/ml) 
compared to control subjects (17.1 +/- 9.5 nmoles/min/ml). The decrease of serum 
DBH in SDAT was more prominent in patients with severe dementia and/or severe 
brain atrophy. DBH activity in CSF was much lower than that in serum and did not 
correlate with each other. DBH activity in CSF obtained from SDAT patients (1.60 
+/- 0.94 nmoles/h/ml) and from MID patients 2.01 +/- 0.99 nmoles/h/ml) were both 
lower than that from other neurological diseases without dementia (4.04 +/- 3.81 
nmoles/h/ml). DBH in CSF from SDAT patients was significantly lower (P less than 
0.05) than that from controls, but that from MID did not differ from controls. 
Noradrenergic nervous dysfunction is partly associated with pathophysiology and 
life expectancy of senile dementia of Alzheimer's type (SDAT).

DOI: 10.1016/0022-510x(84)90163-1
PMID: 6726279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. J Occup Med. 1984 May;26(5):386-91.

A result-oriented medical information system. An alternative to the conventional 
approach.

Wen CP, Tsai SP, Weiss NS, Gibson RL, McClellan WA.

A result-oriented medical information system at the Gulf Oil Corporation is 
described. Mortality data acquired mostly from routine company operations have 
been used to calculate standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) and life expectancy. 
Results show that male employees at the age of 20 have a life expectancy of 74.8 
years. Compared with the U.S. general population at age 20 with a life 
expectancy of 71.8 years, Gulf employees have an advantage of exactly three 
years. Such an advantage may seem small, but it is equivalent to the gain that 
could be achieved if all deaths from cancer were eliminated in the United 
States, a hypothetical and impossible situation. These life expectancy data have 
the potential for use by the company to influence insurance premiums 
traditionally set by life insurance companies as well as to aid in the 
management of the company's pension fund. The SMR for all causes for the male 
employees is 0.82, significantly decreased in comparison with that of the U.S. 
general population. This favorable experience has been referred to as "the 
healthy worker effect." Cause-specific SMRs show a generalized pattern of 
deficits, some of which are statistically significant. None showed a significant 
increase. Seventy-six percent of the male deaths occurred among employees aged 
65 years or older. If these annuitants (those alive at the beginning of the 
study) were not included and only the active workers were studied, an SMR of 
only 0.54 would be obtained.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 6726488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. J Pediatr Ophthalmol Strabismus. 1984 Mar-Apr;21(2):50-6. doi: 
10.3928/0191-3913-19840301-04.

Computed tomography with histopathologic correlation in children with 
leukokoria.

Katz NN, Margo CE, Dorwart RH.

Computed tomography (CT) constitutes a major advance in noninvasive diagnostic 
investigation of children with leukokoria , especially where media opacities 
preclude adequate visualization of the posterior segment, and, performed in 
conjunction with other studies such as diagnostic ultrasonography, has 
significantly improved diagnostic accuracy. Although retinoblastoma, the 
commonest life-threatening cause of leukokoria , usually presents with 
characteristic CT findings of intraocular calcification, during extraocular 
extension, the orbital portions of the tumor are non-calcific and contrast 
dramatically with the intraocular portion. Currently CT is also the best 
available technique for diagnosis of trilateral retinoblastoma. Computed 
tomographic features of several types of pseudogliomas (a collective term for 
lesions commonly mistaken for retinoblastomas) are also discussed with 
histopathologic correlation. In persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous, a 
conical density in CT corresponded to detached and dysplastic retina. A high 
density layered opacity corresponded to subretinal blood. In Coats' disease and 
sclerosing endophthalmitis homogenous intraocular CT density corresponds to 
vitreous and subretinal exudates radiologically indistinguishable from 
non-calcific retinoblastoma. Long-standing retinal detachments in children 
occasionally presenting with leukokoria showed subtle homogenous intraocular 
densities on CT.

DOI: 10.3928/0191-3913-19840301-04
PMID: 6726555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. J Rheumatol. 1984 Apr;11(2):158-61.

Survival and cause of death in rheumatoid arthritis: a 25-year prospective 
followup.

Vandenbroucke JP, Hazevoet HM, Cats A.

In a 25-year prospective followup of 209 patients with rheumatoid arthritis, 
median life expectancy was shortened by 7 years in males and by 3 years in 
females when compared with the general population. The surplus mortality was 
associated in decreasing order with the disease itself, associated respiratory, 
urogenital and general infections, and with upper gastrointestinal tract 
disease, mainly bleeding.

PMID: 6726714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Nurse Pract. 1984 May;9(5):39, 42-4, 46.

Health care in China.

Brown MS, Burns CE, Hellings PJ.

Maternal-child nurses are part of a growing number of Americans who have had the 
opportunity to visit China. An increased understanding of the history and of the 
health care practices of the Chinese people lends itself to an examination of 
American values and health practices. The insight developed may aid us as we 
seek to understand our own health care practices for women and children and to 
plan for the future in health care.

PIP: Reporting on a professional exchange tour of American nurses in China, this 
discussion recounts what was learned about the Chinese health care system, 
nursing system, and maternal-child health, and focuses on some insights gained 
into the US health care system. Before 1949, the infant mortality rate was 20% 
during the 1st year of life; 30-40% of children died before age 5; vernereal 
disease, tuberculosis, schistosomiasis, typhus, cholera, and the plague were 
rampant; and traditional medicine had been outlawed. When the communists came to 
power, efforts were made at preventive health care but the results were not 
impressive until the Cultural Revolution of 1965. 4 main health objectives were 
stressed at that time: improving access to health care for the rural areas; 
emphasizing prevention; emphazing Chinese traditional medicine; and making 
health an individual and collective responsibility. Peasants were brought in to 
become the nurses or physicians with minimal or no preparation or education. 
Since then Western-trained physicians and nurses have been reintroduced into the 
health care system. Since 1965 the Chinese life expectancy has increased from 40 
to 70 years. Infant mortality is now 1 of the lowest in the world. Veneral 
disease, drug addiction, and several other epidemic diseases have been almost 
totally eradicted, as has malnutrition. There is at least 1 barefoot doctor in 
each of these "production teams" of 30-50 families, often supported by 
traditional medical assistants, health aides, midwives, nurses, and public 
health workers. Patients can be referred to the commune hospital and can be 
further referred to county hospitals for more complicated problems. Free care is 
provided for many people. It is within this highly organized, prevention 
oriented, socially conscious context of health care that maternal-child health 
care is deelivered. Prenatal and postpartum care begins with home visits by 
traditional birth attendants or ffemale barefoot doctors. At the well baby 
clinics the walls are hung with colorful health education posters. Family 
planning is probably the number 1 health concern in China, and the government 
stresses late marriages, free use of contraceptives, and the 1 child family. 
Another insight gained was the idea of harnessing manpower rather than 
technological power for the purpose of health.

PMID: 6728348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Sov Zdravookhr. 1984;(4):30-4.

[Early detection of malignant neoplasms and the life expectancy of patients].

[Article in Russian]

DvoÄ­rin VV, Aksel' EM.

PMID: 6729576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Stroke. 1984 May-Jun;15(3):451-7. doi: 10.1161/01.str.15.3.451.

CVD mortality, 1968-1978: observations and implications.

Manton KG, Baum HM.

U.S. multiple cause of death data were examined for the period 1968-1978. 
Specifically, the role of cerebrovascular disease mortality as an underlying and 
associated cause of death was studied. The number of deaths where 
cerebrovascular disease was cited as the underlying cause of death declined much 
faster than the number of deaths where cerebrovascular disease was cited as the 
associated cause of death. This trend is indicative of a possible change in the 
role of cerebrovascular disease as an associated cause of death. Cause 
elimination life tables were constructed for cerebrovascular disease as the 
underlying cause of death and as any cause of death. In the general population, 
eliminating stroke as a cause of death is projected to have less impact in 1978 
than in 1968, for men than for women, and for whites than for nonwhites. Tables 
were also constructed to examine the life expectancy gains for the group of 
individuals who died of cerebrovascular disease. For these individuals, the gain 
in life expectancy at birth ranges from 9 years for white males to 18 years for 
nonwhite females.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.15.3.451
PMID: 6729874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Vopr Onkol. 1984;30(5):73-4.

[Table of the 5-year survival rate of the healthy population of the USSR].

[Article in Russian]

BerÃ«zkin DP, Filatov VN, Andreev EM.

PMID: 6730418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Am J Med Sci. 1984 May-Jun;287(3):45-7. doi:
10.1097/00000441-198405000-00016.

Cardiac tuberculosis: TB of the endocardium.

Kannangara DW, Salem FA, Rao BS, Thadepalli H.

Tuberculosis involving the endocardium is extremely rare. The diagnosis is 
usually made during autopsy. Often there is involvement of other parts of the 
heart as well as other regions of the body. The infection is a result of direct 
extension from the myocardium or hematogenous spread. Two cases of disseminated 
tuberculosis with endocardial involvement are reported. In Case 1 miliary 
tuberculosis was diagnosed during life but the patient succumbed to extensive 
disease on the third hospital day. The patient in Case 2 presented with 
congestive cardiac failure and the possibility of tuberculosis was not suspected 
during life.

DOI: 10.1097/00000441-198405000-00016
PMID: 6731481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Ann Surg. 1984 Jun;199(6):656-68. doi: 10.1097/00000658-198406000-00004.

Suprarenal vena caval occlusion. Principles of operative management.

Smith BM, Mulherin JL, Sawyers JL, Turner BI, Prager RL, Dean RH.

Retrohepatic occlusion of the inferior vena cava caused by tumor complicates 
complete resection and not infrequently is associated with life-threatening 
symptoms that accelerate the lethality of the underlying malignant process. This 
report summarizes our experience with caval thrombectomy and reconstruction that 
allowed complete removal of all gross tumor in seven patients with malignant 
occlusion of the retrohepatic inferior vena cava. Included in this group are 
five patients with renal cell carcinoma and extension of tumor into the 
retrohepatic vena cava. Three of these patients had extension of tumor thrombus 
into the right atrium. A sixth patient had recurrent right adrenal cortical 
carcinoma with tumor invasion of the vena cava and occlusion to the right 
atrium. Associated hepatic vein occlusion and secondary Budd-Chiari syndrome 
also was successfully managed in this patient. The final patient with occlusion 
of the entire suprarenal vena cava required caval reconstruction after resection 
of a primary leiomyosarcoma of the retrohepatic portion of the vena cava. 
Careful planning of the operative procedure, adequate exposure, complete 
mobilization of the retrohepatic vena cava, and control of the hepatic venous 
effluent will allow patients with retrohepatic vena caval occlusions to be 
managed with safety and success.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-198406000-00004
PMCID: PMC1353442
PMID: 6732311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Contraception. 1984 Jan;29(1):45-54. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(84)90057-x.

Copper intravas device (IVD) and male contraception.

Kapur MM, Mokkapati S, Farooq A, Ahsan RK, Laumas KR.

An alternative method of male contraception is crucial at this stage of 
increasing population in the developing world. A non-obstructive, non-hormonal, 
reversible method of male contraception would find acceptance in oriental 
communities. Our experience with copper IVD in small animals has been 
encouraging. We present here an extension of the use of the copper IVD in the 
rhesus monkey. Treated male rhesus ejaculate showed fifteen-to thirty-five-fold 
increase in copper levels up to 10 months after insertion of Cu IVD . Semen 
analysis showed an increase of dead sperm (23.0% - 52.3%; control 4.5% - 14.0%) 
and decrease in percentage of motile sperm (10-30%; control 70-80%). Fertility 
studies using treated male rhesus of proven fertility from the breeding colony 
mated with cycling females of proven fertility showed highly significant 
reduction of fertility up to 13 months (P less than 0.001). Reduction in 
fertility of the treated rhesus was also significant up to a period of 23 months 
(P less than 0.01). A reversal of contraceptive effect and increase in sperm 
count and motility is observed after 13 months post-treatment. Studies are 
required to achieve an increase in the effective life span of the IVD .

PIP: An alternative method of male contraception is crucial at this stage of 
increasing population in the developing world. A nonobstructive, nonhormonal, 
reversible method of male contraception would find acceptance in Oriental 
communities. Our experience with the copper intravas device (IVD) in small 
animals has been encouraging. The present study is an extension of the use of 
the copper IVD in the rhesus monkey. Treated male rhesus ejaculate showed 15-35 
fold increase in copper levels up to 10 months after insertion of the Cu IVD. 
Semen analysis showed an increase of dead sperm (23.0%-52.3%; control 
4.5%-14.0%) and a decrease in the percentage of motile sperm (10-30%; control 
70-80%). Fertility studies using treated male rhesus of proven fertility from 
the breeding colony mated with cycling females of proven fertility showed highly 
significant reductions in fertility up to 13 months (P0.001). A reduction in 
fertility of the treated rhesus was also significant up to a period of 23 months 
(P0.01). A reversal of contraceptive effect and an increase in sperm count and 
motility is observed after 13 months posttreatment. Studies are required to 
achieve an increase in the effective span life of the IVD.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(84)90057-x
PMID: 6734204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1984 Jun 15;109(24):957-9. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1069306.

[Therapy of ascites by peritoneo-venous shunt].

[Article in German]

Schumpelick V, Hrynyschyn K, Kortmann KB.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1069306
PMID: 6734450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. J Egypt Soc Parasitol. 1984 Jun;14(1):295-9.

Some biological studies on two different geographical strains of Xenopsylla 
cheopis.

Arafa MS, Abu el-Nasr AE, el-Ridi AM, Khalil MS.

PMID: 6736713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. JAMA. 1984 Jul 27;252(4):528.

Joggers may live longer..

Kaplan NM.

PMID: 6737647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Rinsho Byori. 1984 Jan;32(1):33-7.

[Aging and health control].

[Article in Japanese]

Miyazawa K.

PMID: 6737719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Nature. 1984 Jul 12-18;310(5973):92. doi: 10.1038/310092a0.

Ageing in Japan: riches make for longevity.

Anderson A.

DOI: 10.1038/310092a0
PMID: 6738715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Radiobiologiia. 1984 May-Jun;24(3):373-6.

[Life-span of rats as affected by a combination of external (137Cs) and internal 
(237Np) radiation].

[Article in Russian]

Buldakov LA, Karpova VN.

A study was made of a change in the mean life of rats exposed to external 
gamma-radiation (51.6 mC/kg) and 237Np (a polymeric nitrate form) administered 
intratracheally (0.2-188.0 kBq/kg) delivered separately and in a combination. It 
was established that the effects of gamma- and alpha-radiation were summated.

PMID: 6739742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Rehabilitation (Stuttg). 1984 May;23(2):47-50.

[Current status and future development of the comprehensive rehabilitation of 
transverse paralyzed patients].

[Article in German]

Meinecke FW.

The principles developed some 40 years ago by Sir Ludwig Guttmann and Ernest 
Bors for the treatment of spinal cord injured persons have in the Federal 
Republic of Germany been taken up, in the fifties, by a few doctors as well as 
the Central Association of Industrial Injuries Insurance Institutes. Their 
efforts have brought about a radically different situation concerning life 
expectancy and life-styles of SCI patients, not only the accident-injured but 
increasingly also for persons with disease-related spinal lesions. The emphases 
of development have been: improved mechanisms for referral to specialized 
facilities, rescue system progress, new findings in diagnosis and therapy, 
improvement of social and vocational re-integration, growing mutual 
understanding of paraplegics and their environments, as well as increased 
self-assertiveness of the paraplegic population. These aspects are examined more 
closely. Further improvements may be achieved through: admission to specialized 
treatment facilities immediately following onset, appraisal of relevant issues 
pertaining to indications for, and techniques of spinal surgery, improved 
preventive efforts relative to thromboses and embolism, control of the paralytic 
bladder, a smoother provision of adapted living conditions outside the 
clinic-based special facilities, and through extension as well as lifelong 
availability of adequate aftercare services. In the event of certain illnesses, 
up-to-date treatment of paraplegics must be ensured by the hospital departments 
concerned with the basis illness. Recreational facilities, and inclusion of 
psychological and psychotherapeutic services in residential rehabilitation 
programmes for SCI patients require further attention.

PMID: 6739950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Zentralbl Chir. 1984;109(9):602-6.

[Multiple injuries in mass accidents].

[Article in German]

WondrÃ¡k E.

The treatment starts with reanimation, managing the shock, followed by 
life-saving surgery on the central nervous system, chest, abdomen, large blood 
vessels and the uropoietic system. From the very beginning the therapy should be 
conducted on an intradisciplinary basis, first with the anaesthesiologist, later 
with other specialists as required. Once the patient's life has been saved, 
treatment of eyes, hands and systematic attention to extremities should follow. 
Shock has to be managed within 24 hours. Luxations of large joints should be 
reposed on the date of injury, open fractures closed, all fractures immobilized 
in favourable position. No extension should be applied in patients suffering 
from brain injuries; fractures of the femur should be fixed surgically by a 
second team in the course of the neurosurgical operation. A stomatologist's 
assistance makes general anaesthesia possible even with fractures of the jaw. In 
mass accidents the therapeutic plan for the polytraumatized should be fixed on 
the following day. A mass accident involving 35 injured treated within two and a 
half hours demonstrates this procedure in 7 polytraumatized persons.

PMID: 6741324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Carcinogenesis. 1984 Aug;5(8):1003-7. doi: 10.1093/carcin/5.8.1003.

The effects of estrogen on single dose dimethylnitrosamine carcinogenesis in 
male inbred Crl/CDF rats.

Noronha RF, Goodall CM.

The effect of longterm estrogen treatment (estradiol valerate) on male rats 
injected i.p. once with dimethylnitrosamine (DMN, 30 mg/kg, with protein 
starvation), was studied in 167 male inbred Crl/CDF rats. DMN was given at 40 
days (immature rats) or at 90 days (mature rats) to investigate the action of 
carcinogen and hormone at different stages of development. Estrogen reduced life 
expectancy of male animals, and was associated with greatly increased breast 
tumour incidence (to 30%) compared with controls (3%, p less than 0.01). DMN 
alone enhanced lung tumorigenesis (p less than 0.001) and chronic estrogen 
treatment significantly reduced both the incidence and multiplicity of 
DMN-induced lung tumours in male rats (p less than 0.001). Also, estrogen 
treatment lowered the incidence of spontaneous lung tumours (p less than 0.005). 
The higher incidence of animals with kidney tubular adenomas and carcinomas 
induced by DMN in both mature and immature rats was statistically significant (p 
less than 0.001), but estrogen and the age at carcinogen treatment had no 
effect. Lethal mesenchymal kidney tumours developed in immature rats exposed to 
DMN (p less than 0.001), but only developed in mature DMN-treated rats if they 
received estrogen as well.

DOI: 10.1093/carcin/5.8.1003
PMID: 6744509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Eur J Drug Metab Pharmacokinet. 1984 Apr-Jun;9(2):177-83. doi: 
10.1007/BF03189622.

Scaling of antipyrine intrinsic clearance of unbound drug in 15 mammalian 
species.

Boxenbaum H, Fertig JB.

The intrinsic clearance of unbound drug (CLuint) for antipyrine in 15 mammalian 
species was characterized by an equation of the form, CLuint = theta 1 (body 
weight) theta 2 (brain weight) theta 3, where thetas are constants. Maximum 
lifespan potential in mammals can also be characterized by an equation of this 
form. It is suggested that the set of genetic mechanisms regulating longevity 
and other constitutional characteristics in species is also linked to rates of 
drug metabolism. The ability to scale interspecies data in pharmacokinetics is 
taken as an expression of this design principle.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03189622
PMID: 6745307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Gastroenterology. 1984 Sep;87(3):489-95.

Endoscopic screening for gastric stump cancer--would it be beneficial? A 
hypothetical cohort study.

Sonnenberg A.

The incidence of gastric cancer is increased in the gastric stump. It has, 
therefore, been recommended that subjects who have undergone partial gastrectomy 
be screened by regular endoscopy. However, several factors make it very 
difficult to test, in a clinical trial, the efficacy of such screening. To solve 
this problem, known clinical observations on partial gastrectomy patients were 
applied to a hypothetical cohort of 100,000 German or American partial 
gastrectomy patients. In this way the possible benefits of regular endoscopic 
screening in such a population were predicted. Markov type of decision analysis 
was used on the hypothetical cohorts to see if yearly endoscopy significantly 
improved outcomes as compared with no endoscopic screening. Under the very 
liberal, but arbitrary, assumption that endoscopic screening could prevent death 
from gastric stump cancer in 80% of those diagnosed as having gastric stump 
cancer, 8.5% and 5.4% of German male and female gastrectomy patients, 
respectively, and 2.2% and 1.3% of American male and female gastrectomy 
patients, respectively, would benefit from screening. Lives of German men and 
women would be prolonged 10 and 13 yr, respectively, [11 and 15 yr for American 
men and women]. Life expectancy of the total male and female cohort would 
increase by 9 and 8 mo, respectively, [U.S.A: 2 and 2 mo]. Per 100 endoscopies 
invested, 6.4 and 4.3 [U.S.A.: 1.8 and 1.2] male and female life years would be 
gained. However, a sensitivity analysis shows the outcomes of the calculations 
to depend most on the rate of a 5-yr survival gained by endoscopy and surgery: 
as the postoperative 5-yr survival of gastric stump cancer patients falls below 
80%, the benefit achieved by endoscopic screening becomes even less apparent. In 
American subjects who have undergone partial gastrectomy, the benefit of 
endoscopic screening would probably be too low to justify screening. Only in 
populations with high frequencies of gastric cancer may endoscopic screening be 
beneficial.

PMID: 6745603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. J Pediatr. 1984 Aug;105(2):292-6. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(84)80135-3.

Prolonged bleeding time in preterm infants receiving indomethacin for patent 
ductus arteriosus.

Corazza MS, Davis RF, Merritt TA, Bejar R, Cvetnic W.

Sequential bleeding times were performed on 25 preterm infants receiving 
intravenous indomethacin for closure of the patent ductus arteriosus. 
Prolongation of bleeding time was observed after the initial dose of 
indomethacin, with an increase from a pretreatment mean of 3.6 minutes to 8.7 
minutes. The bleeding time was not further prolonged at the end of the 
three-dose course of indomethacin, but was still elevated 48 hours after the 
completion of therapy. Clinical bleeding developed in six of the patients, but 
was generally limited to occult hematuria. Serial echoencephalography during 
indomethacin therapy showed progression from mild 
periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage to moderate or severe grades in five 
of 21 infants at risk for this complication. However, no clear temporal 
relationship between indomethacin administration and intraventricular hemorrhage 
extension was observed, and no difference in the degree of bleeding time 
prolongation was noted between infants with and without hemorrhage extension. 
Other factors, including surfactant deficiency, amount of volume expansion used, 
and lowest PO2 in the first day of life, did distinguish those with hemorrhage 
extension. The results suggest that indomethacin-induced platelet dysfunction is 
not associated with major hemorrhagic complications in the majority of preterm 
infants with patent ductus arteriosus.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(84)80135-3
PMID: 6747765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1982;77:63-74.

Primary biliary cirrhosis: critical evaluation and treatment policies.

Sherlock S.

Primary biliary cirrhosis is a disease where small intra-hepatic bile ducts are 
destroyed as a result of an immunological reaction, presumably by cytotoxic 
T-lymphocytes on biliary epithelium. Analogies can be made to the 
graft-versus-host reaction. Hepatic copper retention is secondary to 
cholestasis. A circulating mitochondrial antibody is virtually constant. A 
mitochondrial antibody, specific for primary biliary cirrhosis, has been 
identified. Liver biopsy appearances have been staged but there are difficulties 
because of the varying rte of evolution in different parts of the liver, the 
focal nature of the changes and the lack of correlation with the clinical 
picture. Other diagnostic criteria include female sex, raised serum alkaline 
phosphatase values and various associated diseases. Many patients are now 
diagnosed when presymptomatic and such patients, particularly with granulomas in 
the liver, may have a normal life expectancy. General therapeutic measures 
include control of pruritus and prevention of fat soluble vitamin and calcium 
deficiencies. There is no specific treatment but D-penicillamine is useful in 
the later stages and prolongs survival. The prognosis in those with progressive 
jaundice is very poor.

PMID: 6750830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Mech Ageing Dev. 1982 Jul;19(3):245-58. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(82)90057-4.

Carcinogenesis and aging. IV. Effect of low-molecular-weight factors of thymus, 
pineal gland and anterior hypothalamus on immunity, tumor incidence and life 
span of C3H/Sn mice.

Anisimov VN, Khavinson VK, Morozov VG.

The low-molecular-weight polypeptide factors were obtained from bovine thymus 
(TF), pineal gland (PF) and anterior hypothalamus (AHF). Both TF and PF 
administration enhanced the rejection of skin allograft and stimulated the 
immunological response to sheep erythrocytes in adult CBA mice. Treatment of CBA 
mice with AHF increased the graft survival and inhibited antibody formation to 
sheep erythrocytes. Chronic TF or PF administration decreased spontaneous tumor 
development and prolonged the life span of female C3H/Sn mice. Administration of 
AHF failed to influence the life span and the tumor incidence of female C3H/Sn 
mice. The role of immunity and hormonometabolic shifts in mechanisms of both 
aging and the age-associated increase in cancer incidence are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(82)90057-4
PMID: 6752596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Trans Assoc Life Insur Med Dir Am. 1982;65:43-62.

Life expectancy in patients with kidney disease.

Kassirer JP.

PMID: 6753304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1982 Oct 1;37(19):617-21.

[Results of a multicentric study on long term diabetes in the East German 
population].

[Article in German]

Panzram G, Pissarek D, Michaelis D, Schliack V.

In the diabetes population of the GDR by means of the dispensary network of the 
consulting points 159 diabetics with a duration of the disease of at least 40 
years were recognized and investigated on the basis of a standardized 
documentation material. 23 diabetics had survived their disease for longer than 
50 years. The number of benign long-term courses in males was absolutely and 
relatively higher. The following frequencies of normal findings were stated: 55 
per cent good general condition, 78 per cent normal weight/or underweight, 33 
per cent no retinopathy, 65 per cent no proteinuria, 49 per cent normal ECG in 
rest. A proliferating retinopathy was found in 10 per cent, creatinine increases 
in 10 per cent, coronary infarctions in 32 per cent, gangrene and amputations, 
respectively, in 9 per cent. There was no striking longevity of the parents. In 
the majority of cases disciplined patients with a well-balanced metabolic 
condition were concerned. The partly existing atherogenic factors of risk 
(hypertension, smoking habits) speak for complex causes of the favourable 
course, including vasoprotective factors up to now not yet clarified.

PMID: 6758386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Mol Cell Biochem. 1982 Nov 26;49(2):97-111. doi: 10.1007/BF00242488.

Ornithine transcarbamylase in liver mitochondria.

Mori M, Miura S, Morita T, Takiguchi M, Tatibana M.

Ornithine transcarbamylase (ornithine carbamoyltransferase, EC 2.1.3.3), the 
