second enzyme of urea synthesis, is localized in the matrix of liver 
mitochondria of ureotelic animals. The enzyme is encoded by a nuclear gene, 
synthesized outside the mitochondria, and must then be transported into the 
organelle. The rat liver enzyme is initially synthesized on membrane-free 
polysomes in the form of a larger precursor with an amino-terminal extension of 
3 400-4 000 daltons. In rat liver slices and isolated rat hepatocytes, the 
pulse-labeled precursor is first released into the cytosol and is then 
transported with a half life of 1-2 min into the mitochondria where it is 
proteolytically processed to the mature form of the enzyme. The precursor 
synthesized in vitro exists in a highly aggregated form and has a conformation 
different from that of the mature enzyme. The precursor has an isoelectric point 
(pI = 7.9) higher than that of the mature enzyme (pI = 7.2). The precursor 
synthesized in vitro can be taken up and processed to the mature enzyme by 
isolated rat liver mitochondria. The mitochondrial transport and processing 
system requires membrane potential and a high integrity of the mitochondria. The 
transport and processing activities are conserved between mammals and birds or 
amphibians and is presumably common to more than one precursor. Potassium ion, 
magnesium ion, and probably a cytosolic protein(s), in addition to the 
transcarbamylase precursor and the mitochondria, are required for the maximal 
transport and processing of the precursor. A mitochondrial matrix protease which 
converts the precursor to a product intermediate in size between the precursor 
and the mature subunit has been highly purified. The protease has an estimated 
molecular weight of 108 000 and an optimal pH of 7.5-8.0, and appears to be a 
metal protease. The protease does not cleave several of the protein and peptide 
substrates tested. The role of this protease in the precursor processing remains 
to be elucidated. Rats subjected to different levels of protein intake and to 
fasting show significant changes in the level of enzyme protein and activity of 
ornithine transcarbamylase. The dietary-dependent changes in the enzyme level 
are due mainly to an altered level of functional mRNA for the enzyme. In 
contrast, during fasting, the increase in the enzyme level is associated with a 
decreased level of translatable mRNA for the enzyme. Pathological aspects of 
ornithine transcarbamylase including the enzyme deficiency and reduced 
activities of the enzyme in Reye's syndrome are also described. A possibility 
that impaired transport of the enzyme precursor into the mitochondria leads to a 
reduced enzyme activity, is proposed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00242488
PMID: 6759918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Soc Sci Med. 1982;16(22):1903-17. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(82)90390-2.

Unemployment and health in macro-social analysis.

Spruit IP.

The hypothesis that unemployment is related to bad health arises from a general 
acceptance of the relationship between living standards and longevity. To 
confirm the hypothesis three analytical statements have to be true: (a) an 
increase of prosperity leads to a decrease of mortality; (b) a decrease of 
prosperity leads to an increase of mortality; (c) people with the relatively 
lowest prosperity, in this case the unemployed, have the relatively highest 
mortality and so are the least healthy. For this purpose important types of 
macro-social research are described and the results are interpreted, briefly 
evaluated and discussed. Research comparing differences in life-expectancy in 
rich and poor countries, shows rough differences; Research applying a new 
method, diffusionalist comparison, shows that increased prosperity does not 
infinitely lead to improvement of life expectancy; Research on economic 
fluctuations and mortality is the only type of research attempting to describe a 
process, not a state of affairs; Research on socio-economic categories within 
countries (classes, neighborhoods) shows differences in mortality and morbidity, 
but not why these differences exist; Research on the relationship between a 
population's body height (as a health indicator) and poverty/unemployment gives 
rise to more differentiated conclusions, but neither provides final answers; 
Some small retrospective researches with divergent methodologies and using small 
hospital samples give different results.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(82)90390-2
PMID: 6760406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1982 Dec;59(4):443-59. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.1330590414.

Osteology of a slave burial population from Barbados, West Indies.

Corruccini RS, Handler JS, Mutaw RJ, Lange FW.

A unique seventeenth-nineteenth century slave cemetery population from Newton 
plantation, Barbados, allows examination of craniodental characters in relation 
to ethnohistorical data. Age-at-death estimates suggest life expectancy at birth 
of 29 years and low infant mortality; historical demography, however, suggests 
life expectancy of 20 years and very high infant mortality. Tooth decay, 
bilateral tooth loss, periodontal disease, root hypercementosis, and severe 
enamel hypoplasia are high in frequency. The teeth yield evidence of such 
cultural practices as pipe-smoking and incisor mutilation. Several skeletal 
features reflect periodic near-starvation. Directional and fluctuating dental 
asymmetry, relative tooth size, and hypoplasia distribution suggest slaves 
experienced considerable weaning trauma; metabolic stress at this time exceeded 
that of prenatal and immediate postnatal periods. Odontometrics and dental and 
cranial nonmetric traits indicate that modern Blacks are intermediate between 
the ancestral slaves and modern Whites but more similar to the latter, 
suggesting effects of environmental covariance exceed those of genetic 
admixture. Nonmetric trait distributions show nonrandom patterns according to 
area of burial in the cemetery, a possible result of family segregation.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330590414
PMID: 6762099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Med Instrum. 1982 Mar-Apr;16(2):89-90.

Vascular grafts in the elderly.

DeBakey ME, McCollum CH.

The incidence of symptomatic atherosclerotic occlusive disease is increasing as 
the life expectancy of our population rises. Most prosthetic vascular grafts are 
made of Dacron, which can be knitted or woven, depending on degree of porosity 
desired. Atherosclerotic occlusive disease can be classified by location: Group 
I, disease in the coronary arteries, usually treated by arterial bypass surgery; 
Group II, disease in the brachiocephalic vessels, usually treated by carotid 
endarterectomy; Group III, disease in the branches of the abdominal aorta, 
usually treated by a bypass from the aorta to the affected artery; and Group IV, 
disease in the terminal abdominal aorta and its branches, usually requiring 
aortofemoral bypass graft. Another type, aneurysm, usually requires resection 
and graft replacement. Despite advancing age, patients with atherosclerosis, 
when properly selected, can benefit from reconstructive vascular surgery without 
excessive risk.

PMID: 6764524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Haematologia (Budap). 1982 Dec;15(4):389-99.

Enzymopenic hereditary methemoglobinemia.

Jaff√© ER.

The normal erythrocyte is well endowed with a system to convert useless 
methemoglobin to functional hemoglobin. The major mechanism for this reductive 
capacity resides in the soluble cytochrome b5/NADH cytochrome b5 reductase of 
the cytosol which presumably arise from the microsomal proteins of the 
endoplasmic reticulum through proteolytic cleavage of the proteins' hydrophobic 
tails during the maturation of nucleated erythrocyte precursors. NADH cytochrome 
b5 reductase is coded for by a gene on the human chromosome 22. Inheritance of a 
pair of abnormal alleles which specify an enzyme with decreased activity or 
stability occurs only rarely, but leads to enzymopenic hereditary 
methemoglobinemia. Type I, uncomplicated, benign methemoglobinemia is attributed 
to mutation in paired alleles that affect primarily the catalytic capacity, 
stability, or solubilization of the polar, soluble segment of the enzyme. It 
does not appear to affect significantly the well being or life expectancy of the 
homozygous subject. The cosmetic affliction or the minimal symptoms can rather 
easily be controlled with methylene blue, ascorbic acid, or riboflavin. The 
heterozygote is entirely asymptomatic, but may have an increased tendency to 
develop methemoglobinemia on exposure to methemoglobin-inducing drugs or 
chemicals. Type II, severe lethal methemoglobinemia is a generalized disorder in 
which the NADH cytochrome b5 reductase is apparently defective in all tissues. 
It is thought to result from either gene deletion or mutation in paired alleles 
that determine the function, stability, or attachment to the endoplasmic 
reticulum of the entire enzyme, both the polar and the hydrophobic segments. As 
in Type I, the heterozygote is asymptomatic, and the homozygote's 
methemoglobinemia is readily controlled. The generalized disorder including the 
neurologic dysfunction, however, is not amenable to treatment at this time. 
Prenatal diagnosis by examination of amniotic fluid cells is both feasible and 
useful.

PMID: 6764628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Arq Cent Estud Curso Odontol. 1982 Jul-Dec;19(2):273-90.

[Social factors and disease. Epidemiological essay].

[Article in Portuguese]

Marcos B.

PMID: 6765218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Hospitals. 1980 Apr 16;54(8):49.

Long-term care will have major role in 21st century.

Koncel JA.

PMID: 6766898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. MMW Munch Med Wochenschr. 1980 Jan 25;122(4):119-22.

[Infant feeding today. Facts, developments, feeding ideologies (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

Schreier K.

Since apparently the minimum requirements of all nutritive substances necessary 
to life are known it is necessary to establish the optimal supply of the 
essential nutritive elements. For infants the best nourishment is and remains 
the mother's milk. Since at the end of the first month of life only 10% of 
infants are still breast fed, the quality and quantity of "artificial foods" are 
of outstanding importance. Contrary to the various claims the supply of 
foodstuffs in central Europe is safer than even before in spite of the almost 
countless number of biocides and the necessary conservation processes. New 
dangers for the health of the infants and children are the dietary ideologies 
and the mirage of "diet left to nature".

PMID: 6767933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. MMW Munch Med Wochenschr. 1980 Jan 25;122(4):123-4.

[Dangers of radiography].

[Article in German]

Stieve FE.

PMID: 6767934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. N Engl J Med. 1980 Aug 7;303(6):308-16. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198008073030604.

Estrogen use in postmenopausal women--costs, risks, and benefits.

Weinstein MC.

The cost effectiveness of estrogen use in postmenopausal women was analyzed with 
use of data from the medical and epidemiologic literature. Risks of endometrial 
cancer, uterine bleeding, and gallbladder disease were weighed against benefits 
associated with relief of menopausal symptoms and with prevention of 
osteoporosis and consequent fractures. Net effects on life expectancy are 
probably small in either direction, although they are likely to be positive in 
women with existing osteoporosis or prior hysterectomy. Treatment appears to be 
relatively cost effective in menopausal women with prior hysterectomy or 
osteoporosis but does not appear to be cost effective as a prophylactiv measure 
in asymptomatic women with intact uteri. For women with menopausal symptoms and 
intact uteri, the decision to prescribe estrogens for the individual patient and 
the cost effectiveness of estrogen use at the societal level depend critically 
on the subjective values assigned to symptomatic relief.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198008073030604
PMID: 6770270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Med Parazitol (Mosk). 1980 Mar-Apr;49(2):60-7.

[Effect of insect growth inhibitors - dimilin, altozide and altozar - on 
houseflies Musca domestica L. III. Effect of insect growth inhibitors on the 
imago of houseflies].

[Article in Russian]

Lineva VA, Chunina LM.

PMID: 6771508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Acta Anat (Basel). 1980;107(4):389-98. doi: 10.1159/000145266.

The interglobular spaces in the endochondral layer of the osseous labyrinth. 
Comparative anatomical study.

Rauchfuss A.

The endochondral layer of the osseous labyrinth in the rat, golden hamster, 
mouse, guinea pig, pig, rabbit, cat, dog and monkey was studied and compared 
with that of man. (1) With the exception of the mouse and golden hamster, 
interglobular spaces were found. (2) In all species but the rat, the 
interglobular spaces contain acid mucopolysaccharides. An analogy between these 
structures and the 'basophilic islands' (basophile Inseln) is discussed. (3) 
Extension, arrangement, direction, occurrence and frequency of interglobular 
spaces vary within each species so that no constant relations could be found, 
which are also lacking in man. Possible reasons for the persistence throughout 
life of interglobular spaces in the osseous labyrinth of man and some mammals 
are discussed.

DOI: 10.1159/000145266
PMID: 6773289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Biochem Pharmacol. 1980 Jun 15;29(12):1807-13. doi: 
10.1016/0006-2952(80)90143-4.

Extension of the blood half-life of glyceryl trinitrate. Inhibition of 
glutathione organic nitrate ester reductase activity in the rat and guinea pig.

Stein RL, O'Brien JK, Irwin C, Townsend-Parchman JK, Hunter FE Jr.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-2952(80)90143-4
PMID: 6773526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Mech Ageing Dev. 1980 May;13(1):41-62. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(80)90129-3.

Detecting early-life components in the determination of the age of death.

Flanagan JR.

The non-heritable intrapopulation variability of lifespans can be used as a tool 
for studying the onset of expression of senescence. For this purpose, analytical 
methods are described and illustrated here. They are simple and applicable to 
any system including the limited clonal division potential of cells in culture 
(in vitro senescence). Using these methods, two questions can be posed: (1) when 
is lifespan first determined? and (2) are the pre-senescent events of life 
correlated with lifespan? The use of the analysis in answering these questions 
is exemplified with a few preliminary experiments. These are intended to be 
illustrative and provocative rather than definitive. The results suggest the 
following which show that the methods of this report can profitably be used to 
answer important questions concerning senescence. In the Oregon-R line of 
Drosophila melanogaster most if not all of the intrapopulation variability in 
lifespan is non-heritable, in support of the conclusion of Lints. The 
variability may instead indicate the stochastic action of the mechanism of 
senescence itself; other models are also considered. Experiments indicate that 
much of the variability to be expressed in lifespan may be present in latent 
form very early in life in Drosophila. Evidence is presented indicating that two 
pre-senescent events studied are correlated with lifespan and hence are 
landmarks of the progress of senescence. It is argued that such experimental 
results can place constraints on theories of senescence.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(80)90129-3
PMID: 6774179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. J Baltimore Coll Dent Surg. 1980 Jun;33(2):7-11.

A lack of life span prolongation following low doses of X irradiation in 
Drosophila.

Gartner LP, Granat LJ.

PMID: 6776090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Soc Sci Med Med Econ. 1980 Mar;14(1):35-9. doi:
10.1016/0160-7995(80)90006-4.

Cost-benefit analysis of epilepsy clinics.

Kriedel T.

DOI: 10.1016/0160-7995(80)90006-4
PMID: 6777872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Gerontology. 1980;26(6):301-10. doi: 10.1159/000212433.

Differences between natural ageing and radio-induced shortening of the life 
expectancy in Drosophila melanogaster.

Giess MC.

Adult Drosophila aged 1,4 or 8 days were irradiated with a 60Co source, 
supplying 1,000 rpm, at doses of 0, 15, 20, 25, 50 and 75 kr. In either sex, 
radio-induced death seems to arise from different mechanisms to those of natural 
death. The post-radiative response, however, is different for the two sexes, 
radiosensitivity in females is dependent on their state of physiological 
maturity i.e. at 20 and 25 kr sensitivity decreased with age. In males, in 
return, radiosensitivity is not directly correlated to age, death occurs at a 
fixed period after irradiation.

DOI: 10.1159/000212433
PMID: 6778777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1980;73(3):254-9.

[Sinus node dysfunction. Clinical outcome and results of cardiac pacing].

[Article in French]

Medvedowsky JL, Barnay C, Medvedowsky A, Vincey JC, Coste A, Jouven JC.

112 patients (average age 66 +/- 13 years) with sinus node dysfunction, selected 
on clinical, electrocardiographic and electrophysiological criteria, were 
followed up for a period of 3 to 55 months (average: 30,2 months). Permanent 
cardiac pacing was instituted in 59 patients (52,6 p. 100), and the remaining 
patients treated medically. 25 patients were lost to follow up (22,3 p. 100: 5 
paced, 20 non paced). 16 patients died (14,2 p. 100): mortality was relatively 
early (average 11,7 months) and higher in patients with pacemakers (15/16); the 
causes of death were acute heart failure (8 cases), and cerebral vascular 
accident (3 cases). In the surviving paced patients neurological symptoms 
completely regressed. In this series, the life expectancy of patients with sinus 
node dysfunction seemed to depend mainly on the state of their myocardium, but 
the functional prognosis was clearly improved by cardiac pacing.

PMID: 6779741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1981 Jan 24;282(6260):269-71. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.282.6260.269.

Prognosis in giant-cell arteritis.

Graham E, Holland A, Avery A, Russell RW.

In a study to assess the natural history of giant-cell arteritis, 90 patients 
with proved disease were followed up from the time of diagnosis. Early mortality 
was low and most commonly due to vertebral arteritis, but cerebral infarction 
did not appear to be a late complication. High maintenance dose steroids and 
visual loss were associated significantly with a shortened life span (p=0.0003 
and p=0.0024). One-third of the patients developed chronic relapsing disease, 
but serious late complications were not encountered. After the initial attack 
has been controlled steroid dosage should be reduced to the minimum needed to 
alleviate symptoms.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.282.6260.269
PMCID: PMC1504093
PMID: 6779980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. J Trop Med Hyg. 1981 Apr;84(2):49-61.

National incomes and health: implications of some recent additions to the data.

Cumper GE.

PIP: 2 of the possible links between national income and national health status 
have attracted particular attention. A strong statistical association exists 
between national per capita income and such indicators of national health status 
as infant mortality rates and life expectancy, suggesting some broad causal 
nexus between high incomes and better health. 2nd, the national accounts provide 
a convenient framework for defining the share of a country's resources which is 
devoted to health services, either through the public or the private sector, how 
these resources are provided and financed, and who are the beneficiaries. Either 
of these types of relationships between income level and health may have much 
significance for the development of health on a global scale--the improvement of 
the health status of the populations of the developing countries. Data and 
discussion regarding the international distribution of income and its 
implications for health and direct national comparisons of purchasing power and 
their implications for health lead to the following conclusions about policy 
toward health development in the 3rd world: 1) using the presently available 
health care approaches, there is reason to expect substantial improvement in 
health status in the developing countries by the year 2000 based on the 
following factors--the growth of per capita incomes for reasons external to the 
health sector, any additional increases in the per capita resources devoted to 
health care, and improvements in the efficiency with which inputs are applied in 
the health sector so as to bring all countries up to the level of the currently 
most efficient; and 2) foreign assistance to the health sector will be most 
effective if it concerns current rather than capital inputs and it takes the 
form of money or scarce equipment rather than the services of health personnel. 
Given data limitations these conclusions are tentative and lead to further 
outlined recommendations.

PMID: 6783764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. NIDA Res Monogr. 1981 Feb;34:11-9.

Increasing life span; changing disease patterns; changing life styles: the role 
of government.

Steinfeld JL.

Much progress has been achieved over the past twenty years in informing the 
American people of the hazards of cigarette smoking. Over thirty million 
Americans have quit smoking cigarettes; many have quit as a result of social 
pressure--cigarette smoking becoming less socially acceptable. The average 
cigarette has less than half as much tar and less than half as much nicotine as 
its predecessor cigarettes a quarter century ago. Moreover, most American 
cigarettes today are filtered. We still do not know why people begin or why they 
continue to smoke. I would urge the Committee on Problems of Drug Dependence to 
add tobacco--as you've added alcohol--to your agenda for research, for 
cooperative studies, and for an annual update. You should examine and speculate 
upon the reasons why 53,000,000 Americans' dependence on tobacco has attracted 
so little attention from scientists with knowledge and expertise such as yours. 
And when you have the answers, I hope you will utilize those answers to attract 
more research and appropriate action to our number one public health problem and 
our number one drug dependence problem.

PMID: 6783918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Ann Intern Med. 1981 Mar;94(3):395-400. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-94-3-395.

Immunization to prevent insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus? The economics of 
genetic screening and vaccination for diabetes.

England WL, Roberts SD.

There is increasing evidence that some cases of insulin-dependent diabetes 
mellitus are virally induced, and vaccination against this disease may become 
possible. We have prospectively examined the costs and benefits that would occur 
if a diabetes vaccine were developed, using a decision tree to model the 
alternative vaccination policies, including histocompatibility leukocyte antigen 
(HLA) screening. We found many cost and likelihood data in the literature, and 
when data on the potential vaccine had to be hypothesized, we used sensitivity 
analysis to check our estimates. We conclude that vaccinating all children at 
age 3 would be preferable to HLA screening and vaccinating only persons with a 
genetic predisposition to developing diabetes. A 50% effective vaccine would cut 
the diabetes incidence rate by 29% and save the U.S. population $30 million 
annually in direct costs of diabetes care. If indirect costs are considered 
these savings could amount to $4.2 billion over 60 years, discounted to present 
value at 5%, while preventing over 200,000 cases of insulin-dependent diabetes.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-94-3-395
PMID: 6784628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Arch Intern Med. 1981 Jun;141(7):855-8.

Are home hemodialysis aides cost-effective? Cost of home hemodialysis aides.

Roberts SD, Maxwell DR, Gross TL.

Payment for home hemodialysis aides has been proposed as a means of inducing 
shifts from center hemodialysis to less-expensive home hemodialysis. By using a 
simulation model, we computed the cost per life year of end-stage renal disease 
care when changes in the proportions of patients treated by center for home 
hemodialysis are brought about by paying for home hemodialysis aides. If all 
home hemodialysis patients receive payment for aides, total costs will increase 
unless there are sufficient shifts from center to home hemodialysis to offset 
the increased costs. The cost-effectiveness of home hemodialysis aides is 
critically dependent on who receives a paid aide, the salary of the aid, and the 
number of patients who move from center to home hemodialysis. Poorly formulated 
regulations may jeopardize the cost-effectiveness of home hemodialysis and 
increase the total cost of end-stage renal disease care.

PMID: 6786234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Exp Gerontol. 1981;16(3):287-93. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(81)90024-3.

Effects of ethidium bromide on development and aging of Drosophila: implications 
for the free radical theory of aging.

Fleming JE, Leon HA, Miquel J.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(81)90024-3
PMID: 6788582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1981 Aug;137(2):231-9. doi: 10.2214/ajr.137.2.231.

Contributions of the radiographic image to our knowledge of human growth.

Garn SM.

Radiography has brought about marked advances in our knowledge of human growth 
offering information on sequence and timing as well as changes in dimensions and 
proportions and segmental and "relative" growth. Not only has it been possible 
to measure growth rates and changes in relative rates at the two ends of a 
single bone and in homologous bones across the body axis, but it has also been 
practical to measure rates of bone loss (due to malnutrition and malabsorption) 
in the presence of simultaneous bone gain. Careful and detailed analysis of the 
radiographic image, the use of radiogrammetric techniques and extension of the 
same techniques to the fetal skeleton has afforded new knowledge on continuing 
growth throughout the life span and on the earliest (fetal) attainment of adult 
bone shapes and proportions.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.137.2.231
PMID: 6789627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Can J Surg. 1981 Jul;24(4):425-6.

Primary carcinoma of the fallopian tube.

Kadziora MB, Srinivasan R.

Primary carcinoma of the fallopian tube is a rare condition and not easy to 
diagnose. On a smear taken from the vagina of a 73-year-old woman, cells 
consistent with adenocarcinoma were detected even though the patient was 
asymptomatic. The specimen from endometrial curettage was normal on microscopic 
examination. The patient was readmitted, 2 months after dilatation and 
curettage, with a right pleural effusion. Examination of the pleural fluid 
revealed adenocarcinomatous cells. Laparotomy disclosed a primary carcinoma 
(stage IV) of the left fallopian tube. Thiotepa (45 mg) was instilled into the 
chest cavity and medroxyprogesterone (100 mg tid) and melphalan (6 mg/d for 4 
days over 6 weeks) were given. Although the life expectancy for stage IV primary 
carcinoma of the fallopian tube is less than 2 years this patient has no 
clinical evidence of disease 2 1/2 years after operation.

PMID: 6791798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. MMW Munch Med Wochenschr. 1981 Nov 20;123(47):1775-9.

[Epidemiology of hypertension risks: of no consequence to the German Federal 
Republic? (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

F√ºller A, Keil U, Nissinen A, Laaser U.

A widely based epidemiologic research on hypertension has led to successful 
action programs abroad: e.g. the incidence of hypertension fell by about 50% in 
North Karelia, Finland, and in the USA the life expectancy rose by 1.5 years. 
Against the background of international scientific agreement both the Conference 
for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the World Health Organization have 
awarded hypertension the highest priority for European cooperation. In the 
Federal Republic there is a great backlog; the responsible politicians are 
called upon to set a new course.

PMID: 6796851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1981 Nov;74(11):1299-306.

[Long-term course of patients with Smeloff-Cutter aortic valve prosthesis].

[Article in French]

N√®gre E, Ferri√®re M, N√®gre G, Pernet P.

The long-term results (5 to 12 years) of 77 patients with Smeloff-Cutter aortic 
valve prostheses are reported. These patients were comparable in age, 
preoperative clinical condition and type of aortic valve replacement. The 
postoperative follow-up period of this series was however significantly longer. 
The 5 year survival rate was of 87%. The causes of death included 
thromboembolism, infectious endocarditis and cardiac failure. Mortality was 
higher in the first 5 postoperative years : 2,4% patient-years compared to 1,5% 
patient-years in the following years. Thromboembolism and neurological 
complications were particularly rare, representing a risk of 1,04% patient-years 
but these complications were lethal in half the cases in which they occurred. No 
haemolytic complications were observed. Infective endocarditis always occurred 
in patients with a history of infection, the complication usually being late 
(after 3 years). The life expectancy of patients seen after 5 years is at least 
5 additional years in 80% of cases. The haemodynamic profile of the prosthesis 
did not degrade with time. After 5 years, 58,6% of patients in functional Class 
IV at operation were in Class I or II afterwards. 84,4% of patients operated in 
functional Class III were in Class I or II, and 93% operated in functional Class 
II were in Class I or III. A control of 3 prostheses carried out by the Cutter 
laboratory after 10 and 11 years' function shows practically no deterioration of 
the prosthesis. The low incidence of thromboembolism, the absence of haemolysis 
and long-term deterioration of the prosthesis are particularly valuable 
characteristics of this prosthesis in the aortic position.

PMID: 6797368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. J Iowa Med Soc. 1981 Nov;71(11):477-82.

Every eighth Iowan.

Morris WW.

PMID: 6801149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Sov Zdravookhr. 1982;(2):8-13.

[Approximate calculation of the economic effect of preserving human life].

[Article in Russian]

Kulagina EN.

PMID: 6801777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1982 Apr 10;284(6322):1081-4. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.284.6322.1081.

Survival and desferrioxamine in thalassaemia major.

Modell B, Letsky EA, Flynn DM, Peto R, Weatherall DJ.

A small randomised trial and observation of all patients homozygous for 
beta-thalassaemia in Britain born in or before 1963 indicated that those 
patients who had received average weekly doses of more than 4 g of 
desferrioxamine over the previous few years were less likely to die in the near 
future than were patients of similar ages who had received less, or no, 
desferrioxamine.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.284.6322.1081
PMCID: PMC1497956
PMID: 6802413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. N Engl J Med. 1982 May 27;306(21):1308-12. doi: 10.1056/nejm198205273062134.

Health Policy Report. Medicare's uncertain future.

Iglehart JK.

DOI: 10.1056/nejm198205273062134
PMID: 6803160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Radiobiologiia. 1982 Mar-Apr;22(2):203-8.

[Radiation-induced shortening of the lifespan of D. melanogaster. 1. Analysis of 
the survival curves following gamma-irradiation of adult insects].

[Article in Russian]

Potapenko AI, Akif'ev AP, Ivanov VI.

PMID: 6806848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1982;76(3):212-7. doi: 10.1007/BF00432547.

Anticonvulsant and proconvulsant properties of viloxazine hydrochloride: 
pharmacological and pharmacokinetic studies in rodents and the epileptic baboon.

Meldrum BS, Anlezark GM, Adam HK, Greenwood DT.

Viloxazine HCl is evaluated as an anticonvulsant in a wide range of rodent 
seizure models and in the epileptic baboon (Papio papio). In the maximal 
electroshock test, the oral ED50 for abolition of tonic extension was 9 mg/kg-1 
after 30-min pretreatment (mouse) rising to 30 mg/kg-1 after 60 min (mouse and 
rat). Comparable ED50 values were also found for protection against tonic 
extension in the mouse induced by the administration of the chemical convulsants 
metrazole or 3-mercaptopropionic acid. In DBA/2 mice the ED50 for abolition of 
tonic extension during sound-induced seizures was 6.8 mg/kg-1 IP (30-min 
pretreatment). Pharmacokinetic studies in the mouse showed peak plasma levels to 
occur 30 min following oral doses, with a mean half-life of 58 min. The 
anticonvulsant plasma concentration was within 0.5 -- 1 microgram/ml-1. In the 
baboon, significant protection against photomyoclonic responses is observed 1 -- 
2h after viloxazine (2.6 mg/kg-1 IV), during which period the plasma 
concentration was again 0.5-1 microgram/ml-1. After administration of 
approximately ten-times this latter dose level, i.e. 24 mg/kg-1 IV, a syndrome 
characterised by an abnormal EEG and, in some instances, seizure activity was 
observed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00432547
PMID: 6808538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1982 Mar;62(3):181-4.

[Current theories of biological aging in man (author's transl)].

[Article in Chinese]

Lu WS, Zeng EK.

PMID: 6809265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 1982 Mar-Apr;90(2):208-14. doi: 
10.1177/019459988209000213.

An intraoral self-contained artificial larynx.

Lowry LD, Katz PA, Brenman HS, Schwartz HL.

It has been estimated that approximately one third to one half of persons 
undergoing total laryngectomy do not obtain a satisfactory voice. These patients 
remain aphonic or use artificial larynges to facilitate their communication. A 
multidisciplinary group at Thomas Jefferson University has developed a 
miniaturized artificial larynx that fits on a dental prosthesis or dental plate 
which has over a 100-dB sound pressure level output at the source and is powered 
by two hearing aid batteries with a life expectancy of over 100 hours of 
continuous use. Clinical trials have shown that persons using other artificial 
devices quickly adapt to this new artificial larynx, and the first person who 
began using the device, an Italian, commented that he could now use both hands; 
and felt that this was a great help because of his ethnic background.

DOI: 10.1177/019459988209000213
PMID: 6810267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Br J Haematol. 1982 Sep;52(1):7-12. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.1982.tb03856.x.

Changes in the life expectancy of patients with severe haemophilia A in Finland 
in 1930-79.

Ikkala E, Helske T, Myllyl√§ G, Nevanlinna HR, Pitk√§nen P, Rasi V.

Important advances have been made in the treatment of haemophilia during the 
past 30 years. We have analysed the data of all the known 163 patients with 
severe haemophilia A living in Finland in 1930-79 in order to study changes in 
the prognosis of severe haemophilia A. During the period of 50 years the mean 
age at death of the patients has increased from 7.8 years in 1930-39 to 25.5 
years in 1970-79 and the annual death rate has markedly decreased in all age 
groups. The decline has been greatest in patients under 10 years of age. In this 
age group the annual death rate decreased from over 50 per thousand in 1930-39 
and 1940-49 to 4.8 per thousand in 1970-79. The prognosis of patients with 
inhibitors has remained poor, however. Five of the six deaths during the last 
decade occurred in patients with inhibitors. The overall annual death rate of 
patients without inhibitors was only 1.2 per thousand in 1970-79, suggesting 
that at the present time the life expectancy of patients who do not develop 
inhibitors does not markedly differ from that of the general male population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.1982.tb03856.x
PMID: 6810913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Circulation. 1982 Nov;66(5 Pt 2):III56-66.

Cost-effectiveness of coronary artery bypass surgery.

Weinstein MC, Stason WB.

Recent data from the medical literature and other sources were used in an 
analysis of the cost-effectiveness of coronary artery bypass graft surgery 
(CABG) in symptomatic patients. Health effectiveness was expressed as the gain 
in quality-adjusted life expectancy, allowing for a range of subjective weights 
attached to symptomatic benefits. Costs included those of surgery, medical 
management of angina, and treatment of future myocardial infarctions. CABG 
appears to increase unadjusted life expectancy by 0.6 years in patients with 
two-vessel disease and 6.9 years in patients with left main coronary disease. 
Even in one-vessel disease, a gain in quality-adjusted life expectancy is 
estimated, owing to symptomatic benefits. For patients with severe angina, the 
estimated net cost per quality-adjusted year of life gained from CABG ranges 
from $3800 in left main disease to $30,000 in one-vessel disease. These figures 
compare favorably with those for other accepted medical therapies, such as 
treatment of moderate diastolic hypertension.

PMID: 6812979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Med J Malaysia. 1982 Jun;37(2):134-40.

Population & social indicators of food and nutrition in Peninsular Malaysia.

Chong YH.

PIP: Recent trends in population indicators that relate to food, nutrition, and 
nutritionally related health situations in Malaysia are reviewed. The overview 
is supplemented when possible with data obtained from recent community level 
nutrition assessment surveys. The death rate of children 1-4 years has for many 
years been accepted as a rough indicator of protein calorie malnutrition. Along 
ethnic lines, the Malays suffer the highest toddler mortality, being 2.91/1000 
compared to 2.38 for Indians and 1.18 for the Chinese for 1978. There is also 
considerable variation in total mortality rate (TMR) from state to state. If one 
examines the annual percentage rate of decline of TMR over the 1957-1967 and 
1968-1978 periods, one finds that while the average annual percentage decline in 
TMR was higher for the predominantly urban Chinese during the 1st decade after 
Merdeka, this is now reversed in favor of the predominantly rural Malay 
population. During 1978, the national incidence for low birth weight was 17.5% 
in Indians, 10.8% in Malays, and 7.9% in Chinese. Calorie availability per 
capita daily has increased from a mean of 2453 during 1961-1970 to 2550 during 
1971-1978. Similarly, protein availability has also increased, albeit 
marginally, from 50 g to 52 g for the corresponding periods. Expressed as % of 
requirement, calorie avilability now stands at around 123%; protein availabiltiy 
is at 108%. The food balance sheet analysis gives no indication of the unequal 
distribution of food between the various socioeconomic groups. Segments of the 
community with extreme availabilties of calorie and protein, associated with 
inadequacies or excesses are bound to exist. For the purposes of national 
planning, the per capita daily availability of calories and protein should be 
aimed at levels that well exceed their estimated requirements in order to allow 
for unequal distribution and plate waste. The community nutritional assessments 
showed that although the prevalence of acute malnutrition in the form of 
moderate "wasting" was low (1-3%), the moderate forms of chronic malnutrition as 
manifested by "underweight" (12-37%) or "stunting" (5-36%) were relatively 
common. There was also a moderate prevalence of anemia (16-33%). In rural 
Malaysia and the urban squatter areas, the presence of helminthic parasites such 
as ascaris and trichuris is ubiquitous. Continued efforts should be directed to 
the improvement of the nutritional health of both rural and urban poverty 
communities, and public health measures should be adopted to stem the rising 
number of deaths associated with the country's increasing affluence, 
particularly those disesases that are nutritionally linked.

PMID: 6813659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Chin Med J (Engl). 1982 Aug;95(8):569-78.

Neijing chronobiologic medical theories.

Wu JY.

PMID: 6814858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Med Decis Making. 1981;1(1):10-28. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8100100104.

Coronary artery bypass graft surgery: clinical decision making and 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Pliskin JS, Stason WB, Weinstein MC, Johnson RA, Cohn PF, McEnany MT, Braun P.

Decision-analytic techniques were used to evaluate the choice between an 
aortocoronary bypass operation and medical management in a set of hypothetical 
patients with coronary artery disease. The decision framework incorporates 
variables believed to have an important bearing on the choice of treatment. 
Probability estimates were obtained from two cardiologists and one cardiac 
surgeon. Patient preferences for the trade-off between years of survival and the 
quality of life as reflected by the severity of angina pectoris were made 
explicit by assigning utility values to alternative health outcomes. The results 
are expressed in terms of quality-adjusted years of life expectancy. Decision 
analysis favored operation for 13 of the 14 hypothetical patients, including 
patients with one- and two-vessel disease. The one patient for whom medical 
treatment was preferred had mild angina pectoris, severe left ventricular 
dysfunction, and a poor prognosis regardless of therapeutic modality. The 
results are sensitive to changes in the probability of long-term survival, but 
not to changes in operative mortality rates. In five patients, the physicians' 
clinical judgments favored medical treatment, whereas their 
decision-analysis-derived estimates of survival favored operation. Possible 
explanations for these discrepancies are discussed. A simplified 
cost-effectiveness analysis for patients in whom surgery was the optimal 
treatment indicated costs ranging from $1,500 to $250,000 per year of life 
gained and from $1,500 to $32,000 per quality-adjusted year of life gained.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8100100104
PMID: 6820456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Med Decis Making. 1981;1(4):309-30. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8100100403.

Economic assessments of medical practices and technologies.

Weinstein MC.

Cost-effectiveness analysis can be useful as an aid to decision makers concerned 
with the allocation of health care resources. The approach requires an explicit, 
quantitative measure of the health effectiveness of the intervention under 
analysis, as well as a measure of its net resource cost. Cost-effectiveness 
analyses are less useful if the measure of effectiveness is expressed in units 
that are unique to the intervention or class of interventions being considered 
than if the measure is comparable across interventions. The life year as a unit 
offers the advantage of comparability across programs, but its use in 
cost-effectiveness analysis can be misleading if the effects of the program in 
question include changes in the quality of life. Cost-effectiveness analyses of 
estrogen therapy in the menopause, high blood pressure control, and coronary 
artery bypass surgery are used to illustrate the method of analysis and the 
sensitivity of conclusions to the manner in which quality-of-life impacts are 
included explicitly (or excluded entirely). Cost-effectiveness analyses, 
therefore, should always include sensitivity analyses in which preference 
weights and parameters are varied over the plausible range. Inability to measure 
the quality of life and preferences regarding such effects should not be an 
excuse for failing to include them in a cost-effectiveness analysis.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8100100403
PMID: 6820459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 1982 May;1(1):3-27. doi:
10.1016/0167-4943(82)90003-6.

Rate of aging, rate of dying and the mechanism of mortality.

Economos AC.

The history of the search for the law and the mechanism of mortality is 
reviewed. Recent evidence is summarized showing that the Gompertz law of 
exponentially increasing force of mortality is only an approximate model of 
mortality kinetics; various other models also provide a more or less 
satisfactory fit of mortality kinetics data. In particular, a simple model 
proposed by the author contains the Gompertz model as a special case and is of 
general validity: it consists of exponentially increasing cumulative mortality 
in an initial age range followed by exponentially decreasing survivorship. The 
various proposed mechanisms underlying mortality kinetics are reviewed, with 
emphasis on their origin and similarities, and a mechanism is proposed mending 
two basic classical ideas which are only partially valid: (1) Gompertz's 
accelerated decline of vitality coupled with identical aging rates of the 
individuals of a population; and (2) Simms' idea of statistically distributed 
individual aging rates with a uniform average aging rate (linear decline of 
physiological vitality). This theory provides a basis for analyzing the 
relationship between rates of aging and rates of dying.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-4943(82)90003-6
PMID: 6821142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Radiat Res. 1983 Jan;93(1):205-9.

Life shortening in mice exposed to fission neutrons and gamma rays. III. neutron 
exposures of 5 and 10 rad.

Thomson JF, Williamson FS, Grahn D.

PMID: 6823507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. South Med J. 1983 Jan;76(1):30-2. doi: 10.1097/00007611-198301000-00010.

Unusual manifestations of gallstone migration into the gastrointestinal tract.

Ramanujam P, Shabeeb N, Silver JM.

Eighty-one cases of mechanical small bowel obstruction were seen at our hospital 
in the three year period 1978 to 1980. Four (5%) were due to gallstone ileus, 
three of them in women. All four patients were more than 75 years of age. 
Because most patients with biliary-enteric fistulas and gallstone ileus are 
elderly and in poor general condition, simple removal of the obstruction 
gallstone is usually adequate, but interval cholecystectomy is recommended in 
patients with a long life expectancy, because recurrence of calculi and symptoms 
increases with time.

DOI: 10.1097/00007611-198301000-00010
PMID: 6823574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. South Med J. 1983 Feb;76(2):155-7.

Can society afford perinatal health care?

Boehm FH.

PMID: 6823589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Ann Surg. 1983 Feb;197(2):128-34. doi: 10.1097/00000658-198302000-00002.

Intraosseous metastatic breast cancer treatment with internal fixation and study 
of survival.

Gristina AG, Adair DM, Spurr CL.

The treatment of 31 actual or pending pathologic fractures of the long bones 
with open reduction and internal fixation with methylmethacrylate in 25 patients 
with intraosseous metastatic breast cancer is reported. Twenty hips, eight 
femurs, and three humeri were involved. On the basis of Wilcoxon survival 
curves, average life expectancy was unaltered by this treatment. However, relief 
of pain and overall function were significantly improved by rigid internal 
fixation; 74% of results were rated good (23 cases); 13% fair (four cases); and 
13% poor (four cases). Three patients died within three weeks of operation; the 
fourth poor result was a fixation failure and was repaired with good results. 
Thus, the efficacy and success of open reduction and internal fixation with 
methylmethacrylate were confirmed, even in bones with widespread involvement. 
The procedure is recommended for any patient with fracture or impending fracture 
of the long bones secondary to metastatic breast cancer, as long as that 
patient's predicted survival is greater than six weeks after postoperative 
recovery.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-198302000-00002
