PMCID: PMC1353099
PMID: 6824367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1983 Mar 4;108(9):331-5. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1069551.

[Survival and outcome after pacemaker implantation. Comparison of patients with 
sinus node syndrome, AV block and absolute bradyarrhythmia].

[Article in German]

Alt E, Dechand E, Wirtzfeld A, Ulm K.

Survival chances of 2007 patients with pacemaker implantation were determined. 
For the group as a whole, five-year survival rate was 57%, ten-year survival 
rate 35%. The prognosis was significantly better in patients with sick-sinus 
syndrome than those with AV block or brady-arrhythmias. Those with sick-sinus 
syndrome had an expectancy which was comparable to that of the (age and sex 
matched) normal population, while those with brady-arrhythmia had a 
significantly worse ten-year survival rate (24.7%) compared with a normal 
population (47.8%), P less than 0.01. Since the survival rate in sick-sinus 
syndrome - with or without pacemaker - is not different to that of the normal 
population, improved quality of life by preventing symptoms should be balanced 
against the risk of pacemaker-produced complications when indications for 
pacemaker treatment are considered.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1069551
PMID: 6825610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Experientia. 1983 Jan 15;39(1):47-9. doi: 10.1007/BF01960620.

The biological aging process.

von Hahn HP.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01960620
PMID: 6825774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1983 Jan 8;113(1):3-14.

[The effect of smoking on mortality and life expectancy of the Swiss 
population].

[Article in German]

Leu RE, Schaub T.

The quantitative impact of smoking on mortality and longevity in Switzerland is 
investigated. The calculations are based on mortality ratios between smokers and 
nonsmokers reported in prospective epidemiologic studies, the prevalence of 
smoking in Switzerland, cause-specific mortality rates and the lifetable. The 
results imply that in 1976 roughly 3800 premature deaths were attributable to 
smoking, more than 90% involving males. Thus, smoking appears to be the leading 
preventable cause of death in Switzerland. The results of lifetable methods used 
to estimate the impact of smoking on longevity imply that smoking reduces male 
life expectancy by 12 to 16 months, and that eradication of smoking would 
increase life expectancy accordingly. Combining the above results suggests that, 
in 1976, between 52 000 and 54 000 life years were lost as a consequence of the 
smokers' premature mortality.

PMID: 6828836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Can Med Assoc J. 1983 Apr 1;128(7):791-2.

Ageing, fitness and morbidity.

Rechnitzer PA.

PMCID: PMC1875044
PMID: 6831322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1983 Mar 31;108(13):500-3. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1069587.

[Osteosynthesis in the metastatic skeletal involvement of breast cancer. 
Subjective and objective advantages].

[Article in German]

Bertermann O, Senn HJ, Jungi WF, Weber BG.

In a retrospective study 15 patients with pathological fractures in metastatic 
breast cancer were investigated. Wound healing was uneventful in 13 patients. 
All patients were able to walk again postoperatively and 11 were free from pain. 
All lasted through the operation in good shape. In no case was there a need for 
a secondary amputation. Two patients suffered from a fracture of the implant. 
The average survival time was 24 months from the time of operation, the maximum 
was 52, the minimum 7 months. The results show that surgery in pathological 
fractures of metastatic carcinoma of the breast is beneficial to the patients 
both subjectively and objectively. Despite the usually limited life-expectancy 
they are able to return to their usual surroundings free from pain and able to 
walk.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1069587
PMID: 6832024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Demography. 1983 Feb;20(1):27-43.

Development, inequality, health care, and mortality at the older ages: a 
cross-national analysis.

Weatherby NL, Nam CB, Isaac LW.

We examine mortality at ages 50 and above in female populations of 38 countries 
and control for variation in quality of the mortality data. We find that 
economic development, economic distributional inequality, and basic primary 
health care have independent cross-national effects on cause of death structures 
and that these effects are not uniform across the age intervals of interest. As 
improvements occur in level of living and health care, age-specific death rates 
decline except at the oldest ages, at which point they may increase. Our results 
are interpreted in terms of their relevance for mortality research, theory, and 
policy.

PMID: 6832432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. J Chronic Dis. 1983;36(4):361-2. doi: 10.1016/0021-9681(83)90122-4.

Survival from spinal cord injury.

Fletcher RH.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9681(83)90122-4
PMID: 6833456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Mutat Res. 1983 Apr;114(3):449-57. doi: 10.1016/0165-1110(83)90040-4.

International Commission for Protection against Environmental Mutagens and 
Carcinogens. ICPEMC working paper 5/5. Perspectives in mutation epidemiology. 5. 
Modern medical practice versus environmental mutagens: their possible dysgenic 
impact.

Matsunaga E.

We do not know how many mutations are being produced in human populations by 
exposure to environmental mutagens. If these mutagens caused a persistent rise 
in mutation rates, then ultimately there would be a proportional increase in the 
frequency of a variety of genetic diseases, including those that are difficult 
to treat and that require life-long care of affected individuals. In contrast, 
modern medical practices are relaxing selection pressure selectively with 
respect to disease, leading to a gradual increase in the frequency of certain 
genetic and partly genetic diseases that can be effectively treated. The pattern 
of this increase would differ from condition to condition, depending upon the 
mode of inheritance and the extent to which selection is relaxed; except for 
some special cases, the anticipated increase would generally be slow. Additional 
economic burdens on future society and families imposed by relaxed selection 
would mainly involve expenditures for relatively inexpensive treatments, and not 
those for expensive life-long care. Moreover, individuals treated successfully 
can be expected to contribute productively to society. With education and 
counseling for those who survive serious dominant and X-linked disorders, and 
with the development of accurate, inexpensive prenatal diagnosis, the presumed 
dysgenic effects of relaxed selection could be balanced.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-1110(83)90040-4
PMID: 6835245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. N Engl J Med. 1983 Apr 28;308(17):986-94. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198304283081702.

Occult intracranial aneurysms in polycystic kidney disease. When is cerebral 
arteriography indicated?

Levey AS, Pauker SG, Kassirer JP.

Patients with polycystic kidney disease are at increased risk of subarachnoid 
hemorrhage from rupture of intracranial aneurysms. We used decision analysis to 
assess whether or not patients with polycystic kidney disease should undergo 
routine cerebral arteriography for intracranial aneurysms and prophylactic 
surgery, if an aneurysm is detected. We incorporated published data on the 
prevalence of intracranial aneurysms in patients with polycystic kidney disease, 
the annual rate of aneurysmal rupture, the risk of grave complications of 
rupture, and the likelihood of grave complications of arteriography and 
prophylactic surgery. Outcomes were assessed as years of survival, and benefit 
was calculated as the gain in survival. Our analysis shows that arteriography 
should not be carried out routinely because its benefit exceeds one year only if 
the prevalence of aneurysm exceeds 30 per cent, if the surgical complication 
rate is 1 per cent or less, and if the patient is under 25 years of age. If 
newer noninvasive tests, such as digital-subtraction angiography, prove to 
identify reliably patients who are highly likely to have a cerebral aneurysm, 
routine screening with these tests will be warranted in patients with polycystic 
kidney disease.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198304283081702
PMID: 6835317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Paraplegia. 1983 Feb;21(1):11-5. doi: 10.1038/sc.1983.2.

Life expectancy following spinal cord injury: a ten-years survey in the 
Rhône-Alpes Region, France, 1969-1980.

Minaire P, Demolin P, Bourret J, Girard R, Berard E, Deidier C, Eyssette M, 
Biron A.

A ten years survey of 848 patients having sustained traumatic spinal cord injury 
between 1969 and 1979 was conducted in the Rhône-Alpes Region, France. All 
patients had been referred to the spinal cord injury unit, Hôpital Henry 
Gabrielle. 48 deaths were recorded: 36 patients admitted early to the Unit, and 
12 patients injured before 1969 but followed-up in the Unit. The deceased 
patients were older and more frequently male and tetraplegic than the rest of 
the group. In 75 per cent of the deceased patients, the survival time was less 
than 1/5 of the theoretical life expectancy. In 59 per cent, it was less than 
1/10. Twenty tetraplegics died of respiratory complications. Three patients 
committed suicide, the rest died of urinary complications. The results appear to 
determine a secondary period with high mortality rate, after the initial high 
mortality of these patients. About one year post-injury, the life expectancy in 
our series appears to tend towards the values observed in the French population.

DOI: 10.1038/sc.1983.2
PMID: 6835687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Aviat Space Environ Med. 1983 Feb;54(2):168-70.

Some ideas about preventive medicine and health promotion in aviation medicine.

Wehrly DJ.

PMID: 6838455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Bull Cancer. 1983;70(1):26-30.

[Cancerogenic activity of antimitotic agents in animals].

[Article in French]

Mazue G, Combes M.

In past years, health authorities have exempted anti-neoplastic agents from 
undergoing carcinogenesis tests. However, in view of increasing knowledge of 
this therapeutic family and of patients' increased life expectancy, 
toxicologists are having to reconsider the problem from both ethical and 
scientific points of view. Analysis of data has established a correlation 
between mutagenic activity of these molecules, carcinogenic activity in the 
animal and carcinogenic activity in man. For this reason, studies in laboratory 
animals are of interest at the present time. Assessment of the carcinogenic 
activity of anti-neoplastic agents in animals must take into account the 
chemical structure of the drug. The experiments to be carried out are: either in 
vitro, short term tests aimed to detect genotoxic drugs by mutagenesis tests, or 
limited in vivo tests, in order to determine the promoting or initiating 
character of these drugs. However, the obtention of negative results with the 
latter tests does not exclude the necessity of long term tests. Whatever the 
results obtained during these experiments, the decision to stop or to continue 
the development of an anti-neoplastic agent does not belong exclusively to the 
toxicologist, who can assess the risk, but not the potential benefice.

PMID: 6839031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Cardiovasc Clin. 1983;13(2):1-13.

Principles of conservative treatment of occlusive arterial disease.

Coffman JD.

Conservative medical treatment is indicated for patients who have stable 
symptoms of intermittent claudication without rest symptoms or signs, rapidly 
progressive disease, or disability interfering with gainful employment (see Fig. 
1). Valuable general measures include meticulous care of the limbs, avoidance of 
trauma and infections, and maintenance of normal body weight. Cessation of 
tobacco smoking is extremely important, and a regimented exercise program is 
therapeutically beneficial (see Table 1). The high risk factors of diabetes 
mellitus and hypertension should be controlled. Hyperlipoproteinemia should be 
treated if present, but it is currently not known if treatment of elevated 
cholesterol or triglyceride levels prevents progression of or reverses the 
disease process. If a recent arterial occlusion is suspected, fibrinolytic 
therapy can be expected to benefit approximately one third of the patients. 
Anticoagulants and vasodilator drugs have not been shown to be of value. In 
patients with rest symptoms or signs, who are not candidates for surgical 
revascularization of the limb, bed rest with dependency of the limb in a warm 
environment, good foot care, and analgesics are most important. Ulcers should be 
treated with wet dressings to preserve granulation tissue, and parenteral 
antibiotics are used if infection is present. When rest symptoms or trophic 
lesions have disappeared or improved, the patient may be gradually ambulated but 
should continue to sleep with the head of the bed elevated and should maintain 
meticulous foot care.

PMID: 6839316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Cesk Patol. 1983 Feb;19(1):27-30.

[Morphologic correlations of anti-tumor immunity. II. Reactions of the tumor 
stroma].

[Article in Czech]

Jansa P, Pastrnák A.

In three groups of oncological patients (with oral, stomach, and breast cancer), 
standard testing of the tumour stromal reaction was made in relation to life 
expectancy. The quantification of stromal reaction, cell infiltration topography 
and representation as well as necroses of tumour tissue were analysed. A direct 
correlation between the stromal reaction intensity and the life expectancy could 
be shown for the stomach cancer only for the time being. A close contact of the 
stromal and tumour cells in this cancer could be also interpreted as a 
favourable prognostic sign. When using this simple testing for oral and breast 
cancer there were some not quite positive hints of correlation.

PMID: 6839382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Eur Heart J. 1983 Jan;4 Suppl A:107-14. doi:
10.1093/eurheartj/4.suppl_a.107.

General considerations on the advantages and pitfalls of exercise testing in the 
evaluation of cardiac failure.

Broustet JP, Pellegrin JL, Groulier JL, Barbier R, Pic A.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/4.suppl_a.107
PMID: 6840116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Med Hypotheses. 1983 Jan;10(1):105-12. doi: 10.1016/0306-9877(83)90056-7.

A model for the study of the long duration pathogenesis of cancer and its 
relevance to therapy.

Leibovici J.

The problem of comparing human cancer, a disease of long evolution, with 
experimental models in short life span animals is discussed. It is suggested 
that malignant tumors are more common in long life span animals because of the 
requirement of long periods of time for tumor progression. Increased malignancy 
may result from the ability of tumor cells to change, coupled with the long 
exposure of the neoplastic cells to the selective forces of the organism and the 
environment. It is proposed that the dynamic nature of tumors and the time 
required for changes to be expressed, should be taken into account in the study 
of the changing biological behavior of tumor cells and their changing responses 
to therapy. The use of transplantable tumors which increase in malignancy during 
successive transfers, artificially prolongs the existence of the neoplastic 
cells in isogeneic hosts, permitting thereby tumor progression. Tumor 
progression, occurs during a period which is accessible to the therapist. This 
dynamic process should be of primary interest to cancer researchers and 
therapists.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-9877(83)90056-7
PMID: 6843398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. N Engl J Med. 1983 Jan 6;308(1):1-7. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198301063080101.

The prognostic importance of clinical and histologic features in asymptomatic 
and symptomatic primary biliary cirrhosis.

Roll J, Boyer JL, Barry D, Klatskin G.

To determine the life expectancy of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis, we 
analyzed survival data from 280 patients with either symptomatic (243) or 
asymptomatic (37) disease. Patients were followed for up to 19 years (mean, 6.9 
years). The average length of survival was 11.9 years--nearly twice that 
reported in other studies. In contrast, over a 12-year period the survival of 
the asymptomatic patients after diagnosis did not differ from that of a control 
population matched for age and sex. Jaundice, weight loss, hepatomegaly, 
splenomegaly, and ascites were each associated with a poor prognosis. Prognosis 
also correlated with the histologic stages of hepatic fibrosis, cholestasis, and 
periportal-cell necrosis. A multivariate analysis of clinical features revealed 
that at the onset of disease, age, hepatomegaly, and elevated levels of serum 
bilirubin were independent discriminators of a poor prognosis. A histologic 
finding of fibrosis limited to portal areas improved this discrimination, 
correlating with prolonged survival. No other factors enchanced the prediction 
of risk.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198301063080101
PMID: 6847917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. J Chronic Dis. 1983;36(1):39-52. doi: 10.1016/0021-9681(83)90041-3.

Optimal therapy for the geriatric patient: the challenge to clinical 
pharmacology.

Crapo LM, Melmon KL.

The elderly are an increasing proportion of the population. Their median life 
span should rise to 85 years, although in later life organs of drug distribution 
and elimination may deteriorate in function and 100 years will remain the 
general maximum. Progressive containment of chronic diseases will still leave 
them at lethal risk from acute infectious diseases because of depleted 
homeostatic reserves of vital systems (cardiovascular, hepatic, immunological 
and renal). A decline in chronic disease should lengthen the period of 
well-being and reduce medical needs and perhaps drug needs of older persons. To 
estimate further therapeutic requirements of the elderly, information is needed 
on the epidemiology of drug use and rates of efficacy and toxicity in the 
elderly. Implicit in the data gathering is a true need for systematic 
post-marketing surveillance (PMS) of drugs with particular respect to drug 
efficacy and unanticipated adverse or beneficial reactions in this age group. 
Observational, non-experimental techniques can be devised and should be tested 
as appropriate methods of establishing the rates of anticipated efficacy and 
unwanted effects of drugs. The application of such techniques may be one of the 
only feasible ways to establish utility functions for drugs used in the elderly.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9681(83)90041-3
PMID: 6848547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. J Gerontol. 1983 Jan;38(1):36-45. doi: 10.1093/geronj/38.1.36.

Differential effects of intermittent feeding and voluntary exercise on body 
weight and lifespan in adult rats.

Goodrick CL, Ingram DK, Reynolds MA, Freeman JR, Cider NL.

Male wistar rats were housed in laboratory cages or activity-wheel cages at 
eight 10.5 or 18 months of age. Part of each cage group continued to be fed ad 
libitum, whereas the remaining animals were fed every other day. Compared with 
the ad libitum condition, intermittent feeding decreased body weight and 
increased lifespan at both ages in both caging conditions. Compared with the 
caged condition, voluntary exercise in activity wheels reduced body weight only 
in the 10.5-month-old group fed ad libitum but produced no effect on survival of 
either age group. The results suggest that intermittent feeding can enhance 
survival in mature rats even beyond ages at which body weight growth usually 
ceases, whereas voluntary exercise appears to have an early threshold beyond 
which increases in longevity are not observed.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/38.1.36
PMID: 6848584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Cancer. 1983 Jul 1;52(1):51-60. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19830701)52:1<51::aid-cncr2820520111>3.0.co;2-#.

Prospective evaluation of doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy resulting from 
postsurgical adjuvant treatment of patients with soft tissue sarcomas.

Dresdale A, Bonow RO, Wesley R, Palmeri ST, Barr L, Mathison D, D'Angelo T, 
Rosenberg SA.

One hundred and one soft tissue sarcoma patients from an adjuvant chemotherapy 
study of the Surgery Branch, National Cancer Institute who had received greater 
than or equal to 430 mg/m2 (range, 430-600 mg/m2) of doxorubicin were followed 
for evidence of cardiomyopathy. Fourteen patients developed clinical congestive 
heart failure attributable to doxorubicin. Nine of these fourteen were evaluated 
by radionuclide angiography (RNA), and all were abnormal with mean ejection 
fraction both at rest and exercise less than 30%. Sixty-one asymptomatic 
patients were studied at least once with RNA. In this asymptomatic group, 13 of 
61 patients (21%) had abnormal resting left ventricular function. Exercise 
studies identified an additional 19 abnormal individuals (31%). Overall 
incidence of cardiomyopathy, as evidenced by RNA, in the asymptomatic group was 
52%. By including the fourteen symptomatic patients, the incidence of 
cardiomyopathy detected either clinically or by RNA in the 75 evaluated patients 
was 46%. Comparison of patients by age (less than 40 versus greater than 40) 
revealed a highly significant difference in the incidence of cardiomyopathy (P 
less than .001). Fourteen of 36 patients (38%) less than or equal to 40 had 
either clinical or RNA evidence of cardiotoxicity while 32 of 39 (82%) 
individuals greater than 40 demonstrated cardiomyopathy. No significant 
difference was seen in those asymptomatic patients in whom RNA was performed 
less than or equal to 12 months as compared with greater than 12 months after 
the end of doxorubicin treatment. In the entire group there was no apparent 
improvement in cardiomyopathy with time, but results suggest that left 
ventricular function in the group older than 40 years does deteriorate. The 
cardiac function of patients younger than age 40 appeared to remain stable or 
possibly improve with time after the completion of treatment. Sex, tumor 
location, and radiation treatment were not associated with an increased risk of 
cardiomyopathy. These results emphasize the dangers of full-dose doxorubicin 
therapy. This high incidence of cardiomyopathy became apparent because of our 
ability to prospectively evaluate a large group of patients with prolonged life 
expectancy that received adjuvant doxorubicin chemotherapy after surgery.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19830701)52:1<51::aid-cncr2820520111>3.0.co;2-#
PMID: 6850545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Chir Pediatr. 1983;24(1):3-9.

[The place of surgery in the treatment of neuroblastoma].

[Article in French]

Pellerin D, Fekete CN, Révillon Y, Fernandes P.

From 1957 to 1980, 170 neuroblastoma were surgically approached: 3 cervical, 11 
thoracic, 147 abdominal, 5 pelvic. The surgical data gathered from this large 
series leads us to assess that there are great differences between lateral and 
median neuroblastoma. Lateral ones can be surgically removed without major risk. 
Median ones arising from sympathetic nerves which depend on the aorta or on the 
visceral arteries (coeliac or mesenteric) cannot be removed totally without 
life-threatening risk. These data do not agree with Evans and d'Angio staging. 
Indeed, stage I and II are only observed in neuroblastomas developed on the 
lateral nerves of the sympathetic chain and can be removed. Stage III tumors can 
also be removed surgically when arising from a lateral site, even if they cross 
the median line. On the contrary all median perivascular neuroblastomas are to 
be staged III: total removal is not possible and the surgical risk is too high 
when compared with efficiency of chemotherapy. A special type, the distal 
perivascular neuroblastoma, is pointed out (5 cases). It is very important to 
precise exactly the initial localization of neuroblastoma, whatever be their 
metastatic extension. The new technics of investigation (C.T., ultrasonography, 
but also plain film and front and lateral views of intravenous pyelogram) allow 
to define precisely the median or lateral site of the tumor and also to choose 
between a non-surgical (median) or a surgical (lateral) treatment. This 
distinction seems in correlation with the two different ways of pathway of the 
embryonic neuroblast cells.

PMID: 6850952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Gerontology. 1983;29(3):176-80. doi: 10.1159/000213111.

Human life span stopped increasing: why?

Gavrilov LA, Gavrilova NS, Nosov VN.

To account for the cessation of human life span increase in developed countries, 
we have studied the Swedish vital statistics over the period of 1901-1978. 
Approximating age-related mortality dynamics as the sum of the constant 
(age-independent mortality) and exponential (age-dependent mortality), we have 
discovered a striking phenomenon consisting in historical stability of 
age-dependent mortality. It appeared that decrease in total mortality was 
exclusively due to age-independent mortality which is close now to the limiting 
(zero) level. The results obtained prove the existence of the biological limit 
for the average life span and show that the conventional reserves for decrease 
in mortality have been exhausted. Thus, the problem of life prolongation 
requires a new way of thinking.

DOI: 10.1159/000213111
PMID: 6852544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1983 Jun;31(6):381. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1983.tb05752.x.

Short report from Tokyo.

Yoshikawa M.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1983.tb05752.x
PMID: 6853950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. J Ultrasound Med. 1983 Apr;2(4):155-9. doi: 10.7863/jum.1983.2.4.155.

Ultrasonographic findings in placenta increta.

Pasto ME, Kurtz AB, Rifkin MD, Cole-Beuglet C, Wapner RJ, Goldberg BB.

Placenta increta, invasion of the myometrium by normal placental (chorionic) 
villi, can be life-threatening to a mother at delivery. In two reported cases of 
pathologically proven placenta increta, the abnormal areas were retrospectively 
identified on ultrasonographic images. In both cases, there was consistent focal 
obliteration of the hypoechoic retroplacental zone by either tissue of 
echogenicity similar to that of the normal placenta or tissue of slightly 
decreased echogenicity. This was found to represent extension of the villi 
through the decidua basalis into the myometrium. The spectrum of non-malignant 
invasive placentas and the specific ultrasonographic findings that should allow 
prospective diagnosis are discussed.

DOI: 10.7863/jum.1983.2.4.155
PMID: 6854719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Soc Sci Med. 1983;17(6):349-53. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(83)90237-x.

Gains in life expectancies if heart disease and stroke were eliminated among 
Caucasians, Filipinos and Japanese in Hawaii.

Gerber LM.

Life tables were constructed based on all deaths in Hawaii occurring between 
1968-1972 for Caucasians, Filipinos and Japanese. Gains in life expectancies to 
be attained if coronary heart disease (CHD) and cerebrovascular accidents (CVA) 
were eliminated were presented by sex and ethnic group. The expectation of life 
at birth for both males and females is greatest for Japanese, followed by 
Filipinos and then Caucasians. The gain in life expectancy by eliminating CHD 
would not benefit Caucasians while Filipinos would benefit the most from the 
elimination of CVA. For all ethnic groups and both sexes, the gain in 
expectation of life due to the elimination of CHD is more than were CVA 
eliminated as a cause of death.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(83)90237-x
PMID: 6857293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. S Afr Med J. 1983 May 28;63(22):855-60.

The peri-operative care of the geriatric patient.

Shipton EA.

Progress in the medical and social spheres has increased life expectancy by 
sustaining many who would otherwise have succumbed to congenital or acquired 
diseases. The number of aged and high-risk patients who require major surgical 
procedures for the cure or palliation of disease has therefore increased. The 
physiological and anatomical changes in and peri-operative evaluation of the 
geriatric patient are reviewed, as are the pharmacokinetics of drugs used in 
these patients.

PMID: 6857402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Toxicol Eur Res. 1983 Jan;5(1):7-15.

[Effects of irradiated wheat flour in the AKR mouse. I. Effects on longevity, 
morbidity and pathology].

[Article in French]

Delcour-Firquet MP.

Mouse of AKR strain were fed with wheat flour irradiated at 75.000 rads or with 
nonirradiated flour during their lifetime. In this first part were analyzed : 
bodyweight, morbidity, mortality, organ's histology. Were established : higher 
bodyweight in all animals fed with irradiated flour, this increase is 
statistically significant only in males and a longer time life in all animals of 
this group, this last difference is significant in females and in animals 
together without distinction of sex.

PMID: 6857657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Z Erkr Atmungsorgane. 1983;160(2):128-41.

[Effectiveness of photofluorography screening studies in the early detection of 
bronchial carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Wilde J Sr, Dürschmied H, Dubitzky J, Lorenz H, Niegsch G, Schmidt H, Ziemer HM, 
Wilde J Jr.

Report on results of a prospective study for earlier detection of peripheral and 
central bronchial carcinoma by fluorography performed for 6 years. In 1972 
41,532 men of the age groups 1907 to 1937 were enrolled in the study group 
examined every 6 months. They were compared statistically and clinically to a 
control group of 102,348 persons of about the same sex and age distribution 
examined every two years by mass-x-ray. 1. By fluorographic screening the 
detection and resection rate in the study group was significantly increased. The 
percentage of resections was double as high as in the control group. 2. The 
higher detection rate especially in the younger age groups (40 to 54 years) of 
the study group caused an increase of the resection rate being three times 
higher than in the corresponding age group of the control population. 3. 67.5% 
of the persons with resection in the study group and 49.5% in the control group 
came to a life expectancy of more than three years. A 5 years healing after 
resection was attained by 23 of 42 resected patients of the study group and by 
15 among 46 of the control group (55% to 32%). 4. Fluorography in 6 months 
intervals led to an increase of lower tumor stages. 5. At present fluorographic 
examinations showed to be the only mode of detection with good chances of 
resection as well in the study as in the control group, case-finding with 
clinical methods offering only small chances. 6. Among the patients resected in 
the study group the histological type of adenocarcinoma was rather frequent in 
26.0%, parvicellular carcinoma amounting to 13.5%, on the other hand in the 
control group these types could be found with the same frequency in 16.8%. 7. 
The own results are reviewed with national and international investigations. 
Fluorographic examinations of selected risk groups (males between 40 and 70 
years) in short intervals have proved to be at present the only method of 
finding bronchial carcinoma in time with some effectivity. 8. The effectivity of 
mass-x-ray-examinations must be improved a) by aimed examinations of risk 
groups, b) by improving the operational approach of fluorography using a special 
data bank of inhabitants, c) by reducing the medical protraction still high up 
to diagnosing bronchial cancer, d) by using the computer controlled risk aimed 
x-ray-examination for a complex screening programme.

PMID: 6858242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 1983 May;32(3):437-46. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.1983.32.437.

The role of pharmaceuticals in the total health care of developing countries.

Hoekenga MT.

PIP: Following an overview of the less developed countries (LDCs) and their 
health problems, attention is directed to what pharmaceutical companies have 
been doing to develop tropical disease medicinals: past and current programs for 
the development of pharmaceuticals; the relationship of pharmaceuticals to other 
health problems; criticisms of the pharmaceutical industry; problems and 
constraints in developing drugs by pharmaceutical firms, particularly for 
tropical diseases; and strengthening incentives to pursue tropical medicine 
research in the future. There are 31 countries in the less developed category 
and they have 4 things in common: poverty; a high birthrate; a young population, 
and a low life expectancy. At the top of the list of the major health problems 
in developing countries are malaria, diarrheal diseases, and malnutrition. For 
malaria, there is a need for something new for chloroquine resistant infections, 
but research looks promising. Meanwhile, the use of presently available 
medications in much of the world would go far towards alleviating suffering and 
death from this disease. For diarrheal diseases and malnutrition the principal 
problems lie elsewhere than with development of new pharmaceuticals. For 
tuberculosis and leprosy, the 4th and 5th major health problems, therapy has 
improved markedly in recent years, yet there is room for improvement. Of the 
sexually transmitted diseases, only for sexually transmitted herpes is the 
industry missing a solution. On balance, it seems clear that the need for new 
pharmaceuticals, although important, is not as critical as some of the other 
needs of the LDCs. If this individual is correct in maintaining that the most 
important problems in the LDCs are pure water, adequate food, basic sanitation, 
and a distribution system for already available pharmaceuticals, then the 
question is why is the drug industry singled out for so much criticism. The 
principal charges, which are discussed in detail, are as follows: inadequate 
research on the endemic diseases of the developing and least developed 
countries; the practice of "dumping" drugs in developing countries that do not 
sell or sell for different indications at home; labeling of products differently 
than in the US; permitting over the counter sales of drugs that a prescription 
only goods in the US; selling products whose stated expiration date has passed; 
and charging high prices and reaping excessive profits. The critics are the UN 
agencies, consumer groups, trade unions, and media writers. Much of what is said 
is in defense of the pharmaceutical industry. but shortcomings are also noted.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.1983.32.437
PMID: 6859394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Bull Pan Am Health Organ. 1983;17(1):61-76.

Changing concepts of health and health services: new opportunities for nutrition 
promotion.

Horwitz A.

PIP: Life expectancy slowly and steadily increased during the course of the 20th 
century resulting in a change in the concept of health for both individuals and 
society. This has been primarily the consequence of the reduction of infant and 
early childhood mortality and the control of major infectious diseases. Fear of 
dying has been replaced by the dedication to survival, health, and production, 
and science and technology have contributed much to creating this pattern of 
thinking. Lawrence Henderson recognized adaptability as a basic biological 
phenomenon. The relation between nutritional requirements and homeostatic 
mechanisms is significant. Beyond a certain threshold, the latter cannot prevent 
impairments resulting from undernutrition, but the establishment of this 
threshold involves a complex process. In addition to being an end for each 
person, health is also regarded as a means for society. These ideas seem 
embodied in the World Health Organization's (WHO's) definition of health: "a 
state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the 
absence of disease of infirmity." The main and perennial problem is how to 
translate the ideal into practical reality. Recognition of health as a right has 
strengthened the acceptance of its role as a determinant of development. An 
important cluster of determinants of health and disease stems from the health 
services, and these have changed in both concept and in practice, particularly 
following World War 2. Health care, being a basic need, was conceived as a 
service to be provided, even imposed by the central authorities, to those 
entrenched in their traditions. Currently, there is movement from paternalism to 
community participation. It has become essential to catalyze the community for 
it is a vast potential source of cooperation in carrying out activities for 
disease prevention and cure throughout the world. A series of circumstances have 
supported the renaissance of the primary health care movement in the world. The 
contributing factors--the bases for actual or forthcoming changes in health 
services--are identified. Regarding nutrition, in the last 30 years there has 
been a rebirth of nutrition as a social problem. Through system analysis, the 
determinants of chronic undernutrition have been identified, and from such an 
examination, malnutrition emerges as a problem of overall development. At this 
time the coverage of programs aimed at the social sectors--health, education, 
population, food subsidies, housing--is neither sufficient nor efficient. Many 
societies need to institute profound changes in policies, objectives, 
structures, investments, and technologies for guaranteeing adequate food intake. 
Suggestions are made for the promotion of nutrition.

PMID: 6860841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Can Med Assoc J. 1983 Jul 1;129(1):12.

An objective social reason to reconsider abortions.

Del Campo C.

PIP: In Canada the declining birthrate and the increase in life expectancy is 
producing a steady change in the distribution of the population. Every country 
needs a balance between different age groups to maintain an equilibrium between 
the working and nonworking sectors. When the pyramid is reversed and the older 
members outnumber the supporting group, the care of the elderly rests primarily 
with the government. This is Canada's situation. The main factor in the growth 
of the population has been natural increase (or the excess of births over 
deaths), but this has declined progressively, from 23/1000 population in 1961 to 
only 8.3/1000 in 1977. Since the crude death rate has leveled off since 1967, 
the reason for this decline is the significant reduction in the number of 
births. The "baby boom" of the 1950s increased the number of women currently in 
the reproductive years, but there has been a progressive decrease in fertility 
rates. The main reasons for this decrease are the availability of better 
contraceptive methods and the liberalization of abortion laws in 1969. Each year 
an average of 60,000 therapeutic abortions are performed in Canada. If 
therapeutic abortions were included among other causes of death, they would 
represent the 2nd most frequent cause of death. Statistics Canada has projected 
that the annual rate of population growth in 2026 will have a negative value of 
0.1 in spite of a presumed constant net immigration of 50,000 annually. 
Emigration also plays an important role, yet it is difficult to estimate because 
the only statements required when a Canadian resident leaves the country are 
those on an income tax return. At least 48,000 Canadians emigrated each year 
between 1966-76. If the present age distribution of the Canadian population is 
analyzed, and these figures are projected to the year 2026, one observes a 
significant increase in the elderly age groups and a significant decrease in the 
groups of working age. The slowdown in population growth and the changes to the 
age group distribution will require modifications in health care facilities. The 
elderly make more demands on physicians' services than other age groups, and 
their medical problems persist longer. Other social problems faced by the 
elderly in areas such as housing, jobs, clothing, and nutrition will necessitate 
radical structural changes to society.

PMCID: PMC1874935
PMID: 6861040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Cancer. 1983 Aug 15;52(4):728-36. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19830815)52:4<728::aid-cncr2820520427>3.0.co;2-9.

A statistical approach to an individualized prognostic index (IPI) for breast 
cancer survivability.

Fuster E, Garcia-Vilanova A, Narbona B, Romero R, Llombart-Bosch A.

The authors present 611 and 262 case histories of patients with breast cancer, 
studied 5 and 10 years after mastectomy, respectively; 27 clinical and 10 
histologic parameters were considered for the statistical evaluation, in order 
to define an Individualized Prognostic Index (IPI) for breast cancer 
survivability. The probability of survival was estimated by a Bayesian formula 
using selected prognostic parameters, these parameters were placed in order of 
discriminant resolution and, for the calculation of the IPI, were selected 
according to their importance, as it follows: 5 years after surgery: percent 
affected nodules, dermal infiltration, TNM phase, Scarff-Bloom index and 
evolutive outbreak (PEV); 10 years after surgery: TNM phase, dermal 
infiltration, percent affected nodules and Scarff-Bloom index. The current 
information considers that out of several parameters, the selected prognostic 
parameters used for the IPI are sufficient to establish probability tests and a 
reliable estimation of life expectancy following breast cancer surgery.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19830815)52:4<728::aid-cncr2820520427>3.0.co;2-9
PMID: 6861109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Demography. 1983 May;20(2):177-95.

Sex differences in life cycle measures of widowhood.

Goldman N, Lord G.

Using formulas which measure life cycle characteristics of widowhood as a 
function of life table survivorship and age at marriage, we illustrate changes 
in patterns of widowhood and widowerhood since 1950, as well as differences by 
race, by age of bride and of groom, and by age differences between spouses. 
Although the current inequality in the risks of widowhood and widowerhood for 
the average couple is mostly due to sex differences in mortality, a one year age 
difference between spouses has about the same impact as does a one year 
difference in life expectancy. Calculations based on current distributions of 
age of groom by age of bride indicate that the older the age of groom, the 
greater the age difference between spouses and the higher the likelihood of a 
woman outliving her husband: the typical groom who marries in his fifties faces 
a 4 to 1 chance that he will be outlived by his spouse.

PMID: 6862061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Demography. 1983 May;20(2):227-34.

A simple model for linking life tables by survival-mortality ratios.

Mitra S.

Patterns of variation in mortality can be studied by measuring changes in 
selected life table functions. A model is proposed in which the rate of change 
over time in the life table survivorship probability at any age has been assumed 
as proportional to the product of its own value and its complementary 
probability or the probability of dying by that age, where the proportion is the 
same for all ages and depends only on the time duration between successive life 
tables. The end result is that the logit functions of the survivorship 
probabilities at two points in time are linearly related with a slope of one. 
The projecting power of the model has been tested by using U.S. life tables for 
the years 1950 and 1970 as well as Coale and Demeny's regional model life 
tables. In the latter case, the model produced surprisingly close matches even 
when the expectations of life differed by as much as 20 years.

PMID: 6862063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Health Phys. 1983;44 Suppl 1:33-48. doi: 10.1097/00004032-198306001-00002.

Lifetime bone cancer dose-response relationships in beagles and people from 
skeletal burdens of 226Ra and 90Sr.

Raabe OG, Book SA, Parks NJ.

The life-time tumor dose-response relationships observed in beagles injected 
with 226Ra or fed 90Sr at the University of California, Davis, provide a basis 
for understanding the induction of bone cancer for these bone-seeking 
radionuclides and for scaling to people. In these studies 385 dogs were exposed 
to graded dosage levels of 90Sr and 243 dogs were exposed to graded dosage 
levels of 226Ra with a total of 159 unexposed controls. The results show 
different dose-response relationships for bone cancer for the two radionuclides 
based upon the gravimetric average dose rates and cumulative doses to bone. 
These relationships were found to be well represented by three-dimensional 
log-normal dose-response surfaces that yield risk as a function of average 
dose-rate and time after beginning of exposure. All dose-rates suggested a 100% 
risk at some later time post-exposure but the time required to reach a given 
level of risk was long for low dose rates so that there exists a practical 
threshold in that at lower dose rates individuals may die spontaneously from 
causes associated with natural aging prior to the expected appearance of 
radiogenic cancer. The risks to people at various 226Ra body burdens (average 
skeletal dose rates) are estimated based on the model.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-198306001-00002
PMID: 6862910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Public Health Rep. 1983 May-Jun;98(3):252-60.

Mortality among minority populations: a review of recent patterns and trends.

Markides KS.

The mortality experiences of blacks, Native Americans, and Hispanics are 
reviewed. Evidence recently made available shows the Hispanic experience to be 
only slightly less favorable than the Anglo (other white) experience, suggesting 
remarkable progress in recent years. Native Americans have also made remarkable 
progress in recent years, especially in reducing infant mortality. Blacks have 
shown less improvement than the other two groups. Reasons for these trends, for 
differences among the groups in mortality rates and life expectancy, and for 
patterns of mortality by cause are discussed.

PMCID: PMC1424444
PMID: 6867257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Vopr Onkol. 1983;29(6):88-93.

[Factors modifying sensitivity to carcinogens and the problem of threshold in 
chemical carcinogenesis].

[Article in Russian]

Anisimov VN.

PMID: 6868482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Women Health. 1983 Spring;8(1):81-7. doi: 10.1300/J013v08n01_10.

The concept of wrongful life in the law.

Kasper AS.

PIP: In the history of the law the concept of wrongful life is not new, but it 
has become of interest recently due to changing social attitudes and advances in 
contraceptive and genetic technologies. This discussion tries to assess the 
effects of wrongful life as a legal concept on the rights of childbearing women 
and their offspring. An unborn child had no rights under common law, which held 
that a fetus in utero had no existence separate from its mother. Consequently, a 
child had no right of action for personal harm brought upon it by another 
person. On occasion early courts disagreed with this view, but the majority of 
courts maintained that a child had no existence as a human being during 
gestation. The effect that this concept of common law would have on current 
abortion laws would be to make it considerably easier to argue for a woman's 
right to choose an abortion. The notion of wrongful life initially appeared in 
cases of illegitimate births. In Zepeda v. Zepeda, 1963, and Williams v. State 
of New York, 1966, the plaintiffs maintained that the children's births and 
existence were wrongful because they were unintended and illegitimate. In 
Williams the court ruled that birth under 1 set of circumstances and not another 
is not a recoverable injury. These cases failed to meet the requirements of tort 
law, and the court rejected the notion of children finding legal recourse for 
being born to a poor family or being born to a less desired race or class. A 
series of cases followed in which recovery for physical injury or birth 
deformities were claimed by parents for themselves and their children. In June 
1980 a California appeals court reversed the decision of a lower court, 
addressing the fundamental principles of wrongful life as a legal concept. In 
Curlender v. Bio-Science Laboratories an infant brought suit alleging that the 
laboratories failed to correctly inform her parents of their status as carriers 
of Tay-Sachs disease during the mother's pregnancy. The infant was born with 
Tay-Sachs. This was the 1st case in which a court established that a child has a 
cause of action, separate from its parents, for a claim of wrongful life. In 
recognizing the child as an independent plaintiff the court established the 
child's right to allege that its life is wrongful, i.e., it should never have 
been born. The court in Curlender affirmed that the child's life, on its own, is 
of legitimate concern to the courts. A most forceful social issue raised here is 
the concept of quality of life and whether or not a life is worth living if 
burdened by debilitating injury. The court did not address the problems inherent 
in measuring quality of life from individual to individual, nor did it decide 
how a child must show injury to warrant recovery in court. The Curlender 
decision referred to the Roe v. Wade decision as a woman's legal right not to 
have a child, and by inference, as a child's legal right to be free of damage. 
By extension, Roe v. Wade could be interpreted as a legal right not to be born.

DOI: 10.1300/J013v08n01_10
PMID: 6868627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Z Alternsforsch. 1983 Mar-Apr;38(2):119-27.

[Certain study results of medical and social care of elderly women].

[Article in German]

Lengwinat A, Erpenbeck F.

PMID: 6868656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Acta Chir Belg. 1983;Suppl:66-81.

[Aged: a profile of demographic, morbidity and social characteristics].

[Article in Dutch]

Defever M.

PMID: 6868916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Am J Public Health. 1983 Aug;73(8):911-14. doi: 10.2105/ajph.73.8.911.
