
Does perception of life expectancy reflect health knowledge?

Hamermesh DS, Hamermesh FW.

Analysis of original survey data shows White male smokers estimate their 
longevity as four years less than that of nonsmokers, roughly the actuarial 
difference. Those who do not exercise perceive the same life expectancy as those 
who exercise, somewhat inconsistent with available information on mortality. Men 
with long-lived parents and grandparents expect to live 12-18 years longer than 
those with short-lived forebears, far longer than studies of actual longevity 
imply. Men who are more than 15 per cent overweight expect to live four years 
less, a larger impact than the published actuarial difference.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.73.8.911
PMCID: PMC1651117
PMID: 6869646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Biometrics. 1983 Mar;39(1):119-27.

Tests for monotone mean residual life, using randomly censored data.

Chen YY, Hollander M, Langberg NA.

At any age the mean residual life function gives the expected remaining life at 
that age. Reliabilists and biometricians have found it useful to categorize 
failure distributions by the monotonicity properties of the mean residual life 
function. Hollander and Proschan (1975, Biometrika 62, 585-593) have derived 
tests of the null hypothesis that the underlying failure distribution is 
exponential, versus the alternative that it has a monotone mean residual life 
function. These tests are based on a complete sample. Often, however, data are 
incomplete because of withdrawals from the study and because of survivors at the 
time the data are analyzed. In this paper we generalize the Hollander-Proschan 
tests to accommodate randomly censored data. The efficiency loss due to the 
presence of censoring is also investigated.

PMID: 6871340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Exp Gerontol. 1983;18(1):79-87. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(83)90054-2.

Liver polyploidy: influence of age and of dietary restriction.

Enesco HE, Samborsky J.

Polyploidy increases with age in mammalian liver. Since dietary restriction 
increases lifespan, the question posed in this study was whether liver 
polyploidy would be influenced by dietary protein restriction. Restricted mice 
were fed a 4% protein diet, while control mice received a 26% protein diet. 
Polyploidy was determined from measurements of nuclear diameter on liver of 3 
week, 1 1/2, 3, 10, 20 and 24-1/2 month old Swiss albino mice. The percentage of 
polyploid cells increased steadily with age. The rate of increase, expressed as 
the polyploidization index, was greater in the fully fed control animals as 
compared to the animals on protein restriction. Protein restriction thus retards 
the age associated process of polyploidization of liver nuclei. Nuclear diameter 
increased slightly with age, but was not influenced by protein restriction.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(83)90054-2
PMID: 6873214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Health Phys. 1983 Jul;45(1):9-20. doi: 10.1097/00004032-198307000-00002.

A demographic model for performing site-specific health risk projections.

Collins JJ, Lundy RT, Grahn D.

An extension of an earlier life table model for estimating health risks in 
occupationally exposed workers is presented. The extension of the earlier 
methodology incorporates specific fertility assumptions and therefore produces a 
model that is able to perform health risk projections for populations living in 
or around sites that release agents with potentially adverse health 
consequences. Results show that fertility patterns are important for assessing 
risk, even for short-term projections. The interaction of initial age structure, 
competing risks from other causes of death, and fertility patterns are all 
important in determining future levels of excess mortality from various 
pollutants.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-198307000-00002
PMID: 6874354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1983 Sep;2(3):557-64. doi: 10.1016/s0735-1097(83)80285-x.

Epidemiologic features of recent trends in coronary heart disease in the Soviet 
Union.

Cooper RS.

Beginning in the mid 1960s the Soviet Union experienced a sharp increase in the 
mortality rate for men over the age of 20 and for women 50 to 64 years. The 
principal cause of this increase appears to be the rising rates of coronary 
heart disease. The rate of increase in coronary heart disease for men in the 30 
to 59 year age group over the years 1966 to 1972 was almost 7% per year. Rural 
death rates have increased at a faster rate than those in cities, although the 
absolute level remains somewhat lower. Mortality from other major cardiovascular 
diseases has also increased. It would appear that the coronary heart disease 
epidemic has been particularly severe in the USSR and there is no evidence that 
it has abated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(83)80285-x
PMID: 6875119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Ophthalmologica. 1983;187(1):34-42. doi: 10.1159/000309299.

[Life expectancy of patients with circulatory disorders of the posterior eyeball 
segment].

[Article in German]

Eckardt C, GÃ¶tze O, Utermann D.

Based on the method of person-years, the morality rate of 155 patients with 
circulatory disorders was calculated and compared with the death rate of an 
age-matched general population. No excess mortality was found among 53 patients 
with central retinal vein occlusion and among 58 patients with ischemic optic 
neuropathy. On the other hand, 44 patients with central retinal or branch artery 
occlusion showed a statistically significant increased mortality rate. Patients 
with arterial circulatory disorders were subdivided into hypertensives and 
normotensives; an increased mortality rate was seen only among patients with 
hypertension but not among patients with normal blood pressure. Hypertension is 
one of the main cardiovascular risk factors. The increased mortality risk among 
our patients with hypertension may be indicative of a progressive 
atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1159/000309299
PMID: 6877759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Rev Infect Dis. 1983 May-Jun;5(3):452-9. doi: 10.1093/clinids/5.3.452.

Measles: summary of worldwide impact.

Assaad F.

Nearly every measles infection results in well-recognized clinical disease. In 
nonimmunized populations almost every child will get measles early in life. The 
universality of the disease in nonimmunized communities, particularly those in 
the developing world, has led to a more or less passive acceptance of measles as 
an unavoidable risk of early life. The clinical spectrum of measles ranges from 
a mild, self-limiting illness to a fatal disease. Conditions encountered mainly 
in the developing world, e.g., unfavorable nutrition, high risk of concurrent 
infection, and inadequate case management -- particularly at home -- favor the 
development of complications and adverse outcome. Conversely, good clinical 
management of an otherwise healthy child, a situation seen mostly in the 
developed world, greatly influences the course of the disease. Hence many in the 
medical profession believe that measles is a mild disease except among 
populations living under particularly unfavorable conditions. Measles vaccine is 
effective in preventing disease in the individual and in controlling it in the 
community if it is given at the critical age when maternal antibodies wane and 
the risk of natural infection increases sharply and if a high immunization rate 
is maintained in the target population. The experience with immunization, 
particularly in sub-saharan Africa, is rewarding: mothers who had previously 
accepted measles as an unavoidable risk clamour for immunization of their 
children once its effectiveness has been demonstrated. No reason exists for 
measles to claim its present toll of morbidity and mortality. With extension of 
the Expanded Programme on Immunization of the World Health Organization, the 
impact of measles should progressively decline.

PIP: This summary of the worldwide impact of measles discusses epidemiology, 
reported incidence, clinical severity, community attitudes toward measles, and 
the impact of immunization programs on measles. Measles, 1 of the most 
ubiquitous and persistent of human viruses, occurs regularly everywhere in the 
world except in very remote and isolated areas. Strains of measles virus from 
different counties are indistinguishable, and serum antibodies from diverse 
population have identical specificity. Yet, the epidemic pattern, average age at 
infection, and mortality vary considerably from 1 area to another and provide a 
contrasting picture between the developing and the developed countries. In the 
populous areas of the world, measles causes epidemics every 2-5 years, but in 
the rapidly expanding urban conglomerations in the developing world, the 
continuous immigration from the rural population provides a constant influx of 
susceptible individuals and, in turn, a sustained occurrence of measles and 
unclear epidemic curves. In the economically advanced nations, measles epidemics 
are closely tied to the school year, building up to a peak in the late spring 
and ceasing abruptly after the summer recess begins. Maternal antibody usually 
confers protection against measles to infants during the 1st few months of life. 
The total number of cases of measles reported to WHO for 1980 is 2.9 million. 
Considering that in the developing world alone almost 100 million infants are 
born yearly, that less than 20% of them are immunized against measles, and that 
various studies indicate that almost all nonimmunized children get measles, less 
than 3 million cases of measles in 1980 is a gross underestimate. There was 
adecrease in the global number of reported cases of measles during the 1979-80 
period due primarily to the reduction in the number of cases in the African 
continent and, to a lesser extent, in Europe. It is premature to conclude that 
such a reported decline is real and that it reflects the beginning of a longterm 
trend. The contrast between the developed and the developing worlds is most 
marked in relation to the severity and outcome of measles. Case fatality rates 
of more than 20% have been reported from West Africa. It has been estimated that 
900,000 deaths occur yearly in the developing world because of measles, but data 
available to WHO indicate that the global case fatality rate in the developing 
world approaches 2% (in contrast to 2/10,000 cases in the US), and the actal 
mortality may be greater than 1.5 million deaths per year. The advent of WHO's 
Expanded Program on Immunization has brought about an awareness of the measles 
problem. Whenever and wherever measles vaccine has been used effectively on a 
large scale, a marked reduction in the number of cases has been recorded.

DOI: 10.1093/clinids/5.3.452
PMID: 6878998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Science. 1983 Sep 9;221(4615):1034. doi: 10.1126/science.6879202.

Can smoking explain ultimate gender gap?

Holden C.

DOI: 10.1126/science.6879202
PMID: 6879202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Zentralbl Chir. 1983;108(9):513-20.

[Life expectancy in thyroid cancer in youth. Report on experiences with 28 
cases].

[Article in German]

Keminger K.

28 cases of juvenile struma maligna are reported. One case, followed for 31 
years, finally died as the only one out of this number. Since her 21st year of 
life multiple pulmonary metastases were known. This patient did well till her 
day of death and refused all therapy. She died because of general metastatic 
spread. No change of tumour's histology was observed. In case of thyroid 
carcinoma, pulmonary and bone metastases are frequent, whereas cerebral 
metastases are rare. Out of an autopsy material of 83 thyroid carcinomas, 
according to Walther, 77 patients showed pulmonary and bone metastases, but only 
7 cerebral ones. It is pointed out that the thyroid carcinoma of the youth has a 
chronic course of the disease in spite of pulmonary metastases. This is a 
peculiar nature of this malignancy contrary to other carcinomas occurring in the 
young.

PMID: 6880456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Zentralbl Chir. 1983;108(9):541-5.

[Late reoperations in cancer surgery of the lung].

[Article in German]

Weber J.

In early reoperations following surgery of the lung haemorrhage comes first. In 
the late phase of reoperations, i.e. more than 3 months till 6.5 years after 
surgery, 12 secondary operations were performed for metachronic carcinomatous 
tumours and due to insufficient "radical" surgery. The postoperative mortality 
rate was 0. The results obtained are in favour of secondary operations because 
they are able to prolong the life expectancy of those patients.

PMID: 6880459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Am J Public Health. 1983 Sep;73(9):1073-80. doi: 10.2105/ajph.73.9.1073.

Health expectancy in Canada, late 1970s: demographic, regional, and social 
dimensions.

Wilkins R, Adams OB.

Based on estimates of activity restriction from the Canada Health Survey, 
institutional data on long-term care, and survival data from vital statistics, 
we have calculated an index of health expectancy (life expectancy in each state 
of health), and a summary of these indices which we have called quality-adjusted 
life expectancy. At birth, expected years of long-term institutionalization were 
0.8 for men and 1.5 for women. Expected years of activity restriction not 
involving long-term institutionalization were 10.8 for men and 14.0 for women; 
3.0 of the expected years of activity restriction for men and 1.3 of these years 
for women were in the most severe category of restriction (unable to do major 
activity). For both sexes together, quality-adjusted life expectancy was 1.4 
years greater in Ontario and the Prairies than in the Atlantic region, 3.2 years 
greater in Canada's three largest cities than in rural areas and small towns, 
and 7.7 years greater among persons from high-income families than among persons 
from low-income families.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.73.9.1073
PMCID: PMC1651059
PMID: 6881405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Am J Public Health. 1983 Sep;73(9):1091-3. doi: 10.2105/ajph.73.9.1091.

Is the period of rapidly declining adult mortality in the United States coming 
to an end?

Cooper R, Cohen R, Amiry A.

Age-standardized death rates from all causes for persons age 35-74 fell 23 per 
cent, 1968-1979. The monotonic decline was interrupted by only one period of 
excess influenza mortality. In the late 1970s, however, the decline in mortality 
decelerated and no further decrease was observed, 1979-1981. The recurrence of 
epidemic influenza contributed significantly to this trend although it would 
appear that the underlying mortality pattern has begun to change.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.73.9.1091
PMCID: PMC1651061
PMID: 6881408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1983 Sep;(178):297-302.

Fracture healing in metastatic bone disease.

Gainor BJ, Buchert P.

In 123 cancer patients with metastatic disease, 129 pathologic fractures of long 
bones were assessed to determine the rate of osseous union. Bony healing was 
observed in 67% of malignant fractures from multiple myeloma, in 44% of 
fractures secondary to metastatic hypernephroma, and in 37% of neoplastic 
fractures from breast carcinoma. No patient with a pathologic fracture secondary 
to lung carcinoma demonstrated bony repair, and none of these patients lived for 
more than six months after fracture. The overall fracture healing rate for the 
entire study population was 35%. In the group that survived longer than six 
months, 74% of fractures united. A life expectancy of longer than six months was 
the primary factor determining osseous healing in all patients. A total 
radiotherapy dose of 3000 rad or less did not inhibit callus formation. Internal 
fixation improved the rate of fracture union by 23% as compared with cast 
immobilization.

PMID: 6883864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Compr Ther. 1983 Jul;9(7):7-16.

Diseases associated with aging.

Pushparaj N, O'Toole K, Hyland M, King DW.

Friese has recently presented a graph of the demographics of aging, indicating 
that the number of people over 65 in 1990 will approach 21 million, or 15% of 
the population. The life expectancy of men will soon approach that of women (74 
to 75 years). As cancer, heart disease, and stroke are conquered, longevity will 
increase by less than 12 years. The older population will have increasingly 
diminished physical and mental capacity, not necessarily associated with 
specific disease processes, but rather resulting from a generalized cellular and 
extracellular deterioration, particularly affecting the homeostatic control 
mechanisms of the central nervous, neuroendocrine, and immune systems. They will 
require increased protection from the environmental insults with which they 
could cope more easily at an earlier age. Their treatment will have to be 
individually adjusted depending on the combination of lesions they display. The 
patient's socioeconomic status, family support structure, and general 
psychological profile play significant roles in their longevity and terminal 
illness.

PMID: 6883982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Exp Gerontol. 1983;18(2):89-94. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(83)90001-3.

Long-term observations on the effect of polyadenylic acid in mice of different 
ages.

PÃ©nzes L, Beregi E, Regius O.

In order to better life performance, polyadenylic acid (poly (A) ) was given 
intraperitoneally to CBA/Ca mice for almost a two-year period. This substance, 
as one of the components of double-stranded polynucleotides (like poly A:U), is 
known to improve some immune responses of the aging organism. Five approaches 
(changes in body-weight, adaptation to cold stress, biological half-life of body 
proteins, mortality and pathology) were applied to test the effects of this 
substance on life performance. It was found that the beneficial effects of 
double-stranded polynucleotides cannot be mimicked by polyadenylic acid only, 
despite its anti-senescence effect, namely, it accelerates the apparent protein 
turnover, cf., biological half-life. Polyadenylic acid shortens life-expectancy 
(because of the higher mortality rate of mice). Possible mechanisms of these 
actions are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(83)90001-3
PMID: 6884439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Int J Obes. 1983;7(3):201-20.

Nutrition, aging and obesity: a critical review of a complex relationship.

Stunkard AJ.

Long-standing beliefs about the ill-effects of mild to moderate obesity have 
been called into question by recent epidemiological studies and by critical 
review of older studies. A review of these studies reveals that the effects of 
obesity on health and longevity is more complex than we had realized. An attempt 
is made to throw light on this relationship by reviewing the large number of 
laboratory studies on nutrition, aging and obesity. The first series of such 
studies showed that restriction of food intake, beginning early in life, greatly 
increased longevity. A second series of studies revealed that longevity could 
still be extended even if restriction of food intake did not occur until 
maturity. The third series of studies showed that dietary constituents as well 
as total calories influenced longevity. High-fat diets produce obesity and a 
shortened life span and there are significant differences in the effects of 
other dietary constituents at different times in the life cycle. The fourth 
series of studies, on dietary self-selection. are beginning to elucidate the 
role of food preferences in determining both obesity and longevity. Potential 
mechanisms of action include both body weight and immunological processes.

PMID: 6885229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Med Welt. 1983 Jun 24;34(25-26):713-6.

[Smoking as risky health behavior].

[Article in German]

Greitemeyer M.

PMID: 6888241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. N Engl J Med. 1983 Oct 6;309(14):854-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198310063091411.

Aging, natural death, and the compression of morbidity: another view.

Schneider EL, Brody JA.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198310063091411
PMID: 6888471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Minerva Med. 1983 Sep 8;74(34):1976-7.

[Normal and pathological aging].

[Article in Italian]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 6888777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Hum Biol. 1982 Sep;54(3):525-37.

Intrapair comparisons of total life span in twins and pairs of sibs.

Carmelli D.

PMID: 6890941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Int Urol Nephrol. 1980;12(4):347-54. doi: 10.1007/BF02082472.

Prognostic significance of cytological differentiation grading in 
estrogen-treated prostatic carcinoma diagnosed by fine-needle aspiration biopsy. 
(Five-year follow-up of 496 patients).

Faul P, Schmiedt E, Kern R.

The value of fine-needle aspiration biopsy of carcinoma of the prostate and its 
cytological grading is demonstrated. The grade of morphological differentiation 
in cytological smears has proved to be a reliable criterion for the prognosis in 
496 estrogen-treated prostatic carcinoma patients. The life expectancy of 
low-differentiated and anaplastic cancer patients undergoing treatment is so 
poor that the justification for antiandrogen treatment in this group of 
carcinomas appears extremely doubtful. For this reason, the degree of 
differentiation of the tumor should be considered when undertaking therapeutic 
measures in view of its relevance for the prognosis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02082472
PMID: 6892030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Neuropadiatrie. 1980 May;11(2):121-38. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1071383.

[Cranial computerized tomography of neonatal encephalopathies. Initial and 
follow-up studies (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Kotlarek F, Zeumer H, HÃ¶rnchen H.

60 premature and newborn infants with clinical evidence of hypoxia or traumatic 
encephalopathy were examined by cranial computerized tomography (CCT) during the 
first fortnight of life and their findings compared with those of a "control 
group", consisting of 7 infants with malformations. 48 patients showed 
pathologic findings in the initial CCT. With regard to type, topography and 
extension, two groups with two subgroups could be outlined: 1. lesions with low 
density due to hypoxic-necrotizing alterations. a) Bilateral in the white matter 
around the frontal and occipital horns of the lateral ventricles in both, 
premature and fullterm newborn infants. b) Corresponding to vascular 
distribution, focal or global, involving both gray and white matter in both, 
premature and newborn infants. 2. lesions with high density due to hemorrhages. 
a) Subependymal and intraventricular, mainly in asphyxiated premature infants. 
b) Subdural and intracerebral, probably of traumatic origin, involving premature 
and fullterm newborn infants. The morphological findings in the initial CCT were 
compared with the outcome in each case. Thus, it was possible to distinguish 
certain morphological patterns significantly associated with prognosis. 14 
patients (23.3%) died in the newborn period. The surviving 46 children (76.7%) 
were at least once re-examined by CCT and followed up during 6-24 months. 16 
patients (26.7%) had a normal development. 12 (20%) showed developmental 
retardation. 18 (30%) suffered from neurological sequela. Frequently the early 
follow-up CCT showed characteristic patterns. We believe, that the great number 
of pathologic findings with essential information warrant the application of CCT 
in premature and fullterm newborn infants with persistent neurological signs. 
Perhaps our CCT observations will lead to the consequence of a more controlled 
high care regimen.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1071383
PMID: 6893738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. J Med Chem. 1981 May;24(5):520-5. doi: 10.1021/jm00137a009.

Potential antitumor agents. 35. Quantitative relationships between antitumor 
(L1210) potency and DNA binding for 
4'-(9-acridinylamino)methanesulfon-m-anisidide analogues.

Baguley BC, Denny WA, Atwell GJ, Cain BF.

Factors influencing dose potency of 
4'-(9-acridinylamino)methanesulfon-m-anisidide (m-AMSA) analogues in L1210 
assays have been investigated by multiple regression analysis. The dependent 
variable was D40, the dose to provide 40% life extension in L1210 tests. 
Independent variables examined were chromatographic Rm values, as a measure of 
agent lipophilic-hydrophilic balance; Rm2; log K, where K is the agent-DNA 
association constant for poly[d(A-T)]; log T1/2, the half-life for congener 
thiolytic cleavage; and agent pKa values. A regression equation containing terms 
in Rm2 and log K was derived with the latter term accepting the greater 
proportion of the biological variance. DNA binding, of acridine substituted 
m-AMSA variants, is the most important factor influencing dose potency. Modeling 
of log K for 3-substituted derivatives provided an equation in substituent R 
constants and molar refractivities (MR).

DOI: 10.1021/jm00137a009
PMID: 6894620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Am J Nurs. 1980 Feb;80(2):282-3.

MS: ALS, MS, MD--what's the difference?

Plank C.

PMID: 6898393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. J Gerontol Nurs. 1980 Dec;6(12):754-5. doi: 10.3928/0098-9134-19801201-12.

With regard to aging, men and women are not equal.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.3928/0098-9134-19801201-12
PMID: 6904460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Nurs J Singapore. 1980 Aug;20:62-5.

Biological and medical aspects of ageing.

Tan N.

PMID: 6904982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 1981 Apr;41(4):266-9.

[High-dosage gestagen long-term therapy in corpus carcinoma; influence on 
survival time (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

von Fournier D, Kubli F, Bauer M, Weber E.

PMID: 6908875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Kango Gijutsu. 1981 Apr;27(6):726-32.

[The mechanism of aging and medical intervention].

[Article in Japanese]

Inoue G.

PMID: 6910486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. J Adv Nurs. 1981 Jul;6(4):319-25. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2648.1981.tb03229.x.

The process of ageing.

Barrowclough F, Pinel C.

An increasing elderly population involves nurses with older people in a wide 
sphere of activities. It is essential that an understanding of ageing and its 
effects is included as part of the knowledge which to common to all nurses. The 
study of gerontology has intensified in recent years but an interest in the 
phenomenon of ageing can be traced back through the centuries. A number of 
theories about the causes of ageing have been put forward but the evidence in 
support of these is still inconclusive. Control of hte ageing process remains 
beyond mankind, but it is known that environmental and hereditary factors 
contribute to the rate of ageing. Knowledge about the effects of ageing is 
accumulating. The influence of ageing on the functions of the body can be 
measured. Most functions are reduced in efficiency and the lowered levels of 
performance have to be considered in their relation to the medical and nursing 
care of older people. Ageing also has psychological and social implications. 
Changes in behaviour patterns can occur as a result of the influence of ageing 
on personality, intellect and memory. There are also changes in the social 
circumstances of older people resulting from such factors as retirement and 
bereavement. The growing problem of an elderly population is stimulating 
increasing research into the causes and effects of ageing.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2648.1981.tb03229.x
PMID: 6911147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Nurs Res. 1981 Sep-Oct;30(5):299-306.

Health risk appraisal: process, problems, and prospects for nursing practice and 
research.

Doerr BT, Hutchins EB.

A number of methodological concerns and certain dimensions relevant to future 
development are generated in the above research: 1. The issue of test reactivity 
is especially critical in health risk appraisal instruments, since more advanced 
tools are designed to stimulate the recipient to take actions that might alter 
post-test results. Therefore, research studies using health risk appraisals need 
to control for the interaction effects of testing. Since health risk appraisals 
are reactive, the interaction of test effects with other experimental treatment 
(e.g. counseling) cannot be handled by use of non-reactive measures, as 
methodologists frequently suggest. 2. A second major threat to validity is the 
issue of experimental mortality. The clients who complete the health risk 
appraisal instrument are usually assumed to be self-motivated. Where engaged in 
large scale trials, however, their participation may be coerced at the outset 
but not enforced throughout the course of the study. Because of this some 
studies have a high proportion of dropouts. 3. Where this has not been the case, 
a third threat to validity, selectivity, is often a paramount concern, inasmuch 
as the populations who have subscribed to the instrument under their own 
motivation may be already pre-selected as very low risk individuals. In light of 
the paucity of controlled studies using health risk appraisals, it is difficult 
to draw conclusions regarding the state of the art. In summary, some general 
dimensions of the activity surround the development and use of health risk 
appraisals are: 1. The health risk appraisal appears to be more effective in 
motivating change with older rather than younger individuals. 2. Individuals 
given a health risk assessment within a supportive educational process do better 
than individuals exposed only to the results of a health risk appraisal. 3. 
Individuals given only a health risk appraisal and results without supportive 
education do better than individuals given no health risk appraisal. 4. Research 
participants and users of the instrument are, in almost every study, a 
self-selected group and appear to be healthier than the general population. One 
might question whether they are the more motivated population.

PMID: 6912991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Nurs Res. 1981 Sep-Oct;30(5):307-13.

Health risk appraisal: some methodologic considerations.

Goetz AA, McTyre RB.

This is an outline of the structure and limitations of existing health risk 
appraisal tools (HRA). A general model is discussed, where average populations 
risk data are modified in a risk computation algorithm. This process requires 
information on risk relevant characteristics of the individual and rules or 
assumptions where sufficient data do not exist. The basis for risk estimation 
algorithms, the derivation of risk factors, and their combination into 
composites are described. HRA feedback to the individual user is discussed, 
including summarization of risk results in terms of risk age and life 
expectancy.

PMID: 6912992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Nurs Mirror. 1981 Oct 14;153(16):22-5.

Epidemiology. 2 Patterns of disease.

Waters E, Cliff K.

PMID: 6913037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 1982 Feb;42(2):98-102. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1036645.

[Cytogenetic, gynaecological and sonographic aspects of twin pregnancy with 
parental Robertsonian translocation 13/14 (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Schwanitz G, Schwinger E, Hansmann M, Niesen M.

A prenatal chromosome analysis for a parental Robertsonian translocation 13/14 
is absolutely imperative. In the present case of a twin pregnancy, it was 
possible to present the chromosome complement of only one foetus. Since this 
foetus showed the Robertsonian translocation in the same form as the 
phenotypically healthy mother, and since the ultrasound findings were normal, it 
was concluded that foetus I was normal. Further measures for the cytogenetic 
analysis of foetus II were abandoned after the first amniotic sample could not 
be analysed. At the time of the amniocentesis this child was retarded when 
compared to foetus I. Since the life expectancy of a possibly chromosomally 
unbalanced child is slight, it was not necessary for the parents to take further 
steps. During the rest of the pregnancy however, this difference in the 
development of the children evened out unexpectedly and two phenotypically 
healthy children were born. The implications of a delayed growth rate as an 
indication of abnormal foetal development are discussed.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1036645
PMID: 6917812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Milbank Mem Fund Q Health Soc. 1982 Spring;60(2):183-244.

Changing concepts of morbidity and mortality in the elderly population.

Manton KG.

PMID: 6919770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Sykepleien. 1982 May 5;69(8):11-3.

[From the Oslo-studies: most over-80-year-olds are active and alert].

[Article in Norwegian]

Askeland OR.

PMID: 6920865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. J Gerontol Nurs. 1982 Aug;8(8):443-7. doi: 10.3928/0098-9134-19820801-07.

Aging in perspective: the evolution of medical and social policy.

Somers AR.

DOI: 10.3928/0098-9134-19820801-07
PMID: 6921206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. J Gerontol Nurs. 1982 Sep;8(9):509-18. doi: 10.3928/0098-9134-19820901-06.

Assessing an environment for safety first.

Seigel H.

DOI: 10.3928/0098-9134-19820901-06
PMID: 6921213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Tijdschr Ziekenverpl. 1982 Aug 10;35(16):517-20.

[The elderly patient in the hospital: care for the future].

[Article in Dutch]

Ekkerink JL.

PMID: 6922643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Occup Health Nurs. 1982 Nov;30(11):19-20. doi: 10.1177/216507998203001103.

Risk appraisal and its effect on lifestyle.

Stryd AN.

DOI: 10.1177/216507998203001103
PMID: 6924195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Ann Chir Main. 1982;1(2):137-45. doi: 10.1016/s0753-9053(82)80069-0.

Osseous metastases in the hand. A general review of three cases.

[Article in English, French]

Asencio G, Hafdi C, Pujol H, Allieu Y.

Osseous metastases in the hand are rare. The authors report 3 cases, bringing 
the total number of reported cases up to 106. They affect mainly men; their 
clinical features are local swelling and pain frequently ascribed to a trauma. 
The diagnosis is often mistaken, many patients being initially treated for a 
distal felon. Distal phalanx is the main involved area, with irregular 
osteolysis and cortical destruction. The etiology is quite different from that 
of metastases to other bones: bronchopulmonary cancer is by far the most 
frequent with 46% of cases, followed by breast cancer (15%). Other types of 
cancer are much less frequently involved. The evolution is sombre; average life 
expectancy is 3 1/2 months. Treatment may involve, as needed, distal digital 
amputation on antalgic radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0753-9053(82)80069-0
PMID: 6927376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Dent Clin North Am. 1980 Apr;24(2):247-69.

Electrosurgical management of soft tissues and restorative dentistry.

Flocken JE.

Proper use of oral electrosurgery permits rapid, full management of soft-tissue 
problems related to mouth preparation for fixed and removable prosthodontics. 
The ability to control precisely the zone of coagulation enables the dentist to 
carve, sculpture, or modify the soft-tissue contours with or without hemorrhage. 
Restorative dentists possess a high degree of artistic sculpturing skills that 
can be effectively utilized to harmonize restorative and soft-tissue contours. 
The life expectancy and function of all fixed and removable restorations depend 
upon optimal health of the supporting tissues for biomechanical compatibility. 
Modern electrosurgical techniques and equipment make it possible for the general 
practitioner, as well as the specialist, to deliver more timely and more 
comfortable improved fixed and removable appliance therapy to their patients.

PMID: 6928834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Ann Intern Med. 1980 Jul;93(1):120-7. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-93-1-120.

Probing the dynamics of MÃ¼nchausen's syndrome. Detailed analysis of a case.

Justus PG, Kreutziger SS, Kitchens CS.

During a 10-week period we made in-depth observations of a patient with 
MÃ¼nchausen's syndrome who had chronic myelogenous leukemia. Probably because he 
perceived that his life expectancy was brief, he disclosed his wanderings and 
regularly used methods of deception. These methods were usually based on his 
knowledge of pathophysiology. He exploited the desire of medical personnel to be 
helpful. Through interviews with the patient, family members, and previous 
physicians and review of 14 kg of medical records, we attempted to reconstruct 
his life to gain insight into his conscious and unconscious motivations. Most 
features of MÃ¼nchausen's syndrome appear to be explainable by the patient's 
attempts to have control over his immediate environment.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-93-1-120
PMID: 6930825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. J Dent Res. 1981 May;60(5):919-26. doi: 10.1177/00220345810600051201.

Cariogenicity of human plaque lactobacilli in gnotobiotic rats.

Fitzgerald RJ, Adams BO, Fitzgerald DB, Knox KW.

Thirty-two strains of Lactobacilli, comprising eight species and obtained from 
human dental plaque or other sources, were tested for cariogenic potential in 
gnotobiotic Sprague-Dawley rats receiving modified cariogenic Diet 2000. 
Seventeen of these strains were moderately to highly cariogenic, and only one, a 
strain of Lactobacillus lactis, was scored as non-cariogenic. The molar fissures 
were the predominant site of caries attack. Primary lesions of the smooth 
surfaces were infrequently seen, although these surfaces were often secondarily 
involved by the extension of fissure lesions. . The preferential location of 
caries in the sheltered fissure sites was attributed to their inability to form 
adherent plaque deposits on the smooth surfaces of the teeth. Caries production 
by a strain of L. salivarius was equally severe on sucrose- or 
glucose-containing versions of Diet 2000, but glucose was less supportive of 
caries development than sucrose for a strain of L. fermentum. It is concluded 
that a wide variety of lactobacilli may be cariogenic under favorable 
environmental conditions.

DOI: 10.1177/00220345810600051201
PMID: 6938568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. J Rheumatol Suppl. 1981 Jan-Feb;7:116-20.

Progressive systemic sclerosis and penicillamine.

Rodnan GP.

Retrospective evaluation of 26 patients with progressive systemic sclerosis and 
diffuse scleroderma who were treated with D-penicillamine for periods of 6-50 
months (average = 19 months) revealed a reduction in skin thickening, which was 
confirmed in 7 cases by a diminution in the weight of skin biopsy cores obtained 
from the forearm before and after therapy. There was little or no change in skin 
thickness in 18 otherwise similar patients who received other medications. 
Treatment with D-penicillamine also appeared to be associated with a decrease in 
the rate of development of new visceral involvement and prolongation in life 
expectancy in this series.

PMID: 6939873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1981 Jul;62(7):328-31.

Long-term rehabilitation in advanced stage of childhood onset, rapidly 
progressive muscular dystrophy.

Bach J, Alba A, Pilkington LA, Lee M.

The most common cause of death in patients with rapidly progressive 
neuromuscular disease has been respiratory failure. The medical community and 
society as a whole have not yet recognized the possibilities for markedly 
extended life expectancy and prolonged productivity in severely disabled 
neuromuscular patients with proper medical management and rehabilitation. In a 
population of 120 patients with early childhood onset, rapidly progressive 
muscular dystrophy, 29 were in the most advanced stage requiring mechanical 
ventilation 24 hr/day and had vital capacities of less than 10% predicted for 
age and height. Of these patients with severely weakened bulbar innervated 
muscles, 10 have been receiving positive pressure ventilation via indwelling 
tracheostomy tubes for an average of 3 years. The average age of the 29 patients 
is 27 years with a range of 15 to 54 years. Of the 29 patients, 24 live in the 
community. Three are married and have a total of 5 children. Some patients are 
in professional careers, or active in political and community organizations. The 
management of and potential for improved quality of life and increased longevity 
in these patients are discussed.

PMID: 6941747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Bol Asoc Med P R. 1981 Jan;73(1):11-7.

[Differences in mortality according to sex in Puerto Rico].

[Article in Spanish]

RamÃ­rez de Arellano AB.

PMID: 6942849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Refuat Hapeh Vehashinayim. 1981 Apr;28(4):17-9.

Dental patients: motivation, resistance and cooperation.

Lowental U.

Successful dental treatment depends on cooperation which is, in turn, influenced 
by the motivation (M') to receive therapy - as well as by recoil and resistance. 
M' reflects a patient's personality with all its complex patterns of 
psychological drives: natural (congenital?) tendencies and acquired habits, 
reactions to past dental experiences. Many of these factors remain unconscious 
in the patient. M' reflects the basic personality mechanisms, as well as actual 
needs, dental (healing) and non-dental, non-somatic. These latter needs are 
related to hypochondriacal insecurity, or to attempts to obtain a "secondary 
gain", etc. Some of the factors are not even related to the patient himself but 
rather to social forces, to the issue of payment, and to the dentist's 
characteristics. Aiming at maximal therapeutic efficiency, and for an optimal 
handling of patients' motivation, the dentist should pay attention to their 
personality patterns. His clear, openly expressed interest in their total life 
circumstances and their existence, as extension of his history taking and 
oro-dental examination, together with a firm, positive approach - these reduce 
anxiety and diminish resistance in many cases, for a better cooperation.

PMID: 6944286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1981 Aug;78(8):5009-13. doi:
10.1073/pnas.78.8.5009.

Evidence for a relationship between longevity of mammalian species and life 
spans of normal fibroblasts in vitro and erythrocytes in vivo.

RÃ¶hme D.

The replicative life spans of mammalian fibroblasts in vitro were studied in a 
number of cell cultures representing eight species. Emphasis was placed on 
determining the population doubling level at which phase III (a period of 
decrease in the rate of proliferation) and chromosomal alterations occur. All 
the cell cultures studied went through a growth crisis, a period of apparent 
growth cessation lasting for at least 2 weeks. In most cultures, the crisis 
represented the end of their replicative capacities, but in some cultures cell 
proliferation was resumed after the crisis. A predominantly diploid chromosome 
constitution (more than 75%) was demonstrated prior to the growth crisis. In 
cultures in which cell proliferation was resumed after the crisis, a nondiploid 
constitution prevailed in all cases except the rat (with 90% or more diploid 
cells all the time). The growth crisis occurred at population doubling levels 
that were characteristic for the species and was shown to be related to the 
species' maximal life span by a strict power law, being proportional to the 
square root of the maximal life span. Based on data in the literature, the same 
relationship was also valid for the lifespans of circulating mammalian 
erythrocytes in vivo. These results may indicate the prevalence of a common 
functional basis regulating the life span of fibroblasts and erythrocytes and 
thus operating in replicative as well as postmitotic cells in vitro and in vivo.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.78.8.5009
PMCID: PMC320321
PMID: 6946449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1981 Nov;78(11):7124-8. doi:
10.1073/pnas.78.11.7124.

The aging process.

Harman D.

Aging is the progressive accumulation of changes with time that are associated 
with or responsible for the ever-increasing susceptibility to disease and death 
which accompanies advancing age. These time-related changes are attributed to 
the aging process. The nature of the aging process has been the subject of 
considerable speculation. Accumulating evidence now indicates that the sum of 
the deleterious free radical reactions going on continuously throughout the 
cells and tissues constitutes the aging process or is a major contributor to it. 
In mammalian systems the free radical reactions are largely those involving 
oxygen. Dietary manipulations expected to lower the rate of production of free 
radical reaction damage have been shown (i) to increase the life span of mice, 
rats, fruit flies, nematodes, and rotifers, as well as the "life span" of 
neurospora; (ii) to inhibit development of some forms of cancer; (iii) to 
enhance humoral and cell-mediated immune responses; and (iv) to slow development 
of amyloidosis and the autoimmune disorders of NZB and NZB/NZW mice. In 
addition, studies strongly suggest that free radical reactions play a 
significant role in the deterioration of the cardiovascular and central nervous 
systems with age. The free radical theory of aging provides reasonable 
explanations for age-associated phenomena, including (i) the relationship of the 
average life spans of mammalian species to their basal metabolic rates, (ii) the 
clustering of degenerative diseases in the terminal part of the life span, (iii) 
the beneficial effect of food restriction on life span, (iv) the greater 
longevity of females, and (v) the increase in autoimmune manifestations with 
age. It is not unreasonable to expect on the basis of present data that the 
