healthy life span can be increased by 5-10 or more years by keeping body weight 
down, at a level compatible with a sense of well-being, while ingesting diets 
adequate in essential nutrients but designed to minimize random free radical 
reactions in the body.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.78.11.7124
PMCID: PMC349208
PMID: 6947277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Probl Gematol Pereliv Krovi. 1982 Feb;27(2):7-11.

[HLA antigens and the life expectancy of patients with hypoplastic anemia and 
acute leukemias].

[Article in Russian]

Faĭnshteĭn FE, Tananov AT, Turbina NS, Isaev VG, Abakumov EM.

PMID: 6950374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1982 May;68(5):729-33.

Epidemiologic and age-dependent data on multiple myeloma in Austria.

Ludwig H, Fritz E, Friedl HP.

The mortality rates for multiple myeloma showed an increasing trend between 1969 
and 1979, when multiple myeloma accounted for 6% of the reported cancer deaths 
in Austria. The median age at diagnosis was relatively high: 68.5 years for 
males and 69.0 years for females. The age-corrected male:female ratio of 1.23:1 
indicated a higher incidence of multiple myeloma in males. Age-standardized 
(standard population for Europe) incidence rates amounted to 1.5/100,000 male 
inhabitants and 1.2/100,000 female inhabitants/year. In subsample of patients 
with multiple myeloma, the paraprotein types as well as the k:lambda ratio 
resembled the frequency distribution of normal immunoglobulins. There were no 
age-related differences for the stages of the disease and the poor risk factors 
at diagnosis for patients 85 years old or younger or for those over 65 years of 
age at diagnosis. Survival rates were significantly higher for younger patients 
than for older ones, with a 50% survival time of 45 and 26 months, respectively. 
The differences resulted solely from the dissimilar general life expectancies in 
both groups, and survival rates with strict regard to multiple myeloma proved to 
be identical in younger and older patients.

PMID: 6951084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Child Care Health Dev. 1982 Mar-Apr;8(2):93-103. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2214.1982.tb00272.x.

Health visiting and pre-school children with behavioural problems in the County 
of South Glamorgan: an exploratory study.

Thomas JA, Bidder RT, Hewitt K, Gray OP.

This study surveys firstly, using a modified semantic differential technique, 
how a sample of health visitors in the County of South Glamorgan perceived 
different behavioural problems in pre-school children. A selection of visiting 
records, covering a 1-year period, is also studied. Results from the 
semantic-differential indicate that health visitors perceive eating and sleeping 
as the most common problem areas. Hyperactivity and sleeping problems are seen 
as being the most difficult to deal with and the most disruptive to family life. 
Although health visitors generally feel it is necessary to follow up children 
with behaviour problems, they find these difficult to resolve. About one third 
of children are referred to other agencies. Visiting records reveal that 
children with hyperactivity and sleeping problems receive the highest number of 
visits from health visitors and that there is little improvement in these 
children over a period of 1 year. An extension of the health visitor's role and 
training to include behavioural treatments for pre-school children is discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2214.1982.tb00272.x
PMID: 6954017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Gerontology. 1982 May-Jun;28(3):176-202. doi: 10.1159/000212531.

Hyper-alpha-lipoproteinemia and hypo-beta-lipoproteinemia are not markers for a 
high life expectancy. Serum lipid and lipoprotein findings in 103 randomly 
selected nonagenarians.

Heckers H, Burkard W, Schmahl FW, Fuhrmann W, Platt D.

DOI: 10.1159/000212531
PMID: 6954123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Shikai Tenbo. 1982 Sep;60(3):573-83.

[Dietary habits and life expectancy].

[Article in Japanese]

Rikimaru T, Fujita Y.

PMID: 6959346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. J Med. 1980;11(5-6):321-38.

Global health care.

Ambrus JL.

PMID: 6962822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Trans Ophthalmol Soc U K (1962). 1982;102 Pt 3:323-6.

The development of presbyopia in primates.

Kaufman PL, Bito LZ, DeRousseau CJ.

Presbyopia, the age-dependent decline in accommodative amplitude, clinically 
afflicts every individual reaching the age of 40 to 45 years. Various 
pathophysiologic mechanisms have been proposed, but none is proven, and until 
now no animal model for their study has existed. Refraction, axial dimensions, 
and pharmacologically-induced accommodation were determined in caged rhesus 
monkeys aged 0.5 to 32 years. Accommodative amplitude decline in an 
age-dependent manner from greater than 40 diopters to 0 diopters. Mean 
accommodative amplitude in 0.5 to 5-year old animals was 34.4 diopters; in 
greater than 25-year old animals it was 5 diopters. Considering the relative 
life expectancy and accommodative amplitude of rhesus and human, the rate of the 
age-dependent decline in accommodation was remarkably similar in the two 
species, as were the relationships between resting axial lenticular thickness 
and age, and between drug-induced accommodative amplitude and change in 
lenticular thickness. Thus, the rhesus monkey appears to provide the first known 
animal model for the study of accommodation and presbyopia as they occur in the 
human.

PMID: 6964274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 1980 Mar;104(3):145-9.

Radiation-induced life shortening in neonatally thymectomized germ-free mice.

Anderson RE, Howarth JL, Troup GM.

Radiation in sufficient amounts is carcinogenic, immunosuppressive, and results 
in a reduced life span. Similar consequences follow neonatal thymectomy (nTx) in 
some strains of rodents. The tumorigenic effects of irradiation appear to be 
partly mediated via suppression of the thumus-dependent portion of the immune 
response. Our purpose was to determine whether a similar relationship exists for 
radiation-induced accelerated aging. Female germ-free Charles River mice had 
neonatal or sham thymectomies within 24 hours of birth. Half of each group was 
exposed to 700 rads at 6 weeks of age. When mice with histologically malignant 
tumors were excluded, the combined life-shortening effects of nTx and 
irradiation were less pronounced than the sum of the individual effects. This 
suggests that some of the decreased longevity associated with irradiation may be 
mediated by T-cell injury.

PMID: 6965581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Rev Esp Cardiol. 1980;33(1):1-3.

[Aortocoronary bypass. Prolongation of life and the problem of surgical 
indication].

[Article in Spanish]

Rivera R.

PMID: 6966807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Int J Radiat Biol Relat Stud Phys Chem Med. 1980 Jun;37(6):633-52.

Tumour incidence and longevity in neutron and gammairradiated rabbits, with an 
assessment of r.b.e.

Hulse EV.

Rabbits were kept for the whole of their natural life-span (6--9 years) after 
exposures of 440--1410 rad of gamma-rays or 180--550 rad fission neutrons. 
Irradiated rabbits did not live as long as unirradiated controls but the 
difference was statistically significant only after the higher doses of 
neutrons. Earlier deaths were explained by increased incidences of a wide 
variety of tumours. The increases were statistically significant for basal-cell 
tumours of the skin, fibroasarcomas, osteosarcomas and Sertoli-cell tumours of 
the testis. Other phenomena assoicated with natural ageing were unchanged or 
decreased in irradiated rabbits. The r.b.e. of the neutrons was assessed as 
3--3.5 for tumour induction and 3x5--4x0 for longevity. Comparisons with 
previous data on acute and subacute effects suggest that the r.b.e. increased 
linearly with the logarithm of time for 5--2000 days after irradiation.

PMID: 6968298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Am J Ophthalmol. 1981 Feb;91(2):277-8. doi: 10.1016/0002-9394(81)90197-5.

Hereditary Fuchs' dystrophy.

Sidrys LA.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9394(81)90197-5
PMID: 6970524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Trans Assoc Life Insur Med Dir Am. 1980;63:130-9.

Longevity studies following surgically treated coronary artery disease.

McCallister BD.

PMID: 6972652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Am J Surg. 1981 Jun;141(6):665-71. doi: 10.1016/0002-9610(81)90074-x.

Life expectancy after coronary artery surgery.

Loop FD, Cosgrove DM, Lytle BW, Golding LR.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9610(81)90074-x
PMID: 6972706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Bull World Health Organ. 1981;59(2):243-8.

Effect of investments in water supply and sanitation on health status: a 
threshold-saturation theory.

Shuval HI, Tilden RL, Perry BH, Grosse RN.

A general theory on the relationship between water supply and sanitation 
investments and health, the threshold-saturation theory, is proposed. The theory 
takes into consideration three variables: health status, socioeconomic status, 
and sanitation level, and attempts to encompass, for the first time in one 
general theoretical framework, numerous conflicting empirical findings. The 
two-tiered S-shaped logistic form of the relationship that is proposed assumes 
that at the lower end of the socioeconomic spectrum there is a threshold below 
which investments in community water supplies and/or excreta disposal facilities 
alone result in little detectable improvement in health status. Similarly, at 
the higher end of the socioeconomic scale, it is suggested that a point of 
saturation is reached beyond which further significant health benefits cannot be 
obtained by investments in conventional community sanitation facilities.A 
preliminary attempt to validate this model using published data on sanitation 
level (defined as access to water supply), life expectancy, and adult literacy 
rates, for 65 developing countries, appears to provide preliminary support for 
the threshold saturation theory but further empirical validation is required 
before a quantitative predictive model can be developed.

PMCID: PMC2396042
PMID: 6972817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Int J Radiat Biol Relat Stud Phys Chem Med. 1981 Jun;39(6):607-15. doi: 
10.1080/09553008114550731.

Late effects of whole or partial body x-irradiation on mice: life shortening.

Sato F, Sasaki S, Kawashima N, Chino F.

Life table data were obtained on 2400 ddY/SLC female mice exposed at 10 weeks of 
age to a single dose of X-rays. Doses given to the whole body were 95, 190, 380 
and 570 rad, and to head, trunk or lower body, 190, 380, 570 and 760 rad. The 
mean survival time of unirradiated controls was 73 weeks. The mean survival 
times after whole body exposure decreased linearly with increasing dose. The 
estimate of life shortening per 100 rad was 7.2 per cent for whole body 
exposure. The life shortening after head or lower body exposure to a dose of 190 
rad was 6.2 and 7.1 weeks respectively, and almost no further life shortening up 
to 760 rad. After trunk irradiation with 190 rad, life shortening was 10.4 weeks 
and beyond that dose life shortening was 1.1 per cent per 100 rad.

DOI: 10.1080/09553008114550731
PMID: 6972927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. J Med Assoc Ga. 1981 Jun;70(6):457-9.

Does coronary bypass surgery prolong life? An incomplete question.

Wenger NK.

PMID: 6972985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Bull World Health Organ. 1981;59(1):129-41.

Statistical analysis of interdependence of country health resource variables, 
with special regard to manpower-related ones.

Fülöp T, Reinke WA.

The analysis reported here was the latest in a series of efforts to clarify the 
relative importance of the health system and of socioeconomic factors to a 
nation's general level of health. The study has also quantified national and 
regional deviations from the general pattern as a basis for selective 
investigation of the effects of planned interventions.The analysis was unusually 
comprehensive in that it included 131 WHO Member States. As in a number of other 
studies, socioeconomic factors were found to account for much of the national 
variation in life expectancy. Inclusion of health resource variables added a 
special lagged effect which ultimately accounted for 90% of life expectancy 
variation. Evidence was also obtained that socioeconomic factors may operate 
partially through the development of health resources. It appears, therefore, 
that though socioeconomic factors are necessarily linked to health improvement, 
they are not sufficient in the absence of corresponding development of a viable 
health services infrastructure.Residual deviations from the general pattern 
varied systematically by WHO region in 30% of the cases. Most notably, in the 
African Region the number of physicians is well below even the modest level 
expected on the basis of the socioeconomic situation in the region. There is, 
however, considerable variation within individual countries, and it was not 
possible to find any significant relationship between the WHO manpower 
development programme and the national health resource parameters. It is 
therefore concluded that statistical analysis is of limited applicability in 
this field.

PMCID: PMC2396031
PMID: 6973415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Bull World Health Organ. 1981;59(5):773-6.

[Excess mortality among blind persons in the West African savannah zone].

Prost A, Vaugelade J.

PMCID: PMC2396104
PMID: 6976238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. J Surg Res. 1982 Jan;32(1):70-4. doi: 10.1016/0022-4804(82)90187-1.

The effect of ATP-MgCl2 and dipyridamole pretreatment in renal preservation.

Garvin PJ, Okiye S, Carney K, Jellinek M, Codd JE.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-4804(82)90187-1
PMID: 6976486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Orv Hetil. 1981 Nov 8;122(45):2765-6.

[Relationship between HLA-DR5 antigen and survival in acute childhood leukemia].

[Article in Hungarian]

Révész T, Benczúr M, Gyódi E, Petrányi GG, Schuler D.

PMID: 6976546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Plast Reconstr Surg. 1982 May;69(5):845-51. doi: 
10.1097/00006534-198205000-00022.

Selection and care of cardiac patients for plastic surgery.

Barrett BM Jr, Cooley DA.

A major operation after successful coronary artery bypass surgery has been 
proved as safe as an operation for a patient free from coronary artery disease. 
Most patients with angina who demonstrate an operable coronary lesion should 
usually be scheduled for coronary artery bypass before undergoing nonemergency 
surgery. It is advisable to postpone elective plastic surgery for 6 weeks to 3 
months after coronary bypass and 6 months after myocardial infarction. The life 
expectancy of cardiac patients must be carefully considered before elective 
plastic surgery, because performing an operation on a patient who cannot live to 
enjoy the benefits is unwise. Working together, cardiac surgeons, cardiologists, 
and plastic surgeons can now prolong the quantity of life and enrich its quality 
in properly selected and carefully managed patients.

DOI: 10.1097/00006534-198205000-00022
PMID: 6978495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. S Afr Med J. 1982 Jun 5;61(23):859-62.

Coronary artery surgery-beyond the crossroads?

Kinsley RH.

When coronary artery surgery is well performed one can anticipate an operative 
mortality of +/- 1%, a perioperative infarction rate of +/- 4% and a graft 
patency rate of 5 years of 80-85%; about 90% of patients are likely to obtain 
relief from angina pectoris. Moreover, life expectancy is prolonged in patients 
with left main obstruction, triple- and double-vessel (when the left anterior 
descending (LAD) coronary artery is involved) disease, and isolated LAD artery 
disease above the first septal perforator. An extensive area of jeopardized 
myocardium is common to all these anatomical subgroups. In 1981, absolute 
indications for coronary angiography and coronary artery surgery in operable 
cases included medically refractory angina, unstable angina (non-responders, 
those whose condition was previously stable, and those with marked ST-segment 
depression during pain), unstable infarction (subendocardial infarction and 
infarct extension) and left ventricular failure with a demonstrably ischaemic 
myocardium. In all other patients with coronary artery disease, decision 
regarding surgery is based on coronary anatomy and the extent of viable, but 
jeopardized, myocardium. Although coronary angiography is the only technique 
that will unequivocally identify severe anatomical disease, selection of 
patients for this procedure is at present determined by the result of a stress 
exercise test. The 1980s will focus more sharply on additional subgroups of 
patients who will benefit from coronary artery surgery.

PMID: 6979106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Ann Acad Med Singap. 1981 Oct;10(4 Suppl):67-72.

Indications and selection of patients for coronary artery bypass graft surgery.

Pitt A.

Patients with chronic stable angina who have coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) 
surgery for the relief of symptoms are asymptomatic after one year in about 75% 
of cases. The indications for surgery in unstable angina are unclear. CABG has 
not shown to benefit patients with Printzmetal angina or who survived an episode 
of ventricular fibrillation. CABG for acute myocardial infarction is a 
contentious issue, buy an operative death rate of 5.2% with a late mortality of 
1.1% has been reported. There is still debate about the usefulness of CABG in 
promoting life expectancy. Improved longevity is clearly seen in left main and 
triple vessel disease.

PMID: 6979973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Scand J Work Environ Health. 1982;8 Suppl 1:34-9.

Occupational mortality and morbidity in relation to selective turnover.

Koskela RS.

Because of the "healthy worker effect" most occupational cohorts, especially 
those of persons doing physically heavy work, are selected groups with regard to 
life expectancy. Health selection is also involved in turnover. Mortality and 
morbidity were studied on three different exposure levels, defined primarily 
according to physical demands: heavy level (iron foundries), medium level 
(manufacture of metal products), and light level (manufacture of electrical 
devices). The population comprised about 15,700 men who were employed in 
1950-1976 in the three branches of the metal industry representing the different 
levels. The number of person-years of follow-up became about 215,800. During the 
period 1950-1978, there had occurred 1,407 deaths. Data for the mortality and 
disability analyses were obtained from the national death and disability 
registers. Occupational history, morbidity, and reasons for turnover were 
studied in a sample by means of questionnaire sent to 400 current and 600 former 
workers from each branch. In addition, a questionnaire concerning occupational 
history was sent to the next of kin of 450 dead persons. When the three cohorts 
were compared to the general male population of Finland, the standardized 
mortality ratio was 124 for the foundry workers, 92 for the metal product 
workers, and 107 for the electrical workers. The survival curves showed no great 
differences between the three exposure levels. However, the heavy level had the 
highest degree of mortality, and the medium level the lowest. Foundry workers 
showed less social selection than the two other cohorts. Metal product workers 
seemed to be socially and health selected. Economic fluctuations clearly 
regulated entries of new employees into the industries and thus introduced 
additional selective features.

PMID: 6980461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Soins Chir Gen Spec. 1982 May;(15):2.

[Aortocoronary bypass. Surgery which improves the quality of life and life 
expectancy].

[Article in French]

Kurz C.

PMID: 6981207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Fortschr Med. 1982 Aug 26;100(31-32):1427-30, 1448.

[Bypass operations in coronary heart disease--status in 1982].

[Article in German]

von der Emde J, Hacker R, Rein J, Weniger J.

Coronary artery bypass surgery is the method of choice in treating coronary 
heart disease. A hospital mortality of about 1% is followed by nearly full 
life-expectancy and quality. Early diagnosis and division in groups, either for 
medical or surgical treatment, and early reconstruction before irreversible 
damage of myocardium would save many coronary patients from early retirement. 
87.8% our patients felt symptomatically better, 66.1% were without symptoms. 
Five years after bypass surgery 93.6% of patients survived, but only 52.1% of 
patients with similar extend of disease survived after medical treatment. Only 
45% of patients returned to work after the operation, though 53% of these had no 
complaints - indicating that coronary heart disease is also a sociopolitical 
problem.

PMID: 6982211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Am J Med. 1982 Dec;73(6):889-97. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(82)90787-2.

A convenient approximation of life expectancy (the "DEALE"). II. Use in medical 
decision-making.

Beck JR, Pauker SG, Gottlieb JE, Klein K, Kassirer JP.

We show how to use a bedside approximation of life expectancy in quantitative 
decision-making. This method, the declining exponential approximation of life 
expectancy (DEALE), enables the physician to collate various survival data with 
information on morbidity to determine a quality-adjusted expected survival for a 
potential management plan. The keystone in the DEALE approach is the 
approximation of survival by a simple exponential function. This approximation 
makes it possible to translate data from various literature sources (life 
expectancy tables, five-year survival rates, survival curves, median survival) 
into a single, unified mortality scale. In this paper, we use the DEALE method 
to obtain approximations of quality-adjusted life expectancy and illustrate the 
application of the method in a quantitative analysis of a clinical decision.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(82)90787-2
PMID: 6983298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1982 Sep;9(9):1574-9.

[Clinical evaluation of anticancer therapy combined with p-aminobenzoic 
acid-N-xyloside].

[Article in Japanese]

Fujimoto S, Ishigami H, Okui K.

Paraaminobenzoic acid-N-xyloside (K-247) is a new antitumor drug, which has no 
direct effect on immunologic status. Clinical trial of K-247 was performed in 8 
patients with for advanced or recurred gastrointestinal cancer, who had short 
life expectancy. Oral administration of K-247, 600 to 900 mg/day, was carried 
out in combination with antitumor treatments using MMC, FT-207, 5-FU, PSK or 
irradiation. No toxic symptoms were observed in all patients. Of the 8 patients 
studied, one showed an encouraging response, while the remaining 7 patients were 
too far advanced to respond to these treatments.

PMID: 6985199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Clin Radiol. 1980 Mar;31(2):121-35. doi: 10.1016/s0009-9260(80)80135-8.

'End-points in cancer therapy' the Glyn Evans memorial lecture of the Royal 
College of Radiologists.

Jones A.

DOI: 10.1016/s0009-9260(80)80135-8
PMID: 6988151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Am J Clin Nutr. 1980 Jun;33(6):1264-71. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/33.6.1264.

Life-long dietary protein restriction and immune function: responses to mitogens 
and sheep erythrocytes in BALB/c mice.

Stoltzner GH, Dorsey BA.

Effects of chronic dietary protein restriction on immunological response were 
studied in BALB/c male mice. Three diets were used: 4, 8, 24% protein (casein) 
which 1000 mice were allowed to eat ad libitum. Restricted mice were not 
malnourished. Mice subjected to 4% protein diet had life expectancy that was 
marginally significantly prolonged when compared with "control" mice eating 24% 
protein diet. In vivo primary antibody responses to sheep erythrocytes, assessed 
by plaque formation and serum hemagglutination, were lower in 4% protein fed 
mice than in those eating 24% protein diets. Primary antibody responses fell 
with age in all diet groups. In vitro splenic lymphocytic blastogenesis, 
measured by 3H-thymidine uptake to concanavalin A, phytohemagglutinin, 
lipopolysaccharide, and allogenic lymphocytes, was not significantly influenced 
by diet. Thymus weight was not importantly influenced by diet. Spleens from mice 
eating 4% protein diet and immunized with sheep erythrocytes were significantly 
smaller than those from control animals. Our findings are consistent with 
several other reports, and indicate that this type of diet restriction does not 
delay onset of aging patterns found in the immune system.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/33.6.1264
PMID: 6992560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1980;129:261-98. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4684-3734-8_23.

Central vs. peripheral aging.

Cutler RG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4684-3734-8_23
PMID: 6994457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Med Klin. 1980 Sep 26;75(20):728-32.

[Low cholesterol levels: a risk factor for cancer?].

[Article in German]

Heyden S.

PMID: 6999315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. J Forensic Sci. 1980 Oct;25(4):912-21.

Responses of the human skeleton to changes in the quality of life.

Stewart TD.

Americans have been getting taller for more than a century, and within this 
century their life expectancy has risen markedly. Descendants of some of the 
immigrants who arrived from Europe early in this century have heads with shapes 
that differ from those of relatives back in the Old World. Before they were born 
head shape was assumed to be one of mankind's most stable features. These 
examples of population change reflect the fact that in America the quality of 
life has improved more rapidly and widely than elsewhere. Forensic 
anthropologists have been adjusting their identification techniques to 
compensate for these population changes. Among other things, they have used data 
collected in connection with the military programs to repatriate the American 
dead of World War II and the Korean War.

PMID: 7000972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Adv Cardiol. 1980;27:211-7. doi: 10.1159/000383987.

The effect of coronary artery bypass on longevity. A surgeon's viewpoint.

Barner HB, Tyras DH.

Enthusiasm for new therapeutic modalities frequently results in a ground swell 
of overuse, which recedes to leave a trough of negativism before a definitive 
level is established. In the case of CABG, the ground swell has become a 10-year 
flood tide, without an ebb, although ripples have marred the surface. It is 
generally agreed that suitable control populations are needed to determine the 
role of a therapy and that the best controls would arise from randomized 
prospective trials. At present, the best randomized trial is the VA study which 
has shown that operation does not enhance longevity for single vessel disease, 
but clearly does for left main coronary disease. In those individuals with two- 
and three-vessel disease, the VA study has not shown that surgical therapy is 
better than medical treatment. However, three other studies containing patients 
selected by the VA criteria indicate that operation provides significantly 
greater longevity for patients in these two categories. Acceptance of this 
position requires acknowlegement of the validity of the VA study and the 
comparison of extramural concurrent surgical series.

DOI: 10.1159/000383987
PMID: 7004126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Radiology. 1981 Jan;138(1):1-9. doi: 10.1148/radiology.138.1.7005937.

Effects of low-level radiation and comparative risk.

Sinclair WK.

At low doses of radiation to the whole body, the dose-effect relationship for 
human must usually be determined by extrapolation from human data at high doses. 
Reasons for above-linear, linear, or below-linear extrapolation from high doses 
to low doses are discussed. The linear extrapolation is most common, and 
probably leads to conservative estimates of risk. Risks from other carcinogens 
may be compared directly with radiation risk by using cancer incidence as the 
end point. However, lifeshortening is a more useful index of comparison in many 
other circumstances, and can be used to compare the time lost due to 
radiation-induced cancer with that due to accidental deaths and other lost 
industrial time. Risks for radiation workers exposed at current average 
occupational dose levels are shown to be comparable with those from other safe 
industries. Questions of acceptability and public perception of risk are briefly 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.138.1.7005937
PMID: 7005937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Z Alternsforsch. 1980;35(3):239-43.

[Russian/German contacts in discussion on cellular mechanisms of aging and 
lifespan (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Duplenko JK.

This is a brief review of the discussions which took place in natural literature 
at the end of XIX, and the beginning of XX century concerning the problems of 
cellular mechanism of aging, animal lifespan, death of metazoa and immortality 
of protozoa. The participation of German and Russian natural scientists in the 
discussion of cardinal gerontological questions is specially considered. The 
close relationship between the gerontological conceptions and the evolutionary 
ideas is emphasized. The author has established historical continuity of the 
above conceptions and modern evolutionary approaches to the predetermination of 
species' lifespan and mechanisms of aging.

PMID: 7006226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Med Welt. 1981 Feb 6;32(6):177-84.

[Cancer as a psychological problem].

[Article in German]

Richter HE.

PMID: 7007797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Z Gerontol. 1980 Sep-Oct;13(5):421-32.

[Aging and life-history: aims and approaches to a life-span oriented 
gerontology].

[Article in German]

Thomae H.

The paper discusses the contributions of American theoretical and empirical 
approaches in life span developmental psychology to the understand of aging in a 
life-span frame of reference. The main part of the paper consists of a report on 
longitudinal as well as biographical studies on psychological and social 
development in adolescence, middle, and late adulthood which started at the 
Psychology Department of the University of Bonn in 1952 and are continued into 
the 80's. These studies point to close relationships between the social and 
psychological conditions in earlier and later periods of life and stress the 
relevance of promoting not only mental, but also social and effective-emotional 
competence for the coping with crisis situation in old age.

PMID: 7008405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Plast Reconstr Surg. 1981 Apr;67(4):536-50. doi: 
10.1097/00006534-198104000-00023.

The biology of human aging.

Hayflick L.

DOI: 10.1097/00006534-198104000-00023
PMID: 7010399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Prim Care. 1980 Dec;7(4):549-62.

Preaching in your practice. What to tell patients to help them to live longer.

Robbins JA.

PMID: 7010401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Top Health Care Financ. 1981 Spring;7(3):61-5.

Healthyland: an approach for identifying care needs.

Baxter JW.

PMID: 7010683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Ann Neurol. 1981 Jan;9(1):3-16. doi: 10.1002/ana.410090103.

Epilepsy in adults.

So EL, Penry JK.

The past decade has seen advances in the management of patients with epilepsy. 
The development of practical long-term electroencephalographic techniques, with 
or without simultaneous video recording, has increased the accuracy of diagnosis 
of seizure types. The technique also provides clinicians and investigators with 
a method for establishing the clinical efficacy of antiepileptic drugs and 
determining their therapeutic serum concentrations. Computerized tomography has 
enhanced the identification of structural brain lesions. Most of the reported CT 
abnormalities consist of diffuse and focal atrophies, mild ventricular 
dilatations, and porencephalies. CT has detected tumors in 8 to 10% of the 
patients regardless of age or type of seizure involved. New concepts of 
antiepileptic drug therapy have developed from the recognition of 
pharmacological properties peculiar to each agent. Determination of serum 
antiepileptic drug levels has to be utilized to reduce the problem of 
pharmacokinetic variability from one patient to another and in the same patient 
at different times, so that dosage can be individualized to achieve maximum 
therapeutic effects with least toxicity. Review of the literature on pregnancy 
in epileptic women shows that a third to half experienced more seizures during 
gestation. Reduced serum levels of most antiepileptic drugs have recently been 
observed during gestation. Infants of epileptic women taking antiepileptic drugs 
have a two to three times greater risk for congenital anomalies than infants of 
nonepileptic women. However, with the exception of oxazolidinediones, evidence 
to date has not proved the teratogenicity of antiepileptic drugs. The role of 
genetic factors and the effect of seizures during pregnancy have not been 
determined. Modest progress has been made in epilepsy rehabilitation, but 
serious problems still remain. The unemployment rate of persons with epilepsy is 
twice the national average. Half of those who are successfully employed did not 
disclose their disorder at the time of employment. Several prognostic indicators 
have been reported, but the validity of many of these indicators is 
questionable. For example, does shorter life expectancy apply to all subgroups, 
or does it vary according to seizure type and cause? The life expectancy, 
treatment response, and probability of remission in epileptic persons must be 
reevaluated after consistent applications of current methods of epilepsy 
management.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410090103
PMID: 7011170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Adv Biophys. 1981;14:37-138.

Dynamic analysis of higher order biological systems.

Sato K.

Humans and animals consist of a variety of bio-systems exhibiting various 
bio-phenomena over the course of time, from the past to the present and into 
future, up to just before their death. Each state of a bio-phenomenon at any 
time is related in stochastic fashion not only to its past history, but those of 
many other bio- and natural phenomena, enormous in number, in their internal and 
external environments. Most states of these bio-phenomena sway more or less 
around respective averages, which suggest their levels of homeostasis, 
essentially important for maintaining life. In the above past history of sway 
was hidden an essential characteristic, i.e., dynamic higher-order activity, of 
the bio-system, whereas the bio- and natural phenomena in the environments act 
to drive, i.e., stimulate, as an ensemble, the bio-system to exhibit the 
bio-phenomena as its responses. From this new point of view, mono- and 
multivariate dynamic stimulation-system (activity)-response relations in 
stochastic fashion can be seen as an extension leading from of one of the most 
fundamental static laws of excitability, that is the threshold 
stimulus-excitability-unit response relation in physiology. The dynamic mono- 
and multivariate higher-order activities, each of which consisted of some first- 
and second-order component activities, can be described in the frequency and 
time-patterns as the power spectral densities or frequency responses and (unit) 
impulse responses, respectively. Some of these "dynamic activities" were 
manifested in the brain system of humans and cats, the human "posture holding 
system," "the pressure regulatory system" in the human pulmonary circulation and 
the "glucoregulatory system" of dogs, respectively.

PMID: 7015811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Acta Med Austriaca. 1980;7(4-5):158-9.

[Comparison of life expectancy and life quality in chronic dialysis and renal 
transplant patients (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Deutsch E.

Quality of life of patients on RDT and after renal transplantation is compared. 
The somatic and psychic situation and the grade of rehabilitation are discussed.

PMID: 7018152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Am J Forensic Med Pathol. 1980 Dec;1(4):355-9. doi: 
10.1097/00000433-198012000-00009.

Causes of death in a subarctic population.

Bjarnason O.

Some of the main causes of death prior to 1900 are mentioned, including 
disastrous epidemics of high mortality such as plague, smallpox and the 
so-called hunger epidemics. Also discussed are two chronic diseases remarkable 
for Iceland in old times i.e., leprosy and hydatid disease. In the first third 
of the 20th century, infectious diseases still were the main cause of death in 
Iceland. The importance of tuberculosis in this connection is stressed. The very 
high infant mortality up to the beginning of this century is stressed. The 
changes in the main causes of death in the last decades are described and the 
growing influence of degenerative vascular diseases and cancer in that 
connection pointed out. Last, the remarkable fall in the infant mortality and 
increasing life expectancy from the beginning of this century with growing 
prosperity of the nation is stressed.

DOI: 10.1097/00000433-198012000-00009
PMID: 7018225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Curr Concepts Nutr. 1981;10:17-55.

Epidemiology of the killer chronic diseases.

Berkson DM, Stamler J.

PMID: 7018842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Cell Tissue Kinet. 1981 Jul;14(4):413-23. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2184.1981.tb00548.x.

An improved sum-of-normals technique for cell cycle distribution analysis of 
flow cytometric DNA histograms.

Jett JH, Gurley LR.

An improved method for determining the fraction of cells in the G1, S and G2 + M 
phases of the life cycle, from DNA distributions of S phase rich cultures, is 
presented. Picolinic acid synchronized cell cultures were used to demonstrate 
the usefulness of the technique for the cell cycle distribution analysis. The 
algorithm presented quantifies DNA histograms from FCM analyses using an 
extension of the previously reported 'sum of discrete normal curves' technique. 
It alleviates problems encountered with earlier methods by extending the 
contribution of the S phase cells to the distribution under the G1 and G2 + M 
peaks; at the same time it allows more of the descriptive parameters to be 
determined from the individual histograms. The fractions of cells in the G1, S, 
and G2 + M phases of the life cycle obtained by this method compare favourably 
with autoradiographic analyses and other analytical results.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2184.1981.tb00548.x
PMID: 7020948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Ophthalmology. 1981 Jul;88(7):35A-37A.

The prevention of diabetic retinopathy.

Hyman BN.

Strict regulation of blood sugar reduces the severity of vascular complications 
including the retinopathy suffered by diabetic patients. The artificial 
pancreas, insulin pump, and careful insulin administration have been compared 
with the finding that intensified conventional control is efficacious. Multiple 
injections of regular and long-acting insulin coordinate physiologically with 
the serum glucose, minimize hyperglycemia and lessen diabetic retinopathy. This 
paper will review the facts and support the contention that tight control is 
worthwhile in patients with long life expectancy. The role of the 
ophthalmologist should be reinforcement of the principles of good control.

PMID: 7022305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Fed Proc. 1981 Sep;40(11):2588-94.

Association of early growth patterns with the process of aging.

Stini WA.

In recent years, significant increases in life expectancy have occurred. This 
increase has been most pronounced among females. As a result, there were 156 
women for every 100 men over age 75 years in the United States in 1970. The 
sexual disparity of life expectancies has increased throughout this century. The 
reasons for this trend are unknown. Males experience higher mortality rates in 
both infectious and degenerative diseases. The prognosis for a male patient is 
generally poorer no matter what the stage of the disease at the time of 
diagnosis or the course of treatment. It has been shown that the early stages of 
male growth and development are more susceptible to external perturbations. 
Thus, growth-maximizing diets have their greatest impact on male children. The 
connection between male responsiveness to environmental influences during early 
growth and vulnerability in the later years is significant to the understanding 
of the aging process.

PMID: 7023993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Mol Cell Biochem. 1981 Jul;37(3):137-56. doi: 10.1007/BF02354883.

Cellular and molecular aspects of immune system aging.

Doggett DL, Chang MP, Makinodan T, Strehler BL.

We begin with a brief discussion of the importance and advantages of immune 
studies to the problem of aging. This is followed by a short over-view of immune 
system aging at the systemic level. The major portion of the article is a review 
of observation, both at the cellular and molecular level, of changes in aging 
immune cells, with sections on intercellular communication, membrane phenomena, 
cyclic nucleotides, and molecular genetic changes.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02354883
PMID: 7024781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. N Engl J Med. 1981 Oct 29;305(18):1040-7. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198110293051802.

The practice of medicine in 18th-century Massachusetts: a bicentennial 
perspective.

Estes JW.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198110293051802
PMID: 7024814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Rev Pure Appl Pharmacol Sci. 1980 Oct-Dec;1(4):293-325.

Genetic information and the life-span of laboratory animal models.

Barrows CH, Kokkonen GC.

PMID: 7025116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Can Med Assoc J. 1981 Sep 15;125(6):576-80.

Hereditary pancreatitis: report of an affected Canadian kindred and review of 
the disease.

Girard RM, Dubé S, Archambault AP.

Hereditary pancreatitis is an autosomal dominant disease with no other known 
cause. It usually begins in childhood and is characterized by recurrent attacks 
of abdominal pain of variable intensity and duration, followed by symptom-free 
periods. The diagnosis is usually made in early adult life, when pancreatic 
insufficiency and calcifications appear. Complications are less frequent than in 
nonhereditary chronic pancreatitis. There are also differences between the two 
forms of chronic pancreatitis in sex incidence, etiologic factors and life 
expectancy. In a Canadian kindred three generations are affected with hereditary 
pancreatitis; there are four definite and four suspected cases. More than 40 
affected kindreds, including 195 proven cases and 190 suspected cases, have now 
been reported in the literature. Thus, hereditary pancreatitis should be 
considered in the differential diagnosis of chronic relapsing pancreatitis of 
unknown cause as well as recurrent abdominal pain in childhood.

PMCID: PMC1862609
PMID: 7026015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. JAMA. 1981 Oct 23-30;246(17):1909-11.

The high price of federally regulated hemodialysis.

