Greenspan RE.

PMID: 7026809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Clin Exp Immunol. 1981 May;44(2):270-7.

Ageing and immunity in outbred NMRI mice: lack of correlation between 
age-related decline of the response to T cell mitogens, the antibody response to 
a T-dependent antigen and lifespan in outbred NMRI mice.

Joncourt F, Kristensen F, De Weck AL.

Responses to different mitogens and the primary in vitro antibody response to a 
T-dependent antigen (SRBC) were tested in individual mice of various ages from 
an outbred strain (NMRI). Comparing mean values, an age-related decrease was 
found only for the responses to Con A and PHA but not for LPS nor for the 
primary in vitro antibody response to SRBC. The magnitude of the responses 
obtained in individual mice of the same age varied greatly. Some of the young as 
well as aged animals could respond very well to antigen, mitogen or both and 
there was a complete lack of correlation between the magnitude of individual 
responses to mitogen and the number of PFC produced in the in vitro antibody 
response to SRBC. Additionally, we investigated whether the magnitude of the 
immune responses measured in individual mice had any influence on their 
lifespan. The mitogen response and the in vitro PFC production of spleen cells 
from individual semi-splenectomized mice were therefore compared with their 
lifespan. The lifespan did not appear to be influenced by any of the immune 
responses measured.

PMCID: PMC1537344
PMID: 7030532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Gynecol Oncol. 1981 Oct;12(2 Pt 2):S168-87. doi:
10.1016/0090-8258(81)90072-x.

Appropriateness of cervical cancer screening.

Eddy DM.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-8258(81)90072-x
PMID: 7030879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Am J Epidemiol. 1981 Dec;114(6):761-83. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a113247.

The atomic bomb survivors and the problem of low-dose radiation effects.

Beebe GW.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a113247
PMID: 7032282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. N Engl J Med. 1982 Jan 28;306(4):201-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198201283060403.

A clinical trial of amygdalin (Laetrile) in the treatment of human cancer.

Moertel CG, Fleming TR, Rubin J, Kvols LK, Sarna G, Koch R, Currie VE, Young CW, 
Jones SE, Davignon JP.

One hundred seventy-eight patients with cancer were treated with amygdalin 
(Laetrile) plus a "metabolic therapy" program consisting of diet, enzymes, and 
vitamins. The great majority of these patients were in good general condition 
before treatment. None was totally disabled or in preterminal condition. One 
third had not received any previous chemotherapy. The pharmaceutical 
preparations of amygdalin, the dosage, and the schedule were representative of 
past and present Laetrile practice. No substantive benefit was observed in terms 
of cure, improvement or stabilization of cancer, improvement of symptoms related 
to cancer, or extension of life span. The hazards of amygdalin therapy were 
evidenced in several patients by symptoms of cyanide toxicity or by blood 
cyanide levels approaching the lethal range. Patients exposed to this agent 
should be instructed about the danger of cyanide poisoning, and their blood 
cyanide levels should be carefully monitored. Amygdalin (Laetrile) is a toxic 
drug that is not effective as a cancer treatment.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198201283060403
PMID: 7033783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Cancer. 1982 Mar 1;49(5):944-51. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19820301)49:5<944::aid-cncr2820490519>3.0.co;2-c.

Involvement of the heart by malignant lymphoma: a clinicopathologic study.

McDonnell PJ, Mann RB, Bulkley BH.

Although involvement of the heart by malignant lymphoma is relatively common, it 
is difficult to detect antemortem, and only a small number of studies discuss 
this subject in the literature. The authors reviewed the 150 patients with 
malignant lymphoma autopsied at this hospital and studied the 13 (8.7%) who were 
found to have metastases to the heart or parietal pericardium. Four patients had 
Hodgkin's disease, and nine non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Cardiac or pericardial 
disease apparently resulted from retrograde lymphatic spread, hematogenous 
spread, and direct extension from other intrathoracic tumor masses. In two 
cases, lymphomatous involvement of the heart and pericardium was the immediate 
cause of death; in one of these, myocardial infiltration was detected during 
life. For the group as a whole, the signs and symptoms of cardiac dysfunction 
were typically absent or nonspecific, and electrocardiograms and thallium 
imaging were not effective screening tools for lymphoma metastases. The findings 
suggest, however, that the most destructive form of cardiac involvement is that 
associated with direct epicardial spread, and that this form appears with 
cardiac dysfunction, which should clinically suggest its presence.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19820301)49:5<944::aid-cncr2820490519>3.0.co;2-c
PMID: 7037154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Prog Clin Biol Res. 1981;77:509-25.

Changing food patterns.

Dwyer JT, Oiso T.

PMID: 7038705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 1981;13(4):265-84. doi: 10.2190/CVHU-C41F-KCHV-AVB4.

Mellowing with age: factors influencing the nonwhite suicide rate.

Seiden RH.

The age patterning of white and nonwhite suicide rates reveals a marked and 
consistent divergence: white suicide rates increase with age; however, nonwhite 
suicide rates peak in youthful years and decline during middle and older ages. 
Six explanatory hypotheses are proposed to account for the divergence: 1) 
differential life expectancy; 2) deviant burnout; 3) screening out of the 
violence-prone; 4) role and status of the elderly; 5) traditional values; and 6) 
age-specific motives. Discussion and analysis of the proposed hypotheses 
indicate that they do operate in the direction of reducing the suicide rates of 
elderly nonwhites, thereby contributing to the observed age discrepancy in white 
and nonwhite suicide rates.

DOI: 10.2190/CVHU-C41F-KCHV-AVB4
PMID: 7044989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. J Public Health Policy. 1982 Mar;3(1):76-99.

Primary health care in India.

Deodhar NS.

PIP: Concurrently with the development of the general health services 
infrastructure in India, serveral special health programs were instituted at the 
national level to provide a massive and concentrated assault on the major public 
health problems of malaria, smallpox, cholera, trachoma, tuberculosis, leprosy, 
filariasis, and the rapid population growth. These vertical programs were 
expected to reduce the heavy morbidity and mortality within the shortest 
possible time to where they were no longer major public health problems. The 
impact was variable. Major steps toward providing integrated health care were 
taken during the first 5-year plan. Emphasis was on the provision of a packet of 
inttegrated health, family planning, and nutrition services to the vulnerable 
groups, i.e., children, pregnant women, and nursing mothers. To rectify past 
shortcomings ssuch as the failures of the national health programs, ineffective 
coordination in the nutrition programs, and slow rate of development as a result 
of interdependence of different sectors, it was necessary to improve the health 
infrastructure and to launch a frontal attack on poverty. The Multipurpose 
Health Workers Scheme was planned to rationalize the organization and use of 
available manpower to reduce the area and population covered by each of the 
field staff in order to reduce travel time and to make services more effective 
and more satisfactory. Each multipurpose health worker was entrusted with the 
task of providing comprehensive health care to about 5000 people. Communicable 
diseases were the main public health problems, and many specific 
control/eradication programs were launched. the immunization programs against 
common childhood diseases have not taken deep roots and coverage continues to be 
poor. The adoption of the Western model of medical services has resulted in 
emphasis on "cure" rather than on "care". Another problem is maldistribution of 
the facilities. Overemphasis on medical education has resulted in the relative 
neglect of development of health manpower for nursing, environmental 
engineering, and other technical and paramedical personnel. Community 
involvement and participation were at a minimum if they existed at all. The 
basic concern about primary health care for all continued unabated however. To 
realize the goal of health care for all, 3 programs will have to be pursued 
simultaneously during the next 2 decades: integrated overall development 
including family planning; improvement in nutrition, environment, and health 
education; and the provision of adequate health care services for all, 
particularly the poor and underprivileged. It is necessary to redefine the roles 
of the central and state governments in view of the large power powers delegated 
to local bodies at the district level and below. Voluntary agencies will have to 
function within the overall plan/aid down by the state.

PMID: 7045159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Clin Chest Med. 1982 May;3(2):443-52.

Pleural effusion in lung cancer.

Sahn SA.

Pleural effusions are common in the setting of lung cancer. The clinician must 
establish whether the effusion is malignant, ruling out the possibility of 
curative surgery; paramalignant, which may or may not rule out surgery; or 
unassociated with the cancer. A pleural effusion associated with lung cancer is 
an ominous finding, but a small percentage of patients in this setting will be 
candidates for curative surgery. When a malignant pleural effusion is diagnosed 
by cytology or histology, the clinician must decide on the most appropriate form 
of palliative therapy for the symptomatic patient. In the symptomatic patient 
with a reasonable life expectancy, chest tube drainage with the instillation of 
tetracycline hydrochloride appears to be the most effective and least morbid 
form of palliative therapy.

PMID: 7047062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Sante Publique (Bucur). 1981;24(2-3):259-73.

Excessive mortality of men.

Klonowicz S.

PMID: 7048587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Ann Thorac Surg. 1982 Aug;34(2):132-7. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)60873-9.

Circulatory assistance with a cardiac allograft after exclusion of the canine 
left ventricle.

Alivizatos PA, Guerraty AJ, Lower RR.

Cardiogenic shock after myocardial infarction still carries a high mortality 
despite use of intraaortic counterpulsation and early surgical 
revascularization. An experimental canine model of left ventricular exclusion 
and circulation support was developed by closing the mitral valve and by 
interposing "in series" a cardiac allograft between pulmonary and systemic 
circulations. This preparation was able to support the recipient circulation 
after cardiopulmonary bypass in 25 animals. In 16 dogs the graft sustained life 
for from 1 to 32 days. It is hypothesized that such left ventricular assistance 
could be used to maintain the life of patients in cardiogenic shock after 
myocardial infarction. By providing maximal left ventricular decompression and 
improvement of the native coronary perfusion, this method may reverse the 
metabolic imbalance responsible for extension of the infarction, thereby 
salvaging muscle that is in jeopardy but still viable.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(10)60873-9
PMID: 7049098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Proc Annu Symp Eugen Soc. 1981;16:23-40.

The centrality of demographic experience.

Laslett P.

PMID: 7050973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Med Decis Making. 1981;1(1):29-39. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8100100105.

Assessment of patients' preferences for therapeutic outcomes.

Eraker SA, Sox HC Jr.

We sought to characterize patients' preferences in drug therapy decisions with 
uncertain outcomes by analyzing their responses to hypothetical therapeutic 
scenarios. In each scenario, the patient chose between two drugs with equivalent 
effects, one having two possible outcomes occurring by chance (uncertain 
outcome) and the other having a single outcome (certain outcome). Most patients 
chose a certain and intermediate therapeutic effect rather than taking a chance 
between no effect and a very large favorable effect. When the outcomes were 
adverse drug effects, there was a strong opposite trend. Rather than preferring 
a certain and intermediate adverse drug effect, most patients were willing to 
risk a possible severe drug side effect in order to have a chance of 
experiencing no adverse reaction. Thus, patients' willingness to accept risks in 
therapy decisions involving uncertain outcomes may depend on whether the 
outcomes are favorable or unfavorable.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8100100105
PMID: 7052402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. J Gerontol. 1982 Jan;37(1):38-41. doi: 10.1093/geronj/37.1.38.

Inverse correlation between species life span and specific cytochrome P-448 
content of cultured fibroblasts.

Pashko LL, Schwartz AG.

The quantity and type of microsomal cytochrome P-450 was determined in early 
passage cultured fibroblasts from six mammalian species of widely differing life 
spans. The proportion of cytochrome P-450 and P448 varied considerably among 
species, with the shorter-lived species having a preponderance of cytochrome 
P-448. There was a good inverse correlation between potential species life span 
and the specific cytochrome P-448 content of cultured fibroblasts.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/37.1.38
PMID: 7053396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Am J Public Health. 1982 Jan;72(1):91-2. doi: 10.2105/ajph.72.1.91.

Life expectancy increases, but the life span is fixed.

Fries JF.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.72.1.91
PMCID: PMC1649751
PMID: 7053629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Geriatrics. 1982 Feb;37(2):149-57.

Body weight and life expectancy.

Kent S.

PMID: 7056470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. N Engl J Med. 1982 Mar 18;306(11):671-3. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198203183061111.

Sounding board. Recent health gains for adults.

McGinnis JM.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198203183061111
PMID: 7057826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Oncology. 1982;39(1):59-60. doi: 10.1159/000225606.

Effect of a delta 5-homo-aza-steroidal ester in P388 and L1210 murine leukemias.

Catsoulacos P, Camoutsis C, Wampler GL.

3 beta-Hydroxy-13 alpha-amino-13,17-seco-5-androsten-17-oic-13,17-lactam 
P-N,N-bis-(2-chloroethyl)-amino phenylacetate gives results in P388 and L1210 
leukemias in mice, by the intraperitoneal route of administration.

DOI: 10.1159/000225606
PMID: 7058047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Public Health Rep. 1982 Jan-Feb;97(1):31-7.

An evaluation of the health hazard appraisal based on survey data from a 
randomly selected population.

Safer MA.

The Special Projects Division of the City of Milwaukee Health Department 
conducted a telephone survey among randomly selected adult residents to 
determine the population having the greatest potential for benefiting from a 
health screening a counseling program. A modified version of the Health Hazard 
Appraisal (HHA) was completed by 268 respondents. From the survey results, it 
was estimated that by reducing various health risk factors, the respondents 
could lower their current probability of dying within 10 years by an average of 
22 percent. The major predictor of the percentage of reducible risk was age. 
Persons 18-39 years old could reduce their current probability of dying within 
10 years by an average of about 10 percent, whereas persons 40 years and older 
could reduce theirs by an average of more than 30 percent. Men could lower their 
probability by slightly more than women, but other sociodemographic factors, 
such as race, income, education, and residential area, either did not predict 
significantly the percentage of reducible risk or did so only because of their 
correlation with age. The results raise questions about the HHA's accuracy in 
calculating reducible risk, its use of death postponement information to 
motivate changes in behavior, and its value in health promotion programs, 
particularly for young adults who are not likely to die of chronic diseases 
within 10 years. The HHA should only be considered for public health screening 
programs that target middle-aged and, perhaps, elderly populations rather than 
the general population of persons under 40 years old.

PMCID: PMC1424288
PMID: 7058260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. S Afr Med J. 1982 Feb 6;61(6):207-9.

Intensive care unit bed extension for fluoroscopy.

King C, Thomas RG, Andrew WK, Bethlehem BH.

Effective use of the 'C-arm' X-ray fluoroscopy machine in the intensive care 
unit (ICU) is often prevented by the design of the ICU bed. An inexpensive, 
easily constructed device is described which facilitates use of the 'C-arm' 
machine, yet permits the patient's monitoring and life-support apparatus to 
remain attached and functioning.

PMID: 7058442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1982 Apr 2;107(13):491-3. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1069961.

[Sequential methotrexate and fluorouracil in metastasizing colorectal 
carcinomas. Results of a phase II pilot study (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Herrmann R, Manegold C, Holzmann K, Fritze D.

A sequential combination of methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil was used for 
treatment of 20 patients with metastasizing colorectal carcinomas. Pretreatment 
with 5-fluorouracil had been given to five patients. While the 
chemotherapeutically pretreated patients showed two partial remissions, two 
minimal remissions and one progression, the remaining patients showed one full 
remission, six partial remissions, five minimal remissions and three 
progressions. The average partial remission time of these patients was 7,9 
months. The average survival time will probably be more than one year. The 
toxicity of treatment was slight.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1069961
PMID: 7060484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Health Bull (Edinb). 1982 Jan;40(1):31-3.

Technology in health care.

Lenihan JM.

PMID: 7061228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Health Bull (Edinb). 1982 Jan;40(1):46-9.

Achievements and opportunities in child health research.

Cockburn F.

PMID: 7061231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. J Urol. 1982 Mar;127(3):501-4. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)53885-9.

Surgical aspects of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis in infants, 
children and adolescents.

Alexander SR, Tank ES.

The importance of surgical contributions to successful pediatric continuous 
ambulatory peritoneal dialysis demonstrated in this review of our experience 
with 9 pediatric patients maintained on such dialysis for 2 to 21 months (mean 
11.3 months). Specific surgical procedures for pediatric peritoneal catheter 
placement have been developed that ensure proper catheter position, establish a 
watertight seal at the peritoneum and provide for intraoperative demonstration 
of good catheter function. Peritoneography at the time of catheter placement had 
predicted accurately later clinical hernia development and may be used to repair 
prophylactically subclinical inguinal and umbilical defects that are only 
demonstrable by intraoperative peritoneography. Partial omentectomy also has 
been helpful in certain instances. Since institution of the techniques described 
in this report, our 9 young patients have accumulated 101 patient-months on 
continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis without a single catheter failure. The 
benefits of this as yet unrestricted extension of peritoneal catheter functional 
life span may be attributed to the catheter-protective features of the 
continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis method itself and the involvement of 
interested surgeons as active members of the pediatric continuous ambulatory 
peritoneal dialysis program.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)53885-9
PMID: 7062425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Science. 1982 Feb 26;215(4536):1053-60. doi: 10.1126/science.7063839.

Directly transmitted infections diseases: control by vaccination.

Anderson RM, May RM.

Mathematical models for the dynamics of directly transmitted viral and bacterial 
infections are guides to the understanding of observed patterns in the age 
specific incidence of some common childhood diseases of humans, before and after 
the advent of vaccination programs. For those infections that show recurrent 
epidemic behavior, the interepidemic period can be related to parameters 
characterizing the infection (such as latent and infectious periods and the 
average age of first infection); this relation agrees with the data of a variety 
of childhood diseases. Criteria for the eradication of a disease are given, in 
terms of the proportion of the population to be vaccinated and the age-specific 
vaccination schedule. These criteria are compared with a detailed analysis of 
the vaccination programs against measles and whooping cough in Britain, and 
estimates are made of the levels of protection that would be needed to eradicate 
these diseases.

DOI: 10.1126/science.7063839
PMID: 7063839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Cancer. 1982 Apr 15;49(8):1580-6. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19820415)49:8<1580::aid-cncr2820490810>3.0.co;2-7.

Assessment of the long-term effects of primary radiation therapy for brain 
tumors in children.

Danoff BF, Cowchock FS, Marquette C, Mulgrew L, Kramer S.

One-hundred-twelve children with primary brain tumors received definitive 
radiotherapy between the years 1958--1979. Sixty-nine patients were alive at 
intervals of 1--21 years. Thirty-eight patients underwent neurologic and 
endocrine evaluation, psychologic and intelligence testing, and assessement for 
second malignancy post-treatment. A second intracranial malignancy developed in 
one child, for an incidence of 1.6%. Performance status was good to excellent in 
89% of the patients studied. Seventeen percent of the group were mentally 
retarded. Behavioral disorders were identified in 39% of the patients, 59% of 
the mothers, and 43% of the fathers. Of the 23 patients with nonparasellar 
tumors, six were found to have growth hormone deficiency, including two patients 
with panhypopituitarism. Disability was related to age under 3 years at the time 
of treatment and tumor extension to the hypothalamus.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19820415)49:8<1580::aid-cncr2820490810>3.0.co;2-7
PMID: 7066864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Demography. 1982 Feb;19(1):97-123.

Mortality trends in Philadelphia: age- and cause- specific death rates 
1870-1930.

Condran GA, Cheney RA.

This article examines the decline in mortality which occurred in Philadelphia in 
the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Age- and cause-specific 
mortality rates accounting for the decline are isolated and the relative 
importance of several variables in explaining the reduction of overall mortality 
levels is assessed. By using small areas within the city we are able to 
establish the impact of particular innovations on specific causes fo death.

PMID: 7067873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. J Chronic Dis. 1982;35(1):69-72. doi: 10.1016/0021-9681(82)90032-7.

Effect of sex and reproductive history on the survival of patients with 
colorectal cancer.

Koch M, McPherson TA, Egedahl RD.

The survival rate of women with colorectal carcinoma is higher than that of men. 
This is true when censored survival rates are compared (P = 0.0008) as well as 
when relative survival rates are utilized to compensate for the increased life 
expectancy of females. Women never pregnant (n = 56) or women with no children 
(n = 66) showed survival rates similar to men, but significantly different to 
women with one or more children. The actual number of children, however, did not 
correlate with survival rates.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9681(82)90032-7
PMID: 7068804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. J Gerontol. 1982 May;37(3):268-74. doi: 10.1093/geronj/37.3.268.

Relationship between metabolic rate, aging, lipid peroxidation, and fluorescent 
age pigment in milkweed bug, Oncopeltus fasciatus (Hemiptera).

McArthur MC, Sohal RS.

The purpose of this investigation was to further elucidate the relationship 
between metabolic rate and life span by studying the effect of experimentally 
varied metabolic rate on in vitro lipid peroxidation, fluorescent age pigment 
accumulation, and aging in the adult milkweed bug. The metabolic rate was 
altered by housing the insects at 18 degrees, 25 degrees, and 30 degrees C. The 
life span of insects was inversely related to the ambient temperature. Metabolic 
rates, before the period of 10% mortality, were greater at the elevated 
temperatures, but in the last trimester of life the rates were higher at 25 
degrees C than at 30 degrees C. The total average amount of oxygen consumption 
during the entire life span of the insects raised at different temperatures was 
statistically similar. Lipid peroxidation potential of the tissues and 
concentration of fluorescent age pigment increased with age at significantly 
faster rates in organisms raised at relatively higher temperatures. The results 
suggest a positive correlation between metabolic rate, aging, lipid peroxidation 
potential, and fluorescent age pigment concentration and are interpreted to 
support the concept that aging may be modulated by the rate of oxygen 
consumption.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/37.3.268
PMID: 7069149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Med J Aust. 1982 Jan 23;1(2):60. doi: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1982.tb132150.x.

Leprosy amongst Aboriginals.

McNulty JC.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1982.tb132150.x
PMID: 7070328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. N Engl J Med. 1982 May 27;306(21):1259-62. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198205273062103.

On the elicitation of preferences for alternative therapies.

McNeil BJ, Pauker SG, Sox HC Jr, Tversky A.

We investigated how variations in the way information is presented to patients 
influence their choices between alternative therapies. Data were presented 
summarizing the results of surgery and radiation therapy for lung cancer to 238 
ambulatory patients with different chronic medical conditions and to 491 
graduate students and 424 physicians. We asked the subjects to imagine that they 
had lung cancer and to choose between the two therapies on the basis of both 
cumulative probabilities and life-expectancy data. Different groups of 
respondents received input data that differed only in whether or not the 
treatments were identified and whether the outcomes were framed in terms of the 
probability of living or the probability of dying. In all three populations, the 
attractiveness of surgery, relative to radiation therapy, was substantially 
greater when the treatments were identified rather than unidentified, when the 
information consisted of life expectancy rather than cumulative probability, and 
when the problem was framed in terms of the probability of living rather than in 
terms of the probability of dying. We suggest that an awareness of these effects 
among physicians and patients could help reduce bias and improve the quality of 
medical decision making.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198205273062103
PMID: 7070445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Am J Gastroenterol. 1982 Feb;77(2):63-6.

Age distribution of right- and left-sided colorectal cancers.

Slater G, Papatestas AE, Tartter PI, Mulvihill M, Aufses AH Jr.

The age distributions in different anatomic areas of the colorectum were 
compared in 410 patients. The average age for patients with right-sided cancers 
(71.3 yr) was significantly higher than that for patients with left-sided 
cancers (67.5 yr). In addition, there was a significantly higher percentage of 
patients over the age of 70 (mean age of the whole group) in the right colon 
group as compared with the left colon group. It was concluded that the older age 
distribution of right-sided cancers might be explained by the delayed effect of 
an environmental carcinogen in a population with a longer life expectancy.

PMID: 7072682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Am Surg. 1982 Mar;48(3):98-102.

Long-term survival with ventricular pacemaking: initial 15-year experience.

Kyle J, Traugh CH, Krall J, Gardner N, Kish GF, Warden HE, Tarnay TJ.

The records of all 380 adult patients receiving cardiac pacemakers at West 
Virginia University in the 15-year period ending January 1, 1977, were reviewed. 
The five-year survival rate was 58 per cent and the 10 year, 38 per cent with a 
median survival of 74 months. Life expectancy approached life-table curves if 
the mortality during the initial year was ignored. Although the younger patients 
lived the longest, their expected survival was reduced more than in the older 
patients. The need for a pacemaker in a young person implies serious 
life-shortening consequences. Unlike reports in the literature, patients with 
sinoatrial disease fared worse than those with A-V block.

PMID: 7073139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Ann Acad Med Singap. 1982 Jan;11(1):115-7.

A profile of silicosis cases who died.

Phoon WH.

Silicosis cases which had been notified by doctors and confirmed after 
investigations were followed up by the Industrial Health Division. Up to August 
1981, a total of 313 persons were confirmed as having the disease. Of these, 59 
had died. The majority of these 59 persons had had their silica exposure in the 
granite quarries. 13 had been exposed to "rubber powder" which contained a high 
percentage of free silica. 52 of those who died were male, and their average age 
at death was 60.87 years. This did not appear to be significantly shorter than 
their life expectancy of 65.1 years. But the average age of death for the 7 
women was 58.86 years, which was much shorter than their life expectancy of 70 
years. Many of the men died from causes unrelated to silicosis. But 6 of the 7 
women had progressive massive fibrosis (PMF) and they apparently died of the 
disease or complications arising from it.

PMID: 7073220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Br J Hosp Med. 1982 Apr;27(4):366, 368, passim.

Biological aspects of human ageing.

Hayflick L.

PMID: 7074274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Cancer. 1982 May 15;49(10):2208-16. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19820515)49:10<2208::aid-cncr2820491038>3.0.co;2-6.

Racial and socioeconomic status differences in survival of colorectal cancer 
patients in Hawaii.

Wegner EL, Kolonel LN, Nomura AM, Lee J.

The study reported here examines the survival experience up to 84 months of 
patients from the five major racial groups in Hawaii diagnosed with colorectal 
cancer during the years between 1960 and 1974 based on data in the Hawaii Tumor 
Registry. Previous research in Hawaii showed that racial differences in survival 
existed even after adjusting for sex, age at diagnosis, stage of the disease at 
diagnosis, and normal life expectancy. In this paper, socioeconomic status 
differences between racial groups are hypothesized as a possible explanation for 
these survival differences. The results show that socioeconomic status did 
account for some survival differences between racial groups beyond what could be 
explained by the other variables. After adjusting for all the covariates, the 
only statistically significant racial differences which remained were higher 
survival rates for the Japanese patients compared with the rates for the 
Hawaiian and Filipino patients. Socioeconomic status was not found, however, to 
have a statistically significant effect on survival independent of race or the 
other variables examined. Reasons for the modest effects of socioeconomic status 
in this study are discussed.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19820515)49:10<2208::aid-cncr2820491038>3.0.co;2-6
PMID: 7074537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Cancer Treat Rep. 1982 Apr;66(4):711-6.

Hodgkin's disease with direct extension into pulmonary parenchyma from a 
mediastinal mass: a presentation requiring special therapeutic considerations.

Wiernik PH, Slawson RG.

The significance of limited extranodal Hodgkin's disease involving pulmonary 
parenchyma by direct extension from a mediastinal mass (E stage) was evaluated 
in 177 patients with stages IA-IIIB. Disease-free and total survival rates of 
four groups were compared: 58 patients without and 13 patients with pulmonary E 
stage treated with radiotherapy followed by six courses of MOPP 
(mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone), and 86 patients 
without and 20 patients with E stage treated with radiotherapy alone. The 
12-year disease-free and total survival rates projected by life-table analysis 
were significantly poorer for E stage patients treated with radiotherapy alone. 
It is concluded that pulmonary E stage requires special therapeutic 
considerations if end results are to equal those obtained with standard 
radiotherapy for Hodgkin's disease confined to lymph nodes, and that combined 
modality therapy is one method by which pulmonary E stage may be treated 
successfully.

PMID: 7074641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Fortschr Med. 1982 Feb 4;100(5):179-82.

[Sports and leisure activity. Results from 10 single studies in Switzerland].

[Article in German]

Biener K.

PMID: 7076089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. J Chronic Dis. 1982;35(6):487-92. doi: 10.1016/0021-9681(82)90063-7.

Survival from spinal cord injury.

Le CT, Price M.

Mean survival of 110.5 months (9 yr. 2.5 months) for spinal cord-injured persons 
who died between 1963 to 1976 compared favorable with the figure of 52.8 months 
(4 yr, 4.8 months) calculated in 1955 by Dietrick and Russi [1]. If suicides 
were not considered, then mean longevity for the deceased patients would be 126 
months (10 yr, 6 months). The leading causes of death were related to the 
cardiovascular system, respiratory system, suicide and the urinary tract.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9681(82)90063-7
PMID: 7076789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. JAMA. 1982 May 28;247(20):2793-7.

Cause of death in very old people.

Kohn RR.

According to the Vital Statistics, white women have a modal life span of 85 to 
90 years, with most individuals dying at around the same age from either 
ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, pneumonia, or accidents, or at 
earlier ages from malignant neoplasms. White men die earlier than women, and 
nonwhite populations contain two or more subpopulations that die earlier than 
white populations. Major causes of death listed in Vital Statistics show similar 
patterns in the aged for all populations. A review of autopsy findings in 200 
persons older than 85 years yielded a very different pattern. No acceptable 
cause of death, other than complications of the aging syndrome, was identified 
in at least 30% of the cases. Vital Statistics for the aged is misleading 
because diagnoses are not definitive. Physicians accept causes of death in the 
aged that would not be acceptable in younger persons, and the role of aging 
processes themselves as cause of death are not appreciated. Aging is 
characterized by a universal progressive decline in physiological function to 
the point where life cannot be maintained in the face of otherwise trivial 
tissue injury. It is proposed that senescence be viewed as a disease and be 
accepted as a cause of death.

PMID: 7077782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1982 Jan;180(1):79-81. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1055020.

[Estimating age from biochemical data of the lens (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Fink H, Kraft W.

The age of the rat can be estimated more accurately from the enzyme pattern of 
the lens of its eye than from the eye's wet weight. The two together result in a 
degree of accuracy of from - 13% to 15% for approximately two-thirds of all 
individual estimations. The observations cover 92% of the natural life 
expectancy of the rat. The principal enzyme used in estimating its age is 
aldolase; glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase provides no relevant data.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1055020
PMID: 7078002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Lab Anim Sci. 1982 Apr;32(2):177-9.

The least shrew (Cryptotis parva) as a laboratory animal.

Mock OB.

Wild least shrews, Cryptotis parva, have been maintained in the laboratory for 
15 years. Animals were confined in small, open terraria with loam soil covering 
the floor. The shrews were fed mealworms and a mixture of ground meat and mink 
diet twice daily. Heterosexual pairing was the mating system most commonly 
employed. The gestation period was 21 to 22 days, and the mean litter size was 
4.3 with a range of 1-9 offspring. The young were weaned at 18-20 days of age 
and were sexually mature prior to the age of 40 days. Periodontal disease was 
the only disease which threatened the colony, and it was controlled by adding 
oxytetracycline hydrochloride to the water. Maximum laboratory survival time was 
889 days.

PMID: 7078086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Sci Am. 1982 May;246(5):57-65. doi: 10.1038/scientificamerican0582-57.

Life expectancy and population growth in the Third World.

Gwatkin DR, Brandel SK.

PIP: With the sharp decline in mortality rates in developing countries in this 
century has come soaring growth rates, leading some to question the wisdom of 
pressing for stepped up mortality decline in these countries. The author asserts 
that such concerns are unfounded, since the ultimate effect of mortality decline 
on population size would be quite small. The reason for this is a relative 
insensitivity of the population growth rate in developing countries to changes 
in the death rate--by contrast, future trends in fertility and the large number 
of young people now reaching childbearing age represent the most important 
influences on growth rates. 3rd World countries now find themselves in a period 
of demographic transition not unlike that already experienced by more 
industrialized countries. The 1st movement comes as a sharp decline in mortality 
rates, particularly in childhood, as a result of improved health care. In 
response to this increased survival for children comes a gradual decline in 
childbearing. The unprecedented rapidity with which lower mortality levels were 
achieved in developing countries has led to a longer lag time for lowered 
fertility than was experienced in the developed countries. The 2nd, slower phase 
of mortality decline, which is now being experienced in many developing 
countries is accomplished by extending life expectancies for older individuals 
who presumably have already completed or almost completed their reproductive 
activities. It is for this reason that further increase in life expectancy from 
only moderate to more acceptable levels in developing countries will not be 
counterproductive in the effort to reduce population growth.

DOI: 10.1038/scientificamerican0582-57
PMID: 7079719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Am J Clin Oncol. 1982 Feb;5(1):83-96.

Second neoplasms following radiotherapy or chemotherapy for cancer.

Penn I.

While radiotherapy and antineoplastic chemotherapy often control malignancies 
they may, paradoxically, cause new cancers to develop as long-term 
complications. Although almost any type of neoplasm can occur, radiation-induced 
malignancies are most likely to affect the myelopoietic tissues and the thyroid 
gland. The former tissues are also most frequently involved by chemotherapy. The 
combination of intensive radiotherapy and intensive chemotherapy is particularly 
leukemogenic. Acute myeloid leukemia has occurred with increased frequency 
following treatment of Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, multiple 
myeloma, ovarian cancer, polycythemia vera, carcinoma of the thyroid gland, and 
carcinoma of the breast. Radiation-induced malignancies usually occur in the 
field of irradiation. For example, radiotherapy for carcinoma of the cervix may 
be followed by the development of carcinomas of the endometrium, vagina, urinary 
bladder, colon , rectum, and anus, as well as mesotheliomas of the peritoneum 
and osteosarcomas of the pelvis. Tumors developing in an irradiated field 
include a substantial number of soft tissue sarcomas or osteosarcomas. There is 
a 20-fold increase of second cancers following treatment of childhood 
malignancies, mostly sarcomas of bone and soft tissues, but including leukemia, 
and carcinomas of the thyroid gland, skin, and breast. The latent period between 
radiotherapy and the appearance of a second cancer ranges from 2 years to 
several decades, often being 10-15 years. With chemotherapy the mean latent 
period is shorter, approximately 4 years. The mechanism of oncogenesis by 
radiotherapy or chemotherapy is poorly understood and probably involves a 
complex interplay of somatic mutation, co-oncogenic effects, depression of host 
immunity, stimulation of cellular proliferation, and genetic susceptibility. The 
danger of developing second malignancies following radiotherapy or chemotherapy 
emphasizes the need for lifelong follow-up of patients given these forms of 
treatment; particularly in those with a long life expectancy as are those 
treated for childhood neoplasms.

PMID: 7081142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Am J Hosp Pharm. 1982 Apr;39(4):635-40.

Establishing priorities and distributing the request for proposal.

Williams FL, Tucker SR.

The process of establishing priorities for a prospective hospital pharmacy 
computer system and distributing the Request for Proposal (RFP) to computer 
vendors is described. Priorities are established through the creation of three 
documents: (1) a priority list, (2) a categorized RFP, and (3) a categorized RFP 
extension. The priority list outlines important elements in the selection of a 
vendor; quality of software, reliability of software and hardware, vendor 
stability, costs, site requirements, expansion capability, vendor support, and 
system performance. The categorized RFP ranks each specific RFP item as 
mandatory, highly important, important, or "luxury." The categorized RFP 
extension ranks the nonimplementation items and is used to grade vendors on 
items not addressed by the RFP. Each potential vendor should be called and asked 
the same set of questions in order to quickly eliminate those with unacceptable 
products. The RFP is then distributed to vendors that qualify. This process 
helps determine if the system being considered has all the required functions, 
has reliable software and hardware, and whether the vendor is stable and capable 
of providing assistance during implementation and throughout the life of the 
product.

PMID: 7081240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. N Engl J Med. 1982 Aug 5;307(6):388-92. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198208053070634.

Developments in health care in Nicaragua.

Halperin DC, Garfield R.

PIP: The 4 year war that resulted in the overthrow of Nicaragua's Somoza 
dictatorship cost 50,000 lives. In 1972 an earthquake killed 20,000 with 10,000 
injured. Under Somoza health conditions had been worse than in neighboring 
countries with 35% of the urban and 95% of the rural population lacking access 
to potable water and only about 10% of the population receiving adequate medical 
care. 1/3 of the people contracted malaria at least once in their lives and 
46-83% of the children were malnourished. Life expectancy at the time of the 
revolution was 52.9 years, infant mortality was between 120-140/1000. Since July 
1979, however, about 70% of the people have regular medical care and health care 
education campaigns are widespread. Public health programs have administered 
vaccinations to thousands of children and literacy programs have incorporated 
elementary health principles into their curricula. However, despite these 
efforts malaria continued to rise from 4.4 people/1000 in 1978 to 9.4/1000 in 
1980. After an antimalarial drug campaign in 1981, a 98% decline was noted in 
new cases of malaria. Poliomyelitis and tuberculosis prevention campaigns are 
likewise effective and oral rehydration centers have been set up to combat 
infant diarrhea. Having recently experienced a baby boom, a campaign to 
disseminate family planning information is being planned. Technical and 
professional health training has been expanded as well with a second medical 
school opening in Managua in 1981 along with growth in the amount of nursing 
school students. International aid has been crucial in health care with more 
than 24 countries sending medical supplies and personnel. Lack of equipment and 
facilities is holding back medical advances and there is a dilemma concerning 
physicians' time spent at public versus their private practices. Drugs remain 
the largest health import for the country even though their pharmaceutical 
manufacturers have increased production. 5 new hospitals are being built with 
the government's health expenditures rising from 6 to 17% of the national 
budget. In just 3 years more has been done in most areas of social welfare than 
in the 50 years of Somoza dictatorship and these efforts indicate a profound 
change in Nicaraguan society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198208053070634
PMID: 7088111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Minerva Med. 1982 May 19;73(21):1455-62.

[Remarks on liver cirrhosis with epidemiologic interest].

[Article in Italian]

Spigliati P, Cercone S, Sgrò G, Fusco L.

PMID: 7088368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Radiobiologiia. 1982 Mar-Apr;22(2):230-4.

[Biological action of radioactive carbon. 1. Biological effects during prolonged 
intake of 14C].

[Article in Russian]

Vasilenko IIa, Turova VI, Poluboiarinova ZI, Bugryshev PF, Zhorova ES.

PMID: 7089210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Sov Zdravookhr. 1982;(4):22-7.

[Index of mortality in chronic diseases and its importance for public health 
planning].

[Article in Russian]

Pustovoĭ IV, Tserkovnyĭ AG.

PMID: 7089676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Ann Surg. 1982 Aug;196(2):149-52. doi: 10.1097/00000658-198208000-00006.

Long-term results of Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy and 
hepaticojejunoduodenostomy.

