Pappalardo G, Correnti S, Mobarhan S, Trentino P, Pietropaolo A, Frattaroli F, 
Castrini G.

The results of the long-term follow-up of 202 patients with Roux-en-Y 
hepaticojejunostomy (Roux-en-Y HJ) and 19 with hepaticojejunoduodenostomy (HJD) 
are reported. The mortality, morbidity, and the incidence of postoperative 
anastomotic stenosis were comparable in both groups. One hundred forty patients 
with Roux-en-Y HJ and 19 with HJD were followed with barium meal and endoscopy. 
An incidence of 5% postoperative duodenal ulcer was noted in the first group, 
while no ulcer was seen in the patients with HJD. Preoperative and postoperative 
gastric acid secretion (basal acid secretion and maximal acid secretion) and 
serum gastrin levels (basal and after protein meal) were measured in 25 cases 
with Roux-en-Y HJ and 19 with HJD. The serum gastrin levels were similar 
initially and remained unchanged after surgery in both groups. However, the mean 
levels of basal and maximal acid output, which was similar before surgery in 
both groups, increased significantly only in patients who had Roux-en-Y HJ (p 
less than 0.001). In conclusion, HJD should be adopted as the preferred type of 
anastomosis in patients with benign pathology and long-life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-198208000-00006
PMCID: PMC1352469
PMID: 7092365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Br J Ind Med. 1982 Aug;39(3):265-8. doi: 10.1136/oem.39.3.265.

Are coalminers, with low "risk factors" for ischaemic heart disease at greater 
risk of developing progressive massive fibrosis?

Cochrane AL, Moore F, Moncrieff CB.

Coalminers with "A" shadows (the first stage of progressive massive fibrosis 
(PMF)) have a similar standardised mortality ratio (SMR) to those without PMF, 
and those with A shadows have a much higher specific mortality from 
pneumoconiosis. It is therefore argued that either A shadows confer immunity 
against some other disease(s) or that those developing A shadows are selected on 
the basis of increased life expectancy. These two hypotheses were investigated 
and as the selection hypothesis appeared promising further studies were made to 
discover which specific cause of death might be associated with this selection. 
This, surprisingly, appeared to be ischaemic heart disease.

DOI: 10.1136/oem.39.3.265
PMCID: PMC1009021
PMID: 7093153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Blood. 1982 Aug;60(2):535-6.

Long-term disease-free survivors of acute non-lymphocytic leukemia treated 
either by chemotherapy or by chemoradiotherapy and marrow transplantation.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7093532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Endocrinology. 1982 Aug;111(2):488-92. doi: 10.1210/endo-111-2-488.

Pineal melatonin in the Djungarian hamster: photoperiodic regulation of a 
circadian rhythm.

Yellon SM, Tamarkin L, Pratt BL, Goldman BD.

The pineal melatonin rhythm has been proposed to represent a physiological 
signal which mediates the effects of photoperiod in a variety of seasonal 
breeding mammals. Studies in other species have led to the hypothesis that an 
endogenous circadian mechanism controls pineal melatonin content and can adapt 
the melatonin rhythm to reflect shifts in the prevailing light-dark schedule. In 
this report, photoperiodic regulation of the pineal melatonin content was 
investigated in the male Djungarian hamster, a species that is a long day 
breeder and photo-periodic from early life. In the first study, a daily pineal 
melatonin rhythm persisted after 6-8 weeks of constant dark conditions in a 
specific phase relationship to the onset of wheel running activity. Pineal 
melatonin levels increased around the time of activity onset, and high values 
persisted for 14-17 h. In subsequent studies, adult males [previously maintained 
under long days (16 h of light and 8 h of darkness)] were subjected to one of 
three conditions: 1) a 3-h advance in the onset of darkness, 2) a delay in the 
time of light onset, or 3) both alterations in the photoperiod. The acute 3-h 
advance in onset of the dark period caused an earlier rise in pineal melatonin 
production by approximately 1.5 h compared to that in controls. In contrast, the 
falling phase of the pineal melatonin rhythm was not altered by extension of the 
dark period. Therefore, aspects of the pineal melatonin pattern, i.e. the rising 
phase and peak duration, reflected changes in the photoperiod, while the falling 
phase anticipated the onset of the light period predicted by the previous 
light-dark schedule. These observations support the hypothesis that melatonin 
production by the pineal is an endogenous circadian rhythm and, as a 
physiological signal, may convey information about the daylength.

DOI: 10.1210/endo-111-2-488
PMID: 7094883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr. 1982 Feb;50(2):52-63. doi:
10.1055/s-2007-1002250.

[Multiple sclerosis as mortality diagnosis in the Federal Republic of Germany 
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Resch J.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1002250
PMID: 7095715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Izv Akad Nauk SSSR Biol. 1982 May-Jun;(3):419-27.

[Determination of the kinetic parameters of tumor growth and an evaluation of 
the antitumor activity of chemotherapeutic preparations based on life 
expectancy].

[Article in Russian]

Konradov AA, Dronova LM, Erokhin VN, Belich EI, Korman DB.

PMID: 7096779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. J Vet Pharmacol Ther. 1982 Mar;5(1):21-31. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2885.1982.tb00495.x.

The pharmacokinetics, pharmacological responses and behavioral effects of 
acepromazine in the horse.

Ballard S, Shults T, Kownacki AA, Blake JW, Tobin T.

After intravenous (i.v.) injection, acepromazine was distributed widely in the 
horse (Vd = 6.6 litres/kg) and bound extensively (greater than 99%) plasma 
proteins. Plasma levels of drug declined with an alpha half-life of 4.2 min, 
while the beta phase or elimination half-life was 184.8 min. At a dosage level 
of 0.3 mg/kg acepromazine was detectable in the plasma for 8 h post dosing. The 
whole blood partitioning of acepromazine was 46% in the plasma phase and 54% in 
the erythrocyte phase. Penile prolapse was clearly evident at doses from 0.01 
mg/kg to 0.4 mg/kg i.v., and the duration and extent of protrusion were dose 
related. Hematocrit levels were significantly lowered by administration of 0.002 
mg/kg i.v. (about 1 mg to a 500 kg horse) and increasing dosages resulted in 
greater than 20% lowering of the hematocrit from control levels. Pretreatment of 
horses with acepromazine also reduced the variable interval (VI 60) responding 
rate in all horses tested. These data show that hematocrit changes are the most 
sensitive pharmacological responses to acepromazine, followed by changes in 
penile extension, respiratory rate, VI responding and locomotor responses. 
Acepromazine is difficult to detect in plasma at normal clinical doses. However, 
because of its large volume of distribution, its urinary elimination is likely 
prolonged, and further work on its elimination in equine urine is required.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2885.1982.tb00495.x
PMID: 7097847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. N Engl J Med. 1982 Aug 26;307(9):519-22. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198208263070902.

Late mortality after surgery for peptic ulcer.

Ross AH, Smith MA, Anderson JR, Small WP.

To examine the claim that life expectancy is reduced after curative peptic-ulcer 
surgery, we studied mortality and its causes in 779 men with peptic ulcer 
treated surgically between 1947 and 1965. The minimum follow-up period of 
survivors was 15 years. There was an excess mortality in the three major age 
groups (30 to 39, 40 to 49, and 50 to 59 years at operation), as compared with 
the general population (P less than 0.001), with a mean shift of 9.1 years in 
the survival curve. Surgery was not the direct cause of death. In particular, 
the eight deaths from carcinoma of the stomach were no more than expected. 
Excess mortality was due to smoking-associated disease, which accounted for 200 
deaths. Eighty-three per cent of the patients were cigarette smokers. We 
conclude that substituting highly selective vagotomy for gastrectomy will not 
lead to improved survival, because 80 per cent of patients now having operations 
for ulcer are heavy cigarette smokers.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198208263070902
PMID: 7099223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. N Engl J Med. 1982 Aug 26;307(9):550-1. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198208263070909.

The role of surgery in peptic ulcer.

Thompson JC.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198208263070909
PMID: 7099228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. N Engl J Med. 1982 Aug 26;307(9):562. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198208263070925.

A follow-up study of morphine addicts.

Greenberg ER.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198208263070925
PMID: 7099235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Respiration. 1982;43(2):81-7. doi: 10.1159/000194469.

Lung function data on 123 persons followed up for 20 years after total 
pneumonectomy.

Laros CD.

Consecutive spirographic data of 123 pneumonectomized patients obtained before 
pneumonectomy, at discharge from hospital, in 1955 (CU1) and in 1975 (CU2) are 
presented. The mean observation time was of more than 20 years. The loss in 
inspiratory vital capacity (VC) proved considerably smaller than predicted from 
transversal studies. It was most pronounced in patients with thoracoplasties and 
in persons with left remaining lungs. The FEV1 as a percentage of total lung 
capacity (FEV1%TLC) evidently obviated the qualitative pulmonary function loss 
over the years. At the same time, data from 25 of 33 patients who died between 
CU1 and CU2 are reported (mean survival time 15.1 years). The survival rate of 
the initial group of 168 persons at CU1 was 14% below that of a control group of 
the same population. Life expectancy in pneumonectomized patients proved to 
depend more on the quantity of the lung parenchyma available, i.e. the actual 
inspiratory VC than on the quality as judged from the FEV1 in relation to lung 
volume.

DOI: 10.1159/000194469
PMID: 7100662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Scand J Work Environ Health. 1982;8 Suppl 1:48-52.

Anatomy of the health worker effect - a critique of summary statistics employed 
in occupational epidemiology.

Wen CP, Tsai SP.

The "healthy worker effect," perhaps more accurately termed the "active worker 
effect" has been acknowledged by numerous investigators who have disregarded its 
significance. The healthy worker effect is expressed by SMRs (standardized 
mortality ratios) and influenced by the following three factors: (i) selection 
bias, (ii) improved socioeconomic status, and (iii) the conventional way of 
calculating SMRs. An examination of these three factors shows that selection for 
"employability" is probably the most significant factor for the healthy worker 
effect. For example, the shorter the observation, the smaller the SMR, and the 
stronger the health worker effect. Secondly, improved socioeconomic status as a 
result of employment has been shown to lower mortality. Last, although the SMR 
has the advantage of estimating relative risk in a small sample, it suffers many 
methodological pitfalls. It is recommended that at least three parameters be 
used to summarize mortality experience among the employed: (i) relative risk, 
(ii) attributable risk, and (iii) life expectancy.

PMID: 7100856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1982 May 29;112(22):791-7.

[Costovertebral dysplasia. A receptor defect of sclerotome development?].

[Article in German]

Gassner M.

8 subjects with costovertebral dysplasia in 4 interrelated families are 
described. The cases occurred from 1949 to 1978 and all showed the analogous 
generalized malformation of the vertebrae and ribs. One child with concomitant 
chromosomal anomaly (Down's syndrome) died at the age of 7 days. Follow-up in 
the 7 cases shows no decrease in life expectancy or any other malformation, and 
in particular non bronchopneumonial complications. Case reports and comparisons 
of the prevalence of neural tube defects in this isolated population and in 
Switzerland rule out increased risk of neural tube defects for costovertebral 
dysplasia. The pedigree of kindred over 8 generations is consistent with 
autosomal recessive inheritance. As the cause of the malformation a possible 
receptor defect of the mesodermal sclerotomes is discussed.

PMID: 7100875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Zentralbl Gynakol. 1982;104(7):405-14.

[Studies of the clinical effectiveness of intravenous long-term tocolysis].

[Article in German]

Ruckhäberle KE, Viehweg B, Vogtmann C.

Possible retardation of delivery following different periods of intravenous 
Partusisten tocolysis was studied in 701 premature births, between the 28th and 
36th weeks of pregnancy. The studies were conducted separately, for all probands 
together and by gestational age groups. Various symptoms of imminent premature 
birth were not weighed. The rate of failure amounted to 23 per cent, that is 
delivery occurred within 24 hours from beginning of treatment. Extension of 
pregnancy by something between two and seven days was achieved in 45 per cent of 
the probands or by more than seven days in 32 per cent. Growing length of 
intravenous tocolysis was followed by significant rise in the number of women 
with genuine prolongation of pregnancy (between eight and 28 days or even more), 
however, without any unambiguous evidence to differentiation between gestational 
age groups with regard to therapeutic responsiveness. Significant percentual 
rise in prematurity between the 34th and 36th weeks of pregnancy by almost 30 
per cent (with 20 per cent in the 36th week of pregnancy alone) seems to 
indicate a measurable clinical benefit of intravenous long-term tocolysis in 
terms of higher life expectancy and better survival quality. --The above 
findings were compared with results that had been obtained from 1,037 
prematurely born infants of the same gestational age groups without preceding 
tocolysis. The conclusion was that intravenous tocolysis in general and 
long-term tocolysis in particular failed to have the slightest negative impact 
in terms of acidosis and RDS morbidity, average birth weight, hypotrophy, and 
survival chance. The need for properly timed detection of prematurity as part of 
routine care may be seen from the great number of untreated premature births, 
that is cases beyond any possibility of treatment. The point is made that the 
effectiveness of tocolytic therapy can be measured only by those premature 
newborns who had received treatment rather than by the totality of premature 
newborns.

PMID: 7102158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Am J Public Health. 1982 Sep;72(9 Suppl):19-23. doi:
10.2105/ajph.72.9_suppl.19.

Health services in Shanghai County; vital statistics.

Gu XY, Chen ML.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.72.9_suppl.19
PMCID: PMC1650016
PMID: 7102863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Cancer. 1982 Oct 1;50(7):1420-5. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19821001)50:7<1420::aid-cncr2820500730>3.0.co;2-0.

Suprasellar tumors in children: a review of clinical manifestations and 
managements.

Sung DI.

The records of 98 children with suprasellar tumors treated between 1950 and 
1975, at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, were reviewed. Most of the 
children with germ cell tumors or posterior chiasmal gliomas irradiated with 
5000 rad in six weeks using extended field, children with craniopharyngiomas 
treated with total resection when the tumor was limited to the suprasellar area, 
and children with craniopharyngiomas treated with combined surgery and 
postoperative irradiation when the lesions could not be resected totally, have 
generally survived long with reasonably good quality of life. More passive 
dependent immature responses were noted in most children with anterior chiasmal 
gliomas due to persistent residual mass after irradiation, although they have 
survived long. An attention to details of the clinical picture, the age at 
presentation, the finding of diabetes insipidus, and the presence of 
calcification and intrasellar extension of the tumor, should help with the 
selection of the appropriate treatment technique and, thus, influence the 
probability of tumor control as well as of complications.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19821001)50:7<1420::aid-cncr2820500730>3.0.co;2-0
PMID: 7104980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Cardiovasc Res. 1982 Jun;16(6):293-303. doi: 10.1093/cvr/16.6.293.

Effect of hypoxia on adaptation of the pulmonary circulation to extra-uterine 
life in the pig.

Haworth SG, Hislop AA.

Pigs were exposed to hypoxia for 2 to 5 days, at ages ranging from bith to 2 
weeks. The effect of hypoxia on structural adaptation of the pulmonary arterial 
circulation to extra-uterine life was studied by applying quantitative 
morphometric techniques to the injected autopsy lung specimens. In animals 
exposed to hypoxia from birth, the reduction in arterial muscularity, and 
increase in size and number which normally takes place after, began to occur, 
but the process was arrested by exposure to hypoxia which with increase in 
exposure time caused a secondary increase in muscularity. In animals allowed to 
adapt fully to extra-uterine life and first exposed at 14 days, increase in 
muscularity as shown by an increase in wall thickness and extension of muscle 
into smaller and more peripheral arteries than is normal, was secondary to the 
hypoxic insult and similar to that reported in adults of other species. Animals 
exposed a between 2 and 7 days of age showed an intermediate response, failure 
to adapt normally plus a secondary increase in muscularity. Right ventricular 
hypertrophy developed in all animals. The studies emphasise the vulnerability of 
the newborn pulmonary circulation to hypoxia and the rapidity with which 
structural change occurs.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/16.6.293
PMID: 7105097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1982 Sep;(169):62-9.

Surgical management of metastatic disease of bone at the hip.

Levy RN, Sherry HS, Siffert RS.

Concordant advances in cancer chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and surgical technique 
have been of apparent benefit to many cancer patients suffering from skeletal 
involvement at the hip. Consideration of the effects of underlying disease and 
prior treatment must be evaluated prior to developing a surgical plan. 
Acetabular involvement can be treated by either conventional or augmented total 
hip arthroplasty using protrusio rings and acetabular meshes, depending upon 
minor or major degrees of tumor destruction. Girdlestone resection arthroplasty 
for massive degrees of acetabular involvement yields only modest results. 
Femoral neck fractures can be treated by endoprosthetic replacement. However, 
the association of acetabular disease should be considered, and if present, 
total hip arthroplasty should be performed. Intertrochanteric fractures can be 
stabilized with the use of a stout tubeplate nail device plus cement. 
Subtrochanteric fractures can be stabilized with a Zickel nail device plus 
cement. The goals of treatment are to relieve pain and restore function by using 
a device with an anticipated fatigue life which should exceed the patient's life 
expectancy.

PMID: 7105591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Curr Med Res Opin. 1982;7(Suppl 1):14-22.

Parkinsonism in the elderly.

Hildick-Smith M.

Considerable advances have been made in the treatment of parkinsonism in the 
last 10 to 20 years and have brought great benefit to patients of all ages, 
including the elderly. Whilst levodopa-containing drugs are the mainstay of 
treatment in the early disabling stages of the disease, providing increased 
mobility and independence, longer life expectancy and a shorter period of 
terminal immobility, as patients live longer more advanced manifestations of the 
condition develop which are more difficult to treat. Diagnostic difficulties in 
the elderly are discussed and the main conditions affecting treatment and 
treatment of the different stages of the disease are reviewed.

PMID: 7105791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Med J Aust. 1982 Jun 26;1(13):554-6. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1982.tb124170.x.

Incidence of homozygous beta-thalassaemia in New South Wales, 1961-1976.

Cowan J, Kerr C.

A case-finding survey yielded 58 persons with transfusion-dependent homozygous 
beta-thalassaemia who lived either in New South Wales or in the Australian 
Capital Territory. Of those born between 1961 and 1976 in New South Wales, 
nearly 70% were of Greek or Greek-Cypriot origin and 18% of Italian origin. The 
New South Wales incidence rates for homozygous beta-thalassaemia were estimated 
as follows: one in 934 births, Greek origin; one in 264 births, Cypriot origin 
and one in 3441 births, Italian origin.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1982.tb124170.x
PMID: 7110007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Nouv Presse Med. 1982 May 29;11(25):1927-30.

[Bifocal excision in the treatment of bronchial carcinoma revealed by cerebral 
metastasis (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Lafitte JJ, Rousseaux M, Duval G, Combelles G, Lainé E, Ribet M, Voisin C, Warot 
P.

Between 1964 and 1980, 17 patients operated upon for cerebral metastasis as 
initial presentation of bronchial cancer underwent excision of the thoracic 
tumour 24 to 131 days later. One patient died post-operatively of acute 
pneumopathy. Nine patients showed signs of recurrent cerebral malignancy after a 
55 to 904 days' delay. Increase in life expectancy and regression of 
neurological symptoms justify this bifocal surgical strategy. Using cerebral and 
thoracic radiotherapy as well as chemotherapy as supplementary measures seems 
rational and likely to improve the present results.

PMID: 7110944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Phlebologie. 1982 Apr-Jun;35(2):581-6.

[The main indications for crenotherapy, its contra-indications].

[Article in French]

Demogeot F.

The current and recent development in indications for the thermal treatment is 
linked with certain characteristics of current therapeutics, the appearance of 
new clinical motives for prescribing the treatment, the quantitative and 
qualitative increase in the pathological symptoms known as "civilizational 
disorders", the extension of life-span and thus an increase in the number of 
sage-linked complaints. The author also mentions the time to be appointed for 
the treatment, its ultimately preventive nature, and the problem of indication 
with regard to age. Crenotherapy is still the treatment indicated in the case of 
the sequels to certain acute disorders, the initial period of chronic organic 
disorders, functional troubles, and morbid or allergic predispositions.

PMID: 7111426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Am J Epidemiol. 1982 Aug;116(2):376-84. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a113421.

Changes in life expectancy in the United States due to declines in mortality, 
1968-1975.

Tsai SP, Lee ES, Kautz JA.

This study examines the gains in life expectancy for four race/sex groups of the 
US population between 1968 and 1975. An increase of 2.3 years in life expectancy 
at birth and 1.7 years in life expectancy at age 45 years has occurred for all 
race/sex groups combined. The added years of life for the normal working ages 
(15-70 years) is only 0.6 years for the total US population, 0.3 years for white 
females, 0.6 years for white males, 1.5 years for nonwhite males, and 1.7 years 
for nonwhite females. The relative contribution of the five leading causes of 
death to this gain varies at different ages. For example, more than 50% of the 
increase in life expectancy at age 45 years was due to a lower mortality rate in 
diseases of the heart which is still the leading cause of death among each of 
the race/sex groups. Other contributions to the increase in life expectancy at 
age 45 years are: cerebrovascular diseases, 16%; accidents, 6%; influenza and 
pneumonia, 7%; and all other causes, 16%. The increase in the malignant 
neoplasms mortality rate had a negative effect, -2%, on the gain of life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a113421
PMID: 7114046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Am J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1982 Summer;4(2):172-8.

Vocational options for those with sickle cell trait: questions about hypoxemia 
and the industrial environment.

McKenzie JM.

Many patients have parents and siblings who possess the sickle cell trait and 
who often require not only genetic counseling, but also information about their 
own health. Some have been informed that they cannot pursue careers in aviation. 
Some have been told that they are at special risk for the hypoxemic effects of 
heavy exertion, especially the exertion associated with sports. A few believe 
that certain elements of the industrial environment are unusually hazardous to 
them. An examination of the literature reveals little evidence in support of any 
of these beliefs. Most, if not all, unfavorable reports are clouded by faults of 
various kinds. All of them are of anecdotal type, based on small numbers of 
cases; the evidence offered is circumstantial. On the other hand, experiments 
designed to test the susceptibility of those with sickle cell trait have yielded 
favorable results. Studies of large populations indicate that those with the 
trait have normal health and normal life expectancy. There are almost as many 
favorable anecdotal reports as there are negative ones. We must conclude that 
people with sickle cell trait are just as tolerant to aviation and industrial 
environments as those who are homozygous for hemoglobin A. Also, there are 
strong indications that those with sickle cell trait are not endangered by heavy 
physical exertion, including the exertion of athletic competition.

PMID: 7114398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Ann Intern Med. 1982 Sep;97(3):420-5. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-97-3-420.

Variability in physician bioethical decision-making. A case study of euthanasia.

Pearlman RA, Inui TS, Carter WB.

A patient management problem was developed to assess differences in case 
information processing and variability in physicians' decisions to withhold 
supportive therapy. An interview was done to assess physicians' values and 
elicit reasons for their decisions. Two hundred and five residents, attending 
physicians, and community practitioners in internal medicine and family medicine 
were interviewed. Internal medicine residents were most inclined to allow the 
patient to die, private practitioners to provide respirator support. Residents 
and attending physicians gave higher value to, and sought significantly more, 
socioeconomic information about the patient than did private practitioners, and 
also estimated a shorter life expectancy for the patient. "End-stage disease" 
and "poor quality of life" were common explanations for withholding respirator 
support. Physicians' decisions to intubate were attributed to the perceived 
"acute reversible" nature of the medical problem.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-97-3-420
PMID: 7114637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Biometrics. 1982 Jun;38(2):407-16.

Approximate confidence intervals for probabilities of survival and quantiles in 
life-table analysis.

Anderson JR, Bernstein L, Pike MC.

For survival probabilities with censored data, Rothman (1978, Journal of Chronic 
Diseases 31, 557-560) has recommended the use of quadratic confidence limits 
based on the assumption that the product of the 'effective' sample size at time 
t and the life-table estimate of the survival probability past time t follows a 
binomial distribution. This paper shows that the proposed confidence limits are 
asymptotically correct for continuous survival data. These intervals, as well as 
those based on the arcsine transformation, the logit transformation and the 
log(--log) transformation, are compared by simulation to those based on 
Greenwood's formula--the usual method of interval estimation in life-table 
analysis. With large amounts of data, the alternatives to the Greenwood method 
all produce acceptable intervals. On the basis of overall performance, the 
intervals suggested by Rothman are preferred for smaller samples. Any of these 
methods may be used to generate confidence sets for the median survival time or 
for any other quantile.

PMID: 7115871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Biometrics. 1982 Jun;38(2):518-9.

[Estimation of hazards-ratio in the two-sample problem].

[Article in French]

Moreau T.

PMID: 7115878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Int J Health Serv. 1982;12(3):349-80. doi: 10.2190/XXMM-JMQU-2A7Y-HX1E.

Inequalities in health. The Black Report: a summary and comment.

Gray AM.

In August 1980 the United Kingdom Department of Health and Social Security 
published the Report of the Working Group on Inequalities in Health, also known 
as the Black Report (after chairman Sir Douglas Black, President of the Royal 
College of Physicians). The Report showed in great detail the extent of which 
ill-health and death are unequally distributed among the population of Britain, 
and suggested that these inequalities have been widening rather than diminishing 
since the establishment of the National Health Service in 1948. The Report 
concluded that these inequalities were not mainly attributable to failings in 
the NHS, but rather to many other social inequalities influencing health: 
income, education, housing, diet, employment, and conditions of work. In 
consequence, the Report recommended a wide strategy of social policy measures to 
combat inequalities in health. These findings and recommendations were virtually 
disowned by the then Secretary of State for Social Services, very few copies of 
the Report were printed, and few people had the opportunity to read it. The 
Black Report is an important document that deserves wide attention and debate. 
This summary and comment is intended to give greater access to its evidence, 
arguments, conclusions, and recommendations.

DOI: 10.2190/XXMM-JMQU-2A7Y-HX1E
PMID: 7118327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Int J Health Serv. 1982;12(3):459-80. doi: 10.2190/JN6R-DBEU-PABL-N5R8.

The pattern of mass disease in the U.S.S.R.: a product of socialist or 
capitalist development?

Cooper R, Schatzkin A.

The mortality structure of a society is determined primarily by the nature of 
the social organization. Although this general principle, which forms the basis 
of the Marxist approach to public health, has been well demonstrated in the 
classical model of capitalist society, there has been little attempt to apply 
this theory to countries that have experienced socialist revolutions. This paper 
examines the mortality structure of the U.S.S.R. Given the high degree of 
similarity between mass disease in the U.S.S.R. and Western capitalist 
countries, fundamental questions must be raised about the political and economic 
system currently operating in the U.S.S.R. It is suggested that the health 
experience in the Soviet Union over the last two decades has been determined 
primarily by the nature of the antagonistic class relations that have resulted 
from the restoration on capitalism.

DOI: 10.2190/JN6R-DBEU-PABL-N5R8
PMID: 7118332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Int J Health Serv. 1982;12(3):481-96. doi: 10.2190/VNV7-YYY5-YAN0-47WW.

On the uses of disinformation to legitimize the revival of the cold war: health 
in the U.S.S.R.

Szymanski A.

During the 1970s the Soviet Union experienced rising infant mortality rates and 
a corresponding levelling off of earlier increases in life expectancy. Several 
Western critics have misrepresented or exaggerated these statistics, suggesting 
that these trends indicate a general breakdown in the Soviet health care system 
as well as the failure of the Soviet form of socialism. This paper examines life 
expectancy and infant mortality data by Soviet republic, showing that rates are 
not uniform throughout the U.S.S.R. and in many cases compare favorably with 
those in Western European countries and the United States. It is suggested that 
the infant mortality problem in the U.S.S.R. is a temporary negative consequence 
of rapid progress in the areas of industrialization, employment of women, and 
socialization of child care. It is concluded that improvements in public health 
education, the quality of child care facilities, and the manufacture and 
distribution of infant formula will contribute to the rapid resolution of this 
problem.

DOI: 10.2190/VNV7-YYY5-YAN0-47WW
PMID: 7118333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Health Bull (Edinb). 1982 Jul;40(4):183-8.

Breast cancer in Scotland.

Kemp IW, Smith DC.

PMID: 7118541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Klin Med (Mosk). 1982 Jun;60(6):20-3.

[Life expectancy and work capacity of patients who have had a myocardial 
infarct].

[Article in Russian]

Dorofeeva LA.

PMID: 7120884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Nord Med. 1982 Sep;97(8-9):210-3.

[The prognosis of congenital heart defects in changed].

[Article in Swedish]

Bjørnstad PG.

Congenital heart disease occurs in approximately 8 per mille of all live births. 
The prognosis for these patients has been radically changed throughout the last 
decades, both for length and for quality of life. Many patients now have a 
normal or near to normal life expectancy. This is due not only to better 
surgical techniques, but improvement of anesthesia, myocardial preservation and 
postoperative intensive care also have contributed to the astonishing results. 
The early complete and even in details correct diagnosis and the close 
cooperation between the local practitioner, pediatrician and the central 
pediatric cardiac unit is basic for optimal treatment benefit.

PMID: 7122233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. World Health Stat Q. 1982;35(1):2-10.

Taking off into health for all by the years 2000.

[Article in English, French]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7123991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1982 Nov;30(11):681-3. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1982.tb01979.x.

Life expectancy and the health of older persons.

Brody JA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1982.tb01979.x
PMID: 7130574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. JAMA. 1982 Nov 19;248(19):2448-9.

Cause of death in the very old.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7131696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. J Theor Biol. 1982 Jun 21;96(4):683-8. doi: 10.1016/0022-5193(82)90236-3.

A more explicit estimate for the "implications of athlete's bradycardia on 
lifespan".

Corrsin S.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-5193(82)90236-3
PMID: 7132381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Naturwissenschaften. 1982 Jul;69(7):332-5. doi: 10.1007/BF00480453.

[Cancer as a function of disposition, exposure and age].

[Article in German]

Schmähl D, Habs M.

Essential parameters in carcinogenesis are the genetic and extragenetic 
disposition of an individual, its exposure to chemical, physical or viral 
influences in the environment as well as its age as the time that is needed to 
induce cancer. Cancer prevention seems only possible by reducing the exposure. 
It will be discussed whether the increase in life expectancy has become so 
important during the past decades that it compensates all efforts of reducing 
the exposure.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00480453
PMID: 7133140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Nuklearmedizin. 1982 Jun;21(3):117-20.

[Prognosis and life expectancy in patients with hyperthyroidism].

[Article in German]

Horster FA.

The term "hyperthyroidism" comprises several different diseases of which two 
have to be distinguished particularly: 1. hyperthyroidism with Graves' disease: 
the immunopathogenesis of Graves' disease allows a symptomatic therapy only; 
therefore its prognosis is not as good as for the 2. autonomous hyperthyroidism 
("toxic goiter"), which can be cured definitely by operation or radioiodine 
therapy. Both diseases may aggravate under iatrogenic iodine exposure 
(iodine-containing drugs or X-ray contrast media) to a thyroid storm; this most 
severe kind of hyperthyroidism still leads to death in almost 40% of the 
patients.

PMID: 7134002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1982 Aug 24;71(34):1320-4.

[Can preventive medicine prepare for a healthy old age?].

[Article in German]

van der Linde F.

PMID: 7134181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Rev Saude Publica. 1982 Feb;16(1):7-18. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89101982000100002.

[Significance of trends in infant mortality rates in the municipality of São 
Paulo, SP (Brazil) in the last 30 years (1950-1979)].

[Article in Portuguese]

Monteiro CA.

PIP: The possible correlations between infant mortality statistics and those 
statistics related to the real value of the legal minimum salary and those on 
the extent of the public water supply system for the city of Sao Paulo, Brazil 
over the last 3 decades were studied with a view to determining the relationship 
between the historical trends in infant mortality rates and in the quality of 
life. The abovementioned factors, salary and water supply, are taken as factors 
of lesser and greater relevance for the overall picture of the living conditions 
among this population. The mortality decline in the 1950s and the increase in 
the 1960s were found significantly related to the trends in the real value of 
the legal minimum salary. However, the trend in mortality in the 1970s, with a 
notable fall from 1974, was found to be specifically related to the trends in 
water supply extension. One might conclude that during the 1950-79 period the 
implications relating to the quality of life to be drawn from infant mortality 
trends are diverse. It would seem erroneous to affirm that the reversal in high 
mortality from 1974 might signify an identical reversal of the deterioration of 
living conditions which led to the increase of mortality in the preceding 
period. (author's modified)

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101982000100002
PMID: 7134780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1982 Aug;13(4):139-46.

[Life course and institutionalization: the deceptive effect of the percentage].

[Article in Dutch]

van der Zanden GH.

At one moment in time the percentage of elderly people living in an old people's 
home (bejaardenoord) or nursing-home (verpleeghuis) is much higher in the 
Netherlands than in comparable western countries. About 11% of people 65 years 
of age and more are living in such institutions. However, in discussions about 
institutionalization, people are making the same fallacious statements based on 
the percentage at one moment in time as indicated in literature as "% fallacy" 
(Kastenbaum & Candy, 1973). In this article we have calculated that about 35% of 
all elderly people in the Netherlands will be institutionalized before before 
death. Although at one moment in time about 2% of the elderly are living in a 
Dutch nursing-home, the incidence is as high as in the old people's home. That 
is why almost the same number of elderly people will be institutionalized before 
death in both institutions. Three examples are given of the fallacious use of 
the percentage at one moment in time. An attempt is made to calculate the chance 
which persons have, at different ages, to be institutionalized in later life. We 
use the incidence-rate in 1977 and 1978 and the life expectancy inthe period 
1970-1975. The results indicate high chances for elderly people at different 
ages to be institutionalized in later life in an old people's home.

PMID: 7135463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Acta Chir Scand. 1982;148(4):367-72.

Factors influencing survival in patients with cancer of the stomach. A 
multivariate analysis.

Søreide O, Lillestøl J, Viste A, Bjerkeset T.

PMID: 7136441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Am J Psychoanal. 1982 Summer;42(2):133-42. doi: 10.1007/BF01250748.

Observations on changing relationships for older married women.

Bumagin VE, Hirn KF.

Among the social and demographic changes of the twentieth century, the 
spectacular increase in longevity has had a profound impact on the marriages of 
older people, and particularly on the experiences and responsibilities of women. 
The later decades of marriage, like the earlier ones, are marked by life events 
which result in specific developmental tasks. Although there is individual 
variation in the ages at which these events occur, a typical pattern is that in 
their fifties a couple enters the postparental years of marriage; in their 
sixties they anticipate and deal with retirement; and in their seventies they 
are likely to be faced with the prospect of separation through the death of one 
of them. Because of the difference in life expectancy, it is generally the women 
who must contend with widowhood and build a new postmarital lifestyle. Each 
decade is also characterized by one or more triads: husband, wife, and married 
child(ren); husband, wife, and aging parents; and elderly widow, son or 
daughter, and his/her family. The elderly widow looks to her 
children--particularly her daughters--for the emotional and practical support 
she once provided, while the children become sandwiched between the needs of 
their own children and those of the aged parent. The later decades of marriage 
thus demonstrate a further permutation and combination of the triads that 
characterize human development throughout the life cycle--the engagement, 
disengagement, and reengagement of children and parents.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01250748
PMID: 7137422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Arch Intern Med. 1982 Nov;142(12):2083-6.

Reversible renal insufficiency in multiple myeloma.

Bernstein SP, Humes HD.

Forty-five patients met the criteria for the diagnosis of multiple myeloma in a 
retrospective chart review from 1975 to 1980. Renal insufficiency with peak 
serum creatinine concentration greater than 1.5 mg/dL involved 69% of all 
patients. Renal insufficiency was reversible in 55% of the cases. Treatment of 
hypercalcemia and/or chemotherapy for multiple myeloma was associated with 
reversibility in 88% of cases. Once renal insufficiency occurred in patients 
with multiple myeloma, those with reversible renal failure had a duration of 
survival fourfold longer (11.4 v 2.8 months) than those with irreversible renal 
insufficiency. In conclusion, reversible renal insufficiency from hypercalcemia 
or the myeloma process itself develops in a majority of patients with multiple 
myeloma. If therapy reverses the renal dysfunction, a greater life expectancy 
occurs. Patients with multiple myeloma and renal insufficiency should, 
therefore, be examined for reversible causes of renal dysfunction, since if 
found and treated, a substantial improvement in prognosis is achieved.

PMID: 7138157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1982 Nov;63(11):549-52.

Trochanteric pressure in spinal cord injury.

Garber SL, Campion LJ, Krouskop TA.

Pressure-induced tissue breakdown is a frequent and life-threatening 
complication for individuals with spinal cord injury. These patients are 
frequently positioned on their sides to relieve back and sacral pressure while 
they are in bed. This position causes high trochanteric pressure with the 
potential for the development of pressure ulcers. In addition, the individual 
with a spinal cord injury has accompanying absent or diminished sensation, and 
therefore is not aware of the pressure overload. In this study the positions 
that will reduce the possibility that trochanteric ulcers will develop are 
identified. The Pressure Evaluation Pad (PEP), a pneumatic pressure monitoring 
system, has been used to study the effect of different leg positions on 
trochanteric pressure. The pressure under the right trochanter was monitored as 
the contralateral leg was positioned in various degrees of hip and knee flexion 
or extension. The procedure was repeated for the left trochanter. A study of 50 
subjects demonstrated that a position of 30 degrees hip flexion and 35 degrees 
knee flexion (with lower leg behind midpoint of the body) produced lower 
contralateral trochanteric pressure than the traditional position of hip and 
knee flexion across the body. Additionally, thinner patients were found to have 
higher trochanteric pressure than average weight or obese subjects. 
Standardizing a method for the positioning of patients on their side can be a 
significant deterrent to the tissue erosion that greatly interferes with the 
rehabilitation process.

PMID: 7138267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Arch Neurol. 1982 Dec;39(12):741-3. doi:
10.1001/archneur.1982.00510240003001.

Life expectancy and causes of death in a group of head-injured veterans of World 
War I.

Weiss GH, Caveness WF, Einsiedel-Lechtape H, McNeel ML.

The life spans and causes of death were examined for a group of Bavarian 
veterans of World War I who had suffered head injuries and for comparable 
control subjects who had not. The occurrence of posttraumatic fits was a 
significant prognostic factor for a higher death rate after the age of 50 years. 
Other indicators of the severity of injury did not lead to differences in the 
death rates. There were significantly more deaths due to cerebrovascular causes 
in the head-injured group than in the control group, but no subgroup was found 
to have significantly more cerebrovascular deaths than any other.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1982.00510240003001
PMID: 7138314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Parasitology. 1982 Oct;85 (Pt 2):339-60. doi: 10.1017/s0031182000055323.

Transmission of Schistosoma mansoni from man to snail: experimental studies of 
miracidial survival and infectivity in relation to larval age, water 
temperature, host size and host age.

Anderson RM, Mercer JG, Wilson RA, Carter NP.

We report the results of experimental work on (a) the influence of temperature 
on the age-dependent survival and infectivity of the miracidia of Schistosoma 
