mansoni and (b) the relationship between snail age, snail size and 
susceptibility to infection. The death rate of miracidia declined exponentially 
with age where life-expectancy was maximal (approximately 16 h) at 15 degrees C. 
Infectivity also declined rapidly with larval age but, in contrast to larval 
survival, the rate of infection was at a maximum at 25 degrees C. Snail 
susceptibility was shown to be more closely correlated with host size rather 
than host age. Susceptibility declined exponentially with increased host size. 
Size-dependent susceptibility was shown to generate concave age-prevalence 
curves for infection within snail populations, where the maximum prevalence is 
generated in snails of intermediary age. Simple mathematical models are 
developed to aid estimation of larval survival and infection rates and 
experimental results are discussed in relation to the overall transmission 
success of the parasite from man to snail.

DOI: 10.1017/s0031182000055323
PMID: 7145476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Radiobiologiia. 1982 Jun-Aug;22(4):556-60.

[Distribution and biological effects of long-term administration of tritium 
oxide].

[Article in Russian]

Zhuravlev VF, Kaliazina NS, Katsapov IS.

PMID: 7146350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. South Med J. 1982 Dec;75(12):1553-5. doi: 10.1097/00007611-198212000-00024.

Use of polytetrafluoroethylene grafts in elderly and high-risk patients.

Ekman CA, Claes G, Carlsson I.

Despite well established methods of vascular surgery, the elderly patient has 
not been considered a candidate for operation because of a high operative risk 
and a limited life expectancy. Simplified surgical procedures and the use of new 
graft material now permit vascular reconstruction with minimal injury to the 
tissues, little blood loss, and a short operative time. The immediate 
postoperative mortality after vascular surgery in 68 patients 70 to 88 years of 
age threatened with immediate amputation was 3%. Seventy-five percent of the 
limbs were intact 12 months after operation and 55% after 24 months. Thus when 
amputation of ischemic extremities seems unavoidable, a vascular reconstruction 
should always be considered even in elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1097/00007611-198212000-00024
PMID: 7146994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1982 Sep 1;76(17):798-800.

[ABO blood group advanced age].

[Article in German]

Keil W, Bittner I, Kaiser B, Bartels R, Theodor B.

PMID: 7148024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Acta Med Scand. 1982;212(4):195-200. doi:
10.1111/j.0954-6820.1982.tb03200.x.

Current status of Swedish hemophiliacs. I. A demographic survey.

Larsson SA, Nilsson IM, Blombäck M.

A comprehensive survey of the Swedish hemophilic population (hemophilia A and B) 
was undertaken in 1980. The total number of known hemophiliacs was 564. The 
ratio of hemophilia A to B was 4:1. The severe form constituted about 30% of 
each type. The incidence has remained fairly constant since 1957 and was 1.67 
per year per 10,000 males born. The prevalence was 6.8 per 100,000 inhabitants. 
There was an increase in the prevalence in all counties but the increase varied 
considerably, 19-383%. The overall increase of hemophilia was 123%. Among mild 
cases the increase was 245%, whereas it was only 48% among the severe 
hemophiliacs. This skewness was attributed to better laboratory diagnoses and 
increased life expectancy. The proportion of mild cases increased from 35% in 
1960 to 54% at the time of the present investigation. The situation was the 
reverse for the severe cases, a decrease from 45% to 30%. The mean and median 
ages among moderate and mild hemophiliacs deviated only little from the 
corresponding figure in the total population. Among severe cases, however, mean 
and median age were 8-13 years less than in the normal population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1982.tb03200.x
PMID: 7148514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Am J Med. 1982 Dec;73(6):883-8. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(82)90786-0.

A convenient approximation of life expectancy (the "DEALE"). I. Validation of 
the method.

Beck JR, Kassirer JP, Pauker SG.

The physician developing a treatment plan for a particular patient often needs 
to know the life expectancy associated with the outcomes of therapeutic choices. 
Currently available methods for estimating life expectancy are cumbersome and of 
limited clinical use. We describe a simple approximation of life expectancy (the 
"DEALE") that is based on the assumption that survival follows a simple 
declining exponential function. In this approach, the reciprocal of the age-, 
sex-, and race-adjusted life expectancy is used to estimate the mortality rate 
of a healthy person. The life expectancy of a person who also has one or more 
diseases is obtained by adding disease-specific mortalities to the age-, sex-, 
and race-adjusted mortality rate and taking the reciprocal of that sum. In this 
paper we show that this approximation estimates life expectancy accurately for 
the great majority of clinical problems.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(82)90786-0
PMID: 7148881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Radiobiologiia. 1982 Nov-Dec;22(6):836-9.

[Long-term consequences of the oral administration of yttrium-90 to rats].

[Article in Russian]

Boĭtsova VP.

PMID: 7156363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Soc Sci Med. 1982;16(23):2073-82. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(82)90163-0.

[Emergence and development of the tuberculosis control system in France between 
1900 and 1940].

[Article in French]

Lert F.

In industrialised countries the treatment of tuberculosis was one of the first 
public health services to appear at the beginning of the 20th century. This 
initiative represented a departure from the usual measures set up by public 
health specialists for improving living and environmental conditions, as new 
knowledge about the process of infection meant that action could be taken on the 
population directly. The processes which served to stratify and differentiate 
living standards characteristic of this period of industrialisation are 
reflected in the epidemiology of tuberculosis: the hierarchy of mortality rates 
runs parallel to that of the social groups. Many authors now question the role 
of the health service in the regression of infectious diseases, which they 
attribute more to changes in lifestyle. This text attempts to analyse the 
context and the objectives which surrounded the establishment of the service to 
combat tuberculosis in France, with reference to the various theories which seek 
to explain the emergence of social services in health or in education. Hence 
three theses are examined with reference to the actual history of the 
tuberculosis service. In this service an instrument of the ruling class, owners 
of the means of production, who thereby assure the reproduction of the workforce 
at a time when industrialisation demands an increase in the workforce, and when 
additional reserves of manual labour are being exhausted? Was the use of 
techniques arising out of new knowledge accompanied by an extension of the power 
of doctors into areas which had hitherto been outside their field of 
intervention? Did medical activity lead to new norms being introduced into 
everyday life in the name of scientific values? An interpretation in terms of 
social control is put forward to explain both the public health movement, 
compulsory education and urbanisation. Is this helpful in understanding how the 
organisation of the struggle against tuberculosis came about? This research is 
based on the systematic analysis of documents and journals on tuberculosis 
published in France during the period under study. Support is found for elements 
of all the these examined without any one being able to account for all aspects 
of the establishment of this service. The service represents the meeting point 
of a number of different forces: economic forces; political forces, as witnessed 
in the debate between the social and technical approach before the first World 
War; and professional forces, given the transformation of medical practice with 
the introduction of public health services and national insurance.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(82)90163-0
PMID: 7157038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Cesk Zdrav. 1982 Dec;30(12):491-9.

[A contribution to the method of mortality tables and potential demography for 
measurement of general health status].

[Article in Czech]

Holcík J.

PMID: 7159989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Int Surg. 1982 Jul-Sep;67(3):215-20.

Reconstructive techniques for extensive post-intubation tracheal stenosis.

Grillo HC.

Extensive destruction of the trachea by post-intubation stenosis is usually the 
result of ill-advised treatment, either conservative or excisional, of an 
already existing stenosis. Under these circumstances, reconstruction may be done 
by use of adjunctive techniques, the chief of which is laryngeal release. The 
rarity of the need for adjunctive procedures is indicated by the fact that only 
28 patients out of 208 required such procedures in an extensive series of 
reconstructions for these lesions. This series included 33 patients who had 
undergone prior attempts at surgical reconstruction and many extensive lesions 
which were referred to us because of their difficulty. It is emphasized that 
these stenoses can generally be managed safely by intubation if they are 
non-resectable and non-reparable, with long-term life expectancy.

PMID: 7160978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. J Chir (Paris). 1982 Dec;119(12):725-9.

[Should one operate on all asymptomatic carotid lesions?].

[Article in French]

Cardon JM, Houel F, Tournigand P, Mercier C.

Two subgroups in Natali and Thevenet's stage 0 class of asymptomatic diseases 
are defined. True asymptomatic affections occur in patients with neurologically 
asymptomatic carotid lesions. The natural history of these diseases when 
compared with results after surgery is in favor of preventive operative therapy. 
False asymptomatic affections are seen in patients who, after previous 
operations for symptomatic carotid lesions, present a lesion on the 
controlateral carotid which until then had been neurologically silent. The 
natural history of this group shows that immediate definitive cerebral accidents 
are rare and that life expectancy is low. In contrast, the course after repeat 
surgery, the present data being the first to be published, appears to be rather 
unfavorable. Careful selection of patients in this subgroup is therefore 
necessary when considering surgical treatment.

PMID: 7161321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Southeast Asian J Trop Med Public Health. 1982 Sep;13(3):301-5.

General condition of children in the Indo-Chinese Peninsula and type of UNICEF 
programmes.

Tanumidjaja TM.

The total population in the three countries of the Indo-China Peninsula is 62.5 
million (1980 estimate) out of which children under the age of 15 comprises 
43.9%. Over 80% of the total population belong to rural areas. Available 
statistics indicate that problems such as high infant and child mortality, high 
incidence of communicable diseases, malnutrition, low enrollment rate for 
education, poor quality of education, inadequacy of child care services and poor 
environmental health conditions, are prevalent in these countries. UNICEF's 
programmes are geared towards the reduction of these problems and thus cover the 
following fields: (a) child health; (b) child nutrition, (c) water supply and 
sanitation, (d) formal and non-formal education, (e) social welfare services for 
children. The extent to which UNICEF could provide in terms of technical, 
material and financial assistance is rather small compared to the size of the 
problem and thus significant efforts will have to be made by the Governments as 
well as by the U.N. community and voluntary agencies to overcome these problems.

PIP: Little is known or discussed about the general condition of children in the 
Indo-Chinese Peninsula, but the fact is that these children are experiencing 
very high levels of morbidity, mortality, and adverse socioeconomic conditions. 
An attempt is made to describe the general situation and to identify the 
priority problems and needs of children in these countries. Also included is a 
description of the types of programs which the UN International Children's 
Emergency Fund (UNICEF) is undertaking in the 3 countries of Vietnam, Laos, and 
Kampuchea. The total population in the 3 countries of the Indo-China Peninsula 
is 62.5 million out of which children under age 15 comprise 43.9%. Over 80% of 
the population reside in rural areas and the population density varies from 15 
persons/sq km to 151 persons/sq km in Vietnam. As far as UNICEF classification 
for assistance is concerned, these 3 countries belong to Group 1, i.e., most 
seriously affected (MSA) group of countries. This is evidence by the following 
indicators: gross national product per capita of around US$100; infant mortality 
rates of 175-200/1000 live births; and expectations of life at birth around 40 
years. All reflect the underlying high levels of mortality and the adverse 
socioeconomic conditions that prevail in this group of countries. There is also 
increasing evidence of serious deterioration in the condition of vulnerable 
groups, particularly young children. Information on nutritional status of 
children has amply supported this view. Similarly, whatever information 
available shows the evidence of other growing problems facing children. Added to 
this situation is the fact that the Indo-Chinese Peninsula continued to be an 
arena for political conflicts and tensions. The main problems among children, 
particularly among those of the younger age groups are: health; environmental 
health; education; and social welfare. UNICEF's programs are geared towards the 
reduction of these problems and thus cover the following fields: child health 
and nutrition; water supply and sanitation; formal and nonformal education; and 
social welfare services for children. In Vietnam and Laos, UNICEF has been 
closely associated with the respective governments in the realization of their 
social policy objectives. These include extension of the primary health care 
network, expanding immunization, strengthening the antiepidemic network and 
providing basic facilities for improvement of environmental sanitation. In the 
area of diarrheal diseases control, UNICEF has baeen extensively involved in the 
provision of oral rehydration salts in these countries. In Kampuchea, UNICEF 
assistance coordinates humanitarian relief operations with the participation of 
certain UN organizations.

PMID: 7163832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Beitr Gerichtl Med. 1982;40:29-33.

[The fetus between abortion and protection of life].

[Article in German]

Ostendorf H.

PIP: Despite the distinctions made in the Abortion Act Paragraph 218 et seq. 
StGB overlaps and gaps occur with the transition from the protection of "unborn 
life" to the protection of "born life" which leads to restrictions in the law 
concerning legal protection of life. These problems occur particularly with 
organ transplants from and medical experiments on living fetuses following legal 
abortion. In order to afford an optimal protection of life, a clear definition 
is necessary. Here, however, the reduced penalty, compared with born life, 
according to Paragraph 218 et seq. StGB must also be considered. The following 
points are valid. 1) When medically indicated, the chance of an early birth as 
an alternative to abortion should be carefully considered. 2) The extension of 
the legal protection of life into the birth process cannot be transferred to the 
process of abortion because of the structure of the law; i.e., in abortion, the 
legal protection of life and integrity come into force only after delivery of 
the fetus. 3) Following delivery of the fetus, Paragraphs 211 et seq. and 223 et 
seq. StGB come into force whether or not there is a chance of life; i.e., organ 
transplants from and medical experiments on living fetuses after legal abortion 
are, in principle, forbidden. 4) With legal abortion, the doctor is not obliged, 
except when medically indicated, to resuscitate a living fetus. The time limits 
for an abortion according to Paragraph 218 exclude any chance of life so that, 
following the principles of passive euthanasia, there is no special 
responsibility or general duty to save that life. (author's)

PMID: 7165649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1982 Nov;16(6):324-7.

[Preliminary study of the mortality in Shanxi Province].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu CZ.

PMID: 7166072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1982;30(4):437-50.

[Health statistics and health index in developing countries].

[Article in French]

Audibert M.

Having briefly criticized those health indexes which are currently used, the 
author suggests that the LDC'S should exploit the information contained in 
routine statistical reports of health services activities: utilization rate 
(number of patients divided by population served) and intensity of service rate 
(number of visits per patient). She shows that these rate depend not only on 
morbidity, but also on the characteristics of the supply of health services 
(distance . . .) and on the characteristics of the demand for those services 
(behavioral attitudes of the patients . . .). The author uses multiple 
regression techniques to isolate the influence of these factors on utilization 
rate and on service's intensity. She concludes that the residual may be 
considered as a health status indicator. The application of this method to data 
for the forty administrative areas of Cameroon (1970 and 1975), shows that the 
resulting health index is correlated with infant mortality rates and with 
sanitary conditions.

PMID: 7167665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Clin Oncol. 1982 Dec;8(4):293-303.

'Average' survival times after treatment of cancer.

Stell PM, Morton RP.

PMID: 7168922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Exp Aging Res. 1982 Fall-Winter;8(3-4):199-201. doi:
10.1080/03610738208260366.

Comparability and reliability of techniques to assess personal future extension.

Rakowski W.

The diversity of existing procedures for assessing personal future time 
perspective requires that we establish whether the techniques used to 
operationalize even any one dimension are in fact comparable. A sample of 83 
older women (mean age = 74.1 years) responded to a questionnaire containing four 
different techniques commonly employed for determining personal future 
extension--how far into the future a person is thinking: (a) open-ended thinking 
and planning; (b) line-marking; (c) line-drawing; and, (d) life-event listing. 
Results showed a pattern of correlations suggesting only borderline 
comparability. Same-session retesting of (a), (b), and (c) revealed relatively 
high correlations, with the exception of open-ended future planning. Based on 
these data, caution is advised when selecting a procedure to assess future 
extension.

DOI: 10.1080/03610738208260366
PMID: 7169080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Exp Gerontol. 1982;17(5):383-5. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(82)90038-9.

The relationship of the Gompertz constant and maximum potential lifespan to body 
mass.

Calder WA 3rd.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(82)90038-9
PMID: 7169097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Med Decis Making. 1982;2(3):261-74. doi: 10.1177/0272989X8200200302.

Treatment choice in gastric carcinoma. A decision-analytic approach.

Doubilet P, McNeil BJ.

Physicians frequently face decisions whether or not to undertake a treatment 
that carries an immediate risk but offers a potential cure. However, data 
directly comparing life expectancies of similar groups of patients with and 
without that treatment are rarely available and in fact could not ethically be 
obtained. We present an indirect mathematical technique for computing the two 
life expectancies and specifically apply this approach to evaluating surgery for 
patients with gastric carcinoma without known metastases. We demonstrate that 
surgery increases life expectancy for average men and women up to age 80 and 
does not alter life expectancy at age 90. Hence surgery is the appropriate 
treatment for patients who are either risk-neutral or risk-seeking in their 
attitudes comparing the short-term hazards with the long-term benefits of 
surgery.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X8200200302
PMID: 7169934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Zentralbl Chir. 1982;107(24):1577-83.

[The futurology of life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Bienengräber A.

PMID: 7170851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Arch Belg. 1982;40(7-8):301-20.

[Evolution of mortality in Belgium. Variations in transverse and longitudinal 
mortality tables].

[Article in Dutch]

Veys D.

PMID: 7171254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1982;2(2):151-61. doi: 10.1007/BF01806451.

The contralateral breast at reconstructive surgery after breast cancer 
operation--a histopathological study.

Ringberg A, Palmer B, Linell F.

The present study concerns 73 patients with known unilateral breast carcinoma. 
Thirty of the patients had a primary invasive carcinoma removed and at a later 
operation contralateral subcutaneous mastectomy with implantation of a 
prosthesis. This was performed with or without ipsilateral breast 
reconstruction. Forty-three of the cases had an in situ carcinoma found by local 
excision, whereafter bilateral subcutaneous mastectomy was performed in 38 
cases. Five cases had already had an ipsilateral mastectomy and contralateral 
subcutaneous mastectomy was performed. The histological examination of the 
subcutaneous mastectomy specimens was extensive with breasts cut into 3-5 mm 
slices, which were embedded and cut in large sections and cut in large sections 
allowing us to map all lesions. 42.5 per cent of the contralateral breasts 
contained invasive or in situ carcinoma. In about 70 per cent of the cases other 
histological lesions, considered more or less precancerous, were found in the 
contralateral breast. Our results speak in favor of an active approach to the 
contralateral breast at reconstruction, especially in cases with a long life 
expectancy after the first carcinoma. It is psychologically comforting to the 
patient to know that most of the breast gland, which could be the future origin 
of a new carcinoma, has been removed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01806451
PMID: 7171836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Bull Pan Am Health Organ. 1982;16(3):233-41.

The strategy, cost, and progress of primary health care.

Boland RG, Young ME.

PIP: Since the 1978 Alma-Alta International Conference on Primary Health Care, 
investments in primary health care projects throughout the world have been 
increasing. However, with the exception of China, no national projects have 
demonstrated the ability to provide longterm comprehensive primary health care 
in conditions of chronic proverty with local resources. Programs in China, Cuba, 
and Tanzania have achieved primary health care coverage for 100% of their 
populations. These countries have in common strong governments that have been 
able to implement radical changes in the health system. Individual freedoms in 
these societies have been restricted in favor of improved health. Programs in 
Nigeria, India, and Afghanistan have been less successful, although some 
progress has been made in projects using external funds, inspite of a strong 
committment by the governments. Efforts to reorganize the health care system 
have lacked needed political strength. Currently, these systems have resulted in 
less than complete coverage, without the prospect of attaining acceptable levels 
of infant mortality, life expectancy and net population growth. Economic, 
political, and cultural costs may be high as for example, national security or 
traditional practices are traded to achieve primary health care with 100% 
coverage. WHO has devised a global strategy which, when translated into 
operational policies will need to address several unresolved issues. These 
include recognizing that the goal of comprehensive primary health care may not 
be justified given the lack of progress to date and that effective, selective 
primary health care focused on nutrition, immunization, control of endemic 
diseases, and health education may be a more realistic goal; and that a system 
of international social security may be an effective means of assuring that the 
poorest countries are able to provide care. In addition, questions concerning 
continued funding of programs that can never be locally funded, the role of 
traditional healers in a system of free care, the supply of basic medications, 
the need for audit systems, realistic expectations of costs, the role of 
international agencies and the distribution of resources between more developed 
and less developed countries will need to be addressed.

PMID: 7171889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Can J Ophthalmol. 1982 Oct;17(5):203-6.

Unilateral proptosis in Nigerians: causes and differential diagnosis.

Majekodunmi S.

Of 75 cases of unilateral proptosis in Nigerians seen at Lagos University 
Teaching Hospital over a 5-year period 47% were in persons under the age of 15 
years, and 87% occurred in the first three decades of life. The lesions were 
mostly orbital or nasal. Orbital cellulitis caused 52% of the cases, 
retinoblastoma with orbital extension 12% and hemorrhage due to trauma 12%. 
Overall, neoplasms accounted for only 29% of the cases, a low proportion 
compared with rates in other series. No cases were due to an endocrine disorder, 
again in contrast to other series. These differences may be due to differences 
in the interests of the investigators, geographic and demographic variation 
between the patient groups or differences in the criteria for the inclusion of 
patients in the studies.

PMID: 7172108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Hum Biol. 1982 Sep;54(3):517-24.

Lack of unusual longevity in Vilcabamba, Ecuador.

Mazess RB, Mathisen RW.

PMID: 7173838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. J Biosoc Sci. 1982 Oct;14(4):465-72. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000014322.

Mortality of the Korean population in Japan: a life table analysis of selected 
causes of death.

Kim YS.

PIP: The average gains in life expectancy and in working life ages for Koreans 
in Japan and Japanese are examined when 4 selected causes of death are 
hypothetically eliminated. The life expectancy at birth of Korean males and 
females in Japan (1974-76) was 67.1 and 77.1 years, respectively. The largest 
increases in life expectancy at birth for Koreans in Japan and Japanese (both 
sexes) result when cardiovascular diseases are eliminated. At the working ages 
(15-65 years) the largest gains result from elimination of malignant neoplasms. 
Implications for public health services and acculturation of Koreans in Japan 
are discussed.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000014322
PMID: 7174724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. J Theor Biol. 1982 Oct 7;98(3):519-29. doi: 10.1016/0022-5193(82)90134-5.

Optimal life histories and the age-specific costs of reproduction.

Caswell H.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-5193(82)90134-5
PMID: 7176681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Md State Med J. 1982 Nov;31(11):39-42.

Wellness.

Guyther JR.

PMID: 7176694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Minn Med. 1982 Sep;65(9):549-50, 568.

How long can we expect to live?

Gunderson PD.

PMID: 7177090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1982 Nov 27;126(48):2180-4.

[The Quetelet index as predictor of life expectancy at middle age; reevaluation 
after 25 years in 3091 subjects].

[Article in Dutch]

Vandenbroucke JP, Matroos AW, van der Heide-Wessel C, van der Heide RM.

PMID: 7177229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Paraplegia. 1982 Oct;20(5):277-9. doi: 10.1038/sc.1982.50.

Life expectancy following spinal cord injury.

Minaire P, Price M, Almagro P, Ravichandran G, Silver JR, Nuseibeh I, Burr RG.

DOI: 10.1038/sc.1982.50
PMID: 7177693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Scand J Soc Med. 1982;10(2):33-41. doi: 10.1177/140349488201000201.

Mortality among the widowed in Sweden.

Mellström D, Nilsson A, Odén A, Rundgren A, Svanborg A.

This study consists of three parts. In the first part the risk of death for 
widowed persons is studied as a function of time interval since the day of 
bereavement. The effects of bereavement on mortality are investigated in all 
widowed people in Sweden (about 360 000) from 1968 to 1978. Among widowers above 
65 years of age there are nine deaths per 1000 in excess compared with married 
men during the first 3 months after bereavement. In comparison with married 
people in the age group 70-74 it is found that among widows there is an 
increased mortality by 22% and among widowers by 48% during the first 3 months 
after bereavement. Further observation, during a period of altogether 11 years, 
showed that excess mortality continues, though at a lower level. In the second 
part, causes of death in the age group 70-74, divided according to marital 
status, are studied on the basis of data from the National Central Bureau of 
Statistics. The excess in mortality is due mainly to cancer and cardiovascular 
deaths, but also accidents, suicides and cirrhosis of the liver. The third part 
deals with differences between marital status groups with respect to tobacco 
smoking and alcohol abuse by using data from the population study of 
"70-year-olds in Göteborg" (H 70). By using data from central registers together 
with data from the population study it is possible to show that life style 
factors have an impact on the difference in mortality pattern between married 
and widowed people in Sweden.

DOI: 10.1177/140349488201000201
PMID: 7178869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Soc Sci Med. 1982;16(19):1663-6. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(82)90090-9.

Health and inequality. Some applications of uncertainty theory.

Silber J.

This paper applies to the Field of Health results of Stochastic Dominance Theory 
and expressions originally devised for the measurement of Income Inequality. In 
particular, use is made of Atkinson's inequality measure to compare health 
levels in England and Wales in the past century. It appears that the 'inequality 
before death' is less important today than it was in the past, this improvement 
being parallel to the increase in the average number of years lived (life 
expectancy). The analysis indicates also that both improvements were greater for 
women than for men during the period considered.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(82)90090-9
PMID: 7178912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Am J Nephrol. 1982;2(1):12-4. doi: 10.1159/000166576.

Improved renal function in patients with primary renal disease after control of 
severe hypertension.

Friedlaender MM, Rubinger D, Popovtzer MM.

Renal function and life expectancy can be improved by aggressive 
antihypertensive therapy in severe hypertension. However, most reports of severe 
hypertension and renal failure concern primary hypertensive states. 3 cases of 
primary renal disease, 1 glomerular, 1 obstructive and 1 of chronic 
pyelonephritis, are described here. In all 3 cases, severe hypertension and 
renal failure were present. Adequate reduction in blood pressure resulted in 
substantial improvement in renal function.

DOI: 10.1159/000166576
PMID: 7180900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Arch Belg. 1982;40(3-4):137-56.

[Social inequality in disease and death].

[Article in French]

Vuylsteek K.

PMID: 7181555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. J Radiat Res. 1982 Dec;23(4):411-22. doi: 10.1269/jrr.23.411.

How to assess natural risks.

Sakka M.

DOI: 10.1269/jrr.23.411
PMID: 7182492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Rev Chil Pediatr. 1982 Sep-Oct;53(5):481-90.

[Child health in Chile and the role of international collaboration].

[Article in Spanish]

Rosselot J.

PIP: Assuring the rights sanctioned by the UN Declaration on the Rights of 
Children requires the participation of the family, community, and state as well 
as international collaboration. Health conditions in Chile have improved 
significantly and continuously over the past few decades, as indicated by life 
expectancy at birth of 65.7 years, general mortality of 9.2/1000 in 1972 and 
6.2/1000 in 1981, infant mortality of 27.2/1000 in 1981. Although the country 
has experienced broad socioeconomic development, due to inequities of 
distribution 6% of households are indigent and 17% are in critical poverty. The 
literacy rate in 1980 was 94%, but further progress is needed in environmental 
sanitation, waste disposal, and related areas. Enteritis, diarrhea, respiratory 
ailments, and infections caused 60.4% of deaths in children under 1 in 1970 but 
only 37.8% in the same group by 1979. Measures to guarantee the social and 
biological protection of children in Chile, especially among the poor, date back 
to the turn of the century. Recent programs which have affected child health 
include the National Health Service, created in 1952, which eventually provided 
a wide array of health and hygiene services for 2/3 of the population, including 
family planning services starting in 1965; the National Complementary Feeding 
Program, which supervised the distribution in 1980 of 25,195 tons of milk and 
protein foods to pregnant women and small children; the National Board of School 
Assistance and Scholarships, which provides 300,000 lunches and 750,000 school 
breakfasts; and programs to promote breastfeeding and rehabilitate the 
undernourished. Health services are now extended to all children under 8 years 
in indigent families. Bilateral or multilateral aid to health services in Chile, 
particularly that offered by the UN specialized agencies and especially the 
World Health Organization, Pan American Health Organization, and UNICEF, have 
contributed greatly to the improvement of health care. The Rockefeller, Ford, 
and Kellogg Foundations have contributed primarily in the areas of teaching and 
basic and operational research. Aid from the US government assisted in the 
development of health units and in nutritional and family health programs. The 
International Childhood Center in Paris rendered educational aid in social 
pediatrics.

PMID: 7182873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Biotelem Patient Monit. 1982;9(4):205-12.

A long-range implantable heart rate transmitter for free-ranging animals.

Follmann EH, Manning AE, Stuart JL.

The design and operating characteristics of a heart rate transmitter designed 
for a wild grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) study is described. The rigid capsule is 
durable and is easily implanted in the field. The transmitter can be regularly 
monitored at 4-5 km and has a life expectancy of about 1 year in bears which 
experience winter torpor, and thus reduced heart rate, for about 7 months in 
northern Alaska.

PMID: 7183350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 1982 Apr;3(2):97-100.

[Theoretical and epidemiological study of esophageal carcinoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang CN.

PMID: 7185454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. World Health Stat Q. 1982;35(3-4):120-3.

Introduction to world health statistics quarterly special issue on public health 
implications of aging.

[Article in English, French]

Macfadyen DM.

The health services in most of the World Health Organization's Member States are 
directed at improving the wellbeing of families through improved maternal and 
child health, the control of poverty-related diseases and fertility regulation. 
Indeed, for the least developed countries, these are all-absorbing concerns. 
However many developing countries have shaken free from the legacy of shortened 
life expectancy and have begun to achieve declines in fertility. As a 
consequence, aging persons who previously were barely visible as a group, now 
feature more prominently in families, neighborhoods and communities. In effect, 
we are seeing the emergence of a sizeable human group-persons aged 60 and 
above-which, almost everywhere in the world, is the fastest growing age group of 
all. Increasing longevity is a subject of concern in the industrialized world 
also, where the attention of demographers is beginning to focus on shifts in 
mortality at advanced age, in view of the consequences to health and social 
policies of increasing survival.

PMID: 7186703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. World Health Stat Q. 1982;35(3-4):124-32.

Aging in the world: demographic determinants, past trends and long-term 
perspective to 2075.

[Article in English, French]

Grinblat J.

PMID: 7186704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Stat Med. 1982 Jan-Mar;1(1):15-24. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780010104.

Effect of different mammographic radiation exposures on predicted benefits of 
screening for breast cancer.

Dubin N.

The benefits and risks of screening for breast cancer, including both 
mammographic and clinical examinations, are analysed by means of a probabilistic 
model. The model, applied to previously unpublished data provided by the HIP 
(Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York) breast cancer screening project, 
permits more precise stratification by age than previous analyses and allows for 
incorporation of oncogenic risks due to mammography. It is assumed that, from 
the tenth year of screening onward, radiation induces 6 cases of breast cancer 
per year per million women screened per rad delivered to the breast tissue per 
exam. The predicted pattern of breast cancer cases and deaths is commensurate 
with that actually observed in the first nine years of the HIP study. In 
extrapolation to lifetime experience, the model predicts an ultimate decrease in 
the probability of dying of breast cancer only for women over age fifty at 
initial screening and an increase in life expectancy for the entire screened 
group, at an exposure level of three rads per exam. Had radiation dosage been 
one rad or less per exam, which is within the range now possible with modern 
equipment and procedures, the radiation risk would not offset even a modest 
benefit such as is predicted for the younger women, either in number of deaths 
or years of life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780010104
PMID: 7187079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Indian J Public Health. 1982 Oct-Dec;26(4):217-28.

Present health status and some suggestions for the future action.

Seal SC.

PIP: As health is concerned with all aspects of human life, in a developing 
country like India plans for improvement of health services to ensure 
maintenance of health of the population should be an integral part of the total 
and overall development program. Modern public health measures are facing a 
difficult situation because of population growth. In regard to population 
structure, 2 age groups have been a concern of the health services, namely those 
0-15 years and those 65 and older. The child's group constituted 42-44% of the 
total population, now reduced to 38.2% in 1982 and is a heavy dependent group 
particularly if another contingent of 20.4% in the 15-24 age group and requiring 
education is added. With an increasing life expectancy, there is now more than a 
6% accumulation of aged persons in need of support. The Indian Council of 
Medical Research has established a National Institute of Nutrition and a Food 
and Drug Technology Center at Hyderabad, both of which have been doing useful 
work on nutrition and food technology. Both the history of public health during 
the last 100 years and all recent studies and observations amply demonstrate the 
dominant role played by the environment in the development of physical health 
and well-being of individuals and the community. The majority of iillnesses in a 
rural setting arise from 3 situations--pollution of water, soil, and air. A 
serious consequence of uncontrolled use of insecticides has been the health 
problems arising out of their toxic effects on persons handling them and on the 
people consuming contaminated foodstuff. Another effect on the health services 
is the increasing conversion of the vector insects to resistant form. In the 
field of communicable diseases the problems are vast and varied in India. For 
tackling all diseases a need exists for training courses to produce field 
epidemiologists. Among the noncommunicable diseases there is a definite rising 
trend in cancer, coronary heart disease, hypertension, diabetes, mental 
disorders, peptic ulcer, allergic disorders, rheumatic conditions, lung cancer, 
and leukemia. Another cause of morbidity and mortality which are assuming 
serious proportions is accident and deaths due to violence. India has undertaken 
to expand maternal and child health services and to establish new services where 
none exist. Every state has established a Family Planning Training Institute and 
created clinics throughout. Knowledge about the mental health conditions in 
India is generally poor as few surveys have been carried out to collect the 
information. Following the 2nd 5-year plan, industries are being rapidly 
developed in the country both in public and private sectors. Most of the 
problems can be solved to a great extent by mobilizing all medical and health 
personnel and services into 1 integrated service, but it is not considered 
feasible at this time. A concerted effort to rethink and reorganize present 
health services is required.

PMID: 7187659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Proc Annu Meet Med Sect Am Counc Life Insur. 1981:103-14.

Immunology of aging: predictors of survival.

Buckley CE 3rd.

PMID: 7188586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Neurology. 1980 May;30(5):463-70. doi: 10.1212/wnl.30.5.463.

ALS in Rochester, Minnesota, 1925-1977.

Juergens SM, Kurland LT, Okazaki H, Mulder DW.

The incidence, trend, and survivorship of ALS in the population of Rochester, 
Minnesota, was determined for the years 1925 through 1977. The average annual 
incidence was 1.76 per 100,000 population. There was a small but nonsignificant 
increase in the rate during the 53-year period. The male:female ratio was 1.1, 
and the male:female ratio of incidence rates was 1.6. The median age at onset 
was 66 years; the incidence rates increased with increasing age. Median 
survivorship was 22.5 months, and was longer for younger patients than for 
patients with an advanced age at onset. The demographic characteristics in this 
total community experience are believed to reflect the pattern of ALS more 
accurately than previously reported clinical series.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.30.5.463
PMID: 7189252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Fysiatr Revmatol Vestn. 1980 Apr;58(2):94-8.

[Determination of biological time in rheumatoid arthritis].

[Article in Slovak]

Smondrk J, Ondrasík M.

PMID: 7189507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Urologe A. 1981 May;20(3):135-40.

[Indications, surgical technique and results in renovascular hypertension 
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Eigler FW, Dostal G.

After more than 25 years of surgical treatment of renovascular hypertension 
alterations in indication and operative methods have evolved. While split renal 
function tests have been abandoned, renin values seem of some importance, but 
the most valuable signs are poststenotic dilatation and collateralisation on the 
aortogram. For therapy the transcutaneous intraluminal dilatation has been 
developed as a fairly safe method. Though long term results are lacking this 
procedure seems indicated under certain conditions. The only primary indication 
for surgery therefore would be total occlusion of the renal artery. In many 
instances secondary surgery is still necessary. Interposition of a venous graft 
is the most often used procedure. In our own experience direct 
thrombendarterectomy also gives good results. In fibrodysplastic stenoses the 
results with respect not only to blood pressure behaviour and mortality rate but 
also life expectancy are satisfactory. On the other hand operations of 
arteriosclerotic lesions have still a considerable early and late mortality 
rate. The extent of the underlying disease, age and sex are important factors. 
The aim of preserving renal function in special situations (occlusion of renal 
artery, stenosis of single kidney and bilateral stenosis) is especially 
stressed.

PMID: 7196621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Int J Epidemiol. 1980 Dec;9(4):325-8. doi: 10.1093/ije/9.4.325.

The incidence and causes of death in a follow-up study of individuals with 
haemoglobin AS and AA.

Stark AD, Janerich DT, Jereb SK.

A cohort of 574 black Adults (mean age 47 years with a range of 28-73 years) 
with sickle cell trait (haemoglobin AS) which had been age and sex matched with 
1148 controls (haemoglobin AA) was monitored for 7 years. We found no evidence 
of excess mortality or differential causes of mortality between cases and 
controls. There were no case deaths related to kidney disease, splenic infarcts, 
or pregnancy. Reports in the literature have been inconsistent with regard to 
the health effects of sickle cell trait. These findings suggest that 
discrimination against trait carriers in terms of life insurance premiums and 
some job opportunities are unjustified.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/9.4.325
PMID: 7203774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. J Clin Psychol. 1981 Jan;37(1):28-31. doi: 
10.1002/1097-4679(198101)37:1<28::aid-jclp2270370106>3.0.co;2-m.

Appropriate death: college students' preferences vs. actuarial projections.

McDonald RT, Carroll JD.

Appropriate death was defined as the kind of death a person might choose for 
himself/herself, if given a choice. Ss were 382 college students who stated 
their preferences for (a) age at time of death; (b) cause of death; (c) site of 
