death; and (d) means of disposal of remains. Preferences were compared with 
national actuarial projections. The preferred average life expectancy for women 
was lower than the national average life expectancy (p less than .001). Natural 
causes and accidents were oversubscribed, while cardiovascular ailments and 
cancer were undersubscribed as causes of death. A non-institutional site for 
death was preferred by 91.3% of the Ss; 39% of all deaths now occur outside an 
institution. Traditional burial underground was the choice of just more than 
half the sample, but a slight trend toward less traditional means of disposal of 
remains was noted over the five semesters of the study.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-4679(198101)37:1<28::aid-jclp2270370106>3.0.co;2-m
PMID: 7204605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Mech Ageing Dev. 1980 Nov-Dec;14(3-4):283-92. doi:
10.1016/0047-6374(80)90002-0.

Influence of maturation and aging on mechanical and biochemical properties of 
connective tissue in rats.

Vogel HG.

The influence of maturation and age on the physical and chemical properties of 
various organs of connective tissue has been studied in rats at ages of 4 weeks, 
8 weeks, 4 monhs, 1 year and 2 years. The changes between young (4 weeks old) 
and adult (4 months to 1 year old) animals were considered as the effects of 
maturation, whereas the changes between adult and senescent (2 years old) rats 
were regarded as the effects of aging. Ultimate values, such as ultimate load, 
tensile strength and breaking strength, or ultimate modulus of elasticity, 
showed a sharp rise during maturation and a smaller but significant decrease 
during aging in all organs, such as skin strips, tail tendons, shaft bones, 
epiphyseal cartilage and aorta rings. Ultimate strain showed a similar pattern, 
but the maximum occurred earlier. These changes were parallel with the content 
of insoluble collagen. Other chemical parameters such as soluble collagen or 
glycosaminoglycans, showed a continuous decrease during the life span, whereas 
elastin rose continuously. More detailed analysis of mechanical properties in 
rat skin gave insight into the viscoelastic behaviour of skin. In creep 
experiments time until break under constant load rose continuously during the 
life span, whereas ultimate extension rate showed a sharp fall during maturation 
and a slow decrease during senescence. Stress at low extension degree and moduli 
of elasticity at low extension degree were decreased by maturation and increased 
by senescence, exactly the opposite of the changes at high extension degrees. 
The so-called step phenomenon was increased due to maturation and decreased due 
to aging. Relaxation and mechanical recovery were changed in the same direction 
by maturation and aging. Relative viscoelastic parameters, such as the 
hysteresis phenomenon and relative decrease of stress under cyclic strain, were 
barely influenced by the aging process. Changes of most of the mechanical 
parameters at high extension degrees during maturation may be explained by an 
increase of cross-linking of collagen. Other phenomena such as changes at low 
extension degrees or parameters of plasticity cannot be explained on this basis. 
Further studies are needed for a better understanding of the true aging process 
in connective tissue.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(80)90002-0
PMID: 7206819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Mech Ageing Dev. 1980 Nov-Dec;14(3-4):333-43. doi:
10.1016/0047-6374(80)90007-x.

Genetic and environmental influences on lifespan and diseases in Han:Wistar 
rats.

Deerberg F, Rapp K, Rehm S, Pittermann W.

In a longevity study with SPF rats of the Han:Wistar outbred stock, 320 virgin 
males and 320 virgin females of marked littermates were maintained in a 
barrier-type animal house under highly standardized conditions from weaning 
until their natural end of life. Diseased and dead animals were sectioned and 
examined using histological, bacteriological and virological methods. The 
mortality of the rats is low up to the 18th month of life. Thereafter the 
mortality graph inclines steadily. The course of the graph is determined by very 
few diseases only, such as pituitary adenomas in both sexes, adenocarcinomas of 
the uterine glands in the females, and in the third and fourth year 
nephropathies in the males. Because of the high number of adenocarcinomas of the 
uterine glands the median life expectancy is between 30 and 33 months for the 
females, somewhat lower than between the 33rd and the 36th months for the males. 
The disease spectrum consists generally of tumor lesions, but out of the large 
tumor spectrum only single alterations exceed the 5% border. As shown by 
analysis of variance and estimation of the heritability coefficients (h2), 
mortality and the most important tumorous lesions underlie high genetic effects. 
The cage environments are found to have no influence upon mortality and 
diseases. Under the given standardized environmental conditions, the present 
results can be looked upon--because of the strong genetic effects on mortality 
and diseases - to be representative for correspondingly selected populations of 
future generations of the Han:Wistar stock.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(80)90007-x
PMID: 7206822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Rev Esp Oncol. 1980;27(1):67-80.

[Immunotherapy of cancer using levamisole, immunologic control of the 
post-surgical patient and graphic follow-up].

[Article in Spanish]

de Carli HO, Llargues JM Jr.

The continuous administration of levamisole for immunological stimulation after 
breast cancer surgery increases life expectancy significantly.

PMID: 7209109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Scand J Soc Med. 1980;8(2):73-80. doi: 10.1177/140349488000800205.

Survival patterns following primary prosthetic replacement for acute femoral 
neck fractures in the elderly.

Søreide O, Lillestøl J.

Theoretical statistical models have been used to study survival patterns 
following primary prosthetic replacement for acute femoral neck fractures in the 
elderly with special emphasis on the nature of the potential excess mortality 
following trauma and operation. The chances of our patients surviving given 
periods of time are well below those of the standard population. The excess 
mortality has been quantified using the proportional hazard model. The high 
death rate for our patients is limited to the first 4-6 postoperative months, 
thereafter the death rate is similar to that of the standard population. 
Similarly we can show that mortality following surgery is primarily dependent on 
the age of the patient. Survival probability and expected longevity have been 
calculated for different age groups. The relative longevity expected for 
patients below the age of 70 is very good compared with a very reduced expected 
longevity for patients older than 90 years. The practical consequences of our 
findings are discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/140349488000800205
PMID: 7209451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Sov Zdravookhr. 1981;(2):11-6.

[Basic traits of the medical demographic processes in the USSR and abroad].

[Article in Russian]

Ovcharov VK, Bystrova VA.

PIP: From 1938-1939 to 1958-1959 fertility dropped by 36.4% in the USSR, and it 
dropped by another 25.9% in the ensuing 11 years. Between 1969-1970 and 
1977-1978 the indices of fertility increased by 4.7%. There are more 1st borns 
and fewer 3rd born children (and later). The general tendency to lower 
reproduction is explained by fewer children in those older than 25 years. 
Fertility levels differ greatly from 1 union republic to another, depending on 
whether women work and on the local customs. The mortality levels in the USSR 
declined steadily to 1965 and then started to rise, due to the aging of the 
population. In 1939 those 60 and over constituted 6.8% of the population, in 
1979 12%. This tendency is particularly seen in the villages. In Azerbaidzhan 
and the Central Asian republics the proportion of those 60 and over in the 
villages is declining. The republics can be grouped into 4 categories in 
function of whether their populations are demographically young, mature, 
middle-aged, or old. Mortality is rising principally among men of working 
age--due to accidents, poisonings, traumas, and diseases of the vascular system. 
The indices for female mortality have stabilized in recent years. Before 1972 
mortality was higher in the cities than in the country, but in that year they 
became approximately the same, and now it is higher in the country. In recent 
years (since the 1960's) the life expectancy for men has started to decline, due 
primarily to vascular diseases. Chronic diseases play a major role in the 
increased mortality, and these are due to such factors as alcoholism, smoking, 
environmental contamination, poor nutrition, a more rapid pace of life and 
production, less physical work, and a less mobile life. There is an increase in 
mental illness. Mortality is higher in unmarried men and men who have not 
completed secondary education. Alcoholism is a serious social problem. Research 
done abroad has shown a close relationship between alcoholism and cirrhosis of 
the liver, cancer of the larynx, throat, soft palate, intestine, and strokes. 
Foreign research has also shown the harmful effects of smoking.

PMID: 7209661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1980 Oct-Dec;61(4):13-5.

Expectation of life in the United States at new high.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7210037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Strahlentherapie. 1981 Mar;157(3):145-52.

[Valency of postoperative radiotherapy in the treatment of mammary carcinoma 
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Frommhold H, Vatter J, Thurn P.

PMID: 7210052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Z Kardiol. 1980 Sep;69(9):625-31.

[Long-term results after cardiac valve replacement (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Thormann I, Gläser G, Jelavic T, Paeprer H, Schmutzler H.

The value of prosthetic valve replacement is determined not only by the 
improvement in life expectancy but also by the quality of life. This statement 
resulted from an analysis of 168 patients undergoing isolated aortic -- or 
mitral -- valve replacement between 1970 and 1976. Besides numerous 
complications -- probably often avoidable such as side effects of incorrect 
anticoagulation -- long term results of 125 surviving patients were satisfactory 
over a period of 3-9 years after surgery. Though complete restitution was rare, 
subjective and objective improvement -- different and dependent on type and 
degree of valve disease -- was persisting and the effect on social and 
professional incorporation surprisingly positive.

PMID: 7210770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Age Ageing. 1981 Feb;10(1):29-32. doi: 10.1093/ageing/10.1.29.

Survivorship and senile dementia.

Thompson EG, Eastwood MR.

It has been suggested that those having senile dementia are now living longer. 
To re-examine this suggestion a study was undertaken of those with senile 
dementia who had died in a home for the aged during a 10-year period. The 
results suggested that no change in survivorship was occurring. In general, 50% 
were dead after two years and 70% after four years. Sex, age on admission and 
year of admission had no bearing on the findings. Any comparison of survivorship 
for senile dementia between different periods of time and countries should be 
carefully qualified.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/10.1.29
PMID: 7211559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Age Ageing. 1980 Nov;9(4):220-8. doi: 10.1093/ageing/9.4.220.

Death and discharge from a geriatric department.

Hodkinson HM, Hodkinson I.

Discharge and death of in-patients has been studied by life-table analyses of 
outcome of over 2000 admissions to a department of geriatric medicine. Mortality 
risk is shown to be greater for men and in those who are older, had 
constitutional upset, dehydration or a low mental test score and who were 
admitted without a wait. Men who lived alone or were previously inactive and 
women who had had a previous admission to the department were found to have a 
lower risk of death. The prospects of discharge are equal in men and women but 
are less for those who are older, have low mental test scores, were previously 
inactive, waited for admission or were admitted from an institution. Women with 
dehydration or a previous admission to the department are also less likely to be 
discharged.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/9.4.220
PMID: 7211567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Arch Immunol Ther Exp (Warsz). 1980;28(5):727-33.

Antifungal properties of a novel 1,2,4-triazine derivative I 319.

Wieczorek J, Mordarski M, Rykowski A, Nantka-Namirski P.

The antifungal activity of the sodium salts, of 3-thiolo-5-phenyl-1,2,4-triazine 
(I 319) was determined in vitro and in vivo. The minimal inhibitory 
concentration (MIC) of I 319 for 33 pathogenic and saprophytic fungal strains 
ranged from 3.1 to 25 microgram/ml. In vivo, experiments were performed on a 
model of subacute candidiasis in Balb/c mice infected intraperitoneally with 
Candida albicans. The antifungal activity was estimated on the basis of the 
extension of the mice life span and on the number of living yeast cells present 
in the kidneys, liver and spleen of treated and control mice. A single i.p. dose 
of I 319 (25 mg/kg) prolonged the survival time of treated animals up to 200%. 
Five subsequent doses of the compound diminished the number of C. albicans cells 
in the tissues of these mice. The DL50 of I 319 for mice (i.p.) was about 250 
mg/kg.

PMID: 7212980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Arch Surg. 1981 Apr;116(4):381-4. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.1981.01380160005001.

Penetrating, obstructing, and perforating carcinomas of the colon and rectum.

Kelley WE Jr, Brown PW, Lawrence W Jr, Terz JJ.

One third of 735 patients with colorectal cancer operated on at the Medical 
College of Virginia Hospitals, Richmond, between 1957 and 1972 were initially 
seen with a major complication of their disease (involvement of adjacent organs 
or structures, obstruction, or perforation). Lesions penetrating to involve 
adjacent organs made up 9% of the group studied; the operative mortality (9%) 
and five-year survival figures (41%) for those with this finding were nearly 
identical to those of the overall series when only resections with curative 
intent were examined. The operative mortalities from obstructing and perforating 
lesions were, respectively, two and four times the overall mortality; and crude 
five-year survival figures were one half and one fourth the overall survival 
data for the series. This poor prognosis appeared to be largely a function of 
the more advanced stage of disease in these groups and of sequelae from the 
complicated manifestations that significantly increased operative mortality. 
Considering only patients surviving "curative" resections, the penetrating and 
obstructing lesions were associated with a five-year survival that was the same 
as that for the curative resection group as a whole (40%), while those patients 
with perforating lesions had roughly half this life expectancy. Therefore, 
patients with these major complications of colorectal carcinoma must be treated 
by an aggressive surgical approach if there is no evidence of metastatic 
disease.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1981.01380160005001
PMID: 7212996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Br J Haematol. 1981 Apr;47(4):529-37. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2141.1981.tb02681.x.

Prognostic significance of bone-marrow patterns in chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia.

Rozman C, Hernandez-Nieto L, Montserrat E, Brugues R.

Bone-marrow biopsy has been performed in 63 cases of chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia (CLL). Four different histological patterns were observed: (a) 
interstitial (lymphoid infiltration without displacement of fat cells) in 12 
cases; (b) nodular (abnormal lymphoid nodules without interstitial infiltration) 
in 10 cases; (c) mixed (combination of the first two patterns) in 21 cases; and 
(d) diffuse (replacement of both haemopoietic and fat cells by lymphoid 
infiltration) in 20 cases. Statistical analysis of actuarial curves showed a 
significant difference of survival probability according to the bone marrow 
infiltration patterns. Thus, in patients with interstitial or nodular patterns 
the life expectancy is significantly longer than in those with mixed or diffuse 
patterns. furthermore, a significant degree of correlation between bone marrow 
infiltration patterns and different methods of clinical staging in CLL was 
apparent. The different bone marrow infiltration patterns in CLL probably 
reflects variations in the amount of lymphoid accumulation during the natural 
course of this disease. Because of its prognostic significance, bone marrow 
biopsy should have a place in CLL evaluation and staging.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.1981.tb02681.x
PMID: 7213576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Can Med Assoc J. 1981 Feb 15;124(4):506-13.

Tanzania: medicine on a meagre budget.

Lane RA.

PMCID: PMC1705241
PMID: 7214278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Chem Biol Interact. 1981 May;35(2):139-44. doi:
10.1016/0009-2797(81)90138-1.

Shortening of life span caused by administration of 5-bromodeoxyuridine to 
neonatal rats.

Craddock VM.

Newborn rats and adult animals in which liver cell replication had been induced 
by partial hepatectomy were injected with 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BUdR), and were 
kept without further treatment for the remainder of their life span. No evidence 
for carcinogenicity of BUdR was obtained, but a dose-dependent shortening of the 
life span was observed after administration to neonatal animals.

DOI: 10.1016/0009-2797(81)90138-1
PMID: 7214599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1981 Apr 10;106(15):453-8. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1070335.

[Survival rates and reduction or mortality in Hodgkin's disease in relation to 
age of the patient (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Kuse R, Calavrezos A, Hinrichs A, Hausmann K.

Survival rates were calculated in 550 patients with Hodgkin's disease during the 
years 1966 to 1979 according to decade of age and were classified into three 
significantly different groups. The patients have been investigated according to 
a standard procedure since 1972 and the major part was treated intensively. The 
five-year-survival rate was 95% for the group under 30 years of age, 75% for the 
group between 31 and 60 years and 47% for the older group. For the three 
comparative groups during 1966 to 1971 the rates of 76%, 60% and 40% were 
markedly lower. Mortality in the young and middle age groups has decreased in 
Hamburg since 1975. Due to the continued above average death rate after the 60th 
year of life this development is not sufficiently noticeable in the total group. 
A similar tendency is shown in the GFR mortality statistics. With increased use 
of diagnostic and therapeutic possibilities the age of the patient becoming one 
of the most important prognostic features in Hodgkin's disease.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1070335
PMID: 7215171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Gerontology. 1981;27(1-2):13-9. doi: 10.1159/000212444.

Effect of population density upon life expectancy and wing retention in the 
common house fly, Musca domestica L.

Rockstein M, Chesky JA, Levy MH, Yore L.

In adult caged house flies, maintained on a complete diet of powdered whole 
milk, cane sugar and water, the median longevity, maximal longevity, and 
percentage that exhibit complete wing retention at death are increased as the 
number of individuals per cage is correspondingly decreased from 240 to 10 flies 
per cage. These effects are more marked for the shorter-lived males than for the 
females. Female longevities at all population densities are more significantly 
reduced by a restricted diet of sugar and water only. Under conditions of 
individual confinement, the life expectancy of the female house fly is no 
greater than that of the male. These results are in agreement with earlier 
suggestions that increased physical activity including interaction among 
individuals in a restricted population decreases longevity.

DOI: 10.1159/000212444
PMID: 7215815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Int J Artif Organs. 1981 Jan;4(1):7-9.

Prolonged survival on hemodialysis.

Lundin AP 3rd.

PMID: 7216535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. J Am Diet Assoc. 1981 Feb;78(2):144-8.

Influences on food decisions across the family life cycle.

Schafer RB, Keith PM.

The objective of this study was to examine the effects of the family life cycle 
on factors that influence food habits. Three hundred thirty-six married couples 
representing our four family life cycle were randomly selected and interviewed. 
Each partner was asked how important 14 different sources of influence were on 
his/her food decisions. Sources of influence included media, classes, government 
information, significant others, and financial and health concerns. These 
sources had their greatest impact on young families who were establishing family 
food habits. Impact of these influences changed only moderately for other life 
cycle stages, indicating more stabilized food habits for these marriage 
partners. Wives were more influenced than husbands in each life cycle stage. 
Health concerns, cost, and nuclear family members were the most important 
sources of influence. Information from the media, government, food classes, and 
extension had little to moderate influence.

PMID: 7217569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Med Hypotheses. 1980 Dec;6(12):1249-74. doi: 10.1016/0306-9877(80)90113-9.

The critical role of the nucleolus in cell differentiation and stem cell 
development - an extension of the concept with a look at the mast cell and its 
possible role in zinc metabolism.

[No authors listed]

From the assumptions governing the behaviour of primitive cells, a set of 
corollaries is established and the corollaries are used in coming to an 
understanding of the growth and differentiation of the pancreas. A case is made 
out to show that there is a constant replacement of old acini by new throughout 
the life of the pancreas, and that new acini are derived from primitive cells 
(fixed reticulum cells) present in the stroma which envelopes the fine ducts. 
The part played by the mast cells in the process is discussed, and view put 
forward that circulating thymocytes are mast cell precursors, and that the 
function of the mast cell is to provide the primitive cells of the pancreas (and 
the primitive cells of certain other tissues) with Zn in an assimilatable form. 
The hypothesis is made that Zn can only be assimilated by primitive cells, and, 
that for organs other than the thymus, it is assimilated in the form of the 
histamine-Zn complex liberated by the mast cells. The fate of the mast cell is 
analysed, and the suggestion made that, following degranulation, the mast cell 
nucleus is transformed into a cell of the eosinophil series. The role of the 
basophil is also analysed, and the conclusion reached that basophils are mast 
cells whose development has been modified by plasma.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-9877(80)90113-9
PMID: 7219232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Radiat Res. 1981 Apr;86(1):152-70.

The effect of acute total-head X irradiation on C3H/He mice.

Yoshii Y, Maki Y, Tsunemoto H, Koike S, Kasuga T.

PMID: 7220801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Unfallchirurgie. 1981;7(1):20-4. doi: 10.1007/BF02589484.

[The connecting osteosynthesis and its problems in unstable pertrochanteric 
fractures of the femur (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Langendorff HU, Sauer HD, Schöttle H.

In unstable pertrochanteric fractures of the femur a high bending strain and 
much load lies on the medial part of the bone. The connecting osteosynthesis 
takes off this load and immediately guarantees a high stability. Clinical 
experiences with 44 cases of connecting osteosynthesis - among them 35 per-and 
subtrochanteric fractures of the femur-show, that in 11 cases complications due 
to the fractures occurred (breaking of the implant, pseudarthrosis etc.) These 
complications are probably due to a delayed healing caused by bone cement 
penetrating into the area of the fracture. It is recommended to use an 
autologous cancellous bone graft. Indications for the compound osteosynthesis 
are only unstable pertrochanteric fractures in old patients in poor general 
condition and a short life-expectancy, and fractures in patients with diffuse 
metastases.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02589484
PMID: 7222275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Wis Med J. 1981 Apr;80(4):14.

Do doctors live longer than the rest of us?

Andreano RL.

PMID: 7222719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Ann Rheum Dis. 1981 Apr;40(2):115-20. doi: 10.1136/ard.40.2.115.

Cause and age at death in a prospective study of 100 patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis.

Rasker JJ, Cosh JA.

A series of 100 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), first seen in the early 
months of their disease, have now been followed up for 18 years, and 43 have 
died. Rheumatoid disease directly caused death in 9, and the disease or its 
treatment contributed to death in 7. These 16 patients were younger at onset and 
younger at death than the 27 in whom death was unrelated to RA. Of clinical 
features noted 1 year after the onset of RA a worse ARA grading and a worse 
functional capacity were already evident in those 16 patients. Conversely, the 
57 still surviving had a better ARA grading and a better functional capacity 
after 1 year than those who died. The survivors were also significantly younger 
than the rest at the onset of RA. The death rate throughout the follow-up period 
was higher in the patients graded as 'classical' than those graded as 'definite' 
RA after 1 year of disease.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.40.2.115
PMCID: PMC1000690
PMID: 7224683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Diabetologia. 1981 Mar;20(3):195-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00252627.

Assessment of the new criteria for diabetes mellitus according to 10-year 
relative survival rates.

Sasaki A.

The validity of the new diagnostic criteria for diabetes mellitus for Japanese 
subjects was assessed by the long-term prognosis of 501 patients, found in an 
epidemiological survey of 6,681 people in a Japanese town. Ten-year relative 
survival rates were examined in relation to the 50 g oral glucose tolerance test 
(serum glucose determined by a ferricyanide method). Subjects were classified 
using the new criteria. The prognosis of normal subjects (fasting glucose less 
than 140 mg/dl (7.8 mmol/l) and 2-hour glucose level less than 140 mg/dl) and of 
subjects with fasting glucose less than 140 mg/dl and 2-h 140-200 mg/dl 
(7.8-11.1 mmol/l) did not differ from that of the general population. Diabetics 
(fasting greater than or equal to 140 mg/dl and 2-h greater than or equal to 200 
mg/dl) showed a significantly reduced survival rate, corresponding to an excess 
mortality. Subjects with a fasting level less than 140 mg/dl and 2-h greater 
than or equal to 200 mg/dl had a relative survival rate similar to that of 
normal subjects. As a group, fasting levels greater than or equal to 140 mg/dl 
indicated a reduced survival rate, regardless of the 2-h level, while those with 
a 2-h level greater than or equal to 200 mg/dl alone failed to show a 
significantly reduced survival rate. Thus, the fasting glucose values appeared 
to be more closely related to death rate than the 2-hour glucose values.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00252627
PMID: 7227700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. IARC Sci Publ. 1980;(30):713-21.

HM Dockyard, Devonport: 1947 mortality study.

Rossiter CE, Coles RM.

To investigate the effect of occupational exposure to asbestos on mortality, 
names of all 6292 men born on or after 1 January 1910 and employed as industrial 
workers in the RN Dockyard, Devonport on 1 January 1947 were submitted to the 
Office of Population Censuses and Surveys for tracing. Follow-up continued until 
the end of 1978: over 99% were traced; 3% emigrated; and there were 1043 (17%) 
deaths. On the basis of the mortality in England and Wales for each five years 
of age and each five calendar years, the standardized mortality ratio (SMR) was 
96. Adjusting the rates for the lower mortality in south-west England, the SMR 
was 104. No relation was found between SMR and date of birth, and there was only 
a very slight excess among those more heavily exposed to asbestos. Thirty-one 
men died with mesothelioma and a further 14 with asbestosis or pulmonary 
fibrosis. The circulatory disease death rate was slightly raised (SMR = 118), 
but no more than might have been expected for manual workers. Asbestos-related 
deaths accounted for at least 4% of all deaths, but probably not many more.

PMID: 7228328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Health Phys. 1981 Apr;40(4):439-55. doi: 10.1097/00004032-198104000-00002.

Life table methodology for evaluating radiation risk: an application based on 
occupational exposures.

Bunger BM, Cook JR, Barrick MK.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-198104000-00002
PMID: 7228696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Med J Aust. 1981 Jan 24;1(2):58. doi: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1981.tb135320.x.

Cystic fibrosis and pregnancy.

Phelan PD.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1981.tb135320.x
PMID: 7231249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Z Rechtsmed. 1981;86(3):161-74. doi: 10.1007/BF00203793.

[Direct and indirect trauma in resuscitation (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Saternus KS.

To provide accident surgeons working under extreme conditions with reports on 
the results of their efforts, the complications of resuscitation measures in 30 
atraumatic deaths in which a final fall was to be excluded were analyzed in a 
fundamental study. According to these results, there are two predilection sites 
for injuries, viz., the thorax and neck. Thus, injuries to the bones of the 
thorax, which had occurred in 70% of all cases, were found regularly in rigid 
emphysematous thorax, and in 40% in elastic thorax after external cardiac 
massage. The typical secondary injuries are dealt with. Because of the great 
danger of a liver injury as observed in two cases, resuscitation measures using 
an extrathoracic cardiac massage machine appear to be problematic even if 
injuries to the bones of the thorax can be avoided in an elastic thorax. Injury 
to the neck after intubation occurred nearly as often as injuries to the thorax 
after external cardiac massage. Local injuries were predominantly small 
hemorrhages and abrasions at the base of the tongue and in the tonsillar ring on 
the right. Hemorrhages in the neck musculature are likely to be attributed to 
the abutment injury, and the retropharyngeal hemorrhages to hyper-extension. The 
single organ most frequently injured overall was the cervical spine with an 
injury frequency of 66%. However, there was no indication, not even in a single 
case, that resuscitation measures had shortened the life of a patient.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00203793
PMID: 7234133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Br J Ind Med. 1981 May;38(2):130-7. doi: 10.1136/oem.38.2.130.

Mortality of workers certified by pneumoconiosis medical panels as having 
asbestosis.

Berry G.

A mortality study has been carried out at the London, Cardiff, or Swansea 
Pneumoconiosis Medical Panels between 1952 and 1976 on people certified as 
suffering from asbestosis. The main analysis was of 665 men, 283 of whom had 
died. Of the deaths, 39% were from lung cancer, 9% mesothelioma, and 20% 
asbestosis. The observed mortality was compared with expectation based on the 
death rates for England and Wales. For all causes the observed number of deaths 
was 2.6 times expectation and for lung cancer 9.1 times expectation. After 10 
years from first certification half of the men had died compared with an 
expectation of one in four. The excess death rates were apparent in the first 
year after certification and were still operating after 10 years on those who 
survived until then. The main factor influencing the mortality was the clinical 
state of the men at the time of certification, as indicated by the percentage 
disability awarded; the excess lung cancer rate and the mesothelioma and 
asbestosis rates all increased with percentage disability. Those awarded only 
10% or 20% benefit were still at risk from all the three asbestos-related 
causes. For a man certified at age 55 it was estimated that his life expectation 
would be reduced by 3, 5, 8, or 12 years according to whether his rate of 
disablement benefit was 10%, 20%, 30% or 40% , or 50% or more respectively.

DOI: 10.1136/oem.38.2.130
PMCID: PMC1008835
PMID: 7236537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Environ Res. 1981 Jun;25(1):106-25. doi: 10.1016/0013-9351(81)90083-9.

Mortality in 191 counties near energy facilities: use of economic and social 
variables for standardization.

Dixon-Davis DK, Collins JJ, Grahn D.

DOI: 10.1016/0013-9351(81)90083-9
PMID: 7238458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Hum Biol. 1981 Feb;53(1):35-45.

A revised method for calculation of life expectancy tables from individual death 
records which provides increased accuracy at advanced ages.

Mathisen RW, Mazess RB.

PIP: The authors present a revised method for calculating life expectancy tables 
for populations where individual ages at death are known or can be estimated. 
The conventional and revised methods are compared using data for U.S. and 
Hungarian males in an attempt to determine the accuracy of each method in 
calculating life expectancy at advanced ages. Means of correcting errors caused 
by age rounding, age exaggeration, and infant mortality are presented

PMID: 7239491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Int J Health Serv. 1981;11(1):53-61. doi: 10.2190/0PQN-EGLT-V7AY-3F7D.

Life-styles and health: alternative patterns.

Berlinguer G.

The life-styles of Europe now stand trial. There is a risk of advocating a 
rejection of technology on the basis of the drop in human life expectancy, 
alternations in biorhythms, and the phenomenon of alienation. While health 
organizations could serve as springboards for change in morbific social 
relations, their main contribution has been to the growth of health consumption. 
The experience of the working class in Italy in safeguarding health and changing 
environmental conditions is analyzed. In spite of its difficulties, this 
experience can provide insight on social systems and point the way toward future 
progress.

DOI: 10.2190/0PQN-EGLT-V7AY-3F7D
PMID: 7239730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1981 Jul;29(7):297-301. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1981.tb01268.x.

The masculine gender role and its implications for the life expectancy of older 
men.

Solomon K.

The lifespan of men is shorter than that of women. This study is an effort to 
identify some causal factors. Six dimensions of the masculine gender role 
examined in relation to certain stress-related disorders more prevalent among 
older men than among older women. These dimensions are "No Sissy Stuff"; "The 
Big Wheel"; "The Sturdy Oak"; "Give 'Em Hell"; homophobia; and sexual 
dysfunctioning. Specific problems of retirement are also discussed. Only in 
recent years have the roles of men been studied more closely. The results may 
offer positive implications for the lifespan of men.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1981.tb01268.x
PMID: 7240618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1980 May;32(5):583-91.

[Diagnosis of extension of cervical cancer by combined methods of 67Ga-computer 
scintigraphy, I.V.P. and lymphography (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Doi S.

Diagnosis of extension of cervical cancer still depends mostly on subjective 
inspection and palpation and there is only a few objective methods to know the 
extent of invasion and metastasis of the cancer and the difficulty of surgical 
operation. To develop a new method, a combination of 67Ga-computer scintigraphy, 
I.V.P. and lymphography was evaluated in the diagnosis of parametrial 
infiltration and lymph metastasis in 84 cases of cervical cancer at the stage 
one to four. 67Ga-citrate is now the most efficient of oncotropic radioisotopes 
with a short half life. It was revealed that this isotope bounds to the protein 
with a molecular weight of about 70,000 daltons or more in the 105,000g 
supernatant of the cytoplasm of tumor cells. The 67Ga accumulation on scintigram 
was classified into five types according to the shape, extent and concentration, 
and in each type tissue specimens obtained by surgical operation were examined 
histologically. I.V.P. with reference to renogram was also used to know the 
extent of parametrial invasions of cancer in which cases the ureter was 
extremely distended. Lymphography was done by Kinmonth method. The extent of 
parametrial invasion was judged from findings of both 67Ga-scintigram and 
I.V.P., and metastasis was estimated by abnormal features of both 
67Ga-scintigram and lymphogram. As a result of the above study on the 
combination of the three methods, the rate of correct diagnosis for parametrial 
infiltration was increased to 70.8% by combining the findings of I.V.P. to 
scintigram, and the rate for lymph metastasis was improved to 89.6% by combining 
lymphogram to scintigram. At the same time the rate of false negative diagnosis 
for each extension of the cancer could also be decreased. It might be concluded 
that this combined method has a large diagnostic significance.

PMID: 7240846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Radiat Res. 1981 Jun;86(3):559-72.

Life shortening in mice exposed to fission neutrons and gamma rays I. Single and 
short-term fractionated exposures.

Thomson JF, Williamson FS, Grahn D, Ainsworth EJ.

PMID: 7244129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Radiat Res. 1981 Jun;86(3):573-9.

Life shortening in mice exposed to fission neutrons and gamma rays II. 
Duration-of-life and long-term fractionated exposures.

Thomson JF, Williamson FS, Grahn D, Ainsworth EJ.

PMID: 7244130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1981 Jun;152(6):781-3.

Nonruptured aortic aneurysms.

Kessler E, Gaylis H.

A retrospective study was undertaken of 221 nonruptured aortic aneurysms treated 
by operation during a 15 year period. The mortality was 6.3 per cent. Adverse 
prognostic factors were advanced age, large aneurysms and the presence of 
associated diseases. One hundred and eighty-eight of the patients were older 
than 60 years of age and 205 of the aneurysms were 7 centimeters or more in 
diameter, and associated disease, especially cardiorespiratory, was common. 
During the same period in which 105 patients with ruptured aortic aneurysms were 
surgically treated, the mortality was 58 per cent. All patients with abdominal 
aortic aneurysms had the aneurysms excised, unless there were severe 
contraindicating factors, such as a limited life expectancy.

PMID: 7244954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1981 Apr 20;101(11):623-7.

[Longevity among Norwegian Adventists 1960-1977: a message of life style and 
health?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Waaler HT, Hjort PF.

PIP: Data on mortality of Norwegian Seventh-Day Adventists are examined for the 
period 1960-1977. The authors note an increase in longevity of four years for 
males and two years for females over the Norwegian population as a whole. The 
reasons for these differentials are sought in variations in health and 
life-style. (summary in ENG)

PMID: 7245145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Strahlentherapie. 1981 Apr;157(4):214-6.

[The influence of fractionation on the survival of patients following primary 
irradiation of bronchial carcinomas (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Mayr B, Lieven H.

153 patients with a local carcinoma limited to the thoracic region underwent 
irradiation with weekly doses of 1 x 5.0 Gy TD, 2 x 5.0 Gy TD, 4 x 2.5 or 5 x 
2.0 Gy TD up to a total dose of generally 60.0 Gy TD. Collectives comparable in 
view of stages and histology did not show significant differences in 3-year 
survival rates, though a tendency toward low doses was recognizable.

PMID: 7245261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Women Health. 1980 Fall;5(3):17-37. doi: 10.1300/j013v05n03_03.

Recent trends in sex mortality differentials in the United States.

Verbrugge LM.

In the 1970s, the United States population experienced a notable drop in 
mortality rates, after several decades of relative stability. Has this increased 
longevity been enjoyed equally by males and females, so that sex mortality 
differentials are essentially the same as before? Or has one sex benefited more 
than the other? This paper focuses on the mortality experience of males and 
females between 1970 and 1977, by age and by leading causes of death. The 
1970-1977 data are compared with two earlier periods (1920-1950 and 1950-1970) 
to show how recent trends contrast with previous ones. Overall, the recent data 
suggest a new situation for sex mortality differentials. In prior decades, 
females' longevity advantage over males increased. This continuing increase 
appeared for virtually all ages and leading causes. But in the 1970s, the 
increase slowed. Females' situation relative to males actually worsened for 
several age groups (under 1, 55-64) and for several leading causes (conditions 
of early infancy, bronchitis/empysema/asthma, homicide, peptic ulcer). Moreover, 
the pace of females' gains for heart diseases and cancer has slowed, and 
relative gains have stopped for cerebrovascular diseases and accidents. Reasons 
for recent changes in sex mortality differentials and possible future trends are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1300/j013v05n03_03
PMID: 7245783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Acta Med Scand. 1981;209(5):351-5. doi: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1981.tb11606.x.

178 fatal cases of pulmonary embolism in a medical department.

Nielsen HK, Bechgaard P, Nielsen PF, Husted SE, Geday E.

The diagnosis of pulmonary embolism was established during a 6-year period in 
284 patients hospitalized in medical departments of a general hospital. Of the 
183 patients who died, 178 were autopsied. A retrospective study was performed 
on the autopsy-verified fatal cases to correlate their clinical state to 
relevant postmortem findings. Two groups made thorough, independent evaluations 
of data from the medical and pathological records. In 95% of the patients a 
confirmed fatal pulmonary embolism constituted only a slight modification of 
life expectancy, because of concomitant complicating, severe, terminal disease. 
Reflecting this poor clinical state, only 26 patients (15%) had a diagnosis of 
pulmonary embolism premortally and of these patient, 13 died within 5 hours 
after onset of symptoms and 10 were treated with antithrombotic drugs. Our 
results seem to indicate an increase in the incidence of terminal diseases in 
the population of elderly, hospitalized patients and change the concept of fatal 
pulmonary embolism into an agonal incident in a terminal-care medical patient.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0954-6820.1981.tb11606.x
PMID: 7246271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Ann Rheum Dis. 1981 Jun;40(3):286-92. doi: 10.1136/ard.40.3.286.

Some in-vitro comparisons of synovial cells dispersed by trypsin from rheumatoid 
and nonrheumatoid synovium.

Clarris BJ, Fraser JR, Stanley JF.

Life spans, growth rate, glucose utilisation, response to hydrocortisone, and 
intracellular activity of lysosomal N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase of rheumatoid 
synovial cells in culture were compared with these properties in nonrheumatoid 
synovial cells. Except for a small group of RA cells derived from tissue 
explants, the cells were all isolated by trypsinisation of synovial tissue, 
either within intact joints or after synovectomy. Cell lines were established by 
passaging with trypsin. In a study of 56 nonrheumatoid and 24 rheumatoid 
synovial lines isolated during a 7-year period the latter were found to have a 
shortened mean life expectancy in culture, though there was wide variation 
between individual lines. This is in agreement with reported findings from 
untrypsinised explant-derived synovial lines. However, in the present study mean 
multiplication rates were identical for nonrheumatoid and rheumatoid synovial 
cells, and on clear differences could be demonstrated for the other properties 
studied. No correlation could be found between the life spans of synovial cell 
lines and the age of the cell donors, whether from rheumatoid or nonrheumatoid 
sources. Rheumatoid synovial cells isolated from intact joints were notable for 
especially high proportions of macrophage-like cells and suppression of 
fibroblasts. In most cases cell lines could not be established from these 
rheumatoid primary cultures, and in others the lines were short-lived. Early 
association with relatively high proportions of macrophage-like cells in 
rheumatoid cultures might thus be important in influencing the establishment and 
behaviour of synovial cell lines.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.40.3.286
PMCID: PMC1000764
PMID: 7247472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Clin Chim Acta. 1981 Jul 18;114(1):45-52. doi: 10.1016/0009-8981(81)90226-6.

Familial hypo-alpha-lipoproteinemia.

Vergani C, Bettale G.

A familial syndrome with hypo-alpha-lipoproteinemia is described. The affected 
propositus and his relatives have low levels of high density 
lipoprotein-cholesterol and apolipoprotein A, without any other lipid and 
lipoprotein abnormalities. Lipase activity and lecithin:cholesterol 
acyltransferase activity are also normal. A high prevalence of premature cardiac 
events was observed in this kindred, without any other established coronary risk 
factors present. The longevity analyses showed a shortening of life expectancy. 
The biochemical data and the pedigree are compatible with an autosomal dominant 
mode of inheritance.

DOI: 10.1016/0009-8981(81)90226-6
PMID: 7249374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Exp Gerontol. 1981;16(3):223-8. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(81)90017-6.

Effect of temperature and different sex ratios on physical activity and life 
span in the adult housefly, Musca domestica.

Buchan PB, Sohal RS.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(81)90017-6
PMID: 7250237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Mech Ageing Dev. 1981 Mar;15(3):243-9. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(81)90133-0.

Relationship between fluorescent age pigment, physiological age and physical 
activity in the housefly, Musca domestica.

Sohal RS, Buchan PB.

The objective of this investigation was to examine whether fluorescent age 
pigment (FAP) was associated with the physiological rather than the 
chronological age of houseflies (Musca domestica) and to determine if the level 
of physical activity of individual flies was related to their FAP content. 
Distinction between the physiological age and the chronological age of the flies 
