was made on the basis of flightlessness which occurs prior to death in all 
houseflies. Flies with shorter life expectancy become flightless earlier. 
Walking and flying activity of individual flies was measured by radar-Doppler 
instrumentation developed in this laboratory. The concentration of FAP, 
determined by fluorimetry, increased with age but the rate of increase was 
greater in flightless flies than in their flying cohorts of the same age. FAP 
content of individual flies tended to be greater in flies exhibiting relatively 
high levels of physical activity. The results of this study suggest that FAP 
concentration is associated with life expectancy and physical activity of 
houseflies.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(81)90133-0
PMID: 7253714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Mech Ageing Dev. 1981 May;16(1):37-54. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(81)90030-0.

A computer model of the evolution of specific maximum lifespan.

Miller AR.

To answer the question of why organisms have evolved finite and specific maximum 
lifespans, I have built and experimentally studied a discrete-event simulation 
model of the evolution of lifespan. Through natural selection, the model evolves 
an apparent plateau in maximum lifespan, the height of which is a decreasing 
function of both the intensity of niche fluctuations and specific fecundity. 
Evolved lifespan is therefore finite (small and essentially constant over 
accessible time intervals) and specific. Experiments demonstrate that the 
plateau is not due to group selection. Instead, it occurs because the rate of 
increase of maximum lifespan by natural selection - in an environment presenting 
a finite probability that death will occur prior to reaching the genetically 
specified maximum - is a decreasing function of maximum lifespan itself and 
asymptotically approaches zero. This supports in part a class of existing 
hypotheses that finite lifespan is due to an equilibrium between weak selection, 
as in the model, and various lifespan-decreasing processes, which however were 
not simulated in the present experiments. Although the model shows that such 
counter processes are not strictly necessary for the evolution of finite and 
specific maximum lifespan, my interpretation of the model's correspondence to 
organic evolution does imply a counter process, a bias in random genetic drift 
toward shorter lifespan, that is more general than those previously 
hypothesized.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(81)90030-0
PMID: 7253719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Postgrad Med. 1981 Aug;70(2):69-76. doi: 10.1080/00325481.1981.11715824.

Primary health care in the People's Republic of China.

Taylor RB.

In scarcely more than 30 years, the People's Republic of China has progressed 
from limited health care available only to a privileged few to a countrywide 
system providing basic services to one fifth of the world's population. The 
author gives his impressions of the current situation, based on a recent visit.

PIP: There has been a marked improvement in the health status of China's 1 
billion inhabitants during the last 20 years due to the government's decision to 
develop a primary health care (PHC) system rather than to promote a system of 
specialized health care for a small segment of the population. Chairman Mao 
emphasized that the major task of medical personnel was to provide care for 
workers, peasants, and military personnel. He advocated the use of both 
traditional and modern health care practices. During the cultural revolution 
medical training was sharply curtailed, but since 1977 medical training has been 
given a high priority. In recent years the major focus has been on providing PHC 
services for the workers in the cities and for the 80% of the population living 
in rural areas. At the present time there are 117 modern medical schools and 24 
traditional schools. Even those enrolled at the modern schools receive some 
training in traditional medicine. Since 1977 modern medical training has been 
provided in a 5-year program, including a year of hospital internship. Students 
enter medical school immediately upon graduation from high school and must pass 
competitive exams prior to acceptance. The top members of the medical class are 
provided with additional training and prepared for research and teaching 
posions. The students in the lower portion of the class are assigned to rural 
areas and provincial hospitals upon graduation. Traditional medical school; 
emphasize preventive and promotive health care. Currently, health services are 
provided by 360,000 modern doctors, 250,000 traditionally trained physicians, 
420,000 middle doctors, 1.6 million barefoot doctors, 400,000 nurses, 120,000 
herbalists, and 70,000 midwives. Barefoot doctors are individuals elected by 
their fellow workers to receive training primarily in preventive heath care. 
Following training they serve as health educators for their follow workers. 
Middle doctors have varied training ranging from 6 months to several years and 
work primarily in urban or factory clinics. The progress made in the provision 
of PHC is evidenced in the increase in life expectancy from 35 years to 60-62 
years during the last 3 decades. During this same period, infant mortality 
decreased from 11.76-1.035% and the maternal death rate decreased from 
0.7-0.015%.

DOI: 10.1080/00325481.1981.11715824
PMID: 7255300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1980 Jul-Sep;61(3):2-8.

Longevity of Presidents, Vice Presidents, and unsuccessful candidates for the 
Presidency.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7256800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Suicide Life Threat Behav. 1981 Summer;11(2):99-110. doi: 
10.1111/j.1943-278x.1981.tb00909.x.

Personality, life situation, and life expectancy.

Reynolds DK, Nelson FL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1943-278x.1981.tb00909.x
PMID: 7256823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Tumori. 1981 Mar-Apr;67(2):145-9. doi: 10.1177/030089168106700212.

Clinical considerations on 8 cases of abdominal carcinoids.

Conti AR, Cusumano F, Baticci F, Salvadori B.

Eight cases of abdominal carcinoids are reported, 5 males and 3 females, whose 
age ranged from 21 to 66 years. The site of the carcinoids was appendix in 3 
cases, ileum in 3, cecum in 1 and the ovary in 1. Synchronous metastases were 
present at regional lymph nodes and liver in 5 of the 8 cases. Radical surgery 
was performed in 3 patients, whereas in 3 cases nonradical surgery, due to the 
presence of nodal or hepatic metastases, was followed by chemotherapy (2 cases) 
and radiotherapy (1 case). The patients radically operated on are alive and free 
of disease at 22, 27 and 27 months. Surgery should be resorted to, when 
possible, even in the presence of liver metastases, since the life expectancy 
for these patients is longer than that of patients with liver secondaries from 
tumors other than carcinoids. Chemotherapy and radiotherapy seem to play a 
complementary role, if any.

DOI: 10.1177/030089168106700212
PMID: 7256881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Urol Radiol. 1981;2(3):193-200. doi: 10.1007/BF02926724.

Percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty.

Schwarten DE.

One to 2 percent of the 25,000,000 hypertensive patients in the United States 
have renovascular hypertension. Until recently, the treatment of choice for a 
patient with an ischemic, renin-producing kidney that caused hypertension 
involved a major abdominal operation. Percutaneous catheter techniques are now 
available that permit correction of a renal artery stenosis under fluoroscopic 
guidance. This percutaneous transluminal angioplasty procedure has received much 
attention, but to date no long-term follow-up studies are available. Because of 
the limited life-expectancy of patients with a generalized arteriosclerotic 
process and the relatively high risk of operative procedures in this group of 
patients, it would seem appropriate to consider percutaneous transluminal renal 
angioplasty as an alternative method in the management of the patient with 
renovascular hypertension.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02926724
PMID: 7257021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Int J Health Educ. 1981;24(2):95-101.

Innovative approaches in nutrition education in the Pacific region.

Jabre B.

It has often been said that ignorance is the most cause of malnutrition. 
However, in the Pacific Islands rapid modernization has confronted the people 
with the realization that their traditional way of life is no longer applicable 
and socially acceptable: this has led to the adoption of practices that are not 
fully understood or carried out properly (as is the case in bottle feeding). The 
nutrition education programme described in the paper attempts to halp 
individuals and communities become aware of the changes taking place and their 
consequences, and to provide them with the knowledge they need to seek solutions 
by themselves. To consolidate nutrition education in the various islands, 
training is undertaken by the Community Education Training Centre and in the 
territories through in-service courses. The level of training is highly 
practical and stresses skills and information useful for village people. 
Emphasis is on methods of motivating the community and techniques in nutrition 
education; the use of growth charts, cooking demonstrations, vegetable gardens 
and the proper use of audio-visual aids. One aim is to promote the consumption 
of coconut milk instead of soft drinks, while a major focus is the encouragement 
of breast feeding. Recipes are traditional ones modified for higher nutritive 
value, such as the addition of vegetables, perhaps taro leaves, or banana flower 
to a typical fish soup. In school, learning units have also been developed to 
promote appreciation of local food. Apart from the conventional educational 
techniques and materials, new aids are being utilised, especially games: 
nutrition bingo, gin rummy, menu planning games, the coconut climber's game, 
nutrition puzzles, etc. It is the author's experience that, to be effective, 
nutrition education programmes have to be an integral part of a national 
strategy aimed at combatting malnutrition. Isolated efforts may be better than 
none, but results remain marginal, if only because there is such a disparity 
between the problem and the response to it in the form of nutrition schemes.

PIP: Food is one of the major expenses for most Pacific Islanders. As buying 
patterns are increasingly influenced by factors such as the prestige of imported 
and convenience foods, nutritional problems become more widespread. The South 
Pacific Commission is undertaking training at 2 levels to consolidate nutrition 
education in the various islands. The Community Education Training Center in 
Suva provides home economics training to women working at the community level, 
and in addition a Mobile Home EConomics Training Unit staffed by a nutritionist, 
home economist, and agricultural extension officer provides training in the 
different island groups. The recently formed women's federations have 
incorporated consumber education into their work programs. Nutrition education 
programs in a number of islands combine conventional techniques and materials 
with less orthodox instructional methods to change attitudes and practices. A 
campaign to substitute consumption of coconut milk for soft drinks includes 
parodies of soft drink advertisements, displays of posters promoting coconut 
milk in stores, and provision of coconut milk instead of other drinks at 
government meetings. Encouragement of breast feeding is a major focus of 
nutrition education programs, and the message is spread in radio programs in 
local languages, pictorial infant feeding manuals given to new mothers, in 
women's committees and in schools. Cooking demonstrations with the women's 
committees in the villages, a training program for mothers of malnourished 
children in hospitals, and development of games such as nutrition bingo are 
among other activities intended to increase knowledge of the nutritional value 
of foods.

PMID: 7257611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Cardiovasc Res. 1980 Dec;14(12):719-24. doi: 10.1093/cvr/14.12.719.

Cardiac involvement in secondary haemochromatosis: a catheter biopsy study and 
analysis of myocardium.

Fitchett DH, Coltart DJ, Littler WA, Leyland MJ, Trueman T, Gozzard DI, Peters 
TJ.

Although high blood transfusion regimens have improved the life expectancy of 
the patient with Thalassemia Major, cardiac failure and arrhythmias remain a 
cause of early death. It is not certain whether the massive myocardial iron 
deposition found in such patients is preventable by intensive chelation therapy. 
This study evaluates endomyocardial biopsy as a method of assessing myocardial 
iron deposition. Of four patients with clinical and biochemical evidence of 
severe haemochromatosis, only one had a myocardial iron content comparable to 
that found in severe haemochromatotic myocardium. The one patient with cardiac 
failure had an endomyocardial iron content within the normal range. Studies of 
the iron distribution in haemochromatotic myocardium demonstrate that the 
subendocardial myocardium contains only half the iron content of the 
subepicardial layer, and there is a large sampling variation. It is concluded 
that catheter endomyocardial biopsy is an insensitive method of determining 
early myocardial deposition because of the location of iron and the variability 
of the sampling. Studies of the nature of the myocardial iron protein with CM32 
cation exchange resin chromatography show that there is a large increase in the 
haemosiderin: ferritin ratio (5:1) in iron overload myocardium as compared with 
the normal heart (2:1). Similar results have been observed in the liver with 
iron overload, where the increase in hepatic haemosiderin was associated with 
greater lysosomal fragility. It is possible that myocardial cell damage may also 
occur by the rupture of iron engorged lysosomes.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/14.12.719
PMID: 7260965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Cas Lek Cesk. 1981 Aug 13;120(31-32):954-7.

[The longevity syndrome (author's transl)].

[Article in Czech]

Tvaroh F.

PMID: 7261021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Diabetologia. 1981 Jun;20(6):587-91. doi: 10.1007/BF00257424.

Prognosis of diabetes mellitus in a geographically defined population.

Panzram G, Zabel-Langhennig R.

The centralised registration and care of all diabetics in a geographically 
defined population has provided an epidemiological basis for a longitudinal 
investigation of the prognosis of this disease. Records of all newly diagnosed 
diabetics who had been registered in the Erfurt district (population 1.25 
million) in 1966 were studied in relation to the time period 1966-1976. Of the 
known 2,560 diabetics (910 men, 1,650 women; 93.7% greater than 40 years of 
age), 1,054 had died during the 10-year follow-up period. Cardiovascular causes 
accounted for the majority of deaths (63%). In almost all age classes 
proportionally more men than women had died at follow-up; there was a 
significant difference in the 60-69 year group (men 61.6%, women 46.2%). In 
comparison with the general population, excess mortality ranged from 2.1 to 1.0, 
decreasing with age at onset without significant differences between men and 
women. Excess mortality was present in most age classes and was evident within 
the first year after diagnosis. Current life-table analysis confirmed the 
shortened life expectancy of the diabetics. The lower life expectancy of 
noninsulin-dependent diabetics may not be due to hyperglycaemia alone but 
probably also involves a variety of atherongenic risk factors.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00257424
PMID: 7262474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Fortschr Med. 1981 Jul 23;99(27-28):1065-9.

[Growth and metastasis of malignant tumors].

[Article in German]

Femppel J.

The high life expectancy of today seems to be an important factor for the 
increasing frequency of malignant disease, which is observed nowadays: the 
patient lives long enough to develop cancer. Increased knowledge about growth 
and spread of malignant tumors allows a better understanding of tumor 
pathogenesis and is a prerequisite for differentiated and effective therapy. 
Besides it is necessary to improve the early detection rate of cancer and to 
select and control high risk groups.

PMID: 7262789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Health Phys. 1981 May;40(5):703-24. doi: 10.1097/00004032-198105000-00009.

Perspective on occupational mortality risks.

Cohen BL.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-198105000-00009
PMID: 7263257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. J Gerontol. 1981 Sep;36(5):573-5. doi: 10.1093/geronj/36.5.573.

Parathyroid surgery in the aged.

Lifschitz BM, Barzel US.

The results of parathyroid exploration in a group of elderly patients with the 
diagnosis of hyperparathyroidism were compared with those in a younger group and 
were found to be similar with 92% cure rate and 3% permanent complication rate. 
The criteria for deciding to subject an elderly patient to parathyroid surgery 
should therefore the same in the elderly as in the younger patients and age per 
se should play no role in the decision. Life expectancy, on the other hand 
should be taken into account.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/36.5.573
PMID: 7264240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. J Theor Biol. 1981 Jan 21;88(2):279-86. doi: 10.1016/0022-5193(81)90076-x.

Implications of athlete's bradycardia on lifespan.

Kuehn LA.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-5193(81)90076-x
PMID: 7266003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Mech Ageing Dev. 1981 Jun;16(2):181-9. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(81)90094-4.

The relationship of DNA excision repair of ultraviolet-induced lesions to the 
maximum life span of mammals.

Francis AA, Lee WH, Regan JD.

Physical and chemical agents present in the environment can potentially damage 
mammalian DNA. Such damage is known in some cases to be repaired by the process 
of DNA excision repair. This process has been extensively studied utilizing the 
repair of ultraviolet irradiation damage as a model system. In this study we 
have used this system and the 5-bromodeoxyuridine photolysis assay to measure 
DNA excision repair in cells derived from 21 mammalian species. We have 
attempted to relate the DNA repair proficiencies and the average size of the 
repaired regions seen in the cell cultures with the various maximum life spans 
of the mammals studied. There was an approximate linear correlation between life 
span of the mammals and the number of DNA excision repair sites measured 20-22 
hours following ultraviolet irradiation of the cell cultures. Several deviations 
from the linear relationships were observed which remain largely unexplained. 
The size of the repaired regions was shown not to be related to the maximum life 
spans of the mammals tested.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(81)90094-4
PMID: 7266079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Laryngol Rhinol Otol (Stuttg). 1981 Jun;60(6):321-8.

[Carcinomas of the Nasopharynx. Clinical aspects--treatment 
results--therapeutical improvements (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Leipner N, Barwig P, Frommhold H.

In the years from 1968-1977 to 44 out of 63 patients with carcinomas of the 
nasopharynx and to 15 out of 19 patients with malignant lymphomas of the 
nasopharynx curative radiation therapy was applied. The survival-rates for all 
carcinomas amount to 63,2% after 3 years, and to 46,5% after 5 years. Half of 
the patients live up to only 9% of their mean, age- and sex-dependent life 
expectancy. The prognosis differs with the histological type. Patients with 
transitional-cell-carcinomas had the smallest chance of survival; half of them 
did not survive. 0.08% of their age-dependent life expectancy. Skeletal 
infiltration and metastases of the cervical lymph nodes have a bad influence on 
the therapeutic results. Local recurrences developed in 20% of the patients. 
Using the examples of 3 patients, who don't belong to the analyzed collective, 
we shall discuss and optimize the radiotherapeutic management. As a result it is 
found out, that the megavoltage irradiation therapy (42 MeV X-rays) makes a 
better dose distribution in tumour-volume than cobalt 60 rays.

PMID: 7266199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Science. 1981 Sep 11;213(4513):1220-7. doi: 10.1126/science.7268429.

Genetic effects of the atomic bombs: a reappraisal.

Schull WJ, Otake M, Neel JV.

Data are presented on four indicators of genetic effects from studies of 
children born to survivors of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The 
indicators are frequency of untoward pregnancy outcomes (stillbirth, major 
congenital defect, death during the first postnatal weak); occurrence of death 
in live-born children, through an average of life expectancy of 17 years; 
frequency of children with sex chromosome aneuploidy; and frequency of children 
with mutation resulting in an eletrophoretic variant. In no instance is there a 
statistically significant effect of parental exposure; but for all indicators 
the observed effect is in the direction suggested by the hypothesis that genetic 
damage resulted from the exposure. On the basis of assumptions concerning the 
contribution that spontaneous mutation in the preceding generation makes to the 
indicators in question, it is possible to estimate the genetic doubling dose for 
radiation for the first three indicators (the data base is still too small for 
the fourth). The average of these estimates is 156 rems. This is some four times 
higher than the results from experimental studies on the mouse with comparable 
radiation sources, which have been the principal guide to the presumed human 
sensitivities. The relevance of these data in setting permissible limits for 
human exposures is discussed briefly.

DOI: 10.1126/science.7268429
PMID: 7268429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Ann Surg. 1981 Sep;194(3):247-55. doi: 10.1097/00000658-198109000-00001.

Presidential address: the limits of medicine.

Maloney JV Jr.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-198109000-00001
PMCID: PMC1345343
PMID: 7271344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Acta Anthropogenet. 1981;5(2):119-28.

Life expectancy in ancient and modern man.

Pahl KP.

The life expectancy of man has got an elongation from prehistoric times until 
today. A distinct increase, however, is seen first in the middle of the 
nineteenth century and is leading back to a change of the socio-economic 
influences at that time. The sex-specific difference of the mortality rate 
changes somewhat earlier. From the neolithics up to the Middle Ages, there had 
been a higher death rate of the females, especially in the second and third 
decennium, and can be explained as a consequence of maternities. Also the infant 
mortality has changed in the past hundred years. Because of a better medical 
care the death could be lowered.

PMID: 7271998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Can J Surg. 1981 Jul;24(4):420-2.

Ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm.

Lassonde J, Laurendeau F, Pagé P.

Treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms should be aggressive because less than 
50% of untreated patients will be alive 3 years after diagnosis and most will 
die from ruptured aneurysm. In an effort to reduce the incidence of rupture, all 
abdominal aortic aneurysms should be excised unless the patient has a short life 
expectancy or very serious medical problems. In a series of 36 patients with 
ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm the mortality was 42%. The main risk factors 
were blood loss, acute renal failure and major venous trauma. Multiple organ 
failure, which occurred in 8 of 15 patients often presents a therapeutic dilemma 
and worsens the prognosis.

PMID: 7272861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Gerontology. 1981;27(5):258-65. doi: 10.1159/000212481.

Beyond rate of living.

Economos AC.

The validity of the rate of living theory of aging in mammals has been seriously 
questioned over the last two decades because it does not account for the life 
span of many mammalian species. However, though this concept is an 
oversimplification and inapplicable in general, this does not mean that aging is 
unrelated to cellular metabolic processes. In general agreement with previous 
discussions, it can be stated that the rate of aging is proportional to the 
difference between the rate of cellular entropy production (which is by 
necessity roughly proportional to the rate of cellular biochemical processes and 
thus specific metabolic rate) and the cellular "counterentropic' mechanisms 
(such as cellular repair, antioxidant protection, etc.). These counterentropic 
mechanisms may have evolved to a different degree in some mammals. This could be 
effected indirectly by natural selection of certain traits, particularly those 
expressed in differences in the rates of embryonic and postnatal development. 
These rates, relatively to basal metabolic rate, determine a species' rate of 
becoming, which is proposed to be a predictor of mammalian life span. Data from 
22 species, from shrew to elephant, with representatives from the main mammalian 
orders (including many exceptions to the rate of living concept), agree with 
this hypothesis. A mechanism underlying such natural selection, proposed 
elsewhere, is based on differential selection pressures among orders for which 
the different life-styles (particularly with respect to the birth of young) are 
responsible.

DOI: 10.1159/000212481
PMID: 7274681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Nowotwory. 1981;30(4):337-45.

[Principles of calculation of survival time in malignant neoplasms].

[Article in Polish]

Pawlega J, Kołodziejska H.

PMID: 7279688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. S Afr Med J. 1981 Sep 19;60(12):458-62.

The loss from premature deaths of economically active manpower in the various 
populations of the RSA. Part II. Man-years of economically active life lost from 
premature death.

Wyndham CH.

PMID: 7280894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Z Alternsforsch. 1980;35(5):349-53.

[System theoretical aspects of senescence (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Beier W.

If senescence is identified with system failure, then we must consider the 
possibility that there exist modes of failure which do not arise from local 
subsystem failures. We show that any system manifesting a feed forward mode of 
control will in general exhibit senescence. Together with the concept of 
vitality a number of results are drawn from this argument especially for the 
calculation of the biological age.

PMID: 7281725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1981 Mar 1;75(5):193-7.

[Sex differences in morbidity and mortality].

[Article in German]

Giersdorf P, Schüler H.

PMID: 7281748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1981 Mar 1;75(5):197-9.

[The development of sex-specific mortality].

[Article in German]

Radoschewski M.

PMID: 7281749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1981 Mar 1;75(5):241-3.

[Development of the differences between the mean life expectancy in men and 
women in the Czech Socialist Republic in recent years].

[Article in German]

Boucek J, Kubánková V.

PMID: 7281761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Acta Psychiatr Belg. 1980 Nov-Dec;80(6):805-38.

[Gestalt therapy, extension of psychoanalysis (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Moreau A.

Gestalt therapy extends considerably psychoanalysis. 1. Transfer in 
psychoanalysis allows to work on the disturbed relations which the patient 
transfers onto his analyst, relations created by the parents and repeated now. 
The extended transfer in a therapeutic group of life allows to work on the fact 
that the patient recreates here and now the difficulties he encounters in life. 
2. The game of the analyst and the encounter show that beyond transfer and 
projection, a real encounter may take place, a precious means to create life 
here and now. 3. The difference between individual therapy and group-therapy is 
about this: the former is centered on illness, the latter on life; the former 
helps to understand, the latter to live; the individual talks about facts from 
the past and from elsewhere and the group lives "here and now", which allows to 
test feelings, a powerful source of life. 4. A session of group-therapy, as 
developed here, allows to see how one can find a response to a need or avoid to 
find a response to it. 5. A comparison-table between psycho-analysis and gestalt 
shows the difference of method, diagnosis, therapeutic process, therapeutist's 
attitude and of the position of the patient. 6. Psycho-analysis is perhaps a 
relay after religion? Several elements make us believe this: tension in 
contacts, ritual, authority, protection, neutrality, guilty making. 7. To 
contest or contest one-self has helped me to compare the contester with the 
psycho-analyst: both contest society, but they don't change their behavior. The 
gestalt-therapeutist is in a way like a hippie: though contesting society, he 
brings a change to his way of life, while being closer to life.

PMID: 7282419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Health Phys. 1981 Sep;41(3):455-63. doi: 10.1097/00004032-198109000-00002.

Minimizing excess radiogenic cancer deaths after a nuclear attack.

Gant KS, Chester CV.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-198109000-00002
PMID: 7287430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Neurobehav Toxicol Teratol. 1981 Fall;3(3):261-4.

Voluntary activity in the aging rat as a function of maternal drug exposure.

Martin JC, Martin DC.

Sixty-eight Sprague-Dawley derived primiparous rats were injected subcutaneously 
twice daily throughout pregnancy and the nursing period with either (1) 3.0 
mg/kg of pure nicotine, (2) 5.0 mg/kg methamphetamine HCl, or (3) saline 
vehicle. Locomotor activity was monitored one night/month from 3-39 months of 
age in randomly selected male offspring. Significant differences in activity 
levels were found as a function of maternal treatment for 29 of 35 sessions. The 
contrasts revealed that methamphetamine offspring were the most active group and 
there was no shift in relative group positions over time. There was some 
evidence for periodic activity changes at 5, 6, and 12 month intervals. A trend 
test revealed a significant decline in activity in the 12 month period preceding 
death which was not drug-related but common to all groups. Theoretical 
implications are discussed.

PMID: 7290280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Radiobiologiia. 1981 May-Jun;21(3):390-4.

[Alteration of the rat median life expectancy in combined ionizing radiation 
exposure].

[Article in Russian]

Shvedov VL, Goloshchapov PV.

PMID: 7291488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1981 Apr-Jun;62(2):14-5.

Decline in life expectancy.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7292531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. World Health Stat Q. 1981;34(2):127-34.

A brief account of 30 years' mortality of Chinese population.

[Article in English, French]

Ling RZ.

PIP: Using available data on population and causes of death, the author analyzes 
mortality trends in the People's Republic of China between 1949 and 1978. Data 
are included on crude birth and death rates in the country as a whole, urban and 
rural areas, and Beijing district; infant and neonatal mortality rates in 
Beijing district; age-specific mortality rates by sex in urban and rural areas; 
proportion of deaths of persons aged 50 years and over to total deaths; average 
life expectancy; and proportion of deaths and cause-specific mortality rates 
from selected diseases in urban and rural areas.

PMID: 7293207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Yale J Biol Med. 1981 May-Jun;54(3):161-72.

Staging of lung cancer.

Mountain CF.

The morphology of the tumor and the anatomic extent of the disease are important 
factors influencing treatment selection and ultimately survival for patients 
with lung cancer. The American Joint Committee TNM system provides a method for 
consistent reproducible description of the primary tumor (T), the status of the 
regional lymph nodes (N), and the presence or absence of distant metastasis (M). 
The TNM subsets thus classified can be grouped into three "stages" of disease 
such that the survival expectations for patients in each stage and cell type are 
similar. This classification of patients with respect to estimates of their 
prognosis is essential for valid comparisons of treatment modalities and 
meaningful communication of end results information.Clinical characteristics 
which influence survival are reflected in the staging recommendations. The size 
of the lesion, the proximal margination, and the presence or absence of other 
pulmonary complications are features which distinguish the T classification as 
T1, T2, or T3. The presence or absence of lymph node involvement has an 
important bearing on survival expectations. Advancing from no nodal involvement, 
N0, to involvement of the peribronchial and hilar nodes, N1, and then to the 
mediastinal nodes, N2, causes progressive erosion in survival expectations. The 
tumor morphology and specific nodes that are involved are important components 
of this relationship. The presence of distant metastasis, M1, is synonymous with 
an extremely poor prognosis. Using these prognostic elements, the TNM subsets 
are combined into three stages of disease so that patients in each group will 
have a generally similar life expectancy, the survival for patients with stage I 
disease being significantly greater than that for patients with stage II disease 
which is significantly greater than survival for patients with stage III 
disease.Improvements in the outcome for lung cancer patients depend upon the 
depth and scope of our scientific understandings and our ability to communicate 
our observations to one another. Measures of response to treatment can be 
translated into therapeutic practice only if uniform evaluators are used. 
Accordingly, a reproducible valid system for staging of lung cancer is 
recommended.

PMCID: PMC2595954
PMID: 7293238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Soz Praventivmed. 1981 Jul;26(3):145-6. doi: 10.1007/BF02081372.

[Prevention of silicosis].

[Article in French]

Maillard JM.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02081372
PMID: 7293499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Acta Med Scand. 1981;210(3):221-9.

Hypertension in the elderly. Hypertension seminars at Ostra Hospital, Göteborg, 
Sweden.

Amery A, Hansson L, Andrén L, Gudbrandsson T, Sivertsson R, Svensson A.

A review on the effects of ageing on cardiovascular function, with special 
reference to high blood pressure (BP), is given in this seminar. In most western 
populations the diastolic and especially the systolic BP increases with age in 
both sexes and this has been observed both in cross-sectional and longitudinal 
studies. Over the age of 60 the diastolic BP decreases. Of the different risk 
factors for cardiovascular diseases, only BP has been shown consistently to be 
an independent risk indicator in subjects 70 years or older. Hypotensive drugs 
used in the treatment of middle-aged hypertensive patients can also reduce the 
BP in elderly hypertensive patients can also reduce the BP in elderly 
hypertensive patients but are likely to produce more adverse reactions such as 
electrolyte disturbances and glucose intolerance by thiazides, depression by 
reserpine, orthostatic hypotension by methyldopa and excessive bradycardia by 
beta-blockers. A prolongation of life expectancy in hypertensive patients 60 
years or older by hypotensive drug therapy has not been shown conclusively in 
controlled trials.

PMID: 7293840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Ann Neurol. 1981 Sep;10(3):261-5. doi: 10.1002/ana.410100311.

Extraneural metastases in childhood brain tumors.

Duffner PK, Cohen ME.

Although extraneural metastases are known to occur with primary tumors of the 
central nervous system, they are considered a rarity. Large autopsy series have 
placed the frequency at 0.4 to 0.5%. At the Roswell Park Memorial Institute, 36 
children with brain tumors have been treated with a combination of surgery, 
radiotherapy, and chemotherapy in the past 12 years. We recently reviewed the 
autopsies obtained on 15 of these children and found that 4 (26%) had 
extraneural metastases. An additional child, who was not autopsied, had 
extraneural extension diagnosed during life. This inordinately high incidence of 
metastases outside the nervous system in children with aggressively treated 
brain tumors raises questions about their cause. The prolonged survival of these 
patients may have allowed growth of sufficient generations of extracranial 
metastatic cells for the extraneural disease to become clinically significant. 
Another possibility is that chemotherapy may alter the patients' immune system 
and thus promote extracranial tumor growth. As larger numbers of childhood brain 
tumors are managed with multimodality therapy, it may be possible to evaluate 
the extent to which treatment allows intracranial neoplasms to spread outside 
the nervous system.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410100311
PMID: 7294733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Arteriosclerosis. 1981 Jul-Aug;1(4):273-9. doi: 10.1161/01.atv.1.4.273.

Multivariate analyses of serum apolipoproteins and risk factors in relation to 
acute myocardial infarction.

Fager G, Wiklund O, Olofsson SO, Wilhelmsen L, Bondjers G.

In 25 middle-aged infarction survivors and 76 corresponding controls, 
representative for a well-defined community, multivariate analysis was used to 
evaluate whether serum apolipoproteins were better discriminators of infarction 
survivors than serum lipids and other risk factors. Levels of serum cholesterol 
and triglycerides, alphalipoprotein cholesterol, apolipoproteins A-I, A-II, B, 
and D, as well as tobacco smoking and other risk factors, were included. In 
descending order, serum apo A-II levels (t(b) = -3.12, p = 0.002), tobacco 
consumption (t(b) = 2.64, p = 0.010), and serum triglycerides (t(b) = 2.06, p = 
0.042) contributed significantly to the multiple regression on myocardial 
infarction (R = 0.53, p = 0.00001). When entered into ka discriminant function, 
these three variables gave a good separation between survivors and controls. Of 
the survivors, 50% were above the 90th percentile inthe control group. The 
relative prevalence of infarction increased continuously with increasing values 
of the function from zero to more than 6 times the average. Serum apo A-II 
levels alone were almost as good in separating cases and controls. From this 
study, we concluded that, among apolipoproteins, apo A-II seems to be a more 
sensitive discriminator of infarction survivors than other risk factors.

DOI: 10.1161/01.atv.1.4.273
PMID: 7295199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Cancer. 1981 Nov 15;48(10):2296-309. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19811115)48:10<2296::aid-cncr2820481028>3.0.co;2-c.

Systemic metastases from medulloblastoma: report of two cases and review of the 
literature.

Kleinman GM, Hochberg FH, Richardson EP Jr.

The clinical and pathologic data from two cases of medulloblastoma with systemic 
metastases, and 101 previously reported cases were evaluated to define better 
the clinical presentation and natural history. Patients ranged in age from six 
months to 48 years, with a mean of 13 years; two thirds of the patients were 
male. Ventricular shunts had been inserted in 20% of the patients. Systemic 
metastases occurred on an average of two years after the diagnosis of the 
primary tumor in patients without shunts, but only 1.3 years in patients with 
shunts. Fifty-nine percent of the patients were known to have experienced 
recurrence or spread of medulloblastoma within the central nervous system by the 
time systemic metastases appeared. Ninety percent showed radiologic evidence of 
bone metastases, of which 60% were osteoblastic. Bones most frequently involved 
were pelvis, femur and vertebrae; pain was the most common initial symptom. At 
autopsy, lymph node metastases were found in 65% and liver metastases were found 
in 28% of all cases in addition to bone metastases in 82%. Lung metastases 
occurred in 9% of the patients without shunts, compared with 30% of patients 
with shunts. The average survival was seven months after the appearance of 
systemic metastases for patients both with and without shunts. Approximately 5% 
of patients with medulloblastoma may be expected to develop systemic metastases. 
This development is associated with increased morbidity and a shortened life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19811115)48:10<2296::aid-cncr2820481028>3.0.co;2-c
PMID: 7296479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Hypertension. 1981 Nov-Dec;3(6 Pt 2):II-230-2. doi: 
10.1161/01.hyp.3.6_pt_2.ii-230.

Treatment of hypertension in 1981.

Freis ED.

Antihypertensive drugs reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. This was 
demonstrated by controlled clinical trials. While most complications are 
dramatically reduced it is not certain whether the incidence of myocardial 
infarction is decreased by treatment or whether the severity of the infarct is 
reduced. The prognosis in patients with borderline and mild hypertension varies 
widely depending on the number of other risk factors present. Patients with mild 
hypertension and low risk profiles may not obtain enough benefit from treatment 
to justify the side effects, inconvenience, and expense of such therapy. Such 
patients should be individually evaluated as to the need and desirability of 
treatment. Patients who are not treated with drugs should be seen for an annual 
follow-up to detect progression. Low sodium diets are effective but they are not 
practical because it is difficult to adhere to the required degree of sodium 
restriction. Weight-reducing diets also reduce blood pressure but compliance 
again is difficult, although it is worth advocating for the few patients who 
will maintain the diet more or less indefinitely. Between 1973 and 1977 in the 
United States there has been an 8% decline in deaths due to heart disease, a 17% 
decrease in deaths due to stroke, and an increase in average life expectancy 
from 71.3 to 72.8 years. Could this be the result of more widespread treatment?

DOI: 10.1161/01.hyp.3.6_pt_2.ii-230
PMID: 7298138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Int J Health Serv. 1981;11(3):389-414. doi: 10.2190/E437-2KB5-4HM0-7NJ0.

Racism, society, and disease: an exploration of the social and biological 
mechanisms of differential mortality.

Cooper R, Steinhauer M, Miller W, David R, Schatzkin A.

Racial differentials in mortality provide important insight into the nature of 
mass disease in capitalist society. Not only are the differentials sizable in 
magnitude, they are consistent for multiple causes of death and appear to evolve 
in response to social development. The relationships among social factors and 
the biological and physical agents of disease can be identified through racial 
contrasts and a pattern of causation which applies to both the minority and 
majority populations described. Furthermore, the impact of exploitation as the 
primary disease-mediating factor under capitalist social relations can be 
estimated. This paper attempts to combine an analysis of bio-medical mechanisms 
with Marxist social theory in a comprehensive framework for the study of the 
social origins of racial differentials.

DOI: 10.2190/E437-2KB5-4HM0-7NJ0
PMID: 7298254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Nihon Ika Daigaku Zasshi. 1981 Apr;48(2):312-5.

[Expectation of life for Japanese people (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Takahashi M.

PMID: 7298817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Leber Magen Darm. 1981 Aug;11(4):190-4.

[Adenoacanthoma of the pancreas (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Kujat R, Ostertag H, Rumpf KD, Gams E.

Case reports are given of 5 patients with adenoacanthoma of the pancreas. 
Clinical aspects of this syndrome are discussed taking into account the own 
cases and cases reported in the literature; there are no differences of the 
clinical picture as compared to pancreatic carcinoma of ductal type. Surgery of 
this type of malignancy does not improve life expectancy, however in many cases 
surgery is justified because it may alleviate pain. Only 1,1-4,4% of all 
patients with pancreatic carcinoma do harbour adenoacanthoma - thus further case 
reports may contribute to better describe the clinical and pathological picture 
of this disease and possibly to further elucidate the pathogenesis.

PMID: 7300549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Minerva Med. 1981 Nov 3;72(43):2865-82.

[Clinical aspects of thalassemia (or microcythemia)].

[Article in Italian]

Bianco I.

The thalassaemias are genetic syndromes brought about by a low or nil synthesis 
of one or more of the main globinic chains and by consequent imbalance of the 
normal ratio between alpha and non-alpha chains. Three basic pictures can be 
distinguished: (1) microcythemia or thalassaemia minima, the expression of 
heterozygosis for one microcythemic gene, which includes beta, delta beta and 
alpha microcythemias. Subjects are healthy but very often pale and asthenic, (2) 
intermediate thalassaemia, very similar to thalassaemia major, though a less 
severe disease. It is the expression of the presence of microythemic geness 
which results in a globin synthesis imbalance less marked than that of the 
thalassaemia major. The patients are frankly anemic and more or less pronounced 
hyperhemolysis (but they only need sporadic transfusions, usually at adult age), 
and present splenomegaly often of a considerable extent and hepatomegaly. Their 
physical growth and reproductive capacity are normal or nearly so and they 
attain the fifth or sixth decade of life. Two varieties of this syndrome have 
been identified, namely beta-intermediate thalassaemias (or 
Rietti-Greppi-Micheli's disease or also constitutional microcythemic anemia) and 
alpha-intermediate thalassaemias (or Hb H disease); (3) thalassaemia major or 
Cooley's anemia or Mediterranean anemia, the expression of homozygosis for 
severe genes of microcythemia which results in a marked globin synthesis 
imbalance; this is a so severe disease that not treated patients usually die 
when they are three-four years old. Nowadays, however, prognosis, clinical 
course and life expectancy of these patients are considerably improved so that 
they usually attain the third decade of age in relatively fair conditions. There 
are available three fundamental therapeutic actions: blood transfusions carried 
out at very short intervals; splenectomy which allows to reduce the rhythm of 
the blood transfusion regimen; the iron chelating therapy which delays the onset 
of the iron overloading in the organism. Finally, it is possible the prevention 
of this disease by preventing the procreation between microcythemics and by 
prenatal identification of Cooley's foetuses followed by thier selective 
abortion.

PMID: 7301167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1981 Dec;153(6):820-2.

Long term results in patients who survived five or more years after gastric 
resection for primary carcinoma.

Hoerr SO.

A personal series of 82 patients with primary carcinoma of the stomach operated 
upon between 1 January 1950 and 31 December 1973 survived five years, of longer, 
after the initial resection. Fifty-five patients were observed until the time 
they died, and 27 patients who are still alive have been observed from eight to 
29 years. Many of the patients have lived into their 80's and 90's, with 
