postoperative survival times of more than 20 years. Some of the long survival 
times followed both extensive operative procedures upon unfavorable lesions and 
operations upon patients who were in their 70's at the time of operation. A 
surprise finding as the cause of death was a recurrence of carcinoma in 13 
patients, manifesting itself as long as 12 years after the initial operation. In 
six of the patients, the recurrence was confirmed at a second operation 
performed by me. The long term results in these patients seem to indicate that, 
except for the late recurrence of carcinoma, at least one-third of the patients 
may look forward to a normal life expectancy based upon their age at operation. 
The surgeon, therefore, should approach potentially curable carcinoma of the 
stomach with vigor and some optimism, even though the lesion is extensive or the 
patients are elderly, since a long healthy period of survival may be the reward.

PMID: 7302807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Z Alternsforsch. 1981;36(2):111-6.

[Preconditions for attaining advanced old age (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Kinner B, Sauer I, Ries W.

Generally speaking, we can say that the incidence of certain diseases in the 
various blood groups of the ABO system do not demonstrate a direct connection 
which might be used for the assessment of life expectancy, but that exogenic and 
genetic factors form a genetically determined functional unity in the 
development of certain characteristic features and of diseases. Innumerable 
influences of various types can cause diseases, primarily the high incidence of 
certain tumours in old age, climatic influences, overeating and malnutrition, 
furthermore abuse of coffee, tea, tobacco and alcohol, medicines and 
insufficient movement. It can be assumed that wherever blood group A is 
prevailing the genes of blood group A constitute a factor in the respective 
polygenic system. The impact of the blood group genes varies as a function of 
the underlying disease, the effectiveness of the exogenic factors and the 
general constitution of the individual patient.

PMID: 7303727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Br J Dis Chest. 1981 Oct;75(4):397-402. doi: 10.1016/0007-0971(81)90027-9.

Diffuse malignant pleural mesothelioma in Glasgow.

Dorward AJ, Stack BH.

Thirty-two patients seen in one area between 1974 and 1980 with a diagnosis of 
malignant pleural mesothelioma are reviewed retrospectively. Asbestos contact, 
often in the shipyards, was found in 80%. The average age at diagnosis was 64 
years and chest pain or breathlessness were the most common initial symptoms. 
Radiology usually confirmed a pleural effusion, but rarely also showed pleural 
plaques or asbestosis. The most useful diagnostic investigation was pleural 
biopsy, with a 59% success rate. Post mortem examinations showed widespread 
infiltration of adjacent tissues in many, with haematogenous metastases in 52%. 
Prognosis was poor, with an average survival of 40 weeks from presentation. No 
treatment improved life expectancy. Thoracotomy was followed by painful chest 
wall masses. The incidence of mesothelioma in our area is six times higher than 
in the rest of Scotland. As the disease has a long latent period between 
asbestos exposure and appearance, it will be many years before this rate is 
significantly reduced.

DOI: 10.1016/0007-0971(81)90027-9
PMID: 7306467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Int J Obes. 1981;5(4):387-98.

Risk of obesity and surgical indications.

Drenick EJ.

Morbid obesity, defined arbitrarily as greater than 100 percent excess weight, 
is only rarely the immediate or sole cause of illness or death. In addition to 
the Pickwickian syndrome, localized adiposity can cause obstruction and/or organ 
compression resulting in clinical disorders. Most of the obesity-associated risk 
factors interact to (a) diminish quality of life, (b) impair health, and (c) 
shorten survival. Severe obesity in childhood and adolescence impairs scholastic 
achievement and final educational levels are lower than in the nonobese. For the 
adult, opportunities and promotions are fewer, the quality of jobs and pay are 
lower. Unemployment is more common. The obese are more apt to remain single or 
to lose their marriage partners. Sexual adjustment and reproductive capabilities 
may be impaired. Regarding morbidity, the obese are "high-cost patients'. The 
specific and common complications or morbid obesity have been extensively 
examined and are the major factors causing more severe, more prolonged and more 
frequently recurring illness. Some obscure risk factors are related to "sudden 
death', to serious hazards of various medical treatment regimens, and to 
complication arising out of rapid or repeated regain. Excess mortality has been 
documented in the morbidly obese to be greatest in the younger age categories 
while morbidity increases with age in the surviving obese population. The dismal 
results of non-surgical treatment require an alternative approach. Indications 
for surgery in a particular patient have to be individualized. Rigid criteria 
are not practical, but in general, surgery is indicated and justified if the 
benefits expected from surgical treatment can prevent or reverse the hazards 
arising from unrelieved obesity. Therefore, the resulting weight losses have to 
be sufficient to reduce the patients to within 30 or 40 percent of desirable 
weight. The potential surgical complications must not equal or surpass the 
hazards of chronic obesity.

PMID: 7309323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Mech Ageing Dev. 1981 Oct;17(2):183-94. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(81)90084-1.

A new murine model of accelerated senescence.

Takeda T, Hosokawa M, Takeshita S, Irino M, Higuchi K, Matsushita T, Tomita Y, 
Yasuhira K, Hamamoto H, Shimizu K, Ishii M, Yamamuro T.

Five senescence-prone series of mice (P-1, P-2, P-3, P-4 and P-5) and three 
senescence-resistant series (R-1, R-2 and R-3) were obtained by continuous 
sister-brother breeding from five original litters of AKR mice with severe 
deterioration, and the three original litters of AKR mice with normal aging, 
respectively. A grading score system was adopted to evaluate the degree of 
senescence of these mice and a steady and irreversible increase in this grading 
score was seen with advancing age in both the R and P series. The high grading 
score in the P series was due to an earlier onset of loss of passivity and 
reactivity, loss of skin glossiness and increased coarseness, hair loss, 
periophthalmic lesions, increased lordokyphosis of the spine and a more marked 
increase in their severity with advancing age as compared to the R series. Among 
the P series, P-2 showed a 100% incidence of systemic amyloidosis after 6 months 
of age and P-3 a 70% incidence of cataract over 16 months of age. The life span 
in the P series was shortened by about 26% of that of the R series. In view of 
the evidence obtained from the survivors, the growth rate and Gompertz function, 
the aging pattern in the P series was considered to be an acceleration of 
senescence. The P series has been named "SAM" ("Senescence Accelerated Mouse").

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(81)90084-1
PMID: 7311623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Med Welt. 1981 Nov 20;32(47):1771-3.

[Life prolongation as task and limit of the physician's dealings from the 
physician's view].

[Article in German]

Koslowski L.

PMID: 7311786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Poumon Coeur. 1981;37(5):295-7.

[Indications for intrapleural talc under pleuroscopic control in malignant 
recurrent pleural effusions. Based on 26 cases (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Migueres J, Jover A.

A review of ten years' experience of talc pleurodesis applied to the treatment 
of permanently recurrent carcinomatous pleural effusions. Twenty six patients 
aged between 35 and 83 years, suffering from metastatic pleural effusions, 
underwent pleuroscopy with local anaesthesia followed by powdering with talc, 
then suction drainage. There were 8 failures (30%), including 4 early deaths and 
4 survivals of less than 4 months with no reduction in the effusion. Three 
results proved to be poor because of early extra-thoracic metastases (11.5%). 
There were 15 useful results, with drying up without return of the effusion and 
comfortable survival for 3 months to 7 years, including 8 of more than a year. 
These figures, somewhat unfavourable in comparison with those found in the 
recent literature (up to 90% useful results) were biased by the inclusion of 
patients who were in fact beyond help (excessive age, markedly impaired general 
condition, too advanced pleuro-pulmonary lesions, multiple metastases) which 
represent classical contraindications to the use of the talc technique. It 
emphasizes the best indications, based upon a sufficiently long life expectancy, 
good local pleuro-pulmonary state, the virtual restriction of malignant disease 
to the pleura, residual therapeutic possibilities-all conditions frequently 
found in cases of pleural carcinomatosis of mammary origin.

PMID: 7312762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1981 Jul 1;75(13):597-604.

[Notes on the current differentiation of the health status of the world 
population].

[Article in German]

Niehoff JU.

PMID: 7314675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Acta Pathol Jpn. 1981 Nov;31(6):1079-87. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1827.1981.tb02019.x.

Electron microscopic study on mitochondria in Hürthle cell adenoma of thyroid.

Satoh M, Yagawa K.

In this investigation Hürthle cell adenoma of the thyroid was observed by 
electron microscopy. The cytoplasm of the cells consisted chiefly of an 
accumulation of numerous irregularly shaped mitochondria. Very few other 
organellae were observed. In addition electron microscopy revealed various 
degrees of electron density in the matrix of the mitochondria. When 3 
dimensional models of the mitochondria were constructed, they revealed the 
mitochondria to have 3 dimentional forms which sometimes looked as if they might 
be dividing into two or three parts. The authors felt that this indicated a 
process of vigorous division of mitochondria and an extension of their life 
span. However, it was not possible to identify the cause of this division of 
mitochondria.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1827.1981.tb02019.x
PMID: 7315311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Cardiology. 1981;68 Suppl 2:114-23. doi: 10.1159/000173326.

Predictive value of symptom-limited exercise testing for life expectancy in 
inoperable coronary patients with disabling angina.

Broustet JP, Coue JC, Pic A, Saliou B, Guern P.

100 inoperable coronary patients defined by severe angina, multistenosed vessels 
and narrowed or thrombosed distal beds performed a symptom-limited exercise test 
before coronary angiogram. During a 46 +/- 30 month period of follow-up 29 died, 
25 of whom by cardiac cause. Among the exercise test data, the most discriminant 
for long-term survival was the exercise capacity, in spite of a poor correlation 
parameter for prediction of life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1159/000173326
PMID: 7317891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Educ Med Salud. 1981;15(3):232-48.

Approaches to primary health care in the Commonwealth Caribbean.

Garrett EJ, Kumar AK, Standard KL.

In this article, the authors present a brief review of the health problems of 
the Commonwealth Caribbean and of the primary care activities being implemented 
to solve them. Special attention is given to programs which develop new 
categories of health workers and direct health manpower toward learning a 
technology appropriate to the conditions in which they work. These programs 
enable the health worker and allied health personnel to adapt their roles and 
functions accordingly and thus provide quality health care within limited 
resources. The main programs are: development of new categories of health 
workers such as the community health aide and the nurse practitioner; education 
and training of allied health personnel; the training of primary health care 
physicians. An account is also given of primary health care in Jamaica and in 
the smaller territories of the Caribbean.

PIP: The authors review some of the health problems of the Commonwealth 
Caribbean countries and describe primary care activities that are being 
implemented to solve tham. Some of the most important health problems are poor 
environmental sanitation, sexually transmitted diseases, diabetes, hypertension, 
mental illness, and dental disease. Although the infant mortality rates have 
been reduced over time, the life expectancy of the population of these countries 
is considerably lower than in North America, ranging from 52 in Montserrat to 69 
in Barbados, with an average of 61 years. Expenditure for health care is low in 
comparison to that of the US, and human resources are not available in 
sufficient numbers to serve the population. Programs have been developed to 
attain the World Health Organization's objective "Health for All by the Year 
2000." The programs include 1) new categories of health care workers, such as 
the community health aide (CHA) and nurse practitioner, 2) education and 
training of allied health personnel, and 3) development of primary health care 
physicians. CHAs assist the trained nurses, learn to recognize important signs 
and symptoms of disease, and act as a link with the community and health 
department. Nurse practitioner training programs and special medical education 
programs have been established to produce nurses and physicians committed to 
providing health care for the Commonwealth Caribbean people. Management 
capabilities for primary care are developed on an in-sevice basis. With the 
consolidated efforts of the projects and programs, health workers learn to adapt 
their roles and functions according to existing conditions and thus to provide 
quality care with limited resources. A description is given of primary health 
care in Jamaica and in the smaller territories of the Caribbean.

PMID: 7318737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Encephale. 1981;7(4 Suppl):527-33.

[Depression- epidemiology and priorities for future research (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Sartorius N.

There are at least 100 million people in the world who suffer from depressive 
disorders and who could benefit from qualified help. There is also every 
likelihood that this number will increase because of the higher life expectancy, 
the increase of depression associated with chronic diseases and over-consumption 
of medicaments, and other reasons. Epidemiological research has made important 
contribution to the resolution of the problems that arise in connexion with 
depressive disorders. New and further intensive investigations are necessary and 
should lead to the development of instruments for the diagnosis of depressive 
disorders and to identify the biological and psychosocial factors involved in 
the aetiology of depression and influencing its course, treatment and outcome.

PMID: 7318765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. No Shinkei Geka. 1981 Nov;9(12):1409-15.

[Computed tomography in hypertensive cerebellar hemorrhage (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Nose T, Maki Y, Ono Y, Yoshizawa T, Tsuboi K.

Fourteen cases of cerebellar hemorrhage were analysed from the point of CT-scan, 
and the following results were obtained. 1. The number of cases of cerebellar 
hemorrhage forms 4.4% of that of total intracranial hemorrhage. 2. Most of the 
cerebellar hematomas extend upward. Downward extension is rare. 3. In acute dead 
cases hematomas are 5 cm or more in diameter and lie over bilateral hemistpheres 
with the extension to third or fourth ventricles in CT-scans. 4. Slowly 
progressive cases are deteriorated by the secondary hydrocephalus. 5. In mild 
cases hematomas are 3cm or less in diameter on CT-scans and the hematoma 
evacuation is not indicated for these cases. 6. The shunt operation alone is 
sufficient for the life saving of the slowly progressive cases, but the hematoma 
evacuation is indicated in these cases if the functional prognosis is taken into 
consideration. 7. Immediate hematoma evacuation together with the ventricular 
drainage is considered to be effective for the life saving of the acute 
fulminant cases.

PMID: 7322269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Orv Hetil. 1981 Nov 1;122(44):2703-7.

[Life expectancy of patients operated on for stomach cancer].

[Article in Hungarian]

Petri I, Horváth O, Csikos M, Petri A, Imre J.

PMID: 7322567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Soc Sci Med D. 1981 Aug;15(3):341-52. doi: 10.1016/0160-8002(81)90053-8.

Regional mortalitty differences in Western Europe: a review of the situation in 
the seventies.

van Poppel FW.

DOI: 10.1016/0160-8002(81)90053-8
PMID: 7323868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Sangre (Barc). 1981;26(5-C):1028-32.

[Life-expectancy in the acute leukaemias (author's transl)].

[Article in Spanish]

Ferran C.

PMID: 7323924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1981 Oct 30;93(20):638-43.

[A proposal for staging and grading of carcinomas of the papilla of Vater 
(author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Dinges HP, Sellner F.

Reviewing 28 carcinomas of the papilla of vater from the material of our 
department, an attempt was made to develop a staging and grading system oriented 
along the lines of WHO recommendations and largely integrates Dukes findings. 
The staging system provides for 3 stages, i.e. A. B. and C. for grading, 3 
degrees of malignancy, i.e. g1. G2. and G3. are distinguished. These, in turn, 
are based on 3 criteria : histological dedifferentiation, cytological 
dedifferentiation, and the number of mitoses. In the 14 patients with low-stage 
(stage A) and low-grade (grade G1) cancer life expectancy was excellent ; indeed 
it was significantly better (p less than 0.05) than in the other 2 groups.

PMID: 7324476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Arch Belg Med Soc. 1981 Apr;39(4):205-33.

[Evolution of the mortality and the life expectancy of the Belgian population 
from 1890 to 1970].

[Article in Dutch]

Honggokoesoemo S, van de Voorde H.

PMID: 7325663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. J Genet Hum. 1981 Jun;29(2):129-39.

[Craniofacial dysostosis with diaphyseal hyperplasia].

[Article in French]

Maximilian C, Dumitriu L, Ioanitiu D, Ispas I, Firu P, Ciovirnache M, Duca D.

The only family known so far to have developed cranio-facial dysostose, has been 
the object of a new study. Since 1962, 3 new infants affected by this disease 
were born and another 3 died. The syndrome is characterized by an important 
growth deficit, small cranium with thin skull bone, a peculiar facies with 
marked hypoplasia of the middle portion and mandible, multiple and various teeth 
anomalies. The long bones are short and bent; thickening of the cortex occurred 
during puberty or in the post-puberal period and seems to increase with age. The 
mean life-span seems normal. The syndrome is transmitted in an autosomal 
dominant way with great penetrating force.

PMID: 7328407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Rev Med Chil. 1981 May;109(5):401-8.

[Hemophilia "A": genetic and demographic characteristics (author's transl)].

[Article in Spanish]

Kamps JE, Blanco RL, Cruz-Coke R.

PMID: 7330518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Rev Med Chil. 1981 May;109(5):409-15.

[Life expectancy of Chilean hemophiliacs (author's transl)].

[Article in Spanish]

Kamps J, Blanco RL.

PMID: 7330519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Am J Med Genet. 1981;10(4):417-8. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.1320100417.

Who will survive with trisomy 13 or 18? A call for cases 10 years old or above.

Hecht F.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.1320100417
PMID: 7332034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Int J Health Serv. 1981;11(4):511-22. doi: 10.2190/WJEP-VB83-GAUT-XEJR.

Improved mortality among U.S. Blacks, 1968-1978: the role of antiracist 
struggle.

Cooper R, Steinhauer M, Schatzkin A, Miller W.

A marked improvement in health status for black adults took place over the last 
decade in the United States. Life expectancy for black men increased 4.6 years 
between 1968 and 1978, while for black women the increase was 5.7 years. Death 
rates for the age group 35-74 decreased approximately 25 percent for blacks over 
the same period. The largest contribution to this improvement was made by 
cardiovascular diseases (coronary heart disease and stroke). Although similar 
improvement was observed in the white population, on both a percentage and 
absolute basis the change was greater for blacks. For the first time in the 
U.S., important progress was made in the effort to narrow the gap in mortality 
rates between black and white adults. Hypertension detection and control appears 
to have played the key role in this positive public health trend. The 
community-based demand for greater access to medical care, which emerged from 
the social struggle of the 1960s, also can be accorded a major social role. The 
current policies of the Reagan Administration pose a serious threat to these 
antiracist programs, as well as to the effort to close the gap in black-white 
mortality.

DOI: 10.2190/WJEP-VB83-GAUT-XEJR
PMID: 7333722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Helv Paediatr Acta. 1981;36(6):495-508.

[Pneumothorax as complication of cystic fibrosis of the pancreas].

[Article in German]

Kistler I, Shmerling DH.

During recent years, 14 episodes of pneumothorax in 4 children and adolescents 
with cystic fibrosis of the pancreas (CF) have been treated in the University 
Department of Pediatrics in Zurich. Treatment with pleural drainage, associated 
with instillations of sclerosing agents was usually tedious and did not prevent 
relapses. One patient died after the second episode, another was successfully 
treated by pleurectomy. The incidence of pneumothorax in adolescent CF patients 
increases rapidly mostly due to the longer life expectancy of CF patients. Both 
lungs are equally affected. In more than 50% one or more relapses occur. The 
prognosis is usually bad. No specific etiologic factors can be incriminated, 
pneumothorax occurring mostly during periods of physical inactivity. The 
pathogenesis seems, in the majority of cases, to be the bursting of a subpleural 
emphysematous bulla or bleb. Such bullae can mostly be recognised radiologically 
many years prior to the first pneumothorax episode, usually in severely affected 
lungs in children over 10 years of age. From the reviewed literature as well as 
from our own experience it seems that pleurectomy is the only efficient 
treatment, being well tolerated, curing the actual episode of pneumothorax, and 
preventing relapses.

PMID: 7333859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. J Urol (Paris). 1981;87(9):625-9.

[Reflexions on techniques of preoperative radiotherapy in the treatment of 
carcinoma of the bladder. Initial results and discussion of a therapeutic 
protocol based upon histo-prognosis (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Bolla M, Faure G, Chirpaz A, Martin H, Vrousos C, Revol M.

Basing their indications on the histo-prognosis of Opperman and Bittard in 
malignant tumours of the bladder, the authors decided to irradiate before 
cystectomy those bladder tumours in which the histo-prognostic index indicated 
that it was a local disease with metastatic potential with a spontaneous life 
expectancy of 18 to 30 months. Radiotherapy was given spread over 23 or 27 
fractions providing a total of 46 Gy. Four to 6 weeks later, cystoprostatectomy 
with trans-ileal cutaneous ureterostomy was performed, before chemotherapy for 
one year. Amongst 11 patients treated, in 6 cases the bladder was completely 
"sterilised" from a histological standpoint. However there was persistence of 
tumour in 5 bladders with an increase in the histo-prognostic index. Amongst 
these 11 patients, with a minimum follow-up of 18 months, there has been a 
pelvic recurrence in two cases and three developed fatal metastases. In the 
opinion of the authors, these preliminary results represent an encouragement to 
continue along the same lines.

PMID: 7334236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. J Nat Prod. 1981 Nov-Dec;44(6):701-4. doi: 10.1021/np50018a015.

Antineoplastic agents. 76. The sea urchin Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis.

Pettit GR, Hasler JA, Paull KD, Herald CL.

An improved procedure based on centrifugation at 37,000 g has been developed for 
isolating the antineoplastic glycoprotein strongylostatin 1 from 
Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis (Müller). The green sea urchin has also been 
found to contain a second protein anticancer constituent designated 
strongylostatin 2. Treatment of the murine P388 lymphocytic leukemia with 
strongylostatin 2 resulted in 39-42% life extension at a dose of 4.5 mg/kg.

DOI: 10.1021/np50018a015
PMID: 7334385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Prog Clin Biol Res. 1981;77:527-38.

Changing food patterns in Japan.

Oiso T.

PMID: 7335701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Rev Saude Publica. 1981 Aug;15(4):401-17. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89101981000400006.

[Differential mortality by cause, São Paulo, Brazil, 1970: multiple-decrement 
life tables].

[Article in Portuguese]

Gotlieb SL.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101981000400006
PMID: 7336117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. West J Med. 1981 Dec;135(6):521-5.

The cellular basis of aging.

Scoggin CH.

Normal cells have only a finite life span before they die. The process known as 
aging may occur as a result of continued damage to the cell or as a result of 
expression of predetermined information within the genetic structure of the 
cell. Both processes lead to progressive cellular dysfunction which is evidenced 
by the organs of the body as aging. By understanding how individual cells age we 
will gain insight into how the body as a whole ages. The impact of such 
knowledge on science and society is a matter of both conjecture and concern.

PMCID: PMC1273329
PMID: 7336718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Z Alternsforsch. 1981;36(6):437-72.

Problems of health and position of the elderly in socialist countries of Eastern 
Europe.

Chebotarev DF, Sachuk NN, Verzhikovskaya NV.

PMID: 7336783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Z Alternsforsch. 1981;36(6):543-7.

[The problems of older people].

[Article in German]

Fleischhacker J.

PMID: 7336793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Biotelem Patient Monit. 1981;8(4):240-5.

An inexpensive but durable-foot-switch for telemetered locomotion studies.

Blanc Y, Vadi P.

A removable foot-switch has been developed to determine the different phases of 
the gait cycle and foot position on the floor. Each switch is connected to a 
resistor modulating the DC channel of a telemetry transmitter. The low cost and 
the long life expectancy of the switch made it valuable for kinesiological or 
biomechanical studies of locomotion and sports.

PMID: 7337826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 1981 Nov;18(6):425-31.

[Risk factors for mortality of the aged at old people's homes (author's 
transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Haga H, Shichita K, Nagai H, Shibata H, Matsuzaki T, Hatano S.

PMID: 7339081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Langenbecks Arch Chir. 1981;355:181-5. doi: 10.1007/BF01286837.

[Radiation injuries of the locomotor system (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Wagner H.

Radiation injuries of the locomotive apparatus manifest themselves in three 
ways, each one of which may appear alone or in combination with the other two: 
1. Radiation osteonecrosis 2. Growth disturbance due to epiphyseal injury. 3. 
Scar formation in the skin, fascia, and muscles The results of corrective 
operative procedures depend almost totally on the condition of the soft tissue. 
In those patients with a reasonable life expectancy, extensive operation 
procedures are indicated if they will restore or preserve function in the 
extremity.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01286837
PMID: 7339348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Wis Med J. 1981 Oct;80(10):19-22.

Nutrition controversies.

Harper AE.

PMID: 7340163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. World Health Stat Q. 1981;34(3):168-95.

Health outlook for South and East Asia for the year 2000.

[Article in English, French]

Hansluwka H, Lopez AD, Ruzicka LT.

PMID: 7340172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Lasers Surg Med. 1981;1(3):221-7. doi: 10.1002/lsm.1900010305.

Results and complications of limbal trephination and subscleral trephination 
(trabeculectomy).

Sugar HS.

Limbal trephinations on 395 eyes were followed postoperatively for six months to 
19 years. Excellent results were obtained in patients over the age of 35, 
particularly those in the 50 and older age group, with chronic open-angle and 
chronic angle-closure glaucoma. Results were poor in younger age groups and in 
those with secondary glaucoma, particularly where it was associated with 
inflammatory disease. A review of 78 limbal trephinations in individuals over 55 
and 77 trabeculectomies (67 under age 55 and ten over age 55) indicated that in 
younger age groups the overall results were nearly the same with 
trabeculectomies as with limbal trephination but the subscleral operation is 
probably safer, especially in younger people with longer life expectancy, and 
permits freer use of contact lenses postoperatively.

DOI: 10.1002/lsm.1900010305
PMID: 7341892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Gegenbaurs Morphol Jahrb. 1981;127(5):741-4.

[Vitality concept as model for description of the human maximal life-span].

[Article in German]

Beier W.

PMID: 7343414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Gegenbaurs Morphol Jahrb. 1981;127(5):745-51.

[Determination of the biological age].

[Article in German]

Ries W.

By biological age there is understood the state of the organism reached at a 
certain point of the chronological age including physical and psychical 
parameters. It is reported on tests to measure the biological age of the human 
being with the help of test batteries. Up to now over 1,000 persons have been 
included, both "normal persons" and groups of patients with risk factors as 
overweight, hypertony, and diabetes mellitus. The motivation for studies like 
these arises out of practical necessities. The determination of the biological 
age makes it possible e.g. to recognize expositional factors that may influence 
the living process. This method is also applicable to determine the individual 
physical capacity as well as its use for the control of geriatric ways of 
therapy.

PMID: 7343415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 1981-1982;14(2):127-37. doi:
10.2190/ymxj-hqa3-r32k-eu3u.

Voluntary association participation and life satisfaction: replication, 
revision, and extension.

Cutler NE.

A secondary analysis of a national sample of American adults is used to examine 
the correlation between membership in voluntary associations and life 
satisfaction. It is hypothesized that the influence of membership on overall 
life satisfaction is indirect: Membership influences organizational 
satisfaction; in turn, organizational satisfaction influences satisfaction with 
life as a whole. The findings suggest that the hypothesized pattern of 
relationships is not ubiquitously present for all four of the older age 
categories studied. Such differences suggest the critical importance of 
utilizing age-appropriate rather than generic indicators when studying these 
issues.

DOI: 10.2190/ymxj-hqa3-r32k-eu3u
PMID: 7343514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Jpn J Vet Res. 1981 Oct;29(3-4):53-61.

Statistical considerations concerning the disposal of dairy bulls used for 
artificial insemination in Hokkaido from 1958 to 1979.

Ishikawa T, Kanagawa H.

PMID: 7343687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Rev Med Chil. 1981 Oct;109(10):987-96.

[Cancer of the breast in Chile].

[Article in Spanish]

Medina E, Marré B, Yrarrázaval M, Caris L, Medina AM.

PMID: 7344025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Sante Publique (Bucur). 1981;24(2-3):163-71.

Socio-economic aspects of the socialist public health.

Golovteyev VV, Shilenko IN.

PMID: 7345659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Z Gesamte Inn Med. 1981 Sep 1;36(17):607-11.

[Evolution and prognosis of the adult Eisenmenger syndrome].

[Article in German]

Siegert D, Trenckmann H.

From the patients of the Cardiologic Department of the Medical Clinic of Leipzig 
University 34 adult patients aged 21 to 62 years with the diagnosis of 
Eisenmenger's syndrome confirmed by heart catheterization were established. The 
cases in question were 20 ventricular septum defects, 8 atrial septum defects 
and 6 open arterial ducts. In 26 of the 34 patients first symptoms appeared 
already during the preschool period, in 4 patients with atrial septum defect in 
the 12th year as well as between the 35th and 46th year of age, in 4 patients 
with ventricular septum defect twice in the 8th or 26th and 50th year of age, 
respectively. The average time of diagnostics from the beginning of the 
complaints to the heart catheterization was with 15 years and 3 months very 
long. The average survival time after diagnosis of shunt reversal by means of 
the heart catheter was 9.7 years in the ventricular septum defect, 5.6 years in 
the atrial septum defect and 3.8 years in the open arterial ducts. Since 19 of 
the 34 patients with Eisenmenger's syndrome are still alive and the moment of 
the shunt reversal does not correspond to the moment of the diagnostics, the 
average life expectancy is greater. It is higher than the values given in 
literature, which vary between 2 and 10 years after the beginning of the shunt 
reversal. The progressing of the clinical picture could be objectified by annual 
increases of various parameters, such as hemoglobin, hematocrit, angle alpha 
QRS, Sokolov's index for right hypertrophy and radiologically established sizes 
of surface and diameter of the heart and the pulmonary vessels. Correlations of 
abrupt enlargements and acute diseases were found only for the prominence of the 
pulmonary segment and the basal diameter of the heart. The examinations showed 
that in the course of Eisenmenger's syndrome the pulmonary hypertension, the 
polyglobulia, the right heart hypertrophy, the size of the heart and last not 
least the complaints increase continuously or in dependence of complications 
(heart insufficiency, carditis, pneumonia, embolism a.o.).

PMID: 7345807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Cancer Detect Prev. 1981;4(1-4):15-23.

Assessing the risks of cancer.

Lee PN.

Recent claims that there is a growing epidemic of cancer caused by chemical and 
physical agents in the environment are shown to be weakly based. After smoking 
and diagnostic changes have been taken into account, trends in cancer mortality 
rates are not suggestive of any marked increases due to occupational factors. 
Estimates indicating that past occupational exposure to asbestos will cause 
large increases in cancer rates are shown to be markedly in error. Evidence that 
nutritional factors are likely to be much more important than occupational 
factors is summarized.

PMID: 7349771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Cancer Detect Prev. 1981;4(1-4):291-4.

Cancer risk, age at diagnosis, and age at death as functions of season of birth.

Jansson B, Malahy MA.

The Third National Cancer Survey (TNSC) includes more than 90,000 patients who 
died during the study period. Their lifespan varies with their season of birth. 
Patients born in the winter became in average 1.5 years older than patients born 
in the summer. This difference is very significant. The variation agrees with 
the results from a similar study performed about 50 years ago which used 
genealogical data. The season of birth distributions are equal for males and 
females, slightly different for blacks and whites and different for colon, 
rectum, breast cancer patients compared to stomach and lung cancer patients. 
There are significant regional difference with greater variation in season of 
birth for patients residing in hot areas than for patients residing in cold 
areas. It is assumed that the observed phenomena are related to health in 
general and not to cancer in particular.

PMID: 7349789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Cancer Detect Prev. 1981;4(1-4):595-601.

Validation and use of a mathematical model to estimate the benefits of screening 
younger women for breast cancer.

Shwartz M.

A model of breast cancer is validated by showing that predictions from the model 
are similar to a variety of reported data on breast cancer. In particular, the 
model reproduces the finding reported from the HIP screening program that there 
is no statistically significant benefit from screening younger women for breast 
cancer. Based on the model, it is estimated that yearly screening between age 40 
and 70 with a joint modality consisting of a clinical examination and 
mammography will realize slightly under one-half the gain in life expectancy 
(from age 40) that would be realized if breast cancer mortality were eliminated. 
Most of this gain (about 70%) would be realized if only the clinical examination 
were performed yearly. Up to 90% would be realized if biannual mammograms were 
added to the yearly clinical examination.

PMID: 7349826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Geriatrics. 1980 Jan;35(1):98-100, 104.

The evolution of longevity.

Kent S.

PMID: 7350073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1980 Jan 25;105(4):103-6. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1070614.

[ABO blood groups and life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Jörgensen G.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1070614
PMID: 7351188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Gerontology. 1980;26(2):82-9. doi: 10.1159/000212399.

Brain-life span conjecture: a reevaluation of the evidence.

Economos AC.

Empirical evidence for the conjecture that brain weight of mammals is a better 
predictor of life span than is body weight, is reexamined and evaluated in this 
paper. The original evidence was that for 63 mammalian species, log brain weight 
explained 79% of the log life span variance, whereas log body weight explained 
only 60%; thus, the correlation coefficient rbr for the linear regression of the 
log life span on log brain weight was 0.88, whereas the correlation coefficient 
rb for the regression of log life span on log body weight was 0.77. From data on 
40 mammalian species (including three primates), we found rbr = 0.81 and rb = 
0.75; from data on 35 primate species, we found rbr = 0.68 and rb = 0.65. 
Correlation coefficients rliv, radr for the regression of log life span on log 
liver weight or log adrenal weight, respectively, were rliv = 0.78 and radr = 
0.81 for the same 40 mammalian species. We conclude that brain weight appears to 
be a slightly better predictor of life span than body weight but not better than 
adrenal weight. One primary reason why body weight is a poorer predictor of life 
span may be a result of its wider range of values compared with brain and 
adrenal weights.

DOI: 10.1159/000212399
PMID: 7351310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Gerontology. 1980;26(2):90-8. doi: 10.1159/000212400.

Taxonomic differences in the mammalian life span-body weight relationship and 
the problem of brain weight.

Economos AC.

Despite the highly significant correlation between brain and body weight 
throughout the entire mammalian class, there are consistent differences between 
rodents, higher primates, carnivores, and ungulates. Primates have larger brains 
than carnivores of equal size, while rodents have smaller brains, and ungulates 
have similar-sized brains as carnivores with the same body weight. Further, life 
span correlates well with body weight for all mammals together (over 150 
species), although there are large and consistent interorder differences. For a 
given body weight, carnivores have a shorter life span than primates, one as 
long as rodent, and one longer than ungulates. These differences in life span 
are not matched by the differences in brain weight. Therefore, the conjecture 
that brain size is a determinant of life span is not valid.

DOI: 10.1159/000212400
PMID: 7351311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. J Urol. 1980 Jan;123(1):17-8. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)55753-5.

Reassessment of circle tube nephrostomy in advanced pelvic malignancy.

Kohler JP, Lyon ES, Schoenberg HW.

The dilemma created for and presented to the urologist by the combination of a 
patient with increasing uremia from advanced pelvic malignancy and a referring 
physician frustrated by the situation is solved best by individual decisions 
appropriate for each case. Urinary diversion should be reserved for the 
occasional circumstance when reasonable life expectancy approaches 6 months or 
more. Drainage by circle tube nephrostomy provides minimal trouble for patient 
and physician, while providing excellent relief from the obstructive uropathy. 
In this series of 20 patients the average survival was 5.3 months. An attempt to 
assess the quality of life after diversion by circle tube nephrostomy is made.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)55753-5
PMID: 7351714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. JAMA. 1980 Feb 1;243(5):443-5.

Excessive mortality and causes of death in morbidly obese men.

Drenick EJ, Bale GS, Seltzer F, Johnson DG.

A group of 200 morbidly obese men (average weight, 143.5 kg; age, 23 to 70 
years) were admitted to a weight control program between 1960 and 1977 and were 
followed up for a mean period of 7 1/2 years. There was complete follow-up until 
the termination of the study or until death for 185 men. Fifteen men were 
followed up for fractional periods. Fifty of the 200 died during the course of 
the study. Life-table techniques, comparing the mortality among the obese with 
that among men in the general population, demonstrated a 12-fold excess 
mortality in the obese in the age group 25 to 34 years and a sixfold excess in 
the age group 35 to 44 years. This ratio diminished with advancing age. 
Cardiovascular disease was reported as the cause of death more frequently and 
malignancies less frequently than they were for men in the US general 
population.

PMID: 7351764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Demography. 1980 Feb;17(1):85-102.

Estimates of U.S. multiple cause life tables.

Manton KG, Stallard E, Poss SS.
