
Cause elimination life tables estimated from multiple cause of death data for 
four race/sex groups are presented for the U.S. population in 1969. These 
"multiple cause" life tables are then compared to cause elimination life tables 
where the mortality risk eliminated is that of the cause of death only in its 
occurrence as the underlying cause of death. An evaluation is made of the 
possible effects of the multiple cause data on our perception of the relative 
importance of the major causes of death. The reconceptualization of mortality 
risks made possible by the multiple cause of death data is also assessed in 
terms of its providing further insight into the "Taeuber paradox."

PMID: 7353710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 1980 Jan;40(1):47-50. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1037020.

[Stability of the population as an expression of human rationality (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

Maier W.

A prominent feature of a stable population is the stability of the age 
structure. The present investigation demonstrates that in the Federal Republic 
of Germany age distribution of youth, working population and old age pensioners 
remained stable during the last hundred years despite fluctations in the birth 
rate, death rate, and life expectancy. It can be concluded that an increasing 
life expectancy must lead to overpopulation which will in turn reduce the birth 
rate and slow down human reproduction.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1037020
PMID: 7353774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1980 Mar 1;136(5):552-8. doi:
10.1016/0002-9378(80)91002-9.

Severe rheumatic cardiac disease and pregnancy: the ultimate prognosis.

Chesley LC.

All of 134 women classified as having "functionally severe" rheumatic cardiac 
disease and surviving pregnancies in 1931 through 1943 have been traced to 1975. 
Ninety-three percent have died at the exponential rate of 6.3% per year. The 
women with and without pregnancies following admittance to the series were 
similar in respect to age at entry, ages in which they lived, and proportionate 
representation in all but one of five subgroups with extraordinarily high death 
rates in the first five years of follow-up. Analyses of the data by life tables, 
average annual death rates, lengths of survival, and average ages at death 
failed to uncover any evidence for a delayed adverse effect of pregnancy in the 
whole series or in any of the subgroups. Provided that the patient survives the 
gestation, the life expectancy is not shortened by pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(80)91002-9
PMID: 7355933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Hum Hered. 1980;30(3):161-70. doi: 10.1159/000153122.

Genetic characteristics of hemophilia A in Chile.

Cruz-Coke R, Rivera L.

A genetic and demographic study of 40 kindreds (113 cases) with hemophilia A, 
representing one quarter of all Chilean cases is reported. Only 10 sporadic 
cases were found. Segregation analysis of progeny from matings Aa X AY showed p 
= 0.2206 +/- 0.043. Fertility of 59 obligatory carriers was 3.88 children per 
mother with a mean age of 49.9 years, a figure higher than the mean of a control 
population, 3.36. The fertility of hemophiliacs was found to be 2.3 compared 
with their normal sibs with 3.15 children per couple. Life expectancy at birth 
in hemophiliacs was 22.4 years, compared with 28.1 for their normal brothers, 
34.4 for their sisters and 58.5 and 64.6 for males and females in the general 
population. Mean relative fitness was calculated as 0.45 and the prevalence of 
hemophilia A in Chile as 1 case among 13,500 males. A preliminary estimate of 
the mutation rate was 1.35 X 10-5, within expected ranges. During the last 10 
years, family planning and modern treatment with cryoprecipitates have increased 
the mean age of living hemophiliacs from 12.7 up to 22.7 years, and life 
expectancy from 15.6 to 22.4 years. Probably relaxation of natural selection 
will account for a possible increase of new cases of hemophilia A in the near 
future.

DOI: 10.1159/000153122
PMID: 7358406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Surgery. 1980 Mar;87(3):300-4.

Ruptured aortic aneurysms.

Gaylis H, Kessler E.

A retrospective study of 105 patients with ruptured aortic aneurysms treated by 
surgery over a 15-year period was undertaken. The mortality rate was 58%. A high 
incidence of cardiorespiratory disease, delay in treatment caused by wrong 
diagnosis, and preoperative shock were some of the factors responsible. All 
patients with ruptured aneurysm were operated on, unless moribund. No patient 
was refused surgery because of age or concomitant disease, unless it seemed that 
life expectancy from such disease was short. During the same period, 221 
patients had elective aneurysmectomies, with a mortality rate of 6.3%, 
indicating that, with a few exceptions, all abdominal aortic aneurysms should be 
resected.

PMID: 7361271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Strahlentherapie. 1980 Mar;156(3):149-53.

[Problems of evaluation of therapy results achieved in tumor patients (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

Leipner N, Frommhold H.

The success of a therapy can be judged in a more objective manner by comparing 
the survival times of a group of patients with those of comparable sound 
persons. In order to complete the histological classification of the different 
tumor types, the criteria "characterizing survival time T" and "a" can be 
established by adapting the survival times to the scheme of Weibull.

PMID: 7361329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Am J Public Health. 1980 Apr;70(4):394-400. doi: 10.2105/ajph.70.4.394.

Mortality surveillance in collaborative trials.

Cutter G, Heyden S, Kasteler J, Kraus JF, Lee ES, Shipley T, Stromer M.

The Hypertension Detection and Follow-Up Program (HDFP) carried out two pilot 
surveillances covering the enumerated population to test procedures to be used 
in assessing the ability of the program to influence life expectancy in the 
total population. A rigorously sequenced pilot survey of 2,611 households was 
conducted and carefully monitored through two mailings, telephone contacts, home 
visits, and communication with "contact" persons. The response rates at each 
stage varied among the 13 centers. Overall, there was a 42.7% yield from the 
first mailing; 42.5% of those receiving a second mailing was completed; 78.0% 
for telephone 61.3% for the home visits and 55.2% from the "contact" persons. 
Overall, 97.4% of all persons had vital status ascertained. The second phase 
relaxed the rigorous sequential survey requirements and reduced the reporting 
requirements from every ten days to monthly. Overall, 93.3% were successfully 
ascertained. Reduced survey structure, slightly increased mobility (from 12% to 
13%), increased workload from 200 to 400 households per center, and a longer 
time interval between initial enumeration and the mortality ascertainment are 
among the reasons for performance decline.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.70.4.394
PMCID: PMC1619384
PMID: 7361958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Am J Surg. 1980 Mar;139(3):352-6. doi: 10.1016/0002-9610(80)90292-5.

Glucose tollerance as a predictor of surgical risk and survival in patients with 
pancreatic carcinoma.

Ozawa K, Sato M, Tobe T.

A glucose tolerance test was performed in 75 patients with carcinoma of the 
pancreas and periampullary region. The glucose tolerance patterns were 
classified into two distinct types of the parabolic and linear patterns. The 
linear pattern was observed in about 50 percent of nonjaundiced patients and 40 
percent of severly jaundiced patients. The patients with a linear pattern had a 
high mortality rate and a short life expectancy compared with those with a 
parabolic pattern.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9610(80)90292-5
PMID: 7362004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Community Med. 1980 Feb;2(1):46-56. doi: 10.1007/BF02549356.

The health care system in the Netherlands.

Doeleman F.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02549356
PMID: 7363590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Fortschr Med. 1980 Jan 24;98(3):75-80.

[Testing the effects of so-called geriatric agents].

[Article in German]

Kment A, Hofecker G, Skalicky M, Niederm√ºller H.

The high average life expectation in the civilized and industrial countries can 
be attributed to a considerable extent to the achievements of the medical 
sciences. However, medical research also has the task of providing the 
physiological basis which will ensure that the extra years do not mean just an 
extension of the period of senility but instead form a period valuable for the 
individual and society. In accordance with the common definitions, one expects a 
"geriatric agent" (geriatricum) to slow down the aging process or to diminish 
its effects. Such influences are usually referred to as revitalization. However, 
a rejuvenation in the sense of a genuine reversal of the aging process 
is--according to our present knowledge--not possible. An objective assessment of 
revitalising effects can be reached by means of multivariate models of 
biological age, orientated on the aging process of a "normal population". 
However, research on human beings causes methodical difficulties and 
considerable expense because of the necessity for long-term studies and the 
importance of assessing psycho-social factors. Thus, it is necessary to test the 
effectiveness of "geriatric agents" primarily in the animal experiment. The 
laboratory rat seems well-suited for such studies. Using a multivariate model of 
the biological age of the rat, research into experimental influences on the 
aging process is demonstrated. The statistical testing and the analysis of the 
effects are carried out by means of discrimination analysis and factor analysis. 
With regard to the "geriatric agents" at present in use and the aims of 
experimental gerontology, it is established that such research has not yet been 
carried out to a satisfactory extent.

PMID: 7364362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Hospitals. 1980 May 16;54(10):63-6.

The graying of America.

Brody SJ.

The proportion of the U.S. population over 65 is growing and getting older, and 
the trend is expected to heighten in the early years of the 21st century.

PMID: 7364394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. J Appl Psychol. 1980 Apr;65(2):233-6.

Biorhythms: their utility for predicting postoperative recuperative time, death, 
and athletic performance.

Holmes DS, Curtright CA, McCaul KD, Thissen D.

PMID: 7364710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1980 May;28(5):201-5. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1980.tb00519.x.

Paraphrenia: paranoid states of late life. II. American research.

Bridge TP, Wyatt RJ.

In Part I of this study, a review of the European literature on paraphrenia 
demonstrated that the disorder affects a significant number of older persons and 
is probably part of the schizophrenic spectrum. Part II presents the current 
research evidence and issues concerning paraphrenia, a disorder commonly 
misdiagnosed or overlooked in the United States. Recommendations are made for a 
rigorous investigation of this group of patients that American psychiatry has 
not studied adequately. Comparisons of paraphrenic and schizophrenic patients 
undoubtedly will provide new insights into both the process of schizophrenia and 
the process of aging.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1980.tb00519.x
PMID: 7365182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. J Environ Pathol Toxicol. 1980;3(3 Spec No):179-83.

The ED01 study: summary and conclusions.

Gaylor DW.

PMID: 7365380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. J Environ Pathol Toxicol. 1980;3(3 Spec No):69-87.

Analysis of life-shortening effects in female BALB/C mice fed 
2-acetylaminofluorene.

Kodell RL, Farmer JH, Littlefield NA, Frith CH.

A total of 4320 female BALB/cStCrlfC3H/Nctr mice were continuously fed 
2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF) in the diet at various concentrations in order to 
obtain a quantitative assessment of dose-related life-shortening effects. 
Statistical procedures which adjust for extraneous deaths were used to analyze 
the survival data. In addition to the demonstration of a reduced survival time 
associated with bladder and liver tumors induced by 2-AAF, a further toxic 
effect was observed at 150 ppm. Since the experiment was replicated six times, 
variability in the survival times of animals in different replicates was 
studied. Although all replicates were conducted under specific pathogen free / 
defined flora (SPF/DF) conditions, a significant change in survival time was 
demonstrated across replicates.

PMID: 7365387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1980 Mar;34(1):14-8. doi:
10.1136/jech.34.1.14.

Cervical cancer in Finland and South Wales: implications of end results data on 
the natural history.

Hakama M, West R.

The population-based cancer registry data on patients with cervical cancer in 
Finland and South Wales in 1960--69 were analysed for survival. Patients with 
carcinoma-in-situ experienced essentially the normal life expectancy. Those with 
invasive carcinoma experienced 75% of normal post-registration life expectancy 
in Finland but only 45% in South Wales. The difference was due to higher 
frequency and to better survival of patients with localised carcinoma in 
Finland, which was attributed to the fact that in Wales the mean age of the 
population is higher than that in Finland, and also to the longer delya in Wales 
from first symptoms to diagnosis among women with localised cancer. The 
differences in mean age by clinical stage and in survival combined with the 
duration of symptoms support the hypothesis that speed of tumour growth is a 
major determinant of clinical stage at diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.34.1.14
PMCID: PMC1052033
PMID: 7365390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Med Trop (Mars). 1980 Jan-Feb;40(1):9-21.

[Schistosomiasis epidemiology (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Picq JJ, Roux J.

Schistosomiasis are, with three hundred million of infested people, the second 
world endemy, after malaria. For each of the four species, the distribution 
areas, the life cycle and the main epidemiological features are recalled in the 
first chapter. In the five following chapters, the authors consider the human or 
animal reservoirs of virus, the importance of these diseases towards public 
health, the gasteropod molluscs acting as intermediate hosts, and the problems 
of immunity in man. The concepts of "schistosomian infection" and "schistosomian 
disease" are exposed as well as the differences affecting the various strains of 
schistosomes and snails intermediate hosts. The authors emphasize the value of 
quantitative parasitological techniques and sero-immunological methods for 
epidemiological surveys. They underline the difficulties met in the evaluation 
of the effect of these diseases upon public health. The main causes inducing the 
duration of the endemy and those responsible for its extension are studied. The 
value of mathematic patterns is briefly discussed. Quantitative data compiled 
through epidemiological surveys should improve the use of the various means 
presently available for controling schistosomiasis.

PMID: 7366369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Nord Med. 1980 Apr;95(4):122-4.

[Average life expectancy increases--but welfare is a threat against health].

[Article in Swedish]

Petersson O.

PMID: 7367248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Radiat Res. 1980 Apr;82(1):123-37.

Repeated inhalation exposure of mice to 144CeO2. II. Biologic effects.

Hahn FF, Lundgren DL, McClellan RO.

PMID: 7367585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Br J Psychiatry. 1980 Feb;136:200. doi: 10.1192/bjp.136.2.200a.

Age distribution at death of mentally handicapped in-patients.

Spencer DA.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.136.2.200a
PMID: 7370486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Can Med Assoc J. 1980 Feb 9;122(3):301-4.

Evaluation of hospital-based cardiac resuscitation, 1973--77.

Tweed WA, Bristow G, Donen N, Kirk BW.

The resuscitation experience of a large teaching hospital during 1973-77 was 
reviewed. Resuscitation was attempted on 2091 victims of cardiac arrest; 261 
patients (12.5%) survived to be discharged from hospital.Coronary heart disease 
caused about one half of all the cardiac arrests, but was associated with a 
better survival rate (14.4%) than the other causes. Cardiac arrest following 
multiple trauma had the worst prognosis; only 3% of the patients survived to be 
discharged from hospital. However, the main factor influencing outcome was the 
site of arrest. The survival rates of patients on whom resuscitation was 
initiated in the emergency room or an intensive care area were triple and double 
the rate for patients in hospital wards, although one third of all the cardiac 
arrests induced by a coronary event and occurring in hospital were on the wards. 
Patients whose arrest occurred outside hospital, where only basic life support 
was available, had a survival rate of just 6.3%, whereas those whose arrest 
occurred in the emergency room had a survival rate of 31.9%. Since these two 
patient groups were similar in terms of age and diagnosis, we believe that the 
potential survival rate for victims of cardiac arrest outside of hospital that 
are optimally treated is close to 30%.These data suggest that increased survival 
from cardiac arrest can be expected with extension of the resuscitation services 
both inside and outside of hospital, but particularly with increased emphasis on 
emergency cardiac care outside of hospital.

PMCID: PMC1801815
PMID: 7370826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. J Appl Physiol Respir Environ Exerc Physiol. 1980 Mar;48(3):500-4. doi: 
10.1152/jappl.1980.48.3.500.

Upper airway patency in the human infant: influence of airway pressure and 
posture.

Wilson SL, Thach BT, Brouillette RT, Abu-Osba YK.

We have determined the influence of transmural pressure and neck posture on 
upper airway patency in infants after death. In natural resting postures, the 
airway was closed at transmural pressures not exceeding those normally seen 
during peak inspiratory airflow in the living infant, implying that a 
neuromuscular mechanism is necessary to maintain airway patency during life. 
Neck flexion raised closing pressure, making the airway more susceptible to 
collapse, whereas neck extension lowered closing pressure, making the airway 
more resistant to collapse. When the angle of flexion was kept constant, closing 
pressure was not significantly altered by turning the head or positioning the 
infant prone. Pressures above the corresponding closing pressure were required 
to reopen the closed airway, suggesting that the walls of the closed airway 
tended to adhere and implying that surface forces can impose an added load to 
airway-maintaining musculature during obstructive apnea in the living infant.

DOI: 10.1152/jappl.1980.48.3.500
PMID: 7372520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. J Neurosurg. 1980 May;52(5):724-7. doi: 10.3171/jns.1980.52.5.0724.

Congenital inclusion dermoid cyst located over the region of the anterior 
fontanel in adult Nigerians: report of two cases.

Ojikutu NA, Mordi VP.

Two cases of a congenital inclusion dermoid cyst located over the region of the 
anterior fontanel are described in adult Nigerians, aged 28 and 32 years. In 
both cases, the cystic lesion was noticed at birth over the anterior fontanel as 
a small soft lump, and was carried on the head from infancy into adult life. The 
clinical, radiological, and the operative findings revealed no intracranial 
extension. The two lesions were histologically verified as dermoid cysts. 
Surgical excision was curative.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1980.52.5.0724
PMID: 7373405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Sov Zdravookhr. 1980;(4):56-60.

[Analysis of the demographic indices of the developing countries of Southeast 
Asia].

[Article in Russian]

Rozov AA.

PIP: Southeast Asia, which is less than 6% of the earth's surface, has 25% of 
its population, and this population is growing rapidly. A process of 
urbanization is also occurring. The populations are very young; 40-45% are 
younger than 15 years of age, compared with 34% for the world as a whole. These 
young people are a problem for health services. The mortality rates went down in 
the 10-15 years after the collapse of the colonial system when these countries 
acquired their own public health systems. But they are still quite elevated 
compared with Western countries. The birthrates have also declined, but again 
they are much higher than in the developed capitalist countries. Because of this 
the governments of these countries have embarked on family planning programs. 
India, for instance, wants to lower the birthrate to 25/1000 by 1984. The infant 
mortality has dropped rapidly in all of these countries, but still remains very 
high in some of them (153/1000 live births in Bangladesh, for example). In the 
cities this mortality is much lower than in the villages. Overall, it is very 
high compared with the developed capitalist countries. The life expectancy in 
these countries is about 50 years, with women living slightly longer than men.

PMID: 7376004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. S Afr Med J. 1980 Apr 19;57(16):655-8.

Conservative management of ruptured spleen.

Shandling B.

For many years it was accepted that splenic injury was best managed by 
splenectomy. However, it has more recently been realized that patients whose 
spleen has been removed are more liable to life-threatening infection. This is 
of particular consequence if splenectomy is performed in childhood, with a long 
life expectancy. The extra mortality rate associated with sepsis after 
splenectomy is noted from reports in the literature, and the immunological 
functions of the spleen are discussed. It is pointed out that with the present 
diagnostic means splenic rupture or splenic injury need not necessarily indicate 
splenectomy. The features of conservative management are outlined, and the 
results in 75 patients, of whom only 21 underwent splenectomy, are stated.

PMID: 7376031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. West J Med. 1980 Jan;132(1):49-57.

Man's health: the past and the future.

McKeown T.

PMCID: PMC1271939
PMID: 7376644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Acta Orthop Scand. 1980 Feb;51(1):163-70. doi: 10.3109/17453678008990781.

Mortality and life expectancy after hip fractures.

Dahl E.

Follow-up data for at least 4 years was collected for 675 patients treated for 
hip fractures in the period 1961--1970. Compared with a series from the same 
hospital for the years 1948--1957 the number of patients had more than doubled 
and a higher hospital mortality was encountered, but the 4-year survival rate 
was unchanged. The mortality after hip fracture was found to be related to the 
age and sex of the patient and to the nature and number of associated diseases. 
The mortality rate was found to be high in the first 2 months following the 
fracture, but patients surviving the second month showed no excess mortality 
during the following 4 years, having the same life expectancy as the general 
population.

DOI: 10.3109/17453678008990781
PMID: 7376837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1980 May 15;137(2):254-62. doi: 
10.1016/0002-9378(80)90782-6.

Radical hysterectomy in the treatment of cervical cancer.

Benedet JL, Turko M, Boyes DA, Nickerson KG, Bienkowska BT.

Two hundred and forty-one patients were treated with radical hysterectomy at our 
institution between 1949 and December, 1978. The corrected 5-year survival rate 
for all patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix was 73%. Seventeen 
percent of patients with occult invasive carcinoma had positive lymph nodes at 
the time of operation. The corrected 5-year survival rate for patients with 
Stage IB carcinoma who had positive nodes was 66%. Operations for recurrent or 
persistent disease after radiotherapy resulted in a 5-year survival rate of 54%. 
Current indications for radical hysterectomy and lymphadenectomy at our center 
are discussed.

PIP: This study reports the center's experience (Cancer Control Agency of 
British Columbia or CCABC and the Vancouver General Hospital) with 241 patients 
(aged 20 to 71+) who had undergone radical hysterectomy for invasive cancer 
during the period 1949 through 1978, and how this experience has led to the 
center's current indications for use of such surgical procedural procedure. 
Approximately 50% of the patients were aged 40 years or less, and 2/3 were under 
the age of 51; this suggests that most patients have long life expectancy if 
they could be cured of their disease. All but 15 patients had primary cervical 
carcinoma (Table 2). 76% of the patients had squamous cell carcinoma of the 
cervix. Of the 226 cervical cancers, 81.9% were squamous cell and 12.4% were 
adenocarcinoma. 5.6% had a mixed adenosquamous carcinoma. Diagnosis of cervical 
cancer correlated closely with the presence or absence of lymph node involvement 
at time of operation. Tables were also provided to present data on 5-year 
survival rates of patients with positive lymph nodes and squamous cell 
carcinoma; various treatment methods and results by stage for the 137 patients 
with squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix; 10, 15 and 20 year survival rates by 
stage for patients with squamous cell carcinoma; postoperative complications in 
241 patients, and effect of radiotherapy on rate of development of fistulas. The 
data shows that radical hysterectomy was not a commonly performed procedure in 
this institution during the past 3 decades, and the encouraging 52% survival 
rate for patients managed with radical hysterectomy for recurrence or 
persistence of cancer after radiotherapy indicates the need for frequent, 
careful follow-up of patients with early stages of cancer. Current indications 
for radical hysterectomy and lymphadenectomy at CCABC are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(80)90782-6
PMID: 7377245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. J Chronic Dis. 1980;33(7):413-33. doi: 10.1016/0021-9681(80)90039-9.

Long-term effects of interventions to improve survival in mixed populations.

Shepard DS, Zeckhauser RJ.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9681(80)90039-9
PMID: 7380976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1980 Jul;80(1):17-20.

Fragmentation of Celestin tube: a cause of fatal intestinal perforation.

Laughlin EH, Walker WY.

A singular case is described in which a pateint with a Celestin endoesophageal 
tube in place for 10 months died of complications from small bowel perforation 
resulting from disruption of the tube. The lower part of the tube lying within 
the stomach had deteriorated and become detached except for a single strand of 
nylon monofilament. This fragment passed into the small intestine, where it 
remained tethered at the level of the distal jejunum, acting first as an obscure 
cause of intermittent small bowel obstruction and later as the cause of jejunal 
perforation. In the patient who is a candidate for esophageal intubation and who 
has a life expectancy beyond 6 or 8 months, consideration should be given to 
using a device other than the Celestin tube. Whenever a Celestin appliance is 
used to palliate dysphagia, the intragastric part of the tube should be anchored 
to the stomach with multiple sutures.

PMID: 7382530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. N Engl J Med. 1980 Jul 17;303(3):130-5. doi: 10.1056/NEJM198007173030304.

Aging, natural death, and the compression of morbidity.

Fries JF.

The average length of life has risen from 47 to 73 years in this century, but 
the maximum life span has not increased. Therefore, survival curves have assumed 
an ever more rectangular form. Eighty per cent of the years of life lost to 
nontraumatic, premature death have been eliminated, and most premature deaths 
are now due to the chronic diseases of the later years. Present data allow 
calculation of the ideal average life span, approximately 85 years. Chronic 
illness may presumably be postponed by changes in life style, and it has been 
shown that the physiologic and psychologic markers of aging may be modified. 
Thus, the average age at first infirmity can be raised, thereby making the 
morbidity curve more rectangular. Extension of adult vigor far into a fixed life 
span compresses the period of senescence near the end of life. Health-research 
strategies to improve the quality of life require careful study of the 
variability of the phenomena of aging and how they may be modified.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM198007173030304
PMID: 7383070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Science. 1980 Jun 27;208(4451):1482-3. doi: 10.1126/science.7384793.

Loss of division potential in culture: aging or differentiation?

Hornsby PJ, Gill GN.

DOI: 10.1126/science.7384793
PMID: 7384793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Surg Clin North Am. 1980 Apr;60(2):451-5. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(16)42092-x.

Rectal prolapse.

Veidenheimer MC.

Teflon sling repair of rectal prolapse appeals to us because it is relatively 
safe in patients who are often in an older age and at high risk. The Thiersch 
operation has been employed in a small number of patients with limited life 
expectancy. In our experience, major complications of the operation described by 
Ripstein have been late stricturing or late recurrent prolapse, and these have 
been dealt with satisfactorily by either anterior resection or replacement of 
the sling.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(16)42092-x
PMID: 7384977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Am J Surg. 1980 Jun;139(6):865-9. doi: 10.1016/0002-9610(80)90399-2.

Cholecystostomy: a place in modern biliary surgery?

Skillings JC, Kumai C, Hinshaw JR.

Cholecystostomy retains a place in the general surgical armamentarium. In this 
series of 115 patients undergoing cholecystostomy between 1967 and 1977, 68 
percent had acute cholecystitis, whereas in the remaining patients biliary 
drainage was undertaken as part of another procedure. The in-hospital mortality 
rate was 6 percent for the group with acute cholecystitis and 37 percent for the 
other patients. Forty-five patients subsequently had elective cholecystectomy, 
29 of these for radiographically documented retained calculi. Thirty-four 
patients without retained calculi remained asymptomatic for more than 1 year. On 
the basis of this experience and the literature cited, we recommend that 
subsequent to cholecystostomy, cholecystectomy be performed if the patient is in 
good general health and has a long life expectancy. Conversely,in the aged, ill 
patient without evidence of retained stones, cholecystostomy may be a lifesaving 
and curative procedure and the only one needed.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9610(80)90399-2
PMID: 7386744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Exp Gerontol. 1980;15(2):67-71. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(80)90076-5.

The effect of simultaneous administration of tocopherol and sunflower oil on the 
life-span of female mice.

Ledvina M, Hod√°nov√° M.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(80)90076-5
PMID: 7389835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Demography. 1980 May;17(2):189-206.

Mortality of the chronically impaired.

Manton KG, Stallard E.

An analysis of the effects of diabetes and generalized atherosclerosis on death 
due to ischemic heart disease or stroke was conducted using multiple cause 
mortality statistics. Specifically, all U.S. deaths in 1969 were classified into 
two groups on the basis of whether diabetes or generalized atherosclerosis was 
mentioned anywhere on the death certificate. Then race and sex specific analyses 
were made of ischemic heart disease deaths (or alternately of stroke deaths) 
using modified life table techniques for each group (one with the specified 
chronic disease and one without). Comparisons were made of mortality due to the 
acute circulatory events (ischemic heart disease or stroke) in the two groups to 
determine the implications of the chronic disease for the progression of the 
circulatory disease events. It was found, according to expectations, that 
diabetes and generalized atherosclerosis play very different roles in deaths due 
to stroke and ischemic heart disease.

PMID: 7389960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. J Hered. 1980 May-Jun;71(3):187-90. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.jhered.a109344.

New mouse dw allele: genetic location and effects on lifespan and growth hormone 
levels.

Eicher EM, Beamer WG.

We have reported the finding of a new mutation at the dwarf locus, named 
dwarf-J, gene symbol dwJ, in the C3H/HeJ inbred mouse strain. The 
C3H/HeJ-dwJ/dwJ mice are like DW/J-dw/dw mice in that both homozygotes are 
virtually devoid of GH in either pituitary glands or serum. Lifespan of dwJ/dwJ 
mice was not reduced. Linkage experiments designed to assign the dw gene, 
together with another gene weaver (wv), were successful in that both were found 
to be on chromosome 16. The dw locus is probably more proximally located on 
chromosome 16 than the wv locus.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.jhered.a109344
PMID: 7391543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 1980 Mar;17(2):142-3.

[Climate and life span (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Kameyama M, Hatano S.

PMID: 7392297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 1980 Mar;17(2):161-4.

[Climate and life span: civilized society and life span (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Furukawa T.

PMID: 7392302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1980 Jan-Mar;61(1):10-3.

State variations in longevity.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7394841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Strahlentherapie. 1980 May;156(5):315-7.

Radiotherapy of carcinoma in the hypopharynx.

Puhakka H, Nordman EM.

Thirty-five patients with carcinoma of hypopharynx were treated with irradiation 
to a dosage of 5000 to 6600 rad in six to nine weeks. The one-year survival was 
20 out of 35 (57%), the three-year survival five out of 24 (21%), and the 
five-year survival four out of 19 (21%). Patients with smaller tumours of T1N0 
and T2N0 presented a higher five-year figure, three out of seven, than patients 
with advanced tumours, one out of twelve (8%). The location of the tumour in the 
posterior wall of the pharynx implied a somewhat more favourable prognosis than 
the location in the pyriform sinus or postcricoid area. As the results achieved 
with radiotherapy or surgery alone are rather poor, combination of the treatment 
method should be considered.

PMID: 7394846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Chest. 1980 Aug;78(2):336-8. doi: 10.1378/chest.78.2.336.

Aortopulmonary septal defect and longevity.

Niles NR, Schmidt WA.

A patient with a large congenital aortopulmonary septal defect lived for 46 
years. Such lesions are usually fatal in early life unless corrected. Because 
the anatomic and physiologic adjustments were evident and relatively stable, the 
case calls for examination of the practice of prognostication.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.78.2.336
PMID: 7398426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Gerontologist. 1980 Aug;20(4):457-62. doi: 10.1093/geront/20.4.457.

Disengagement reconsidered: awareness of finitude.

Sill JS.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/20.4.457
PMID: 7399274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Gerontologie. 1980 Feb;11(1):48-52.

[Prognosticated longevity quotient (PLQ) and the assessment scale for older 
patients].

[Article in Dutch]

Trommel J, Gips CH.

In a previous article was demonstrated that the physician is over-optimistic 
while making an individual prognosis as to survival in patients of a 
psychogeriatric nursing home. In this investigation we have tried to relate the 
individual prognosis to the BOP (a Dutch derivative of the Stockton Geriatric 
Rating Scale). We introduced the term Prognosticated Longevity Quotient: the 
prognosticated survival in years divided by the expectation of life in 
Netherlanders of the same age and sex. In the 217 patients, prospectively 
studied, an inverse relation was found between PLQ- and BOP-values. At the end 
of the 45-months lasting investigation period, the initial PLQ turned out to 
have been lower and the BOP higher in those who had died compared to those who 
survived. Chances of being alive were greater in those with an initial PLQ > 0,5 
while initial placement in an increasingly higher BOP-class indicated a 
decreasingly smaller chance of survival.

PMID: 7399340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. J Natl Med Assoc. 1980 Aug;72(8):744-7.

Health assessment in the elderly.

Poindexter HA.

PMCID: PMC2552487
PMID: 7401183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Soc Sci Med Med Econ. 1980 Jun;14(2):99-120. doi:
10.1016/0160-7995(80)90030-1.

Interrelation between health and population: observations derived from field 
experiences.

Grosse RN.

DOI: 10.1016/0160-7995(80)90030-1
PMID: 7403906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. S Afr Med J. 1980 Jun 14;57(24):976-7.

Perplexities in screening, intervening and changing lifestyle.

Walker AR.

PMID: 7404072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. S Afr Med J. 1980 Jan 26;57(4):120-4.

Dietary goals, sensible eating and nutrition in the future.

Walker AR.

Compared with our ancestor's diet, that consumed by present-day Western 
populations is higher in intake of energy, of protein (especially animal 
protein) and of fat (especially animal fat), but lower in intake of 
fibre-containing cereal foods; this diet is associated with high rates of 
morbidity and mortality from degenerative diseases. In the USA, the Dietary 
Goals report has recommended partial reversion to our ancestors' diet, including 
decreased intake of animal fat and protein, cholesterol, salt, sugar and 
alcohol--hopefully to reduce mortality from the six leading causes of death. 
'Dietary goals', 'sensible eating' and the extreme 'longevity diet' are 
discussed. It is concluded that the general public will not voluntarily accept 
dietary changes of the magnitude required to promote a meaningful decrease in 
the burden of ill-health from degenerative diseases, because of: (i) 
conservativeness of dietary habits; and (ii) uncertainties about the extent of 
benefits likely to accrue. It is speculated, however, that in the distant future 
dietary changes of the type recommended will gradually but compulsorily be 
introduced, because of: (i) increases in population numbers; and (ii) the far 
greater economy of land usage linked with production of a near-vegetarian diet.

PMID: 7404120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Surg Clin North Am. 1980 Jun;60(3):527-35. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(16)42132-8.

Common femoral artery-to-proximal popliteal artery bypass and common femoral 
artery-to-tibial artery bypass.

Persson AV, Griffey SP.

The femoral-to-popliteal and femoral-to-tibial artery bypass procedures are now 
standard operations. Although the operative risks are relatively low and the 
long-term patency rates are good, life expectancy of these patients is such that 
the operation must be reserved for incapacitating claudication and salvage of 
limbs only.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(16)42132-8
PMID: 7404276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Adv Pathobiol. 1980;7:123-41.

Genetic stability in vitro and in vivo.

Hart RW, Daniel FB.

PMID: 7405735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Adv Pathobiol. 1980;7:80-99.

The biology of human aging.

Hayflick L.

PMID: 7405748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Can J Public Health. 1980 Jul-Aug;71(4):267-8.

[Breast feeding and life span from birth to 40 years].

[Article in French]

Daudelin M, Philippe P.

PIP: Life span from birth to age 40 of fully breastfed individuals is compared 
to survival of decreasingly breastfed individuals paired for birth order and 
sex. Results suggest that fully breastfed individuals have lower death rate in 
age groups 0-1 and 20-40 years. This trend is all the more likely since the 
highest expectation of life of fully breastfed individuals prevails in the 
oldest cohort. (Author's)

PMID: 7407731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Demography. 1980 Aug;17(3):297-322.

Labor force status life tables for the United States, 1972.

Schoen R, Woodrow K.

PMID: 7409279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Int J Epidemiol. 1980 Jun;9(2):111-20. doi: 10.1093/ije/9.2.111.

Population impact of mortality reduction: the effects of elimination of major 
causes of death on the 'saved' population.

Manton KG, Patrick CH, Stallard E.

In this paper we examine the effects on life expectancy of elimination of 4 
major causes of death. Methodologically, we compare the results of cause 
elimination under assumptions of pattern of failure elimination and assumptions 
of underlying cause elimination in a modified multiple-decrement life table 
framework for the segment of the population impacted. The 4 diseases selected 
for analysis are cancer, ischaemic heart disease, stroke, and diabetes, major 
killers among the elderly population. The degree to which life expectancy 
changes occur within the population from elimination of a given cause if a 
function of 3 factors: 1) distribution of age at death by cause for persons who 
die of that cause, 2) the gain in person years lived for those 'saved' from 
dying from that cause which has been eliminated, and 3) the proportion of all 
deaths which are due to the specific cause which is eliminated. Mortality data 
from the 1969 U.S. multiple cause mortality tapes from NCHS are analysed to 
determine the impact of life expectancy for males and females of both races when 
one of these 4 specific causes of death is eliminated.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/9.2.111
PMID: 7409960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. J Clin Psychol. 1980 Jul;36(3):661-7. doi: 
10.1002/1097-4679(198007)36:3<661::aid-jclp2270360309>3.0.co;2-g.

Purpose in life, depression, and locus of control.

Phillips WM.

Parallel to Frankl's theory of the search for meaning, which posits the 
separateness but intertwining of the psychological and existential realms, the 
Purpose In Life Test (PIL) has been found to have a low to moderate relationship 
with most conceptually related psychological measures. Extending separate 
correlational studies of the PIL with depression and locus of control, the 
