current study inspected the relationship of individual PIL items to groups 
formed according to Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale and Rotter 
Internal-External Locus Of Control scores. One-hundred thirty-four Ss were split 
into four groups: Depressed external, depressed internals, nondepressed 
externals, and nondepressed internals. Although ungrouped correlational analysis 
of PIL items revealed only seven significant relationships with depression and 
two with locus of control, multiple discriminate analysis was successful in 
correctly classifying depressed externals about three-fourths of the time, and 
the overall "hit rate" for the four groups was above 60%. In addition to further 
validating the interaction of purpose in life with related psychological and 
social expectancy variables, results indicated a compounding effect between 
depression and external perception of reinforcement control with PIL scores in 
general, and two items (#4, 12) in particular, which appear to reflect the 
experience of current congruent involvement between the individual and his 
world.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-4679(198007)36:3<661::aid-jclp2270360309>3.0.co;2-g
PMID: 7410563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. J Gerontol. 1980 May;35(3):395-402. doi: 10.1093/geronj/35.3.395.

Validity and stability of a new desired control measure pertaining to 
psychological adjustment of the elderly.

Reid DW, Ziegler M.

The four studies reported herein were designed to test the reliabilities and 
predictive validities of a 70-item Desired Control Measure. This measure is 
based on the findings of a survey to establish what everyday reinforcements 
contributed to the happiness of senior citizens. Within the new measure, there 
were 35 Expectancy items indexing the extent to which senior citizens expected 
to realize these reinforcements and 35 were Desire items indexing the value 
older adults held for these reinforcements. The Desire items were used to weight 
the Expectancy items so as to derive a Desired Control score. Fifteen of the 17 
correlations between Desired Control and a variety of measures of psychological 
adjustment reported across the four studies were significant and sizeable (mean 
r = .44). Social Desirability responding had negligible effects on correlations. 
Furthermore, five of seven correlations between Desired Control measured at one 
time and Psychological Adjustment measured 12 months later were significant 
(mean correlation = .46). Consistent with theoretical expectations, Expectancy 
scores were stronger predictors of well-being than were desire scores. The 
results of these studies gave support for the supposition that personal control 
is an important variable in psychological adjustment among the elderly.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/35.3.395
PMID: 7410792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Mech Ageing Dev. 1980 May;13(1):1-39. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(80)90128-1.

Effects of the type of dietary fat at two levels of vitamin E in Wistar male 
rats during development and aging. I. Life span, serum biochemical parameters 
and pathological changes.

Porta EA, Joun NS, Nitta RT.

This experiment was designed to study in rats the implications of the dietary 
type of fat at two levels of vitamin E on the life span as well as on several 
biochemical and anatomopathological age-related changes. For this purpose, six 
different isoenergetic diets containing 15% coconut oil (SFD), safflower oil 
(UFD) or a combination of both (CFD) with 2 or 200 mg% of dl-alpha-tocopherol 
were offered ad libitum to outbred Wistar male rats from weaning to senescence. 
The results indicated that up to 9--12 months the body weights of rats consuming 
the CFD or the UFD increased generally faster than those fed the SFD, and that 
all rats developed moderate degrees of obesity. Age-dependent changes in organ 
weights (kidneys, testes, spleen, brain, liver and heart) were unaffected by 
diet. Serum levels of vitamin E generally reflected the corresponding dietary 
levels, but were also influenced by the type of dietary fat. Serum cholesterol 
levels were not significantly affected by the type of diet or by age. Only 
transient hypotriglyceridemic and hypophospholipidemic effects of the UFD were 
observed and, while the levels of triglycerides decreased with age up to the 
18th month followed by an increase at 24 months, the levels of serum 
phospholipids remained unchanged. Neither diet nor age modified the serum 
albumin/globulin ratios. While no differences in maximum life span were found 
between dietary groups, the 50% survival time of rats fed the UFD at high level 
of vitamin E was significantly longer than in all the other groups. This 
beneficial effect was related to postponement of the onset and reduction of 
incidence of malignant neoplasms, but was apparently not related to any 
particular influence on the incidence or severity of chronic nephropathy which 
practically developed in all rats. Various neoplastic, degenerative and 
inflammatory diseases encountered in rats dying during the course of the 
experiment were tabulated and compared with similar findings reported by others 
in different strains of rats. Pituitary and adrenocortical adenomas as well as 
adrenocortical and renal carcinomas were the most frequent tumors found in this 
study. All the pathological changes provided useful baseline information for the 
evaluation of data presented in this and subsequent communications of this 
series of studies.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(80)90128-1
PMID: 7412419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Respiration. 1980;39(4):185-7. doi: 10.1159/000194216.

The postpneumonectomy mother. Pregnancy, delivery and motherhood in 80 patients 
followed through more than 20 years after surgery.

Laros KD.

A retrospective report is presented on the quality of life and the life 
expectancy of 80 women who gave birth to totally 196 children after 
pneumonectomy. The women were operated upon in the period 1947--1954 and 
followed since in regular intervals. Pecularities concerning pregnancy, delivery 
and motherhood in their relation to the pulmonary function are discussed. It is 
concluded that a pneumonectomy for a nonprogressive disease of one lung in a 
woman of childbearing age is associated with a nearly normal obstetric history 
and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1159/000194216
PMID: 7414098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Sov Med. 1980;(6):103-6.

[Life expectancy and work capacity after myocardial infarct].

[Article in Russian]

Pozdniakov IuM, Zamoraev AK, Erichev NV, Kukushkin VN, Tikhomirova MS.

PMID: 7414405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Stat Bull Metropol Life Insur Co. 1980 Apr-Jun;61(2):2-7.

Mortality differentials favor women.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7414638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1980 Mar 1;74(5):235-9.

[The relationship between life expectancy and the structure of the causes of 
death in a population].

[Article in German]

Radoschewski M.

PMID: 7415279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Am J Public Health. 1980 Aug;70(8):829-31. doi: 10.2105/ajph.70.8.829.

The impact of heroin abuse on a regional end-stage renal disease program.

Zielezny MA, Cunningham EE, Venuto RC.

The causes for end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in 148 consecutive patients 18-45 
years of age were analyzed over a five-year period in the Buffalo-SMSA. 
Incidence, diagnostic category specific, prevalence, age patterns, and life 
expectancy are provided by sex, race, and heroin abuse status. A striking 
correlation between heroin abuse, glomerulonephritis, and ESRD among Blacks was 
discovered, demonstrating the impact of heroin abuse on both the cost and 
statistical interpretation of the causes for ESRD.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.70.8.829
PMCID: PMC1619600
PMID: 7416344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Dermatol Monatsschr. 1980 May;166(5):309-11.

[Surgical treatment of Fortner's golden hamster melanomas A Mel3 and M Mel 1].

[Article in German]

Fiedler H, Zaumseil RP, Wohlrab W.

PMID: 7418931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Hum Dev. 1980;23(6):362-7.

Roles of the operant model and its methods in the life span approach to human 
development.

Baltes MM, Lerner RM.

PMID: 7419222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Int J Epidemiol. 1980 Mar;9(1):25-33. doi: 10.1093/ije/9.1.25.

Epidemiology and causes of death among children in a rural area of Bangladesh.

Chen LC, Rahman M, Sarder AM.

From a longitudinal surveillance programme among a rural Bangladesh population 
of 260,000, the epidemiology and causes of child death (under age 5) over 3 
years (1975-1977) were analyzed. The most significant causes of death were 
diarrhoea (watery and dysentery), tetanus, measles, fever, respiratory disease, 
drowning, skin disease, and other causes. Of an infant mortality rate of 
142.6/1000 live births, neonatal tetanus (37.4/1000), diarrhoea (19.6/1000), and 
respiratory disease (10.4/1000) were the most significant identifiable causes. 
Many infant deaths (62.2/1000) were unidentified, taking place during the 
neonatal (1-28 days) period. The 1-4 year mortality averaged 34.3/1 000. 
Diarrhoea (15.1/1 000), measles (4.5/1 000), fever (2.9/1 000) and respiratory 
disease (1.6/1 000) accounted for most 1-4 year deaths. Mortality trends over 
the past 10 years showed sharp temporary fluctuations in response to 2 disasters 
but no definitive long-term trend. Most causes of death displayed seasonal 
fluctuation, and sex differentials were marked with female deaths exceeding male 
deaths for all ages after the neonatal period. Malnourished children from low 
socioeconomic status families had higher mortality rates than their better 
nourished and wealthier counterparts. Overall, the data suggest that the 
delivery of a few basic health measures (oral hydration and immunization) could 
result in substantial reduction of under 5 mortality.

PIP: From a longitudinal surveillance program among a rural Bangladesh 
population of 260,000, the epidemiology and causes of child death (under age 5) 
over 3 years (1975-77) were analyzed. The most significant causes of death were 
diarrhea (watery and dysentery), tetanus, measles, fever, respiratory diseases, 
drowning, skin disease, and other causes. Of an infant mortality rate of 
142.6/1000 live births, neonatal tetanus (37.4/1000), diarrhea (19.6/1000), and 
respiratory disease (10.4/1000) were the most significant identifiable causes. 
Many infant deaths (62.2/1000) were unidentified, taking place during the 
neonatal period (1-28 days). The 1-4 year mortality averaged 34.3/1000. Diarrhea 
(15.1/1000), measles (4.5/1000), fever (2.9/1000), and respiratory disease 
(1.6/1000) accounted for most 1-4 year deaths. Mortality trends over the past 10 
years showed sharp temporary fluctuations in response to 2 disasters but no 
definitive long-term trend. Most casues of death displayed seasonal fluctuation, 
and sex differentials were marked with female deaths exceeding male deaths for 
all ages after the neonatal period. Malnourished children from low socioeconomic 
status families had higher mortality rates than their better nourished and 
wealthier counterparts. Overall, the data suggest that the delivery of a few 
basic health measures (oral hydration and immunization) could result in 
substantial reduction of under 5 mortality.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/9.1.25
PMID: 7419328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Int J Epidemiol. 1980 Mar;9(1):73-87. doi: 10.1093/ije/9.1.73.

Survival and mortality pattern among Swedish smelter workers.

Wall S.

The study analyses work history and mortality data for 3919 male workers first 
employed during 1928-66 at Rönnskärsverken, a copper smelter in north-east 
Sweden. 99% of the workers were traced from employment records and central 
population registers. By means of standarized mortality ratios and life-table 
analysis comparisons were made with both the general and local populations. For 
all causes excess mortality is 18% relative to the general population. This can 
be ascribed to tumours and circulatory diseases, for which excess figures are 39 
and 32% respectively. For tumours, the excess mortality is mainly due to lung 
cancer for which the risk is trebled relative to the general population and 
5-fold relative to local populations. For circulatory diseases, the excess 
figure is mainly accounted for by cerebrovascular disease with an elevated risk 
of 60-70%. The probable remaining life-time from 50 years is 2 years shorter 
than for Swedish men in the 60's. Internal comparisons were made to analyse the 
importance of latency, exposure, calendar time and place of work. A 
dose-response analysis clearly indicates that the roasters and arsenic 
departments are risk places for the development of cancer, especially lung 
cancer. A 50-year old worker who has been exposed to the roasters for more than 
5 years, has a probable remaining life-time which is almost 3 years shorter than 
the average Rönnskär employee and almost 5 years shorter than the average 
Swedish male. Case-control studies aimed at exploring exposure associated with 
stomach cancer and cerebrovascular mortality are under way.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/9.1.73
PMID: 7419333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1980 Mar;176(3):463-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1057481.

[Investigations into causes of late blindness (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Mewe L.

The results of investigations described here show that the sociomedical aspect 
of late blindness is still especially relevant in the Federal Republic of 
Germany. In correlation with increasing life expectancy the incidence of late 
blindness was found to be the arteriosclerotic form of macular degeneration. 
Despite the limited range of therapeutic measures available, the author 
recommends action to facilitate early diagnosis, in order to postpone severe 
impairment of vision or blindness for as long as possible.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1057481
PMID: 7421014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Nihon Igaku Hoshasen Gakkai Zasshi. 1980 May;40(5):476-84.

[Quantitative evaluation of risks for individuals in diagnostic radiology 
(author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Iinuma TA, Tateno Y, Hashizume T.

PMID: 7422475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Soz Praventivmed. 1980 Mar;25(1-2):10-3. doi: 10.1007/BF02075062.

[The significance of drugs for the health of our population].

[Article in German]

Bruppacher R.

The development of pharmacotherapy is an important factor for the relatively 
high level of health in our population. Epidemiologic effects of drugs are 
difficult to measure but can be recognized, e.g., in the field of 
antihypertensive and antidepressive treatments. Important for public health are 
further the epidemiological and statistical methods, the knowledge of various 
functions of the human organism and some administrative procedures which have 
been elaborated as a collateral effect of the development of pharmacotherapy.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02075062
PMID: 7424172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Am J Public Health. 1980 Nov;70(11):1199-200. doi: 10.2105/ajph.70.11.1199.

How long can we live? A more optimistic view of potential gains in life 
expectancy.

Schatzkin A.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.70.11.1199
PMCID: PMC1619578
PMID: 7425193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Exp Gerontol. 1980;15(5):335-8. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(80)90039-x.

alpha-Tocopherol increases lifespan in the rotifer Philodina.

Enesco HE, Verdone-Smith C.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(80)90039-x
PMID: 7428854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Int J Health Serv. 1980;10(4):647-56. doi: 10.2190/NT2B-0K80-EK76-26MV.

Starting from year one: the politics of health in Nicaragua.

Escudero JC.

The triumphant Sandinista revolution inherited a health situation characterized 
by high mortality, low life expectancy, widespread malnutrition, and a medical 
system limited in scope. The extent of these problems can only be estimated as a 
result of the somocista government's failure to develop an accurate system of 
vital statistics. While there are many options available for rapidly decreasing 
the high levels of mortality and morbidity in Nicaragua, the revolutionary 
government has chosen a strategy which fuses public health and politics. A 
health network based on popular participation and control is being formed which 
should not only decrease the high rates of malnutrition and infectious diseases 
in a cost-efficient manner, but should increase the strength of the revolution 
as well.

DOI: 10.2190/NT2B-0K80-EK76-26MV
PMID: 7429694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1980 Sep;62(6):954-9.

Treatment of pathological fractures of the hip by endoprosthetic replacement.

Lane JM, Sculco TP, Zolan S.

In 167 consecutive pathological or impending fractures of the hip treated by 
endoprosthetic replacement from 1975 to 1978, there was dramatic relief of pain 
in all patients. Either a long-stem femoral endoprosthesis or a total prosthetic 
hip was used. The ambulatory status was significantly enhanced in those patients 
who were able to walk but it was not in the gravely ill. Cementing the 
prosthesis allowed stabilization of the entire femur as well as resection of 
diseased bone. The patients had a median survival time of 5.6 months. There were 
no dislocations, instances of loosening, or failures of the device, and the 
incidence of deep infection was 1.2 per cent. If the anticipated life of the 
patient exceeds one month, that constitutes an indication for prosthetic 
replacement for treatment of a pathological or impending fracture of the hip.

PMID: 7430183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. J Chronic Dis. 1980;33(11-12):697-701. doi: 10.1016/0021-9681(80)90056-9.

Years of life lost due to cystic fibrosis.

Jones MB.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9681(80)90056-9
PMID: 7430321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Percept Mot Skills. 1980 Aug;51(1):39-48. doi: 10.2466/pms.1980.51.1.39.

Response format and coding procedures in research on time perspective: a 
methodological commentary.

Rakowski W, Barber CE, Seelbach WC.

The dimension of time perspective for extension of personal future was examined 
as it may be affected by response format and coding procedures. A total of 75 
undergraduate students responded to a questionnaire containing one of three 
formats for reporting anticipated future life-events, varying in the structure 
imposed on responding. Temporal estimates of life-event occurrence were coded 
using two procedures, each of which permitted a near and a far value. Analyses 
suggest that the greatest degree of caution should occur in considering the 
representativeness of far estimates of extension provided under an open-event 
format. While coding procedures each produced a significant near/far difference, 
cross-procedure comparisons were not as impressive, despite also being 
significant. Questions can therefore be raised regarding techniques for 
obtaining time perspective data and preparing them for analysis.

DOI: 10.2466/pms.1980.51.1.39
PMID: 7432977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Nihon Igaku Hoshasen Gakkai Zasshi. 1980 Aug 25;40(8):815-22.

[Concept of malignant significant factor and its applicability for medical and 
occupational exposures (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Hashizume T, Maruyama T, Tateno Y.

PMID: 7433009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Prax Klin Pneumol. 1980 Mar;34(3):158-68.

[Life expectancy of patients with chronic obstructive airways disease (author's 
transl)].

[Article in German]

Farzin I, Ulmer WT.

PMID: 7433407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Public Health Rep. 1980 Nov-Dec;95(6):580-8.

Mortality model based on delays in progression of chronic diseases: alternative 
to cause elimination model.

Manton KG, Patrick CH, Stallard E.

For the analysis of the impact of major chronic diseases on a population, a life 
table model is proposed in which the age at death due to specific cause (chronic 
disease) is postponed. Even though many of the major causes of death related to 
intrinsic aging processes are impossible to eliminate, these causes might be 
significantly delayed or retarded. To illustrate the use of this model, the 
effects of a delay of 5, 10, and 15 years in deaths due to three chronic 
degenerative diseases (cancer, ischemic heart disease, and stroke) are 
calculated for specific race-sex components of the U.S. population in 1969. 
These calculations show that even moderate delays in the progression of major 
chronic diseases will yield a sizable portion of the total gain in longevity 
that would be available if the diseases were totally eliminated. Thus, they 
demonstrate that a life table model based on cause delay provides a more 
biomedically plausible representation of the health impact of a chronic disease 
on a population than does the cause elimination life table model. Additionally, 
the cause-delay model provides a mechanism for incorporating the likely effects 
of medical innovation on survival.

PMCID: PMC1422793
PMID: 7433613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 1980;74(3):307-17. doi:
10.1016/0035-9203(80)90089-9.

Anopheles culicifacies Giles: a release-recapture experiment with cohorts of 
known age with implications for malaria epidemiology and genetical control in 
Pakistan.

Reisen WK, Mahmood F, Parveen T.

A mark-release-recapture experiment with the progeny of wild collected Anopheles 
culicifacies was performed during the monsoon season of 1978 at the village of 
Khano-Harni, a malarious area situated in Lahore District, Punjab Province, 
Pakistan. The recapture rates of males and females released at breeding and 
resting sites were statistically comparable and totalled 8.0% for females and 
5.9% for males collected resting in houses and cattle sheds. Mating occurred 
mostly on the night following the evening of release when the females were about 
two days old. Insemination rates for females released at resting and breeding 
sites were statistically comparable. The initial gonotrophic cycle required four 
days; subsequent cycles occurred at two-day intervals with re-feeding on the 
same night as oviposition. Constant daily survivorship estimated from the 
decline in recaptures per day was 0.568 for females and 0.676 for males. Female 
survivorship estimated by vertical age grading methods ranged from 0.472 to 
0.820. Horizontal life tables were calculated from the decline in recaptures and 
from vertical age-grading techniques and indicated that female or male life 
expectancy at emergence was less than 2.5 days. Population size was calculated 
using the Lincoln Index, Jackson's positive and negative methods and Itô's 
modification of Jackson's positive method and averaged from 1045.5 to 1049.6 
females and from 449.1 to 1323.7 males. The relationship of these results to 
malaria transmission and genetical control is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0035-9203(80)90089-9
PMID: 7434425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Z Urol Nephrol. 1980 Mar;73(3):191-9.

[Anesthesia for TUR procedures in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Salehi E.

Due to the increased life expectancy since the turn of the century also the 
urological interventions in patients of older age increased in number and thus 
in significance. Also when a smaller proportion of the TUR-interventions (in 
most cases only diagnostic measures) can be carried out in local anaesthesia, 
for the majority of cases a general anaesthesia or a central conduction 
anaesthesia is necessary. The particular characteristics of the anaesthesia in 
endovesical interventions, the pathophysiological peculiarities of the senium, 
the senile involution of the kidney, and a water and electrolyte balance often 
disturbed by urological complaints are among others the most important criteria 
which determine the choice of the anaesthesia in a senile patient when 
TUR-interventions are to be carried out. Based on an experience of many years, 
it is reported on the results of anaesthesia in 4,130 geriatric patients, among 
then 2,818 TUR-interventions. On account of the character of the 
TUR-interventions, of the age of the patient and the factors of risk even 
nowadays the central conduction anaesthesia, especially the spinal anaesthesia, 
is more often the method of choice.

PMID: 7434983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Am J Public Health. 1980 Dec;70(12):1286-9. doi: 10.2105/ajph.70.12.1286.

How many die? A set of demographic estimates of the annual number of infant and 
child deaths in the world.

Gwatkin DR.

Estimates concerning the annual number of infant and child deaths in the world 
range from around 15 million to well over 30 million. Although infant and child 
mortality is difficult to measure with any precision, the range of uncertainty 
can be narrowed considerably through the application of standard demographic 
techniques to readily available population data. A set of estimates based on the 
most recent and authoritative data compilations points to a range of from 12-13 
million to about 17-18 million infant and child deaths annually during the late 
1970s, with an average of around 15 million. On the basis of what is known about 
mortality conditions of the world today, a figure much larger than the 17-18 
million at the high end of this range would be extremely difficult to 
substantiate.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.70.12.1286
PMCID: PMC1619651
PMID: 7435747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 1980;97(3):485-508.

[Genetics and life expectancy, inheritance and longevity].

[Article in Spanish]

Lorenzo Velázquez B.

PMID: 7435887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Arch Neurol. 1980 Nov;37(11):707-8. doi:
10.1001/archneur.1980.00500600055011.

Prevalence of spinal cord injury: a reestimation employing life table 
techniques.

DeVivo MJ, Fine PR, Maetz HM, Stover SL.

A comparison of frequently cited studies of long-term survival among spinal cord 
injury victims revealed widely ranging survival rates. When coupled with an 
estimated incidence rate of 30 cases per million persons at risk, these survival 
rates correspond to prevalence rates ranging from 486 to 969 per million 
persons, although 500 per million persons is the figure most often cited. A 
30.2-year mean life expectancy for spinal cord injury victims was estimated 
using previously calculated spinal cord injury relative mortality ratios. The 
corresponding spinal cord injury prevalence rate was 906 cases per million 
persons. Based on the incidence rate, an estimated 8.88 beds per million 
population, or just under 2,000 beds, will be necessary in the United States to 
care adequately for all patients with newly acquired spinal cord injuries.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1980.00500600055011
PMID: 7436813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Br Med J. 1980 Nov 15;281(6251):1328-30. doi: 10.1136/bmj.281.6251.1328.

Whom do dying patients tell?

Hinton J.

Eighty married patients dying of cancer were assessed for their overt awareness 
of their condition. Of the 62 who discussed the possibility of dying, 22 had 
spoken of this to hospital staff, 43 to their husband or wife, and 53 to the 
interviewer. Those more certain of dying were more likely to speak about it. 
Patients previously considered "nervous" people more often showed their 
awareness, but current anxiety had no consistent effect. More overt sharing of 
awareness tended to happen in marriages considered average or poor by the spouse 
than in some closer marital partnerships. The patients' communication of 
awareness to wife or husband was consistently better when the spouse favoured 
telling the patient. Patients also tended to disclose their awareness of dying 
more frequently to those staff prepared to discuss the matter. The findings have 
implications for the care of the dying.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.281.6251.1328
PMCID: PMC1714702
PMID: 7437787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Cancer Res. 1980 Oct;40(10):3810-4.

Antitumor activities of newly synthesized 5-carbamoyl-1 H-imidazol-4yl 
1-adamantanecarboxylate and 5-carbamoyl-1H-imidazol-4yl piperonylate.

Yoshida N, Kiyohara T, Fukui M, Atsumi T, Ogino S, Inaba M, Tsukagoshi S, 
Sakurai Y.

In synthetic studies on the chemical modification of the nucleoside antibiotic 
bredinin, two new derivatives, 5-carbamoyl-1H-imidazol-4-yl 
1-adamantanecarboxylate and 5-carbamoyl-1H-imidazol-4-yl piperonylate, were 
found to possess a potent antitumor activity in several experimental tumor 
systems, even though bredinin itself shows only in vitro cytotoxicity and thus 
lacks therapeutic effectiveness. These two derivatives of bredinin exhibited 
antitumor activity against a wide variety of tumors, including leukemias L1210 
and P388, Lewis lung carcinoma, B16 melanoma, Colon 26 and 38 adenocarcinomas. 
Ehrlich carcinoma, and Sarcoma 180. It is noteworthy that these agents showed 
good therapeutic effects not only against ascitic types of tumors but also 
against a number of slow-growing solid tumor lines, particularly the ascitic and 
solid forms of Ehrlich carcinoma. At their optimal doses, both compounds 
effected a complete cure of all or most of the mice treated. Although the 
mechanisms of action of these compounds remain unknown, they are able to 
suppress in vivo tumor growth, presumably by being slowly anabolized in vivo to 
an active form and inhibiting purine de novo synthesis as bredinin does.

PMID: 7438064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Dan Med Bull. 1980 May;27 Suppl 1:9-14.

Health care trends in the United States.

Golden WT.

PMID: 7438823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1980 Dec 12;105(50):1743-7. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1070948.

[Analysis of the true death-rate due to alcoholism (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Hackl H.

For various administrative and technical/registrational reasons, statistics on 
the death rate of chronic alcoholism are wrong. Exact studies have shown that 
official figures have to be multiplied by a factor of between 45 and 69 to 
arrive at the true rate. If one also takes into consideration the reduction in 
the collective life expectancy, the factor increases to about 100. The common 
practice of identifying death due to alcoholism by equating it with the number 
of deaths due to cirrhosis of the liver, provides a figure which is too low for 
the Central European area. Various suggestions are made on how to obtain the 
true death-rate.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1070948
PMID: 7439065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1980 Dec 19;105(51):1769-72. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1070955.

[Lymphogenic metastasing of malignant melanoma (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Altmeyer P, Nödl F, Merkel H.

Data of 378 melanoma patients treated surgically between 1969 and 1979 were 
evaluated in a retrospective analytic study. Histological criteria such as level 
of invasion (according to Clark) and tumour thickness (according to Breslow) 
were related to tendency for lymphogenic metastases and to life expectancy of 
patients. The level of invasion proved a better prognostic criterium than tumour 
thickness. In 202 lymphadenectomised patients it could be shown that the 
probablity of lymphogenic metastases is directly proportional to the level of 
invasion of the primary tumour. Histologically demonstrable lymphnode metastases 
were found in 47% of males and 38% of females with melanomas of invasion level 
III. Figures for melanomas with invasion level IV were 64% of males and 41% of 
females, and 100% of males but only 16% of females in melanomas of invasion 
level V. With negative lymphnode involvement the 5 year survival rate is 
significantly higher in females with invasion level IV and V or for melanomas 
with a vertical diameter of more than 2.25 mm than in males. Histologically 
established lymphnode metastases lead to a definitely worse prognosis for both 
sexes. A higher survival rate for females can then no longer be demonstrated.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1070955
PMID: 7439070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Hawaii Med J. 1980 Sep;39(9):221-6.

Ethnic differentials in mortality in Hawaii, 1920-1970.

Gardner RW.

PMID: 7440149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. J Dial. 1980;4(2-3):115-9. doi: 10.3109/08860228009065334.

Axillary graft-subclavian venous extension for salvage of graft arteriovenous 
fistulae.

Rubio PA, Farrell EM.

A technique for the salvage of looped forearm graft arteriovenous fistulae 
utilizing extension of the venous limb to the subclavian vein is described. 
Results have been excellent with extension of the functional life of the 
fistulae.

DOI: 10.3109/08860228009065334
PMID: 7440843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Mech Ageing Dev. 1980;13(4):401-6. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(80)90083-4.

On a mathematical relationship between growth rate and life span.

Beier W.

Using the Principles of Similitude a relation between the life span of an 
organism and its growth rate, ageing rate and initial weight is derived. It is 
shown that considerations based only on dimensional homogeneity allow us to make 
non-trivial assertions about the form of the equation of state. Closely related 
to these considerations is the specification of dimensionless numbers which we 
defined in the Concept of Vitality.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(80)90083-4
PMID: 7442331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Proc Soc Exp Biol Med. 1980 Nov;165(2):206-14. doi:
10.3181/00379727-165-40959.

Future directions in aging research.

Hayflick L.

DOI: 10.3181/00379727-165-40959
PMID: 7443710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1980 Sep 1;74(17):828-32.

[Practical views for the characterization of the state of health on a population 
level. 5. Prospects of further development of the problem].

[Article in German]

Ewert G, Klinger F.

PMID: 7445571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Z Kardiol. 1980 Jul;69(7):494-8.

[The life expectancy after cardial infarct regarding the social-insurance 
company (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Hoppe R.

German insurance statistics indicate that the age for admission to disablement 
benefit after myocardial infarct has not increased during the past ten years, 
which means that there has been no improvement. From among the pensioners in the 
workers' annuity insurance (Rheinprovinz) as many as 63.0% survived the 7 years' 
observation period in the case of anterior and 80.1% in the case of posterior 
wall infarction. While in respect of posterior wall infarction the age 
dependence has been less distinct, the survival rate reduced by 86.7% in case of 
male patients younger than 40 years to 49.4% in case of patients of 60 years and 
over. Minor differences only have been found to exist in respect of females. 
Regarding the deceased, it has been discovered that also the mean survival rate 
in years strongly depended on infarct locality, i.e. anterior or posterior wall. 
Disability benefit used to be granted already on the average 2 years after 
infarction which means that applications were already filed in the year when the 
infarct occurred or in the year thereafter. This gives rise to the conclusion 
that there are too many doctors to whom a myocardial infarction diagnosis 
creates the impression that the majority of patients will never be able to 
undertake any kind of professional activity again.

PMID: 7445648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Adv Cardiol. 1980;27:243-53. doi: 10.1159/000383991.

Open heart surgery in the first year of life. Current state and future trends.

Stark J, De Leval M, Macartney F, Taylor JF.

DOI: 10.1159/000383991
PMID: 7446287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Ann Surg. 1980 Dec;192(6):705-10. doi: 10.1097/00000658-198012000-00002.

Stage III carcinoma of the breast. A detailed analysis.

Fracchia AA, Evans JF, Eisenberg BL.

A ten-year study of Stage III breast carcinoma has been reviewed in detail. The 
single most dominant variable was axillary nodal involvement. Four hundred and 
thirty patients had nodal metastases, 58 patients did not. Four hundred and 
thirty patients with axillary nodal involvement had fiveand ten-year recurrence 
rates of 68 and 77%, while the survival rates were 41 and 21%, respectively. 
Life span was influenced by extent of nodal disease, being best for those with 
micrometastases only, and worse for those with four or more positive nodes. Skin 
edema, infiltration, or ulceration in the positive node group were grave signs. 
Muscle invasion or node matting, however, did not appear to influence length of 
life. Postoperative prophylactic therapy did not appear to affect survival 
rates. Radiation therapy alone did not influence either local recurrence or 
survival rates. Not enough time has elapsed to evaluate the results of 
postoperative chemotherapy. Patients who underwent oophorectomy and radiation 
therapy appeared to do better, but the number of patients was small. Of the 58 
patients without nodal invasion, 82% were alive at five years and 75% were alive 
at 10 years. Grave signs did not influence the survival rate in this group. 
While the majority of patients with Stage III carcinoma had unfavorable 
variables, there were some patients who demonstrated a low recurrence rate and a 
long survival time. Aggressive treatment should be designed to save those 
patients who can be helped and to improve those patients whose life expectancy 
is limited. There is no place for timid initial treatment whether by operation 
or by irradiation. It must be given with intent to cure even though palliation 
is most often attained.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-198012000-00002
PMCID: PMC1344967
PMID: 7447521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1980 Aug 15;105(33):1133-5. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1070826.

[Life expectancy of patients with chronic obstructive airway disease yesterday 
and today].

[Article in German]

Ulmer WT.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1070826
PMID: 7449624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Fortschr Med. 1980 Jul 3;98(25):987-8.

[Epidemiology of influenza A with special reference to the "Texas" pandemic in 
1978].

[Article in German]

Arnold H.

A synopsis of morbidity, mortality, causes of death and serological surveys 
offers a different view of the epidemiology of influenza A from what is 
generally assumed. Special emphasis was laid upon the question, if small 
epidemics are the main cause of the mortality late in winter and absence of 
work. It seems unlikely that epidemics originating during a period of drift can 
be controlled through mass-vaccinations with variant-specific vaccines. These 
epidemics occur too fast. Better knowledge of the epidemiology is an important 
preliminary for an effective and rational prophylaxis.

PMID: 7450638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. J Indiana State Med Assoc. 1980 Jul;73(7):471-3.

Male-female longevity comparisons among the Amish.

Miller GH.

PMID: 7452039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Minerva Med. 1980 Nov 10;71(44):3251-60.

[Tetraventricular ependymoma. Presentation of a case].

[Article in Italian]

Borromei A, Giancola LC, Bertoni F, Bacchini P.

The clinical study of encephalic ependymoma shows that cases present with 
polymorphous clinical pictures depending on intra and/or periventricular 
tumoural growth, generally such as to hinder precise diagnosis during life, 
unless under direct control, or, currently, using computerized axial tomography. 
The reported case, completed by macro and microscopic autoptic study, takes on 
particular importance because the neoplasia involved all encephalic ventricular 
cavities. This exceptional localisation and extension, only gave an aspecific 
clinical picture, dominated by the presence of a slight internal communicating 
type hydrocephalus and immediate general convulsive signs.

PMID: 7454091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1980 Sep-Oct;5(5):395-8. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-198009000-00001.

The treatment of cervical spine metastasis from the prostate with a Halo cast.

Danzig LA, Resnick D, Akeson WH.

Three patients with adenocarcinoma of the prostate and metastasis to the 
cervical spine required stabilization to prevent neurologic impairment. In each 
instance, a Halo cast was used. This method of stabilization is easily applied 
and well suited for patients with shortened life expectancy. It allows 
protection of the cord while chemotherapy and radiation are administered.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-198009000-00001
PMID: 7455769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Z Alternsforsch. 1980;35(2):171-5.

[Geriatric problems in urology. Development of age averages in surgical 
treatment of bladder-neck adenoma at the St. George's Hospital in Leipzig during 
the last 7 decades].

[Article in German]

Weiner R, Oehler D.

In geriatric urology main task rents on the treatment of patients suffering from 
a prostatic disease. Caused by the aging of the population increased the number 
of patients with an adenoma of the prostata. An analysis of age in prostatectomy 
in the last 65 years of a clinic can be demonstrated, that the age by surgical 
treatment of prostata adenoma is lower increased than by other surgical 
treatments. The cause of this development are discussed.

PMID: 7456499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Z Gerontol. 1980 Jan-Feb;13(1):71-6.

The elderly in a changing Egyptian society.

Fadel-Girgis M.

PMID: 7456617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Cancer Treat Rep. 1980 Oct-Nov;64(10-11):1087-95.

High-dose metronidazole: pharmacokinetics and bioavailability using an iv 
preparation and application of its use as a radiosensitizer.

Rabin HR, Urtasun RC, Partington J, Koziol D, Sharon M, Walker K.

As an extension of studies on the clinical use of nitroimidazoles as 
radiosensitizers, single-dose pharmacokinetic studies of iv metronidazole (500 
mg/100-ml vials) were performed in eight consenting patients. Single doses of 
0.5, 1.0, 1.5, and 2.0 g (0.29-1.21 g/m2) were administered iv by a zero-order 
infusion pump. Serial timed blood and urine samples were assayed for 
metronidazole and its two metabolites (acetic acid and ethoxy compounds) using a 
high-pressure liquid chromatographic assay. Open two-compartment kinetic 
characteristics of metronidazole were computed from simultaneous plasma infusion 
and urine excretion-rate equations using a nonlinear least-squares regression 
analysis program (NONLIN). Means of the four kinetic parameters were (h-1): k12, 
1.18; k21, 0.86; k10, 0.22; and k'e, 0.46 x 10(-4). Means of the apparent 
volumes of distribution were (liters/kg): Vc, 0.41; VB, 1.02; and Vss, 0.75. The 
mean (+/- SD) for alpha-half-life was 1.2 +/- 1.3 hours, and that for 
beta-half-life was 9.8 +/- 5.9 hours. Seven of the eight patients received a 
second identical dose orally 1 week later, and the absolute bioavailability was 
estimated to approximate 100%. Unless the oral route is not feasible and if 
immediate high peak blood levels are not necessary, oral metronidazole is the 
preferred route of administration of metronidazole for its radiosensitizing 
effects.

PMID: 7459894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Crit Care Med. 1981 Feb;9(2):94-7. doi: 10.1097/00003246-198102000-00005.

Survival, cost of hospitalization, and prognosis in infants critically ill with 
respiratory distress syndrome requiring mechanical ventilation.

Shannon DC, Crone RK, Todres ID, Krishnamoorthy KS.

It was found that, during 1974, it cost an average of $8842 ($12,909 in 1979) to 
care for a survivor of severe respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) who required 
mechanical ventilation in this ICU compared to $2448 ($3574 in 1979) for 
nonsurvivors. Death in 15 out of the 16 nonsurvivors was accompanied by grade 
III-IV intraventricular hemorrhage. This complication also accounted for 
moderate to severe neurological impairment in two of the three survivors so 
affected. The cost of care prorated for life expectancy was $0.42 ($0.61 in 
1979) per day of life. These data are compared with similar data generated from 
adult intensive care patients from the same institution.

