DOI: 10.1097/00003246-198102000-00005
PMID: 7460590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Eur Urol. 1980;6(6):347-51. doi: 10.1159/000473370.

Urinary diversion in the elderly patient.

Zingg EJ, Bornet B, Bishop MC.

Diversion and cystectomy have often been considered at length in the literature 
but little attention has been paid to the relevance and feasibility of these 
procedures performed specifically in the elderly patient. We describe here the 
results of urinary diversion in 45 patients of over 70 years of age. Most 
received an ileal conduit though ureterosigmoidostomy, cutaneous ureterostomy 
and transureterocutaneous ureterostomy were occasionally performed. In most 
patients diversion was done as part of a scheme of radical treatment of bladder 
cancer, but in others it was undertaken for palliative purposes or benign 
disease. The results of this retrospective study are sufficiently encouraging 
for us to continue to recommend such apparently extreme measures to patients 
whose life expectancy may be as much as 9 years. Furthermore diversion provides 
good palliation in preterminal disease. Moreover in patients with limited life 
expectancy ureterostomy should be seriously considered as a procedure which is 
quickly performed and with few early postoperative complications.

DOI: 10.1159/000473370
PMID: 7460984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Demography. 1980 Nov;17(4):345-64.

On the demography of aging.

Siegel JS.

PMID: 7461227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 1980 Jul;17(4):363-8.

[Central problems of biomedical gerontology (author's transl)].

[Article in Japanese]

Ota K.

PMID: 7463815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Oncology. 1981;38(2):76-85. doi: 10.1159/000225528.

Effect of cigarette smoking on susceptibility to lung cancer.

Reif AE.

Fisher first suggested that genetic predisposition to lung cancer is a more 
important factor than cigarette smoking, and that therefore one may smoke. 
Recently, this thesis has been defended strongly by Burch. Here, a literature 
survey has been done that indicates that the genetic susceptibility for 
development of lung cancer varies between individuals. But it is wrong to 
conclude from this that therefore one may smoke. Such a conclusion only would be 
valid, if there was a close relationship between the genetic tendency to smoke 
cigarettes, and the genetic tendency to develop lung cancer. The evidence that 
such a relationship does not exist is overwhelming. It is, therefore, valid to 
conclude that the large excess of deaths from lung cancer in cigarette smokers 
as compared to nonsmokers is a direct consequence of smoking cigarettes. To 
illustrate the effect of cigarette smoking on susceptibility to lung cancer, the 
distribution of susceptibilities to lung cancer in cigarette smokers and in 
nonsmokers has been derived. The shape of the susceptibility distribution is 
determined by the effects of all environmental carcinogens (both known and 
unknown) to which the population has been exposed, as well as by differences in 
genetic susceptibility between members of the population. The method described 
has general application.

DOI: 10.1159/000225528
PMID: 7465162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Q J Med. 1980;49(195):283-93.

The impact of treatment with levodopa on Parkinson's disease.

Shaw KM, Lees AJ, Stern GM.

The progress of 178 patients with Parkinson's disease who began treatment with 
levodopa between November 1969 and December 1972 is reviewed after six years. 
One hundred and twenty-five patients showed an initial improvement of their 
individual total disability scores exceeding 25 per cent, but after six years of 
sustained treatment only 37 patients still obtained similar benefit. By 1978 
only five patients had maintained their initial improvement compared to 69 
patients after two years therapy; however, 47 patients were still better than 
before treatment. The overall mortality ratio--the ratio of observed to expected 
death rate--for all the patients was 1.45:1. In those patients who unable to 
tolerate levodopa for longer than two years the ratio was 2.38:1; in those who 
were able to tolerate sustained medication, life expectancy was normal (ratio of 
0.91:1 for males and 1.14:1 for females). Involuntary movements were the 
commonest complication of treatment. Three main types were distinguished. Peak 
dose dyskinesias, beginning 20 to 90 minutes after an oral dose and most severe 
midway through the inter-dose period, affected 80 per cent of patients. Early 
morning and end-of-dose dystonia occurred in 20 per cent of patients and 
biphasic dyskinesia--two distinct episodes of involuntary movements within each 
inter-dose period--was the least common pattern affecting 3 per cent of 
patients. Involuntary movements increased in frequency and severity as treatment 
continued. End-of-dose deterioration ('wearing-off' effect of individual doses) 
occurred in 65 per cent of patients: unpredictable oscillations in motor 
performance (the 'on-off' phenomenon) unrelated to the time and dosage of 
levodopa, occurred in 10 per cent. Psychiatric side effects included toxic 
confusional states, visual pseudohallucinations and paranoid psychoses and 
constituted the most frequent reason for stopping medication. Forty (22 per 
cent) of the patients had suffered severe depression before the onset of disease 
and levodopa had no sustained antidepressant effect in this group. After six 
years of treatment with levodopa, 32 per cent of the patients had unequivocal 
dementia.

PMID: 7465763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1980 Apr 30;28(1):47-57.

[Higher rural mortality or lower urban mortality in France? (author's transl)].

[Article in French]

Bouvier-Colle MH, Robine JM, Garros B.

Examination of crude and standardized rates, life expectancies and death 
probabilities by age shows an excess of mortality for males and females in 
little towns (less than 10 000 inhabitants) and on the other hand a lower 
mortality in parisian area. One aspect of the problem--relation between 
mortality and urbanisation (localities size)--is not the same with the sexes. 
For males, there is a lower mortality in rural area, on the contrary, for 
females, mortality is decreasing while the size of the locality is increasing. 
It would be possible to explain this results by parameters closely connected 
with urbanisation, such as socio-economic groups, marital status, health system. 
A next research will take this parameters and medical causes into account.

PIP: The authors examine mortality in France according to urban and rural area. 
They consider crude and standardized death rates, life expectancies, and death 
probabilities by age. The relationship between mortality and factors including 
urbanization, socioeconomic and marital status, and availabiliy of health 
services is analyzed (SUMMARY IN ENG)

PMID: 7465911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. S Afr Med J. 1981 Feb 28;59(9):294-6.

Ageing and mental problems in the family context.

Silbert MV.

Family doctors have substantially contributed to extending life expectancy 
beyond the biblical allocation of three score years and ten, and, ironically, we 
may now find ourselves having to cope with problems in the aged for which our 
training has not adequately equipped us. The topic of mental disorders in the 
aged provides for discussion of various relevant issues in geriatric care such 
as diagnostic problems and difficulties (seen not only in their psychiatric 
context, but also in their medical and social contexts); difficulties in 
management; the significance of losses sustained in later life, both within the 
context of the family and in other support systems; the general practitioner's 
role in management; and, finally, the attitude of the doctor toward the aged.

PMID: 7466530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Surgery. 1981 Mar;89(3):296-303.

Femoropopliteal bypass to the isolated popliteal segment: is 
polytetrafluoroethylene graft acceptable?

Veith FJ, Gupta SK, Daly VD.

In a series of 148 polytetrafluoroethylene femoropopliteal bypasses performed 
for limb salvage, 33-month life-table cumulative patency rates for grafts 
inserted into an isolated popliteal artery segment (91% +/- 5%) were not 
significantly different from those inserted into a popliteal segment with 
angiographically better runoff (78% +/- 5%). Similarly, below-knee 
reconstructions had 3-year patency rates (86% +/- 6%) that were not 
significantly different from those for bypasses inserted into the popliteal 
artery above the knee (79% +/- 6%). One clear disadvantage of the isolated 
popliteal artery segment as a site for distal insertion of the bypass was the 
increased incidence of limb loss despite a patent reconstruction. This was 
particularly frequent in diabetics with extensive foot gangrene or infection and 
could be avoided by a secondary extension of the bypass to a patent distal leg 
or foot artery.

PMID: 7466617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Z Alternsforsch. 1980;35(1):55-8.

[Sexuality over sixty (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Aresin L.

In spite of the heterogenous composition of the two groups, the results 
regarding the different behaviour of men and women of advanced age are rather 
similar. The differences that do exist are, however, not genuine and 
sex-specific, rather they attributable to socio-cultural factors which have 
shaped the traditional sexual roles of men and women belonging to these age 
groups. In view of the changes that have taken place in contemporary society, we 
can expect that these differences will gradually disappear in the near future, 
as shown by the example of the younger generation. In spite of the frequent 
physical disorders and regressive changes developing in both sexes because of 
old age, the physiological situation must not be neglected. Even people of 
advanced age require a full psychological assessment as soon as they begin 
suffering from sexual disorders. Besides substitution therapy based on hormones, 
psychotherapy plays an important role in the treatment of such conditions. Since 
life expectancy continues to rise in all developed countries, the knowledge of 
the sexual behaviour of older people is becoming more and more important. The 
physician should, therefore, be conversant with the basic factors of this stage 
of life and enhance his knowledge on the sexuality of people of advanced age and 
related problems in order to be able to understand the problems of this group of 
people who have the same rights as young people, and to assist them, if help is 
required.

PMID: 7467418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Z Gesamte Hyg. 1980;26(11):824-8.

[Measuring of mortality].

[Article in German]

Lorenz R, Schulz N.

PMID: 7467519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Blut. 1981 Feb;42(2):69-78. doi: 10.1007/BF01030028.

The value of prognostic indices in aplastic anaemia.

Sleijfer DT, Mulder NH, Nieweg HO.

In 43 patients with aplastic anaemia we assessed the accuracy of different 
prognostic systems. Patients dying within 6 months after diagnosis were 
correctly predicted in 60% of cases with the Lynch-index with a sensitivity of 
82%. With the Najean-index 40% of these patients are correctly predicted, this 
index has a sensitivity of 100%. More accurate are the prognostic criteria 
proposed by Camitta et al [5]. With these criteria, this rapidly fatal group is 
correctly predicted in 85% of the patients, indicating that 15% of the patients 
are incorrectly predicted to have a limited survival. The sensitivity, however, 
is 100%. The Lohrmann-index, based on reticulocyte count predicts 64% of this 
group with severe aplasia. None of these prognostic systems do accurately 
predict long survival. We suggest that the best differentiation between patients 
with a long-term prognosis (more than 5 years) and patients who die from 
aplastic anaemia within 5 years, is made by re-evaluating the leucocyte and 
platelet count 3 months after the initial diagnosis. Decrease in blood counts 
(over 10%) predicts death from aplastic anaemia within 5 years correctly in all 
patients; stable or increased blood counts predict long survival in 75% of the 
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01030028
PMID: 7470640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Cesk Pediatr. 1981;36(1):30-2.

[New projections for the population of Czechoslovakia up to the year 2000].

[Article in Czech]

Srb V.

PMID: 7471286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1981 Mar 20;106(12):368-70. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1070319.

[Life expectancy and size of the liver in the presence of liver metastases: 
study of the diagnostic significance of palpatory findings (author's transl)].

[Article in German]

Assel H, Fedderke J, Voges S.

A retrospective analysis of survival time of 348 patients with liver metastases 
indicates that both the extent of liver enlargement and also its increased 
firmness and changes at its surface are easily obtainable findings of prognostic 
value. In the presence of liver metastases there is a significant correlation 
between median life expectancy and size of the liver.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1070319
PMID: 7472169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. J Neurosurg. 1995 Nov;83(5):806-11. doi: 10.3171/jns.1995.83.5.0806.

Late patency of long saphenous vein bypass grafts to the anterior and posterior 
cerebral circulation.

Regli L(1), Piepgras DG, Hansen KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.

To evaluate the late results and the natural history of long saphenous vein 
bypass grafts (SVGs) between the extracranial and intracranial circulation, the 
authors retrospectively analyzed 202 consecutive SVGs performed at the Mayo 
Clinic from 1979 to 1992. The distal anastomosis was to the vertebrobasilar 
system in 98 patients and to the carotid artery system in 103 patients. Surgical 
indications were advanced cerebroocclusive disease in 63% (127 cases), giant 
aneurysm in 37% (74 cases), and neoplasm in one patient. In 125 patent SVGs 
follow-up information was obtained for longer than 1 year and in 23 patent SVGs 
it was over 10 years (maximum 13 years, median 6.5 years). Most of the graft 
failures (76%) occurred during the 1st year after surgery, with 42% of all graft 
failures found during the first 24 hours after operation. Late graft attrition 
occurred in only 10 patients (8%). Cumulative patency at 1 year was 86% +/- 3%, 
at 5 years 82% +/- 4%, and at 13 years 73% +/- 19%. Neurological worsening at 
the time of occlusion developed in 72% of patients with early occlusion, whereas 
80% of patients with late graft occlusion had no new neurological symptoms. 
Long-term patency of SVGs for cerebral revascularization appears to be 
excellent, with an average failure rate of 1% to 1.5% per year following the 1st 
year after surgery. To minimize early graft thrombosis, meticulous attention 
must be paid to technical detail.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1995.83.5.0806
PMID: 7472547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. J Okla State Med Assoc. 1995 Oct;88(10):427-9.

Why the interest in women's health?

Brandt EN Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Policy and Research, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences 
Center, Oklahoma City 73190, USA.

PMID: 7472711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. J Med Entomol. 1995 Sep;32(5):636-45. doi: 10.1093/jmedent/32.5.636.

Effect of temperature on Culex tarsalis (Diptera: Culicidae) from the Coachella 
and San Joaquin Valleys of California.

Reisen WK(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Public Health Biology, School of Public Health, 
University of California, Berkeley 94720, USA.

The F1 progeny of Culex tarsalis Coquillett females from the Coachella (CV) and 
San Joaquin (SJV) valleys collected during April 1991, and April, July, and 
October 1993 were reared and maintained as adults at 5 constant temperatures 
ranging from 14 to 38 degrees C. CV F1 progeny exhibited smaller body size, 
enhanced survival during spring, and higher autogeny rates than SJV F1 progeny; 
however, upper and lower thermal tolerance limits, immature developmental rates 
and survivorship, and adult life table parameters were relatively similar for 
both strains. Mosquitoes from both sites exhibited midsummer changes in immature 
developmental rates and survivorship, adult wing length, life expectancy at 
emergence, and generation time. These data indicated that temperature may select 
for both spatial and temporal changes in mosquito biology.

DOI: 10.1093/jmedent/32.5.636
PMID: 7473618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. J Med Ethics. 1995 Aug;21(4):220-4. doi: 10.1136/jme.21.4.220.

The elimination of morality.

Harris J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre For Social Ethics and Policy, University of Manchester.

Anne Maclean has written a book which purports to identify and then definitively 
to reject the claims which she perceives to be the claims of bioethics. If she 
is right, then the enterprise to which this journal is dedicated is misconceived 
and worthless. In this paper, I attempt to show why so far from being not right 
she is comprehensively wrong, both in her understanding of the nature of 
bioethics and in the specific moral claims she makes about those she terms 
'bioethicists'. Since much of her book-length study is devoted to a criticism of 
my own work, this paper analyses the extent to which Maclean's criticisms of me, 
and by extension, of other bioethicists, are sustainable.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.21.4.220
PMCID: PMC1376716
PMID: 7473641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Nihon Eiseigaku Zasshi. 1995 Aug;50(3):730-6. doi: 10.1265/jjh.50.730.

[Risk factors for mortality and mortality rate of sumo wrestlers].

[Article in Japanese]

Hoshi A(1), Inaba Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Environmental Health, Juntendo University 
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

We compared the mortality rate of sumo wrestlers with that of the 
contemporaneous Japanese male population, and inferred the usefulness of an 
index for predicting longevity in sumo wrestlers. The standardized mortality 
ratios (SMR) for sumo wrestlers were very high in each period, and also high for 
ages from 35 to 74. Cox's proportional hazards model analysis revealed that the 
variables in "nyuumaku" entry year and BMI were statistically significant (p < 
0.05) factors in mortality. In the survival curves, the lower BMI group had good 
life expectancy compared with the higher BMI group. In conclusion, the higher 
rate of mortality in sumo wrestlers seems to be due to the markedly higher rate 
of mortality from 35 to 74 years old. In sumo wrestlers, also, this study 
provides evidence that the higher overweight groups have substantially higher 
risks for mortality.

DOI: 10.1265/jjh.50.730
PMID: 7474495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Khirurgiia (Sofiia). 1995;48(1):18-22.

[Surgical treatment in patients with diabetic macroangiopathy].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Kirilova K, Zakhariev T, Chirkov A.

Diabetes mellitus is a disease distributed on a worldwide scale. Although the 
therapeutic approach to diabetes mellitus and its complications in current use 
brings about considerable prolongation of the life expectancy in diabetics, the 
frequency of cardiovascular complications is constantly augmenting; the latter 
are taken to be the underlying cause of death in this contingent of patients. 
The lower extremities are usually affected by chronic arterial insufficiency. 
The aim of this study is to analyze the results of surgical treatment of the 
occlusive arterial lesions in the lower extremities of diabetics, and specify 
the indications and type of intervention. Over a 6-year period (1987-1992), 760 
arterial operations of the lower extremities are performed. Ninety-six 
reconstructions are done in diabetics-12.15 per cent. The youngest patient is 39 
years of age, and the eldest--80 years. 75 per cent of the patients are given 
treatment with oral antidiabetic drugs. Most of them have concomitant 
diseases--72 cases (75 per cent). Seventy-one (73.96 per cent) present clinical 
manifestation of rest pain and/or ulcerations, and only 25 cases (26.4 per 
cent)--intermittent claudication according to R. Fontain. Those with arterial 
lesions in both segments prevailed--aorto- or iliofemoral lesion. Doppler 
sonography is performed in all patients with the exception of two studied by 
angiography. The operative procedures performed include: femoropopliteal--35, 
aorto-bifemoral--33, aorto- or ilio-femoral bypass-9, arterial reconstructions 
in both segments--14. The postoperative results are good and fair in 85 cases 
(88.5 per cent).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 7474751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Khirurgiia (Sofiia). 1995;48(1):29-33.

[The results of resection treatment in infrarenal aneurysms of the abdominal 
aorta over the last 5 years (1989-1993)].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Drenovski V, Stankev M, Chervenkov V.

Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) are a major problem in vascular surgery owing 
to their ever increasing incidence, asymptomatic course and disastrous 
complications. The positive postoperative results of elective treatment account 
for a lowered mortality rate, with life expectancy prolonged as much as twice. 
However, the results of the operative treatment of AAA on an emergency basis are 
still unsatisfactory. It is the purpose of this paper to describe hitherto 
experience and success of the clinic with AAA treatment, and inform the medical 
circles about the increased potentialities of the management of this unexplored, 
difficult but still curable disease. Seventy-three patients presenting AAA, 
operated on during the period 1989-1993, are analyzed. The clinical signs and 
associated diseases, frequency of clinical forms, preoperative factors 
influencing the risks of forthcoming operations and the long-term results are 
comprehensively discussed. An asymptomatic clinical form is observed in 60.5 per 
cent of the patients (Pt = 0.05). Operative lethality is significantly increased 
in the event of rupture of the aneurysm, its diameter, angina pectoris symptoms 
and hypertension (P = 0.01). A standard operative technique, described by 
Creech, is used. Haemonetics Cell Saver is also employed. Thus, the amount of 
donor blood is reduced by one third of the volume required without any accidents 
or fatalities. The causes of postoperative death include: ischemic colitis, 
myocardial infarction and bronchopneumonia. Thanks to the experience and skill 
of the surgical and anesthesiological teams, the last five years are marked by a 
low rate of mortality - 3.7 percent for the elective group, and 12.5 percent for 
the emergency cases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 7474753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Klin Oczna. 1995 Mar-Apr;97(3-4):74-6.

[Retinitis due to cytomegalovirus in AIDS].

[Article in Polish]

Mackiewicz J(1), Stransky TJ.

Author information:
(1)Katedry I Kliniki Okulistyki AM w Lublinie.

Clinical course of 4 AIDS patients suffering from CMV retinitis is presented. 
Two patients were treated with ganciclovir, one died before starting the 
treatment and one was vitrectomized with silicone oil injection. Of the two 
patients treated with ganciclovir one improved significantly when the other 
continued to deteriorate and died after 8 months of follow-up. Early diagnosis 
and treatment of patients with zone I involvement gives the best chances for 
improvement. Mean life expectancy in aids patients after diagnosis of CMV 
retinitis is 7-10 months.

PMID: 7474799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1995 Oct;110(4 Pt 1):979-87. doi: 
10.1016/s0022-5223(05)80165-5.

Coronary artery bypass without cardiopulmonary bypass: analysis of short-term 
and mid-term outcome in 220 patients.

Moshkovitz Y(1), Lusky A, Mohr R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, 
Israel.

Two hundred twenty patients, preferentially those with high-risk conditions, 
underwent coronary artery bypass grafting without cardiopulmonary bypass. Early 
unfavorable outcome events included operative mortality (7 patients, 3.2%), 
nonfatal perioperative myocardial infarction (6 patients, 2.7%), cerebrovascular 
accident (1 patient, 0.4%), and sternal infection (3 patients, 1.4%). There were 
two deaths (13%) among 15 patients with calcified aorta and four (12%) in 33 
patients who underwent emergency operation. Multivariate analysis revealed these 
two risk factors to be the only predictors of early mortality (odds ratios, 8.0 
and 9.8, respectively). Preoperative risk factors such as left ventricular 
dysfunction (ejection fraction < or = 35%) (40 patients, 18%), congestive heart 
failure (46 patients, 21%), acute myocardial infarction (59 patients, 27%), 
cardiogenic shock (7 patients, 3%), age 70 years or older (59 patients, 27%), 
renal failure (19 patients, 9%), and cerebrovascular accident and carotid 
disease (11 patients, 5%) were not found to be major predictors of early 
mortality or unfavorable outcome. During 12 months of follow-up (range 1 to 21 
months), there were four cardiac and three noncardiac deaths (1-year actuarial 
survival 93%) and 17 cases (7.7%) of early return of angina. Calcified aorta, 
nonuse of the internal mammary artery, reoperation, and diabetes mellitus were 
independent predictors of unfavorable events. We conclude that coronary artery 
bypass grafting without cardiopulmonary bypass can be done with relatively low 
operative mortality, although there seems to be an increased risk for early 
return of angina. This procedure should therefore be considered for patients 
with appropriate coronary anatomy, in whom cardiopulmonary bypass poses a high 
risk. This procedure is still hazardous with calcified aorta or emergency 
operation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5223(05)80165-5
PMID: 7475164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Mech Ageing Dev. 1995 Jul 28;82(1):31-50. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(95)01603-w.

Induction and repair of benzo[a]pyrene-DNA adducts in C57BL/6 and BALB/c mice: 
association with aging and longevity.

Boerrigter ME(1), Wei JY, Vijg J.

Author information:
(1)Division on Aging, Harvard Medical School, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, MA 
02215, USA.

In this study, we employed the sensitive 32P-postlabeling assay to assess the 
influence of age on the formation and disappearance of benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P) 
DNA adducts in six organs of two different mouse strains with different life 
spans, C57BL/6ByJ (C57BL/6) and BALB/cByJ (BALB/c). Following a single, 
intraperitoneal treatment with 50 mg B[a]P per kg of bodyweight, maximum 
formation of the major B[a]P-derived adduct, trans-(7R)-N2-[10-(7 beta,8 alpha, 
9 alpha-trihydroxy- 7,8,9,10)-tetrahydrobenzo[a]pyrene]-yl-deoxyguanosine 
(BPDE-N2-dG), appeared to be age- and organ-dependent; minor differences were 
observed for the same organs between the two mouse strains. The maximum 
formation of BPDE-N2-dG in the various organs from young and old mice differed 
by a factor of 2-4 and was two- to eightfold lower in organs from old mice as 
compared to young mice. The removal of BPDE-N2-dG, up to 7 days after the 
treatment, was apparently age- and strain-dependent; non-significant differences 
were observed for organs within strains at each age studied. In young C57BL/6 
mice, which have a greater life expectancy than BALB/c, the rate of 
disappearance of BPDE-N2-dG was significantly higher in liver and heart as 
compared to young BALB/c. At the older age a decrease in the rate of BPDE-N2-dG 
disappearance was observed more frequently, and to a relatively greater extent, 
in organs from C57BL/6 mice as compared to BALB/c mice. These results are 
discussed in relation to the differences in life spans and the incidence of 
pathological lesions between the two strains of mice.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(95)01603-w
PMID: 7475355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Lancet. 1995 Nov 4;346(8984):1190-3. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(95)92898-7.

Randomised placebo-controlled trial of primaquine for prophylaxis of falciparum 
and vivax malaria.

Fryauff DJ(1), Baird JK, Basri H, Sumawinata I, Purnomo, Richie TL, Ohrt CK, 
Mouzin E, Church CJ, Richards AL, et al.

Author information:
(1)Naval Medical Research Unit No 2, Jakarta, Indonesia.

Drug resistance has made malaria prevention difficult and the new agents are too 
expensive for widespread use. Primaquine, an established drug for treatment, is 
potentially useful for prevention. Malaria prophylaxis with primaquine was 
evaluated in Irian Jaya during one year in Javanese men who were not deficient 
in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD). 126 volunteers were randomised to 
receive 0.5 mg/kg primaquine base or placebo daily (double-blinded), or 300 mg 
chloroquine base weekly (open). The protective efficacy of primaquine relative 
to placebo was 94.5% (95% confidence interval 57-99) for Plasmodium falciparum 
and 90.4% (95% CI 58-98) for P vivax. Attack rates for either parasite did not 
differ significantly between the chloroquine and placebo groups. Incidence 
density of physical complaints not associated with parasitaemia was low (17-18 
complaints/person-year) and was about the same in all groups except for cough, 
which was increased in the primaquine group. Complete blood counts were normal 
and no evidence of hepatic or renal dysfunction was found with primaquine. 
However, at 50 weeks the primaquine group had a mean methaemoglobin of 5.8% 
(range 1.4-13%), which declined by half within 7 days of ending prophylaxis. 
When used daily for one year by men with normal G-6-PD activity, primaquine was 
well tolerated and effective for prevention of malaria.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(95)92898-7
PMID: 7475658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. N Engl J Med. 1995 Nov 30;333(22):1456-61. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199511303332203.

Reanalysis and results after 12 years of follow-up in a randomized clinical 
trial comparing total mastectomy with lumpectomy with or without irradiation in 
the treatment of breast cancer.

Fisher B, Anderson S, Redmond CK, Wolmark N, Wickerham DL, Cronin WM.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1995 Nov 30;333(22):1496-8.
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Apr 11;334(15):989.

BACKGROUND: Previous findings from a clinical trial (Protocol B-06) conducted by 
the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project (NSABP) indicated the 
worth of lumpectomy and breast irradiation for treating breast cancer. After the 
discovery by NSABP staff members of falsified information on patients enrolled 
in the study by St. Luc Hospital in Montreal, separate audits were conducted at 
St. Luc Hospital and other participating institutions. We report the results of 
both audits and update the study findings through an average of 12 years of 
follow-up.
METHODS: Patients with either negative or positive axillary nodes and tumors 4 
cm or less in diameter were randomly assigned to one of three treatments: total 
mastectomy, lumpectomy followed by breast irradiation, or lumpectomy without 
irradiation. Three cohorts of patients were analyzed. The first cohort included 
all 2105 randomized patients, who were analyzed according to the 
intention-to-treat principle. The second cohort consisted of 1851 eligible 
patients in the first cohort with known nodal status who agreed to be followed 
and who accepted their assigned therapy (among those excluded were 6 patients 
from St. Luc Hospital who were declared ineligible because of falsified biopsy 
dates). The third cohort consisted of the patients in the second cohort minus 
the 322 eligible patients from St. Luc Hospital (total, 1529 patients).
RESULTS: Regardless of the cohort, no significant differences were found in 
overall survival, disease-free survival, or survival free of disease at distant 
sites between the patients who underwent total mastectomy and those treated by 
lumpectomy alone or by lumpectomy plus breast irradiation. After 12 years of 
follow-up, the cumulative incidence of a recurrence of tumor in the ipsilateral 
breast was 35 percent in the group treated with lumpectomy alone and 10 percent 
in the group treated with lumpectomy and breast irradiation (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings continue to indicate that lumpectomy followed by 
breast irradiation is appropriate therapy for women with either negative or 
positive axillary nodes and breast tumors 4 cm or less in diameter.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199511303332203
PMID: 7477145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Neuroepidemiology. 1995;14(5):258-68. doi: 10.1159/000109801.

Prevalence of spinal cord injury: an international comparison.

Blumer CE(1), Quine S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Sydney, Australia.

Information on the prevalence of spinal cord injury is becoming more important 
as the life expectancy of survivors is increasing, but few prevalence studies 
have been published. This paper summarises the internationally available 
findings on prevalence, including the methodologies and data sources used. 
Prevalence rates ranged from 11 to 112 per 100,000 population. Methodological 
difficulties in comparing findings over time, country, defined population and 
data source are discussed, and a more standardised methodology is recommended.

DOI: 10.1159/000109801
PMID: 7477667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Pain. 1995 Jun;61(3):492-493. doi: 10.1016/0304-3959(95)00037-S.

Evaluation of life expectancy in selection of patients undergoing percutaneous 
cervical cordotomy or subarachnoid phenol block for pain control of costopleural 
syndrome.

Orlandini G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Therapy Hospital of Lavagna 16040 
Genoa, Italy.

Comment on
    Pain. 1994 Sep;58(3):325-30.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3959(95)00037-S
PMID: 7478694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Pneumologie. 1995 Aug;49(8):466-9.

[The importance of lung function as a predictor of 2-year mortality in 
mucoviscidosis].

[Article in German]

Grasemann H(1), Wiesemann HG, Ratjen F.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Kinder- und Jugendmedizin der Universität--Gesamthochschule 
Essen.

Prediction of mortality in cystic fibrosis (CF) has become an important issue in 
the era of lung transplantation. A study from Toronto has shown a forced 
expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) below 30% predicted to be the best 
predictor of two-year mortality. The purpose of this investigation was to assess 
whether these data are relevant for other CF centers with a different overall 
life expectancy. We have analysed pulmonary function tests (PFTs) obtained in 
our population of CF patients between 1979 and 1991. 19 of the 73 patients 
included in this analysis had died. Cox proportional hazard regression analysis 
was performed using the lung function parameters as single covariates. In 
addition results of PFTs obtained two years before death were compared to 
similarly lagged values of surviving patients. Inspiratory vital capacity (IVC) 
(p < 0.0001), the ratio of residual volume/total lung capacity (RV/TLC) (p < 
0.0001), forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) (p < 0.0002), specific 
conductance (sGaw) (p < 0.025) and a weight for height below the third 
percentile (p < 0.023) were significant predictors of two-year mortality. 
Two-year mortality were 50% for a FEV1 < 30% predicted and 47% for a RV/TLC 
ratio > 50%. Our data confirm that a FEV1 < 30% and a RV/TLC ratio > 50% are 
significant predictors of mortality in CF. However, interindividual variability 
in survival with a FEV1 < 30% is high. The decision for lung transplantation can 
therefore not be based on pulmonary function alone.

PMID: 7479641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Psychol Med. 1995 Jul;25(4):787-96. doi: 10.1017/s0033291700035030.

The relationship between bipolar disorder and alcoholism: a controlled family 
study.

Maier W(1), Lichtermann D, Minges J, Delmo C, Heun R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Mainz, Germany.

Bipolar disorder and alcoholism are familial disorders. The familial-genetic 
relationship between both is controversial and has received insufficient study. 
This study explores whether bipolar disorder and alcoholism share familial risk 
factors, and whether the co-occurrence of lifetime diagnosis of bipolar disorder 
and alcoholism is familial. We report on first-degree relatives of 146 
consecutively admitted patients with either bipolar disorder or/and alcoholism; 
relatives of the patients (in total 728 relatives directly interviewed) were 
compared with first-degree relatives of 109 general population probands (320 
relatives directly interviewed). Overlap between the familial components 
underlying bipolar disorder and alcoholism was not observed if the analysis was 
restricted to 'pure' diagnostic groups. Excess comorbidity between bipolar 
disorder and alcoholism was observed in relatives. Multiple sources for this 
excess of comorbidity between major affective disorders and alcoholism in 
families of probands with bipolar disorder are likely; in particular, we found 
evidence for a distinct subgroup of comorbid cases with familial comorbidity; 
however, excess comorbidity was also found in absence of familial loading with 
alcoholism.

DOI: 10.1017/s0033291700035030
PMID: 7480456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Stat Med. 1995 Aug 30;14(16):1771-84. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780141606.

A quality-adjusted survival meta-analysis of adjuvant chemotherapy for 
premenopausal breast cancer. International Breast Cancer Study Group.

Cole BF(1), Gelber RD, Goldhirsch A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Brown University, Rhode Island 02912, USA.

The purpose of this paper is to develop and apply a meta-analysis methodology, 
that does not require patient-level data, for comparing treatments in terms of 
quality-of-life-adjusted survival. As a motivating example, we considered 
adjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer. This therapy has been shown to offer an 
improvement in recurrence-free and overall survival, especially for younger 
women, but its acute toxic effects discourage some physicians from prescribing 
it. To determine whether the benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy treatment 
outweighs its costs in terms of toxic effects, we performed a meta-analysis of 
quality-adjusted survival based on data from 1229 patients, 49 years of age or 
younger, randomized in eight clinical trials that compared chemotherapy versus 
no adjuvant systemic therapy. We conducted the meta-analysis by performing a 
quality-adjusted survival analysis known as a Q-TWiST analysis on each trial. A 
Q-TWiST analysis allows one to make treatment comparisons that incorporate 
differences in quality of life associated with various health states. In this 
analysis, we define as health states the periods of time patients spend: (i) 
with subjective toxic effects of chemotherapy; (ii) without symptoms of 
recurrence and toxicity, and (iii) following disease recurrence. We assigned 
weights to each health state which reflect their relative value in terms of 
quality of life and allowed them to vary in a sensitivity analysis. We then 
combined the individual trial results in a meta-analysis, using a multivariate 
regression model, in such a way that we could easily perform an overall 
sensitivity analysis. Individual patient-level data are not required to perform 
this meta-analysis methodology if the individual Q-TWiST analysis results for 
each trial are available.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780141606
PMID: 7481209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Rev Med Brux. 1995 Jul-Aug;16(4):285-90.

[Cardiovascular effects of replacement hormones].

[Article in French]

Kornitzer M(1), Hindlet JY.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'Epidémiologie et de Médecine Sociale, Ecole de Santé Publique, 
Faculté de Médecine, Université Libre de Bruxelles.

The authors discuss the possibility of a consensus concerning hormone 
replacement therapy in relation with the risk of cardiovascular diseases in 
postmenopausal women anno 1995. Although there are not yet randomised clinical 
trials published concerning the effect of hormone replacement therapy, combined 
or not, on the incidence of coronary heart disease, the criteria for causal 
association seem to be indeed present. Relative risk of women on replacement 
therapy compared to those without such therapy is around 0.55; there is a 
gradient which expresses itself by an inverse correlation between the length of 
the hormonal replacement therapy and risk of coronary heart disease; this 
substitution therapy is most probably an independent protective factor; there 
are numerous possible pathogenetic mechanisms, the most important being likely a 
significant increase of HDL-cholesterol; animal experiments confirm the 
favourable effects of natural oestrogens on atherogenesis. Finally, a recent 
clinical trial seems to show that the favourable effects on the coronary risk 
profile are observed both with and without combined hormonal substitution 
therapy.

PMID: 7481244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Semin Surg Oncol. 1995 Jul-Aug;11(4):319-27. doi: 10.1002/ssu.2980110407.

Lasers in rectosigmoid tumors.

Brunetaud JM(1), Maunoury V, Cochelard D.

Author information:
(1)Centre des Lasers, Hopital C. Huriez, Lille, France.

Over a 14-year period, 746 patients were treated at the Lille Laser Center for 
rectosigmoid tumor. Two hundred seventy-two patients were treated for palliation 
of symptoms from rectosigmoid cancer and 474 patients were treated for a benign 
rectosigmoid villous adenoma. The immediate success rate and complication rate 
were 85% and 2%, respectively, for patients with advanced cancer, and 92.8% and 
1.8% for those with a villous adenoma. Patients with an advanced cancer remained 
functionally improved during a 10.1-month average period after initial 
improvement. The recurrence rate after initial treatment for villous adenomas 
was 18% during a 29.7-month average follow-up. Immediate results were influenced 
by reason for treatment, initial symptoms, and circumferential extension for 
patients with a cancer, and only by circumferential extension for patients with 
a villous adenoma. Long-term results were influenced by reason for treatment and 
circumferential extension for patients with cancer, and by reason for treatment, 
initial histology and localization for patients with a villous adenoma. Laser 
treatment provided relief of symptoms in inoperable patients with advanced 
rectosigmoid carcinomas. Because treatment is long and difficult and the cancer 
rate is high, endoscopic laser should be limited in patients with a 
circumferential villous adenoma to non-surgical candidates. The risk of 
complication after surgery (some being fatal) has to be balanced against the 
risk of undetected carcinoma and the indication for endoscopic laser treatment 
should be discussed case by case.

DOI: 10.1002/ssu.2980110407
PMID: 7481369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Rev Neurol (Paris). 1995 Jun-Jul;151(6-7):363-7.

[Should asymptomatic carotid stenosis be operated on?].

[Article in French]

Bousser MG.

Should asymptomatic carotid stenosis be operated on? The aim of the present 
editorial is to stress that there is no simple answer to this question. The only 
undisputed point is that mild non hemodynamic stenosis carry such a low risk of 
ipsilateral brain infarct that surgery is unjustified. For tight asymptomatic 
stenosis ( > or = 75% at angiography according to the European method of 
measurement, > or = 60% according to the American method), the indication of 
surgery should be discussed on a case by case basis. Four main factors should be 
taken into account: the spontaneous risk of ipsilateral brain infarct (2% per 
year for stenosis > or = 75%) the risk of surgery (which should be less than 
3%); the patient's life expectancy, and his own will as regards a surgical 
operation. It is thus possible to evaluate for each patient, the pertinence of 
preventive surgery and the benefit/risk ratio of the operation in order to 
optimize the surgical decision.

PMID: 7481399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Scand J Gastroenterol. 1995 Aug;30(8):764-70. doi:
10.3109/00365529509096325.

Gut failure in pediatric and adult patients. Candidates for small-bowel 
transplantation in southern Finland.

Pakarinen M(1), Halttunen J, Rintala R, Kuusanmäki P.

Author information:
(1)Second Dept. of Surgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.

BACKGROUND: This study investigated the need for small-bowel transplantation 
(SBT) in southern Finland. In addition, we evaluated the effect of colon 
resection on the time required for intestinal adaptation in patients with gut 
failure.
METHODS: Mortality, morbidity, intestinal adaptation time, and surgical 
management were evaluated retrospectively in 24 patients (12 adults and 12 
children) with jejunoileal exculsion. Of the 24 patients 19 had undergone 
accompanying colon resection.
RESULTS: Intestinal adaptation had occurred in 12 of 18 survivors (67%). Two 
unadapted survivors were considered to be currently suitable candidates for SBT. 
The length of the remaining colon was inversely correlated (correlation 
coefficient r = -0.789; p < 0.0001) with the duration of intestinal adaptation.
CONCLUSIONS: Each year one to two patients per 1.27 million people could benefit 
from SBT in southern Finland. The length of the remaining colon is a major 
determinant of the duration of intestinal adaptation in patients with massive 
jejunoileal resection.

DOI: 10.3109/00365529509096325
PMID: 7481544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Science. 1995 Nov 3;270(5237):719-20.

Women's longevity.

Trussell J.

Comment on
    Science. 1995 Aug 11;269(5225):766-70.

PMID: 7481755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Soc Biol. 1995 Spring-Summer;42(1-2):133-42. doi:
10.1080/19485565.1995.9988893.

Another look at mortality crossovers.

Nam CB(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for the Study of Population, Florida State University, Tallahassee 
32312, USA.

Considerable debate still ensues on whether or not the so-called "mortality 
crossover," the intersection of age curves of mortality at the older ages, is 
artifactual or real. One school of thought argues that it is a function of 
misreporting of ages, greater for one population than another. The other school 
of thought counters that it persists apart from age misreporting and is due to 
selective frailty processes as age increases. An historical review of the debate 
is reported, after which an attempt at a balanced conclusion is offered.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1995.9988893
PMID: 7481916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Soc Biol. 1995 Spring-Summer;42(1-2):143-8. doi:
10.1080/19485565.1995.9988894.

Quantitative approaches to detect the fourth stage of the epidemiologic 
transition.

Bah SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Zimbabwe, Harare.

Widely diverse quantitative measures have been used to study the onset of the 
different stages of the epidemiologic transition, including the fourth stage. 
This report suggests additional methods for detecting the fourth stage of the 
epidemiologic transition that are more parsimonious than those previously used. 
While these methods are not new, they have potential for application in this 
area of research. An example of one of these methods is illustrated, using 
Canadian data.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1995.9988894
PMID: 7481917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


