829. Soc Sci Med. 1995 Aug;41(4):483-9. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(94)00353-u.

The relationship between cost-effectiveness analysis and cost-benefit analysis.

Johannesson M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden.

This paper examines the relationship between cost-effectiveness analysis and 
cost-benefit analysis. Provided that a cost-effectiveness analysis includes all 
the relevant societal costs, it is shown that a cost-effectiveness analysis can 
be interpreted as a cost-benefit analysis where the willingness to pay per 
effectiveness unit is assumed to be constant and the same for everyone. To relax 
this assumption the willingness to pay per effectiveness unit can be allowed to 
vary depending on for instance the size of the health effects and the target 
population. It is argued that cost-effectiveness analysis is best viewed as a 
subset of cost-benefit analysis, where the aim of the analysis is to estimate 
the cost function of producing health effects. It is also concluded that to 
interpret and use cost-effectiveness analysis as a tool to maximize the health 
effects for one specified real-world budget, will be inconsistent with a 
societal perspective and is likely to lead to major problems of suboptimization.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(94)00353-u
PMID: 7481942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Soc Secur Bull. 1995 Summer;58(2):34-50.

Mortality and income inequality among economically developed countries.

Duleep HO(1).

Author information:
(1)Urban Institute, Washington, DC, USA.

The absence of a correlation between age-adjusted death rates and the average 
income levels of economically developed countries has led researchers to 
conclude that income does not affect the mortality levels of economically 
developed countries. The mortality experiences of the former Soviet Union and 
some of the eastern European countries have further brought into question the 
importance of income's distribution in determining mortality among economically 
developed countries; prior to its breakup, the income distribution of the Soviet 
Union was as equal as that of Sweden, yet the life expectancy of the Soviets has 
been dramatically shorter than that of the Swedes. Using insights from a 
longitudinal microanalysis of U.S. mortality, this study presents evidence that, 
even for economically developed countries, the income distribution of a nation 
is an important determinant of its mortality. The results of this study also 
suggest that the relatively unequal income distribution of the United States is 
an important contributing factor to its low life expectancy relative to other 
high-income countries.

PMID: 7482130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Ther Umsch. 1995 Oct;52(10):678-81.

[Growth hormone: who can benefit from it?].

[Article in German]

Schwarz HP(1).

Author information:
(1)Dr. von Haunersches Kinderspital, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, München.

Recombinant human growth hormone (GH) has become available in unlimited 
quantities. Classic indications for GH therapy include GH deficiency of 
childhood and adult onset, Turner syndrome and chronic renal insufficiency. 
Nonclassic indications for GH use are short stature without GH deficiency, 
catabolic states, severe burns, osteoporosis. Controlled studies are necessary 
to prove a potential benefit of GH in nonclassic or new situations. The 
prescription of GH should be supervised by specialists to ensure that this 
expensive drug is used judiciously.

PMID: 7482379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1995;145(14):331-3.

[Social medicine aspects of pre- and postmenopause].

[Article in German]

Schmeiser-Rieder A(1), Concin H, Schwarz B, Kunze M.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozialmedizin, Universität Wien.

Due to the increasing life expectancy most women nowadays suffer from menopausal 
problems. These include not only menopausal symptoms, but also osteoporosis and 
atherosclerosis. Hormone replacement therapy therefore is a measure for keeping 
physiological standards. It has both preventive and therapeutic importance, for 
the individual as well as for the public. Menopause Management is a task for 
lifestyle medicine, as a combination of pharmaceutical treatment and lifestyle 
changes. The women and physicians are working in a menopause managing team, and 
prevention and treatment of diseases and disorders are not separated.

PMID: 7483647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Zentralbl Chir. 1995;120(9):707-15.

[Surgical therapy of bone metastases].

[Article in German]

Wirbel RJ(1), Mutschler WE.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Unfallchirurgie, Chirurgische Universitätsklinik des Saarlandes, 
Homburg/Saar.

The surgical treatment of bone metastases is generally palliative. All operative 
procedures have to consider the mostly short life expectancy and therefore have 
to guarantee stability, early mobilization and short hospitalization. Surgery is 
absolutely indicated in patients with pathologic fractures of the long bones and 
innominate bone involving the hip joint, in patients with spinal lesions causing 
instability and progressive neural deficit and in patients with compression of 
peripheral nerves. Relative indications for surgery are given in cases where the 
risk of sustaining a pathologic fracture is high, in cases where spinal 
neurological deficit or root irritation can be expected, in patients where the 
tumor grows despite adequate irradiation or chemotherapy and finally in cases 
where open biopsy is useful to exclude primary malignant tumor or is necessary 
to define the further therapeutic management. As morbidity, hospitalization and 
complications increase in patients with pathologic fractures prophylactic 
stabilization is emphasized using well defined criteria. The standard surgical 
principles and techniques are presented and the results of 506 cases are 
reported.

PMID: 7483872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1995 Dec;165(6):1323-8. doi: 10.2214/ajr.165.6.7484556.

Evaluating health services: the importance of patients' preferences and quality 
of life.

Yin D(1), Forman HP, Langlotz CP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 
Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics, Philadelphia 19104, USA.

Comment in
    AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1995 Dec;165(6):1329-30.

With limited resources available, we all would like to allocate health care 
dollars to do the most good. Clinical research tells us what outcomes to expect 
(in many cases) from the introduction of a health care program, a test, or a 
therapy. Even primitive cost analysis can assess the cost of such programs. The 
ability to place a value on health states is vital when assessing how patient 
outcomes influence the relative cost-effectiveness of medical procedures, 
therapies, and programs. Without a means to measure the value of a particular 
health state, one is left to compare apples with oranges and oranges with vacuum 
cleaners. In fact, comparisons of fruit and home appliances is relatively easy, 
because one can readily apply monetary values to apples, oranges, and vacuum 
cleaners and compare dollar amounts. How can one do the same for the outcomes of 
medical procedures and diagnostic tests? This is the challenge for health 
services and outcomes researchers throughout the world and, more urgently, the 
focus of policy makers, governments, and health insurers. The purpose of this 
paper is to describe quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), a method that has 
successfully measured the outcomes of disparate health programs. We will 
introduce the QALY method, summarize the various methods of measuring and 
classifying health states, describe three methods that have been used to measure 
patients' preferences (utilities) for health states, and discuss the limitations 
of utility assessment and some controversies that result from the measurement 
and use of utilities and concerning health-related quality of life. Readers who 
are interested in general topics of radiology technology assessment and 
cost-effectiveness analysis should consult other review articles [1-4].

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.165.6.7484556
PMID: 7484556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1995 Dec;165(6):1329-30. doi:
10.2214/ajr.165.6.7484557.

Making difficult health policy decisions: most choices are not simply life or 
death.

Evens RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA.

Comment on
    AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1995 Dec;165(6):1323-8.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.165.6.7484557
PMID: 7484557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Am Heart J. 1995 Dec;130(6):1228-35. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(95)90147-7.

Quantitation of echocardiographic predictors of outcome in infants with isolated 
ventricular septal defect.

Shirali GS(1), Smith EO, Geva T.

Author information:
(1)Lillie Frank Abercrombie Section of Pediatric Cardiology, Baylor College of 
Medicine, Houston, USA.

Clinical and morphometric features such as ventricular septal defect (VSD) size 
and location may determine outcome in infants with an isolated VSD. However, no 
currently available data allow quantitative estimation of the probability of 
spontaneous closure or surgery in individual patients. To identify independent 
predictors of outcome and to quantitate the probability of spontaneous closure 
and surgery in patients with isolated VSD, we studied 156 consecutive infants 
who had a diagnosis of an isolated VSD between January 1, 1988, and December 31, 
1990, and who were subsequently monitored for 28.5 +/- 15 months. Of the 149 
patients with membranous (n = 100) and muscular (n = 49) defects who were 
studied, 46 (31%) patients had spontaneous closure, and an additional 37 (25%) 
patients underwent surgical repair. Univariate analysis identified defect 
cross-sectional area indexed to body surface area, location in the muscular 
septum, presence of Down syndrome, and in membranous defects the presence of 
aneurysmal tissue as potential predictors of spontaneous closure or surgery. 
Multiple logistic regression analysis with these candidate variables identified 
indexed defect cross-sectional area as an independent predictor of spontaneous 
closure and surgery (p < 0.001). An inverse nonlinear relationship was seen 
between indexed VSD area and the probability of spontaneous closure (probability 
= (1 + e[-1.74 + 4.57CSA])-1 and a positive nonlinear relationship between 
indexed VSD area and the probability of surgery (probability = (1 + e[3.39 - 
2.31CSA])-1). Muscular defects were more likely to close spontaneously than 
membranous defects (odds ratio 2.6, 95% CL = 1.01 - 6.8, p = 0.04).(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(95)90147-7
PMID: 7484774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Am J Cardiol. 1995 Dec 1;76(16):1126-30. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(99)80320-8.

Influence of coronary angioplasty on the progression of coronary 
atherosclerosis.

Rozenman Y(1), Gilon D, Welber S, Sapoznikov D, Lotan C, Mosseri M, Weiss T, 
Hasin Y, Gotsman MS.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Department, Hadassah University Hospital, Jerusalem, Israel.

Comment in
    Am J Cardiol. 1996 Aug 1;78(3):379-80.

This study examines the effect of coronary angioplasty on the progression and 
appearance of new disease in sites of the coronary tree that were not dilated by 
the balloon. We examined 355 pairs of coronary angiograms from 252 patients. The 
study consisted of consecutive patients who were referred for catheterization > 
1 month after successful angioplasty. Progression/regression and the appearance 
of new narrowings at sites not dilated by angioplasty were determined. The 
life-table method was used to determine outcome, and any event (progression, 
regression, and new narrowing) was analyzed according to the time of occurrence. 
The angioplasty artery was compared with the non-angioplasty artery and the 
effect of restenosis was determined by comparing arteries with and without 
restenosis. Progression/regression rates were not significantly different in 
angioplasty and non-angioplasty arteries. More new narrowings were identified in 
the angioplasty artery (p < 0.01). With regard to narrowings located in the 
angioplasty artery, progression was more common, regression less common, and the 
appearance of new narrowings more common in arteries with restenosis than in 
non-angioplasty arteries or arteries without restenosis. We believe that 
mechanical trauma to the artery during angioplasty could accelerate disease 
progression and the appearance of new narrowings in angioplasty arteries, 
whereas normalization of flow rate and pattern, especially in arteries without 
restenosis, attenuates the rate of progression and the appearance of new 
narrowings in these arteries. The final outcome depends on the balance between 
these factors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(99)80320-8
PMID: 7484896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Am J Kidney Dis. 1995 Nov;26(5):740-50. doi: 10.1016/0272-6386(95)90437-9.

Increasing incidence of focal-segmental glomerulosclerosis among adult 
nephropathies: a 20-year renal biopsy study.

Haas M(1), Spargo BH, Coventry S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Chicago, IL 60637, USA.

Studies and textbooks from the 1970s and early 1980s list focal-segmental 
glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) as accounting for 10% to 15% of cases of idiopathic 
nephrotic syndrome in adults, although a recent review by D'Agati (Kidney Int 
46:1223-1241, 1994) reported an approximately sevenfold increase in the 
incidence of FSGS from 1974 to 1993 in an active renal biopsy practice. To 
investigate possible changes in the incidence of FSGS in our renal biopsy 
practice, we reviewed reports from all nontransplant, adult (> or = 18 years) 
renal biopsies received in our laboratory from 1974 to 1993, which comprised 
7,420 cases. All diagnoses of membranous nephropathy (MN), minimal change 
nephropathy (MCN), and FSGS made in each year were compiled; cases clearly or 
suspicious of being secondary to an underlying systemic disease, 
glomerulonephritis, or drug reaction were excluded. Relative frequencies of MN, 
MCN, and FSGS among these three diseases and among all biopsies were calculated 
for each year of the study. Regression analysis showed a significant (P < 0.001) 
increase in the odds of a diagnosis of FSGS over the study period: 7.6% per year 
among all biopsies and 6.8% per year among cases of MN, MCN, and FSGS only. 
Among all biopsies, the yearly incidence of FSGS increased from 4.0% +/- 0.6% 
(mean +/- SD) during the period between 1974 and 1979 to 12.2% +/- 2.0% during 
the period from 1987 to 1993. The odds of a diagnosis of MN (mean yearly 
incidence, 9.5% +/- 1.9%) did not vary significantly over the study period while 
the odds of a diagnosis of MCN (mean yearly incidence, 4.0% +/- 1.2%) declined 
at a rate of 2.2% per year (P < 0.03). Frequencies of diagnosis of MN, MCN, and 
FSGS by two pathologists were almost identical. Review of available slides from 
cases of FSGS revealed 21 (none before 1980) with characteristic histologic 
features of the collapsing glomerulopathy (CG) variant of FSGS. No more than 
four cases of CG were observed in any year of the study, and CG accounted for 
4.7% of total FSGS cases for which diagnostic slides were available. Compared 
with 42 patients with non-CG FSGS, the CG cohort showed a greater percentage of 
black patients (86% v 38%), significantly higher mean levels of serum creatinine 
(3.8 +/- 2.7 mg/dL v 1.9 +/- 1.5 mg/dL) and urinary protein (14.3 +/- 9.6 g/24 
hr v 7.7 +/- 5.8 g/24 hr) at the time of renal biopsy, and a greater likelihood 
of and more rapid progression to end-stage renal failure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0272-6386(95)90437-9
PMID: 7485126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Ann Intern Med. 1995 Dec 1;123(11):823-7. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-123-11-199512010-00002.

Mortality in patients with hemophilia. Changes in a Dutch population from 1986 
to 1992 and 1973 to 1986.

Triemstra M(1), Rosendaal FR, Smit C, Van der Ploeg HM, Briët E.

Author information:
(1)Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To determine causes of death and mortality rates in patients with 
hemophilia over a period of 20 years, to assess changes in mortality, and to 
distinguish between hemophilia-related death and recent death induced by viral 
infections.
DESIGN: Cohort study of 919 patients followed from January 1986 to June 1992. 
Results were compared with outcomes of previous follow-up from 1973 to 1986.
SETTING: Consecutive national questionnaire surveys on hemophilia, using patient 
registries of the Netherlands Hemophilia Society and Dutch hemophilia centers.
PATIENTS: 919 males hemophilia A or B who participated in a national 
questionnaire survey on hemophilia in 1985. Median duration of follow-up was 6.4 
years, which yielded 5753 person-years of follow-up. The mean age at study entry 
was 30 years (range, 1 to 85 years).
MEASUREMENTS: Standardized mortality ratios, causes of death, median life 
expectancy, age-adjusted relative risks associated with the type or severity of 
hemophilia, presence of inhibitors, prophylaxis, and human immunodeficiency 
virus infection.
RESULTS: 45 patients (5%) died between January 1986 and June 1992; 22.6 patients 
had been expected to die. Thus, the overall standardized mortality ratio was 
2.0. The overall median life expectancy was 66 years for the cohort studied from 
1973 to 1986 and 68 years for the cohort studied from 1986 to 1992. When deaths 
related to viral infection were excluded, the life expectancy almost equaled 
that of the general male population. Between 1986 and 1992, 1 patient died of 
ischemic heart disease compared with the 5.2 who were expected to die of this 
disease. Infection with HIV was the strongest independent predictor of death 
(relative risk, 27.5 [95% CI, 5.7 to 132.8]). After adjustment for HIV 
infection, no other hemophilia-related risk factors were associated with the 
risk of death.
CONCLUSIONS: The acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and hepatitis strongly 
influence mortality in patients with hemophilia. In the absence of viral 
infections, the life expectancy of patients with hemophilia would almost equal 
that of the general male population.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-123-11-199512010-00002
PMID: 7486463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1995 Sep 29;764:509-18. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1995.tb55875.x.

Cellular origin, antigen reactivity, and VH segment structure of IgM mAbs from 
AIDS lymphomas.

Riboldi P(1), Gaidano G, Schettino EW, Knowles DM, Dalla-Favera R, Casali P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, New York University School of Medicine, New York 
10016, USA.

In the present studies we analyzed the Ag specificity, VH gene structure, and 
cellular origin of three IgM mAb-producing cell lines established in vitro from 
bioptic specimens of three AIDS patients with BL. We found that (i) both HBL-2 
and HBL-3 IgM mAbs were cold agglutinins highly specific for the i blood group 
determinant, a self Ag the expression of which is dominant in the early stages 
of life, and both mAbs used somatically point-mutated VH 4-21 segments; (ii) 
HBL-1 IgM mAb, the Ag-specificity of which has not been determined, used a 
putatively mutated member of the VHIII family; and (iii) both HBL-1 and HBL-2, 
but not HBL-3, cells expressed CD5 mRNA, suggesting a B-1 cell origin. The 
utilization of VH4-21 by the HBL-2 and HBL-3 cold agglutinins is consistent with 
the usage of this gene segment by all the reported pathogenic except the 
naturally occurring cold agglutinins. This restricted VH gene usage may reflect 
an inherent affinity of the germline VH4-21 gene product for the i/I 
carbohydrate structure, and, perhaps, an overrepresentation of VH4-21 in the 
human early and late B-cell repertoire. Consistent with both an early and late 
developmental expression of the VH4-21 gene is the B-1 and B-2 cellular origin 
of the two VH4-21+ cold agglutinins reported here. Thus, the two cold agglutinin 
autoantibodies possibly emerged at different stages of the natural history of 
the B-cell repertoires of these patients and might display a different temporal 
relationship, as discussed below, to the time of emergence of the respective 
tumoral cells. The somatically mutated status of the HBL-2 and HBL-3 mAb VH 
segments was suggested by the monomorphism of the human VH4-21 gene, the 
extension of the nucleotide differences to the, in general, highly conserved JH 
segment; and it was formally proved in HBL-3 mAb. Positive selection by Ag of 
the R mutations in the HBL-2 and HBL-3 mAb VH segments was suggested by the 
differential R:S mutation ratios in the CDRs and FRs (HBL-2 mAb, 5.0 and 1.1, 
respectively; HBL-3 mAb, 2.2 and 0.3, respectively) but not substantiated by 
appropriate statistical analysis according to the binomial distribution 
model.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1995.tb55875.x
PMID: 7486578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1995 Aug;39(8):1802-8. doi:
10.1128/AAC.39.8.1802.

Mode of action of (R)-9-[4-hydroxy-2-(hydroxymethyl)butyl]guanine against 
herpesviruses.

Lowe DM(1), Alderton WK, Ellis MR, Parmar V, Miller WH, Roberts GB, Fyfe JA, 
Gaillard R, Ertl P, Snowden W, et al.

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Research Laboratories, Beckenham, Kent, United Kingdom.

The activity, metabolism, and mode of action of 
(R)-9-[4-hydroxy-2-(hydroxymethyl)butyl]guanine (H2G) against herpes simplex 
virus type 1 (HSV-1) and type 2 (HSV-2) and varicella-zoster virus (VZV) were 
studied. Compared to acyclovir (ACV), H2G has superior activity against VZV (50% 
inhibitory concentration of 2.3 microM) and Epstein-Barr virus (50% inhibitory 
concentration of 0.9 microM), comparable activity against HSV-1, and weaker 
activity against HSV-2. The antiviral effect on HSV-1 showed persistence after 
removal of compound. H2G was metabolized to its mono-, di- and triphosphate 
derivatives in virus-infected cells, with H2G-triphosphate being the predominant 
product. Only small amounts of H2G-triphosphate were detected in uninfected 
cells (1 to 10 pmol/10(6) cells), whereas the level in HSV-1-infected cells 
reached 1,900 pmol/10(6) cells. H2G was a substrate for all three viral 
thymidine kinases and could also be phosphorylated by mitochondrial 
deoxyguanosine kinase. The intracellular half-life of H2G-triphosphate varied in 
uninfected (2.5 h) and infected (HSV-1, 14 h; VZV, 3.7 h) cells but was always 
longer than the half-life of ACV-triphosphate (1 to 2 h). H2G-triphosphate 
inhibited HSV-1, HSV-2, and VZV DNA polymerases competitively with dGTP (Ki of 
2.8, 2.2, and 0.3 microM, respectively) but could not replace dGTP as a 
substrate in a polymerase assay. H2G was not an obligate chain terminator but 
would only support limited DNA chain extension. Only very small amounts of 
radioactivity, which were too low to be identified by high-performance liquid 
chromatography analysis of the digested DNA, could be detected in purified DNA 
from uninfected cells incubated with [3H]H2G. Thus, H2G acts as an 
anti-herpesvirus agent, particularly potent against VZV, by formation of high 
concentrations of relatively stable H2G-triphosphate, which is a potent 
inhibitor of the viral DNA polymerases.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.39.8.1802
PMCID: PMC162829
PMID: 7486922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Arch Neurol. 1995 Nov;52(11):1074-9. doi:
10.1001/archneur.1995.00540350068018.

Apolipoprotein E epsilon 4 allele and the lifetime risk of Alzheimer's disease. 
What physicians know, and what they should know.

Seshadri S(1), Drachman DA, Lippa CF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Massachusetts Medical Center, 
Worcester, USA.

BACKGROUND: Published studies now show a clear association between Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) and the apolipoprotein E epsilon 4 allele (APOE* epsilon 4). The 
clinical value of this information to estimate a healthy individual's lifetime 
risk of AD has not been well delineated. Physicians dealing with AD may not know 
either the lifetime risk of developing AD or the effect of the APOE genotype on 
this risk. Because the lifetime risk of AD depends in part on life expectancy, 
and available figures on APOE are not population based, a computation is 
necessary to derive risk estimates useful to physicians.
OBJECTIVES: To estimate the lifetime risk of AD and the effect of APOE genotype 
information on that risk and to assess the knowledge of these risks among 
physicians who manage patients with dementia.
DESIGN: Estimation of risk of AD and survey of physician awareness. The lifetime 
risk of developing AD without APOE genotype information was first computed for 
65-year-olds from existing epidemiologic studies of age-related AD incidence and 
an actuarial life-table analysis. Using this computed a priori risk of AD and 
published studies of APOE genotypes in individuals with and without AD, we used 
a Bayesian analysis to determine the risk of developing AD, with and without an 
APOE* epsilon 4 allele, for unaffected 65-year-olds. To assess physician 
knowledge of the lifetime risk of AD and the effect of APOE genotyping on the 
risk, 50 neurologists, internists, geriatricians, geriatric psychiatrists, and 
family physicians who manage patients with dementia were randomly selected to 
participate in a questionnaire-driven telephone survey.
RESULTS: In a person with no family history of AD, the epidemiologic/actuarial 
lifetime risk of AD is approximately 15%. Based on a Bayesian calculation and 
published APOE data, the lifetime risk of AD is 29% for individuals with one 
APOE* epsilon 4 allele and it is 9% if no APOE* epsilon 4 allele is present. 
Physician awareness survey results were as follows: 42% of physicians correctly 
estimated the approximate lifetime risk of AD; of these, only one third were 
moderately sure of their response. Only three physicians correctly estimated the 
change in risk given the APOE* epsilon 4 genotype; only one of these was at 
least moderately sure.
CONCLUSIONS: Determining the APOE* epsilon 4 status of healthy adults with no 
family history of AD approximately doubles (for the epsilon 4 allele) or reduces 
by 40% (for the non-epsilon 4 allele) the uninformed lifetime risk of developing 
AD. Even with an APOE* epsilon 4 allele, the lifetime risk remains below 30%. 
Most physicians managing patients with AD do not know the lifetime risk of AD, 
and very few know how APOE* epsilon 4 status modifies the risk. These clinically 
relevant risk figures should be more widely disseminated among physicians.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1995.00540350068018
PMID: 7487559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 1995 Nov 13;216(2):574-81. doi: 
10.1006/bbrc.1995.2661.

Midkine is a heat and acid stable polypeptide capable of enhancing plasminogen 
activator activity and neurite outgrowth extension.

Kojima S(1), Inui T, Muramatsu H, Kimura T, Sakakibara S, Muramatsu T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Gene Technology and Safety, Tsukuba Life Science Center, 
Institute of Physical and Chemical Research (RIKEN), Ibaraki, Japan.

We studied about the physicochemical stability of a novel heparin-binding 
growth/differentiation factor, midkine (MK). It was found that synthetic human 
MK was heat and acid stable. Neither incubation at 80 degrees C for 90 sec nor 
treatment at low pH affected the elution profile of MK molecule on the high 
performance liquid chromatography. This physicochemical stability was maintained 
in the biological activities of MK to enhance plasminogen activator (PA) 
activity in bovine endothelial cells as well as to promote neurite outgrowth of 
rat brain cells. A similar stability was observed both with recombinant murine 
MK and with its homologous protein, recombinant human pleiotrophin. Comparison 
of physicochemical stability with other several growth factors suggested that 
MK/pleiotrophin was a unique family of heat and acid stable polypeptides capable 
of enhancing PA activity and neurite outgrowth.

DOI: 10.1006/bbrc.1995.2661
PMID: 7488150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Eur J Surg. 1995 Jul;161(7):463-70.

Blunt splenic injury in adults: a decision analysis comparing options for 
treatment.

Velanovich V(1).

Author information:
(1)General Surgery Service, Ireland Army Community Hospital, Fort Knox, 
Kentucky, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate factors which influence surgeons in their decision to 
treat blunt splenic injuries in adults by observation, splenorrhaphy or 
splenectomy.
DESIGN: Decision analysis.
SETTING: Army hospital, USA.
MATERIAL: 56 Selected papers on the treatment of splenic trauma published 
between 1983 and 1993.
INTERVENTION: Variables evaluated included the incidence of transfusion, 
postsplenectomy sepsis, posttransfusion hepatitis, chronic active hepatitis, 
cirrhosis, and rebleeding.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality adjusted life expectancies (QALE) after each 
procedure.
RESULTS: QALEs when the mean incidence of each variable was used in the decision 
analysis were 39.68 years for observation, 39.56 years for splenorrhaphy, and 
38.94 years for splenectomy. Sensitivity analysis showed that when the incidence 
of transfusion was controlled, splenorrhaphy was superior, and both 
splenorrhaphy and observation were superior to splenectomy. Once a patient had 
been given blood products the advantages of non-operative management were lost.
CONCLUSIONS: Only patients with minor splenic injuries who did not require blood 
transfusion should be treated by observation. Patients who require blood 
transfusion should be explored with the object of salvaging the spleen. Some 
patients with severe, devitalising injuries will require splenectomy despite the 
best attempts to salvage the organ.

PMID: 7488658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Stem Cells. 1995 May;13 Suppl 1:307-17. doi: 10.1002/stem.5530130738.

Are there 'common denominators' in different radiation exposure scenarios as a 
target for predictive assessment?

Densow D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Physiology, Occupational and Social Medicine, 
University of Ulm, Germany.

The first panel discussion of the International Searle-Foundation Workshop on 
Biological Indicators of Exposure to Ionizing Radiation was directed at 
identifying 'common denominators' for the development of somatic late effects. 
The presented accidents were analyzed in terms of occurrence of total body or 
partial body irradiation, external or internal contamination, onset of early 
signs or symptoms of acute radiation syndrome, reduction of life expectancy, and 
occurrence of neoplastic or non-neoplastic disorders. Evidence of radiation 
effects was sought in the victims' cell systems and in any cellular or molecular 
response to ionizing radiation, and whether other complicating factors could be 
established. From the results presented during the meeting, as well as from a 
review of the relevant literature, it is, however, rather unlikely that a single 
parameter will emerge by which the late effects of ionizing radiation in man can 
be determined easily. Instead, a couple of acute and chronic effects of exposure 
to ionizing radiation could be identified which are more or less common to any 
given exposure scenario.

DOI: 10.1002/stem.5530130738
PMID: 7488962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1995 Nov;10(4):478-85. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(05)80172-8.

Design issues of a randomised controlled clinical trial on spinal cord 
stimulation in critical limb ischaemia. ESES Study Group.

Klomp HM(1), Spincemaille GH, Steyerberg EW, Berger MY, Habbema JD, van Urk H.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Rotterdam-Dijkzigt, Department of General Surgery, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Review of the design of a clinical study to evaluate of the efficacy 
of epidural spinal cord electrical stimulation (ESES) as compared to best 
medical treatment in patients with nonreconstructible critical limb ischaemia.
DESIGN: Randomised controlled clinical trial of pragmatic type, which will be 
analysed according to the intention-to-treat principle. The treatment strategies 
are ESES, in addition to best medical treatment, and best medical treatment 
alone. Patients are followed-up for at least 18 months.
SETTING: The ESES-trial is an ongoing multicentre trial in 17 hospitals in The 
Netherlands.
PATIENTS: Patients with critical limb ischaemia, nonsuitable for either primary 
intervention or reintervention after failing reconstructions.
CHIEF OUTCOME MEASURES: Limb survival, patient survival, quality of life and 
cost-effectiveness.
MAIN RESULTS: From November 1991 until May 1994 120 patients had been enrolled. 
Using life-table analysis, at one year 76% of these randomised patients were 
alive: 41% without amputation and 35% with amputation. Quality of life of the 
trial patients was low, even compared to other severely ill patient groups, such 
as liver and heart transplant candidates.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering the high incidence of death and amputation, 18 months 
of follow-up seems adequate to detect a clinically relevant outcome improvement 
from ESES-treatment, if present. We hope to present the results of this study at 
the end of 1995.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(05)80172-8
PMID: 7489218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Pediatrics. 1995 Dec;96(6):1029-39.

Annual summary of vital statistics-1994.

Guyer B(1), Strobino DM, Ventura SJ, Singh GK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Maternal and Child Health, Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and 
Public Health, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

Recent trends in the vital statistics of the United States continued in 1994, 
including decreases in the number of births, the birth rate, the age-adjusted 
death rate, and the infant mortality rate. Life expectancy increased slightly to 
75.7 years. Only marriages reversed the recent trend with a slight increase in 
1994. An estimated 3,979,000 infants were born during 1994, a decline of < 1% 
from 1993. The birth rate was 15.3 live births per 1000 population, a 1% 
decline. These decreasing rates reflect a decline in the fertility rate to 67.1 
live births per 1000 women aged 15 to 44 years. Final figures for 1993 indicate 
that fertility rates declined for all racial groups, by 1% for white women (to 
65.4) and 3% for black women (to 80.5). The fertility rate for Hispanic women 
(106.9) was 84% higher than that for non-Hispanic white women and 31% higher 
than for non-Hispanic black women. Between 1991 and 1993, birth rates for 
teenage mothers remained virtually unchanged, and abortion rates have steadily 
declined, suggesting that teenage pregnancy rates are levelling off. The number 
and proportion of births to women over age 30, however, continued to rise. The 
rate of births to all unmarried women (45.3 per 1000 in 1993) has been stable 
for 3 years. Prenatal care utilization improved in 1993; 79% of women initiated 
care in the first trimester and < 5% had delayed care or no care. Improvements 
occurred among nearly all racial and ethnic groups. Reported smoking during 
pregnancy declined to 15.8% in 1993 from 16.9% in 1992. The proportion of babies 
delivered by cesarean section was 21.8% in 1993, a 2% decrease from 1992. 
Between 1992 and 1993, the rate of low birth weight (LBW) rose slightly to 7.2%, 
while very low birth weight (VLBW) remained stable at 1.3%. Most of the increase 
in LBW occurred among white infants and reflected, primarily, an increase in the 
proportion of multiple births. The black/white ratio in LBW continued to 
increase to more than two-fold with the largest difference recorded among term 
and postterm infants. Age-adjusted death rates in 1994 were lower for heart 
disease, malignant neoplasm, pulmonary diseases, other accidents, and homicides. 
The age-adjusted death rate for human immunodeficiency virus disease continued 
to rise to 15.1 in 1994. The infant mortality rate declined 4% in 1994, to 7.9 
per 1000, the lowest rate ever recorded in the United States. The decline was 
primarily in neonatal mortality.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 7491217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol. 1995;10 Suppl 4:S28-32.

Design and assessment of cost-effectiveness studies in AIDS populations.

Simpson KN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Administration, School of Public Health, 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 27599-7400, USA.

Cost-effectiveness (CE) ratios are indicators of comparative efficiency of 
competing drugs. Unfortunately, they are subject to variations, depending on 
factors such as the study population chosen, the comparison treatment selected, 
and the economic analysis methods employed. CE ratios tend to be unfavorably 
skewed in the case of chronic illnesses, such as HIV disease, because management 
of AIDS patients is costly and complex. Routine AIDS therapy requires expensive 
drugs, treatment is directed at many disease stages and severities, and gain in 
patient survival is relatively short. Variations in disease stage, 
co-morbidities, and antiviral drug use produce variations in both the risk of 
opportunistic infections (OIs) and the routine costs of OI prophylaxis and thus 
affect the CE ratio. Routine therapy for AIDS varies among and even within 
communities. Overall, these factors translate to a widening gap between trial 
results (efficacy) and community outcomes (effectiveness). This article 
discusses these concerns and reviews methodologic issues that must be considered 
by decision-makers using CE analyses to describe a therapy's value.

PMID: 7493196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol. 1995;10 Suppl 4:S6-13.

Understanding the essentials of economic evaluation.

Schmid GP(1).

Author information:
(1)Program Evaluation and Prevention Health Services Research Branch, Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia 30333, USA.

Economic evaluation (EE) answers the following simple question: "From which 
course of action do we get the most value for our money?" We ask this question 
because resources are always limited, i.e., we never have enough money to do all 
the things we would like to do. Three types of economic evaluations are used: 
cost-effectiveness analysis, cost-utility analysis, and cost-benefit analysis. 
Although all involve a monetary and outcome comparison of two or more courses of 
action, the methodologies and outcomes of each type vary, making each one 
particularly suited for specific and different indications. Although the 
performance of an EE may be complex, its concept is intuitively simple. 
Understanding the basic elements of economic analysis is more and more important 
to all health-care providers because health-care policy makers at all levels are 
increasingly using EE for allocating resources.

PMID: 7493197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1995 Nov;50 Spec No:5-8. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/50a.special_issue.5.

What is sarcopenia?

Evans WJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Noll Physiological Research Center, Pennsylvania State University, USA.

Advancing adult age is associated with profound changes in body composition, the 
principal component of which is a decrease in skeletal muscle mass. This 
age-related loss in skeletal muscle has been referred to as sarcopenia. 
Age-related reduction in muscle is a direct cause of the age-related decrease in 
muscle strength. Muscle mass (not function) appears to be the major determinant 
of the age- and sex-related differences in strength. This relationship is 
independent of muscle location (upper vs lower extremities) and function 
(extension vs flexion). Reduced muscle strength in the elderly is a major cause 
for their increased prevalence of disability. With advancing age and extremely 
low activity levels seen in the very old, muscle strength is a critical 
component of walking ability. The high prevalence of falls among the 
institutionalized elderly may be a consequence of their lower muscle strength. 
Daily energy expenditure declines progressively throughout adult life. In 
sedentary individuals, the main determinant of energy expenditure is fat-free 
mass, which declines by about 15% between the third and eighth decade of life, 
contributing to a lower basal metabolic rate in the elderly. Data indicate that 
preservation of muscle mass and prevention of sarcopenia can help prevent the 
decrease in metabolic rate. In addition to its role in energy metabolism, 
skeletal muscle and its age-related decline may contribute to such 
age-associated changes as reduction in bone density, insulin sensitivity, and 
aerobic capacity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/50a.special_issue.5
PMID: 7493218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. J Vasc Surg. 1995 Nov;22(5):629-36. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70051-x.

Healing of venous ulcers in an ambulatory care program: the roles of chronic 
venous insufficiency and patient compliance.

Erickson CA(1), Lanza DJ, Karp DL, Edwards JW, Seabrook GR, Cambria RA, 
Freischlag JA, Towne JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 
53226, USA.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 1996 Nov;24(5):905.

PURPOSE: A nurse-managed/physician-supervised treatment program for venous 
ulceration was evaluated to determine the influence of venous hemodynamics, 
comorbidities, patient behavior, and ulcer characteristics on time to healing 
and time to recurrence.
METHODS: The clinical course and long-term follow-up of 71 patients with 99 
venous ulcers diagnosed between November 1981 and August 1994 were analyzed by a 
retrospective review of clinic records. Demographic data, severity of venous 
insufficiency, ulcer characteristics, and patient compliance were studied. 
Outcome variables were time to complete ulcer healing and time to first 
recurrence.
RESULTS: Ninety-one percent of the ulcers healed completely at a median 3.4 
months. There were 52 (57%) recurrences at a median 10.4 months. Ulcers on limbs 
with a venous refill time of 10 seconds or less demonstrated a significantly 
longer time to complete healing (p < or = 0.03); however, no effect on time to 
recurrence was observed. Patients who were in strict compliance with the 
treatment regimen (n = 32) had significantly faster healing (p < or = 0.02) and 
fewer recurrences (p < or = 0.004) compared with patients who were less 
compliant (n = 67).
CONCLUSIONS: Most venous ulcers can be expected to heal when patients are 
enrolled in a nurse-managed/physician-supervised ambulatory ulcer clinic. 
Photoplethysmography-derived venous refill time of 10 seconds or less predicted 
delayed healing. Strict compliance with the treatment protocol significantly 
decreased the time to healing and prolonged the time to recurrence.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70051-x
PMID: 7494367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Patient Educ Couns. 1995 Sep;26(1-3):37-55. doi:
10.1016/0738-3991(95)00750-t.

Arterial hypertension: lessons from patient education.

Grueninger UJ.

The face of hypertension has been changing rapidly over the last few decades, 
from a serious disease to a cardiovascular risk factor. Patient education has 
been instrumental in bringing about tremendous improvements in 
hypertension-related mortality, morbidity, life expectancy, and life quality. 
Patient education has evolved from an adjunct to medical therapy to an 
intervention in its own right. In this process patient education tasks and 
techniques themselves have undergone remarkable developments, driven by evolving 
patient needs due to medical progress. The same is true for the roles of 
patients and health care providers. Dealing with hypertension is a behavior 
change process which demands serious learning efforts from all parties involved, 
patients, health practitioners and health care administrators alike. This paper 
focuses therefore on patient education for preventive behavior change and risk 
factor management. Special emphasis will be placed on processes and tools for 
effective patient education.

DOI: 10.1016/0738-3991(95)00750-t
PMID: 7494753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Rev Esp Cardiol. 1995;48 Suppl 5:39-42.

[The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study: the clinical consequences].

[Article in Spanish]

Larsen ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario de Aarhus, Amtssygehuset, Dinamarca.

In the recently reported Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S), 4,444 men 
and women between 35 and 70 years of age who had coronary heart disease and 
plasma total cholesterol concentrations of 212 to 310 mg per deciliter (5.5 to 
8.0 mmol/l) received simvastatin or placebo for 5.4 years; in the treatment 
group, mortality from coronary heart disease was 42 percent lower and mortality 
from all causes was 30 percent lower. Further analysis of the relation between 
the risk of major coronary events and baseline cholesterol levels in patients 
randomised to placebo or simvastatin therapy in the study showed that 
simvastatin significantly reduced the risk of major coronary events in all 
quartiles of baseline total, high-density-lipoprotein, and 
low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol, by a similar amount in each quartile. 
Clearly, cholesterol-modifying interventions can substantially improve the 
outlook for patients with coronary heart disease and should be considered in 
identification and treatment of patients with established coronary heart 
disease. The available data from secondary intervention trials indicates that 
all patients with documented ischemic heart disease should be offered a reliable 
assessment of plasma total cholesterol. However, since the impact of simvastatin 
on CHD seems to begin after about one year of therapy it would be reasonable to 
exclude very old persons and patients with serious disease with a limited 
life-expectancy. As a consequence of the 4S data it should be recommended that 
all the patients in question, who after lifestyle modifications and 
non-pharmacological risk factor modification still have total cholesterol levels 
above 200 mg per deciliter (5.2 mmol) should be offered treatment with a HMG-CoA 
reductase inhibitor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 7494939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Urology. 1995 Nov;46(5):607-16. doi: 10.1016/S0090-4295(99)80289-1.

Should we treat localized prostate cancer? An opinion.

Menon M(1), Parulkar BG, Baker S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urological and Transplantation Surgery, University of 
Massachusetts Medical Center, Worcester 01655, USA.

Comment in
    Urology. 1996 Apr;47(4):615-6.

Localized prostate cancer is a progressive disease if left untreated. However, 
cancer-specific mortality is low in patients with moderately and 
well-differentiated prostate cancer treated with observation and delayed 
hormonal therapy, being 13% at 10 years and 20% to 30% at 15 years. By and 
large, radiation therapy does not appear to improve survival in these patients. 
With modern surgical techniques, mortality from prostate cancer is lowered by 
23% to 65% in patients with moderately or well-differentiated tumors. However, 
the impact on relative cancer-specific survival is modest, since the mortality 
rate in untreated patients is low. The survival of conservatively managed 
patients with poorly differentiated prostate cancer is dismal: here radiation 
therapy or surgery significantly improves outcome. The QOL of patients with 
localized prostate cancer is significantly affected by the occurrence of distant 
metastasis. Metastatic rates are high in patients who are followed with 
observation and delayed endocrine treatment (19% to 85%). We were unable to 
deduce the effects of radiation therapy on grade-specific metastatic rates at 10 
and 15 years. The only surgical series that addresses the issue shows a 50% to 
80% reduction in metastatic rates. This results in an improvement in 
metastasis-free survival of 19% to 300%. The reduction in metastatic rates with 
surgery holds true for patients with poorly, moderately, or well-differentiated 
tumors. However, a significant proportion of the surgical patients were treated 
with adjuvant endocrine therapy, and it is impossible to identify the benefit 
from surgery and the benefit from adjuvant therapy. Radical prostatectomy 
improves survival in men who are 65 years or younger with moderately or 
well-differentiated adenocarcinoma of the prostate, and in men 75 years or 
younger who have poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the prostate. Its 
efficacy in reducing cancer-specific mortality in patients who have a survival 
expectancy of less than 15 years (older than 65 years) and moderately or 
well-differentiated adenocarcinoma of the prostate is less clear. Radical 
prostatectomy, with or without adjuvant hormonal therapy, decreases metastatic 
rates in men with a life expectancy of 10 years or more (age 75 years or 
younger) irrespective of tumor grade and, thus, should improve the QOL 
expectancy in these men. Nevertheless, between 20% and 60% of patients 
undergoing radical prostatectomy have biochemical recurrence, as defined by a 
detectable PSA, at 10 years of follow-up. This is worrisome and may portend 
clinical failure with longer follow-up.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/S0090-4295(99)80289-1
PMID: 7495109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1995;9(8):441-6; discussion 446-7. doi: 
10.1016/s1010-7940(05)80080-6.

The valve choice in tricuspid valve replacement: 25 years of experience.

Van Nooten GJ(1), Caes FL, François KJ, Taeymans Y, Primo G, Wellens F, Leclerq 
JL, Deuvaert FE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, University Hospital of Gent, Belgium.

This study reviews 146 consecutive patients who underwent tricuspid valve 
replacement (TVR) with 69 bioprostheses (porcine and bovine pericardial) and 77 
mechanical ball, disc or bileaflet valves between 1967 and 1987. The mean age 
was 51.4 +/- 12.1 years. Preoperatively, 97% were in New York Heart Association 
(NYHA) functional class III or more and over 40% had undergone previous cardiac 
surgery. Hospital mortality was high (16.1%). Incremental risk factors for 
hospital death were preoperative icterus (P < 0.01), hepatomegaly (P = 0.02), 
NYHA functional class IV (P = 0.02) and male sex (P = 0.04) (univariate 
analysis). Ninety-eight percent of the hospital survivors were followed up for a 
mean of 92 months. Cumulative follow-up added up to 955 patient-years. There 
were 70 late deaths. The actuarial survival rate was 74% at 60 months and less 
than 25% at 14 years. Incremental risk factors for late death indicated by 
univariate analysis were the type of tricuspid prosthesis (Smel-off-Cutter and 
Kay-Shiley prostheses) (P = 0.04), the type of operative myocardial protection 
(normothermia and coronary perfusion) (P = 0.05) and preoperative NYHA 
functional class IV (P = 0.05). We conclude that TVR carries a high operative 
risk and poor long-term survival, both influenced by preoperative and 
perioperative variables. Bearing in mind the poor prognosis for TVR, we prefer a 
large-sized bioprosthesis, in view of its initial good durability and low risk 
of valve-related events. However, in patients with good life expectancy, a 
bileaflet mechanical prosthesis may be an acceptable alternative.

DOI: 10.1016/s1010-7940(05)80080-6
PMID: 7495588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Tuber Lung Dis. 1995 Oct;76(5):394-400. doi: 10.1016/0962-8479(95)90004-7.

Isoniazid preventive therapy for pulmonary tuberculosis sequelae: which patients 
up to which age?

Sarasin FP(1), Perrier A, Rochat T.

Author information:
(1)Clinique de Médecine 1, Hopital Cantonal Universitaire, Geneva, Switzerland.

SETTING: Preventive therapy with isoniazid (INH) is usually recommended for all 
patients with pulmonary fibrotic lesions compatible with previous tuberculosis 
(TB).
OBJECTIVE: To determine the optimal strategy between a 6- to 12-month course of 
prophylactic INH and therapeutic abstention in different age groups and in 
patients with severe coexisting diseases that limit life expectancy, such as 
chronic heart failure (CHF) or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
