DESIGN: A Markov decision analysis model that balances the risk of developing 
active TB against TB-related mortality, the risk of INH-related hepatitis, and 
INH-related death.
RESULTS: In all groups of patients, prophylactic INH clearly reduced the number 
of deaths from TB, whereas very few cases died from INH-related toxicity. 
However, because INH-related deaths occur early, and TB-related deaths occur 
early or late, the gain in life expectancy was small. Particularly for patients 
with short survival such as those older than 80 years and those with CHF or 
COPD, the average gain in life expectancy provided by prophylactic INH did not 
exceed one week.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis confirms that prophylactic INH is beneficial to all 
cohort groups of patients. However, in the case of very old age or severe 
disease, the gain in life expectancy is minimal. In these cases, the decision to 
give INH prophylaxis should be tailored on an individual basis with special 
consideration given to the patient and his environment.

DOI: 10.1016/0962-8479(95)90004-7
PMID: 7495999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. BMJ. 1995 Nov 11;311(7015):1282-5; discussion 1285-7. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.311.7015.1282.

Income distribution and life expectancy: a critical appraisal.

Judge K(1).

Author information:
(1)King's Fund Policy Institute, London.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1996 Nov 9;313(7066):1206-7.

In a series of papers published during the past decade Richard Wilkinson has 
advanced the view that income inequality is the key determinant of variations in 
average life expectancy at birth among developed countries. Yet a careful 
examination of the two sources of data on income distribution most often used by 
Wilkinson suggests that if they are analysed more appropriately they do not lend 
support to his claims. More recent data on income distribution is now available 
for several countries in the Organisation for Economic Development and 
Cooperation in the mid-1980s and for Great Britain from 1961 to 1991. The use of 
these data also casts doubt on the hypothesis that inequalities in the 
distribution of income are closely associated with variations in average life 
expectancy at birth among the richest nations of the world.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.311.7015.1282
PMCID: PMC2551188
PMID: 7496240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Health Technol Assess (Rockv). 1995 Aug;(4):1-53.

Simultaneous pancreas-kidney and sequential pancreas-after-kidney 
transplantation.

Holohan TV(1).

Author information:
(1)U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, Agency 
for Health Care Policy and Research, Rockville, MD, USA.

Simultaneous pancreas-kidney (SPK) or pancreas-after-kidney (PAK) 
transplantation has been advocated as an alternative to kidney transplant alone 
(KTA) for type 1 diabetics with end-stage renal disease. Advocates of combined 
transplant assert that the procedure reduces, prevents, or mitigates secondary 
complications of diabetes and improves the quality of life (QOL) of recipients. 
The combined procedures may be accomplished with a relatively low mortality, but 
the morbidity significantly exceeds that of KTA. The published data did not 
provide unambiguous support for the contention that SPK or PAK improved or 
ameliorated the secondary diabetic complications of retinopathy, neuropathy, and 
nephropathy, and it cannot be reasonably concluded that such benefit is likely 
to result. The majority of studies of QOL subsequent to combined transplant had 
significant methodologic deficiencies which made generalizations problematic. 
Notwithstanding, improvements in objective measures, such as return to 
employment or school, reduction in medical care requirements, days spent in 
hospital, social or physical activity, etc, have not been demonstrated for 
combined transplant; improvements in subjective measures were inconsistently 
reported. The United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS) registry indicated that 
SPK represents 83 percent, and PAK about 8 percent of all pancreas transplants 
in the United States. Pancreas graft survival data are limited; UNOS reported 
3-year survival rates of approximately 65 percent following SPK, and 35 percent 
after PAK. Renal graft survival following SPK appears comparable to that 
reported for most cadaver KTA. However, selection of SPK in lieu of KTA with a 
living-related donor or HLA-matched cadaver kidney may result in significant 
reduction in expected renal graft survival, in the range of 40-70 percent to as 
much as 350 percent. A cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) model compared SPK with 
KTA and continued insulin therapy. The model employed a wide range of reported 
charges/payments, and postulated that SPK would provide significant improvements 
in quality of life. Sensitivity analyses indicated that SPK was equal in cost 
effectiveness to KTA only in patients who incurred very high annual costs for 
the treatment of hyper- or hypoglycemia. The literature does not indicate that 
such patients comprise the majority of SPK recipients. Additional evidence is 
necessary to unequivocally demonstrate the risks, costs, and ultimate benefits 
of combined transplant. Such information should include detailed and unambiguous 
patient selection criteria, prospective comparative studies of the effects of 
SPK/PAK upon secondary complications and quality of life, and accurate cost data 
for the transplant procedures and required followup care.

PMID: 7496905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Acad Emerg Med. 1995 Jun;2(6):535-43. doi:
10.1111/j.1553-2712.1995.tb03257.x.

The Health Consequences of Injury Questionnaire.

McClure RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Epidemiology and Population, Australian National 
University, Canberra.

OBJECTIVE: To study the properties of a new survey instrument, the Health 
Consequences of Injury Questionnaire (HCIQ), for measuring the impact of injury 
on health and to compare the new instrument with the more detailed, previously 
developed Quality of Well-being (QWB) scale.
METHODS: The HCIQ is a three-page health status questionnaire, suitable for 
self-administration. Similar to the QWB scale, the HCIQ measures health on a 
unitary scale where 1 represents optimum health and 0, death. The HCIQ was 
developed and studied in representative samples of injured adults from an 
Australian population. The HCIQ was administered concurrently with the QWB 
instrument to a sample of injured subjects, and the QWB scale scores were 
compared with estimated scores from the HCIQ using QWB scale weightings. The 
reliability of the HCIQ was tested on a further sample of injured subjects using 
a mailed test-retest design.
RESULTS: Of the 211 subjects in the validity sample, 98 completed both the HCIQ 
and the QWB scales. The intraclass correlation coefficient for the scores 
obtained from the two questionnaires was 0.86 (95% CI = 0.66-1.00). The mean 
difference between the scores was 0.04 +/- 0.09 (SD). The HCIQ had a median 
completion time of 15 minutes. Of the 129 subjects in the reliability study, 53 
completed the HCIQ on both postal administrations. The reliability coefficient 
was 0.90 (95% CI = 0.62-1.00).
CONCLUSION: The HCIQ is a practical and reliable questionnaire for identifying 
the health consequences of injury that, when used with QWB weights, successfully 
predicts the QWB score.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1553-2712.1995.tb03257.x
PMID: 7497057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Chest. 1995 Dec;108(6):1594-601. doi: 10.1378/chest.108.6.1594.

The cost-effectiveness of lung transplantation. A pilot study. University of 
Washington Medical Center Lung Transplant Study Group.

Ramsey SD(1), Patrick DL, Albert RK, Larson EB, Wood DE, Raghu G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, USA.

Comment in
    Chest. 1996 Aug;110(2):577.

OBJECTIVE: Lung transplantation is one of the fastest-growing solid organ 
transplant procedures in the world, yet its cost-effectiveness is unknown. We 
compared the costs and outcomes of the first 25 patients who received lung 
transplants at the University of Washington with 24 patients currently on the 
lung transplant waiting list.
DESIGN: Inpatient and outpatient charges were obtained from the hospital billing 
service and home health agencies. Quality-adjusted life year scores (QALYs) were 
computed from the following: (1) utility scores obtained through standard gamble 
interviews, and (2) published survival data from an international lung 
transplant registry and from studies of patients on lung transplant waiting 
lists.
RESULTS: Transplantation charges averaged $164,989 (median, $152,071). Average 
monthly charges posttransplant were $11,917 in year 1 and $4,525 thereafter, vs 
$3,395 for waiting-list patients. Posttransplant utility scores were 
significantly higher than waiting-list scores (0.80 vs 0.68; p < 0.001). Life 
expectancy was not greater for lung transplant vs waiting-list patients (5.89 vs 
5.32 years; p > 0.05), although quality-adjusted life expectancy did improve 
significantly. After converting charges to costs, the incremental cost per QALY 
gained for posttransplant compared with waiting-list patients was $176,817.
CONCLUSIONS: Lung transplantation is very expensive, although it can 
substantially improve quality of life. Two-thirds of care costs are incurred 
after transplantation. The principal barriers to cost-effectiveness at present 
are the high cost of postrecovery care and marginal gains in life expectancy 
compared with conservative care.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.108.6.1594
PMID: 7497767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Duodecim. 1994;110(14):1309-11.

[Population biology of death].

[Article in Finnish]

Portin P.

PMID: 7497944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. East Afr Med J. 1995 Jun;72(6):381-5.

Clinical evaluation of Norplant in Kumasi, Ghana.

Martey JO(1), Turkson SO, Djan JO, Dunson TR, Amatya R, Krueger S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Science and 
Technology, Kumasi, Ghana.

A non-comparative study of the Norplant contraceptive subdermal implant system 
was conducted in Kumasi, Ghana. A total of 100 acceptors were enrolled in the 
clinical trial, which began in 1987. There were no pregnancies during the first 
two years of use. Only nine post-insertion medical problems were reported during 
the first two years of use. One woman in this study requested removal for 
menstrual pattern changes through two years of use. As assessed through 
user-satisfaction questionnaires administered at approximately six months of 
use, there has been an overall positive user experience with Norplant in this 
study. Although the sample size in this study is small, our results seem to be 
consistent with other studies and it appears that Norplant offers an effective, 
safe and acceptable method of contraception for Ghanaian women.

PIP: A two-year pre-introductory study of 100 Norplant acceptors from Kumasi, 
Ghana, indicated that the contraceptive implants are safe, effective, and 
acceptable to this population. The mean age of study participants was 31.2 
years; they had completed an average of 8.3 years of schooling and had a mean of 
4.4 live births. Although 35% did not want any more children, 64% had used no 
contraceptive method in the month prior to study admission. No pregnancies were 
reported during interviews at 1, 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months post-insertion. The 
continuation rate was 86.6/100 women at two years, for a total of 2119 
woman-months of use. 75 women elected to continue Norplant use, while 12 opted 
for removal and 13 were lost to follow-up. Reasons for discontinuation included 
desire for pregnancy (3), husband's insistence (5), travel (2), menstrual 
problems (1), and tuberculosis (1). Only nine acceptors reported any adverse 
effects; most frequent were itchiness and infection at the implant site. The 
incidence of amenorrhea decreased from 27% at the end of the first year of use 
to 2% by the end of the second year. When asked to identify the most attractive 
feature of the Norplant system, half the respondents cited its five-year 
duration of action; most disliked was Norplant's effect on the menstrual cycle. 
83.7% indicated they would recommend Norplant to a friend, and 55% expressed an 
interest in having a second set of implants inserted after the full five years.

PMID: 7498011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Gastrointest Endosc. 1995 Sep;42(3):195-201. doi:
10.1016/s0016-5107(95)70091-9.

Biliary endoprostheses in elderly patients with endoscopically irretrievable 
common bile duct stones: report on 117 patients.

Bergman JJ(1), Rauws EA, Tijssen JG, Tytgat GN, Huibregtse K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Gastrointest Endosc. 1995 Sep;42(3):272-3.

BACKGROUND: Endoscopic sphincterotomy and stone extraction can clear the bile 
ducts in 85% to 90% of patients. In case endoscopic stone extraction fails, 
insertion of a biliary endoprosthesis is an alternative.
METHODS: Biliary endoprostheses were inserted in 117 patients (73 women and 44 
men, median age 80 years). Follow-up was achieved by contacting referring 
physicians and general practitioners.
RESULTS: Biliary drainage was established in all patients. Early complications 
occurred in 10 patients (9%) with a fatal outcome in 1. In 59 patients the 
endoprosthesis was a temporary measure before elective surgery or repeat 
endoscopy. Further treatment in these 59 patients caused only mild complications 
and there were no deaths. Endoprostheses were inserted as permanent therapy in 
58 patients. Median follow-up in these 58 patients was 36 months (range, 1 to 
117 months). A total of 34 complications occurred in 23 patients (40%), 
cholangitis being the most frequent. During follow-up, 44 patients died, 9 as a 
result of a biliary-related cause.
CONCLUSIONS: These data favor temporary use of biliary endoprostheses in 
patients with endoscopically irretrievable bile duct stones. However, as a 
permanent therapy, late complications occur in many patients and the risk 
increases proportionally in time. Therefore, permanent biliary stenting should 
preferably be restricted to patients unfit for elective treatment at a later 
stage and with a short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5107(95)70091-9
PMID: 7498682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Health Aff (Millwood). 1995 Fall;14(3):90-101. doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.14.3.90.

Measuring quality of life in a reformed health system.

Lehman AF(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Mental Health Services Research, University of Maryland School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, USA.

"Quality of life" encompasses functional status, access to resources and 
opportunities, and sense of well-being. It offers a useful perspective on the 
value of health care, especially for chronically disabling conditions, including 
chronic mental illness. At least three major quality-of-life outcome assessment 
frameworks are available: general quality of life, health-related quality of 
life, and disease-specific quality of life. Choice of a framework must be driven 
by the intent of the services. For persons with chronic, disabling conditions, a 
general quality-of-life perspective is most appropriate, one that accounts not 
only for direct health outcomes but also for the potential social and economic 
effects of medical disability.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.14.3.90
PMID: 7498907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1995 Oct;49(5):460-5. doi:
10.1136/jech.49.5.460.

Socioeconomic factors and mortality in urban settings: the case of Barcelona, 
Spain.

Borrell C(1), Arias A.

Author information:
(1)Municipal Institute of Health, Barcelona, Spain.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to describe the relationship between health 
and socioeconomic indicators in the 38 neighbourhoods of the city of Barcelona, 
Spain.
DESIGN: Mortality data for 1983-89 and socioeconomic data for each of the 38 
neighbourhoods of Barcelona were used. Mortality indicators used were the 
comparative mortality figure, the ratio of potential years of life lost, and 
life expectancy at birth. Socioeconomic indicators were the percentage of 
unemployed, the percentage of illiteracy, monthly telephone usage, the average 
power and age of cars, and the average rateable value of buildings and of land. 
The statistical correlation between socioeconomic indicators and mortality 
indicators was studied by Spearman's rank correlation coefficient.
SETTING: The 38 neighbourhoods of Barcelona, Spain.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The comparative mortality figure ranged from 
87.41-152.43 and the ratio of potential years of life lost from 74.94-237.31 in 
both sexes. Both the absolute difference and the ratio of the value for the 
neighbourhood with lowest mortality and that with highest mortality were larger 
when premature mortality was examined. Life expectancy at birth ranged from 
64.77-75.32 years in men and 75.04-81.51 in women. All correlations between 
mortality and socioeconomic indicators were high and statistically significant: 
the higher the unemployment and illiteracy levels and the older the cars, the 
greater the comparative mortality figure and ratio of potential years of life 
lost, and the lower the life expectancy (negative correlations). Conversely, the 
higher the telephone use, the more powerful the cars, and the greater the 
rateable value, the lower the mortality (negative correlations) and the greater 
the life expectancy. These correlations were greater in males than in females. 
The highest correlations were with illiteracy.
CONCLUSIONS: This study has detected significant differences in mortality in a 
large town in the Mediterranean region of Europe.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.49.5.460
PMCID: PMC1060148
PMID: 7499987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. JAMA. 1995 Dec 20;274(23):1839-45.

Cost-effectiveness of warfarin and aspirin for prophylaxis of stroke in patients 
with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.

Gage BF(1), Cardinalli AB, Albers GW, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, CA, USA.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1996 May-Jun;124(3):81.
    JAMA. 1996 Mar 27;275(12):909; author reply 910.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of prescribing warfarin sodium in 
patients who have nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF) with or without 
additional stroke risk factors (a prior stroke or transient ischemic attack, 
diabetes, hypertension, or heart disease).
DESIGN: Decision and cost-effectiveness analyses. The probabilities for stroke, 
hemorrhage, and death were obtained from published randomized controlled trials. 
The quality-of-life estimates were obtained by interviewing 74 patients with 
atrial fibrillation. Costs were estimated from literature review, phone survey, 
and Medicare reimbursement.
PATIENTS: In the base case, the patients were 65 years of age and good 
candidates for warfarin therapy.
INTERVENTIONS: Treatment with warfarin, aspirin, or no therapy in the decision 
analytic model.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality-adjusted survival and marginal cost-effectiveness 
of warfarin as compared with aspirin or no therapy.
RESULTS: For patients with NVAF and additional risk factors for stroke, warfarin 
therapy led to a greater quality-adjusted survival and to cost savings. For 
patients with NVAF and one additional risk factor, warfarin therapy cost $8000 
per quality-adjusted life-year saved. For 65-year-old patients with NVAF alone, 
warfarin cost about $370,000 per quality-adjusted life-year saved, as compared 
with aspirin therapy. However, for 75-year-old patients with NVAF alone, 
prescribing warfarin cost $110,000 per quality-adjusted life-year saved. For 
patients who were not prescribed warfarin, aspirin was preferred to no therapy 
on the basis of both quality-adjusted survival and cost in all patients, 
regardless of the number of risk factors present.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with warfarin is cost-effective in patients with NVAF and 
one or more additional risk factors for stroke. In 65-year-old patients with 
NVAF but no other risk factors for stroke, prescribing warfarin instead of 
aspirin would affect quality-adjusted survival minimally but increase costs 
significantly.

PMID: 7500532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Med Clin (Barc). 1995 Sep 23;105(9):327-33.

[Cost-effectiveness of pharmacologic treatments for the reduction of blood 
lipids].

[Article in Spanish]

Plans Rubió P(1), Rovira Forns J.

Author information:
(1)Departament de Sanitat i Seguretat Social, Generalitat de Catalunya, Facultad 
de Ciencias Económicas, Universidad de Barcelona.

Comment in
    Med Clin (Barc). 1995 Sep 23;105(9):338-40.

BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness of hypolipemiant treatment with lovastatine 
(0.02, 0.04 and 0.08 g/day), cholestyramine (12 and 24 g/day), cholestipol (10 
and 20 g/day) and gemfibrocyl (1.2 g/day) was estimated in individuals 
presenting hypercholesterolemia (> 200 mg/dl or 5.17 mmol/l) following dietetic 
treatment.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness relationship was measured in terms of cost per 
year of life gained comparing the net cost of the program with its effectiveness 
for each treatment studied. The net cost of the program was calculated taking 
the costs associated with hypolipemiant treatment into account and subtracting 
the estimated reduction of the costs of coronary heart disease attributed to the 
prevention program. The Framingham equation and the information concerning to 
the prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors and life expectancy according to 
age and sex in the Catalonian (Spain) population were used to estimate the 
effectiveness.
RESULTS: The lesser to greater cost per year of life gained is lovastatine-0.02, 
cholestyramine-12, cholestipol-12, lovastatine-0.04, gemfibrocyl, 
cholestyramine-24, cholestipol-10, lovastatine-0.08 and cholestipol-20. In males 
from 45-49 years of age with cholesterol concentration of 300 mg/dl (7.76 
mmol/l) the costs per year of life gained were 3.4 millions for 
lovastatine-0.02, 4.6 for cholestyramine-12, 4.8 for lovastatine-0.04, 5.4 for 
gemfibrocyl, 6.5 for cholestyramine-24, 7.8 for cholestipol-10, 8.1 for 
lovastatine 0.08 and 11.6 for cholestipol-20. In women the cost-effectiveness 
were 11.6, 15.4, 17.7, 21.3, 25.4, 25.9 and 37.1, respectively. The 
cost-effectiveness for the most effective treatments was less than 5 million of 
pesetas per year of life gained in males presenting a cholesterol concentration 
higher than 300 mg/dl (7.76 mmol/l) and those under the age of 65 years. In 
women the cost-effectiveness was lower than 10 million of pesetas per year of 
life gained in those presenting more than 340 mg/dl (8.79 mmol/l) under the age 
of 65 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study demonstrate that the administration of 
lovastatine at 0.02 g/day is the most effective hypolipemiant treatment in 
preventing coronary heart disease.

PMID: 7500685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1995 Nov 18;139(46):2362-9.

[What to do in a 60-year-old HIV-positive woman with a cerebral arteriovenous 
malformation? Decision analysis].

[Article in Dutch]

Dippel DW(1), Avezaat CJ, van der Ende ME, Habbema JD.

Author information:
(1)Afd. Neurologie, Academisch Ziekenhuis Rotterdam-Dijkzigt.

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1996 Feb 17;140(7):386-7.

OBJECTIVE: To illustrate how clinical decision analysis can contribute to modern 
medical practice.
DESIGN: Clinical decision analysis.
SETTING: Academic Hospital Rotterdam-Dijkzigt, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
METHOD: Three treatment options (no treatment, neurosurgery and radiosurgery) 
for a 60-year-old HIV-positive woman with a once-ruptured cerebral arteriovenous 
malformation were compared using clinical decision analysis, with respect to the 
discounted quality adjusted life expectancy. Estimates of the risk of bleeding 
and its complications, of the efficacy and complications of treatment, and of 
the risk of developing AIDS and its consequences were based on the clinical 
literature.
RESULTS: Differences between no treatment and neurosurgery or radiosurgery 
amounted to 0.1 (plausible range: -0.27 to 0.84) and 0.2 (plausible range: -0.29 
to 0.76) discounted quality adjusted life years, in favour of no treatment. The 
limited life expectancy of the patient, leading to a relatively low cumulative 
risk of haemorrhage, did not appear to justify the risks of treatment.
CONCLUSION: Clinical decision consultation may provide a rational, thorough and 
explicit decision procedure which takes into account the complexity of medical 
care.

PMID: 7501076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Neurosurgery. 1995 Sep;37(3):436-43; discussion 443-4. doi: 
10.1227/00006123-199509000-00011.

Cost effectiveness analysis: a review.

Rutigliano MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, Pennsylvania, USA.

Medical treatments and strategies are increasingly being subjected to 
evaluations of economic efficiency. Although the reasons for this are many, it 
is becoming ever more important for physicians to have an understanding of the 
uses and limitations of such evaluations. Cost effectiveness analysis (CEA) is a 
technique that measures the cost of medical technology per unit of a defined 
health output, usually life years saved with an adjustment for quality of 
survival. CEA is a popular method of economic evaluation for policy markers, 
because it can provide direct comparisons among many medical technologies, 
resulting in a ranked order of procedures based on economic efficiency. The 
proper interpretation of a CEA requires an understanding of the component parts 
of the analysis, their theoretical bases, and their limitations. The components 
of a CEA include the determination of relevant costs, an appropriate analysis 
viewpoint, the use of discounting for both costs and benefits, and a sensitivity 
analysis of the assumptions and probabilities that drive the analysis. Marginal 
and incremental CEAs are techniques that help to address the cost effectiveness 
of different amounts of a particular treatment and the differential costs and 
benefits of competing strategies, respectively. A review is presented of the 
theoretical basis of CEA and its component parts. Emphasis is placed on 
generating an understanding of the method rather than providing a step-by-step 
protocol for the undertaking of such studies.

DOI: 10.1227/00006123-199509000-00011
PMID: 7501108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Neurosurgery. 1995 Sep;37(3):445-53; discussion 453-5. doi: 
10.1227/00006123-199509000-00012.

The cost effectiveness of stereotactic radiosurgery versus surgical resection in 
the treatment of solitary metastatic brain tumors.

Rutigliano MJ(1), Lunsford LD, Kondziolka D, Strauss MJ, Khanna V, Green M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, Pennsylvania, USA.

Solitary metastatic brain tumors are the most common intracranial neoplasms 
encountered by neurosurgeons. Surgical resection of brain metastasis with whole 
brain radiotherapy (WBR) significantly increases survival in comparison with WBR 
alone. Stereotactic radiosurgery (SR) seems to provide results that are similar 
to those of surgical resection. To analyze the economic efficiency of these 
different treatments, we compared the results of surgical resection and SR as 
reported in the medical literature between 1974 and 1994. We included studies in 
which: 1) at least 75% of patients received WBR; 2) study dates were in the 
computed tomography era (after 1975); 3) operative morbidity, mortality, and 
median survival were reported; 4) study dates were not included in a more recent 
update or review; 5) tumor histologies were reported; and 6) the cobalt-60 gamma 
unit was used for SR. Three surgical resection studies and one SR study met all 
entry requirements. The WBR baseline was developed from two prospective, 
randomized trials and used for incremental cost effectiveness analysis. We 
developed a model of typical resource usage for uncomplicated procedures, 
reported complications, and subsequent craniotomies (for recurrent tumor or 
radiation necrosis) for both treatment options. Costs were estimated from the 
societal viewpoint using the 1992 Medicare Provider Analysis and Review database 
with average cost:charge ratios for surgery and WBR. A survey of capital and 
operating costs from five sites was used for radiosurgery. Our analysis revealed 
that radiosurgery had a lower uncomplicated procedure cost ($20,209 versus 
$27,587), a lower average complication cost per case ($2,534 versus $2,874), and 
a lower total cost per procedure ($22,743 versus $30,461), was more cost 
effective ($24,811 versus $32,149 per life year), and had a better incremental 
cost effectiveness ($40,648 versus $52,384 per life year) than surgical 
resection. A sensitivity analysis revealed that large changes in key assumptions 
would be required to change the analysis outcome. Equalization of the 
incremental cost effectiveness of the two treatments would require one of the 
following: 1) a 38.7% reduction in SR annual case volume, 2) a 34.7% increase in 
SR procedure cost, 3) a 18.8% reduction in surgical resection procedure cost, 4) 
a 240.5% increase in SR morbidity cost, 5) a 12.7% reduction in SR median 
survival, 6) a 16.8% increase in surgical resection median survival. Elimination 
of all surgical resection morbidity cost would still result in superior 
incremental cost effectiveness for SR.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1227/00006123-199509000-00012
PMID: 7501109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Presse Med. 1995 Sep 30;24(28):1308-10.

[Percutaneous cementoplasty for malignant osteolysis of the acetabulum].

[Article in French]

Cotten A(1), Duquesnoy B.

Author information:
(1)Service de Radiologie ostéo-articulaire, Hôpital B, Lille.

The development of malignant lesions in the acetabulum can lead to painful and 
disabling bone destruction. In carefully selected patients where the cortical 
still provides a sufficient barrier protecting the joint, percutaneous injection 
of ciment (10-15 cc) can be a successful mean of countering both pain and 
functional impairment. This easy-to-perform technique requires only local 
anaesthesia and can be highly cost-effective. The antalgic effect is rapid. Most 
patients are able to walk again within 1 to 5 days (an effect which is 
particularly spectacular in bedridden subjects) probably due to the reduced pain 
and to better distribution of the mechanical forces. Hospitalization is usually 
shortened. In our experience with 18 patients, clinical improvement has been 
maintained for up to 18 months (mean follow-up 7 months) if the osteolytic 
process remains under control. Secondary effects are not rare but usually 
temporary. Recurrent pain, fever and/or inflammatory processes have been 
observed and usually resolve within 1 to 4 days. Intra-articular leakage can be 
avoided by careful patient selection. In association with radiotherapy, 
percutaneous injection of ciment appears to be an useful alternative to surgery 
for patients with destructive malignant lesions of the acetabulum, particularly 
in those with a poor clinical status and a short life expectancy. This technique 
has already been shown to be effective in lesions of the vertebral bodies. 
Several teams have made further attempts in other localizations.

PMID: 7501624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Psychol Rep. 1995 Aug;77(1):147-54. doi: 10.2466/pr0.1995.77.1.147.

Cognitive determinants of quality of life after onset of cancer.

Wagner MK(1), Armstrong D, Laughlin JE.

Author information:
(1)Psychology Department, University of South Carolina, Columbia 29208, USA.

To investigate cognitive coping styles and how they might relate to perceived 
quality of life for individuals seriously ill with cancer 41 mostly elderly, 
male patients with a wide variety of cancers were administered the Illness 
Effects Questionnaire, a quality of life measure, the COPE Questionnaire, which 
samples different coping strategies, and questions regarding beliefs about 
illness behaviors, expectations about cancer's effects, comparisons of the 
participants' lives with those of others, feelings since having cancer, and 
motivation to resist lifestyle disruptions. Six of the belief factors and two of 
the coping strategies were related to perceived quality of life. If the effects 
of cancer were less than expected, quality of life was better; with an 
expectation of a negative effect from the disease, lowered quality of life was 
perceived. Two coping strategies were related to quality of life, suppression of 
competing activities and using religious practices. Other relationships were 
also discussed.

DOI: 10.2466/pr0.1995.77.1.147
PMID: 7501754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Salud Publica Mex. 1995 Jul-Aug;37(4):363-74.

[Cost effectiveness and health sector reform].

[Article in Spanish]

Musgrove P(1).

Author information:
(1)The World Bank, Population, Health and Nutrition Department, Washington, D.C. 
20433, USA.

The cost-effectiveness of a health intervention is an estimate of the relation 
between what it costs to be provided, and the improvement in health which 
results from such intervention. Health may improve because the incidence of 
illness or injury is reduced, because death is avoided or delayed, or because 
the duration or severity of disability is limited. The calculation of this 
health benefit combines objective factors, such as the age at incidence and 
whether or not the outcome is death, with subjective factors such as the 
severity of disability, the judgement as to the value of life lived at different 
ages, and the rate at which the future is discounted. The construction and 
interpretation of the estimate are explained. Also, the paper examines whether 
the concept of cost-effectiveness is consistent with ethical norms such as 
equity, and concludes that they are not in conflict. Finally, it addresses the 
question of how to incorporate cost-effectiveness into a health sector reform, 
and possible ways to implement it.

PMID: 7502159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Am J Med Sci. 1995 Dec;310 Suppl 1:S83-5. doi:
10.1097/00000441-199512000-00015.

Perspectives of public health and prevention.

Spencer HC(1).

Author information:
(1)Tulane Center for Cardiovascular Health, Tulane University School of Public 
Health & Tropical Medicine, New Orleans, Louisiana 70112-2824, USA.

The average life expectancy at birth of Americans has increased 30 years since 
the turn of the century and is mostly attributable to public health measures. 
Although death rates for cardiovascular diseases have declined in the past two 
decades, cardiovascular diseases still cause more deaths in the United States 
than all other causes combined. The major etiologies of heart disease, 
atherosclerosis and hypertension, are associated with modifiable risk 
factors--high blood cholesterol, high blood pressure, cigarette smoking, diet, 
and inactivity. Social status and access to medical care are also important 
contributors. Consequently, the greatest potential for reducing heart disease 
mortality and morbidity rests with prevention and public health practice. Recent 
directions in health-care reform emphasize fiscal management, medical care, and 
clinical medicine, and not general health. This emphasis exacerbates policy and 
financing imbalances between preventive and curative medicine. Consequently, the 
concept of a health system needs to be designed more rationally to allocate 
resources that include prevention and health promotion. The Bogalusa Heart Study 
provides understanding of the early origin of cardiovascular problems and the 
environmental and lifestyle factors that contribute to development of adult 
heart disease. To apply this information, public health models of intervention, 
like the school Health Ahead/Heart Smart program, are needed to address heart 
disease in the population. Changes in the true determinants of poor health, such 
as environmental factors and unhealthy behaviors, are the directions for 
prevention and future improvement in quality of life.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1097/00000441-199512000-00015
PMID: 7503131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Arch Intern Med. 1995 Dec 11-25;155(22):2473-8.

Referral for dialysis in Ontario.

Mendelssohn DC(1), Kua BT, Singer PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Toronto Hospital, Ontario.

BACKGROUND: Because the incidence rates of treated end-stage renal disease are 
much lower in Canada than in the United States, we hypothesized that decisions, 
made by family physicians and community internists, not to refer certain 
patients to nephrologists might explain this difference.
OBJECTIVE: To elicit patterns of practice and attitudes from nonnephrologist 
physicians who care for, and possibly refer, patients with renal disease.
METHODS: A mailed survey was sent to a random sample of 1924 members of the 
Ontario Medical Association, Sections on General and Family Practice and 
Internal Medicine. Of 1778 eligible respondents, responses were received from 
728 physicians (40.9%).
RESULTS: Patients with microscopic hematuria (79.2%), proteinuria (69.5%), and 
serum creatinine levels in the 120 to 150 mumol/L (1.4 to 1.7 mg/dL) range 
(84.3%) were generally not referred by family physicians. A hypothetical 
question about patient age and comorbid features revealed that physicians were 
less likely to refer patients as their age and comorbidity increased. In 
response to the question, "In the past 3 years, did you care for a patient who, 
after due consideration, died of renal failure without referral for dialysis," 
14.2% of family physicians and 44.6% of internists said yes. Overall, 67.4% of 
respondents strongly or somewhat agree that rationing of dialysis is occurring 
now. Opinions about possible criteria for rationing of dialysis were that the 
majority strongly or somewhat agreed to basing a decision on the wishes of a 
competent patient (94.1%), short life expectancy (87.9), poor quality of life 
(87.0%), and age (63.6%).
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that nonreferral for dialysis occurs in 
Ontario and that the act of referral, or nonreferral as the case may be, is 
influenced by both age and coexisting disease. The patterns of nonreferral 
reported raise a concern that patients who might benefit are not being referred 
to dialysis centers.

PMID: 7503607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. J Bacteriol. 1993 Dec;175(24):7968-75. doi:
10.1128/jb.175.24.7968-7975.1993.

Transcriptional analysis of the Aeromonas salmonicida S-layer protein gene vapA.

Chu S(1), Gustafson CE, Feutrier J, Cavaignac S, Trust TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Microbiology, University of Victoria, British 
Columbia, Canada.

The vapA gene of Aeromonas salmonicida encodes the subunit of the surface 
protein array known as A-layer. Nucleotide sequence analysis of the 374 bp of 
DNA immediately upstream of vapA revealed two potential promoter sequences and 
other possible regulatory sequences. Sequencing and polymerase chain reaction 
analysis showed that the region was conserved in wild-type A. salmonicida. 
Primer extension and Northern (RNA) blot analysis showed that vapA transcription 
in A. salmonicida was directed predominantly by a distal promoter, P1, resulting 
in a 1.7-kb unit-length mRNA with an untranslated 181-nucleotide leader sequence 
which contained two predicted low-free-energy stem-loop structures. Northern 
analysis of cells grown at 15 degrees C showed that vapA transcript production 
peaked during the mid-log phase of growth (A600 = 0.25). At 15 degrees C, the 
half-life of the vapA mRNA was 22 min, while at 20 degrees C, the half-life was 
significantly shorter, 11 min. The amount of vapA transcript produced was 
reduced by growth in the presence of the DNA gyrase inhibitors nalidixic acid 
and novobiocin. Environmental factors such as growth temperature and atmospheric 
oxygen tension also affected the quantity of vapA mRNA. vapA transcript could 
not be detected in mutants which produced either low levels of full-length or 
truncated A protein or no detectable A protein.

DOI: 10.1128/jb.175.24.7968-7975.1993
PMCID: PMC206976
PMID: 7504668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses. 1993 Sep;9(9):811-6. doi: 10.1089/aid.1993.9.811.

A 90-kDa protein serum marker for the prediction of progression to AIDS in a 
cohort of HIV-1+ homosexual men.

Briggs NC(1), Natoli C, Tinari N, D'Egidio M, Goedert JJ, Iacobelli S.

Author information:
(1)AIDS and Cancer Section, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Levels of a 90-kDa protein (90K), recently reported as a possible marker of 
HIV-1 infection, were serially examined in a group of HIV-1-infected (HIV-1+) 
and uninfected (HIV-1-) subjects drawn from the same cohort of homosexual men. 
The first phase of the study included 61 HIV-1+ AIDS-free subjects 4 years (+/- 
6 months) postseroconversion and 75 contemporaneous unifected subjects. Two 
years later, a subset of 35 HIV-1+ AIDS-free subjects and 72 HIV-1- controls was 
examined. Mean 90K levels for HIV-1+ subjects were significantly higher than for 
contemporaneous HIV-1- subjects both 4 and 6 years postseroconversion (p < 
0.0001). A significantly more rapid progression to AIDS was seen in HIV-1+ 
subjects with high 90K levels both 4 years (p = 0.01) and 6 years (p = 0.003) 
postseroconversion. Four years postseroconversion, 90K was significantly 
correlated with CD8 cell percent, interferon, neopterin, and beta 
2-microglobulin (p < 0.05). Two years later, significant correlations were seen 
between 90K levels and CD4 cell percent, CD4 cell number, and beta 
2-microglobulin (p < 0.05). Stepwise-stepdown regression modeling using 90K, CD4 
cell percent, interferon, and beta 2-microglobulin levels 4 years 
postseroconversion showed that the predictive value of a trivariate model of 
90K-interferon-CD4 percent was better than any univariate or bivariate model. We 
conclude that the 90K protein may be a useful predictor of progression to AIDS 
in HIV-1+ patients, particularly in combination with the established markers of 
CD4 cell percent and interferon.

DOI: 10.1089/aid.1993.9.811
PMID: 7504933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Compr Ther. 1993;19(4):163-73.

Parenterally transmitted hepatitis: viruses, vaccines, and antiviral therapy.

Chung RT(1), Kaplan LM.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 02114.

The introduction of safe and effective vaccines as well as the identification of 
antiviral therapy that eradicates virus in many infected patients augurs well 
for the control of HBV and, by extension, HDV infection. The key to ultimate 
success will be the universal availability of immunization. The recent 
elucidation of the hepatitis C genomic structure will eventually lead to 
fundamental understanding of the mechanisms underlying the life cycle of HCV, 
which appears to elude both natural and synthetic defensive measures. The best 
hope for control of this virus in the near future rests in careful screening of 
the blood supply and alteration of high-risk lifestyles. The next phase of 
antiviral and vaccine development for all of these agents will depend on 
recently acquired knowledge of virus-specific enzymatic processes, molecular 
interactions between viruses and host cells, and our ability to interfere 
selectively with these processes.

PMID: 7505215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1994 Jan 1;28(1):23-31. doi: 
10.1016/0360-3016(94)90137-6.

Prostate-specific antigen kinetics after external beam irradiation for carcinoma 
of the prostate.

Cox RS(1), Kaplan ID, Bagshaw MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Stanford University School of Medicine, CA.

Comment in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1994 Jan 1;28(1):321-4; discussion 327.

PURPOSE: A mathematical model that describes the kinetics of prostate-specific 
antigen measured in patients who received therapeutic doses of radiation therapy 
is presented. The clinical implications of the model are also investigated.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Data from 122 patients treated at Stanford University 
between December 1985 and December 1990 were used. The general form of the model 
contains five parameters, two associated with a decreasing exponential, two with 
a rising exponential and one additional constant. A nonlinear steepest-descent 
procedure that minimized chi-squared was used to determine the parameters 
producing the best fit to a patient's data. The correlation of the model 
parameters with clinical findings was investigated using standard statistical 
techniques including multivariate life-table and logistic regression.
RESULTS: The data for all patients could be fit with either a decreasing 
exponential with or without the additional constant (nonrelapsing pattern with 
two or three parameters) or with a decreasing plus rising exponential (relapsing 
pattern with three or four parameters). In no instance were all five parameters 
of the general model required to describe a patient's data. Three of 61 patients 
with nonrelapsing patterns experienced clinical relapse, whereas 36 of 61 
patients with relapsing patterns did. The logarithm of the initial 
prostate-specific antigen level and the corresponding model parameter correlated 
with T-stage and Gleason score. Among the patients with relapsing patterns, the 
nadir in antigen level occurred within 2 years of the start of treatment and the 
time to nadir, as calculated from the model parameters, was associated with the 
probability of clinical relapse. In no instance was the rate of initial decline 
ever exceeded by the rate of subsequent rise.
CONCLUSION: The model is capable of describing the kinetics of prostate-specific 
antigen levels found in patients after receiving radiation therapy. The 
parameters derived from the model are strong correlates with clinical findings 
and patient outcome.

DOI: 10.1016/0360-3016(94)90137-6
PMID: 7505773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1993 Oct;12(4):337-45.

Phase I/II study of high-dose cyclophosphamide, etoposide and cisplatin followed 
by autologous bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in 
patients with poor prognosis Hodgkin's disease or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Klumpp TR(1), Mangan KF, Glenn LD, Malaspina DR, Cropper T, Mullaney M, 
Macdonald JS.

Author information:
(1)Temple University Comprehensive Cancer Center, Department of Medicine, Temple 
University School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19140.

We conducted a phase I/II study to determine the efficacy, toxicity and maximum 
tolerable doses of CY, etoposide and cisplatin (CEP) in the management of 
patients with relapsed or refractory malignant lymphoma. Thirty patients with 
relapsed or refractory Hodgkin's disease (n = 10) or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (n = 
20) received CY 6000 mg/m2, etoposide 900-2700 mg/m2 and cisplatin 150 mg/m2 
followed by autologous BM or autologous peripheral blood stem cell rescue. The 
dose of etoposide was escalated after each 3 to 4 patients. The maximum 
tolerated dose of etoposide, when administered with the indicated doses of CY 
and cisplatin, was 2400 mg/m2. Three of the 30 patients (10%) died of 
treatment-related toxicity. Although 14 of the 30 patients had residual bulky 
and/or chemotherapy-resistant disease at the time of the transplant, 26 patients 
(87%) responded to this regimen, including 18 patients (60%) who achieved CR and 
8 patients (27%) who achieved partial remission. Seven patients (23%) remain 
alive and free of progression at a median of 21 months post-transplant. Three 
additional patients relapsed after transplant but are enjoying prolonged 
disease-free survival at a median of 31 months post-transplant following 
additional post-transplant therapy. We conclude that high-dose CY, etoposide and 
cisplatin followed by autologous BM or peripheral blood stem cell rescue is an 
active and acceptably tolerated regimen in the treatment of relapsed or 
refractory malignant lymphoma.

PMID: 7506091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Gastroenterol Clin Biol. 1993;17(10):629-35.

[Palliative treatment by endoprosthesis of icterus caused by distal biliary 
tumoral obstruction].

[Article in French]

Buffet C(1), Couderc T, Fritsch J, Choury A, Lefebvre JF, Marteau V, Ink O, 
Bonnel D, Liguory C, Etienne JP.

Author information:
(1)Service des Maladies, Centre Hospitalier de Bicêtre, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre.

Between March 1982 and December 1987, 466 patients (256 women, 210 men, mean age 
73 years) with tumor obstruction of the common bile duct were referred to our 
department. The causes of obstruction were carcinoma of the pancreas (298 
patients), carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater (32 patients) and carcinoma of the 
common bile duct (136 patients). Endoscopical insertion of a biliary prosthesis 
was initially possible in 377 patients (81%). In case of failure, patients were 
referred to the radiologist for percutaneous drainage. Successful drainage was 
obtained in 58 patients with an overall success rate of 93% (435 patients). 
Endoscopic replacement was necessary in 170 cases for 114 patients and was 
successful in 155 (91%). Pruritus was relieved in 89% of the patients. Serum 
bilirubin levels decreased more than 75% after initial endoscopic 
endoprosthesis, repeated endoscopic endoprosthesis and percutaneous prosthesis 
insertion in 80%, 79%, and 62% of the patients, respectively. Short term 
complications of endoscopic endoprosthesis occurred in 28% of patients with a 
mortality rate of 8%. Percutaneous prosthesis complications occurred in 33% of 
patients with a mortality rate of 11%. In the long term, cholangitis was the 
main complication and occurred in 27% of patients with a delay of 103 +/- 105 
days. Intestinal obstruction was observed in 7% of patients. The average life 
expectancy of endoscopic endoprosthesis and percutaneous prosthesis was 109 +/- 
157 and 92 +/- 101 days, respectively. The average life expectancy of patients 
was 163 +/- 224 days.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 7507069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Mutat Res. 1993 Dec;295(4-6):247-63. doi: 10.1016/0921-8734(93)90024-w.

Biomarkers of aging: correlation of DNA I-compound levels with median lifespan 
of calorically restricted and ad libitum fed rats and mice.

Randerath K(1), Zhou GD, Hart RW, Turturro A, Randerath E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030.

I-compounds are species-, tissue-, genotype-, gender-, and diet-dependent bulky 
DNA modifications whose levels increase with animal age. While a few of these 
DNA modifications represent oxidation products, the majority of I-compounds 
appear to be derived from as yet unidentified endogenous DNA-reactive 
intermediates other than reactive oxygen species. Circadian rhythms of certain 
I-compounds in rodent liver imply that levels of these DNA modifications are 
precisely regulated. Caloric restriction (CR), the currently most effective 
method available to retard aging and carcinogenesis, has been previously shown 
to elicit significant elevations of I-compound levels in tissue DNA from 
Brown-Norway (BN) and F-344 rats as compared to age-matched ad libitum fed (AL) 
animals. The present investigation has extended this work by examining liver and 
kidney DNA I-compound levels in three genotypes of rats (F-344, BN, and F-344 x 
BN) and two genotypes of mice (C57BL/6N and B6D2F1) under identical experimental 
conditions in order to determine whether correlations exist between I-compound 
levels, measured in middle-aged animals, and median lifespan. Levels of a number 
of liver and kidney I-compounds were found to display genotype- and 
diet-dependent, statistically significant positive linear correlations with 
median lifespan in both species. In particular, the longer-lived hybrid F-344 x 
BN rats and B6D2F1 mice tended to exhibit higher I-compound levels than the 
parent strains. CR enhanced I-compound levels substantially in both rats and 
mice. Thus, I-compounds, measured at middle age, reflected the functional 
capability ('health') of the organism at old age, suggesting their predictive 
value as biomarkers of aging. The positive linear correlations between levels of 
certain I-compounds (designated as type I) and lifespan suggest that these 
