modifications may be functionally important and thus not represent endogenous 
DNA lesions (type II), whose levels would be expected to correlate inversely 
with lifespan.

DOI: 10.1016/0921-8734(93)90024-w
PMID: 7507561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Mutat Res. 1993 Dec;295(4-6):281-9. doi: 10.1016/0921-8734(93)90026-y.

Effects of caloric restriction in animals on cellular function, oncogene 
expression, and DNA methylation in vitro.

Hass BS(1), Hart RW, Lu MH, Lyn-Cook BD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nutritional Toxicology, National Center for Toxicological 
Research, Food and Drug Administration, Jefferson, AR 72079.

While the life-extending and disease-modulating effects of caloric restriction 
(CR) are well documented in whole animal studies and in correlative experiments 
using cells taken from CR animals, very few studies have used cells in culture 
after their removal from the CR-fed animal. In using this in vivo-->in vitro 
approach we have attempted to examine the proposition that the effects of CR can 
be transferred to individual cells by analyzing the cellular functions of 
proliferation and transformation, the activation of oncogenes, and the 
methylation of DNA as a function only of diet. Pancreatic acinar cells excised 
from CR-fed Brown-Norway rats and placed in rich medium showed different 
responses compared to cells from ad libitum (AL)-fed controls. CR had the effect 
of slowing growth rate and protecting against spontaneous and 
N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG)-induced transformation over 14 
passages of cells in culture. At the molecular level, cells from the CR animals 
showed reduced c-Ha-ras oncogene expression and mutation as well as reduced 
mutation of the p53 suppressor gene. CR also increased genomic methylation of 
ras DNA. We conclude that the effects of CR treatment of the animal are 
transferred to individual cells and note that these responses (decreased 
proliferation and transformation; depressed oncogene expression and mutation and 
decreased suppressor gene mutation; and increased oncogene methylation) are 
cellular and molecular analogs of in vivo weight loss, life extension, and 
carcinogenesis modulation, which are hallmarks of CR in the whole animal. The 
fact that these responses are seen generations after the cells are removed from 
the CR-treated animal indicates that CR causes a permanent predisposition of 
pancreatic acinar cells to these modulated responses and shows the value of the 
in vivo-->in vitro protocol in studies that relate diet to cellular and 
molecular function.

DOI: 10.1016/0921-8734(93)90026-y
PMID: 7507563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Br J Cancer. 1994 Mar;69(3):515-9. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1994.93.

The prognostic value of preoperative serum levels of CA 19-9 and CEA in patients 
with pancreatic cancer.

Lundin J(1), Roberts PJ, Kuusela P, Haglund C.

Author information:
(1)Fourth Department of Surgery, University of Helsinki, Finland.

The prognostic value of preoperative serum levels of CA 19-9 and CEA was 
evaluated in 160 patients with pancreatic cancer. The survival of patients whose 
tumour marker value was below a certain cut-off level was compared with the 
survival of those with a higher value using the log-rank test. The lowest 
cut-off level dividing patients into groups with significant difference in 
survival (P < 0.05) was determined by graphical analysis of chi-square values at 
different cut-off levels. If stage of disease was not taken into account, there 
was a significant difference in survival between patients with low vs high 
preoperative CA 19-9 and CEA levels. When patients were classified according to 
stage, a difference was found for CA 19-9 in stage II-III patients. Patients 
with preoperative CA 19-9 below 370 U ml-1 had a significantly better prognosis 
than those with a higher level (P < 0.05). In stage I and stage IV patients, no 
significant difference was found between the groups at any cut-off level. The 
analysis of CEA showed a significant difference in survival only in stage IV 
patients, with CEA above 15 ng ml-1 being associated with shorter survival. In 
conclusion, in patients with stage II-III disease, particularly in patients with 
a non-resectable tumour, in whom the exact spread of the disease may be 
difficult to evaluate even at operation, the preoperative CA 19-9 level seems to 
have a prognostic value.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1994.93
PMCID: PMC1968879
PMID: 7510116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Virology. 1994 Apr;200(1):114-20. doi: 10.1006/viro.1994.1169.

The kinetics of human immunodeficiency virus reverse transcription are slower in 
primary human macrophages than in a lymphoid cell line.

Collin M(1), Gordon S.

Author information:
(1)Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, University of Oxford, United Kingdom.

Reverse transcription is a critical event in the life of a retrovirus and a 
potential determinant of viral infectivity. The kinetics of "endogenous" 
reactions are relatively well defined but little is known about HIV reverse 
transcription during infection. In this report, we have estimated the rate and 
efficiency of HIV-1 reverse transcription in primary macrophages and H9 lymphoid 
cells using quantitative PCR to detect intermediate cDNA structures. DNA 
synthesis is completed 12-16 hr after infection of H9 cells, but requires more 
than 36 hr in M phi, owing to slower rates of extension and template switching. 
Reverse transcription was inefficient in both cell types and in H9 cells the 
kinetics were sufficiently well resolved to estimate that only one in three 
transcripts initiated were extended to full-length viral DNA. Slower DNA 
synthesis largely accounts for the longer replicative cycle of HIV in 
macrophages. The rate of reverse transcription, which may depend upon levels of 
deoxynucleotide triphosphate substrates, is a potential factor in modulating the 
permissiveness of macrophage populations in vivo.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1994.1169
PMID: 7510432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. J Biol Chem. 1994 Mar 18;269(11):8240-5.

Two forms of phospholipase C-beta 1 generated by alternative splicing.

Bahk YY(1), Lee YH, Lee TG, Seo J, Ryu SH, Suh PG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Pohang University of Science and Technology, 
Kyungbuk, South Korea.

Phospholipase C-beta 1 (PLC-beta 1) exists as two immunologically 
indistinguishable polypeptides of 150 and 140 kDa and is encoded in rat brain by 
two distinct transcripts of 5.4 and 7.2 kilobases (kb). cDNA corresponding to 
the entire 5.4-kb transcript as reported previously reveals an open reading 
frame that is capable of coding a 1216-amino acid polypeptide (Suh, P. G., Ryu, 
S. H., Moon, K. H., Suh, H. W., and Rhee, S. G. (1988) Cell 54, 161-169). We 
have now isolated cDNAs corresponding to the entire 7.2-kb transcript from a rat 
brain cDNA library. The 7.2-kb transcript differs from the previously reported 
5.4-kb transcript by possessing both an additional 118 nucleotides located near 
the end of the coding sequence and a 1738-nucleotide extension of the 
3'-flanking region. The presence of the 118-nucleotide insert in the cumulative 
7.2-kb sequence gives rise to an open reading frame that is capable of coding a 
1173-amino acid polypeptide (PLC-beta 1b), the carboxyl-terminal sequence of 
which differs from that of the 1216-amino acid polypeptide (PLC-beta 1a) derived 
from the 5.4-kb transcript. Antibodies were raised against synthetic peptides 
corresponding to the carboxyl-terminal portions of PLC-beta 1a and PLC-beta 1b. 
Immunoblot analysis with these isozyme-specific antibodies revealed that both 
PLC-beta 1a and PLC-beta 1b are expressed in rat brain and C6Bu-1 glioma cells 
and that PLC-beta 1a and PLC-beta 1b correspond to the previously identified 
150- and 140-kDa PLC-beta 1 enzymes, respectively. Analysis of PLC-beta 1 
genomic DNA indicates that PLC-beta 1a and PLC-beta 1b are derived from a single 
gene by alternative RNA splicing.

PMID: 7510682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Eur Urol. 1994;25(2):131-4. doi: 10.1159/000475266.

Intraurethral catheter in high-risk patients with urinary retention: 3 years of 
experience.

Sassine AM(1), Schulman CC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Erasme Hospital, University Clinics of Brussels, 
Belgium.

A new intraurethral catheter (IUC) developed by Nissenkorn has been inserted in 
43 patients in the last 3 years. We reserved this device for very selected 
patients in urinary retention due to prostatic obstruction with operative 
contraindications or limited life expectancy. The device is simple, very easy to 
insert under direct cystoscopic control. Thirty-six patients (84%) were able to 
void without incontinence or significant post-voiding residual. We noticed 4 
early and 5 late migrations of the prosthesis into the bladder. Symptomatic 
urinary infection occurred in 5 patients and bacteriuria occurred in 6 patients. 
The IUC remained in place up to 9 months without encrustations. It is well 
tolerated, easy to insert and remove and inexpensive. We believe that this IUC 
is a valid alternative to a long-term indwelling catheter for patients in poor 
general conditions unfit for surgery.

DOI: 10.1159/000475266
PMID: 7511105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1994 Feb;48(1):58-64. doi:
10.1136/jech.48.1.58.

Appropriate indications for prostatectomy in the UK--results of a consensus 
panel.

Hunter DJ(1), McKee CM, Sanderson CF, Black NA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Policy, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The use of formal consensus development to determine 
appropriate indications for prostatectomy and to identify factors underlying 
clinical decisions about appropriateness is described.
DESIGN: A nominal group technique was used.
SETTINGS: The study took place in an academic research institution.
PARTICIPANTS: The panel consisted of six urologists and three general 
practitioners.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The panel identified agreed indications for 
prostatectomy, expressed in terms of different combinations of type of 
retention, type and severity of symptoms, and level of comorbidity. Agreement 
was reached for 67% of the indications considered. For acute on chronic 
retention, surgery is indicated, regardless of symptom severity, if life 
expectancy is greater than one year. For acute or chronic retention, surgery is 
generally indicated if symptoms are severe, or if symptoms are moderate and life 
expectancy is greater than five years. For patients with neither acute nor 
chronic retention, surgery is indicated if symptoms are severe, or if these are 
moderate and life expectancy is greater than five years. For chronic or acute 
retention surgery is inappropriate if symptoms are mild and life expectancy is 
less than one year, or if there is no retention and only mild symptoms. An 
"appropriateness score" was developed. This confirmed that in general the 
ratings were internally consistent, that the panel attached little weight to 
mild symptoms, that a combination of irritative and obstructive symptoms was no 
more indicative of surgery than obstructive symptoms alone, and that the type of 
symptom was less important than the other factors considered.
CONCLUSIONS: The results provide a basis for population based surveys of the 
need for prostatectomy.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.48.1.58
PMCID: PMC1059896
PMID: 7511156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. J Biol Chem. 1994 Apr 8;269(14):10797-803.

Effects of nucleotide sequence on the specificity of rne-dependent and RNase 
E-mediated cleavages of RNA I encoded by the pBR322 plasmid.

Lin-Chao S(1), Wong TT, McDowall KJ, Cohen SN.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, Nankang, Republic of China.

RNase E, an endoribonuclease encoded by the Escherichia coli ams/rne/hmp1 locus, 
cleaves RNA I, an antisense regulator of the replication of ColE1 type plasmids, 
in a single-stranded region near its 5' end. The rne-3071 mutation prolongs the 
RNA 1 half-life in cells cultured at an elevated temperature and imparts 
temperature sensitivity on RNase E isolated from the mutant strain. Here we 
report the effects of specific sequence changes introduced by site-directed 
mutagenesis on the location of ribonucleolytic cleavage near the 5' end of 
pBR322 RNA I in rne-3071 and congenic rne+ E. coli and on cleavage of RNA I by 
RNase E in vitro. Primer extension analyses showed that the occurrence and 
position of cleavages in vivo and in vitro are altered highly specifically by 
sequence changes but that the site of cleavage bears no simple relationship to a 
particular nucleotide order. Our results do not support either the notion that 
cleavage by RNase E is determined by a consensus sequence or the contrary view 
that RNase E is a virtually nonspecific single-stranded endonuclease with a 
preference for cutting 5' to an AU dinucleotide.

PMID: 7511607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Turk J Pediatr. 1993 Jul-Sep;35(3):227-37.

Child health, the genome project and phenylketonuria.

Scriver CR(1).

Author information:
(1)deBelle Laboratory for Biochemical Genetics, McGill University, Montreal 
Children's Hospital Research Institute, Quebec, Canada.

Child health and life expectancy improved together in many societies in the 20th 
century. As the incidence of diseases with major extrinsic causes declined, the 
heritability of disease as a whole increased. Accordingly, the genetic 
(intrinsic) causes of disease have become important. The genome project is an 
international venture out of which will come new knowledge about the biological 
basis of health and disease, and technologies to apply that knowledge in 
medicine and other disciplines. Phenylketonuria (PKU) at one time was seen only 
as a rare inborn error of metabolism causing severe mental retardation. Yet, the 
gene frequency is about 1% in Caucasian and Oriental populations, higher still 
in some populations with particular histories that have enhanced gene frequency. 
These genetic facts make PKU a paradigm in human genetics. This genetic disease, 
for which it was thought there was nothing to be done, has yielded to inquiries 
at clinical, metabolic, protein (enzyme) and DNA (PAH gene) levels. Results have 
shown that, early diagnosis (by population screening) and treatment (by low 
phenylalanine diet) largely prevents mental retardation. DNA analysis reveals 
particular associations between PKU mutations, RFLP haplotypes and populations; 
these associations are relevant for counseling. PKU illustrates well how medical 
science, molecular biology and gene mapping can improve knowledge and contribute 
to child health.

PMID: 7513103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Cancer. 1994 May 1;73(9):2372-9. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19940501)73:9<2372::aid-cncr2820730921>3.0.co;2-e.

Bone metastasis from cervical cancer.

Ratanatharathorn V(1), Powers WE, Steverson N, Han I, Ahmad K, Grimm J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Harper Hospital/Wayne State University, 
Detroit, Michigan.

BACKGROUND: This retrospective analysis examines the frequency, distribution, 
and the pattern of disease progression of bone metastasis in patients treated 
for cervical cancer and the use and results of palliative intent radiation 
therapy.
METHODS: Charts, films, and other available records were reviewed for the 41 
patients with bone metastasis of the 496 patients with invasive cervical cancer 
treated at the Gershenson Radiation Oncology Center, Detroit, Michigan, from 
1980 through 1989.
RESULTS: Several patterns of bone metastasis were observed: (1) direct extension 
into bone from the parametrial extensions of the primary or recurrent pelvic 
tumor, (2) direct extension into bone from parenchymal metastasis to distant 
lymph nodes or lung, (3) regional hematogenous metastasis compatible with 
Batson's venous plexus distribution, and (4) systemic hematogenous metastasis to 
distant bones. Eighty percent of the patients were irradiated, and of those, 70% 
experienced pain relief.
CONCLUSIONS: Bone metastasis in patients with cervical cancer is an infrequent 
but significant occurrence with associated severe dysfunction, other signs of 
local and distant failure, and short life expectancy. Radiation therapy provides 
moderate palliation for treatable patients.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19940501)73:9<2372::aid-cncr2820730921>3.0.co;2-e
PMID: 7513250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Orv Hetil. 1994 Mar 27;135(13):693-8.

[Treatment methods for malfunctioning endoprostheses].

[Article in Hungarian]

Kónya A(1), Vigváry Z.

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis Orvostudományi Egyetem Radiológiai Klinika, Budapest.

A survey on treatment options for salvation of malfunctions of biliary 
endoprostheses is given. If the anatomical situation makes it feasible the 
endoscopic procedure should be preferred which is less cumbersome to the 
patient. Percutaneous interventions may include procedures from the mechanical 
unclogging of the lumen to the removal and changing of the occluded 
endoprosthesis. The authors emphasize the advantages of the endoprostheses over 
the external-internal drainage even if interventionalists should count on even 
multiple changing of endoprostheses due to their tendency to occlusion in 
patients with a tumor ensuring relative long life expectancy.

PMID: 7513392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Prostate Suppl. 1994;5:34-8. doi: 10.1002/pros.2990250710.

Role of prostate-specific antigen as a predictor of outcome in prostate cancer.

Blackledge GR(1), Lowery K.

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Department, Zeneca Pharmaceuticals, Macclesfield, UK.

Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) has been shown over the past few years to be a 
useful and sensitive marker for prostate cancer. During Phase III studies of the 
nonsteroidal antiandrogen, Casodex, in which different doses were compared with 
castration (either surgical or medical), serum PSA was measured on a regular 
basis. Attention was focused on the change in serum PSA from baseline after 3 
months Casodex treatment and also on the number of patients receiving Casodex 
whose PSA returned to the normal range. Data from trials comparing Casodex, 50 
mg/day, with castration showed a clear shortfall for Casodex compared with 
castration, in terms of percentage fall in PSA at 3 months, and also in the 
number of patients whose PSA fell into the normal range after 3 months. 
Subsequent analysis showed, however, that the PSA level was related to outcome 
in terms of time to progression. These data allowed the use of PSA to determine 
dose selection in a subsequent trial comparing Casodex, 100 mg/day or 150 
mg/day, with castration. At the time of dose selection, changes in PSA showed a 
statistically significant difference between Casodex, 100 mg/day, and 
castration, but no significant difference between Casodex, 150 mg/day, and 
castration, either for the change in PSA at 3 months or for the proportion of 
patients whose PSA had fallen into the normal range. The idea that serum PSA 
levels can predict outcome in prostate cancer and that they are correlated with 
other measures of outcome, such as time to progression, is supported by these 
data. A decrease in PSA is not a true surrogate endpoint in that it cannot 
predict the outcome for an individual patient with complete accuracy, but it 
does correlate well with other measures of outcome, such as time to progression, 
for patient populations.

DOI: 10.1002/pros.2990250710
PMID: 7513530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Virchows Arch. 1994;424(2):217-24. doi: 10.1007/BF00193503.

Sarcoma of the pulmonary artery: report of four cases with electron microscopic 
and immunohistochemical examinations, and review of the literature.

Johansson L(1), Carlén B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.

Comment in
    Virchows Arch. 1995;425(6):647-8.

Herein we report the clinicopathological features of four cases of pulmonary 
artery sarcoma that appeared at our institution during a period of 30 years. The 
patients, 2 males and 2 females, were 50-62 years old. Tumour was found in the 
pulmonary trunk and right pulmonary artery in all cases, in the pulmonary valve 
and left pulmonary artery in three of the four cases, and in the right 
ventricular outflow tract in one case. There was direct extension or metastases 
to the lungs in two cases, the heart in one case, mediastinum or lymph nodes in 
two cases and the pleura in one case. Ultrastructural examination in one case 
revealed cells with features of smooth muscle cells and myofibroblasts. 
Immunohistochemical examination of three cases gave the following results: 
vimentin and smooth muscle specific actin was positive in all three cases, 
desmin in one case and cytokeratin in one case. No positivity was found for 
Factor VIII. This and other studies indicate that histologically most pulmonary 
artery sarcomas are leiomyosarcomas or "undifferentiated spindle cell sarcomas". 
Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural examinations favour an origin from 
myofibroblasts, probably derived from multipotent (undifferentiated) cells in 
the wall of the vessel. Most lesions show extensive intrathoracic growth 
although they rarely metastasize outside the thoracic cavity. They have a poor 
prognosis although some cases are currently being diagnosed during life.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00193503
PMID: 7514080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Am J Hematol. 1994 May;46(1):9-17. doi: 10.1002/ajh.2830460103.

CD34 immunohistochemistry of bone marrow biopsies: prognostic significance in 
primary myelodysplastic syndromes.

Soligo DA(1), Oriani A, Annaloro C, Cortelezzi A, Calori R, Pozzoli E, Nosella 
D, Orazi A, Deliliers GL.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Scienze Mediche, University of Milan, Italy.

Bone marrow (BM) biopsies from 58 patients with primary myelodysplastic syndrome 
(MDS) were studied using QBEND10, a monoclonal antibody that recognizes the 
human progenitor CD34 antigen in routine aldehyde-fixed paraffin-embedded 
samples. FAB subtypes were RA (5 patients), RARS (9 patients), RAEB (20 
patients), RAEBt (11 patients), CMML (3 patients). In addition, 10 MDS patients 
whose BM biopsies revealed heavy reticulum fibrosis were included. Neither the 
percentage of CD34+ cells nor the number of CD34+ aggregates (defined as 
clusters of 3 or more cells) correlated with the presence and morphology of 
abnormal localizations of immature precursors (ALIP). When all patients were 
considered, median survival was 69 months in those with less, and 25 months in 
patients with more than 1% CD34+ cells (P < 0.05). Median survival was 15 months 
in patients with CD34+ aggregates and 41 months in those without aggregates (P = 
0.0017). When RAEB patients were considered median survival was 41 months in 
those with less than 1%, and 29 months in those with more than 1% CD34+ cells; 
the 4-year survival chance was 45% in the former and 18.3% in the latter group. 
Therefore, CD34 positivity of more than 1% identifies a subset of RAEB patients 
with shorter life expectancy. In addition, leukemic transformation was observed 
in 11 of 35 patients (31%) with no CD34 aggregates, but in 14 of 23 patients 
(60%) with aggregates (P < 0.05). CD34 immunostaining, which can be easily 
performed on routinely prepared BM biopsies, was found to be a powerful 
prognostic tool for predicting survival and outcome in MDS.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.2830460103
PMID: 7514357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Arthritis Rheum. 1994 May;37(5):681-6. doi: 10.1002/art.1780370511.

"Homozygosity" for the HLA-DR shared epitope contributes the highest risk for 
rheumatoid arthritis concordance in identical twins.

Jawaheer D(1), Thomson W, MacGregor AJ, Carthy D, Davidson J, Dyer PA, Silman 
AJ, Ollier WE.

Author information:
(1)University of Manchester, England.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the contribution of HLA-DRB1 alleles in determining 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) concordance in monozygotic twins.
METHODS: Ninety-one monozygotic twins pairs in which at least 1 twin was 
affected were typed for HLA-DRB1 using both serologic methods and polymerase 
chain reaction amplification with sequence-specific oligonucleotide 
hybridization. The role of DR4 and of the shared epitope in disease concordance 
was investigated. Relative risks (RR) with 95% confidence intervals were 
determined.
RESULTS: Increased concordance for RA was observed in both DR4 positive and 
shared epitope positive pairs (RR 3.4 and 3.7, respectively). A 5-fold risk for 
RA concordance was seen in twins who were "homozygous" for the shared epitope, 
compared with those negative for the shared epitope.
CONCLUSION: In the absence of the shared epitope, RA concordance in monozygotic 
twins is rare. In contrast, "homozygosity" for the shared epitope is the most 
important factor in determining RA concordance.

DOI: 10.1002/art.1780370511
PMID: 7514412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Neurosci Lett. 1994 Jan 17;166(1):77-80. doi: 10.1016/0304-3940(94)90844-3.

alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate and kainate differently 
affect neuronal cytoarchitecture of rat cerebellar granule cells.

Pizzi M(1), Fallacara C, Consolandi O, Memo M, Spano PF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Science and Biotechnologies, School of Medicine, 
University of Brescia, Italy.

Rat cerebellar granule cells cultured in media containing 12 mM KCl showed short 
life-span, did not branch, and died after 10 days in vitro. The cell exposure to 
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or to kainate promoted both neuron survival and 
branching, reproducing the viability and the neurite extension routinely 
observed in cultures maintained in media containing 25 mM KCl. Exposure of 
neurons to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) resulted 
in an increased survival not associated with neuritic arborization. These 
results suggest that the glutamate ionotropic receptor subtypes differently 
contribute in elaborating neuronal morphogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(94)90844-3
PMID: 7514776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Suicide Life Threat Behav. 1994 Spring;24(1):1-9.

CSF 5-HIAA predicts suicide risk after attempted suicide.

Nordström P(1), Samuelsson M, Asberg M, Träskman-Bendz L, Aberg-Wistedt A, 
Nordin C, Bertilsson L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm.

Suicide risk after attempted suicide, as predicted by cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 
monoamine metabolite concentrations, was studied in a sample of 92 psychiatric 
mood disorder inpatients admitted shortly after attempting suicide. The 
potential of the serotonin metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the 
CSF to predict suicide risk within the first year after attempted suicide was 
studied by means of survival analysis after after median split subgrouping. 
Eleven patients (12%) committed suicide within 1 year after attempted suicide. 
Eight of these belonged to the below-the-median (< 87 nM) CSF 5-HIAA subgroup, 
that is, the suicide risk was 17% as compared with 7% among those with 
above-the-median CSF 5-HIAA. The cumulative number of survived patient-months 
during the first year after attempted suicide was significantly lower in the low 
CSF 5-HIAA subgroup. It was concluded that low CSF 5-HIAA predicts short-range 
suicide risk after attempted suicide in mood disorder psychiatric inpatients. 
These findings lend further support to the serotonin hypothesis of suicide risk.

PMID: 7515519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Ann Oncol. 1994;5 Suppl 2:101-6. doi: 10.1093/annonc/5.suppl_2.s101.

Early-stage Hodgkin's disease: long-term results with radiotherapy alone or 
combined radiotherapy and chemotherapy.

Brusamolino E(1), Lazzarino M, Orlandi E, Canevari A, Morra E, Castelli G, 
Alessandrino EP, Pagnucco G, Astori C, Livraghi A, et al.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Ematologia, Università di Pavia, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Controversy still exists over the optimal management of early-stage 
Hodgkin's disease (HD); presentation features may have a different prognostic 
impact according to initial therapy, and long-term toxicity must be fully 
evaluated.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This study included 164 patients with stage IA-IIA HD 
treated with radiotherapy (RT) alone or combined radio- and chemotherapy (CT) 
according to presenting features and their attendant prognostic significance. 
The RT group included 88 patients with favorable prognostic features; the 
combined modality group included 76 patients with one or more unfavorable 
features. In the RT group, 85% of patients received extended-mantle or STNI; in 
the combined modality group, RT consisted of mantle- (49%), extended mantle- 
(37%), and involved-field irradiation (14%); CT consisted of 6 cycles of MOPP 
before 1984; 3 cycles of ABVD were substituted for MOPP thereafter.
RESULTS: Complete remission was obtained in 94% and 99% of patients of the RT 
and combined modality groups, respectively. The 10-year actuarial relapse-free 
survival (RFS) in the RT group was 62% and was influenced by stage (p = 0.04) 
and histology (p = 0.01); in the combined modality group, RFS was 88% and was 
influenced by the presence of bulky disease. Overall survival and tumor 
mortality between the therapy groups were comparable. RT-related toxicity 
consisted of mediastinal fibrosis (8 cases), myelitis (3), hypothyroidism (2); 
other long-term events included 2 cases of acute leukemia in the combined MOPP 
and RT group. Altogether, 8 of 20 patients who died were in their first complete 
remission.
CONCLUSIONS: In stage IA-IIA HD, the combined modality therapy reduced the risk 
of relapse compared to radiation alone; long-term toxicity of RT was not 
negligible and relapses could occur late.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/5.suppl_2.s101
PMID: 7515642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Ann Oncol. 1994;5 Suppl 2:155-9. doi: 10.1093/annonc/5.suppl_2.s155.

High-dose therapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation in first complete 
remission for adult patients with high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: the EBMT 
experience. Lymphoma Working Party of the European Group for Bone Marrow 
Transplantation.

Sweetenham JW(1), Proctor SJ, Blaise D, De Laurenzi A, Pearce R, Taghipour G, 
Goldstone AH, Laurenzi A [corrected to De Laurenzi A].

Author information:
(1)CRC Wessex Medical Oncology Unit, University of Southampton, Southampton 
General Hospital, UK.

Erratum in
    Ann Oncol 1994 May;5(5):475.

One hundred and eighteen patients presenting with high-grade non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma, undergoing autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) in first 
complete remission (CR), have been reported to the European Group for Bone 
Marrow Transplantation (EBMT). Of these, 102 were eligible for inclusion in this 
study following review of registration forms. Patients with lymphoblastic 
lymphoma were excluded. Remission induction and high-dose regimens varied 
between contributing centres. A maintained CR was observed in 90% of patients. 
Early relapse was observed in 6%, and 4% suffered toxic deaths. With a median 
follow-up of 45 months (3-112 months), the 5-year actuarial overall and 
progression-free survivals are both 70%. Nineteen (18%) patients relapsed at a 
median of 3.5 months (0.25-52 months) after ABMT, only 1 achieving a further 
durable CR. The only factor with prognostic significance was histological 
subtype, with diffuse small noncleaved-cell lymphoma having a significantly 
worse outcome. High-dose therapy and ABMT has produced effective consolidation 
of first remission in this group of patients, even in those with poor prognostic 
features at presentation.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/5.suppl_2.s155
PMID: 7515646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Ann Oncol. 1994;5 Suppl 2:73-7. doi: 10.1093/annonc/5.suppl_2.s73.

Intensive conventional-dose chemotherapy for stage IV low-grade lymphoma: high 
remission rates and reversion to negative of peripheral blood bcl-2 
rearrangement.

McLaughlin P(1), Hagemeister FB, Swan F, Cabanillas F, Romaguera J, Rodriguez 
MA, Lee MS, Pate O, Sarris A, Younes A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston.

BACKGROUND: Advanced-stage low-grade lymphoma is characterized by initial 
responsiveness to many conventional therapies but ultimate relapse. Intensive 
therapy approaches with non-cross-resistant regimens have not been extensively 
explored. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) can be used to monitor for the 
presence of cells with rearrangement of bcl-2, and provides a sensitive and 
stringent parameter of disease activity and treatment response that may have 
clinical utility.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: From 1988 to 1992, 138 evaluable patients were treated 
with 3 sequential chemotherapy regimens, as well as with interferon alfa 2b 
(IFN) in combination with corticosteroids. Nineteen patients had serial PCR 
monitoring for bcl-2 rearrangement.
RESULTS: Among a subset of 58 patients who had an initial phase of IFN plus 
prednisone, the response rate was 59%, mostly partial remissions (PR). With the 
chemotherapy program, 65% have achieved complete remission to date, and 30% PR. 
By PCR analysis, 13 of 19 tested achieved negative status ('molecular 
remission'), a much higher frequency of molecular remission than has been seen 
with standard therapies, and these molecular remissions appear to correlate with 
a lower likelihood of relapse.
CONCLUSIONS: Intensive conventional-dose chemotherapy can achieve high rates of 
remission, even when monitored by the stringent PCR technique.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/5.suppl_2.s73
PMID: 7515650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Ann Oncol. 1994;5 Suppl 2:85-9. doi: 10.1093/annonc/5.suppl_2.s85.

EORTC study of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: phase III study comparing CHVmP-VB and 
ProMACE-MOPP in patients with stage II, III, and IV intermediate- and high-grade 
lymphoma.

Somers R(1), Carde P, Thomas J, Tirelli U, Keuning JJ, Bron D, Delmer A, de Bock 
R, De Wolf-Peeters C, Keunig JJ, et al.

Author information:
(1)The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam.

Erratum in
    Ann Oncol 1994 May;5(5):475.

In the EORTC lymphoma cooperative group, a randomized phase III study was done 
for patients with stage II, III, IV intermediate- and high-grade lymphoma. Eight 
courses of CHVmP-VB were compared to eight courses of ProMACE-MOPP. Response was 
evaluated after 8 courses. Of 430 patients entered, 346 were eligible for this 
first analysis. Additional radiotherapy was given at initial large masses or 
residual disease after three courses. Response rate was higher in the CHVmP-VB 
arm in comparison to the ProMACE-MOPP arm, 82% vs. 65% (p < 0.0005). In the 
ProMACE-MOPP arm, treatment had to be interrupted because of patient refusal in 
7% of the patients. So far there has been no significant difference in freedom 
from progression at 5 years (49% vs. 47%), relapse-free survival (59% vs. 59%), 
or overall survival (55% vs. 49%). Patients with early response at 4 courses 
showed no better RFS in comparison with late responders between 4 and 8 courses. 
The International Index, based on age, stage, SLDH, performance status, and 
number of extranodal localizations showed a good prognostic significance in this 
series of patients.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/5.suppl_2.s85
PMID: 7515651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Ann Oncol. 1994;5 Suppl 2:97-100. doi: 10.1093/annonc/5.suppl_2.s97.

Hodgkin's disease with a mediastinal mass greater than 10 cm: results of four 
different treatment approaches.

Preti A(1), Hagemeister FB, McLaughlin P, Swan F, Rodriguez A, Besa P, Cox JD, 
Allen PK, Cabanillas F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston.

BACKGROUND: Management of Hodgkin's disease (HD) and large mediastinal 
adenopathy (LMA) usually includes intensive chemotherapy (CT) with or without 
radiation therapy (XT) regardless of stage.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred and eighteen evaluable patients received one 
of four treatment regimens: (1) 6 cycles of MOPP or similar CT and XT; (2) 2 of 
MOPP followed by XT; (3) 6 of CVPP/ABDIC (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, 
procarbazine, prednisone/doxorubicin, bleomycin, decarbazine, prednisone, 
lomustine) followed by XT; or (4) 3 of NOVP (mitoxantrone, vincristine, 
vinblastine, procarbazine) and XT. XT doses included 30-40 Gy to areas of nodal 
involvement noted prior to therapy.
RESULTS: Complete remission (CR) rates for groups 1, 2, 3, and 4 were 100%, 85%, 
87%, and 96%. Respective 3-year freedom from progression (FFP) results were 88%, 
66%, 82%, and 88%, and 3-year freedom from tumor mortality (FTM) results were 
100%, 84%, 84%, and 100%. The presence of B symptoms and stage IV disease was 
correlated with lower CR and 3-year FFP rates but similar 3-year survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Results of this study suggest that patients with stage I-III 
Hodgkin's disease and LMA greater than 10 cm treated with 3 NOVP and XT have 
results similar to those obtained for a similar group of patients treated with 2 
to 6 MOPP or 6 CVPP/ABDIC and XT. NOVP has also been reported to produce limited 
toxicity in this trial and should be considered as an alternative to MOPP or 
doxorubicin-containing regimens in treatment of patients with early-staged 
disease and LMA greater than 10 cm.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/5.suppl_2.s97
PMID: 7515653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Important Adv Oncol. 1994:225-39.

Treatment of early stage prostate cancer: radiotherapy.

Hanks GE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania.

PATIENTS with T1/T2 prostate cancer are well served by external beam radiation. 
1. T1/T2, N0, M0 PATIENTS: The 10-year outcome of N0 patients is equal to that 
obtained by radical prostatectomy in similar patients without the operative 
mortality or incontinence that accompanies the latter procedure. Ten-year cure 
has been confirmed by PSA studies in irradiated patients, while this has not yet 
been demonstrated in surgical patients. 2. T1, NX, M0 PATIENTS: After radiation 
therapy these patients show no excess mortality as long as 15 years after 
treatment, an outcome confirming a strict criteria of cure. 3. T2, NX PATIENTS: 
After radiation therapy, these patients show continuing excess mortality to 15 
years, but most 15-year survivors are NED, again supporting the concept of 
long-term cure. 4. T1/T2 N+, M0 PATIENTS: We must have clinical trials in these 
patients that study the roles of radiation, androgen deprivation, and surgery. 
5. Conformal treatment technology is improving the technical delivery and dose 
administered by radiation therapy and decreasing both the acute and late side 
effects of treatment. It remains to be proved whether the increased dose and 
accuracy will improve local control and cure as hoped.

PMID: 7515842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1994 Apr;17(4 Pt 1):692-708. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.1994.tb02410.x.

Performance of implantable cardiac rhythm management devices.

Song SL(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California School of Medicine, Pacemaker Center, Los 
Angeles.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.1994.tb02410.x
PMID: 7516555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Chir Ital. 1994;46(1):12-6.

[The palliative treatment of hepatocarcinoma: chemoembolization vs. the 
combination of tamoxifen plus beta-interferon].

[Article in Italian]

Maffei Faccioli A(1), Gerunda GE, Neri D, Zangrandi F, Merenda R, Bruttocao A, 
Meduri F, Barbazza F, Bisello M, Dimarzio E, et al.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Chirurgia Generale Ia, Università degli Studi, Padova.

Clinical and experimental data show that beta-IFN enhances the effect of 
tamoxifen on advanced breast cancer. There is a similarity between breast and 
liver as far as the proliferating effect on normal and neoplastic tissue of 
estrogen and progestin receptors is concerned. The authors tested this 
pharmacological association in unresectable liver neoplasms. They considered 76 
(not randomized) patients affected with HCC; 38 were treated by trans-arterial 
chemoembolization (TACE) and 38 to beta-INF and tamoxifen (the 2 groups were 
comparable according to age, sex, Child-Pugh score, Okuda and TNM stages, 
cirrhosis etiology). The treatment response (positive when a tumor diameter 
decreased or stabilization was observed) was similar in the two groups; in the 
TACE group, the presence of a peritumoral capsula had a significant influence on 
survival (p < 0.02); on the other hand, in the patients treated with beta-INF 
and tamoxifen important factors for a better prognosis were the TNM stage (I and 
II, p < 0.02) and a symptom-free condition (p < 0.04). The authors believe the 
beta-INF and tamoxifen treatment could represent an effective alternative in the 
management of unresectable HCC. A better knowledge of the presence and meaning 
of estrogen and progestin receptors in the neoplastic tissue may allow a better 
selection of patients.

PMID: 7517797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1994 Jun 30;717:189-97. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb12087.x.

Apparent retardation of aging in Drosophila melanogaster by inhibitors of 
reverse transcriptase.

Driver CJ(1), Vogrig DJ.

Author information:
(1)Deakin University, Clayton, Vic., Australia.

It is proposed that aging is induced by somatic replication of transposable 
elements (TEs). Most transposable elements in Drosophila reproduce by reverse 
transcription. Therefore inhibitors of reverse transcriptase were tested for 
their ability to retard aging in Drosophila melanogaster. Two inhibitors, 
phosphonoformic acid (PFA) and dideoxyinosine (ddI), were capable of prolonging 
life span when administered for the first half of the adult life. PFA was 
investigated further. It also produced a reduction in the rate of decline of 
behavior. PFA appeared not to act on an infectious agent in these experiments, 
nor did it alter the food intake. Analogues unable to inhibit RT had no life 
span prolonging effect at similar concentrations to that of PFA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb12087.x
PMID: 7518199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Radiol Med. 1994 Jun;87(6):858-64.

[Antalgic radiotherapy in lumbosacral carcinomatous neuropathies].

[Article in Italian]

Russi EG(1), Gaeta M, Pergolizzi S, Settineri N, Frosina P, De Renzis C.

Author information:
(1)Sezione Decentrata di Tecnologie Biomediche IST-CE (area radiobiomedica), 
Università di Messina.

Lumbosacral carcinomatous neuropathy (LCN) may be caused by infiltration or 
compression of the lumbosacral plexi and nerves from intrapelvic or paraaortic 
neoplasms. The authors submitted 23 patients complaining of LCN with CT 
documented intrapelvic or paraaortic tumors to palliative radiotherapy. 
Megavoltage external beam irradiation was administered using a 6-MV linear 
accelerator. Treatment field sizes ranged from 56 cm2 to 235 cm2 (mean: 150.54 
cm2) and encompassed only the site where the disease involved the lumbosacral 
plexus or its branches. > or = 3 Gy/day fractions were used. Twenty-one of 22 
assessable patients (95.4%) obtained LCN pain relief; 19 (86.3%) obtained 
complete LCN pain relief. The median time to pain progression (TPP) was 150 days 
(range: 39-510 days). The median survival was 165 days. Seven patients were LCN 
pain-free at death. Two patients are alive and LCN pain-free. The remaining 12 
patients had recurrent LCN pain: four of them were reirradiated at the site of 
previous neuropathy and only two had partial relief again. The authors conclude 
that it is advisable to submit to palliative radiotherapy the inoperable 
disseminated and/or recurrent cancer patients complaining of LCN, to use large 
fractions not to occupy the extant time of their already short life-expectancy, 
and to design small fields to avoid acute side-effects.

PMID: 7518934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1994 Jul 19;83(29-30):817-9.

[Palliative therapy of inoperable esophageal carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Gräter H(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik, Fachbereich Gastroenterologie, Städtische 
Krankenanstalten Esslingen am Neckar.

The life expectancy of patients with inoperable esophageal neoplasms is very 
limited. Therefore, palliative strategies should be immediately effective in 
relieving dysphagia. The efficiency of different methods so far available for 
palliation is discussed. In inoperable localized cancers, combined chemotherapy 
and radiation therapy are more effective than irradiation alone. Patients with 
more advanced carcinomas will benefit from the development of self-expanding 
metal stents. These stents can be placed quickly, are safe and show low 
morbidity rates.

PMID: 7519786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Actas Urol Esp. 1994 May;18 Suppl:541-7.

[Early diagnosis of prostatic cancer].

[Article in Spanish]

Allona Almagro A(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología, Hospital Ramón y Cajal, Madrid.

Prostate cancer is the most common neoplasia in males and, since it is curable 
only when detected in the early stages, it was estimated that screening would 
detect tumours in curable stages which would enhance the results in the fight 
against the disease. This, however, has not been elucidated since the 
condition's natural history in many cases unknown and it may be that unnecessary 
and iatrogenic overtreatment is being induced. The paper analyzes the various 
tests and diagnostic procedures available, primarily digital rectal examination, 
PSA determination, and transrectal ultrasound all used individually and in 
combination. Several unknown aspects await to be answered and many long-term 
studies continue to be necessary to explain whether early diagnosis of 
asymptomatic disease and subsequent treatment can improve life expectancy and 
quality of life as compared to plain treatment of symptomatic cases. We hope the 
answer will be available shortly and that we are "able to diagnose cancer in 
time but treat it only when we know it is required.

PMID: 7521114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Lung Cancer. 1993 Dec;10(3-4):209-19. doi: 10.1016/0169-5002(93)90181-v.

Neuroendocrine differentiation as a prognostic factor in non-small cell lung 
cancer.

Carles J(1), Rosell R, Ariza A, Pellicer I, Sanchez JJ, Fernandez-Vasalo G, Abad 
A, Barnadas A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Germans Trias i Pujol University Hospital Badalona, 
Barcelona, Spain.

The prognostic value of clinical and pathological factors in 97 patients with 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), were analyzed through immunohistochemical 
methods. The impact on response rate and survival of age, Karnofsky performance 
status (PS), sex, NSCLC subtype and grade, extent of disease, objective 
chemotherapy response, LDH values, metastatic sites involved and 
immunohistochemical markers of neuroendocrine differentiation (neuron specific 
enolase (NSE), synaptophysin (Sy 38), chromogranin (Chr A) and Leu-7) were 
analyzed. Median age was 61 years and seven patients were women. Histologically, 
58 had squamous cell carcinoma, 28 adenocarcinoma and 11 large cell 
undifferentiated carcinoma. One patient had Stage II, 35 Stage IIIa, 19 Stage 
IIIb and 42 Stage IV. Six patients achieved complete response, 18 partial 
response, 34 stable disease and 39 progressive disease. NSE was negative in 
54.3% of cases as was Sy 38 (77.4%), Chr A (97.8%) and Leu-7 (95.8%). We have 
found correlation between neuroendocrine differentiation and absence of 
P-Glycoprotein expression; patients included in this subset had a higher 
response rate but no evidence of longer survival. The univariate analysis showed 
that four parameters had significant adverse effect on survival: non-responders, 
poor PS, abnormal LDH value and absence of NSE expression. Multivariate analysis 
showed that the best combination of independent prognostic factors in predicting 
survival was: PS and NSE expression by immunohistochemical methods.

DOI: 10.1016/0169-5002(93)90181-v
PMID: 7521264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. JAMA. 1994 Sep 14;272(10):773-80.

Screening for prostate cancer. A decision analytic view.

Krahn MD(1), Mahoney JE, Eckman MH, Trachtenberg J, Pauker SG, Detsky AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto (Ontario), Canada.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1995 Apr 19;273(15):1174; author reply 1175-6.
    JAMA. 1995 Apr 19;273(15):1175.
    JAMA. 1995 Apr 19;273(15):1175; author reply 1175-6.
    JAMA. 1995 Apr 19;273(15):1173-4; author reply 1175-6.
    JAMA. 1994 Sep 14;272(10):813-4.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical and economic effects of screening for 
prostate cancer with prostate-specific antigen (PSA), transrectal ultrasound 
(TRUS), and digital rectal examination (DRE).
DESIGN: Decision analytic cost-utility analysis comparing four screening 
strategies with a strategy of not screening. We assumed that the cancer 
detection rate and stage distribution were predicted by each combination of 
tests and that localized cancer was treated with radical prostatectomy. For each 
strategy, we calculated life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy 
(QALE), and cost-utility ratios for unselected and high-prevalence populations.
DATA: Probabilities and rates for clinical events were gathered from published 
data. We assessed utilities by the time-trade-off method using urologists, 
radiation oncologists, and internists as subjects. The Clinical Cost Manager at 
the New England Medical Center provided cost data.
RESULTS: In unselected men between the ages of 50 and 70 years, screening with 
PSA or TRUS prolonged unadjusted life expectancy but diminished QALE. Screening 
with DRE alone yielded no reduction in mortality at any age. All programs 
increased costs. Results were sensitive only to assumptions about the efficacy 
of treatment. In high-prevalence populations, screening produced a similar 
pattern: gains in unadjusted life expectancy, losses in QALE, and increased 
costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis does not support using PSA, TRUS, or DRE to screen 
asymptomatic men for prostatic cancer. Screening may result in poorer health 
outcomes and will increase costs dramatically. Assessment of comorbidity, risk 
attitude, and valuation of sexual function may identify individuals who will 
benefit from screening, but selecting high-prevalence populations will not 
