improve the benefit of screening.

PMID: 7521400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Leuk Lymphoma. 1994 Jun;14(1-2):79-89. doi: 10.3109/10428199409049653.

Prognosis of high dose chemotherapy/autologous bone marrow transplantation 
candidates not receiving this treatment after failure of primary therapy of 
Hodgkin's disease.

Fuchs R(1), Löffler M, Pfreundschuh M, Dölken G, Gerhartz H, Hagen-Aukamp U, 
Hiller E, Petsch S, Pflüger KH, Rühl U, et al.

Author information:
(1)Klinik I für Innere Medizin, Universität zu Köln, Germany.

In a multicenter study on the therapy of Hodgkin's disease, in 88 out of 297 
patients with primary advanced stages IIIB/IV, a failure to the treatment with 
the alternating chemotherapy COPP/ABVD +/- radiation was recorded. The cause of 
failure was as follows: tumor progression under current therapy (PD) 23/88, 
partial response at the end of therapy (PR) 28/88, early nodal relapses 13/88, 
late nodal relapses 16/88, extranodal relapses 7/88, undetermined localization 
1/88.36 months after manifestation of the failure to treatment, 45% of all 
patients were still alive. In cases of primary PD the prognosis was the worst of 
all. Only 1/23 of these patients received a long-term continuous complete 
remission (cCR) with the salvage therapy. 11 patients with only a nodal relapse 
received a cCR with irradiation alone. These cases could be regarded as low risk 
relapses. For the high risk relapse group (n = 57) an indication for high dose 
chemotherapy with subsequent autologous bone marrow transplantation (HDC/ABMT) 
would have been imperative, following the present-day definition. The 
probability of survival of these patients who, however, only received a 
conventional salvage therapy was up to 38% (95% confidence interval 22-54%). 
Comparing these data with the literature our results seem not to be 
substantially worse than those for patients who underwent HDC/ABMT. Only in a 
randomized comparison can the decision be made on whether HDC/ABMT would be 
superior to high dose conventional chemotherapy supported by hematopoietic 
growth factors. It is suggested that such a therapy study be performed as soon 
as possible.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199409049653
PMID: 7522721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Eur J Haematol. 1994 Sep;53(3):129-34. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.1994.tb00660.x.

In vivo administration of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor promotes 
neutrophil survival in vitro.

Adachi S(1), Kubota M, Lin YW, Okuda A, Matsubara K, Wakazono Y, Hirota H, 
Kuwakado K, Akiyama Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Kyoto University, Japan.

We recently showed that recombinant human granulocyte-colony stimulating factor 
(rhG-CSF) maintained the viability of human neutrophils in incubation for up to 
72 hours. However, it is not known whether rhG-CSF can enhance neutrophil 
survival in in vivo situations. To clarify this issue, we investigated 
neutrophil survival in vitro following in vivo injection of rhG-CSF. Neutrophils 
were obtained from 4 pediatric patients with malignancies and healthy adult 
volunteers before and after rhG-CSF administration. Neutrophils obtained before 
rhG-CSF treatment started to undergo apoptosis after 24 h of incubation. In 
contrast, the survival of neutrophils drawn after rhG-CSF administration 
increased by approximately 24 h. Concomitantly, the appearance of typical 
ladder-like DNA fragmentation was delayed. Such an increase in neutrophil 
survival was inhibited by co-incubation with either H 7 (10 mumol/l) or H 8 (20 
mumol/l), which worked as protein kinase C inhibitors. Although our study did 
not measure neutrophil survival in vivo directly, it provides us with further 
evidence that rhG-CSF may function to prolong neutrophil life expectancy in 
vivo.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.1994.tb00660.x
PMID: 7523181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. J Urol. 1994 Nov;152(5 Pt 2):1757-60. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)32379-0.

Deferred treatment of clinically localized low grade prostate cancer: the 
experience from a prospective series at the Karolinska Hospital.

Adolfsson J(1), Rönström L, Löwhagen T, Carstensen J, Hedlund PO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

Comment in
    J Urol. 1994 Nov;152(5 Pt 2):1751-2.

From 1978 to 1982, 172 patients with stages T1 to 3NxM0 prostate cancer were 
included in a surveillance protocol with deferred treatment on symptomatic 
progression. Median patient age at diagnosis was 68 years (range 38 to 89 
years). Mean followup was 80 +/- 32 months. Of the patients 58% had local and 
19% had distant progression, and 52% had received treatment at followup. Disease 
specific survival rate at 10 years was 80% for the total series, 84% for the 
subgroup with stage T1 or T2 tumor and 92% for those with stage T1 or T2 tumor 
who were less than 70 years old at diagnosis. For the subgroup with stage T3 
tumor the disease specific survival rate at 9 years was 70%. In all subgroups 
the competing mortality rate was higher than the prostate cancer mortality rate. 
Deferred treatment appears to be an acceptable option for patients with tumor 
clinically confined to the prostate and a life expectancy of 10 years or less.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)32379-0
PMID: 7523723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Pneumologie. 1994 Jul;48(7):469-74.

[Surgery of lung metastasis--indications, results and prognostic factors as an 
interdisciplinary concept].

[Article in German]

Schirren J(1), Wassenberg D, Krysa S, Branscheid D, di Rienzo G, Drings P, 
Vogt-Moykopf I.

Author information:
(1)Thoraxklinik Heidelberg-Rohrbach.

Surgical therapy of lung metastases nowadays is an established procedure. The 
operation's purpose is the radical and therefore potential curative resection. 
Beside there are diagnostic and palliative indications. Beside there are 
diagnostic and palliative indications. Median sternotomy is the standard 
approach for revision of both lungs even in unilateral seeming disease. 
Preoperative staging is not reliable concerning number and extension of 
metastases. From 1972 to 1991 843 operations for lung metastases were carried 
out in 729 patients in the surgical department of the "Thoraxklinik 
Heidelberg-Rohrbach". 30-day-mortality amounted to 2.9%, 5-year-survival-rate 
was 33% overall from date of metastases resection. The best results were 
achieved in testicular cancer with 67% 5-years-survival-rate, poorest survival 
was observed in melanomas with 12% 3-years-survival. Beside the primary tumor 
and partly dependent on it several prognostic factors were relevant: radicality, 
sarcoma vs carcinoma in favour of carcinomas, disease-free interval, type of 
resection, thoracic lymphnode involvement. As figured out by multivariate 
analysis the prognostic influence of the factors varies considerably due to the 
kind of primary tumor. Surgery of lung metastases is part of an 
interdisciplinary oncological therapeutical concept and offers a prolonged 
survival to most of the patients and the possibility of cure to some. Even if 
prolongation of life is not feasible an improved quality and therefore a good 
palliation is obtained.

PMID: 7524062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Urology. 1994 Oct;44(4):463-6. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(94)80039-1.

Prostate cancer kills: strategy to reduce deaths.

Walsh PC(1).

Author information:
(1)James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, 
Maryland.

Comment in
    Urology. 1995 Mar;45(3):550-1.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(94)80039-1
PMID: 7524232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 1994;(7):3-5.

[Opening address of Academician V. I. Pokrovskiĭ, President of the Russian 
Academy of Medical Sciences].

[Article in Russian]

Pokrovskiĭ VI.

PMID: 7524847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Cancer. 1994 Dec 1;74(11):2949-55. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19941201)74:11<2949::aid-cncr2820741110>3.0.co;2-q.

Intravenous pamidronate disodium treatment of bone metastases in patients with 
breast cancer. A dose-seeking study.

Glover D(1), Lipton A, Keller A, Miller AA, Browning S, Fram RJ, George S, 
Zelenakas K, Macerata RS, Seaman JJ.

Author information:
(1)Presbyterian University Hospital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

BACKGROUND: Treatment of the symptoms of bone metastases currently involves the 
use of narcotic medication, radiation therapy, or hormonal therapy. Pamidronate 
disodium, a bisphosphonate, may prove helpful in the palliative treatment of 
bone metastases in patients with breast cancer as demonstrated in this 
multicenter, dose-ranging trial.
METHODS: Ambulatory female patients age 18 years or older with breast cancer 
metastatic to bone and a life expectancy of at least 3 months were eligible for 
the study. Bone metastases were confirmed by bone scan or bone survey within 6 
months of enrollment. Sixty-one patients were treated as outpatients and were 
randomized to receive one of four intravenous pamidronate regimens for 12 weeks: 
30 mg administered every 2 weeks, 60 mg every 4 weeks, 60 mg every 2 weeks, or 
90 mg every 4 weeks. The primary efficacy parameter for this study was pain 
score. The change from baseline in pain score was determined for each patient at 
each study visit and at endpoint, defined as the last postbaseline evaluation 
for each patient before or at week 12. Secondary efficacy variables included 
narcotic scores, urinary calcium/creatinine and hydroxyproline/creatinine 
ratios, serum osteocalcin and bone alkaline phosphatase concentrations, and bone 
lesion (radiologic) response.
RESULTS: At 3 months, the regimens of 60 mg every 4 weeks, 60 mg every 2 weeks, 
and 90 mg every 4 weeks resulted in significant reduction in bone pain beginning 
by week 6 of treatment. The regimen of 30 mg every 2 weeks was not effective. 
Narcotic use, as reflected by narcotic scores, did not parallel the pain scores, 
because there was little evidence of any effect for any of the treatment groups. 
Reduction in bone pain was accompanied by decreases in urinary 
calcium/creatinine and hydroxyproline/creatinine ratios, and bone alkaline 
phosphatase concentrations. Side effects of pamidronate were mild and transient. 
Radiographic changes consistent with healing of lytic lesions were observed in 
15 patients (25%).
CONCLUSION: Intravenous pamidronate is a well tolerated treatment that produced 
significant relief of bone pain in the majority of patients with metastatic 
breast cancer at the three highest doses tested.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19941201)74:11<2949::aid-cncr2820741110>3.0.co;2-q
PMID: 7525038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1994;23 Suppl 4:S19-25.

Effect of chronic converting-enzyme inhibition on kidney function of senescent 
hypertensive rats.

Vienet R(1), Grognet JM, Ezan E, Lecaque D, Hamon G, Corman B.

Author information:
(1)Service de Pharmacologie et d'Immunologie, Centre d'Etudes de Saclay, 
Gif-sur-Yvette, France.

The age-related changes in the structure and the function of the kidney and the 
effect of chronic inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) activity on 
these alterations were assessed in senescent, genetically hypertensive rats. 
Mean blood pressure was unchanged between 6 and 21 months, being 136 +/- 10 and 
135 +/- 21 mm Hg, respectively. Hypertrophy of the glomeruli with a high 
incidence of glomerulosclerosis was reported in the 21-month-old animals. Renal 
blood flow, glomerular filtration rate, and filtration fraction were reduced 
between 6 and 21 months, whereas albuminuria and cGMP excretion were markedly 
enhanced with aging. Chronic ACE inhibition by administration of 0.3 mg/kg/day 
trandolapril from 18-21 months increased the life expectancy of the animals 
without affecting their mean blood pressure. The incidence of glomerular lesions 
and the excretion of enzymes that reflected the integrity of tubular and 
glomerular cells were not altered by ACE inhibition. On the other hand, the 
filtration fraction was restored in the 21-month-old treated animals, and the 
age-related albuminuria and rise in cGMP excretion were prevented by ACE 
inhibition. These results indicated that ACE inhibitor administered at the end 
of the life of senescent hypertensive rats was able to prevent some of the 
age-related changes in kidney function when glomerulosclerosis was already 
present.

PMID: 7527097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Lancet. 1994 Dec 10;344(8937):1594-8. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)90405-7.

Serum concentrations of prostate specific antigen and its complex with alpha 
1-antichymotrypsin before diagnosis of prostate cancer.

Stenman UH(1), Hakama M, Knekt P, Aromaa A, Teppo L, Leinonen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Helsinki University Hospital, Finland.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2001 Apr 14;357(9263):1201; author reply 1201-2.

Prostate cancer can be detected at an early, potentially curable stage by 
screening based on digital rectal examination and serum prostate specific 
antigen (PSA). The value of screening appears doubtful, based on high 10-year 
survival rates in selected cases of early prostate cancer, but this follow-up 
time may be insufficient. By linking the information on 21172 men who took part 
in a screening examination in Finland, 1968-73, with data from the Finnish 
Cancer Registry, 44 cases of prostate cancer diagnosed up to 1980 were 
identified. Serum samples from cancer cases and from 74 controls matched for age 
and time of sampling were assayed for PSA and its complex with alpha 
1-antichymotrypsin (PSA-ACT). With a cut-off for PSA of 2.5 micrograms/L giving 
92% specificity, 95% of the cancers developing within the first 5 years, and 52% 
developing in 6-10 years tested positive. As a potential screening test with a 
5-year interval for men under 65, the sensitivity would be 92% and specificity 
97%. The ratio of PSA-ACT to total PSA was lower in controls than in patients 
with cancer. Using this ratio, we could eliminate half of the false-positive 
results in the range 2.5-25 micrograms/L without loss of sensitivity. Cancer was 
typically diagnosed 5-10 years after PSA exceeded 2.5 micrograms/L, and the 
median survival after diagnosis was 3.6 years. 10-year survival after drawing 
the sample was 71% in cancer cases with a PSA concentration less than 4 
micrograms/L and 48% in those with higher concentrations. The corresponding 
figures at 15 years were 53% and 27%, and at 20 years 43% and 18%, respectively. 
These results suggest it is advisable to confine screening for prostate cancer 
to men with a life expectancy of clearly more than 10 years--ie, younger men, 
who have the greatest chance to benefit from early detection.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)90405-7
PMID: 7527116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Blood. 1994 Dec 15;84(12):4368-73.

Marrow transplantation for patients in accelerated phase of chronic myeloid 
leukemia.

Clift RA(1), Buckner CD, Thomas ED, Bryant E, Anasetti C, Bensinger WI, Bowden 
R, Deeg HJ, Doney KC, Fisher LD, et al.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA.

The records were reviewed of 58 patients receiving transplants in Seattle with 
unmanipulated marrow from HLA-identical siblings during the accelerated phase 
(AP) of chronic myeloid leukemia. Variables examined for association with 
survival and relapse included the interval from diagnosis to transplant, the 
reasons for categorization as AP, age, regimen, and cytomegalovirus serology. 
Four patients relapsed. The 4-year probabilities of survival, relapse-free 
survival, nonrelapse mortality, and relapse were 0.49, 0.43, 0.51, and 0.12, 
respectively. After completion of the stepwise multivariate analysis, age less 
than 38 years and categorization as AP solely on the basis of chromosomal 
abnormalities emerged as being independently significantly associated with 
improved survival. The 4-year probability of survival for the 16 patients 
categorized as AP because of chromosomal abnormalities and receiving transplant 
less than 1 year from diagnosis was 0.74. The low probability of relapse in 
these patients suggests that more aggressive preparative regimens are not 
indicated for patients receiving transplants in AP because of the increased risk 
of transplant-related mortality.

PMID: 7527674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Prog Clin Biol Res. 1994;386:3-18.

New insights into the epidemiology and natural history of benign prostatic 
hyperplasia.

Boyle P(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, European Institute of Oncology, 
Milan, Italy.

Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) has undoubtedly been an important cause of 
the urinary difficulties observed in elderly men for many centuries although the 
condition was only recognised as such during the last century. Benign Prostatic 
Hyperplasia is a very common condition (88 per cent of autopsy specimens in men 
aged over 80 have histological BPH) and the cause of the commonest surgical 
procedure in elderly men (three men in ten ultimately may require surgery for 
this condition). A common cause of death in elderly men just 20-30 years ago, 
improved medical care has seen dramatic declines in this aspect of BPH and today 
treatment choices in BPH are largely determined by considerations of 
quality-of-life. Despite such a common occurrence, little is known with any 
certainty about the epidemiology of BPH. The incidence, even the population 
prevalence, is difficult to determine for a variety of reasons associated with 
difficulties surrounding the diagnosis of BPH and the identification of a source 
population to provide a denominator to calculate rates. Knowledge of risk 
factors is sparse: analytical epidemiologic studies of BPH are difficult to 
conduct. Case-control studies, the most commonly employed design in 
epidemiology, are problematic in that a control group may be difficult to define 
in view of the likelihood that a large proportion of these may have undiagnosed 
BPH. Against this background, knowledge of the prostate in the general 
population was sought in an international survey and found to be poor: although 
most men are aware of its existence, very few could correctly identify the 
function of the gland. Men tended to discuss urination problems with their 
doctors not when a symptom develops but when that symptom becomes bothersome. A 
10-fold variation in frequency of rectal examination was identified between men 
in Germany and Italy which could not be explained by potential confounding 
variables. Given the large increases in the number of males reaching older ages, 
it is clear that BPH will continue to have substantial and increasing influence 
in terms of morbidity, mortality and health costs. Before the end of the present 
century, the life expectancy of a male at birth will exceed 80 years in many of 
the developed countries. Put put another way, one man in every two born can 
expect to reach an at which he has an 88 per cent chance of having a prostate 
with morphological BPH. Clearly, the need for high quality epidemiological 
information and consequent increased prospects for prevention is obvious.

PMID: 7528398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Prog Clin Biol Res. 1994;386:333-43.

BPH: when to rule out carcinoma of the prostate.

Kirby RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, St Bartholomew's Hospital, London.

With the inevitable increase in non-surgical management of the many thousands of 
patients with assumed benign prostatic enlargement, the issue of undiagnosed 
prostatic cancer needs to be addressed. Currently our knowledge is incomplete in 
many areas, especially that pertaining to the outcome of therapy of incidentally 
discovered prostate cancers. Nonetheless common sense dictates that all patients 
presenting with clinical BPH should undergo DRE and those with palpable 
induration or asymmetry should be biopsied in the knowledge that around a third 
will prove positive. Ideally all patients with clinical BPH should also have a 
PSA determination, however, the result should be interpreted with care, taking 
into account the age and estimated life-expectancy of the patient. Patients 
younger than 75 with a PSA > 10 ng/ml should probably be biopsied 
routinely--around half will have cancer. Patients with PSA values between 4 and 
10 (around 50% of cases of BPH) may legitimately be carefully observed for a 
period. Biopsy should be performed if an increase of > 20% in the PSA occurs 
during the year of follow-up especially in younger patients. Evidence is 
mounting that TRUS has serious deficiencies in identifying prostate cancers, 
nonetheless it does provide the most effective means of accomplishing 
transrectal prostatic biopsy. Further studies are required to critically 
evaluate the competing claims for improved diagnostic accuracy of PSAD, PSAV and 
age-adjusted PSA, the last of which does have the advantage of practicability.

PMID: 7528402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Genes Chromosomes Cancer. 1994 Sep;11(1):15-20. doi: 10.1002/gcc.2870110104.

Loss of heterozygosity on the short arm of chromosome 3 in mesothelioma cell 
lines and solid tumors.

Zeiger MA(1), Gnarra JR, Zbar B, Linehan WM, Pass HI.

Author information:
(1)Surgery Branch, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Cytogenetic analysis of mesothelioma cell lines and solid tumors has documented 
non-random chromosomal abnormalities on the short arm of chromosome 3 from 3p14 
to 3p25. We therefore examined nine mesothelioma cell lines, their corresponding 
tumors, and 15 additional mesothelioma tumors for loss of heterozygosity on 3p 
from 3p13 to 3p25.5 by polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length 
polymorphism analysis at 8 loci: D3S3, D3S30, D3S6, D3S2, D3S32, D3F15S2, THRB, 
and VHL. Loss of heterozygosity was documented by loss of one of two alleles in 
the tumor DNA whose corresponding normal DNA was heterozygous and was documented 
in four of nine mesothelioma cell lines and six of 15 mesothelioma tumors or a 
total of 42% of the mesotheliomas evaluated. This study suggests the involvement 
of a gene on the short arm of chromosome 3 in the development of mesotheliomas.

DOI: 10.1002/gcc.2870110104
PMID: 7529042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Versicherungsmedizin. 1994 Dec 1;46(6):199-205.

[Benign and malignant diseases of the prostate].

[Article in German]

Grond A(1), Ostermann-Myrau M.

Author information:
(1)Kölnischen Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG.

Due to higher male life expectancy coupled with increasing demand for insurance 
amongst older men, diseases of the prostate are becoming more significant in 
life insurance medicine. Suitable diagnostic procedures differentiate to a large 
extent between carcinoma of the prostate gland and prostatic hyperplasia or 
prostatitis. Acute as well as chronic prostatitis can be cured and, in general, 
has no effect on life expectancy. Depending on the staging classification, 
benign prostatic hyperplasia can be treated conservatively by medication, by 
alternative heat treatment or surgical resection of the prostate. Advantages and 
incidence of complications of the different therapeutic methods are being 
described. The perioperative mortality risk as well as secondary renal 
complications need to be considered from an insurance medical point of view and 
may require a mortality loading. Only stages T1 and T2 prostatic carcinoma can 
be cured by surgery. New discoveries of the morphologic structure of the 
prostate gland and more sophisticated surgical methods in radical prostatectomy 
have reduced mortality. The incidence of post surgical complications has also 
decreased, when the life expectancy of the patient exceeds ten years. This 
results in a more favourable insurance medical assessment than that of several 
years ago. Stages T3 and T4 prostatic carcinoma normally require palliative 
treatment. On the basis of the latest research, "watchful waiting" is gaining 
importance as against therapeutic concepts at the time of diagnosis. Besides the 
tumour staging, the presence of lymph node metastases or distant metastases are 
relevant from an insurance medical point of view.

PMID: 7529955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Gynecol Oncol. 1994 Dec;55(3 Pt 1):371-5. doi: 10.1006/gyno.1994.1309.

Prognostic significance of serum fragments of cytokeratin 19 measured by Cyfra 
21-1 in cervical cancer.

Bonfrer JM(1), Gaarenstroom KN, Kenter GG, Korse CM, Hart AA, Gallee MP, 
Helmerhorst TJ, Kenemans P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry, The Netherlands Cancer Institute (Antoni 
van Leeuwennoek Huis, Amsterdam.

Pretreatment sera of 78 patients with squamous cell cervical cancer were tested 
for the presence of cytokeratin 19 (CK 19) fragments to determine the 
relationship among this parameter, tumor stage, various histopathologic 
characteristics, and prognosis. For the quantitative determination of CK 19 
fragments in serum, the enzyme assay Cyfra 21-1 was used. This assay, based on 
the simultaneous sandwich principle, utilizes two different monoclonal 
antibodies. The test was considered positive when levels of Cyfra 21-1 were > or 
= 1.2 micrograms/liter. Cyfra 21-1 was positive in the majority of patients and 
in all patients with advanced disease (FIGO III or IVa). A highly significant 
relationship was found between pretreatment Cyfra 21-1 level and FIGO stage (P < 
0.0001). Mean Cyfra 21-1 concentration was elevated in the case of macroinvasive 
disease (FIGO Ib, IIa, IIb, III, IVa). A distinct relationship was found between 
tumor size (P < 0.001; r = 0.73) and Cyfra 21-1 level. In the univariate Cox 
analysis Cyfra 21-1 level was significantly related to both disease-free 
interval (P < 0.0001) and survival (P < 0.0001) of patients. Patients with an 
increased Cyfra 21-1 level had a significantly worse prognosis. However, in the 
stepwise Cox regression analysis, these variables had no additional value over 
known prognostic factors such as FIGO stage and tumor size. It is concluded that 
Cyfra 21-1 may be of significance as an additional marker in the management of 
patients with cervical cancer, but further investigation is needed.

DOI: 10.1006/gyno.1994.1309
PMID: 7530676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Br J Cancer. 1995 Feb;71(2):350-3. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1995.70.

Measurement of urinary beta core fragment of human chorionic gonadotrophin in 
women with vulvovaginal malignancy and its prognostic significance.

Carter PG(1), Iles RK, Neven P, Ind TE, Shepherd JH, Chard T.

Author information:
(1)Williamson Laboratory for Molecular Oncology, St Bartholomew's Hospital 
Medical College, West Smithfield, London, UK.

Tumours of the vulva and vagina are rare and there are relatively few studies of 
circulating markers in these conditions. The urinary measurement of the core 
fragment of the beta-subunit of hCG has been proposed as a useful tumour marker 
in non-trophoblastic gynaecological malignancies. This study describe the 
measurement of urinary beta-core in 50 patients with vulvovaginal malignancy. In 
contrast to other studies corrections were made for both the effect of urine 
concentration and the age of the patient. Each patient was followed up for at 
least 24 months, and at this time their status was correlated with their initial 
level of urinary beta-core. The sensitivity of beta-core was only 38%, but of 
those patients with elevated levels 90% had died within 24 months, while only 
32% of those with normal levels had died. For both patients at initial 
presentation and those with recurrent disease, there was a highly significant 
difference in the survival curve between those with elevated beta-core levels 
and those with normal levels. This is similar to findings in cervical carcinoma, 
and suggests that for lower genital tract cancer the measurement of urinary 
beta-core may be valuable as a prognostic indicator, allowing a more informed 
approach to treatment and follow-up.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1995.70
PMCID: PMC2033586
PMID: 7530986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1995 Jan 10;115(1):58-60.

[From the hospice movement to palliative medicine].

[Article in Norwegian]

Kaasa S(1).

Author information:
(1)Seksjon lindrende behandling Kreftavdelingen, Regionsykehuset i Trondheim.

The "modern" hospice movement was established at the beginning of the 1960s in 
Great Britain. Philosophical issues and a holistic treatment model have been 
emphasized in order to meet the physical, emotional, social and psychological 
needs of dying patients. Less time has been devoted to research. Several 
hospices now find themselves at crossroads. It is necessary to clarify key 
strategic goals. More patients will be in need of palliation in the next 
decades. A 35-40% increase in the incidence of cancer is predicted from now up 
to the year 2010. More knowledge must be obtained about patients with a limited 
life expectancy. The patients' needs will best be taken care of by incorporating 
a multidisciplinary team into the clinic. It is also important to increase the 
teaching about palliative medicine at medical school. The first unit of 
palliative has been established at the University Hospital, Trondheim. Similar 
clinics should be established at the other university hospitals in Norway.

PMID: 7531372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Leuk Lymphoma. 1994 Sep;15(1-2):99-112. doi: 10.3109/10428199409051684.

Long-term outcome of postremission chemotherapy for adults with acute myeloid 
leukemia using different dose-intensities.

Jehn U(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Oncology, University of Munich, FRG.

The long-term results of postremission chemotherapy for 122 consecutive, 
unselected adults (15-65 years) with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) were assessed 
in two sequential prospective studies involving an identical 3/7-type induction 
regimen, and in those achieving remission, another course for early 
consolidation using 1 day of daunorubicin instead of three. Forty-one patients 
reaching C.R. during the first study period, were treated with an intensive 
ablative maintenance ("IM") program for a period of 9 months. They were 
randomized to either 6 cycles of induction-type regimen or to 6 cycles of an 
alternating-type regimen consisting of high-dose (HD)-Ara C/AMSA or 
5-azacytidine/AMSA every 6 weeks. There was no difference in disease-free 
survival (DFS) or survival. Results are compared with 27 patients reaching C.R. 
on the subsequent protocol where IM was replaced by intensive, short-term 
consolidation ("IC") using 1 cycle of intermediate-dose Ara C plus AMSA and 1 
cycle of HD-AraC/AMSA. Fifteen patients received both courses of IC as 
scheduled, 12 refused the second cycle. There was no significant difference in 
DFS or survival. Seventeen out of the 122 patients refused either IM or IC 
following early consolidation ("refusals"). They received no further treatment 
and served as control. Fourteen percent of all patients underwent autologous or 
allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) at different stages of their 
disease, equally distributed amongst the IM and IC-group. Median DFS was 3.3 
months in the refusal group, 12.4 months in the IM-group, and 18.4 months in the 
IC-group when censored for BMT (p = 0.01) with 6%, 12%, and 40% in C.C.R. at 50 
months. Accordingly, median survival was 5.4, 20 and 47 months (p = 0.001) with 
6%, 15%, and 45% of patients alive at 5 years. There was a definite trend (p = 
0.14) for a higher proportion of long-term survivors in the IM-group when BMT 
was performed (not censored), while long-term survival was identical in the 
IC-group whether BMT was considered for analyses (not censored) or not 
(censored). Median follow-up for both studies is 5.6 years, the longest, 10 
years. In conclusion, progressive increments in the intensity of postremission 
therapy yields in a graded, significant improvement of remission duration and 
survival.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199409051684
PMID: 7532060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Forensic Sci Int. 1994 Dec 16;69(3):299-306. doi:
10.1016/0379-0738(94)90395-6.

Medical legal and ethical questions in palliative medicine and euthanasia.

Pribilla O(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Rechtsmedizin, Medizinischen Universität, Lübeck, Germany.

The increasing importance of legal and ethical questions in palliative medicine 
and euthanasia due to the increased technical possibilities for extending life 
will be considered. In palliative medicine, the choice of the best therapy will 
be discussed, especially in the case of oncological diseases. Here, 
consideration of the prospects of success, for example, in chemotherapy, is 
faced with partly serious side-effects. The requirements of palliative medicine 
that the patient has to be fully informed of the fatal prognosis of his disease 
is equally debated as the optimum pain therapy. In this respect, the 
modification of the Narcotics Act of 1 February 1993 is also under discussion. 
In the field of euthanasia, the technical development of life extension versus 
dying has raised considerable legal and ethical problems regarding termination 
of therapy. Additionally, fiscal considerations are of increasing relevance. The 
common development of the legal and ethical discussion, for example, with regard 
to the publicity of the work of the so-called 'Gesellschaft für humanes 
Sterben', the public discussion leading up to a hearing of the 'Bundestag' 
regarding active euthanasia leads to a realization of the subject. The proposals 
for an active termination of life by discontinuing therapy for adults and also 
for malformed newborns are discussed. A dispute concerning the new legal 
regulation of active euthanasia in the Netherlands of February 1993 is also 
discussed. There, around 2% of all deaths per year result from active 
termination of life and also cases where persons are not able to consent. This 
also has enormous consequences for the position of the physician.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0379-0738(94)90395-6
PMID: 7532146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Leukemia. 1995 Feb;9(2):249-53.

CD34 expression is associated with major adverse prognostic factors in adult 
acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Thomas X(1), Archimbaud E, Charrin C, Magaud JP, Fiere D.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hématologie, Hôpital Edouard Herriot, Lyon, France.

Seventy-five adult patients with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
(ALL) were analyzed for CD34 expression on leukemic cells. CD34 was 
significantly associated with B-cell lineage ALL (p = 0.0002). In B-lineage ALL, 
CD34 positivity was significantly associated with expressions of CD9 (p = 
0.001), CD19 (p = 0.00001) and CD22 (p = 0.002). CD34 was more expressed in 
B-ALLs with higher WBC cell count (p = 0.04), and higher percentage of 
peripheral blood leukemic cells (p = 0.005), total or partial monosomy of 
chromosome 7 (p = 0.0001) or Ph+ chromosome (p = 0.01); and less expressed in 
cases with hyperdiploidy (> or = 50 chromosomes) (p = 0.03). CD34 was more 
expressed in poor risk B-ALLs patients, defined according to Hoelzer criteria (p 
= 0.01). In T-lineage ALL, CD34 positivity was inversely correlated with the 
expression of CD10 (p = 0.05). After intensive induction therapy, 58 of 73 
evaluable patients (79%) achieved a complete remission (CR). CD34 positivity was 
correlated with the persistence of blast cells in day 15 bone marrow aspirates 
(p = 0.001) and after one course of induction chemotherapy (p = 0.01). With a 
median follow-up of 11 months, no statistical differences were seen in 
leukemia-free survival and overall survival between CD34 positive and negative 
cases, even when stratifying by immunophenotype. We conclude that CD34 
expression is associated with features of poor prognosis in adult ALL. Its study 
might therefore become useful in the design of future prognostic models.

PMID: 7532767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Orv Hetil. 1995 Feb 12;136(7):347-9.

[Diagnostic errors in symptom-poor hyperthyroidism in the aged].

[Article in Hungarian]

Szeszák F(1), Kiss E, Szabó T, Balázs C.

Author information:
(1)Hajdú-Bihar Megyei Onkormányzat Kenézy Gyula Kórház, III. Belgyógyászat, 
Debrecen.

The diagnosis of hyperthyreoidism manifesting in the elderly meets difficulty in 
many cases. Lack of some characteristic symptoms observable in younger patients 
can be misleading. The authors summarize the data of ten clinical cases where 
the hyperthyreoidism appeared in occult form, reminding rather for heart disease 
or malignant tumours. The assay of thyroid hormones and the level of 
antithyreoglobulin and anti-thyreoid peroxidase antibodies was unavoidable in 
order to establish correct diagnosis. Though the early diagnosis and treatment 
may enhance the life expectancy of the patients and may considerably decrease 
the cardial and the consecutive cerebral complications. The authors analyse the 
reasons and possible pathomechanism of the formation of atypical 
hyperthyreoidism occurring in the elderly.

PMID: 7532848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Radiologe. 1995 Jan;35(1):47-54.

[Value of local radiotherapy in treatment of osseous metastases, pathological 
fractures and spinal cord compression].

[Article in German]

Eble MJ(1), Eckert W, Wannenmacher M.

Author information:
(1)Radiologische Universitätsklinik, Heidelberg.

Local radiotherapy plays an important and responsible role in the management of 
bone metastases. The valence will be described according to the different 
treatment objectives in the sense of pain relief, remineralization and cord 
decompression. Radiotherapy schedules, aimed at the relief pain, need to take 
into consideration life expectancy. Patients with a reduced life expectancy 
could have a good high chance of achieving pain relief with a single dose of 8 
Gy. Patients with a solitary metastasis, patients with a longer life expectancy 
and patients with a pathological fracture should be treated with 'curative' 
irradiation doses, aimed at killing the maximum number of tumor cells. In 
addition to pain relief, remineralization is also an important treatment goal. 
Conventional radiotherapy with doses of 40-50 Gy resulted in pain relief in 
70-100% and in remineralization in 60-80% of the patients. Remineralization 
could not be accelerated by short-course fractionation courses, but resulted in 
faster pain relief. Short-course fractionation schedules are not indicated as a 
'standard' treatment in the vertebral column. Surgery is the treatment of choice 
for immediate cord decompression and stabilization of a pathological vertebral 
fracture. Radiotherapy alone could decrease neurological impairment and is 
suitable for patients with gradual onset and progression of symptoms, no spinal 
instability and lesions of the cauda equina.

PMID: 7534426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Am J Surg. 1995 Apr;169(4):386-90. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(99)80182-2.

Surgical treatment of carcinoma of the proximal esophagus.

Marmuse JP(1), Koka VN, Guedon C, Benhamou G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Hôpital Bichat-Claude Bernard, Paris, France.

BACKGROUND: Proximal esophageal cancer is usually diagnosed at an advanced 
stage, and the treatment is often limited to palliation. Surgery offers the best 
relief of dysphagia but it remains controversial, because a cure is unlikely 
even at the price of laryngeal mutilation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We treated 40 patients with transhiatal esophagectomy for 
cancer of the proximal esophagus. The esophageal substitute was a stomach tube 
in 37 patients and colon in 3 patients. The larynx was preserved in 27 patients 
whose tumors did not extend to cricopharyngeus. Adjuvant treatment consisted of 
postoperative radiotherapy for 22 patients, chemotherapy for 1 patient, and a 
multimodality regimen for 4 patients.
RESULTS: The postoperative complication and hospital mortality rates with 
gastric tube transpositions were 22% and 8%, respectively, with a 3% fistula 
rate. The 1- and 3-year overall survival rate was 53% and 21%, respectively. The 
unfavorable prognostic factors were tumor wall penetration, lymph nodal 
involvement, and cricopharyngeal involvement. Local recurrence of cancer was the 
major cause of failure.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that transhiatal esophagectomy with gastric 
tube transposition offers good palliation of dysphagia with low morbidity and 
mortality for proximal esophageal cancer. The laryngeal preservation can be 
attempted for tumors located close to, but not involving, the cricopharyngeus in 
order to retain speech in patients with a limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(99)80182-2
PMID: 7535016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Blood. 1995 Apr 1;85(7):1727-35.

Influence of molecular characteristics on clinical outcome in human 
immunodeficiency virus-associated non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: identification of a 
subgroup with favorable clinical outcome.

Kaplan LD(1), Shiramizu B, Herndier B, Hahn J, Meeker TC, Ng V, Volberding PA, 
McGrath MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, San Francisco General Hospital, CA 94110, USA.

The relationship between clinical and molecular characteristics of 45 treated 
individuals with histologically-documented human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV)-associated B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma was examined to determine whether 
differences in molecular features of lymphoma were associated with differences 
in clinical outcome. Tissue specimens from these tumors were evaluated for 
evidence of Ig heavy-chain gene rearrangements using both Southern blot analysis 
and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Lymphomas were 
also evaluated for the presence of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA sequences and 
c-myc gene rearrangements. Twenty-five lymphomas were characterized as 
polyclonal and 20 as monoclonal. PCR amplification of expressed Ig variable 
(V)-region genes confirmed polyclonality in three extensively studied polyclonal 
lymphomas. The median CD4 count was significantly higher in the group with 
polyclonal disease (277/microL) than in the group with monoclonal disease 
(123/microL), P = .04. The complete response rate to therapy was significantly 
higher in patients with polyclonal disease (78%) and CD4 greater than 200/microL 
(81%) than in those with monoclonal disease (31%) and CD4 less than 200/microL 
(33%). CD4 count, clonality, and presence of EBV DNA sequences were the most 
important predictors of survival. Both Kaplan-Meier and Cox proportional hazards 
analyses showed a markedly prolonged survival in those patients with both CD4 > 
or = 200/microL and polyclonal disease. Histologically the polyclonal lymphomas 
were high grade in appearance and contained prominent macrophages. All seven 
surviving patients were in this group. Median survival for those individuals 
whose tumors contained EBV sequences was only 3.2 months (range, 0.4 to 19.5), 
whereas those with EBV- tumors survived for a median of 9.0 months (range, 0.7 
to 65.2), P = .0007. These data indicate that molecular features of 
HIV-associated lymphomas may be important predictors of clinical outcome. These 
characteristics define a distinct subset of patients with polyclonal EBV- tumors 
and CD4 counts greater than 200/microL that appear to have a less aggressive 
clinical course.

PMID: 7535586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Bull Cancer. 1994 Apr;81(4):260-76.

[Results of chemotherapy in cancers of the colon].

[Article in French]

Seitz JF(1), Rougier P.

Author information:
(1)Unité de gastroentérologie et d'oncologie digestive, institut 
Paoli-Calmettes, Marseille, France.

With 25,700 new cases a year, colorectal cancer is the most common cancer in 
France. Until the late 80s, the only effective treatment was surgical excision. 
However, chemotherapy (palliative and adjuvant) has made great progress and 
interesting results have begun to be published, especially since 1990. 
Palliative treatment: the rate of tumor reduction is two times higher when using 
a combination of 5FU and folinic acid rather than 5FU alone and, according to 
some studies, this combination might significantly improve the duration and 
quality of survival. Two recent controlled studies, comparing systemic 
chemotherapy with symptomatic treatment, showed a significant improvement in the 
duration of survival and a study in asymptomatic patients indicated a 
significant extension of the duration of the symptom-free period. Intra-arterial 
hepatic chemotherapy significantly improves the survival but toxicity is high. 
Further clinical testing is needed to evaluate new agents and to improve 
response rates and tolerance to treatment. More study will also be required to 
evaluate chemotherapy as debulking of initially inoperable metastasis. Adjuvant 
treatment: in Dukes stage C colonic cancer a combined regimen using 5FU and 
levamisole is now the standard treatment and reduces the relative risk of 
recurrence and death by 41 and 33% respectively. A combination of 5FU and 
folinic acid has been shown at least as effective in term of 3 year outcome in 
three studies. Current studies have not demonstrated the efficacy of 
chemotherapy in patients with Dukes B colonic cancer. Efficacy is probably 
marginal and clearly lower than for stage C. USe of new prognostic factors such 
as ploidy which appears to be an independent and reliable predictor of the risk 
of recurrence in stage B patients, should allow accurate identification of 
patients able to benefit from adjuvant treatment. Some findings support early 
postoperative use of intraportal chemotherapy. Present trials in stage B and C 
patients which no longer include untreated control groups are under way to 
compare systemic treatments (5FU-levamisole, 5FU-AF-levamisole) or combination 
of locoregional and systemic treatments (intraperitoneal or intraportal 5FU and 
systemic treatment vs systemic treatment alone). One such trial is the recently 
begun European study that is to include 2000 patients upon completion. 
Development of large-scale controlled trials will be necessary to build on the 
major gains that have been made in adjuvant treatment.

PMID: 7535602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. J Endourol. 1994 Dec;8(6):425-8. doi: 10.1089/end.1994.8.425.

Laparoscopic bilateral cutaneous ureterostomy for palliation of ureteral 
obstruction caused by advanced pelvic cancer.

Puppo P(1), Perachino M, Ricciotti G, Bozzo W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, S. Corona Hospital, Pietra Ligure (SV), Italy.

In cases of advanced urologic malignancies with impairment of renal function 
secondary to tumor infiltration in high-risk patients, the possibility of 
performing a laparoscopic instead of an open cutaneous ureterostomy should be 
considered. We performed laparoscopic cutaneous ureterostomy in three male 
patients, two with prostate cancer and one with bladder cancer, and in one 
female patient with uterine cancer. Five operative ports were used. The ureters 
were identified, dissected, severed, and passed through two 10-mm ports; and 
cutaneous ureterostomies were performed in the usual manner. The mean operative 
time was 96 minutes. Patients were discharged after 5 to 7 (mean 6) days. The 
two patients with prostate cancer are now in treatment with GnRH analogues with 
a follow-up of 3 and 7 months. The patient with bladder cancer underwent 
palliative radiotherapy and is well after 6 months. The patient with uterine 
cancer has stable disease after 3 months. Laparoscopic urinary diversion causes 
less discomfort and has a low complication rate and may be the first-choice 
diversion in patients with advanced cancer who have a life expectancy longer 
than 6 months.

DOI: 10.1089/end.1994.8.425
PMID: 7535620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. J Neurobiol. 1995 Feb;26(2):189-204. doi: 10.1002/neu.480260204.

Development of wing sensory axons in the central nervous system of Drosophila 
during metamorphosis.

Whitlock KE(1), Palka J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Washington, Seattle 98195, USA.

The development of new, adult-specific axonal pathways in the central nervous 
system (CNS) of insects during metamorphosis is still largely uncharacterized. 
Here we used axonal labeling with DiI to describe the timing and pattern of 
growth of sensory axons originating in the wing of Drosophila as they establish 
their adult projection pattern in the CNS during pupal life. The wing of 
Drosophila carries a small number of readily identifiable sensory organs 
(sensilla) whose neurons are located in the periphery and whose axons travel 
along specific routes within the adult CNS. The neurons are born and undergo 
axonogenesis in a characteristic order. The order of axon arrival in the CNS 
appears to be the same as that of their development in the periphery. Within the 
CNS, the formation of four prominent axon bundles leading to distant termination 
sites is followed by the formation of a compact axon termination site near the 
point of wing nerve entry into the CNS. This sensillum-specific pattern persists 
into adulthood without discernible modification. We also find a small number of 
axons filled with DiI prior to the formation of the four permanent bundles. We 
have only been able to fill them for a few hours in early pupal life and 
therefore consider them to be transient. The bundles of wing sensory axons 
travel within tracts that contain other axons as well. Using 
immunocytochemistry, the tracts start to be histologically identifiable at 
around 12 h after pupariation (AP), and grow substantially as metamorphosis 
proceeds. Wing sensory neurons are found in the tracts by 18-20 h AP and the 
full adult pattern is established by 48 h AP. When sensory axons first enter the 
CNS, they fan out in the region where their appropriate tracts are located, but 
they do not wander extensively. They quickly form bundles that become 
increasingly compact over time. Calculations show that the rate of axon 
extension within the CNS varies from bundle to bundle and is equal to or greater 
than that of the same axons growing through wing tissue.

DOI: 10.1002/neu.480260204
PMID: 7535838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. J Neurosurg. 1995 May;82(5):739-44. doi: 10.3171/jns.1995.82.5.0739.

Unilateral posterolateral decompression without stabilization for neurological 
palliation of symptomatic spinal metastasis in debilitated patients.

Weller SJ(1), Rossitch E Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital/Children's Hospital, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    J Neurosurg. 1996 Jan;84(1):150.

Patients with symptomatic spinal metastases and limited life expectancy are 
often too debilitated to withstand anterior or posterolateral spinal cord 
decompression and segmental stabilization. More limited surgery aiming solely at 
preservation or restoration of neurological function and relief from pain offers 
the potential for significant improvement in the quality of remaining life 
without incurring undue perioperative morbidity and mortality. Eight patients 
with spinal metastases and limited life expectancy underwent a unilateral 
transpedicular decompression procedure on their most symptomatic side and/or the 
side of maximum tumor involvement. All patients were neurologically improved 
within the 1st postoperative week; all were ambulatory and continent 
postoperatively. Postoperatively, all five patients with preoperative motor 
deficits demonstrated increased motor strength, and the three patients with 
predominant radicular pain reported marked improvement. There were no 
perioperative deaths and two transient perioperative complications. The average 
length of hospitalization was 6 days for patients without complications and 10 
days for the entire group. Unilateral transpedicular decompression without 
stabilization is an effective and safe method for palliating symptomatic spinal 
metastases in debilitated patients with widespread malignancy and limited life 
expectancy. This therapeutic option should be considered in select cases as an 
alternative to either nonoperative management or anterior or posterolateral 
decompression and segmental stabilization.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1995.82.5.0739
PMID: 7536235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1995;107(5):163-8.

[Experiences in the treatment of far advanced primary breast cancers, extensive 
tumor recurrences and radiation damage (reflections on on the value of surgical 
therapy)].

