[Article in German]

Piza-Katzer H(1), Pilz E, Hausmaninger C, Herczeg E.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Plastische und Wiederherstellungschirurgie, Krankenhauses 
Lainz-Wien.

Ulcerating primary breast cancer, local recurrence with extension to the 
thoracic wall and skin and ulceration after radiation therapy, sometimes with 
malignant degeneration, call for interdisciplinary evaluation and treatment. For 
the benefit of the patient an effective cooperation of the involved specialties 
seems desirable at an early stage of management. We performed breast tumor 
resection and immediate coverage of the defect in 25 patients (median age 54 
years). In choosing the reconstruction procedure great attention was paid to 
short hospitalization and the possibility of commencing cytostatic or radiation 
therapy as soon as possible. We are able in all cases to resect the open and 
partly infected, ulcerated and bleeding tumors and to close the defects 
completely by means of various flaps. Among the many flaps at our disposal to 
reconstruct the thoracic well defects, we prefer the cranial based, ipsi- or 
contralateral extended rectus abdominis flap.

PMID: 7536375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Gene Ther. 1995 Mar;2(2):88-95.

Gene therapy for cystic fibrosis: a clinical perspective.

Alton EW(1), Geddes DM.

Author information:
(1)Royal Brompton Hospital, National Heart and Lung Institute, London, UK.

Since the isolation of the cystic fibrosis (CF) gene in 1989, the potential for 
gene therapy for this disease has existed. Although current treatments have 
resulted in a mean life expectancy of approximately 30 years, there is clearly a 
need for more effective therapy. A large number of studies have now assessed 
both in vitro and in vivo CFTR gene transfer into cell lines, animal models and 
most recently in CF subjects. Despite this rapid progress several difficulties 
remain including efficient in vivo gene transfer and the measurement of 
end-points to assess such gene transfer. This article reviews some of the 
clinically related aspects of gene therapy for CF.

PMID: 7536619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. West J Med. 1995 Mar;162(3):235-42.

Screening for prostate cancer.

Cher ML(1), Carroll PR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of California, San Francisco, School of 
Medicine, USA.

Comment in
    West J Med. 1995 Aug;163(2):183.

Prostate cancer is a serious health care problem in the United States. Whether 
or not to screen for it has become a timely issue. Although a large number of 
men have clinically important, asymptomatic, undetected prostate cancer, an even 
larger number have clinically unimportant cancer. To justify screening programs, 
not only must we avoid detecting biologically unimportant cancers, we must also 
detect and effectively treat that subset of tumors that, if undiagnosed, would 
progress, produce symptoms, and reduce life expectancy. Serum prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA) assay, or its variations such as PSA density, PSA velocity, and 
age-specific reference ranges, and the digital rectal examination are the best 
tests for detecting clinically important, asymptomatic, curable tumors. Recent 
data suggest that using serum PSA levels does not result in an overdetection of 
unimportant tumors. Highly effective, curative treatment of localized prostate 
cancer is available. These factors promote optimism that screening for prostate 
cancer will ultimately prove beneficial. Nonetheless, men should be informed 
regarding the benefits and possible risks before being screened for prostate 
cancer.

PMCID: PMC1022708
PMID: 7536993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Blood. 1995 May 1;85(9):2490-7.

Improved cytogenetics in multiple myeloma: a study of 151 patients including 117 
patients at diagnosis.

Laï JL(1), Zandecki M, Mary JY, Bernardi F, Izydorczyk V, Flactif M, Morel P, 
Jouet JP, Bauters F, Facon T.

Author information:
(1)Service de Cytogénétique and the Laboratoire d'Hématologie A, Hôpital 
Calmette, CHU, Lille, France.

Between December 1990 and January 1994, bone marrow (BM) samples from 151 
patients with multiple myeloma (MM), including 117 patients evaluated at 
diagnosis, were collected for cytogenetic analysis. A total of 129 patients had 
assessable metaphases (100 patients at diagnosis). Cytogenetic studies were 
performed on BM cells after longterm cultures (6 days) with stimulation of 
cultures by granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), GM-CSF 
plus interleukin (IL)-6, IL-3 plus IL-6, or GM-CSF plus IL-3 plus IL-6 to 
improve myeloma cell growth, and 91 patients had an additional unstimulated 
culture. Sixty-six patients (51%) had cytogenetic abnormalities, including 47 of 
100 patients at diagnosis (47%) and 17 of 24 patients at relapse (71%; P = .04). 
The aberration rate increased with stage (P = .007), BM plasmacytosis (P = 
.003), beta 2 microglobulin level (P = .001), C-reactive protein (CRP) level (P 
= .001), and Ki-67 (P = .007). The abnormality detection rate was higher in 
stimulated than unstimulated cultures, and the difference was statistically 
significant (P < .01). Hyperdiploidy was observed in 39 patients (30% of 
patients with an assessable karyotype) and hypodiploidy in 19 patients (15%). 
Among numeric changes, gains predominantly involved chromosomes 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 
15, 19 and losses, chromosomes 8, 13, 14, and X. The most frequent loss was loss 
of chromosome 13, observed in 22 patients (15%), including 18 patients at 
diagnosis (12%). We observed frequent structural changes of chromosomes 1 (15%) 
and 14 (10%) but also a 5% incidence of 19q13 abnormality and two patients with 
translocation t(1;16)(p11;p11). By using the proportional hazard univariate 
model, patients with abnormal karyotypes were demonstrated to have 2.5-fold 
greater chance of death than patients with normal karyotypes (P < .014). Despite 
a multivariate approach with the same model, the respective roles of karyotype 
abnormality, age, stage, and beta 2 microglobulin level could not be clearly 
ascertained. From these results we conclude that cytogenetic analysis using 
stimulation of cultures by cytokine(s) may be a promising method to identify 
about 50% of cytogenetic abnormalities in patients with newly diagnosed MM. 
Cytogenetic analysis may help to define a high-risk population that would 
benefit from intensive therapeutic approaches.

PMID: 7537117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Blood. 1995 May 1;85(9):2516-20.

Serum levels of interleukin-10 in patients with diffuse large cell lymphoma: 
lack of correlation with prognosis.

Cortes JE(1), Talpaz M, Cabanillas F, Seymour JF, Kurzrock R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Investigations, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston 77030, USA.

Comment in
    Blood. 1995 Dec 15;86(12):4702-4.

Interleukin-10 (IL-10), also known as cytokine synthesis inhibitory factor, has 
multiple effects on lymphoid development. In addition, it has been previously 
reported that serum levels of IL-10 correlate with failure-free and overall 
survival in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. In this study, we used a 
sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay specific for human IL-10 (lower 
limit of sensitivity, 5 pg/mL) to measure serum levels in 52 newly diagnosed 
patients with diffuse large cell lymphoma and at least one adverse prognostic 
feature who were subsequently treated in a uniform way. Lymphoma patients had 
significantly higher serum levels of IL-10 (median, 7.98 pg/mL; range, < or = 5 
to 27,143 pg/mL) than healthy volunteers (N = 50; median, < or = 5 pg/mL; range, 
< or = 5 to 19.21 pg/mL) (P = .0000012). Individuals with B symptoms had 
significantly higher serum levels of IL-10 than those without them (P = .03), 
but there was no correlation between IL-10 levels and any of the other 
prognostic variables analyzed, including age, lactic dehydrogenase, beta 
2-microglobulin levels, performance status, bulky disease, Ann Arbor stage, or 
International Index score. More importantly, we found no correlation between 
IL-10 levels and the achievement of complete remission, nor with failure-free 
survival or overall survival. We conclude that in a uniform population of 
untreated patients with diffuse large cell lymphoma, serum levels of IL-10 do 
not appear to have any prognostic value.

PMID: 7537119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1995 Apr 25;92(9):3687-91. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.92.9.3687.

Immortalization of distinct human mammary epithelial cell types by human 
papilloma virus 16 E6 or E7.

Wazer DE(1), Liu XL, Chu Q, Gao Q, Band V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, New England Medical Center, Boston, MA, 
USA.

Multiple mammary epithelial cell (MEC) types are observed both in mammary ducts 
in vivo and in primary cultures in vitro; however, the oncogenic potential of 
different cell types remains unknown. Here, we used human papilloma virus 16 E6 
and E7 oncogenes, which target p53 and Rb tumor suppressor proteins, 
respectively, to immortalize MECs present in early or late passages of human 
mammary tissue-derived cultures or in milk. One MEC subtype was exclusively 
immortalized by E6; such cells predominated in late-passage cultures but were 
rare at early passages and apparently absent in milk. Surprisingly, a second 
cell type, present only in early-passage tissue-derived cultures, was fully 
immortalized by E7 alone. A third cell type, observed in tissue-derived cultures 
and in milk, showed a substantial extension of life span with E7 but eventually 
senesced. Finally, both E6 and E7 were required to fully immortalize 
milk-derived MECs and a large proportion of MECs in early-passage tissue-derived 
cultures, suggesting the presence of another discrete subpopulation. 
Identification of MECs with distinct susceptibilities to p53- and Rb-targeting 
human papillomavirus oncogenes raises the possibility that these cells may serve 
as precursors for different forms of breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.92.9.3687
PMCID: PMC42026
PMID: 7537374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Minerva Chir. 1994 Dec;49(12):1215-20.

[Colorectal cancer in old age. Our experience].

[Article in Italian]

Uccheddu A(1), Cois A, Dessena M, Gromo C, Cagetti M.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Chirurgia, Università degli Studi, Cagliari.

Two hundred and thirty-three patients treated for colorectal cancer during the 
period 1976-1991 were divided into three groups (A: < 65 yr; B: 65-74 yr; C: > 
74 yr) in order to perceive possible statistically significant differences in 
patients older than 75 years. Epidemiological features are similar among the 
three groups, while a greater diagnostic delay (p = 0.013), a higher incidence 
of emergency procedures (p = 0.006) and a more advanced AP stage were found in 
group C. The high anesthesiological risk determined a conservative surgical 
approach only in 4.1% of patients, while a curative resection was performed on 
51% of group C vs 72.7% of group A (p = 0.016). Postoperative complications and 
mortality for curative resections were 28% and 12% in group C vs 24.6% and 2.9% 
in group A (p = n.s.); the overall 5 years survival rate was 62.9%, 51.7% and 
42.2% in groups A, B, and C. It is concluded that age alone should not be 
considered as a contraindication to curative surgery for colorectal cancer, for 
life expectancy and quality are considerably worse in the elderly undergoing 
derivative surgery.

PMID: 7538207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Semin Surg Oncol. 1995 Jan-Feb;11(1):36-45. doi: 10.1002/ssu.2980110106.

Incidental carcinoma of the prostate.

van Andel G(1), Vleeming R, Kurth K, de Reijke TM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Transrectal ultrasonography (TRUS), digital rectal examination (DRE), and 
quantification of serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) are accepted and 
evaluated methods for detecting prostate cancer. Positive predictive values 
(PPV) of DRE and TRUS are low, and only slightly enhanced when used in 
combination with PSA. PSA lacks sufficient sensitivity and specificity to be 
used alone as a screening test for prostate cancer. The parameters PSA-density 
and PSA-velocity make PSA a better tumor marker, but they are not reliable on an 
individual basis. Age-specific reference ranges have the potential to make PSA a 
more sensitive tumor marker for men less than 60 years of age and a more 
specific one for men beyond 60 years. With currently available diagnostic 
methods approximately 10% of patients undergoing transurethral or open resection 
of the prostate for presumed benign prostatic hyperplasia will have carcinoma 
detected in the histologic material. In 392 patients successively treated in our 
clinic for presumed BPH and thoroughly investigated to exclude prostatic 
carcinoma (DRE, TRUS, biopsy when PSA > 4 ng/ml or PSA-D > 0.15), the tumor was 
found incidentally in 4%. Another finding in this study was the detection of 
prostatic carcinoma by random biopsy in patients without a palpable or visible 
tumor by imaging and without PSA increase (> 4 ng/ml). Biopsies were performed 
because of a hypoechoic zone in the opposite lobe which turned out to be 
negative. Such tumors cannot be properly classified in the current TNM system. 
Treatment options for patients with incidental prostatic carcinoma are age- and 
stage-dependent. Patients less than 60 years old may be treated with a curative 
approach, irrespective of the T category (T1a or T1b); patients with a life 
expectancy longer than 10 years and a pT1b incidental carcinoma likewise should 
be offered a curative therapy.

DOI: 10.1002/ssu.2980110106
PMID: 7538693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Semin Surg Oncol. 1995 Jan-Feb;11(1):46-9. doi: 10.1002/ssu.2980110107.

Radical prostatectomy or deferred treatment?

Studer UE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Berne, Switzerland.

Screening for prostate cancer has intensified, due both to increased patient and 
physician awareness and to the availability of new, more sensitive diagnostic 
tools (prostate-specific antigen [PSA], rectal ultrasound, etc.). Consequently, 
the number of newly diagnosed cases of prostatic cancer is rising rapidly, 
whereas the frequency of death due to prostate cancer remains almost stable. It 
must therefore be assumed that the number of patients in whom a diagnosed 
prostate cancer will not be fatal is also increasing. Consequently, not every 
prostatic carcinoma requires radical treatment when diagnosed. Also, it must be 
concluded that not every man who is a long-term survivor after radical 
prostatectomy owes his survival to the treatment. Long-term survival may reflect 
the relatively benign biological potential of this disease in an individual 
patient. Therefore there is an inherent risk of overtreating patients and this 
must be weighed against the costs, the postoperative morbidity, and the 
mortality, albeit low, of a radical prostatectomy. Nevertheless, as long as we 
do not have diagnostic tools which, at an early stage of prostatic cancer, 
enable us to determine whether a carcinoma will ultimately have a fatal outcome, 
we are obliged to offer a radical prostatectomy to younger patients (who have a 
life expectancy of more than 10 years) as long as they have organ-confined 
disease.

DOI: 10.1002/ssu.2980110107
PMID: 7538694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Mol Endocrinol. 1995 Jan;9(1):54-63. doi: 10.1210/mend.9.1.7539107.

Fusing the carboxy-terminal peptide of the chorionic gonadotropin (CG) 
beta-subunit to the common alpha-subunit: retention of O-linked glycosylation 
and enhanced in vivo bioactivity of chimeric human CG.

Furuhashi M(1), Shikone T, Fares FA, Sugahara T, Hsueh AJ, Boime I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Pharmacology, Washington University 
School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

The hCG beta-subunit contains a carboxy-terminal extension bearing four 
serine-linked oligosaccharides [carboxy-terminal peptide (CTP)], which is 
important for maintaining its longer half-life compared with the other 
glycoprotein hormones. Previously, we enhanced the in vivo half-life of FSH by 
fusing the CTP to the carboxy end of FSH beta coding sequence. The alpha-subunit 
is common to the glycoprotein family. We constructed alpha-subunit CTP chimeras, 
since such analogs with the appropriate O-linked glycosylation and conformation 
would increase the in vivo stability of the entire glycoprotein hormone family. 
Two chimeras were constructed using overlapping polymerase chain reaction 
mutagenesis: a variant with CTP at the carboxy end and another analog with the 
CTP at the N-terminal region of the subunit, between amino acids 3 and 4. The 
latter design was based on models showing that the amino-terminal region of 
alpha is not involved in assembly with the beta-subunit, nor is it essential for 
receptor binding and signal transduction. These chimeras were cotransfected with 
the hCG beta gene into Chinese hamster ovary cells. The chimeras were secreted 
and combined efficiently with the CG beta-subunit, comparable to the wild type 
alpha-subunit. CG dimers containing the alpha-subunit chimera with CTP at the 
carboxy end of the subunit had a much lower binding affinity for the hLH-hCG 
receptor in vitro, whereas the binding of the dimer containing the CTP at the 
amino-terminal end of the subunit was similar to wild type hCG. Furthermore, the 
in vivo activity of this analog was enhanced significantly. Moreover, regardless 
of the two insertion points in the alpha-subunit, the CTP sequence was 
O-glycosylated. These data suggest that the entire signal for O-glycosylation is 
primarily contained within the CTP sequence and is not dependent on the flanking 
regions of the recipient protein. The transfer of CTP to the alpha-subunit of 
hCG results in an agonist with prolonged biological action in vivo. These data 
further support the rationale for using the CTP as a general target to increase 
the potency of bioactive glycoproteins.

DOI: 10.1210/mend.9.1.7539107
PMID: 7539107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Br J Haematol. 1995 Apr;89(4):927-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2141.1995.tb08441.x.

Osteoporosis in severe congenital neutropenia treated with granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factor.

Bishop NJ(1), Williams DM, Compston JC, Stirling DM, Prentice A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge.

Erratum in
    Br J Haematol 1995 Jun;90(2):492.

Recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) has 
substantially improved life expectancy for children with severe congenital 
neutropenia (SCN). Severe osteoporosis, reported in this population, may relate 
to the disease process, or be a therapeutic side-effect. This report details 
bone loss, quantitated absorptiometrically and histomorphometrically, in a child 
with SCN and vertebral collapse, and the positive response to anabolic steroid 
and bisphosphonate therapy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.1995.tb08441.x
PMID: 7539627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 1995 Apr;9(3):23-9. doi:
10.1097/00005082-199504000-00004.

Decisions not to transplant: futility or rationing.

Collins EG(1), Pfiefer PB, Mozdzierz G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Edward Hines Jr. VA Hospital, Hines, Illinois, 
USA.

Since the 1980s, heart transplantation has become an acceptable treatment 
therapy for patients with end-stage congestive heart failure. In recent years, 
the demand for heart transplantation has exceeded the supply of available 
organs. Potential transplant candidates undergo rigorous screening to determine 
which patients will be offered transplantation as a treatment option. Heart 
transplant recipients are selected based on a determination of which patients 
will experience an improvement in symptomatology, functional class ability, and 
life expectancy after transplantation. Refusal of transplantation for an 
individual patient is usually framed in a futility argument: Either 
transplantation will not benefit the patient or the risks involved in undergoing 
the transplant are considered to outweigh the benefits. However, futility is an 
elusive and ambiguous concept. Furthermore, although authors, clinicians, and 
ethicists argue for the separation of futility and rationing issues, clearly it 
is not always possible to do so. The purpose of this article is to argue that 
many decisions to refuse heart transplantation are actually based on the 
rationing of organs and not on futility.

DOI: 10.1097/00005082-199504000-00004
PMID: 7540198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol. 1995 Feb;21(1):151-7. doi: 10.1006/rtph.1995.1019.

A method evaluating population risks from chemical exposure: a case study 
concerning prohibition of chlordane use in Japan.

Gamo M(1), Oka T, Nakanishi J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urban Engineering, University of Tokyo, Japan.

The proposed method evaluating population risks from chemical exposure is based 
on estimation of the individual variabilities in the internal concentration of 
the chemical of concern and estimation of the magnitude of toxic effect caused 
at a given internal concentration. We assume a log-normal distribution for 
individual variability and propose loss of life expectancy (LLE) as a measure of 
the magnitude of toxic effects. We applied it to the evaluation of the 
governmental action of prohibiting the use of chlordane as a termiticide in 
Japan. Because the method is applicable to both carcinogenic and noncarcinogenic 
chemicals, the cancer risk due to chlordane and the noncancer risk due to 
chlorpyrifos, a major substitute, were evaluated and compared. The estimated 
values of risk represented in terms of LLE are 0.10 days for residents of 
untreated houses, 1.9 days for residents of treated houses, and 4.4 days for 
termite control workers when chlordane is used, and 0, 2.8, and 31 days when 
chlorpyrifos is used, respectively. From the result of the case study, we can 
see that the prohibition of chlordane is not necessarily effective in reducing 
risk.

DOI: 10.1006/rtph.1995.1019
PMID: 7540311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1995 Mar-Apr;6(2):243-8. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(95)71105-8.

Malignant esophageal stricture and fistula: palliative treatment with 
polyurethane-covered Gianturco stent.

Miyayama S(1), Matsui O, Kadoya M, Yoshikawa J, Gabata T, Kitagawa K, Arai K, 
Takashima T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Kanazawa University School of Medicine, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effectiveness of a polyurethane-covered Gianturco stent 
in the palliative treatment of malignant esophageal stricture and fistula.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-seven patients with recurrent stricture (n = 24), 
fistula formation (n = 8), or both (n = 5) underwent palliative treatment for 
aphagia (n = 15) or dysphagia (n = 12). Eight patients had fistulas to the 
respiratory tract or mediastinum. A 15-F delivery sheath system was passed 
through the stricture; the inner dilator was removed, and the stent was 
compressed into the sheath and advanced with a pusher catheter. Follow-up 
included chest radiography for 3 days and monthly esophagography or endoscopy.
RESULTS: Covered stents occluded fistulas and opened strictures in 100% of 
patients. Food intake was upgraded to liquids in 7% of patients, to soft foods 
in 37% and to regular foods in 56%. New stricture or fistula occurred in 4% and 
7% of patients, respectively. Stent migration occurred in 15% of patients. 
Twenty-one patients died after stent placement, and average life expectancy was 
11 weeks.
CONCLUSION: A polyurethane-covered Gianturco stent is effective in the 
palliation of advanced malignant esophageal strictures and fistulas.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(95)71105-8
PMID: 7540443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1995 Mar-Apr;6(2):273-7. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(95)71113-7.

Outcome of patients with advanced neoplastic disease receiving vena caval 
filters.

Lossef SV(1), Barth KH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Georgetown University Hospital, Washington, DC 
20007, USA.

PURPOSE: The authors examined the appropriateness and outcome of inferior vena 
caval (IVC) filter placements in patients with advanced malignancies and limited 
expected survival.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Over a 35-month period, 35 IVC filters were inserted in 34 
adult patients with advanced neoplasms. Follow-up was as long as 28 months 
(mean, 5.2 months). Filter effectiveness, complications, recurrent pulmonary 
emboli, patient survival, and hospital discharge status were recorded.
RESULTS: Twenty-eight patients (82%) were discharged home (n = 21) or to nursing 
facilities (n = 7) between 1 and 193 days (mean, 23 days) after filter 
insertion. Six patient (18%) died during hospitalization 1-95 days after filter 
insertion. The overall mean survival was 6.6 months; for patients with stage III 
and IV tumors mean survival was 8.0 and 5.5 months, respectively. Even among 
patients with stage IV disease, 59% survived longer than 3 months. There were no 
complications related to filter insertion and no clinical evidence of recurrent 
pulmonary emboli. In 14% of patients, filters enabled invasive therapeutic and 
palliative procedures to be performed.
CONCLUSION: The presence of advanced neoplastic disease by itself should not be 
a deterrent to insertion of IVC filters, as most patients survived well beyond 
initial hospitalization.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(95)71113-7
PMID: 7540444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Leuk Lymphoma. 1995 Feb;16(5-6):451-6. doi: 10.3109/10428199509054433.

Human immunodeficiency virus associated Hodgkin's disease: report of 45 cases 
from the French Registry of HIV-Associated Tumors.

Lévy R(1), Colonna P, Tourani JM, Gastaut JA, Brice P, Raphaël M, Taillan B, 
Andrieu JM.

Author information:
(1)Hematology-Oncology Unit, Hôpital Laënnec, Paris, France.

Clinical and pathological characteristics as well as outcome of 45 Hodgkin's 
disease (HD) cases collected by the French registry of HIV-associated tumors 
between January 1987 and December 1989 (all clinically staged according to the 
Ann Arbor system) were analyzed and compared with those of a cohort of 407 
patients with clinical stages (CS) IA to IVB enrolled between September 1981 and 
August 1988 in a multicentric clinical trial. The route of HIV infection, 
initial CD4 cell count at the time of HD diagnosis and CDC class of HIV 
infection were studied as well as the progression to AIDS onset were recorded. 
HIV-HD is characterized by a predominance of advanced CS (75%), B symptoms (80%) 
and mixed cellularity histology (49%), as well as by early bone marrow 
involvement (24%); a specific feature is the rare occurrence of mediastinal 
involvement (13% in HIV-HD versus 71% in primary HD). With standard therapies, 
79% of the patients achieved a complete remission, but hematological and 
infectious complications were very frequent. The proportion of intravenous drug 
abusers (IVDA) in HIV-HD (38%) is higher than in French HIV-infected population 
as a whole (20.8%). Median CD4 cell count was 306/microliters at the time of HD 
diagnosis, while only 5 cases (11%) were preceded by an AIDS manifestation; 
progression to AIDS rate was 94% at 2 years. Overall 2-year survival was 41%, 
with 71% for patients with an initial CD4 cell count over 300/microliters and 0% 
for those with CD4 cell count lower than 300/microliters (p < 0.01); 
opportunistic infections were the most frequent cause of death. HIV-HD seems to 
occur preferentially in.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.3109/10428199509054433
PMID: 7540459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Leuk Lymphoma. 1995 Feb;16(5-6):457-63. doi: 10.3109/10428199509054434.

MACOP-B vs F-MACHOP regimen in the treatment of high-grade non-Hodgkin's 
lymphomas.

Mazza P(1), Zinzani PL, Martelli M, Fiacchini M, Bocchia M, Pileri S, Falini B, 
Martelli MF, Amadori S, Papa G, et al.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Ematologia L. e A. Seràgnoli, Università di Bologna, Italy.

A prospective randomized study on aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphomas was 
conducted by investigators at several Italian institutions with the intent of 
comparing two third-generation conceptually different regimens: the regimen 
containing methotrexate with leucovorin rescue, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, 
vincristine, prednisone, and bleomycin (MACOP-B), a short-term continuous 
twelve-week therapy, and F-MACHOP (5-fluorouracil, methotrexate with leucovorin 
rescue, cytarabine, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone), 
a monthly intensive cyclic treatment combining prednisone with six active 
non-cross-resistant cytotoxic drugs. The goals of this study were the response 
rate, relapse-free survival, and incidence of hematologic and nonhematologic 
toxicities. Two hundred-eighty-six patients included between 15 and 60 years 
fulfilled the criteria for entry to the study; 140 patients were treated with 
MACOP-B and 146 with F-MACHOP. The minimum follow-up was 24 months. Clinical 
characteristics of all patients were similar and known prognostic factors were 
equally distributed between the two groups. Complete remission (CR) was achieved 
by 61% and 67% of the patients treated with MACOP-B and F-MACHOP, respectively; 
4% and 6% were primarily resistant, 2% and 5%, respectively, died of causes 
directly related to therapy. At 50 months, 74% of all CR patients were alive 
without disease and there were no significant differences in relapse-free 
survival between the two groups: 75% in the F-MACHOP group and 73% in the 
MACOP-B group at 50 months. There was a higher incidence of mucositis among 
patients treated with MACHOP-B than among those given F-MACHOP (11% vs 
3.5%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.3109/10428199509054434
PMID: 7540460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1995 Jun 7;87(11):803-8. doi: 10.1093/jnci/87.11.803.

Improving treatment of chemotherapy-induced neutropenic fever by administration 
of colony-stimulating factors.

Mayordomo JI(1), Rivera F, Díaz-Puente MT, Lianes P, Colomer R, López-Brea M, 
López E, Paz-Ares L, Hitt R, García-Ribas I, et al.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre, Madrid, 
Spain.

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 1995 Jun 7;87(11):781-2.

BACKGROUND: Several randomized trials have tested the use of granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating 
factor (GM-CSF) in relieving chemotherapy-induced bone marrow suppression. 
However, the use of CSFs in the treatment of neutropenic fever remains virtually 
unexplored.
PURPOSE: This study evaluated the benefits of adding CSF therapy to the standard 
antibiotic treatments given to cancer patients for chemotherapy-induced 
neutropenic fever. The usefulness of CSFs was quantified in terms of reducing 
the following: (a) the duration of neutropenia, (b) the length of 
hospitalization, and (c) the overall cost of the treatment.
METHODS: A randomized trial was conducted to test whether the administration of 
either G-CSF or GM-CSF improved the outcome of standard antibiotic therapy 
(ceftazidime plus amikacin) in nonleukemic cancer patients with fever (> 38 
degrees C) and grade IV neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count [ANC] < 500/mm3) 
induced by standard-dose chemotherapy. Of 121 patients who entered the trial, 39 
received G-CSF (5 micrograms/kg body weight per day), 39 received GM-CSF (5 
micrograms/kg body weight per day), and 43 received a placebo beginning just 
after the first dose of antibiotics. Treatments were continued for at least 5 
days (7 days with clinically or microbiologically documented infections) or 
until 2 days after fever subsided and ANCs rose above 1000/mm3.
RESULTS: The median duration of grade IV neutropenia (ANC of < 500/mm3) was 2 
days in both CSF arms and 3 days in the placebo arm (P < .001). The median 
duration of neutropenia with an ANC of less than 1000/mm3 was also significantly 
shorter in patients receiving G-CSF or GM-CSF (P < .001). The median duration of 
fever was similar in the three arms. The median hospital stay was 5 days (range, 
5-14 days) in the G-CSF arm, 5 days (range, 5-10 days) in the GM-CSF arm, and 7 
days (range, 5-34 days) in the placebo arm (P < .001). The median time on CSF 
was 4 days in both treatment arms. The mean cost of overall treatment was 
reduced by $1300-$1400 in the CSF arms compared with the placebo arm (P = .11 
for G-CSF versus placebo; P = .06 for GM-CSF versus placebo; P = .7 for G-CSF 
versus GM-CSF).
CONCLUSIONS: Adding G-CSF or GM-CSF therapy to antibiotic treatment shortens the 
duration of neutropenia and the duration of hospitalization in patients with 
neutropenic fever. A statistically nonsignificant trend toward lower cost was 
observed in the CSF arms as compared with the placebo arm.
IMPLICATIONS: The benefits of CSFs to cancer patients with chemotherapy-induced 
neutropenic fever merit further evaluation in large randomized trials.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/87.11.803
PMID: 7540696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Ann Chir. 1995;49(2):110-5; discussion 116-20.

[Palliative treatment of cancers of the head of the pancreas. Surgery versus 
endoscopy].

[Article in French]

Baumel H(1), Huguier M, Fabre JM.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Digestive C, Hôpital Saint-Eloi, Montpellier.

Cancers of the head of the pancreas are only resectable in 10 to 25% of cases. 
The majority of patients are therefore candidates for a palliative treatment 
jaundice, pain or upper gastro-intestinal obstruction. Palliative surgical 
bypasses offer a durable efficiency for patients with a relatively short-term 
life expectancy. Endoscopic placement of biliary stents for jaundice is an 
alternative but leads to frequent complications and does not act on other 
clinical symptoms. Controlled trials did not show any statistical difference 
between surgical or endoscopic treatments. We only recommend endoscopic 
procedures for patients unfit for surgery with poor general status or distant 
metastases.

PMID: 7540817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Scand J Urol Nephrol Suppl. 1995;168:7-12.

The epidemiology of benign prostatic hyperplasia and observations on concomitant 
hypertension.

Boyle P(1), Napalkov P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, European Institute of Oncology, 
Milan, Italy.

Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and hypertension are highly prevalent, 
age-related disorders in men which place a considerable burden on healthcare 
resources worldwide. Evidence of pathological BPH can be found in over 80% of 
autopsies conducted in men over 70 years of age; around 40% of men aged 50-64 
years have symptoms compatible with the disease. Population studies suggest that 
over 50% of people aged 65-74 years may be hypertensive, and that cardiovascular 
disease is a major cause of death worldwide. The continued ageing of the 
population means that more people are living to older ages; life expectancy for 
men is likely to exceed 80 years by the end of this century in some developed 
countries. While BPH and hypertension are apparently diverse disease processes, 
they have some features in common (e.g. underlying aetiology of the sympathetic 
nervous system). However, little else is known about any associations between 
the two or the frequency of concomitant disease. There are clearly opportunities 
for further epidemiologic studies and the development of preventive strategies 
aimed at the early detection and treatment of concomitant BPH and hypertension.

PMID: 7541551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Ther Umsch. 1995 Jun;52(6):405-10.

[Possibilities of surgical therapy in prostatic carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Leisinger HJ(1), Oswald M.

Author information:
(1)Centre hospitalier universitaire vaudois, Service d'urologie.

Radical surgical treatment of localized prostate cancer is performed to heal the 
patient of his malignant disease. Surgery for advanced prostate cancer, e.g. 
transurethral resection for obstruction or hemorrhage, is always a palliative 
modality and has to be seen in the context of systemic treatment. Radical 
prostatectomy is a major intervention which allows complete removal of the 
prostate gland and the seminal vesicles at the same time. Due to resection at 
the distal end of the prostatic urethra, the bladder sphincter system is 
partially destroyed. In general, to guarantee radicality, the erectile nerves 
and vessels are sectioned, resulting in erectile impotency. Preservation of 
these structures to maintain potency is indicated only exceptionally. Radical 
prostatectomy is today a routine operation with minimal mortality (0.5-1%) and 
minor complication rate. Average hospitalization is about 10 days. Long-term 
postoperative morbidity is characterized by urinary incontinence and erectile 
impotency. Incontinence takes a long time to heal. A certain number of patients 
will keep a generally not very bothersome stress dribbling; however, some may 
show complete leakage, necessitating an anti-incontinence operation. For an 
indication of radical prostatectomy, two essential factors have to be 
considered: the usually extremely slow growth of prostate cancer and the high 
prevalence of clinically insignificant latent carcinomas. It is for these 
reasons and for the consequences on live quality that radical prostatectomy 
should not be performed on patients with a life expectancy of less than 10 
years.

PMID: 7541569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Urology. 1995 Jul;46(1):2-13. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(99)80151-4.

Should Medicare provide reimbursement for prostate-specific antigen testing for 
early detection of prostate cancer? Part I: Framing the debate.

Barry MJ(1), Fleming C, Coley CM, Wasson JH, Fahs MC, Oesterling JE.

Author information:
(1)Medical Practices Evaluation Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 
02114, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(99)80151-4
PMID: 7541583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Scand J Urol Nephrol Suppl. 1994;167:1-41.

Prostate cancer. Mortality and morbidity after non-curative treatment with 
aspects on diagnosis and treatment.

Aus G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Ostra sjukhuset, Göteborg University, Sweden.

AIMS OF THE STUDY: To investigate the mortality, need for hospital care and 
palliative treatments in patients with prostate cancer (PC) treated with 
non-curative intention (i.e. deferred or hormonal treatment). To evaluate 
acceptance by patients and complications of a new diagnostic procedure for PC -- 
transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) and core biopsies. To investigate if knowledge of 
prostate volume enhances the accuracy of prostate specific antigen (PSA) to 
indicate non-palpable PC. Finally, to investigate how neo-adjuvant hormonal 
treatment before radical prostatectomy affected PSA and tumour volume.
METHODS: In a retrospective analysis of all 536 patients with a known diagnosis 
of PC who died in the city of Göteborg during the years 1988-90, age at 
diagnosis, survival time, need for hospital care and cause of death were 
registered (I and II). A questionnaire was sent to 511 patients who underwent 
TRUS with or without prostatic biopsies (III). In 120 consecutive patients 
admitted for TURP due to presumed benign prostatic hyperplasia, a comparison was 
made between PSA and prostate-volume-adjusted (measured via TRUS) PSA 
(PSADensity) to indicate the presence of non-palpable PC (IV). Of 56 patients 
who underwent radical prostatectomy, 28 received 3 months' pretreatment with a 
GnRH-agonist. The effects on tumour volumes (assessed by the planimetric method 
on whole mount slides) and PSA were studied (V).
RESULTS: Overall, 62% of patients with a known diagnosis of PC died of the 
disease when all patients were followed from diagnosis until death (up to 25 
years). Of patients in stage M0 at diagnosis, 50% died of PC. However, in 
patients who survived for more than 10 years the mortality reached 63% (I). The 
average PC patient needed 27 days of hospital stay (geriatric wards excluded) 
and 185 patients needed at least one palliative TURP, 103 patients palliative 
radiation therapy and 55 patients procedures due to upper urinary tract 
obstruction. The lion's share of these resources was consumed by patients who 
later succumbed to PC (II). Ninety-five per cent of patients reported none or 
minor discomfort after TRUS of the prostate and 92% if TRUS was combined with 
transrectal core biopsies of the prostate. Haematuria for > 2 days occurred in 
13%, haematospermia > 2 days in 9% and blood in stool > 2 days in 3% among 
patients who underwent core biopsies but none of these patients needed active 
treatment. Overall, 4.1% of biopsied patients experienced urinary tract 
infection (III). The use of PSADensity with a cut-off value of 0.10 ng/ml/cc 
rendered both higher sensitivity (75 vs 50%) and positive predictive value (0.33 
vs 0.15) for indicating non-palpable PC in symptomatic patients with benign 
findings on digital rectal examination (IV). Pretreatment with a GnRH-agonist 
resulted in a significant PSA decrease not explained by changes in tumour 
volume. Tumour volume reduction was found in 36% of the patients.
CONCLUSIONS: According to these studies, PC is a progressive disease with 
considerable mortality and morbidity when managed by non-curative intention. 
Since new diagnostic and therapeutic methods described in this thesis are well 
accepted by patients and may increase the chance of radical surgery, it is 
reasonable to offer younger patients with long life expectancy the chance of 
early detection and treatment with curative intention.

PMID: 7542397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. J Cell Sci. 1995 Mar;108 ( Pt 3):957-66. doi: 10.1242/jcs.108.3.957.

Targeted expression of SV40 T antigen in the hair follicle of transgenic mice 
produces an aberrant hair phenotype.

Keough R(1), Powell B, Rogers G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Adelaide, South Australia.

Directed expression of SV40 large T antigen (TAg) in transgenic mice can induce 
tissue-specific tumorigenesis and useful cell lines exhibiting differentiated 
characteristics can be established from resultant tumor cells. In an attempt to 
produce an immortalised mouse hair follicle cortical cell line for the study of 
hair keratin gene control, SV40 TAg expression was targeted to the hair 
follicles of transgenic mice using a sheep hair gene promoter. Expression of 
SV40 TAg in the follicle cortex disrupted normal fiber ultrastructure, producing 
a marked phenotypic effect. Affected hairs were wavy or severely kinked 
(depending on the severity of the phenotype) producing an appearance ranging 
from a ruffled coat to a stubble covering the back of the mouse. The transgenic 
hairs appeared to be weakened at the base of the fibers, leading to premature 
hair-loss and a thinner pelage, or regions of temporary nudity. No follicle 
tumors or neoplasia were apparent and immortalisation of cortical cells could 
not be established in culture. In situ hybridisation studies in the hair 
follicle using histone H3 as a cell proliferation marker suggested that cell 
proliferation had ceased prior to commencement of K2.10-TAg expression and was 
not re-established in the differentiating cortical cells. Hence, TAg was unable 
to induce cell immortalisation at that stage of cortical cell differentiation. 
However, transgenic mice developed various other abnormalities including 
vertebral abnormalities and bladder, liver and intestinal tumors, which resulted 
in reduced life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1242/jcs.108.3.957
PMID: 7542671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Rev Gastroenterol Mex. 1995 Apr-Jun;60(2):78-83.

[The endoscopic treatment of carcinoma of Vater's ampulla].

[Article in Spanish]

Güitrón A(1), Macías M, Abalid R, Gómez-Mejía A, Torres F.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Endoscopía Digestiva, Hospital de Especialidades Núm 71, 
Torreón, Coahuila.

The ampullary carcinoma is a rare tumor. Its early and accurate diagnosis will 
lead to early treatment and subsequent better prognosis. Endoscopic retrograde 
cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) has been shown to be one of the best diagnostic 
tools. Furthermore an endoscopic biliary drainage procedure: endoscopic 
sphincterotomy or endoprosthesis placement, can be performed immediately 
following the diagnostic procedure.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Endoscopic drainage was attempted in 20 patients with a 
success rate of 90 percent. There were 8 females and 12 males, with a mean age 
of 71 years (range 43-92), and were admitted to the hospital with obstructive 
jaundice. Endoscopic insertion of a biliary endoprosthesis (9 cms long 3.2 mm 
[10 Fr] diameter), was successful in 18 patients whom made uneventful recovery 
and their jaundice resolved completely.
RESULTS: In 18 of them an endoscopic sphincterotomy was carried out. Two 
patients developed cholangitis, the endoprosthesis were removed and a new one 
inserted. The survival rate of these patients was 3 and 18 months respectively. 
Failure of endoscopic sphincterotomy or endoprosthesis insertion in 2 remaining 
patients, was ascribed to an inability to cannulate the papilla due to 
infiltrating tumor. The median survival time in 15 remaining patients was 4 
months (1-18 months) and died by metastatic disease. Five patients underwent 
Whipple's procedure, and all survived the operation. Two died, by metastatic 
disease, with a median survival time of 16 months and 3 still alive at 46, 25 
and 18 months post-operatively. Carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater is not 
resectable in 25-50% of the patients because of metastatic disease, deep 
extension of the tumor or general contraindications for major surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Endoscopic sphincterotomy or endoprosthesis insertion as a 
definitive treatment modality should be reserved for poor surgical candidates 
and those patients with limited life expectancy due to metastatic disease.

PMID: 7543694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Acta Med Austriaca. 1995;22(1-2):12-6.

[The day care unit--a patient and personnel oriented and cost effective patient 
management?].

[Article in German]

Armbruster C(1).

Author information:
(1)II. Internen Abteilung, Pulmologischen Zentrums der Stadt Wien.

Based on the increasing number of chronically ill patients with restricted life 
expectancy it was necessary to reorganize the health care system. Aim of the 
study was to evaluate the benefits for patients and health care workers and the 
costs of day hospital care. In March 1991 a day clinic with 20 beds for 
HIV-antibody negative and HIV-infected patients was established. The number of 
patients treated increased from 122 patients in April 1991 to 487 patients in 
March 1993. During a 6 1/2-month period in 1994 2745 patients--33% were 
HIV-infected - were treated and diagnosed on this ward. The mean duration of 
hospital stay was 1.8 days. From January 1994 till 19th July 1994 200 diagnostic 
invasive procedures were performed, 150/200 were bronchoscopies. During the same 
period 158 non invasive diagnostic procedures were done. 436 cycles of 
chemotherapy were applicated and 277 patients were treated with blood products. 
55/2745 patients (2%) had to be admitted to the ward because of worsening of the 
clinical condition. Based on the increasing number of patients who preferred the 
day clinic to the ward, it was an optimal sort of taking care for patients. 
Based on the results of questionnaires answered by nurses, working at the day 
clinic is beneficial for health care workers. Since the mean duration of 
hospital stay is reduced to 1.8 days the day clinic is cost-effective.

PMID: 7544056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Epidemiol Bull. 1995 Jul;16(2):6-8.

Health conditions in the Americas, 1994.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7544149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Endocrinology. 1995 Sep;136(9):3839-48. doi: 10.1210/endo.136.9.7544273.

Recombinant thyrotropin containing a beta-subunit chimera with the human 
chorionic gonadotropin-beta carboxy-terminus is biologically active, with a 
prolonged plasma half-life: role of carbohydrate in bioactivity and metabolic 
clearance.

Joshi L(1), Murata Y, Wondisford FE, Szkudlinski MW, Desai R, Weintraub BD.

Author information:
(1)Molecular and Cellular Endocrinology Branch, National Institute of Diabetes 
and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, 
Maryland 20892, USA.

Recombinant TSH is now successfully being used in clinical studies of thyroid 
cancer. Because of its therapeutic potential, we have constructed a longer 
acting analog of TSH by fusing the carboxy-terminal extension peptide (CTEP) of 
hCG beta onto TSH beta. When coexpressed either with alpha-subunit complementary 
DNA or alpha minigene in African green monkey (COS-7) and human embryonic kidney 
(293) cells, the chimera was fully bioactive in vitro and exhibited enhanced in 
vivo potency associated with a prolonged plasma half-life. The addition of 25 
amino acids with 4 O-linked oligosaccharide chains did not affect the assembly 
and secretion of chimeric TSH. Wild-type (WT) and chimeric TSH secreted by COS-7 
and 293 cells displayed wide differences in their plasma half-lives, presumably 
due to the presence of terminal sialic acid and SO4 on their oligosaccharide 
chains, respectively. Chimeric and WT TSH secreted by both cell lines 
demonstrated similar bioactivity in cAMP production, with some differences in 
[3H]thymidine incorporation. Chimeric TSH appears to be more effective in COS-7 
cells than in 293 cells, as judged by growth assay. COS-7-produced chimeric TSH 
showed the maximum increase in half-life, indicating the importance of sialic 
acid in prolonging half-life and in vivo potency. Sulfation of both subunits, 
predominantly beta and to a lesser extent alpha, appears to be responsible at 
least in part for the increased metabolic clearance of WT and chimeric TSH 
secreted by 293 cells. Apart from its therapeutic potential, chimeric TSH 
produced in various cell lines can be used as a tool to delineate the roles of 
sulfate and sialic acid in the in vivo clearance and, thereby, the in vivo 
bioactivity.

DOI: 10.1210/endo.136.9.7544273
PMID: 7544273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. No To Hattatsu. 1995 May;27(3):231-7.

[Successful treatment of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis with long-term 
intrathecal large dose of alpha-interferon--a case report].

[Article in Japanese]

Horiguchi Y(1), Ohya T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Kitasato University School of Medicine, Sagamihara.

Recent effective treatments for subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) are 
oral inosiplex and intrathecal interferon therapy. The former seems to be 
effective for life expectancy but not for neurological disability, and the 
latter is a debating antiviral treatment although favorable reports are 
increasing. A 12 year-10 month-old boy with SSPE was presented as a successful 
case of prolonged effectiveness in both neurological symptoms and life 
expectancy. There are no significant side effects by the 200 weeks treatment of 
intrathecal alpha-interferon of large dose (6 million unit/dose/week) and 
ordinary dose of inosiplex (100 mg/kg/day). Neurological disability index 
(Dyken) improved from 70% to 10%; speech and higher cerebral functions improved 
from aphasia and almost vegetative states to verbal communicable level; motor 
dysfunction from bedridden to wheel chair level; and myoclonic and other 
seizures were controlled. Laboratory data also improved; periodic synchronized 
discharge (PSD) and other paroxysmal discharges disappeared and alpha activity 
that had once disappeared in the background activity of active stages reappeared 
in the EEGs. Measles antibodies in serum and CSF improved, and oligoclonal bands 
disappeared. However diffuse brain atrophy remained on neuroimaging. Long-term 
intrathecal large dose treatment with alpha-interferon is effective and safe. It 
should be started as soon as the diagnosis is made, and a trial of large-dose 
