and long-term therapy may be worthy even for more advanced cases irrespective of 
progress of neuroimages.

PMID: 7544989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1995 Sep;50(5):B288-94. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/50a.5.b288.

Hyperadrenocorticism and food restriction-induced life extension in the rat: 
evidence for divergent regulation of pituitary proopiomelanocortin RNA and 
adrenocorticotropic hormone biosynthesis.

Han ES(1), Levin N, Bengani N, Roberts JL, Suh Y, Karelus K, Nelson JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San 
Antonio, USA.

The increased diurnal elevation of plasma corticosterone (B) induced by food 
restriction (FR) may play a role in the life span extension of FR. We 
investigated whether FR alters adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and 
proopiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA levels in plasma and anterior pituitary (AP), 
since these molecules both regulate and can be suppressed by B. Measurements 
were made in 3-month-old male Fischer 344 rats that had been ad libitum (AL) or 
FR (60% of AL calories) since 6 weeks of age. Plasma B was 2-fold higher in FR 
rats in the PM samples, but did not differ in AM samples. By contrast, plasma 
ACTH did not differ in the PM samples of FR and AL rats and was 20% lower in AM 
samples (p < .05) of FR rats. AP content of ACTH was 50% lower in FR rats in 
both AM and PM samples (p < .01). In contrast, AP contents of POMC and mRNA, 
primary transcript, and processing intermediate were not reduced in FR rats, and 
PM content of POMC primary transcript was elevated in FR rats (p < .05). The 
reduced pituitary and plasma ACTH of FR rats may be the consequence of their 
elevated plasma B levels. This study also suggests that factors other than 
elevated ACTH account for FR-induced hyperadrenocorticism. These results also 
indicate that POMC mRNA and ACTH biosyntheses are differentially regulated in FR 
rats.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/50a.5.b288
PMID: 7545529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Hepatogastroenterology. 1995 Apr;42(2):139-44.

The YAG laser and Wallstent endoprosthesis for palliation of cancer in the 
esophagus or gastric cardia.

Tranberg KG(1), Stael von Holstein C, Ivancev K, Cwikiel W, Lunderquist A.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Lund University, Sweden.

The need for frequent retreatment is a disadvantage of using endoscopic laser 
therapy (ELT) alone for palliative treatment of esophageal carcinoma. In this 
prospective study, therefore, we investigated the potential and feasibility of 
combining ELT with a self-expanding metallic stent (Wallstent). Twelve patients 
received ELT followed by stent placement (stent group) and were compared with 39 
patients receiving ELT alone (ELT group). Swallowing ability was similar in the 
two groups. About one-third of the patients who had a short life expectancy, did 
not appear to benefit from stenting, whereas the interval between retreatments 
was prolonged by a factor of 2-4 in the remaining patients. Median survivals 
were 5.5 (range 1.0-23.5) months in patients with stents, and 4.5 (range 
1.2-24.6) months in patients without stents. There were few complications 
related to stenting. In one patient, technical problems caused stent 
dislodgement into the stomach. Another stent patient died of hemorrhage from an 
untreated tumor in the stomach, but it was considered unlikely that the bleeding 
was caused by the stent. In conclusion, this preliminary trial suggests that a 
Wallstent endoprosthesis, used in combination with laser treatment, may become a 
valuable tool for prolonging the dysphagia-free interval in selected patients.

PMID: 7545639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Urologe A. 1995 Jul;34(4):283-9.

[Value of determining prostate-specific antigen for early detection or prostatic 
carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Hammerer P(1), Huland H.

Author information:
(1)Urologische UniversitÃ¤tsklinik, Hamburg-Eppendorf.

The use of prostate-specific-antigen in the early detection of prostatic 
carcinoma combined with digital-rectal examination results in a 2-3 times 
increase in prostatic carcinoma detection rate. 2/3 of PSA detected prostatic 
carcinoma are organ confined vs 40% of those which are detected by 
digital-rectal examination. 15-35% of all operated localized prostatic carcinoma 
have a normal PSA. A biopsy is indicated in men with a life expectancy of more 
than 10 years when the PSA value is above 10 ng/ml and/or digital-rectal 
examination is suspicious. This concerns only 2% of all men at the age older 
than 50 years. In 90% of all men older than 50 years the PSA is normal as well 
as the digital-rectal examination. In 4% of these the result of PSA and 
digital-rectal examination is false negative that means 4% have prostatic 
carcinoma. However, repeated digital-rectal examination and PSA determination on 
a yearly basis detects most of these overlooked prostatic carcinoma which still 
are organ confined in about 90% of the cases. In men with a minimal elevated 
PSA-value of 4-10 ng/ml, 25% will have a prostatic carcinoma regardless of the 
finding on digital-rectal examination. The indication to do a biopsy can be 
specified by the use of age specific PSA cut-off-levels and most likely in 
future by determining the free PSA vs the complex-bound PSA. Controversy exists 
about the usefulness of PSA-density and PSA-velocity.

PMID: 7545842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. World Health Forum. 1995;16(3):287-92.

Cost-effective outlays for better health outcomes.

Shmueli A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management, Hadassah Medical School, Hebrew University, 
Jerusalem, Israel.

The marginal return on health expenditure in high-income countries is low, 
whereas that in low-income countries is comparatively high. However, there is no 
clear evidence that higher health expenditure is the most cost-effective way of 
improving health in low-income countries; consideration should be given to the 
alternative of raising educational levels.

PIP: The author, based upon World Bank data on infant mortality, life 
expectancy, and years of life lost prematurely in 27 low-income and 21 
high-income countries, discusses the cost-effectiveness of various outlays for 
better health outcomes. For every additional US$1 spent upon health per capita 
at the margin in low-income countries there is a decrease of one death per 1000 
live births, while in high-income countries no improvement in infant mortality 
can be expected as a consequence of comparable expenditure. In low-income 
countries, the influence of educational levels upon infant mortality is much 
more pronounced than that of health expenditure; a 1% decrease in adult 
illiteracy can be expected to lead to a decline in infant mortality of 1.28 per 
1000 live births. Provided that the cost of achieving such a decrease in adult 
illiteracy is less than $1.20 per capita, this latter approach to reducing 
infant mortality is more efficient than spending directly upon health. In 
low-income countries, an additional expenditure of $1 per capita on health 
together with a 1% decrease in adult illiteracy can be expected to cause an 
increase of approximately three months in life expectancy at birth. In 
high-income countries, however, life expectancy is only slightly increased by 
additional per capita health expenditure. Consideration should be given to 
raising educational levels as a way to improve health. The relative efficiencies 
of countries, low-income countries, and high-income countries are discussed.

PMID: 7546177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Bol Oficina Sanit Panam. 1995 Aug;119(2):95-102.

[The prospects and tasks of health in the Americas].

[Article in Spanish]

Alleyne G.

PMID: 7546298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Br J Psychiatry Suppl. 1995 Jul;(28):70-7.

Mortality among institutionalised people with learning disabilities in Greece: a 
30-year survey at the Leros PIKPA asylum.

Perakis A(1), Kolaitis G, Kordoutis P, Kranidioti M, Tsiantis J.

Author information:
(1)Association for Child and Adolescent Psychosocial Health, Holargos, Greece.

The life expectancy of institutionalised people with learning disabilities is 
shorter than that of the general population. Data on population dynamics in 
institutions for such people are vital for planning purposes. Mortality can be 
considered a crude measure of quality of health care. Mortality data on the 914 
admissions to the Leros PIKPA asylum for children and young adults with learning 
disabilities and associated problems in the years 1961-91 were reviewed. The 
overall crude mortality rate was 59.2 deaths per 1000 person-years. Twenty-two 
per cent of the deaths occurred within a year after admission. Age-specific 
mortality rates were particularly high for those aged one to four years, and 
declined thereafter. Male residents had lower mortality than female residents in 
almost all of the age groups. Compared with sex- and age-specific mortality data 
for the general population of Greece, the observed rates were 20-150 times 
higher but still comparable to those reported for people with more severe 
learning disabilities in institutions in other countries. Lifetable analysis by 
length of stay showed that male residents had a statistically significant higher 
probability of survival than female residents, which could not be attributed to 
age-related differential mortality. Culture-specific differential admission 
criteria may account for the observed sex difference.

PMID: 7546534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Clin Transpl. 1994:1-18.

The UNOS Scientific Renal Transplant Registry. United Network for Organ Sharing.

Cecka JM, Terasaki PI.

1. The number of cadaveric transplants performed each year at United States 
transplant centers has increased very little, from 7,200 in 1988 to 8,100 in 
1993. Living-donor transplants increased during the same period from 1,656 to 
2,562. 2. The recipient and donor populations have aged since UNOS began 
collecting data. In 1988, 39% of first-cadaver transplant recipients were over 
age 45 compared with 45% in 1993. During the same period, the percentage of 
cadaver kidneys from donors over age 45 increased from 16% to 26%. 3. Recipients 
over age 60 or under age 19 had 65% 3-year graft survival rates compared with 
70% for those in the intervening age groups (p < 0.001). As many as 60% of graft 
failures after the first year were accounted for by deaths with a functioning 
graft when the recipient was over 60 compared with less than 15% when the 
patient was under age 30 (p < 0.01). Rejection caused 45% of graft failures 
after the first year for recipients under age 45 but only 17% in those over 60 
(p < 0.01). When deaths were censored in the graft survival calculation, 
recipients over age 45 had the highest 3-year survival rate of 79% compared with 
72% for those aged 6-18 (p < 0.001). 4. The 3-year graft survival rate for 
kidneys from donors over age 60 was 55% and from donors aged 46-60 or under 5, 
it was 58%. Both results were significantly poorer than the 75% survival rate 
achieved using kidneys from 19 to 30 year-olds. 5. The racial distribution among 
first-cadaver kidney transplants has been relatively stable between 1988 and 
1993, with 60% Whites, 23% Blacks, 8% Hispanics, 3% Asians, and the remainder, 
other groups. One-year graft survival rates were consistently 3-5% lower for 
Blacks than for other races (p < 0.001), and the difference increased to 12% by 
3 years. The poorer survival rates for Blacks were unaffected by the donor's 
race. Blacks had the highest patient survival rates. More than 38% of first year 
failures and 47% of later failures in Blacks were due to rejection, compared 
with 31% for Whites in both periods (p < 0.01). When deaths were censored from 
the survival calculation, the graft half-life increased from 11 to 15 years for 
Whites but only from 5 to 6 years for Blacks. 6. Diabetes became the most 
prevalent disease among first-cadaver transplant recipients, accounting for 28% 
of the 1993 activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 7547529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Clin Transpl. 1994:133-56.

Hepatic transplantation at the University of Pittsburgh: new horizons and 
paradigms after 30 years of experience.

Abu-Elmagd K(1), Todo S, Fung J, Demetris J, Rakela J, Rao AS, Iwatsuki S, 
Starzl T.

Author information:
(1)Pittsburgh Transplant Institute, Department of Surgery, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.

In the 1993 edition of this book, we described 4 major initiatives in liver 
transplantation: First, the evaluation of the new immunosuppressive drug FK506 
(tacrolimus); second, the feasibility of combined liver-intestinal and 
multivisceral transplantation; third, 2 clinical attempts at hepatic 
xenotransplantation; and fourth, beginning attempts to enhance donor-specific 
nonreactivity with adjuvant bone marrow infusion. These and other new clinical 
studies during the last 12 months are the concerns of this update. The topics 
will be considered separately because of the unique design of each and the 
heterogeneity of the enrolled patient population. The patient and graft survival 
curves were estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method and the comparisons were done 
by the log-rank test. Survival time for patients was defined as the time that 
elapsed from the transplantation date until death, or the date of the last 
follow-up evaluation. For calculating graft survival, the date of graft removal 
was also considered. Coxâs proportional hazards model was used to analyze 
different causes of mortality and graft failure. Single variable comparison for 
qualitative data was made by chi-square analysis. The one-way analysis of 
variance was used for 3-way comparison.

PMCID: PMC3022492
PMID: 7547533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Clin Transpl. 1994:317-40.

Transplantation 1994: the year in review.

Browne BJ(1), Kahan BD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Texas Medical School-Houston, USA.

Progress during 1994 has yielded important positive effects on the clinical 
practice of transplantation. During the span of one generation, organ 
transplantation has moved from an experimental endeavor to an established 
therapeutic modality. Technical advances have improved the safety of the 
surgical enterprise, such that the major focus of research is now 
immunosuppressive therapy. Although tacrolimus has been approved for use in 
liver transplantation, ongoing trials seek to establish its role in the 
immunosuppressive arsenal. Undoubtedly, the introduction of mycophenolate 
mofetil and Neoral in the coming year, and probably sirolimus shortly 
thereafter, will broaden the spectrum of immunosuppressive agents, thereby 
improving transplant results. The recently completed multicenter studies not 
only demonstrated effective cooperative efforts by the transplant community, but 
also offered new insights into the more efficient design of future clinical 
trials. Although rejection remains the major barrier to transplant success, 
increasingly it is recognized that improved outcomes demand a decreased spectrum 
of iatrogenic side effects that markedly increase morbidity. Thus, strides in 
immunosuppressive management must be evaluated both by mitigation of rejection 
episodes and by quality of life measures. The ultimate goal of achieving 
transplant tolerance is now being addressed in clinical studies. There is no 
universal agreement concerning the role of chimerism as a strategy for tolerance 
induction; preclinical studies suggest that refined donor-type antigens or 
selectively enriched donor-cell infusions represent more likely tolerogenic 
stimuli. The challenge of inducing immunologic tolerance remains an elusive goal 
as we approach the new millennium.

PMID: 7547552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Clin Transpl. 1994:403-17.

Primary disease effects and associations.

Katznelson S, McClelland J, Cecka JM.

1. Although graft survival for most primary disease processes are similar at one 
year, significant divergence occurs by 5 years. ALP, IGA, and PC had the highest 
5-year graft survival rates (72.8%, 71.2%, and 68.5%, respectively) whereas HTN 
and NS, the lowest (51.8% and 46.0%, respectively). 2. When primary diseases are 
grouped by pathogenic, pathophysiologic, and clinical similarities, the group of 
diseases with systemic manifestations had the lowest 5-year graft survival 
(55%), and the group including cystic and inherited diseases had the highest 
5-year graft survival (69%). Black recipients had a predominance of "systemic" 
primary diseases (57%). 3. Despite having overall lower graft survival than 
Whites (p < 0.00001), there was no significant difference between Black and 
White 3-year graft survival for recipients with PC, ALP, IGA, and SLE. 4. PC 
recipients enjoyed excellent long-term graft survival (69%). Black recipients 
with PC had a 5-year graft survival rate of 64.6%. Recipients with PC had 
decreased posttransplant dialysis need, decreased early rejection rate, and 
better HLA matching than most other recipients. 5. Recipients with SLE as their 
primary disease had among the highest fraction of grafts lost to rejection 
(45.4% of all grafts lost) and the highest pretransplant sensitization rate 
(59.6%). 6. Recipients with HTN as their primary disease had overall lower 
5-year graft survival (58% versus 63% in Whites, 44% versus 47% in Blacks), a 
lower rate of early allograft function (10% versus 12%, p < 0.00001), and more 
posttransplant dialysis needs (28.8% of patients requiring dialysis vs 23.5%, p 
< 0.00001) than recipients without HTN. Blacks with HTN had the lowest long-term 
graft survival (44.4%) of any other single group. 7. IDDM patients who expressed 
DR3 and/or DR4 alleles had significantly higher graft survival than patients 
without these DR groups. Whites expressing DR3 and DR4 and DR3 or DR4 alleles 
had better overall HLA matching (p < 0.001) and graft survival (75.4% and 70.7% 
versus 58.5% and 65.1%, p < 0.00001) than Blacks with similar DR expression. 8. 
SPK recipients had better 5-year graft survival than KAT recipients (66.2% 
versus 54.6%, p < 0.000001). This effect is most likely due to the selection of 
"better" lower-risk patients for SPK grafts.

PMID: 7547572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Clin Transpl. 1994:419-33.

Renal retransplantation.

Hirata M, Terasaki PI.

1. In 1984, second graft survival rates were 10% lower than first grafts, but in 
1992, the survival difference was reduced to 1%. Multiple grafts in 1984 were 
23% lower than first grafts, but showed only a 7% difference in 1992. In 1992, 
12% of kidney grafts were performed into second graft recipients and 3% into 
multiple graft recipients. 2. If first grafts survived one to 12 months 
posttransplant, the second graft survival was less than if they had survived 
longer than 12 months, as seen in many previous analyses. Here we showed that 
patients with a first graft duration of one to 12 months had a higher incidence 
of sensitization than patients with a first graft duration of more than 12 
months. This may indicate that immunization was the cause of failure more 
frequently among those patients who rejected earlier than later. 3. Since 1989, 
the interval between first graft rejection and second graft transplantation was 
not a factor in second graft survival. A strong correlation was noted between 
high PRA and interval to regrafting. This probably reflects the increasing 
difficulty in finding negative-crossmatch donors as PRA increases. 4. Repeat 
mismatches for HLA-DR were deleterious to second grafts, although repeat 
mismatches for HLA-A,B were not, confirming earlier studies (1,5). HLA-A,B,DR 
mismatches correlated well with second and multiple transplant outcomes. 5. 
Patients receiving second cadaver-donor transplants had the same graft survival 
regardless of whether the first graft was another cadaver donor or a 
living-related one. On the other hand, second living-related donor transplants 
had a higher graft survival rate if the first graft had also been from a 
living-related rather than a cadaver donor (p < 0.05). This suggests that it 
would be advantageous if the first graft came from a living-related donor with a 
cadaver donor as the second graft, rather than the reverse situation. 6. Urine 
production on the first postoperative day was a very strong indicator of 
subsequent graft survival, particularly for second and multigraft patients. 
Failure to diurese on the first day resulted in a second graft survival of 60% 
at one year compared with 80% for those that diuresed on the first day. 7. 
Similarly, dialysis requirements were a major factor in predicting subsequent 
graft survival. For second graft patients who required dialysis, one-year graft 
survival was 63%, compared with 84% if no dialysis was needed. 8. The fraction 
of patients who had insulin dependent diabetes for first grafts was 27%, 15% for 
second grafts, and 9% for multiple grafts.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 7547573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Epidemiology. 1995 Jul;6(4):350-5. doi: 10.1097/00001648-199507000-00004.

Life expectancy in four U.S. racial/ethnic populations: 1990.

Hahn RA(1), Eberhardt S.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology Program Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, GA 30333, USA.

Previous estimates of life expectancy in the United States have not corrected 
for biases in population and mortality data, and no study has examined life 
expectancy in U.S. Asian/Pacific Islander and American Indian populations. We 
used information on population undercounts by race/ethnicity in the census and 
on misclassification of race/ethnicity on death certificates to calculate life 
expectancy for black, white, American Indian, and Asian men and women in the 
United States in 1990. Correction for undercount and misclassification had 
little effect on life expectancy estimates for whites, but it substantially 
decreased estimates for American Indians and Asians. Asian men had life 
expectancies of 82.0 years and Asian women 85.8 years--the highest life 
expectancies reported for any population in the world and beyond the limit 
predicted by some current theories.

DOI: 10.1097/00001648-199507000-00004
PMID: 7548340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Biomed Tech (Berl). 1995 Jul-Aug;40(7-8):210-3.

[Life expectancy indicator for re-sterilizable plastic materials].

[Article in German]

Haindl H(1), Kartheus H.

Author information:
(1)Offentlich bestellter und vereidigter SachverstÃ¤ndiger fÃ¼r Medizinprodukte, 
Wennigsen.

Semi-disposable products in which only part of the product is disposable while 
another part made of plastic is designed to be reusable, are an effective 
counter to the increasing masses of plastic waste generated by hospitals. The 
major problem with such products has been the fact that the resterilizable parts 
could withstand only a limited number of resterilizations and the user had no 
means of seeing when this number had been reached. To resolve this problem, the 
Life-Span Indicator was developed in cooperation with Beiersdorf AG. This 
indicator changes colour from blue to orange after about 100 sterilizations. It 
is based on an azo pigment diffused into a carrier polymer, POM. Repeated 
heating of the slow colour change of the pigment. Not all the details of the 
mechanisms involved are clear, but the indicator functions reliably and 
reproducibly. Since the pigment is inside the polymer, the colour-change 
reaction is not affected by mechanical pre-cleaning or disinfection. The user 
can thus readily see how long he can use such products without risking 
malfunction. The number of resterilizations can be varied to suit the product, 
and the indicator can be shaped as required, for example as a nonseparable 
snap-in plug or a capable binder.

PMID: 7548686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Biometrics. 1995 Sep;51(3):1175-83.

Sequential monitoring of survival data with the Wilcoxon statistic.

Lan KK(1), Rosenberger WF, Lachin JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, George Washington University, Rockville, Maryland 
20852, USA.

When a spending function is used in sequential data monitoring of a clinical 
trial, it is important to know the information fraction at the times of interim 
analysis. In a maximum duration designed study, the information fraction is 
unknown when data are monitored, and it has to be estimated. The modified 
Wilcoxon statistic developed by Peto and Peto and modified by Prentice is often 
used to compare two survival curves in a clinical trial. We give guidelines for 
estimating the information fraction in a maximum duration trial when this 
statistic is employed. When there is a relatively low event rate or the survival 
time is approximately exponential, the information fraction for the 
Peto-Peto-Prentice Wilcoxon statistic is very close to that of the popular 
logrank statistic. In other cases, it would be helpful to estimate the 
information fraction as a function of elapsed calendar time. We discuss both 
group sequential and continuous monitoring.

PMID: 7548701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Bull Cancer. 1995 Jul;82(7):531-40.

[Cytotoxic chemotherapy in elderly patients: present and future].

[Article in French]

Freyer G(1), Maire P, Ardiet C, Tranchand B, Droz JP.

Author information:
(1)DÃ©partment de mÃ©decine carcinologique, centre LÃ©on-BÃ©rard, Lyon, France.

Cancer in elderly people accounts for more than 50% of the malignant tumors 
treated per year in France and this population of patients has a rather 
high-life expectancy. Chemotherapy is active in these elderly patients but 
clearly more toxic than for young ones. The general tendency among the 
physicians to empirically reduce the doses is due to the known increased risk of 
unexpected toxicities. That is why there is such a large variety of conflicting 
opinions in the literature concerning the benefit and toxic effects of 
cytostatic drugs in the elderly. Therefore, it appears consistent to adjust 
chemotherapy regimen according to physiological criteria. Among them is 
biological age which is a better parameter than chronological age to describe 
the biological heterogeneity of this population of patients. Nakamura et al have 
published an interesting model for the calculation of biological age by 
principal component analysis using 11 easily measurable biological and clinical 
variables in a series of healthy elderly people. This kind of approach is not at 
present available for cancer patients but it allows to demonstrate that the 
chronological age is only one among many other age-related variables and is not 
sufficient to fully describe it. The variations in pharmacokinetic data are more 
frequent in the elderly than in younger people and this reflects age-related 
physiological heterogeneity. This factor is well taken into account in recently 
described population pharmacokinetic models, bayesian fittings and adaptative 
control which may represent promising approaches of cytostatics dose 
adjustments. Such models have been successfully developed in young patients 
receiving doxorubicin, methotrexate, melphalan and teniposide. They require a 
low number of blood samples to determine individual parameters and further 
adjust the doses, and are therefore of potential interest in old patients. 
Prospective studies are warranted in the future in order to recommend their use 
in the elderly.

PMID: 7549115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Gesundheitswesen. 1995 Jul;57(7):365-72.

[Changes in life expectancy and mortality in East Germany after reunification 
(1989-1992)].

[Article in German]

HÃ¤ussler B(1), Hempel E, Reschke P.

Author information:
(1)Institut fÃ¼r Gesundheits- und Sozialforschung, Berlin.

Whereas some arguments can be advanced suggesting that the life expectancy in 
east Germany should have declined directly after the fall of the Berlin Wall in 
1989, other arguments suggest an increase. The aim of this study was to identify 
the actual developments and to explain the findings. Census data and mortality 
statistics from East and West Germany before unification were used to calculate 
standardized mortality ratios and life expectancies for various population 
groups. The differences in life expectancy between East and West were broken 
down according to age groups. The main finding was that the life expectancy of 
east German men declined in 1990 by 0.9 years, and only reached the 1989 level 
again in 1992. This was due solely to an increase in mortality for men under the 
age of 65. In 1990 and 1991, there were 3,400 more deaths among men under the 
age of 65 than would have been expected on the basis of the mortality rates of 
1989. In contrast, the life expectancy of women hardly declined at all in 1990, 
and in 1992 it was already one year more than for 1989. The most important 
reasons for the increased numbers of deaths of men under the age of 45 were 
motor vehicle accidents, whereas ischaemic heart disease and cirrhosis of the 
liver were more significant for men between the ages of 45 and 65. Suicides did 
not increase after the fall of the Berlin Wall. It could be shown that the 
findings were not the results of artifacts.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 7549239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Qual Life Res. 1995 Aug;4(4):309-18. doi: 10.1007/BF01593883.

Evaluating the quality of life associated with rifabutin prophylaxis for 
Mycobacterium avium complex in persons with AIDS: combining Q-TWiST and 
multiattribute utility techniques.

Revicki DA(1), Simpson KN, Wu AW, LaVallee RL.

Author information:
(1)Medical Technology Assessment and Policy Research Program, Battelle Centers 
for Public Health Research and Evaluation, Arlington, VA 22201, USA.

Our objective was to evaluate the effect of rifabutin prophylaxis in patients 
with AIDS and CD4 counts of less than 200 per cubic millimetre using a 
combination of Q-TWiST (quality-adjusted time without symptoms and toxicity) and 
multiattribute health utility assessment. The design consisted of a secondary 
analysis of two previously reported multicentre, randomized, placebo-controlled 
clinical trials conducted in 78 academic, community and Department of Veterans 
Affairs HIV centres and private practices. 542 patients with AIDS and CD4 counts 
of less than 200 per cubic millimetre were assigned to rifabutin 300 mg/day and 
562 were assigned to a placebo. A modified Q-TWiST approach was used for 
comparing treatments based on the occurrence and duration of time with and 
without severe symptoms and clinical endpoints. Health states were constructed 
to represent combinations of clinical events experienced by study patients. Five 
physicians assigned utilities for health states using a six-attribute health 
classification system. These utilities were used to adjust survival for QOL. The 
rifabutin and placebo groups were compared using estimated 
quality-of-life-adjusted days. The incidence of MAC was 9% for the rifabutin 
group and 18% for the placebo group (p < 0.001). Differences, although not 
statistically significant, were observed for rates of survival and 
hospitalization. The rifabutin group experienced less anaemia (p < 0.02), and 
fever and night sweats (p < 0.02) than the placebo group. Average Q-TWiST days 
were 325 for the rifabutin group and 309 for the placebo group (p < 0.05). 
Q-TWiST days were significantly lower for patients with MAC bacteraemia (p < 
0.04) and hospitalizations (p < (0.003). Rifabutin prophylaxis resulted in fewer 
MAC infections and greater quality-of-life-adjusted days of survival compared to 
no rifabutin. Quality-of-life-adjusted survival, based on a combination of the 
Q-TWiST and multiattribute health utility index, is a feasible approach for 
evaluating the outcomes of medical treatment. Future studies should, however, 
use patient-assigned utility weights to compute Q-TWiST scores, since physician 
generated utilities may differ significantly from those of patients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01593883
PMID: 7550179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Nat Genet. 1995 Sep;11(1):13-5. doi: 10.1038/ng0995-13.

ITD in Ashkenazi Jews--genetic drift or selection?

Zoossmann-Diskin A.

Comment on
    Nat Genet. 1995 Feb;9(2):152-9.

DOI: 10.1038/ng0995-13
PMID: 7550306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Coron Artery Dis. 1995 Jun;6(6):472-8.

Cost-effectiveness of accepted measures for intervention in coronary heart 
disease.

Kuntz KM(1), Lee TH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

PMID: 7551268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Bratisl Lek Listy. 1995 Jun;96(6):301-6.

[Non-homogeneity of the average life span in Slovakia].

[Article in Slovak]

Ginter E(1), Tatara M, SipekiovÃ¡ T.

Author information:
(1)Ustav preventÃ­vnej a klinickej medicÃ­ny v Bratislave, Slovakia.

The life expectancy at birth of males in the Slovak Republic (SR) is one of the 
shortest in Europe. Exact explanation of this phenomenon is still unknown. The 
statistical significance of the relation between life expectancy and various 
factors (infant mortality rate, ethnical structure, educational level, religious 
belief, economic activity of inhabitants and environmental factors) was analysed 
by multifactorial methods in all 38 districts of Slovakia. A surprising paradox 
phenomenon was observed in the areas with the highest pollutant emissions, where 
the life expectancy was the longest. Infant mortality rate, ethnical structure 
and particularly the educational level of the districts were significantly 
correlated with life expectancy. The life expectancy was negatively influenced 
mostly by the proportion of elementary--educated males. We suppose the style of 
life presents the background of these relations, but there is a lack of 
statistically reliable data from the individual districts of SR for more 
profound analysis. It must be stressed that neither the statistically high 
significant correlation is evidence of the causal connection between observed 
parameters. (Tab. 1, Fig. 5, Ref. 16.)

PMID: 7552406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1995 Oct;10(3):338-41. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(05)80053-x.

The influence of age on operative mortality and long-term relative survival 
following emergency abdominal aortic aneurysm operations.

Aune S(1), Amundsen SR, Evjensvold J, Trippestad A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway.

OBJECTIVE: To study operative mortality and long-term survival following 
emergency operations for abdominal aortic aneurysm.
DESIGN: Retrospective survey in a university hospital.
MATERIALS: Two hundred and twenty-seven patients with median age 72 years, (17% 
women).
METHODS: Founded on data from the Norwegian Registrar's Office, operative 
mortality and long-term survival was estimated using the life-table method. 
Expected survival for demographically matched subgroups was calculated from 
death rate tables issued by the Norwegian Central Bureau of Statistics.
RESULTS: Operative mortality was 41% for the 175 patients with ruptured 
aneurysms and 17% for the 52 with imminent rupture. The 6-year survival rate was 
61% for all the successfully operated patients, and not different from that of a 
demographically matched population. For the patients of 72 years or older the 
6-year survival rate was 53%. This was equal to that of an age and sex matched 
population. The younger patients had an observed 6-year survival rate of 64%, 
which was significantly lower than the expected of 84%. The standard mortality 
rate for this group was 2.25. No statistically significant difference in 
long-term survival was detected between the two age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Age at the time of the operation for a symptomatic abdominal aortic 
aneurysm does not seem to influence long-term survival. Consequently, younger 
patients experience a higher relative mortality compared to the older.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(05)80053-x
PMID: 7552535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Int J Urol. 1995 May;2(2):110-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-2042.1995.tb00435.x.

Assessment of sextant biopsy of the prostate for detecting cancer prior to 
therapy in patients clinically diagnosed as benign prostatic hyperplasia.

Egawa S(1), Uchida T, Kawakami T, Kuwao S, Koshiba K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kitasato University School of Medicine, Kanagawa, 
Japan.

Pathological results and perioperative morbidity were compared in 199 patients 
who had undergone prostatectomy and/or biopsy in order to determine the extent 
to which systematic biopsy is effective for detecting prostate cancer prior to 
therapy in patients clinically diagnosed as having benign prostatic hyperplasia. 
Seventeen (8.5%) cancers were detected in 199 patients following surgery and/or 
biopsy. Digitally-guided biopsy as a means of detecting prostate cancer was 
found to be just as effective as ultrasound-guided biopsy. Seven (12.5%) cancers 
were detected in 56 patients who had undergone biopsy and transurethral 
resection. Preprostatectomy biopsy detected only two of three patients with 
stage T1b disease. All four stage T1a and one stage T1b failed to be diagnosed. 
Of 90 patients who had biopsy prior to surgery other than TURP, seven (7.8%) 
cancers were found. Four of these were advanced. The incidence of postoperative 
fever > 38.0 degrees C and duration of postoperative pyuria did not differ 
significantly between groups with or without biopsy. Preoperative biopsy did not 
contribute to perioperative morbidity. Tumors detected by systematic biopsy are 
usually large and clinically significant. Positive biopsy results are often 
diagnostic, but the pathological features of a tumor together with clinical 
parameters should be considered to reduce the chance of overdiagnosing an 
insignificant tumor. Sextant biopsy would be most applicable to patients 
scheduled for any type of therapy other than TURP especially in those with 
markedly elevated serum PSA levels. This procedure may be beneficial 
particularly for younger patients with long life expectancy who will benefit 
from definitive therapy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-2042.1995.tb00435.x
PMID: 7553282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Clin Podiatr Med Surg. 1995 Jul;12(3):425-35.

Economic implications of implant selection.

DeFronzo DJ(1), Landsman AS, Ghareeb JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dr. William M. Scholl College of Podiatric Medicine, 
Chicago, Illinois, USA.

Numerous types of implantable biomaterials are available for a variety of 
applications. Although much has been written about the physical properties or 
biocompatibility issues, very few papers have focused on the economic 
feasibility of these materials. This article assesses financial factors 
associated with first metatarsophalangeal total joint prostheses.

PMID: 7553533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Chirurgie. 1994-1995;120(10):582-8.

[Current status of reconstructive surgery of the sub-inguinal artery].

[Article in French]

Testart J(1), Watelet J.

Author information:
(1)HÃ´pital Charles-Nicolle, Rouen.

Saphenous vein bypass is the optimal operation for arterial reconstruction in 
the subinguinal region. There has been no demonstrated advantage to using a 
devalvulated saphenous vein in situ rather than an inverted dissected vein. 
Prosthetic bypass may be preferred over saphenous bypass with a vein < or = 4 mm 
if the lower anastomosis is situated on the upper popliteal artery, if the life 
expectancy is short or if on the contrary the downstream bed is normal. 
Permeability after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty does not last as long 
as after bypass surgery for obliterations, but the operation is less aggressive 
and does not compromise a subsequent procedure. The best indications are short 
stenoses in patients with a long walking distance in whom surgery would be 
excessive. Angiography or ultrasound angioscopy after a bypass procedure or 
endoluminal dilatation can check the technical quality of the operation and help 
improve permeability duration. Adjuvant treatment such as a venous patch on a 
prosthetic anastomosis or various drugs are highly important in improving the 
duration of permeability. A prospectively planned follow-up should be an 
integral part of arterial reconstruction surgery in order to identify subsequent 
stenoses and programme their treatment before occlusion occurs.

PMID: 7555359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Eur J Pediatr. 1995 Jul;154(7):567-70. doi: 10.1007/BF02074836.

The efficacy of heparin in maintaining peripheral infusions in neonates.

Moclair A(1), Bates I.

Author information:
(1)Regional Pharmacy Offices, Chelsea and Westminister Hospital, London, United 
Kingdom.

The study set out to determine the survival times of peripheral total parenteral 
nutrition (TPN) infusion sites in neonates using a prospective, single blind, 
randomised trial design. The effects of various concentrations of 
co-administered heparin was measured using survival analysis, and of other 
continuous variables using multivariate analysis, against a non-heparinized 
control group. The study was conducted in special care baby unit located within 
a specialist maternity hospital in London, United Kingdom. Heparin at 0.1, 0.25, 
0.5 and 1 IU/ml was added to TPN infusions delivered through peripheral veins 
and the survival times of the infusions determined. For infusion sites receiving 
heparinized fluids, the relative risk of failure decreased and the median 
survival time increased as the heparin concentration increased, with a maximal 
effect at a heparin concentration of 0.5 IU/ml (P < 0.001). Multivariate 
analysis using the Cox proportional hazard model confirmed the efficacy of 
heparin and highlighted a history of infusion therapy and the co-administration 
of gentamicin (from a range of drugs analysed) as being risk factors associated 
with infusion site failure.
CONCLUSION: Intravenous infusion survival time can be prolonged using heparin 
additive at an optimal concentration of 0.5 IU/ml. This should also be of 
additional interest to paediatricians as heparin is an ubiquitous drug on 
neonatal units and its clinical use needs to be rationalised.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02074836
PMID: 7556325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Exp Gerontol. 1995 May-Aug;30(3-4):189-98. doi:
10.1016/0531-5565(94)00054-7.

Education, homeostasis, and longevity.

Timiras PS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley 
94720, USA.

The effects of education in lengthening life expectancy and reducing disability 
and disease in old age are examined for neural and hormonal correlates. Hormones 
and local factors influencing growth, in regulating neural cell death, 
proliferation, and differentiation, support the view of a "brain reserve 
capacity" built up during early learning years and capable of affording a 
protective action (increased threshold to damage) against the losses of normal 
and abnormal aging. Observation from studies on the effects of estrogen, 
dexamethasone, and a number of local factors on growth and differentiation of 
human neuroblastoma cells and of glial cells are supportive of a role for these 
factors in maintenance of homeostasis at an advanced age. Continuing education 
and learning is proposed as an effective means to promote longevity and improve 
life in old age.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(94)00054-7
PMID: 7556502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Exp Gerontol. 1995 May-Aug;30(3-4):299-314. doi:
10.1016/0531-5565(94)00044-4.

Nutrition and its relationship to aging.

Casper RC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, CA 94305-5546, USA.

The aging process alone has no significant adverse consequences for the caloric 
intake and the nutritional status of healthy elderly individuals. 
Epidemiological data suggest that in humans, in contrast to rodents, 
undernutrition reduces the life span. In the Western World, malnutrition in old 
age has become uncommon and is, for the most part, the result of physical 
illness and/or of psychological and socio-economic factors, such as depressive 
disorders, social isolation, smoking, alcohol abuse, and poverty. Body weight 
shows a U- or J-shaped relationship to mortality risk with the highest survival 
rates found at normal to moderate overweight. However, studies that have 
controlled for disease already present, smoking status, serum cholesterol level, 
or hypertension, suggest an increased mortality risk for lower and upper 
extremes of body weight, only. Populations with healthy lifestyles have 
significantly greater life expectancy that the average normal population. Even 
in the very old, exercise has been shown to improve muscle strength and 
function. The studies suggest that nutritional intake and nutritional status in 
old age is multifactorial and dependent not only on appetite and availability of 
diverse food, but also on physical activity, body mass, education, and an 
involved social lifestyle.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(94)00044-4
PMID: 7556509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Exp Gerontol. 1995 May-Aug;30(3-4):315-25. doi:
10.1016/0531-5565(94)00041-z.

Sex-specific life table aging rates in large medfly cohorts.

Carey JR(1), Liedo P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis 95616, USA.

Life table aging rate (LAR) is defined as the age-specific rate of mortality 
change with age and corresponds to the first derivative or slope of the 
mortality schedule at each age. We computed the sex-specific LARs for 167 Medfly 
cohorts, containing a total of approximately 600,000 individuals of each sex. We 
found that: (a) the LAR is not constant for either sex; at the youngest ages, 
mortality changes by approximately 1.4-fold daily, whereas at the older ages 
(>30 days), mortality levels off and decreases; (b) female LAR is higher than 
male LAR from 0 to 12 days, at which time the rates cross over and male LAR is 
higher than female LAR; however, at about 30 days, both male and female LARs are 
less than or equal to unity; (c) mortality in each of the 167 cohorts leveled 
off for both sexes. The average age for this leveling off was around 23 days for 
females and 31 days for males; and (d) the mortality rate at the age of leveling 
off was approximately 1.4-fold higher in males than in females--0.13/day for 
females and 0.19/day for males. Implications of these findings are briefly 
discusses, including the use of summary measures of senescence, the 
arbitrariness of selecting the age of senescence onset, and test of hypotheses 
concerned with explanations of mortality patterns such as leveling off at older 
ages.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(94)00041-z
PMID: 7556510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Eye (Lond). 1995;9 ( Pt 3):277-81. doi: 10.1038/eye.1995.54.

Retinal detachment in AIDS-related cytomegalovirus retinitis.

Sandy CJ(1), Bloom PA, Graham EM, Ferris JD, Shah SM, Schulenburg WE, Migdal CS.

Author information:
(1)Western Eye Hospital, London, UK.

Patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and cytomegalovirus 
retinitis (CMVR) are surviving longer due to the use of virostatic medicines and 
improved treatment of opportunistic infections. As a result, retinal detachment 
is likely to become an increasingly common cause of visual morbidity in these 
patients. The incidence and outcome of retinal detachment complicating CMVR was 
studied at two London AIDS centres. Patients with CMVR were identified 
prospectively and underwent standard treatment. Retinal detachments were 
diagnosed during regular follow-up. If retinal reattachment surgery was 
performed, a standard procedure of vitrectomy and silicone oil internal 
tamponade was employed. Of 147 patients with CMVR, 41 (28%) developed retinal 
detachments (47 eyes). Forty-three detachments were rhegmatogenous and 4 were 
exudative. Fifteen eyes of 9 patients with rhegmatogenous detachments underwent 
retinal reattachment surgery. Of these, visual acuity remained stable or 
improved in 12 eyes (80%) in the immediate post-operative period. At the last 
clinic visit, 8 eyes (53%) maintained a visual acuity of 6/60 or better. The 
visual results of surgery are good in selected patients, bearing in mind the 
progressive nature of the underlying disease and poor life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.1995.54
PMID: 7556732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. FASEB J. 1995 Oct;9(13):1355-61. doi: 10.1096/fasebj.9.13.7557026.

The gerontogenes age-1 and daf-2 determine metabolic rate potential in aging 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Vanfleteren JR(1), De Vreese A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Morphology, Systematics and Ecology, University of Ghent, 
Belgium.

Mutations in the genes age-1 and daf-2 extend life span of Caenorhabditis 
elegans by 100 and 200%, respectively, in axenic culture. Adult worms that are 
mutant in either of these genes have higher metabolic capacities, called 
metabolic rate potentials, at all ages and the extension of their life 
expectancies are positively correlated with the increases of metabolic rate 
potential. The activities of catalase, superoxide dismutase, isocitrate 
dehydrogenase, isocitrate lyase, and malate synthase are all higher relative to 
those in worms that are wild type for these genes, but acid phosphatase is 
down-regulated and alkaline phosphatase activity is lowered to 10% of the 
activity measured in age-1(+) and daf-2(+) worms. These results suggest that 
genes that regulate metabolic activity may play central roles in longevity and 
senescence.

DOI: 10.1096/fasebj.9.13.7557026
PMID: 7557026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Gastroenterology. 1995 Oct;109(4):1188-96. doi:
10.1016/0016-5085(95)90578-2.

Prophylactic colectomy or surveillance for chronic ulcerative colitis? A 
decision analysis.

Provenzale D(1), Kowdley KV, Arora S, Wong JB.

Author information:
(1)Tufts University School of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 1996 Apr;110(4):1323.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: The treatment of patients with long-standing ulcerative 
colitis involving the entire colon is controversial. The aim of this study was 
to examine the effectiveness of surveillance colonoscopy or prophylactic 
colectomy on colon cancer mortality in patients with chronic ulcerative colitis.
METHODS: Using decision analysis, computer cohort simulation of patients with 
ulcerative colitis was performed to evaluate 17 strategies including no 
colonoscopic surveillance, surveillance at varying intervals, and prophylactic 
proctocolectomy with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. The model examined which 
biopsy results (low-grade dysplasia, high-grade dysplasia, or cancer) should 
lead to proctocolectomy and ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. Published data on the 
incidence of cancer with ulcerative colitis, the sensitivity and specificity of 
colonoscopy with biopsy, the risks of colonoscopy and surgery, and the prognosis 
with colon cancer were used.
RESULTS: For a 30-year-old patient with pancolitis for 10 years, the model 
suggests that prophylactic colectomy would increase life expectancy by 2-10 
