months compared with surveillance and by 1.1-1.4 years compared with no 
surveillance. Surveillance would improve life expectancy by 7 months to 1.2 
years compared with no surveillance. In sensitivity analysis, results were most 
affected by the cumulative incidence of cancer in patients with chronic 
ulcerative colitis.
CONCLUSIONS: Either surveillance or prophylactic colectomy should increase life 
expectancy in patients with ulcerative colitis.

DOI: 10.1016/0016-5085(95)90578-2
PMID: 7557085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Gut. 1995 Aug;37(2):177-81. doi: 10.1136/gut.37.2.177.

Late mortality in elderly patients surviving acute peptic ulcer bleeding.

Hudson N(1), Faulkner G, Smith SJ, Langman MJ, Hawkey CJ, Logan RF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Therapeutics, University Hospital, Nottingham.

Acute peptic ulcer bleeding is associated with a substantial short term 
mortality but it is generally assumed that in the modern era of effective 
medical treatment the longer term prognosis is good. This study evaluated 487 
patients aged over 60 years who were discharged from Nottingham University and 
City Hospitals after admission for acute peptic ulcer bleeding during 1986-91 
and 480 age and sex matched community controls. Follow up information was 
obtained from hospital and general practitioner records and from the National 
Health Service central register. Mortality was compared with control mortality 
and with rates expected for England and Wales. During a mean follow up of 34 
months 142 (29%) of 487 patients died compared with 58 (12%) of 480 community 
controls and with 81.5 deaths expected (observed/expected (O/E) = 1.74, 95% 
confidence limits (CL) 1.5 to 2.1). Six years after admission the actuarial 
survival estimate was only 50% for ulcer patients compared with 76% for 
community controls and 69% expected. The increased mortality was similar in men 
and women and was greatest in the 60-74 year age group. Much of the excess 
mortality was accounted for by deaths from cancer (O/E 34/19.7 = 1.73; CL 1.2 to 
2.4), from respiratory disease (O/E 28/10.9 = 2.57; CL 1.7 to 3.7), and in men 
from vascular disease (O/E 31/22.4 = 1.38; CL 0.9 to 2.0). Eight deaths resulted 
from recurrent ulcer complications and four deaths from gastric cancers 
undetected at the index admission. In conclusion, patients discharged after 
peptic ulcer bleeding had a substantially reduced life expectancy. The increased 
mortality was predominantly due to a variety of smoking related diseases rather 
than recurrent peptic ulcer complications. Deaths from recurrent peptic ulcer 
complications were infrequent and were less than reported in earlier years 
possibly reflecting prolonged and widespread used of H2 receptor antagonists.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.37.2.177
PMCID: PMC1382713
PMID: 7557563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Int J Androl. 1995 Jun;18(3):157-65. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2605.1995.tb00405.x.

Rates of testosterone-induced suppression to severe oligozoospermia or 
azoospermia in two multinational clinical studies. World Health Organization 
Task force on Methods for The Regulations of Male Fertility.

[No authors listed]

Two multicentre studies of the contraceptive efficacy of azoospermia and severe 
oligozoospermia were conducted in 16 centres in 10 countries. They used a common 
protocol of weekly testosterone injections for sperm suppression, the patterns 
and degrees of which were compared among men from different population groups. 
Six hundred and seventy normal, health volunteers, of whom 205 were Asian 
(mostly Chinese) and 465 of non-Asian origin, were given weekly injections of 
testosterone enanthate, 200 mg IM, during the suppression (6-month) and efficacy 
(12-month) phases. Patterns of sperm suppression were assessed by semen analysis 
at monthly or 2-weekly intervals. Sperm counts suppressed more slowly in the 
Asian than in the non-Asian men in the first 2 months of injections but 
subsequently suppressed to lower sperm concentrations below 5 million/ml, 3 
million/ml or azoospermia at 6 months were 97.1% 95.6%, and 66.7%, respectively 
for non-Asian men, compared to 99.4%, 98.4% and 89.2%, respectively for Asian 
men. In conclusion, a hormonal contraceptive method based on regular 
testosterone injections can suppress spermatogenesis to azoospermia or severe 
oligozoospermia in 97% of men, regardless of their ethnic origin.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2605.1995.tb00405.x
PMID: 7558380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Int J Cardiol. 1995 Jun 2;50(1):7-17. doi: 10.1016/0167-5273(95)02344-v.

The Interdisciplinary Heart Failure and Transplant Program Münster: a 5-year 
experience.

Deng MC(1), Breithardt G, Scheld HH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Hospital of the Westfalian 
Wilhelms-University, Münster, Germany.

The variety and complexity of therapeutic options available for the increasing 
number of patients with advanced chronic heart failure has lead to the 
institution of specialized heart failure/heart transplant programs. The central 
task consists of carefully evaluating and selecting potential transplant 
recipients, based on the comparative benefit rationale, i.e. the expected gain 
in life expectancy and quality of life by cardiac transplantation compared with 
all other treatment options. Further tasks include a comprehensive chronic heart 
failure management, high risk conventional cardiac surgery, mechanical and 
antiarrhythmic bridging and dedicated posttransplant care. This concept is 
described on the basis of the 5-year experience of the Interdisciplinary Heart 
Failure and Transplant Program Münster.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-5273(95)02344-v
PMID: 7558467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Int J Parasitol. 1995 Jul;25(7):807-13. doi: 10.1016/0020-7519(94)00209-7.

Transmission dynamics of Echinococcus granulosus, Taenia hydatigena and Taenia 
ovis in sheep in Uruguay.

Cabrera PA(1), Haran G, Benavidez U, Valledor S, Perera G, Lloyd S, Gemmell MA, 
Baraibar M, Morana A, Maissonave J, et al.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Veterinaria, Instituto de Parasitologia, Universidad de la 
Republica, Montevideo, Uruguay.

A base-line survey was carried out on the transmission dynamics of Echinococcus 
granulosus, Taenia hydatigena and Taenia ovis in sheep in the Department of 
Florida, Uruguay. Mean life expectancy at birth of the sheep population in this 
Department was estimated at 3.5 and 4.8 years for male and female sheep, 
respectively. Both intensity and prevalence of E. granulosus infection increased 
with age providing no evidence that immunity was acquired in the population. 
This revealed that E. granulosus was only relatively stable and in an 
equilibrium endemic steady state with an estimate of the basic reproduction 
ratio (Ro) of about 1.2. The mature larval population in sheep was 
over-dispersed with parameter k, from fitting a negative binomial, being 0.199 
and 0.556 in 42- and 54-month-old sheep, respectively. The mean number of cysts 
increased by 1.05 cysts per year and the infection pressure was calculated as 
0.174 infections per year, implying that each infection consisted of 693.6 eggs 
to produce 6.03 cysts. Neither intensity nor prevalence of infection with T. 
hydatigena or T. ovis increased with age. This indicated that immunity was 
acquired to reinfection by both parasites and they were in an equilibrium 
hyperenedemic steady state with an estimated Ro of 4.2-5.8. Viability and 
fertility of E. granulosus, and viability of T. hydatigena cysts in the older 
age groups were low. The effects of the different transmission levels of the 
parasites on potential control strategies are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0020-7519(94)00209-7
PMID: 7558566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1995 Oct;26(4):1062-7. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(95)00258-0.

Family history of severe cardiovascular disease in Marfan syndrome is associated 
with increased aortic diameter and decreased survival.

Silverman DI(1), Gray J, Roman MJ, Bridges A, Burton K, Boxer M, Devereux RB, 
Tsipouras P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington 
06030, USA.

OBJECTIVES: We attempted to determine whether a family history of severe 
cardiovascular disease in patients with the Marfan syndrome is associated with 
increased aortic dilation or decreased survival, or both.
BACKGROUND: The prognostic importance of a family history of severe 
cardiovascular disease in patients with the Marfan syndrome has been 
incompletely examined. We hypothesized that such a family history would 
correlate with increased aortic dilation and would be associated with decreased 
survival.
METHODS: One hundred eight affected patients and 48 unaffected family members 
from 33 multigenerational families with the Marfan syndrome underwent 
echocardiographic measurement of the aortic root, arch and mid-abdominal aorta. 
Date of birth and age at death ascertained from family pedigrees were used to 
perform life table analysis and estimate survival.
RESULTS: Aortic root and arch diameters were significantly greater in patients 
with a family history of severe cardiovascular disease than in patients without 
such a family history. Of subjects in the highest quartile for aortic size, > 
80% had such a family history in contrast to < 10% of those in the lowest 
quartile (chi-square 57.37, p < 0.00001). Mean age at death and cumulative 
probability of survival were significantly lower in patients with such a family 
history.
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with the Marfan syndrome, aortic dilation is greater 
and life expectancy shorter in those with a family history of severe 
cardiovascular manifestations. These data suggest that such a family history is 
an important risk factor for cardiovascular events in patients with the Marfan 
syndrome.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(95)00258-0
PMID: 7560600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1995 Oct;26(4):900-7. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(95)00270-1.

Prognostic significance of nonfatal reinfarction during 3-year follow-up: 
results of the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) phase II clinical 
trial. The TIMI Investigators.

Mueller HS(1), Forman SA, Menegus MA, Cohen LS, Knatterud GL, Braunwald E.

Author information:
(1)Montefiore Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New 
York 10467, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This study sought to assess the independent contribution of nonfatal 
reinfarction to the risk of subsequent death in patients with acute myocardial 
infarction undergoing thrombolytic therapy.
BACKGROUND: A composite of "unsatisfactory outcomes" as an end point has 
increased statistical power and facilitated evaluation of evolving treatment 
regimens in acute myocardial infarction. The significance of nonfatal 
reinfarction as a component of a composite end point has not been evaluated in 
the thrombolytic era.
METHODS: Event rate of nonfatal reinfarction over 3-year follow-up was evaluated 
in patients with acute myocardial infarction entered into the Thrombolysis in 
Myocardial Infarction Phase II trial. The independent risk of nonfatal 
reinfarction for subsequent death within various time intervals of follow-up was 
determined. The mortality rate after nonfatal reinfarction was compared with 
that of a matched control group.
RESULTS: During 3-year follow-up, 349 of 3,339 patients had a nonfatal 
reinfarction. Univariate predictors were history (antedating the index event) of 
angina (p = 0.01), hypertension (p = 0.01), multivessel disease (p = 0.007) and 
not a current smoker (p = 0.003); the latter was an independent predictor 
(relative risk [RR] 1.3, 99% confidence interval [CI] 1.0 to 1.8). Forty-three 
of the 349 patients with a nonfatal reinfarction died: RR for death (vs. 
patients without a nonfatal reinfarction) was 1.9 (99% CI 1.1 to 3.2) if 
reinfarction occurred within 42 days of study entry, 6.2 (99% CI 3.0 to 12.9) if 
reinfarction occurred between 43 and 365 days and 2.9 (99% CI 0.6 to 13.4) if 
reinfarction occurred between 366 days and 3 years. The cumulative 3-year death 
rate was 14.1% in patients with a nonfatal reinfarction compared with 7.9% (p < 
0.01) in a matched control group. Univariate predictors of death after nonfatal 
reinfarction were age > or = 65 years (p < 0.001), not low risk category (p = 
0.015) and history of heart failure before the index event (p < 0.001). Age > or 
= 65 years was the only independent predictor (RR 5.4, 99% CI 2.3 to 12.4).
CONCLUSIONS: Nonfatal reinfarction is a strong and independent predictor for 
subsequent death. It represents a powerful component for a composite end point 
in patients who received thrombolytic therapy after acute myocardial infarction.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(95)00270-1
PMID: 7560615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1995 Oct;26(4):908-13. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(95)00293-2.

Stress echocardiographic results predict risk of reinfarction early after 
uncomplicated acute myocardial infarction: large-scale multicenter study. Echo 
Persantine International Cooperative (EPIC) Study Group.

Picano E(1), Pingitore A, Sicari R, Minardi G, Gandolfo N, Seveso G, Chiarella 
F, Bolognese L, Chiaranda G, Sclavo MG, et al.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Physiology, CNR, Pisa, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: This study sought to assess the value of dipyridamole 
echocardiography in predicting reinfarction in patients evaluated early after 
uncomplicated acute myocardial infarction.
BACKGROUND: The identification of future nonfatal reinfarction seems an elusive 
target for physiologic testing. However, a large sample population is needed to 
detect minor differences in phenomena with a low event rate.
METHODS: We assessed the value of dipyridamole echocardiography in predicting 
reinfarction in 1,080 patients (mean [+/- SD] age 56 +/- 9 years; 926 men, 154 
women) evaluated early (10 +/- 5 days) after uncomplicated acute myocardial 
infarction and followed up for 14 +/- 10 months.
RESULTS: Submaximal studies due to limiting side effects occurred in 14 patients 
(1.3%); these test results were included in the analysis. Results of 
dipyridamole echocardiography were positive in 475 patients (44%). During 
follow-up, there were 50 reinfarctions: 45 nonfatal, 5 fatal (followed by 
cardiac death < or = 4 days after reinfarction). Reinfarction (either nonfatal 
or fatal) occurred in 30 patients with positive and 20 with negative results 
(6.3% vs. 3.3%, p < 0.01). Nonfatal reinfarction occurred in 25 patients with 
positive and 20 with negative results (5% vs. 3.3%, p < 0.05). Reinfarction was 
fatal in 5 of 30 patients with positive and in none of 20 with negative results 
(16.6% vs. 0%, p = 0.07). The relative risk of reinfarction was 1.9.
CONCLUSIONS: Dipyridamole echocardiographic positivity identifies patients 
evaluated early after uncomplicated acute myocardial infarction at higher risk 
of reinfarction, especially fatal reinfarction.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(95)00293-2
PMID: 7560616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1995 Oct;26(4):914-9. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(95)00284-1.

Cost-effectiveness of captopril therapy after myocardial infarction.

Tsevat J(1), Duke D, Goldman L, Pfeffer MA, Lamas GA, Soukup JR, Kuntz KM, Lee 
TH.

Author information:
(1)Section for Clinical Epidemiology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 1995 Oct;26(4):920-1.

OBJECTIVES: This study sought to assess the cost-effectiveness of captopril 
therapy for survivors of myocardial infarction.
BACKGROUND: The recent randomized, controlled Survival and Ventricular 
Enlargement (SAVE) trial showed that captopril therapy improves survival in 
survivors of myocardial infarction with an ejection fraction < or = 40%. The 
present ancillary study was designed to determine how the costs required to 
achieve this increase in survival compared with those of other medical 
interventions.
METHODS: We developed a decision-analytic model to assess the cost-effectiveness 
of captopril therapy in 50- to 80-year old survivors of myocardial infarction 
with an ejection fraction < or = 40%. Data on costs, utilities (health-related 
quality of life weights) and 4-year survival were obtained directly from the 
SAVE trial, and long-term survival was estimated using a Markov model. In one 
set of analyses, we assumed that the survival benefit associated with captopril 
therapy would persist beyond 4 years (persistent-benefit analyses), whereas in 
another set we assumed that captopril therapy incurred costs but no survival 
benefit beyond 4 years (limited-benefit analyses).
RESULTS: In the limited-benefit analyses, the incremental cost-effectiveness of 
captopril therapy ranged from $3,600/quality-adjusted life-year for 80-year old 
patients to $60,800/quality-adjusted life-year for 50-year old patients. In the 
persistent-benefit analyses, incremental cost-effectiveness ratios ranged from 
$3,700 to $10,400/quality-adjusted life-year, depending on age. The outcome was 
generally not sensitive to changes in estimates of variables when they were 
varied individually over wide ranges. In a "worst-case" analysis, incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios for captopril therapy remained favorable ($8,700 to 
$29,200/quality-adjusted life-year) for 60- to 80-year old patients but were 
higher ($217,600/quality-adjusted life-year) for 50-year old patients.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that the cost-effectiveness of captopril therapy for 
50- to 80-year old survivors of myocardial infarction with a low ejection 
fraction compares favorably with other interventions for survivors of myocardial 
infarction.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(95)00284-1
PMID: 7560617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. J Endocrinol. 1995 Aug;146(2):215-25. doi: 10.1677/joe.0.1460215.

Degradation of IGF-I in the adult rat gastrointestinal tract is limited by a 
specific antiserum or the dietary protein casein.

Xian CJ(1), Shoubridge CA, Read LC.

Author information:
(1)Cooperative Research Centre for Tissue Growth and Repair, Women's and 
Children's Hospital, North Adelaide, Australia.

To investigate the potential of IGF-I peptides as therapeutics in the gut, the 
survival profiles of a bolus of 125I-labelled IGF-I (8.6 ng) in vivo in various 
ligated gut segments of fasted adult rats have been examined. The intactness of 
IGF-I tracer in the flushed luminal contents was estimated by trichloroacetic 
acid precipitation, antibody and receptor binding assays. It was found that 
IGF-I was degraded very rapidly in duodenum and ileum segments with a half-life 
(t1/2) of 2 min by all three methods. IGF-I was slightly more stable in the 
stomach (t1/2 = 8, 5 and 2.5 min by the above three methods), and considerably 
more stable in the colon (t1/2 = 38, 33 and 16 min as judged by the three 
methods). Rates of degradation in gut flushings in vitro were similar to the in 
vivo rates except for the colon, where IGF-I was proteolysed more rapidly in 
vivo. As a means of developing gut-stable and active forms of IGF-I, several 
approaches were examined for their effectiveness in prolonging IGF-I survival in 
the upper gut. It was found that the extension peptide on the analogue, LR3IGF-I 
did not protect IGF-I, nor did association with IGF-binding protein-3. However, 
an IGF-I antiserum was effective in prolonging IGF-I half-life in duodenum fluid 
by 28-fold. Charge interaction between IGF-I and heparin could also protect 
IGF-I in the stomach but not in duodenum flushings. Furthermore, casein (a 
non-specific dietary protein) and to a lesser extent, BSA and lactoferrin, were 
effective in preserving IGF-I structural integrity and receptor binding activity 
in both stomach and duodenum fluids. It can be concluded that IGF-I cannot be 
expected to retain bioactivity if delivered orally because of rapid proteolysis 
in the upper gut, but the use of IGF antibodies and casein could represent 
useful approaches for IGF-I protection in oral formulae.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1460215
PMID: 7561632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. J Clin Epidemiol. 1995 Oct;48(10):1207-14. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(95)00011-r.

The "utility" of the Time Trade-Off method in cancer patients: feasibility and 
proportional Trade-Off.

Stiggelbout AM(1), Kiebert GM, Kievit J, Leer JW, Habbema JD, De Haes JC.

Author information:
(1)Medical Decision Making Unit, University Hospital Leiden, The Netherlands.

We examined the feasibility and the proportional trade-off assumption of the 
Time Trade-Off method. Utilities were assessed of the actual health states of 54 
testicular and 72 colorectal cancer patients, treated with the curative intent 
and 29 incurable colorectal cancer patients. Three periods of time were used to 
assess proportionality: the subject's life expectancy and two shorter periods. 
Results showed the method to be feasible in curatively treated patients, though 
the use of life expectancy posed difficulties in some very old subjects. This 
same difficulty was encountered in patients with symptomatic incurable disease. 
A two step procedure is proposed as a solution. The proportional trade-off 
assumption was violated. Utilities for the longer period were smaller than those 
for the shorter periods. Life expectancy and trade-off did not correlate, 
though. Remarkable was that many patients were unwilling to trade at all. The 
implications of the findings are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(95)00011-r
PMID: 7561982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. J Gen Intern Med. 1995 Jun;10(6):321-30. doi: 10.1007/BF02599951.

A cost-effectiveness model of thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial 
infarction.

Kalish SC(1), Gurwitz JH, Krumholz HM, Avorn J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 
02115, USA.

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 1995 Jun;10(6):351-2.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the short- and long-term costs and clinical and quality of 
life outcomes with the use of streptokinase (SK) vs tissue plasminogen activator 
(tPA) for acute myocardial infarction (MI).
DESIGN: A decision analysis model.
PATIENTS: Patients with acute MI who were candidates for thrombolytic therapy 
and who presented within six hours of symptom onset.
MEASUREMENTS: 30-day and one-year mortality, impacts of disabling and 
nondisabling stroke, reinfarction, hemorrhage, hypotension, anaphylaxis, and 
long-term medical costs.
RESULTS: Using 30-day mortality data from the Global Utilization of 
Streptokinase and Tissue Plasminogen Activator for Occluded Coronary Arteries 
(GUSTO) trial, the baseline analysis yielded an incremental cost-effectiveness 
for tPA of $30,300 per additional quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained, 
compared with SK. Using one-year mortality data from the GUSTO trial, the 
analysis yielded an incremental cost-effectiveness for tPA of $27,400 per 
additional QALY, compared with SK. The incremental cost-effectiveness of tPA 
over SK was sensitive to the difference in mortality seen with the two agents, 
exceeding $100,000 per QALY, for a relative survival advantage of approximately 
one-third that seen in the GUSTO trial. The incremental cost per QALY of tPA 
remained under $60,000 if the survival benefit was half that seen in the GUSTO 
trial. The cost-effectiveness of tPA declined with a shorter projected life 
expectancy following MI and for inferior (vs anterior) wall infarction. The 
analysis was modestly sensitive to the costs of the thrombolytic agents.
CONCLUSIONS: In spite of its higher cost relative to SK, tPA is a cost-effective 
therapy for MI under a wide range of assumptions regarding clinical outcomes and 
costs.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02599951
PMID: 7562123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. J Rheumatol. 1995 Jul;22(7):1259-64.

Mortality studies in systemic lupus erythematosus. Results from a single center. 
I. Causes of death.

Abu-Shakra M(1), Urowitz MB, Gladman DD, Gough J.

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto, Lupus Clinic, Wellesley Hospital, ON, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To study the causes of death in patients with SLE, followed 
prospectively in a single center.
METHODS: The study population comprised 665 patients with systemic lupus 
erythematosus (SLE). Causes of death were determined by review of hospital 
files, autopsy reports, and death certificates. Nonparametric lifetable models 
were used to calculate Kaplan-Meier estimates of survival probabilities.
RESULTS: One hundred and twenty-four patients (18.6%) had died. The primary 
causes of death were active SLE in 20 (16%), infection in 40 (32%), acute 
vascular event in 19 (15.4%), sudden death in 10 (8.1%), organ failure in 6 
(4.8%), malignancy in 8 (6.5%), others in 8 (6.5%), and unknown in 13 (10.5%). 
Death as a result of active SLE was more common in patients who died within 5 
years of diagnosis compared to those dying after 5 years (p = 0.021), and deaths 
due to vascular events and end organ failure not related to active lupus were 
more frequent in the late death group (p = 0.028). The overall 5, 10, 15, and 20 
year survival rates were 93, 85, 79, and 68%, respectively. Patients with SLE 
had a 4.92 fold increased risk for death compared with the general population.
CONCLUSION: Survival rates continue to improve in SLE but causes of mortality 
vary at different stages.

PMID: 7562755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. J Rheumatol. 1995 Jul;22(7):1265-70.

Mortality studies in systemic lupus erythematosus. Results from a single center. 
II. Predictor variables for mortality.

Abu-Shakra M(1), Urowitz MB, Gladman DD, Gough J.

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto, Lupus Clinic, Wellesley Hospital, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the factors associated with mortality in patients with 
systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), followed prospectively in a single center.
METHODS: The study included 665 patients with SLE followed over a 20-year period 
according to a standard protocol. Clinical laboratory information has been 
entered into a database. Univariate analysis was carried out to identify 
prognostic factors of death. The Cox proportional hazard regression model was 
used to estimate risk ratio of death.
RESULTS: Renal damage, thrombocytopenia, lung involvement, systemic lupus 
erythematosus disease activity index (SLEDAI) > or = 20 at presentation, and age 
> or = 50 at diagnosis were predictive factors for mortality in the univariate 
as well as in the multivariate analyses. Hypertension and ischemic heart disease 
were significantly associated with death only in the univariate analysis.
CONCLUSION: Renal damage, thrombocytopenia, SLEDAI > or = 20 at presentation, 
lung involvement, and age > or = 50 at diagnosis are prognostic factors 
associated with mortality.

PMID: 7562756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. J Rheumatol. 1995 Jul;22(7):1412-4.

Economic evaluation using mathematical models: the case of misoprostol 
prophylaxis.

Gabriel SE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences Research, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, 
USA.

Using misoprostol prophylaxis as an example, many of the methods employed in 
economic analyses that incorporate mathematical models were described. These 
included: decision analysis, cost effectiveness analysis (including incremental 
cost effectiveness analysis), one-way, multi-way, and probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis, and the estimation of quality adjusted life years for use in cost 
utility analysis. In the case of misoprostol prophylaxis, the cost effectiveness 
analysis demonstrated that, compared to the no prophylaxis alternative, 
prophylaxis cost an extra $650, on average, for every additional ulcer 
prevented, and was potentially cost saving for some high risk groups. The cost 
utility analysis demonstrated that prophylaxis resulted (on average) in modest 
additional costs and no additional quality of life benefits. Sensitivity 
analysis demonstrated that, at worst, prophylaxis reduced quality of life; at 
best, the incremental cost effectiveness ratio was $9333 for each quality 
adjusted life-year gained by prophylaxis compared to no prophylaxis. The results 
of the cost utility analysis also showed that prophylaxis may be cost saving in 
high risk groups, confirming the results of the cost effectiveness analysis. 
Finally, and perhaps most importantly, this analysis illustrated the importance 
of incorporating measures of health related quality of life into economic 
evaluation.

PMID: 7562787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. J Med Genet. 1995 Jul;32(7):524-30. doi: 10.1136/jmg.32.7.524.

The epidemiology of Huntington's disease in Northern Ireland.

Morrison PJ(1), Johnston WP, Nevin NC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, Queen's University of Belfast, Belfast City 
Hospital, UK.

A survey of Huntington's disease (HD) in Northern Ireland, with a population of 
1.5 million, has shown a 1991 prevalence rate of 6.4/100,000. Virtually complete 
ascertainment was achieved, enabling prevalence rate estimates and age 
statistics to be calculated over the last 20 years. The prevalence rate is 
similar to the high prevalence rates of HD found in most European populations, 
suggesting the presence of either one extremely ancient or a number of separate 
mutational origins, resulting in a uniform European HD prevalence. The ages at 
diagnosis and duration of the disease are similar to previous studies, 
suggesting a consistent effect of the HD gene in all families. Estimates of 
heterozygote frequency (HF), direct and indirect mutation rate, fertility, and 
genetic fitness (W) were made. Reliable HF estimates gave values between 10 and 
11 x 10(-5). The direct and indirect mutation rates were 0.32 x 10(-6) and 1.05 
x 10(-6) respectively. W was increased in the affected HD population but 
decreased in the at risk population. Fertility in HD is not reduced, but it 
appears that at risk patients have actively limited their family size. Factors 
responsible include, among others, the fear of developing HD and genetic 
counselling of families. This is the first published epidemiological survey to 
include ascertainment data in a population both before and after isolation of 
the HD gene, and with the diagnosis in virtually all patients confirmed by DNA 
mutation testing.

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.32.7.524
PMCID: PMC1050544
PMID: 7562964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. J Vasc Surg. 1995 Oct;22(4):393-405; discussion 406-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70006-4.

Durability of cross-femoral grafts after aortic graft infection: the fate of 
autogenous conduits.

Jicha DL(1), Reilly LM, Kuestner LM, Stoney RJ.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, University of California, San Francisco 94143, 
USA.

PURPOSE: Revascularization for the treatment of aortic graft infection is 
usually accomplished by remote prosthetic axillofemoral bypass combined with 
cross-femoral bypass. When infection at the femoral level precludes placement of 
a prosthetic cross-femoral graft, we have used a variety of autogenous tissue 
conduits to restore circulation to the contralateral leg. To determine which of 
these conduits offers the most durable reconstruction, we have reviewed 78 
patients treated for aortic graft infection.
METHODS: Between 1980 and 1991 we used either autogenous saphenous vein (ASV, n 
= 34), endarterectomized superficial femoral artery (SFA, n = 14), or direct 
ilioiliac anastomosis (iliac, n = 10) to provide cross-femoral flow. We compared 
the performance of these tissue conduits with a concurrent patient group with 
aortic graft infection in whom a prosthetic cross-femoral graft was used 
(prosthetic, n = 20).
RESULTS: Follow-up was available for 98.7% of patients, average 3.8 +/- 2.9 
years, and was not different between the four groups. Bleeding complications 
occurred exclusively in the ASV group (n = 3, 8.8%) and were all in the 
perioperative period. In addition one ASV and one iliac conduit developed 
multiple false aneurysms. Hemodynamic conduit failure (thrombosis or stenosis) 
occurred in nine (26.5%) ASV conduits, six (42.8%) SFA conduits, and one iliac 
conduit, but not in the prosthetic group. When all of these adverse events were 
combined for each conduit group, both ASV and SFA conduits had a higher rate of 
conduit failure when compared with the prosthetic conduits (p < 0.05, log-rank 
test). Limb loss resulting from cross-femoral conduit failure occurred in six 
(17.6%) patients in the ASV group, four (28.6%) patients in the SFA group, and 
one patient each in the iliac and prosthetic groups. These differences were not 
significant.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that ASV and SFA conduits do not provide stable 
long-term cross-femoral revascularization and should be regarded as bridge 
grains until femoral infection is eradicated. When femoral infection mandates 
their use, frequent postoperative conduit surveillance is required. If ASV or 
SFA caliber is marginal, consideration should be given to the use of a larger 
autogenous conduit, such as superficial femoral vein.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70006-4
PMID: 7563400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. J Vasc Surg. 1995 Oct;22(4):457-63; discussion 464-5. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70015-3.

Should percutaneous transluminal angioplasty be recommended for treatment of 
infrageniculate popliteal artery or tibioperoneal trunk stenosis?

Treiman GS(1), Treiman RL, Ichikawa L, Van Allan R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, 
California, USA.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 1996 Aug;24(2):298-9.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine the effectiveness of 
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) for treatment of patients with 
localized stenosis of the infrageniculate popliteal artery and tibio-peroneal 
trunk (IGPA).
METHODS: The records of 25 patients undergoing IGPA PTA from 1983 to 1993 were 
reviewed. Patients underwent follow-up with clinical examinations, 
ankle-brachial indexes, Duplex scanning, and arteriography. Demographic 
variables and cardiovascular risk factors were analyzed and correlated with 
outcome.
RESULTS: Mean follow-up was 44 months. With life-table analysis, clinical and 
hemodynamic success was 59%, 32%, and 20% at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. 
Average time to recurrence was 17 months. Sixteen patients required a subsequent 
procedure; two had only repeat PTA, six had repeat PTA followed by arterial 
bypass, and eight had bypass alone. The mean additional benefit of repeat PTA 
was 8 months. Eleven of the 14 patients treated with bypass became symptom-free 
with patent grafts at a mean follow-up of 52 months. No risk factor was 
statistically significant in predicting success of IGPA PTA.
CONCLUSIONS: IGPA PTA is an expensive temporizing measure with a high rate of 
recurrence requiring subsequent intervention. The procedure should be restricted 
to patients with limited life expectancy or contraindications to operation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70015-3
PMID: 7563407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. J Vasc Surg. 1995 Oct;22(4):466-74; discussion 475. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70016-1.

Vein graft lesions: time of onset and rate of progression.

Caps MT(1), Cantwell-Gab K, Bergelin RO, Strandness DE Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, 
USA.

PURPOSE: The objectives of this study were to determine the time of onset, 
location, severity, rate of progression, and subsequent fate of infrainguinal 
vein graft lesions.
METHODS: Sixty-one infrainguinal vein grafts were studied serially with duplex 
ultrasonography to document the location and severity of each lesion. Grafts 
were studied at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 9, 12, and 18 months and then annually.
RESULTS: The cumulative secondary graft patency rate at 3 years (life-table 
analysis) was 93.2%. A total of 158 lesions were detected in 55 of the 61 grafts 
studied. The degree of diameter reduction at the time of initial detection was 
as follows: 1% to 19% (29.6%), 20% to 49% (51.0%), 50% to 75% (17.3%), and 
greater than 75% (3.1%). Forty-eight percent were detected at the first 
examination, 59.2% within 2 months, and 85.7% within 6 months. Progression was 
detected in 31.2% of the lesions by 6 and in 39.1% of the lesions by 18 months 
(life-table analysis). Thrombosis, in the absence of significant changes in 
ankle-brachial index (> or = 0.15) or return of symptoms, was not observed in 
grafts that had lesions with less than 75% diameter reduction.
CONCLUSIONS: The data support the performance of a duplex scan either during 
surgery or before discharge from the hospital in addition to frequent 
surveillance for the first 6 months. Frequent surveillance is appropriate for 
lesions with less than 75% diameter reduction as long as they remain 
asymptomatic and without a significant reduction in the ankle-brachial index.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70016-1
PMID: 7563408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Kidney Int. 1995 Jul;48(1):207-19. doi: 10.1038/ki.1995.286.

Screening for acquired cystic kidney disease: a decision analytic perspective.

Sarasin FP(1), Wong JB, Levey AS, Meyer KB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Decision Making, New England Medical Center Hospitals, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Acquired cystic kidney disease (ACKD) increases the risk of renal malignancy, 
and many authors suggest routine screening of dialysis patients for ACKD and 
renal tumors. However, they have defined neither the target population, the 
optimal screening strategy, the magnitude of its benefit, nor its risk. We used 
decision analysis to evaluate strategies of performing either computed 
tomography (CT) or ultrasound every three years on all dialysis patients and 
annually on patients found to have cysts. We compared these strategies to a 
strategy of seeking cysts and cancer only if these are clinically suspected. The 
baseline analysis shows that both CT and ultrasound may decrease cancer deaths 
by half for patients with a life expectancy of 25 years. Screening for ACKD 
offers these patients as much as a 1.6 year gain in life expectancy. However, 
for the majority of patients beginning renal replacement therapy, age or 
comorbid disease substantially limits life expectancy. For such patients, the 
gain in life expectancy from an ACKD screening program is measured in days. 
Sensitivity analyses show that the benefit of screening depends on the rate of 
malignant transformation, which needs better definition. The gain in life 
expectancy does not appear to be large enough to justify an ACKD screening 
program for the entire ESRD population. However, for the youngest and healthiest 
patients, a screening program would be of benefit. The magnitude of this benefit 
is uncertain, because the analysis was consistently biased in favor of the 
screening strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.1995.286
PMID: 7564081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. J Surg Res. 1995 Oct;59(4):446-9. doi: 10.1006/jsre.1995.1189.

The beneficial effects of immunostimulation in posttraumatic sepsis.

Austin OM(1), Redmond HP, Watson WG, Cunney RJ, Grace PA, Bouchier-Hayes D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Beaumont Hospital, RCSI, Dublin, Ireland.

Granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) is a myelopoietic 
cytokine that may enhance immune mechanisms directed against bacterial 
infection. Injury is associated with an increased incidence of such infection. 
This study assessed the potential immunostimulatory role of GM-CSF in the 
injured host predisposed to infection. Six- to eight-week old female CD-1 mice 
underwent trauma and were then randomized to received either GM-CSF or saline 
vehicle control intraperitoneally for 5 days. They then received a septic 
challenge in the form of a cecal ligation and puncture. Following this, 
assessment was made of survival and bacterial growth indices in blood cultures, 
and peritoneal cells were harvested for assessment of peritoneal immune 
function. Intraperitoneal GM-CSF administration daily for 5 days following 
injury was associated with significantly greater survival following cecal 
ligation and puncture compared to controls (40 vs 5%, P < 0.05). There was a 
significant increase in peritoneal cell yields in the GM-CSF group compared to 
the control group (11 +/- 1 x 10(6) vs 8 +/- 1 x 10(6) P < 0.05). PMA-stimulated 
macrophages released significantly higher amounts of both superoxide anion (1.4 
+/- 0.1 vs 0.93 +/- 0.1, P < 0.05) and tumor necrosis factor (5.2 +/- 0.6 vs 2.6 
+/- 0.7, P < 0.03) and significantly less nitric oxide compared to the control 
group (175 +/- 8 vs 267 +/- 24, P < 0.003). Finally, bacterial growth indices 
were significantly reduced following GM-CSF administration (194 +/- 6 vs 218 +/- 
4, P < 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1006/jsre.1995.1189
PMID: 7564315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. J Surg Res. 1995 Oct;59(4):450-4. doi: 10.1006/jsre.1995.1190.

Do results justify an aggressive strategy targeting the pedal arteries for limb 
salvage?

Robison JG(1), Cross MA, Brothers TE, Elliott BM.

Author information:
(1)Medical University of South Carolina, Ralph A. Johnson VA Medical Center, 
Charleston 29425, USA.

We initiated a strategy to bypass all of the significant popliteal and tibial 
disease in the setting of limb-threatening ischemia beginning in September 1986. 
Of 194 infrapopliteal bypasses performed for limb salvage during the ensuing 6 
years, 111 (57%) autogenous vein bypasses were performed to the pedal vessels at 
or distal to the ankle. By life table analysis, primary graft patency at 60 
months for pedal bypasses was 57%, with salvage of failed grafts resulting in 
secondary patency of 61%. Limb salvage was 64% at 60 months. Of 33 graft 
thromboses, 24 (73%) resulted in eventual limb loss. Five limbs were amputated 
due to wound complications or progressive forefoot sepsis despite patent pedal 
grafts. More bypasses were performed to the dorsalis pedis than the posterior 
tibial at the ankle (78 vs 33), but patency and limb salvage were similar. 
Bypasses to the pedal arteries resulted in superior limb salvage compared with 
peroneal bypass when forefoot tissue necrosis was present (63 vs 33% at 36 
months, P = 0.048). Pedal grafts had comparable overall patency (57 vs 64%) and 
limb salvage (64 vs 75%) to more proximal tibial bypasses. Pedal bypass provides 
acceptable long-term outcomes for both patency and limb salvage. When forefoot 
ischemic tissue loss is present, pedal bypass, when feasible, appears preferable 
to peroneal bypass.

DOI: 10.1006/jsre.1995.1190
PMID: 7564316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Surg Oncol. 1995 Oct;60(2):80-2. doi: 10.1002/jso.2930600203.

Treatment of breast cancer in elderly patients.

van Dalsen AD(1), de Vries JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Sophia Hospital, Zwolle, The Netherlands.

The objective of this study was to analyze the treatment and its results in 
breast cancer of the elderly. Special attention was given to the primary 
treatment with tamoxifen alone. We reviewed 210 patients over 70 years old with 
breast cancer treated between 1980 and 1992. Mean follow-up time was 41 months. 
Tamoxifen was given as primary treatment in 34 patients without distant 
metastases; 147 patients without distant metastases underwent surgery. Local or 
regional recurrence occurred in 6% of the patients who had surgery. Local 
progressive disease was reported in 27% of those treated with tamoxifen (P < 
0.005). These patients had further surgery. There was no difference between the 
two groups in overall survival of patients and occurrence of metastases. We 
concluded that optimal treatment of breast cancer in the elderly should include 
surgery. Only patients with very limited life expectancy should receive 
tamoxifen alone.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.2930600203
PMID: 7564385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Med Decis Making. 1995 Jul-Sep;15(3):195-200. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9501500301.

The role of reluctance to give up life in the measurement of the values of 
health states.

Fowler FJ Jr(1), Cleary PD, Massagli MP, Weissman J, Epstein A.

Author information:
(1)Center for Survey Research, University of Massachusetts-Boston 02125-3393, 
USA.

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1995 Jul-Sep;15(3):286-7.

Questions that involve willingness to risk or give up life often are used to 
measure the values of health states. In the Boston Health Study, interviews with 
291 patients who had AIDS included questions about health status and current 
desire for resuscitation, and a series of hypothetical questions about desire 
for life-extending efforts if the patients found themselves in undesirable 
states, such as being chronically nauseous or blind. An index, "reluctance to 
give up life" was made from five such questions. The desire for resuscitation 
was related to current health status, but the general reluctance to give up life 
was not. Desire to be resuscitated was significantly related to current health 
status only when "reluctance to give up life" was "low." For people reluctant to 
say they will give up any life at all, questions that involve risking or trading 
life seem likely to be poor measures of the values of health states.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9501500301
PMID: 7564932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Med Decis Making. 1995 Jul-Sep;15(3):201-8. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9501500302.

The person-trade-off approach to valuing health care programs.

Nord E(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway.

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1995 Jul-Sep;15(3):287-8.

The person-trade-off technique is a way of estimating the social values of 
different health care interventions. Basically it consists in asking people how 
many outcomes of one kind they consider equivalent in social value to X outcomes 
of another kind. The paper outlines a number of the author's previous studies 
using the technique. The studies suggest that while the technique is 
theoretically appealing for resource-allocation purposes, it is in practice 
quite demanding. It needs to be applied in fairly large groups of subjects to 
keep random measurement error at an acceptable level. Possible framing effects 
include the effects of argument presentation and the choice of start points in 
numerical exercises. To control for these effects, it seems important to take 
subjects through a multistep procedure, in which they are induced to carefully 
consider the various arguments that might be relevant in each exercise and to 
reconsider initial responses in the light of their implications. The 
investigator must also think through which decision context he or she wishes to 
study and make his or her choice of context very clear when reporting the 
results. In spite of these problems, the person-trade-off technique deserves 
greater attention in the field of cost-utility analysis.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9501500302
PMID: 7564933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Med Decis Making. 1995 Jul-Sep;15(3):209-16. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9501500303.

Assessing preferences about the DNR order: does it depend on how you ask?

Percy ME(1), Llewellyn-Thomas H.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Sunnybrook Health Science Centre, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

Despite increasing emphasis on advance directives, there has been little 
methodologic work to assess preferences about the "do not resuscitate" (DNR) 
order. This developmental work assessed, in a non-patient group, the performance 
of a probability-trade-off task designed to assess DNR attitudes, in terms of 
framing effects and stability of preferences. 105 female nursing students each 
completed one of two versions of the task. In version I (n = 58), the trade-off 
moved to increasingly negative descriptions of the outcomes of resuscitation 
(decreasing chance of survival and increasing risk of brain death), whereas in 
version II (n = 47), the trade-off moved to increasingly positive descriptions. 
One week later, repeat assessments were obtained for versions I (n = 35) and II 
(n = 28). The DNR preference scores were lower and more stable when the task 
moved to increasingly positive descriptions; perhaps this version of the task 
tends to weaken risk aversion. These results imply that care should be used in 
applying a probability trade-off task to the assessment of DNR preferences, 
since artefactual effects could be induced.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9501500303
PMID: 7564934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Med Decis Making. 1995 Jul-Sep;15(3):254-63. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9501500308.

Confidence intervals for cost-effectiveness ratios.

Gardiner J(1), Hogan A, Holmes-Rovner M, Rovner D, Griffith L, Kupersmith J.

Author information:
(1)Biostatistics Unit, College of Human Medicine, Michigan State University, 
East Lansing 48824, USA.

The problem of variability in computed cost-effectiveness ratios (CERs) is 
usually addressed by performing sensitivity analyses to determine the effects on 
these ratios of plausible ranges of values of input parameters. However, the 
sampling variation that exists in these estimated parameters can be utilized to 
obtain confidence intervals for cost-effectiveness ratios. As cost-effectiveness 
analysis becomes more widely used, new techniques need to be developed for 
establishing when a difference in strategies evaluated is meaningful. A first 
step is to establish the precision of the CER itself. The authors estimate the 
precision of a CER in the context of a statistical model in which the primary 
outcome is survival, with cost and effectiveness defined in terms of the 
underlying survival distribution (S). Effectiveness (alpha) is measured by life 
expectancy, restricted to a finite time horizon and discounted at a fixed rate 
r, alpha = integral of e-rtS(t)dt. Cumulative cost (beta) per patient is 
regarded as resource utilization and incurred randomly over time depending on 
the survival experience of the patient, beta = integral of e-rtS(t)dC(t), where 
C(t) is the total potential resources utilized up to time t. Average 
cost-effectiveness (ACE) of a single strategy is beta/alpha, and when comparing 
two strategies, the CER is delta beta/delta alpha, the ratio of the incremental 
cost to the difference in mean survival. Utilizing the sampling distribution of 
the Kaplan-Meier estimate of S yields standard errors and confidence intervals 
for ACE and CER. The technique is applied to survival data from 218 previously 
studied patients to assess 95% confidence intervals for the CER and ACE of the 
implantable cardioverter defibrillator as compared with electrophysiology-guided 
therapy.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9501500308
PMID: 7564939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Med Decis Making. 1995 Jul-Sep;15(3):286-7. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9501500312.

Assessing patients' preferences.

Sutherland HJ.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 1995 Jul-Sep;15(3):195-200.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9501500312
PMID: 7564943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Med Decis Making. 1995 Jul-Sep;15(3):287-8. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9501500313.

Utility measurement and the allocation of health care resources.

Cohen BJ.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 1995 Jul-Sep;15(3):201-8.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9501500313
PMID: 7564944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Med Trop (Mars). 1995;55(2):154-6.

[Chronic myeloid leukemia manifesting as gout. Reflections on secondary gout in 
Black Africa].

[Article in French]

Mijiyawa M(1), Segbena A, David M.

Author information:
(1)Service de Rhumatologie, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Tokoin, Lomé, Togo.

This report describes the case of a 63-year-old obese and alcoholic butcher who 
