suffered two episodes of distal oligoarthritis. These episodes were attributed 
to gout on the basis of response to colchicine and demonstration of 
hyperuricemia. Given the presence of hepatomegaly, splenomegaly and 
hyperleukocytosis, a sternal puncture and myelogram were performed and led to 
diagnosis of chronic myelogenous leukemia. In addition to the classic 
predisposing factors for gout, sickle cell anemia could be implicated in Black 
Africa. Longer life expectancy for patients with sickle cell anemia could 
increase the incidence of gout in Black Africa.

PMID: 7564998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Mol Cell Biol. 1995 Oct;15(10):5363-8. doi: 10.1128/MCB.15.10.5363.

Stabilization of vascular endothelial growth factor mRNA by hypoxia and 
hypoglycemia and coregulation with other ischemia-induced genes.

Stein I(1), Neeman M, Shweiki D, Itin A, Keshet E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Hebrew University-Hadassah Medical School, 
Jerusalem, Israel.

Expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), an endothelial 
cell-specific mitogen and a potent angiogenic factor, is upregulated in response 
to a hypoxic or hypoglycemic stress. Here we show that the increase in 
steady-state levels of VEGF mRNA is partly due to transcriptional activation but 
mostly due to increase in mRNA stability. Both oxygen and glucose deficiencies 
result in extension of the VEGF mRNA half-life in a protein synthesis-dependent 
manner. Viewing VEGF as a stress-induced gene, we compared its mode of 
regulation with that of other stress-induced genes. Results showed that under 
nonstressed conditions, VEGF shares with the glucose transporter GLUT-1 a 
relatively short half-life (0.64 and 0.52 h, respectively), which is extended 
fourfold and more than eightfold, respectively, when cells are deprived of 
either oxygen or glucose. In contrast, the mRNAs of another hypoxia-inducible 
and hypoglycemia-inducible gene, grp78, as well as that of HSP70, were not 
stabilized by these metabolic insults. To show that VEGF and GLUT-1 are 
coinduced in differentially stressed microenvironments, multicell spheroids 
representing a clonal population of glioma cells in which each cell layer is 
differentially stressed were analyzed by in situ hybridization. Cellular 
microenvironments conducive to induction of VEGF and GLUT-1 were completely 
coincidental. These findings show that two different consequences of tissue 
ischemia, namely, hypoxia and glucose deprivation, induce VEGF and GLUT-1 
expression by similar mechanisms. These proteins function, in turn, to satisfy 
the tissue needs through expanding its vasculature and improving its glucose 
utilization, respectively.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.15.10.5363
PMCID: PMC230785
PMID: 7565686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. N Engl J Med. 1995 Nov 2;333(18):1232-5. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199511023331824.

Survival after the age of 80 in the United States, Sweden, France, England, and 
Japan.

Manton KG(1), Vaupel JW.

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University, Durham, N.C. 27708-0408, 
USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Feb 22;334(8):537; author reply 538.
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Feb 22;334(8):537; author reply 538.
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Feb 22;334(8):537-8.

BACKGROUND: In many developed countries, life expectancy at birth is higher than 
in the United States. Newly available data permit, for the first time, reliable 
cross-national comparisons of mortality among persons 80 years of age or older. 
Such comparisons are important, because in many developed countries more than 
half of women and a third of men now die after the age of 80.
METHODS: We used extinct-cohort methods to assess mortality in Japan, Sweden, 
France, and England (including Wales) and among U.S. whites for cohorts born 
from 1880 to 1894, and used cross-sectional data for the year 1987. 
Extinct-cohort methods rely on continuously collected data from death 
certificates and do not use the less reliable data from censuses.
RESULTS: In the United States, life expectancy at the age of 80 and survival 
from the ages of 80 to 100 significantly exceeded life expectancy in Sweden, 
France, England, and Japan (P < 0.01). This finding was confirmed with accurate 
cross-sectional data for 1987. The average life expectancy in the United States 
is 9.1 years for 80-year-old white women and 7.0 years for 80-year-old white 
men.
CONCLUSIONS: For people 80 years old or older, life expectancy is greater in the 
United States than it is in Sweden, France, England, and Japan. This finding 
suggests that elderly Americans are receiving better health care than the 
elderly citizens of other developed countries.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199511023331824
PMID: 7565998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Parasitology. 1995 Sep;111 ( Pt 3):289-300. doi: 10.1017/s0031182000081841.

Replication, differentiation, growth and the virulence of Trypanosoma brucei 
infections.

Turner CM(1), Aslam N, Dye C.

Author information:
(1)Parasitology Laboratory, I.B.L.S., University of Glasgow.

This study had 2 objectives: first, to investigate how the processes of slender 
form replication, of differentiation from dividing slender to non-dividing 
stumpy forms, and of stumpy mortality, combine to determine the initial 
(acute-phase) growth rate of Trypanosoma brucei populations; second, to 
determine how acute-phase growth rates influence parasite densities during the 
subsequent, chronic phase of infection. During the acute phase, slender and 
stumpy populations both grew approximately exponentially, the latter more slowly 
than the former. Mathematical models showed how this difference in slender and 
stumpy growth rates can be explained in terms of heterogeneous replication and 
differentiation rates. Stumpy life-expectancy was determined for one stock and 
found to be age-dependent with a half-life of 48-72 h, much larger than observed 
population doubling times of 5-10 h. A comparison of cloned stocks showed that 
the highest parasite densities during the chronic phase were associated with the 
highest acute-phase growth rates of both the whole parasite population and of 
the subpopulation of slender forms. By contrast, high chronic-phase 
parasitaemias artificially produced following rapid syringe passage were 
associated with low acute-phase growth rates of slender forms. Syringe-passaging 
is a laboratory procedure which selects for virulent parasites, but these 
parasites behave differently from naturally virulent stocks.

DOI: 10.1017/s0031182000081841
PMID: 7567097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Nucleic Acids Res. 1995 Sep 11;23(17):3508-15. doi: 10.1093/nar/23.17.3508.

Nitrogen mustard inhibits transcription and translation in a cell free system.

Masta A(1), Gray PJ, Phillips DR.

Author information:
(1)School of Biochemistry, La Trobe University, Bundoora, Australia.

Nitrogen mustard and its derivatives such as cyclophosphamide, chlorambucil and 
melphalan are widely used anti-cancer agents, despite their non-specific 
reaction mechanism. In this study, the effect of alkylation by nitrogen mustard 
of DNA and RNA (coding for a single protein) was investigated using both a 
translation system and a coupled transcription/translation system. When 
alkylated DNA was used as the template for coupled transcription and 
translation, a single translation product corresponding to the 62 kDa luciferase 
protein was synthesised. Production of the translated product encoded by this 
template was inhibited by mustard concentrations as low as 10 nM, and 50% 
inhibition occurred with 30 nM mustard. A primer extension assay employed to 
verify alkylation sites on the DNA revealed that all guanine residues on the DNA 
template are susceptible to alkylation by nitrogen mustard. Similarly, when 
alkylated RNA was used as the template for protein synthesis, the amount of the 
62 kDa luciferase protein decreased with increasing mustard concentration and a 
range of truncated polypeptides was synthesised. Under these conditions 50% 
inhibition of translation occurred with approximately 300 nM mustard (i.e. 
approximately 10 times that required for similar inhibition using an alkylated 
DNA template). Furthermore, a gel mobility shift assay revealed that mustard 
alkylation of the RNA template results in the formation of a more stable 
retarded RNA complex. The functional activity of the luciferase protein 
decreased with alkylation of both the DNA and RNA templates, with a half-life of 
loss of activity of 1.1 h for DNA exposed to 50 nM mustard, and 0.5 h for RNA 
exposed to 50 microM mustard. The data presented support the notion that DNA is 
a critical molecule in the mode of action of mustards.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/23.17.3508
PMCID: PMC307231
PMID: 7567463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Postgrad Med J. 1995 Jul;71(837):385-9. doi: 10.1136/pgmj.71.837.385.

Communicating with young adults with cystic fibrosis.

Webb AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Bradbury Cystic Fibrosis Unit, Wythenshawe Hospital, Manchester, UK.

The care of the young adult with cystic fibrosis is complex, requiring a 
multidisciplinary input from different carers. Communication with and education 
of patients covers many areas; topics may include medical and personal problems, 
transplantation, survival, current scientific breakthroughs and the future. 
Communicating in these areas with knowledgeable young adults requires skill, 
tact and self-education upon the part of the cystic fibrosis team.

DOI: 10.1136/pgmj.71.837.385
PMCID: PMC2397996
PMID: 7567727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Rev Pneumol Clin. 1995;51(3):145-50.

[Mucoviscidosis and nutrition].

[Article in French]

Munck A(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Gastroentérologie et Nutrition Pédiatrique, Hôpital Robert-Debré, 
Paris.

Digestive disorders in patients with cystic fibrosis cause nutritional 
deficiencies which have a major effect on the clinical course and outcome. A 
better understanding of the mechanisms involved and a more adapted therapeutic 
attitude have helped improve the life expectancy in this disease.

PMID: 7569576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Rev Pneumol Clin. 1995;51(3):207-14.

[Pulmonary and cardiopulmonary transplantation in mucoviscidosis].

[Article in French]

Haloun A(1), Horeau D, Treilhaud M, Portier D, Goarin Y, Videcoq M, al Habash O, 
Jegou B, de Lajartre AY, Baron O, et al.

Author information:
(1)CHU, Nantes.

As early as 1987, several teams in France began lung transplantation for 
patients with cystic fibrosis. Most of these teams propose transplantation when 
the life expectancy is under 2 years. The major functional criteria are VEMS < 
30%, PaC02 > 50 mmHg and PaO2 < 55 mmHg. This contribution focuses on 
psychologic, nutritional and infectious aspects required in preparing the 
patients for transplantation and on graft selection. Surgical techniques and 
patient care after transplantation are also reported. The overall probability of 
survival after transplantation for cystic fibrosis is 48, 35 and 29% at 1, 2 and 
3 years respectively with wide intercentre variation. The lack of sufficient 
graft supply and the risk of post-transplantation degradation remain the two 
principal problems for transplantation in cystic fibrosis.

PMID: 7569585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Tumour Biol. 1995;16(6):385-93. doi: 10.1159/000217955.

Flow cytometric nuclear DNA content analysis of renal tumors in children: 
prognostic significance of nuclear DNA ploidy.

Li P(1), Yokomori K, Tsuchida Y, Fujita M, Shimizu K, Tanaka E, Pianovski MA, 
Takemura T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, University of Tokyo, Japan.

We studied, by flow cytometry, the DNA contents of paraffin-embedded tumor 
specimens from 90 infants and children with kidney tumors, and analyzed the 
relationship of DNA ploidy with histological types and prognosis. Data of 
adequate quality were obtained from 90 cases: 65 tumors with favorable 
histology, 5 congenital mesoblastic nephromas and 20 tumors with unfavorable 
histology. The 90 cases had nuclear DNA histogram patterns that were classified 
as DNA diploid in 64 tumors, aneuploid in 19 and tetraploid in 7. There were no 
significant correlations between DNA ploidy and histological types or clinical 
stages. Survival rates for patients with diploidy were 80 and 70% at 2 and 5 
years, respectively, and those of patients with aneuploidy were 72 and 61% at 2 
and 5 years, respectively. On the other hand, patients with a DNA tetraploid 
pattern had significantly worse survival rates of 43 and 29% at 2 and 5 years, 
respectively. Among patients with aneuploidy or tetraploidy, the S-phase 
fractions in those who died (mean +/- SD: 10.3 +/- 4.1 and 22.1 +/- 11.6%, 
respectively) appear to be greater than those in their surviving counterparts 
(8.8 +/- 4.0 and 12.1 +/- 2.8%). Hence, although the differences between diploid 
and aneuploid DNA patterns were not correlated with differential prognosis in 
children with kidney tumors, a tetraploid pattern clearly indicates a poor 
prognosis, especially in combination with histological types and clinical 
stages.

DOI: 10.1159/000217955
PMID: 7569685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Surgery. 1995 Oct;118(4):582-90; discussion 590-1. doi: 
10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80022-4.

Benign biliary strictures: repair and outcome with a contemporary approach.

McDonald ML(1), Farnell MB, Nagorney DM, Ilstrup DM, Kutch JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: The Hepp-Couinaud technique is an innovative approach for repair of 
proximal biliary strictures. We have used this method selectively for bile duct 
reconstruction since 1982. Our aim was to analyze our experience with the 
surgical repair of benign biliary strictures in the decade since the 
Hepp-Couinaud technique has become an integral component of our surgical 
management strategy.
METHODS: Seventy-two patients undergoing surgical repair of benign biliary 
stricture between 1983 and 1992 were reviewed retrospectively. A grading system 
on clinical symptoms, results of liver function studies, and need for 
reintervention was used to assess outcome.
RESULTS: For the 27 patients with noniatrogenic strictures, followed up a mean 
of 3.9 years, excellent or good results (grade A or B) were obtained in 88.9%. 
For the 45 patients with iatrogenic strictures, followed up a mean of 4.6 years, 
86.7% were categorized as grade A or B. The cumulative probability of 
anastomotic failure was significantly less for the 21 patients in whom the 
Hepp-Couinaud method was used when compared with the 24 patients in whom it was 
not (p = 0.032). Outcome was not influenced by age, time delay from injury to 
reconstruction, preoperative stenting, the number of previous repairs, or the 
duration of postoperative stenting.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical reconstruction affords excellent or good results for the 
vast majority of patients with benign biliary strictures. For proximal 
iatrogenic strictures superior anastomotic durability is achieved with the 
Hepp-Couinaud technique.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80022-4
PMID: 7570309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Surgery. 1995 Oct;118(4):640-7; discussion 647-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80030-3.

Arguments against routine contralateral mastectomy or undirected biopsy for 
invasive lobular breast cancer.

Lee JS(1), Grant CS, Donohue JH, Crotty TB, Harmsen WS, Ilstrup DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn. 55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: Management of the contralateral normal-appearing breast in a patient 
with ipsilateral invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) is controversial.
METHODS: The case histories of patients with histologically proven ILC who 
underwent definitive surgery at our institution from 1978 to 1991 were 
retrospectively reviewed.
RESULTS: Of the 419 women with ILC, 36 (8.6%) had bilateral cancer, with a 
cumulative risk of 10% at 10 years. Twenty-five (69%) of these cancers were 
suspected before operation. From 105 contralateral prophylactic surgical 
procedures, seven (64%) in-situ and four (36%) invasive cancers were detected. 
The age at presentation and multifocality of the index cancer were significantly 
different between patients with unilateral and those with bilateral cancers. No 
survival difference was noted between patients whose contralateral cancers were 
suspected clinically and those whose cancers were detected prophylactically. 
Survival rates between patients with unilateral versus bilateral cancers were 
also not different. However, patients with contralateral prophylactic surgery 
had a better prognosis than those with unilateral tumors and no prophylaxis.
CONCLUSIONS: Ten percent of patients with ILC experienced bilateral cancers 
during a period of 10 years. Survival was not influenced by the development of a 
second cancer, but it improved with surgical prophylaxis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80030-3
PMID: 7570317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Surgery. 1995 Oct;118(4):653-60; discussion 660-1. doi: 
10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80032-7.

Epithelioid gastric stromal tumors (leiomyoblastomas): a study of fifty-five 
cases.

Lee JS(1), Nascimento AG, Farnell MB, Carney JA, Harmsen WS, Ilstrup DM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterologic and General Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 
55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: Epithelioid gastric stromal tumors form a distinct histologic subset 
of gastric tumors whose malignant potential and prognosis are controversial.
METHODS: Fifty-five patients with epithelioid gastric stromal tumors accounted 
for 11.5% of patients undergoing definitive operations for gastric stromal 
tumors from 1960 to 1986. Medical records and pathology slides were reviewed, 
and immunohistochemical staining and flow cytometry were performed. The 
Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate survival. Survival curves were compared 
with log-rank tests and Cox proportional hazards model.
RESULTS: Of the 55 tumors, 40 were benign and 15 (27%) were malignant. Mean 
follow-up was 10.5 years. Ten patients died of their disease. No patient with a 
benign tumor had recurrence of metastasis, but all patients with high-grade 
malignancy had died of disease within 3 years after diagnosis. Seventy-five 
percent of proximal tumors were malignant. Extent of resection had no impact on 
survival (p = 0.5).
CONCLUSIONS: The best determinant of tumor behavior was histologic grade. 
Twenty-seven percent of patients had malignant tumors, and 67% of these died of 
disease. Other significant prognostic factors included a mitotic count greater 
than 5/10 high-power fields, size larger than 6 cm, aneuploidy, and higher 
S-phase fraction (p < 0.01). Proximal lesions were more likely to be malignant. 
Extent of surgical treatment had no effect on survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80032-7
PMID: 7570319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Surgery. 1995 Oct;118(4):669-73; discussion 673-5. doi: 
10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80034-0.

Beta 1 integrin expression in malignant melanoma predicts occult lymph node 
metastases.

Hieken TJ(1), Ronan SG, Farolan M, Shilkaitis AL, Kim DK, Das Gupta TK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, University of Illinois at Chicago 
60612-7322, USA.

BACKGROUND: Elective lymph node dissection for malignant melanoma is still 
controversial. Experimental studies suggest that differential expression, 
activation, or both of beta1 integrins facilitate melanoma metastases. However, 
the clinical significance of beta1 integrin expression in human melanoma is 
unclear.
METHODS: We examined primary cutaneous melanomas from 76 patients undergoing 
elective lymph mode dissection. We quantified the percentage of tumor area 
stained by beta1 integrin antibody with an image analyzer.
RESULTS: beta1 integrin was expressed in all 23 primary tumors from patients 
with pathologically positive lymph nodes (LNs) but in only 14 (26%) of 53 cases 
with pathologically negative nodes (p < 0.001). No patients with beta1 
integrin-negative tumors had LN involvement, whereas 23 (62%) of 37 patients 
with beta1 integrin-positive tumors had LN metastases (p < 0.001). Furthermore, 
21 (91%) of 23 cases with LN metastases but only 4 (8%) of 53 cases without had 
beta1 integrin staining of 10% or more of tumor area (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study is the first to show a correlation between expression of 
a molecular marker in the primary cutaneous melanoma and likelihood of regional 
LN metastases. beta1 immunostaining of 10% or more of tumor area reliably 
predicts patients most likely to harbor occult LN metastases and likely to 
benefit from ELND.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80034-0
PMID: 7570321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Surgery. 1995 Oct;118(4):703-9; discussion 709-10. doi: 
10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80038-8.

Laparoscopic versus open inguinal herniorrhaphy: preliminary results of a 
randomized controlled trial.

Barkun JS(1), Wexler MJ, Hinchey EJ, Thibeault D, Meakins JL.

Author information:
(1)Divisions of General Surgery, Royal Victoria Hospital, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: Benefits of laparoscopic herniorrhaphy (LH) over open hernia repair 
(OH) remain unproved.
METHODS: Interim analysis of a prospective randomized controlled trial compared 
OH with LH where study outcomes were measured by third-party evaluators through 
patient interviews.
RESULTS: Both groups were well matched for all baseline parameters, although LH 
patients anticipated a quicker postoperative recovery than OH (p = 0.014). No 
significant difference was noted in operating time or surgeon operative 
satisfaction. The median duration of hospital stay was 1 day in both groups; LH 
patients made use of significantly less postoperative narcotics than OH (p = 
0.02). No difference was observed in the durations of convalescence (LH, 9.6 +/- 
7.6 days; OH, 10.9 +/- 7.4 days). Greater improvements in quality of life were 
exhibited in LH patients than OH patients 1 month after operation (p = 0.035), 
with one of the two measures used. A greater percentage of LH patients seemed 
"very satisfied with their operation" (p = 0.07). Complication rates were 
similar, and a single recurrence, in a patient in the OH group, has been 
observed after a median follow-up of 14 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Direct cost measurements showed LH to be 40% more expensive than OH 
in the context of a Canadian-type health care system. To date, benefits in 
postoperative pain and possibly quality of life have been detected in the LH 
group.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80038-8
PMID: 7570325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Thorax. 1995 Jul;50(7):712-8. doi: 10.1136/thx.50.7.712.

Long term prognosis of patients with cystic fibrosis in relation to early 
detection by neonatal screening and treatment in a cystic fibrosis centre.

Dankert-Roelse JE(1), te Meerman GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Paediatric Pulmonology, University of Groningen, 
The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Thorax. 1995 Jul;50(7):705-6.

BACKGROUND: A study was undertaken to evaluate whether an early diagnosis by 
neonatal screening may improve the long term prognosis of patients with cystic 
fibrosis and to assess the influence of expert management started immediately 
after the diagnosis.
METHODS: Comparative clinical follow up in three birth cohorts of patients with 
cystic fibrosis was performed at the Cystic Fibrosis centre in Groningen in 
close collaboration with paediatricians in general hospitals in the 
north-eastern part of the Netherlands. The first birth cohort (n = 19) was 
detected by screening and the two other cohorts were detected clinically, one (n 
= 30) consisting of patients born during the screening programme and the other 
(n = 32) of patients born during the six years immediately after the screening 
programme ended. The total number of patients in the three birth cohorts 
included all patients with cystic fibrosis born in this area during a 12 year 
period. Cumulative survival rates and the variation with time of lung function, 
the levels of immunoglobulins, and growth patterns were used as main outcome 
measures.
RESULTS: Patients born during the screening programme but detected clinically 
appeared to have a reduced life expectancy compared with patients detected by 
screening. The patients detected by screening showed less deterioration in lung 
function (annual decrease 1.2% of FEV1 % pred), a smaller increase in 
immunoglobulin levels, and minimal catch-up growth compared with an annual 
decrease of 3.25% of FEV1 % pred in the non-screened birth cohort of the same 
age, a higher rise in immunoglobulins leading to increased levels at the end of 
the observation period, and catch-up growth for weight as well as height. 
Differences between patients treated in a cystic fibrosis centre and those not 
referred to a specialist centre were smaller but similar, in favour of treatment 
at a cystic fibrosis clinic.
CONCLUSIONS: Expert management started immediately after an early diagnosis of 
cystic fibrosis by neonatal screening results in important beneficial effects on 
the outcome and clinical course of the condition. The institution of very early 
treatment may be critical for the outcome and long term prognosis for most 
patients with cystic fibrosis. Neonatal screening programmes for cystic fibrosis 
should be introduced more widely.

DOI: 10.1136/thx.50.7.712
PMCID: PMC474641
PMID: 7570403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1995 Oct 10;115(24):3022-5.

[Does social support have an impact on the prognosis in cancer?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Jacobsen EM(1), Wisløff F, Finset A.

Author information:
(1)Hematologisk avdeling, Ullevål sykehus, Oslo.

Social support is a compound concept. It is being used about different aspects 
of social integration and about the support provided by people in a social 
network. Increasing research has been done on the effect of social support on 
malignant diseases. However, weaknesses in the methodology make it difficult to 
evaluate the results. For example, the concept of social support may not be 
adequately defined and the aspects of social support that are studied may be 
somewhat arbitrary. Both epidemiological research and studies on certain groups 
of patients support the idea that social support influences our health and our 
life expectancy. We have reviewed the existing literature on the impact of 
social support on malignant disease to find out if social support has proven to 
be of any prognostic value in the case of cancer.

PMID: 7570530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Stud Fam Plann. 1995 May-Jun;26(3):180-4.

Turkey 1993: results from the demographic and health survey.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The Turkey Demographic and Health Survey collected data from 8619 
households and complete interviews with 6519 ever-married women aged 15-49 
years. Interviews were conducted during August-October 1993. The survey found 
that over the period 1965-1985, the population grew from 31.2 million to 50.3 
million. The crude birth rate per 1000 declined from 41.0 to 30.8; crude death 
rate also declined from 15.0 to 8.9. The annual rate of population growth fell 
from 2.50% to 2.33%, and life expectancy increased from 53.5 to 63.3 years. UN 
estimates put the rate of total fertility for 1985-90 at 3.8; the survey 
estimate for 1992 is 2.7, much lower than the estimated rate of 6.5 for 1955-60. 
More than half of currently married women of reproductive age use contraception. 
Survey data are presented in tabular form under the following headings: 
distribution of survey sample population by socioeconomic characteristics; 
fertility trends; fertility differentials, 1992; age-specific fertility; mean 
ideal number of children by age and number of living children for ever-married 
women; desire to stop childbearing among women in union; planning status of 
births in the five years preceding the survey by birth order; contraceptive 
prevalence differentials; contraceptive prevalence by age and parity; percentage 
distribution of current users of modern methods by most recent source of supply, 
according to method; knowledge and use of methods among women in union; 
intention to use contraception in the future among nonusers in union, by number 
of living children; reason for future nonuse among currently married women by 
age group; current marital status; differentials in median age at first birth; 
union and contraceptive status; median duration of postpartum interval; 
differentials in duration of breastfeeding; infant mortality trends; infant 
mortality differentials, 1988-93; children ever-born and surviving; percent of 
children 12-23 months old ever vaccinated and percent receiving specific 
vaccines, according to health card or mother's report; percent of children under 
five years old with diarrhea two weeks prior to survey, and of those, percent 
consulting a health facility and percent receiving different ORT treatments; 
type of assistance during delivery for births in five years prior to survey; and 
percent undernourished among children under five years old according to 
children's weight-for-height and height-for-age.

PMID: 7570767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Tumori. 1995 May-Jun;81(3 Suppl):143-6.

Prognostic factors for survival and disease-free survival in hepatic metastases 
from colorectal cancer treated by resection.

Doci R(1), Bignami P, Montalto F, Gennari L.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Chirurgia dell'Apparato Digerente, Istituto Nazionale Tumori, 
Milano, Italy.

The prognostic factors of 219 patients submitted to Ro hepatic resection for 
colorectal metastases have been statistically analyzed. The overall 5-year 
actuarial survival rate was 24% and the 5-year disease-free survival rate was 
18%. At univariate analysis four variables resulted significant: 1) The stage of 
primary colorectal cancer: if the meserentic lymph nodes were metastatic (Dukes 
C) or uninvolved (Dukes B) 5-year survival was respectively 16 and 38% (p < 
0.001). 2) The percentage of hepatic replacement: the 5-year survival rate of 
patients with H1 (< 25%), H2 (25-50%) and H3 (> 50%) was 27, 16 and 8% 
respectively (p < 0.001). 3) The number of metastases: the 5-year survival of 
patients with 1, 2-3, > 3 hepatic nodules was 29, 21 and 17% respectively (p < 
0.05). 4) The extent of surgical resection: 5-year survival after minor and 
major resection was 28 and 18% respectively (p < 0.05). At multivariate analysis 
only stage of primary and percentage of hepatic replacement retained statistical 
significance. In 60% of 154 patients with recurrent disease the liver was again 
involved.

PMID: 7571046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Zentralbl Chir. 1995;120(8):593-7.

[Socioeconomic studies of hemostaseologic therapy and anticoagulation].

[Article in German]

Schramm W(1), Offner A, Szucs T.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Hämostaseologie, Medizinische Klinik Innenstadt der 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München.

Since hemostaseologic therapies have a great impact on the budget of public 
health insurance companies, the therapy of hemophilia, prophylaxis of thrombosis 
and thrombolysis should be evaluated in a socioeconomic way. The substitution 
therapy in hemophilia is consuming a great deal of health care resources. The 
patients require an expensive, chronic therapy which enables them to be 
integrated in a normal social life. A lot of patients get a prophylaxis against 
thrombosis. Anticoagulants have to be valued with respect to their 
cost-effectiveness-relation. If thrombolysis is evaluated economically, one will 
have to consider carefully the high letality of thrombosis, the savings for the 
prevention of an operation and the high impact of this therapy on health care 
bills. The steady increase in health care costs emphasizes the necessity of 
health economics. Physicians should run socioeconomic evaluations to prove the 
use of different medicines and therapies and to represent the clinical point of 
view and the part of the patients.

PMID: 7571890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Am J Epidemiol. 1995 Oct 1;142(7):746-58. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a117706.

Effect of risk factor values on lifetime risk of and age at first coronary 
event. The Adventist Health Study.

Fraser GE(1), Lindsted KD, Beeson WL.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Research, Loma Linda University, CA 92350, USA.

The effect of traditional coronary heart disease risk factors on lifetime risk, 
age at onset, and survival free of coronary disease has not been extensively 
studied. The authors have used the cohort data from 27,321 California 
Seventh-day Adventists who had no known heart disease in 1976 to investigate 
these questions. Multiple decrement life tables incorporating non-parametric 
estimates of conditional probabilities for both coronary disease and all other 
competing endpoints were used to estimate these survival outcomes. Variance 
estimators are provided in an appendix. Persons characterized by being either 
past smokers, diabetic, hypertensive, physically, non-vegetarian, or infrequent 
consumers of nuts often showed substantial differences in these survival 
outcomes. Statistically significant results include earlier age at onset of 
coronary disease at between 4 and 10 years, reduced life expectancy free of the 
disease between 5 and 9 years, and increased lifetime risk between 8% and 16%, 
when comparing groups with and without adverse values for different risk 
factors. The presence of adverse levels of two risk factors predicted even 
greater differences in these endpoints. These important effects are easily 
understood by the layman or non-epidemiologist professional, which is often not 
true of a relative risk. This should increase the effectiveness of such results 
when promoting behavioral change.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a117706
PMID: 7572946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Am J Public Health. 1995 Oct;85(10):1356-60. doi: 10.2105/ajph.85.10.1356.

Health policy approaches to measuring and valuing human life: conceptual and 
ethical issues.

Morrow RH(1), Bryant JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, School of Hygiene and Public Health, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 1995 Oct;85(10):1345-6.

To achieve more cost-effective and equitable use of health resources, improved 
methods for defining disease burdens and for guiding resource allocations are 
needed by health care decision makers. Three approaches are discussed that use 
indicators that combine losses due to disability with losses due to premature 
mortality as a measure of disease burden. These indicators can also serve as 
outcome measures for health status in economic analyses. However, their use as 
tools for measuring and valuing human life raises important questions concerning 
the measurement of mortality and the multidimensions of morbidity; valuing of 
life, particularly regarding weighting productivity, dependency, age, and 
time-preference factors; and conflicts between equity and efficiency that arise 
in allocation decisions. Further refinement of these tools is needed to (1) 
incorporate national and local values into weighting; (2) elaborate methods for 
disaggregating calculations to assess local disease patterns and intervention 
packages; and (3) develop guidelines for estimating marginal effects and costs 
of interventions. Of utmost importance are methods that ensure equity while 
achieving reasonable efficiency.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.85.10.1356
PMCID: PMC1615602
PMID: 7573617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Am J Public Health. 1995 Oct;85(10):1397-401. doi: 10.2105/ajph.85.10.1397.

Health indicators and the organization of health care systems in western Europe.

Elola J(1), Daponte A, Navarro V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, School of Hygiene and Public 
Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 1995 Oct;85(10):1350-1.
    Am J Public Health. 1996 Dec;86(12):1823-4.

OBJECTIVES: This study investigated the association between health care systems 
and health indicators in developed countries.
METHODS: Cross-national comparisons were conducted with regression analysis 
between 17 Western European countries with two types of health care systems: 
national health services and social security systems.
RESULTS: Health care expenditures were inversely correlated to potential years 
of life lost to females and to infant mortality rates; they were positively 
correlated to life expectancy for females. Regression models predicted that 
countries with national health services systems would have lower infant 
mortality rates at similar levels of gross domestic product (GDP) and health 
care expenditures. Finally, increases in health care expenditures would decrease 
the ratio of observed to predicted infant mortality rates according to GDP; this 
decrease would be greater in countries with national health services than in 
those with social security systems. The model predicted this difference to be 
about 13% at average levels of health expenditures.
CONCLUSIONS: National health services seem to be more efficient at producing 
lower infant mortality rates than social security systems in Western European 
countries.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.85.10.1397
PMCID: PMC1615621
PMID: 7573624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Am J Surg. 1995 Oct;170(4):327-32. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(99)80298-0.

Immediate biopsy versus observation for abnormal findings on mammograms: an 
analysis of potential outcomes and costs.

Velanovich V(1).

Author information:
(1)General Surgery Service, Ireland Army Community Hospital, Fort Knox, 
Kentucky, USA.

BACKGROUND: The increased usage of screening mammography has led to an increase 
in the number of needle localized breast biopsies. The perceived low yield of 
the biopsies has caused concern about the costs and effectiveness of this 
procedure. Arguments have centered on what is the appropriate true-positive rate 
for screening mammography, and which abnormal findings may be observed rather 
than tested immediately.
METHODS: A decision analysis was done to help answer these questions. Factors 
evaluated included age of patient at discovery of abnormal finding, the rate of 
follow-up mammograms eventually requiring biopsy, the potential effects of 
tumor-doubling time on increasing the stage of disease, quality-of-life issues, 
and costs.
RESULTS: For an average 50-year-old woman the quality-adjusted life expectancy 
(QALE) was longer for immediate biopsy by 0 to 3 years, depending on the 
assumptions on tumor-doubling time; however, immediate biopsy increased the cost 
per patient from $700 to $900. The QALE was also superior for immediate biopsy 
if more than 30% of follow-up mammograms required biopsy, and immediate biopsy 
was more cost effective if more than 36% of follow-up mammograms required 
biopsy. Patient age did not affect the superiority of immediate biopsy over 
observation, although quality-of-life issues did.
CONCLUSIONS: Those lesions with a greater than 20% to 30% probability of being 
malignant, or lesions with potentially short doubling times, should undergo 
immediate biopsy. Lesions judged to be at lower risk may be observed for 6 
months. Either of these recommendations should be adjusted depending on an 
individual patient's quality-of-life concerns.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(99)80298-0
PMID: 7573723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Am J Surg. 1995 Oct;170(4):361-5. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(99)80304-3.

Factors predicting the recurrence of adhesive small-bowel obstruction.

Barkan H(1), Webster S, Ozeran S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Kaiser Permanente Medical Center, Oakland, California 
94611-5693, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Surg. 1996 Mar;171(3):383-4.

BACKGROUND: A long-standing debate exists about whether stable patients who have 
adhesive small-bowel obstruction (ASBO) are best managed operatively or 
nonoperatively. In addition, the factors that predict recurrence have not been 
established.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We conducted a retrospective cohort study using medical 
records of 31 ASBO patients managed operatively and 59 managed nonoperatively. 
Follow-up data for up to 12.8 years after the index ASBO were collected from 
medical records.
RESULTS: Life-table analyses found that ASBO recurred after 53% of initial 
episodes and 85% or more of second, third, or later episodes. Recurrence was 
much more rapid after third or later episodes than after first or second 
episodes. Recurrence occurred sooner and more frequently in patients managed 
nonoperatively than in patients managed operatively. These differences became 
statistically significant only after the second episode.
CONCLUSIONS: The number of prior episodes is the strongest predictor of 
recurrence. The optimal management strategy is a function of the number of prior 
episodes a patient has experienced. Nonoperative management appears reasonable 
for stable patients who are having their first episode. Operative strategies 
appear best for those experiencing second episodes. Neither strategy yields 
acceptable outcomes in patients experiencing third or later episodes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(99)80304-3
PMID: 7573729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Anaesth Intensive Care. 1995 Jun;23(3):322-31. doi:
10.1177/0310057X9502300309.

The use of "quality-adjusted life years" (QALYs) to evaluate treatment in 
intensive care.

Kerridge RK(1), Glasziou PP, Hillman KM.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Hospital, Sydney, N.S.W.

This study examines the feasibility of using Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) 
to assess patient outcome and the economic justification of treatment in an 
Intensive Care Unit (ICU). 248 patients were followed for three years after 
admission. Survival and quality of life for each patient was evaluated. Outcome 
for each patient was quantified in discounted Quality-Adjusted Life Years 
(dQALYs). The economic justification of treatment was evaluated by comparing the 
total and marginal cost per dQALY for this patient group with the published cost 
per QALY for other medical interventions. 150 patients were alive after three 
years. Quality of life for most longterm survivors was good. Patient outcome 
(QALYs) was greatest for asthma and trauma patients, and least for cardiogenic 
pulmonary oedema. The tentative estimated cost-effectiveness of treatment varied 
from AUD $297 per QALY for asthma to AUD $2323 per QALY for patients with 
pulmonary oedema. This compares favourably with many preventative and non-acute 
medical treatments. Although the methodology is developmental, the measurement 
of patient outcome using QALYs appears to be feasible in a general hospital ICU.

DOI: 10.1177/0310057X9502300309
PMID: 7573919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Ann Acad Med Singap. 1995 May;24(3):382-92.

Mortality analyses of the 1990 Singapore population: I. General life tables.

Lun KC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community, Occupational and Family Medicine, National 
University of Singapore.

General life tables for the 1990 Singapore resident population are given in this 
paper. Analyses were carried out separately for males and females for all ethnic 
groups as well as for Chinese, Malays and Indians. Average fractions of the last 
age interval lived were used to give a more precise derivation of the life table 
death rates from their corresponding age-specific death rates. The results show 
that in 1990, Singapore males had achieved a life expectancy at birth of 73.7 
years while the females had attained a level of 78.6 years. These levels were 
comparable to those of many developed countries. Other interesting features 
include higher differentials in the life expectancies between sexes among the 
Chinese and the Indians taking over the Malays for second placing in terms of 
life expectancy at birth for both sexes. As a result, the Indians registered a 
12% gain in life expectancy at birth for males for the decade 1980 to 1990, 
compared to only 7.1% for Chinese and 4.4% for Malays as well as nearly 10% for 
females compared to only 6.2% for Chinese and 6.3% for Malays. A subsequent 
paper will highlight the results of multiple-decrement life table analyses which 
will summarise the mortality of the 1990 Singapore resident population for 
various component causes of death rather than for all causes combined.

PMID: 7574420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Eur J Cancer. 1995 Jul-Aug;31A(7-8):1222-5. doi:
10.1016/0959-8049(95)00155-c.

Detection of recurrence after surgery for colorectal cancer.

Kievit J(1), Bruinvels DJ.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Surgery, Leiden University Hospital, The Netherlands.

Of all patients operated for colorectal cancer, 1 in 3 will suffer from cancer 
recurrence, and most of these patients will die from disseminated disease. 
Postoperative follow-up aims at improving these grim figures. This sound idea 
has not been supported by any empirical data. In the current article, we discuss 
some theoretical issues concerning colorectal cancer follow-up, and present 
results of a cost-effectiveness analysis, used to model the natural history of 
colorectal cancer recurrence and the costs and effects of follow-up and 
re-operation. The expected results of three policies were calculated: no 
follow-up, selective follow-up and intensive follow-up. For most patients, 
follow-up will only lead to a significant increase in costs, without increase in 
(quality-adjusted) life expectancy. Colorectal cancer follow-up is not 
"evidence-based medicine".

DOI: 10.1016/0959-8049(95)00155-c
PMID: 7577026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Eur J Cancer. 1995;31A(9):1395-405. doi: 10.1016/0959-8049(95)00334-f.

European School of Oncology Advisory report to the European Commission for the 
"Europe Against Cancer Programme" European Code Against Cancer.

Boyle P(1), Veronesi U, Tubiana M, Alexander FE, da Silva F, Denis LJ, Freire 
JM, Hakama M, Hirsch A, Kroes R, et al.

Author information:
(1)European Institute of Oncology, Milano, Italy.

A European School of Oncology Advisory Group has reviewed the European Code 
Against Cancer after its initial use over a 6-year period. With minor 
modifications, the original ten recommendations were found to be adequate, 
although it was agreed that an Annex was necessary to explain the scientific 
evidence supporting each point, and is presented herewith. Tobacco smoking 
clearly remains the most important cause of cancer, and now it can be quantified 
better than ever before. It is also clear that it is never too late to stop 
smoking: stopping even in middle age, prior to the onset of serious illness has 
a beneficial effect on life expectancy. Alcohol drinking is an important cause 
of cancer, and yet modest consumption levels protect against cardiovascular 
disease mortality. The optimal strategy seems to be a consumption not exceeding 
2-3 drinks per day, although this limit may be lower for women. Increased 
consumption of fruits and vegetables, reduction in consumption of fatty foods, 
reduction of obesity and increased physical activity can all be recommended to 
reduce cancer risk. Exposure to excessive sunlight remains a problem which 
should be limited. Control of occupational cancer is a three-way partnership: 
legislation identifies and limits exposure to known carcinogens, employers enact 
the legislation and workers should respect the measures introduced. There are a 
number of signs and symptoms which may lead to cancer being diagnosed earlier, 
and patients with these should be referred to a doctor. For women, participation 
in organised programmes of cervical cancer and breast cancer (after 50 years of 
age) should lead to a reduction in mortality from these forms of cancer. The key 
element is organised programmes, where quality control and quality assurance are 
in force. These revised recommendations are the result of an agreement following 
advice, review and dialogue with cancer experts throughout Europe. They were 
approved by the European Community Cancer Experts at their meeting in Bonn on 
28-29 November 1994. Their implementation by the European population should 
greatly reduce cancer incidence and mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/0959-8049(95)00334-f
PMID: 7577062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Wkly Epidemiol Rec. 1995 Sep 22;70(38):269-75.

Leprosy disabilities: magnitude of the problem.

[Article in English, French]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7577430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Br J Cancer. 1995 Nov;72(5):1245-50. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1995.494.

Laevofolinic acid, 5-fluorouracil, cyclophosphamide and escalating doses of 
epirubicin with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor support in locally 
advanced and/or metastatic breast carcinoma: a phase I-II study of the Southern 
Italy Oncology Group (GOIM).

Colucci G(1), Romito S, Gebbia V, Pacilio G, Giotta F, Testa A, Pezzella G, 
Durini E, Agostara B, Cariello S, et al.

Author information:
(1)Oncological Institute, Bari, Italy.

Sixty-four consecutive patients with locally advanced (n = 7) or metastatic 
breast cancer (n = 57), were treated with a combination of laevofolinic acid 100 
mg m-2 plus 5-fluorouracil 340 mg m-2 i.v. on days 1-3, cyclophosphamide 600 mg 
m-2 i.v. on day 1 and epirubicin 90 mg m-2 i.v. on day 1. Epirubicin dose was 
progressively escalated by 10 mg m-2 per cycle up to 120 mg m-2 in the absence 
of dose-limiting toxicities. Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) was 
given subcutaneously in order to prevent neutropenia. Epirubicin dosage could be 
increased to 100 mg m-2 in 53 patients (87%), to 110 mg m-2 in 31 patients (51%) 
and to 120 mg m-2 in 18 cases (30%). In most patients the dose-limiting toxicity 
was represented by myelosuppression. A statistically significant correlation was 
found between median white blood count (WBC) or absolute neutrophil count (ANC) 
nadir and epirubicin dose level (P = 0.009; P = 0.008). Moreover, a 
statistically significant correlation was observed between the number of 
chemotherapeutic cycles, nadir ANC and WBC and the occurrence of anaemia and 
thrombocytopenia of increasing severity. These data suggest the occurrence of 
progressive cumulative bone marrow toxicity. Although patients who reached 
different epirubicin levels showed differences in mean dose intensity, such 
differences were not statistically significant. No correlation was found between 
the increase in dose intensity and type, rate or duration of objective 
responses. In patients with metastatic breast cancer the overall response rate 
was 72% (95% CL 66-78%) with a 25% complete response rate. Median duration of 
