response was 10 and 13 months respectively for complete and partial responses. 
All patients with locally advanced breast cancer had an objective response and 
underwent radical mastectomy. Projected median survival of the whole series of 
patients with metastatic breast cancer was 20 + months. These data demonstrate 
that the combination of 5-fluorouracil with laevofolinic acid, cyclophosphamide 
and epirubicin is very active against metastatic breast cancer. Use of G-CSF 
allows epirubicin dosage to be increased up to 120 mg m-2 cycle-1, but its use 
may be linked to the occurrence of sometimes severe cumulative haematological 
toxicity.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1995.494
PMCID: PMC2033921
PMID: 7577476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Br J Cancer. 1995 Nov;72(5):1251-5. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1995.495.

Long-term follow-up of elderly patients with operable breast cancer treated with 
surgery without axillary dissection plus adjuvant tamoxifen.

Martelli G(1), DePalo G, Rossi N, Coradini D, Boracchi P, Galante E, Vetrella G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Diagnostic Oncology and Outpatient Clinic, Istituto Nazionale 
Tumori, Milan, Italy.

Between 1982 and 1990, 321 elderly patients (range 70-92 years, median age 77) 
with operable breast cancer (T1 in 219, T2 in 77, T3 in one and T4b in 24 
patients) and clinically uninvolved axillary nodes underwent surgery without 
axillary dissection and received adjuvant tamoxifen. All patients had surgery 
performed under local anaesthesia. Tamoxifen was given after surgery at the dose 
of 20 mg daily, indefinitely. With a median follow-up of 67 months (range 
42-141), 17 patients developed local relapse, 14 ipsilateral axillary 
recurrence, five ipsilateral breast cancer, five contralateral breast cancer, 13 
second primary and 23 developed distant metastases. The cumulative probability 
of developing a local, axillary and distant recurrence at 72 months was 
estimated to be 5.4%, 4.3% and 6.2%, respectively. Out of 244 patients who did 
not develop any relapse, 83 (25.8%) died from intercurrent disease. The 72 month 
relapse-free survival rate was 76%. This experience suggests that elderly 
patients with small tumours without clinical axillary involvement may be 
satisfactorily treated with conservative surgery and tamoxifen. The importance 
of axillary dissection is controversial owing to a high response rate to 
hormonal therapy and an increased death rate due to concomitant diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1995.495
PMCID: PMC2033937
PMID: 7577477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Br J Cancer. 1995 Nov;72(5):1259-66. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1995.497.

Expression of ras p21, p53 and c-erbB-2 in advanced breast cancer and response 
to first line hormonal therapy.

Archer SG(1), Eliopoulos A, Spandidos D, Barnes D, Ellis IO, Blamey RW, 
Nicholson RI, Robertson JF.

Author information:
(1)Professional Unit of Surgery, Nottingham City Hospital, UK.

Several oncogenes and tumour-suppressor genes have been identified that may have 
an important role in the development of human breast carcinoma. Furthermore, 
some of these gene alterations may be linked to the development of invasion and 
subsequent metastasis. Alterations in the expression of ras p21, p53 and 
c-erbB-2 have all been linked to tumours with rapid cellular proliferation, but 
the evidence that they are of prognostic importance in patients with breast 
cancer is conflicting. This study explores the relationship between expression 
of these oncoproteins and clinical outcome in 92 patients with either locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer treated with primary endocrine therapy. 
Specimens of the primary carcinoma were available for analysis of hormone 
receptor, Ki67 labelling index, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), 
c-erbB-2, p53 and ras p21. Clinical response was measured according to UICC 
criteria after 6 months of treatment and all patients were followed for time to 
progression and overall survival. As shown previously, oestrogen receptor (ER) 
negativity, high Ki67 labelling index and EGFR overexpression were associated 
with a shorter time to progression and overall survival. However, no 
statistically significant relationship existed between expression of ras p21, 
p53 or c-erbB-2 and response to treatment, time to progression or overall 
survival. We conclude that staining for these three oncoproteins has no role in 
therapeutic decision-making in patients with advanced breast cancer. The 
negative finding implies that while abnormal expression of these genes may have 
an important role in the development of breast cancer, the variations in growth 
characteristics of advanced breast cancer may be influenced by other factors.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1995.497
PMCID: PMC2033919
PMID: 7577479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Br J Cancer. 1995 Nov;72(5):1307-11. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1995.506.

A Scottish national mortality study assessing cause of death, quality of and 
variation in management of patients with testicular non-seminomatous germ-cell 
tumours. The Scottish Radiological Society and the Scottish Standing Committee 
of the Royal College of Radiologists.

Howard GC(1), Clarke K, Elia MH, Hutcheon AW, Kaye SB, Windsor PM, Yosef HM, 
Sharp L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK.

A detailed casenote review was performed on 55 patients registered with 
testicular non-seminomatous germ cell tumours (NSGCT) between 1983 and 1988 
under the Scottish Cancer Registration Scheme and who had died by 1992. Details 
of all aspects of clinical management relating to their NSGCT and death details 
were extracted and summarised. An assessment was made on whether the patients' 
management had been optimal. An analysis of 5 year survival rates by the five 
Scottish oncology centres demonstrated significant differences between centres 
(range 70.4-94.2; chi 2 = 14.46, d.f. = 4, P = 0.006). Some patients in all 
centres were assessed as having received suboptimal treatment, but two centres 
performed less well than the other three. There is a suggestion that the number 
of patients treated suboptimally decreases with increasing number of patients 
seen, but this does not reach statistical significance.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1995.506
PMCID: PMC2033944
PMID: 7577488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. J Adolesc Health. 1995 Jul;17(1):46-50. doi: 10.1016/1054-139X(94)00096-W.

Reproductive health in young women with cystic fibrosis: knowledge, behavior and 
attitudes.

Sawyer SM(1), Phelan PD, Bowes G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Medicine, Royal Children's Hospital, Parkville, 
Victoria, Australia.

PURPOSE: The improved life-expectancy in cystic fibrosis (CF) results in the 
fact that the majority of affected young women now survive to face the same 
reproductive health decisions as other women, in addition to those that 
specifically relate to CF. The aim of this study was to assess the reproductive 
health knowledge of women with CF, to investigate the range of their 
reproductive health problems, and to review their reproductive health attitudes 
and behaviors.
METHODS: Women aged 18 years and over attending CF services in the state of 
Victoria, Australia were invited to complete a reproductive health 
questionnaire. Comparison subjects (n = 76) were enrolled from 2 primary care 
practices.
RESULTS: Fifty-five women participated (89%), with a median age of 22 years 
(range 18-50). There was no significant difference in marital status between the 
two groups and a similar proportion were sexually active, yet women with CF were 
less likely to use contraception. A majority of women with CF believed that 
fertility was reduced, and there was poor knowledge of the potentially 
deleterious effect of pregnancy. A relatively high proportion were planning to 
become pregnant in the near future. Twenty-two percent had tried to conceive, 
with a success rate of 67%.
CONCLUSIONS: Women with CF are currently lacking important information about 
reproductive health that potentially has a major impact on their health and 
their lives.

DOI: 10.1016/1054-139X(94)00096-W
PMID: 7578163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Autoimmunity. 1995;20(1):25-32. doi: 10.3109/08916939508993336.

Serological abnormalities induced by engraftment of viable motheaten 
hematopoietic cells in nude beige recipients.

Velin D(1), Kuntz L, Loor F.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'immunologie, UniversitÃ© de Strasbourg, France.

C57BL/6J (B6) mice homozygous for the viable motheaten (mev) mutation are 
short-lived and display severe immunodeficiency, autoimmunity and inflammatory 
disease. B6 mice doubly homozygous for the nude (nu) and beige (bg) mutations 
(nubg mice) are also short-lived and immunodeficient. Nevertheless, grafts of 
mev lympho-hematopoietic cells increased life expectancy of nubg recipients. 
Such [mev --> nubg] chimeras did not develop any mev-like inflammatory pathology 
but showed autoimmunity features, particularly hyperglobulinemia which, unlike 
the mev one, was due to IgG rather than IgM. Serological studies of [mev IgHb 
--> nubg Igha] chimeras surprisingly revealed the exclusive host B-cell origin 
of the IgG2a overproduced by these chimeras. Yet, about half of such chimera 
serum IgM being IgMb, mev B cells had actually engrafted the nubg hosts. 
Together with the lack of transfer of the inflammatory pathology, this suggests 
that a non-mev environment might succeed acting as a regulator of some 
mev-induced dysfunctions.

DOI: 10.3109/08916939508993336
PMID: 7578858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Health Rep. 1995;7(1):51-60, 55-64.

Deaths 1993.

[Article in English, French]

Nault F(1), Wilkins K.

Author information:
(1)Health Statistics Division at Statistics Canada, Ottawa.

PMID: 7578997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Health Rep. 1995;7(1):7-18, 7-20.

Impact of new population estimates on health and vital statistics.

[Article in English, French]

Bender R(1).

Author information:
(1)Demography Division at Statistics Canada, Ottawa.

Changes in Statistics Canada's annual population estimates, introduced in 1993, 
have an impact on a wide range of social, economic and demographic indicators. 
Any indicator that relies on population estimates will be affected by the new 
figures. This article describes the adjustment and examines its impact on health 
and vital statistics rates. With rare exceptions, all rates decrease as the 
denominators are adjusted upward. For example, accident rates, suicide rates, 
and age-specific fertility rates based on the adjusted population are lower than 
those previously calculated. The extent of the adjustment, however, depends on 
the geographic and demographic characteristics of the population at risk. 
Analysts whose work concentrates on special subgroups for whom the adjustment is 
particularly great (such as young adult men) may wish to pay closer attention to 
the new population figures. Although the new rates are lower than before, 
underlying trends and patterns over time or across subcategories are quite 
similar. The revised series incorporates estimates of net census undercoverage, 
and for the first time, includes non-permanent residents. In 1991, net census 
undercoverage and non-permanent residents together amounted to about one million 
persons, or 3.6% of the revised Canadian population of 28,120,100.

PMID: 7578998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Blood. 1995 Nov 15;86(10):3961-9.

An analysis of engraftment kinetics as a function of the CD34 content of 
peripheral blood progenitor cell collections in 692 patients after the 
administration of myeloablative chemotherapy.

Weaver CH(1), Hazelton B, Birch R, Palmer P, Allen C, Schwartzberg L, West W.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Division of Response Technologies, Inc, Memphis, TN, USA.

The CD34 antigen is expressed by committed and uncommitted hematopoietic 
progenitor cells and is increasingly used to assess stem cell content of 
peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC) collections. Quantitative CD34 
expression in PBPC collections has been suggested to correlate with engraftment 
kinetics of PBPCs infused after myeloablative therapy. We analyzed the 
engraftment kinetics as a function of CD34 content in 692 patients treated with 
high-dose chemotherapy (HDC). Patients had PBPCs collected after 
cyclophosphamide based mobilization chemotherapy with or without recombinant 
human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (rhG-CSF) until > or = 2.5 x 10(6) 
CD34+ cells/kg were harvested. Measurement of the CD34 content of PBPC 
collections was performed daily by a central reference laboratory using a single 
technique of CD34 analysis. Forty-five patients required a second mobilization 
procedure to achieve > or = 2.5 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg and 15 patients with less 
than 2.5 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg available for infusion received HDC. A median of 
9.94 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg (range, 0.5 to 112.6 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg) 
contained in the PBPC collections was subsequently infused into patients after 
the administration of HDC. Engraftment was rapid with patients requiring a 
median of 9 days (range, 5 to 38 days) to achieve a neutrophil count of 0.5 x 
10(9)/L and a median of 9 days (range, 4 to 53+ days) to achieve a platelet 
count of > or = 20 x 10(9)/L. A clear dose-response relationship was evident 
between the number of CD34+ cells per kilogram infused between the number of 
CD34+ cells per kilogram infused and neutrophil and platelet engraftment 
kinetics. Factors potentially influencing the engraftment kinetics of neutrophil 
and platelet recovery were examined using a Cox regression model. The single 
most powerful mediator of both platelet (P = .0001) and neutrophil (P = .0001) 
recovery was the CD34 content of the PBPC product. Administration of a post-PBPC 
infusion myeloid growth factor was also highly correlated with neutrophil 
recovery (P = .0001). Patients receiving high-dose cyclophosphamide, thiotepa, 
and carboplatin had more rapid platelet recovery than patients receiving other 
regimens (P = .006), and patients requiring 2 mobilization procedures versus 1 
mobilization procedure to achieve > or = 2.5 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg experienced 
slower platelet recovery (P = .005). Although a minimal threshold CD34 dose 
could not be defined, > or = 5.0 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg appears to be optimal 
for ensuring rapid neutrophil and platelet recovery.

PMID: 7579367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Blood. 1995 Nov 15;86(10):3979-86.

Late infections after allogeneic bone marrow transplantations: comparison of 
incidence in related and unrelated donor transplant recipients.

Ochs L(1), Shu XO, Miller J, Enright H, Wagner J, Filipovich A, Miller W, 
Weisdorf D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, USA.

Infectious complications are a major cause of morbidity and mortality after 
allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). We have evaluated the incidence of 
late infections (beyond day +50) in recipients of related (RD) and unrelated 
donor (URD) allogeneic BMT, factors associated with increased risks of 
infection, and the impact of the late infections on survival. Between 1989 and 
1991, 249 patients received an RD (n = 151) or URD (n = 98) allogeneic BMT at 
the University of Minnesota and all late infections were investigated. Three 
hundred sixty-seven late infectious events developed in 162 patients between 50 
days and 2 years after BMT. The incidence of any late infection was greater in 
URD versus RD recipients (84.7% v 68.2%, respectively; P = .009). In 
multivariate analysis, advanced graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) was 
significantly associated with late infections. The effect of GVHD was apparent 
only in RD recipients (relative risk [RR], 2.29; P = .003), whereas URD 
recipients, with or without GVHD, had more late infections compared with RD 
recipients without GVHD. Multivariate analysis showed that late 
posttransplantation infections were the dominant independent factor associated 
with increased nonrelapse mortality (RR, 5.5; P = .0001), resulting in improved 
3-year survival for RD versus URD recipients (49.9% +/- 8% v 34.4% +/- 10%; P = 
.004). In this study, we observed that late infections are more frequent in URD 
recipients, resulting in substantially higher nonrelapse mortality. This 
prolonged period of increased infectious risk in URD recipients suggests the 
need for aggressive surveillance and therapy of late infections and perhaps 
prolonged antibiotic prophylaxis for all URD BMT recipients.

PMID: 7579369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Blood. 1995 Oct 15;86(8):2922-9.

The C5R protocol: a regimen of high-dose chemotherapy and radiotherapy in 
primary cerebral non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of patients with no known cause of 
immunosuppression.

Blay JY(1), Bouhour D, Carrie C, Bouffet E, Brunat-Mentigny M, Philip T, Biron 
P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Centre LÃ©on BÃ©rard, Lyon, France.

Comment in
    Blood. 1995 Oct 15;86(8):2873-5.

In most reported series, less than 20% of patients with primary cerebral 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (PCL) and no known cause of immunodepression are alive 
and disease-free 5 years after the initial diagnosis. Whether chemotherapy 
improves the outcome of these patients remains unclear. We report a pilot study 
of a protocol (C5R) with 5 courses of chemotherapy followed by cranial 
radiotherapy in 25 adult patients with PCL and no known cause of 
immunodepression. The median age was 51 years (range, 16 to 70 years) and the 
median performance status was 2 (range, 1 to 4) in this series. Fourteen 
patients (56%) achieved a complete response and 4 (16%) achieved a partial 
response 1 month after the completion of the treatment. Four patients died in 
the first month of treatment because of progression (n = 1) or toxicity (n = 3). 
In 3 patients, the treatment could not be performed because of patient refusal 
(n = 1) or severe infections (n = 2). Myelosuppression was the most frequent 
side effect; febrile neutropenia occurred in 96%, 89%, 69%, and 74% of the 
patients after the second, third, fourth, and fifth courses of chemotherapy, 
respectively. Grade 4 thrombocytopenia occurred in 20% of the patients. With a 
median follow-up of 24 months, the projected survival of the group at 2 and 5 
years is 70% and 56%, respectively. The 4 early deaths occurred in the subgroup 
of 6 patients greater than 60 years of age with an international prognostic 
index (IPI) greater than 3. In the 19 remaining patients (76% of this series) 
less than 61 years of age or with an IPI less than 4, the projected overall 
survival at 2 and 5 years is 88% and 70%, respectively. The C5R protocol is a 
highly efficient regimen in nonimmunosuppressed patients with PCL less than 61 
years of age or with an IPI less than 4.

PMID: 7579384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Blood. 1995 Oct 15;86(8):3247-56.

Unrelated donor marrow transplantation in children.

Balduzzi A(1), Gooley T, Anasetti C, Sanders JE, Martin PJ, Petersdorf EW, 
Appelbaum FR, Buckner CD, Matthews D, Storb R, Sullivan KM, Hansen JA.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, 
WA 98104, USA.

Eighty-eight children 0.5 to 17 years of age (median, 9 years of age) received 
an unrelated donor marrow transplant for treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia 
(CML; n = 16), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in first or second remission 
(n = 15) or more advanced stage (n = 28), acute myeloid leukemia (AML; n = 13), 
or other hematologic diseases (n = 16) between June 1985 and April 1993. All 
patients were conditioned with cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation and 
received a combination of methotrexate and cyclosporine as graft-versus-host 
disease (GVHD) prophylaxis. Fourty-six patients received transplants from 
HLA-identical donors and 42 patients received transplants from donors who were 
minor-mismatched at one HLA-A or B or D/DRB1 locus. The Kaplan-Meier estimates 
of disease-free survival and relapse were 75% and 0% for patients with CML, 47% 
and 20% for ALL in first or second remission, 10% and 60% for ALL in relapse or 
third remission, 46% and 46% for AML in first remission (n = 1) or more advanced 
disease (n = 12), and 29% and 69% for other diseases. HLA disparity was not 
significantly associated with lower disease-free survival, but the results 
suggest more relapses in HLA-matched recipients and there was significantly more 
transplant-related mortality in mismatched recipients (51% v 24%, P = .04). Most 
deaths were due to infections associated with acute or chronic GVHD and occurred 
within the first 2 years after transplantation. Granulocyte engraftment occurred 
in all evaluable patients. Sixty-three percent of HLA-matched and 57% of 
HLA-mismatched recipients were discharged home disease-free at a median of 98 
and 103 days, respectively, after transplantation (P = not significant [NS]). 
The incidence of grades II-IV acute GVHD was 83% in HLA-matched and 98% in 
HLA-mismatched recipients (P = .009). The incidence of chronic GVHD was 60% in 
HLA-matched and 69% in HLA-mismatched recipients (P = NS). One or multiple late 
adverse events such as cataracts, osteonecrosis of the hip or knee, restrictive 
or obstructive pulmonary disease, and hypothyroidism have occurred in 11 of 33 
(33%) surviving patients. Immunosuppression was discontinued in 58% of surviving 
patients, including all 12 patients surviving more than 3.2 years, all of whom 
have a Lansky or Karnofsky score of 100%. These data show that marrow 
transplantation from fully or partially HLA-matched unrelated donors can be 
effective therapy for children with hematologic disorders and that 
pretransplantation disease status and posttransplantation GVHD remain important 
factors affecting patient outcome.

PMID: 7579422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Blood. 1995 Oct 15;86(8):3257-62.

Intensive therapy with peripheral blood progenitor cell transplantation in 60 
patients with poor-prognosis follicular lymphoma.

Bastion Y(1), Brice P, Haioun C, Sonet A, Salles G, Marolleau JP, Espinouse D, 
Reyes F, Gisselbrecht C, Coiffier B.

Author information:
(1)Service d'HÃ©matologie, Centre Hospitalier Lyon-Sud, Pierre-BÃ©nite, France.

Intensive therapy, mainly with purged autologous bone marrow transplantation 
(ABMT), has been proposed in recent years as consolidation treatment in young 
patients with follicular lymphoma. Reported experience with transplantation of 
peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC) is, so far, limited. The feasibility 
and the therapeutic efficacy of intensive therapy followed by unpurged 
autologous PBPC reinfusion were evaluated in 60 patients with poor-prognosis 
follicular lymphoma. Twelve patients were in first partial remission (PR), 34 
were in second partial or complete remission (CR), and 14 were in subsequent 
progression. At the time of the procedure, 39 patients (65%) had persistent bone 
marrow involvement, 49 patients (82%) were in PR, and 16 patients had presented 
with a histologic transformation (HT). PBPC were collected after chemotherapy 
followed by granulocyte (G) colony-stimulating factor (CSF) or 
granulocyte-macrophage (GM)-CSF in 50 patients. Conditioning regimens included 
high-dose chemotherapy alone (14 patients); mainly the BCNU, etoposide, 
aracytine, melphalan [BEAM] regimen), or cyclophosphamide with or without 
etoposide plus total body irradiation (46 patients). The median time to reach a 
neutrophil count greater than 0.5 x 10(9)/L was 13 days. There were five 
treatment-related deaths, with four being associated with a delayed engraftment 
and all occurring in patients in third or subsequent progression. At a median 
follow-up of 21 months, 48 patients were still alive, 18 relapsed, and seven 
died of lymphomas progression. Estimated 2-year overall survival (OS) and 
failure-free survival (FFS) rates were 86% and 53%, respectively, without or 
plateau. Patients treated in PR1 or PR2/CR2 had a significantly longer rate of 
OS and FFS than those treated in subsequent progression (P = .002 and P = .001, 
respectively), whereas age, response to salvage treatment, presence or absence 
of residual bone marrow involvement, or conditioning regimen had no influence on 
outcome. Patients with HT tended to have a worse FFS rate (P = .04) without an 
OS difference. Along with an unusual rate of engraftment failure, the poor FFS 
observed in heavily pretreated patients suggests that intensive therapy should 
be performed early in the course of the disease. Given the high percentage of 
patients intensified in PR with residual bone marrow involvement, our results 
are comparable with those achieved with ABMT published to date. Prospective 
trials are warranted to compare this strategy with standard therapy in patients 
with relapsing or PR follicular lymphoma.

PMID: 7579423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Blood. 1995 Nov 1;86(9):3333-40.

Aggressive treatment for postcardiac transplant lymphoproliferation.

Swinnen LJ(1), Mullen GM, Carr TJ, Costanzo MR, Fisher RI.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Loyola University Chicago, Maywood, IL 
60153, USA.

Posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD) is a frequently fatal 
complication of organ transplantation, occurring in 2% to 6% of cardiac 
recipients. Treatment remains poorly defined. Reduction in immunosuppression is 
effective in a proportion of cases, but mortality on the order of 80% is 
reported for patients requiring chemotherapy. The reason for such poor outcomes 
is unclear, but may be partly caused by the concomitant use of 
immunosuppressives. Nineteen consecutive cardiac recipients with PTLD were 
studied retrospectively in terms of clinical features and outcome. Patients were 
managed according to a uniform treatment approach. Initial therapy was a trial 
of reduced immunosuppression with concomitant acyclovir followed, if 
unsuccessful, by aggressive combination chemotherapy. The regimen used was 
predominantly ProMACE-CytaBOM. Six patients with phenotypically polyclonal PTLD 
presented less than 6 months after transplantation (median 6 weeks). Only 1 of 4 
(25%) treated patients responded to reduced immunosuppression; the remainder 
died of multiorgan failure. Thirteen patients presented with phenotypically 
monoclonal disease > or = 6 months after transplantation. In 8 of 12 (75%) 
treated patients initial therapy was reduction in immunosuppression. None 
achieved complete remission (CR) and 2 experienced fatal rejection. Two patients 
achieved durable surgical CR. The remaining 8 patients received chemotherapy; 2 
of 8 (25%) died during treatment, 6 of 8 (75%) achieved CR. None have relapsed, 
at a median duration of follow-up of 38 months. Neutropenic sepsis and 
subclinical doxorubicin cardiotoxicity at a mean cumulative dose of 63 mg/m2 
were the principal toxicities. Our data indicate that aggressive chemotherapy is 
both feasible and effective in phenotypically monoclonal PTLD refractory to 
reduced immunosuppression. ProMACE-CytaBOM is well suited to cardiac recipients, 
minimizing doxorubicin exposure and obviating the need for concurrent 
immunosuppressives.

PMID: 7579436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1995 Sep;35(3):267-75. doi: 10.1007/BF00665978.

Nonattendance in the Stockholm mammography screening trial: relative mortality 
and reasons for nonattendance.

Lidbrink E(1), Frisell J, Brandberg Y, Rosendahl I, Rutqvist LE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, SÃ¶der Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

The first objective of this study was to analyze the survival rate in a group of 
69 breast cancers detected among nonattenders in a randomized mammographic 
screening trial in relation to 142 clinically detected cancers in a nonscreened 
control population. By analyzing the cancers of the nonattenders we identified 
two subgroups, one (A) had actively avoided mammography, had cancers in more 
advanced stages on diagnosis, and had significantly higher mortality from breast 
cancer than the control group (p = 0.003). The second subgroup (B) had 
mammography done outside the screening program. This subgroup had a 
nonsignificant, slightly better survival (p = 0.19) compared to the control 
group. Concerning stage the cancers in group B were similar to the cancers by 
the screening program. The second objective was to analyze women's reasons for 
nonattendance in the screening program. We interviewed 200 randomly selected 
nonattenders; 33% stated that they never could imaging having mammography 
(definite nonattenders), 29.5% that they for various reasons had missed the 
mammography but could imagine having it next time (possible future attenders), 
and 32% had been examined outside the program. Reasons for nonattendance 
included disinterest, medical problems, and fear of X-rays. From this interview 
investigation we believe that the subgroup of definite nonattenders (33%) is 
difficult to influence. The second subgroup classified as possible future 
attenders (29.5%) we believe can be influenced by more information and a new 
opportunity to receive mammography, i.e., a reminder letter. The third subgroup, 
those examined outside the screening program (32%) were aware of the benefit of 
mammography, taking action on their own.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00665978
PMID: 7579497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Histol Histopathol. 1995 Jul;10(3):541-66.

Nuclear vlimata and aneuploidy in embryonic cells is caused by meiosis. 
Behaviour and properties of meiotic cells.

Logothetou-Rella H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Physiology, Medical School, University of Athens, 
Greece.

This study demonstrates that human embryonic cells divide by meiosis. The use of 
trophoblastic tissue cells (early embryo) and amniotic cells (late embryo) 
exhibited the following characteristic events of meiosis: nuclear (NVs) and 
nucleolar (NuVs) vlimata formation; NV invasion in host cells; extrusion of 
chromosomes; nuclear fusion; metaphase fusion; hybrid cell formation; nuclear, 
nucleolar and cytoplasmic bridges, chromosomal transfer, variable-sized nuclei; 
nuclear fragmentation; condensed meiotic chromosomes; "O" chromosome; and 
aneuploidy. Two types of nuclear bridges (NBs) were identified and defined as 
communicative tubules through which chromosomal transfer among cells is 
achieved. The wall of NBs is an extension of the nuclear membrane and the lumen 
contained chromosomal fusion substance (CFS). Embryonic cells formed 
glycosaminoglycan-sacs (GSG-sacs) and rivulets, forming a cytoplasmic 
communicative system. The extracellular matrix (ECM), GSG-sacs and CFS were 
composed of glycosaminoglycan-bound protease. The protease which 
immuno-crossreacted with the a1-chymotrypsin antiserum was the meiotic 
calcium-activated activated neutral proteinase (CANP). Cytogenetic analysis of 
early embryonic cells showed higher ratio of aneuploidy:diploidy than late 
embryonic cells. The results are discussed in terms of differentiation-mitosis 
and undifferentiation-meiosis. These observations lead to an embryonic cell life 
cycle identical to that of malignant cells as follows: [formula: see text].

PMID: 7579802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. J Subst Abuse. 1989;1(3):359-68.

Implications of a nicotine-free society.

Warner KE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Policy and Administration, School of Public 
Health, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109-2029, USA.

Cigarette smoking causes more premature deaths than do all of the following 
together: AIDS, cocaine, heroin, alcohol, fire, automobile accidents, homicide, 
and suicide. A society freed of its addiction to nicotine would ultimately 
experience a life expectancy gain comparable to that that would be achieved by 
the elimination of all cancers not caused by tobacco use. In particular, each 
year, the 390,000 individuals who now succumb to tobacco-related deaths instead 
would realize a life expectancy gain of 15 years. The tobacco industry implies 
that the demise of tobacco consumption would wreak havoc with the economy. By 
contrast, some antitobacco activists suggest that the end of tobacco use would 
yield a multibillion dollar fiscal dividend. Each argument is fundamentally 
flawed. The economic impacts of a nicotine-free society would be modest and of 
far less consequence than the principal implication: a significantly enriched 
quality and quantity of life.

PMID: 7580225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. BMJ. 1995 Oct 7;311(7010):935-7. doi: 10.1136/bmj.311.7010.935.

Cuba: plenty of care, few condoms, no corruption.

Veeken H(1).

Author information:
(1)MÃ©decins Sans FrontiÃ¨res, Amsterdam, Netherlands.

The health system in Cuba guarantees accessibility to the entire population, is 
free of charge, and covers the spectrum from vaccinations to sophisticated 
interventions. The results are impressive: Cuba's health figures are on a par 
with developed countries that have 20 times the budget. The country is 
experiencing a difficult period because of the collapse and loss of support from 
the Soviet Union; over 30 years' trade embargo by the United States; and the 
gradual change from a centrally planned economy towards more of a free market 
system. Shortages are experienced in every sector, and maintaining health care 
services at the current level is too expensive. Doctors and nurses continue to 
work towards the goal of health for all Cubans, even though their salaries are 
minimal. Signs of negligence or corruption, often seen in other socialist 
countries where incentives for output are lacking, are unknown. Topics such as 
family planning and AIDS deserve immediate attention.

PIP: The health system in Cuba guarantees accessibility to the entire 
population, and it is free of charge. Cuba's health figures are on a par with 
developed countries that have 20 times the budget. Each year around 4000 
students start their medical training at 23 different universities. Since 1980 
there has been a training course for family doctors. By 1995 22,000 of them have 
been trained covering 90% of the population. Their main work is preventive: 
health promotion and offering basic curative care. The family doctors are backed 
up by 400 polyclinics, where specialists offer their services to about 30,000 
people. Life expectancy is 77 years and infant mortality a mere 9 per 1000 live 
births. Malaria has been eradicated and dengue fever successfully reduced. 
Leading causes of mortality are cardiovascular diseases, neoplasms, accidents, 
and homicides. Up to now only 1089 people have been diagnosed as HIV positive. 
From a mere epidemiological point of view, strict isolation could contain the 
epidemic in a closed society. In practice, however, the island opened the doors 
to tourism, with a side effect of increasing prostitution. Condoms or any 
contraceptives are in short supply. Nevertheless, the number of abortions is 
low, less than 1 per 100 deliveries. The reason is that all women whose expected 
menstruation is late by two weeks are offered a microaspiration in the 
polyclinic. 700 regulations are performed for every 5000 fertile women. 
Pregnancy tests are not performed as they are not available. The country is 
experiencing a difficult period because of the collapse and loss of support from 
the Soviet Union; over 30 years' trade embargo by the United States and the 
gradual change from a centrally planned economy towards more of a free market 
system. Family planning and AIDS seem two topics that need further exploration. 
Even if their system is under strain, health indices do not show a deterioration 
in health yet.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.311.7010.935
PMCID: PMC2550926
PMID: 7580557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand). 1995 Jul;41(5):695-8.

Optimization of the PCR test for the mutation causing bovine leukocyte adhesion 
deficiency.

Mirck MH(1), Von Bannisseht-Wijsmuller T, Timmermans-Besselink WJ, Van Luijk JH, 
Buntjer JB, Lenstra JA.

Author information:
(1)Animal Health Service, Deventer, The Netherlands.

The recent emergence of the bovine leukocyte adhesion deficiency (BLAD) 
demonstrated the risks of narrowing the genetic basis of a population. About 6% 
of the Holstein-Friesian cattle now descends from one bull who was a 
heterozygous BLAD carrier. Crossing his descendants resulted in the birth of 
homozygous BLAD calves with a life expectancy of < 1 year. The BLAD syndrome is 
caused by a point mutation in the gene coding for CD18, a subunit of the beta 2 
integrins on the surface of leukocytes. By using a PCR-RFLP test, large numbers 
of cattle are now being screened in several countries to eradicate the mutant 
allele. We describe an optimization of the PCR primer set that has led to an 
improvement of the test.

PMID: 7580848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1995 Jun;15(6):819-24.

Recombinant alpha-interferon as treatment for chronic myelogenous leukemia in 
relapse after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation: a report from the SociÃ©tÃ© 
FranÃ§aise de Greffe de Moelle.

Pigneux A(1), Devergie A, Pochitaloff M, Rio B, Archimbaud E, Cahn JY, Leblond 
V, Michallet M, Jouet JP, Guilhot F, et al.

Author information:
(1)Bone Marrow Transplant Laboratory, URA CNRS 1456, University of Bordeaux II, 
France.

Thirty three patients with Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+) chronic 
myelogenous leukemia (CML) in relapse after allogenic bone marrow 
transplantation (BMT) were treated with recombinant alpha-interferon (IFN). Ten 
patients received IFN for cytogenetic relapse (group I) and 23 (group II) for 
hematologic relapse. The starting dose of IFN varied from 1.7 to 6 million 
units/m2/day (median 3 x 10(6) U/m2/day). Among the 10 group I patients, 3 
subsequently developed hematologic relapse. Of the other 7, a cytogenetic 
response was observed in 6 (complete 4, minor 2). Three of these responders are 
alive in complete cytogenetic remission. Of the 23 group II patients, 3 did not 
respond to IFN but 20 achieved a complete (CHR) (n = 14) or a partial 
hematologic response (PHR) (n = 6). Thirteen of the 14 CHR patients subsequently 
achieved a cytogenetic response (complete 7, minor 6). Seven of the latter 13 
patients are still alive in complete cytogenetic remission (CCR). Thus, for the 
entire group of 33 patients, IFN was followed by CCR in 11 cases (33%); all 
these patients are still alive and the median follow-up in CCR is now 60.7 
months (range 35.3-72.5 months). The BCR-ABL rearrangement was not detected by 
RT-PCR in 5 of the 10 patients analyzed. Eleven other patients developed either 
blast crisis or acceleration. The 3-year probability of survival from the start 
of IFN therapy probability of survival from the start of IFN therapy was 70 +/- 
16% (95% CI) and was statistically higher for patients who achieved CCR than for 
the others.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 7581075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1995 Jun;15(6):853-8.

Relationship between donor-recipient blood group incompatibility and serum 
bilirubin after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation from HLA-identical 
siblings.

Mehta J(1), Powles R, Horton C, Milan S, Singhal S, Treleaven J.

Author information:
(1)Leukaemia Unit, Royal Marsden Hospital, Sutton, Surrey, UK.

Data on 477 patients with hematologic malignancies undergoing allogeneic bone 
marrow transplantation from HLA-identical siblings were analyzed for correlation 
between donor-recipient ABO blood group incompatibility and the development of 
elevated bilirubin levels (over 17 mmol/l) after transplantation. The median 
bilirubin on day 15 after transplant and the maximum bilirubin in the first 100 
days were significantly higher in 155 patients with ABO-mismatched donors 
compared with 322 patients with ABO-matched donors. In univariate analysis, age 
> 16 years (P = 0.000006), ABO incompatibility (P = 0.0004), a conditioning 
regimen other than cyclophosphamide-total body irradiation (P = 0.0005) and a 
diagnosis other than acute leukemia (P = 0.01) were associated with a higher 
probability of developing elevated bilirubin. Incidence of clinically diagnosed 
graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), and transplant-related mortality, relapse 
rates and overall survival were not influenced by ABO incompatibility. The 
hyperbilirubinemia was therefore unlikely to be the result of an increased 
incidence of hepatic complications such as GVHD or veno-occlusive disease. We 
suggest that studies on serious transplant-related complications such as GVHD 
and veno-occlusive disease which rely on bilirubin values for diagnosis should 
take donor-recipient ABO incompatibility into account.

PMID: 7581080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1995 Jun;15(6):915-22.

Rapid engraftment after autologous transplantation utilizing marrow and 
recombinant granulocyte colony-stimulating factor-mobilized peripheral blood 
stem cells in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia.

Demirer T(1), Buckner CD, Appelbaum FR, Petersen FB, Rowley S, Weaver CH, 
Lilleby K, Sanders J, Chauncey T, Storb R, et al.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA 98104, USA.

This study was performed to determine whether peripheral blood stem cells 
(PBSCs) mobilized with recombinant granulocyte-colony stimulating factor 
(rhG-CSF) increase the tempo of granulocyte and platelet recovery when added to 
marrow in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) undergoing autologous 
bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Twenty six patients with AML had bone marrow 
harvested in first (n = 16) or second (n = 10) complete remission (CR) and 
cryopreserved. Patients received rhG-CSF alone (n = 20) or rhG-CSF following 
chemotherapy (n = 6). PBSCs were collected from 24 of the 26 patients a median 
of 7 (range 3-2130) days after marrow harvest. Two patients presumed to be in 
second CR did not have PBSCs collected because of early relapse. Fourteen 
patients in first CR (n = 3), second CR (n = 8) or first relapse (n = 3) 
proceeded to autologous BMT utilizing marrow + rhG-CSF-mobilized PBSCs. 
Engraftment parameters were compared with a historical group of 158 patients 
with AML who had received purged (n = 67) or unpurged (n = 91) autologous BMT 
without PBSCs. The median number of peripheral blood total nucleated and CD34+ 
cells collected from 24 patients was 19.55 x 10(8)/kg (range 1.83-54.83) and 
5.59 x 10(6)/kg (1.23-34.79), respectively. All patients transplanted achieved a 
granulocyte level of > 0.5 x 10(9)/l with a median of 13 days (range 11-27 days) 
and platelets to 20 x 10(9)/l median 14 days (range 9-83 days).(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 7581091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1995 Jun;15(6):923-7.

Source of stem cells impacts on hematopoietic recovery after high-dose 
chemotherapy.

Zimmerman TM(1), Mick R, Myers S, Bender JG, Lee WJ, Williams SF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

The restoration of hematopoiesis after high-dose chemotherapy may be accelerated 
by the use of stem cells from the bone marrow (BM) or peripheral blood. Numerous 
reports utilizing mobilized peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC) for stem 
cell rescue have shown that PBPC are sufficient to restore hematopoiesis, but 
there are little data comparing the recovery among patients treated with various 
stem cell sources. We reviewed the clinical outcomes of 69 women at our 
institution who were treated for locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer 
with high-dose cyclophosphamide (CY) and thiotepa and autologous stem cell and 
growth factor support. Of the 43 patients with normal BM, 19 received BM alone 
and 24 received BM plus G-CSF mobilized PBPC. Of the 26 patients with evidence 
of metastatic disease in the BM, or evidence of fibrosis and hypocellularity, 15 
received CY-mobilized PBPC and 11 received CY/G-CSF-mobilized PBPC. Of the 
marrow-negative patients, those receiving BM alone had significantly longer (P < 
0.001) granulocyte recovery (absolute neutrophil count > 500 x 10(6)/l) and 
platelet recovery (platelets > 50 x 10(9)/l) compared with BM + G-CSF-mobilized 
PBPC. They also had significantly longer (P < 0.001) durations of antibiotic and 
amphotericin usage, increased transfusion requirements and longer 
hospitalizations. Of the marrow-positive patients, there was a slightly 
shortened granulocyte recovery, shortened hospital stays and lessened 
amphotericin usage in the patients who received CY/G-CSF-mobilized PBPC compared 
with the CY-mobilized patients. Although the number of harvested mononuclear 
cells differed significantly between the groups, this did not correlate with the 
time to hematopoietic recovery.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 7581092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1995 Jun;15(6):935-42.

Phase I multicenter trial of interleukin 6 therapy after autologous bone marrow 
transplantation in advanced breast cancer.

Lazarus HM(1), Winton EF, Williams SF, Grinblatt D, Campion M, Cooper BW, Gunn 
H, Manfreda S, Isaacs RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Ireland Cancer Center of University Hospitals of 
Cleveland, Case Western Reserve University, OH 44106, USA.

Our purpose was to determine the maximum tolerated dosage of rhIL-6 after 
high-dose cytotoxic chemotherapy and autologous BMT in patients with advanced 
breast cancer. Twenty patients (median age 43.5 years) received either CY and 
thiotepa (n = 3) or CY, thiotepa and carboplatin (n = 17) for 4 days. Unpurged 
autologous BM was reinfused 72 h later. Daily rhIL-6 therapy began the day of 
marrow infusion and continued until recovery of neutrophils (> or = 1.5 x 
10(9)/l) and platelets (> or = 50 x 10(9)/l) or for a maximum of 28 days at a 
dosage of 0.3 microgram/kg/day (n = 7), 1 microgram/kg/day (n = 6) or 3 
micrograms/kg/day (n = 7). Two of the initial 4 patients given rhIL-6 at 0.3 
mu/kg i.v. experienced grade 4 hyperbilirubinemia, so subsequent patients 
received s.c. rhIL-6. Most toxicities attributable to rhIL-6 were reversible or 
mild constitutional symptoms, but dose-limiting grade 4 hyperbilirubinemia also 
occurred in 3 of the 7 patients receiving the 3 micrograms/kg dose. At the 0.3 
and 1 microgram/kg/day doses, 8 of 13 patients completed the study vs. only 2 of 
7 at the 3 micrograms/kg/day dose. During rhIL-6 treatment, neutrophil recovery 
(> or = 500 x 10(6)/l) occurred in 12 patients and platelet recovery (> or = 20 
x 10(9)/l) occurred in 6 patients, 5 of whom received the 0.3 or 1 
microgram/kg/day s.c. dose. The maximal tolerated dose of rhIL-6 after 
autologous BMT appeared to be 1 microgram/kg/day s.c., a dose appreciably lower 
than the maximal tolerated dose after conventional cytotoxic therapy.

PMID: 7581094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1995 Jun;15(6):963-9.

Comparison of autologous bone marrow transplantation and peripheral blood stem 
cell transplantation after first remission induction treatment in multiple 
myeloma.

Harousseau JL(1), Attal M, Divine M, Milpied N, Marit G, Leblond V, Stoppa AM, 
Bourhis JH, Caillot D, Boasson M, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department d'Hematologie, HÃ´tel Dieu, Nantes, France.

The optimal source of stem cells is a controversial issue in the field of 
autologous stem cell transplantation. A comparison of autologous bone marrow 
transplantation (BMT) and peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT) 
after first remission induction treatment in multiple myeloma was made by a 
retrospective analysis of 132 transplants performed in 18 French Centers from 
1984 to 1991 (81 autologous BMT, 51 PBSCT). The two groups differed in the 
median age (PBSCT 49 years; autologous BMT 55 years, P < 0.001), the duration of 
chemotherapy prior to transplantation, the interval between stem cell collection 
and transplantation, and in the conditioning regimen (more total body 
irradiation and higher doses of irradiation in the PBSCT group). The median time 
to neutrophil recovery was shorter in the PBSCT group (13 days vs. 20 days, P < 
0.001), but the median time to platelet recovery did not differ significantly 
between PBSCT (26 days) and autologous BMT (22 days). There was no significant 
difference between the two groups regarding overall response rate (PBSCT 84%, 
autologous BMT 82%) and complete remission rate (PBSCT 37%, autologous BMT 36%). 
The actuarial relapse-free survival, time to treatment failure and overall 
survival were not significantly different. A case controlled study comparing 43 
autologous BMT and 43 PBSCT matched for age and status at the time of 
transplantation did not show any advantage of PBSCT over autologous BMT in terms 
of immediate outcome, relapse-free survival, overall survival and time to 
treatment failure. Thus, in this retrospective analysis, the only significant 
benefit for PBSCT was reduced time to neutrophil recovery.

PMID: 7581098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. J Biopharm Stat. 1995 Jul;5(2):159-70. doi: 10.1080/10543409508835105.

Statistical considerations for survival analysis from medical device clinical 
studies.

Lao CS(1).

Author information:
(1)Food and Drug Administration, Center for Devices and Radiological Health, 
Rockville, Maryland 20857, USA.

Appropriate statistical methods are presented to estimate the 95% lower 
confidence limit of true event-free probability, with heavy censoring in the 
small sample size situation, and to compare crude probability, linearized rate, 
and life-table probability. The problem of survival experience extrapolation 
beyond the last observed follow-up is also discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/10543409508835105
PMID: 7581425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. J Heart Valve Dis. 1995 Jul;4(4):337-8.

Measuring the quality of life.

Treasure T, Holmes L.

Comment on
    J Heart Valve Dis. 1995 Jul;4(4):339-45.

PMID: 7582137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Promot Educ. 1995 Jun-Sep;2(2-3):36-44. doi: 10.1177/102538239500200211.

Health promotion and education in Australia. Case study.

Pickering S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Services and Health, Commonwealth of Australia.

DOI: 10.1177/102538239500200211
PMID: 7582745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Promot Educ. 1995 Jun-Sep;2(2-3):70-1. doi: 10.1177/102538239500200221.

Country paper. Hungary.

Makara P(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Health Promotion, Budapest, Hungary.

DOI: 10.1177/102538239500200221
PMID: 7582753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 1995 Nov;50(6):S383-94. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/50b.6.s383.

Transitions in functional status and active life expectancy among older people 
in Japan.

Liu X(1), Liang J, Muramatsu N, Sugisawa H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gerontology, University of Michigan, USA.

This study analyzes the patterns and determinants of the transitions in 
functional status among elderly Japanese persons. Data for this research came 
from a two-wave national probability sample survey of persons aged 60 and over 
conducted between 1987 and 1990 in Japan. The study focuses on the transitions 
from two states of origin, "not disable" and "disabled," to three states of 
destination, "not disabled," "disabled," and "dead." Through multinomial logit 
analyses, the effects of sociodemographic factors, social relationships, health, 
and health behavior on transitions in functional status were examined. To assess 
the impact of panel attrition, the risk of nonresponse was analyzed in 
conjunction with health transition within the same framework. Finally, an 
increment-decrement active life table for Japanese elderly people was derived on 
the basis of the multivariate analyses. According to the life table, a Japanese 
older person at age 60 is expected to spend about 18.7 years (81%) in functional 
independence and about 4.4 years (19%) in disability throughout his or her 
remaining lifetime.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/50b.6.s383
PMID: 7583817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 1995 Jul-Aug;28(4):285-92.

[Aging and dying--reflections on statistical figures].

[Article in German]

Schaefer H.

Aging and death of man have changed decisively during the last centuries. Today, 
three age-dependent mortalities can be distinguished: the mortalities in the 
early years of life, those caused by external forces, and the rest of mortality. 
The logarithm of the rest of mortality is, starting with the 20th year of life, 
relatively strictly correlated to age. Only this age-dependent mortality can be 
