regarded as a "natural" mortality. It is however enabled only by a culturally 
and technically extremely favorable environment. The slope of the age-dependent 
mortality is relatively stable geographically and in the course of time, and is 
nearly equal for both sexes. Of various diseases, their relative mortalities 
(expressed in percent of total mortality) indicates an age-specific 
susceptibility for the causes of death, with high percentages either in youth, 
in midlife or in high age. The mortality of all cancers was relatively stable 
during the last decades, whereas the specific mortalities of different cancer 
sites varied to a much higher degree ("vicarious mortality"). Death is 
programmed relatively rigidly, as far as it is not related to violence 
(accidents, poisoning, murder). Perhaps the genetical determination is 
prevailing. The slope of the programmed part of mortality of woman changes in 
its steepness after the age of 60, with an increasing rate of mortality.

PMID: 7584545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Vet Clin North Am Food Anim Pract. 1995 Jul;11(2):361-73. doi: 
10.1016/s0749-0720(15)30491-6.

Stocker/feeder cattle standardized performance analysis.

McGrann JM(1), McAdams J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Economics, College of Agriculture and Life 
Sciences, Texas A&M University, USA.

The Standardized Performance Analysis (SPA) for stocker/feed cattle is a 
recommended set of production and financial performance analysis guidelines 
developed specifically for the grazing, growing, and finishing phases of beef 
cattle production. Guidelines were developed by members of the National 
Cattlemen's Association (NCA), Extension Specialists, and the National 
Integrated Resource Management Coordination Committee to provide beef cattle 
producers with a comprehensive, standardized means of measuring, analyzing, and 
reporting the performance and profitability of an operation. This article 
describes and illustrates through an example the performance measures chosen. 
The NCA certifies software and education materials conforming to the 
Stocker/Feeder Guidelines.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-0720(15)30491-6
PMID: 7584818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Nat Med. 1995 May;1(5):414-5. doi: 10.1038/nm0595-414.

Slowing ageing by caloric restriction.

Roth GS(1), Ingram DK, Lane MA.

Author information:
(1)Gerontology Research Center, National Institute on Aging, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, Maryland 21224, USA.

DOI: 10.1038/nm0595-414
PMID: 7585085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Diabet Med. 1995 Aug;12(8):724. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.1995.tb00579.x.

A desktop guide for the management of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus 
(NIDDM) by the European NIDDM Policy Group.

Sinclair AJ.

Comment on
    Diabet Med. 1994 Nov;11(9):899-909.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.1995.tb00579.x
PMID: 7587015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Chest. 1995 Nov;108(5):1264-71. doi: 10.1378/chest.108.5.1264.

Cost-effectiveness of head CT in patients with lung cancer without clinical 
evidence of metastases.

Colice GL(1), Birkmeyer JD, Black WC, Littenberg B, Silvestri G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH, USA.

Comment in
    Chest. 1995 Nov;108(5):1192-3.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of CT for detecting brain lesions 
in patients with lung cancer without clinical evidence of metastases.
DESIGN: Decision analysis model comparing two different strategies for detecting 
brain metastases: brain CT routinely (CT-first) or brain CT only when patients 
develop neurologic signs and/or symptoms (CT-deferred).
PATIENTS: Hypothetical cohort of patients with lung cancer with an unremarkable 
screening clinical evaluation for metastases.
MEASUREMENTS: Net costs are calculated as the difference in costs between the 
two limbs of the decision tree. Net benefits are expressed as the difference in 
calculated years of life expectancy between the two strategies. Net costs are 
divided by net benefits, yielding the marginal cost per quality adjusted year of 
added life expectancy (C/QALY) for the CT-first strategy.
RESULTS: In the baseline analysis, the C/QALY for the CT-first strategy is about 
$70,000. Improving the clinical evaluation as a screen for detecting brain 
metastases markedly increases the C/QALY. Increasing the cost of brain CT 
magnifies this effect. More effective treatment for asymptomatic brain 
metastases and better accuracy of CT for identifying resectable and unresectable 
brain metastases lower C/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Although a threshold cost-effectiveness has not been defined for 
identifying "cost-effective" diagnostic procedures, the marginal C/QALY of the 
CT-first strategy is substantially higher than many accepted medical 
interventions. At current costs, the routine use of brain CT is not warranted in 
patients with lung cancer who have normal findings on a standardized clinical 
evaluation for metastases.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.108.5.1264
PMID: 7587427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Fertil Steril. 1995 Nov;64(5):942-6. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)57906-0.

Reproductive potential after an ectopic pregnancy.

al-Nuaim L(1), Bamgboye EA, Chowdhury N, Adelusi B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, King Khalid University Hospital, 
Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

Comment in
    Fertil Steril. 1996 Jul;66(1):172-3.

OBJECTIVE: To measure statistically how soon pregnancy can occur after an 
ectopic pregnancy (EP) so as to determine the cumulative pregnancy rate and the 
risk factors involved in nonpregnancy.
DESIGN: The risk of not getting pregnant after an EP (survivorship) was 
estimated for 120 patients followed up for up to 60 months using the actuarial 
life-table technique. The risk factors involved in nonpregnancy, abortions, or 
live births were analyzed, using Cox regression models.
SETTING: King Khalid University Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
RESULTS: There were 68 pregnancies over the study period, with a conception rate 
of 56.7%. Using the actuarial life table, the cumulative probability of not 
achieving pregnancy in a patient decreased sharply during the first 12 months, 
followed by a gradual decrease up to 48 months. The Cox regression analysis 
showed a correlation between pregnancy and two variables, namely, age and 
history of prior EP. The chances of a pregnancy resulting in abortion or live 
birth also correlated with the presence of prior infertility, pelvic 
inflammatory disease (PID), or postoperative complications.
CONCLUSION: Age and prior EP are important determinants in pregnancy rates after 
an EP. Similarly, history of PID, infertility, and postoperative complications 
are important risk factors in whether the pregnancy goes to term or ends in 
abortion.

PIP: The study group consisted of 120 patients who were surgically managed for 
ectopic pregnancy (EP) at the King Khalid University Hospital over a 5-year 
period (1987-1991), and who were followed up for periods ranging from 12 to 60 
months. There were 68 pregnancies recorded over the 5-year follow-up period, a 
conception rate of 56.7%. However, only 75% of these pregnancies resulted in 
live births, another 22.1% ended in abortions, whereas 2 (2.9%) were repeat EPs. 
The ages of the patients ranged from 18 to 41 years. 46 patients had history of 
1, 2, or 3 abortions before their EP; 10 of them had history of previous EP. 
Infertility of 1 year's duration was managed in 27 patients and history of 
pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) was present in 12 patients. Life table 
analysis of the 120 patients showed that at the end of 12 months after EP, the 
patient had a 57.15% chance of not getting pregnant, and at the end of 48 
months, a 21.45% nonpregnancy rate would have been reached. The Cox proportional 
hazard analysis result identified only age and previous EP as being 
statistically significant prognostic factors of pregnancy after EP. The younger 
the patients, the shorter the duration it took to get pregnant. Similarly, those 
with no history of EP before the current one had a greater chance of getting 
pregnant even after the current EP. The Cox linear regression analysis revealed 
that women who had postoperative complications were at an 8-fold risk of the 
next pregnancy resulting in abortion, whereas the risk was more than 8-fold if 
the patient had a history of PID. The risk of a pregnancy not resulting in live 
birth after an EP operation was almost 2-fold in women with postoperative 
complications; 5-fold in women with previous history of infertility; and 7-fold 
in women with history of PID.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)57906-0
PMID: 7589638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Fertil Steril. 1995 Dec;64(6):1104-8. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)57968-0.

Exaggerated effects of progestogen on uterine artery pulsatility index in 
Turner's syndrome patients receiving hormone replacement therapy.

Biljan MM(1), Taylor CT, Matijevic R, Jones SV, Garden AS, Fraser WD, Diver MJ, 
Kingsland CR.

Author information:
(1)University of Liverpool, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of estrogen and progestogen on the 
resistance to blood flow in the uterine arteries of Turner's syndrome patients.
DESIGN: Prospective clinical study.
SETTING: A tertiary infertility clinic.
PATIENTS: Five Turner's syndrome patients, six patients who had surgical 
castration, and five patients with idiopathic primary ovarian failure.
INTERVENTIONS: The patients were treated with 2 mg E2 valerate to which 500 
micrograms norgesterel was added for 10 days in a 28-day cycle. Transvaginal 
color Doppler was used to measure pulsatility index in the uterine arteries at 
eight regular intervals during a single cycle.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Pulsatility index of the uterine arteries.
RESULTS: The administration of norgesterel to Turner's syndrome patients 
resulted in an increase in pulsatility index that was significantly higher than 
in patients who had surgical castration (confidence interval = 0.17 to 2.42).
CONCLUSION: The uterine arteries of Turner's syndrome patients are more 
sensitive to the tonic effect of progestogen. If manifest in cardiac arteries 
also this phenomenon may be partly responsible for the increased incidence of 
cardiovascular disease and shorter life expectancy in Turner's syndrome 
patients. To achieve optimal protection from cardiovascular disease, Turner's 
syndrome patients may benefit from hormone replacement treatment containing 
altered doses of estrogen and progestogen.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)57968-0
PMID: 7589660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 1995 Jul;49 Suppl:S1-7. doi: 
10.1016/0020-7292(95)02403-y.

Prognostic factors in endometrial cancer.

Ludwig H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Basel, Switzerland.

Most patients with endometrial carcinoma present with stage I disease and it is 
this group of patients in which prognostic factors have been studied, so that 
therapy can be tailored to the risks for recurrence. The papillary serous 
endometrial cancer and clear cell cancers have a poor prognosis but these 
comprise only a small proportion of endometrial cancer patients. The current 
surgical staging system for endometrial cancer is based on previously identified 
intra and extra-uterine factors that influence the prognosis. However, much of 
the information regarding prognosis, such as histologic type and grade, evidence 
of disease beyond the uterus and receptor-status can be gleaned from careful 
preoperative assessment of these patients. Information regarding ploidy and 
receptor status is available from curettage specimens and, with increasing use 
of hysteroscopy and/or vaginal ultrasound a more precise assessment of the 
extent of the disease in the uterine cavity and involvement of the cervix may be 
possible, although the uterine extent of the disease does not play the 
prognostic role that was anticipated formerly. A major concern regarding 
surgical staging has been the fact that many of these patients are elderly and 
obese with significant medical problems. There is the imminent risk that the 
pelvic and para-aortic node dissection (rather than sampling) may increase 
morbidity. More studies have shown that this might not be a factor with 
sampling. But does it suffice? Similarly, concerns have been expressed regarding 
those patients who may require postoperative radiation which may be compromised 
by postoperative adhesions, bladder, intestine and ureteral problems. It is yet 
to be demonstrated that in diseases extending outside the pelvis, the currently 
available treatment affects survival. Undoubtedly, recurrence patterns will be 
affected but clear demonstration of survival advantage is not available, 
eventually will never be. The concepts of treatment of advanced disease with 
spread outside the pelvis should undergo rethinking in the way that control of 
the existing disease rather than eradicating it by all means might offer better 
chances for life quality, life expectancy albeit limited, in cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1016/0020-7292(95)02403-y
PMID: 7589734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Diabetes. 1995 Nov;44(11):1334-9. doi: 10.2337/diab.44.11.1334.

Residual beta-cell function and HLA-A24 in IDDM. Markers of glycemic control and 
subsequent development of diabetic retinopathy.

Nakanishi K(1), Kobayashi T, Inoko H, Tsuji K, Murase T, Kosaka K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Okinaka Memorial Institute for 
Medical Research, Tokyo, Japan.

To identify risk factors for diabetic retinopathy in insulin-dependent diabetes 
mellitus (IDDM), we studied the relationships among residual beta-cell function, 
human leukocyte antigen (HLA), long-term glycemic control, and development of 
diabetic retinopathy in 128 IDDM patients. Residual beta-cell function was 
assessed by serum C-peptide immunoreactivity (CPR) response to a 100-g oral 
glucose load (delta CPR). The patients were stratified into three groups: those 
with delta CPR of < 0.033 nmol/l (group 1, n = 50), those with delta CPR of 
0.033-0.1 nmol/l (group 2, n = 38), and those with delta CPR of > 0.1 nmol/l 
(group 3, n = 40). The cumulative incidence rate of background retinopathy was 
higher in the order of groups 1, 2, and 3 (P = 0.032). Group 1 progressed to 
preproliferative retinopathy at an earlier stage than did groups 2 and 3 
combined (P = 0.028). Further progression to proliferative retinopathy tended to 
be earlier in group 1 than in groups 2 and 3 combined (P = 0.083). The mean 
HbA1c value rose from 9.01 +/- 1.06% (mean +/- SD) in group 3 to 9.75 +/- 0.79% 
in group 2 to 10.48 +/- 1.12% in group 1 (P < 0.0001). In group 1, 89.6% of the 
patients had HLA-A24, whereas 50 and 43.6% of the patients had this antigen in 
groups 2 and 3 respectively (P < 0.0001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.2337/diab.44.11.1334
PMID: 7589833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Gene. 1995 Oct 16;164(1):157-62. doi: 10.1016/0378-1119(95)00438-c.

The SPR3 gene encodes a sporulation-specific homologue of the yeast 
CDC3/10/11/12 family of bud neck microfilaments and is regulated by ABFI.

Ozsarac N(1), Bhattacharyya M, Dawes IW, Clancy MJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of New South Wales, 
Sydney, Australia.

The SPR3 gene is selectively activated only during the sporulation phase of the 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Sc) life cycle. The predicted amino acid (aa) sequence 
has homology to microfilament proteins that are involved in cytokinesis and 
other proteins of unknown function. These include the products of Sc cell 
division cycle (CDC) genes involved in bud formation (Cdc3p, Cdc10p, Cdc11p and 
Cdc12p), Candida albicans proteins that accumulate in the hyphal phase (CaCdc3p 
and CaCdc10p), mouse brain-specific (H5p) and lymphocyte (Diff6p) proteins, 
Drosophila melanogaster (Dm) protein Pnutp (which is localized to the cleavage 
furrow of dividing cells), a Diff6p homologue (DmDiff6p), and the Sc septin 
protein (Sep1hp), a homologue of the 10-nm filament proteins of Sc. One strongly 
conserved region contains a potential ATP-GTP-binding domain. Primer extension 
analysis revealed six major transcription start points (tsp) beginning at -142 
relative to the ATG start codon. The sequence immediately upstream from the tsp 
contains consensus binding sites for the HAP2/3/4 and ABFI transcription 
factors, a T-rich sequence and two putative novel elements for mid to late 
sporulation, termed SPR3 and PAL. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) 
and footprint analyses demonstrated that the ABFI protein binds to a region 
containing the putative ABFI site in vitro, and site-directed mutagenesis showed 
that the ABFI motif is essential for expression of SPR3 at the appropriate stage 
in sporulating cells.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-1119(95)00438-c
PMID: 7590307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Haematologica. 1995 Jul-Aug;80(4):318-24.

A cooperative study of epirubicin with cyclophosphamide, vincristine and 
prednisone (CEOP) in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Lambertenghi Deliliers G(1), Butti C, Baldini L, Ceriani A, Lombardi F, Luoni M, 
Montalbetti L, Pavia G, Pinotti G, Pogliani E, et al.

Author information:
(1)Gruppo Cooperativo Lombardo, Istituto di Scienze Mediche, University of 
Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of our cooperative trial was to investigate whether 
epirubicin (EPI) at 90 mg/m2 in a CHOP-like combination (called CEOP) could 
increase complete response (CR) and survival rates in non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) 
patients while maintaining a tolerable degree of toxicity.
METHODS: Between September 1986 and July 1992, 218 patients from 12 Centers in 
Lombardy entered this study. The inclusion criteria were: a histological 
diagnosis of intermediate or diffuse large cell (DLC) NHL and no previous 
radio-chemotherapy. The patients in stages IA and IIA (both intermediate and 
DLC) received four CEOP courses followed by local/regional radiotherapy; those 
with intermediate NHL in stages IB, IIB, III A and B and IV A and B received six 
CEOP courses and, if they achieved CR, three further courses as consolidation.
RESULTS: Among the 160 evaluable patients, CR was observed in 90% of the 
subjects with DLC-NHL (stages IA and IIA) and in 59% of those with 
intermediate-grade NHL (all clinical stages). If the clinical stages are 
considered separately, the CR rates were 92% for stages IA, IIA and 53% for 
stages IB, IIB, III A and B, IV A and B. Relapses occurred in 20% of the 
patients treated with four CEOP courses plus radiotherapy and in 31% of those 
who received nine CEOP courses because of the advanced stage of their disease. 
As of May 1994, the median follow-up was 42 months. If all of the patients are 
considered together, the 7-year overall survival (OS) probability was 64% and 
the 7-year disease-free survival (DFS) probability 67%. In comparison with 
stages III/IV, the patients in stages I-II had better DFS (7-year chance 77% vs 
56%, p < 0.03). Hematological toxicity was acceptable, and a delay in the 
administration of CEOP chemotherapy was required in only three patients. No 
life-threatening infections were recorded.
CONCLUSIONS: Our cooperative study of the use of the CEOP combination in NHL 
patients shows that response rates and the length of DFS are equal to the best 
results obtained with CHOP and more intensive programs, although further 
confirmation must be provided by means of a longer follow-up and a more careful 
analysis of prognostic factors according to the recently proposed international 
index. In our experience, an EPI dose of 90 mg/m2 has negligible toxicity 
(particularly on bone marrow), even in elderly patients. These findings are 
interesting since it is well known that myelotoxicity is the principal limiting 
factor for the majority of anthracycline-containing regimens used in the 
treatment of potentially curable NHL.

PMID: 7590500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Inquiry. 1995 Fall;32(3):271-84.

Risky business: long-term care insurance underwriting.

Murtaugh CM(1), Kemper P, Spillman BC.

Author information:
(1)Medical Technology and Practice Patterns Institute, Washington DC 20007-2258, 
USA.

Private insurance is one strategy for financing the large and growing cost of 
long-term care. Little is known, however, about the extent to which medical 
underwriting may limit the potential of private insurance to cover nursing home 
care, or whether the underwriting criteria used in this relatively new market 
successfully identify high-cost groups. This paper uses data from the National 
Mortality Followback Survey to address these two questions. We estimate that 
between 12% and 23% of the population would be rejected for private long-term 
care insurance because of their health if everyone applied at age 65. These 
figures rise to between 20% and 31% at age 75. Our simulation results suggest 
that long-term care insurance underwriting criteria identify individuals who 
vary substantially in the financial risk they pose to insurers. In most cases, 
whether a criterion identifies a high-cost group is sensitive to the policy 
individuals are assumed to buy.

PMID: 7591041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1995 Summer;11(3):525-51. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300008710.

Evaluating translations of health status questionnaires. Methods from the IQOLA 
project. International Quality of Life Assessment.

Ware JE Jr(1), Keller SD, Gandek B, Brazier JE, Sullivan M.

Author information:
(1)New England Medical Center, USA.

Comment in
    Acta Orthop. 2016 Jun;87(3):280-5.

There is growing demand for translations of health status questionnaires for use 
in multinational drug therapy studies and for population comparisons of health 
statistics. The International Quality of Life Assessment (IQOLA) Project is 
conducting a three-stage research program to determine the feasibility of 
translating the SF-36 Health Survey, widely used in English-speaking countries, 
into other languages. In stage 1, the conceptual equivalence and acceptability 
of translated questionnaires are evaluated and improved using qualitative and 
quantitative methods. In stage 2, assumptions underlying the construction and 
scoring of questionnaire scales are tested empirically. In stage 3, the 
equivalence of the interpretation of questionnaire scores across countries is 
tested using methods that closely approximate their intended use, and empirical 
results are compared. Data analyses from Sweden and the United Kingdom, as well 
as other research cited, support the feasibility of cross-cultural health 
measurement using the SF-36.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300008710
PMID: 7591551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. J Bacteriol. 1995 Oct;177(20):5952-8. doi: 10.1128/jb.177.20.5952-5958.1995.

The dnaKJ operon of Agrobacterium tumefaciens: transcriptional analysis and 
evidence for a new heat shock promoter.

Segal G(1), Ron EZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Biotechnology, George S. Wise 
Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel-Aviv University, Israel.

The dnaKJ operon of Agrobacterium tumefaciens was cloned and sequenced and was 
found to be highly homologous to previously analyzed dnaKJ operons. 
Transcription of this operon in A. tumefaciens was stimulated by heat shock as 
well as by exposure to ethanol and hydrogen peroxide. There were two transcripts 
representing the dnaKJ operon: one containing the dnaK and dnaJ genes and the 
second containing only the dnaK gene. Primer extension analysis indicated that 
transcription started from the same site in heat-shocked cells and in untreated 
cells. The upstream regulatory region of the dnaKJ operon of A. tumefaciens does 
not contain the highly conserved inverted repeat sequence previously found in 
the groESL operon of this bacterium, as well as in many other groE and dnaK 
operons. Sequence analysis of the promoter region of several groESL and dnaK 
operons from alpha-purple proteobacteria indicates the existence of a putative 
promoter sequence different from the known consensus promoter sequences 
recognized by the Escherichia coli vegetative or heat shock sigma factor. This 
promoter may constitute the heat shock promoter of these alpha-purple 
proteobacteria.

DOI: 10.1128/jb.177.20.5952-5958.1995
PMCID: PMC177424
PMID: 7592349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1995 Oct;77(10):1535-42. doi: 
10.2106/00004623-199510000-00008.

Total hip arthroplasty with cement after renal transplantation. Long-term 
results.

Cheng EY(1), Klibanoff JE, Robinson HJ, Bradford DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 
55455, USA.

Fifty patients with osteonecrosis following a renal transplantation were managed 
with a total of seventy-six total hip arthroplasties with cement between 1972 
and 1982 at the University of Minnesota. The minimum duration of follow-up was 
ten years. With use of Kaplan-Meier survivorship analysis, with revision for any 
reason as the end point, the over-all rate of survival of the implants in all 
patients was 91 +/- 7 per cent (mean and two standard errors of the mean, 95 per 
cent confidence interval) at five years and 78 +/- 11 per cent at ten years. The 
prostheses in the patients who were more than forty years old had a rate of 
survival of 87 +/- 18 per cent and 72 +/- 30 per cent at five and ten years, 
respectively, compared with 92 +/- 7 per cent and 80 +/- 12 per cent for the 
patients who were less than forty years old. The acetabular components had a 94 
+/- 6 per cent rate of survival at five years and an 86 +/- 9 per cent rate at 
ten years. The femoral components had a 97 +/- 4 per cent rate at five years and 
an 87 +/- 9 per cent rate at ten years. We concluded that the results of total 
hip arthroplasty with cement after renal transplantation are satisfactory and 
are comparable with those for patients of similar age who have not had a renal 
transplantation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.2106/00004623-199510000-00008
PMID: 7593062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1995 Nov;77(11):1700-7. doi: 
10.2106/00004623-199511000-00009.

Revision total knee arthroplasty with use of modular components with stems 
inserted without cement.

Haas SB(1), Insall JN, Montgomery W 3rd, Windsor RE.

Author information:
(1)Hospital for Special Surgery, New York Hospital--Cornell University Medical 
College, New York City 10021, USA.

We reviewed the results of seventy-six revision total knee replacements, 
performed between 1980 and 1988 on the Knee Service at The Hospital for Special 
Surgery, in seventy-four patients. Sixty-five patients (sixty-seven knees; 88 
percent) had a complete clinical examination and radiographic evaluation, and 
nine patients (nine knees; 12 percent) were only interviewed by telephone. 
Survivorship analysis was performed for all patients. The average duration of 
follow-up was three years and six months (range, two to nine years). Only 
patients who had had revision of the femoral component or the tibial component, 
or both, because of aseptic failure were included. The tibial component of all 
prostheses that were used for revision had a metal backing. Cement was placed on 
the cut surfaces in the metaphyseal region of the femur and tibia. Fluted 
diaphyseal intramedullary rods were used in all patients and were not cemented. 
Metal wedges and augments were used to fill osseous defects when necessary. The 
average preoperative knee score, according to the rating scale of The Hospital 
for Special Surgery, was 49 points (range, 0 to 62 points). Postoperatively, the 
knee score improved to an average of 76 points (range, 0 to 97 points). Of the 
sixty-seven knees that had complete follow-up, fifty-six (84 percent) had an 
excellent or good result and five (7 percent) had a fair or poor result. In six 
(8 percent) of the seventy-six knees, the prosthesis failed, necessitating 
another revision. Failure was defined as removal or a recommendation for removal 
of the implant.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.2106/00004623-199511000-00009
PMID: 7593080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. J Community Health. 1995 Aug;20(4):321-34. doi: 10.1007/BF02283057.

The Cuban health care system and factors currently undermining it.

Nayeri K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Community Health, State University of 
New York, Health Science Center at Brooklyn 11203, USA.

This paper explores the dynamics of health and health care in Cuba during a 
period of severe crisis by placing it within its economic, social, and political 
context using a comparative historical approach. It outlines Cuban achievements 
in health care as a consequence of the socialist transformations since 1959, 
noting the full commitment by the Cuban state, the planned economy, mass 
participation, and a self-critical, working class perspective as crucial 
factors. The roles of two external factors, the U.S. economic embargo and the 
Council of Mutual Economic Cooperation (CMEA), are explored in shaping the Cuban 
society and economy, including its health care system. It is argued that the 
former has hindered health efforts in Cuba. The role of the latter is more 
complex. While the CMEA was an important source for economic growth, Cuban 
relations with the Soviet bloc had a damaging effect on the development of 
socialism in Cuba. The adoption of the Soviet model of economic development 
fostered bureaucracy and demoralization of Cuban workers. As such, it 
contributed to two internal factors that have undermined further social progress 
including in health care: low productivity of labor and the growth of 
bureaucracy. While the health care system is still consistently supported by 
public policy and its structure is sound, economic crisis undermines its 
material and moral foundations and threatens its achievements. The future of the 
current Cuban health care system is intertwined with the potentials for its 
socialist development.

PIP: The dynamics of health care in Cuba during a period of severe crisis was 
explored within an economic, social, and political context. Cuban achievements 
in health care since 1959 were a consequence of the full commitment to health 
care by the state, the planned economy, and mass participation. In 1959 the 
infant mortality rate was 60/1000 live births and life expectancy was 65.1 
years. By the period of 1983-88 Cuba had attained an infant mortality rate of 
15/1000 and female life expectancy of 76 years compared to the figures of 
27/1000 and 73 years, respectively, in South Korea. In response to problems that 
arose in the 1960s an improved health care model stressing the involvement of 
health care workers in the community was proposed in 1974. In the early 1980s 
20,000 family physicians were trained to provide primary care services in the 
communities. Two external factors, the US economic embargo and the Council of 
Mutual Economic Cooperation (CMEA), shaped the Cuban society and economy, 
including its health care system. The U.S. embargo forced Cuba to pay higher 
transportation costs to import medical supplies from Soviet-bloc countries. Once 
the Soviet bloc collapsed, Washington further tightened the embargo through the 
Torricelli Bill of 1992, which bars U.S. subsidiaries in other countries from 
trading with Cuba and forbids US portage for 6 months to any ship that has 
docked in Cuba. As a result, in 1993 Cuba's imports for public health cost an 
extra $45 million. The CMEA was an important source for economic growth; 
however, the adoption of the Soviet model of economic development contributed to 
two internal factors that have undermined health care: low productivity of labor 
and the growth of bureaucracy. Social expenditures declined from 70% of the GNP 
in 1970 to 36% in 1995. Meanwhile, administrative personnel grew from 90,000 
persons in 1973 to 240,000 persons in 1984. In 1995 some 50,000 physicians were 
serving a population of 11 million. Since 1986 a total of 1042 individuals have 
been found to be HIV positive. The policy of forced isolation of HIV-positive 
persons and AIDS patients was relaxed recently. While the health care system and 
its structure is sound, the economic crisis undermines its material and moral 
foundations and threatens its achievements.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02283057
PMID: 7593738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. J Endocrinol Invest. 1995 Jun;18(6):436-41. doi: 10.1007/BF03349742.

Prolactinoma in 53 men: clinical characteristics and modes of treatment (male 
prolactinoma).

Berezin M(1), Shimon I, Hadani M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Endocrinology, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel.

The data of 53 men treated for hyperprolactinemia were reviewed retrospectively 
to determine the efficacy of the medical and surgical treatment. The clinical 
assessment, radiological and neuro-ophthalmological investigations and hormonal 
measurements were performed before treatment as well as during the follow-up 
period. Imaging evaluation included computed tomography and/or nuclear magnetic 
resonance of the pituitary. The hormonal profile examined was PRL, FSH, LH and 
testosterone, as well as TSH, T4, T3 and cortisol. Thirty patients were treated 
solely by dopamine agonists (DA), twenty-two men had pituitary surgery in 
addition to DA treatment, and one patient was operated with no need for medical 
treatment. Decreased sexual function was the most frequent presenting symptom 
(85% of the men). Most of the patients had large invasive macroadenomas, with 
suprasellar extension. More than 40% had visual field defects. Baseline PRL 
(mean +/- SE) was 51,842 +/- 9,292 mU/L and decreased to a level below 575 mU/L 
in 70% of the patients after DA therapy. Mean testosterone, FSH, and LH levels 
increased slightly but significantly from the low baseline values. Complete 
clinical response to DA was achieved in 49% of the men and the tumor mass 
disappeared entirely in 21%, and incompletely in 42%. The surgical success rate 
(transsphenoidal or trans-cranial operation) was low--only one of the 23 
patients operated recovered completely, and most of the patients were left with 
hormonal deficits and hyperprolactinemia. These findings indicate that 
continuous medical treatment with DA should be the preferred mode of treatment 
for male prolactinomas. Removal of these large tumors is recommended only when 
the tumors are life-threatening or if drug resistance or severe adverse 
reactions to DA develop.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03349742
PMID: 7594238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. J Hypertens. 1995 Jul;13(7):805-11.

Does drug treatment improve survival? Reconciling the trials in mild-to-moderate 
hypertension.

Hoes AW(1), Grobbee DE, Lubsen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Erasmus University Medical 
School, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Hypertens. 1995 Jul;13(7):813-5.
    J Hypertens. 1996 Jan;14(1):145.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether drug treatment for mild-to-moderate hypertension 
in middle-aged patients improves survival and to study how the conflicting 
results of individual trials may be explained.
STUDY SELECTION: A meta-analysis was performed, including seven randomized 
trials in mild-to-moderate hypertensive (diastolic blood pressure 90-114 mmHg) 
middle-aged patients.
DATA EXTRACTION: A comparison was made between all-cause mortality and fatal 
coronary heart disease and stroke in the intervention and control group of the 
individual trials, using a method of meta-analysis based on weighted linear 
regression.
RESULTS: In trials with a high all-cause mortality rate (> 6 per 1000 
patient-years) in the control group, antihypertensive drug treatment increased 
life expectancy. When all-cause mortality in the control group was low, 
treatment showed no effect or even an opposite effect. Findings on mortality 
from coronary heart disease were similar, whereas drug treatment decreased 
stroke mortality irrespective of the incidence of stroke in the control group.
CONCLUSIONS: Drug treatment for mild-to-moderate hypertension in middle-aged 
patients may reduce all-cause mortality and the risk of fatal coronary events 
when treatment is initiated in those beyond a certain baseline mortality risk. 
Drug treatment in hypertensive patients at a lower mortality risk has no 
influence on or may even increase mortality.

PMID: 7594445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. J R Coll Physicians Lond. 1995 Mar-Apr;29(2):105-12.

Medicine matters after all.

Bunker JP(1).

Author information:
(1)CRC Clinical Trials Centre, King's College School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Rayne Institute, London.

The extraordinary increase in life-expectancy that occurred early in this 
century has been attributed largely to non-medical factors. Life-expectancy has 
continued to rise, and medical care can now be shown to make substantial 
contributions. Three of the seven years' increase in life expectancy since 1950 
can be attributed to medical care. Medical care is also estimated to provide, on 
average, five years of partial or complete relief from the poor quality of life 
associated with chronic disease. The association of social factors with health 
is well-known, but except for occupation, it is not known how they might act or 
whether they are proxies for some other yet to be identified factor.

PMCID: PMC5401305
PMID: 7595883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. J Natl Med Assoc. 1995 Jun;87(6):423-6.

Preoperative factors of prognostic significance in gastric cancer.

Johnson H(1), Belluco C, Masood S, Azama A, Kahn L, Wise L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Long Island Jewish Medical Center, New Hyde Park, New 
York, USA.

This study was undertaken to investigate the ability of local anatomical and 
primary histological features of gastric cancers, as well as DNA analysis, to 
predict prognosis. Using multivariate analysis, results indicate that location 
of a tumor in the gastric cardia, poor differentiation, involvement of adjacent 
organs, and aneuploidy are all independent predictors of survival. All of the 
factors studied can be determined by endoscopic procedures preoperatively on 
patients with gastric cancers and could be helpful in selecting some patients 
for perioperative adjunctive therapies.

PMCID: PMC2607846
PMID: 7595964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. JAMA. 1995 Jul 12;274(2):165-71.

Revascularization for femoropopliteal disease. A decision and cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Hunink MG(1), Wong JB, Donaldson MC, Meyerovitz MF, de Vries J, Harrington DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Groningen, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the relative benefits and cost-effectiveness of 
revascularization for femoropopliteal disease using percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty or bypass surgery.
DESIGN: Decision analysis using a multistate transition simulation model (Markov 
process) and cost-effectiveness analysis from the perspective of the health care 
system.
SETTING: Based on mortality, morbidity, patency, and cost data from a literature 
review.
PATIENTS: Hypothetical cohort of patients with chronic femoropopliteal disease 
who desire revascularization. Subgroup analysis for patients defined by age, 
sex, indication, lesion type, and graft type.
INTERVENTIONS: Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, bypass surgery, and a 
strategies combining the two treatments.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Five-year patency results, quality-adjusted life 
expectancy, lifetime costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: For 65-year-old men with disabling claudication and a femoropopliteal 
stenosis or occlusion and for 65-year-old men with chronic critical ischemia and 
a femoropopliteal stenosis, initial angioplasty increased quality-adjusted life 
expectancy by 2 to 13 months and resulted in decreased lifetime expenditures 
compared with bypass surgery. For patients with chronic critical ischemia and a 
femoropopliteal occlusion, initial bypass surgery increased quality-adjusted 
life expectancy by 1 to 4 months and resulted in decreased lifetime expenditures 
compared with angioplasty. Sensitivity analysis demonstrated that angioplasty 
would always be the preferred initial treatment if the angioplasty 5-year 
patency rate exceeds 30%.
CONCLUSION: Angioplasty is the preferred initial treatment in patients with 
disabling claudication and a femoropopliteal stenosis or occlusion and in those 
with chronic critical ischemia and a stenosis. Bypass surgery is the preferred 
initial treatment in patients with chronic critical ischemia and a 
femoropopliteal occlusion.

PMID: 7596006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Mech Ageing Dev. 1995 Mar 1;78(2):75-83. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(94)01529-u.

Strain, stress, neurodegeneration and longevity.

Gilad GM(1), Gilad VH.

Author information:
(1)Bruce Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, 
Halifa, Israel.

Laboratory studies indicate that the life-span of inbred rodent strains is 
inversely related to the intensity of their behavioral and neuroendocrine 
responses to stressful stimuli. In the brain, a shorter life-span is associated 
with accelerated age-dependent degenerative changes in specific 
stress-responsive neuronal systems. The evidence suggests a possible genetic 
linkage between the intensity of the stress response, the rate of age-dependent 
neurodegeneration and the individual's life expectancy. It is proposed that 
inherent hyper-reactivity to stressors is genetically linked to a shorter 
life-span and to accelerated age-dependent neurodegeneration. Several 
experimental approaches to test 'this stress-longevity-neurodegeneration linkage 
hypothesis' are outlined.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(94)01529-u
PMID: 7596198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Mech Ageing Dev. 1995 Mar 1;78(2):85-101. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(94)01508-j.

A gerontological distance metric for analysis of survival dynamics.

Eakin T(1), Witten M.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas System, Department of Applications Research and 
Development, Austin 78758-4497, USA.

A metric for quantifying a gerontological mapping 'distance' or displacement 
consistent with the historical concept of velocity of aging and with the more 
recent concept of acceleration of aging, is introduced using the paradigm of a 
simple linear dynamics system of elementary physics. This analysis is extended 
to recent analytical methods utilizing intrinsic or internal time scaling so 
that biological or gerontological similarity can be distinguished from 
chronological age similarity, not only among various intraspecies populations 
but also among interspecies populations which may not even have the same 
underlying mechanisms of senescence or survival distributions. Illustrative 
examples are provided and discussed. Also, applications involving the comparison 
of an individual from one population to an individual from another population, 
when both can be assessed with respect to their respective group properties, are 
considered.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(94)01508-j
PMID: 7596199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Ophthalmic Surg. 1995 Mar-Apr;26(2):127-9.

Argon laser trabeculoplasty: long-term results.

Lotti R(1), Traverso CE, Murialdo U, Frau B, Calabria GA, Zingirian M.

Author information:
(1)University Eye Clinic, Genova, Italy.

We analyzed the long-term success of argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT) performed 
in 237 eyes of 175 patients diagnosed with primary open-angle glaucoma and 
followed for up to 11 years (maximum, 132 months) after treatment. The 
cumulative proportion of success, defined as the avoidance of glaucoma surgery 
or an intraocular pressure never exceeding 22 mm Hg, was calculated throughout 
follow up using the Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis. The success rates were: 
78% at 1 year (n = 205), 71% at 3 years (n = 139), 61% at 5 years (n = 73), and 
40% at 10.5 years (n = 19). Our data confirm previous reports of the high 
initial success rate of ALT, followed by a time-dependent decrease in its 
efficacy.

PMID: 7596539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Risk Anal. 1995 Apr;15(2):111-3. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1995.tb00305.x.

How to compare the risk assessments for accidental and chronic exposure.

Ten Berge WF(1), Stallen PJ.

Author information:
(1)DSM, Corporate Safety & Environment, Heerlen, The Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1995.tb00305.x
PMID: 7597252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Rev Med Chil. 1994 Sep;122(9):1078-84.

[Reflections on an anniversary: the Public Health School of Chile in its 
fiftieth anniversary].

[Article in Spanish]

Horwitz A(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Chile.

This is the speech pronounced by Dr Abraham Horwitz, Emeritus Professor of the 
University of Chile and Honorary Director of PAHO, during the academic act that 
celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the Chilean Public Health School 
endowment. The school had a doctrinal and technical impact on Chilean health and 
decisively influenced the National Health Service creation. The majority of its 
founders were trained at the John Hopkins Public Health School, therefore naming 
this school "little Hopkins". Its creation was stimulated by the Chilean health 
profile of the forties. Chile had 5,273,000 inhabitants and a 28.2% of 
illiteracy. General mortality was 19.5%, infant mortality 18.1 and newborn 
mortality 73.3%. At the present time, forty years later, the figures are 
14,000,000 inhabitants (85% in urban areas), less than 10% of illiteracy, a 
general mortality of 5.6%, infant mortality of 14.6, newborn mortality of 7.9% 
and a life expectancy of 72 and 75 years for men and women. Almost all labors 
are attended by professionals in institutional settings and only 5.6% of 
newborns have a low birth weight, one of the lowest figures in the world. To say 
that health in the Americas is in crisis and that population health needs are 
not satisfied is a dangerous generalization and Chilean health evolution seems 
to disprove this assertion. This does not mean that some reforms are needed that 
can be accomplished with the help of School of Public Health.

PMID: 7597340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. World Health Organ Tech Rep Ser. 1995;853:1-67.

Epidemiology and prevention of cardiovascular diseases in elderly people. Report 
of a WHO Study Group.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7597818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Annu Rev Med. 1995;46:213-22. doi: 10.1146/annurev.med.46.1.213.

Molecular genetics of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

Marian AJ(1), Roberts R.

Author information:
(1)Section of Cardiology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is genetically and phenotypically a 
heterogeneous disease. Genes identified include the beta myosin heavy chain gene 
(beta MHC) on chromosome 14q1, the troponin T gene on chromosome 1q, and the 
alpha tropomyosin gene on chromosome 15q. In addition, a fourth locus is present 
on chromosome 11q11, but the gene remains to be identified. More than 35 
missense mutations in the beta MHC, 3 mutations in troponin T, and 2 mutations 
in alpha tropomyosin gene in HCM patients have been identified. Functional 
studies have shown that the mutant beta MHC protein has impaired actomyosin 
interaction and that expression of the mutant myosin disrupts the assembly of 
sarcomere in feline cardiocytes. Genotype-phenotype correlations of beta MHC 
mutations have shown that mutations such as Arg403Gln, Arg453Cys, and Arg719Trp 
are associated with a high incidence of sudden cardiac death and a significantly 
decreased life expectancy, whereas mutations Gly256Glu and Leu908Val have a 
near-normal life span. Preclinical genetic diagnosis should help in genetic 
counseling and therapeutic stratification.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.med.46.1.213
PMID: 7598458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Ann Thorac Surg. 1995 Jul;60(1):111-6.

Seventy-two pulmonary retransplantations for obliterative bronchiolitis: 
predictors of survival.

Novick RJ(1), Schäfers HJ, Stitt L, Andréassian B, Klepetko W, Hardesty RL, 
Frost A, Patterson GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital, London, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Obliterative bronchiolitis (OB) occurs in up to 40% of patients in 
the intermediate term after lung transplantation. In recent years an increasing 
number of recipients with end-stage OB have been treated with retransplantation.
METHODS: Seventy-two patients with OB underwent retransplantation at 26 North 
American and European centers a median of 590 days after their first transplant 
operation. The predictors of survival were determined using life table and Cox 
proportional hazards methods, and the recurrence rate of OB was determined in 
survivors.
RESULTS: The actuarial survival rate was 71% +/- 5% at 1 month, 43% +/- 6% at 1 
year, and 35% +/- 6% at 2 years; nonetheless, of the 90-day postoperative 
survivors, 63% +/- 7% were alive 2 years after retransplantation. Institutional 
experience with more than three pulmonary retransplantations (p = 0.008), 
reoperation in Europe (p = 0.013), donor-recipient ABO blood group identity (p = 
0.018), and more recent year of retransplantation (p = 0.03) were associated 
with survival. On multivariate analysis, reoperation after 1989 (p < 0.001), 
retransplantation performed in Europe (p = 0.017), and being ambulatory 
immediately before reoperation (p = 0.022) were found to be predictive of a 
positive outcome. Pulmonary function test analyses confirmed that the forced 
expiratory volume in 1 second decreased from postoperative baseline values by 
11% +/- 9% at 1 year and 27% +/- 10% at 2 years (p = 0.02; year 2 versus 
baseline). Fourteen percent of patients were in stage 3 of the bronchiolitis 
obliterans syndrome at 1 year postoperatively, with 33% affected at 2 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of pulmonary retransplantation for OB are improving. 
Current evidence indicates that OB does not recur in an accelerated manner after 
retransplantation, although pulmonary function does worsen again by 2 years. 
Pulmonary retransplantation is appropriate only in selected patients with OB who 
are ambulatory and are operated on at experienced centers.

PMID: 7598570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 1995 Jun 26;211(3):847-9. doi: 
10.1006/bbrc.1995.1889.

The spin-trap N-tert-alpha-phenyl-butylnitrone prolongs the life span of the 
senescence accelerated mouse.

Edamatsu R(1), Mori A, Packer L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Okayama University Medical School, Japan.

Free radicals and oxidative damage have been proposed as underlying factors in 
aging, in chronic and degenerative diseases of aging and in acute clinical 
conditions. To test involvement of free-radicals in such processes, spin 
