trapping agents which quench more reactive radicals to produce long-lived stable 
radical adducts have been used as an experimental strategy. Spin traps protect 
against oxidatively induced injury in numerous in vitro and in vivo model 
systems involving different organs. A model system for mammalian aging is 
afforded by the senescence accelerated mouse (SAM-P8), which exhibits many 
features characteristic of mammalian aging but with a much shortened lifespan. 
Daily intraperitoneal injection of the spin trap 
N-tert-alpha-phenyl-butylnitrone (PBN) was administered to male or female mice 
after they reached maturity at 3 months of age. PBN treated animals as compared 
with control sham injected animals revealed a remarkable extension of the mean 
life span in both male and female populations. Overall, a 50% mean survival rate 
was found of 42 weeks for control as compared to 56 weeks for the PBN 
administered groups. These results show that the spin trap PBN can prolong 
lifespan and support the free radical theory of aging.

DOI: 10.1006/bbrc.1995.1889
PMID: 7598714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Brain. 1995 Jun;118 ( Pt 3):707-19. doi: 10.1093/brain/118.3.707.

Natural history of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in a database population. 
Validation of a scoring system and a model for survival prediction.

Haverkamp LJ(1), Appel V, Appel SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Over 1200 patients with motor neuron disease have been carefully diagnosed, 
followed, and included in a detailed database delineating characteristics of the 
disease. Of these patients, 831 were identified as exhibiting typical, sporadic 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The progression of the disease in these 
patients has been followed with our scoring system, and the ALS score was 
verified as a significant covariate of survival. Age at first symptom, delay 
from first symptom to entering ALS clinic, and rate of change of respiratory 
function were also identified as significant covariates of survival. These 
measures, applied to the Cox proportional hazards model, were used to develop a 
mathematical model for prediction of survival time in ALS, which proved highly 
accurate for the 80% of patients at intermediate risk. For those patients, a 
second model was developed which accurately predicts, after an initial period of 
observation, the time over which ALS patients will decline a set number of 
points in total ALS score. Such validation permits initial trials for drug 
therapies in ALS by comparison of relatively small groups of treated patients to 
this historical control group, based on the model of predicted time to a 
particular decrement in total ALS score.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/118.3.707
PMID: 7600088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. CMAJ. 1995 Jul 15;153(2):147-57.

Hemophilia and von Willebrand's disease: 2. Management. Association of 
Hemophilia Clinic Directors of Canada.

[No authors listed]

OBJECTIVE: To present current strategies for the treatment of hemophilia and von 
Willebrand's disease.
OPTIONS: Prophylactic and corrective therapy with hemostatic and adjunctive 
agents: DDAVP (1-desamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin [desmopressin acetate]), 
recombinant coagulation products (human Factor VIII and human Factor VIIa) or 
virally inactivated plasma-derived products (high- or ultra-high-purity human 
Factor VIII or human Factor VIII concentrate containing von Willebrand factor 
activity, porcine Factor VIII, high-purity human Factor IX, human 
prothrombin-complex concentrate, human activated prothrombin-complex 
concentrate), adjunctive antifibrinolytic agents, topical thrombin and fibrin 
sealant. The induction of immune tolerance in patients in whom inhibitors 
develop should also be considered.
OUTCOMES: Morbidity and quality of life associated with bleeding and treatment.
EVIDENCE: Relevant clinical studies and reports published from 1974 to 1994 were 
examined. A search was conducted of our reprint files, MEDLINE, citations in the 
articles reviewed and references provided by colleagues. In the MEDLINE search 
the following terms were used singly or in combination: "hemophilia," "von 
Willebrand's disease," "Factor VIII," "Factor IX," "von Willebrand factor," 
"diagnosis," "management," "home care," "comprehensive care," "inhibitor," 
"AIDS," "hepatitis," "life expectancy," "complications," "practice guidelines," 
"consensus statement" and "controlled trial." The in-depth review included only 
articles written in English from North America and Europe that were relevant to 
human disease and pertinent to a predetermined outline. The availability of 
treatment products in Canada was also considered.
VALUES: Minimizing morbidity and maximizing functional status and quality of 
life were given a high value.
BENEFITS, HARMS AND COSTS: Proper prophylactic or early treatment with 
appropriate hemostatic agents minimizes morbidity and functional disability and 
improves quality of life. Economic gains are realized through the reduction of 
mortality and morbidity and their associated costs. The patient has a better 
opportunity to contribute to society through gainful employment and the 
fulfillment of social roles. Potential harms include HIV infection, hepatitis B, 
hepatitis C and the development of inhibitor antibodies to clotting-factor 
concentrates. The risk of viral transmission has been minimized through the 
development of procedures for the viral inactivation of plasma-derived 
clotting-factor concentrates and through the use of recombinant 
coagulation-factor concentrates and other non-plasma-derived hemostatic agents.
RECOMMENDATIONS: DDAVP is the drug of choice for patients with mild hemophilia 
or type 1 or 2 (except 2B) von Willebrand's disease whose response to DDAVP in 
previous testing has been found to be adequate. Therapeutic blood components of 
choice include recombinant products and virally inactivated plasma-derived 
products. In Canada the recommended products are recombinant Factor VIII for 
hemophilia A, high-purity plasma-derived Factor IX for hemophilia B and 
plasma-derived Factor VIII concentrates containing adequate von Willebrand 
factor (e.g., Haemate P) for von Willebrand's disease. Dosages vary according to 
specific indications. Adjunctive antifibrinolytic agents, topical thrombin and 
fibrin sealant are useful for the treatment of oral or dental bleeds and 
localized bleeds in accessible sites. In patients with inhibitor antibodies, 
high-dose human or porcine Factor VIII is usually effective when the inhibitor 
titre is less than 5 Bethesda units/mL. In nonresponsive patients, or in those 
whose inhibitor titre is higher, "bypassing" agents (e.g., activated 
prothrombin-complex concentrate and recombinant Factor VIIa) are useful. 
Long-term management may include immune-tolerance induction.
VALIDATION: These recommendations were reviewed and approved by the Association 
of Hemophilia Clinic Directors of Canada (AHCDC) and the Medical and Scientific 
Advisory Committee of the Canadian Hemophilia Society. No similar consensus 
statements or practice guidelines are available for comparison.
SPONSORS: These recommendations were developed at the request of the Canadian 
Blood Agency, which funds the provision of all coagulation-factor concentrates 
for people with congenital bleeding disorders, and were developed and endorsed 
by the AHCDC and the Medical and Scientific Advisory Committee of the Canadian 
Hemophilia Society.

PMCID: PMC1338053
PMID: 7600466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Eur Urol. 1995;27(3):202-6. doi: 10.1159/000475161.

Survival and quality of life of patients with stage D1 (T1-3 pN1-2 M0) prostate 
cancer. Radical prostatectomy plus androgen deprivation versus androgen 
deprivation alone.

Frohmüller HG(1), Theiss M, Manseck A, Wirth MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Würzburg Medical School, Germany.

A series of 139 patients with histologically proven stage D1 (T1-3 pN1-2 M0) 
prostate cancer was reviewed in order to determine the influence of radical 
surgery in addition to hormonal treatment on long-term outcome with respect to 
survival and quality of life. In all 139 patients a pelvic lymphadenectomy was 
performed. In 87 patients, lymphadenectomy was followed by androgen deprivation 
alone (group 1). Fifty-two patients underwent additional radical prostatectomy 
(group 2). The actuarial 10-year nonprogression rates were 14.6% in group 1 and 
35.8% in group 2, respectively (p = 0.0016). The overall and disease-specific 
10-year survival rates were found to be 29.7 and 32.1%, respectively, for group 
1 and 50.8 and 70.7%, respectively, for group 2. Local progression as the main 
parameter influencing quality of life occurred in 60 of the 87 patients (69%) 
not subjected to radical prostatectomy. Transurethral resection of the prostate 
was required in 29 of these patients. In contrast, following radical 
prostatectomy, only 4 of the 52 patients (8%) had local progression and only 1 
patient (2%) needed a dilatation of the vesicourethral anastomosis for relief of 
infravesical obstruction. Thus, radical prostatectomy plus androgen deprivation 
for patients with stage D1 prostate cancer appeared to be superior to androgen 
deprivation alone with respect to survival expectancy and quality of life. 
Prospective randomized trials, however, have to be undertaken to verify these 
results.

DOI: 10.1159/000475161
PMID: 7601183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1995 Jul;43(7):811-21. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1995.tb07058.x.

Preoperative assessment of older adults.

Thomas DR(1), Ritchie CS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gerontology/Geriatric Medicine, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham 35294, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 1996 Feb;44(2):213-4.
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 1996 Mar;44(3):333.
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 1996 Apr;44(4):471.

Caring for older patients who need surgery presents challenging medical 
situations. The clinical paradigm involves identifying coexisting disease, 
defining the urgency of the intervention, and predicting postoperative 
complications based on the type of surgery planned. The prime function of the 
medical consultant is searching for correctable medical conditions. The 
consultant must carefully identify coexisting and comorbid conditions. Emergency 
surgery should be avoided, if possible, by elective planning. The risk of 
surgery varies with the procedure. Non-body cavity surgery, with the exception 
of hip fracture repair, is usually tolerated well. Age is a risk factor for 
surgery, but coexisting disease is more important than age alone. The net effect 
of improvements in surgical outcome advances the age at which surgical risk 
becomes prohibitive.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1995.tb07058.x
PMID: 7602039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. J Clin Oncol. 1995 Jul;13(7):1817. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1995.13.7.1817.

Oncology and hope.

Kodish E(1), Post SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Rainbow Babies and Childrens Hospital, Cleveland, 
OH 44106, USA.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1995.13.7.1817
PMID: 7602370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. J Clin Oncol. 1995 Jul;13(7):1823. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1995.13.7.1823.

Racial differences in radical prostatectomy.

Sartor O, Venable D, Mata J.

Comment on
    J Clin Oncol. 1995 Jan;13(1):93-100.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1995.13.7.1823
PMID: 7602371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1994;24 Suppl A:S1-5.

Retrospective and prospective research on hypertension-related end-organ damage.

Perloff D(1).

Author information:
(1)Moffitt Hospital, University of California, San Francisco 94143, USA.

Persistent inappropriate blood pressure elevation leads to the development of 
left ventricular hypertrophy, progressive atherosclerosis, and structural 
changes in the arterial tree. These changes result in clinical manifestations 
such as ischemic cardiac and cerebral events, congestive heart failure, renal 
failure, and peripheral vascular insufficiency. This article reviews the 5-year 
course of 439 patients with primary hypertension who were seen at a time 
(1946-1953) when potent antihypertensive therapy was not widely used. At the end 
of 5 years, 55% of the men (78 of 143) and 28% of the women (83 of 296) were 
dead. The principal causes of death were coronary insufficiency, congestive 
heart failure, cerebral infarction and hemorrhage, accelerated hypertension, 
renal failure, and dissecting aneurysm of the aorta. Coronary insufficiency and 
accelerated hypertension predominated in men, whereas women died principally of 
cerebral events and congestive heart failure. The 439 patients were stratified 
according to the level of their office blood pressure on the first visit, the 
severity of the changes in the optic fundi, the degree of left ventricular 
hypertrophy determined by electrocardiogram, cardiac enlargement determined by 
roentgenogram and their renal function, as measures of end-organ damage. 
Patients who had higher initial blood pressures showed more evidence of 
end-organ damage than patients with lower initial pressures. The higher the 
initial blood pressure or the more advanced the evidence of end-organ damage, 
the greater was the 5-year mortality. The mortality was particularly high in 
patients who had already sustained a clinical cardiovascular event before entry 
into the study and in those with malignant hypertension or gross 
cardiomegaly.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 7603071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Surgery. 1995 Jul;118(1):1-7. doi: 10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80002-9.

Mesenteric arterial bypass grafts: early and late results and suggested surgical 
approach for chronic and acute mesenteric ischemia.

Johnston KW(1), Lindsay TF, Walker PM, Kalman PG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Toronto Hospital, University of Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: The purposes of this study were to determine the early and late 
results of placement of arterial bypass grafts in the treatment of chronic and 
acute intestinal ischemia and to ascertain whether multiple grafts provide 
better late results than a single graft.
METHODS: Records of 34 patients who underwent mesenteric vascular graft 
placement were retrospectively reviewed.
RESULTS: All 21 patients with chronic ischemia had a history of intestinal 
angina and weight loss. Food fear was reported by 33% of patients; also, 
diarrhea in 57%, constipation in 29%, acalculous cholecystitis in 19%, ischemic 
gastritis or peptic ulcer in 19%, and elevation of liver enzymes in 22% were 
reported. Angiogram showed more than 50% stenosis or occlusion of the superior 
mesenteric artery (SMA) in 100% of patients, celiac artery in 90%, and inferior 
mesenteric artery in 90%. Although not described previously, a reduction in 
collateral flow from the internal iliac arteries was caused by severe pelvic 
disease in 56% of patients. There were no in-hospital deaths. The rate of 
survival at 1 year was 100%; at 2 years it was 93% +/- 6%, at 3 years 86% +/- 
9%, at 5 years 79% +/- 11%, and at 10 years 50% +/- 15%. During follow-up, graft 
thrombosis occurred in three patients. Of the patients who underwent only a 
single SMA or celiac bypass, two of five died of bowel infarction; only one of 
16 patients who underwent both celiac and SMA bypass had to undergo a repeat 
surgical procedure because of graft occlusion. Three of 16 retrograde bypasses 
thrombosed, compared with zero of five prograde bypasses. In nine patients who 
underwent placement of mesenteric bypass grafts because of acute ischemia caused 
by acute mesenteric thrombosis, the early mortality rate was 22%; the two deaths 
were the result of bowel ischemia. The cumulative survival rate was 78% +/- 14% 
at 1 month, 65% +/- 17% at 1 year, and 52% +/- 16% at 5 years. One of the two 
late deaths was due to graft thrombosis and bowel infarction. Three of four 
patients who underwent concomitant mesenteric bypass at the time of aneurysm 
repair or aortobifemoral bypass survived the surgical procedure.
CONCLUSIONS: When chronic and acute mesenteric ischemia are diagnosed and 
treated with a bypass graft, the early and late results are good. Complete 
revascularization of the SMA and celiac artery or pelvis or both and prograde 
bypass may reduce the risk of late bowel ischemia.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80002-9
PMID: 7604369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Surgery. 1995 Jul;118(1):16-24. doi: 10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80004-2.

Late survival risk factors for abdominal aortic aneurysm repair: experience from 
fourteen Department of Veterans Affairs hospitals.

Feinglass J(1), Cowper D, Dunlop D, Slavensky R, Martin GJ, Pearce WH.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Northwestern University Medical 
School, Chicago, Ill. 60611, USA.

BACKGROUND: This study evaluates late survival risk factors for patients who 
underwent elective abdominal aortic aneurysm surgical procedures performed at 14 
Department of Veterans Affairs hospitals across the United States between 1985 
and 1987.
METHODS: Preoperative risk factors for a representative sample of 280 male 
veterans were obtained from an extensive Department of Veterans Affairs Office 
of Quality Management study and subsequent chart review. The National Death 
Index was used to determine survival through December 1991.
RESULTS: Mortality at 30 days was 2.9%. Kaplan-Meier survival probabilities were 
89% (+/- 2%) at 1 year and 64% (+/- 3%) at 5 years. Multivariate hazards models 
indicated significantly poorer survival for patients with age greater than 69 
years, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cerebrovascular disease, and left 
ventricular hypertrophy. A history of coronary artery disease including previous 
myocardial infarction or bypass operation did not predict late survival for this 
cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the substantial burden of comorbidity of veterans who use 
Department of Veterans Affairs facilities, the overall survival experience of 
this all male cohort compares well with previously published series and with 
overall U.S. male life expectancy. The fact that a history of coronary artery 
disease did not predict survival for this cohort may be related to selection 
bias; however, a more likely explanation is the presence of unsuspected coronary 
disease among patients without a documented history of angina or myocardial 
infarction.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80004-2
PMID: 7604374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Acta Derm Venereol. 1995 Mar;75(2):136-40. doi: 10.2340/0001555575136140.

Life expectancy, mortality and prognostic factors in neurofibromatosis type 1. A 
twelve-year follow-up of an epidemiological study in Göteborg, Sweden.

Zöller M(1), Rembeck B, Akesson HO, Angervall L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Göteborg, Sweden.

Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a genetic disease with an extremely wide range 
of manifestations. As yet, the individual course of NF1 cannot be predicted, and 
it is uncertain to what extent the disorder is associated with increased 
mortality. In order to gain insights into these aspects, we have conducted a 
12-year follow-up study of 70 adult NF1 patients in the city of Göteborg, 
Sweden, whereby life expectancy, mortality, causes of death and the prognostic 
value of clinical findings were investigated. Clinical examinations were made, 
and all available records, including medical files, death certificates, and 
autopsy reports were scrutinized. The survival in the NF1 cohort was compared to 
that in the general Swedish population. Twenty-two deaths occurred in the NF1 
group, whereas 5.1 deaths were expected in the general Swedish population (p = < 
0.001). The mean age at death was 61.6 years. Malignancy was found in 12 (55%) 
of the deceased (soft tissue sarcomas in 3, and carcinomas in 9). Severe 
complications related to NF1 were seen in 27%. Hypertension was significantly 
associated with increased mortality, as 10 out of 12 (83%) patients with 
hypertension died during the observation period. NF1 was associated with 
increased mortality due to malignancy and NF1-related complications.

DOI: 10.2340/0001555575136140
PMID: 7604643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Ann Acad Med Singap. 1995 Jan;24(1):52-7.

The limitations of resin-bonded restorations.

Wilson NH(1).

Author information:
(1)Turner Dental School, University Dental Hospital of Manchester, United 
Kingdom.

The ability to resin-bond rather than relying on mechanical retention and the 
use of cements indirect restorations has had a substantial impact on restorative 
dentistry. While resin-bonding offers many advantages, notably a reduction in 
the removal of sound tooth tissue during preparation, resin bonds suffer certain 
limitations. These limitations, including technique sensitivity, susceptibility 
to marginal deterioration and relatively limited life expectancy, are discussed 
in this paper together with considerations of the clinical performance and modes 
of failure of resin-bonded restorations in clinical service. It is concluded 
that resin-bonding will become recognised as a major development in dentistry 
but there remains considerable scope for further development of the materials 
and techniques for resin-bonded restorations.

PMID: 7605097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1995;9(4):181-9. doi:
10.1016/s1010-7940(05)80142-3.

Long-term follow-up of different models of mechanical and biological mitral 
prostheses.

Vitale N(1), Giannolo B, Nappi GA, de Luca L, Piazza L, Scardone M, Cotrufo M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cardiac Surgery, Medical School, Monaldi Hospital, Naples, 
Italy.

Three hundred eighty-five valve prostheses were implanted between 1974 and 1981 
in patients with isolated mitral disease: 157 caged-ball valves (156 
Starr-Edwards; 1 Smeloff-Cutter) (group A), 107 tilting-disc valves (44 
Bjork-Shiley, 49 Sorin, 14 Lillehei-Kaster) (group B), 121 porcine bioprostheses 
(45 Carpentier-Edwards, 66 Liotta, 10 Hancock) (group C). Perioperative 
mortality was 9.5% in group A, 11.2% in group B and 6.6% in group C. The 
follow-up was 86% complete. Actuarial freedom from complications was calculated 
as follows (linearised rates in brackets) in groups A, B and C, respectively: 
survival: 47.01% +/- 0.11 (3% patient/yr), 53.37% +/- 0.08 (1.8% patient/yr), 
61.24% +/- 0.05 (2.2% patient/yr); thromboembolism: 67.94% +/- 0.09 (1.18% 
patient/yr); 73.07% +/- 0.06 (1% patient/yr); 97.43% +/- 0.02 (0.02% 
patient/yr); anticoagulation-related hemorrhage: 84.10% +/- 0.13 (0.18% 
patient/yr), 97.21% +/- 0.01 (0.12% patient/yr), 100%; prosthetic valve 
endocarditis: 100% in groups A and B, 95.76% +/- 0.02 (0.18% patient/yr) in 
group C; valve-related mortality: 87.52% +/- 0.03 (0.75% patient/yr), 87.96% +/- 
0.03 (0.56% patient/yr), 82.53% +/- 0.04 (0.93% patient/yr); valve failure: 
81.22% +/- 0.07 (0.56% patient/yr), 63.36% +/- 0.1 (1.06% patient/yr), 14.31% 
+/- 0.05 (4% patient/yr); treatment failure: 78.81% +/- 0.05 (1.12% patient/yr), 
76.44% +/- 0.09 (0.62% patient/yr), 80.97% +/- 0.04 (1% patient/yr); all 
valve-related morbidity and mortality: 40.43% +/- 0.13 (1.93% patient/yr), 
57.76% +/- 0.08 (1.43% patient/yr), 14.96% +/- 0.05 (4.18% patient/yr); all 
valve-related morbidity and mortality at 5 years: 91.97% +/- 0.02 (7.8% 
patient/yr), 87.06% +/- 0.03 (3.6% patient/yr), 90.27% +/- 0.03 (2.6% 
patient/yr); at 10 years: 80.4% +/- 0.03 (4.6% patient/yr), 75.91% +/- 0.03 
(2.6% patient/yr), 37.44% +/- 0.05 (4.18% patient/yr).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/s1010-7940(05)80142-3
PMID: 7605641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Acta Oncol. 1995;34(4):473-8. doi: 10.3109/02841869509094010.

Myelodysplastic syndromes--a population-based study on transformation and 
survival.

Hörnsten P(1), Wahlin A, Rudolphi O, Nordenson I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Umeå University Hospital, Sweden.

A retrospective analysis was done on 113 patients (median age 73 years) with 
myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), consecutively diagnosed at our center during a 
10-year period. Patients with refractory anemia (RA) and refractory anemia with 
ringed sideroblasts (RARS) had significantly longer survival than patients with 
refractory anemia with excess blasts (RAEB), chronic myelomonocytic leukemia 
(CMML) or refractory anemia with excess blasts in transformation (RAEB-T). 
Thirty-seven patients (33%) subsequently developed acute myelogenous leukemia 
(AML). The percentages of AML transformation for the subgroups were: RA: 26%, 
RARS: 14%, RAEB: 38%, CMML: 25% and RAEB-T: 69%. A total of 9 patients received 
high-dose chemotherapy, 7 of them already at the time of MDS diagnosis. Six of 
the RAEB-T patients entered complete and two partial remission. The median age 
in the group of RAEB-T patients was significantly lower (62 years) than in the 
other MDS subgroups. It seems that high-dose chemotherapy, at least in RAEB-T, 
may induce complete remission and improve survival time.

DOI: 10.3109/02841869509094010
PMID: 7605654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Acta Oncol. 1995;34(4):525-30. doi: 10.3109/02841869509094018.

Radiotherapy alone for non-small cell lung carcinoma. Five-year disease-free 
survival and patterns of failure.

Koukourakis M(1), Skarlatos J, Kosma L, Giatromanolaki A, Yannakakis D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy and Oncology, Hellenic Cancer Institute, Saint 
Savvas Hospital, Athens, Greece.

One hundred and fifty-three patients with inoperable non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC) treated with radiotherapy alone have been retrospectively analysed. 
Normalized Total Dose (NTD) as defined by Macejewski, TN-stage (AJC-system) and 
histology have been examined with respect to 5-year disease-free survival (DFS) 
and the patterns of failure so as to identify subgroups of patients that 
routinely should be treated with radical intent. The 5-year DFS for T1, 2-N0, 1 
and T3-N0, 1 staged patients was 30% (7/23) and 25% (4/16) respectively when the 
tumor NTD (a/b = 10 Gy) was 56-64 Gy vs. 12% (5/41) and 0% (0/10) when the NTD 
was 48-55 Gy. This difference was statistically significant for the squamous 
cell histology group. The higher doses significantly altered the patterns of 
death in N0, 1 staged squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma patients. 
Forty-five percent (22/55) and 41% (12/29) of squamous cell and adenocarcinoma 
patients respectively, died from local relapse without evidence of distant 
metastases when NTD less tha 55 Gy were given vs. 21% (9/42) and 13% (2/15) when 
the NTD delivered was 56-64 Gy (p < 0.05). Although for N2, 3 staged patients or 
patients with direct extension of the tumor into the mediastinum death from 
local relapse occurred in 38% (10/26) of the high NTD treated patients vs. 51% 
(19/37) of the low-dose treated ones, the difference was not statistically 
significant. It is concluded that NSCLC patients should not à priori be 
considered as non-radiocurable. At least 30% of the patients with early local 
stages can be long-term disease-free survivors with radiation NTD up to 60 Gy 
and better results are to be expected with higher doses. Advanced T-stage 
without mediastinal involvement should be treated with radical intent since a 
high NTD could give cure rates of over 25%. The disappointing results for 
patients with mediastinal disease could perhaps be attributed to the low NTD 
delivered. For patients with good performance status, hyperfractionated regimens 
delivering high tumor doses should be tested and chemotherapy should be adapted 
to these radiation treatment schedules.

DOI: 10.3109/02841869509094018
PMID: 7605662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Blood. 1995 Jul 15;86(2):776-83.

Clinical events in the first decade in a cohort of infants with sickle cell 
disease. Cooperative Study of Sickle Cell Disease.

Gill FM(1), Sleeper LA, Weiner SJ, Brown AK, Bellevue R, Grover R, Pegelow CH, 
Vichinsky E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia, USA.

Comment in
    Blood. 1995 Dec 1;86(11):4382.

Within the Cooperative Study of Sickle Cell Disease, 694 infants with confirmed 
sickle cell disease were enrolled at less than 6 months of age. Information 
about the nature and frequency of complications was collected prospectively over 
a 10-year period. Painful crises and acute chest syndrome were the most common 
sickle cell-related events in homozygous sickle cell anemia (SS), hemoglobin SC 
disease (SC), and S beta thalassemia patients (overall incidence in SS patients 
of 32.4 and 24.5 cases per 100 person-years, respectively). Bacteremia occurred 
most frequently in SS children under 4 years of age and in SC patients less than 
2 years of age. The mortality rate was low in this cohort compared with that 
found in previous reports. Twenty children, all with Hb SS, died (1.1 deaths per 
100 person-years among SS patients). Infection, most commonly with Streptococcus 
pneumoniae and Hemophilus influenzae, caused 11 deaths. Two children died of 
splenic sequestration, 1 of cerebrovascular accident, and 6 of unclear causes. 
Two patients underwent cholecystectomies, and 17 underwent splenectomies after 
one or more splenic sequestration crises. The experience of this cohort should 
reflect closely the true clinical course of those children with Hb SS and Hb SC 
disease who are observed in sickle cell centers in the United States.

PMID: 7606007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Chest. 1995 Jul;108(1):226-32. doi: 10.1378/chest.108.1.226.

Life expectancy of ventilator-dependent persons with spinal cord injuries.

DeVivo MJ(1), Ivie CS 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to estimate age-specific life 
expectancies for ventilator-dependent persons with spinal cord injury (SCI).
DESIGN: Nonconcurrent prospective study.
SETTING: Federally designated model SCI care systems.
PATIENTS: The study included all 435 persons admitted to a model SCI care system 
between 1973 and 1992 who survived at least 24 h postinjury and who were either 
ventilator dependent at rehabilitation discharge or who died prior to discharge 
while still ventilator dependent.
INTERVENTION: None.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Standardized mortality ratio (SMR), life expectancy, and 
causes of death.
RESULTS: The overall 1-year survival rate was 25.4%, while the 15-year survival 
rate was 16.8%. Among those who survived the first year, cumulative survival 
over the next 14 years was 61.4%. The mortality rate for persons injured since 
1980 was reduced by 60% compared with persons injured between 1973 and 1979. 
Among year 1 survivors, the subsequent mortality rate was reduced by 39% for 
persons injured between 1980 and 1985, and 91% for persons injured since 1986, 
relative to persons injured between 1973 and 1979. The leading cause of death 
was respiratory complications, particularly pneumonia.
CONCLUSIONS: With the development of improved methods of prevention and 
management of respiratory complications in this population, life expectancies 
should continue to improve. As a result, additional attention should be focused 
on enhancing the quality of life for these individuals.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.108.1.226
PMID: 7606963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1995 Jul 15;32(4):1007-16. doi: 
10.1016/0360-3016(95)00515-z.

Oropharyngeal cancer in the elderly.

Chin R(1), Fisher RJ, Smee RI, Barton MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, NSW, 
Australia.

PURPOSE: The poor prognosis of elderly patients in many cancers may be due to 
less thorough investigation and less aggressive treatment because of the 
perception that radical treatment will be poorly tolerated and that elderly 
patients have a limited life expectancy. We wished to assess whether older age 
is associated with (a) less radical treatment, (b) poorer outcome, or (c) 
greater toxicity, after adjusting for other possible contributing factors.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A retrospective study of patients with loco-regional 
oropharyngeal cancer treated between January 1980 and December 1985 was 
conducted. Patients were treated with radiotherapy, surgery, chemotherapy, or 
combinations. Cox regression was used to assess age effects while allowing for 
the influence of other factors.
RESULTS: Eighty-eight patients were treated radically and 16 palliatively. 
Treatment intent (radical or palliative) did not appear to be related to age, 
before (p = 0.42) or after adjusting for other factors (p = 0.34). In a selected 
group of 86 radically treated patients ages ranged from 33 to 85 (median 60). 
There were 35 loco-regional failures and 58 deaths (38 related to oropharyngeal 
cancer). Older patients were prescribed and received lower doses of radiation. 
However, older age was not related to the risk of loco-regional recurrence (p = 
0.96) or shorter survival (p = 0.67), and was not associated with duration of 
treatment interruption or severity of toxicity after adjustment for prognostic 
factors. There was some suggestion of a higher risk of recurrence with 
increasing age for patients under 70 years but with a risk for patients over 70 
at least equal to that of the youngest group. Elderly patients in our study may 
have been a selected group.
CONCLUSION: Older patients with loco-regional oropharyngeal cancer, or at least 
a subset of them, appear to be able to tolerate radical courses of radiotherapy, 
and to have similar outcomes as do younger patients.

DOI: 10.1016/0360-3016(95)00515-z
PMID: 7607920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1995 Aug;26(2):351-7. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(95)80006-3.

Disease-free intervals after partial ileal bypass in patients with coronary 
heart disease and hypercholesterolemia: report from the Program on the Surgical 
Control of the Hyperlipidemias (POSCH).

Buchwald H(1), Campos CT, Boen JR, Nguyen PA, Williams SE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55455, USA.

OBJECTIVES: We sought to analyze the disease-free intervals and calculate the 
freedom from atherosclerosis events in the Program on the Surgical Control of 
the Hyperlipidemias (POSCH).
BACKGROUND: The POSCH study was a randomized, secondary lipid/atherosclerosis 
intervention trial that provided strong evidence for reduction in 
atherosclerosis progression as demonstrated by clinical and arteriographic end 
points. The 417 control group patients received American Heart Association phase 
II diet instruction, and the 421 intervention group patients received identical 
dietary instruction and underwent a partial ileal bypass operation.
METHODS: Four outcome measures were determined: 1) overall mortality, 2) 
coronary heart disease mortality, 3) coronary heart disease mortality and 
confirmed nonfatal myocardial infarction, and 4) coronary/cardiac interventions.
RESULTS: An overall mortality rate of 10% occurred at 6.7 years in the control 
group and 9.4 years in the intervention group, for a gain in disease-free 
interval of 2.7 years in the intervention group (p = 0.032). A coronary heart 
disease mortality rate of 8% occurred at 7.2 years in the control group and 11 
years in the intervention group, for a gain of 3.8 years (p = 0.046). Twenty 
percent of patients demonstrated the combined end point of coronary heart 
disease mortality and confirmed nonfatal myocardial infarction at 5.9 years in 
the control group and 11.4 years in the intervention group, for a gain of 5.5 
years (p < 0.001). Twenty-five percent of patients underwent either coronary 
artery bypass graft surgery, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or 
heart transplantation at 5.4 years in the control group and 12.4 years in the 
intervention group, for a gain of 7 years (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The marked lipid modification achieved by partial ileal bypass in 
the POSCH trial led to demonstrable increases in the disease-free intervals for 
overall mortality, coronary heart disease mortality, coronary heart disease 
mortality and confirmed nonfatal myocardial infarction, and coronary 
intervention procedures. For the clinician and the patient, estimation of 
disease-free intervals may be more relevant than assessment of differences in 
incidence rates and risk ratios.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(95)80006-3
PMID: 7608434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. J Intern Med. 1995 Jul;238(1):21-30. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2796.1995.tb00895.x.

Coronary heart disease in diabetes mellitus: three new risk factors and a 
unifying hypothesis.

Yudkin JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University College London Medical School, Whittington 
Hospital, UK.

The standard risk factors--dyslipidaemia, hypertension and smoking--provide 
little help in explaining the raised cardiovascular risk in diabetes. It can be 
calculated that intervening for disturbances of these risk factors could do 
little to rectify the loss of life expectancy of around 10 years for a 
middle-aged diabetic man. Three new risk factors are discussed, which together 
may contribute to some of the excess cardiovascular risk in diabetes. 
Plasminogen activator inhibitor is an inhibitor of fibrinolysis which is 
elevated in concentration in diabetic subjects, and may increase both the 
incidence of thrombotic events and the risk of reinfarction after the initial 
infarct. Recent work also suggests that high activity of this substance may 
impair pharmacological fibrinolysis. Proinsulin-like molecules are elevated in 
concentration in diabetic patients and correlate with levels of a number of 
other risk factors. Whilst these correlations may represent cause and effect for 
plasminogen activator inhibitor, there is no evidence that changes in levels of 
proinsulin-like molecules influence levels of other risk factors. 
Microalbuminuria provides a powerful indicator of cardiovascular risk in both 
diabetic and non-diabetic subjects, but whilst the mechanisms for this 
association are unclear, they are again unlikely to be mediated through changes 
in levels of standard risk factors. Recent observations of an association 
between short stature and microalbuminuria suggest that intrauterine or early 
infant nutrition may represent a common antecedent, these having also been shown 
to predict both components of the insulin resistance syndrome and cardiovascular 
disease in adult life.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.1995.tb00895.x
PMID: 7608643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. J Reprod Med. 1995 May;40(5):333-6.

"Rollerball" ablation of the endometrium.

Paskowitz RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Northern California Permanente 
Medical Group, Roseville 95678-5199, USA.

Menorrhagia was treated with the "rollerball" method for five years, 1988-1993, 
in 200 patients. All the patients were evaluated and treated at 
Kaiser-Permanente facilities in northern California. All patients were 
candidates for hysterectomy based on excessive bleeding from benign conditions. 
The procedures were done on an out-patient basis. Complications were minimal, 
with a mean follow-up of 2.5 years. Relief was achieved in 90% of patients. 
Eight patients required repeat ablations. Of those, one required hysterectomy. 
Ten patients had hysterectomies following rollerball ablation. The data add to 
the growing opinion that endometrial ablation ("rollerball") is an economical, 
effective method of treating menorrhagia without resorting to hysterectomy.

PMID: 7608870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. JAMA. 1995 Jul 19;274(3):208-9.

From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Smoking-attributable 
mortality--Mexico, 1992.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7609218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Versicherungsmedizin. 1995 Jun 1;47(3):102.

[Aspects of life expectancy in Down's syndrome with reference to annuity].

[Article in German]

Kraus HK.

PMID: 7610525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Am Pharm. 1995 May;NS35(5):52-7; quiz 57-8.

Quality of life: issues for the pharmacist.

Zagaria MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Liberty Pharmacy Ltd., Staten Island, N.Y., USA.

PMID: 7611140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Qual Life Res. 1995 Jun;4(3):279-87. doi: 10.1007/BF02260867.

Coronary bypass surgery in the elderly--a multi-disciplinary opinion: summary of 
proceedings of an international symposium held at Antwerp, Belgium, March 9-11, 
1994.

Walter PJ(1), Mohan R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, University of Antwerp, Belgium.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02260867
PMID: 7613538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Contracept Fertil Sex. 1995 May;23(5):319-22.

[Menopausal hormone replacement therapy and prevention of neurologic 
complications].

[Article in French]

Lopes P(1), Mensier A, Laurent FX, Besse O.

Author information:
(1)Service de gynécologie-obstétrique A. hôp. femmes-enfants, Centre hospitalier 
régional et universitaire de Nantes.

Aging of the population in industrialized countries, as a result of increased 
life expectancy, is associated with an increased risk of neurological diseases. 
Prevention of disability is one of the objectives of hormone replacement therapy 
of menopause (HRTM). Based on a review of the literature, the authors present 
the benefits of HRTM in terms of prevention of neurological complications. 
Estrogens directly and indirectly influence the neurological status. A decreased 
incidence of cerebrovascular accidents and dementia of the Alzheimer type and 
improvement of cognitive function in cases of dementia have been reported in 
several clinical and epidemiological papers. These data need to be confirmed by 
large-scale prospective studies conducted by epidemiologists and neurologists.

PMID: 7613577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Med Tr Prom Ekol. 1995;(4):1-4.

[The effect of industrial-occupational factors on the life expectancy of 
metallurgists].

[Article in Russian]

Iakovleva TP, Tikhonova GI, Leskina LM, Shamarin VN, Ermakov SP.

The authors designed a method to evaluate possible influence of occupational 
hazards on lower life expectancy. Initial application of the method proved that 
average life expectancy of metallurgists is shorter by 2.6 years vs that of 
general male population in Tula Province.

PMID: 7613773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Adv Ren Replace Ther. 1994 Jul;1(2):131-47. doi:
10.1016/s1073-4449(12)80044-6.

The treatment of vascular access graft dysfunction: a nephrologist's view and 
experience.

Beathard GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Austin Diagnostic Clinic, TX, USA.

Chronic hemodialysis, as it is practiced today, is heavily dependent on the use 
of the expanded polytetrafluoroethylene graft for vascular access, although it 
is prone to the problem of venous stenosis and its sequela, thrombosis. The 
natural history of untreated venous stenosis is to decrease the efficiency of 
dialysis and to limit the life expectancy of the graft. Prospective treatment of 
venous stenosis has been advocated and percutaneous transluminal angioplasty 
(PTA) has been shown to be safe and reasonably effective for this purpose. 
Because there is no optimum screening test for venous stenosis, patient 
selection for PTA is particularly important. The use of a group of clinical 
indicators that serve to indicate a significant degree of graft dysfunction has 
been recommended for this purpose. Long-term patency may be better when venous 
stenosis is surgically revised; however, PTA has a number of advantages, 
especially the preservation of potential vascular access sites. Endovascular 
metallic stents have been used to preserve patency following PTA with 
disappointing results except in selected cases with central lesions. Three types 
of percutaneous thrombolysis have been studied for the treatment of thrombosed 
access grafts. The technique of pharmacological thrombolysis in which a lytic 
enzyme is infused into the clotted graft has proven to be unsatisfactory. The 
more recently developed technique of pharmacomechanical thrombolysis (PMT) has 
proven to be practical for use in the dialysis patient. This procedure consists 
of two components, a pharmacological phase in which lytic enzyme is administered 
and a mechanical phase in which the residual clot is macerated and removed to 
restore flow. This technique offers the benefits of being quick, effective, and 
safe. Additionally, it combines angiographic evaluation of the access, 
thrombolysis, and angioplasty of stenotic lesions. Mechanical thrombolysis, 
performed in a manner identical to PMT except that saline is used in place of 
the lytic enzyme, has been shown to be equally effective and safe.

DOI: 10.1016/s1073-4449(12)80044-6
PMID: 7614313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. J Cardiovasc Risk. 1994 Jun;1(1):9-15.

Traditional Greek diet and coronary heart disease.

Trichopoulou A(1), Lagiou P, Trichopoulos D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Biochemistry, Athens School of Public Health, 
Greece.

The traditional Greek diet is strongly inversely related to the risk of 
developing coronary heart disease. Consequently, Greek men have a longer life 
expectancy than men from other European countries or from North America. Several 
aspects of the traditional Greek diet may contribute to its beneficial role in 
countering the development of coronary heart disease. They include the high 
intake of olive oil that tends to increase the ratio of high- to 
low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol, the regular consumption of fibre-rich 
legumes and vegetables in meals cooked using olive oil, the high intake of 
vegetables and fruits and the associated anti-oxidant compounds, and the 
moderate consumption of wine with meals that tends to increase 
high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol without posing major risks of intoxication.

PMID: 7614424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Eur J Immunol. 1995 Jun;25(6):1729-38. doi: 10.1002/eji.1830250636.

The role of cellular competition in B cell survival and selection of B cell 
repertoires.

Freitas AA(1), Rosado MM, Viale AC, Grandien A.

Author information:
(1)Unité d'Immunobiologie, CNRS URA1961, Paris, France.

We studied the competitive repopulation by different B cells of irradiated mice 
reconstituted with bone marrow from either congenic or Ig-transgenic (TG) mice 
mixed at different ratios. We found that after reconstitution, the number of B 
cells recovered in the different chimeras is similar and independent of the 
ratio of injected cells. In chimeras hosting TG and non-TG cells, the relative 
representation of the donor cell lineages diverges from the ratios present in 
the inoculum, i.e. at the periphery, non-TG cells are preferentially selected. 
Selection of non-TG cells only occurs when population growth plateaus, i.e. when 
resources become limiting and competition starts to operate. Selection of non-TG 
cells depends on surface Ig expression, and they are selected because they have 
a longer survival. Finally, the life-expectancy of the same B cell population 
differs depending upon the second population present. The present results show 
that the life-span and the population size of each B cell clone can be altered 
(interfered with) by the presence of a second cell population, demonstrating the 
existence of cellular competition among B cells. Our findings establish the role 
of cellular competition in the selection of B cell repertoires and the existence 
of a hierarchy of B cell selection in the absence of antigenic stimulation. The 
implications of cellular competition on our understanding of the immune system 
are discussed.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.1830250636
PMID: 7615000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Dev Med Child Neurol. 1995 Jul;37(7):567-76. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.1995.tb12045.x.

The life-expectancy of persons with cerebral palsy.

Crichton JU(1), Mackinnon M, White CP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of British Columbia, BC Children's 
Hospital, Vancouver, Canada.

Erratum in
    Dev Med Child Neurol 1995 Sep;37(9):833.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 1995 Nov;37(11):1032-3.
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 1995 Dec;37(12):1115.

Survival rates for persons with cerebral palsy were calculated using information 
from a population-based registry which has been collecting data since 1952. The 
30-year survival rate approximates 87 per cent. Adverse factors affecting 
survival are the type of cerebral palsy (spastic quadriplegia having the worst 
prognosis), epilepsy and severe or profound mental retardation. The length of 
time over which the data were collected precludes estimating survival time 
beyond 30 years.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.1995.tb12045.x
PMID: 7615144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1995 May-Jun;10(3):303-11.

Implant treatment in edentulous maxillae: a 5-year follow-up report on patients 
with different degrees of jaw resorption.

Jemt T(1), Lekholm U.

Author information:
(1)Brånemark Clinic, Public Dental Health Service, University of Gothenburg, 
Sweden.

In a retrospective study, 150 patients with edentulous maxillae were selected 
for treatment with Brånemark implants. The patients were arranged into four 
different groups, based on jaw shape prior to implant placement. After 
second-stage surgery, they were provided with either fixed prostheses, removable 
overdentures followed by fixed prostheses after at least 1 year, or overdentures 
for the whole period. Patients were followed up for 5 years, with implant and 
prosthesis survival, annual visits, marginal bone loss, and complications 
recorded. Results of the study indicated that treatment outcome in edentulous 
maxillae might be predicted by careful presurgical evaluation of jaw shape. 
Five-year cumulative implant failure rates varied from 7.9% for patients 
considered to have enough bone to be provided with fixed prostheses immediately 
after second-stage surgery to 28.8% for those with severely resorbed jaws 
receiving an overdenture. The corresponding cumulative prosthesis failure rates 
were 3.0% and 18.9%, respectively. Patients provided with autogenous bone grafts 
compared favorably to the group presenting severely resorbed jaws and provided 
with overdentures, but showed a compromised result compared to the group with 
the least resorption. Failure of implant treatment correlated significantly with 
bone quality and ratio of 7-mm implants. All groups, except those treated with 
bone grafts, showed an average marginal bone level of 1.2 mm after 5 years, 
irrespective of type of prosthesis. The bone-grafted group showed a 
