corresponding mean level of 2.3 mm after 5 years of function. Regarding clinical 
complications, a different pattern, mainly related to the type of prosthetic 
construction used, was observed between the groups. The number of visits clearly 
indicated that severely resorbed jaws provided with overdentures were the most 
demanding.

PMID: 7615326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Med Klin (Munich). 1995 Apr;90(1 Suppl 1):62-3.

[Long-term effects and life expectancy after six years intermittent self 
ventilation].

[Article in German]

Laier-Groeneveld G(1), Criée CP.

Author information:
(1)Ev. Krankenhaus Lenglern, Universität Göttingen, Bovenden-Lenglern.

PATIENTS AND METHODS: 381 patients were treated by intermittent ventilation for 
up to 6 years, when ventilatory failure and symptoms persisted despite efficient 
medical treatment. Patients with chest wall disorders (COPD) were in hospital 
for 19 +/- 10 (21 +/- 14) days during the first and for 6 +/- 10 (14 +/- 12) 
days in the following years.
RESULTS: Survival was found above 95% in chest wall disorders. In COPD survival 
ranged 75% in the 2nd and 59% in the 4th years.
CONCLUSION: Intermittent mechanical ventilation, therefore, can restore 
hypercapnic ventilatory failure to normal. Survival is improve similar to a 
control group without ventilatory failure.

PMID: 7616927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Neoplasma. 1995;42(2):93-6.

Evaluation of a hospital based cytology screening programme for reduction in 
life time risk of cervical cancer.

Agarwal SS(1), Murthy NS, Sharma S, Sharma KC, Das DK.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cytology and Preventive Oncology (ICMR), Maulana Azad Medical 
College Campus, New Delhi, India.

Hospital based cytology screening is one of the suggested alternative strategies 
for the developing countries. The present communication attempts to estimate the 
reduction in lifetime risk of cervical cancer initiated through a hospital based 
single lifetime screening programme. The percent reduction in cumulative 
incidence of cervical cancer during lifetime in different age groups of women 
was calculated after estimating the number of incident cases in the absence as 
well as presence of screening. Our analysis revealed that by introducing the 
single life time cytology screening in the group of hospital attending 
population, an overall reduction in the cumulative incidence of cervical cancer 
during lifetime was found to be 10.2%. It was further estimated that the 
reduction was much less in the early age groups (2.4-10.2% in 20-34 years) as 
compared to later age groups (11.2-55.6% in 35+ years).

PMID: 7617084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Obstet Gynecol. 1995 Aug;86(2):259-64. doi: 10.1016/0029-7844(95)00126-c.

Preoperative CA 125: an independent prognostic factor in patients with stage I 
epithelial ovarian cancer.

Nagele F(1), Petru E, Medl M, Kainz C, Graf AH, Sevelda P.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital of Vienna, Austria.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the prognostic importance of preoperative CA 125 levels 
in patients with International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) 
stage I epithelial ovarian cancer in comparison with the established prognostic 
factors: degree of differentiation, FIGO substage, and age.
METHODS: In a retrospective analysis, the traditional prognostic factors and 
CA125 levels (cutoff value 65 U/mL) were studied in 201 patients who were 
treated in five centers during 1984-1993. Patients with borderline tumors or 
non-epithelial ovarian carcinomas were excluded, as were women in whom CA 125 
had not been determined preoperatively.
RESULTS: In univariate analysis (Mantel test), overall survival decreased 
significantly in patients positive for CA 125 (P < .001). Substage (P = .004) 
and histologic grade (P = .01) also significantly influenced survival prognosis. 
When the effects of preoperative CA 125 levels were correlated with histologic 
grade, all three subgroups with CA 125 levels equal to or greater than 65 U/mL 
were associated with a decreased survival probability (grade 1, P = .04; grade 
2, P = .003; grade 3, P = .01). Multivariate analysis (Cox model) identified 
preoperative CA 125 as the most powerful prognostic factor for survival (P < 
.001), the risk of dying of disease being 6.37 times higher (95% confidence 
interval 2.39-16.97) in CA 125-positive patients. Although FIGO substage 
retained its significant influence on survival (P = .03), histologic grade and 
age were not prognostically important.
CONCLUSION: Randomized trials investigating the efficacy of adjuvant treatment 
in patients with FIGO stage I epithelial ovarian cancer should also include 
stratification by preoperative CA 125 levels.

DOI: 10.1016/0029-7844(95)00126-c
PMID: 7617357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Pneumologie. 1995 Mar;49 Suppl 1:158-60.

[Sleep disorders in patients with dialysis-dependent renal failure].

[Article in German]

Burmann-Urbanek M(1), Sanner B, Laschewski F, Kreuzer I, Wiemann J, Konermann M, 
Sturm A.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Universitätsklinik, Ruhr-Universität Bochum.

A questionnaire was performed in order to classify the prevalence of sleep 
disorders in patients with end-stage renal disease treated with hemodialysis. 69 
patients (41 male, 28 female) with a median age of 57 years completed the 
questionnaire. 67% of these patients complained of sleep disorders. 31 patients 
(45%) had evidence of periodic leg movement syndrome, 22 patients (32%) of 
restless legs syndrome. 29 patients (42%) had difficulties in falling asleep, 27 
patients (39%) in maintaining sleep and 17 (25%) experienced both. Snoring was 
found in 25 patients (36%), 13 patients (19%) seemed to have sleep apnea. These 
data show an increased prevalence of sleep disorders in patients with end-stage 
renal disease on hemodialysis treatment. We conclude that these patients should 
consequently be asked for sleep disorders, as a specific diagnostic and 
therapeutic regime could improve quality of life and life expectancy. Especially 
sleep apnea is a disease that has a high prevalence in this patient group and 
which can be treated successfully.

PMID: 7617603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Prim Care. 1995 Jun;22(2):271-80.

A clinician's guide to utility measurement.

Redelmeier DA(1), Detsky AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Administration, University of Toronto, Canada.

The approach described in this article is designed for clinicians who are 
striving to read utility analyses and understand patients' quality of life. We 
have introduced six questions to illuminate the complex issues underlying 
utility measurement and acknowledge the challenges encountered in conducting 
such research. Although not strict guidelines, the six questions provide a 
structured approach for recognizing high-quality articles and a swift method for 
discarding low-quality articles. We recognize that many studies seem poor when 
judged by these criteria, including some of our own. Yet we encourage 
clinicians, who are otherwise busy, to be selective in identifying utility 
analysis that merit attention. Without a structured approach, the temptation is 
to dismiss all articles as worthless and read nothing. The listed criteria, we 
hope, will help readers appreciate the merits of utility analyses and the role 
of patients' quality of life in decision analysis.

PMID: 7617786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Prim Care. 1995 Jun;22(2):295-306.

Testing and treatment disease thresholds.

Jernigan CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, 
USA.

This article discusses the testing and treating disease thresholds. How certain 
does a physician have to be about the diagnosis? When is a disease so unlikely 
that it can be ignored? These kinds of questions are explored using threshold 
analysis.

PMID: 7617788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Salud Publica Mex. 1995 Mar-Apr;37(2):140-8.

[AIDS mortality in Mexico from 1983 to 1992. The trends and years of potential 
life lost].

[Article in Spanish]

Izazola-Licea JA, Valdez-García M, Sánchez-Pérez HJ, del Río-Chiriboga C.

OBJECTIVE: To describe trends in AIDS mortality in Mexico from 1983 to 1992, as 
well as years of potential life lost (YPLL) and years of potential productive 
life lost (YPPLL) due to AIDS.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A retrospective review of databases available in Mexico 
that code mortality from AIDS was performed. Since AIDS was not coded 
specifically as a cause of death until 1988, for the period 1983-1987 the 
database of AIDS cases from the national AIDS registry provided by the Instituto 
Nacional de Diagnóstico y Referencia Epidemiológicos of the Ministry of Health 
was used. For the 1988-1992 period, a review of the mortality registry was 
provided by the Dirección General de Estadística, Informática y Evaluación of 
the Ministry of Health. To calculate YPLL and YPPLL we used the upper limit of 
expected life in Mexico for 1990 (70.79 years for men and 75.71 for women).
RESULTS: Through 1992, there have been 8,204 deaths attributable to AIDS in 
Mexico (86% were men) with a rate of 2.9 deaths/100,000. In 1992 AIDS was the 
19th leading cause of death in the country. The most affected age groups are the 
25-34 and 35-44 years-old (especially amongst men) in which AIDS has now 
displaced pulmonary tuberculosis, suicide and self-inflicted injuries, diabetes 
mellitus, cerebro-vascular disease and alcohol dependency syndrome as leading 
causes of death in men. Our data suggests that AIDS has caused, from 1983 
through 1992, 247,045 YPLL in men and 48,703 in women as well as 206,211 YPPLL 
in men and 29,793 in women.
CONCLUSIONS: AIDS is at present one of the leading causes of death in Mexico. 
However, due to under-reporting, these estimates should be considered 
conservative and as lower-bound estimates. This data suggests that professionals 
are over-represented among AIDS cases, in comparison with the 1990 Population 
Census. This does not happen to be the case among women who are housewives.

PMID: 7618114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Salud Publica Mex. 1995 Mar-Apr;37(2):171-8.

[The principle results of the mortality statistics in Mexico, 1993].

[Article in Spanish]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7618118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Vet Immunol Immunopathol. 1995 May;46(1-2):127-37. doi: 
10.1016/0165-2427(94)07012-v.

Recombinant FeLV vaccine: long-term protection and effect on course and outcome 
of FIV infection.

Hofmann-Lehmann R(1), Holznagel E, Aubert A, Ossent P, Reinacher M, Lutz H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Veterinary Medicine, University of Zurich, 
Switzerland.

The efficacy and the long-term protection of a recombinant feline leukemia virus 
(FeLV) vaccine were determined in 30 specified pathogen free cats for over 3 
years. At the same time, in order to specify the effects of feline 
immunodeficiency virus (FIV) on the immune system, one half of the cats (n = 15) 
were previously infected with the Swiss isolate FIV Zurich 2. The second half of 
the animals (n = 15) served as non-infected controls. Eighteen (nine 
FIV-negative, nine FIV-positive) vaccinated and 12 (six FIV-negative, six 
FIV-positive) non-vaccinated cats were intraperitoneally challenged with FeLV A. 
Seventeen of 18 vaccinated cats were protected against persistent viremia, while 
ten of 12 non-vaccinated controls became infected. An increase of antibodies 
against FeLV SU was found in all protected cats after the challenge exposure. No 
difference in vaccine efficacy was found between FIV-negative and FIV-positive 
animals. The whole group of cats was observed for over 3 years. There were no 
further vaccinations during this period. CD4+ and CD8+ cell subsets, clinical 
outcome and time of survival of the cats were recorded. FIV-negative and 
FIV-positive animals were kept in two different rooms. However, FeLV-negative 
and FeLV viremic cats were housed together in both rooms in order to imitate a 
natural FeLV exposure situation. Anti-recombinant FeLV SU antibodies were 
measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Although a continuous decline of 
antibodies was found in FeLV vaccinated cats, they remained protected against 
constant FeLV challenge for over 3 years. FIV infection had a stronger effect on 
the depression of the CD4+:CD8+ ratio than FeLV infection. Within the group of 
FIV-positive cats, the FeLV-vaccinated animals had significantly better survival 
rates as well as better clinical and laboratory parameters. FIV- and 
FeLV-coinfected cats showed the lowest CD4+:CD8+ ratio, mainly caused by 
decreased CD4+ lymphocyte counts. CD8+ lymphocytes with strong fluorescence 
(CD8(high)) disappeared and cells with weak fluorescence (CD8(low)) appeared 
instead. Prevention of coinfection by immunizing FIV-positive cats against FeLV 
infection improved the clinical outcome and prolonged the cat's life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-2427(94)07012-v
PMCID: PMC7119625
PMID: 7618252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Acta Med Okayama. 1995 Apr;49(2):97-106. doi: 10.18926/AMO/30388.

Sex differential in life expectancy in Japan and Scotland: age and causes of 
death.

Qureshi MH(1), Katoh T, Iibuchi Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of the Ryukyus, 
Okinawa, Japan.

The contribution of age groups and causes of death to the sex difference in life 
expectancy (SDLE) at birth in Japan and Scotland was estimated for the period 
1965-1990. The purpose was to determine the particular age groups and causes of 
death responsible for the opposite trend of SDLE in the two countries. SDLE has 
been widening and narrowing in Japan and Scotland, respectively. The 
availability of complete and reliable data for these two developed countries 
facilitated the study. A method of decomposing the total SDLE into age and cause 
of death components was employed. About 40-60% contribution to SDLE was observed 
for ages after 65 years. Marked increase in the contribution of the 75+ age 
group and marked decrease in the contribution of ages 45-64 for Japan and 
Scotland, respectively, had a major effect on the widening and narrowing of SDLE 
in the two countries, respectively. The contribution of diseases of the 
circulatory system was the maximum until 1980 in Japan (< or = 1.8 years or 
33.6%; cerebrovascular disease alone < or = 23.4%) and until 1990 in Scotland (< 
or = 3.1 years or 47.0%; ischemic heart disease alone < or = 42.0%). In Japan, 
the contribution of malignancy had a marked increased from 0.7 year (12.3%) to 
2.0 years (32.6%), particularly for the trachea, bronchus and lung, while there 
was only a small increase in Scotland from 1.0 year (16.6%) to 1.2 years (19.8%) 
with an increase in the negative contribution of female breast malignancy. In 
Japan, the contribution of diseases of the respiratory system increased 
considerably from 0.5 year (8.5%) to 1.1 years (18.1%) while it decreased in 
Scotland from 1.0 year (16.5%) to 0.6 year (10.7%). About 60-75% of SDLE is due 
to the above three groups of causes of death. Malignancy and diseases of the 
respiratory system had a persistently increased contribution in Japan with 
resultant widening of SDLE by 0.9 year. Diseases of the circulatory system have 
always had a high contribution. On the contrary, in Scotland the contribution of 
diseases of the circulatory system and malignancy was practically unchanged and 
diseases of the respiratory system had a decrease with a consequent narrowing of 
SDLE by 0.4 year. Further epidemiological study is necessary to detect and 
analyze in detail the internal gradients (environmental and genetic-biological) 
of major contributor diseases to SDLE in Japan and Scotland.

DOI: 10.18926/AMO/30388
PMID: 7618494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Arch Intern Med. 1995 Aug 7-21;155(15):1622-8.

Isoniazid preventive therapy in areas of high isoniazid resistance.

Sterling TR(1), Brehm WT, Frieden TR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Keesler Medical Center, Keesler AFB, Miss., USA.

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 1996 Apr 8;156(7):811.
    Arch Intern Med. 1996 Mar 25;156(6):684-5.
    Arch Intern Med. 1996 Mar 25;156(6):685-6.

BACKGROUND: Previous decision analyses of isoniazid preventive therapy for 
low-risk tuberculin reactors aged 20 to 34 years have not accounted for the 
recently increased isoniazid resistance rate. Drug resistance trends could also 
affect the decision to use isoniazid preventive therapy for patients with recent 
conversion of tuberculin skin tests who are seronegative for human 
immunodeficiency virus.
METHODS: A decision analysis was performed with a Markov simulation to assess 
the difference in life expectancy between those who receive isoniazid preventive 
therapy and those who do not. Probability estimates were determined from a 
review of the literature.
RESULTS: For tuberculin reactors aged 20 to 34 years living in areas with 26% 
isoniazid resistance, isoniazid preventive therapy increases life expectancy by 
2 days. Withholding isoniazid is clearly favored if the isoniazid hepatitis rate 
is 1.1% and the hepatitis fatality rate exceeds 2.8%. For recent tuberculin 
converters, isoniazid preventive therapy increases life expectancy by 14 to 17 
days, depending on patient age. Withholding isoniazid from converters is favored 
only if the isoniazid resistance rate exceeds 90% to 98%, according to patient 
age. Two-way sensitivity analysis of isoniazid-associated hepatitis and 
hepatitis-related fatality rate did not affect the decision to use isoniazid for 
recent converters.
CONCLUSIONS: For tuberculin reactors aged 20 to 34 years who are seronegative 
for human immunodeficiency virus and living in areas with high isoniazid 
resistance, there is minimal net benefit of isoniazid preventive therapy. The 
current recommendation to provide isoniazid preventive therapy to this patient 
population should be reexamined. For recent tuberculin converters aged 20 to 64 
years who are seronegative for human immunodeficiency virus, isoniazid 
preventive therapy provides a small increase in life expectancy. Withholding 
isoniazid preventive therapy for human immunodeficiency virus-seronegative skin 
test converters at high risk for isoniazid-induced hepatitis may be considered; 
preventive therapy is advisable for all other recent converters.

PMID: 7618985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Asepsis. 1995;17(1):4-6.

The health care system and infection prevention issues in South Africa.

Pearse J.

PMID: 7619447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 1995;7(2):110-2. doi:
10.1016/s0936-6555(05)80812-x.

Neurological assessment of high grade astrocytomas following high dose 
radiotherapy as sole treatment.

Fuentes R(1), Izquierdo AX, Canals E, Vayreda J, Dorca J, Beltrán M, Viladiu P.

Author information:
(1)Servei d'Oncologia, Hospital Santa Caterina, Girona, Spain.

Comment in
    Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 1996;8(1):64-5.
    Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 1995;7(4):273.

Between January 1985 and June 1991, 19 patients, in whom the site and extension 
of the tumour prevented surgical excision, were treated with high dose 
radiotherapy as sole treatment for high grade astrocytomas. Quality of life, 
according to functional capacity, was measured prospectively before treatment 
and 4 weeks later. High dose radiation improved the functional capacity in only 
four of the patients (21%). The mean duration of improvement was 12 weeks and 
median survival 22 weeks (range 4-80). We conclude that high dose radiotherapy 
is not very useful and is probably not justified in this group of patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0936-6555(05)80812-x
PMID: 7619760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Gesundheitswesen. 1995 May;57(5):247-51.

[Frequency analysis for promoting public health goals--III: Potential 
abbreviation of longevity].

[Article in German]

Schott J(1), Haberland J, Baier WK, Bergmann E.

Author information:
(1)Robert-Koch-Institut, Bundesinstitut für übertragbare und nichtübertragbare 
Krankheiten, Berlin.

The article presents different mathematical algorithms intending to quantify the 
"potential years of life lost" based on life table models, and on real 
age-structured populations, respectively. Applying these algorithms to accident 
and cardiovascular mortality data from Berlin (West) demonstrates their 
individual and specific relevance.

PMID: 7620243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. J Cardiovasc Risk. 1994 Oct;1(3):263-70. doi: 10.1177/174182679400100312.

The prediction of coronary heart disease mortality as a function of major risk 
factors in over 30 000 men in the Italian RIFLE pooling Project. A comparison 
with the MRFIT primary screenees. The RIFLE research group.

Menotti A(1), Farchi G, Seccareccia F.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Istituto Superiore di Sanitá, 
Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Few risk functions for the prediction of coronary heart disease 
mortality have been produced in Italy. This study used a large population sample 
to evaluate the effect of major risk factors on coronary mortality.
METHODS: Coronary deaths in 45 cohorts of men (n = 31317, aged 30-69 years) were 
studied and related to selected cardiovascular risk factors.
RESULTS: After 6 years, 1089 men had died, of whom 239 were coronary fatalities. 
Univariate and multivariate (Cox model) analyses conducted on each age group 
(30-39, 40-49, 50-59, and 60-69 years) showed a positive association between 
coronary deaths and systolic blood pressure, serum cholesterol level and 
cigarette smoking, with few exceptions. A multiple logistic model was produced 
for men aged 35-57 years, assessing the role of age, serum cholesterol, 
cigarettes smoked per day and diastolic instead of systolic blood pressure, 
using the same endpoint as that employed in a similar model published from the 
analysis of MRFIT primary screenees in the USA to facilitate valid comparison. 
The coefficients in the present study were similar to those in the US cohort: no 
statistically significant differences could be detected when comparing the pairs 
of coefficients.
CONCLUSION: Coefficients relating cholesterol, blood pressure and cigarette 
smoking to coronary mortality in Italian men are similar to those in American 
men from the same age groups.

DOI: 10.1177/174182679400100312
PMID: 7621307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Cancer Surv. 1995;23:281-6.

The geography of prostate cancer and its treatment in Africa.

Kehinde EO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Leicester, Leicester General Hospital.

Cancer of the prostate is perhaps the commonest urological malignancy affecting 
Africans. The incidence between different countries varies and mirrors very 
closely the socioeconomic status of the countries and the life expectancy. The 
disease has an early peak incidence at ages 55-64 years, compared to 65-74 years 
for whites. This is primarily due to the low life expectancy in Africans. Late 
presentation is a common feature in Africans. Stilboestrol is widely used in 
treating disseminated cancer of the prostate not only because it is cheap and 
effective, but also because the cardiovascular side effects of stilboestrol seem 
not to be serious in Africans compared to whites. Further study of cancer of the 
prostate gland in indigenous Africans should provide vital data on the 
epidemiology and aetiology of this important cancer and may shed light on why 
the clinical aggressiveness of the disease varies from one part of the world to 
another.

PMID: 7621464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Cancer Surv. 1995;23:315-20.

Surgery from a US perspective.

Dekernion JB(1), Franklin JR, Belldegrun A, Smith RB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, UCLA School of Medicine, USA.

Prostate screening has made it possible to detect organ confined prostate 
carcinoma in men with a life expectancy of 20 years and longer. These clinically 
significant malignancies may be successfully eradicated by means of anatomical 
dissection of the prostate, which minimizes both morbidity and mortality. In a 
retrospective series of patients with clinically localized prostate cancer who 
were treated with a radical retropubic prostatectomy and lymph node dissection, 
5 and 10 year crude survival rates were 96% and 86%. Survival was compromised by 
penetration of tumour through the prostatic capsule, and even more significantly 
by involvement of the seminal vesicles. The use of prostate specific antigen 
(PSA) concentrations to monitor disease progression before any clinical 
manifestation revealed that disease free survival was less than previously 
reported. Patients diagnosed and treated more recently had longer disease free 
survival than the overall group mainly because of earlier detection with PSA, 
with consequent lower tumour volumes and stage. In addition, 92 +/- 3(SD)% 
patients with pathologically organ confined tumours, without capsular or seminal 
vesicle invasion, are clinically disease free with non-detectable PSA at 5 
years. Our data therefore show that radical prostatectomy can cure patients with 
organ confined prostate cancer, with acceptable morbidity. Although the need for 
cure may be questioned in many patients, young patients with prostate cancer 
almost certainly benefit from eradication of the malignancy.

PMID: 7621471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Indian J Lepr. 1995 Jan-Mar;67(1):35-44.

Epidemiological aspects of relapses in leprosy.

Pönnighaus JM(1), Sterne JA.

Author information:
(1)Universitäts-Hautklinik, Homburg/Saar, Germany.

Life table methods in which the cumulative probability of relapse in successive 
periods is calculated are preferable to the presentation of overall relapse 
rates. Their use facilitates the comparison of relapse rates and trends from 
different studies independent of duration of follow-up. Results from various 
studies including data from Malawi indicate that, (1) unlike after dapsone 
monotherapy, the cumulative probability of relapse in multibacillary patients is 
near to zero after WHO/MDT if strict definitions of relapse are used and, (2) 
the cumulative probability of relapse may approach 5% in paucibacillary patients 
10 years after completion of WHO/MDT. On the whole, the epidemiological 
relevance of relapses is insignificant and future treatment regimens should be 
evaluated concerning their efficacy in preventing disabilities rather than 
relapses.

PMID: 7622929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Recent Dev Alcohol. 1995;12:181-97. doi: 10.1007/0-306-47138-8_10.

Mental and physical health consequences of alcohol use in women.

Hill SY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pennsylvania 15213, USA.

Chronic consumption of alcohol in levels typically consumed by alcoholic women 
clearly produces adverse health consequences, including a shorter life 
expectancy. The health consequences of alcohol use appear to depend on the 
characteristics of the person consuming the alcohol (genetic vulnerability to 
particular diseases, the particular point in the life span when the majority of 
the alcohol is consumed, and the pattern of consumption typical for that 
individual). For adolescence and young adulthood, emphasis is placed on 
increased rates of accidental and suicidal mortality. For middle age, breast 
cancer risk and risk for developing osteoporosis is discussed. Finally, use of 
alcohol alone and in combination with psychoactive drugs presents special 
problems for older women. Other specific adverse effects of alcohol are reviewed 
with respect to gender differences in cardiovascular, hepatological, and 
neuropathological outcome, as well as with respect to HIV/AIDS. Psychiatric 
comorbidity and domestic violence are also discussed with respect to gender 
differences.

DOI: 10.1007/0-306-47138-8_10
PMID: 7624540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Rehabilitation (Stuttg). 1995 May;34(2):69-73.

[The Early Rehabilitation Barthel Index--an early rehabilitation-oriented 
extension of the Barthel Index].

[Article in German]

Schönle PW(1).

Author information:
(1)Allensbacher Forschungsinstitut für Rehabilitationsneurologie und 
Neuropsyhologie, Kliniken Schmieder, Allensbach.

The Barthel Index has been shown to be a good measure of reduced activities of 
daily living which can be applied in routine clinical practice in a valid and 
reliable manner. However, patients with severe brain damage cannot be 
differentiated appropriately as floor effects show up with increasing severity 
of neurological impairment, e.g. in comatose and near- or post-comatose patients 
in early rehabilitation. Aspects of functional deficits relevant in early 
rehabilitation patients have been introduced to the Barthel Index in a separate 
section, the Early Reha Barthel Index (ERI). These aspects are: state requiring 
temporary intensive medical monitoring, tracheostoma requiring special treatment 
(suctioning), intermittent artificial respiration, confusional state requiring 
special care, behavioural disturbances requiring special care, swallowing 
disorders requiring special care, and severe communication deficits. Experience 
with the ERI gathered with 210 early rehabilitation patients and 312 patients 
with severe brain damage demonstrate that the extended scale permits 
differentiation of patients according to severity and to avoid floor effects. 
Patients can be allocated appropriately to different phases of rehabilitation, 
i.e., early rehabilitation of patients with very severe brain damage or 
rehabilitation of patients with severe brain damage. The ERI is quick, 
economical, and reliable. Given the high cost of early rehabilitation it is 
expected to be of special interest also to health care providers to ensure that 
the right patient is looked after in the right bed.

PMID: 7624593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Am J Med. 1995 Aug;99(2):123-31. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(99)80131-4.

Prognosis after hospitalization for acute myocardial infarction not accompanied 
by typical ischemic chest pain. The Multicenter Diltiazem Postinfarction Trial 
Research Group.

Goldstein RE(1), Boccuzzi SJ, Cruess D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, 
Bethesda, Maryland 20814-4799, USA.

PURPOSE: Although ischemic-type chest pain generally identifies acute myocardial 
infarction (AMI), some patients are hospitalized for AMI without this symptom. 
Long-term mortality and morbidity after AMI presenting with alternative warning 
symptoms have not been examined previously. We therefore assessed the prognostic 
implications of the absence of typical chest pain as well as other recognized 
risk predictors in patients hospitalized with AMI.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Data were obtained during the Multicenter Diltiazem 
Postinfarction Trial. Pain status and other baseline characteristics were 
determined prospectively by study coordinators according to simple, prespecified 
criteria. Patients were then examined every 3 to 4 months until trial 
completion. We applied chi-square methods, life-table analysis, and multivariate 
analysis to assess the strength and independence of prognostic power associated 
with each baseline variable.
RESULTS: Of 2,464 patients enrolled 3 to 15 days after enzyme-documented AMI, 
115 patients lacked typical ischemic-type chest in on presentation (the 
"nonpainful" group). After 25 months' mean follow-up, cardiac mortality was 20% 
for nonpainful patients and 10% for 2,349 patients with typical pain (the 
"painful" group), P < 0.001. Similar increments were seen in total deaths (27% 
nonpainful versus 13% painful, P < 0.001) and cardiac events, namely, cardiac 
death or nonfatal reinfarction (24% nonpainful versus 17% painful, P = 0.001). 
Late congestive heart failure was more frequent (17% nonpainful versus 7% 
painful, P < 0.001), but unstable angina was less (6% nonpainful versus 16% 
painful, P = 0.005). At outset, nonpainful patients had more left ventricular 
dysfunction and diabetes mellitus. However, nonpainful AMI predicted worse 
outcome even when these problems were absent. Logistic regression confirmed 
greater cardiac death risk in the nonpainful group (hazard ratio = 2.05) and 
showed that predictive power of nonpainful status was independent of baseline 
ejection fraction, Holter data, concomitant diabetes mellitus, and other 
covariates.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients hospitalized with nonpainful AMI are much more likely to 
experience late cardiac death or congestive heart failure than are patients with 
painful AMI. In part, this probably reflects more ventricular damage with 
alternative warning symptoms such as dyspnea. However, our data suggest that 
defective perception of warning pain also provides a long-term risk to life that 
is independent of previously known predictors of poor outcome.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(99)80131-4
PMID: 7625416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Am J Med. 1995 Aug;99(2):180-9. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(99)80138-7.

The decision to enter a randomized trial of tamoxifen for the prevention of 
breast cancer in healthy women: an analysis of the tradeoffs.

Nease RF Jr(1), Ross JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Washington University Medical School, St. Louis, 
Missouri 63110, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1996 Jun;100(6):665.

OBJECTIVE: Interest in breast cancer prevention has led to the Breast Cancer 
Prevention Trial (BCPT), a controversial randomized trial of tamoxifen for women 
at risk for breast cancer. The goal of our study was to determine whether the 
potential benefits of enrolling in the randomized trial of prophylactic 
tamoxifen outweigh the potential risks.
METHODS: We used a decision analytic model based on the available data on 
tamoxifen treatment benefits in women with breast cancer and extrapolated to its 
use in healthy women.
RESULTS: For a 50-year-old woman with a breast cancer risk twice that of the 
average woman her age, the BCPT offers an increase in life expectancy of about 9 
days, a gain that is modest compared with other health interventions. For women 
ages 35 to 60 who meet the minimum risk of breast cancer for trial eligibility, 
the trial increases life expectancy by about 8 or 9 days. Assumptions about the 
effect of tamoxifen on the incidence of endometrial and liver cancer and on 
quality of life associated with tamoxifen did not alter our findings.
CONCLUSIONS: Advocates and opponents of the BCPT should temper their concerns to 
reflect the modest absolute benefits and harms associated with the trial. 
Although women at increased risk for breast cancer should be aware of the likely 
overall benefit associated with entry into the trial, for most women, entry into 
the BCPT is unlikely to alter substantially their length of life, in either a 
beneficial or harmful manner.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(99)80138-7
PMID: 7625423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 1995 May;87(5):369-74.

[Colorectal cancer in the context of multiple primary malignant neoplasms].

[Article in Spanish]

García-Anguíano F(1), Marchena Gómez J, Aguiar Morales JA, Gómez Guerra G, Conde 
Martel A, Cruz Benavides F.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía General, Hospital N. S. del Pino, Las Palmas de Gran 
Canaria.

INTRODUCTION: The finding of more than one carcinoma throughout the life of a 
patient is not unusual. In fact, the occurrence of multiple primary cancers has 
been well documented. However, the features, implications and prognosis of 
colorectal cancers associated to other malignancies, have been less well 
documented.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: We report 29 patients with multiple primary neoplasms in 
which at least one of them was a colorectal cancer. Number, extension and 
localization of colonic neoplasm, and time interval between diagnosis of both 
neoplasms, and mortality and survival rate were retrospectively analyzed. 
Follow-up ranged from 1 to 360 months.
RESULTS: Twenty three patients had two cancers, and six more than three 
neoplasms. Colorectal cancer was primary in 8 patients, metachronous in 14 
patients and synchronous in 5 patients. Breast (7 cases), prostate (5 cases), 
endometrium (3 patients) and stomach (3 cases), were the other malignancies most 
frequently detected. Overall, 13 of the 27 patients (49%) died during the 
follow-up period after the recognition of the colorectal cancer. Two patients 
were lost to follow-up. Mantel-Haenszel test did not show significative 
differences in survival between patients with two or more neoplasms. There were 
no differences in survival depending upon the timing of diagnosis of the 
colorectal tumor.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that colorectal cancer may share etiologic 
factors with hormone-dependent neoplasms (breast, prostate) and gastric cancer. 
In patients with primary multiple neoplasms, the number of neoplasms detected 
and the interval time between both diagnosis are not prognostic factors when one 
of the malignancies in colorectal cancer.

PMID: 7626296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Korean J Intern Med. 1995 Jan;10(1):25-31. doi: 10.3904/kjim.1995.10.1.25.

Immune suppression therapy in aplastic anemia: influencing factors on response 
and survival.

Jin JY(1), Kim DW, Lee JW, Han CW, Min WS, Park CW, Kim CC, Kim DJ, Kim HK, Song 
HH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Catholic University Medical College, Seoul, 
Korea.

OBJECTIVES: Immune suppression (IS) therapy has provided another opportunity of 
cure or improvement in the aplastic anemia patients who cannot receive bone 
marrow transplantation due to many causes. There are a few reports regarding the 
factors that affect response, survival and prognosis after IS therapy, including 
antilymphocyte globulin (ALG) in aplastic anemia. Therefore, we analysed our 
experience to determine the prognostic factors.
METHODS: Statistically analysed were 172 patients, from April 1982 to July 1992, 
who were diagnosed as severe aplastic anemia and treated with IS therapy, 
including ALG, at Catholic University Medical College, St. Mary's Hospital.
RESULTS: Among 172 severe aplastic anemia (SAA) patients who entered the study 
from April 1982 to July 1992, 144 patients were analysed for response and 122 
patient for survival. 58.4% (84/144) responded after the first course of IS 
therapy. Among those who did not respond on the first course an additional 44% 
(11/25) responded after the second course of IS therapy. Prognostic factors that 
might affect the response to the treatment and survival were analysed. In a 
univariate analysis of patients with no previous history of treatment before is 
therapy, and a shorter interval between diagnosis and treatment, higher 
hemoglobin levels before IS therapy, and higher granulocyte counts and combined 
use use of cyclosporin A(CSA) were positively associated with response (p < 
0.05). The combined use of CSA during IS therapy, younger age, lower monthly 
requirement of platelets transfusion before IS therapy, higher leukocyte counts, 
higher percent of polymorphonuclear leukocytes, lower percent of lymphocyte, 
higher bone marrow cellularity and response were positively associated with 
survival (p < 0.05). In a multivariate analysis, shorter interval between 
diagnosis and treatment, no combined use of hemopoietic stimulants, such as 
androgen, and lesser total amount of transfusion were positively associated with 
Response (p < 0.05). Higher leukocyte counts before IS therapy and the combined 
use of CSA during IS therapy were significantly associated with longer survival 
(p < 0.05). Patients with complete or partial response had excellent prognosis 
(96.7%-100% of 5 year survival rates). In contrast, patients with no response 
after IS therapy had 45.1% of 5 year survival rates.
CONCLUSIONS: With these results from the retrospective study of IS therapy, we 
find many valuable factors that have an influence on response or survival. IS 
therapy improves the survival of responded patients with SAA, and we confirmed 
that IS therapy is an important therapeutic tool for the SAA patients who are 
not feasible candidates for bone marrow transplantation.

DOI: 10.3904/kjim.1995.10.1.25
PMCID: PMC4532026
PMID: 7626553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Korean J Intern Med. 1995 Jan;10(1):32-7. doi: 10.3904/kjim.1995.10.1.32.

Combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, cisplatin and 
etoposide (COPE) combined with radiotherapy for small cell lung cancer.

Nam YJ(1), Choi CW, Shin SW, In KH, Kang KH, Kim JS, Choi YH, Kim CY, Choi MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal medicine, College of Medicine, Korea University, 
Seoul.

OBJECTIVES: Small cell lung cancer is sensitive to chemotherapy and 
radiotherapy. Nevertheless, responses are still short-lived and apparent cure 
remains for only limited disease patients.
METHODS: We combined cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m2 by intravenous infusion at 
first day) vincristine (2 mg intravenously at third day), cisplatin (20 mg/m2 
intravenously for 3 days), and etoposide (100 mg/m2 intravenously for 3 days) 
with radiotherapy (total 300cGy over 4 weeks in 17 fractions) and treated 39 
patients with small cell lung cancer who had received no prior systemic 
chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
RESULTS: 1) Thirty-nine patients (limited disease: 17 patients, extensive 
disease 22 patients) were treated and 35 patients were evaluable for response. 
Overall response rate was 82.8% (complete response 28.6%, partial response 
54.2%). 2) The median survival was 52 weeks for all patients and 58 weeks for 
limited disease and 45 weeks for extensive disease. There was no statically 
significant survival difference between the two patient groups. The median 
relapse-free survival time was 48 weeks. 3) Overall, treatment was well 
tolerated, with granulocytopenia being the most frequent toxicity.
CONCLUSIONS: Combination chemotherapy with COPE regimen combined with radiation 
therapy was effective as a first line therapy for SCLC.

DOI: 10.3904/kjim.1995.10.1.32
PMCID: PMC4532031
PMID: 7626554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. BMJ. 1995 Jul 22;311(6999):260-1. doi: 10.1136/bmj.311.6999.260d.

Assessing coronary risk.

Yudkin JS.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.311.6999.260d
PMCID: PMC2550313
PMID: 7627065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Environ Health Perspect. 1995 Jan;103(1):64-70. doi: 10.1289/ehp.9510364.

Social and environmental factors in lung cancer mortality in post-war Poland.

Brown HS(1), Goble R, Kirschner H.

Author information:
(1)Center for Technology, Environment, and Development, Clark University, 
Worcester, MA 01610, USA.

Poland and other Eastern European countries have undergone heavy industrial 
development with marked increases in air pollution and occupational exposure in 
the nearly 50 years since World War II. These countries have also experienced 
substantial increases in chronic disease mortality in the past three decades. 
While it is tempting to assume a direct association between these phenomena, 
more detailed analyses are called for. Poland offers a potentially rich 
opportunity for comparing geographical patterns of disease incidence and of 
industrial change. In this paper we 1) elucidate the prospects for attributing 
lung cancer mortality to industrial emissions in Poland, using an ecological 
approach based on the hitherto unaddressed geographic differences, and 
accounting for regional differences in cigarette consumption; 2) propose 
explanatory hypotheses for the observed geographic heterogeneity of lung cancer; 
3) begin systematic testing of the widely accepted but not well-scrutinized 
notion that pollution in Poland is a major contributor to declining life 
expectancy. Regions with the highest fraction of cancer that cannot be explained 
by smoking appear to be highly urbanized, have high population exposure to 
occupational carcinogens, experience the highest rates of alcoholism and crime, 
and are associated with the post- World War II population resettlement. Although 
the analysis does not rule out pollution as a significant contributor to lung 
cancer mortality, it indicates that other factors such as occupational exposures 
and various social factors are of at least comparable importance.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.9510364
PMCID: PMC1519032
PMID: 7628428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Haematologica. 1995 Mar-Apr;80(2):130-5.

The treatment of acute myeloid leukemia in Brazil: progress and obstacles.

Pulcheri W(1), Spector N, Nucci M, de Morais JC, Pimenta G, de Oliveira HP.

Author information:
(1)Hematology Service, University Hospital, Federal University of Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Substantial progress has been made in the treatment of acute myeloid 
leukemia in the last two decades. We wanted to evaluate the outcome of intensive 
chemotherapy and the influence of recent therapy changes in underprivileged 
patients treated in a large urban public university hospital.
METHODS: The records of all patients treated for acute myeloid leukemia from 
1980 to 1993 were analyzed.
RESULTS: 109 patients were identified; 41 did not receive any treatment for the 
leukemia because of infectious and/or hemorrhagic complications of advanced 
disease. Median survival in this group was 4 days. The other 68 patients 
received one of two induction protocols: TAD from 1980 to 1985 (n = 23) and 
ara-C plus daunorubicin from 1985 to 1992 (n = 45). The complete remission rate 
was 56%, disease-free survival 24% and overall survival 15% at 13 years. Overall 
survival was better for patients treated with ara-C plus daunorubicin than with 
TAD (19% versus 8%, p = 0.01). This is attributed to a reduction in infection 
mortality after ceftazidime and amikacin replaced cephalotin, carbenicillin and 
amikacin as the antibiotic regimen.
CONCLUSIONS: The most effective intervention in our population would probably be 
an improvement in the primary health care system, so that earlier diagnosis 
could allow the treatment of a larger fraction of patients.

PMID: 7628751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Haematologica. 1995 Mar-Apr;80(2 Suppl):61-5.

Cost-effectiveness of post-routine screening for an occult cancer in patients 
with idiopathic venous thromboembolism.

Barosi G(1), Marchetti M, Piovella F, Quaglini S.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Interna e Terapia Medica, IRCCS Policlinico S. 
Matteo, Pavia, Italy.

PMID: 7628773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. J Clin Pathol. 1995 May;48(5):410-4. doi: 10.1136/jcp.48.5.410.

Antibodies to human papillomavirus type 16 E7 related to clinicopathological 
data in patients with cervical carcinoma.

Baay MF(1), Duk JM, Burger MP, Walboomers J, ter Schegget J, Groenier KH, de 
Bruijn HW, Stolz E, Herbrink P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatovenereology, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

AIMS: To investigate the correlation between antibodies to the transforming 
protein E7 of human papillomavirus (HPV) type 16 and clinicopathological indices 
in women with cervical squamous carcinoma.
METHODS: A synthetic peptide of the HPV type 16 E7 protein (amino acids 6 to 35) 
was used to screen sera from 29 children, 130 women with cervical 
intraepithelial neoplasia, 443 women with cervical cancer, and 222 controls, for 
antibodies against this viral antigen. Bivariate and multivariate analyses were 
used to investigate the correlation between the serological status in the 
pretreatment sera and clinicopathological indices (size of the lesions, 
histological grade, stomal infiltration, vascular invasion, and nodal spread). 
Survival analysis was done using the Cox regression model for all FIGO stages 
and stages IB and ILA.
RESULTS: Cervical carcinoma patients had a significantly higher prevalence of 
antibodies to synthetic peptide E7/6-35 than women with cervical intraepithelial 
neoplasia (17.7% v 7%, p < 0.005) or controls (17.7% v 11%, p < 0.05). Bivariate 
analysis of the data on the presence of anti-E7/6-35 antibodies in the 
pretreatment sera from these patients and clinicopathological indices showed a 
significant correlation between the presence of anti-E7/6-35 antibodies and the 
size of the lesion (p = 0.0009), histological grade (p = 0.0031), and lymph node 
metastasis (p = 0.01). 0.011). In addition, the Cox regression model, analysing 
four risk factors which can be determined before treatment, showed a significant 
correlation between the presence of anti-E7/6-35 antibodies and a worse 
prognosis (p = 0.003). Survival analysis revealed that both for all FIGO stages 
(p = 0.0005) and for stages IB and IIA alone (p = 0.0021), anti-E7/6-35 positive 
patients before treatment had a significantly shorter life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of antibodies against E7/6-35 in pretreatment sera 
from patients with cervical carcinoma correlates with the size of the lesions, 
lymph node involvement, and a worse prognosis.

DOI: 10.1136/jcp.48.5.410
PMCID: PMC502614
PMID: 7629285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1995 Jun;49(3):320-2. doi:
10.1136/jech.49.3.320.

Potential years of life lost: what is the denominator?

Marlow AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Medicine, Powys Health, The Laurels, Bronllys, 
Brecon.

OBJECTIVE: To suggest an appropriate denominator for use with the statistic 
"potential years of life lost", in order to facilitate valid comparisons between 
health authorities.
DESIGN: Analysis of OPCS population and mortality data for the period 1987-91.
SETTING: Data for Wales were analysed to provide comparisons between the nine 
district health authorities.
SUBJECTS: There were 46,139 males and 30,258 females--that is, all deaths of 
Welsh residents, aged under 75 years, during the period 1987-91.
