MAIN RESULTS: The use of age sensitive denominators with the potential years of 
life lost statistic alters the rank position of Welsh district health 
authorities.
CONCLUSION: It is suggested that potential years of life lost should be 
expressed as a rate per 100,000 potential years of life in public health common 
data sets, and elsewhere, to facilitate valid comparisons between health 
authorities.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.49.3.320
PMCID: PMC1060806
PMID: 7629472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1995 Jun;49(3):330-1. doi:
10.1136/jech.49.3.330.

Health expectancy: an indicator for change?

Van de Water HP, Boshuizen HC, Perenboom RJ, Mathers CD, Robine JM.

Comment on
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 1994 Oct;48(5):482-7.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.49.3.330
PMCID: PMC1060811
PMID: 7629477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. J Okla State Med Assoc. 1995 Jun;88(6):252-5.

Conjoined twins.

Pearce KM(1), Mohler CP, Housel D, Schipul AH Jr, Crosby WM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ob/Gyn, OUHSC, Oklahoma City 73190, USA.

Conjoined twins, otherwise known as Siamese twins, have fascinated physicians 
and laymen alike for centuries. The minimal diagnostic criteria for conjoined 
twins is the fusion of some portion of mononuclear or monozygotic twins.

PMID: 7629608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Ther Umsch. 1995 Jul;52(7):434-6.

[Orthopedics and time].

[Article in German]

Rüttimann B(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinhistorisches Institut Universität Zürich.

We can see into the future because we stand on the shoulders of giants. 
Descartes thought that the human body functioned like clock-work, but 
orthopaedic surgeons today know better. Man's life expectancy has increased, but 
has quality of life kept pace? The right moment is only a short instant. To 
await and then grasp it is part of the art of orthopaedics. But to reduce time 
to the present moment is to annihilate it. Time is the all-important fourth 
dimension which allows for change and thus for life.

PMID: 7631272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Suicide Life Threat Behav. 1995 Spring;25(1):193-204.

Assisted suicide, euthanasia, and suicide prevention: the implications of the 
Dutch experience.

Hendin H.

What impact would legalization of assisted suicide and euthanasia have on our 
ability to treat suicidal patients and to prevent suicide? Information from a 
study of the Dutch experience illustrates how legal sanction promotes a culture 
that transforms suicide into assisted suicide and euthanasia and encourages 
patients and doctors to see choosing death as a preferred way of dealing with 
serious or terminal illness. The extension of the right to euthanasia to those 
who are not physically ill further complicates the problem. So too does the 
tendency of doctors in such a culture to begin to feel that they can make 
decisions about ending the life of competent terminally ill patients without 
consulting the patient. "Normalizing" suicide as a medical option lays the 
groundwork for a society that turns euthanasia into a "cure" for suicidal 
depression.

PMID: 7631372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Am J Prev Med. 1995 Mar-Apr;11(2):124-31.

California's "5 a day--for better health!" campaign: an innovative 
population-based effort to effect large-scale dietary change.

Foerster SB(1), Kizer KW, Disogra LK, Bal DG, Krieg BF, Bunch KL.

Author information:
(1)Nutrition and Cancer Prevention Program, California Department of Health 
Services, Sacramento 94234-7320, USA.

The annual toll of diet-related diseases in the United States is similar to that 
taken by tobacco, but less progress has been achieved in reaching the Public 
Health Service's Healthy People 2000 objectives for improving food consumption 
than for reducing tobacco use. In 1988, the California Department of Health 
Services embarked upon an innovative multi-year social marketing program to 
increase fruit and vegetable consumption. The 5 a Day--for Better Health! 
Campaign had several distinctive features, including its simple, positive, 
behavior-specific message to eat 5 servings of fruits and vegetables every day 
as part of a low-fat, high fiber diet; its use of mass media; its partnership 
between the state health department and the produce and supermarket industries; 
and its extensive use of point-of-purchase messages. Over its nearly three years 
of operation in California, the 5 a Day Campaign appears to have raised public 
awareness that fruits and vegetables help reduce cancer risk, increased fruit 
and vegetable consumption in major population segments, and created an ongoing 
partnership between public health and agribusiness that has allowed extension of 
the campaign to other population segments, namely children and Latino adults. In 
1991 the campaign was adopted as a national initiative by the National Cancer 
Institute and the Produce for Better Health Foundation. By 1994, over 700 
industry organizations and 48 states, territories, and the District of Columbia 
were licensed to participate. Preventive medicine practitioners and others 
involved in health promotion may build upon the 5 a Day Campaign experience in 
developing and implementing efforts to reach the nation's dietary goals.

PMID: 7632448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Hum Mol Genet. 1995 Apr;4(4):607-13. doi: 10.1093/hmg/4.4.607.

Recurrent mis-splicing of fibrillin exon 32 in two patients with neonatal Marfan 
syndrome.

Wang M(1), Price C, Han J, Cisler J, Imaizumi K, Van Thienen MN, DePaepe A, 
Godfrey M.

Author information:
(1)Munroe Center for Human Genetics, Department of Pediatrics, University of 
Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha 68198, USA.

The Marfan syndrome (MFS) is an autosomal dominant heritable disorder of 
connective tissue. Variable and pleiotropic clinical features are observed in 
the skeletal, ocular, and cardiovascular systems. The most severe end of the 
phenotypic spectrum of this disorder comprises a group of patients usually 
diagnosed at birth, who have a life expectancy of little more than a year. To 
distinguish this group of patients from those with classical MFS, we refer to 
them as neonatal Marfan syndrome (nMFS). These infants usually die of congestive 
heart failure rather than aortic aneurysmal disease, the most frequent cause of 
morbidity and mortality in classical MFS. Defects in fibrillin, an 
elastin-associated microfibrillar glycoprotein, are now known to cause both the 
classical and neonatal forms of MFS. Here we report the recurrent mis-splicing 
of fibrillin (FBN1) exon 32, a precursor EGF-like calcium binding domain, in two 
unrelated infants with nMFS. The mis-splicing, in one patient, was due to an 
A-->T transversion at the -2 position of the consensus acceptor splice site; 
while that in the second patient was caused by a G-->A transition at the +1 
position of the donor splice site. Characterization of FBN1 mutations in 
individuals at the most severe end of the Marfan syndrome spectrum should 
provide greater understanding of the multiple domains and regions of fibrillin.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/4.4.607
PMID: 7633409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1995 Mar;(312):148-59.

Orthopaedic management of spinal metastases.

Hosono N(1), Yonenobu K, Fuji T, Ebara S, Yamashita K, Ono K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Center for Adult Diseases, Osaka, Japan.

Spinal metastases result in severe spinal pain, neurologic deficits, or both. 
These symptoms usually are caused by spinal instability, in which conservative 
therapy can have no effect, and surgical treatment is required to restabilize 
the destroyed spinal segments. Surgical indications are instability of the 
spine, pain and/or paresis resistant to radiation therapy, acute progressing 
paresis, and unknown histologic diagnosis. There are 2 surgical approaches for 
vertebral metastases: prosthetic replacement and posterior stabilization. Single 
or 2 consecutive diseased vertebrae should be treated with replacement surgery. 
In this series, excellent surgical outcome was attained with this procedure, and 
surgical benefit was maintained until the terminal stage of each patient. 
Multiple vertebral metastases are treated with posterior stabilization using 
various instrumentation systems that provide rigid stabilization. To choose the 
most appropriate procedure for each patient, the local condition of the lesion 
and general status of the patient, including prediction of life expectancy, 
should be evaluated fully. Spinal metastases develop early and are not terminal 
events. Therefore, not only palliative treatment but also surgical intervention 
should be considered for spinal metastases when indicated.

PMID: 7634599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1995 Jul;(316):63-9.

Decision making in upper extremity problems in the elderly.

Steinberg DR(1), Szabo RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, University of California, Davis, USA.

As life expectancy continues to increase, orthopaedists must become more 
knowledgeable about upper extremity problems common to geriatric patients. 
Alternatives to direct repair of certain soft tissue injuries must be 
considered, because of their diminished healing ability and the morbidity 
associated with prolonged immobilization. Osteoporosis present in these patients 
affects surgical management of difficult fractures. Acquired soft tissue 
disorders such as nerve compression and Dupuytren's contractures often will 
require operative intervention to improve hand function. Osteoarthritis and 
rheumatoid arthritis disproportionately affect this age group. A variety of 
conservative and operative treatments are available to improve quality of life 
in these patients.

PMID: 7634726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1995 Jul 30;32(5):1547. doi: 
10.1016/0360-3016(95)99002-W.

In response to Bentzen et al., IJROBP 32:1531-1534; 1995.

Caplan RJ, Pajak TF, Cox JD.

Comment in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1996 Apr 1;35(1):197.

Comment on
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1995 Jul 30;32(5):1531-4.

DOI: 10.1016/0360-3016(95)99002-W
PMID: 7635803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. JAMA. 1995 Aug 23-30;274(8):626-31.

Long-term survival among men with conservatively treated localized prostate 
cancer.

Albertsen PC(1), Fryback DG, Storer BE, Kolon TF, Fine J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington 
06030-3955, USA.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1996 Jan 3;275(1):31; author reply 32.
    JAMA. 1996 Jan 3;275(1):31-2.

OBJECTIVE: To determine age-specific, all-cause mortality, disease-specific 
mortality, and life expectancy for men aged 65 to 75 years who are treated only 
with immediate or delayed hormonal therapy for newly diagnosed, clinically 
localized prostate cancer.
DESIGN: A population-based, retrospective cohort study.
SETTING: Patient records were abstracted from 37 acute care hospitals and two 
Veterans Affairs medical centers in Connecticut. Original pathology slides were 
sent to a referee pathologist who was blinded to case outcomes.
SUBJECTS: All men identified by the Connecticut Tumor Registry with clinically 
localized prostate cancer diagnosed in 1971 to 1976 who were aged 65 to 75 years 
at the time of diagnosis and were untreated or treated with immediate or delayed 
hormonal therapy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Parametric proportional hazards models incorporating 
tumor histologic findings, comorbidity, and age at the time of diagnosis to 
compare cohort survival with that of men in the general population.
RESULTS: After a mean follow-up of 15.5 years, the age-adjusted survival for men 
with Gleason score 2 to 4 tumors was not significantly different from that of 
the general population. Maximum estimated lost life expectancy for men with 
Gleason score 5 to 7 tumors was 4 to 5 years and for men with Gleason score 8 to 
10 tumors was 6 to 8 years. Tumor histologic findings and patient comorbidities 
were powerful independent predictors of survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with the general population, men aged 65 to 75 years with 
conservatively treated low-grade prostate cancer incur no loss of life 
expectancy. Men with higher-grade tumors (Gleason scores 5 to 10) experience a 
progressively increasing loss of life expectancy. Case series reports of 
survival/mortality experienced by men with clinically localized prostate cancer 
that fail to control for age, tumor histologic features, and comorbidities risk 
significant bias.

PMID: 7637143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1995 Aug 1;92(16):7540-4. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.92.16.7540.

Thermotolerance and extended life-span conferred by single-gene mutations and 
induced by thermal stress.

Lithgow GJ(1), White TM, Melov S, Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Behavioral Genetics, Boulder, CO, USA.

We have discovered that three longevity mutants of the nematode Caenorhabditis 
elegans also exhibit increased intrinsic thermotolerance (Itt) as young adults. 
Mutation of the age-1 gene causes not only 65% longer life expectancy but also 
Itt. The Itt phenotype cosegregates with age-1. Long-lived spe-26 and daf-2 
mutants also exhibit Itt. We investigated the relationship between increased 
thermotolerance and increased life-span by developing conditions for 
environmental induction of thermotolerance. Such pretreatments at sublethal 
temperatures induce significant increases in thermotolerance and small but 
statistically highly significant increases in life expectancy, consistent with a 
causal connection between these two traits. Thus, when an animal's resistance to 
stress is increased, by either genetic or environmental manipulation, we also 
observe an increase in life expectancy. These results suggest that ability to 
respond to stress limits the life expectancy of C. elegans and might do so in 
other metazoa as well.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.92.16.7540
PMCID: PMC41375
PMID: 7638227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Semin Urol. 1995 May;13(2):148-56.

Cryosurgical ablation for prostate cancer: a current review.

Zippe CD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, OH 44195, USA.

The available data on the efficacy of cryosurgery are still too immature to 
recommend this as a comparable option to radical surgery in the younger patient 
(< 72 years old) with organ-confined disease and at least a 10- to 15-year life 
expectancy. The available 3-month and 1-year positive biopsy figures of 10% to 
20% are inversely comparable to the 10-year 80% to 90% disease-free survivals in 
contemporary radical prostatectomy series. While we wait for survival data to 
mature, it is unlikely that 10% to 20% local recurrence rates will translate 
into 80% to 90% disease-free survival rates. Only the data from the Crittendon 
Hospital group, which reports positive biopsies at 1 year of 3% to 4%, deserves 
special attention. Their protocol of optimal presurgical androgen ablation, use 
of thermosensors, and use of 2 to 3 freeze cycles may direct the way to a better 
cryosurgical technique. Conversely, the 2 to 8 months of presurgical androgen 
deprivation may just be prolonging the appearance of cryo-resistant cells. 
Regarding clinical stage C disease, the data looks promising with similar 
results as in organ-confined disease with a 10% to 20% positive biopsy rate at 3 
months. One has to be cautious about what is really a stage C lesion, and 
comparison of preoperative PSA values enhance the comparisons between series. 
Overall, if the 1-year local recurrence rate does not exceed 30%, recommending 
cryosurgery as a viable option seems reasonable.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

PMID: 7638473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Science. 1995 Aug 11;269(5225):789-90. doi: 10.1126/science.7638591.

Global approaches to the promotion of women's health.

Mongella G(1).

Author information:
(1)Fourth World Conference on Women, United Nations, New York, NY 10017, USA.

DOI: 10.1126/science.7638591
PMID: 7638591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Surg Clin North Am. 1995 Aug;75(4):715-29. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(16)46693-4.

Bypass grafts to the ankle and foot. A personal perspective.

Andros G(1).

Author information:
(1)Vascular Laboratory, Saint Joseph Medical Center, Burbank, California, USA.

Our experience and that of others indicate that the number of very distal bypass 
operations is growing. From the early 1970s, when we performed a few operations 
per year, our numbers have increased to 60 to 65 operations annually, about 20% 
of all infrainguinal open revascularizations. Amputation of one leg leaves a 
patient, should he survive for a few years, with a second limb that is at 
substantial risk of infection or gangrene. From over 20 years of experience with 
thousands of diabetic leg problems and approximately 600 paramalleolar bypasses, 
the following facts have emerged from our clinical practice. Primary pedal 
arterial arches are virtually never complete. This alone should not deter the 
surgeon from attempting paramalleolar bypass grafting. Clinical details such as 
neuropathy, sepsis, and general medical status and even family support should 
not be overlooked as "risk factors." The order of frequency for pedal distal 
anastomotic sites will be anterior tibial/dorsalis pedis, posterior 
tibial/common plantar artery, lateral plantar artery/medial plantar artery, and 
lateral tarsal artery. In each case the graft should be placed as proximal as 
possible on the vessel; tibial outflow should be considered. Use short grafts 
with distal inflow whenever possible. In the rare instance wherein no pedal 
target site is available, consider the isolated tibial segment. Failure of a 
very distal bypass procedure seldom results in an amputation that is more 
proximal than otherwise would have been required if no bypass were attempted. As 
a corollary, after sepsis is controlled and all lesions and amputations are 
healed, failure of the graft may spare the limb from further risk of amputation. 
In diabetics, the presence of a palpable popliteal pulse and absence of foot 
pulse are tantamount to identifying the paramalleolar bypass graft candidate. 
Even the presence of palpable pedal pulses does not exclude patients who could 
achieve limb salvage with pedal bypass. That determination depends upon an 
angiogram. Pulsation and flow are not equivalent. Just as the obligations of the 
surgeon who performs an amputation are not discharged until healing and 
rehabilitation are complete, likewise, the vascular surgeon's duties after 
paramalleolar bypass must include a return to the ambulatory status. Careful 
follow-up, ongoing explicit patient and family education about foot care, and 
orthotics and shoes will enhance the life and life expectancy of the bipedal 
patient.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(16)46693-4
PMID: 7638716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Surg Clin North Am. 1995 Aug;75(4):731-40. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(16)46694-6.

Extra-anatomic reconstruction.

McKinsey JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Chicago, Illinois, USA.

Extra-anatomic bypass grafts have proven to be effective in bypassing infected 
regions, in avoiding hostile abdomens, and in patients with limited life 
expectancy. The extra-anatomic bypass graft can be used as a temporizing conduit 
while infected fields are definitively treated. The recommendation to expand the 
role of extra-anatomic bypass grafts over more direct revascularization with an 
aortobifemoral artery bypass graft must be critically evaluated. With advances 
in anesthesia and critical care management, the postoperative mortality for 
aortobifemoral bypass is 3% to 5%, with an incidence of myocardial infarction of 
2%. Long-term primary patency of the aortofemoral bypass graft is 80% to 92% at 
5 years. The 5-year primary patency rate for the axillofemoral bypass graft of 
50% to 73% does not strongly support the expanded role of extra-anatomic bypass 
in otherwise healthy patients undergoing aortoiliac bypass. Yet the 
extra-anatomic bypasses have a vital role in the management of selected patients 
and should be in the armamentarium of all vascular surgeons.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(16)46694-6
PMID: 7638717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Surg Clin North Am. 1995 Aug;75(4):741-52. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(16)46695-8.

The current status of prosthetic-vein composite grafts for lower extremity 
revascularization.

DeMasi RJ(1), Snyder SO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, USA.

When infrageniculate lower extremity vascular reconstructions are required in 
the face of inadequate or insufficient autogenous vein, prosthetic-vein 
composite grafts remain a viable alternative. Graft patency and limb salvage for 
composite grafts are intermediate between those of completely autogenous and 
prosthetic bypasses alone. The sequential technique may offer superior patency 
in patients with the appropriate anatomy. The addition of adjunctive techniques 
such as a distal arteriovenous fistula and/or anticoagulation may further 
improve results. An algorithm illustrating the proper role of composite grafts 
for distal lower extremity reconstructions is shown in Figure 6. Any significant 
interval of patency is important in this group of patients in whom limb salvage 
can often be achieved by healing ischemic lesions and in whom overall life 
expectancy is limited.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(16)46695-8
PMID: 7638718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Am J Gastroenterol. 1995 Aug;90(8):1233-7.

Sucralfate maintenance therapy in reflux esophagitis. Sucralfate Investigational 
Working Team.

Tytgat GN(1), Koelz HR, Vosmaer GD.

Author information:
(1)Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: to prove in a double-blind placebo-controlled multinational trial the 
effects of sucralfate suspension 2 g BID and placebo in the prevention of 
recurrent reflux esophagitis.
METHODS: One hundred and eighty-four patients from 16 centers with reflux 
esophagitis Savary grade 1 and 2 were initially healed with antisecretory 
therapy before entering the study. They were randomly allocated to sucralfate 
suspension 2 g BID or placebo for 6 months. Symptoms were monitored monthly. 
Endoscopy was performed at the end of the trial or earlier in case of clinical 
suspension of relapse.
RESULTS: The two treatment groups were well matched. We were able to analyze 88 
sucralfate- and 93 placebo-treated patients. There was a significant reduction 
in the endoscopic relapse rate (31% in the sucralfate group vs. 65% in the 
placebo group, p < 0.001). This reduction was especially obvious for symptomatic 
relapses (10% vs. 34%, respectively, p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: This is the first study to show that sucralfate suspension is 
capable of preventing recurrent reflux esophagitis in patients with solitary or 
confluent erosions previously healed with antisecretory therapy.

PMID: 7639221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Am J Gastroenterol. 1995 Aug;90(8):1238-43.

Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt in nonliver transplant candidates: 
is it indicated?

Spiess SE(1), Matalon TA, Jensen DM, Rosenblate HJ, Brunner MC, Ganger DR.

Author information:
(1)Section of Digestive Diseases, Rush Presbyterian St. Luke's Medical Center, 
Chicago, Illinois, USA.

BACKGROUND: Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) is an effective 
treatment of severe portal hypertension complications. Liver transplantation 
(LT) candidacy has not been a prerequisite to TIPS placement in some medical 
centers.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the outcome and survival of non-LT candidates after 
TIPS.
METHODS: From November 1991 to February 1994, all patients referred for TIPS 
placement were evaluated for LT candidacy. Exclusions for LT included: age (> 70 
yr), other significant medical conditions, or noncompliance. Indications for 
TIPS included refractory variceal bleeding during an acute bleed, recurrent 
bleeding after more than or equal to four sessions of sclerotherapy, or 
refractory ascites.
RESULTS: Sixty patients received TIPS. Nineteen were considered non-LT 
candidates. Over a 2-yr follow-up, 14 of these non-LT candidates did not 
survive. Their median age was 63.5 compared with 56.5 yr for LT candidate 
nonsurvivors (p < 0.05). Among the 14 non-LT candidate nonsurvivors, 10 were 
Childs C class, and eight had emergent TIPS placement. The 2-year mortality rate 
was 84% for non-LT candidates versus 24% for LT candidates. Median survival time 
for non-LT candidates was 2.6 months compared with 20 months in the LT 
candidates (p < 0.001). Only one death was due to a TIPS-related complication.
CONCLUSIONS: TIPS is unquestionably an advancement in the management of patients 
with portal hypertension complications. Non-LT candidates, compared with LT 
candidates, tended to be older and of a Child-Pugh C class, and they had 
survival rates often less than 90 days post-TIPS. Given these high mortality 
rates, we need to address whether TIPS is indicated in these non-LT candidates.

PMID: 7639222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Ann Plast Surg. 1995 May;34(5):560. doi: 10.1097/00000637-199505000-00025.

Re: Risk of dissemination of cancer to flap donor sites during immediate 
reconstructive surgery.

Arons MS.

Comment on
    Ann Plast Surg. 1994 Dec;33(6):573-5.

DOI: 10.1097/00000637-199505000-00025
PMID: 7639502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. BMJ. 1995 Aug 12;311(7002):435-7. doi: 10.1136/bmj.311.7002.435.

Cambodian health in transition.

Heng MB(1), Key PJ.

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Health, Phnom Penh, Cambodia.

As conflict and suffering in Bosnia, Chechnya, Rwanda, and Zaire continue to be 
at the forefront of world attention, some countries seem to be largely 
forgotten. It is timely to take stock of conditions in the small country of 
Cambodia as it struggles to take its place after a long period of isolation. 
Countless Cambodians and ethic Vietnamese have died there this year and during 
the past 25 years, victims of senseless killing or preventable disease.

PIP: During the past 20 years, millions of people have died in Cambodia as the 
result of violence, starvation, and preventable diseases. During this period, 
the public health system was also decimated as health professionals were killed. 
Efforts to provide health care were further stymied by inadequate training and 
low salaries that forced doctors to depend upon private practices in urban areas 
for their income. The health indicators in Cambodia reflect this situation, with 
life expectancy at 47 years for men and 49 for women, infant mortality at 
120/1000 live births, child mortality at 190/1000, and maternal mortality at 
9/1000 births. Malaria causes 5000-10,000 deaths each year, and the annual 
incidence of pulmonary tuberculosis is 250/100,000. The spread of HIV in South 
East Asia is also posing a major threat to Cambodia, and each month 300-400 
people are injured or die as a result of the explosion of 1 of the 13 million 
land mines (scattered throughout the country of 9 million inhabitants). Many 
Cambodians suffer mental illness as a result of the decades of violence and 
displacement. Today Cambodians are struggling to reestablish their public health 
system with the help of international donor agencies, and there is hope that an 
appropriate and sustainable system will be in place within 10 years.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.311.7002.435
PMCID: PMC2550497
PMID: 7640594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Endod Dent Traumatol. 1995 Apr;11(2):51-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-9657.1995.tb00461.x.

Replantation of 400 avulsed permanent incisors. 1. Diagnosis of healing 
complications.

Andreasen JO(1), Borum MK, Jacobsen HL, Andreasen FM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Medicine and Oral Surgery, University Hospital 
(Rigshospitalet), Denmark.

A material of 322 patients with 400 avulsed and replanted permanent teeth were 
followed prospectively in the period from 1965 to 1988 (mean observation period 
= 5.1 yrs). The age of the patients at the time of replantation ranged from 5 to 
52 yrs (mean = 13.7 yrs and median = 11.0 yrs). Standardized patient records 
were used through the entire period in order to obtain valid data concerning the 
extent of injury and treatment provided. At the follow-up period, pulpal and 
periodontal healing were monitored by clinical examination, mobility testing and 
standardized radiographic controls. Thirty-two of the replanted teeth (8%) 
showed pulpal healing. When related to teeth with incomplete root formation, 
where pulpal revascularization was anticipated (n = 94) the frequency of pulpal 
healing was 34%. Periodontal ligament healing (i.e. with no evidence of external 
root resorption) was found in 96 teeth (24%). Gingival healing was found in 371 
teeth (93%). During the observation period, 119 teeth (30%) were extracted. 
Tooth loss was slightly more frequent in teeth with incomplete root formation at 
the time of replantation than in teeth with completed root formation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-9657.1995.tb00461.x
PMID: 7641619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Endod Dent Traumatol. 1995 Apr;11(2):76-89. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-9657.1995.tb00464.x.

Replantation of 400 avulsed permanent incisors. 4. Factors related to 
periodontal ligament healing.

Andreasen JO(1), Borum MK, Jacobsen HL, Andreasen FM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Medicine and Oral Surgery, University Hospital 
(Rigshospitalet), Denmark.

400 avulsed and replanted permanent teeth were examined for periodontal ligament 
(PDL) healing, using standardized radiographic and clinical examination 
procedures (i.e. percussion test and mobility test). The effect of various 
clinical factors was examined, such as age and sex of the patient, type of tooth 
replanted, presence of crown fracture or bone fracture, stage of root 
development (including apical diameter and length of the pulp), type and length 
of extra-alveolar storage, clinical contamination of the root surface, type of 
root surface cleansing procedure, type and length of splinting period and 
antibiotic therapy. Surface resorption was generally diagnosed after 12 months; 
while inflammatory resorption and replacement resorption (ankylosis) were 
usually observed after 1 month and 1-2 months respectively. Most resorptive 
processes were diagnosed within the first 2-3 years. However, although rarely, 
even after 5 and 10 years new resorptive processes could be diagnosed. A 
univariate statistical analysis of 272 teeth revealed 9 factors significantly 
related to PDL healing. A subsequent multivariate analysis revealed that the 
following 4 factors had the strongest impact upon PDL healing, in descending 
order of significance: Stage of root development; length of the dry 
extra-alveolar storage period; immediate replantation and length of the wet 
period (saliva or saline storage). Nonphysiological storage, such as homemade 
saline and sterilizing solutions (chloramine and alcohol) always led to root 
resorption. Storage in tap water for more than 20 minutes usually led to root 
resorption. The common denominator for all these factors related to PDL healing 
appears to be survival of the PDL cells along the root surface. Based on these 
findings, immediate replantation is recommended irrespective of stage of root 
development.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-9657.1995.tb00464.x
PMID: 7641622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Gene. 1995 Aug 8;161(1):125-8. doi: 10.1016/0378-1119(95)00304-o.

Primary structure and partial characterization of a life-cycle-regulated 
cysteine protease from Trypanosoma (Nannomonas) congolense.

Fish WR(1), Nkhungulu ZM, Muriuki CW, Ndegwa DM, Lonsdale-Eccles JD, Steyaert J.

Author information:
(1)International Laboratory for Research on Animal Diseases (ILRAD), Nairobi, 
Kenya.

Trypanosoma (Nannomonas) congolense is an important pathogenic parasite of 
domestic livestock in Africa. We have cloned a cDNA encoding a prepro-cysteine 
protease of this protozoan, the sequence of which indicates it is an early mRNA 
processing intermediate. Northern analysis demonstrates a life-cycle-stage 
specificity similar to previously described enzymatic data. The deduced 
amino-acid sequence shows extensive similarity to cysteine proteases of other 
parasitic protozoa, as well as papain and cathepsin L. As with other African 
trypanosomes, a poly-proline tract connects the catalytic domain with an unusual 
C-terminal extension.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-1119(95)00304-o
PMID: 7642126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 1995 Apr;9(2):475-506.

Physiologic mechanisms of therapeutic resistance. Blood flow and hypoxia.

Teicher BA(1).

Author information:
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

The tools now are available to characterize oxygenation/hypoxia in the clinic. 
The clinical investigations conducted thus far have shown that significant 
regions of hypoxia exist in solid tumors in patients. Of the various strategies 
developed in the laboratory for reducing (or eliminating) hypoxia in tumors, the 
intravenous administration of nontoxic oxygen-carrying materials is probably the 
most generally applicable in a clinical setting.

PMID: 7642474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Med J Aust. 1995 Aug 7;163(3):133-6. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1995.tb127960.x.

Inflammatory bowel disease: a retrospective review of a specialist-based cohort.

Andrews JM(1), Norton I, Dent O, Goulston K.

Author information:
(1)Concord Hospital, Sydney, NSW.

OBJECTIVE: To study the morbidity and mortality of inflammatory bowel disease in 
Australia and whether it decreases life expectancy.
DESIGN: A retrospective review of patient case notes from two Sydney teaching 
hospitals and the consulting rooms of the 17 gastroenterologists appointed to 
these hospitals, examining all presentations with a diagnosis of inflammatory 
bowel disease from January 1977 to September 1992.
RESULTS: 997 cases were identified: 533 with ulcerative colitis, 417 with 
Crohn's disease, and 47 with indeterminate colitis. In patients diagnosed from 
1977 onwards (n = 730), no difference in survival was demonstrated for 
inflammatory bowel disease overall, or any subgroup, or in males or females, as 
compared with an age- and sex-matched control population. Gastrointestinal 
malignancies occurred in 19 cases (18 colorectal carcinoma and one 
cholangiocarcinoma). The most commonly encountered problems were the use of 
immunosuppressants and the need for surgery. Inflammatory bowel disease, 
particularly Crohn's disease, entails appreciable morbidity.
CONCLUSION: Since 1977, despite a significant requirement for medical and 
surgical treatment in patients with inflammatory bowel disease, there has been 
no adverse effect on survival in a specialist-referred cohort as compared with 
the general population.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1995.tb127960.x
PMID: 7643763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Neth J Med. 1995 Jun;46(6):263-5. doi: 10.1016/0300-2977(94)00016-3.

Present and future aspects of cystic fibrosis.

Heijerman HG(1), van der Laag J, de Jongste JC, Bakker W.

Author information:
(1)Leyenburg Hospital, Department of Pulmonology, The Hague, Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-2977(94)00016-3
PMID: 7643939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Soc Secur Bull. 1995 Spring;58(1):48-56.

The issue unresolved: innovating and adapting disability programs for the third 
era of Social Security.

Ycas MA.

The history of the Social Security programs in the United States falls into 
several distinct eras, defined by changing social, demographic, and economic 
conditions. At present the retirement component of these programs is moving into 
a stage of program maturation, which poses certain relatively well-understood 
changes to policymakers. The disability programs are also moving into the same 
set of societal conditions, but their impact is considerably more difficult to 
predict. Already disability incidence rates have experienced disturbingly large 
and poorly understood shifts. Developing a way to predict these shifts and to 
deal with the challenges that they make for existing programs is therefore a 
major priority of Social Security's current research agenda.

PMID: 7644970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Yale J Biol Med. 1994 Jan-Apr;67(1-2):15-21.

How long can we live?

Finch SC(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Robert Wood Johnson 
Medical School, Camden, USA.

The continuing rapid age shift in recent years from predominately a younger to 
an older population in America and many other countries is a problem of great 
concern. Its socioeconomic implications for the distant future are quite 
unpredictable due to our inability to answer a few basic questions. How long 
will life expectancy continue to increase? What is the maximum possible length 
of life?

PMCID: PMC2590795
PMID: 7645309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1995 Aug;173(2):424-30; discussion 430-2. doi: 
10.1016/0002-9378(95)90262-7.

Cytologic screening after hysterectomy for benign disease.

Piscitelli JT(1), Bastian LA, Wilkes A, Simel DL.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Obstetrics-Gynecology, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Our purpose was to determine the effectiveness of vaginal cytology 
tests after hysterectomy for benign disease.
STUDY DESIGN: We studied a 10-year retrospective cohort of patients after 
hysterectomy (n = 697 women, 9074 woman years). Patients were excluded if they 
had any type of invasive gynecologic malignancy. The main outcome variable was 
development of a vaginal cytologic abnormality, evaluated with Kaplan-Meier 
estimates and proportional hazards regression.
RESULTS: We found 33 abnormal cytology results; most were of little clinical 
significance except for two biopsy-proven dysplasia cases. When we controlled 
for age, the risk was 4.67 for patients with a history of a cervical cytologic 
abnormality (95% confidence interval 2.1 to 10.6). We needed 633 tests to detect 
one true positive case of vaginal dysplasia.
CONCLUSIONS: The low incidence of vaginal dysplasia and carcinoma, combined with 
the high false-positive rate, supports decreasing the number of screening tests 
performed for these low-risk patients.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(95)90262-7
PMID: 7645617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Tex Heart Inst J. 1995;22(2):185-8.

Coronary artery bypass grafting in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. 
Report of 2 cases.

Rinaldi RG(1), Carballido J, Betancourt B, Sartori M, Almodóvar EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Pavia Heart Institute, Santurce, Puerto 
Rico, USA.

Systemic lupus erythematosus is an autoimmune disease that often involves the 
cardiovascular system. Coronary artery narrowing in patients with lupus 
erythematosus is severe, progressive, and related to the duration of the disease 
rather than to the age of the patient. Steroid use in such patients has improved 
their life expectancy but seems to be increasing the incidence of coronary 
involvement. Consequently, a larger number of systemic lupus erythematosus 
patients may be candidates for myocardial revascularization in the future. We 
report our experience with myocardial revascularization in 2 women with severe 
systemic lupus erythematosus, incapacitating angina, and severe obstructive 
coronary artery disease. One of the women required balloon angioplasty 19 months 
after coronary artery bypass grafting and remains asymptomatic nearly 3 years 
later. The other patient is free of symptoms 9 months after surgery. Our results 
with these 2 patients are encouraging. Long-term follow-up should yield further 
information regarding the benefits of myocardial revascularization and coronary 
angioplasty in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.

PMCID: PMC325240
PMID: 7647604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Free Radic Res. 1995 Jul;23(1):73-80. doi: 10.3109/10715769509064021.

Can spin trapping compounds like PBN protect against self-inflicted damage in 
polymorphonuclear leukocytes?

Seawright L(1), Tanigawa M, Tanigawa T, Kotake Y, Janzen EG.

Author information:
(1)National Biomedical Center for Spin Trapping and Free Radicals, Oklahoma 
Medical Research Foundation, Oklahoma City 73104, USA.

Polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) have been suggested to be damaged by 
superoxide radical generated on their own. The protective capacity of a spin 
trapping compound, phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN) was evaluated for this 
damage which occurs after the induction of superoxide generation. The life span 
of PMNs after superoxide generation was measured in the presence of PBN using 
the cell counting method, and effects of PBN on the amount of superoxide 
generated were quantitated using both cytochrome c reduction and spin trapping 
with DMPO. Results indicated significant extension of life span when PBN was 
present, and the extension was dose dependent. However, the magnitude of life 
span extension was not as large as expected from the decrease of superoxide 
generation. Possible mechanisms for the protection of PMNs by PBN are discussed.

DOI: 10.3109/10715769509064021
PMID: 7647921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. QJM. 1995 Jun;88(6):401-8.

Referral for coronary angiography after exercise testing: traditional 
decision-making versus decision analysis.

Kellett J(1), Graham J.

Author information:
(1)Nenagh General Hospital, County Tipperary, Ireland.

Comment in
    QJM. 1995 Jun;88(6):365-7.

To audit the referral decisions made by a single cardiologist for coronary 
angiography after exercise testing, we retrospectively reviewed the charts of 
303 consecutive patients in a community hospital. The outcomes of these 
decisions, in terms of angiograms performed and quality-adjusted life expectancy 
gains as predicted by a decision analysis model, were compared with the 
theoretical decisions that would have been made using the model. The 97 patients 
sent for angiography exercised for a shorter time (5.6 +/- 3.1 vs. 6.9 +/- 3.2 
min, p < 0.001) had more ST deviation (2.7 +/- 1.4 vs. 1.7 +/- 1.0 mm, p < 
0.001), more angina (53.6 vs. 36.9% of patients, p < 0.01) and were more likely 
to have had a previous myocardial infarction (59.8 vs. 33.5% of patients, p < 
0.001) than the 206 not referred. However, of those not referred, 137 were each 
predicted to gain up to 5.7 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) from bypass 
surgery. The overall predicted gain from the cardiologist's decisions was only 
0.1 +/- 2.5 QALYs/patient. Had the decisions been made using the model, the mean 
gain would have been 1.9 +/- 1.3 QALYs/patient, and an extra 128 patients would 
have been sent for angiography. Decision analysis makes consistent decisions 
with defined risks and benefits. Such decisions can be reproduced, reviewed and 
analysed, whereas traditional decision-making may inconsistently reflect the 
clinician's beliefs and values.

PMID: 7648231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Calcif Tissue Int. 1995 Jun;56(6):536-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00298585.

Incidence of proximal femur fracture in an urbanized community in Saudi Arabia.

al-Nuaim AR(1), Kremli M, al-Nuaim M, Sandkgi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, King Khalid University Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi 
Arabia.

Osteoporosis, an age-related disorder, is a major contributor to bone fractures 
among the elderly, especially postmenopausal women. Variable incidence have been 
reported from different geographical areas, however, none as yet from Saudi 
Arabia. We have reviewed case records of Saudi residents of Riyadh city, who 
were 40 years or older and who were admitted to any of the local acute-care 
hospitals over a period of 12 months (July 1990-June 1991) with a diagnosis of 
proximal femur fracture (PFF). Of these, 103 were diagnosed with PFF; 52 (50%) 
were male and 51 (50%) were female. Eighty-eight (85%) patients reported mild 
trauma as the precipitating cause for their fracture (41 males and 47 females). 
The median and mean (SD) age of all patients were 75 and 73 (14) years, 
respectively, with no significant difference between male and female patients. 
The incidence per 100,000 of PFF for males in age groups 40-49, 50-59, 60-69, 
and over 70 years was 7, 22, 36, and 251, respectively; the incidence per 
100,000 for females in the same age groups was 4.5, 14.6, 7.9, and 394, 
respectively. The female:male ratios for the same age groups were 0.6, 0.7, 2.2, 
and 1.6. The incidence of PFF for male and female patients over the age of 50 
years was 71 and 100, respectively, with a female:male ratio of 1:4. The 
anticipated incidence of osteoporotic fracture in Saudi Arabia is expected to be 
higher than the present one with the population's anticipated increase in life 
expectancy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00298585
PMID: 7648482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 1995 May-Jun;18(3):162-7. doi:
10.1007/BF00204143.

Femoropopliteal artery recanalization: factors affecting clinical outcome of 
conventional and laser-assisted balloon angioplasty.

Odink HF(1), de Valois HC, Eikelboom BC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, St. Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, The Netherlands.

PURPOSE: The clinical efficacy of 44 successful conventional and laser-assisted 
recanalizations of the femoropopliteal artery was assessed in a noncomparative 
study by the life-table method.
METHODS: Laser-assisted angioplasty using continuous laser and a sapphire probe 
was performed to achieve primary recanalization in femoral artery occlusions 
when conventional guidewire recanalization had already failed. Nineteen of the 
patients underwent a conventional recanalization (PTA; mean length of occlusion 
4.4 +/- 4.1 cm), and 25 underwent percutaneous laser-assisted angioplasty (PLA; 
mean length of occlusion 10.1 +/- 6.7 cm).
RESULTS: There was no statistical relation between the preprocedure Fontaine 
classification and the success rate in the PTA cases (p = 0.25), whereas there 
was a statistical relation in the PLA cases: The success rate in patients 
preprocedurally classified as Fontaine II was better than in those classified as 
Fontaine III/IV (p = 0.05). After a 3-year follow-up the patency rate in the 
patients with the PTA recanalizations was 37% and that in those with the PLA 
procedure was 53%. This difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.47).
CONCLUSION: It is concluded that the laser should remain an investigational 
device.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00204143
PMID: 7648592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Dig Dis Sci. 1995 Aug;40(8):1805-15. doi: 10.1007/BF02212706.

Prognosis and life expectancy in chronic liver disease.

Propst A(1), Propst T, Zangerl G, Ofner D, Judmaier G, Vogel W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Innsbruck, Austria.

The aim of the present was to define prognosis and life expectancy in patients 
with chronic liver disease of different etiologies and to relate them to an age- 
and sex-matched normal population. After a follow-up of 15 years, life 
expectancy of 620 patients with chronic liver disease was retrospectively 
calculated and compared with an age- and sex-matched normal population. Among 
patients with cirrhosis, prognosis was dependent upon Child classification (P = 
0.001). Patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and fatty liver disease were younger 
(P = 0.01) and had a lower life expectancy than patients with other causes of 
chronic liver disease (P = 0.004). Patients with hepatitis B and hepatitis C 
