cirrhosis showed a comparable prognosis and a significantly lower life 
expectancy than the age- and sex-matched population. Cryptogenic and autoimmune 
liver diseases showed a comparable life expectancy but a significantly shorter 
life expectancy than the normal population. In patients with alpha 1-antitrypsin 
deficiency-associated cirrhosis, a high viral coinfection rate was found (P = 
0.01). For patients with noncirrhotic hemochromatosis, prognosis was poorer than 
that for the age- and sex-matched population. In patients with asymptomatic 
primary biliary cirrhosis, chronic persistent hepatitis B, and alpha 
1-antitrypsin deficiency without cirrhosis, life expectancy was equal to that of 
the normal population. Prognosis and life expectancy in chronic liver disease 
depend on stage, cause, and symptoms of chronic liver disease; age; and 
possibilities of treatment. In patients with hereditary liver disease, 
additional viral infection of alcohol abuse lead to a significant deterioration 
of life expectancy. Patients with alcoholic chronic liver disease have the 
poorest prognosis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02212706
PMID: 7648984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. FASEB J. 1995 Aug;9(11):991-2. doi: 10.1096/fasebj.9.11.7649413.

How to survive the perils of eating.

Jukes TH.

Comment in
    FASEB J. 1995 Nov;9(14):1500-1.

DOI: 10.1096/fasebj.9.11.7649413
PMID: 7649413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Genes Dev. 1995 Aug 15;9(16):2020-33. doi: 10.1101/gad.9.16.2020.

Resolution of spontaneous bleeding events but failure of pregnancy in 
fibrinogen-deficient mice.

Suh TT(1), Holmbäck K, Jensen NJ, Daugherty CC, Small K, Simon DI, Potter S, 
Degen JL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Basic Science Research, Children's Hospital Research Foundation, 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA.

To explore the role of the key coagulation factor, fibrinogen, in development, 
hemostasis, wound repair, and disease pathogenesis, we disrupted the fibrinogen 
A alpha chain gene in mice. Homozygous, A alpha chain-deficient (A alpha-/-) 
mice are born normal in appearance, and there is no evidence of fetal loss of 
these animals based on the Mendelian pattern of transmission of the mutant A 
alpha chain allele. All of the component chains of fibrinogen (A alpha, B beta, 
and gamma) are immunologically undetectable in the circulation of both neonatal 
and adult A alpha-/- mice, and blood samples fail to either clot or support 
platelet aggregation in vitro. Overt bleeding events develop shortly after birth 
in approximately 30% of A alpha-/- mice, most frequently in the peritoneal 
cavity, skin, and soft tissues around joints. Remarkably, most newborns 
displaying signs of bleeding ultimately control the loss of blood, clear the 
affected tissues, and survive the neonatal period. Juveniles and young adult A 
alpha-/- mice are predisposed to spontaneous fatal abdominal hemorrhage, but 
long-term survival is variable and highly dependent on genetic background. The 
periodic rupture of ovarian follicles in breeding-age A alpha-/- females does 
not appear to significantly diminish life expectancy relative to males; however, 
pregnancy uniformly results in fatal uterine bleeding around the tenth day of 
gestation. Microscopic analysis of spontaneous lesions found in A alpha-/- mice 
suggests that fibrin(ogen) plays a fundamental role in the organization of cells 
at sites of injury.

DOI: 10.1101/gad.9.16.2020
PMID: 7649481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Obstet Gynecol Clin North Am. 1995 Jun;22(2):197-214.

Emergent management of the patient in preterm labor.

Sullivan CA(1), Morrison JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Mississippi Medical 
Center, Jackson, USA.

Clinicians who treat PTL should realize that side effects rarely occur when 
tocolytic medications are properly used. The beneficial effects of tocolytic 
therapy vastly outweigh the risks associated with their use for the prolongation 
of gestation. Even a short extension of in utero life for a few days or weeks 
can significantly and positively affect neonatal survival and long-term outcome. 
Although the opponents of tocolytic therapy argue that no reduction in the PTB 
rate has occurred since their introduction, this argument does not consider that 
the large majority of PTBs are not eligible for tocolytic intervention. If 
patients with clear indications for tocolysis could be compared with those that 
were not treated (which most studies have not done), a substantial beneficial 
effect of tocolytic administration probably would be demonstrated. Based on 
available data, we consider MgSO4 and terbutaline to be first-line tocolytics. 
Magnesium is used more often because of its lower side-effect profile. 
Indomethacin and nifedipine should be reserved for difficult or refractory 
preterm labor, and should only be used for intervals of < or = 48 hours. We have 
attempted to present a method of decision analysis which should be followed for 
every patient who is admitted to the obstetric care unit for a presumptive 
diagnosis of premature labor. We realize that many of the issues included here 
are controversial, however, we hope that by developing a decision tree (see Fig. 
1), a more complete management scheme will be created and lead to improved care 
of the patient undergoing premature labor.

PMID: 7651666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Urology. 1995 Sep;46(3 Suppl A):47-55. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(99)80250-7.

Geographical and temporal patterns of incidence and mortality from prostate 
cancer.

Boyle P(1), Maisonneuve P, Napalkov P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, European Institute of Oncology, 
Milan, Italy.

In many countries of the world, prostate cancer is the second most common form 
of cancer in men, and in the United States it is now in first rank. It is an 
important public health problem, with > 0.25 million new cases diagnosed 
worldwide in the year 1985. Whereas earlier large increases in the incidence of 
prostate cancer were apparent throughout the world, the mortality rate has 
remained constant in generations of men born since the early years of this 
century. Most importantly, given that in several countries the increased number 
of children born after World War II will be in their mid-50s in the early part 
of the 21st century (at an age when cancer risk is becoming an important 
consideration), and coupled with the trends in increasing life expectancy, the 
consequence will be an increase in absolute terms in the number of cases of 
prostate cancer diagnosed. In the absence of treatment improvements and with 
prospects for prevention by modification of lifestyle remote within current 
knowledge, there will also be an increase in the number of deaths from prostate 
cancer worldwide. The situation would be further augmented by the presence of a 
temporal trend in risk that is widely reported from many countries and unlikely 
to be entirely artefact.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(99)80250-7
PMID: 7653020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Urology. 1995 Sep;46(3 Suppl A):77-82. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(99)80254-4.

Can aggressive prostatic carcinomas be identified and can their natural history 
be altered by treatment?

Quinlan DM(1), Partin AW, Walsh PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, St. Vincent's Hospital, University College, Dublin, 
Ireland.

The factors that determine tumor aggressiveness are multifactorial: age, stage, 
and grade. Even a well differentiated tumor in a young patient may be aggressive 
someday because of genetic drift and tumor heterogeneity. In a recent review of 
826 favorably selected cases managed with conservative therapy, metastatic 
disease had developed in 19% with grade I tumors, 42% with grade II, and 74% 
with grade III at 10 years. Recognizing that < 20% of men present with grade I 
disease, most prostate cancers are a threat to life in men who are going to live 
longer than 10 years. On the other hand, some tumors at presentation are too far 
advanced to cure. To improve the accuracy of preoperative staging in identifying 
these cases, we have developed nomograms based upon clinical stage, grade, and 
serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA). Traditionally, patients with high-grade 
tumors (Gleason 8-10) were never considered candidates for radical prostatectomy 
because of their poor expectancy for long-term survival. However, with 
improvements in the staging of prostate cancer and with a reduction in the 
morbidity of radical prostatectomy, a subset of these patients are potential 
candidates for curative therapy. We have recently studied the clinical outcome 
of 72 men with Gleason scores of 8-10 on needle biopsies who presented with 
clinically localized disease (9 T1c, 22 T2a, 17 T2b, 13 T2c, and 11 T3a). Of the 
63 men who underwent radical prostatectomy, 46 (68%) had negative lymph nodes; 
nine did not undergo surgery because of positive lymph nodes identified from 
frozen section. The actuarial likelihood of an undetectable serum PSA at 5 years 
was 43% for men with negative lymph nodes and 45% for men with organ-confined 
disease. Thus, with proper evaluation, some men with even the most aggressive 
tumors can be cured by surgery if their pelvic lymph nodes are negative.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(99)80254-4
PMID: 7653023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Acta Med Port. 1994 Dec;7 Suppl 1:S25-9.

The role of radiotherapy in soft tissue sarcomas. Retrospective study of 115 
cases treated from 1979 to 1988.

Patrício MB(1), Trindade MC, Santos F, Jorge ML, Raposo JS, Neves M.

Author information:
(1)Radiotherapy Department, Portuguese Oncology Institute, Lisbon.

In this study was analysed the results of a group of patients with soft tissue 
sarcomas treated at the IPOFG Center of Lisbon from January 1979 to December 
1988. All these cases were referred to the Radiotherapy Department for radiation 
treatment, which was given in 84% of the patients as a complement to surgery and 
in 16% was either combined with chemotherapy or given as exclusive therapy. The 
immediate results showed complete remission in 79% and partial remission in 7% 
of the cases. Seventeen per cent of the patients developed relapses and 28% 
distant metastases after a free interval of 27.7 and 19.6 months respectively. 
The five year survival rates were 73.3% for the patients without recurrences, 
55.4% for the patients with relapses and 21.4% for disseminated disease. The 
long term results varied according to the localization of the tumor, the stage 
of the disease, the age of the patient, the extension of surgery, the histologic 
type and the radiation dose. Five year survival rates also varied with the type 
of treatment (63.8% for surgery followed by radiotherapy with or without 
chemotherapy and 50.8% for preoperative radiotherapy and surgery with or without 
adjuvant chemotherapy). Radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy, in inoperable 
patients, was generally useful because it improved the quality of life, saving 
about 25% of the inoperable cases. Treatment related complications were minimal.

PMID: 7653276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Ann Med Interne (Paris). 1995;146(4):254-9.

[Abdominal aortic aneurysm discovered in a patient with renal insufficiency. A 
decision analysis].

[Article in French]

Sarasin FP(1), Junod AF.

Author information:
(1)Département de Médecine, Hôpital Cantonal Universitaire, Genève, Suisse.

Decision analysis is an explicit and quantitative technique which is 
particularly well suited for medical problems involving multiple complex 
clinical features. In this article, a decision analysis model was used to 
measure the risks and benefits between different therapeutic options, for a 
patient with a 4 cm diameter asymptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysm and 
concomitant end-stage renal failure. A Markov model was built to stimulate the 
natural history of abdominal aortic aneurysm, its risk of rupture, and the 
age-dependent dialysis-related mortality. Despite end-stage renal disease that 
limits life expectancy and increases the surgical risk, the model suggests that 
surgical resection of the aneurysm (immediate, or delayed if the diameter 
exceeds 5 cm in diameter) would result in greater life expectancy compared with 
therapeutic abstention unless the surgical risk exceeds 8.5% and 22%, 
respectively. Moreover, the gain in life expectancy between immediate and 
delayed surgery is not significant, and individual decision-making between these 
two options should include additional elements representing patients' 
preference. In conclusion, this model emphasizes the usefulness of decision 
analysis as a decision aid to medical problem-solving. The Markov simulation, 
which represents in a realistic manner the natural history of aortic aneurysm, 
and sensitivity analyses reinforce the credibility of this approach.

PMID: 7653947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Camb Q Healthc Ethics. 1995 Spring;4(2):163-6. doi:
10.1017/s0963180100005831.

Health, aging, and death.

Emson HE(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Canada.

DOI: 10.1017/s0963180100005831
PMID: 7655666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 1995 Mar-Apr;13(2):149-53.

Shortening of life span and causes of excess mortality in a population-based 
series of subjects with rheumatoid arthritis.

Myllykangas-Luosujärvi R(1), Aho K, Kautiainen H, Isomäki H.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatism Foundation Hospital, Heinola, Finland.

OBJECTIVES: To obtain information on the shortening of the life span and the 
causes of excess death in a population-based series of subjects with rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA).
METHODS: The study included all 1666 subjects who had died in Finland in 1989 
and were entitled under the nationwide sickness insurance scheme to receive 
specially reimbursed medication for RA. Demographic data on the Finnish 
population and sickness insurance statistics were used as the basis for 
computations.
RESULTS: The life span in subjects with RA was shortened by 15-20% from the date 
of onset of illness. The determinants of excess mortality could be studied in 
females. About 40% of the excess deaths were due to cardiovascular causes, 30% 
to infections, 15% to amyloidosis, and the remaining 15% to diverse causes.
CONCLUSION: This data provides an enlightened basis for understanding mortality 
associated with RA.

PMID: 7656460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. J Nucl Med. 1995 Sep;36(9):1539-42.

Transient hypothyroidism after iodine-131 therapy for Grave's disease.

Gómez N(1), Gómez JM, Orti A, Gavaldà L, Villabona C, Leyes P, Soler J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Ciutat Sanitària, Barcelona, Spain.

We studied 355 patients with Grave's disease to characterize transient 
hypothyroidism and its prognostic value following 131I therapy.
METHODS: The patients received therapeutic 131I treatment as follows: 333 
received a dose < 10 mCi (6.6 +/- 1.9 mCi) and 22 received a dose > 10 mCi (12.8 
+/- 2.9 mCi). Diagnosis of transient hypothyroidism was based on low T4, 
regardless of TSH within the first year after 131I followed by recovery of T4 
and normal TSH.
RESULTS: After administration of < 10 mCi 131I, 40 patients developed transient 
hypothyroidism during the first year; transient hypothyroidism was symptomatic 
in 15. There was no transient hypothyroidism after high doses (> 10 mCi) of 
131I. Iodine-131 uptake > 70% at 2 hr before treatment was a risk factor for 
developing transient hypothyroidism (Odds ratio 2.8, 95% confidence interval 
0.9-9.4). At diagnosis of transient hypothyroidism, basal TSH levels were high 
(51%), normal (35%) or low (14%); therefore, the transient hypothyroidism was 
not centralized. If hypothyroidism developed during the first 6 mo after basal 
TSH > 45 mU/liter ruled out transient hypothyroidism.
CONCLUSION: The development of transient hypothyroidism and its hormonal pattern 
did not influence long-term thyroid function. Since no prognostic factors 
reliably predicted transient hypothyroidism before 131I or at the time of 
diagnosis, if hypothyroidism appears within the first months after 131I, the 
reevaluation of thyroid function later is warranted to avoid unnecessary chronic 
replacement therapy.

PMID: 7658207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. J Prosthet Dent. 1995 May;73(5):439-44. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3913(05)80072-1.

Survival rate and failure characteristics for two post designs.

Torbjörner A(1), Karlsson S, Odman PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, Faculty of Odontology, University of 
Göteborg, Sweden.

The dental records of 638 patients treated with 788 posts and cores were studied 
to analyze failure rate and failure characteristics for two post designs. 
Frequency of the technical failures, loss of retention, root fracture, and post 
fracture were recorded 4 to 5 years after post cementation. There were two types 
of posts: custom-cast tapered posts and parallel-sided serrated posts. The 
cumulative failure rate was 15% for 456 tapered posts and 8% for 332 Para-Post 
posts. Loss of retention was the most frequent reason for failure for both types 
of posts, whereas root fractures had the most serious consequences, and all 
resulted in extraction. A significantly higher success rate was recorded for 
parallel-sided serrated posts, compared with custom-cast posts, regarding the 
total failure rate and the severity of the failure (p < 0.05).

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3913(05)80072-1
PMID: 7658393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. J R Coll Physicians Lond. 1995 May-Jun;29(3):207-15.

Public health implications of ageing. The Milroy Lecture.

Ebrahim S(1).

Author information:
(1)University Department of Public Health, Royal Free Hospital School of 
Medicine, London.

Comment in
    J R Coll Physicians Lond. 1995 Jul-Aug;29(4):369.

The National Health Service reforms have placed public health medicine centre 
stage in controversies over the internal market, rationing of health care, and 
issues of equity in access to care. One of the key determinants of the need for 
reform in health services internationally is the demographic transition of 
post-industrial countries into an ageing population. This paper considers some 
of the implications of ageing and how public health medicine might respond to 
these new challenges.

PMCID: PMC5401192
PMID: 7658417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Nucleic Acids Res. 1995 Aug 11;23(15):2945-53. doi: 10.1093/nar/23.15.2945.

Analysis of consensus sequence patterns in Giardia cytoskeleton gene promoters.

Holberton DV(1), Marshall J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Nottingham University, UK.

Protein-coding genes in the ancient eukaryote Giardia lamblia lack typical 
promoter consensus elements. We have analysed the immediate 5' flanking 
sequences of seven genes of related function (structural cytoskeleton proteins) 
to identify shared DNA motifs that might have a role in transcription 
initiation. Transcription start sites for five genes have been determined 
previously. Genomic mapping and mRNA primer extension experiments demonstrate 
additionally that the genes for beta-giardin and median body protein are (i) 
present as single copies in the genome, (ii) transcribed with very short 5' 
leader sequences. Two search algorithms designed to extract conserved motifs 
from either aligned or non-aligned sequences independently discovered three 
sites constituting a common pattern in all seven promoters. Sites were optimally 
aligned using weight matrix building trials to achieve the maximum 'information 
content'. Profiling the information content of best alignments defines the 
extent of the homologies as: a 9 bp box (initiator) at the start site and 
upstream 18 and 6 bp boxes. The initiator is the most highly conserved element 
and contains a universal Py-A-Pu motif at which transcription starts. We show 
that the best matrices can be combined in a search pattern that correctly 
locates transcription start sites in genomic DNA sequences.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/23.15.2945
PMCID: PMC307134
PMID: 7659516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Med Sect Proc. 1994:81-7.

Tumors of underwriting interest.

Iacovino JR(1).

Author information:
(1)New York Life Insurance Company, USA.

PMID: 7659720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Rev Med Chil. 1994 Nov;122(11):1318-26.

[The presence of midwives in health in Chile].

[Article in Spanish]

Tisné L(1).

Author information:
(1)Escuela de Matronas, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Chile, Santiago.

This is a lecture given by Dr Luis Tisné, Emeritus Professor of the University 
of Chile, during the commemorative ceremony of the Obstetrics School creation 
160th anniversary. The school was founded in 1834 by Dr Lorenzo Sazie, first 
dean of the Faculty of Medicine. Drs Alcibiades Vicencio and Victor Manuel 
Gazitúa promoted the development of study programs and the school's university 
recognition (1896). Midwives perform 94% of obstetric preventive recognition in 
Chile (health control of pregnancy and puerperium, family planning and 
preventive gynecology). Certain designed health plans in Chile such as voluntary 
control of fecundity, correction of weight alterations in pregnant women, 
prenatal control, health education and complementary alimentation allowed a 
reduction of birth rates to 21.6%, infantile mortality to 14.3% and low weight 
newborns to 5.6% (one of the lowest in the world), to give professional 
attention to 99% of deliveries and to increase life expectancy at birth to 72 
years. In 1965, 306 pregnant women died due to induced abortions, figure that 
dropped to 28 in 1992. Obstetrical mortality fell to 0.35 per 1.000 alive 
newborns and induced abortions to 0.13%.

PMID: 7659906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Rev Prat. 1995 May 15;45(10):1239-41.

[Treatment of COPD (excluding acute distress)].

[Article in French]

Fournier M(1), Jebrak G.

Author information:
(1)Service de pneumologie et réanimation, Hôpital Beaujon, Clichy.

There is no available drug which has been demonstrated to reverse the 
pathological lesions associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 
either at the bronchial or at the parenchymal level. Bronchodilators may improve 
dyspnea and exercise tolerance; in some patients, they may also decrease 
moderately airflow obstruction. Their benefit on the rate of decline of forced 
expiratory volume in one second has not been documented. In the same way, the 
regular use of inhaled steroids has not been shown to prevent or limit the 
degradation of pulmonary function. On the other hand, long term oxygen supply 
improves the life expectancy of patients with chronic hypoxemia. Antibiotic 
treatment of exacerbations is recommended; however, the rationale for its use is 
still a matter of debate.

PMID: 7659968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Rev Prat. 1995 May 15;45(10):1251-6.

[Home care of severe COPD].

[Article in French]

Muir JF(1), Cuvelier A.

Author information:
(1)Service de pneumologie, Centre hospitalier universitaire de Rouen, Hôpital de 
Bois-Guillaume.

Home management of patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
implies to consider in parallel with optimal medical treatment and chest 
physiotherapy, the status of chronic respiratory failure needing initiation of 
long-term oxygentherapy. Chronic hypoxemia (PaO2 < or = 55 mmHg) is present with 
chronic respiratory failure, which may be stabilized under long-term 
oxygentherapy if oxygen is given at least 15 h/24 h, with long-term improvement 
of life expectancy and quality of life. With the help of home respiratory care 
networks which are developed on a large extent in France, it is possible to 
prescribe in good technical conditions long-term oxygentherapy at home, which is 
a life-long treatment. Home mechanical ventilation concerns the most severe 
patients, with unstable chronic respiratory failure, where long-term 
oxygentherapy fails to prevent acute respiratory failure episode, sometimes also 
in patients who are waiting on a lung transplantation program.

PMID: 7659970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Rev Prat. 1995 May 15;45(10):1261-4.

[Lung transplantation in COPD].

[Article in French]

Brune J(1), Mornex JF, Bertocchi M.

Author information:
(1)Service de pneumologie, Hôpital cardiovasculaire et pneumologique 
Louis-Pradel, Lyon.

Pulmonary transplantation can be performed as a treatment for panlobular 
emphysema. Young patients can benefit from pulmonary transplantation: double 
lung transplantation for patients aged less than 55 years and single lung 
transplantation for patients aged less than 60 years. Only patients with major 
functional impairment should be considered for transplantation. It is assessed 
by pulmonary function tests, but also by evaluating the intensity of dyspnea and 
the decreased quality of life. In emphysema, transplantation is the treatment of 
the respiratory handicap without decreased life expectancy. The results of 
pulmonary transplantation in emphysema are similar to that of other indications. 
Mean actuarial survival is 65% at one year, and 40% at four years. Quality of 
the survival should be considered in assessing the results of pulmonary 
transplantation. It is estimated that 50% of the surviving patients have a 
satisfactory improvement in the quality of life.

PMID: 7659972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Rev Saude Publica. 1994 Oct;28(5):380-4. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89101994000500012.

[The practice of breast feeding in rural communities of a semi-arid area of 
Bahia].

[Article in Portuguese]

Assis AM(1), Prado Mda S, Freitas Mdo C, Silva Rde C, Ramos LB, Machado AD.

Author information:
(1)Escola de Nutrição, Universidade Federal da Bahia, Salvador, Brasil.

A Research project in the establishment and duration of total and exclusive 
breast-feeding in rural communities of Cansação, BA, Brazil, is presented. It 
included 226 children, from zero to two years old, of families of peasants 
living on small-holdings in one of the driest and poorest regions of the 
Brazilian Northeast. The data were collected through questionnaires answered by 
mothers or any adult responsible for the child during 1988 and 1989. It relates 
to all children from these families who were two years of age at the time of the 
study. The survival time was the statistical method used to calculate the median 
duration of breast-feeding; 91.6% of the 226 children started to be breast-fed. 
This finding shows that the establishment of the breast-feeding was high. The 
median duration of total breast-feeding was of 90.28 days and exclusive 
breast-feeding presented a median duration of 0.1 day. Through the establishment 
of breast-feeding can be considered high, the median duration of total 
breast-feeding is extremely short and that of exclusive breast-feeding 
insignificant.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101994000500012
PMID: 7660041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Stroke. 1995 Sep;26(9):1565-71. doi: 10.1161/01.str.26.9.1565.

Carotid-subclavian bypass for brachiocephalic occlusive disease. Choice of 
conduit and long-term follow-up.

Law MM(1), Colburn MD, Moore WS, Quiñones-Baldrich WJ, Machleder HI, Gelabert 
HA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of California, Los Angeles School of 
Medicine 90095, USA.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Atherosclerotic disease of the proximal brachiocephalic 
circulation may produce disabling symptoms referable to cerebral or upper 
extremity hypoperfusion and embolization. Bypass of occlusive lesions can 
provide durable relief of symptoms with minimal complications. The ideal conduit 
for carotid-to-subclavian and subclavian-to-carotid bypass remains 
controversial, and it is not clear whether the outflow vessel influences patency 
and survival.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis of 60 consecutive 
carotid-to-subclavian and subclavian-to-carotid bypass procedures. Occlusive 
lesions were documented preoperatively by arteriography. Patency was determined 
during follow-up by ultrasound or duplex examination. Actuarial patency, 
symptom-free survival, and overall survival rates were calculated by the 
life-table method and analyzed by log-rank test.
RESULTS: Arterial transposition demonstrated the highest long-term patency rate 
(100.0 +/- 0.0%). Polytetrafluoroethylene grafts demonstrated the highest bypass 
graft patency rate (95.2 +/- 4.6%), followed by Dacron grafts (83.9 +/- 10.5%) 
and saphenous vein grafts (64.8 +/- 16.5%). Symptom-free survival paralleled 
patency rates, but these differences did not achieve statistical significance. 
While there were no differences in patency or symptom-free survival by outflow 
vessel, the overall survival of patients with common carotid lesions was 
significantly lower than that of patients with subclavian lesions (62.7 +/- 
12.8% versus 100.0 +/- 0.0%; P < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: The outflow vessel does not affect long-term patency in carotid and 
subclavian bypass procedures; however, patients with common carotid disease 
demonstrate significantly poorer long-term survival. Transposition results in 
superior long-term patency, with a trend toward lower results for synthetic 
grafts and relatively poor results for autogenous vein grafts.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.26.9.1565
PMID: 7660399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Am Heart J. 1995 Sep;130(3 Pt 1):507-15. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(95)90359-3.

Evaluating and improving the cost-effectiveness of the implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillator.

Kupersmith J(1), Hogan A, Guerrero P, Gardiner J, Mellits ED, Baumgardner R, 
Rovner D, Holmes-Rovner M, McLane A, Levine J, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, College of Human Medicine, Michigan State University, 
East Lansing 48824, USA.

The implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) is an expensive, widely used 
device for severe ventricular arrhythmias. Marginal cost-effectiveness analysis 
is a technique to examine the incremental cost of treatment strategy in relation 
to its effectiveness. In this study, we used this technique to analyze the 
cost-effectiveness of the ICD compared with that of electrophysiology 
(EP)-guided drug therapy and examined ways in which it may be improved. We 
analyzed Michigan Medicare discharge abstracts (1989 to 1992) and local 
physician visit, test, and ICD charges. Effectiveness was from 218 previously 
described patients with ICDs in whom the time of first event (first appropriate 
shock or death) was determined and presumed to represent "control" (EP-guided 
drug therapy) mortality. We assumed a 4-year life cycle for the ICD generator 
and 3.4% operative mortality and used a 5% discount to prevent value. Data were 
analyzed in a 1-month cycle Markov decision model over a 6-year horizon, and 
results were updated to 1993 dollars. ICD effectiveness was an increase in 
discounted mean life expectancy of 1.72 years. Cost-effectiveness was 
$31,100/year of life saved (YLS). Results were minimally or modestly sensitive 
to variations in preoperative mortality; resource use; consideration only of 
patients with ICDs who were receiving any antiarrhythmic drug or specifically 
amiodarone; and to a decrease in the percentage of first shocks that would equal 
death without the ICD until the assumed percentage decreased to < 38%. At 
ejection fraction of < 0.25 and > or = 0.25, cost-effectiveness was $44,000/YLS 
and $27,200/YLS, respectively, and without preimplant EP study was $18,100/ 
YLS.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(95)90359-3
PMID: 7661068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Am Heart J. 1995 Sep;130(3 Pt 1):528-36. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(95)90362-3.

Cardiac immunocyte-derived (AL) amyloidosis: an endomyocardial biopsy study in 
11 patients.

Arbustini E(1), Merlini G, Gavazzi A, Grasso M, Diegoli M, Fasani R, Bellotti V, 
Marinone G, Morbini P, Dal Bello B, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Istituto de Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico 
(IRCCS), Policlinico San Matteô-Universita de Pavia, Italy.

The objective of this study was to investigate the spectrum of morphologic 
features in myocardial biopsy specimens from patients with cardiac 
immunocyte-derived (AL) amyloidosis. Cardiac involvement is the most important 
predictor of survival in AL amyloidosis. Myocardial biopsy remains the method of 
choice for diagnosing cardiac amyloidosis when noninvasive studies give 
equivocal results. Histologic, immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, and 
morphometric studies were made on myocardial biopsy specimens from 11 patients 
in whom the diagnosis of AL amyloidosis was based on the demonstration of a 
monoclonal immunoglobulinopathy and of amyloid deposits in tissues. 
Histopathologic study showed amyloid in 10 of the 11 biopsies. In one biopsy 
(Congo red negative), the diagnosis was made by ultrastructural identification 
of amyloid fibrils. In all patients, the deposits formed perimyocytic layers 
that measured up to 18 microns in thickness. These layers formed along the 
basement membranes, which were partially preserved in 5 patients and 
unrecognizable in 6. Interstitial nodular deposits were also present in 5 
patients. Immunohistochemical studies for the characterization of the proteins 
in the amyloid deposits were diagnostic in 1 patient and confirmatory in 10. 
Nodular deposits, thick perimyocytic layers of amyloid and small myocyte 
diameters were associated with shorter survival of the patients. Small-vessel 
involvement and myofilament loss occurred in all patients. In conclusion, 
myocardial biopsy serves to (1) establish the diagnosis of cardiac amyloidosis; 
(2) characterize immunohistochemically the proteins in the amyloid fibrils and 
(3) assess the degree of myocyte damage and atrophy.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(95)90362-3
PMID: 7661071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Am J Gastroenterol. 1995 Sep;90(9):1461-4.

Thallium-201 per rectal scintigraphy improves prognostic evaluation in alcoholic 
liver cirrhosis of low and mid severity.

Urbain D(1), Botembe N, Muls V, Makhoul E, Ham HR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Free University of Brussels, Saint-Pierre 
University Hospital, Belgium.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this work was to assess the contribution of thallium-201 
chloride (Tl-201) per rectal scintigraphy in long term prognostic evaluation of 
alcoholic, cirrhotic patients.
METHODS: The data obtained from 170 biopsy-proven cirrhotic patients have been 
used in this 4-yr survival study. The severity of the liver disease was assessed 
by using the classic Child-Turcotte score as modified by Pugh (CTP score).
RESULTS: In patients belonging to CTP class A and CTP class B, the Tl-201 test 
allowed the identification of subgroups with different survival rates. In these 
two classes of patients, the Tl-201 per rectal scintigraphy could be used for 
improving prognostic evaluation. In patients of class C on the other hand, 4-yr 
survival rates were very low, and the Tl-201 test did not bring significant 
additional prognostic information.
CONCLUSIONS: Therefore, we suggest performing the Tl-201 test in cirrhotic 
patients of classes A and B as defined by the CTP score.

PMID: 7661170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Am J Public Health. 1995 Sep;85(9):1285-92. doi: 10.2105/ajph.85.9.1285.

Social inequality and death as illustrated in late-medieval death dances.

Mackenbach JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Late-medieval murals and books of the then-popular "dances of death" usually 
represented the living according to their social standing. These works of art 
thus provide an interesting opportunity to study the relationship between social 
inequality and death as it was perceived by the works' commissioners or 
executers. The social hierarchy in these dances of death is mostly based on the 
scheme of the three orders of the feudal society; variations relate to the 
inclusion of female characters, new occupations, and non-Christian characters. 
Many dances of death contain severe judgments on highplaced persons and thus 
seem to be expressions of a desire for greater social equality. However, a more 
thorough analysis reveals that the equality of all before death that these 
dances of death proclaimed held nothing for the poor but only threatened the 
rich. Because of a lack of reliable data, it is not yet completely clear whether 
during the late Middle Ages all were indeed equally at risk for premature 
mortality. Available evidence, however, suggests that the clergy and nobility 
actually had a higher life expectancy than people placed lower in the social 
hierarchy. Despite modern changes in the perception of, and knowledge about, 
social inequality and mortality, these dances of death still capture the 
imagination, and they suggest that the phenomenon of socioeconomic inequalities 
in mortality could be used more to emphasize contemporary moral messages on 
social inequality.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.85.9.1285
PMCID: PMC1615594
PMID: 7661241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Ann Chir Plast Esthet. 1994 Dec;39(6):789-95.

[Knowledge and destiny or longevity and old age: the heritage of Homo sapiens].

[Article in French]

Goddio AS.

Several theories have been proposed to explain ageing: limitation of the number 
of cell divisions or Hayflick's limit, the genetic theory, the action of free 
radicals, immune deficiency, etc. All of these theories share several points in 
common: their genetic determinism or repercussions which appear to be part of 
the heritage of complex organisms. Progress in genetics with chromosome decoding 
to localise genes and genetic manipulations or control of gene expression will 
probably allow an increased life expectancy, perhaps in the near future.

PMID: 7661564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Am J Prev Med. 1995 May-Jun;11(3):205-6.

Health care system change offers prevention an opportunity.

Nickens HW, Cohren JJ.

PMID: 7662401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Eur J Surg. 1995 May;161(5):327-34.

Survival of arteriovenous fistulas and shunts for haemodialysis.

Burger H(1), Kluchert BA, Kootstra G, Kitslaar PJ, Ubbink DT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Drechtsteden Ziekenhuis, Dordrecht, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To formulate a standard for assessing functional patency of vascular 
access and to present long-term results of vascular access in a group undergoing 
dialysis, in particular the effects of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty 
(PTA).
DESIGN: Retrospective study 1971-1980, prospective study 1980-1991.
SETTING: A unit for haemodialysis in a regional hospital, The Netherlands.
SUBJECTS: All 259 patients treated from 1971 to 1991 in a programme for chronic 
haemodialysis.
INTERVENTIONS: All interventions, surgical and radiological, needed to maintain 
vascular access.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Intervention free periods, patency of access, life 
expectancy of access, and early failure rate (within 4 days). Patency of access 
before and after PTA.
RESULTS: A total of 1179 interventions were made. 407 Arteriovenous (A-V) 
fistulas and shunts were constructed, and there were 519 surgical reoperations 
and 253 PTAs. The secondary cumulative patency rate for the autogenous distal 
A-V fistulas (Cimino) was 79% at one year, 68% at two years, and 59% at three 
years. Routine use of PTA from 1986 onwards resulted in a rise in secondary 
cumulative patency for Cimino A-V fistulas after two years from 65% to 80% (p > 
0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: To describe and assess vascular access the patency rate alone is 
not sufficient; intervention free periods and life expectancy must also be 
given. Routine use of PTA with the Cimino A-V fistula resulted in an appreciable 
but not significant increase patency at two years.

PMID: 7662776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. J Assoc Nurses AIDS Care. 1995 May-Jun;6(3):13-7. doi: 
10.1016/S1055-3290(95)80011-5.

Investigating chronic symptoms in HIV: an opportunity for collaborative nursing 
research.

Hench K(1), Anderson R, Grady C, Ropka M.

Author information:
(1)Maternal and Child Bureau, Health Resources and Services Administration, 
Public Health Service, Rockville, MD, USA.

Because of improved life expectancy for people with HIV infection, today's 
clinician needs to understand and manage chronic symptoms that limit function 
and quality of life. The authors describe two collaborative HIV 
symptom-management studies conducted by the Division of Intramural Research of 
the National Institute of Nursing Research. Studies such as these are necessary 
to provide nurses and other healthcare personnel with the knowledge essential 
for appropriate, comprehensive, and quality patient care.

DOI: 10.1016/S1055-3290(95)80011-5
PMID: 7662923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Blood. 1995 Sep 15;86(6):2091-7.

The value of high-dose systemic chemotherapy and intrathecal therapy for central 
nervous system prophylaxis in different risk groups of adult acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia.

Cortes J(1), O'Brien SM, Pierce S, Keating MJ, Freireich EJ, Kantarjian HM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston 77030, USA.

Although central nervous system (CNS) leukemic relapse is frequent in adult 
acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), the need for prophylaxis in different risk 
groups for CNS relapse, the value of high-dose systemic and intrathecal (IT) 
chemotherapy, and the timing of prophylaxis are not well defined. This analysis 
was conducted to investigate these questions and to assess the value of a 
risk-oriented CNS prophylaxis approach. We analyzed the incidence of CNS 
leukemia after initiation of therapy in patients treated on 4 consecutive trials 
for adult ALL including different CNS prophylactic modalities. The treatment 
groups included (1) the program preceeding the 
vincristine-Adriamycin-dexamethasone (VAD) regimen, with no CNS prophylaxis; (2) 
the VAD regimen with prophylaxis using high-dose systemic chemotherapy; (3) the 
modified VAD program with high-dose systemic chemotherapy to all patients and IT 
chemotherapy for high-risk patients after achieving complete remission; and (4) 
the hyperCVAD program with early high-dose systemic and IT chemotherapy starting 
during induction to all patients, with more IT injections (16IT) administered to 
the high-risk group for CNS relapse compared with the low-risk group (4IT). A 
total of 391 patients were included, 73 of whom were treated with preVAD, 112 
with VAD, 114 with modified VAD, and 92 with hyperCVAD. The overall CNS relapse 
rates were 31%, 18%, 17%, and 3%, respectively for the 4 groups (P < .001). For 
the high-risk group for CNS relapse, they were 42%, 26%, 20%, and 2%, 
respectively (P < .001). The differences in CNS relapse rates in the low-risk 
group were not statistically significant. At 3 years, the overall CNS leukemia 
event-free rates were 48%, 76%, and 98%, respectively (P < .001). In the 
high-risk group, the CNS event-free rates were 38%, 66%, 75%, and 98%, 
respectively (P < .001); however, there was no difference in the low-risk group. 
We conclude that (1) high-dose systemic chemotherapy is a useful prophylactic 
measure; (2) early IT chemotherapy is necessary to reduce the incidence of CNS 
leukemia overall and in the high-risk group; and (3) a risk-oriented approach is 
appropriate to tailor the intensity of CNS prophylaxis.

PMID: 7662956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Blood. 1995 Sep 15;86(6):2213-9.

An association between clotting factor concentrates use and mortality in human 
immunodeficiency virus-infected hemophilic patients.

Montoro JB(1), Oliveras J, Lorenzo JI, Tusell JM, Altisent C, Molina R, 
Ayestarán AI.

Author information:
(1)Hemophilia Centre, Hospital General Universitario Vall d'Hebron, Barcelona, 
Spain.

There is much evidence that clotting factor concentrates (CFC), especially the 
so-called intermediate-purity preparations, exert an immunomodulating effect in 
vitro. The impact of this effect on the outcome of human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV) infection in hemophiliacs is still controversial. In this retrospective 
cohort study, the effects of treatment with CFC on mortality and progression to 
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) were estimated while controlling for 
individual risk factors. Logistic regression and survival analysis, including 
the Cox proportional-hazards regression model, were performed with data from a 
11-year follow-up of 225 hemophilic patients seropositive for HIV type 1 (HIV-1) 
of two hemophilia centers. Mortality and progression to AIDS rates were strongly 
associated with lower administration of CFC. After adjusting for age, a 
statistically significant and robust association was observed. The use of CFC 
was negatively associated with progression to AIDS (P = .0252) and mortality (P 
= .0033). The adjusted relative hazards of mortality and progression to AIDS 
rate between the most treated patients (> 700 IU/kg/yr) versus the least treated 
(< or = 700 IU/kg/yr) were 0.53 (confidence limits, 0.33 to 0.86) and 0.57 (0.39 
to 0.84), respectively. Although the effects of other unmeasured risk factors 
cannot be excluded with certainty, these results suggest that there is a 
negative association between treatment with CFC and progression to AIDS and 
mortality.

PMID: 7662971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Implant Dent. 1994 Winter;3(4):247-51. doi:
10.1097/00008505-199412000-00007.

Patient demographics and implant survival at uncovering: Dental Implant Clinical 
Research Group Interim Report No. 6.

Ochi S(1), Morris HF, Winkler S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Dental Research (154), Dental 
Clinical Research Center, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48105, USA.

Implant prognoses for healthy elderly patients have been found to be comparable 
with those reported for younger patients. In 1991, the Dental Implant Clinical 
Research Group initiated a prospective, randomized clinical study in cooperation 
with the Department of Veterans Affairs to investigate the influence of implant 
design, application, and site of placement on long-term clinical performance and 
crestal bone height. As a result of the large sample size and wide range of 
patient ages, the study provided an opportunity to determine if age correlates 
with implant survival. Interim analysis of 2,132 root form implants at 
uncovering on an implant, case, and patient basis suggests that implant survival 
does not appear to be influenced by age in the largely white, male sample.

DOI: 10.1097/00008505-199412000-00007
PMID: 7663466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1995 Jan;9(1):58-63. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(05)80226-6.

The results of denatured homologous vein grafts as conduits for secondary 
haemodialysis access surgery.

Heintjes RJ(1), Eikelboom BC, Steijling JJ, van Reedt Dortland RW, van der 
Heijden FH, Bastini M, van der Graaf Y, Blankestijn PJ, Vos J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital Utrecht, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the value of denatured homologous vein grafts as a 
conduit for secondary haemodialysis access.
DESIGN: Retrospective clinical study.
SETTING: 2 University Hospitals.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: One-hundred-and-twenty-five patients received 195 grafts 
over a period of five years. Fifty-six first grafts (45%) functioned without 
complications throughout the study period of 5.8 years.
MAIN RESULTS: Primary patency was 57% after 1 year and 25% after 3 years of 
follow-up. Of the initial grafts, 69 (55%) needed 161 interventions, for 
thrombosis (n = 59), stenosis (n = 43), failure beyond repair (n = 40), aneurysm 
(n = 12), infection (n = 4), steal syndrome (n = 1), and other causes (n = 2). 
Secondary patency was 76% at 1 year and 52% at 3 years of follow-up. A major 
advantage of these grafts was the low rate (2.6%) of infection. Aneurysm 
formation occurred 17 times in 195 grafts (8.7%).
CONCLUSIONS: Denatured homologous vein graft is a good alternative in secondary 
access surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(05)80226-6
PMID: 7664014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Nurs Inq. 1995 Jun;2(2):106-14. doi: 10.1111/j.1440-1800.1995.tb00073.x.

Foucault and modern medicine.

Peerson A.

Modernity as a concept or ideal, resulting from the age of Enlightenment and the 
French Revolution gave hope of a better future and new possibilities. To be 
modern means an 'enlightened' individual and society, welcoming change and 
development. In this paper, I will discuss Foucault's analysis (1973) of 
problematics in medicine in eighteenth century France. Three themes prominent in 
the text are: 'the birth of the clinic', 'the clinical gaze' and the 
power-knowledge relationship. Three problematics identified in modern medicine 
by Foucault and which are particularly relevant to twentieth century medicine 
are: (i) the extension of the clinical gaze from the individual body to the 
wider population; (ii) the increasing medical intervention and use of technology 
in fundamental life processes; and (iii) the relationship between society and 
medicine. I will argue that Foucault's analysis is fraught with ambiguities. It 
