is useful, however, for establishing an explanation for medicine today and for 
presenting a particular interpretation of modernity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1800.1995.tb00073.x
PMID: 7664146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1995 Aug;21(4):333-6. doi: 10.1016/s0748-7983(95)92087-0.

Deferred treatment for clinically localized prostate cancer.

Adolfsson J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

With the available data, deferred treatment is definitely an option for patients 
with low grade clinically localized prostate cancer if their life expectancy is 
10 years or less and avoids the side-effects of treatment. Many patients will 
avoid the need for therapy of their prostate cancer during their remaining 
lifetime.

DOI: 10.1016/s0748-7983(95)92087-0
PMID: 7664892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1995 Aug;21(4):336-40. doi: 10.1016/s0748-7983(95)92120-6.

Radical prostatectomy in the management of localized prostate cancer.

Frohmüller HG(1), Theiss M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Würzburg, School of Medicine, Germany.

No data from prospective randomized studies comparing radical prostatectomy, 
radiotherapy and deferred treatment for localized prostatic cancer are currently 
available. Comparison of retrospective series, however, strongly suggests a 
clear superiority of radical prostatectomy over other attempts to cure prostate 
cancer, and especially over the 'watchful waiting' strategy. This concerns 
survival data as well as quality of life and psychological aspects. In 1994, the 
Department of Veterans Affairs and The National Cancer Institute in the United 
States initiated a randomized controlled study comparing radical prostatectomy 
vs expectant management for the treatment of localized prostate cancer, the 
'Prostate Cancer Intervention vs Observation Trial (PIVOT)'. Until the results 
of this study become available, the decision on how to manage a patient with a 
newly-diagnosed clinically localized prostate cancer has to be based on current 
knowledge. The current knowledge is that localized prostate cancer can be cured 
by radical prostatectomy with acceptable treatment-related morbidity. Therefore, 
the chance of receiving curative treatment should be offered to every man with 
localized prostate cancer and a life expectancy of 10 or more years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0748-7983(95)92120-6
PMID: 7664893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1995 Aug;21(4):379-84. doi: 10.1016/s0748-7983(95)92450-7.

A prognostic value of CA 19-9 but not of CEA in patients with gastric cancer.

Victorzon M(1), Haglund C, Lundin J, Roberts PJ.

Author information:
(1)4th Department of Surgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.

The diagnostic and prognostic value of tumour markers CEA and CA 19-9 was 
studied in patients with gastric cancer. Pre-operative serum concentrations of 
CEA and CA 19-9 were determined in 100 gastric cancer patients and in 77 
patients with relevant benign diseases. The sensitivity of both CEA (cut-off 
level 3 ng/ml) and CA 19-9 (cut-off level 37 U/ml) for gastric cancer was 30%. 
The specificities were 73% and 87%, respectively. There was a significant 
difference in prognosis, for both CEA (cut-off level 3 ng/ml, P < 0.05) and CA 
19-9 (cut-off level 37 U/ml, P < 0.01), between patients with high vs low 
pre-operative serum levels. The overall 5-year survival was 26% and that of 
patients with low marker levels was 30% (CEA) and 35% (CA 19-9) compared with 
15% (CEA) and 0% (CA 19-9) for patients with high marker levels. To evaluate 
whether the high vs low serum marker level was an independent prognostic factor, 
the patients were compared within the same stage of disease. There was still a 
significant difference in 5-year survival in stages II, III and IV between 
patients with high vs low pre-operative serum levels for CA 19-9 (P < 0.05), but 
not for CEA. In stage I, no differences in survival could be found for either 
marker. In conclusion, high pre-operative serum levels of CEA seem to predict 
higher stage of disease, whereas CA 19-9 might have an independent prognostic 
value in patients within the stage of II, III or IV gastric cancer. The 
diagnostic value of both CEA and CA 19-9 is limited.

DOI: 10.1016/s0748-7983(95)92450-7
PMID: 7664902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Demography. 1995 May;32(2):281-97.

Sharing a home: the experiences of American women and their parents over the 
twentieth century.

Weinick RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Agency for Health Care Policy and Research, Rockville, MD 20852, USA.

Trends and determinants of daughter-parent coresidence over the twentieth 
century are examined by using the 1987-1988 National Survey of Families and 
Households. Young women from more recent birth cohorts leave their parents' 
homes for the first time at earlier ages, but are more likely to make return 
trips home than those born earlier. Thus cohorts show remarkable consistency in 
the proportion of life lived in the parental home. For the 1900-1929 birth 
cohorts, daughters' lifetime probability that a parent will move in with them is 
approximately 15%; younger cohorts show similar age-specific probabilities to 
date. Explanations for these trends are considered.

PMID: 7664965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 1995 Jul;9(4):75-95. doi:
10.1097/00005082-199507000-00008.

The octogenarian cardiac surgery patient.

Rossi MS(1).

Author information:
(1)New York University Medical Center, New York, USA.

As advances are made in medical-surgical technology and overall life expectancy 
increases, cardiac surgery previously done only in younger populations is now 
becoming common in older adult age groups. Most of the nursing literature 
regarding elderly cardiac surgery patients focuses on the 65- to 75-year-old age 
group; little has been written about the 80- to 90-year-old age group. Very 
elderly patients present unique and complex challenges to the interdisciplinary 
teams involved in their care. Nurses must recognize and anticipate the 
specialized needs of these frail individuals to optimally manage their care. 
Aortic valve replacement is the most common cardiac valve surgical procedure 
performed in very elderly persons. A case study and an integrated care plan for 
the aortic valve surgery patient are described.

DOI: 10.1097/00005082-199507000-00008
PMID: 7666070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. J Clin Oncol. 1995 Sep;13(9):2196-207. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1995.13.9.2196.

Phase I study of suramin given by intermittent infusion without adaptive control 
in patients with advanced cancer.

Kobayashi K(1), Vokes EE, Vogelzang NJ, Janish L, Soliven B, Ratain MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago Pritzker School of Medicine, 
IL, USA.

Erratum in
    J Clin Oncol 1996 Sep;14(9):2623-4.

PURPOSE: Suramin is a promising agent for the treatment of hormone-refractory 
metastatic prostate cancer. However, questions about the relationship of severe 
neurotoxicity to sustained peak plasma concentrations greater than 300 
micrograms/mL raised concerns that this drug could not be safely administered 
without adaptive control. To test the adaptive-control hypothesis, we designed a 
phase I study that relied on clinical end points, using a fixed dosing scheme 
that did not rely on adaptive control.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a phase I dose-escalation study using fixed dosing 
without adaptive control, gradually decreasing doses of suramin were 
administered to 63 patients on days 1 (loading dose), 2, 8, and 9 of a 28-day 
cycle. Fifty-four patients with hormone-refractory metastatic prostate cancer 
and nine patients with other solid tumors have been treated.
RESULTS: Doses of 400 mg/m2 to 2,080 mg/m2 on the first day have been 
administered. The mean peak plasma concentration following the loading dose at a 
dose level of 1,730 mg/m2 was 933 micrograms/mL (26% coefficient of variation), 
and the mean trough concentration was 139 micrograms/mL (40% CV) on day 1 of 
cycle 2 [corrected]. At 1,730 mg/m2, five of 13 patients experienced 
dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), including malaise, neurotoxicity, pericardial 
effusion, and coagulopathy. At 2,080 mg/m2, three of five patients experienced 
DLT. Two patients treated at this dose level died while on study. One of these 
patients died of a subdural hematoma sustained after a fall and had a prolonged 
prothrombin time at the time of his death. One patient developed classic suramin 
neurotoxicity, which led to respiratory failure, for which the patient refused 
intubation. No significant associations were noted between peak or trough 
concentrations during either cycles 1 or 2 and the occurrence of neurotoxicity.
CONCLUSION: (1) Suramin can be safely administered without adaptive control, (2) 
suramin on this schedule may exhibit significant activity against 
hormone-refractory metastatic prostate cancer, and (3) based strictly on 
toxicity considerations, we recommended that a day-1 dose of 1,440 mg/m2 be used 
in subsequent clinical trials, with a maximum of three cycles. Further studies 
to establish the optimal empiric dosing regimen are needed.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1995.13.9.2196
PMID: 7666078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. J Clin Oncol. 1995 Sep;13(9):2336-41. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1995.13.9.2336.

Role of surgical resection in pelvic Ewing's sarcoma.

Scully SP(1), Temple HT, O'Keefe RJ, Scarborough MT, Mankin HJ, Gebhardt MC.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Oncology Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, USA.

PURPOSE: The improved survival in patients with Ewing's sarcoma over the past 
two decades has placed increased importance on achievement of local disease 
control. Ewing's sarcoma that arises in the pelvis has been recognized to have a 
worse prognosis than that in the appendicular skeleton, and the role of surgical 
resection in these cases remains controversial. The current study attempts to 
identify a benefit to surgical resection in these patients.
METHODS: We retrospectively examined 39 patients who presented with Ewing's 
sarcoma in a pelvic location, all of whom were treated systemically with 
chemotherapy. Twenty patients received radiation only as a means of local 
control, and 19 underwent resection with or without radiation therapy. The 
patients were evaluated with end points of disease-free survival and overall 
survival for a minimum of 24 months and a mean of 58 months.
RESULTS: There was an even distribution among patients who underwent surgical 
resection for local control as compared with those who received only radiation 
therapy with respect to age, site, date of treatment, and stage of disease. 
Despite uncontrolled biases including tumor size and response to chemotherapy 
that would be expected to favor patients who undergo resection, surgery in 
addition to or in substitution for radiation therapy did not result in a 
statistically significant increase in disease-free survival or overall survival. 
Local disease control was comparable between those who underwent resection and 
those who did not: three patients in each group developed a local recurrence.
CONCLUSION: Currently, morbidity of surgical resection should be weighed against 
the efficacy and secondary complications of radiation therapy in the 
decision-making process for local disease control. The issue of whether overall 
survival and local disease control is improved in patients who undergo surgical 
resection remains controversial and may require a prospective randomized trial 
to be answered definitively.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1995.13.9.2336
PMID: 7666092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. J Clin Oncol. 1995 Sep;13(9):2354-60. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1995.13.9.2354.

Randomized trial of interferon maintenance in multiple myeloma: a study of the 
National Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group.

Browman GP(1), Bergsagel D, Sicheri D, O'Reilly S, Wilson KS, Rubin S, Belch A, 
Shustik C, Barr R, Walker I, et al.

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group, Queen's 
University, Kingston.

PURPOSE: To determine whether interferon maintenance therapy improves overall 
survival and response duration in patients with multiple myeloma who have 
responded to induction therapy with melphalan and prednisone.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a multicenter trial, patients with symptomatic clinical 
stage I and stage II and III multiple myeloma were registered at diagnosis and 
those who responded to melphalan-prednisone (MP) were randomized either to 
receive interferon (2 mU/m2) subcutaneously three times per week or no 
maintenance. MP was discontinued in both groups once a stable response plateau 
of the monoclonal protein was reached. Interferon was continued until relapse, 
and then was restarted on subsequent response to MP. Interferon toxicity was 
recorded using a self-report diary. Survival and response duration were 
calculated using life-table methods, and were adjusted in the analysis for 
imbalances in baseline prognostic factors.
RESULTS: Four hundred two patients were registered and 176 responders were 
randomized (85 to interferon and 91 to control). At a median follow-up time of 
43 months, the median survival duration was 43 months for interferon and 35 
months for control (P = .16), but when adjusted for chance imbalances in 
baseline prognostic factors (mainly performance status), the median survival 
duration was 44 months and 33 months for interferon and control, respectively (P 
= .049). Progression-free survival from randomization to first relapse also 
favored interferon (unadjusted P < .002; adjusted P < .003). Interferon toxicity 
caused 58% of patients to reduce their dose, of which 84% were able to return to 
the initial dose; 14% had to discontinue interferon treatment.
CONCLUSION: Interferon maintenance therapy improves progression-free and overall 
survival of patients with multiple myeloma who respond to melphalan and 
prednisone. Toxicity is substantial and must be weighed by patients against the 
potential benefits in response duration and survival.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1995.13.9.2354
PMID: 7666094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. J Clin Oncol. 1995 Sep;13(9):2369-78. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1995.13.9.2369.

Patient participation in clinical decision-making for treatment of T3 laryngeal 
cancer: a comparison of state and process utilities.

van der Donk J(1), Levendag PC, Kuijpers AJ, Roest FH, Habbema JD, Meeuwis CA, 
Schmitz PI.

Author information:
(1)Dr Daniel den Hoed Cancer Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To study the use of two different approaches, and feasibility of four 
commonly used utility assessment methods to assess preferences for treatment of 
T3-laryngeal cancer by surgery or radiation therapy (RT).
METHODS: Utility assessment methods, namely, time trade-off (TTO), standard 
reference gamble (SRG), rating scale (RS), and direct comparison (DC), were used 
to assess utilities in two groups of former cancer patients (n = 10 for both), a 
group of clinicians (n = 9), and a group from the general population (n = 10). 
For the treatment modalities, ie, surgery and RT, two types of scenarios were 
developed and used: the state scenario, which describes a stable health state 
after treatment, and the process scenario, which describes a dynamic process. 
First, utilities were assessed based on state scenarios. Next, respondents were 
thoroughly informed and educated with respect to the relevant aspects of both 
treatment modalities. Subsequently, utilities were again assessed, but now based 
on the process scenarios. The outcome of each approach was calculated and 
expressed in a quality-adjusted life-expectancy (QALE) score for each treatment 
modality, and the treatment with the highest outcome was said to be the 
preferred treatment modality.
RESULTS: In general, a higher QALE score for each treatment modality was found 
for clinicians and for the general population as compared with the 
former-cancer-patient groups. When the outcome of both approaches was compared 
on an individual level dependent on the utility assessment method, 32% to 43% of 
respondents showed an inconsistent treatment preference.
CONCLUSION: The approach to assess utilities and the extent to which respondents 
are informed about treatment modalities have a major effect on individual 
treatment preferences.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1995.13.9.2369
PMID: 7666096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. J Clin Oncol. 1995 Sep;13(9):2386-93. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1995.13.9.2386.

Randomized phase II comparison of standard CHOP with weekly CHOP in elderly 
patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Meyer RM(1), Browman GP, Samosh ML, Benger AM, Bryant-Lukosius D, Wilson WE, 
Frank GL, Leber BF, Sternbach MS, Foster GA, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Pathology, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, 
Canada.

PURPOSE: To determine whether modifying the standard regimen of 
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP) from full 
doses given every 3 weeks to one-third doses given weekly (chop) increases the 
received chemotherapy dose-intensity in elderly patients with advanced-stage 
intermediate-grade lymphoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Consenting patients, age > or = 65 years who had 
acceptable cardiac, renal, and liver function and an Eastern Cooperative 
Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status less than 4, were stratified by bone 
marrow and performance status and randomized to receive standard CHOP or weekly 
chop. Drug doses were attenuated or escalated according to a defined 
dose-modification schedule. The primary outcome was average relative received 
dose-intensity. Secondary outcomes included response, progression-free and 
overall survival, toxicity, and performance status.
RESULTS: Nineteen patients were allocated to each group. No difference in 
received dose-intensity was seen. When dose-intensity was calculated for the 
first six cycles of therapy, average relative received dose-intensity was .92 
with CHOP versus .89 with weekly chop (P = .5); when calculated for the first 18 
weeks of therapy, values were .88 with CHOP versus .89 with weekly chop (P = 
.8). The complete response rate was 68% with CHOP versus 74% with weekly chop (P 
= .9). At 2 years, the progression-free survival rate was 57% with CHOP versus 
46% with weekly chop (P = .16) and the survival rate was 74% with CHOP versus 
51% with weekly chop (p = .05). More myelotoxicity was seen with CHOP.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that CHOP can be given in sufficient doses to elderly 
patients and that weekly chop does not increase received dose-intensity. 
Progression-free and overall survival are unlikely to be superior with weekly 
chop, and may be worse. CHOP should remain the standard against which new 
therapies for elderly patients with intermediate-grade lymphoma are compared.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1995.13.9.2386
PMID: 7666098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. J Neurosurg. 1995 Sep;83(3):403-12. doi: 10.3171/jns.1995.83.3.0403.

Elective surgery for asymptomatic, unruptured, intracranial aneurysms: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

King JT Jr(1), Glick HA, Mason TJ, Flamm ES.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery and General Internal Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, USA.

Cost-effectiveness analysis uses both economic and clinical outcomes data to 
evaluate treatment options. In this era of economic constraints on health care, 
treatments that are not cost-effective will increasingly be denied public and 
private insurance reimbursement. The authors used mathematical modeling 
techniques to assess the cost-effectiveness of elective surgery for the 
treatment of asymptomatic, unruptured, intracranial aneurysms. Input values for 
the Markov model used in this study were determined from both the literature and 
clinical judgment. Direct medical costs for hospitalization and physician fees 
were derived from Medicare cost reports and resource-based relative-value units, 
expressed in 1992 U.S. dollars. Costs and benefits were discounted at an annual 
rate of 5%. Using baseline model assumptions for a 50-year-old patient, elective 
aneurysm surgery provides an average of 0.88 additional quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) compared with nonsurgical treatment. However, prompt elective 
surgery ($23,300) costs more than expectant management ($2100), in which only 
patients whose aneurysms rupture incur treatment costs. Combining the outcomes 
and cost data, the incremental cost-effectiveness of elective aneurysm surgery 
is $24,200 per QALY, which is comparable to other accepted medical or surgical 
interventions, such as total knee arthroplasty ($15,200/QALY) or 
antihypertensive therapy in a 50-year-old patient ($29,800/QALY). Prompt 
elective surgery for asymptomatic, unruptured, intracranial aneurysms is 
recommended as a cost-effective use of medical resources provided: 1) surgical 
morbidity and mortality remain at reported levels; 2) the patient has a life 
expectancy of at least 13 additional years; and 3) the patient experiences a 
decrease in quality of life from knowingly living with an unruptured aneurysm.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1995.83.3.0403
PMID: 7666214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. J Neurosurg. 1995 Sep;83(3):413-20. doi: 10.3171/jns.1995.83.3.0413.

Quantification of operative benefit for unruptured cerebral aneurysms: a 
theoretical approach.

Chang HS(1), Kirino T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo, Japan.

The indications for surgery on unruptured asymptomatic cerebral aneurysms are 
still unclear. In this report, the authors use mathematical methods to attempt 
to quantify the benefit of surgery for unruptured aneurysms. Theoretical 
survival curves for either operative or conservative treatment were obtained by 
solving differential equations on the survival rate of a patient harboring an 
unruptured aneurysm. Patients' life expectancies were calculated as areas under 
these curves, and operative benefit was quantified as a gain in average life 
expectancy. To analyze morbidity, two concepts were introduced: premorbid 
survival rate and average premorbid survival period, and the operative gain of 
average premorbid survival period was calculated under certain assumptions. 
Larger operative benefit was observed in younger patients, with increasingly 
less benefit in the elderly. The operative gain of average life expectancy was 
3.9 years for a 40-year-old patient, 2.4 years for 50, 1.3 years for 60, and 0.6 
years for a 70-year-old. Quantified operative benefit is presented in a table 
for various patient ages, yearly rupture rates, and expected operative morbidity 
and mortality. This mathematical method would be useful to both surgeons and 
patients in making their decisions on surgery.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1995.83.3.0413
PMID: 7666215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. N Engl J Med. 1995 Oct 12;333(15):1009; author reply 1010. doi: 
10.1056/NEJM199510123331515.

Is the use of t-PA as compared with streptokinase cost effective?

Rose EA.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1995 May 25;332(21):1418-24.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199510123331515
PMID: 7666904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. N Engl J Med. 1995 Oct 12;333(15):1009-10.

Is the use of t-PA as compared with streptokinase cost effective?

Armentano R, Favaloro RG.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1995 May 25;332(21):1418-24.

PMID: 7666905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. West Indian Med J. 1995 Jun;44(2):40-3.

The ageing of the population--a time for action. The role of public health.

Eldemire D(1), LaGrenade J, Longsworth G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, U.W.I., Jamaica.

The past two decades have witnessed the growth of the over-60, "elderly" 
population both in numbers and life expectancy. Similarly, there has been a 
shift in overall morbidity from acute to chronic causes and associated lifestyle 
factors. The increasing elderly population provides health care planners with 
new challenges at a time of decreasing resources. The public health approach, 
which equally stresses the responsibility of the individual, the family, the 
community and health care providers, is suggested as the starting point for 
addressing the issue.

PMID: 7667968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Ann Ital Chir. 1995 Mar-Apr;66(2):217-22.

Clinical significance and management of pancreatic abscess and infected necrosis 
complicating acute pancreatitis.

Bittner R(1).

Author information:
(1)Marienhospital, Allgemeinchirurgie, Stuttgart, Deutscheland.

Secondary pancreatic infections are most serious and life threatening 
complications of acute necrotizing pancreatitis. The risk of secondary infection 
is to a large extend related to duration and extension of pancreatic or 
peripancreatic necrosis. The combination of abdominal CT-scan with guided 
percutaneous needle aspiration has been demonstrated to be highly reliable on 
differentiating between sterile and infected pancreatic necrosis. Previous 
results suggest a major role of enteric pathogens in this disease. Due to the 
type of microorganisms and the defence capacity of the patient, the pancreatic 
infection might result in either elimination of the microorganism, unlimited 
propagation within devitalized tissue (infected necrosis) or they may remain 
localized (abscess formation). Though the most fulminant course of acute 
pancreatitis is found in patients with early infected necrosis. In these cases 
an operation is usually necessary within 14 days after onset of symptoms. 
Persistence or new development of typical symptoms two to five weeks after 
initial improvement should raise the suspicion of abscess. The finding of 
infection is an absolute indication for surgical intervention. The intention of 
surgical treatment in combination with antibiotic therapy is to remove 
devitalized pancreatic and peripancreatic tissue, evacuate all purulent material 
and provide continuous drainage either by lavage or "open" abdominal treatment. 
In this article basic procedures of diagnosis and therapy are discussed.

PMID: 7668498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Vital Health Stat 5. 1995 Jun;(9):1-28.

Vital and health statistics: Russian Federation and United States, selected 
years 1980-93.

[No authors listed]

This report contains 18 tables covering population size, natural increase in 
population, birth rates, life expectancy, infant mortality, death rates, 
incidence of notifiable diseases, AIDS, levels of health personnel, hospital 
utilization, and ambulatory care in the Russian Federation and the United 
States. Also included are a glossary of terms used in this report where 
differences in definitions between the two countries are noted and a special 
appendix with selected data from the Russian Federation by urban-rural status.

PMID: 7669518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. J Assist Reprod Genet. 1995 Feb;12(2):67-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02211371.

One artificial insemination per cycle with donor sperm is as efficacious as two 
inseminations.

Lincoln SR(1), Long CA, Cowan BD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Mississippi Medical 
Center, Jackson 39216-4505, USA.

PURPOSE: To compare pregnancy rates per treatment cycle of artificial 
inseminations with donor sperm in patients receiving one versus two 
inseminations.
METHODS: Retrospective cross-sectioned analysis of 167 patients who underwent 
869 cycles receiving one or two donor inseminations were reviewed from 1987 
through 1993 at our institution.
RESULTS: A total of 256 cycles with one donor insemination per cycle resulted in 
21 pregnancies and a cycle of fecundity of 8.2%, and 613 cycles with two donor 
inseminations resulted in 35 pregnancies and a cycle fecundity of 5.7%. Life 
table and logistic cumulative probability analysis of pregnancy occurrence 
showed no difference between treatment groups.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest there are no important clinical differences of 
cycle fecundity or cure rate in one versus two inseminations with donor sperm. 
Economic costs of two inseminations may not be justified.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02211371
PMID: 7670277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Semin Vasc Surg. 1995 Jun;8(2):135-43.

Current management of coexistent intra-abdominal pathology in patients with 
abdominal aortic aneurysms.

Weinstein ES(1), Langsfeld M, DeFrang R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of New Mexico Hospital, Albuquerque 
87131-5341, USA.

In conclusion, it can be seen that coexistent intra-abdominal pathology and 
aortic aneurysms demands an individualized approach to determine a treatment 
plan for a given patient. Life expectancy must be balanced against the risk of a 
complication developing in either the treated or untreated condition as well as 
the potential for increased morbidity associated with combined procedures. If 
combined procedures are performed, they must be undertaken only if the aneurysm 
resection has gone smoothly. Efforts must be directed at protecting the 
prosthetic graft from direct contamination that may accompany the secondary 
procedure. In general, the symptomatic lesion should be treated first. If both 
conditions are asymptomatic, the relative risks and benefits of treatment must 
be balanced against the probability that one or both of the conditions will 
become symptomatic.

PMID: 7670664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Gig Sanit. 1995 Jul-Aug;(4):28-32.

[Effects of revolving and alternate electric fields of industrial frequency on 
fertility, survival and state of internal organs of white mice].

[Article in Russian]

Belkin AD.

PMID: 7672635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Int J Biomed Comput. 1995 May;39(2):209-17. doi:
10.1016/0020-7101(94)01068-c.

Formulas expressing life expectancy, survival probability and death rate in life 
table at various ages in US adults.

Chung SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Morristown-Hamblen Hospital, TN 37814, USA.

The National Center for Health Statistics (Monthly Vital Statistics Report, 41 
(1993) 1-36; Pediatrics, 92 (1993) 743-754) reported the life table for the 
total population of the United States, 1992, on the basis of vital statistics. 
The life table shows life expectancy, survival and death rate at various ages. 
Formulas expressing death rate, survival probability and life expectancy at 
various ages in US adults are constructed from the data of the National Center 
for Health Statistics (NCHS). A mathematical model of the 
'probacent'-probability equation previously published by the author is employed 
in this study. Analysis of the computer-assisted predicted values and the data 
reported by the NCHS indicates that the formulas are accurate and reliable with 
a close agreement in expressing death rate, survival probability and life 
expectancy at various ages in US adults of 25 years of age and older. The 
formulas can determine the relationship between the age and the death rate, the 
survival probability or the life expectancy and may be of value for 
epidemiologic evaluation of US adults.

DOI: 10.1016/0020-7101(94)01068-c
PMID: 7672865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Int J Epidemiol. 1995 Jun;24(3):547-51. doi: 10.1093/ije/24.3.547.

Life table analysis of the United States' Year 2000 mortality objectives.

Rockett IR(1), Pollard JH.

Author information:
(1)University of Tennessee, Knoxville 37996-2700, USA.

BACKGROUND: The US Year 2000 mortality objectives are model standards cast as 
targeted changes in age-adjusted cause-specific death rates. This research 
centred on the projected impact of such changes on life expectancy and the 
mortality toll for each sex.
METHODS: A computer simulation was conducted using single decrement, multiple 
decrement and cause-elimination life table techniques, together with a 
decomposition procedure.
RESULTS: Male and female life expectancy at birth was projected to increase by 
1.71 and 1.51 years, respectively, between the designated 1987 baseline and 
2000. The leading beneficiaries would be those aged 65 and older, followed by 
those aged 45-64, and infants. Declines in coronary heart disease, stroke and 
injury death rates would most influence the projected life expectancy changes, 
irrespective of sex. Approximately 782,000 male deaths and 730,000 female deaths 
would be averted under Year 2000 assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Life expectancy would be a useful summary measure to incorporate 
into official evaluations of the Year 2000 mortality objectives. Targeting of 
excess male mortality in the US and other highly industrialized nations is 
recommended.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/24.3.547
PMID: 7672895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. J Neurosurg. 1995 Oct;83(4):621-6. doi: 10.3171/jns.1995.83.4.0621.

Long-term outcome after removal of spinal schwannoma: a clinicopathological 
study of 187 cases.

Seppälä MT(1), Haltia MJ, Sankila RJ, Jääskeläinen JE, Heiskanen O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Helsinki University, Finland.

Are spinal schwannomas as benign as we think? To what extent do patients 
recover? Are patients prone to develop late complications such as cystic 
myelopathy or symptomatic spinal deformity? Is their life expectancy 
compromised? In an effort to answer these questions, the authors analyzed the 
long-term outcome for 187 patients from one neurosurgical department with 
surgically treated spinal schwannoma. Median follow-up period was 12.9 years 
(2454 patient years). One-fifth of the patients considered themselves free of 
symptoms at follow-up examination. The most common late complaint was local pain 
(46%), followed by radiating pain (43%), paraparesis (31%), radicular deficit 
(28%), sensory deficit due to a spinal cord lesion (27%), and difficulty voiding 
(19%). Late complications occurred in 21% of the patient population, including 
cystic myelopathy (2%), spinal arachnoiditis (6%), spinal deformity (6%), and 
troublesome pain (7%). Life expectancy of the patients corresponded to that of 
the general population.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1995.83.4.0621
PMID: 7674010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. J Rheumatol. 1995 Jun;22(6):1197-9.

Health related utility measurement: an introduction.

Bakker C(1), van der Linden S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Limburg, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands.

Utility measures of health related quality of life are preference values that 
patients attach to their overall health status. In clinical trials, utility 
measures summarize both positive and negative effects of an intervention into 
one value between 0 (equal to death) and 1 (equal to perfect health). These 
measures allow for comparison of patient outcomes of different diseases, and for 
comparison between various health care interventions. There are 2 different 
approaches to utility measurement. The first is to classify patients into 
categories based on their responses to questions about their functional status, 
as for instance the Quality of Well-Being Questionnaire and the European Quality 
of Life Measure (EUROQOL). The 2nd approach is to ask patients to assign a 
single rating to their overall health by means of rating scale, standard gamble, 
time tradeoff, or willingness to pay. The Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY) 
outcome measure includes both effects in terms of quality of quantity of life. 
Utilities are used as weights to adjust life years for the quality of life in 
order to calculate QALY. Both QALY and utilities are useful in decision making 
regarding appropriate procedures for groups of patients.

PMID: 7674256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. J Med Ethics. 1995 Jun;21(3):144-50. doi: 10.1136/jme.21.3.144.

Double jeopardy and the use of QALYs in health care allocation.

Singer P(1), McKie J, Kuhse H, Richardson J.

Author information:
(1)Monash University, Clayton, Australia.

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 1995 Jun;21(3):151-7.

The use of the Quality Adjusted Life-Year (QALY) as a measure of the benefit 
obtained from health care expenditure has been attacked on the ground that it 
gives a lower value to preserving the lives of people with a permanent 
disability or illness than to preserving the lives of those who are healthy and 
not disabled. The reason for this is that the quality of life of those with 
illness or disability is ranked, on the QALY scale, below that of someone 
without a disability or illness. Hence we can, other things being equal, gain 
more QALYs by saving the lives of those without a permanent disability or 
illness than by saving the lives of those who are disadvantaged in these ways. 
But to do so puts these disadvantaged people under a kind of double jeopardy. 
Not only do they suffer from the disability or illness, but because of it, a low 
priority is given to forms of health care that can preserve their lives. This, 
so the objection runs, is unjust or unfair. This article assesses this objection 
to the use of QALYs as a basis for allocating health care resources. It seeks to 
determine what is sound in the double jeopardy objection, and then to show that 
the defender of QALYs has an adequate response to it.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.21.3.144
PMCID: PMC1376689
PMID: 7674278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. J Med Ethics. 1995 Jun;21(3):151-7. doi: 10.1136/jme.21.3.151.

Double jeopardy and the veil of ignorance--a reply.

Harris J(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Manchester.

Comment on
    J Med Ethics. 1995 Jun;21(3):144-50.

This paper discusses the attempt in this issue of the journal by Peter Singer, 
John McKie, Helga Kuhse and Jeff Richardson, to defend QALYs against the 
argument from double jeopardy which I first outlined in 1987. In showing how the 
QALY and other similar measures which combine life expectancy and quality of 
life and use these to justify particular allocations of health care resource, 
remain vulnerable to the charge of double jeopardy I am able to clarify some of 
the central issues concerning the value of life. In particular, the idea that 
the value of a life varies with its life expectancy and with its quality, 
understood in terms of its richness, variety, success etc, is subjected to 
special examination. It is shown how defenders of QALYs are committed to the 
view that so far from all lives being of equal value, all lives are necessarily 
of subtly different value. The paper then analyses the use to which the 
notorious 'veil of ignorance' has been put both by Singer et al and by others 
and shows how this device of John Rawls's cannot do the work so often assigned 
to it. The paper then considers the issue of hypothetical consent and the role 
that it can play in justifying disposing of the lives of people who have not in 
fact consented to their lives being disposed of in particular ways. Finally, the 
paper makes some points about the comprehensive nature of the data collection 
and storage which would be required by QALY advocates and points out the 
independent problems attaching to licensing such comprehensive collection and 
use of personal data.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.21.3.151
PMCID: PMC1376690
PMID: 7674279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. JAMA. 1995 Sep 20;274(11):888-93. doi: 10.1001/jama.274.11.888.

Perioperative imaging strategies for carotid endarterectomy. An analysis of 
morbidity and cost-effectiveness in symptomatic patients.

Kent KC(1), Kuntz KM, Patel MR, Kim D, Klufas RA, Whittemore AD, Polak JF, 
Skillman JJ, Edelman RR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, MA 02215, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of four diagnostic strategies for 
the preoperative evaluation of symptomatic patients who are potential candidates 
for carotid endarterectomy (ie, 70% to 99% stenosis): (1) duplex sonography 
(DS), (2) magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), (3) contrast angiography (CA), 
and (4) the combination of DS and MRA supplemented by CA for disparate results.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis based largely on published clinical trial 
data. Sensitivities and specificities of noninvasive tests were estimated from 
81 patients undergoing prospective evaluation with DS, MRA, and CA.
OUTCOME MEASURE: Incremental cost per quality-adjusted year of life gained.
RESULTS: For a hypothetical cohort of symptomatic patients undergoing evaluation 
for carotid endarterectomy, the combination of tests resulted in the greatest 
quality-adjusted life expectancy of the four options considered. After 
incorporating the costs of testing, surgery, and stroke, we found that neither 
the MRA nor the CA strategy was cost-effective. The combination of tests was 
more effective but more costly than DS, resulting in an additional cost of 
$22,400 per quality-adjusted year of life gained. For centers that do not have 
adequate MRA, CA resulted in an additional cost of $99,200 per quality-adjusted 
year of life saved compared with DS.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that for the preoperative detection of a 70% to 
99% carotid stenosis, the combination of DS and MRA, supplemented by CA for 
disparate results, is associated with the lowest long-term morbidity and 
mortality and has a favorable cost-effectiveness ratio. The combination of 
tests, or DS alone when MRA is not available, could potentially replace the 
current practice of using CA alone in the preoperative evaluation of patients 
with symptomatic carotid stenosis.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.274.11.888
PMID: 7674503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Mutat Res. 1993 Jan;295(1):31-46. doi: 10.1016/0921-8734(93)90009-r.

Enhancement of age-related increases in DNA I-compound levels by calorie 
restriction: comparison of male B-N and F-344 rats.

Randerath K(1), Hart RW, Zhou GD, Reddy R, Danna TF, Randerath E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030.

Caloric restriction (CR), known to extend median and maximum life spans, improve 
resistance to carcinogenesis, and significantly retard age-associated 
degenerative diseases in rodents, was previously reported to modulate levels of 
indigenous, age-dependent DNA modifications, called I-compounds, in male 
Brown-Norway (B-N) rats. Since profiles of these adduct-like derivatives are 
species-, strain-, sex-, and tissue-specific, we explored this apparent 
CR/I-compound relationship in a comparative study between male B-N and male 
Fischer 344 (F-344) rats, the latter having a shorter life expectancy and high 
incidence of renal disease. Control animals were fed NIH-31 diet ad libitum 
(AL), while the caloric intake of CR animals was limited to 60% of AL, starting 
at 3.5 months. Liver and kidney DNA from 1, 8, 12, 16, 24 (AL, CR), and 30 (CR 
only) month old rats was analyzed by 32P-postlabeling. Corresponding tissues 
from the two strains yielded similar DNA profiles. Total liver I-compound levels 
displayed 2.3-4.6-fold age-dependent increases from 1 to 24 months, and kidney 
values at 24 months were 5.2-8 times higher than those at 1 month. In both 
strains, I-compound levels of CR animals were higher, up to 2-fold, than in 
age-matched AL rats. Regression analyses indicated linear relationships between 
most CR relative adduct labeling values (both total and individual fractions) 
and age, whereas many AL values exhibited this type of link with log age. These 
findings confirm that a correlation exists between CR and I-compound levels, 
and, given the above physiological benefits of CR, indicate that I-compounds 
represent biomarkers of aging with potential utility in intervention studies.

DOI: 10.1016/0921-8734(93)90009-r
PMID: 7677927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Dis Colon Rectum. 1993 Jan;36(1):61-4. doi: 10.1007/BF02050303.

Results of surgery for malignant bowel obstruction in advanced, unresectable, 
recurrent colorectal cancer.

Lau PW(1), Lorentz TG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Hong Kong, Queen Mary Hospital.

When conservative treatment fails in the management of patients with malignant 
bowel obstruction secondary to advanced, recurrent colorectal cancer, the 
attitude toward surgery is often less than enthusiastic because of the limited 
life expectancy. We report a retrospective review of 30 patients with 
unresectable intra-abdominal disease who underwent laparotomy for the relief of 
bowel obstruction. Normal bowel function was restored in 19 patients (63 
percent). The failures included five patients (17 percent) who died as a result 
of surgical complications and six patients (20 percent) who despite the surgery 
had continuing obstruction. Postoperative complications occurred in eight 
patients (27 percent). The median survival was significantly improved in those 
who benefited from the operation (192 days vs. 26 days; P = 0.0001). Whether the 
obstruction occurred at one site or more than one site appeared not to influence 
the outcome of surgery. Obstruction recurred after a mean symptom-free interval 
of 120 days in eight of those relieved by the initial operation. Half of these 
patients responded to conservative treatment, and surgery was again beneficial 
in three of the remaining four. Our results justify a more positive approach 
toward this problem, and, when conservatism fails, laparotomy should be 
undertaken in those who are not terminally ill.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02050303
PMID: 7677982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Cancer Treat Rev. 1993;19 Suppl A:73-84. doi: 10.1016/0305-7372(93)90060-5.

Evaluation of effectiveness: Q-TWiST. The International Breast Cancer Study 
Group.

Gelber RD(1), Goldhirsch A, Cole BF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

The effectiveness of cancer treatments is often expressed in terms of 
disease-free survival or overall survival relative risk reduction or odds 
ratios, and the quality of life effects are often assessed separately from 
survival. Such end points and summary measures may be inadequate, however, for 
comparing two treatments in terms of their palliative effects because there is a 
trade-off between treatment toxicity and increased disease-free interval. 
Furthermore, this trade-off may depend on individual patient preferences and 
prognostic situations. The goal of this paper is to describe a method for 
evaluating the effectiveness of cancer treatments in terms of palliation by 
simultaneously considering both quality and quantity of time following treatment 
so that therapeutic choice may be determined according to patient preferences on 
quality of life and prognostic situation. The method we present is an extension 
of the Quality-adjusted Time Without Symptoms and Toxicity (Q-TWiST) method for 
comparing treatment effectiveness in clinical trials of adjuvant therapies. We 
illustrate an application using data from the International Breast Cancer Study 
Group Trial V which compares two chemotherapy schedules with different 
toxicities.

DOI: 10.1016/0305-7372(93)90060-5
PMID: 7679323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Cancer Treat Rev. 1993;19 Suppl A:85-96. doi: 10.1016/0305-7372(93)90061-u.

Quality of life assessment for cost/utility studies in cancer.

Kaplan RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community & Family Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla 92093-0622.

The goals of cancer treatment and cancer prevention are to extend life 
expectancy and to improve quality of life in the years prior to death. 
Typically, outcomes of cancer treatment are evaluated in terms of survival time. 
Although quality of life is often measured, interpretation of these outcomes in 
relation to mortality is difficult. Survival analysis places each individual 
into one of two categories: alive or dead. Among those alive, all individuals 
are considered equivalent. Thus, a patient confined to bed with severe symptoms 
is scored the same as someone who is active and asymptomatic. A General Health 
Policy Model is proposed as a solution to this problem. The model adjusts life 
expectancy for diminished quality of life, which is measured using a 
standardized instrument known as the Quality of Well-being (QWB) scale. The 
model expresses the effect of treatment in a unit known as a Well-Year or 
Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY). These units integrate side-effects and 
benefits of treatment by combining into a single number, mortality, morbidity, 
and duration of each health state. Similar methods, such as the Q-TWiST, have 
been proposed for use in cancer clinical trials. However, the Q-TWiST is a 
subset of the more general model and carries limitations for cross-disease 
comparisons. We conclude that general health outcome models can be of 
considerable value for analysing the costs, risks and benefits of cancer 
therapies.

DOI: 10.1016/0305-7372(93)90061-u
PMID: 7679324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Cancer Treat Res. 1993;62:261-7. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4615-3518-8_31.

The multi-institutional osteosarcoma study: an update.

Link MP.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-3518-8_31
PMID: 7682087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Cancer Treat Res. 1993;62:355-9. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4615-3518-8_44.

Osteosarcoma: experience with the Rosen T10 protocol at RCH, Melbourne.

Ekert H, Tiedemann K.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-3518-8_44
PMID: 7682094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Cancer Treat Res. 1993;62:361-4. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4615-3518-8_45.

Osteosarcoma of the limb: an institutional report of 10 years experience with 
neoadjuvant chemotherapy and delayed surgery.

Postma A, Kamps WA, Schraffordt Koops H, Veth RP, Göeken LN, Molenaar WM.

