DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-3518-8_45
PMID: 7682095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. J Surg Oncol. 1993 Feb;52(2):101-4. doi: 10.1002/jso.2930520209.

Intracavitary radiation in the treatment of advanced esophageal carcinoma: a 
comparison of high dose rate vs. low dose rate brachytherapy.

Harvey JC(1), Fleischman EH, Bellotti JE, Kagan AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Southern California Permanente Medical Group, Los 
Angeles.

Twenty-two patients were irradiated using two different dose schedules of 
intracavitary irradiation for palliation of locally advanced or metastatic 
carcinoma of the esophagus. Irradiation was given solely with either manually 
afterloaded low/intermediate dose Cesium-137 (LDR) or high dose rate Iridium-192 
(HDR) delivered via remote afterloader. This study was designed to test the 
effectiveness of HDR intracavitary brachytherapy in the relief of dysphagia and 
the maintenance of esophageal patency and to compare with our previous 
experiences with LDR intracavitary brachytherapy. Accelerated treatments were 
especially suited for patients with poor physical condition or short life 
expectancy unlikely to complete a full course of external beam irradiation 
without treatment interruption. Two thousand cGY in three fractions of LDR was 
compared with 1,250 cGY in one fraction HDR with essentially equal results.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.2930520209
PMID: 7682263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Transplant Proc. 1993 Apr;25(2):1813-6.

No requirement for cryoprecipitate or platelet transfusion during liver 
transplantation.

Gerlach H(1), Rossaint R, Slama K, Streich R, Keitel M, Blumhardt G, Bechstein 
W, Lemmens P, Lohmann R, Neuhaus P.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Anesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine, University Clinic 
Rudolf Virchow, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

PMID: 7682354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. J Calif Dent Assoc. 1993 Jan;21(1):31-5.

Root-form implants placed in subantral grafted sites.

Lozada JL(1), Emanuelli S, James RA, Boskovic M, Lindsted K.

Author information:
(1)Oral Implantology Center, LLU School of Dentistry, CA 92350.

Life-table analysis of survival data of implants placed in subantral grafts 
reveals a high rate of survival, particularly in comparison with implants placed 
in non-grafted subantral sites. However, sample size (158 grafted, 140 
non-grafted, in a total of 120 patients) and follow-up time remain insufficient 
to reach a definite conclusion. Results also appear improved over other reports 
in which the sinus was penetrated by the implants, possibly because the 
procedure has become more standard over the years.

PMID: 7682606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Annu Rev Med. 1993;44:133-44. doi: 10.1146/annurev.me.44.020193.001025.

The molecular biology of cystic fibrosis.

Sferra TJ(1), Collins FS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109.

Cystic fibrosis afflicts many children and, as the life expectancy for patients 
with this disease steadily increases, many adults as well. The identification 
and characterization of the gene responsible for this disorder provide a basis 
for understanding the pathophysiology of cystic fibrosis. Basic science advances 
are rapidly being integrated into the diagnostic and therapeutic regimens used 
by physicians in the care of patients with this disease.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.me.44.020193.001025
PMID: 7682803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Acta Oncol. 1993;32(2):235-8. doi: 10.3109/02841869309083918.

Treatment of carcinoid syndrome with recombinant interferon alpha-2a.

Di Bartolomeo M(1), Bajetta E, Zilembo N, de Braud F, Di Leo A, Verusio C, 
D'Aprile M, Scanni A, Barduagni M, Barduagni A [corrected to Barduagni M], et 
al.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology B, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura 
dei Tumori, Milan, Italy.

Erratum in
    Acta Oncol 1993;32(5):592.

The prognosis and the quality of life of patients with carcinoid tumors is 
related either to symptoms from the substances secreted or to progressive tumor 
growth. Medical treatment with cytotoxic agents is of marginal value for 
increasing life expectancy and reducing clinical symptoms. Recent studies with 
interferon have shown interesting results. In the present investigation, 22 
patients with carcinoid tumors and syndrome were treated with recombinant 
interferon alpha-2a (r-IFN alpha-2a) at the dose of 6 x 10(6) IU intramuscularly 
daily for 8 weeks and three times weekly thereafter. The primary tumor was 
localized in the foregut (n = 11), midgut (n = 7), hindgut (n = 1), and unknown 
site (n = 3). Most cases had liver metastasis. Seventeen patients had elevated 
5-hydroxyindoloacetic acid (5-HIAA) excretion and 5 had flushing and/or diarrhea 
as the only clinical manifestation. Six cases presented a complete syndrome 
(flushing, diarrhea and 5-HIAA excretion). Control of symptoms was obtained in 
80% and a 5-HIAA level reduction in 58% of the patients. The interferon 
treatment was more effective for control of the carcinoid syndrome than for 
control of tumor growth. The treatment was well tolerated and fever, myalgia, 
anorexia and fatigue were the most frequent side-effects.

DOI: 10.3109/02841869309083918
PMID: 7686766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Z Kardiol. 1993;82 Suppl 2:41-7.

[Thrombophlebitis--basic principles of treatment].

[Article in German]

Creutzig A(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Angiologie, Medizinische Hochschule Hannover.

Therapeutic strategies in deep vein thrombosis are yielding possible prevention 
of life-threatening pulmonary thromboembolism and extension of thrombosis. In 
order to prevent long term sequelae, i.e., the postthrombotic syndrome, 
recanalization is necessary before venous valves have been destroyed. 
Therapeutical guidelines comprise immobilization (except isolated calf vein 
thrombosis), compression therapy and anticoagulation. Thrombolysis may be 
performed in patients in whom extension and localization of thrombosis may 
result in a postthrombotic syndrome, if thrombosis is not older than 1-2 weeks, 
if there are no concomitant diseases which make it uncertain for the patient to 
experience postthrombotic syndrome, and in the absence of contraindications.

PMID: 7687083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Arch Ital Urol Androl. 1993 Apr;65(2):145-7.

[The Nissenkorn endourethral prosthesis: our experience].

[Article in Italian]

Mancini P(1), Cuttano MG, Ponti F, Pistolesi D, De Maria M, Sicolo M, Simonini 
G, Giannotti P.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Urologica 2, Università di Pisa.

The Authors report their experience about 40 patients who presented urinary 
retention by cervico-prostatic obstruction with anesthetic counterindications or 
limited life expectancy, cured with the urethral prosthesis of Nissenkorn (IUC). 
Our data permit to say that in selected patients IUC may represent an effective 
treatment with minimal invasiveness, low cost and few side effects.

PMID: 7687185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1993 Jul 15;90(14):6756-60. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.90.14.6756.

The Escherichia coli pcnB gene promotes adenylylation of antisense RNAI of 
ColE1-type plasmids in vivo and degradation of RNAI decay intermediates.

Xu F(1), Lin-Chao S, Cohen SN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, CA 94305.

Previous work has shown that RNase E-mediated cleavage of RNAI, an antisense 
repressor of the replication of ColE1-type plasmids, relieves repression in vivo 
by endonucleolytically converting RNAI to a rapidly decaying product. We report 
that mutations in the Escherichia coli pcnB gene result in a 10-fold 
prolongation of the half-life of RNAI decay intermediates and also of truncated 
RNAI primary transcripts lacking sites attacked by RNase E. Using Northern 
blotting, primer extension analysis, [32P]GTP capping of 5'-triphosphate 
termini, and PCR amplification methods, we show that pcnB-mediated acceleration 
of RNAI degradation is associated with posttranscriptional 3' addition of 
adenosine residues in vivo to native and processed forms of RNAI. Accumulation 
of antisense RNAI decay products in pcnB mutants potentially explains the 
reduced copy number of ColE1-type plasmids seen in the mutated bacteria.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.90.14.6756
PMCID: PMC47011
PMID: 7688127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Leuk Lymphoma. 1993 Mar;9(4-5):377-80. doi: 10.3109/10428199309148537.

Value of serum beta 2 microglobulin as an indicator of early relapse in diffuse 
large cell lymphoma.

Avilés A(1), Narváez BR, Díaz-Maqueo JC, Guzmán R, Talavera A, García EL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, National Medical Center, I.M.S.S., México, D.F.

In patients with diffuse large cell lymphoma treated with chemotherapy the 
presence of high levels of serum beta 2 microglobulin has been considered as a 
bad prognostic factor. Until now, attempts to detect early relapse in patients 
with diffuse large cell lymphoma have been sparse. To address this issue we 
began a prospective clinical trial to evaluate the role of different clinical, 
laboratory and radiographic tests in the detection of early relapse in 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Only serum beta 2 microglobulin levels had 
clinical significance and 26 of 53 patients (49%) had abnormal levels, 3 to 23.1 
months (mean 8.5 months) before evident relapse. Elevated serum lactic 
dehydrogenase (LDH) levels and beta 2 microglobulin were observed in six 
patients and all relapsed, suggesting that the combination of these two tests 
should be considered in future prospective clinical trials in order to define 
the utility of both tests to detect early relapse. This information may allow us 
to begin chemotherapy when the tumor mass is still low thereby making the 
probability of achieving a long second remission more likely.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199309148537
PMID: 7688627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Int Surg. 1993 Apr-Jun;78(2):103-6.

Surgical approaches in primary gastric lymphoma and carcinoma.

Ichiyoshi Y(1), Toda T, Nagasaki S, Minamizono Y, Yao T, Sugimachi K.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gastroenterology of Hofu, Yamaguchi, Japan.

Data on 29 patients with primary gastric lymphoma and on 1655 with gastric 
carcinoma were compared with respect to the local extension and the results of 
surgery. More than two-thirds of the gastric area was involved due to multiple 
or widespread lesion in 25.9% and 7.0% of the patients with gastric lymphoma and 
carcinoma, respectively. Maximum tumor dimension exceeded 10 cm in 33.3% and 
9.5% of gastric lymphomas and carcinomas respectively. Involvement of the 
extra-perigastric lymph nodes was evident in 51.8% and 26.2% of the patients 
with gastric lymphoma and carcinoma respectively. Therefore, wide and extended 
resection, including total gastrectomy, would be required more often for the 
surgical excision of gastric lymphoma. Peritoneal dissemination and liver 
metastasis were much less common in those patients with gastric lymphoma and 
hence, benefiting most from surgery. The five year survival rate after curative 
resection was somewhat better in patients with a gastric lymphoma (79.3% as 
compared to 65.6%), whereas the prognosis after non-curative surgery was equally 
unfavorable. Aggressive surgical excision is thus recommended for the treatment 
of patients with a primary gastric lymphoma.

PMID: 7689073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. J Biol Chem. 1993 Sep 15;268(26):19545-51.

Novel ubiquitin-like ribosomal protein fusion genes from the nematodes 
Caenorhabditis elegans and Caenorhabditis briggsae.

Jones D(1), Candido EP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
Canada.

Among eukaryotes studied to date, homologs of the yeast 76-amino acid ribosomal 
protein have invariably been found to be cotranslated with ubiquitin. However, 
in the nematodes Caenorhabditis elegans and Caenorhabditis briggsae, a 70-amino 
acid domain with only 40% identity to ubiquitin is cotranslated with a homolog 
of the ribosomal protein. In the nematode ubiquitin-like (UbL) proteins, the 
nucleotide sequence of the UbL coding region is 92% identical in C. elegans and 
C. briggsae. The corresponding gene sequence contains a single intron at a 
location identical to that found in the polyubiquitin gene of C. elegans, 
further confirming that the ubl genes are evolutionarily related to ubiquitin. 
The ribosomal protein portion of the UbL polypeptide consists of 93 amino acids 
and is 68% identical to the human homolog. The ribosomal protein portion of UbL 
is longer than in other homologs, with the additional sequence being present as 
a basic carboxyl extension. The ubl gene is constitutively expressed in all life 
cycle stages of C. elegans. A comparison of the nematode UbL sequences with 
other ubiquitin-like genes reveals a pattern of sequence conservation, which 
suggests that the ubiquitin-like proteins may have conserved functional domains.

PMID: 7690036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Urology. 1993 Oct;42(4):365-74. doi: 10.1016/0090-4295(93)90359-i.

Effect of patient age on early detection of prostate cancer with serum 
prostate-specific antigen and digital rectal examination.

Richie JP(1), Catalona WJ, Ahmann FR, Hudson MA, Scardino PT, Flanigan RC, 
deKernion JB, Ratliff TL, Kavoussi LR, Dalkin BL, Waters WB, MacFarlane MT, 
Southwick PC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urologic Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts.

This study was designed to determine the effects of age by decade on the 
efficacy of digital rectal examination (DRE) and serum prostate-specific antigen 
(PSA) for early detection of prostate cancer in men aged fifty and over. A 
prospective multicenter clinical trial was conducted at six university centers. 
All 6,630 male volunteers underwent a serum PSA (Hybritech, Tandem) 
determination and DRE. Quadrant biopsies of the prostate were performed if PSA 
was > 4 ng/mL or DRE suspicious. A total of 1,167 biopsies were performed, and 
264 cancers were detected. The cancer detection rate increased from 3 percent in 
men aged fifty to fifty-nine to 14 percent in men eighty years or older (p < 
0.0001). PSA detected significantly more of the total cancers than DRE at all 
age ranges (p < 0.05). The positive predictive values (PPV) for PSA were 32 
percent (50-59 years), 30 percent (60-69 years), 34 percent (70-79 years), and 
38 percent (80+ years). The corresponding PPVs for DRE were 17 percent, 21 
percent, 25 percent, and 38 percent. Eighteen percent of the cancers were 
detected solely by DRE, whereas 45 percent of cancers were detected solely by 
PSA. Thus, the use of both tests in combination provided the highest rate of 
detection in all age groups. One hundred-sixty patients underwent radical 
prostatectomy and pathologic staging. Cancer was organ-confined in 74 percent 
(25/34) of men aged fifty to fifty-nine, 76 percent (65/86) of men aged sixty to 
sixty-nine, and 60 percent (24/40) of men aged seventy or over (chi 2, < 70 vs. 
> or = 70, p < 0.05). Early detection programs yield a lower, yet still 
substantial, cancer detection rate in younger men, and there is a greater 
likelihood for detection of organ-confined disease in this age range. Younger 
men have the longest projected life expectancy and, therefore, the most to gain 
from early prostate cancer detection.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-4295(93)90359-i
PMID: 7692657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1993 Nov;41(11):1245-54. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1993.tb07310.x.

Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in the older person: a review.

Ballester OF(1), Moscinski L, Spiers A, Balducci L.

Author information:
(1)H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, Tampa, FL 33682-0179.

OBJECTIVE: To study the epidemiology of non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL) in the 
older person and to explore treatment strategies for older persons with NHL.
DESIGN: Review of the English literature.
MEASUREMENTS: Incidence of NHL in patients of different ages; prevalence of NHL 
of different grades and stages in persons of different ages; and response to 
treatment, disease free survival, and survival, for patients of different ages.
RESULTS: The incidence of NHL in the aged has increased approximately 80% since 
1970, and approximately one-half of the 40,000 annual new cases occur in persons 
aged 60 and older in the USA. The 2-4 phenoxy pesticides may be partly 
responsible for this increment. The treatment of low grade lymphoma is mostly 
palliative and well tolerated by the aged. Age may have an adverse effect on the 
prognosis of intermediate grade lymphomas, and the prevalence of poor prognostic 
factors and comorbidity increases with age. Among persons aged 65-75, the 
complete response rate (CRR) of intermediate grade NHL to chemotherapy is 
approximately 50%, and approximately one-third of complete responders remain 
alive and free of disease 5 years from diagnosis. Among those aged 75 and older, 
the CRR to chemotherapy is approximately 40%, and the median duration of 
response is 16 months. Strategies aimed to ameliorate treatment-related toxicity 
include lower doses of chemotherapy, choice of drugs better tolerated by older 
individuals, and prevention of chemotherapy-induced toxicity.
CONCLUSIONS: NHL are an increasingly common problem for older persons. 
Approximately 80% of older patients with low grade lymphomas and 40%-50% of 
those with intermediate grade lymphomas may benefit from chemotherapy. 
Individualized treatment, based on life expectancy and comorbidity, is the key 
to effective management.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1993.tb07310.x
PMID: 7693787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1995 Jan;39(1):9-14. doi: 10.1128/AAC.39.1.9.

Pharmacokinetics of michellamine B, a naphthylisoquinoline alkaloid with in 
vitro activity against human immunodeficiency virus types 1 and 2, in the mouse 
and dog.

Supko JG(1), Malspeis L.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, National Cancer Institute, Frederick, 
Maryland 21701, USA.

Michellamine B (MB) is a naturally occurring naphthylisoquinoline alkaloid of 
novel chemical structure with activity against human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV) types 1 and 2 in vitro. In conjunction with its preclinical evaluation, 
the plasma pharmacokinetics of MB was characterized in mice and dogs treated by 
intravenous infusions of 1- and 15-min durations, respectively. At doses ranging 
from 1 to 9 mg/kg of body weight, the drug exhibited apparent first-order 
kinetics in both species, affording triexponential plasma concentration-time 
profiles. Treatment with doses of 5 to 9 mg/kg provided peak plasma levels 
within the range that completely inhibits the cytopathic effects of HIV upon 
cultured human lymphoblastoid cells (50 to 100 micrograms/ml) without evidence 
of toxicity. MB had a biological half-life of 2.8 +/- 0.8 h in mice, with a mean 
residence time of 2.1 +/- 0.3 h, and a total plasma clearance of 2.4 +/- 0.5 
ml/min/kg (mean +/- standard deviation; n = 3); however, the terminal-phase 
contribution to the area under the plasma profile from time zero to infinity was 
44.6% +/- 12.9%. In contrast, the terminal phase was the primary determinant of 
drug disposition in dogs, accounting for 74.1% +/- 2.8% (n = 3) of the area 
under the curve. Furthermore, the systemic duration of MB was significantly 
longer in the dogs than in mice, as indicated by mean values of the apparent 
half-life (11.6 +/- 1.2 h), mean residence time (12.3 +/- 1.8 h), and clearance 
(0.50 +/- 0.08 ml/min/kg). However, there were no statistical difference between 
its apparent volume of distribution in the mice (0.60 +/- 0.08 liters/kg) and 
dogs (0.50 +/- 0.07 liters/kg). A single dog was also treated with a total dose 
of 97 mg/kg given as a 72-h constant-rate intravenous infusion, since prolonged 
systemic exposure to potentially therapeutic drug concentrations will very 
likely be required for clinical anti-HIV effects. Within 4 h after starting the 
infusion, the plasma MB concentration exceeded 18 micrograms/ml, it reported 50% 
effective concentration against HIV in vitro, and subsequently increased to 41 
micrograms/ml at the end of the infusion. There were no clinical or pathological 
indications of toxicity. Whereas the total plasma clearance (0.48 ml/min/kg) was 
within the range observed for dogs treated by 15-min infusion, extension of the 
postinfusion sampling period from 24 h to 4 days facilitated better definition 
of the terminal exponential phase, yielding a value of 25.6 h for the biological 
half-life of MB. The amount of drug excreted by dogs unchanged in the urine 
ranged from 3.7 to 11.1% of the administered dose. Thus, the major pathways by 
which the drug is eliminated from the body remain to be identified. On the basis 
of these findings, continued development of MB as a novel lead compound for the 
treatment of HIV infection is warranted.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.39.1.9
PMCID: PMC162476
PMID: 7695336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Arkh Patol. 1994 Sep-Oct;56(5):65-9.

[The prognostic aspects of the morphological signs of bladder cancer].

[Article in Russian]

Ermilova VD, Mustia AI, Figurin KM.

A clinico-morphological study of 150 bladder tumours showed significant 
dependence of bladder carcinoma prognosis on some morphological indices most 
important of which were the grade of malignancy, histological type and deepness 
of growth and spread along the lymphatic and blood vessels. Likewise, nuclear 
polymorphism and hyperchromasia, mitotic figure number, atypical mitosis have a 
direct connection with prognosis, but they are an integral part of malignancy 
grade determination and do not play an independent role. Nucleolar organizer 
zone may serve as an additional criterium of neoplasm biological activity, in 
particular, its role is important in differential diagnosis of bladder 
transitional cell carcinoma I and benign processes or transitional papilloma.

PMID: 7695498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Br Heart J. 1995 Feb;73(2):129-33. doi: 10.1136/hrt.73.2.129.

Expanding access to coronary artery bypass surgery: who stands to gain?

Kee F(1), Gaffney B, Canavan C, Little J, McConnell W, Telford AM, Watson JD.

Author information:
(1)Northern Health and Social Services Board, Ballymena, Northern Ireland.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the perceptions of general practitioners (GPs) about the 
benefits of coronary artery bypass surgery, in terms of gains in life 
expectancy, for different groups of patients.
DESIGN: A questionnaire survey of all GPs in Northern Ireland.
SETTING: A survey conducted collaboratively by the departments of public health 
medicine in each of the four health boards in the province, serving a total 
population of 1.5 million.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The median and mean gain in life expectancy perceived by 
groups of doctors for smoking and non-smoking male and female 55 year old 
patients. The percentage of 50 year old and 70 year old non-smoking patients 
considered likely to have their lives extended with bypass surgery. Differences 
were assessed using the Mann-Whitney U test for unpaired samples and the 
Wilcoxon signed rank tests for paired.
RESULTS: 541 GPs replied (response rate 56%). The median (and mean) perceived 
gain in life expectancy after cardiac surgery for non-smoking 55 year old 
subjects was 120 (104) months for men and 120 (112) months for women (z = 6.42; 
P < 0.0001; Wilcoxon signed rank test). For male and female smokers of the same 
age, the perceived gains were 48 (47) and 60 (52) months respectively (z = 6.72; 
P < 0.0001; Wilcoxon signed ranks test), both figures being significantly 
different than for non-smokers. The median (and mean) percentage of patients 
that the doctors considered would have their lives extended by bypass surgery 
was 70 (64) of every 100 "young" patients and 40 (42) of every 100 "old" 
patients, (z = 16.2; P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: These results point to a significant overestimation of the benefits 
of coronary artery bypass surgery by GPs in Northern Ireland and to a need to 
develop guidelines for referral.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.73.2.129
PMCID: PMC483778
PMID: 7696021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Pediatr Nephrol. 1994 Dec;8(6):660-4. doi: 10.1007/BF00869080.

Applying decision analysis to management of adolescent idiopathic nephrotic 
syndrome.

Moxey-Mims MM(1), Stapleton FB, Feld LG.

Author information:
(1)Children's Kidney Center, Children's Hospital of Buffalo, New York.

Due to the concern that adolescents presenting with nephrotic syndrome are less 
likely to have minimal change disease than younger children, pediatric 
nephrologists have tended toward renal biopsy-tailored treatment rather than 
corticosteroid use in this population. The need for biopsy prior to treatment of 
nephrotic syndrome in adults has been challenged. A similar challenge to the 
clinical need for this procedure in adolescents with idiopathic nephrotic 
syndrome is raised here. The principles of medical decision analysis were 
applied and calculations were made with the Decision Maker computer program. The 
life expectancy of an adolescent who receives biopsy-tailored treatment was 
found to be no different from that of an adolescent who receives empiric 
corticosteroid treatment. We conclude that renal biopsy is not mandatory for the 
clinical management of adolescents with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome. 
Prognostically, a response, or lack thereof, to empiric corticosteroid therapy 
may be just as informative as a histological diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00869080
PMID: 7696099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. ABNF J. 1994 Jul-Aug;5(4):112-6.

African American daughters' attitudes about caregiving to frail, elderly 
parents.

Price M.

The purpose of this study was to describe the attitude of a group of African 
American women caregivers about caregiving to their elders. Given the higher 
life expectancy of Black women, caring for the older parent is an expectation 
that has great significance among this cultural group. Data regarding caregiver 
attitudes about elder caregiving were collected using the Attitude Scale (Brody, 
1983). Results showed that attitudes among individuals were different overall, 
however, when arranged into age groups, were similar.

PMID: 7696648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Clin Ther. 1994 Nov-Dec;16(6):1052-62; discussion 1036.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of lipid-modifying therapy in Canada: comparison of 
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors in the primary prevention of coronary heart 
disease.

Martens LL(1), Guibert R.

Author information:
(1)Abt Associates Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Comment in
    Clin Ther. 1995 May-Jun;17(3):572-80.

This study estimated the cost-effectiveness of the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl 
coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors available in Canada for the primary 
prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD). A model of the cost-effectiveness of 
therapy used to modify low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and 
high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels was developed in the primary 
prevention of CHD based on risk functions from the Framingham Heart Study and 
Canadian data on coronary risk factors and the cost of treating the leading 
manifestations of CHD. Relative to no treatment, discounted gains in life 
expectancy range from 0.174 year for fluvastatin 40 mg to 0.215 year for 
simvastatin 10 mg. Costs per year-of-life-saved range from $38,800 for 
fluvastatin 40 mg to $56,200 for pravastatin 20 mg. In the incremental analysis 
relative to fluvastatin 40 mg, additional gains in life expectancy range from 
0.011 year for pravastatin 20 mg to 0.041 year for simvastatin 10 mg, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios range from $88,200 for simvastatin, 10 mg 
to $330,300 for pravastatin 20 mg. Our analysis showed that the 
cost-effectiveness of cholesterol-lowering therapy is sensitive to pretreatment 
risk of CHD, as expressed by pretreatment cholesterol levels and the presence of 
additional risk factors such as hypertension, diabetes, and smoking. The results 
of the analysis suggest that it is more cost-effective to initiate treatment 
with fluvastatin than with pravastatin, simvastatin, or lovastatin. Sensitivity 
analysis showed the results to be stable even if the lipid-lowering effect of 
fluvastatin is varied by 23% from the original assumption of 25% LDL reduction 
(ie, from 19.3% to 30.8%). Limitations of the study are recognized and 
discussed. A head-to-head comparison of these HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors could 
provide further evidence that therapy initiated with fluvastatin may be the most 
cost-effective way to treat patients with hypercholesterolemia who are eligible 
for treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.

PMID: 7697684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Diabetes Care. 1995 Jan;18(1):93-5. doi: 10.2337/diacare.18.1.93.

Pancreatic transplantation. Impact on the quality of life of diabetic renal 
transplant recipients.

Milde FK(1), Hart LK, Zehr PS.

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, University of Iowa, Iowa City 52242.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the impact of pancreas transplantation on the quality of 
life of renal transplant recipients with diabetes.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: In this quasi-experimental comparative study of 41 
successful pancreas transplant (SP) recipients, 13 failed pancreas transplant 
(FP) recipients, and 28 kidney alone (KA) transplant recipients, we collected 
data from individuals who had their pancreas/kidney or kidney alone transplants 
> or = 6 months before at a university tertiary care center. This study was an 
extension of a 1992 study of SP and FP recipients. The subject group was 
enlarged with additional pancreas/kidney recipients and a control group of KA 
recipients. Five dimensions of life quality were measured.
RESULTS: Groups did not differ significantly regarding age, gender, marital 
status, comorbidity, type of prior dialysis, current kidney function, length of 
time since transplant, physical activity, symptom burden, emotional state, and 
feelings of well-being. A significant time by group interaction occurred for 
quality of life (P = 0.0023) and health (P = 0.0001). Patients in the SP and KA 
groups perceived their past life and health quality to be significantly lower 
and their present and future life and health quality to be significantly better 
than did the FP group. The groups' major concerns differed significantly. The FP 
group's concern related to diabetes, the SP group's to immunosuppression, and 
the KA group's to graft rejection.
CONCLUSION: Patients with failed pancreas but successful kidney transplants see 
less improvement in their quality of life than do patients who meet their 
transplant goals, irrespective of whether they receive a pancreas.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.18.1.93
PMID: 7698056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Eur Heart J. 1994 Dec;15(12):1611-5. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a060442.

Long-term prognosis of low-risk, post-MI patients: the importance of subjective 
perception of disease.

Bar-On D(1), Gilutz H, Maymon T, Zilberman E, Cristal N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioural Sciences, Soroka Hospital, Ben Gurion University of 
the Negev, Beer Sheva, Israel.

In 1980, 87 male patients (age range 34-60 years), hospitalized after their 
first myocardial infarction (MI), were asked why they believed they got the 
infarct and what would help them cope with it. In a multiple regression 
analysis, their causal attributions accounted for 15% of the explained variance 
in their physical, sexual, social and work functioning after 6 and 18 months, 
their level of education accounted for 25% and the severity of their infarct for 
10%. This result was replicated in a cross-cultural study. A follow-up study 
shows that 12 years after the MI, the patients' initial causal attributions 
still accounted for part of their rehabilitation and life expectancy. Of the 
original 87, 23 had died between 1980-1992 from cardiac causes and 50 male 
patients were located and re-interviewed at the Soroka ICCU, in 1992. This 
suggests a very low-risk post-MI sample. The only risk-factor, accounting for 
the difference between the surviving and the deceased patients, was the initial 
obesity of the latter. The functional capacity outcome of the survivors was 
accounted for by their age (24%) and initial causal attributions (26%). Also the 
initial causal attributions (5%) still accounted for the subjective perception 
of functioning among the survivors. These results suggest that the initial 
causal attributions may have created positive or negative self-fulfilling 
prophecies which had long-term consequences, especially in a low-risk, post-MI 
population, in which risk factors hardly effected long-term prognosis.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a060442
PMID: 7698129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Exp Cell Res. 1995 Apr;217(2):309-16. doi: 10.1006/excr.1995.1091.

Caloric restriction: conservation of cellular replicative capacity in vitro 
accompanies life-span extension in mice.

Pendergrass WR(1), Li Y, Jiang D, Fei RG, Wolf NS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle 98195, USA.

We have tested whether life-long caloric restriction (CR) slows or delays the 
age-related loss of cellular replicative potential that occurs during normal 
aging in ad libitum (AL) fed mice. Both mean and maximum life spans of the 
restricted animals (60% of AL intake) were significantly extended 30-40% by CR 
treatment. Proliferative potential, measured by determining the fraction of 
cells capable of forming large clones in vitro, was compared in five cell types 
from six tissue sites from two strains of mice (Male (C57BL/6 x 
DBA/2)F1("B6D2F1") and female (C57BL/6 x C3H)F1("B6C3F1")). This included four 
nonhematopoietic organ sites: fibroblast cells from ear skin, tail skin, and 
subdermal connective tissue and epithelial cells from the medullary part of the 
kidney and two cell types, myofibroblasts and endothelial-like cells, from 
spleen and bone marrow. The proliferative potential of cells from AL mice 
decreased progressively with age in all tissues sites of both mouse strains. CR 
delayed or decreased the loss of proliferative potential in all situations, but 
the timing of this was tissue specific. For cells from the four nonhematopoietic 
tissues sites from female B6C3F1 female mice, CR delayed the onset of 
proliferative loss, such that the fraction of large clones was significantly 
greater for the CR 18- to 24-month-old mice than in AL controls at three of four 
sites (as determined by the fraction of large clones after 1 week of clonal 
growth). The proliferative loss in CR tissues then accelerated from 24 to 30 
months, so that both CR and AL mice had similar fractions of large clones after 
30 months of age. CR was also seen to delay loss of proliferative potential in 
cells from skin and kidney of B6D2F1 male mice at 23-24 months of age when 
cloned for 2 weeks. For fibroblast and endothelial-like cells from bone marrow 
and spleen stromal sites from both strains of mice, CR also significantly 
decreased loss of proliferative potential; furthermore, in these tissues the 
proliferative advantages remained or increased from 24 to over 30 months of age. 
In companion studies (N.S. Wolf et al., 1995. Exp. Cell. Res. 217, 000-000), CR 
was seen to decrease age-related losses in the maximal rates of cell replication 
in vivo in a panel of tissues from B6D2F1 male mice.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1006/excr.1995.1091
PMID: 7698230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Exp Cell Res. 1995 Apr;217(2):317-23. doi: 10.1006/excr.1995.1092.

Caloric restriction: conservation of in vivo cellular replicative capacity 
accompanies life-span extension in mice.

Wolf NS(1), Penn PE, Jiang D, Fei RG, Pendergrass WR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle 
98195, USA.

In male mice of a long-lived hybrid strain (B6D2F1), long-term 40% caloric 
restriction (CR) extended both mean and maximum life spans by 36 and 20%, 
respectively, over that of ad libitum fed (AL) controls. Measurements of entry 
into S-phase were made in vivo of six different cell types in five different 
organs using 2-week exposures to BrdU. The labeling index (L.I.) in all organs 
studied was lower in young CR mice than in young AL fed mice. In most cases, the 
L.I. in AL mice fell to the levels of that in the CR mice by 13 months of age, 
and the two groups then remained so through old age. However, when the L.I. was 
measured in old CR mice which had been placed on the AL diet for a period of 4 
weeks (this was termed refeeding (RF), it was found to be above that of similar 
age AL or CR mice and almost at the level of young AL mice. This was still true, 
but to a lesser degree, in a repeat study using an 8-week period of RF. In a 
separate but parallel in vitro study (companion paper, this volume), the 
superiority of CR over AL for retention of cellular replication capacity was 
confirmed by clone size distribution measurements made in several cell types in 
mice of several age groups. These results indicate that: (1) the rate of cell 
replication in AL diet mice diminishes greatly by early middle age in all organ 
sites studied and then plateaus or declines much more slowly; (2) CR broadly 
preserves in vivo cellular replicative capacity but often requires the energy 
levels provided by a switch to AL feeding to demonstrate this late in life; (3) 
accordingly, the replicative deficit in AL fed mice appears to be cumulative and 
is significant only in old age. The mechanism(s) involved is yet to be 
discovered but may be related to, or even the same as, that which extends life 
spans in CR animals. Correspondingly, and with corroborative data from our in 
vitro companion study, (W. R. Pendergrass et al., 1995. Exp. Cell. Res. 217, 
309-316), we suggest that cell populations sustain an accrual of biochemical 
damage or physiological alterations which increasingly limit their replicative 
capacity as the animal ages, and that CR reduces the accrual of this damage.

DOI: 10.1006/excr.1995.1092
PMID: 7698231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. IARC Sci Publ. 1994;(128):1-302.

Statistical methods in cancer research. Volume IV. Descriptive epidemiology.

Estève J(1), Benhamou E, Raymond L.

Author information:
(1)International Agency for Research on Cancer, Lyon.

PMID: 7698823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. J Am Vet Med Assoc. 1994 Nov 1;205(9):1300-7.

Evaluation of prognostic factors for dogs with synovial sarcoma: 36 cases 
(1986-1991).

Vail DM(1), Powers BE, Getzy DM, Morrison WB, McEntee MC, O'Keefe DA, Norris AM, 
Withrow SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, School of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
Wisconsin, Madison 53706.

Medical records of 36 dogs with synovial sarcoma confirmed by microscopic 
examination of H&E-stained sections of tissue were selected for retrospective 
analysis from dogs admitted between 1986 and 1991 to participating institutions 
of the Veterinary Cooperative Oncology Group. Metastasis was evident at the time 
of diagnosis in 8 (22%) dogs, and 15 (41%) dogs ultimately developed metastatic 
tumors. Median survival time for all dogs, as determined by life-table analysis, 
was 17 months. For dogs that were subsequently treated and became tumor free, 
the median disease-free interval was 30 months. Nine dogs had previously had 
localized excision attempted, but all had recurrence of the tumor locally 
(median, 4.5 months). Of 29 dogs that underwent amputation, including the 9 with 
localized recurrence, 2 had tumor recurrence on the amputation stump. Most dogs 
had survival time and disease-free interval of > 36 months after amputation. 
Four dogs that had received chemotherapy for tumors of advanced clinical stages 
did not respond to treatment. One dog that had received locally applied 
radiotherapy after localized excision did not have evidence of tumor recurrence 
2 years after radiotherapy. Clinical stage, histologic grade, and a positive 
result for tests that used cytokeratin immunohistochemical staining 
significantly (P < 0.05) influenced survival time and disease-free interval. 
Analysis of data for the study reported here suggested that histologic criteria 
can be an excellent predictor of dogs that are likely to have tumor recurrence 
after amputation and that would most likely benefit from aggressive treatment 
with adjuvants.

PMID: 7698942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. J Am Diet Assoc. 1995 Apr;95(4):428-32; quiz 433-5. doi: 
10.1016/S0002-8223(95)00115-8.

Dietary intake and counseling, weight maintenance, and the course of HIV 
infection.

Chlebowski RT(1), Grosvenor M, Lillington L, Sayre J, Beall G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, UCLA School of Medicine, Harbor-UCLA Medical 
Center, Torrance 90509, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To define relationships among dietary intake and counseling, weight 
maintenance, and the clinical course of patients infected with the human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
DESIGN: A prospective cohort study in an HIV clinic in a county hospital.
SUBJECTS: HIV-infected patients (68 with and 40 without acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome [AIDS]) who had a good performance status and no 
chronic diarrhea were assessed at entry to the study and after 6 months. The 
following assessments were made: energy and nutrient intake based on 7-day food 
records, anthropometric measurements, immunologic function as lymphocyte T-cell 
subpopulations (ratio of CD4 to CD8), and serum cholesterol level. Patients were 
monitored to determine clinical outcome.
INTERVENTION: All patients received standardized dietary counseling designed to 
address identified intake deficiencies and maintain body weight.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Changes in energy and nutrient intake, body weight, and 
clinical outcome (ie, time to AIDS-defining illness and overall survival time).
STATISTICAL ANALYSES PERFORMED: Group differences (HIV group vs AIDS group) were 
sought using chi 2 analyses and Student's t test. A multivariate regression 
model was used to determined the best predictors of clinical outcome.
RESULTS: At baseline, total energy intake (based on 30 kcal/kg usual body 
weight) was adequate in both HIV and AIDS patients (101 +/- 4% and 103 +/- 5% 
[mean +/- standard deviation] of need, respectively). Despite dietary counseling 
and continued maintenance of energy intake, body weight, serum cholesterol 
level, and CD4 level progressively decreased. Consequently, saturated fat intake 
was found to be inversely related (P < .01) to serum cholesterol level. Clinical 
outcome (after 3.5 years) was associated with baseline ratio of CD4 to CD8 (P < 
.001), weight (P < .01), and serum cholesterol level (P < .001). Multivariate 
analysis related ratio of CD4 to CD8 (P < .001) and weight maintenance (P < 
.001) to favorable outcome in the final model.
APPLICATIONS: Weight loss in patients with HIV infection is independently 
prognostic of clinical outcome, and development of hypocholesterolemia is not 
favorable for clinical outcome. Because weight loss progresses despite 
conventional dietary counseling to identify energy need, interventions earlier 
in the disease course should be considered along with increased target levels 
for energy intake.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-8223(95)00115-8
PMID: 7699184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Kidney Int. 1994 Dec;46(6):1728-37. doi: 10.1038/ki.1994.475.

Morbidity and mortality in dialysis patients.

Port FK(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.1994.475
PMID: 7700033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Minerva Cardioangiol. 1994 Nov;42(11):527-33.

[A case of complete myocardial revascularization with different arterial grafts: 
right internal mammary artery, right gastroepiploic artery and inferior 
epigastric artery].

[Article in Italian]

Antona C(1), B1tto AA, Zanobini M, Pompilio G, Spirito R, Apostolo A, Arena V, 
Biglioli P.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Cardiochirurgia I, Università degli Studi di Milano.

It has been well established that the internal thoracic artery (ITA) is a good 
alternative to the saphenous vein as conduit for coronary artery bypass grafting 
because of superior early and late patency. Many surgeons now commonly use both 
ITAs for CABG and many have adopted complex grafting methods such as free ITA 
graft and sequential anastomosis; despite these techniques, it's not always 
possible to achieve complete revascularization with arterial conduits. More 
recently the right gastroepiploic artery (rGEA) and the inferior epigastric 
artery (IEA) have been used as alternative arterial conduits. The authors report 
the experience of a case of myocardial revascularization in a patient with 
angina not responsive to medical therapy, severe tri-vessel coronary artery 
disease, which had a previous total bilateral saphenectomy; the patient was also 
found to have a right fibrothorax. In the surgical strategy the authors 
considered that the bilateral use of mammary artery could have been the cause of 
the depressed respiratory function and that it was important to leave intact the 
left hemithorax; they therefore employed the rITA in the revascularization of 
the anterior descending (AD). To complete the revascularization they used the 
IEA for a marginal branch of the circumflex artery and the rGEA for the 
interventricular posterior artery, branch of the right coronary artery. In this 
fashion good early results were obtained with absence of perioperative 
complications with a good life expectancy.

PMID: 7700543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Transfusion. 1995 Apr;35(4):324-30. doi:
10.1046/j.1537-2995.1995.35495216082.x.

Should patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection or chronic hepatitis 
donate blood for autologous use?

Vanston V(1), Smith D, Eisenstaedt R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Abington Memorial Hospital, Pennsylvania, USA.

Comment in
    Transfusion. 1995 Apr;35(4):281-3.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this project is to formally evaluate the benefits and 
the risks of allowing patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection 
or hepatitis to donate blood for autologous use.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: With data on the incidence of transfusion-transmitted 
hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), and HIV; administrative error; 
and health-care worker exposure, decision analysis was used to quantitate the 
benefits and risks of autologous blood transfusions versus those of transfusions 
of blood from allogeneic donors.
RESULTS: Assuming the highest documented probability of transfusion-related 
infection, the days of life saved by allowing the transfusion of autologous 
blood to a 30-year-old noninfected or HBV-, HCV-, or HIV-infected patient are 
92.52, 70.60, 0.95, and 5.69, respectively. Assuming the lowest documented 
probability of transfusion-related infection, the days of life saved decrease to 
2.96, 2.26, 0.15, and 0.18, respectively. Avoidance of HCV accounts for over 90 
percent of the days gained. The days of life lost by other noninfected patients 
through administrative error average 0.11 in the case of HIV and those lost by 
health care workers average 0.04, 0.18, and 0.07 in the case of HBV, HCV, and 
HIV, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The benefit of autologous transfusions in patients infected with 
HBV, HCV, and HIV is significantly less than that in noninfected patients. The 
risks of this infected blood to other noninfected patients are significant only 
in the case of HIV-infected blood transfusions; however, there is a measurable 
risk to health-care workers should all infected blood be allowed into the blood 
supply.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.1995.35495216082.x
PMID: 7701551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Am J Law Med. 1994;20(3):231-49.

The under-enrollment of HIV-infected foster children in clinical trials and 
protocols and the need for corrective state action.

McNutt B(1).

Author information:
(1)New York University School of Law, USA.

PMID: 7702073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Ann Intern Med. 1995 May 1;122(9):664-75. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-122-9-199505010-00004.

Cost-effectiveness of interferon-alpha 2b treatment for hepatitis B e 
antigen-positive chronic hepatitis B.

Wong JB(1), Koff RS, Tinè F, Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)New England Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1995 Nov-Dec;123(3):85.
    Ann Intern Med. 1996 Jan 15;124(2):276; author reply 277.
    Ann Intern Med. 1996 Jan 15;124(2):276-7.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of interferon-alpha 2B for the 
treatment of patients with chronic hepatitis B infection who are positive for 
hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg).
DESIGN: Meta-analysis of nine randomized controlled trials and 
cost-effectiveness analysis, projecting the clinical and economic outcomes 
expected from changes in serologic markers of hepatitis B viral replication.
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE search, expert panel opinion, hospital cost data, and 
adjusted physician charges.
PATIENTS: 552 patients with confirmed chronic hepatitis B infection who were 
positive for HBeAg.
INTERVENTION: Interferon-alpha 2b.
MEASUREMENTS: Lifetime incidence of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma; life 
expectancy; quality-adjusted life expectancy; and costs and marginal 
cost-effectiveness ratios from a societal perspective.
RESULTS: Interferon-alpha 2b increases the likelihood of becoming negative for 
HBeAg from 9.1% to 45.6% (difference, 36.5%; 95% CI, 23.7% to 49.2%) and of 
becoming negative for hepatitis B surface antigen from 1.7% to 7.7% (difference, 
6.0%; CI, 2.8% to 9.3%) in the first year. For a 35-year-old person with chronic 
hepatitis B who is HBeAg positive, our analysis suggests that interferon-alpha 
2b will increase life expectancy by 3.1 years or 3.4 quality-adjusted life-years 
and will decrease projected lifetime costs, even if future savings are 
discounted; thus, interferon-alpha 2b is the dominant strategy. Even with the 
model biased strongly in favor of standard care, the marginal cost-effectiveness 
ratio of interferon did not exceed $12,000 per life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Interferon-alpha 2b should prolong life and lower costs for 
patients with chronic hepatitis B who are HBeAg positive.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-122-9-199505010-00004
PMID: 7702228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 1995 Jan;44(1):46-8.
