
[How to evaluate a patient with heart failure? Round table].

[Article in French]

Guérot C(1), Desnos M, Hagège A, Grenier O, Besse B.

Author information:
(1)Service de Cardiologie, Hôpital Boucicaut, Paris.

Evaluation of heart failure is the first step prior to introduction of an 
adapted therapeutic strategy. Three principal objectives must be defined: 1) 
identify the cause of heart failure, which may directly guide subsequent 
treatment (valvular heart disease, coronary artery disease, etc.); 2) evaluate 
the repercussions of heart failure on everyday life: evaluation of quality of 
life, severity of functional disorders and reduction of the everyday capacity. 
This evaluation is the most delicate as it is based on clinical interview: 
evaluation of the various NYHA stages lacks precision and reproducibility. The 
stress test with measurement of oxygen consumption appears to constitute an 
acceptable evaluation technique; 3) evaluation of the prognosis. Many studies 
have demonstrated precise relationships between life expectancy and a number of 
criteria, alteration of myocardial function, echocardiographic findings, 
ejection fraction, cardiac output and even an AP chest x-ray. Although 
statistically valid, these criteria have a limited application in individual 
patients. Evaluation of all these parameters is the most accurate way to predict 
the subsequent course of the disease which therefore allows a more accurate 
choice of treatment and subsequent evaluation of their efficacy.

PMID: 7702356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Pediatr Neurol. 1994 Nov;11(4):313-8. doi: 10.1016/0887-8994(94)90008-6.

Aicardi syndrome: natural history and possible predictors of severity.

Menezes AV(1), MacGregor DL, Buncic JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

Aicardi syndrome is defined by the clinical triad of infantile spasms, agenesis 
of the corpus callosum, and pathognomonic chorioretinal lacunae. Almost all 
patients are girls with severe cognitive and physical handicaps, and epilepsy. 
Fourteen patients with Aicardi syndrome, seen at The Hospital for Sick Children, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada, between 1975 and 1992, were reviewed to document the 
natural history of the disease and obtain life-table estimates of survival. The 
relationship between 28 neurologic features present in infancy and clinical 
outcome, as measured by mobility and cognitive function also was examined. 
Life-table analysis indicated that the estimated survival rate was 76% at 6 
years of age and 40% at 15 years of age. Three of the 14 girls (21%) could walk 
or crawl and 4 (29%) had some language ability. None of the 28 neurologic 
features was predictive of ultimate clinical outcome. This information should be 
discussed with parents of children with Aicardi syndrome.

DOI: 10.1016/0887-8994(94)90008-6
PMID: 7702692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1995 Jan-Feb;6(1):79-83. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(95)71063-6.

Transhepatic balloon dilation of biliary strictures in liver transplant 
patients: a 10-year experience.

Zajko AB(1), Sheng R, Zetti GM, Madariaga JR, Bron KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, PA 15213, 
USA.

PURPOSE: The authors report their initial and long-term results using 
transhepatic balloon dilation to treat biliary strictures in liver transplant 
patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Over a 10-year period, 72 liver transplant patients with 
biliary strictures underwent 81 balloon dilation treatments. Anastomotic 
strictures were present in 56 patients; nonanastomotic strictures were present 
in 16.
RESULTS: Initial technical success was achieved in 64 of 72 patients (89%). 
Balloon dilation failed in eight patients (11%), and they were treated 
surgically. Complications occurred in nine (12%) patients, and all were 
successfully treated. Within the first 6 months, five patients (6.9%) required 
surgical revision. Three patients (4.2%) underwent repeated liver 
transplantation; and five patients (6.9%) died. Fifty-one patients in whom 
balloon dilation was initially successful were available for at least a 6-month 
follow-up. Life-table analysis showed an overall 81% +/- 4.8 success rate at 6 
months; it dropped to 70% +/- 6.2 at 6 years. For anastomotic strictures, it was 
77% +/- 5.8 at 6 months and 66% +/- 7.3 at 6 years. For nonanastomotic 
strictures, it was 94% +/- 6.2 at 6 months, which dropped to 84% +/- 10 at 5 
years.
CONCLUSION: Transhepatic balloon dilation represents an effective and relatively 
safe treatment for biliary stricture in liver transplant recipients.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(95)71063-6
PMID: 7703586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. BMJ. 1995 Mar 11;310(6980):646-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.310.6980.648.

Alcoholism and rising mortality in the Russian Federation.

Ryan M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre of Russian and East European Studies, University of Wales, Swansea.

In the Russian Federation today the high incidence of alcoholism and drunkenness 
helps to account for rising death rates, more particularly among the male 
population. During the mid-1980s a significant reduction in deaths from alcohol 
related diseases was achieved by state action in curtailing the supply of 
alcohol. However, official data disclose a pattern of sharply increased 
consumption per head since 1987, with high proof drinks--especially vodka--now 
forming a larger share in the total. In current economic conditions the effects 
of a traditional macho drinking culture are exacerbated by a reduction of state 
control over the quality of alcohol available for purchase. A substantial 
increase has occurred in deaths from most principal causes, with a 
disproportionate increase in deaths from non-natural causes, including deaths 
caused predominantly by alcohol. Average expectation of life at birth has fallen 
especially sharply for men; by 1993 it had slumped to 59.0 years--that is, to 
below the age at which a pension starts to be paid.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.310.6980.648
PMCID: PMC2549015
PMID: 7703754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. J Clin Nurs. 1995 Jan;4(1):31-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.1995.tb00007.x.

Younger-onset Alzheimer's disease: learning from the experience of one spouse 
carer.

Williams O, Keady J, Nolan M.

There are estimated to be 17,000 younger sufferers of dementia currently living 
in the UK. At present, individualized service and practice initiatives for 
younger sufferers and their carers remain fragmented and poorly developed. This 
is despite potential additional caregiving stressors caused by the age of onset, 
such as financial difficulties due to disruption in the work pattern, children 
still living at home, and the sufferer's decreased life expectancy. Drawing on 
an individual carer's personal case history, this article details a spouse 
carer's individual experience of her husband's decline through the stages of 
younger-onset Alzheimer's disease. Pointers for policy and practice for younger 
sufferers and their carers are drawn from this case history and a role for the 
community psychiatric nurse is outlined.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.1995.tb00007.x
PMID: 7704373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Clin Immunol Immunopathol. 1995 May;75(2):190-5. doi:
10.1006/clin.1995.1070.

Effect of human cord blood transfer on survival and disease activity in 
MRL-lpr/lpr mice.

Ende N(1), Czarneski J, Raveche E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, UMDNJ-New Jersey Medical 
School, Newark 07103-2714, USA.

The MRL-lpr/lpr mice have a genetic defect and by 6 months of age usually die 
after developing severe autoimmune disease and massively enlarged lymph nodes 
(Cohen, P. L., and Eisenberg, R. A., Annu. Rev. Immunol. 9, 243-269, 1991). 
Similarly as in some genetic diseases in humans, these mice, if given an 
appropriate marrow transplant from a mouse not having the defect, will have 
partial correction of the disease process and an extension of life (Cohen, P. 
L., and Eisenberg, R. A., Annu. Rev. Immunol. 9, 243-269, 1991; Lenarsky, C., 
Kohn, D. B., Weinberg, K. I., and Parkman, R., Hematol. Oncol. Clin. N. Am. 4, 
589-603, 1990). Utilizing human umbilical cord blood as a donor source for 
marrow transplantation, we have been able to obtain significant correction of 
the MRL-lpr/lpr genetic defect and double the life span. By 11 months of age, 5 
months beyond their usual life span, both the animals receiving congenic marrow 
(MRL-+/+) and the animals with human cord blood had mild lymphadenopathy, a 
decrease in double-positive T cells, and an increase in double-negative T cells. 
Granulomatous vasculitis could be identified in the animals receiving human 
cells and could not be found in the animals receiving MRL-+/+ marrow.

DOI: 10.1006/clin.1995.1070
PMID: 7704978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Gynecol Oncol. 1995 Apr;57(1):3-6. doi: 10.1006/gyno.1995.1091.

Identification of a low-risk subset of patients with stage IB invasive squamous 
cancer of the cervix possibly suited to less radical surgical treatment.

Kinney WK(1), Hodge DO, Egorshin EV, Ballard DJ, Podratz KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 
55905, USA.

Comment in
    Gynecol Oncol. 1995 Apr;57(1):1-2.

Because of the well-documented morbidity of radical hysterectomy, it would 
appear desirable to isolate a subset of patients at low risk of parametrial 
spread or disease recurrence who might thereby be candidates for less radical 
surgical therapy. To this end, the records of all patients undergoing radical 
hysterectomy for cervical carcinoma at our institution between 1956 and 1985 
were reviewed. Of the 387 patients treated for squamous carcinoma clinically 
confined to the cervix, 83 (21.4%) had tumors with depth of invasion greater 
than 3 mm (stage IB) but volume of tumor less than or equal to that of a sphere 
2 cm in diameter (4.19 cm3) and no tumor in angiolymphatic spaces. Of the 83 
patients, none had parametrial nodal metastasis. Median follow-up of this 
subgroup was 9.8 years, and the Kaplan-Meier estimate of 5-year disease-free 
survival was 97.6% (95% confidence interval, 94.3-100%). We consider patients in 
the subset described above to be candidates for modified radical hysterectomy 
and pelvic lymphadenectomy, with a decrease in morbidity associated with the 
less radical dissection, a low risk of failure to excise occult parametrial 
tumor, and the expectation of an excellent chance of long-term disease-free 
survival.

DOI: 10.1006/gyno.1995.1091
PMID: 7705699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1995 Winter;11(1):40-8. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300005249.

The ranking properties of healthy-years equivalents and quality-adjusted 
life-years under certainty and uncertainty.

Johannesson M(1).

Author information:
(1)Stockholm School of Economics.

This paper investigates the theoretical properties of healthy-years equivalents 
(HYEs) and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). A distinction is made between ex 
ante HYEs (EA-HYEs) and expected HYEs (EXP-HYEs) and between risk-neutral 
quality-adjusted life-years (RN-QALYs) and risk-adjusted quality adjusted 
life-years (RA-QALYs). In the case of certainty, HYEs always rank health 
profiles according to individual preferences, whereas QALYs only rank health 
profiles according to individual preferences if constant proportional trade-off 
holds for all health states and if additive independence of quality in different 
periods holds. In the case of uncertainty, EA-HYEs always rank risky health 
profiles the same way as expected utility. The assumptions needed for the other 
measures to rank risky health profiles the same way as expected utility are: 
risk neutrality with respect to healthy time for EXP-HYEs; risk neutrality with 
respect to time in all health states and additive independence of quality in 
different periods for RN-HYEs; and constant proportional risk posture with 
respect to time in all health states and additive independence of quality in 
different periods for RA-QALYs.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300005249
PMID: 7706013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1995 Winter;11(1):49-65. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300005250.

Cost-utility analysis of group living in dementia care.

Wimo A(1), Mattson B, Krakau I, Eriksson T, Nelvig A, Karlsson G.

Author information:
(1)Umeå University.

A cost-utility analysis (CUA) was applied to group living for dementia patients. 
A Markov-model of an expected life-length of 8 years was used. Forty-six 
patients in group living were compared to 39 patients living at home by 
inclusion and 23 institutionalized patients. When the cost per gained 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) was calculated, the group living alternative 
was the most favorable for the patients, giving a cost per paired QALY of US 
dollars < 0. In the extensive sensitivity analysis the main result was 
consistent but methodological problems were indicated.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300005250
PMID: 7706014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. J Clin Oncol. 1995 Apr;13(4):858-68. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1995.13.4.858.

Patient preferences for treatment of metastatic breast cancer: a study of women 
with early-stage breast cancer.

McQuellon RP(1), Muss HB, Hoffman SL, Russell G, Craven B, Yellen SB.

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Cancer Center of Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, NC, 
USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to elicit preferences for the treatment 
of metastatic breast cancer in women with early-stage breast cancer who were 
given hypothetical treatment scenarios. We predicted that quality of life, 
demographic, and treatment variables would have an impact on patient 
preferences.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred fifteen patients with stage 1-IIIA breast 
cancer were interviewed. All patients had either mastectomy or lumpectomy plus 
radiotherapy as primary treatment. Sixty-seven (58%) had prior adjuvant 
chemotherapy. Patients were given four clinical scenarios that described a woman 
with metastatic breast cancer who was stated to have a life expectancy of 18 
months. Side effects of the treatment options were systematically varied from 
low (hormonal therapy) to life-threatening (high-dose experimental therapy) and 
were consistent with common clinical situations. Patients were asked to select 
which treatment, with its associated toxicity, they would accept and prefer for 
a 50% chance of specified increments in life expectancy, ie, 5 years, 18 months, 
1 year, 6 months, 1 month, and 1 week.
RESULTS: Quality of life at the time of interview, previous chemotherapy 
treatment, and degree of difficulty of previous treatments did not predict 
patient preferences. The greater the toxicity potential of the treatment, the 
less likely patients were to accept the treatment, although approximately 15% of 
patients would prefer high-risk treatment for as little as 1 month of added life 
expectancy. Between 34% and 82% of patients would prefer different therapies for 
a 6-month addition to life expectancy, whereas almost all patients would accept 
treatment for a 5-year increase in length of survival. Younger patients were 
more willing to assume the risks of treatment for a small increase in life 
expectancy. Of note, between 54% and 78% of patients would elect to start the 
different treatments even without symptoms related to metastatic disease. 
Moreover, 76% of patients would prefer standard treatment or an experimental 
agent to reduce symptoms or pain, even if such treatment did not prolong life. 
Additionally, only 10% of patients would allow randomization to a clinical trial 
comparing high-dose with standard chemotherapy. Participation in the study was 
not distressing to most patients.
CONCLUSION: Patients showed clear preferences for specific treatments for 
metastatic disease when given hypothetical scenarios. There was a wide range of 
patient preferences for treatment based on risk-benefit assessment, but a 
substantial percentage of patients would accept the risk of major toxicity for 
minimal increase in overall survival.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1995.13.4.858
PMID: 7707112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1995 Feb 15;87(4):244-5. doi: 10.1093/jnci/87.4.244.

Viaticals for cancer patients gain popularity in U.S.

Nagy K.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/87.4.244
PMID: 7707414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. J Virol. 1995 May;69(5):3147-55. doi: 10.1128/JVI.69.5.3147-3155.1995.

Structure and role of the terminal repeats of Epstein-Barr virus in processing 
and packaging of virion DNA.

Zimmermann J(1), Hammerschmidt W.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Klinische Molekularbiologie und Tumorgenetik, 
GSF-Forschungszentrum für Umwelt und Gesundheit GmbH, Munich, Germany.

The linear virion Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA is terminated at both ends by a 
variable number of direct, tandemly arranged terminal repeats (TRs) which are 
approximately 500 bp in size The number of TRs at each terminus can vary. After 
infection of host cells, the EBV DNA circularizes via the TRs by an unknown 
mechanism, and replication of the viral DNA during the lytic phase of the EBV 
life cycle leads to large DNA concatemers which need to be cleaved into virion 
DNA units, eventually. This cleavage event occurs at an unknown locus within the 
TRs of EBV, which are the cis-acting elements essential for cleavage of the 
concatemers and encapsidation of the virion DNA. To investigate the mechanism of 
DNA processing during genome circularization and cleavage of concatemeric DNA, 
the genomic termini of EBV were cloned, sequenced, and analyzed by direct 
labeling of the virion DNA. Both termini ended with identical 11-bp elements; 
the right end has acquired an additional 9-bp stretch that seemed to originate 
from the leftmost unique sequences. The left terminus is blunt, whereas the 
right terminus appears to have a 3' single-base extension. In a transient 
packaging assay, a single terminal repeat was found to be sufficient for 
encapsidation of plasmid DNA, and mutagenesis of the TR element defined a region 
of 159 bp, including the 11-bp element, which is essential for packaging. These 
results indicate that the genomic termini of EBV are not generated by a simple 
cut of a hypothetical terminase. The mechanism for cleavage of concatemers seems 
to involve recombination events.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.69.5.3147-3155.1995
PMCID: PMC189016
PMID: 7707542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. J Vasc Surg. 1995 Apr;21(4):613-22. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70193-1.

Late outcomes of limb loss after failed infrainguinal bypass.

Dawson I(1), Keller BP, Brand R, Pesch-Batenburg J, Hajo van Bockel J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Medical Statistics, University Hospital Leiden, The 
Netherlands.

PURPOSE: Most reports regarding infrainguinal bypass surgical procedures 
demonstrate benefits well but pay less attention to adverse outcomes and 
consequences of failure for the patient. For a wider scope of infrainguinal 
bypass surgical procedures, we evaluated patient-oriented outcomes of limb loss 
occurring after failed infrainguinal bypass operations.
METHODS: Eighty-one patients with vascular amputations were identified in a 
retrospective study. Follow-up was complete with a mean of 3.6 years. Life-table 
and multivariate analyses were used to assess factors influencing the desired 
outcome goals of rehabilitation. Mortality rates, social function, risk of 
contralateral amputation, and the ability to walk were used to measure the late 
outcome.
RESULTS: The long-term survival rate was poor (72% at 1 year; 53% at 3 years) 
and was not related to traditional risk factors for atherosclerosis. Moreover 
the risk for contralateral amputation was 10% per year. One year after 
amputation 81% (47 of 58) of the surviving amputees were walking independently, 
and 73% (42 of 58) were living at home, 32 with their spouse. At 3 years these 
results were 73% (27 of 37) and 78% (29 of 37), respectively. In addition, the 
level of self-care changed significantly (p < 0.001) after amputation. Advanced 
age (older than 65 years), self-care performance, and living with someone were 
important predictors of late outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: It is possible for a high percentage of patients with vascular 
amputations to return home successfully, either walking or in a wheelchair. 
Moreover this result can be predicted based on preoperative clinical variables. 
These data may be helpful to guide fitting of prosthetic devices, planning of 
discharge home, and use of health care resources.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70193-1
PMID: 7707566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Pathologica. 1994 Aug;86(4):371-5.

Carcinoma and synchronous hyperplastic polyps of the large bowel.

Fucci L(1), Pirrelli M, Caruso ML.

Author information:
(1)Servizio di Anatomia Patologica, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere 
Scientifico, Castellana Grotte Bari.

The prognostic and biological meaning of the association of colonic cancer with 
hyperplastic polyps (HP) is not as well known as that with adenomatous polyps 
(AP). In order to gain some insights into this matter, we have retrospectively 
studied two hundred and twelve patients with colon-rectal carcinoma in which 64 
(30.18%) had synchronous AP, 24 (11.32%) had synchronous HP, 13 (6.13%) had both 
AP and HP and 111 had no synchronous polyps (52.36%). The 34 cases of 
synchronous HP, whether or not associated with AP, were located in the same 
colonic segments of the cancer and were found usually in the sigmoid-rectum. The 
AP were found throughout the colon-rectum with a similar rate of association 
with the cancer in each segment. The cancer associated with HP have a higher 
prevalence in the better prognostic stages of both Dukes and Jass-Morson 
systems. Conversely both AP and AP+HP associated cancers exhibit prevalences 
rates higher in the worst prognostic stages. Our observations suggest that 
separate factors might promote the growth of HP and AP and that a relationship 
between colonic cancer and synchronous HP might exist and differ from that 
demonstrated for AP and colonic cancer.

PMID: 7708436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1995 Mar 25;125(12):573-80.

[Prehospital resuscitation in urban conditions--results and prognostic decision 
criteria].

[Article in German]

Schoenenberger R(1), Stürmer T, von Planta I, von Planta M.

Author information:
(1)Departement Innere Medizin, Kantonsspital Basel.

From 1983 to 1991, 214 patients (age 62 +/- 15 years; 72% male) with 
out-of-hospital cardiac arrest were resuscitated in the field and transported to 
the hospital with basic cardiac life support only (manual chest compression, 
assisted ventilation by bag-air-valve). In 64 patients (30%; 95% confidence 
interval [CI]: 24-36%) a stable circulation allowing admission to the intensive 
care unit was restored in the emergency room. 26 patients (12%; CI: 8-17%) 
survived to hospital discharge. 20 patients showed no or only mild neurological 
impairment, 4 had moderate cognitive deficits, and 2 patients were in a 
permanent vegetative state. Multiple logistic regression revealed bystander 
resuscitation before arrival of the ambulance (odds ratio [OR]: 4.7 [CI: 
1.5-14.7]; p < 0.01) and ventricular fibrillation on arrival in the emergency 
room (OR: 42.8 [CI: 5.2-350]; p = 0.0005) to be statistically significant 
predictors of survival. These data justify continuation and extension of 
resuscitation efforts in the emergency room if patients were given only basic 
cardiac life support in the field and during transport. Patients who arrive in 
ventricular fibrillation and who were resuscitated by a bystander prior to the 
arrival of the ambulance team have a realistic chance of survival. Delegation of 
competence to defibrillate to trained, non-physician ambulance personnel may 
reduce the duration of cardiac arrest in patients with ventricular fibrillation 
and thus save lives.

PMID: 7709172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Ter Arkh. 1995;67(1):38-40.

[The aging population and the changing nature of its diseases in Japan].

[Article in Russian]

Ono I, Vakai K.

PMID: 7709353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Transplantation. 1995 Apr 15;59(7):1053-5.

HLA-A1 in renal transplantation. Correlation of unique biochemical features with 
high immunogenicity.

Dobbe CM(1), Thorogood J, D'Amaro J, de Lange P, Persijn GG, Giphart MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Statistics, Leiden University, The Netherlands.

PMID: 7709443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Am J Epidemiol. 1995 Apr 15;141(8):771-5. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a117500.

Decreased mortality among contemplative monks in The Netherlands.

de Gouw HW(1), Westendorp RG, Kunst AE, Mackenbach JP, Vandenbroucke JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Leiden University Hospital, The 
Netherlands.

Although it is generally believed that a simple lifestyle may promote health, a 
recent study among Trappist and Benedictine monks in the Netherlands reported an 
increase in general morbidity (Am J Epidemiol 1993;138:569-73). As this 
increased morbidity might be the consequence of an increased life expectancy, we 
studied the level of mortality among these contemplative monks. Standardized 
mortality ratios (SMRs) and death rates were calculated from 1,523 monks whose 
data were abstracted from the monastery rolls of the period 1900-1994. For this 
period the SMR was 0.88 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.81-0.95). A lower SMR 
was present in almost all of the age categories and in all except one of the 
monasteries. There were two distinct subperiods. In the pre-World War II era, 
the SMR was 1.25 (95% CI 1.04-1.49), but it lowered to 0.76 (95% CI 0.69-0.85) 
after World War II. From 1950 on, mortality in the monasteries remained lower 
than in the general population, even after correction for the generally higher 
educational level of the monks. The death rates showed a continuing decline from 
1900 to 1950. After 1950, the mortality among monks declined further at a time 
when the secular trend of decreasing mortality leveled off in the general male 
population. The higher mortality before World War II was largely unexplained. 
From the 1950s onward, the mortality among monks was lower, presumably because 
of the epidemic of lung cancer and cardiovascular disease in the general 
population. Taken together, the present and earlier data suggest that, among 
contemplative monks, a simple lifestyle is associated with an extension of life 
in which they suffer from nonfatal morbidity.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a117500
PMID: 7709920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Am J Med. 1995 Feb 27;98(2A):17S-23S. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(05)80040-3.

Efficacy of treatment of osteoporotic fractures.

Eisman JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Pathophysiology, Cantonal Hospital, University of 
Geneva, Switzerland.

The efficacy of osteoporosis therapy can be considered at several different 
levels, ranging from the overall community to the individual patient. Efficacy 
has different connotations for each group within the community and for the 
individual, in whom life expectancy--among other parameters--is an important 
consideration. Some of the questions addressed in this article are the scope of 
the osteoporosis problem, how many people must be treated for prevention of one 
further fracture, whether there is a role for targeting likely high risk/high 
response groups, and what exactly is a successful outcome. Clearly, there are no 
ideal therapies as yet for osteoporosis, in the context of either prevention or 
treatment. Moreover, most studies have been performed in selected groups within 
the community, and the extrapolation to wider clinical subsets is not 
straightforward. For example, data are almost nonexistent for men or 
premenopausal women; also it is not clear whether studies on carefully selected 
healthy elderly women can be simply extrapolated to their less healthy cohorts. 
Similarly, studies using vertebral deformities as the primary endpoint may be 
difficult to relate to symptomatic vertebral fractures, and other peripheral 
fractures including proximal femur. Lastly, the efficacy of some treatments must 
be related to the risk of further fractures. Thus, many years of therapy may 
relate to prevention of perhaps only one symptomatic event, with equivocal 
cost-benefit for the individual. As new therapies are under development, these 
questions need to be addressed for the efficacy of osteoporosis therapy to be 
considered.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(05)80040-3
PMID: 7709928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Anat Rec. 1995 Feb;241(2):211-24. doi: 10.1002/ar.1092410208.

Development of the gubernaculum and processus vaginalis in freemartinism: 
further evidence in support of a specific fetal testis hormone governing 
male-specific gubernacular development.

van der Schoot P(1), Vigier B, Prepin J, Perchellet JP, Gittenberger-de Groot A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology & Reproduction, Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Erasmus University, Leiden, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Freemartinism occurs in some species of ruminants and affects most 
female bovine fetuses in heterosexual, multiple pregnancies owing to fusion of 
the chorionic blood circulations soon after implantation. Maldevelopment of the 
ovaries and Müllerian ducts have been described and recognized as resulting from 
exposure of their respective primordia to an excess of anti-Müllerian hormone. 
The present study aimed to analyse the prenatal growth and development of the 
gubernaculum in freemartins to find out its possible affliction through foetal 
testis hormones derived from their male co-twin.
METHODS: Histological sections of young and drawings and photographs of further 
developed freemartins and control male and female bovine foetuses were analysed. 
The specimens had been collected earlier for analysis of the time course of male 
and female gonadal and genital development and its impairment associated with 
freemartinism.
RESULTS: The gubernaculum of 35-40-day-old male and female fetuses was in the 
initial stage of development and of similar appearance in all specimens. 
Gubernacula of 60-70-day-old male fetuses differed from those of females of 
similar age in various respects: the male gubernaculum size was larger and 
extension of the processus vaginalis was deeper. Freemartins showed an 
intermediate development with some individuals resembling male and others 
resembling female agemates. During further development, gubernacula in males 
developed into muscular cremaster sacs, whereas those in females generally did 
not develop beyond the size and structural complexity of 70-day-old foetuses. 
Beyond day 70 of fetal life, gubernaculum development in freemartins definitely 
showed male characteristics with respect to size and growth of a processus 
vaginalis with a cremaster muscular wall. The male-like pattern of the outgrowth 
of the processus vaginalis changed during the second half of prenatal life. 
Rather than its further deepening as in males, this structure became inverted to 
become emerging as a papilla-like structure from the inguinal abdomen bottom. An 
explanation is proposed for this unprecedented inversion, taking into account: 
(1) the faster and higher reaching rightsided ascent of the kidneys and gonads, 
(2) the femalelike outgrowth of the cranial gonadal suspensory ligaments, and 
(3) the absence of scrotum development. The ovaries and mesonephric remnants in 
developing freemartins, during their ascent together with the kidneys while 
remaining attached to the bottom of the developing processus vaginalis sacs via 
the gubernaculum ligament, are proposed to act together to pull up the bottom of 
the processus vaginalis sacs. From this action, "inverted hernia sacs" result as 
the irreversible consequence.
CONCLUSION: The data support the concept that foetal testes act, via as an yet 
unidentified third hormone, to establish malelike development of gubernacula 
into muscular cremaster sacs. Further work is required to reveal the identity of 
this hormone. Furthermore, the apparent similarity of the freemartins' inverted 
processus vaginalis sacs and the fetal rodents' gubernacular cones suggests that 
the ruminants' and rodents' processus vaginalis are essentially similar 
structures. Thus there is no longer an urgent need to distinguish between two 
different types of gubernaculum development and testis descent in rodents and 
ruminants, respectively, and involving or not fetal gubernacular cones. The 
present observations may thus contribute to the development of a unified 
hypothesis for sexually dimorphic development of the gubernaculum throughout the 
mammalian class.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.1092410208
PMID: 7710137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. R I Med. 1995 Feb;78(2):34.

For whom the clock ticks.

Aronson SM.

PMID: 7711330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Obes Res. 1995 Jan;3(1):107-12. doi: 10.1002/j.1550-8528.1995.tb00127.x.

Body build and longevity. 1927.

Dublin LI.

Comment in
    Obes Res. 1995 Jan;3(1):97-9.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1550-8528.1995.tb00127.x
PMID: 7712355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Obes Res. 1995 Jan;3(1):97-9. doi: 10.1002/j.1550-8528.1995.tb00125.x.

Life insurance and overweight.

Bray GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Baton Rouge, LA 70808, USA.

Comment on
    Obes Res. 1995 Jan;3(1):100-6.
    Obes Res. 1995 Jan;3(1):107-12.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1550-8528.1995.tb00125.x
PMID: 7712365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1994;69(6):516-24. doi:
10.1007/BF00239869.

Physiological consequences of acculturation: a 20-year study of fitness in an 
Inuit community.

Rode A(1), Shephard RJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Physical and Health Education, University of Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

Surveys in 1969/1970, 1979/1980, and 1989/1990 assessed physical fitness among 
adult Inuit living in Igloolik, Northwest Territories, Canada, during a period 
of rapid acculturation to a sedentary lifestyle. MANOVA for age, cohort, and 
age-cohort effects indicated significant trends to greater skinfold readings 
[male (M) and female (F)] and body mass (F only), a lower handgrip and knee 
extension force (M and F), and lower step test predictions of aerobic power (M 
and F) in the more recent cohorts, with no change of forced vital capacity, 1-s 
forced expiratory volume, or hemoglobin level. By 1989/1990, continuing hunters 
tended to have thicker skinfolds than other villagers, and showed no advantage 
of aerobic power. The average fitness of the sample when tested in 1989/1990 was 
comparable with that of sedentary populations in Southern Canada, but a minority 
of villagers who now practiced regular sport had conserved the high levels of 
fitness that were observed in 1969/1970. We conclude that the fitness of this 
community appears to have deteriorated markedly as it has become more sedentary, 
and we thus recommend that health authorities develop methods of promoting an 
active lifestyle that are culturally appropriate to the populations of 
circumpolar settlements.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00239869
PMID: 7713072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Eur Urol. 1994;26(4):271-5. doi: 10.1159/000475398.

Conservative approach to the management of prostate cancer. A critical review.

Gerber GS(1).

Author information:
(1)Pritzker School of Medicine, University of Chicago, Ill 60637.

Conservative management of patients with early prostate cancer has received 
increased attention in recent years. While this approach allows patients to 
avoid the potential side effects associated with radiation therapy and radical 
prostatectomy, many men who live 10 years or longer will develop advanced 
disease with watchful waiting. These patients are likely to suffer significant 
morbidity due to local or distant cancer progression. Conversely, some patients 
who receive aggressive initial treatment for localized prostate cancer will also 
experience morbidity secondary to recurrent or progressive disease despite early 
attempts at curative therapy. Therefore, the need for further prospective study 
to evaluate the relative effectiveness and morbidity of conservative management 
in comparison with radiation therapy and radical prostatectomy is evident.

DOI: 10.1159/000475398
PMID: 7713123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Pediatr Nurs. 1995 Jan-Feb;21(1):57-61.

Cystic fibrosis and the pediatric caregiver: benefits and burdens of genetic 
technology.

Geller G.

Pediatric providers will be faced with questions about genetic disease more and 
more frequently as new technologies are developed for their diagnosis and 
treatment. With early genetic testing, improved treatments, and the potential 
for gene therapy, genetic diseases like cystic fibrosis, once thought to be 
fatal, are now considered chronic. Therefore, many such conditions will be seen 
not only in the PICU, but in ambulatory pediatric and adolescent settings. The 
life expectancy and psychosocial adjustment of children with chronic genetic 
diseases will depend not only on the severity of their disease but on the 
ongoing care and attention they receive. Because optimal care will require an 
awareness of the complex and variable moral and social issues raised at each 
stage of life, pediatric caregivers should be sensitized to issues in counseling 
families with genetic disease.

PMID: 7715972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1995 Jan 15;20(2):199-204. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-199501150-00013.

Relative lumbar and pelvic motion during loaded spinal flexion/extension.

Nelson JM(1), Walmsley RP, Stevenson JM.

Author information:
(1)School of Rehabilitation Therapy, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, 
Canada.

STUDY DESIGN: This study analyzed relative lumbar and pelvic motion during 
sagittal plane trunk motion. Patterns of movement were compared during loaded 
trunk flexion and extension.
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to examine the dynamic relationship 
between the lumbar spine and pelvis during trunk motion and to determine the 
effect of direction of lift (up vs. down) on lumbar-pelvic rhythm.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: There is disagreement in the literature regarding 
whether rotations of the pelvis and lumbar spine occur sequentially or 
simultaneously during bending and lifting tasks.
METHODS: Thirty healthy women, ranging in age from 19 to 35 years, participated 
in the study. The 3Space Tracker System, an electromagnetic tracking device, was 
used to monitor simultaneous lumbar and pelvic motion as subjects lifted and 
lowered a 9.5 kg box with knees extended.
RESULTS: Although lumbar and pelvic motion occurred simultaneously during 
flexion and extension, there was greater separation of these movements during 
the "up lifts" than during the "down lifts."
CONCLUSIONS: Lumbar-pelvic rhythm varied depending on whether the trunk was 
flexing or extending. During trunk flexion (down lift) there was a greater 
tendency for lumbar and pelvic rotations to occur simultaneously, whereas during 
extension (up life) they tended to occur more sequentially.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-199501150-00013
PMID: 7716625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1995;107(5):169-74.

[Acute management of para-articular hip fractures in geriatric patients].

[Article in German]

Kukla C(1), Heinz T, Gäbler C.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinik für Unfallchirurgie, Wien.

Coxal femoral fractures in the elderly present a growing problem due to the 
increasing life expectancy of the population. The most rapid intervention 
possible with an implant best tailored to the individual's needs and general 
medical condition, followed by early mobilisation and individual 
physiotherapeutic management are the basic prerequisites in the attempt to 
achieve a decrease in the post-operative complication rate, the mortality rate 
and spiraling costs. Preoperative management, the choice of surgical procedure 
according to strict indication criteria and post-operative measures are 
discussed on the basis of an analysis of 719 patients admitted to our department 
between August 1992 and December 1993. The mean age of the patients was 79.9 
years and the ratio of women to men was 4:1. Operation took place on average 
14.2 hours after admission and the patients were discharged on average 15.6 days 
after hospitalisation. 37 of 620 (5.9%) patients operated on during the first 24 
hours (group 1) and 9 of the 99 (9.1%) delayed operation patients (> 24 h = 
group 2) died in hospital. The findings are discussed in the light of the 
shortage of hospital beds, an aging population and rising hospital costs.

PMID: 7716969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1995 Apr;22(5):611-5.

[Phase III study].

[Article in Japanese]

Furuse K(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Internal Medicine, National Kinki Central Hospital for Chest 
Disease, Sakai, Japan.

After a drug is found to have some minimal amount of activity in phase II study, 
the next step is to determine the effectiveness of compared new treatment to 
no-treatment or placebo, the best current standard therapy, and toxicity in 
phase III study. Phase III study is the most rigorous and extensive type of 
scientific clinical investigation of a new treatment. Accordingly, much of this 
issue is devoted to the principles of phase III study.

PMID: 7717712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Arch Intern Med. 1995 Apr 24;155(8):822-8.

Changes in survival over time after a first episode of Pneumocystis carinii 
pneumonia for European patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. 
Multicentre Study Group on AIDS in Europe.

Lundgren JD(1), Barton SE, Katlama C, Ledergerber B, González-Lahoz J, Pinching 
AJ, Proenca R, Hemmer R, Pedersen C, Phillips AN.

Author information:
(1)Hvidovre (Denmark) Hospital, University of Copenhagen.

BACKGROUND: Factors associated with improved survival over time for patients 
with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) who have Pneumocystis carinii 
pneumonia at diagnosis are not clearly defined.
METHODS: An inception cohort of 2533 patients with AIDS, diagnosed from 1979 to 
1989, from 52 centers in 17 European countries was studied. Survival 3 months 
and 3 years after diagnosis was estimated by Kaplan-Meier life tables. 
Independent predictors of survival were analyzed by construction of Cox 
proportional hazards models.
RESULTS: Patients in whom AIDS and P carinii pneumonia had been diagnosed before 
1988 had a poorer 3-month (ie, short-term) survival, whereas the survival 1 and 
2 years after P carinii pneumonia was lower only for patients whose disease was 
diagnosed before 1987 compared with those with more recent diagnoses. Other 
variables associated with poorer outcome were greater age, infection via blood 
transfusion, diagnosis made in south Europe, and coexisting illnesses. After 
controlling for these prognostic markers in multivariate analysis, improvement 
in survival over time was still evident. For patients who survived the P carinii 
pneumonia episode, both zidovudine and secondary prophylaxis for P carinii 
pneumonia initiated around the time of diagnosis were associated with improved 
survival, and, after controlling for these treatment variables, no statistically 
significant improvement in survival over time was observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Survival after an episode of P carinii pneumonia has improved 
within recent years. Increased awareness of early symptoms of P carinii 
pneumonia and better treatment of the pneumonia may have led to improvement in 
short-term survival over time, whereas the introduction of zidovudine and 
increased use of secondary P carinii pneumonia prophylaxis may have resulted in 
the recent increase in survival 1 and 2 years after the diagnosis. However, 
3-year survival remained unchanged over time, implying that the underlying human 
immunodeficiency virus infection and other complications are not effectively 
controlled.

PMID: 7717790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Blood. 1995 Apr 15;85(8):2025-37.

A five-drug remission induction regimen with intensive consolidation for adults 
with acute lymphoblastic leukemia: cancer and leukemia group B study 8811.

Larson RA(1), Dodge RK, Burns CP, Lee EJ, Stone RM, Schulman P, Duggan D, Davey 
FR, Sobol RE, Frankel SR, et al.

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago, IL, USA.

The goal of this phase II multicenter clinical trial was to evaluate a new 
intensive chemotherapy program for adults with untreated acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (ALL) and to examine prospectively the impact of clinical and biologic 
characteristics on the outcome. One hundred ninety-seven eligible and evaluable 
patients (16 to 80 years of age; median, 32 years of age) received 
cyclophosphamide, daunorubicin, vincristine, prednisone, and L-asparaginase; 167 
patients (85%) achieved a complete remission (CR), 13 (7%) had refractory 
disease, and 17 (9%) died during induction. A higher CR rate was observed in 
younger patients (94% for those < 30 years old, 85% for those 30 to 59 years 
old, and 39% for those > or = 60 years old, P < .001) and in those who had a 
mediastinal mass (100%) or blasts with a T-cell immunophenotype. Eighty percent 
of B-lineage and 97% of T-cell ALL patients achieved a CR (P = .01). The 
coexpression of myeloid antigens did not affect the response rate or duration. 
Seventy percent of those with cytogenetic or molecular evidence of the 
Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome and 84% of those without such evidence achieved a 
CR (P = .11). Patients in remission received multiagent consolidation treatment, 
central nervous system prophylaxis, late intensification, and maintenance 
chemotherapy for a total of 24 months. After a median follow-up time of 43 
months, the median survival for all 197 patients is 36 months; the median 
remission duration for the 167 CR patients is 29 months. Favorable pretreatment 
characteristics relative to remission duration or survival are younger age, the 
presence of a mediastinal mass or lymphadenopathy, a white blood cell count 
(WBC) less than 30,000/microL, L1 morphology, T or TMy immunophenotype, and the 
absence of the Ph chromosome. The estimates of the proportion surviving at 3 
years are 69% for patients less than 30 years old, 39% for those 30 to 59 years 
old, 89% for those who had a mediastinal mass, 59% with WBC less than 
30,000/microL, 63% with L1 morphology, 69% for T or TMy antigen expression, and 
62% for those who lack the Ph chromosome. Fifteen patients (8%) had no 
unfavorable prognostic factors and have an estimated probability of survival at 
5 years of 100% (95% confidence interval, 77% to 100%). This intensive 
chemotherapy regimen produces a high remission rate and a high proportion of 
durable remissions in adults with ALL.

PMID: 7718875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Blood. 1995 Apr 15;85(8):2263-8.

Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for chronic myeloid leukemia in first 
chronic phase: a randomized trial of busulfan-cytoxan versus cytoxan-total body 
irradiation as preparative regimen: a report from the French Society of Bone 
Marrow Graft (SFGM).

Devergie A(1), Blaise D, Attal M, Tigaud JD, Jouet JP, Vernant JP, Bordigoni P, 
Ifrah N, Dauriac C, Cahn JY, et al.

Author information:
(1)Bone Marrow Transplant Units of Hôpital Saint-Louis, Paris, France.

Comment in
    Blood. 2001 Jun 1;97(11):3669-71.

From March 1988 to March 1991, 19 French bone marrow transplant (BMT) centers 
participated in a prospective randomized trial comparing two conditioning 
regimens for patients with chronic myeloid leukemia transplanted in first 
chronic phase with an HLA identical sibling donor. A total of 120 consecutive 
patients were randomized to receive either 120 mg/kg of cyclophosphamide 
followed by total body irradiation (CY-TBI; n = 55) or 16 mg/kg of busulfan 
followed by 120 mg/kg of CY (BU-CY; n = 65). Two different TBI regimens were 
used. Thirteen patients received a 10-Gy single-dose TBI (SDTBI), and 42 
received a fractionated TBI (FTBI). Median time between diagnosis and BMT was 
315 days. Overall 5-year actuarial survival was 62.9% (65.8% +/- 12.5% for 
CY-TBI and 60.6 +/- 11.7% for BU-CY; P = .5), and overall disease-free survival 
was 55% (51% +/- 14% for CY-TBI and 59.1% +/- 11.8% for BU-CY; P = .75). All 
patients conditioned with CY-TBI experienced sustained engraftment; in contrast, 
4 of 65 patients conditioned with BU-CY rejected the graft (P = .18). There was 
no significant statistical difference between the two groups regarding 
transplant-related mortality (29% for CY-TBI and 38% for BU-CY; P = .44). So 
far, with a median follow up of 42 months, 11 patients have relapsed; 9 relapses 
occurred after CY-TBI, mostly after FTBI (8 of 9) and 2 after BU-CY (P = .02). 
The actuarial risk of relapse was 4.4% +/- 6.7% after BU-CY, 11.1% +/- 20.8% 
after SDTBI, and 31.3% +/- 18.1% after FTBI (P = .039). In addition, 
independently of the conditioning regimen, the increase of posttransplant 
immunosuppression in 16 patients with an anti-interleukin-2 receptor monoclonal 
antibody (MoAb) in addition to a short course of methotrexate and cyclosporine 
was shown to increase the actuarial risk of relapse (57% +/- 30% with MoAb v 9% 
+/- 7.3% without MoAb; P = .001). We conclude that BU is an acceptable 
alternative to TBI for patients with chronic myeloid leukemia in first chronic 
phase receiving BMT from HLA identical sibling donors. Both BU-CY and CY-TBI 
regimens gave similar transplant-related mortality, and the antileukemic 
efficiency of BU-CY regimen was either similar or even higher than that of 
CY-TBI.

PMID: 7718899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 1995 Jan;47(1):11-8. doi: 10.1016/S0940-2993(11)80275-7.

Lewis rats of the inbred strain LEW/Han: life expectancy, spectrum and incidence 
