of spontaneous neoplasms.

Baum A(1), Pohlmeyer G, Rapp KG, Deerberg F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Central Institute for Laboratory Animal Breeding, 
Hannover, Germany.

Although Lewis rats are frequently used in biomedical research, little is known 
about their life-data and spontaneous pathology. Therefore, it was the aim of 
this study to determine the life expectancy, spectrum and incidence of 
spontaneous neoplasms of the inbred rat strain LEW/Han. A total of 629 LEW/Han 
rats (305 females and 324 males) from a specified pathogen-free breeding colony 
were kept from weaning up to their natural death under defined environmental 
conditions. A complete histological examination was performed on all organs and 
macroscopically altered tissues of all animals which died during the first three 
years of the study. These were 296 female (98%) and 213 male (66%) rats. The 
mean lifespan of the females (27.7 +/- 5.1 months) was significantly shorter 
than that of the males (32.5 +/- 6.6 months). In both sexes, the lifespan was 
mainly determined by the occurrence of neoplasms. Of the large spectrum of 52 
histologically different tumour types, the highest incidences were observed for 
adenomas of the pituitary gland and adenomas/adenocarcinomas of the adrenal 
cortex in both sexes, mammary gland tumours and endometrial carcinomas in 
females, and C-cell adenomas/adenocarcinomas of the thyroid gland and tumours of 
the haemopoietic system in males. Of these, the high incidences of tumours of 
the haemopoietic system in males (27.7%) and of endometrial carcinomas in 
females (45.2%) should be considered as characteristic features of the strain.

DOI: 10.1016/S0940-2993(11)80275-7
PMCID: PMC7135737
PMID: 7719115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Investig Urol (Berl). 1994;5:16-9.

Computerized nuclear morphometry: prognostic value for carcinoma of the prostate 
and renal cell carcinoma.

Wenderoth UK(1), Gerlach B, Köppen A, Hautmann RE.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Universitätsklinik und Poliklinik, Universität Ulm.

PMID: 7719300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Med Tr Prom Ekol. 1994;(12):1-7.

[Epidemiologic research in occupational medicine and industrial ecology].

[Article in Russian]

Izmerov NF, Shirokov IuG, Lebedeva NV.

Complicated nature of present environmental pollution necessitates thorough 
epidemiologic studies to reveal causal and dose-effect relationships between 
ecology and health state of population. Besides that we should consider 
influence of such items as lifestyle (nutrition, psychologic state, bad habits) 
on public health. The article shows role of occupational hazards for health 
state, influence of parents' occupations on health and vitality of the children. 
The authors revealed effects of occupational factors (occupation) on relative 
risk of mortality with some diseases and on total life expectancy.

PMID: 7719649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Psychiatr Genet. 1994 Fall;4(3):135-42. doi:
10.1097/00041444-199400430-00003.

Estimating the morbidity risk for diseases having a variable age at onset.

Faraone SV(1), Chen WJ, Tsuang MT.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Institute of Psychiatric Epidermiology and Genetics, Department of 
Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts Mental Health Center, Boston.

The morbidity risk assesses the risk of manifesting illnesses having a variable 
age at onset. We reviewed the conceptual derivation and critical assumptions of 
various methods for estimating morbidity risk by classifying them into two 
approaches. One approach uses an age at onset distribution as a weighting 
system. A second approach uses methods from survival analysis. Because survival 
methods estimate the morbidity risk and age at onset distribution 
simultaneously, they are preferable to weighting methods. Among weighting 
methods, Strömgren's estimator or Risch's maximum likelihood estimate are the 
methods of choice; the Kaplan-Meier estimator is the preferred survival analysis 
approach.

DOI: 10.1097/00041444-199400430-00003
PMID: 7719699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Harefuah. 1995 Jan 15;128(2):80-2, 128, 127.

[Ocular onchocerciasis in Israel].

[Article in Hebrew]

Oshry T(1), Lifshitz T, Wender A, Yassur Y.

Author information:
(1)Ophthalmology Dept., Soroka Medical Center, Beer Sheba.

Onchocerciasis is a systemic disease caused by the filarial parasite Onchocerca 
volvulus. It is endemic in Central Africa and South America and causes blindness 
which is directly related to the severity of the infection. World-wide, there 
are about 18 million suffering from onchocerciasis, of whom 2 million are blind. 
The most common symptom is pruritus, which appears early in the disease. Ocular 
manifestations appear later, and when present, life expectancy is less than 10 
years. We present a 31-year-old male Ethiopian immigrant with this disease, 
which was brought to Israel with the Ethiopian immigration of the past decade. 
In this population can be found the various manifestations of the disease in all 
its stages. Patients are treated with oral Ivermectin, once a year, the safest 
of known medications for this disease. The need for early detection and 
treatment is emphasized because of the potential for ocular destruction.

PMID: 7721179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Hum Biol. 1995 Feb;67(1):69-86.

Mortality in a migrating Mennonite church congregation.

Everson PM(1), Stevenson JC, Rogers L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Western Washington University, Bellingham 98225.

Preston's two-census method of demographic estimation is applied to three pairs 
of reconstructed censuses from the records of a migrating Mennonite church 
congregation covering the period 1780-1890. The three pairs of censuses 
correspond to three periods (1780-1790, 1850-1860, and 1880-1890) and to stays 
in three settings (Prussia, Russia, and Kansas, respectively). The Mennonites' 
stay in Prussia was a period of hardship. In Russia they expanded their economic 
base and developed new farming methods, dramatically increasing their 
productivity. The Mennonites took these skills to Kansas, where they continued 
to be successful. The increase in life expectancy at age 5 corroborates this 
picture. The Prussian period exhibits the shortest life expectancy for both 
sexes. After the move to Russia, life expectancy increased for both sexes and 
continued to increase with the move to Kansas. The model also provides limited 
evidence for fertility depression following the move to Kansas.

PMID: 7721280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. J Clin Epidemiol. 1994 Jun;47(6):667-70. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(94)90214-3.

Who wants to eliminate heart disease?

Reeves RA(1), Chen E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Sunnybrook Health Science Centre, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

Twenty-seven physicians and nine pharmacists at one University teaching hospital 
identified their preferred way of dying after attaining average life expectancy. 
Respondents' ranking of modes of dying showed high agreement (for physicians, W 
= 0.65, p < 10(-16)). Disease category, rapidity of death, and their interaction 
(ANOVA, all p < 0.0001) influenced choice. "Rapidly fatal cardiac death" was 
overwhelmingly preferred. Cancer and slowly fatal central nervous system 
disorders were rated last. Eliminating cardiovascular disease would necessarily 
increase the likelihood of other modes of death. If these respondents represent 
"informed consumers", then reducing cardiac death at normal life expectancy may 
be contrary to Western society's preferences.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(94)90214-3
PMID: 7722579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. J Clin Epidemiol. 1994 Jul;47(7):761-72. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(94)90173-2.

Effects of offering advance directives on quality adjusted life expectancy and 
psychological well-being among ill adults.

Anderson JP(1), Kaplan RM, Schneiderman LJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, School of Medicine, University 
of California at San Diego, La Jolla 92093-0622, USA.

Two hundred and four patients from various clinical services at the San Diego 
Veterans' Administration Medical Center and the University of California, San 
Diego Medical Center were randomly assigned to either experimental (offered the 
opportunity to execute an Advance Directive regarding the level of care they 
wanted to receive if incapacitated) or control (no Advance Directive offered) 
conditions. Patients were given a baseline interview and re-interviewed at 
specific intervals (3 months, 6 months, 1 year and 2 years after baseline, and 
every 6 months thereafter). Outcome measures included the Qualitty of Well-being 
Scale, a measure of health status, and the General Well-being Index, a measure 
of psychological well-being. All differences between the health status and 
psychological well-being of experimental and control groups 3.5 years after the 
randomization were non-significant. Methodological implications of including 
mortality as part of the outcomes are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(94)90173-2
PMID: 7722589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. N Engl J Med. 1995 May 25;332(21):1418-24. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199505253322106.

Cost effectiveness of thrombolytic therapy with tissue plasminogen activator as 
compared with streptokinase for acute myocardial infarction.

Mark DB(1), Hlatky MA, Califf RM, Naylor CD, Lee KL, Armstrong PW, Barbash G, 
White H, Simoons ML, Nelson CL.

Author information:
(1)Economic and Quality of Life Coordinating Center, Duke University Medical 
Center, Durham, N.C. 27710, USA.

Erratum in
    N Engl J Med 1995 Jul 27;333(4):267.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1996 Jan-Feb;124(1):25.
    N Engl J Med. 1995 Oct 12;333(15):1009; author reply 1010.
    N Engl J Med. 1995 Oct 12;333(15):1009-10.
    N Engl J Med. 1995 May 25;332(21):1443-4.

BACKGROUND: Patients with acute myocardial infarction who were treated with 
accelerated tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) (given over a period of 1 1/2 
hours rather than the conventional 3 hours, and with two thirds of the dose 
given in the first 30 minutes) had a 30-day mortality that was 15 percent lower 
than that of patients treated with streptokinase in the Global Utilization of 
Streptokinase and Tissue Plasminogen Activator for Occluded Coronary Arteries 
(GUSTO) study. This was equivalent to an absolute decrease of 1 percent in 
30-day mortality. We sought to assess whether the use of t-PA, as compared with 
streptokinase, is cost effective.
METHODS: Our primary, or base-case, analysis of cost effectiveness used data 
from the GUSTO study and life expectancy projected on the basis of the records 
of survivors of myocardial infarction in the Duke Cardiovascular Disease 
Database. In the primary analysis, we assumed that there were no additional 
treatment costs due to the use of t-PA after the first year and that the 
comparative survival benefit of t-PA was still evident one year after 
enrollment.
RESULTS: One year after enrollment, patients who received t-PA had both higher 
costs ($2,845) and a higher survival rate (an increase of 1.1 percent, or 11 per 
1000 patients treated) than streptokinase-treated patients. On the basis of the 
projected life expectancy of each treatment group, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio--with both future costs and benefits discounted at 5 
percent per year--was $32,678 per year of life saved. The use of t-PA was least 
cost effective in younger patients and most cost effective in older patients. At 
all ages, the use of t-PA in patients with anterior infarctions yielded more 
favorable cost-effectiveness values. In our secondary analyses, the 
cost-effectiveness values were most sensitive to a lowering of the projected 
long-term survival benefits of t-PA and to moderate or greater increases in the 
projected medical costs for patients in the t-PA group after the first year. In 
contrast, our results were not sensitive to even very unfavorable assumptions 
about the additional costs associated with the higher rate of disabling stroke 
that was noted in patients treated with t-PA in the GUSTO study.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost effectiveness of treatment with accelerated t-PA rather 
than streptokinase compares favorably with that of other therapies whose added 
medical benefit for dollars spent is judged by society to be worthwhile.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199505253322106
PMID: 7723799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1995 Jan;18(1 Pt 2):152-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.1995.tb02495.x.

Sudden death and staged therapy for hemodynamic stabilization in patients 
enrolled in a heart transplantation program.

Frey B(1), Wutte M, Berger R, Ioannides C, Hülsmann M, Stanek B, Pacher R.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Kardiologie, Universität Wien, Austria.

To investigate the impact of staged therapy for advanced heart failure on 
therapeutic endpoints, 236 consecutive patients (coronary artery disease/dilated 
cardiomyopathy in 61/175 patients, left ventricular ejection fraction 14% +/- 
5%, New York Heart Association Class II/III/IV in 102/79/55 patients, 
respectively) with advanced heart failure were prospectively followed. One 
hundred thirty-seven patients enrolled from January 1989 to December 1991 were 
treated conventionally with digoxin, furosemide, and low dose angiotension 
converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition. Patients refractory to this therapy 
underwent urgent heart transplantation. Ninety-nine patients enrolled from 
January 1992 to August 1993 underwent staged therapy: stage 1: maximal tolerated 
ACE inhibition; stage 2: therapy with PGE1 for pre- and afterload reduction to 
achieve hemodynamic stabilization; or stage 3: refractory patients bridged to 
heart transplantation with continuous outpatient dobutamine. Sudden death was 
defined as death within 1 hour of symptoms if heart failure symptoms remained 
stable over the previous 7 days. Conventionally treated patients were followed 
for 10 +/- 9 months; patients who underwent staged therapy for 9 +/- 5 months. 
In the group of patients that underwent standard therapy, 39 of 137 (28%) 
patients died: 5 (13%) deaths occurred suddenly, and death due to progressive 
pump failure occurred in the remaining 34 (87%) patients. In the group of 
patients that underwent staged therapy, 25 of 99 (25%) patients died: 13 (52%) 
deaths occurred suddenly, and 12 (48%) deaths occurred due to progressive pump 
failure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.1995.tb02495.x
PMID: 7724390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Rev Environ Health. 1994 Jul-Dec;10(3-4):221-4. doi: 
10.1515/reveh.1994.10.3-4.221.

Long term effects of a 50 Hz electric field on the life-expectancy of mice.

de Jager L(1), de Bruyn L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Morphology, University of the Orange Free 
State, Bloemfontein, RSA.

The objective of our study was to determine the effect of an electric field (EF) 
on the life-span of mice. Male and female mice were paired and separated into 
two experimental groups: EF exposed and controls. The exposed mice were 
subjected to a 50 Hz, 10 kV/m electric field for 20 h/day. Offspring from both 
groups were identified as generation one and allowed to live for 18 months. 
Offspring from generation one were identified as generation two and allowed to 
die naturally. The age at which death occurred in both groups was recorded and 
post mortem examinations were performed. The obtained results were statistically 
analyzed by means of the chi-squared test. A statistically significant higher 
incidence of deaths before 18 months occurred in the first generation of the 
exposed group. The second generation of the exposed group showed a higher 
incidence of death at an earlier age. No increased incidence of malignant tumors 
nor any single specific cause of death was disclosed in the exposed animals. The 
results of this study indicate that continuous long-term exposure to a 10 kV/m 
electric field may shorten life-expectancy.

DOI: 10.1515/reveh.1994.10.3-4.221
PMID: 7724882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Rev Sanid Hig Publica (Madr). 1993 Mar-Apr;67(2):129-43.

[An analysis of the potential years of life lost to cancer in Asturias and 
Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

del Valle Gómez MO(1), López González ML, Arcos González PI, Cueto Espinar A.

Author information:
(1)Area de Medicina Preventiva y Salud Pública, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad de Oviedo.

BACKGROUND: Potential years of life lost (PYLL) constitute a health indicator, 
used to study premature mortality. If applied, it produces an order in causes of 
death, which can be very different from that one, obtained with mortality rates.
METHODS: Mortality, due to different pathologies, was analyzed with this 
indicator and, particularly, mortality due to cancer in Asturias and Spain. The 
estimation of (PYLL) was made using fixed age limits: the first anniversary, as 
the lowest limit, and 65 years, as the highest limit.
RESULTS: Cancer happened to be the first cause of (PYLL) in both populations 
(286,473 PYLL in Spain; out of them 9,985 belonging to Asturias); road accidents 
were the second cause (139,673 and 4,755 respectively) and acute myocardium 
infarcts were the third cause (70,106 PYLL and 2,897 PYLL). Lung tumours, 
leukaemias and breast cancer in women are the malignant tumours which produce 
the highest number of PYLL.
CONCLUSIONS: Malignant tumours, road accidents and ischaemic heart disease are 
the three major causes responsible for the PYLL production in Spain and 
Asturias. These three pathologies are associated to well known risk factors, 
whose disappearance would considerably reduce early mortality. Likewise, an 
excess of premature mortality is observed in Asturias compared with Spain, and 
in men compared with women.

PMID: 7725054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Soc Sci Med. 1995 Feb;40(4):431-6. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(94)00143-h.

Protective measure use and symptoms among agropesticide applicators in Sri 
Lanka.

Sivayoganathan C(1), Gnanachandran S, Lewis J, Fernando M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Economics and Extension, Faculty of Agriculture, 
University of Peradeniya, Sri Lanka.

Sri Lankan farmers use large amounts of pesticides to control the pests 
affecting their vegetable crops. Improper use of pesticides by farmers has 
resulted in poisoning of occupational origin. This paper examines the use of 
protective measures by pesticide applicators and its relationship to their 
illness symptoms. The data were collected by interviewing a stratified random 
sample of 150 farmers from predominantly vegetable growing areas of the Matale 
district during 1990/91 using structured questionnaires. These data were 
supplemented with secondary data and observation of all stages of pesticide 
application. Scales were constructed to measure the domains of material style of 
life, awareness and use of protective measures, and illness symptoms experienced 
by pesticide applicators. It was found that most of the farmers were aware of 
the protective measures to be used when applying pesticides. There was, however, 
no significant positive relationship between awareness and use of protective 
measures. The main reason for not using protective measures was discomfort. The 
most common symptoms reported by pesticide applicators were faintish feeling, 
headache and dizziness. A significant negative relationship was observed between 
use of protective measures and symptoms exhibited within four hours of 
application. It is recommended that protective materials adapted to the climate 
and socio-economic conditions of farmers be developed, and that farmers be 
encouraged to use these protective materials through appropriate educational 
efforts and incentives.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(94)00143-h
PMID: 7725116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Transplant Proc. 1995 Apr;27(2):1830-1.

Pediatric renal transplantation in the state of Rio Grande Do Sul, Brazil.

Garcia CD(1), Goldani JC, Menezes M, Garcia VD.

Author information:
(1)Renal Transplant Unit, Santa Casa de Misericordia de Porto Alegre, RS, 
Brazil.

PMID: 7725524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1995 Apr;172(4 Pt 1):1279-84. doi: 
10.1016/0002-9378(95)91493-5.

Third stage of labor: analysis of duration and clinical practice.

Dombrowski MP(1), Bottoms SF, Saleh AA, Hurd WW, Romero R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Wayne State University/Hutzel 
Hospital, Detroit, MI, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Our purpose was to record gestational age-specific data for 
third-stage duration of labor, frequencies of retained placentas (undelivered at 
30 minutes), manual removal of the placenta, and hemorrhage.
STUDY DESIGN: Included were 45,852 singleton deliveries > or = 20 weeks' 
gestation from 1984 to 1992. Odds ratios, 95% confidence intervals, and 
actuarial life analysis with censoring of cases with manual placenta removal 
were performed.
RESULTS: The frequency of retained placentas (2.0% overall) was markedly 
increased among gestations < or = 26 weeks (odds ratio 20.8, 95% confidence 
interval 17.1 to 25.4) and < 37 weeks (odds ratio 3.0, 95% confidence interval 
2.6 to 3.5) compared with term. The frequency of manual removal (3.0% overall) 
was increased among gestations < or = 26 weeks (odds ratio 9.2, 95% confidence 
interval 7.5 to 11.4) and < 37 weeks (odds ratio 2.8, 95% confidence interval 
2.4 to 3.1) compared with term. Hemorrhage (3.5% overall) was increased among 
subjects with manual placenta removal (odds ratio 10.4, 95% confidence interval 
9.1 to 11.9); hemorrhage was also increased among gestations < or = 26 weeks 
(odds ratio 3.0, 95% confidence interval 2.3 to 4.0) and < 37 weeks (odds ratio 
1.2, 95% confidence interval 1.01 to 1.3) compared with term. The frequency of 
hemorrhage peaked by 40 minutes regardless of gestational age. Life-table 
analysis predicted 90% of placentas would spontaneously deliver by 180 minutes 
for gestations at 20 weeks, 21 minutes at 30 weeks, and 14 minutes at 40 weeks; 
the predicted frequency of retained placentas was 42% higher than the recorded 
incidence.
CONCLUSIONS: The duration of the third stage decreases and the frequencies of 
hemorrhage and manual removal decrease with increasing gestational age. 
Hemorrhage was associated with manual placental removal. Life-table analysis 
indicated that manual removal of placentas shortened the duration of the third 
stage of labor, especially among preterm deliveries. A prospective trial is 
needed to determine whether manual placental removal can reduce hemorrhage among 
prolonged third stages.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(95)91493-5
PMID: 7726270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. BMJ. 1994 Sep 24;309(6957):754-5. doi: 10.1136/bmj.309.6957.754.

Insulin dependent diabetes mellitus: a lethal disease in the developing world.

Alberti KG.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1994 Nov 19;309(6965):1375.
    BMJ. 1995 Feb 11;310(6976):403.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.309.6957.754
PMCID: PMC2540975
PMID: 7726903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Ann Ital Med Int. 1995 Jan-Mar;10(1):41-5.

[Centenarians: health status and life conditions].

[Article in Italian]

Receputo G(1), Rapisarda R, Motta L.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Medicina Interna e Geriatria, Università delgi Studi. Presidio 
Ospedaliero Cannizzaro, U.S.L. 36 di Cantania.

The progressive lengthening of the average life span and the expanding elderly 
population high-light the phenomenon of "centenarianism" or extreme longevity in 
Italy. A large number of Italian Geriatric and Gerontology Centers throughout 
Italy have joined in the Italian Multicenter Study on Centenarians which 
evaluates the clinical and biological conditions of centenarians. A census of 
centenarians in Italy as of December 31, 1993 is presently in course. 
Preliminary data indicate that about 6000 subjects were alive on that day. 
Interesting epidemiological and biological information is also being processed. 
Scores based on the mini mental state, the index of independence in activities 
of daily living, the instrumental activities of daily living, and the geriatric 
depression scale, as well as laboratory tests, and case histories have evidenced 
a number of particular characteristics of centenarians: their longevity is 
familiar; centenarians live in a familiar and comfortable environment; they have 
been hard workers, and they have a good degree of mental self-sufficiency; they 
have never presented the classic risk factors, have always followed a balanced 
diet based on natural foods; they maintain a well-conserved immune system and 
especially natural killer activity; they have a normal lipidic balance and no 
symptomatic hyperglycemia. Mobility and morbidity rates are high. Further 
studies and interdisciplinary research should enable us to gain better 
understanding of the aging process and of life "over 100".

PMID: 7727205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Ann Ital Med Int. 1995 Jan-Mar;10(1):46-8.

[Centenarians in Milan].

[Article in Italian]

Mari D(1), Maestroni AM.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Medicina Interna, Università degli Studi di Milano.

Demographic analysis of the populations in Italy has confirmed that the number 
of old people, particularly the very old, is progressively increasing. At 
present, 92% of the women and 85% of the men reach the age of 60 years, and in 
1990, there were 1660 centanarians in Italy. In this study we evaluated the 
demographic profile of the very old living in Milan. Data were collected by use 
of the Milan General Registry updated to January 1992. At that time there were 
159 centenarians and 166 persons over 100 years (range 101-106 years). 
Seventy-seven percent of the centenarians were females born in northern Italy 
who had been living in Milan for over 50 years. Of the subjects aged 101-106 
years, 79% were women. One hundred twenty-five subjects were either widows or 
widowers, 82% had lived in Milan for over 50 years. Only 9% of the centenarians 
were institutionalized. Our survey confirms previous nationwide data obtained on 
centenarians indicating growth of the very old population.

PMID: 7727206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Blood. 1995 May 1;85(9):2632-8.

Polymerase chain reaction detection of the BCR-ABL fusion transcript after 
allogeneic marrow transplantation for chronic myeloid leukemia: results and 
implications in 346 patients.

Radich JP(1), Gehly G, Gooley T, Bryant E, Clift RA, Collins S, Edmands S, Kirk 
J, Lee A, Kessler P, et al.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Research, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle, WA 98104, USA.

We studied 346 patients after bone marrow transplantation (BMT) for chronic 
myeloid leukemia (CML) for the presence of the bcr-abl transcript detected by 
the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to understand the frequency and implication 
of a positive test. A total of 634 samples of BM and/or peripheral blood were 
obtained for PCR analysis between 3 and 192 months after BMT. A positive PCR 
test at 3 months post-BMT was not statistically significantly associated with an 
increased risk of relapse compared with PCR-negative patients. However, a 
positive PCR assay at 6 months and beyond was highly associated with subsequent 
relapse. The Kaplan-Meier estimate of relapse for patients testing PCR-positive 
at 6 to 12 months was 42% versus 3% for PCR-negative patients (P < .0001). The 
Kaplan-Meier estimate of survival at 4 years for the PCR-positive patients was 
74% compared with 83% for the PCR-negative group (P = .002). Multivariable 
analysis indicated that a PCR-positive result at 6 to 12 months post-BMT, the 
type of BMT donor (allogeneic matched donor v mismatched or unrelated), and the 
presence of acute GVHD were independent risk factors for subsequent relapse. The 
relative risk (RR) for relapse for patients PCR-positive at 6 to 12 months 
post-BMT was 26.1 (95% confidence interval, 8.9 to 76.1, P < .0001). The outcome 
of long-term patients (> 36 months post-BMT) who tested PCR-positive was much 
better, as 15 of 59 (25%) tested positive for bcr-abl, but only one patient 
relapsed. There was a 91% concordance between PCR tests of simultaneously 
obtained BM and peripheral blood. These analyses show that the PCR assay of the 
bcr-abl fusion transcript 6 to 12 months post-BMT is an independent predictor of 
subsequent relapse which provides an opportunity for early therapeutic 
intervention.

PMID: 7727789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Gastrointest Endosc Clin N Am. 1995 Jan;5(1):217-36.

Pancreatic and ampullary carcinoma.

Schoeman MN(1), Huibregtse K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Surgery should be the first therapeutic modality considered in patients with 
pancreatic and ampullary carcinoma. Surgery is the only potentially curative 
therapy and offers the best form of palliation in patients with impending or 
overt duodenal obstruction. Patients with clearly unresectable tumors or those 
considered unfit for surgery should be offered palliative therapy, preferably 
endoscopically. The difficulty, however, arises in patients who undergo 
laparotomy and who subsequently are found to have unresectable tumors. The 
problem of stent occlusion and frequent associated hospital visits has been an 
argument to proceed to palliative double bypass surgery. Against this is the low 
mortality and shorter hospital stay of nonsurgical endoscopic palliative 
therapy. Direct comparisons of surgery versus endoscopic therapy have shown that 
both are equally effective in the initial relief of jaundice (Table 6). Surgery 
has a higher initial mortality and complication rate, but more long-term 
complications and hospital visits were seen in the endoscopic group, suggesting 
that it offered a poorer long-term palliation. There was no significant 
difference in the survival of the patients in the two groups. Patient choice is 
a major factor in the final decision, but current recommendations probably 
should be that patients with a poor short-term survival outlook should be 
offered nonsurgical palliative therapy and those with a longer life expectancy 
may best be handled with surgery. Predicting patient survival, of course, 
remains a major difficulty. A recent publication of the laparoscopic formation 
of a cholecystojejunostomy for palliation of malignant biliary obstruction also 
offers a promising approach that requires further evaluation.

PMID: 7728345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Ann Surg Oncol. 1995 Mar;2(2):107-13. doi: 10.1007/BF02303624.

Validity of major cancer operations in elderly patients.

Karl RC(1), Smith SK, Fabri PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, 
University of South Florida, Tampa 33612, USA.

BACKGROUND: As the population ages, more elderly individuals will be at risk for 
the development of gastrointestinal malignancies traditionally treated with 
radical operation. In the past, many major cancer operations were reserved for 
patients < 65 or 70 years of age, but as the life expectancy for a 70-year-old 
has improved, this policy has been questioned.
METHODS: We examined the records of 124 consecutive patients who underwent one 
of three major operations (esophagogastrectomy, major liver resection, 
pancreatoduodenectomy) for gastrointestinal cancer during the past 6 years to 
determine if preoperative risk factors, operative mortality, length of stay, 
length of procedure, estimated blood loss, rate of major complication, or 
Kaplan-Meier survival was different for patients > or = 70 years of age as 
compared with younger patients.
RESULTS: For patients at our institution undergoing esophagogastrectomy, major 
liver resection, or pancreatoduodenectomy, we found no significant difference in 
any of the parameters measured. There was no significant difference in any 
parameter when comparing patients > or = 70 versus < 70 years of age.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that patients > or = 70 years of age are not 
necessarily less suitable candidates for major cancer operations than are those 
< 70 years of age if other risk factors are acceptable. Elderly patients should 
be included in clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02303624
PMID: 7728563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Ann Surg Oncol. 1995 Mar;2(2):93-100. doi: 10.1007/BF02303622.

Complete surgical resection combined with aggressive adjuvant chemotherapy and 
bone marrow transplantation prolongs survival in children with advanced 
neuroblastoma.

Chamberlain RS(1), Quinones R, Dinndorf P, Movassaghi N, Goodstein M, Newman K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, George Washington University Medical Center, 
Washington, DC, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Surg Oncol. 1995 Mar;2(2):91-2.

BACKGROUND: A multi-modality approach combining surgery with aggressive 
chemotherapy and radiation is used to treat advanced neuroblastoma. Despite this 
treatment, children with advanced disease have a 20% 2-year survival rate. 
Controversy has developed regarding the efficacy of combining aggressive 
chemotherapy with repeated surgical intervention aimed at providing a complete 
surgical resection (CSR) of the primary tumor and metastatic sites. Several 
prospective and retrospective studies have provided conflicting reports 
regarding the benefit of this approach on overall survival. Therefore, we 
evaluated the efficacy of CSR versus partial surgical resection (PSR) using a 
strategy combining surgery with aggressive chemotherapy, radiation, and bone 
marrow transplantation (BMT) for stage IV neuroblastoma.
METHODS: A retrospective study was performed with review of the medical records 
of 52 consecutive children with neuroblastoma treated between 1985 and 1993. 
Twenty-eight of these 52 children presented with advanced disease, 24 of which 
had sufficient data to allow for analysis. All children were managed with 
protocols designed by the Children's Cancer Group (CCG). Statistical analysis 
was performed using Student's t test, chi 2 test, and Kaplan-Meier survival 
curves.
RESULTS: Mean survival (35.1 months) and progression-free survival (29.1 months) 
for the CSR children was statistically superior to that of the PSR children 
(20.36 and 16.5 months, p = 0.04 and 0.04, respectively). Similar significance 
was demonstrated using life table analysis of mean and progression-free survival 
of these two groups (p = 0.05 and < 0.01, respectively). One-, 2-, and 3-year 
survival rates for the CSR versus the PSR group were 100%, 80%, and 40% versus 
77%, 38%, and 15%, respectively. An analysis of the BMT group compared with 
those children treated with aggressive conventional therapy showed improvement 
in mean and progression-free survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Aggressive surgical resection aimed at removing all gross disease 
is warranted for stage IV neuroblastoma. CSR is associated with prolonged mean 
and progression-free survival. BMT prolongs mean and progression-free survival 
in children with stage IV disease. These results suggest that CSR and BMT offer 
increased potential for long-term remission in children with advanced 
neuroblastoma.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02303622
PMID: 7728576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Baillieres Clin Rheumatol. 1995 Feb;9(1):65-74. doi: 
10.1016/s0950-3579(05)80144-x.

Osteoarthritis.

Adebajo AO(1).

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Research Unit, Addenbrookes Hospital, Cambridge, UK.

There are few studies on the prevalence, pattern or clinical course of 
osteoarthritis (OA) in the tropics. The studies that have been carried out, 
however, indicate that on the whole there is a lower prevalence of OA than found 
in Western countries. In addition, the pattern of joint involvement may be 
different with less common involvement of the hip relative to the knee and 
polyarticular OA is uncommon in many parts of the tropics. It also seems likely 
that a significant number of these patients in the tropics have OA secondary to 
various infections including pyogenic, tuberculous and parasitic infections. 
There is an urgent need to confirm these observations and to identify possible 
genetic, developmental or environmental factors influencing the expression of OA 
in the tropics. In addition degenerative arthropathies, such as Mseleni's 
disease, present in some parts of the tropics, merit further study. With 
increasing life-expectancy and improved health-care in many parts of the 
tropics, OA will become an increasingly prevalent and important condition with 
associated morbidity and socio-economic implications for these countries.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-3579(05)80144-x
PMID: 7728889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Dig Dis Sci. 1995 May;40(5):1125-31. doi: 10.1007/BF02064210.

Misoprostol coadministered with diclofenac for prevention of gastroduodenal 
ulcers. A one-year study.

Agrawal NM(1), Van Kerckhove HE, Erhardt LJ, Geis GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Ochsner Clinic, New Orleans, Louisiana 70121, 
USA.

The objective of this study was to determine the long-term efficacy of 
misoprostol in preventing diclofenac-induced gastroduodenal ulcers in rheumatoid 
arthritis and osteoarthritis patients. Three hundred eighty-four patients who 
had an endoscopically confirmed gastric or duodenal lesion that had healed with 
misoprostol therapy were randomized to receive misoprostol or placebo 
coadministered with diclofenac for up to 52 weeks. Endoscopic examinations were 
repeated at weeks 12, 24, and 52. The development of a gastric and/or duodenal 
ulcer was considered a prophylaxis failure. Results in the evaluable cohort of 
patients demonstrated that gastroduodenal ulcer incidences were lower with 
misoprostol than placebo for all study periods (0-12 weeks, 7% vs 23%; 0-24 
weeks, 11% vs 26%; and 0-52 weeks, 15% vs 31%). Misoprostol did not interfere 
with the antiarthritic effects of diclofenac. In conclusion, misoprostol 
coadministered with diclofenac for 12 months to patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis or osteoarthritis significantly reduced the incidence of 
diclofenac-induced gastroduodenal ulcers (P < or = 0.018).

DOI: 10.1007/BF02064210
PMID: 7729275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Gastroenterology. 1995 May;108(5):1361-70. doi:
10.1016/0016-5085(95)90683-5.

Low incidence of significant dysplasia in a successful endoscopic surveillance 
program of patients with ulcerative colitis.

Rozen P(1), Baratz M, Fefer F, Gilat T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Tel Aviv Medical Center, Israel.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 1995 Nov;109(5):1720.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Colorectal cancer associated with ulcerative colitis may be 
preceded by dysplastic changes potentially detectable by repeated endoscopic 
examinations. The aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence, course, and 
risk factors for dysplasia in a prospective endoscopic study.
METHODS: One hundred fifty-four patients with ulcerative colitis for 7 or more 
years' duration were followed from 1976 to 1994 in an endoscopic surveillance 
program.
RESULTS: Five patients had 10 adenomatous polyps managed by polypectomy. 
Indefinite dysplasia was found in 16 patients, and none showed progressive 
dysplasia on follow-up. Low-grade dysplasia was detected in 10 patients; 2 had 
and 2 progressed to high-grade dysplasia. High-grade dysplasia was found in 7 
patients; 4 were concurrent with or just preceded cancer. All 4 cases of cancer 
were first detected by surveillance, and 3 were successfully treated. 
Significant risk factors for dysplasia (all grades) and cancer included the 
extent of disease (P < 0.01), older age at onset of colitis (P = 0.01), and the 
duration of disease (P < 0.05). The adjusted risk for cancer was significantly 
increased (P = 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: Indefinite dysplasia did not predict developing cancer. Low- or 
high-grade dysplasia was not frequent (8.5%) but was associated with progression 
to cancer. These can be detected and successfully treated by systematic 
endoscopic surveillance of patients with chronic (> or = 7 years), extensive 
(more than the rectosigmoid colon) ulcerative colitis.

DOI: 10.1016/0016-5085(95)90683-5
PMID: 7729627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Int J Parasitol. 1994 Dec;24(8):1117-29. doi: 10.1016/0020-7519(94)90186-4.

Origins of the parasitic habit in the nematoda.

Clark WC(1).

Author information:
(1)Zoology Department, University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand.

Circumstances that probably attended and influenced the adoption and development 
of the parasitic habit amongst the Nematoda are examined. Features that allowed 
early terrestrial nematodes to exploit discontinuous habitats such as 
decomposing organic matter, are considered to have been advantageous to 
microbivorous Secernentea that became parasites of animals and plants. This 
development followed the appearance of a land flora and that the Amphibia were 
the first vertebrate hosts of nematodes. Life cycles involving intermediate 
hosts were essential in drier environments and in a aquatic ones where 
intermediate hosts preserve the infective stages; keeps them "in circulation", 
and makes them attractive to predators. It is concluded that the parasitic habit 
was adopted repeatedly in both Secernentea and Adenophorea, though the latter 
did not diversify as much. Convergence is a common feature of nematode 
evolution, and the typical life history pattern of 5 stadia separated by 4 
moults is often greatly modified by suppression, extension and diversification 
of stages and their roles. There is a need to examine the nematodes, especially 
of invertebrates in the remaining rain forests of Gondwanaland before they 
disappear.

DOI: 10.1016/0020-7519(94)90186-4
PMID: 7729972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. J Clin Epidemiol. 1994 Aug;47(8):931-9. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(94)90197-x.

Defining the impact of prevention and improved management upon stroke mortality.

Riggs JE(1), Myers EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, West Virginia University, Morgantown 26506, USA.

Stroke mortality in developed countries has significantly declined. The purpose 
of this study is to demonstrate a cross-sectional model of aging and mortality 
with which the impact of prevention and improved management upon stroke 
mortality can be quantified. Stroke mortality in the U.S. between 1951 and 1988 
among whites aged 20-85 years was analyzed using the Strehler-Mildvan 
modification of the Gompertz relationship between aging and mortality. Between 
1951 and 1988, environmental (non-genetic) influences upon U.S. stroke mortality 
declined 16.4% among white men and 22.16% among white women. Cross-sectional 
mortality analysis may be necessary to eliminate the effect of differential 
survival bias inherent in cohort mortality analysis.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(94)90197-x
PMID: 7730897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. N Y State Dent J. 1995 Apr;61(4):28-32.

Financial retirement assets. An objective and subjective analysis.

Mesrobian AZ.

Retirement has always been "around the corner" for older dentists. What is new 
is a longer life expectancy, due mainly to advances in nutrition, exercise and 
disease prevention. Many dentists are naturally concerned about the adequacy of 
their retirement assets for a longer life span. This paper helps each dentist 
determine for himself/herself how much of a retirement nest egg is needed, by 
presenting the objective and subjective aspects of their financial holdings.

PMID: 7731610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Oncogene. 1995 Apr 20;10(8):1615-20.

Effects of heterozygosity for the Rb-1t19neo allele in the mouse.

Harrison DJ(1), Hooper ML, Armstrong JF, Clarke AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University Medical School, Edinburgh, UK.

We describe the pathology of a cohort of 80 mice heterozygous for an inactive 
allele of the Rb-1 tumour suppressor gene. The majority of these mice developed 
locally invasive tumours, arising from the pituitary gland. The time of onset of 
overt signs of disease in mice known to have inherited their mutant allele 
paternally shows a small but statistically significant shift to the lower end of 
the spectrum, suggesting that tumorigenesis is influenced by gametic imprinting. 
In situ hybridisation analysis demonstrates the presence in the tumours of 
pro-opiomelanocortin mRNA, which is normally found both in corticotroph and 
melanotroph cells. Mice within this cohort also develop systemic defects. Most 
notably, there is increased siderosis in the spleen indicating the possibility 
of an abnormality in red blood cell turnover. This is consistent with the 
abnormalities of erythropoiesis described previously in homozygous 
Rb-1-deficient mice. In addition, a proportion of mice developed liver 
steatosis, probably representing the end organ effects of hormonal imbalance as 
a direct consequence of tumour presence. A significant proportion showed C cell 
hyperplasia in the thyroid. The spectrum of pathology in mice differs from that 
in the human but does provide a useful model of site-specific tumour 
predisposition.

PMID: 7731716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1995 Apr 25;92(9):3992-6. doi:
10.1073/pnas.92.9.3992.

Life-span, T-cell responses, and incidence of lymphomas in congenic mice.

Salazar M(1), Leong T, Tu N, Gelman RS, Watson AL, Bronson R, Iglesias A, Mann 
M, Good RA, Yunis EJ.

Author information:
(1)American Red Cross, Dedham, MA 02026, USA.

Survival, T-cell functions, and postmortem histopathology were studied in H-2 
congenic strains of mice bearing H-2b, H-2k, and H-2d haplotypes. Males lived 
longer than females in all homozygous and heterozygous combinations except for 
H-2d homozygotes, which showed no differences between males and females. 
Association of heterozygosity with longer survival was observed only with 
H-2b/H-2b and H-2b/H-2d mice. Analysis using classification and regression trees 
(CART) showed that both males and females of H-2b homozygous and H-2k/H-2b mice 
had the shortest life-span of the strains studied. In histopathological 
analyses, lymphomas were noted to be more frequent in females, while 
hemangiosarcomas and hepatomas were more frequent in males. Lymphomas appeared 
earlier than hepatomas or hemangiosarcomas. The incidence of lymphomas was 
associated with the H-2 haplotype--e.g., H-2b homozygous mice had more lymphomas 
than did mice of the H-2d haplotype. More vigorous T-cell function was 
maintained with age (27 months) in H-2d, H-2b/H-2d, and H-2d/H-2k mice as 
compared with H-2b, H-2k, and H-2b/H-2k mice, which showed a decline of T-cell 
responses with age.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.92.9.3992
PMCID: PMC42088
PMID: 7732019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Plast Reconstr Surg. 1995 May;95(6):1018-28. doi: 
10.1097/00006534-199505000-00010.

The free flap and plate in oromandibular reconstruction: long-term review and 
indications.

Boyd JB(1), Mulholland RS, Davidson J, Gullane PJ, Rotstein LE, Brown DH, 
Freeman JE, Irish JC.

Author information:
(1)Toronto Hospital Head and Neck Unit, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The purpose of this study was to define the role of reconstruction plates as 
bone replacement in oromandibular reconstruction. From 1987 through 1991, 71 
consecutive oral cancer patients underwent composite resection and 
reconstruction and were entered into one of two studies. In the first study of 
31 patients, 15 underwent oromandibular reconstruction using a radial forearm 
osteocutaneous flap, while the remainder (16) received a radial forearm 
fasciocutaneous flap together with a mandibular reconstruction plate. The second 
study involved 40 subsequent patients, all receiving the latter form of 
reconstruction. Twenty-one of the plates were stainless steel, and the remaining 
19 were of the titanium hollow screw (THORP) type. We followed the patients 
prospectively. We defined success as a reconstruction that we did not have to 
remove. Additionally, since the patients had limited life expectancy, we 
developed the idea of days of life lost and incorporated it into our definition 
of a successful outcome. Vascularized autogenous bone proved to be more 
successful than metallic plates used alone in terms both of reconstruction 
survival and of minimizing days of life lost. The overall success rate of 
mandibular plate reconstruction was 78.9 percent, but analysis by defect type 
revealed a failure rate of 35 percent when the defects were anterior and only 5 
percent when they were lateral. THORP plates demonstrated a trend towards more 
durability. We would now recommend plate reconstruction only in lateral defects 
in patients with a poor prognosis.

DOI: 10.1097/00006534-199505000-00010
PMID: 7732110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Perit Dial Int. 1995;15(1):18-21.

Comparison of straight and curled Tenckhoff peritoneal dialysis catheters 
implanted by percutaneous technique: a prospective randomized study.

Nielsen PK(1), Hemmingsen C, Friis SU, Ladefoged J, Olgaard K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the impact of peritoneal dialysis catheter configuration, 
curled or straight catheter, on catheter survival and mechanical and infectious 
complications.
DESIGN: Prospective randomized trial.
SETTING: Department of Nephrology of a single university hospital.
PATIENTS: Seventy-two consecutive patients initiating peritoneal dialysis were 
randomized to receive either a single cuff straight catheter or a single cuff 
curled catheter, implanted by percutaneous technique.
RESULTS: Significantly higher (p < 0.01) survival rate of the curled as compared 
to the straight catheter. The difference in catheter survival was due to a 
significantly higher (p < 0.01) incidence of drainage failure associated with 
catheter tip migration of the straight catheter than of the curled catheter. No 
difference in infectious complication between the two types of catheters was 
