seen. Catheter survival at 12 months was 77% for the curled catheter and 36% for 
the straight catheter.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates superiority of the curled Tenckhoff 
peritoneal dialysis catheter survival as compared to the straight catheter. This 
difference in catheter survival is due to the higher displacement rate of the 
straight catheter.

PMID: 7734555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Perit Dial Int. 1995;15(1):33-6.

Successful self-care home dialysis in the elderly: a single center's experience.

McDonald M(1), McPhee PD, Walker RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Dunedin Hospital, New Zealand.

OBJECTIVE: This study was designed to prospectively review our experience with 
self-care home dialysis in the 60-years-and-older age group since the 
commencement of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) in our center 
in 1989.
DESIGN: Data on mortality, morbidity, dialysis technique and complications, 
quality of life, and rehabilitation were collected prospectively.
SETTING: A regional dialysis unit providing full renal replacement services for 
a population of 292,000.
PATIENTS: Twenty-five patients (16 male) with an average age of 64.4 years 
(range: 58.25 - 76.5 years) at commencement of dialysis.
RESULTS: All patients were on self-care home dialysis. Patient survival rates 
were comparable with the national average at 12 months (90% vs 89%) and two 
years (84% vs 80%). Dialysis therapy was well tolerated and technique survival 
rates were comparable for both hemodialysis and CAPD. There was a very low 
peritonitis rate of 1 episode per 28.5 patient-months.
CONCLUSIONS: Self-care home dialysis is a viable therapeutic option with a high 
degree of technique success and a good quality of life in the older population.

PMID: 7734558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Bull Cancer. 1994 Oct;81(10):857-65.

[Comparison of relative survival vs. classical survival. Apropos of primary 
bronchial cancer].

[Article in French]

Foucher P(1), Coudert B, Dramais-Marcel D, Arveux P, Camus P, Jeannin L.

Author information:
(1)Service de pneumologie et réanimation respiratoire, hôpital de la Trouhaude, 
Dijon, France.

The aim of the study is to compare the usefulness of a recent relative survival 
model versus more classical methods for univariate and multivariate survival 
analysis, applied to a population of patients with surgically cured non small 
cell lung cancer, in determination of prognostic factors and appreciation of the 
exact role of age on survival. We studied 156 patients surgically treated 
between 1975 and 1988. Both univariate and multivariate analysis were performed, 
using the actuarial method and the Cox model for crude survival and the additive 
Hakulinen model (1985) for relative survival (total risk of death equal to 
natural risk of death in general population plus disease specific risk of death) 
which is an age-adjusted survival corrected for normal life expectancy. In 
addition, the loss in life expectancy was also calculated. Our 156 patients 
(including six females), whose age ranged from 30 to 78 (mean age 59) were 
almost all current or former smokers (97%) and 63% had clinical trouble. 
Squamous cell carcinoma was the most common histology (76%) before 
adenocarcinomas (20%). Pneumonectomy and lobectomy were equally performed. Post 
surgical TNM staging was stage I = 78 (50.3%), II = 23 (14.8%), IIIa = 44 
(28.4%), IIIb = 10 (6.5%). By 31 December 1990, 116 patients had died, 24 were 
alive and 16 lost to follow-up. In univariate analysis, overall survival is 
(crude/relative): 1 year (75.8%/77.5%), 2 years (53.8%/56.0%), 5 years 
(28.7%/32.5%), 10 years (14.4%/18.9%). Univariate prognostic factors are 
histopathology, surgical procedure and post operative TNM staging. The overall 
loss in life expectancy is 71.4% (5.5 years of life expectancy vs 19.21). The 
loss is higher for the younger patients than for the older ones (73% for the 
30-49 year old group--59.2% for the more than 70 year old group). In 
multivariate analysis, prognostic factors are: Cox model: post-surgical TNM 
staging, histopathology and age (RR = 2.18 [1.13-4.23] for patients over 65); 
Hakulinen model: TNM staging. In this model, age is no longer a significant 
prognostic factor. In conclusion, this study confirmed the poor prognosis of 
NSCLC, even if a curative surgical procedure has been possible, with a 5-year 
survival of 48% for stage I tumours but only 6% for stage III tumours. The most 
significant prognostic factor is the post-surgical TNM staging. The relative 
survival model of Hakulinen dismissed age as a significant prognostic 
factor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 7734768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Clin Exp Hypertens. 1995 Jan-Feb;17(1-2):375-86. doi:
10.3109/10641969509087078.

The defense reaction: a common denominator of coronary risk and blood pressure 
in neurogenic hypertension?

Julius S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann 
Arbor 48109-0356, USA.

In addition to high blood pressure, patients with hypertension often have 
insulin resistance, dyslipidemia and increased sympathetic tone. An increased 
sympathetic tone can negatively affect glucose utilization through three 
distinct mechanisms; a direct beta-adrenoreceptor-mediated insulin resistance, 
through conversion to more insulin resistant fast twitch fibers and through 
alpha-adrenergic vasoconstriction which may decrease the delivery of insulin and 
glucose to the skeletal muscle cells. The insulin resistance in turn may be 
responsible for the observed dyslipidemia in hypertension. The sympathetic 
overactivity in hypertension reflects a chronic activation of defense/vigilance 
reaction. The increase of cardiac output, blood pressure and insulin resistance 
in the course of the defense reaction are viewed as an appropriate preparatory 
response to facilitate muscular exercise (through higher cardiac output and 
increased pressure) and preserve (through insulin resistance) the optimal supply 
of glucose to the brain. The defense reaction may have been useful in evolution 
and may have offered survival advantage. In modern times with prolonged life 
expectancy the previously useful response (in evolutionary terms) contributes to 
a faster and deleterious wear and tear of the cardiovascular system.

DOI: 10.3109/10641969509087078
PMID: 7735282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 1994 Oct-Dec;34(4):353-80.

[French demography in the last 30 years].

[Article in French]

Lamy-Festy M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Démographie de l'Université de Paris I (I.D.U.P.).

From 1964 to 1994, French population has gained nearly 10 million, up to 57.8 
million. Infant mortality, adult mortality, fertility, nuptiality, immigration 
from abroad and internal migration have undergone drastic change. Noteworthy is 
the rising life expectancy at birth and, more importantly, the growing life 
expectancy of the elderly. French population is aging. The "under 20" who were 
33.7 percent in 1964 are today only 26.4 percent.

PMID: 7736314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Cancer. 1995 May 15;75(10):2530-8. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19950515)75:10<2530::aid-cncr2820751020>3.0.co;2-i.

Age, substance abuse, and survival of patients with cervical carcinoma.

Serur E(1), Fruchter RG, Maiman M, McGuire J, Arrastia CD, Gibbon D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, State University of New York--Health 
Science Center, Brooklyn 11203, USA.

BACKGROUND: The poor survival of young patients with cervical cancer in a low 
income, disadvantaged community stimulated an investigation of pathologic and 
behavioral risk factors.
METHODS: The records of 1173 patients with cervical cancer diagnosed in 
1967-1988 were evaluated with respect to age, stage, histology, and presenting 
symptoms. Histopathologic risk factors were evaluated in 196 patients with Stage 
IB disease treated by initial hysterectomy. Substance abuse behaviors were 
evaluated for 332 symptomatic patients with Stages IB-III disease diagnosed from 
1976 to 1988.
RESULTS: There were no significant age-related differences in survival for 
patients without squamous cell carcinoma or those with Stage IA and asymptomatic 
Stage IB squamous cell carcinoma. Women age 70 years and older had a poorer 
survival rate than did younger women with Stages IB-III disease. Symptomatic 
patients with squamous cell carcinoma younger than age 50 years had a poorer 
survival than did patients age 50-69 years with Stages IB/IIA, IIB, and III 
disease. For patients with symptomatic Stage IB tumors, poor prognostic 
histopathologic factors were distributed equally among women younger than age 50 
and those aged 50-69 years. Substance abuse was significantly more prevalent 
among younger patients, and patients who smoked or abused alcohol or drugs had 
significantly poorer survival than did nonsubstance abusers. However, in a 
multivariate analysis of age, stage, and substance abuse, young age remained a 
significantly poor prognostic factor.
CONCLUSIONS: Substance abuse may contribute to poor outcome of young patients 
with symptomatic squamous cell carcinoma but does not explain adequately their 
poor survival.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19950515)75:10<2530::aid-cncr2820751020>3.0.co;2-i
PMID: 7736398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Environ Health Perspect. 1994 Dec;102 Suppl 11(Suppl 11):119-24. doi: 
10.1289/ehp.94102s11119.

Pharmacokinetics in the elderly.

Mayersohn M(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, University of Arizona, Tucson 85721, USA.

Animals undergo substantial changes in many physiologic and biochemical 
functions as a natural consequence of aging. In the absence of disease or other 
pathologic conditions, these changes occur in a gradual manner with time 
(generally expressed as a fractional or percentage change in that function per 
year or decade). Furthermore, for any given function and at any given 
chronologic age, there is large variation in that function among individuals. 
Given the increase in life expectancy, the substantial increase in the number of 
elderly (and aged elderly) in the population, and the escalating costs of health 
care, there is great interest in learning more about the risks associated with 
aging as a result of toxic exposure. Are the elderly at greater risk than 
younger adults to the toxic effects of drugs and environmental exposure? Is the 
elderly population an inherently more sensitive one?

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.94102s11119
PMCID: PMC1566768
PMID: 7737036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. J Biosoc Sci. 1995 Apr;27(2):163-78. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000022677.

Demographic perspectives on China and India.

Adlakha A(1), Banister J.

Author information:
(1)US Bureau of the Census, Washington, DC, USA.

This paper compares levels and trends of population growth rates, age and sex 
composition, mortality, and fertility including family planning practices in the 
world's two most populous countries, China and India. Both countries are 
undergoing demographic transition but China is nearer than India to achieving a 
stationary population. Fertility in China has declined below replacement level 
while in India it is nearly one and a half children per woman above replacement 
level. Both countries have achieved large reductions in mortality but life 
expectancy at birth in China is currently about 10 years longer than in India. 
Both countries have young populations but China will precede India in the aging 
of population structure during the 21st century.

PIP: The most populous countries in the world, China and India, with almost 50% 
of world population, have annual population growth rates of 1.1% and 2.1% 
respectively. Population is added every year at 16 million for India and 13 
million for China. Both countries have an imbalance in the sex ratio favoring 
sons, which has increased in recent times. India's sex ratio was higher than 
China's. Teenage fertility and fertility for those in their early 20s declined 
in both countries due to increases in the age at marriage. Both countries' 
emphasis on sterilization has resulted in lower fertility for those older than 
their the late 20s. In China, the IUD was also promoted for child spacing after 
one child and for stopping childbearing. Contraceptive usage was 71% in China 
and 45% in India. Provincial rates of fertility varied. Since the war, each 
country pursued different political and economic models of development. 
Populations in China were relatively homogeneous, while India's population was 
quite varied. Both countries had advanced agricultural systems and long 
histories of record keeping. Both countries were largely self-sufficient. 
Mortality declined sharply during 1951-61 and 1961-71. Declines in the birth 
rate appeared during 1971-91. During 1982-90, low fertility and mortality 
prevailed. Fertility decline in India has been slower due to socioeconomic 
conditions, weak political commitment, and a program emphasis on sterilization. 
China has experienced a modest decline in the population under 15 years old. 
Between the decades of the 1950s and the 1960s, life expectancy in India 
increased by 9 years. China's life expectancy during 1986-88 was 67 years, while 
India's was only 57 years. Infant and child mortality improvements contributed 
to both countries' increases.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000022677
PMID: 7738079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. J Biosoc Sci. 1995 Apr;27(2):179-92. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000022689.

Infant and child mortality levels and trends in Bangladesh.

Kabir M(1), Chowdhury RI, Amin R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Jahangirnagar University, Savar, Dhaka, Bangladesh.

Infant and child mortality levels and trends in Bangladesh are examined using 
data from the 1989 Bangladesh Fertility Survey. Both infant and child mortality 
declined from the mid 1970s but infant mortality declined more quickly. The 
level of infant mortality in 1989 was around 100 per 1000 live births while 
child mortality (5q0) was 200 per 1000 live births. Life table analysis confirms 
the change in infant and child mortality. The decline in infant mortality is 
attributed to the introduction of improved public health measures and access to 
maternal and child health services.

PIP: A comparison was made in infant and child mortality levels in Bangladesh 
based on the 1989 Bangladesh Fertility Survey. An analysis of data quality 
revealed that the data was of high quality, but mortality omissions were 
greatest in the years prior to 1970. Infant mortality declined since 1975, and 
both declined sharply during the period 1975-89. Comparisons with the sample 
vital registration data from the Bureau of Statistics and with data from the 
Matlab Surveillance System showed the same declining trends but variations. The 
best measures were children ever born and surviving. Direct estimation showed 
lower levels of mortality, and indirect estimation showed higher levels. 
Indirect estimation based on the 1989 Fertility Survey and the 1989 
Contraceptive Prevalence Survey established infant mortality at 121-127 per 1000 
births. Direct estimation showed 100 per 1000. Child mortality was directly 
estimated at 175 per 1000 and indirectly estimated at 200 per 1000. Infant 
mortality began to decline from the 1973-77 birth cohort (155-160 per 1000). For 
the cohort born during 1983-87, infant mortality had declined to 112 per 1000. 
Indirect estimation for 1983-87 showed 137-47 per 1000. The decline in child 
mortality between the decades of the 1960s and 1980s was 20%. A high degree of 
consistency was found between reports of mortality from women 45-49 years old in 
1989 and from reports of women 30-34 years old in 1976: 231 compared to 253; 
data was implied from the South Asian model life table. Child mortality declined 
from 260 deaths per 1000 in the late 1960s to 250 in the early 1970s and 200 in 
1985. The risk of dying declined from the oldest to the youngest cohort.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000022689
PMID: 7738080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 1995 Apr;58(4):417-21. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp.58.4.417.

Prognostic factors for survival in multiple sclerosis: a longitudinal, 
population based study in Møre and Romsdal, Norway.

Midgard R(1), Albrektsen G, Riise T, Kvåle G, Nyland H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Molde Hospital, Norway.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1995 Nov-Dec;123(3):75.

A longitudinal, population based study of life expectancy in multiple sclerosis 
was performed in the county of Møre and Romsdal, Norway during the period 
1950-84. A total of 251 patients with multiple sclerosis (110 men, 141 women, 
mean age at onset of disease 33.6 years) were included. The mean follow up time 
was 18.1 years. At the end of the study period 70 patients had died. Fifty four 
(77.1%) of these had multiple sclerosis as the underlying or contributing cause 
of death on the death certificates. Young age at onset, initial remitting 
clinical course, and the presence of sensory symptoms at onset were 
significantly associated with longer survival.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.58.4.417
PMCID: PMC1073425
PMID: 7738546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. J Pediatr Surg. 1995 Feb;30(2):345-7; discussion 347-8. doi: 
10.1016/0022-3468(95)90587-1.

Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation as salvage in pediatric surgical 
emergencies.

Farmer DL(1), Cullen ML, Philippart AI, Rector FE, Klein MD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit, 
MI, USA.

Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) has become an established therapy for 
acute neonatal and pediatric respiratory failure. On an institutional level, 
once an ECMO program is well established, ECMO can be viewed as a logical 
extension of critical care for multisystem organ failure. The question left 
unanswered is "Should anyone die without being offered ECMO?" The authors 
reviewed a 10-year clinical experience with ECMO and its application as salvage 
therapy in pediatric surgical emergencies. Eight patients with life-threatening 
multisystem organ failure, from diverse causes, were treated; the survival rate 
was 50%. All survivors were neurologically intact at the time of discharge. The 
success of ECMO, coupled with improvements in technique, apparatus, and 
expertise, has allowed application of ECMO as an invasive extension of intensive 
care to diverse patient groups. These results have encouraged the authors to 
expand their indications and to push the "envelope" in offering ECMO to 
critically ill infants and children with life-threatening organ failure.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-3468(95)90587-1
PMID: 7738763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1995 May;109(5):877-83; discussion 883-4. doi: 
10.1016/S0022-5223(95)70311-X.

In-hospital and long-term outcome after porcine tricuspid valve replacement.

Glower DD(1), White WD, Smith LR, Young WG, Oldham HN, Wolfe WG, Lowe JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, N.C. 27710, 
USA.

Porcine bioprostheses are often used for tricuspid valve replacement, yet the 
long-term outcome after this procedure is not well documented. Therefore, the 
records of 129 patients undergoing tricuspid valve replacement with 
Carpentier-Edwards (n = 88) or Hancock (n = 41) prostheses between 1975 and 1993 
were reviewed. The operation required a repeat median sternotomy in 66 of 129 
(51%) patients, whereas 67 of 129 (52%) underwent double or triple valve 
replacement. Operative mortality was 14% (2/14) in patients undergoing 
first-time isolated tricuspid valve replacement and 27% (35/129) overall. 
Survival at 5, 10, and 14 years was 56% +/- 5%, 48% +/- 5%, and 31% +/- 9%, and 
freedom from tricuspid reoperation at 5, 10, and 14 years was 96% +/- 3%, 93% 
+/- 4%, and 49% +/- 17%. No valve thrombosis was observed. In this largest 
reported series of porcine bioprostheses in the tricuspid position, long-term 
freedom from valve-related events was excellent because of a low incidence of 
valve thrombosis and a valve durability of 13 to 15 years in a population with 
limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/S0022-5223(95)70311-X
PMID: 7739247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1995 May 19;44(19):372-3, 379-81.

Smoking-attributable mortality--Mexico, 1992.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Cigarette smoking causes neoplastic, respiratory, and cardiovascular diseases 
that contribute substantially to disability, death, and medical-care 
expenditures (1). In the United States, cigarette smoking is the leading 
preventable cause of premature death (1). Although the prevalence of cigarette 
smoking in Mexico (26% in 1993 [2]) is similar to that in the United States, 
smoking-attributable mortality has not been recently estimated for Mexico or 
most other developing countries that are experiencing increases in chronic 
diseases. To assist in the development of programs for preventing tobacco use, 
the Ministry of Health of Mexico used a modified version of the software program 
Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Morbidity, and Economic Costs (SAMMEC) to 
estimate smoking-related mortality (3). This report summarizes trends in the 
occurrence of smoking-related diseases in Mexico and estimates 
smoking-attributable mortality and years of potential life lost before age 65 
years (YPLL-65) in 1992.

PMID: 7739511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Thromb Haemost. 1995 Jan;73(1):1-5.

Post-partum factor VIII inhibitors. A review of the literature with special 
reference to the value of steroid and immunosuppressive treatment.

Hauser I(1), Schneider B, Lechner K.

Author information:
(1)First Dept. of Internal Medicine, University of Vienna, Austria.

In a retrospective study 51 published cases of post-partum factor VIII 
inhibitors were analyzed with regard to the outcome according to treatment. The 
overall outcome was favorable with 97% survival at two years. The probability of 
complete remission (CR, absence of the inhibitor and normalization of factor 
VIII activity) was almost 100% at 30 months. Steroid treatment appears to be not 
superior to no treatment, but patients treated with immunosuppressive drugs 
(cyclophosphamide, azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine) had a significantly shorter 
time to CR. In the absence of a randomized trial this analysis may be helpful 
for decision-making in women with factor VIII post-partum inhibitors. Because of 
the retrospective study design, conclusions have to be regarded with caution.

PMID: 7740477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. World Health Stat Q. 1994;47(3-4):157-76.

POHEM--a framework for understanding and modelling the health of human 
populations.

Wolfson MC.

A variety of developments have come together to serve as both an impetus to and 
foundation for the development of a new POpulation HEalth Model (POHEM) at 
Statistics Canada. Part of the impetus is statistical and derives from 
weaknesses in Canada's health statistics programme--particularly the lack of 
balance between information on health outcomes and health care resource 
consumption, and the absence of a coherent statistical structure. The other 
major impetus is the need for rational processes for managing and allocating 
resources to improve the health of Canadians. The foundation for the development 
of this model has come from the revolution in computing. Dramatic improvements 
have opened up new methodological opportunities, particularly sophisticated 
simulation modelling and detailed analyses of large volumes of microdata. POHEM 
is designed to build on these increasingly powerful methods in order to meet 
health statistical and policy needs. At this time, POHEM is like a 
partially-completed building. This article reviews its motivation, the overall 
architectural plan, and the portion of the structure already completed. A major 
portion of POHEM is devoted to the explicit modelling of chronic disease 
processes, using monte carlo microsimulation methods. The article concludes with 
illustrations of a few recent applications, focusing on the joint patterns of 
smoking, cholesterol and heart disease, osteoarthritis and lung cancer 
morbidity. While POHEM has been developed in a Canadian context, work is under 
way to create a version that can be used in other countries.

PMID: 7740830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. WHO Reg Publ Eur Ser. 1994;54:77-94; discussion 123-8.

The effect of social changes on the population's way of life and health: a 
Hungarian case study.

Makara P(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Health Promotion, Budapest, Hungary.

PMID: 7741957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Arch Bronconeumol. 1995 Apr;31(4):181-3. doi: 10.1016/s0300-2896(15)30946-7.

[Bronchiectasis associated with human immunodeficiency virus infection].

[Article in Spanish]

Izquierdo Patrón M(1), Villena Garrido MV.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neumología, Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid.

The precise incidence of bronchiectasis (BCH) in individuals infected by human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is unknown. Because such knowledge can imply 
different diagnostic procedures, prognosis and treatment, we report a relevant 
case in which clinical and radiological signs led to suspicion of BCH which was 
confirmed by high resolution computerized axial tomography. As life expectancy 
improves for HIV-infected patients, the incidence of BCH may rise. We therefore 
believe it is important to include BCH in the spectrum of likely pulmonary 
radiological signs in the HIV-infected population, though further studies must 
be done to assess the epidemiology, etiology, pathogenesis and prognosis of BCH.

DOI: 10.1016/s0300-2896(15)30946-7
PMID: 7743064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1995 May;50(3):B166-76. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/50a.3.b166.

Estimating parametric survival model parameters in gerontological aging studies: 
methodological problems and insights.

Eakin T(1), Shouman R, Qi Y, Liu G, Witten M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applications Research and Development, University of Texas 
System, USA.

Studies of the biology of aging (both experimental and evolutionary) frequently 
involve the estimation of parameters arising in various multi-parameter survival 
models such as the Gompertz or Weibull distribution. Standard parameter 
estimation methodologies, such as maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) or 
nonlinear regression (NLR), require knowledge of the actual life spans or their 
explicit algebraic equivalents in order to provide reliable parameter estimates. 
Many fundamental biological discussions and conclusions are highly dependent 
upon accurate estimates of these survival parameters (this has historically been 
the case in the study of genetic and environmental effects on longevity and the 
evolutionary biology of aging). In this article, we examine some of the issues 
arising in the estimation of gerontologic survival model parameters. We not only 
address issues of accuracy when the original life-span data are unknown, we 
consider the accuracy of the estimates even when the exact life spans are known. 
We examine these issues as applied to known experimental data on diet 
restriction and we fit the frequently used, two-parameter Gompertzian survival 
distribution to these experimental data. Consequences of methodological misuse 
are demonstrated and subsequently related to the values of the final parameter 
estimates and their associated errors. These results generalize to other 
multiparametric distributions such as the Weibull, Makeham, and logistic 
survival distributions.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/50a.3.b166
PMID: 7743396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1995 May;50(3):M173-6. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/50a.3.m173.

Active life expectancy among elderly Japanese.

Tsuji I(1), Minami Y, Fukao A, Hisamichi S, Asano H, Sato M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Tohoku University School of Medicine, Sendai, 
Japan.

BACKGROUND: This study estimated the active life expectancy (ALE) among the 
elderly in a Japanese urban society to determine whether or not the Japanese 
live long lives at the expense of life quality.
METHODS: Survival and ability to perform activities of daily living (ADLs) were 
followed up on a probability sample (n = 3,459) of the aged people living in 
Sendai City, Japan, between 1988 and 1991. ALE was calculated by an 
increment-decrement life table method.
RESULTS: At age 65, ALE was 14.7 years for men and 17.7 years for women. The 
duration of active life occupied 91% of the total life expectancy for men and 
87% for women. These values were further compared with those reported for the 
elderly in the United States. ALE among the Japanese subjects was longer than 
that among the American elderly. The percentage of remaining life that was 
active was comparable with that in the United States. However, the 
interpretation of the results requires caution because of the difficulty in 
comparing self-reported disabilities across cultures.
CONCLUSION: The authors conclude that it is premature at this time to judge 
which country is better in terms of functional status among the elderly. An 
international comparison of ALE would create an opportunity to evaluate and 
promote health and function of the elderly population worldwide. For this 
purpose, an international standardization of ALE measurement is urgently needed.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/50a.3.m173
PMID: 7743404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Clin Cardiol. 1995 Mar;18(3 Suppl I):I9-12. doi: 10.1002/clc.4960181304.

Plasma norepinephrine and mortality.

Cohn JN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Minnesota Medical School, Minneapolis 
55455, USA.

Plasma norepinephrine levels, which reflect sympathetic nervous system activity, 
are almost universally elevated in patients with left ventricular dysfunction. 
This elevation occurs in patients with overt, symptomatic heart failure (HF) and 
in patients with asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction. Evidence suggests 
that the elevation in plasma norepinephrine levels can be at least partly 
attributed to an increase in sympathetic nervous system activity. It has become 
evident that elevated plasma norepinephrine levels are directly related to 
prognosis; patients with levels > 900 pg/ml have a poor prognosis and shortened 
life expectancy. However, plasma norepinephrine levels bear little relationship 
to physiologic and clinical variables observed in HF, including ejection 
fraction and exercise capacity. Data from the V-HeFT II show that at 2-year 
follow-up, a progressive rise of plasma norepinephrine was observed in both 
treatment arms, suggesting that disease progresses despite treatment with either 
an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, enalapril, or vasodilator therapy 
with hydralazine/isosorbide dinitrate. It is possible that interventions aimed 
at the progressive neurohormonal activation that occurs in HF may improve the 
course of illness. Further study is needed to test this hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1002/clc.4960181304
PMID: 7743697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Eur Urol. 1995;27(2):104-9. doi: 10.1159/000475138.

Preventive effect of a Lactobacillus casei preparation on the recurrence of 
superficial bladder cancer in a double-blind trial. The BLP Study Group.

Aso Y(1), Akaza H, Kotake T, Tsukamoto T, Imai K, Naito S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo, Japan.

A double-blind trial was conducted in 138 patients with superficial transitional 
cell carcinoma of the bladder following transurethral resection to evaluate the 
prophylaxis of recurrence by an oral Lactobacillus casei preparation (BLP). 
Patients were stratified into the following 3 subgroups: (A) with primary 
multiple tumors; (B) with recurrent single tumors, and (C) with recurrent 
multiple tumors. In each group, patients were randomly allocated to receive BLP 
or placebo. BLP showed a better prophylactic effect in subgroups A and B than 
placebo, whereas no significant difference was observed in subgroup C. Cox 
multivariate analysis showed that the outcome with BLP was significantly better 
than with placebo (p = 0.01). Slight and tolerable adverse reactions occurred in 
3 patients receiving BLP and in 3 of the placebo-treated patients. Oral 
administration of BLP was thus safe and effective for preventing recurrence of 
superficial bladder cancer.

DOI: 10.1159/000475138
PMID: 7744150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Injury. 1995 Apr;26(3):187-90. doi: 10.1016/0020-1383(95)93500-h.

Morbidity and mortality for elderly patients with fractured neck of femur 
treated by hemiarthroplasty.

Nather A(1), Seow CS, Iau P, Chan A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, National University Hospital, Singapore.

Patients above the age of 60 with displaced femoral neck fractures are treated 
by hemiarthroplasty in Singapore because of our low life expectancy. This study 
evaluates the morbidity and mortality of 110 such patients operated on in our 
department between January 1990 and December 1992. It has clinical significance 
because of the rapidly ageing population of Singapore. The mean age was 78 years 
with a female preponderance of 5:1. They were predominantly Chinese. None of the 
patients were Malay. This is the first study showing that such fractures are 
rare among Malays. Most fractures were due to trivial trauma. Fifty-eight per 
cent had co-existing illness(es). The mean hospitalization stay was 20 days. 
There were considerable and local complications in 15 patients. Twenty-five 
patients died. Of the remaining patients, 17 (20 per cent) were unable to regain 
independent ambulation. The mortality rate at 3, 6 and 12 months was 6.4 per 
cent, 9.1 per cent and 15 per cent respectively. Males showed a significantly 
higher mortality rate than females. Also, patients living in government-built 
high rise flats had a significantly higher mortality rate than those residing in 
privately owned homes.

DOI: 10.1016/0020-1383(95)93500-h
PMID: 7744476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Rev Saude Publica. 1994 Jun;28(3):198-203. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89101994000300006.

[Effects of the application of the years of productive life lost index 
(investment-production-consumer model) on the sequence of causes of death in 
Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Bustamante-Montes LP(1), Rascón-Pacheco RA, Borja-Aburto VH.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública, Escuela de Salud Pública de México.

In the search for methods to support the decision making process and to maximize 
the benefit resulting from the health priorities, this paper discusses the 
investment-production-consumption model (IPC). This method attempts to quantify 
the socio-economic impact of mortality. This type of evaluation takes into 
account age at death and the potential for future productivity and thus assesses 
the generation of losses or gains to society, depending on the stage of life in 
which death occurs. The impact of different causes of death estimated by this 
method is illustrated from the cause of Mexico. These results are compared with 
the relative importance attributed by the use of mortality rates and years of 
potential life lost. The ordering by rates shows heart diseases, accidents and 
tumors as first causes of deaths. On the other hand, the indicator of years of 
potential life lost shows causes of death at younger ages to occupy the first 
place. The YPLLipc, however, gives greater importance to infections, accidents 
and homicides.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101994000300006
PMID: 7747078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Am J Pathol. 1995 May;146(5):1273-82.

Extension of the life span of pressure ulcer fibroblasts with recombinant human 
interleukin-1 beta.

Vande Berg JS(1), Robson MC, Mikhail RJ.

Author information:
(1)San Diego Veterans Administration Medical Center, CA 92161, USA.

Recombinant human interleukin-1 beta (rhuIL-1 beta) was investigated in a 
randomized, blinded placebo-controlled trial to evaluate its effect on the 
healing of chronic pressure ulcers. The influence of this topically applied 
cytokine to 26 pressure ulcer patients was correlated with tissue culture and 
electron microscopic evaluation. Cellular replication studies showed that low 
(0.01 micrograms/cm2/day) and medium (0.1 micrograms/cm2/day) concentrations of 
rhuIL-1 beta were not effective in extending replication in pressure ulcer 
fibroblasts, in vitro. Tissue culture measurements from pressure ulcer biopsies 
demonstrated that, after 29 days of a high level of rhuIL-1 beta treatment (1.0 
micrograms/cm2/day), the cytokine was effective in extending the ability of 
pressure ulcer fibroblasts to replicate. Tissue culture and electron microscopy 
suggested that, although rhuIL-1 beta promoted increases in fibroblast numbers, 
the primary effect appeared to be development of the extracellular matrix. The 
possible direct and indirect influences of rhuIL-1 beta therapy on pressure 
ulcers are discussed.

PMCID: PMC1869276
PMID: 7747819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Ann Endocrinol (Paris). 1995;56(1):31-5.

[Prevention of late complications of insulin dependent diabetes. How far and at 
what price?].

[Article in French]

Slama G(1), Selam JL.

Author information:
(1)Hôtel-Dieu de Paris.

The essential role of chronic hyperglycaemia in the development of complications 
was suspected and accepted in Europe more than 20 years ago. A large number of 
epidemiological, clinical biochemical and experimental arguments together with 
certain clinical trials have demonstrated the importance of the best possible 
glycaemic control in patients with diabetes mellitus. Changing ideas, the 
development of new equipment (pumps, pens, single-use seringues) and the 
widespread use of self-measurement techniques has confirmed the validity of this 
attitude. Recent results of the American study (DCCT Diabetes Control and 
Complications Trial) has recently clearly confirmed this position which is now 
firmly established and no longer a subject of debate. There are nevertheless, 
certain limitations: the aim of glucose normalization should not be limited to 
patients with a risk of late microvascular complications, i.e. in patients with 
a sufficiently long life-expectancy, or those whose short-term survival is not 
threatened and who do not have a life-threatening intercurrent disease. An 
increased risk for hypoglycaemia, including the most severe episodes, is the 
price to pay for intensifying treatment. This risk cannot be totally eliminated, 
but can be minimized by intensifying patient training and, perhaps, by using new 
tools such as external pumps or implantable pumps. In any case, no matter how 
much time and effort are spent, the fact that the basic tool is imperfect 
(peripherally administered insulin without feedback control) means that further 
research is required to find other ways administering insulin.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 7747918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1993 Nov 10;113(27):3378-81.

[Prioritizing in hospital departments].

[Article in Norwegian]

Norheim OF(1), Ekeberg O, Evensen SA, Halvorsen M, Kristensen F.

Author information:
(1)Senter for medisinsk etikk, Oslo.

Comment in
    Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1994 Apr 10;114(9):1107-8.

A framework for decision-making is introduced in which two out of five patients 
will be denied treatment. Certain resource constraints are accepted in this 
hypothetical example. The authors' own ranking of five patients from a 
department of internal medicine are presented. It was not difficult to select 
the highest prioritized patients. However, ranking of the remaining patients 
revealed considerable controversy. Emphasis is therefore laid on the reasons 
given for each ranking. An interesting finding is that variations in awarding 
priority to some cases are clearly based on disagreement about facts, not 
values. The article concludes by suggesting a classification of selection 
criteria for priority setting based on a distinction between necessary, 
controversial and unacceptable criteria. The article is presented in an attempt 
to stimulate a debate about priority setting in everyday hospital work.

PMID: 7748242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Alcohol Alcohol Suppl. 1993;2:151-5.

Mortality studies in the long-term evaluation of treatment of alcoholics.

Poldrugo F(1), Chick JD, Moore N, Walburg JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Trieste/School of Medicine, Italy.

Mortality studies demonstrate that, in all the Countries evaluated, alcoholics 
die twenty years earlier than expected. Causes of death vary according to 
drinking patterns. Though mortality data seem crude, they can detect changes due 
to clinical intervention. Alcoholism studies should benefit by improvement of 
research methodologies as already applied to other chronic diseases.

PMID: 7748293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Can J Neurol Sci. 1995 Feb;22(1):30-5. doi: 10.1017/s0317167100040464.

Surgery of unruptured, asymptomatic aneurysms: a decision analysis.

Leblanc R(1), Worsley KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology & Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada.

Comment in
    Can J Neurol Sci. 1997 Nov;24(4):357-9.

BACKGROUND: Asymptomatic cerebral aneurysms are diagnosed more frequently since 
the advent of computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. Their 
management is currently empirical. We have used decision analysis to place it on 
a more analytical basis.
METHODS: Decision analysis was used to determine the benefit in years of 
survival free of sequelae resulting from elective surgery of unruptured 
aneurysms over natural history. We took 2% as the annual rate of rupture (r), 
73% as the risk of death or disability with rupture (M), and 6.5% for the 
average risk of elective surgery (S). Benefit was calculated from the equation 
L([1-(1-r)L]M/2-S) [1] for life expectancy (L) corresponding to each 
quinquennial age group from age 15 to 100 years. Sensitivity analysis was 
performed to take into account increasing risk of elective surgery based on the 
size, and accessibility of the aneurysm, and variable risks of rupture and 
outcome.
RESULTS: A gain of at least one year of survival free of neurological sequelae 
is achieved by surgery compared to natural history for patients whose life 
expectancy is 19.5 years, corresponding to age 63.5 years for males and 68 years 
for females. The life expectancy at which a benefit accrues is longer (the 
patient is younger) for larger, less accessible aneurysms, for lower rates of 
rupture, and for lesser risks of death or disability from rupture.
CONCLUSIONS: Elective surgery of unruptured asymptomatic aneurysms achieves an 
increased survival over the natural history of at least one year free of 
neurological sequelae in patients whose life expectancy is 19.5 years or more, 
using our baseline assumptions. Using equation [1], the corresponding life 
expectancy producing this benefit can be calculated to account for the increased 
surgical risk of large, poorly accessible aneurysms and for factors affecting 
natural history.

DOI: 10.1017/s0317167100040464
PMID: 7750070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. J R Soc Med. 1995 Mar;88(3):127-9.

Poverty and disease: a postcard from the edge.

Baker D(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Social Sciences, University of Bath, Avon, UK.

PMCID: PMC1295129
PMID: 7752154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. J Mol Biol. 1995 May 12;248(4):835-44. doi: 10.1006/jmbi.1995.0264.

Modifying filamentous phage capsid: limits in the size of the major capsid 
protein.

Iannolo G(1), Minenkova O, Petruzzelli R, Cesareni G.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia, Universitá di Roma Tor Vergata, Italia.

Ff filamentous phages are long thin cylindrical structures that infect bacteria 
displaying the F pilus and replicate without lysing the host. These structures 
are exploited to display peptides by fusing them to the amino terminus of either 
the bacterial receptor protein (pIII) or the major coat protein (pVIII). We have 
analysed a vast collection of phage mutants containing substitutions and 
insertions in the amino terminus of pVIII to ask whether any chemical group of 
this solvent exposed region of the phage capsid has any key function in the 
phage life cycle. Any of the five amino-terminal residues can be substituted by 
most amino acids without affecting phage assembly suggesting that this region 
does not play any essential role in morphogenesis. However, a deletion of three 
residues delta (Gly3Asp4Asp5) results in a phage clone with an decreased ability 
to produce infective particles. By engineering phages designed to display 
peptides by fusion to the amino terminus of the major coat protein we have found 
that phage viability is affected by peptide length while peptide sequence plays 
a minor "tuning" role. Most peptides of six residues are tolerated irrespective 
of their sequence while only 40% of the phages carrying an amino-terminal 
extension of eight residues can form infective particles. This fraction drops to 
20% and 1% when we attempt to insert peptides 10 and 16 amino acids long. We 
have used this information to build phage libraries where each phage displays 
approximately 2700 copies of a different octapeptide all over the phage surface.

DOI: 10.1006/jmbi.1995.0264
PMID: 7752244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Maturitas. 1995 Feb;21(2):83-9. doi: 10.1016/0378-5122(94)00884-a.

A hypothesis for the origin and evolution of menopause.

Peccei JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of California Los Angeles 90024-1429, 
USA.

Menopause is widely believed by biological anthropologists and life history 
theorists to have arisen early in human evolution. In this paper, I suggest that 
female reproductive senescence was the result of the escalating energetic cost 
of gestation, lactation and childcare that accompanied the continuing 
encephalization of early hominid offspring and the ensuing increase in infant 
altriciality, or helplessness, and the concomitant prolongation of juvenile 
dependence. Natural selection favored females who became prematurely infertile, 
as the escalating cost of raising each offspring led to maternal depletion and 
made it more profitable in terms of lifetime reproductive success to continue 
investing in existing offspring rather than attempting late pregnancies. Results 
of a mathematical model are presented which show that reproductive senescence 
can be advantageous even when maximum potential lifespan is only 50 years, if 
the premature cessation of reproduction allows females to moderately increase 
the survival and fertility of their existing subadult offspring. These findings 
suggest that menopause could have originated as much as 1.5 million years ago, 
and that if menopause is indeed such an old trait, it was more likely the result 
of selective pressure on females to invest more in their own children, as 
opposed to their grandchildren.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-5122(94)00884-a
PMID: 7752954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Minerva Med. 1995 Jan-Feb;86(1-2):33-6.

[Clinico-epidemiological findings in breast carcinoma in elderly patients].

[Article in Italian]

Caruso U(1), Bianco V, Chiodini S, Riondino G, Veronesi S, Giunta S.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Chirurgia, Università degli Studi di Roma Tor Vergata.

Old age certainly represents one of the major risk factors for the development 
of neoplasia. In breast cancer the incidence rises with age and continues until 
the age of 84. In EEC countries approximately 140,000 new cases are reported 
every year and at the end of the 80s there were 10,983 deaths from breast cancer 
in Italy, an increase of over per 1000 women each year. Fifty par cent of new 
cases were diagnosed in women aged over 65. The efficiency of a screening 
programme is evaluated by the fall in mortality rates in the population included 
in the programme compared to that not included. Results from controlled studies 
have confirmed the efficacy of breast cancer screening in women aged between 
50-70, showing a significant drop in mortality rates which range between 21 and 
36%. Adequate diagnostic and therapeutic management are of primary importance 
and screening programmes are organised in highly efficient structures using 
specifically trained staff. This underlines the need to set up appropriate 
services and structures for the prevention and treatment of breast cancer in 
elderly women, given that the latter represent the most frequently affected age 
group. Old age should be considered a natural extension of life and all elderly 
women have the right to receive treatment to prevent breast cancer.

PMID: 7753435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Nucleic Acids Res. 1995 Apr 25;23(8):1419-25. doi: 10.1093/nar/23.8.1419.

Increased frequency of deletions in the mitochondrial genome with age of 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Melov S(1), Lithgow GJ, Fischer DR, Tedesco PM, Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado, Boulder 80309, 
USA.

We have developed a long-extension-PCR strategy which amplifies approximately 
