half of the mitochondrial genome (6.3 kb) of Caenorhabditis elegans using an 
individual worm as target. We analyzed three strains over their life span to 
assess the number of detectable deletions in the mitochondrial genome. Two of 
these strains are wild-type for life span while the third is mutant in the age-1 
gene, approximately doubling its maximum life span. At the mean life span in 
wild-type strains, there was a significant difference between the frequency of 
deletions detected in the mitochondrial genome compared with the mean number of 
deletions in young animals. In addition, deletions in the mitochondrial genome 
occur at a significantly lower rate in age-1 mutants as compared with wild type. 
We cloned and identified the breakpoints of two deletions and found that one of 
the deletions had a direct repeat of 8 bp at the breakpoint. This is the largest 
single study (over 900 individual animals) characterizing the frequency of 
deletions in the mitochondrial genome as a function of age yet carried out.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/23.8.1419
PMCID: PMC306871
PMID: 7753635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1995 May 9;92(10):4337-41. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.92.10.4337.

Oxidative DNA damage and senescence of human diploid fibroblast cells.

Chen Q(1), Fischer A, Reagan JD, Yan LJ, Ames BN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of California, 
Berkeley 94720, USA.

Human diploid fibroblast cells cease growth in culture after a finite number of 
population doublings. To address the cause of growth cessation in senescent 
IMR-90 human fibroblast cells, we determined the level of oxidative DNA damage 
by using 8-oxoguanine excised from DNA and 8-oxo-2'-deoxyguanosine in DNA as 
markers. Senescent cells excise from DNA four times more 8-oxoguanine per day 
than do early-passage young cells. The steady-state level of 
8-oxo-2'-deoxyguanosine in DNA is approximately 35% higher in senescent cells 
than in young cells. Measurement of protein carbonyls shows that senescent cells 
did not appear to have elevated protein oxidation. To reduce the level of 
oxidative damage, we cultured cells under a more physiological O2 concentration 
(3%) and compared the replicative life span to the cells cultured at the O2 
concentration of air (20%). We found that cells grown under 3% O2 achieved 50% 
more population doublings during their lifetime. Such an extension of life span 
resulted from the delayed onset of senescence and elevation of growth rate and 
saturation density of cells at all passages. The spin-trapping agent 
alpha-phenyl-t-butyl nitrone (PBN), which can act as an antioxidant, also 
effectively delayed senescence and rejuvenated near senescent cells. The effect 
is dose-dependent and is most pronounced for cells at the stage just before 
entry into senescence. Our data support the hypothesis that oxidative DNA damage 
contributes to replicative cessation in human diploid fibroblast cells.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.92.10.4337
PMCID: PMC41939
PMID: 7753808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Stat Med. 1995 Jan 30;14(2):161-84. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780140208.

Problems and prediction in survival-data analysis.

Henderson R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, 
U.K.

Twenty-one years after its appearance, Cox's 1972 paper on 'Regression models 
and life tables' continues to be one of the most frequently cited publications 
in the scientific and medical literature. The proportional-hazards model and 
partial-likelihood technique have been applied to thousands of data sets, not 
always appropriately, and have motivated hundreds of theoretical studies, not 
always relevant. Recent developments are reviewed and continuing problems 
discussed, especially with respect to predictive inference. The accuracy of 
model-based predictions, and how they compare with consultants' judgements are 
investigated by means of an example.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780140208
PMID: 7754264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Am Heart J. 1995 Jun;129(6):1127-32. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(95)90393-3.

Risk factors for the development of recurrent atrial fibrillation: role of 
pacing and clinical variables.

Reimold SC(1), Lamas GA, Cantillon CO, Antman EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Am Heart J. 1996 Jun;131(6):1233-4.

Atrial fibrillation recurs in many patients treated with antiarrhythmic therapy 
to maintain sinus rhythm. From March 1985 to August 1991, 214 patients with 
recurrent symptomatic chronic or paroxysmal atrial fibrillation for which 
conventional antiarrhythmic agents had failed were treated with propafenone or 
sotalol. Baseline demographic data including the presence of pacing therapy were 
collected. Life-table estimates of the duration of freedom from atrial 
fibrillation were constructed on the basis of pacemaker status. Of 214 patients, 
26 (12.1%) had pacing therapy. Patients with dual-chamber pacing were more 
likely to remain in sinus rhythm at 6 months (80%) than were patients with 
ventricular pacing (40%) or patients without pacing therapy (55%) (p = 0.002). A 
Cox univariate regression analysis demonstrated that dual-chamber pacing in 
contrast to ventricular pacing or no pacing was associated with a lower risk of 
recurrent atrial fibrillation. Clinical parameters such as age, gender, left 
atrial size, fibrillation pattern, drug assignment, ejection fraction, and 
underlying cardiac disease did not alter the risk of recurrent atrial 
fibrillation. Dual-chamber pacing was associated with a decreased likelihood of 
recurrent atrial fibrillation even after adjustment for other clinical 
covariates in a multivariate model (p = 0.04). In patients with recurrent atrial 
fibrillation treated with propafenone or sotalol, dual-chamber pacing improved 
maintenance of sinus rhythm.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(95)90393-3
PMID: 7754943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Am J Clin Nutr. 1995 Jun;61(6 Suppl):1360S-1367S. doi:
10.1093/ajcn/61.6.1360S.

Cretan Mediterranean diet for prevention of coronary heart disease.

Renaud S(1), de Lorgeril M, Delaye J, Guidollet J, Jacquard F, Mamelle N, Martin 
JL, Monjaud I, Salen P, Toubol P.

Author information:
(1)INSERM Unit 63, Lyon-Bron, France.

As a result of the Seven Countries Study, the Mediterranean diet has been 
popularized as a healthy diet. Nevertheless, it has not replaced the prudent 
diet commonly prescribed to coronary patients. Recently, we completed a 
secondary, randomized, prospective prevention trial in 605 patients recovering 
from myocardial infarction in which we compared an adaptation of the Cretan 
Mediterranean diet with the usual prescribed diet. After a mean follow-up period 
of 27 mo, recurrent myocardial infarction, all cardiovascular events, and 
cardiac and total death were significantly decreased by > 70% in the group 
consuming the Mediterranean diet. These protective effects were not related to 
serum concentrations of total, low-density-lipoprotein (LDL), or 
high-density-lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. In contrast, protective effects were 
related to changes observed in plasma fatty acids: an increase in n-3 fatty 
acids and oleic acid and a decrease in linoleic acid that resulted from higher 
intakes of linolenic and oleic acids, but lower intakes of saturated fatty acids 
and linoleic acid. In addition, higher plasma concentrations of antioxidant 
vitamins C and E were observed. We conclude that a Cretan Mediterranean diet 
adapted to a Western population protected against coronary heart disease much 
more efficiently than did the prudent diet. Thus, it appears that the favorable 
life expectancy of the Cretans could be largely due to their diet.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/61.6.1360S
PMID: 7754988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Am J Clin Nutr. 1995 Jun;61(6 Suppl):1378S-1382S. doi:
10.1093/ajcn/61.6.1378S.

Alcohol in the Mediterranean diet.

Rimm EB(1), Ellison RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 
02115, USA.

Alcohol consumption clearly reduces risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in 
populations throughout the world and may contribute to lower rates of CVD among 
residents of Mediterranean countries. In addition, overall mortality rates are 
generally slightly lower among moderate drinkers than among abstainers. However, 
several studies have linked alcohol consumption (even amounts equivalent to two 
drinks daily) to increased rates for certain cancers, especially breast cancer 
in women. A Mediterranean diet, which is high in fruit, vegetables, and grains, 
also typically includes one to two drinks per day. Whether one to two drinks 
adversely affect cancer incidence in the presence of a Mediterranean diet has 
not been fully explored. With the evidence currently available, we conclude that 
alcohol, when consumed responsibly in most populations, is an important 
component of the Mediterranean diet and a component of a healthy lifestyle.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/61.6.1378S
PMID: 7754991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Am J Clin Nutr. 1995 Jun;61(6 Suppl):1402S-1406S. doi:
10.1093/ajcn/61.6.1402S.

Mediterranean diet pyramid: a cultural model for healthy eating.

Willett WC(1), Sacks F, Trichopoulou A, Drescher G, Ferro-Luzzi A, Helsing E, 
Trichopoulos D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 
02115, USA.

We present a food pyramid that reflects Mediterranean dietary traditions, which 
historically have been associated with good health. This Mediterranean diet 
pyramid is based on food patterns typical of Crete, much of the rest of Greece, 
and southern Italy in the early 1960s, where adult life expectancy was among the 
highest in the world and rates of coronary heart disease, certain cancers, and 
other diet-related chronic diseases were among the lowest. Work in the field or 
kitchen resulted in a lifestyle that included regular physical activity and was 
associated with low rates of obesity. The diet is characterized by abundant 
plant foods (fruit, vegetables, breads, other forms of cereals, potatoes, beans, 
nuts, and seeds), fresh fruit as the typical daily dessert, olive oil as the 
principal source of fat, dairy products (principally cheese and yogurt), and 
fish and poultry consumed in low to moderate amounts, zero to four eggs consumed 
weekly, red meat consumed in low amounts, and wine consumed in low to moderate 
amounts, normally with meals. This diet is low in saturated fat (< or = 7-8% of 
energy), with total fat ranging from < 25% to > 35% of energy throughout the 
region. The pyramid describes a dietary pattern that is attractive for its 
famous palatability as well as for its health benefits.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/61.6.1402S
PMID: 7754995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Am J Clin Nutr. 1995 Jun;61(6 Suppl):1416S-1427S. doi:
10.1093/ajcn/61.6.1407S.

Health implications of Mediterranean diets in light of contemporary knowledge. 
2. Meat, wine, fats, and oils.

Kushi LH(1), Lenart EB, Willett WC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis 55454, USA.

Consumption of beef, pork, and lamb has traditionally been low in Mediterranean 
countries. Regular consumption of red meat has been associated in epidemiologic 
studies with increased risks of coronary heart disease (CHD) and colon and other 
cancers; possible mechanisms may involve dietary cholesterol, saturated fat, 
heme iron, and the presence of carcinogens formed in cooking. Also, high 
consumption of red meat, the major source of animal protein in most Western 
diets, increases urinary calcium losses and is therefore likely to contribute to 
osteoporotic fractures. In Mediterranean diets the major source of dietary fat 
has traditionally been olive oil, which, compared with saturated and partially 
hydrogenated fats, reduces low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and, 
compared with carbohydrates, increases high-density-lipoprotein (HDL) 
cholesterol. A wealth of epidemiologic evidence supports a potent protective 
effect of moderate alcohol consumption against CHD, probably in part by 
increasing HDL concentrations. Although dietary factors alone may not fully 
explain the excellent health of Mediterranean populations, available evidence 
strongly suggests important contributions of high consumption of fruit, 
vegetables, and whole grains; moderate intake of alcohol; and low consumption of 
animal products, saturated and hydrogenated fats, and refined carbohydrates.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/61.6.1407S
PMID: 7754997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Blood. 1995 Jun 1;85(11):3058-65.

Intensive immunosuppression with antithymocyte globulin and cyclosporine as 
treatment for severe acquired aplastic anemia.

Rosenfeld SJ(1), Kimball J, Vining D, Young NS.

Author information:
(1)Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Immunosuppressive therapy can produce hematologic improvement in a large 
proportion of patients with severe aplastic anemia. Antithymocyte globulin (ATG) 
is the current treatment of choice for patients who do not have histocompatible 
sibling donors or who are otherwise inegligible for allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation. About 50% of patients respond to an initial course of ATG, and 
many nonresponders can be salvaged by subsequent treatment with cyclosporine 
(CsA). To determine whether simultaneous administration of these agents could 
further improve response rates, we enrolled 55 patients in a therapeutic trial 
of 4 days of ATG and 6 months of CsA. Among the 51 patients who had not received 
previous courses of ATG or CsA, 67% had responded by 3 months, and 78% had 
responded by 1 year (response was defined as an increase in peripheral blood 
counts sufficient that a patient no longer met the criteria for severe disease). 
There was a high incidence of relapse (36% actuarial risk at 2 years), but most 
relapsed patients responded to additional courses of immunosuppression, and 
relapse was not associated with a significant survival disadvantage. Evolution 
to myelodysplastic syndromes and acute leukemia was rare (1 of 51 patients), but 
the later appearance of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria was more common (5 
of 51 patients). Actuarial survival was 86% at 1 year and 72% at 2 years. These 
data support the use of a combination immunosuppressive regimen containing both 
ATG and CsA as first-line therapy for severe aplastic anemia.

PMID: 7756640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Blood. 1995 Jun 1;85(11):3077-85.

Autologous stem cell transplantation after first remission induction treatment 
in multiple myeloma: a report of the French Registry on autologous 
transplantation in multiple myeloma.

Harousseau JL(1), Attal M, Divine M, Marit G, Leblond V, Stoppa AM, Bourhis JH, 
Caillot D, Boasson M, Abgrall JF, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Hôtel-Dieu, Nantes, France.

Eighteen French centers reported 133 autologous stem cell transplantations 
performed after first remission induction in multiple myeloma. The source of 
stem cell was marrow (81 cases), blood (51 cases) or marrow plus blood (1 case). 
The immediate outcome after transplantation was 49 (37%) complete remissions 
(CRs) (13 maintained, 36 achieved), 61 (46%) partial remissions, 17 failures and 
5 toxic deaths. With a median follow-up of 35 months, the median remission 
duration was 33 months, the median time to treatment failure was 22 months. The 
median survival was 46 months overall, 54 months for the 103 patients responding 
to primary treatment, and 30 months for the 30 nonresponders. In univariate 
analysis, the outcome was influenced by age, Ig isotype, initial beta 2 
microglobulin level, response to initial chemotherapy, plasma cell marrow 
involvement at the time of harvest, albumin and beta 2 microglobulin level at 
the time of transplantation, and CR achievement after transplantation. In 
multivariate analysis, the most important prognostic factor was the quality of 
response after transplantation. The conditioning regimen and the source of stem 
cell had no significant impact on immediate and long-term results. Maintenance 
therapy with interferon alpha did not appear to prolong remission duration or 
survival. Autologous stem cell transplantation is an effective consolidation for 
patients responding to primary treatment and a salvage therapy for some 
nonresponding patients. This approach has to be compared to conventional 
chemotherapy in prospective randomized studies. The critical impact of CR 
achievement on survival implies new strategies to increase the CR rate.

PMID: 7756641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Cas Lek Cesk. 1995 May 3;134(9):265-9.

[Health status in Europe and projections to the year 2000. 1. The male 
population].

[Article in Czech]

Ginter E(1).

Author information:
(1)Ustav preventívnej a klinickej medicíny, Bratislava.

The life expectancy of men varies at present in the posttotalitarian central and 
eastern European countries round 67 years; on the territory of the former USSR 
it is cca 64 years, in western and northern Europe 72-75 years. Linear 
extrapolation of these data to 2000 indicates that at the beginning of the next 
century the life expectancy of men in western Europe will vary round 76 years, 
while in the posttotalitarian countries it will remain at the same low level. In 
western Europe there is a steady decline of early deaths of men due to 
cardiovascular diseases (ischaemic heart disease, cerebrovascular diseases), 
diseases of the respiratory, digestive, nervous, urogenital system. The 
mortality caused by neoplasms, however, remains at a constant level. This is the 
reason why after 2000 the structure of mortality will change substantially: the 
cause of premature death of every other man in western Europe will be neoplasms. 
In the posttotalitarian part of Europe since 1970 early deaths of men due to 
cardiovascular diseases, neoplasms (mainly lung cancer), diseases of the 
digestive and nervous system and cirrhosis of the liver are rising steadily. It 
is probable that in this part of Europe also after 2000 the main cause of death 
will be cardiovascular and neoplastic diseases which together will account for 
60-70% of early deaths of men and for their short life expectancy.

PMID: 7758085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Health Phys. 1995 Jun;68(6):827-31. doi: 10.1097/00004032-199506000-00010.

Application of age- and gender-specific probability coefficients to the barium 
meal examination in Japan.

Kumamoto Y(1), Maruyama T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Physics, National Institute of Radiological Sciences, Chiba, 
Japan.

The nominal probability coefficients for individual tissues and organs by age 
and gender are calculated with data used in the ICRP publication 60. The purpose 
is to calculate the projected number of untimely deaths in a group of patients 
that has a different age distribution than the general population for the barium 
meal examination in Japan. These coefficients were designed to give the same 
overall detriment as those calculated in ICRP 60, which were for the average 
general population. The nominal probability coefficients and loss of life 
expectancy by age, gender, and organ are also given.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-199506000-00010
PMID: 7759262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. J Prosthet Dent. 1995 Mar;73(3):274-9. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3913(05)80205-7.

Brånemark single tooth implants: a preliminary report of 76 implants.

Haas R(1), Mensdorff-Pouilly N, Mailath G, Watzek G.

Author information:
(1)Dental School of the University of Vienna, Department of Oral Surgery, 
Austria.

Seventy-six Brånemark single-tooth implants were inserted over a 6-year period. 
Two implants (2.63%) were removed during the follow-up period. All other 
implants received esthetic and functional single tooth crowns placed on a single 
tooth abutment or a CeraOne abutment. The most common complication observed was 
abutment screw loosening, which occurred with 12 crowns. However, it was 
possible to clearly reduce the occurrence of screw loosening by applying a 
defined torque. Peri-implant parameters were investigated on 56 implants that 
were in place for more than 1 year. Acceptable implant function was demonstrated 
with preestablished clinical parameters and radiographs. Despite the submucosal 
edge of the crown, peri-implant mucositis was not a major problem. The favorable 
clinical and esthetic results found in the study encourage an increased 
application of implants for single tooth restorations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3913(05)80205-7
PMID: 7760277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Lancet. 1995 Jun 3;345(8962):1398-402. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(95)92597-x.

Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for lysosomal storage diseases. The 
European Group for Bone Marrow Transplantation.

Hoogerbrugge PM(1), Brouwer OF, Bordigoni P, Ringden O, Kapaun P, Ortega JJ, 
O'Meara A, Cornu G, Souillet G, Frappaz D, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Leiden University Hospital, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1995 Jun 3;345(8962):1382-3.

Patients with lysosomal storage disorders have visceral, skeletal, and 
neurological abnormalities and a limited life expectancy. Bone marrow 
transplantation has been used to correct the metabolic defects and leads to 
metabolic improvements in most patients. However, the long-term effect of such 
therapy is uncertain. We analysed the data from 63 patients transplanted for 
lysosomal storage diseases. The transplant-related mortality was 10% if an 
HLA-identical sibling marrow donor was available (n = 40) and 20-25% if 
mismatched tissue was used. Data on the effect of bone marrow transplantation on 
biochemical and clinical disease variables were available in 29 of the 63. 28 
had a follow-up duration of 1.0-10.2 years; 1 patient died of disease 
progression in the first year after stable engraftment. 13 patients who had 
severe neurological symptoms at the time of transplantation showed disease 
progression. Engraftment of bone marrow in 5 patients with non-neuronopathic 
Gaucher's disease led to complete disappearance of symptoms. 11 patients had 
skeletal symptoms because of various mucopolysaccharidoses (MPSs). There was 
stabilisation of the skeletal lesions during the observation period of 1.4-6.4 
years, but none of the patients showed significant regression of the skeletal 
symptoms. The visceral features (hepatosplenomegaly, cardiac hypertrophy, and 
upper airway obstruction) in these patients abated after transplantation. We 
could not evaluate the biochemical and clinical variables in 34 patients because 
of graft rejection, transplant-related mortality, or follow-up of less than 1 
year. There were significant beneficial effects of bone marrow transplantation 
in patients with non-neuronopathic Gaucher's disease. Stabilisation of disease 
was observed in patients with MPS-I and MPS-II; this potential benefit needs to 
be confirmed by longer follow-up. Bone marrow transplantation was not effective 
if severe neurological symptoms were already present at the time of 
transplantation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(95)92597-x
PMID: 7760610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Lancet. 1995 Jun 3;345(8962):1409-13. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(95)92601-1.

Preparing for the late years.

Mulley GP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine for the Elderly, St James's University Hospital, 
Leeds, UK.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(95)92601-1
PMID: 7760613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Laryngoscope. 1995 May;105(5 Pt 1):512-8. doi:
10.1288/00005537-199505000-00013.

Meningoencephalic herniation into the middle ear: a report of 27 cases.

Arìstegui M(1), Falcioni M, Saleh E, Taibah A, Russo A, Landolfi M, Sanna M.

Author information:
(1)Servicio ORL, Hospital Central Cruz Roja, Madrid.

Meningoencephalic herniation into the middle ear is a rare and potentially 
life-threatening condition that may require prompt surgical intervention. 
Preoperative diagnosis is based on a high index of suspicion. Sometimes, 
however, meningoencephalic herniation is discovered during surgery. 
High-resolution computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging should be 
performed to confirm the diagnosis and to evaluate the extension of the 
herniated tissue. This article discusses the diagnostic approach, management 
strategy, and surgical technique used in 27 patients with meningoencephalic 
herniation. In an attempt to avoid infective complications, the authors used the 
middle cranial approach in patients with large herniations.

DOI: 10.1288/00005537-199505000-00013
PMID: 7760669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Rev Med Chil. 1994 Aug;122(8):951-4.

[School of public health: 50 years serving medical education and health].

[Article in Spanish]

Goic GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Medicina, Universidad e Chile, Santiago de Chile.

This is the speech pronounced by the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine of the 
University of Chile, during the academic act that celebrated the fiftieth 
anniversary of the Chilean Public Health School endowment. The School could have 
been an independent entity, but its founders decided to ascribe it to the 
Faculty of Medicine. In this way, the doctrine of hygiene, social and preventive 
medicine could be preached in a better way to professors and students. The 
physicians trained at the School, created the National Health Service in 1952, 
that improved population's health through specific programs and techniques. In 
the last forty years, general and child mortality and infantile undernutrition 
have improved substantially, some infectious diseases have been eradicated, life 
expectancy has been prolonged, and most labors are attended by professionals. At 
the present time, medical education and public health are faced to new 
realities, consequent to economical, political and social changes. The 
educational program at the Faculty of Medicine are changing to adapt them to 
these changes. The Public Health School will have to contribute with new ideas 
to improve health care of our population that aspires to a efficacious, 
equitable, humane and economically feasible health system.

PMID: 7761728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Soc Biol. 1994 Fall-Winter;41(3-4):212-28. doi:
10.1080/19485565.1994.9988873.

Influence of cause-of-death structure on age patterns of mortality in Mauritius.

Bah SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Zimbabwe, Harare.

Over the period 1969-86, Mauritian mortality declined rapidly, accompanied by 
substantial change in its age pattern of mortality and cause-of-death structure. 
Using cause-of-death data for this period, this paper studies the influence of 
cause-of-death structure on age patterns of mortality. Infectious and parasitic 
diseases had marked influence on age patterns of mortality for young Mauritian 
males, while circulatory causes of death influenced the age pattern of mortality 
for older Mauritian males. For females, their unique age pattern of mortality 
remained unique, largely because of the uniform and smooth change in 
cause-of-death structure.

PIP: Trends in causes of death during 1969-86 and age-specific mortality rates 
are described for Mauritius based on census and vital statistics records. More 
detailed descriptions of causes of death was provided in a study by Bah; Bah and 
Teklu analyzed age patterns of mortality. In Mauritius life expectancy increased 
for males from 32.8 years during 1942-46 to 64.38 years during 1982-84; female 
life expectancy increased from 33.8 years to 71.23 years. Infectious diseases 
declined and circulatory diseases increased over time. Neoplasms, injuries, 
poisonings, and congenital malformations remained unchanged. Age patterns of 
mortality for males and females were affected by these changes in the incidence 
of infectious diseases and circulatory diseases. During 1969-86 the male pattern 
was characterized as a U shape that changed to a J shape. Prior to 1978 the 
pattern among young ages under 20 years followed the UN South Asian pattern, and 
among older ages after 1978, the UN Far Eastern pattern. Male infant mortality 
declined from 799.4 per 100,000 live births in 1969 to 122.8 in 1986. Female 
mortality by age had a unique pattern that did not fit any of the Coale and 
Demeny model life table patterns. Female mortality followed a U shape. The 
decline in mortality under the age of 5 years and over the age of 45 years was 
uniform. Age standardized death rates for males showed a uniform decline for 
infants and children under 10 years old. Age-specific mortality correlated with 
time for females was significant for all age groups except for ages over 60 
years. Standardized cause-specific death rates correlated with time showed 
uniform decline for infectious diseases, respiratory diseases, and other 
diseases for males and females. Uniform increases were apparent for circulatory 
diseases and digestive system diseases. There was observed multicollinearity 
between causes of death. Factor analysis of causes showed neoplasms and 
circulatory diseases as prominent factors with rising trends, followed by 
infectious, respiratory, and other diseases and declining factors. Digestive 
diseases, congenital malformations. injuries, and nutritional disorders were 
third factors with greater fluctuations. Regression analysis of life table 
survivorship showed increases in survivorship for respiratory diseases and 
injuries and decreased survivorship for circulatory diseases.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1994.9988873
PMID: 7761905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Soc Biol. 1994 Fall-Winter;41(3-4):229-39. doi:
10.1080/19485565.1994.9988874.

Smoothed breastfeeding durations and waiting time to conception.

Singh KK(1), Suchindran CM, Singh RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi, India.

Breastfeeding beyond the resumption of mother's menstruation plays a significant 
role in the proximate determinants of fertility. Breastfeeding and postpartum 
amenorrhoea data collected from retrospective surveys usually exhibit digit 
preferences. Here, these heaping errors were smoothed by B-spline and used in 
multivariate models of risk of conception to investigate the contraceptive 
effect of breastfeeding. The data used come from a 1987 Indian survey. Results 
show that lactation, after mother's menses resume, reduces the risk of 
conception. Heaping in breastfeeding data attenuates this relationship. When 
adjustment is made, breastfeeding reduced the rate of conception by 47 per cent; 
the reduction, with adjusted data, was 63 per cent.

PIP: Clinical evidence supports the relationship between breast feeding and 
postpartum amenorrhea (PPA). The effect of heaping errors (digit preference at 
months 3, 6, 9, 12 of breast feeding and PPA) in studying the relationship 
between breast feeding and PPA in the context of time-dependent hazard models is 
examined, with a B-spline smoothing technique to adjust for the heaping errors 
in the data. The relationship among PPA, breast feeding after menses resume, and 
waiting time to conception are also examined with and without adjustments. A 
retrospective survey entitled Breastfeeding and its effect on fertility 
conducted in 1987 by Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi, India, provided the 
basic data. Data (age at marriage, children ever born, lactation, PPA) were 
collected from 1100 urban and 900 rural households of Varanasi. Women were 
classified into low, medium, and high social groups. Univariate life table 
technique was used to calculate total breast feeding, for which median duration 
was 16.25 months and 13.35 months, respectively, with and without smoothing. 
Similarly, the median duration of PPA was 7.82 and 5.82 months, respectively. 
For closed (uncensored) intervals the time of conception was estimated by 
subtracting 9 months from the month of delivery. The overall median duration of 
waiting time to conception after menstruation was more than 15 months. The 
heaping of breast feeding PPA showed reduced effect on the chance of conception 
after menstruation. Without smoothing adjustment the rate of conception after 
menstruation was reduced by 47% if the woman was breast feeding at that time. 
With adjustment the reduction increased to 63%. Younger mothers had 
significantly higher rates of conception once menses returned, while literate 
women had significantly less chance of conception than illiterate ones after 
menses. For every additional month of breast feeding there was a 1.8% (3.3%) 
reduction in the risk of conception after return of menses without (with) 
smoothing breast feeding and PPA. Breast feeding had a significant effect on the 
duration of PPA.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1994.9988874
PMID: 7761906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Vet Rec. 1995 Feb 18;136(7):162-5. doi: 10.1136/vr.136.7.162.

A survey of the reasons for culling pregnant cows.

Singleton GH(1), Dobson H.

Author information:
(1)University of Liverpool, Department of Veterinary Science, Leahurst, Neston, 
South Wirral.

This survey analysed the history of cows which were pregnant when they were 
slaughtered at an abattoir in south west England by sending a questionnaire to 
their farm of origin to determine the reason(s) for culling them and their 
recent reproductive history. Of the slaughtered cows, 23.5 per cent were 
pregnant and 26.9 per cent of these were in the third trimester. The three main 
reasons for culling were infertility (28.2 per cent), mastitis (21.8 per cent) 
and old age (15.8 per cent). In 50.9 per cent of cases the farmer thought that 
the cow was not pregnant. In 66 per cent of the returns the cow had run with a 
bull. The average age of the slaughtered cows was 7.9 years. The records were 
categorised as 'OK' when they were consistent with the stage of pregnancy found 
post mortem, as 'error' when there were slight inconsistencies and 'gross error' 
when there were more serious discrepancies. Thirty-six per cent of the returns 
were classed as 'OK', 56.6 per cent as 'error' and 27.2 per cent as 'gross 
error'. It is estimated that these errors represent an annual loss of 30.78 
million pounds to the cattle industry of the United Kingdom.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.136.7.162
PMID: 7762126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Am J Public Health. 1995 Jun;85(6):875-6. doi: 10.2105/ajph.85.6.875.

Smaller increases in life expectancy for blacks and whites between the 1970s and 
1980s.

Wallace D.

Comment on
    Am J Public Health. 1994 Jun;84(6):938-44.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.85.6.875
PMCID: PMC1615512
PMID: 7762734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Ann Clin Lab Sci. 1995 Jan-Feb;25(1):1-12.

The process and theories of aging.

Knight JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Salt Lake VA Medical Center, UT 84132, 
USA.

A wide variety of theories to explain the aging process have been proposed 
including: (1) stochastic (somatic mutation, error catastrophe, protein 
glycosylation); (2) developmental (immune and neuroendocrine); (3) programmed 
(genome-based); and (4) free radical. Although no single hypothesis fully 
explains all aging phenomena, the genome-based and free radical theories, in 
particular, are supported by significant observational and experimental 
evidence. In addition, these two proposals are related to each other in some 
respects, and possibly to other theories as well. Continued basic and clinical 
research in this highly complex and critically important area will add to our 
understanding and appreciation of the theoretical and practical implications of 
the aging process.

PMID: 7762963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Anticancer Res. 1995 Mar-Apr;15(2):495-501.

Epirubicin versus mitoxantrone in combination chemotherapy for metastatic breast 
cancer.

Pavesi L(1), Preti P, Da Prada G, Pedrazzoli P, Poggi G, Robustelli della Cuna 
G.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Oncologia Medica, Fondazione Clinica del Lavoro, Pavia, Italy.

As valid therapeutic alternatives to adriamycin, with a more favourable safety 
profile, epirubicin (E) and novantrone (N) were compared in combination with 
fluorouracil (F) and cyclophosphamide (C) in a prospective randomized clinical 
trial as first-line treatment for metastatic breast cancer (mbc). 158 women with 
mbc were randomly allocated to receive FEC or FNC regimen; the dosage in mg/m2 
was as follows: 500 for C and F, 75 for E and 10 for N. All drugs were 
administered iv. on day 1 and recycled on day 21. In 141 evaluable patients the 
response rate (CR+PR) was better in the FEC (43.6%) than in the FNC regimen 
(30.3%) (95% C.I. of 32% to 55% versus 14% to 34%), without any statistically 
significant difference. Differences in response rate were significantly in 
favour of FEC group in previously untreated patients (57.6% versus 25%, p = 
.02), and in postmenopausal women (46.1% versus 23.6%, p = .01). No significant 
differences between the two treatment arms were observed in terms of either time 
to progression or duration of response and survival. The most important 
dose-limiting toxicity was hematological (leuko-and thrombocytopenia were 
significantly higher in FNC-treated patients). This difference in hematological 
toxicity sustained a significantly different incidence of delays in 
administering chemotherapy courses, which precluded the administration of 
comparable doses of all drugs in both groups. The incidence of complete alopecia 
was significantly higher in FEC-treated patients, while no clinical or 
instrumental evidence of CHF was observed with either regimen. Due to its more 
favourable therapeutic profile, the E-containing regimen seems a suitable 
first-line treatment for previously untreated patients with mbc, while the FNC 
combination should be offered to women refusing hair loss.

PMID: 7763029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Anticancer Res. 1995 Mar-Apr;15(2):569-73.

Results of the primary treatment in T1-3M0 prostatic adenocarcinoma are 
dependent on tumour biology.

Vesalainen S(1), Lipponen P, Nordling S, Talja M, Syrjänen K.

Author information:
(1)Department Surgery, University of Kuopio, Finland.

The results of the primary treatment were analysed in relation to biological 
prognostic factors in a series of 215 males with T1-3M0 prostatic 
adenocarcinoma. T-category, Gleason score and DNA ploidy were significantly 
related to progression-free survival and overall survival. Incidental tumours 
usually had a favorable prognosis, 86% of them being diploid, whereas the 
incidental aneuploid tumours (14%) ran an unfavorable course. In clinically 
malignant prostates (TPR), neither Gleason score nor DNA ploidy had prognostic 
significance. The treatment had prognostic significance only in diploid tumours 
or in tumours with Gleason score value < or = 7, while aneuploid tumours or 
tumours with Gleason score value > 7 always had unfavorable prognosis 
irrespective of treatment. Tumours treated by radical prostatectomy or by 
radical radiation treatment were associated with a favorable prognosis, as 
contrasted to the tumours treated by endocrine treatment or those followed-up 
only, which had a high rate of mortality. Transurethral resection was weakly 
related to increased risk of death from prostatic adenocarcinoma, although the 
basic mechanisms behind this observation remain to be explained.

PMID: 7763039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Burns. 1995 Mar;21(2):127-9. doi: 10.1016/0305-4179(95)92137-2.

Central venous catheter sepsis with weekly catheter change in paediatric burn 
patients: an analysis of 221 catheters.

Sheridan RL(1), Weber JM, Peterson HF, Tompkins RG.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Department of Surgery, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, USA.

To document the risk of catheter sepsis associated with central venous catheter 
changes every 7 days in paediatric burn patients, and analysis of data collected 
prospectively on 234 such catheters was performed. During an 18-month period 
there were 301 acutely burned children admitted to a regional paediatric burn 
facility of whom 53, with an average burn size of 42 per cent TBSA, required 234 
central venous catheters. A central venous catheter management protocol was 
followed which included catheter changes every 7 days. If insertion sites were 
clean and uninflamed, catheters were replaced by guidewire and the original 
catheter tip was semiquantitatively cultured. Catheters were replaced to a new 
site if insertion sites appeared inflamed or catheter tips grew 15 or more 
colony forming units. Overall, 3.2 per cent (10.9 per cent by Centers for 
Disease Control definition) of central venous catheters were associated with 
sepsis. When catheters were replaced by guidewire from one to three times, 
catheter sites were used for a mean of 15.6 days without an increased rate of 
line sepsis. There was no difference in sepsis rates between catheters placed at 
a new site or replaced by guidewire. There were no deaths attributed to 
catheter-related sepsis. We conclude that a protocol allowing for catheter 
change to a new site, or replacement by guidewire, every 7 days was associated 
with a low risk of catheter sepsis in paediatric burn patients.

DOI: 10.1016/0305-4179(95)92137-2
PMID: 7766321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Oftalmologia. 1995 Apr-Jun;39(2):130-6.

[Surgery in the treatment of primary advanced open-angle glaucoma].

[Article in Romanian]

Chiseliţă D(1), Vancea PP.

Author information:
(1)Universitatea de Medicină şi Farmacie Iaşi.

A series of 25 cases of advanced open-angle primitive glaucoma (C/D higher than 
0.8, visual field stages C, D, E according to Greve's classification), operated 
upon by extended and adapted trabeculectomy, surgery being the initial step in 
the treatment of this affection, was reviewed. After a 18.5-month follow up, the 
progression of glaucoma was arrested in 60% of the cases, and a regression of 
papilloperimetric alterations was found in 8% of the cases. There was a 
significant correlation between the obtained IOP level and glaucoma course (in 
the cases with a favourable course postoperative IOP was of 15.5 mmHg, while in 
those evolving unfavorably IOP was of 18 mmHg). Our experience suggests that 
antiglaucoma surgery may be recommended as an initial treatment in those 
patients in whom a short-term drug trial (topic administration of 3 drugs for 
few days) induces a lowering of IOP to less than 15.5 mmHg, and life expectancy 
is not short.

PMID: 7766591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Pneumoftiziologia. 1994 Jul-Dec;43(3-4):233-6.

[The smoking problem in Romania].

[Article in Romanian]

Mihăilescu P(1).

Author information:
(1)Institutul de Pneumoftiziologie M. Nasta, Bucureşti.

PMID: 7767111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Perspect Respir Nurs. 1995 May;6(2):5, 8.

Exercise for patients with cystic fibrosis.

Von Nessen S.

PMID: 7767471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Hepatology. 1995 Jun;21(6):1535-42.

Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma with combined suppression and inhibition 
of sex hormones: a randomized, controlled trial.

Manesis EK(1), Giannoulis G, Zoumboulis P, Vafiadou I, Hadziyannis SJ.

Author information:
(1)Academic Department of Medicine, Hippokration General Hospital, Athens, 
Greece.

We tested the hypothesis that a combination of sex hormone suppression and 
inhibition of their target receptors might improve survival for patients with 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Eighty-five consequent, previously untreated HCC 
patients with inoperable disease, were randomized to receive the luteinizing 
hormone-releasing hormone (LR-RH)-analogue triptorelin and the antiestrogen 
tamoxifen (33 patients) or triptorelin plus the antiandrogen flutamide (23 
patients), or only placebo (29 patients) in a double blind fashion. All groups 
were comparable as to age, sex, tumor extension, underlying cirrhosis and 
biochemical parameters. The tamoxifen (TMX) group had a significantly longer 
survival (282 days) compared with flutamide (112 days) and with placebo (127 
days) groups (P = .0238, log rank test). The upper quartile of patients in the 
TMX group lived 384 days or longer, and most of them (57.1%) were women (P < 
.0005), in contrast to the upper quartile of the placebo (170 days, 16.7% women) 
and the flutamide group (134 days, 33.3% women). The calculated tumor volume 
doubling time (TVDT) was significantly higher in the TMX group (296 days) than 
in the other two groups (99 and 101 days for placebo and flutamide groups, 
respectively, P = .023). In a Cox proportional hazards model, the TMX treatment, 
along with the baseline Okuda's HCC stage, the hepatitis B surface antigen, the 
portal vein diameter, the carcino embryonic antigen (CEA) and a self-assessment 
score of quality of life, were covariates predicting survival. Although the 
degree of serum sex hormone suppression was not a significant predictor of 
survival, the interaction of female sex and TMX treatment, it was (P = 
.0052).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 7768497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. J Clin Epidemiol. 1995 Jun;48(6):787-95. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(94)00179-t.

Trend of cardiovascular risk factors in the East German population 1968-1992.

Heinemann L(1), Barth W, Hoffmeister H.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Epidemiology and Health Research, Berlin.

The deteriorating trend of life expectance since the mid 1970s, mainly due to 
higher cardiovascular mortality in the East compared to West Germany, requires 
explanations about what happened to the cardiovascular risk factor profile in 
the East. Epidemiologic studies in the East German population have been 
performed for about 25 years and can justify a first answer to the question, 
whether the opening gap in life expectancy could be attributable to a 
deteriorating cardiovascular risk factor profile of the 25-64 year old 
population. During a review process reliable epidemiological studies in the East 
German population have been identified to describe sequential changes from 1968 
to 1992 in systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP, DBP) total cholesterol 
(CHOL), body mass index (BMI) and cigarette smoking in five periods of time. The 
mean SBP increased in males of higher age groups, whereas it dropped in females 
in all age groups in this period of time. The mean CHOL showed a striking 
increase in both sexes and levelled off in the mid 1980s only. The mean BMI 
increased slightly in men of the middle age groups and remained almost unchanged 
in women. The prevalence of cigarette smoking increased in both sexes until the 
1970s, and declined thereafter in the age groups over 40, however, there is an 
increasing tendency in young age groups and females after the wall came down. 
These trends are congruent with the hypothesis, that the increasingly 
unfavourable trend of life expectancy in East Germany (compared to the 
continuously improving trend in West Germany) is at least partly attributable to 
the trend of the cardiovascular risk factor profile.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(94)00179-t
PMID: 7769409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. J Vasc Surg. 1995 May;21(5):729-40; discussion 740-1. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(05)80004-7.

Mesenteric artery bypass: objective patency determination.

McMillan WD(1), McCarthy WJ, Bresticker MR, Pearce WH, Schneider JR, Golan JF, 
Yao JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, McGaw Medical Center, Northwestern University Medical 
School, Chicago, IL, USA.

PURPOSE: Many authors have reported extended relief of intestinal ischemia by 
use of a variety of reconstructive techniques, but all have relied on 
symptomatic follow-up. None have objectively measured patency rates. The purpose 
of this study was to determine the primary patency rates of bypass grafts placed 
for acute and chronic splanchnic atherosclerotic occlusive disease with use of 
objective follow-up with mesenteric duplex ultrasound scanning or arteriography.
METHODS: Twenty-five consecutive patients (mean age 61, female/male ratio of 
2.7:1) who underwent placement of 38 splanchnic bypass grafts (29 saphenous vein 
grafts, 9 polytetrafluoroethylene) (22 retrograde, 16 antegrade) for ischemic 
symptoms (9 acute ischemia: 16 chronic ischemia) between 1984 and 1994 were 
monitored with either duplex scanning (30 grafts) or arteriography. Life-table 
and log rank analysis were used to determine and compare graft patency.
RESULTS: Three patients (12%, 2 acute ischemia and 1 chronic ischemia) died 
after operation. Six patients (30%) had significant morbidity (4 acute ischemia 
and 2 chronic ischemia). During follow-up from 1 to 136 months (mean 35 months), 
no patient died of bowel infarction or required revision for recurrent symptoms. 
Objective testing revealed three graft occlusions. Symptomatic follow-up had a 
sensitivity of only 33% for graft occlusion when compared with objective 
measurement. The life-table primary patency rate was 89% at 72 months. 
Life-table survival for the same patients was 75% at 36 months. Patency rates 
for antegrade (93% at 36 months) versus retrograde (95% at 36 months) bypass and 
saphenous vein grafts (95% at 36 months) versus polytetrafluoroethylene (89% at 
36 months) were not significantly different (p = 0.47 and 0.43, respectively). 
Late patency rates of grafts placed for acute ischemia (92% at 36 months) versus 
chronic ischemia (89% at 36 months) were not significantly different (p = 0.77).
CONCLUSION: Splanchnic bypass for mesenteric ischemia, with a primary patency 
rate of 89% at 72 months, is an extremely durable form of revascularization. 
Long-term patency of grafts placed for acute ischemia does not differ 
significantly from that of bypasses for chronic occlusion. Duplex scanning 
allows standardized objective periodic follow-up of splanchnic reconstruction. 
Objective assessment is critical to accurately measure visceral 
revascularization patency rates.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(05)80004-7
PMID: 7769732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. J Vasc Surg. 1995 May;21(5):782-90; discussion 790-1. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(05)80009-6.

Surgical management of infrainguinal arterial prosthetic graft infections: 
review of a thirty-five-year experience.

Mertens RA(1), O'Hara PJ, Hertzer NR, Krajewski LP, Beven EG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, OH 44195, USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose was to determine the early and late mortality and morbidity 
rates associated with infrainguinal arterial prosthetic graft infection (IAPGI) 
and to identify optimal methods of management.
METHODS: The study included 53 men and 14 women (mean age, 61 years) in whom a 
total of 68 IAPGIs developed in the years 1959 to 1993. IAPGI involved 58 
femoropopliteal grafts (85%), six femorodistal grafts (9%), and four other 
grafts or synthetic patches (6%). Graft material was dacron in 36 (53%), 
polytetrafluoroethylene in 28 (41%), and human umbilical vein in four (6%). 
Sixteen IAPGIs (24%) involved limbs that had required amputations before IAPGI 
