was diagnosed. Twenty-six (38%) of the 68 grafts were thrombosed, and 14 (88%) 
of the 16 amputees had occluded grafts.
RESULTS: Staphylococcal organisms were isolated from 34 (58%) of the 59 IAPGIs 
for which culture data were available. The median intervals until IAPGI was 
diagnosed were 3 months after implantation and 1 month after the last procedure 
involving the original graft. Initial management consisted of local measures 
only in 13 (19%), partial removal or in situ graft replacement in 15 (22%), and 
total graft excision in 40 (59%). Total excision was performed in 15 (94%) of 
the 16 patients with prior amputations and in only 25 (48%) of the 52 intact 
limbs. The overall postoperative mortality rate was 18%; seven (58%) of the 12 
early deaths were related to sepsis, and all 12 occurred within the group of 51 
patients (24%) for whom limb salvage was still being attempted (p = 0.056). 
IAPGI ultimately led to amputations in 21 (40%) of 52 intact limbs within the 
first year. Twenty-three (82%) of the 28 IAPGIs managed with incomplete graft 
removal required subsequent operations for continued sepsis, compared with five 
(13%) of the 40 treated with complete excision (p < 0.001). The cumulative 
5-year survival rate (77%) for 53 patients who survived operation was less than 
that (89%) for the normal, age-matched U.S. male population.
CONCLUSIONS: IAPGI is associated with substantial early mortality and amputation 
rates. Complete excision of infected graft material results in a significant 
reduction in the incidence of recurrent sepsis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(05)80009-6
PMID: 7769736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. J Vasc Surg. 1995 May;21(5):830-7; discussion 837-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(05)80015-1.

Ten-year experience with abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in octogenarians: 
early results and late outcome.

O'Hara PJ(1), Hertzer NR, Krajewski LP, Tan M, Xiong X, Beven EG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, OH 44195, USA.

PURPOSE: This study was undertaken to determine the mortality and morbidity 
rates associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair in octogenarians 
and to identify factors that may influence survival in this age group.
METHODS: One hundred fourteen patients (mean age 83 years) were admitted 
consecutively with 106 infrarenal and eight juxtarenal AAAs from 1984 through 
1993. Ninety-four AAAs were asymptomatic, whereas 20 patients with symptoms had 
11 intact and nine ruptured AAAs. The mean AAA diameter was 6.7 cm. Repair 
consisted of aortic bifurcation grafts in 77 patients (67%), tube grafts in 35 
(31%), and extraanatomic procedures in 2 (2%). A total of 29 patients (25%) had 
undergone previous coronary artery bypass (24 patients) or transluminal coronary 
angioplasty (five patients) either incidentally or as a preliminary procedure 
before resection of their AAAs.
RESULTS: The 30-day mortality rate for the entire series was 14%, but it 
declined from 23% (11/48) during the first 5 years to 8% (5/66) during the 
second 5 years of the study period (p = 0.028). Fatal complications occurred in 
nine (9.6%) of the 94 patients with asymptomatic AAAs and in seven (35%) of the 
20 patients who had symptomatic AAAs (p = 0.008). Considering only patients with 
asymptomatic AAAs, the early mortality rate in the second 5 years (4%) improved 
significantly (p = 0.038) in comparison to that (17%) for the first 5 years of 
the study period. The cumulative 5-year survival rate of 48% for 97 available 
operative survivors was not quite so good as that (59%) for the normal male 
population of the United States at the age of 80 years (p < 0.0001). 
Nevertheless, the 5-year survival rate was 80% for 27 operative survivors who 
received previous myocardial revascularization compared with 38% for 70 others 
who did not (p = 0.0077). Multiple Cox-regression analysis identified the 
perioperative homologous blood requirement (p = 0.03) and a history of previous 
myocardial revascularization (p = 0.03) as significant independent factors 
influencing late survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Repair of AAAs in properly selected octogenarians is safe and 
durable. When otherwise indicated, it should not be withheld on the basis of 
advanced age alone. Prior treatment of severe coronary artery disease is 
associated with enhanced late survival, but patient selection probably is an 
important consideration in this respect.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(05)80015-1
PMID: 7769742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Leukemia. 1995 May;9(5):900-7.

A rapid fatal erythroleukemia caused by J2E cells can be treated ex vivo with 
erythropoietin.

Farr TJ(1), Lai CM, Beilharz MW, Papadimitriou J, Riches K, Rossi E, Garcia-Webb 
P, Klinken SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Western Australia, Nedlands.

The J2E cell line is an immature erythroid line which terminally differentiates 
in response to erythropoietin (epo), producing mature, hemoglobin-synthesizing 
red blood cells. We have shown that when these cells were injected into mice a 
rapid and fatal erythroleukemia developed with symptoms of severe anemia and 
hepatosplenomegaly. Southern blotting demonstrated that the leukemic cells were 
the introduced J2E cells. In addition to spleen and liver, the bone marrow was a 
major site of leukemic cell infiltration, and when grown in vitro leukemic cells 
from bone marrow remained responsive to erythropoietin. We reasoned, therefore, 
that treatment of mice with this hormone should alleviate the erythroleukemia, 
but regular injections of epo in vivo failed to arrest the progress of the 
disease. However, when bone marrow from leukemic mice was exposed continuously 
to the hormone ex vivo, before reinfusion into naive recipients, a marked 
extension in life span was observed. It was concluded that ex vivo epo treatment 
could be used therapeutically for J2E cell erythroleukemias.

PMID: 7769854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Med Parazitol (Mosk). 1995 Jan-Mar;(1):3-7.

[The global problems in optimizing health protection for the population. The 
role of parasitic diseases].

[Article in Russian]

Sergiev VP.

PMID: 7770017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Mol Gen Genet. 1995 May 10;247(3):306-11. doi: 10.1007/BF00293198.

RNA editing of the coI mRNA throughout the life cycle of Physarum polycephalum.

Rundquist BA(1), Gott JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Microbiology, School of Medicine, Case 
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, USA.

Editing of RNA via the insertion, deletion or substitution of genetic 
information affects gene expression in a variety of systems. Previous 
characterization of the Physarum polycephalum cytochrome c oxidase subunit I 
(coI) mRNA revealed that both nucleotide insertions and base substitutions occur 
during the maturation of this mitochondrial message. Both types of editing are 
known to be developmentally regulated in other systems, including mammals and 
trypanosomatids. Here we show that the coI mRNA present in Physarum mitochondria 
is edited via specific nucleotide insertions and C to U conversions at every 
stage of the life cycle. Primer extension sequencing of the RNA indicates that 
this editing is both accurate and efficient. Using a sensitive RT-PCR assay to 
monitor the extent of editing at individual sites of C insertion, we estimate 
that greater than 98% of the steady-state amount of coI mRNA is edited 
throughout the Physarum developmental cycle.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00293198
PMID: 7770035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Acta Cardiol. 1995;50(1):45-52.

Prognostic value of simple exercise test parameters in patients with dilated 
cardiomyopathy.

Dékány M(1), Nyolczas N, Reif E, Fiók J, Vándor L, Paksy A.

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Medical University, Budapest, Hungary.

The prognostic value of maximal exercise capacity as well as that of the simple 
exercise systolic blood pressure and heart rate variables were evaluated in 50 
patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. Patients were treated beside digitalis 
and/or diuretics with vasodilators aggressively. Exercise was performed on an 
upright bicycle ergometer. Continuous, multistage, symptom limited, maximal 
tests were carried out. Patients were followed up for 23.5 +/- 15.2 months. Both 
one-way and multivariate analyses of data showed, that not only the maximal 
exercise capacity related significantly to the survival, but the several simple 
systolic blood pressure and heart rate variables (their values at peak exercise 
and their increase during the test) did so as well. Considering parameters 
separately, maximal exercise capacity was found the strongest predictor of 
survival, though the power of the calculated rate-pressure product at peak 
exercise, that of the systolic blood pressure at peak exercise as well as that 
of the increase in heart rate during the test proved nearly as strong as the 
maximal exercise capacity did. Anyway, the multivariate analysis showed that the 
former parameters were dependent on maximal exercise capacity. Some parameters 
with individual prognostic value proved independent from each other. Combined 
consideration of the systolic blood pressure at peak exercise and the increase 
of heart rate during exercise resulted in the highest predictive power which 
exceeded even the power of maximal exercise capacity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

PMID: 7771174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Am J Epidemiol. 1995 Jun 1;141(11):993-1022; discussion 991-2. doi: 
10.1007/978-3-642-81046-6_7.

A short method for constructing an abridged life table. 1939.

Reed LJ, Merrell M.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-81046-6_7
PMID: 7771448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Am J Surg. 1995 Jun;169(6):575-9. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(99)80224-4.

The natural history of breast cancer with more than 10 positive nodes.

Walker MJ(1), Osborne MD, Young DC, Schneebaum S, La Valle GJ, Farrar WB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Ohio State University, Columbus, USA.

BACKGROUND: Experimental protocols are being used increasingly to treat breast 
cancer with > 10 positive nodes. An appreciation of the natural history of this 
disease is crucial for choosing the optimal therapeutic approach.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the records of 141 patients 
who had breast cancer with > 10 positive nodes and received definitive therapy 
at our institution in the years 1969 through 1991. Because therapy evolved 
during this period, we compared the results from 1969 through 1981 to those from 
1982 through 1991.
RESULTS: Ninety-one patients (65%) were > or = 50 years of age. Fifty-four (38%) 
were estrogen receptor (ER) positive, the remainder were ER negative or ER 
status unknown. Fifty-seven (40%) had 10 to 15 positive nodes, 63 (45%) had 16 
to 25, and 21 (15%) had > 25. The ratio of positive nodes to total nodes was < 
50% in 22 patients, 50% to 75% in 49, and > 75% in 70. One hundred thirty-four 
patients (95%) underwent modified or radical mastectomy. Forty (28%) received 
adjuvant chemotherapy, including 16 (11%) of 58 patients treated prior to 1981. 
Eleven patients (8%) were treated with adjuvant radiation therapy. The median 
survival for all patients was 52 months, with an actuarial survival of 29% at 10 
years. Patients treated after 1981 had significantly improved survival. They 
lived a median of 68 months postoperatively, as compared to 41 months among 
patients treated earlier.
CONCLUSIONS: This is a high-risk group of patients, yet there is a small subset 
who can obtain a long survival with standard treatment modalities.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(99)80224-4
PMID: 7771619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Aust N Z J Obstet Gynaecol. 1995 Feb;35(1):60-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1479-828x.1995.tb01833.x.

Education and hysterectomy.

Santow G(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Transition Centre, Australian National University, Canberra.

A small Canberra survey provided the opportunity to investigate the observation 
that tertiary education is associated with lower hysterectomy rates. Despite the 
sample's being small and unrepresentative of either the Australian or even the 
Canberra population, it was possible to replicate a simple version of a national 
model of hysterectomy. Tertiary education remained strongly predictive of a low 
rate of hysterectomy. Additionally, the study showed, first, the 
tertiary-educated women were less likely than others to be told that they needed 
a hysterectomy in the first place. Secondly, they were less likely to accept 
such advice: hysterectomy was undergone by only 1 of 5 of the better educated 
women to whom it had been suggested, but by 4 of 5 of the less educated.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1479-828x.1995.tb01833.x
PMID: 7772004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. BMJ. 1995 Mar 11;310(6980):665. doi: 10.1136/bmj.310.6980.665a.

Life expectancy in children with cerebral palsy.

Eyman RK, Grossman HJ, Call TL, Chaney RH.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1994 Aug 13;309(6952):431-5.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.310.6980.665a
PMCID: PMC2549038
PMID: 7772136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Eur J Surg. 1995 Feb;161(2):137-42.

Use of subcutaneous implantable infusion systems in neoplastic and AIDS patients 
requiring long-term venous access.

Dionigi P(1), Cebrelli T, Jemos V, Minoli L, Gobbi P, Dimitrov G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Pavia, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the life span and complication rates of totally 
implantable infusion devices in patients with short bowel syndrome and in 
immunocompromised patients with AIDS, lymphoma, and myeloma who required 
long-term central venous access.
DESIGN: Prospective open study.
SETTING: University hospital, Italy.
SUBJECTS: Group I - 5 patients with short bowel syndrome; group II - 11 patients 
with AIDS; and group III - 15 patients with lymphoma or multiple myeloma (1 of 
whom had 2 devices implanted).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Duration of implantation and incidence of 
catheter-related complications.
RESULTS: The mean duration/patient of the catheter was 422 days (range 20-1257) 
in group I; 104 days (range 43-262) in group II; and 415 days (range 62-1280) in 
group III. There were no catheter related complications in the patients in group 
I (short bowel syndrome). Of the 11 patients with AIDS (group II) 4 developed 
catheter related infections (0.32/100 catheter days), and 1 developed a 
thrombotic occlusion. All 5 catheters were removed (3 for infection). Of the 15 
patients with lymphoma or myeloma who had 16 catheters implanted (group III), 1 
patient developed 3 infective episodes (0.05/100 catheter days), 1 catheter 
migrated and 1 occluded. All 3 catheters were removed.
CONCLUSION: Totally implantable infusion systems can safely be used for 
prolonged periods in immunocompromised patients, including those with AIDS if 
their life expectancy is reasonable.

PMID: 7772631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Bacteriol Virusol Parazitol Epidemiol. 1994 Jul-Dec;39(3-4):141-50.

[A prevalence study of serum markers in hepatitis virus infection in the 
epidemiological anamnesis of the population].

[Article in Romanian]

Molnar GB(1), Popa S, Jebeleanu L, Damian C.

Author information:
(1)Institutul de Sănătate Publică şi Cercetări Medicale, Cluj.

Pandemic of the infections with hepatitis viruses is a priority in public 
health. In Romania, the very high acute and chronic morbidity by viral hepatitis 
demands the rapid implementation of a feasible preventive program. In the 
population of 5 districts from Transylvania we conducted a sero-epidemiological 
survey in order to find the real and specific characteristics of the prevalence 
of the infections with hepatitis viruses. The study was a cross-sectional study 
on the anamnestic presence of the infections in the population. The evolution of 
the cumulative prevalence of infections with HAV (74.3%) and HBV (31.7%) are 
proving a high endemoepidemicity. For the infections with HCV (4.9%) and HDV 
(1.7%) we observed an active process of endemicity. The high rate of persistent 
infections following HBV acute infections (19.1%) suggests a growing-up tendency 
of chronic hepatic diseases. In actual epidemiologic conditions, the rate of 
exposure to a potential hepatic viral infections in the population we studied 
could be 1.68 infections/person, during a period equal to life expectancy at 
birth.

PMID: 7772886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Surg Oncol. 1994 Dec;3(6):345-9. doi: 10.1016/0960-7404(94)90073-6.

Prognostic value of ploidy of primary tumour and nodal secondaries in colorectal 
cancers.

Zoras OI(1), Curti G, Cooke TG, Vlachonikolis IG, Forster G, McArdle CS, Stanton 
PD.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Surgery Royal Infirmary, Glasgow, UK.

Tumour ploidy is of prognostic value in colorectal cancer, DNA aneuploid tumours 
having a worse outlook. Nearly all studies have concentrated on the DNA content 
of the primary tumour. We have examined the ploidy of the primary tumour and its 
lymph node metastases in 71 cases of Dukes' stage C disease, to see whether this 
provides greater prognostic information than the primary alone. Analysis was 
performed using formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumour sections. Ploidy of 
primary and metastases was different in 20 cases (28%), aneuploid nodes being 
seen with diploid primaries and vice versa. Ploidy of both the primary (chi 2 = 
4.86, P = 0.03) and secondary (chi 2 = 4.86, P = 0.03) tumours predicted 
survival in univariate analysis. Combining the ploidy of primary and nodes, 
three prognostic groups could be defined--diploid primaries with diploid 
metastases (hazard relative to both aneuploid, 0.36) had significantly better 
survival than cases where the ploidy of the primary and nodes were mixed 
(relative hazard 0.47-0.56), which did better than cases with aneuploid primary 
and nodes. This study demonstrates that ploidy variation between primary and 
secondary tumours is common, and better prognostic information may be gained by 
studying both.

DOI: 10.1016/0960-7404(94)90073-6
PMID: 7773451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. J Can Dent Assoc. 1995 Mar;61(3):199-200, 203-5.

Effectiveness of a topical antifungal regimen for the treatment of oral 
candidiasis in older, chronically ill, institutionalized, adults.

Banting DW(1), Greenhorn PA, McMinn JG.

Author information:
(1)Division of community dentistry, faculty of dentistry, University of Western 
Ontario, London, Canada.

Because of predisposing systemic disease, the frequent administration of 
medication, and the use of a complete denture, oral candidiasis is a common 
problem among older, chronically ill, institutionalized adults. This randomized 
clinical trial was designed to evaluate the effectiveness of an antifungal 
denture soaking solution (48 mL nystatin liquid, 100,000 IU/mL, dissolved in 432 
mL of distilled water producing 10,000 IU nystatin mL solution), used as an 
adjunct to a nystatin vaginal lozenge (100,000 IU/g, dissolved in the mouth 
three times daily for seven days) in a group of older, chronically ill, 
institutionalized adults. Although the clinical signs and symptoms of oral 
candidiasis were resolved in all subjects following therapy, the presence of 
invasive Candida hyphae was detected in approximately 80 per cent of tissue 
and/or dentures. When compared to tap water, the use of an antifungal denture 
soaking solution produced no detectable difference in the presence of Candida 
albicans hyphae over a three-month period (M-H chi-square = 0.021, p = 0.886), 
but it did reduce the rate of recurrence of clinical signs and symptoms. The 
appropriateness of this regimen for the treatment of oral candidiasis in this 
type of patient is challenged.

PMID: 7773850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. J Vasc Surg. 1995 Jun;21(6):873-80; discussion 880-1. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70214-8.

Femorotibial bypass for claudication: do results justify an aggressive approach?

Conte MS(1), Belkin M, Donaldson MC, Baum P, Mannick JA, Whittemore AD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Brigham & Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, 
USA.

PURPOSE: The role of infrainguinal arterial reconstructive surgery for 
claudication is controversial. We reviewed the results of femorotibial bypass 
procedures performed in a select group of patients with disabling claudication 
in an attempt to define a role for this aggressive approach.
METHODS: Data were retrieved from the vascular registry, and hospital records 
were obtained for all patients undergoing femorotibial reconstruction for 
disabling claudication during the past 16 years at Brigham and Women's Hospital. 
Follow-up interviews were obtained to assess overall health, walking impairment, 
functional status, and patient satisfaction.
RESULTS: During a 16-year period a total of 57 tibial reconstructions were 
performed in 53 patients for claudication (5% of all infrainguinal vein 
reconstructions). Autogenous vein conduit was used in all cases, most of which 
(70%) involved the greater saphenous vein in situ. Distal anastamoses were to 
the tibioperoneal trunk (12%), anterior tibial (18%), posterior tibial (47%), 
and peroneal (23%) arteries. Major complications occurred in 9%, and no 
perioperative deaths occurred. Overall 5-year survival was 54% +/- 15%, and no 
major amputations were performed. Cumulative primary and secondary graft patency 
at 5 years were 81% +/- 6% and 86% +/- 5%, respectively. Patency rates were 
significantly better than those achieved in a concurrent series of tibial 
bypasses for limb salvage and were equivalent to those achieved with 
femoropopliteal bypass for claudication. Interviewed patients reported improved 
walking distance, reduced claudication, and a high degree of overall 
satisfaction with their operation.
CONCLUSION: Results obtained with femorotibial bypass performed for claudication 
were superior to those obtained for limb salvage and were equivalent to those 
obtained with femoropopliteal bypass for claudication. The results obtained in 
this highly selected cohort suggest that patients at low risk with significant 
functional impairment from claudication, available autogenous vein, and suitable 
tibial outflow to the ischemic muscular bed can be offered revascularization 
with the expectation of durable long-term results.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70214-8
PMID: 7776466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1995 Jun;109(6):1035-41. doi: 
10.1016/S0022-5223(95)70185-0.

Tricuspid valve replacement. Fifteen years of experience with mechanical 
prostheses and bioprostheses.

Scully HE(1), Armstrong CS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Toronto Hospital, University of Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

Tricuspid valve replacement is not a common operation. The purpose of this study 
was to examine the early and late results in 60 patients who underwent 28 (47%) 
bioprosthetic and 32 (53%) mechanical tricuspid valve replacements. All 
operations took place between January 1978 and June 1993 during which period a 
total of 4741 patients underwent valve replacement operation. Mean patient age 
was 50 +/- 15 (18 to 75) years. Forty-one patients (68%) were female and 19 
patients (32%) were male. Forty-nine patients (82%) were in New York Heart 
Association class III or IV before operation. Forty-five patients (75%) were 
undergoing repeat cardiac valve operation. Seventeen patients (28%) had complex 
congenital cardiac problems. Operation was urgent in 15 patients (25%). The 
hospital mortality rate was 27% (16 patients). All patients with hospital death 
were in New York Heart Association class III or IV, were having repeat 
operations, or had complex congenital disease. Low output syndrome was observed 
in 21 patients (35%). Reoperation because of bleeding was required in seven 
patients (12%). Thirteen patients (22%) required permanent (epicardial lead) 
pacemaker implantation. Mean follow-up is 75 +/- 45 months (maximum 173 months) 
and 100% complete for the 44 patients who left the hospital. There have been 14 
deaths (32%). Nine of these patients (64%) had mechanical valves and five (36%) 
had bioprostheses. Of the 11 cardiac deaths, three were valve related 
(bioprostheses). Three patients (10%) required reoperation because of tricuspid 
valve prosthetic failure (1 thrombosed mechanical valve, 2 failed porcine 
valves). Of the remaining 30 patients, 20 (67%) are in New York Heart 
Association class I or II. Seventeen patients have mechanical valves and 13 have 
bioprostheses. Twenty-six patients (90%) are receiving warfarin. Thromboembolism 
(transient ischemic attack) has occurred in one patient with a mechanical valve 
who also had a previous cerebrovascular accident. In this group there has been 
no hemorrhage, endocarditis, or new pacemaker requirement. Actuarial survival 
for the whole series is 37% +/- 9% and for the hospital survivors is 50% +/- 12% 
at 15 years. Linearized rates of valve-related complications are not different 
between groups. Tricuspid valve replacement is a beneficial procedure for 
patients with structural tricuspid valve disease, many of whom have other 
valvular or congenital disease. Contemporary mechanical prostheses and 
bioprostheses are equally effective in the tricuspid position. Mechanical valves 
should be considered for tricuspid replacement in young patients and in patients 
with mechanical valves implanted in the left side of the heart.

DOI: 10.1016/S0022-5223(95)70185-0
PMID: 7776666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1995 Jun;109(6):1198-203; discussion 1203-4. doi: 
10.1016/S0022-5223(95)70203-2.

Safety and efficacy of video-assisted thoracic surgical techniques for the 
treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax.

Naunheim KS(1), Mack MJ, Hazelrigg SR, Ferguson MK, Ferson PF, Boley TM, 
Landreneau RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, St. Louis University Health Sciences Center, Mo. 
63110-0250, USA.

Video-assisted thoracic surgery has been widely used in the treatment of 
spontaneous pneumothorax despite a paucity of data regarding the relative safety 
and long-term efficacy for this procedure. We reviewed 113 consecutive patients 
(68 male and 45 female patients, aged 15 to 92 years, mean 35.1) who underwent 
121 video-assisted thoracic surgical procedures during 119 hospitalizations from 
1991 through 1993. Recurrent ipsilateral pneumothorax was the most frequent 
indication for surgery and occurred in 77 patients (65%). The most common method 
of management was stapling of an identified bleb in the lung, which was 
undertaken in 105 (87%) patients. No operative deaths occurred. Complications 
included an air leak lasting longer than 5 days in 10 (8%) patients, two of whom 
required second procedures for definitive management. No episodes of 
postoperative bleeding or empyema occurred. The postoperative stay ranged from 1 
day to 39 days (median 3 days, average 4.3 days) and 99 patients (84%) were 
discharged within 5 days. Mean follow-up was 13.1 months and ranged from 1 to 34 
months. Eleven patients (10%) were lost to follow-up. Ipsilateral pneumothorax 
recurred after five of 121 procedures (4.1%). Twelve perioperative parameters 
(age, gender, race, smoking history, site of pneumothorax, severity of 
pneumothorax, operative indications, number of blebs, site of blebs, bleb 
ablation, method of pleurodesis, and prolonged postoperative air leak) were 
entered into univariate and multivariate analysis to identify significant 
independent predictors of recurrence. The only independent predictor of 
recurrence was the failure to identify and ablate a bleb at operation, which 
resulted in a 23% recurrence rate versus a 1.8% rate in those with ablated blebs 
(p < 0.001). These data suggest that video-assisted thoracic surgery is a viable 
alternative to thoracotomy for the treatment of recurrent spontaneous 
pneumothorax. It results in a short hospital stay, low morbidity, high patient 
acceptance, and a low rate of recurrence.

DOI: 10.1016/S0022-5223(95)70203-2
PMID: 7776683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Lancet. 1995 Mar 4;345(8949):581-2.

Frequency of familial melanoma and MLM2 gene.

Bishop DT, Easton DF.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1994 Dec 10;344(8937):1607-8.

PMID: 7776790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Life Sci. 1995;56(23-24):1971-82. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(95)00178-9.

Construction of a 3D model of the cannabinoid CB1 receptor: determination of 
helix ends and helix orientation.

Bramblett RD(1), Panu AM, Ballesteros JA, Reggio PH.

Author information:
(1)Chemistry Department, Kennesaw State College, Marietta, GA 30061, USA.

The goal of this study was to determine the ends and orientations of the seven 
transmembrane helices of the cannabinoid (CB1) receptor, a G-protein coupled 
receptor (GPCR). After initial sequence alignment, Fourier transform methods 
were used with the nPRIFT hydrophobicity scale and with a variability profile to 
calculate the alpha-helical periodicity (AP) in the primary amino acid sequence 
of the human CB1 receptor and of its alignment. AP plots were used to identify 
the amino acids which comprise each of the seven CB1 transmembrane helices. An 
intracellular alpha helix extension of Helix 7 was characterized by analyzing 
the relative direction of variability and hydrophobic moment vectors. 
Variability moment vectors were then used to delineate the orientation of each 
helix in the membrane. Based upon these vector calculations, a tentative helix 
bundle arrangement was obtained. This arrangement is largely consistent with the 
proposed transmembrane helix bundle arrangement in rhodopsin, a GPCR.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(95)00178-9
PMID: 7776821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Scand J Prim Health Care. 1995 Mar;13(1):74-80. doi:
10.3109/02813439508996739.

The public view on cardiovascular risk factors and changes in lifestyle.

Danielsson B(1), Aberg H.

Author information:
(1)Gröndal Health Centre, Huddinge, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the public knowledge of cardiovascular risk factors 
including hyperlipidaemia, and attitudes to changes in lifestyle and to the role 
of the primary health care in preventive work.
DESIGN: Postal questionnaire.
SETTING: A physically defined area in south-western Stockholm.
SUBJECTS: 1000 randomly selected individuals of both sexes 40 to 64 years, 
stratified into 5-year groups.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Knowledge of and attitudes to cardiovascular risk 
factors. Contact with the primary health care and expectancy of physicians' 
interest in patients' lifestyles.
RESULTS: Response rate was 75%. The awareness of cardiovascular risk factors was 
high, but only 51% knew what constitutes healthy food, and two thirds doubted 
that they could change their eating habits. Forty-eight percent had visited the 
primary health care during the previous year. Eighty-four percent thought that 
the physicians should know about their patients' smoking, 83% about drinking 
habits, and 75% about eating habits. Physicians were expected to spend 40% of 
their time on preventive work. Only 26% believed that press information about 
hyperlipidaemia and heart disease did more good than harm.
CONCLUSION: Knowledge was good about causative cardiovascular risk factors, but 
poor about healthy eating. Physicians were expected to have an interest in 
patients' lifestyle and in prevention. This type of knowledge is important for 
preventive work.

DOI: 10.3109/02813439508996739
PMID: 7777740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. S Afr Med J. 1995 Apr;85(4):272-6.

The outcome of familial adenomatous polyposis in the absence of a polyposis 
registry.

Goldberg PA(1), Madden MV, du Toit E, Bailey S, Torrington M, Raynham WH.

Author information:
(1)Surgical Gastro-enterology Unit, Groote Schuur Hospital.

From 1964 to 1990, 70 patients with familial adenomatous polyposis were 
diagnosed at an institution without a polyposis registry. Those with symptoms at 
diagnosis were older (mean 34 v. 24 years) and more often had large-bowel cancer 
(7/30 v. 1/30, 23% v. 3%). The introduction of systematic screening 
significantly increased the number of cases diagnosed annually, from 2,3 to 5 
per year, reduced the median age at diagnosis from 29 to 21 years and increased 
the proportion of cases diagnosed without symptoms from 52% to 90%. A colectomy 
with an ileorectal anastomosis achieved a low incidence of rectal cancer at 20 
years (1/15, 7%) despite imperfect follow-up and annual sigmoidoscopy in only 
40%. However, bowel cancer caused at least 35% of all deaths and 62% of deaths 
due to a known cause. A registry which maintained a screening programme should 
therefore prevent most large-bowel cancers and improve the life expectancy of 
patients with familial adenomatous polyposis who are managed at this 
institution. It might also refine the current method of screening by 
sigmoidoscopy alone, by facilitating the use of ophthalmoscopy and blood tests 
for DNA markers.

PMID: 7778003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Arch Intern Med. 1995 Jun 26;155(12):1329-30, 1332.

Calculating gains in life expectancy with risk factor reduction.

Yudkin JS.

Comment on
    Arch Intern Med. 1994 Aug 8;154(15):1697-704.

PMID: 7778966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Ostomy Wound Manage. 1995 Jan-Feb;41(1):34-6, 38, 40-5.

Standardizing performance-based criteria for support surfaces.

Krouskop T, van Rijswijk L.

Due to the sparsity of prospective, controlled, clinical studies on the efficacy 
of and the lack of standardized information about support surfaces, current 
literature does not clearly define how these surfaces address patient needs. 
Standardization would help healthcare professionals make better informed 
decisions about the use of support surfaces. Standardization would also help 
researchers design and implement controlled, clinical studies by defining 
characteristics of surface evaluation, making it possible to replicate research 
activities. The first step toward standardization is to develop a 
performance-based set of criteria for classifying these surfaces. With respect 
to the three purposes identified: comfort, postural control and pressure 
management, only parameters that can be measured noninvasively, have been 
considered. The nine parameters are life expectancy of the surface, skin 
moisture control, skin temperature control, redistribution of pressure, product 
service requirements, fail safety, infection, flammability, and patient/product 
friction. Specific guidelines for each of these nine parameters are discussed in 
depth. With testing and evaluation of support surfaces standardized, clinicians 
will be able to choose a surface to meet the needs of patients the same way they 
make other treatment decisions: based on outcomes and the results of controlled, 
clinical studies.

PMID: 7779232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. J Heart Lung Transplant. 1995 Mar-Apr;14(2):236-43.

Heart transplantation in the United Kingdom: who waits longest and why.

Sharples LD(1), Roberts M, Parameshwar J, Schofield PM, Wallwork J, Large SR.

Author information:
(1)MRC Biostatistics Unit, Institute of Public Health, Cambridge, United 
Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: This study aims to identify characteristics that increase the chance 
of death of potential cardiac transplant recipients before donor organs become 
available.
METHODS: Between June 1, 1988, and May 31, 1993, 332 patients were accepted for 
heart transplantation; 235 underwent surgery. Ninety-seven patients had not 
received transplants; of these, 71 died, 13 were transferred to other lists, and 
13 were awaiting organs at the close of the study. Median waiting time for those 
patients who received organs was 109 days, whereas patients who did not receive 
organs spent a median of 94 days on the list. Recipients are matched to donor 
organs according to blood group, size (height), and, recently, preoperative 
transpulmonary pressure gradient. Recently cytomegalovirus antibody mismatches 
(positive donor to negative recipient) have been avoided where possible. These 
factors, together with age, gender, underlying diagnosis, previous heart 
surgery, and Toxoplasma antibody status were studied to assess their influence 
on waiting time and survival.
RESULTS: No characteristics were found significantly to influence survival after 
acceptance, so that the chance of death while the patient was waiting for heart 
transplantation is mainly affected by the severity of disease and the length of 
time a patient waits. In multivariate analyses the following were independently 
significantly associated with shorter waiting times: small patients (< 1.7 m 
tall; p = 0.005), patients with blood types B and AB (p = 0.003), and patients 
with cardiomyopathy (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: These results can be used by cardiologists to help assess the time 
at which a patient should be referred for transplantation.

PMID: 7779841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 1995;(4):52-9.

[Indicators of the state and effectiveness of cancer control in Russia].

[Article in Russian]

Dvoĭrin VV, Aksel' EM.

The paper analyses mortality rates due to malignant neoplasms and resultant 
socioeconomic losses, the risk of having and dying of these diseases throughout 
the coming life, the average longevity among cancer patients. These summarized 
indicators are considered by the authors as criteria for planning, managing, and 
implementing anticancer measures in the community.

PMID: 7780344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Qual Life Res. 1995 Apr;4(2):135-41. doi: 10.1007/BF01833607.

The Q-TWiST approach to assessing health-related quality of life in epilepsy.

Schwartz CE(1), Cole BF, Vickrey BG, Gelber RD.

Author information:
(1)Frontier Science and Technology Research Foundation, Inc., Brookline, MA 
02146, USA.

We propose to develop a methodology for evaluating clinical interventions for 
epilepsy in terms of their effects on disease-related outcomes, social cost and 
quality of life, while incorporating patient preference. The technique 
represents an extension of the 'quality-adjusted time without symptoms and 
toxicities' (Q-TWiST) method, which has been previously used to evaluate 
treatments for cancer and AIDS with respect to their costs in terms of 
toxicities, and benefits in terms of improved progression-free and overall 
survival. The extensions we propose to develop allow additional dimensions of 
quality of life relevant to epilepsy to be included in the analysis. We 
demonstrate a possible application of the proposed Q-TWiST method with a 
hypothetical example comparing surgery vs antiepileptic medication management 
alone for seizure control. The trade-offs between these alternative treatments 
are highlighted, along with patient importance weightings regarding various 
dimensions of quality of life. We describe further research needed to develop 
the methodology fully and comment on its potential usefulness.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01833607
PMID: 7780380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. J Neuroophthalmol. 1995 Mar;15(1):36-8.

Invasive aspergillosis. A complication of treatment of temporal arteritis.

Wiggins RE Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Asheville Eye Medical and Surgical Associates, North Carolina, USA.

Temporal arteritis is a systemic necrotizing vasculitis for which the only 
effective treatment is systemic corticosteroids. A review of the literature 
suggests that there is a significant mortality rate in untreated patients but 
that those patients who receive adequate corticosteroid treatment rarely 
experience a reduced life expectancy. I had the opportunity to evaluate a 
patient with temporal arteritis who eventually died from disseminated 
aspergillosis 6 weeks after beginning corticosteroid treatment. A high index of 
suspicion for infections with opportunistic organisms should be maintained in 
patients with temporal arteritis receiving corticosteroids.

PMID: 7780570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Cancer Res. 1995 Jun 15;55(12):2691-5.

Expression of peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor and diazepam binding 
inhibitor in human astrocytomas: relationship to cell proliferation.

Miettinen H(1), Kononen J, Haapasalo H, Helén P, Sallinen P, Harjuntausta T, 
Helin H, Alho H.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology, Medical School, University of Tampere, Finland.

The expression of peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor (PBR) and diazepam 
binding inhibitor (DBI) were studied in human astrocytic tumors using 
immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization. Both PBR and DBI were prominently 
expressed in neoplastic cells, whereas in normal brain their amount was low or 
undetectable. Immunocytochemical double staining demonstrated that PBR and DBI 
were present in the same cells, suggesting that DBI may act in an autocrine 
manner in these cells. Analysis of 86 cases showed that PBR expression was 
statistically significantly associated with tumor malignancy grade (P = 0.004) 
and the proliferative index as determined by immunocytochemistry with the MIB-1 
antibody (P = 0.004). Patients having tumors with high levels of 
PBR-immunoreactive cells had a shorter life expectancy than patients whose 
tumors showed lower PBR contents (P = 0.024). In conclusion, these results show 
that PBR expression is higher in neoplastic cells than in normal brain tissue. 
They also suggest that PBR immunocytochemistry might be useful in evaluating 
malignancy in brain tumors.

PMID: 7780986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Clin Exp Obstet Gynecol. 1995;22(2):143-4.

Substitutive hormonal treatment in postmenopause.

Gangemi M(1), De Candia O, De Candia R.

Author information:
(1)Inst. of Gynecology and Obstetrics, G.B. Revoltella, University of Padua.

The social impact of menopause is stressed by the actual life expectancy of 
women. One of the most important post-menopausal alterations--"osteoporosis"--is 
considered. Particular attention is focussed on therapeutical aspects.

PMID: 7781181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr. 1995 May;63(5):173-93. doi:
10.1055/s-2007-996615.

[The atypical neuroleptic clozapine (Leponex)--current knowledge and recent 
clinical aspects].

[Article in German]

Klimke A(1), Klieser E.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatrische Klinik der Heinrich-Heine-Universität, Rheinische Landes- und 
Hochschulklinik Düsseldorf.

The dibenzoepine derivative clozapine is seen as a prototype of an atypical 
neuroleptic, because clozapine has good antipsychotic efficacy but only minimal 
dopamine antagonistic properties in common animal paradigms. The latter is 
reflected by the observation that extrapyramidal symptoms during clozapine are a 
rare phenomenon. Furthermore, recent studies in the USA demonstrated a superior 
efficacy of clozapine in schizophrenic patients who are nonresponsive to classic 
neuroleptics. Therefore, the introduction of clozapine in the USA was performed 
in 1990 despite the well-known risk of agranulocytosis (1-2% during the first 
year of treatment); however, under restricted conditions regarding the mandatory 
weekly control of the white blood cell count. For the use of clozapine in 
Europe, it should be underlined that in 1992 the indication was restricted to 
"acute and chronic forms of schizophrenia" whereas formerly it was permitted to 
treat several other neuroleptic resistant syndromes with clozapine, e.g. severe 
psychotic excitement, aggressive behavior or manic or atypical psychosis. The 
usage of clozapine in these indications is now only permitted under the 
restricted legal conditions of a "therapeutic trial" in selected patients. 
However, several indications for which clozapine has been used successfully in 
Europe are currently re-investigated in the USA, hopefully leading to a 
redefinition and extension of the indication spectrum. On the other hand, the 
American multicenter trials lead to the conclusion that the treatment with 
clozapine is not furthermore the treatment of last choice but a serious 
therapeutic alternative which should be available for all schizophrenic patient 
in case of neuroleptic resistance or of severe side effects of standard 
neuroleptics. Clozapine treatment leads to an improvement of the quality of life 
in one third of these schizophrenics and, moreover, results in a marked 
reduction of costs mainly by reducing the rehospitalisation rates. On the other 
hand, the list of well-known side effects of clozapine (e.g. agranulocytosis, 
increased risk of seizures, initial sedation) has to be extended (e.g. transient 
leucocytosis or eosinophilia, rare but severe complications like 
cardiorespiratory arrest and "sudden death" during combination with 
benzodiazepines, case reports of pericarditis, pancreatitis or polyserositis). 
On the background of possible cardiorespiratory complications we recommend to 
start the first treatment with clozapine in high risk patients (e.g. those in 
older age or in case of organic brain impairment) only in restricted indications 
and only in centers with sufficient clozapine experience.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-996615
PMID: 7782019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. J Neurosurg. 1995 Jul;83(1):42-9. doi: 10.3171/jns.1995.83.1.0042.

Current implications for the efficacy of noninvasive screening for occult 
intracranial aneurysms in patients with a family history of aneurysms.

Obuchowski NA(1), Modic MT, Magdinec M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatics and Epidemiology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Ohio, 
USA.

Although the technology exists for accurate noninvasive screening for 
intracranial aneurysms, the efficacy of screening depends on several key 
parameters of the natural history of aneurysms. Recent studies suggest that the 
prevalence of intracranial aneurysms may reach 20% in the subpopulation of 
patients with a family history of these lesions; other key parameters are less 
certain. The authors investigated factors that impact the efficacy of screening 
to establish interim guidelines. Three plausible models for the natural history 
of aneurysms were constructed. For each model the monetary cost of screening and 
the average gain in life expectancy were computed for a range of screening ages 
and prevalence rates. It is shown that the efficacy of screening depends on the 
pattern of aneurysm rupture. If aneurysms develop and rupture rapidly, then 
screening has no benefit. On the other hand, if aneurysms remain at risk for 
some time after formation, then screening may improve average life expectancy 
depending on when it occurs. The authors recommend that patients with a positive 
family history of aneurysms who are 30 years of age or younger be screened. This 
recommendation is based on the belief that the gains attributable to screening, 
assuming a constant rupture rate, outweigh the losses attributable to screening 
using a decreasing rupture rate model.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1995.83.1.0042
PMID: 7782848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. J Hum Hypertens. 1995 Mar;9 Suppl 1:S17-24.

Evaluation and quality-of-life assessment of amlodipine and enalapril in 
patients with hypertension.

Omvik P(1), Herland OB, Thaulow E, Eide I, Midha R, Turner RR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University of Bergen, School of Medicine, Haukeland 
Hospital, Norway.

In this multicentre, double-blind trial in 461 patients with essential 
hypertension, amlodipine (5-10 mg once daily) and enalapril (10-40 mg once 
daily) were compared in terms of quality of life, efficacy and tolerability 
after 1 year of treatment (part 1). In part 2, 177 patients successfully treated 
with amlodipine in part 1 continued in an open evaluation of efficacy and safety 
of antihypertensive treatment with amlodipine for a further 2 years. In part 1, 
both drugs were similarly effective in lowering blood pressure (BP) (although 
significantly more enalapril patients required a diuretic) while maintaining 
quality of life. Apart from class-typical effects, such as oedema for calcium 
antagonists and cough for angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, both drugs 
were equally well tolerated, with few adverse effects of clinical significance. 
Only a few patients (eight amlodipine (4%), nine enalapril (4%)) were withdrawn 
from the trial because of drug-related adverse events, demonstrating that the 
tolerability was good. Neutral to slightly beneficial effects were found in 
blood lipid concentrations after treatment with amlodipine. The BP reduction 
seen in the amlodipine patients after part 1 was maintained during part 2. Also, 
blood lipids and safety variables remained virtually constant. It is concluded 
that, at similar BP reduction, quality of life is equally well maintained on 
amlodipine and enalapril therapy. Thus, amlodipine compares favourably with 
enalapril as an effective and well-tolerated anti-hypertensive agent over the 
first year. Additionally, amlodipine patients evaluated over a 2-year extension 
maintained good BP control and the drug was well tolerated.

PMID: 7783109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Lakartidningen. 1995 Jun 7;92(23):2418-20.

[Why do conductors live longer than composers? About working conditions, 
creation and re-creation].

[Article in Swedish]

Janlert U(1).

Author information:
(1)Institutionen för epidemiologi och folkhälsovetenskap, Umeå universitet.

PMID: 7783511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Med Decis Making. 1995 Apr-Jun;15(2):158-69. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9501500209.

Life expectancy biases in clinical decision modeling.

Kuntz KM(1), Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Clinical decision models often rely upon survival models predicated on 
disease-specific hazard functions combined with baseline hazard functions 
obtained from standard life tables. Two biases may arise in such a modeling 
process. First, life expectancy estimates may be biased even if estimates of 
survival probabilities are unbiased (misestimation bias). In simulation studies, 
the authors discovered that the magnitude of misestimation bias is larger as 
life expectancy increases, sample size decreases, and censoring percentage 
increases. In the context of a simple decision analysis, they found that 
