imbalances in the sample sizes for the data used to estimate the parameters 
among different strategies resulted in non-optimal decisions in the long run. 
The second bias stems from misspecification of the survival model itself 
(misspecification bias). Using a simple cost-effectiveness model, the authors 
found that life expectancies and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios differed 
depending on whether an excess-mortality or a proportional-hazards model was 
specified. In addition, a predictable pattern was observed for these two 
survival models when extrapolated to other age and gender groups.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9501500209
PMID: 7783577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1995 Jun 3;125(22):1092-102.

[Lung transplantation].

[Article in German]

Tamm M(1), Bolliger C, Solèr M, Perruchoud AP.

Author information:
(1)Departement of Innere Medizin, Universitätsklinik Basel.

Human lung transplantation was successfully performed in the early eighties and 
is now an option for patients with endstage lung disease, which is associated 
with poor survival. Most frequent indications for lung transplantation are 
emphysema, cystic fibrosis, fibrosing alveolitis, primary pulmonary hypertension 
and Eisenmenger's syndrome. Single lung transplantation (SLT) is most often 
performed in emphysema, fibrosing alveolitis and other diseases which are not 
associated with chronic infection of the lung. Double lung transplantation was 
recently replaced by the technique of sequential single lung or bilateral lung 
transplantation (BLT). Cardiopulmonary bypass can often be avoided and problems 
of the airway anastomosis are less frequent using BLT. Main indications for this 
procedure are cystic fibrosis, bronchiectasis and primary pulmonary hypertension 
(PPH). In PPH often only SLT is performed. Cor pulmonale is reversible following 
SLT or BLT even if the heart is not replaced. Combined heart-lung 
transplantation (HLT) is reserved for some cases of Eisenmenger's syndrome and 
few centers still prefer HLT in patients with cystic fibrosis. Patients are 
usually accepted for transplantation when they are considered to have life 
expectancy of 12 to 24 months. Quality of life and physical working capacity are 
severely decreased and patients suffer dyspnea NYHA grade III or IV. Most of the 
patients are hypoxic and need continuous oxygen therapy. Hypercapnia is also a 
negative predictive factor for survival without transplantation. In PPH cardiac 
index of less than 2 litres/m2 is associated with poor outcome. Not only 
absolute values for FEV1 and pO2 have to be considered in finding the best 
moment for assessment for transplantation but the clinical course of the disease 
during previous months and years also has to be taken into account. 
Contraindications to transplantation include acute infection, concomitant 
diseases of other organs, bronchial carcinoma and psychiatric disorders if 
noncompliance is likely. To achieve good results after lung transplantation, 
proper donor and recipient selection, experienced surgery and careful 
postoperative management are essential. Complications must be diagnosed early to 
provide effective treatment. Most complications occur within the first months 
after surgery. Early complications include primary organ failure, pleural 
bleeding, problems at the site of the airway anastomosis, infection and acute 
rejection. Acute rejection is common but can be treated successfully if 
diagnosed early.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 7784872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1994 Dec;87 Spec No 4:65-9.

[Reading of the trials in cardiac insufficiency; therapeutic studies (phases II 
B and III)].

[Article in French]

Cabanes L(1).

Author information:
(1)Service des maladies cardiovasculaires, hôpital Cochin, Paris.

The object of therapeutic trials in cardiac failure is to improve the quality of 
life by controlling the principal symptoms which are dyspnoea and tiredness on 
effort and to improve survival. A critical review of therapeutic trials in 
cardiac failure must examine whether these two objectives have been attained and 
if they are attained simultaneously. In some cases, there is symptomatic 
improvement but with decreased life expectancy whereas in others, survival is 
prolonged without adequate control of symptoms. A critical analysis should 
examine the pertinence of these criteria of efficacy, and confirm that the 
problem of survival has been assessed, that reliable data has been provided, 
that the study population is representative of the real population of the 
patients to be treated, and finally, that the experimental protocol is 
realistic, i.e. a prospective study with analysis of intention to treat.

PMID: 7786138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Aust N Z J Surg. 1995 Jun;65(6):454-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-2197.1995.tb01780.x.

Intracranial invasion from a primary adenocarcinoma arising in the middle and 
external ear.

McDonald M(1), Brophy BP, Raymond W.

Author information:
(1)Flinders Medical Centre, Adelaide, South Australia.

Cerumenal adenocarcinoma is a rare neoplasm arising from the modified sweat 
glands of the ear. Before the diagnosis of primary tumour is made, a thorough 
search must be undertaken to exclude the possibility of metastatic disease, 
which occurs more commonly. Benign adenoma can also occur and this may be 
identical histologically to the malignant variety. The presence of local 
invasiveness may be the only differentiating feature. Aggressive local resection 
followed by postoperative radiotherapy form the cornerstone of management. 
Individuals treated with radiotherapy alone have a life expectancy of less than 
12 months whereas cures have been reported with radical surgery.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.1995.tb01780.x
PMID: 7786273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Ann Vasc Surg. 1995 Mar;9(2):172-8. doi: 10.1007/BF02139660.

Is infrapopliteal bypass compromised by distal origin of the proximal 
anastomosis?

Brothers TE(1), Robison JG, Elliott BM, Arens C.

Author information:
(1)Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, USA.

Distal origination of the proximal anastomosis (DOPA) of an infrapopliteal 
bypass beyond the adductor hiatus minimizes the length of graft required and 
optimizes use of scarce autogenous conduit. Sixty-two DOPA infrapopliteal 
revascularizations using autogenous vein performed for limb salvage over a 
7-year period were reviewed and compared with 203 concurrent infrapopliteal 
bypasses originating more proximally (POPA). Life-table analysis revealed no 
difference at 54 months between DOPA and POPA bypass with regard to primary 
patency (57% vs. 50%, respectively) or secondary patency (67% vs. 65%, 
respectively). Differences in limb salvage at 54 months between DOPA and POPA 
bypasses did not reach statistical significance (53% vs. 66%, p = 0.12), 
although DOPA fared worse. Inferior limb salvage results in all infrapopliteal 
bypasses were correlated with the presence of tissue necrosis (52% vs. 70%, p < 
0.001), which was more prevalent in patients undergoing DOPA bypass (71% vs. 
49%, p < 0.01). The long-term patency of infrapopliteal bypass appears only 
marginally affected by DOPA. However, the prognosis for limb salvage in this 
setting is compromised as a result of the virulent behavior of the 
atherosclerotic disease that spares the superficial femoral artery while 
predominantly involving the popliteal and tibial vessels.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02139660
PMID: 7786703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Ann Vasc Surg. 1995 Mar;9(2):187-96. doi: 10.1007/BF02139662.

Infrapopliteal polytetrafluoroethylene and composite bypass: factors influencing 
patency.

Fichelle JM(1), Marzelle J, Colacchio G, Gigou F, Cormier F, Cormier JM.

Author information:
(1)Clinique Bizet, Paris, France.

Between January 1, 1979, and December 31, 1988, 149 infrapopliteal 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) bypasses were performed in 145 patients with 
chronic, critical, limb-threatening ischemia. These operations represented 27.9% 
of 534 infrapopliteal bypasses performed during the same period. There were 92 
males and 53 females. Mean age was 71.8 +/- 12.3 years. Signs and symptoms of 
critical ischemia were gangrene, ulceration, and isolated rest pain in 101 
(69%), 23 (15.3%), and 25 (16.7%) cases, respectively. A composite 
(PTFE-saphenous vein) graft was used in 53 (35%) cases. In 96 prosthetic 
bypasses the distal anastomosis was performed using vein patch angioplasty in 65 
(44%) cases and directly in 31 (21%). The in-hospital mortality rate was 3.3%. 
Patency, limb salvage, and patient survival rates were plotted according to the 
actuarial method and the curves obtained were compared using the log-rank test. 
Actuarial survival rates were 68% +/- 5% and 57% +/- 7% at 3 and 5 years, 
respectively. Primary patency and lower limb salvage rates were 41% +/- 5% and 
68% +/- 6% at 3 years and 35% +/- 9% and 65% +/- 10% at 5 years, respectively. 
There was no statistically significant difference noted in primary patency rates 
at 3 years according to the type of bypass (composite or all-prosthetic: 36% vs. 
44%), the type of distal anastomosis (direct or vein patch angioplasty: 43% vs. 
45%), the site of distal anastomosis (upper or lower half of the leg: 38% vs. 
46%), lateral or medial placement of the bypass (39% vs. 43%), or according to 
whether or not it was a repeat operation (40% vs. 44%). In conclusion, patency 
rates using infrapopliteal PTFE bypasses are low. Certain technical approaches, 
although they do not seem to improve patency, definitely increase the 
feasibility of bypass and in our opinion decrease the risk of early failure in 
unfavorable anatomic settings. The limb salvage rates following infrapopliteal 
PTFE and composite bypass are encouraging and justify the use of routine distal 
revascularization, even in the absence of autogenous vein graft.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02139662
PMID: 7786705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Ann Vasc Surg. 1995 Mar;9(2):204-8. doi: 10.1007/BF02139665.

Symptomatic subclavian steal syndrome four decades after operation for dysphagia 
lusoria.

Ciocca RG(1), Wilkerson DK, Madson DL, Andrew CT, Graham AM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New 
Jersey, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick 08903, USA.

Congenital abnormalities of the aortic arch may lead to signs and symptoms of 
tracheal and esophageal obstruction secondary to a restrictive vascular ring. 
There are many case reports and monographs concerning the surgical management of 
dysphagia lusoria. This case provides the first example of long-term follow-up 
of surgical intervention for relief of dysphagia lusoria. A 45-year-old laborer 
presented with a several year history of episodic bilateral blindness and a more 
recent onset of "drop attacks." Notably this patient had presented at the age of 
18 months with difficulty breathing and eating since birth. The patient also had 
frequent upper respiratory infections and episodes of pneumonia. Workup revealed 
a right-sided aortic arch with a left ligamentum arteriosum. When he was first 
seen in our clinic, history and physical examination revealed claudication and 
diminished pulses in the left upper extremity. Arteriography and duplex studies 
confirmed reversal of flow in the patient's left vertebral artery. The 
arteriogram demonstrated the presence of a right-sided aortic arch and 
descending aorta along with the proximal stump of the previously ligated left 
subclavian artery. He underwent left carotid to left axillary artery bypass for 
the treatment of symptomatic subclavian steal syndrome. His symptoms have 
resolved with return of antegrade vertebral flow and the presence of normal 
pulses in the left arm. Congenital aortic abnormalities that lead to tracheal 
and esophageal compromise are numerous and varied. Surgical management requires 
a thorough understanding of the person's anatomy and preoperative planning. The 
life expectancy of patients with dysphagia lusoria necessitates consideration of 
the long-term consequences of surgical intervention.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02139665
PMID: 7786707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Ann Oncol. 1995 Feb;6(2):187-9. doi: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a059115.

A phase II trial of vinorelbine and thiotepa in metastatic breast cancer.

Fabi A(1), Tonachella R, Savarese A, Cirulli S, Tomao S, Conte E, Cognetti F.

Author information:
(1)Servizio di Oncologia Medica, Istituto Regina Elena per lo Studio e la Cura 
dei Tumori, Rome, Italy.

Comment in
    Ann Oncol. 1995 Feb;6(2):105-7.

BACKGROUND: Vinorelbine as single-agent has achieved an overall response rate of 
> 20% as second-line treatment and 40%-50% as first-line treatment. The aim of 
this study was to evaluate the activity and toxicity of the combination of 
vinorelbine and thiotepa as second-line treatment in patients with metastatic 
breast cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty-three patients (31: anthracycline-based 
chemotherapy, 16: high-dose epirubicin) were given vinorelbine 30 mg/m2 and 
thiotepa 12 mg/m2 d 1 and 8 every 21 days.
RESULTS: Among the 32 evaluable patients two complete responses and seven 
partial responses were observed, for an overall response rate of 28% (C.I. 
12-44). The median duration of response was 9 months and the median time to 
progression 6 months. Significant toxicity was primarily leukopenia (72%); 
anemia was also frequent (48%) as well as local phlebitis (39%).
CONCLUSION: The present study has shown this combination to be active as 
second-line treatment, and its toxic effects have been well tolerated. It should 
be considered a reasonable option for patients with metastatic disease who have 
already been treated with anthracyclines.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a059115
PMID: 7786825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Aust J Public Health. 1995 Apr;19(2):125-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.1995.tb00360.x.

Smoking in New Zealand: a census investigation.

Easton B(1).

Author information:
(1)Economic And Social Trust On New Zealand, Wellington.

New Zealand may well be unique in that in the 1976 and the 1981 Censuses of 
Population and Dwellings, persons over the age of 15 were asked about their 
cigarette smoking habits. The data are available on the basis of age and 
ethnicity, enabling an examination of the prevalence of ever-smoking by a cohort 
born some 80 years before the censuses were taken, at the end of the last 
century. Thus the effect of ever-smoking on mortality can be calculated. Ever 
regularly smoking reduced the life expectation of males by 11.7 years and 
females by 15.6 years. The corresponding reductions for Maori were 19.3 years 
and 23.8 years. The effect of smoking on health has been of epidemic 
proportions, notably for the Maori.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.1995.tb00360.x
PMID: 7786935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Gesundheitswesen. 1995 Apr;57(4):223-8.

[Frequency analysis for achieving health goals--II: Analysis of mortality tables 
for cause of death, expected mortality].

[Article in German]

Schott J(1), Haberland J, Baier WK, Bergmann KE.

Author information:
(1)Robert-Koch-Institut, Bundesinstitut für übertragbare und nichtübertragbare 
Krankheiten, Berlin.

The article gives algorithms to calculate mean ages at death for specific 
causes, based on life table models. Parameters of interest are death due to a 
specific cause, dying after the "elimination" of the specific cause, or the 
transition into a "new" structure of mortality when a specific cause of death 
vanishes. The setbacks of widely used calculations are discussed in this 
context. These different approaches are demonstrated by means of data pertaining 
to accident and cardiovascular mortality of the male population of Berlin 
(West). The estimated impact on life expectancy varies according to both the 
mathematical model and the specific cause of death: differences are negligible 
in mortality due to accidents, whereas the results differ considerably in 
cardiovascular causes of death. The algorithm suggested allows to constrain the 
calculations to specific age groups. Topics such as "avoidable death" and 
"health objectives" have to be aware of these different methods.

PMID: 7787374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Leuk Lymphoma. 1995 Feb;16(5-6):431-7. doi: 10.3109/10428199509054430.

Treatment of newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) by all 
transretinoic acid (ATRA) combined with chemotherapy: The European experience. 
European APL Group.

Fenaux P, Chastang C, Chomienne C, Castaigne S, Sanz M, Link H, Löwenberg B, Fey 
M, Archim-Baud E, Degos L, et al.

All transretinoic acid (ATRA) gives complete remission (CR) rates of 80 to 90% 
in newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). However, it has two major 
drawbacks (1) a rapid rise in WBC in some patients, with potentially fatal ATRA 
syndrome (2) rapid relapse with maintenance therapy using ATRA alone or low dose 
chemotherapy. The French APL group therefore designed a treatment approach with 
ATRA followed by intensive chemotherapy. The latter was administered after CR 
achievement with ATRA, or was rapidly added to ATRA in case of rapid rise in 
leukocyte counts. This combined approach, in a pilot study and in a randomized 
trial, proved superior to intensive chemotherapy alone, by slightly increasing 
the CR rate but more importantly by reducing the relapse rate. These results 
were confirmed by the Chinese, Japanese and New York groups. Our group (and 
other European groups) are now testing in a new randomized trial the better 
timing of ATRA and chemotherapy administration (ATRA followed by chemotherapy or 
ATRA plus chemotherapy) and the role (after an intensive consolidation) of 
maintenance treatment with intermittent ATRA, continuous low dose chemotherapy 
or both.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199509054430
PMID: 7787753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Leuk Lymphoma. 1995 Feb;16(5-6):439-44. doi: 10.3109/10428199509054431.

Treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia in patients presenting at Vancouver 
General Hospital from 1983 to 1992.

Tezcan H(1), Barnett MJ, Bredeson CN, Reece DE, Shepherd JD, Dalal BI, Horsman 
DE, Klingemann HG, Nantel SH, Spinelli JJ, et al.

Author information:
(1)Leukemia/Bone Marrow Transplantation Program of British Columbia, Vancouver 
General Hospital, Canada.

Between 6/83 and 8/92, 23 of 361 patients (6.4%) presenting at Vancouver General 
Hospital with acute myelogenous leukemia had acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). 
Treatment plan was: 1) induction with high-dose cytosine arabinoside and an 
intercalator; and 2) consolidation with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation 
(BMT) for those aged < or = 50 years with a sibling donor or repeat of induction 
for the the others. Complete remission (CR) was achieved in 20 patients (87%). 
Eleven patients in CR were eligible for allogeneic BMT; 4 were considered 
unsuitable, 2 refused, and 5 underwent this treatment--1 died of acute 
graft-versus-host disease, 1 relapsed and 3 are leukemia-free and well 1.6, 3.3 
and 3.9 years after diagnosis. Fifteen patients did not undergo allogeneic BMT 
in CR; 4 received no further treatment and all died, 2 relapsed before 
consolidation therapy and both died, 1 underwent autologous BMT and died of 
complications, and 8 received consolidation treatment as planned--1 died of 
sepsis, 2 relapsed and 5 are leukemia-free and well 1.0, 3.8, 4.5, 4.9 and 8.5 
years after diagnosis. The actuarial overall survival for all 23 patients was 
38% (95% confidence interval [CI] 18-57%). The actuarial 2-year leukemia-free 
survival was 60% (95% CI 20-85%) for the 8 patients who underwent consolidation 
chemotherapy as planned and 53% (95% CI 68-86%) for the 5 patients who underwent 
allogeneic BMT in CR. These results suggest that patients with APL who are able 
to undergo consolidation chemotherapy have a relatively good prognosis and 
allogeneic BMT may reasonably be held in reserve for salvage therapy.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199509054431
PMID: 7787754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Dokl Akad Nauk. 1995 Apr;341(4):566-8.

[Paternal age and lifespan of the offspring].

[Article in Russian]

Gavrilov LA, Gavrilova NS, Snarskaia NP, Semenova VG, Evdokushkina GN, Gavrilova 
AL, Lapshin EV, Evdokushkina NN.

PMID: 7787786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Clin Rheumatol. 1995 Mar;14(2):228. doi: 10.1007/BF02214952.

Clinical variability and life expectancy in osteogenesis imperfecta.

Paterson CR.

Comment on
    Clin Rheumatol. 1993 Dec;12(4):447-52.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02214952
PMID: 7789069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Diabetes. 1995 Jun;44(6):608-13. doi: 10.2337/diab.44.6.608.

HLA-DQB1*0602 is associated with dominant protection from diabetes even among 
islet cell antibody-positive first-degree relatives of patients with IDDM.

Pugliese A(1), Gianani R, Moromisato R, Awdeh ZL, Alper CA, Erlich HA, Jackson 
RA, Eisenbarth GS.

Author information:
(1)Barbara Davis Center for Childhood Diabetes, University of Colorado Health 
Sciences Center, Denver 80262.

HLA-DQB1 alleles confer susceptibility and resistance to insulin-dependent 
diabetes mellitus (IDDM). We investigated whether the susceptibility alleles 
DQB1*0302 and DQB1*0201 affect progression to diabetes among islet cell 
antibody-positive (ICA+) first-degree relatives of IDDM patients and whether the 
protective allele DQB1*0602 can be found and is still protective among such 
relatives. We human leukocyte antigen-typed and periodically tested beta-cell 
function (first-phase insulin release [FPIR] during the intravenous glucose 
tolerance test) in 72 ICA+ relatives, of whom 30 became diabetic on follow-up 
(longest follow-up 12 years); 54 (75%) relatives carried DQB1*0302 and/or 
DQB1*0201. The frequency of DQB1*0302 and DQB1*0201 and of the high-risk 
genotype DQB1*0302/DQB1*0201 did not differ significantly between diabetic 
relatives and those remaining nondiabetic. On follow-up, progression to IDDM was 
not statistically different for relatives with or without the 
DQB1*0302/DQB1*0201 genotype. However, those relatives with the 
DQB1*0302/DQB1*0201 genotype had a tendency to develop diabetes at an earlier 
age (log-rank P = 0.02). We found DQB1*0602 in 8 of 72 (11.1%) ICA+ relatives. 
Relatives with DQB1*0602 did not develop diabetes or show any decline of FPIR 
versus 28 of 64 DQB1*0602- relatives who developed IDDM (log-rank P = 0.006; 
Wilcoxon's P = 0.02). The protective allele DQB1*0602 is found in ICA+ relatives 
who have minimal risk of progression to IDDM. Therefore, DQB1*0602 is associated 
with protection from IDDM both in population studies and among relatives with 
evidence of autoimmunity who should not enter prevention trials.

DOI: 10.2337/diab.44.6.608
PMID: 7789622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Genetics. 1995 Apr;139(4):1567-83. doi: 10.1093/genetics/139.4.1567.

Genes that regulate both development and longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Larsen PL(1), Albert PS, Riddle DL.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biology Program, University of Missouri, Columbia 65211, USA.

The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans responds to conditions of overcrowding and 
limited food by arresting development as a dauer larva. Genetic analysis of 
mutations that alter dauer larva formation (daf mutations) is presented along 
with an updated genetic pathway for dauer vs. nondauer development. Mutations in 
the daf-2 and daf-23 genes double adult life span, whereas mutations in four 
other dauer-constitutive genes positioned in a separate branch of this pathway 
(daf-1, daf-4, daf-7 and daf-8) do not. The increased life spans are suppressed 
completely by a daf-16 mutation and partially in a daf-2; daf-18 double mutant. 
A genetic pathway for determination of adult life span is presented based on the 
same strains and growth conditions used to characterize Daf phenotypes. Both 
dauer larva formation and adult life span are affected in daf-2; daf-12 double 
mutants in an allele-specific manner. Mutations in daf-12 do not extend adult 
life span, but certain combinations of daf-2 and daf-12 mutant alleles nearly 
quadruple it. This synergistic effect, which does not equivalently extend the 
fertile period, is the largest genetic extension of life span yet observed in a 
metazoan.

DOI: 10.1093/genetics/139.4.1567
PMCID: PMC1206485
PMID: 7789761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Surg Neurol. 1995 Apr;43(4):333-9. doi: 10.1016/0090-3019(95)80058-o.

Shunt failure in adult hydrocephalus: flow-controlled shunt versus differential 
pressure shunts--a cooperative study in 289 patients.

Decq P(1), Barat JL, Duplessis E, Leguerinel C, Gendrault P, Keravel Y.

Author information:
(1)Service de Neurochirurgie, CHU Henri Mondor, Creteil, France.

BACKGROUND: In order to assess the efficiency of flow-controlled shunts in 
reducing shunt failure in the treatment of adult hydrocephalus (with a special 
focus on overdrainage complications), a series of 289 patients was analyzed 
through a retrospective and comparative study performed in three neurosurgical 
departments.
METHODS: A group of 142 adult patients suffering from hydrocephalus were 
operated on using a conventional differential pressure (DP) shunt and compared 
with a group of 147 adult patients operated on using flow-controlled (FC) system 
(Orbis-Sigma, Cordis). Only the first complication, which required a surgical 
revision within the first 2 years after shunt implantation, was taken into 
account for each patient and analyzed using life-table methods.
RESULTS: The actuarial risk of shunt infection in the two groups is respectively 
8.3% and 10.9% at 1 year (nonsignificant difference). The actuarial risk of 
mechanical complications at 1 year is 38% for the DP patients and 10% for the FC 
patients (p = 0.0001); this difference is largely due to a decrease of 
complications related to overdrainage phenomenon (14/142 subdural collections 
were observed in the DP group versus 1/147 in the FC group) (p = 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: The conclusion of this cooperative and retrospective study is that 
the use of a flow-controlled system decreases the risk of mechanical 
complications related to the hydrodynamic properties of the shunts used in the 
treatment of adult hydrocephalus, especially those related to overdrainage.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-3019(95)80058-o
PMID: 7792701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Surg Neurol. 1995 Apr;43(4):363-6. doi: 10.1016/0090-3019(95)80065-o.

Giant cephalhematoma in a 15-year-old boy. Unilateral amaurosis as the main 
complication.

Aguas J(1), Conde C, Fructuoso GG, Mondelo FJ, Ferrer E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Hospital Clínic i Provincial, University of 
Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: The term "cephalhematoma" is applied to a collection of blood under 
the periosteum of a skull bone. It most frequently occurs in the neonatal period 
and is rare at other times of life.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We report on a 15-year-old boy with a subperiosteal 
hematoma involving the whole cranial surface. Surgical drainage was performed. 
In the immediate postoperative course, the patient developed a progressive 
decrease in the right eye visual acuity. An orbital computed tomographic scan 
revealed the retro-orbital subperiosteal extension of the hematoma. A second 
surgical procedure was necessary to obtain visual recovery.
CONCLUSIONS: The occurrence of cephalhematoma in adults is exceptional. However, 
it may lead to serious complications. Surgical treatment should be aimed to 
avoid retro-orbital extension of the hematoma.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-3019(95)80065-o
PMID: 7792707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Zentralbl Gynakol. 1995;117(5):225-9.

[Women live longer].

[Article in German]

Schneider HP.

PMID: 7793162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Am J Surg. 1995 Jul;170(1):69-74. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(99)80257-8.

Diagnosis and management of malignant pleural effusions.

Fenton KN(1), Richardson JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Louisville School of Medicine, Kentucky 
40292, USA.

Approximately half of all patients with metastatic cancer develop malignant 
pleural effusions. Because the patients are already terminally ill, these 
effusions can present significant diagnostic and therapeutic challenges. 
Symptoms are either present at the time of diagnosis or develop subsequently in 
virtually all cases. The diagnosis is based on chest radiography followed by 
thoracentesis or thoracoscopy. Most malignant effusions are exudative and about 
one third are bloody. Cytology is positive for cancer cells in the initial 
pleural fluid specimens from 60% of patients who are ultimately shown to have 
malignant effusions. The remaining 40% require a repeat thoracentesis, pleural 
biopsy, thoracoscopy, or multiple procedures to prove the presence of cancer. 
Because the average life expectancy of a patient with a malignant pleural 
effusion is about 6 months, it is important to obtain a diagnosis expeditiously 
and formulate a treatment plan that optimizes quality of life. Tube thoracostomy 
with chemical pleurodesis using doxycycline or bleomycin is the mainstay of 
current treatment and is about 85% effective.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(99)80257-8
PMID: 7793501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. N Engl J Med. 1994 Jul 21;331(3):193-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199407213310311.

Decisions about life-threatening risks.

Keeney RL(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California, Los Angeles 90089-0021.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1995 Apr 6;332(14):963-4.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199407213310311
PMID: 7794298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Blood. 1995 Jul 1;86(1):409-10.

Wider benefits of leukodepletion of blood products.

Copplestone JA, Williamson P, Norfolk DR, Morgenstern GR, Wimperis JZ, 
Williamson LM.

PMID: 7795251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Surg Oncol Clin N Am. 1995 Apr;4(2):277-86.

Continent and orthotopic urinary diversion following radical cystectomy. Should 
these reconstructive procedures now be considered standard of care?

Boyd SD(1), Skinner E, Lieskovsky G, Skinner DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Southern California School of Medicine, 
Los Angeles, USA.

Our extensive operative experience with various forms of the continent ileal 
reservoir in more than 1000 patients over the past 12 years has demonstrated 
clearly the extreme reliability and durability of this diversion system. Reflux 
reliably can be prevented and the upper urinary tracts protected. Patients can 
void or catheterize with confidence. Orthotopic diversions should now be 
available to most patients, both male and female. Patients should be able to 
live a more normal life style with a positive self image. We believe that 
because our modifications of the ileal reservoir systems have decreased the need 
for reoperation, these forms of continent urinary diversion have emerged as 
optimal operations and even as the standard of care in cystectomy patients. 
Ileal conduits should be reserved for poor-risk candidates with short-term life 
expectancy or for those patients not motivated for continent diversion. The most 
vocal advocates of the procedures remain those continent diversion patients who 
have had urinary diversion by another method. Patients still must be aware that 
complications can occur. Appropriate patient motivation and a thorough 
understanding of the continent diversion technique and its potential problems 
continue to be essential prerequisites of the operation. Although minor 
refinements to these systems will continue to be made, we feel that continent 
diversion, most often in the form of orthotopic reconstruction, can be offered 
safely and wisely most to patients.

PMID: 7796286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. CMAJ. 1995 Jul 1;153(1):19-25.

Hemophilia and von Willebrand's disease: 1. Diagnosis, comprehensive care and 
assessment. Association of Hemophilia Clinic Directors of Canada.

[No authors listed]

OBJECTIVE: To present current strategies for the assessment and comprehensive 
care of patients with hemophilia and von Willebrand's disease.
OPTIONS: Hospital care, home care, single-provider care and multidisciplinary 
care.
OUTCOMES: Morbidity and quality of life associated with bleeding and treatment.
EVIDENCE: Relevant clinical studies and reports published from 1974 to 1994 were 
examined. A search was conducted of own reprint files, MEDLINE, citations in the 
articles reviewed and references provided by colleagues. In the MEDLINE search 
the following terms were used singly or in combination: "hemophilia," "von 
Willebrand's disease," "Factor VIII," "Factor IX," "von Willebrand factor," 
"diagnosis," "management," "home care," "comprehensive care," "inhibitor," 
"AIDS," "hepatitis," "life expectancy," "complications," "practice guidelines," 
"consensus statement" and "controlled trial." The in-depth review included only 
articles written in English from North America and Europe that were relevant to 
human disease and to a predetermined outline. The availability of treatment 
products in Canada was also considered.
VALUES: Minimizing morbidity and maximizing functional status and quality of 
life were given a high value.
BENEFITS, HARMS AND COSTS: The optimal use of treatment procedures and home care 
offers patients the advantages of minimized disability, improved survival and 
financial benefit. It is also cost effective. Potential harm, including the risk 
of hepatitis B, hepatitis C and HIV infection, has now been minimized through 
viral inactivation of plasma-derived coagulation-factor concentrates and through 
the use of recombinant clotting factor concentrates and other non-plasma-derived 
hemostatic agents.
RECOMMENDATIONS: Patients with hemophilia and severe von Willebrand's disease 
should be followed in comprehensive care centres that offer expertise in the 
diagnosis, assessment and management of bleeding and complications and that can 
meet the educational and counselling needs of patients, family members and 
health care providers. Eligible patients should be enrolled in a home 
self-infusion program. Patients with hemophilia and von Willebrand's disease 
should wear or carry Medic Alert identification. They should be vaccinated 
against hepatitis B and attend for routine follow-up examinations. Laboratory 
testing should be carried out as required, and dental and surgical care should 
be undertaken in consultation with a hematologist.
VALIDATION: These recommendations were reviewed and approved by the Association 
of Hemophilia Clinic Directors of Canada (AHCDC) and the Medical and Scientific 
Advisory Committee of the Canadian Hemophilia Society. No similar consensus 
statements or practice guidelines are available for comparison.
SPONSORS: These recommendations were developed at the request of the Canadian 
Blood Agency, which funds the provision of all coagulation-factor concentrates 
for people with congenital bleeding disorders, and were developed and endorsed 
by the AHCDC and the Medical and Scientific Advisory Committee of the Canadian 
Hemophilia Society.

PMCID: PMC1337937
PMID: 7796372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Gastroenterology. 1995 Jul;109(1):177-88. doi: 10.1016/0016-5085(95)90283-x.

Screening blood donors for hereditary hemochromatosis: decision analysis model 
based on a 30-year database.

Adams PC(1), Gregor JC, Kertesz AE, Valberg LS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital, University of Western Ontario, 
London, Canada.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 1995 Jul;109(1):315-6.
    Gastroenterology. 1996 Feb;110(2):653-4.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: The high prevalence, morbidity, premature death, and benefit 
of early diagnosis and treatment make hemochromatosis a prime target for 
screening in the white population. Decision analysis techniques were used to 
compare the outcome, utility, and incremental cost savings of a plan to screen 
voluntary blood donors for hemochromatosis.
METHODS: The screening strategy includes sequential testing of serum unsaturated 
iron-binding capacity, serum transferrin saturation, serum ferritin, and either 
hepatic iron index or venesections to measure exchangeable body iron. Estimates 
of prevalence, asymptomatic intervals, probabilities of life-threatening 
clinical complications, symptom-specific life expectancy, and sensitivity and 
specificity of screening tests are based on our database of 170 hemochromatosis 
homozygotes and the published literature.
RESULTS: The screening strategy led to an incremental increase in utility of 
0.84 quality-adjusted life days with an incremental cost savings of $3.19 per 
blood donor screened. When the potential of identifying asymptomatic homozygous 
siblings was included, these values increased to 1.18 quality-adjusted life days 
and $12.57 per person screened. Screening remained a dominant strategy given a 
prevalence of hemochromatosis of > 0.0026 or an initial screening test cost of < 
$8.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening blood donors for hemochromatosis has the potential to 
improve overall societal health status and decrease third-party payer health 
care costs over the long-term.

DOI: 10.1016/0016-5085(95)90283-x
PMID: 7797016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Int J Epidemiol. 1995 Feb;24(1):106-13. doi: 10.1093/ije/24.1.106.

Time trends in cause-specific mortality in Estonia from 1965 to 1989.

Leinsalu M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Institute of Experimental and 
Clinical Medicine, Tallinn, Estonia.

BACKGROUND: During the last 30 years, in most developed countries, life 
expectancy has increased considerably. In Estonia, over the past half century, 
health and social policy was dictated by the Soviet socioeconomic system. In 
order to evaluate the consequences to health and to evaluate trends in health, 
cause-specific mortality was studied in Estonia.
METHODS: The study was based on national death records from 1965 to 1989. 
Mortality rates were computed for all causes of death combined and for 16 cause 
groups. Age-standardization (European population) was performed using 5-year age 
groups.
RESULTS: From 1965-1969 to 1985-1989, the age-standardized mortality rate for 
all causes combined increased by 4.0% for males and decreased by 1.5% for 
females. The greatest increase was observed for ages 45-54 among males (26.3%) 
and for ages 55-64 among females (7.0%). Very high death rates from circulatory 
diseases and high mortality from injuries and poisoning are of specific concern, 
particularly for males. Mortality from circulatory diseases continues to rise 
for ages 45-74 among males and for ages 55-64 among females. Mortality rates for 
neoplasms and endocrine disorders are also increasing; however, the mortality 
rates from respiratory and infectious diseases have shown a substantial 
decrease.
CONCLUSIONS: Chronic diseases, together with injuries and poisoning, remain a 
serious public health problem in Estonia. Preventive measures, including earlier 
detection of diseases as well as changes in social security and individual 
health behaviour are needed to improve the health of the population.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/24.1.106
PMID: 7797331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Int J Epidemiol. 1995 Feb;24(1):58-68. doi: 10.1093/ije/24.1.58.

Long-term prognosis of different forms of coronary heart disease: the Reykjavik 
Study.

Sigurdsson E(1), Sigfusson N, Agnarsson U, Sigvaldason H, Thorgeirsson G.

Author information:
(1)Heart Preventive Clinic, Reykjavik, Iceland.

BACKGROUND: While coronary heart disease (CHD) is a serious and often fatal 
disease the prognosis is variable and major effort has been invested in risk 
stratification. The purpose of this study was to examine the relation between 
long-term prognosis and risk factors in different clinical categories of CHD.
METHODS: A general population sample of 9141 men, aged 34-79 at entry into the 
study was divided into six groups with respect to manifestations of CHD at 
entry: I. Symptomatic infarction. II. Silent or unrecognized infarction. III. 
Angina pectoris with ischaemic changes on ECG. IV. Angina without ischaemic 
changes. V. Angina by Rose questionnaire but not confirmed by a physician. VI. 
No manifestations of CHD.
RESULTS: The risk factor profile varied considerably between the different 
categories and by life-table analysis marked differences in survival were 
demonstrated between the groups. The risk factors maintained their detrimental 
effects on prognosis in the presence of CHD. Thus, age, serum total cholesterol, 
impaired glucose tolerance and smoking were found by Cox's regression to be 
statistically significant independent risk factors of CHD mortality among men 
having manifestations of CHD (groups I-V). Furthermore, the composite risk 
score, a measure of the overall risk factor exposures had marked effect on the 
prognosis of the various CHD groups. When the comprehensive risk factor score 
for both CHD mortality and all-cause mortality was accounted for marked 
differences persisted in the long-term prognosis. Compared to those without CHD 
the infarct groups had about a 7.6- and 3.7-fold risk of dying from CHD and all 
causes respectively. Those with angina had from 2.5- to 3.2-fold risk of CHD 
mortality and 1.7- to 2.2-fold risk of all-cause mortality depending on the 
subgroup of angina, again compared to those without manifestations of CHD.
CONCLUSION: Different categories of CHD had different risk factor profiles and 
the long-term prognosis resulted from a complex interplay between those factors 
and the diagnostic category of CHD. The risk factors maintained their 
detrimental effects on prognosis in the presence of CHD and after accounting for 
the comprehensive risk factor score marked differences persisted in the 
long-term prognosis, being worst for those having suffered a myocardial 
infarction, either symptomatic or silent.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/24.1.58
PMID: 7797357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. J Fam Pract. 1995 Jul;41(1):33-41.

Prostate cancer screening: a decision analysis.

Cantor SB(1), Spann SJ, Volk RJ, Cardenas MP, Warren MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of Texas Medical Branch at 
Galveston, USA.

Comment in
    J Fam Pract. 1995 Dec;41(6):536-7.
    J Fam Pract. 1995 Aug;41(2):188-9.

BACKGROUND: The issue of whether to screen men for prostate cancer is 
controversial. No randomized clinical trials have been completed to confirm the 
efficacy of screening for prostate cancer. We created a mathematical model of 
the clinical risks and benefits of screening for prostate cancer.
METHODS: A Markov decision-analytic model evaluated the outcomes of annually 
screening asymptomatic men for prostate cancer beginning at age 50 years. The 
screening and testing algorithm included the digital rectal examination, 
transrectal ultrasound, and prostate-specific antigen test. A sample of 10 male 
patients with no history of prostate disease were interviewed to assess their 
utilities (preferences) regarding the various adverse outcomes of prostate 
cancer treatment.
RESULTS: The model indicated that no screening was preferred to screening when 
patients' utilities were considered (24.14 vs 23.47 quality-adjusted life years 
expected). The optimal decision was sensitive to the utilities of impotence and 
urethral stricture, the most common adverse outcomes for patients under the age 
of 65 years. When adverse outcomes of treatment were ignored, screening was 
favored (24.86 vs 24.22 years of life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: When quality-of-life preferences of men are considered, the annual 
screening of asymptomatic patients for prostate cancer is not recommended.

PMID: 7798064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1995 Jan;25(1):163-70. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(94)00357-v.

Improvement in exercise capacity of candidates awaiting heart transplantation.

Stevenson LW(1), Steimle AE, Fonarow G, Kermani M, Kermani D, Hamilton MA, 
Moriguchi JD, Walden J, Tillisch JH, Drinkwater DC, et al.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Division, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard University 
School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

OBJECTIVES: This study determined the frequency of improvement in peak oxygen 
uptake and its role in reevaluation of candidates awaiting heart 
transplantation.
BACKGROUND: Ambulatory candidates for transplantation usually wait > 6 months to 
undergo the procedure, and during this period symptoms may lessen, and peak 
oxygen uptake may improve. Whereas initial transplant candidacy is based 
increasingly on objective criteria, there are no established guidelines for 
reevaluation to determine who can leave the active waiting list.
METHODS: All ambulatory transplant candidates with initial peak oxygen uptake < 
14 ml/kg per min were identified. Of 107 such patients listed, 68 survived 
without early deterioration or transplantation to undergo repeat exercise. A 
strategy of reevaluation using specific clinical criteria and exercise 
performance was tested to determine whether patients with improved oxygen uptake 
could safely be followed without transplantation.
RESULTS: In 38 of the 68 patients, peak oxygen uptake increased by > or = 2 
ml/kg per min to a level > or = 12 ml/kg per min after 6 +/- 5 months, together 
with an increase in anaerobic threshold, peak oxygen pulse and exercise heart 
rate reserve and a decrease in heart rate at rest. Increased peak oxygen uptake 
was accompanied by stable clinical status without congestion in 31 of 38 
patients, and these 31 were taken off the active waiting list. At 2 years, their 
actuarial survival rate was 100%, and the survival rate without relisting for 
transplantation was 85%.
CONCLUSION: Reevaluation of exercise capacity and clinical status allowed 
removal of 31 (29%) of 107 ambulatory transplant candidates from the waiting 
list with excellent early survival despite low peak oxygen uptake on initial 
testing. The ability to increase peak oxygen uptake, particularly with increased 
peak oxygen pulse, may indicate improved prognosis as well as functional 
capacity and, in combination with stable clinical status, may be an indication 
to defer transplantation in favor of more compromised candidates.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(94)00357-v
PMID: 7798496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. J Homosex. 1994;27(1-2):11-34. doi: 10.1300/J082v27n01_02.

Ambiguity and the image of the king.

Mack RT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of History of Art, University of California at Berkeley, CA 94720.

The following essay explores problems posed by a recently-published fresco 
(dated to the first century AD) that depicts Alexander the Great standing 
opposite an unknown female figure. The fresco is unusual in its use of 
conventional or codified figure types, in particular a widely-found statue type 
known as the "Alexander with the Lance," and for its placement of Alexander in 
anecdotal relation with a woman. While discussions of the picture thus far have 
tried to identify the scene depicted (by reference to histories of Alexander's 
life), the following analysis takes the difficulty of doing so itself as a 
motivated aspect of the image. I argue that the fresco's mode of representation 
is to bring together figure types whose conventional fields of meaning are in 
conflict with one another, and then to highlight this conflict in order to 
comment upon the fields (or figure types) themselves. In this case, the fresco's 
ambiguity in signification (the undecidability of its reference) enables a 
highly strategic critique of the "Alexander with the Lance" because the latter, 
as a prototypical "image of the king," depends upon the necessary and 
transparent extension of its signs. By virtue of the anecdotal relation between 
"Alexander" and the depicted female figure (an Aphrodite type) the fresco's 
critique reveals the close association between the claims for representation 
made by the image of the king and the patriarchal structures of power they seek 
to instantiate. The fresco thus offers remarkably direct data for understanding 
the intersection of representation and gender in the early Roman empire. I 
suggest in conclusion that because the image seems also to posit a specifically 
gendered (male) gaze, its critique is extended to the spectator and thereby 
provides data for understanding the intersection of the practice of 
representation (here, viewing) and gender.

DOI: 10.1300/J082v27n01_02
PMID: 7798598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. JAMA. 1995 Jan 11;273(2):100.

From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Mortality patterns--United 
States, 1992.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7799478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Jpn J Pharmacol. 1994 Jul;65(3):289-91. doi: 10.1254/jjp.65.289.

Anticancer effects of adriamycin-loaded hydroxyapatite implants determined in a 
Swarm rat chondrosarcoma model.

Yamamura K(1), Iwata H, Osada T, Yotsuyanagi T, Nabeshima T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hospital Pharmacy, Nagoya University School of Medicine, Japan.

We investigated the antitumor effects of adriamycin (ADR)-loaded hydroxyapatite 
(HAP) beads in a Swarm rat chondrosarcoma model. When one ADR-loaded HAP bead 
(ADR: 0.8 mg/bead) was implanted into the central portion of a rat bearing 
tumor, the ADR-loaded HAP beads showed good therapeutic effects, increasing the 
life span (ILS) by 90%. Significantly, leukopenia and diarrhea were not 
observed. These results suggest that HAP delivery offers an interesting and a 
potentially effective method.

DOI: 10.1254/jjp.65.289
PMID: 7799530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Maturitas. 1994 Oct;19(3):191-7. doi: 10.1016/0378-5122(94)90071-x.

Health of Indonesian women city-dwellers of perimenopausal age.

Samil RS(1), Wishnuwardhani SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Indonesia, Jakarta.

In the last few years more women of climacteric age, living in urban areas, have 
been seeking medical care. In 1989, on the invitation of 6 women's organizations 
in Jakarta and other cities, the Indonesian Menopause Society gave talks and 
held discussions in cooperation with the Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynaecology, Faculty of Medicine of the University of Indonesia/Dr. Cipto 
Mangunkusumo Hospital, Jakarta. These occasions were used to accumulate data 
from women participants of 40 years of age and older. The age of the respondents 
ranged between 40-59 years. Most were 42 years old (13.9%). Ninety-four percent 
were still married. Twenty-five percent had three living children. Sixty-three 
