percent of the respondents were high school graduates who worked full time 
(33%), part time, or were unemployed. The average menarche age was 13 and 
menopausal age 50-51. Menopausal complaints were rare, hence medical 
consultations were rare. Tranquilizers were prescribed for those who did seek 
medical help. This data constitutes the basis of the formulation of a strategy 
to solve menopause related problems in Indonesia, where female life expectancy, 
and the contribution of women to society, is on the increase.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-5122(94)90071-x
PMID: 7799825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Nephrol News Issues. 1994 Dec;8(12):21-5.

International health care models: a comparative analysis. Part II.

Bednar B, DiMarcello P.

PMID: 7800068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Orthopedics. 1994 Sep;17(9):789-92. doi: 10.3928/0147-7447-19940901-15.

An algorithm for the management of femoral neck fractures.

Cuckler JM(1), Tamarapalli JR.

Author information:
(1)Div of Orthopedic Surgery, University of Alabama at Birmingham 35294-3295.

The choice of total hip arthroplasty should probably be reserved for those rare 
patients with preexisting osteoarthritis of the hip in the setting of a 
subcapital hip fracture. Additionally, relative indications for total hip 
arthroplasty may include the presence of contralateral hip disease; the presence 
of metabolic bone disease, which may controvert internal fixation or reasonable 
results with endoprosthetic replacement; and those patients with high activity 
expectations or life expectancy greater than 5 years. Given the diminished 
performance of hemiarthroplasty with time and activity, it may be argued that 
the most cost effective solution to the subcapital hip fracture in the majority 
of patients may be the reduction and internal fixation pathway, with elective 
conversion, when necessary, of the approximately 25% of patients who suffer 
avascular necrosis to total hip arthroplasty. It appears that hemiarthroplasty 
is best suited for the elderly household ambulator, whereas total hip 
arthroplasty is the better alternative either as the elective solution to failed 
internal fixation of femoral neck fractures or in the occasional community 
ambulator with high activity expectations and irreducible femoral neck 
fractures. Younger patients, and those with minimally displaced fractures, 
should be treated with internal fixation in an attempt to preserve the natural 
hip joint.

DOI: 10.3928/0147-7447-19940901-15
PMID: 7800601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Soc Sci Med. 1994 Nov;39(9):1295-302. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(94)90361-1.

Policy implications of differential health status in East and West Europe. The 
case of Hungary.

Makara P(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Health Promotion, Budapest, Hungary.

Morbidity and mortality trends in Western and Eastern Europe have differed 
considerably during the past three decades, although the major unfavourable 
processes have been essentially the same in each of the Central European 
countries. The most striking feature has been the decline in average life 
expectancy and deterioration of age-specific mortality rates for the 
middle-aged, especially men. The former socialist government took no effective 
action. Due to the denial of social and environmental problems, social, health 
and environmental policy were underdeveloped and deformed. Partly inherited from 
previous historical traditions, wishful thinking, victimization and a 
patronizing attitude were primary ways of dealing with problems. In these 
circumstances even the few specially supported health education campaigns were 
doomed to fail. People depended on the omnipotent central state in vain to solve 
their problems so that health promotion based on the community and 
self-empowerment did not develop. During the early nineties, in Eastern and 
Central Europe no central political strategies were initiated or launched to 
combat the mortality and morbidity tendences. The economic and social 
prerequisites of a long-term gradual improvement in the health status are 
missing in Central and Eastern Europe. A declining standard of living due to 
recession, growing deprivation, poverty, unemployment and migration are 
unfavourable to improvements in health. In a time of crisis, with stress but 
without adequate skills of coping, forced adaptation associated with sudden 
changes and perceived failure have only made matters worse. There are no 
short-term 'solutions'.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(94)90361-1
PMID: 7801166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1994 Dec;171(6):1674. doi:
10.1016/0002-9378(94)90424-3.

Adverse tissue reaction after surgical management of stress incontinence with 
expanded polytetrafluoroethylene.

Querleu D, Debodinance P, Crépin G.

Comment on
    Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1993 Nov;169(5):1198-204.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(94)90424-3
PMID: 7802087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Anaesthesia. 1994 Nov;49(11):933-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2044.1994.tb04306.x.

Survival after intensive care. Comparison with a matched normal population as an 
indicator of effectiveness.

Ridley S(1), Plenderleith L.

Author information:
(1)Norfolk & Norwich Hospital.

The life expectancy for survivors of critical illness has not been reported in 
the United Kingdom. The aim of this study was to compare the long-term survival 
of intensive care patients with that of an age and sex-matched population. All 
patients admitted to a general intensive therapy unit over 4 years (n = 1168) 
were included in the study. Details of the survivors were forwarded to the 
Registrar General for Scotland, who then issued copies of death certificates as 
the survivors died. The survival curve of patients discharged from the intensive 
therapy unit was significantly different from that of the normal population. The 
risk of dying in the first year after discharge was 3.4 times higher (95% 
confidence intervals 2.7-4.2) than that in the normal population. It is not 
until the start of the fourth year after discharge that the probability of death 
matched that of the normal population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2044.1994.tb04306.x
PMID: 7802234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Laryngorhinootologie. 1994 Oct;73(10):518-22. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-997185.

[A computer simulation of outcome in early screening studies of cancers of the 
mouth cavity].

[Article in German]

Steinhart H(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitäts-HNO-Klinik Marburg.

The purpose of the simulation was to design a specific cancer screening 
programme for squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck to make detailed 
estimates of the outcomes of different screening programme options. Therefore, a 
mathematical model of screening (Eddy) was transformed and simulated with a 
computer programme. The model is designed as a Markov chain with 7 states and 
filled with clinical and epidemiological data. The results of the simulation are 
interpreted as representative for cancer of the oral cavity. Basing on the 
different system model outputs, mortality with and without screening, effect on 
life expectancy of the individual and the entire screened population, are 
discussed. For a screening interval of 6 months the increase in life expectancy 
for a person with cancer of the oral cavity is 5.3 years, for the entire 
population (men older than 40 years), however, life expectancy increases only by 
9.8 days. The proportion of patients saved from tumour-associated death rose to 
65%. The simulation showed a rapidly decreasing effect of the screening 
programme with longer screening intervals. Therefore, a public cancer screening 
programme is only useful with a screening interval of 6 months, and the effect 
on life expectancy is limited. For oropharynx and hypopharynx the possibilities 
of early stage detection of carcinomas are limited and nearly 60% of the cases 
with carcinoma of the larynx are already being treated at an early stage. The 
importance of public health education is emphasised.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-997185
PMID: 7802880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. G Chir. 1994 Aug-Sep;15(8-9):367-9.

[Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG)].

[Article in Italian]

Pontone P(1), Pecchioli L, Pimpinelli F, Bogliolo G, Pietropaolo V.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di III Clinica Chirurgica Generale e Terapia Chirurgica, Università 
degli Studi La Sapienza, Roma.

When gastric decompression or enteral feeding are needed for patients affected 
by neurological problems or neoplasias with a long life expectancy (months), PEG 
represents the method of choice because it has a lesser number of complications, 
needs a mild sedation, and has a lower cost compared to surgical techniques.

PMID: 7803211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 1994 Jul;46(1):45-52. doi:
10.1016/0020-7292(94)90308-5.

Effect of blood transfusion in patients with gynecologic malignancy.

McGehee RP(1), Dodson MK, Moore JL, Morrison FS, Bass JD, Burrow P, Morrison JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Mississippi Medical 
Center, Jackson.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the effect of blood transfusion on long-term outcome 
(disease-free interval, recurrence of disease after treatment, and survival) in 
women with invasive gynecologic malignancy.
METHODS: In this retrospective study, 125 patients with gynecologic malignancy 
were assessed over a 36-month period. The variable of whether patients received 
blood transfusion during therapy was used to divide the sample into two groups.
RESULTS: There were no differences in the age, ethnicity, and site-stage of 
tumor of the two groups. Treatments (surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, or 
multimodal) were similar between the two groups, as were initial hematocrits. 
The disease-free interval was significantly better in women who did not receive 
homologous blood (P < 0.001). Life table analysis illustrated that more patients 
were alive and free of disease if they did not receive blood (P < 0.001). 
Likewise, persistence-recurrence of cancer was more common in the transfusion 
group (P < 0.001). Finally, overall survival time was adversely affected by 
transfusion (P = 0.045).
CONCLUSIONS: The use of blood products in patients with invasive gynecologic 
cancer is associated with enhanced recurrence or persistence of malignancy, a 
decrease in the disease-free interval, and reduction in the probability of 
survival without evidence of disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0020-7292(94)90308-5
PMID: 7805983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Hepatology. 1995 Jan;21(1):77-82. doi: 10.1002/hep.1840210114.

Occurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma and decompensation in western European 
patients with cirrhosis type B. The EUROHEP Study Group on Hepatitis B Virus and 
Cirrhosis.

Fattovich G(1), Giustina G, Schalm SW, Hadziyannis S, Sanchez-Tapias J, Almasio 
P, Christensen E, Krogsgaard K, Degos F, Carneiro de Moura M, et al.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Semeiotica e Nefrologia Medica, University of Verona, Italy.

To examine the morbidity of compensated cirrhosis type B, a cohort of 349 
Western European, white patients (86% men; mean age, 44 years) with 
biopsy-proven cirrhosis was followed up for a mean period of 73 months and was 
studied for occurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and decompensation. At 
entry into the study all patients were tested for hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg; 
34% of patients were HBeAg-positive) and antibody to hepatitis delta virus 
(anti-HDV; 20% of patients were anti-HDV-positive); 48% of 252 patients tested 
were hepatitis B virus (HBV)-DNA-positive. During follow-up HCC developed in 32 
(9%) of the 349 patients and decompensation was observed in 88 (28%) of 317 
tumor-free patients. Five years after diagnosis, the probability of HCC 
appearance was 6% and the probability of decompensation was 23%. After the first 
episode of decompensation the probability of survival was 35% at 5 years. Cox's 
regression analysis identified three variables that independently correlated 
with HCC: age, serum levels of platelets, and liver firmness on physical 
examination. HBV (HBeAg or HBV-DNA) and HDV (anti-HDV) markers at presentation 
had no prognostic value for the development of HCC. In conclusion, a high 
proportion of patients with HBsAg-positive compensated cirrhosis do not 
experience worsening of their condition for several years, but once 
decompensation occurs life expectancy is poor. European, white patients with 
compensated cirrhosis type B are at consistent risk for HCC. Prognostic factors 
for HCC reflect an advanced stage of cirrhosis and support the hypothesis that 
development of a tumor could be the likely consequence of long-standing hepatic 
disease.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.1840210114
PMID: 7806171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. J Hand Surg Am. 1994 Sep;19(5):844-9. doi: 10.1016/0363-5023(94)90199-6.

Index finger extension and strength after extensor indicis proprius transfer.

Noorda RJ(1), Hage JJ, de Groot PJ, Bloem JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Academic Hospital, Free 
University, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

We reviewed the long-term morbidity of the donor index finger following extensor 
indicis proprius tendon transfer in 34 patients with an average follow-up period 
of 8 years. An extension lag of the donor index was found to present in 24 
patients. In all patients a reduced extension strength of the donor index finger 
was noticed, either measured dependently (with concurrent long finger extension) 
or independently (without long finger extension). Despite these findings, 30 of 
the patients described no limitations in their daily life activities. In nearly 
all patients the dependent extension strength was superior to the independent 
extension strength. To prevent an extension lag, the surgeon should avoid 
surgical trauma to the dorsal aponeurosis ("hood") by sectioning the index 
tendon proximal to the hood.

DOI: 10.1016/0363-5023(94)90199-6
PMID: 7806816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Med Decis Making. 1994 Oct-Dec;14(4):325-35. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9401400403.

An economic analysis of strategies for the use of contrast media for diagnostic 
cardiac catheterization.

Barrett BJ(1), Parfrey PS, Foley RN, Detsky AS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Epidemiology, Memorial University of Newfoundland, St. 
John's, Canada.

A decision tree model was used to estimate the incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) of low- as opposed to high-osmolality contrast 
media for cardiac angiography. Analyses were done from the viewpoints of a 
third-party payer and society using data from a randomized trial and the 
literature. Assuming low-osmolality media reduce the risk of myocardial 
infarction and stroke, the incremental cost per QALY gained with these media is 
$17,264 in high-risk or $47,874 in low-risk patients for a third-party payer. 
From a societal viewpoint, the corresponding costs are $649 and $35,509. These 
estimates are sensitive to the cost and volume of the contrast medium employed 
and to the estimate of reduction in severe adverse events with low-osmolality 
media. The authors conclude that, in the context of restricted budgets, limiting 
the use of low-osmolality media to high-risk patients is justifiable, as the 
incremental cost per QALY in high-risk patients may be reasonable and it is not 
certain that low-osmolality media prevent severe or fatal events. A considerable 
reduction in the cost per QALY gained is possibly by minimizing the volume of 
contrast medium used.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9401400403
PMID: 7808208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Med Decis Making. 1994 Oct-Dec;14(4):382-92. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9401400409.

A method for estimating the cost-effectiveness of incorporating patient 
preferences into practice guidelines.

Nease RF Jr(1), Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Family Medicine, Dartmouth Medical School, 
Hanover, New Hampshire 03756.

Many clinical practice guidelines fail to account for the preferences of the 
individual patient. Approaches that seek to include the preferences of the 
individual patient in the decision-making process (e.g., interactive videodisks 
for patient education), however, may incur substantial incremental costs. 
Developers of clinical practice guidelines must therefore determine whether it 
is appropriate to make their guidelines flexible with regard to patient 
preferences. The authors present a formal method for determining the 
cost-effectiveness of incorporating the preferences of individual patients into 
clinical practice guidelines. Based on utilities assessed from 37 patients, they 
apply the method in the setting of mild hypertension. In this example, they 
estimate that the cost-effectiveness ratio for individualized utility assessment 
is $48,565 per quality-adjusted year of life, a ratio that compares favorably 
with other health interventions that are promoted actively. This approach, which 
can be applied to any clinical domain, offers a formal method for determining 
whether the incorporation of individual patient preferences is important 
clinically and is justified economically.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9401400409
PMID: 7808213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Med Lav. 1994 Jul-Aug;85(4):327-43.

[Mortality rate and its statistical properties].

[Article in Italian]

Zocchetti C(1), Consonni D.

Author information:
(1)Istituti Clinici di Perfezionamento, Clinica del Lavoro Luigi Devoto, Milano.

The rate is an epidemiologic measure which has a widespread use in describing 
the occurrence of diseases. In this paper, with a didactic approach, the 
definition of the mortality (morbidity) rate is introduced following two ways of 
reasoning: firstly, in the context of survival analysis, as an instantaneous 
conditional probability of failure (either disease or death) (instantaneous 
risk) and, secondly, as a traditional measure of rapidity of change in time. We 
then proceed to highlight the differences, in terms of definition, 
interpretation, and application, between the concepts of rate and risk. As a 
next step the statistical properties of the rate are explored and it is 
explained why the variability of the measure is simply associated with the 
numerator (events) and not with the denominator (person-times) of the rate. In 
this context the Poisson distribution is commonly considered the probability 
distribution which better describes the statistical variability of the observed 
events, and examples of such a distribution are presented. When the number of 
deaths is sufficiently elevated the Poisson distribution can be adequately 
approximated by the Gauss distribution, which is simpler and in common use in 
occupational medicine, and formulas are presented to compute mean and variance 
of the rate in this situation. When the number of deaths is small a suggestion 
is made of making a log transformation of the rate (or of the deaths) before 
using the Gauss distribution: formulas are proposed for this situation, too. As 
a practical application of the statistical properties presented and as a 
concluding example, a confidence interval for the rate is computed. Numerical 
and graphical comparisons of the results deriving from the use of different 
formulas are described.

PMID: 7808349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Psychol Rep. 1994 Aug;75(1 Pt 2):547-58. doi: 10.2466/pr0.1994.75.1.547.

Relationship of job stressors to job performance: linear or an inverted-U?

Abramis DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Management and Human Resources Management, College of Business 
Administration, California State University, Long Beach 90840-8502.

This study evaluated the potential positive effects of stressors on job 
performance by examining the shape of the relation between stressors and job 
performance. The 281 respondents were a demographically and organizationally 
heterogeneous group from the Detroit area, who were employed during the study. 
They were given four structured in-home interviews, approximately 6 weeks apart, 
over a period of 18 weeks. Interviews were also conducted with a significant 
other, nonminated by each respondent from work life. Stressors examined were 
role ambiguity, role conflict, and job insecurity. Strains, also examined as 
potential stressors, were job dissatisfaction, anxiety, depression, and anger. 
Technical and social aspects of respondents' job performance were measured 
separately, as were absenteeism and tardiness. All zero-order Pearson 
correlations were either statistically significant and in predicted directions 
or essentially zero. All relationships were monotonic, suggesting that, for 
these stressors, their optimal amounts are generally zero. Results are discussed 
in terms of arousal and activation, information-processing, and expectancy 
theory.

DOI: 10.2466/pr0.1994.75.1.547
PMID: 7809330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Surgery. 1995 Jan;117(1):7-10. doi: 10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80223-5.

A prospective randomized comparison of Dacron and polytetrafluoroethylene aortic 
bifurcation grafts.

Friedman SG(1), Lazzaro RS, Spier LN, Moccio C, Tortolani AJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, North Shore, University Hospital and Cornell 
University Medical College, Manhasset, N.Y. 11030.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to compare the long-term results of 
Dacron and polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) aortic bifurcation grafts in a 
prospective randomized manner.
METHODS: Sixty patients with aortoiliac occlusive disease were randomized to 
receive Dacron or PTFE bifurcation grafts. Preoperative risk factors, 
perioperative blood loss and fluid requirements, and postoperative complications 
were compared. A mean follow-up of 57 months was achieved.
RESULTS: The immediate postoperative morbidity and mortality rates were similar 
in the two groups, and the long-term complications were low in number and 
comparable. The cumulative patency rate for Dacron graft limbs was 86% versus 
95% for PTFE graft limbs.
CONCLUSIONS: No significant differences were noted between the results achieved 
with Dacron and PTFE aortic bifurcation grafts.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80223-5
PMID: 7809840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1994;106(20):634-9.

[Austrian emergency medicine in an international comparison].

[Article in German]

Kroesen G(1), Baubin M, Schinnerl A.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Anästhesie und Allgemeine Intensivmedizin, Universität Innsbruck.

The emergency medical systems (EMS) in Europe are of a high quality partly due 
to the presence of an emergency doctor at the scene. In those countries without 
emergency doctors in the field, the emergency medical technicians (EMT) are 
allowed by law to carry out medical interventions due to their special education 
including more than 2000 hrs of first aid training (paramedics). The efficiency 
of the EMS is essentially improved by the presence of paramedics, especially in 
connection with the increasing frequency of cardiac arrests due to the high 
incidence of cardiovascular disorders. In the non-European states where the mean 
life expectancy is low (< or = 70 a) bystander training is rarely introduced. 
The EMS in Austria is of European standard in the structure of the rescue chain. 
Some links of this chain require correction and improvement: bystander training 
has not yet reached its optimal expanse; the profession of an EMT has to be 
urgently recognized by law; the gaping difference between EMS in urban areas and 
rural areas has to be eliminated; the limited capacity of emergency admittance 
to hospitals is a weak link in the chain of survival.

PMID: 7810144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Am J Cardiol. 1995 Jan 15;75(2):157-60. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(00)80066-1.

Life expectancy in the Marfan syndrome.

Silverman DI(1), Burton KJ, Gray J, Bosner MS, Kouchoukos NT, Roman MJ, Boxer M, 
Devereux RB, Tsipouras P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington 
06030.

Data reported in 1972 indicated that lifespan in patients with the Marfan 
syndrome is markedly shortened, and that most deaths are cardiovascular. This 
study was performed to determine whether survival in the Marfan syndrome has 
changed since 1972, and to discern whether treatment (medical or surgical) has 
altered prognosis. Survival curves were generated on 417 patients from 4 
referral centers, with a definite diagnosis of the Marfan syndrome. Birth date, 
age at death, cardiovascular surgery, or treatment with beta blockers, or any 
combination of these, were included in the analysis. Forty-seven of 417 patients 
died. Mean age at death (41 +/- 18 years) was significantly increased compared 
with age in 1972 (32 +/- 16 years, p = 0.0023). Median (50%) cumulative 
probability of survival in 1993 was 72 years compared with 48 years in 1972. Of 
112 surgically treated patients, 10-year probability of survival was 70%. 
Patients undergoing surgery after 1980 enjoyed significantly increased survival 
than patients who had undergone operation before 1980 (p = 0.008). In 
conclusion, life expectancy for patients with the Marfan syndrome has increased 
> 25% since 1972. Reasons for this dramatic increase may include (1) an overall 
improvement in population life expectancy, (2) benefits arising from 
cardiovascular surgery, and (3) greater proportion of milder cases due to 
increased frequency of diagnosis. Medical therapy (including beta blockers) was 
also associated with an increase in probable survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(00)80066-1
PMID: 7810492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Ann Vasc Surg. 1994 Sep;8(5):475-84. doi: 10.1007/BF02133068.

Femoropopliteal bypass with either adequate ipsilateral reversed saphenous vein 
or obligatory polytetrafluoroethylene.

Archie JP Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Wake Medical Center, Raleigh, N.C.

The results are presented of a 10-year experience with 312 femoropopliteal 
bypasses performed in 285 patients using ipsilateral autologous reversed greater 
saphenous vein when available and adequate and polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) 
when not. The indications for operation were severe claudication in 121 (39%), 
rest pain in 95 (30%), and minor tissue loss in 96 (31%) limbs. There were 235 
(75%) saphenous vein bypasses, of which 157 were above and 78 below the knee, 
and 77 (25%) PTFE bypasses, 58 above and 19 below the knee. Of these, 232 (79%) 
saphenous vein and 62 (21%) PTFE bypasses were primary procedures. The 30-day 
mortality rate was 3% (7/285) and the 30-day amputation rate was 2% (6/312). 
Overall, 24 (10%) saphenous vein and 30 (39%) PTFE grafts ultimately failed. The 
cumulative primary patency of all bypasses was 77% +/- 4% (mean +/- 1 SE) (85% 
to 69%, 95% confidence interval) at 3 years and 75% +/- 4% (86% to 64%) at 5 
years. Saphenous vein primary patency was superior to that of PTFE at 3 years, 
87% +/- 4% (97% to 77%) vs. 54% +/- 12% (65% to 41%), (p < 0.01), and at 5 
years, 81% +/- 6% (96% to 67%) vs. 48% +/- 16% (63% to 33%) (p < 0.01). 
Above-knee saphenous vein bypass primary patency was slightly better than 
below-knee patency at 3 years, 89% +/- 4% vs. 84% +/- 6%, and at 5 years, 83% 
+/- 7% vs. 80% +/- 8%. This was superior to above-knee PTFE patency at 3 years, 
54% +/- 14%, and at 5 years, 34% +/- 16% (p < 0.01). The overall PTFE failure 
rate was three to four times that of the saphenous vein rate. These results 
strongly support the use of autologous greater saphenous vein for all 
femoropopliteal bypasses when it is available and of good quality. PTFE grafts 
are valuable secondary conduits when the vein is not available or is inadequate. 
This series was not randomized since PTFE was used only in patients with 
inadequate or unavailable ipsilateral greater saphenous veins. When this 
protocol was followed, the patency rate for greater saphenous vein was excellent 
and its use is recommended for femoropopliteal bypass when it is available and 
of good quality.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02133068
PMID: 7811585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Blood. 1995 Jan 15;85(2):448-55.

A new staging system for multiple myeloma based on the number of S-phase plasma 
cells.

San Miguel JF(1), García-Sanz R, González M, Moro MJ, Hernández JM, Ortega F, 
Borrego D, Carnero M, Casanova F, Jiménez R, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, University Hospital of Salamanca, Spain.

In the present study, we analyzed the cell cycle distribution of bone marrow 
(BM) cells in 120 untreated multiple myeloma patients using a DNA/CD38 
double-staining technique at flow cytometry in which plasma cells (PCs) can be 
clearly discriminated from residual BM cells based on their CD38 expression. 
This approach allows us to determine the proliferative activity of both PCs and 
residual normal BM cells. The percentage of S-phase cells in the myelomatous 
population was found to be significantly lower than that of the residual normal 
BM cells (P < .001). Regarding the proliferative activity of myelomatous cells, 
patients with a high number of S-phase PCs (> 3%) showed a significantly (P < 
.05) increased incidence of anemia and hypercalcemia; higher values of beta 
2-microglobulin (beta 2M), urea, and creatinine; and higher numbers of 
peripheral blood natural killer cells, as well as a poor prognosis as assessed 
both by response duration and overall survival. With respect to the residual BM 
normal fraction, a low proliferative activity was significantly (P < .05) 
associated with the presence of anemia and neutropenia together with increased 
numbers of BM PCs, a higher incidence of Bence Jones myelomas, and DNA diploidy. 
Multivariate analysis showed that the number of S-phase PCs was the most 
important independent prognostic factor, allowing us to discriminate two 
subgroups of patients with different prognoses, even within the same clinical 
stage. Moreover, the S-phase PCs, together with beta 2M, age, and performance 
status, represent the best combination of disease characteristics for 
stratifying patients according to prognosis and allow the establishment of a 
simple and powerful staging system for multiple myeloma patients. In addition, 
this classification can be used for planning treatment in patients who are 
candidates for transplantation.

PMID: 7811998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Blood. 1995 Jan 15;85(2):500-9.

Elevated dihydrofolate reductase and impaired methotrexate transport as elements 
in methotrexate resistance in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Matherly LH(1), Taub JW, Ravindranath Y, Proefke SA, Wong SC, Gimotty P, Buck S, 
Wright JE, Rosowsky A.

Author information:
(1)Developmental Therapeutics Program, Michigan Cancer Foundation, Detroit 
48201.

A retrospective study of clinical resistance to methotrexate (MTX) was performed 
on 29 archival specimens of frozen lymphoblasts obtained from children with 
acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), including 19 at initial presentation and 10 
at first relapse. Blasts were assayed for dihydrofolate reductase and MTX 
transport by flow cytometry using the fluorescent methotrexate analog, PT430 
(Rosowsky et al, J Biol Chem 257:14162, 1982). In contrast to tissue culture 
cells, patient blasts were often heterogeneous for dihydrofolate reductase 
content. Of the 19 specimens at initial diagnosis, 7 exhibited dual blast 
populations, characterized by threefold to 10-fold differences in relative 
dihydrofolate reductase; the dihydrofolate reductase-overproducing populations 
comprised 12% to 68% of the total blasts for these specimens. Remission duration 
intervals for patients exhibiting dual blast populations were notably shorter 
than for patients expressing a single blast population with lower dihydrofolate 
reductase ( < or = 9 months v > or = 15 months, respectively), a difference that 
was statistically significant (P = .045). There was no apparent correlation 
between expression of increased dihydrofolate reductase at diagnosis and known 
patient and disease prognostic features (immunophenotype, age, sex, and white 
blood count). For the relapsed patients, 4 of 10 exhibited dual lymphoblast 
populations with elevated dihydrofolate reductase. The majority of the patient 
lymphoblast specimens were entirely competent for MTX transport and, likewise, 
expressed immunoreactive reduced folate carriers by indirect immunofluorescence 
staining with specific antiserum to the transporter. Three patients (2 at 
relapse and 1 at diagnosis) exhibited heterogeneous expression of imparied MTX 
transport (14% to 73% of blasts). In only 1 of these patients did the majority 
of the lymphoblasts (73%) show impaired MTX transport and for this specimen, 
immunoreactive carrier proteins were virtually undetectable. These results 
suggest that heterogeneous expression of elevated dihydrofolate reductase and 
impaired MTX transport are important modes of resistance in childhood ALL 
patients undergoing chemotherapy with MTX and that these parameters may serve as 
predictive indices of clinical response to MTX.

PMID: 7812005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Osteoporos Int. 1994 Sep;4(5):277-82. doi: 10.1007/BF01623352.

Symptomatic fracture incidence in elderly men and women: the Dubbo Osteoporosis 
Epidemiology Study (DOES).

Jones G(1), Nguyen T, Sambrook PN, Kelly PJ, Gilbert C, Eisman JA.

Author information:
(1)Garvan Institute for Medical Research, St Vincent's Hospital, NSW, Australia.

This longitudinal population-based study documents the incidence of all 
symptomatic fractures from 1989 to 1992 in an elderly, predominantly Caucasian 
population of males and females (> or = 60 years as at 1 January 1989) living in 
the geographically isolated region of the city of Dubbo, NSW, Australia. 
Fractures were ascertained by reviewing reports from all radiology services in 
the region. There were 306 fractures in 271 patients during the study period 
representing 11,401 person-years of observation. In the 60-80 year age group 
only 10% of fractures involved the hip, while in the over-80 age group this 
proportion rose to 41%. Incidence of distal forearm, hip and total fractures 
increased exponentially in both sexes with increasing age. Rib fractures were 
relatively common, with incidence rates for rib fractures similar to those for 
humeral fractures. Overall fracture incidence was 2685 per 100,000 person-years 
(males 1940 per 100,000 and females 3250 per 100,000). Residual lifetime 
fracture risk in a person aged 60 years with average life expectancy was 29% for 
males and 56% for females. Symptomatic fracture rates with the improved 
methodology in this study were higher than previously reported in both elderly 
males and females, with a marked preponderance of non-hip fractures in the 60-80 
year age group. These symptomatic fractures have previously been underestimated, 
if not largely ignored, in public health approaches including cost-benefit 
analyses of osteoporosis prevention and treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF01623352
PMID: 7812076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Chest. 1995 Jan;107(1):283-5. doi: 10.1378/chest.107.1.283.

Reversal of digital clubbing after lung transplantation.

Sansores RH(1), Villalba-Caloca J, Ramirez-Venegas A, Salas J, Carrillo G, 
Chapela R, Selman M.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Enfermedades Respiratorias, México D.F.

Digital clubbing is a common sign in a variety of lung diseases. Although its 
pathogenesis remains unclear, it is known that the degree of clubbing might vary 
and even disappear, particularly when the underlying disease is a malignant 
neoplasm that has been removed. By contrast, because of the short expectancy of 
life in patients with pulmonary fibrosis, it is unusual to observe regression of 
clubbing. In this work, we report a case of reversible clubbing after lung 
transplantation.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.107.1.283
PMID: 7813296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Eur J Haematol. 1994 Nov;53(5):280-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.1994.tb01320.x.

Life expectancy in primary myelodysplastic syndromes: a prognostic score based 
upon histopathology from bone marrow biopsies of 569 patients.

Maschek H(1), Gutzmer R, Choritz H, Georgii A.

Author information:
(1)Pathologisches Institut, Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, Germany.

The retrospective evaluation of bone marrow biopsies of 569 patients with 
primary myelodysplastic syndrome--pMDS--revealed 256 refractory anemias--RA--, 
52 refractory anemias with ringed sideroblasts--RARS--, 133 refractory anemias 
with excess of blasts--RAEB--, 52 refractory anemias with excess of blasts in 
transformation--RAEB-t--, and 53 chronic myelo-monocytic 
leukemias--CMMOL--according to FAB-criteria, 23 patients were not otherwise 
specified (myelodysplastic syndrome: not otherwise specified--MDS.NOS--). 
RARS-patients had the best prognosis (median survival 41.9 months, incidence of 
leukemia 3.8%), followed by RA-patients (26.5 months, 16.4%), MDS.NOS-patients 
(22.4 months, 21.7%), CMMOL-patients (12.5 months, 49.1%). RAEB- and 
RAEB-t-patients had the worst prognosis (median survival time 8.5 and 4.6 
months, incidence of leukemia 42.1% and 57.7%, respectively). But the survival 
times showed a considerable range in each FAB-subgroup with 0-154 months in RA 
or 0-52 months in CMMOL. To forecast life expectancy more precisely, a scoring 
system was developed using nine histopathological parameters, among which the 
three most important ones were determined: quantity of myeloblasts, 
myelofibrosis and ALIP's. The scoring system allows a determination of three 
risk groups with significantly different survival times. It is valid also for 
patients without increase of myeloblasts (< 5% myeloblasts in the bone marrow) 
and identifies high-risk MDS patients in this group. By this proposed scoring 
system, a prognostic approval in primary MDS can be achieved applying 
histopathology without regarding further methods herewith presenting a system 
which could be considered independently from hematologic, cytological or 
laboratory data.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.1994.tb01320.x
PMID: 7813708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 1994 Oct;47(1):39-44. doi:
10.1016/0020-7292(94)90459-6.

Malignant mixed Müllerian tumors of the uterus.

To WW(1), Ngan HY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Hong Kong, Queen Mary 
Hospital.

OBJECTIVE: To review the prognostic factors of Chinese women with mixed 
Müllerian tumors of the uterus.
METHOD: A retrospective review of 21 cases of malignant mixed Müllerian tumors 
of the uterus treated during the 10-year period from 1980 to 1990.
RESULTS: All patients except one were postmenopausal. The incidence of previous 
pelvic irradiation was 9.5%. The most common presenting symptom was abnormal 
vaginal bleeding. One-third of patients yielded an abnormal cervical smear. 
Treatment included surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy in the majority of 
patients. Prognosis was poor with only three long-term survivors, all with 
stage-I homologous tumors with superficial myometrial invasion. The survival 
rate for stage-I and -II disease at 2 years was 50% and for more advanced 
disease extending beyond the uterus was 0%. The survival rate for all stages at 
5 years was 14.3%, and the cumulative probability of survival at 5 years was 
0.165.
CONCLUSION: The most important prognostic factors appear to be the extent of 
tumor involvement at the time of diagnosis and the depth of myometrial invasion.

DOI: 10.1016/0020-7292(94)90459-6
PMID: 7813749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Int J Cardiol. 1994 Sep;46(2):113-9. doi: 10.1016/0167-5273(94)90031-0.

Clinical profile and natural history of Ebstein's anomaly of tricuspid valve.

Jaiswal PK(1), Balakrishnan KG, Saha A, Venkitachalam CG, Tharakan J, Titus T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences 
and Technology, Trivandrum, India.

There were 63 patients of Ebstein's anomaly of tricuspid valve encountered from 
1976 to 1991; 28 (44.4%) were male and 35 (55.6%) female. Their age at 
presentation ranged from 3 months to 51 years. Five (7.9%) patients were 
asymptomatic, 48 (76.2%) had class II-III exertional dyspnoea, palpitation or 
both. Thirty patients (47.6%) had cyanosis. Electrocardiogram showed paroxysmal 
atrial fibrillation in two, chronic atrial fibrillation in four (6.3%), 
paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia in seven, atrial or ventricular ectopic 
beats in five (7.9%), 2:1 atrioventricular block in one (1.6%), complete 
atrioventricular block in two (3.2%) and type B WPW syndrome in nine patients 
(14.3%). Chest X-ray showed diminished vascularity in 22 (34.9%). Diagnosis was 
established by cardiac catheterization and or echocardiography. Atrialized right 
ventricular chamber was demonstrated in 51 (80.9%) by angiography and in 40 
(63.5%) by electrophysiology. Patients were followed up for 1-172 months. 
Seventeen patients (26.9%) required surgery. Three patients (4.8%) died during 
medical follow-up, and five (7.9%) died following surgery. Survival probability 
for 46 medical patients was 88.9% at 172 months. Factors affecting survival were 
pulmonary blood flow, cyanosis, clubbing and systemic arterial oxygen 
saturation.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-5273(94)90031-0
PMID: 7814159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. J Hepatol. 1994 Oct;21(4):656-66. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8278(94)80115-0.

Survival and prognostic factors in 366 patients with compensated cirrhosis type 
B: a multicenter study. The Investigators of the European Concerted Action on 
Viral Hepatitis (EUROHEP).

Realdi G(1), Fattovich G, Hadziyannis S, Schalm SW, Almasio P, Sanchez-Tapias J, 
Christensen E, Giustina G, Noventa F.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinica Medica, University of Sassari, Italy.

A multicenter longitudinal study was performed to assess the survival of 
hepatitis B surface antigen positive compensated cirrhosis, primarily in 
relation to hepatitis B virus replication and hepatitis delta virus infection, 
and to construct a prognostic index based on entry characteristics. This cohort 
study involved nine university medical centers in Europe. Three hundred and 
sixty-six Caucasian HBsAg positive patients with cirrhosis who had never had 
clinical manifestations of hepatic decompensation were enrolled and followed for 
a mean period of 72 months (6 to 202 months). Inclusion criteria were 
biopsy-proven cirrhosis, information on serum hepatitis B e antigen and antibody 
to hepatitis D virus at the time of diagnosis and absence of complications of 
cirrhosis. At entry 35% of the patients were HBeAg positive, 48% of the patients 
tested were HBV-DNA positive and 20% anti-HDV positive. Death occurred in 84 
(23%) patients, mainly due to liver failure (45 cases) or hepatocellular 
carcinoma (23 cases). The cumulative probability of survival was 84% and 68% at 
5 and 10 years, respectively. Cox's regression analysis identified six variables 
that independently correlated with survival: age, albumin, platelets, 
splenomegaly, bilirubin and HBeAg positivity at time of diagnosis. According to 
the contribution of each of these factors to the final model, a prognostic index 
was constructed that allows calculation of the estimated survival probability. 
No difference in survival of hepatitis D virus infected and uninfected patients 
was observed. Termination of hepatitis B virus replication and/or biochemical 
remission during follow up correlated with a highly significant better survival. 
These data show that in compensated cirrhosis B, hepatitis B virus replication, 
age and indirect indicators of poor hepatic reserve and established portal 
hypertension significantly worsen the clinical course of the disease, whereas 
hepatitis D virus infection does not influence the prognosis. The highly 
significant improvement in life expectancy following cessation of hepatitis B 
virus replication and biochemical remission favors antiviral therapy in those 
patients with a guarded prognosis, as estimated by a prognostic index.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8278(94)80115-0
PMID: 7814813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Nature. 1995 Jan 19;373(6511):190-1. doi: 10.1038/373190a0.

Evolutionary biology. All's fair when love is war.

Keller L.

Comment on
    Nature. 1995 Jan 19;373(6511):241-4.

DOI: 10.1038/373190a0
PMID: 7816123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1994;9(10):1426-30.

Renal replacement therapy in cryoglobulinaemic nephritis.

Tarantino A(1), Moroni G, Banfi G, Manzoni C, Segagni S, Ponticelli C.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Ospedale Maggiore IRCCS, Milano, Italy.

Seventeen patients with nephritis due to mixed cryoglobulinaemia were submitted 
to regular haemodialysis in 11 and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis in 
six after 145 +/- 55 months from the onset of the disease. Four patients with 
very poor clinical conditions died within 6 months from the beginning of 
dialysis. The other 13 patients were followed for a mean period of 78.7 +/- 41.6 
months. The actuarial survival rate was 65% at 5 years. Both clinical and 
immunological signs of mixed cryoglobulinaemia reduced during dialysis but a 
long-lasting burn out was observed only in one patient. Two patients received a 
kidney graft. Mixed cryoglobulinaemia nephritis recurred in both of them 
respectively 5 and 10 months after transplantation. One patient lost his graft 
13 months after transplantation because of chronic rejection. The other one 
still has a functioning kidney 48 months after renal transplantation. The life 
expectancy with dialysis for mixed cryoglobulinaemia patients is similar to that 
of patients with standard primary renal disease but some few patients with 
severe disease at the beginning of dialysis have a poor prognosis. Nephritis may 
recur after renal transplantation but this does not preclude per se a favourable 
course in the long term.

PMID: 7816255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Sex Transm Dis. 1994 Sep-Oct;21(5):289-91. doi: 
10.1097/00007435-199409000-00007.

The impact of eliminating sterility on population growth.

Zaba B(1), Campbell OM.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Population Studies, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, United Kingdom.

PIP: The issue of this discussion is whether and to what extent treatment of 
infertility will contribute to a significant increase in fertility, and whether 
treatment of sexually transmitted diseases and infertility is justified as a 
humane effort to alleviate suffering, death, and the extent of impact on men, 
women, fetuses, and infants. The Brunham model produces estimates of the 
difference in the total fertility rate (TFR) due to sterility of between 9.7 and 
18.0. However estimates with more realistic assumptions about life expectancy, 
menarche, menopause, and union formation yield TFR differences between 2.1 and 
2.5. Accounting for secondary sterility and a more realistic simulation yields a 
change in the population growth rate of 0.8% and 0.9% compared to 2.5% and 1.9% 
in the Brunham model. The conclusion is that population growth rates would not 
be very likely to increase if sterility is eliminated. The Brunham model is an 
important attempt to model the effects of different assumptions about rates of 
partner exchange on disease prevalence and on sterility levels. The Brunham 
conclusion is that population growth rates increase by 50% or more when 
gonorrhea has a prevalence of 20% and a 12% probability of sterility per 6-month 
duration of illness. Chlamydia-related secondary sterility would not have quite 
as large an effect. Many other models are possible because of the many other 
fertility inhibiting factors. The Brunham model does not account for any age 
variation in fertility and mortality rates, which is not a realistic view of 
human behavior. The Brunham model also uses a very high mortality pattern, 
comparable to TFRs of 8.5 to 9.5 for a noncontracepting Hutterite natural 
fertility population, with short breast feeding, and universal marriage. When 
fecundability, exposure to risk of intercourse, postpartum and lactational 
amenorrhea, and coital frequency are taken into account, the impact of sterility 
is reduced. The proposed model accounts for sterility and postpartum amenorrhea, 
union formation, and coital frequency with realistic ages of menarche and 
menopause.

DOI: 10.1097/00007435-199409000-00007
PMID: 7817263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Aust N Z J Surg. 1995 Jan;65(1):66-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-2197.1995.tb01756.x.

Primary fibrosarcoma of the heart.

Coskun H(1), Bozkurt AK, Ozbay G, Demirkesen C, Kaynak K, Vural FS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Istanbul University 
Cerrahpasa Medical Faculty, Turkey.

A case of primary fibrosarcoma of the heart, which was diagnosed in a 17 year 
old man, is presented. Extensive tumour resection and postoperative radiation 
therapy was carried out. The patient is alive after 18 months after the 
operation. Although these tumours are associated with very poor survival, early 
diagnosis and combined therapy may prolong life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.1995.tb01756.x
PMID: 7818431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. N Engl J Med. 1994 May 26;330(21):1499-508. doi:
10.1056/NEJM199405263302107.

Medical aspects of the persistent vegetative state (1).

Multi-Society Task Force on PVS.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Nov 17;331(20):1380; author reply 1381.
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Nov 17;331(20):1380-1.
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Nov 17;331(20):1381.
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Nov 17;331(20):1381.

This consensus statement of the Multi-Society Task Force summarizes current 
knowledge of the medical aspects of the persistent vegetative state in adults 
and children. The vegetative state is a clinical condition of complete 
unawareness of the self and the environment, accompanied by sleep-wake cycles, 
with either complete or partial preservation of hypothalamic and brain-stem 
autonomic functions. In addition, patients in a vegetative state show no 
evidence of sustained, reproducible, purposeful, or voluntary behavioral 
responses to visual, auditory, tactile, or noxious stimuli; show no evidence of 
language comprehension or expression; have bowel and bladder incontinence; and 
have variably preserved cranial-nerve and spinal reflexes. We define persistent 
vegetative state as a vegetative state present one month after acute traumatic 
or nontraumatic brain injury or lasting for at least one month in patients with 
degenerative or metabolic disorders or developmental malformations. The clinical 
course and outcome of a persistent vegetative state depend on its cause. Three 
categories of disorder can cause such a state: acute traumatic and non-traumatic 
brain injuries; degenerative and metabolic brain disorders, and severe 
congenital malformations of the nervous system. Recovery of consciousness from a 
posttraumatic persistent vegetative state is unlikely after 12 months in adults 
