and children. Recovery from a nontraumatic persistent vegetative state after 
three months is exceedingly rare in both adults and children. Patients with 
degenerative or metabolic disorders or congenital malformations who remain in a 
persistent vegetative state for several months are unlikely to recover 
consciousness. The life span of adults and children in such a state is 
substantially reduced. For most such patients, life expectancy ranges from 2 to 
5 years; survival beyond 10 years is unusual.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199405263302107
PMID: 7818633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Am J Hypertens. 1994 Sep;7(9 Pt 2):69S-72S. doi: 10.1093/ajh/7.9.69s.

Prognostic significance of microalbuminuria.

Viberti G(1).

Author information:
(1)United Medical and Dental School, Guy's Hospital, London, United Kingdom.

Diabetic nephropathy is the only increasing cause of renal failure in the 
Western world. It affects a large proportion of both insulin-dependent (IDDM) 
and non-insulin-dependent diabetic (NIDDM) patients. A critical stage in the 
development of diabetic renal disease is the onset of microalbuminuria, defined 
as an albumin excretion rate of 30 to 300 mg/day. Microalbuminuria predicts 
progression to renal failure and early cardiovascular mortality in both IDDM and 
NIDDM patients. Microalbuminuria is associated with a constellation of other 
risk factors for small and large vessel damage which include raised blood 
pressure, poor glycemic control, plasma lipid and clotting factor abnormalities, 
left ventricular hypertrophy, and insulin resistance. Treatment with 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors corrects microalbuminuria and prevents 
progression to persistent proteinuria. Good blood glucose control significantly 
reduces the risk of progression from normoalbuminuria to microalbuminuria. The 
treatment of microalbuminuria appears highly cost-beneficial and substantially 
increases life expectancy. The development of microalbuminuria, for which all 
diabetic patients aged 12 to 70 years should be screened, should alert the 
physician to set in motion a program of assessment, monitoring, and correction 
of all risk factors for renal and cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1093/ajh/7.9.69s
PMID: 7818838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Gesundheitswesen. 1994 Nov;56(11):581-6.

[Trends in nursing care requirements in German 1990-2050--results of demographic 
projections].

[Article in German]

Heigl A(1), Rosenkranz D.

Author information:
(1)Lehrstuhl für Bevölkerungswissenschaft, Universität Bamberg.

Since the political agreement on the financing of elderly primary care, the 
question of the determinants for both the absolute number of elderly persons 
requiring care and the care burden is of particular importance. The probable 
demographic effects of a change in immigration and mortality rates in Germany 
are shown with the aid of various models. A higher life expectancy under the 
condition of a stable age-specific care quota leads to a substantial increase in 
the need for elderly care. Similarly, the future care burden will not remain 
stable with an increased immigration of young people; rather it will increase as 
well. It can thus be predicted that the problem of the care burden as well as 
its financing will remain an important topic in the future for demographic 
reasons alone.

PMID: 7819667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. BMJ. 1994 Dec 17;309(6969):1657. doi: 10.1136/bmj.309.6969.1657.

Medicine's core values. Medical care does add to life expectancy.

Bunker JP.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1995 Feb 25;310(6978):529.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1994 Oct 29;309(6962):1099-100.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.309.6969.1657
PMCID: PMC2542008
PMID: 7819956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Stat Methods Med Res. 1994;3(3):244-62. doi: 10.1177/096228029400300304.

Some approaches to the analysis of recurrent event data.

Clayton D(1).

Author information:
(1)MRC Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge, UK.

Methodological research in biostatistics has been dominated over the last twenty 
years by further development of Cox's regression model for life tables and of 
Nelder and Wedderburn's formulation of generalized linear models. In both of 
these areas the need to address the problems introduced by subject level 
heterogeneity has provided a major motivation, and the analysis of data 
concerning recurrent events has been widely discussed within both frameworks. 
This paper reviews this work, drawing together the parallel development of 
'marginal' and 'conditional' approaches in survival analysis and in generalized 
linear models. Frailty models are shown to be a special case of a random effects 
generalization of generalized linear models, whereas marginal models for 
multivariate failure time data are more closely related to the generalized 
estimating equation approach to longitudinal generalized linear models. 
Computational methods for inference are discussed, including the Bayesian Markov 
chain Monte Carlo approach.

DOI: 10.1177/096228029400300304
PMID: 7820294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Cardiovasc Surg. 1994 Oct;2(5):561-6.

Carotid endarterectomy for non-hemispheric ischaemia: long-term follow-up.

Ricotta JJ(1), O'Brien MS, DeWeese JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, State 
University of New York at Buffalo.

Earlier results reported by the authors suggest that carotid endarterectomy can 
relieve symptoms of non-hemispheric ischemia in patients who present with 
hemodynamically significant carotid stenosis. Long-term follow-up of a subgroup 
of these patients is described. Some 61 patients with non-hemispheric ischemia 
who underwent carotid endarterectomy were reviewed. Indications for surgery and 
postoperative results (stroke, death, symptom relief) were determined by office 
visit or phone interview. Results in these patients were compared with those of 
an entire patient population who underwent endarterectomy performed by the 
authors. Mean (s.d.) follow-up was available for 42.3 (31.7) months. 
Perioperative stroke rate (4.9%), survival (85.3 and 64.9% at 3 and 5 years 
respectively) and stroke-free survival (77.1 and 63.4% at 3 and 5 years 
respectively) were not different from that entire cohort of 553 patients. During 
follow-up, 11 patients (18%) developed recurrent symptoms of non-hemispheric 
ischemia. Carotid endarterectomy is successful in providing long-term relief of 
symptoms of non-hemispheric ischemia in most patients with significant carotid 
bifurcation stenosis. Results in such patients are similar to those seen in 
patients with symptoms of anterior cerebral ischemia or with symptom-free 
stenoses.

PMID: 7820514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. J Am Anim Hosp Assoc. 1995 Jan-Feb;31(1):65-9. doi:
10.5326/15473317-31-1-65.

Primary rib tumors in 54 dogs.

Pirkey-Ehrhart N, Withrow SJ, Straw RC, Ehrhart EJ, Page RL, Hottinger HL, Hahn 
KA, Morrison WB, Albrecht MR, Hedlund CS, et al.

Fifty-four dogs with primary tumors of the rib were evaluated. Thirty-four dogs 
had osteosarcomas, 15 dogs had chondrosarcomas, three dogs had hemangiosarcomas, 
and two dogs had fibrosarcomas. Forty-nine dogs had en bloc excision. Within the 
osteosarcoma group, nine animals received postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy. 
These animals had significantly longer median disease-free intervals (225 days) 
and median survival times (240 days) than dogs with osteosarcoma treated by 
surgery alone (median disease-free interval, 60 days; median survival, 90 days). 
Chondrosarcoma had a better prognosis (median disease-free interval, 1,080 days; 
median survival, 1,080 days) than osteosarcoma, hemangiosarcoma, or fibrosarcoma 
of the rib. Age, weight, sex, number of ribs resected, tumor volume, and total 
cisplatin dose did not influence survival nor disease-free interval.

DOI: 10.5326/15473317-31-1-65
PMID: 7820767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Eur Neurol. 1994;34 Suppl 3:20-8. doi: 10.1159/000119538.

Levodopa and dopamine agonists in the treatment of Parkinson's disease: 
advantages and disadvantages.

Ogawa N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Okayama University Medical School, Japan.

Recent studies have suggested that free radicals play a key role in the 
progression of Parkinson's disease (PD). Although levodopa is the most effective 
therapeutic agent in the treatment of PD and has improved the quality of life 
and increased life expectancy, its beneficial effects are not permanent. 
Long-term treatment with levodopa produces a variety of side effects in patients 
with PD. We have previously reported that levodopa may accelerate the 
progression of PD in certain patients. To determine whether neuronal damage can 
be caused by levodopa overdoses, we estimated the effects of levodopa on free 
radical formation. Electron spin resonance spectrometry showed that levodopa 
oxidation produced levodopa radicals. Furthermore, chronic administration of 
levodopa increased thiobarbituric acid-reacting substances (TBARS) in various 
brain regions of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA; i.c.v.)-pretreated mice, although 
levodopa administration in control mice had no effect on TBARS. These results 
indicate that high dose levodopa accelerates neuronal degeneration in some 
parkinsonian brains. We then evaluated the protective effects of bromocriptine 
on striatal dopaminergic neurons, with determination of dopamine (DA) and its 
metabolites as markers. Pretreatment of bromocriptine completely protected mice 
against the decreases in striatal DA and its metabolites induced by 
intracerebroventricular injection of 6-OHDA, while levodopa/carbidopa had no 
protective effects. Furthermore, in an in vitro system that generated .OH from 
FeSO4-H2O2, bromocriptine dose-dependently scavenged .OH. These findings clearly 
indicate that bromocriptine has neuroprotective effects against neurotoxins such 
as 6-OHDA, probably due in part to its free redical scavenging 
activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1159/000119538
PMID: 7821332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Indian Heart J. 1994 May-Jun;46(3):165-70.

Primary pulmonary hypertension: natural history and prognostic factors.

Rajasekhar D(1), Balakrishnan KG, Venkitachalam CG, Tharakan JA, Titus T, 
Subramanian R, Kumar VK, Bhat A, Pillai VR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences 
& Technology, Trivandrum, India.

A retrospective cohort study was carried out in 61 patients (30 males, 31 
females, age 24.6 +/- 11.8 years) with primary pulmonary hypertension diagnosed 
by strict clinical and hemodynamic criteria, to obtain an understanding of the 
natural history and prognostic markers. While 15 patients were alive, 46 
patients (76%) had expired during the follow up period. Two, five and ten years 
survivals were 48%, 32% and 12% respectively. Median survival duration from time 
of diagnosis was 22 months. The survivors had significantly higher age of onset, 
cardiac index and significantly lower right atrial mean pressure, right 
ventricular end diastolic pressure, cardiothoracic ratio from chest rontgenogram 
and calculated pulmonary vascular resistance as compared to non survivors. While 
pulmonary artery systolic pressure was not significantly different, pulmonary 
artery diastolic and pulmonary artery mean pressures were significantly lower in 
survivors than in non-survivors. Lower New York Heart Association class, right 
atrial mean pressure < or = 7 mm Hg, right ventricular end diastolic pressure < 
or = 10 mmHg, cardiac index > 2.5 L/min/m2, pulmonary arterial oxygen saturation 
> 60%, were associated with significantly longer survival. The degree of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension had an indirect prognostic effect through the 
above parameters. Vasodilator therapy did not significantly alter the outcome of 
patients with primary pulmonary hypertension.

PMID: 7821939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. J Cardiol. 1994 Nov-Dec;24(6):461-8.

Cost effectiveness of radiofrequency catheter ablation versus medical treatment 
for paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia in Japan.

Ikeda T(1), Sugi K, Enjoji Y, Kasao M, Abe R, Ninomiya K, Yabuki S, Yamaguchi T.

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Internal Medicine, Ohashi Hospital, Toho University 
School of Medicine, Tokyo.

This study evaluated the cost of performing radiofrequency catheter ablation in 
Japanese patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia refractory to 
antiarrhythmic drug therapy in comparison with the cost of continuing 
pharmacologic treatment. Twenty patients (mean age 44 +/- 14 years) underwent 
successful ablation: 15 patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome and five 
with atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia. The mean duration of symptoms 
was 77 +/- 60 months. The patients had been treated with 2.6 +/- 1.7 
antiarrhythmic drugs before undergoing ablation. Charges derived from hospital 
bills were compared with the outpatient charges for the year before ablation. 
The mean hospital stay for the ablation procedure was 4.3 +/- 0.5 days. The mean 
total charge for ablation was 982,806 yen +/- 103,195, and 5.7 +/- 0.7 times the 
outpatient charges in the previous year. The majority of radical cure charges 
were the costs of the electrode catheters used in the ablation procedure. All 
patients had a successful outcome and required no additional antiarrhythmic drug 
therapy. If medical treatment were continued without ablation, the mean total 
life-expectancy charges were estimated at 7,064,726 yen +/- 3,116,621, 41.0 +/- 
19.2 times the outpatient charges. The total life charges of medical treatment 
were significantly more than the total ablation charges (p < 0.001). This study 
suggests that radiofrequency catheter ablation is of clinical benefit in 
treating paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia, and markedly reduces the cost 
of definitive therapy. This strategy appears to be more economical than 
pharmacologic treatment.

PMID: 7823285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Life Sci. 1995;56(4):259-66. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(94)00920-1.

Attenuation of the magnitude of suckling-induced prolactin release with 
advancing lactation: mechanisms.

Shanti AS(1), Subramanian MG, Savoy-Moore RT, Kruger ML, Moghissi KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ob/Gyn, Wayne State University and Hutzel Hospital, Detroit, MI 
48201.

To study why suckling-induced plasma prolactin levels decline in magnitude with 
advancing lactation, we examined prolactin release in lactating rats following 
suckling and pharmacologic manipulations during early, mid- and late lactation. 
On day 2 of lactation, litters were adjusted to 8 pups. On day 3, dams were 
implanted with an atrial catheter and experiments were conducted on lactation 
days 5, 11 and 17. To examine suckling-induced prolactin release, pups were 
removed at 0800 h, an extension was attached to the catheter at 1100 h, and pups 
returned to dams at 1200 h. Blood samples were obtained before, and at 10, 30, 
60, 90 and 120 min after suckling started. Prolactin responses to sulpiride and 
thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) administration were studied in lactating 
rats separated from their litters for 4 hours. Blood samples were obtained 
before, and at 10, 30, 60 and 90 min after sulpiride (10 or 40 micrograms/kg BW) 
and 5, 10, 20 and 30 min after TRH (1 or 4 micrograms/kg BW) in rats pretreated 
with sulpiride. Prolactin release in response to suckling, administration of 
sulpiride or sulpiride and TRH diminished as lactation advanced. From these 
results, we conclude that refractoriness in anterior pituitary lactrotropes to 
prolactin-releasing stimuli is at least partially responsible for the decline in 
suckling-induced prolactin release with advancing lactation.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(94)00920-1
PMID: 7823785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Radiology. 1995 Feb;194(2):337-41. doi: 10.1148/radiology.194.2.7824708.

Thrombosed dialysis grafts: comparison of treatment with transluminal 
angioplasty and surgical revision.

Schwartz CI(1), McBrayer CV, Sloan JH, Meneses P, Ennis WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery, Chicago College of 
Osteopathic Medicine, Midwestern University, Ill.

PURPOSE: To compare the usefulness of transluminal angioplasty coupled with 
thrombectomy versus surgical revision coupled with thrombectomy in the 
restoration and maintenance of flow in thrombosed dialysis access grafts.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-four patients undergoing 28 angioplasty procedures 
were retrospectively compared to 24 patients who underwent 33 surgical revisions 
with a minimum 12-month follow-up period. All patients had thrombosed upper-arm 
expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) grafts.
RESULTS: Initial success rates were 88% for angioplasty and 87% for surgery. 
Mean primary patency for angioplasty and surgery was 4.6 and 3.3 months, 
respectively. Mean secondary patency for angioplasty and surgery was 5.4 and 4.5 
months, respectively. These differences were not statistically significant. A 
significantly shorter hospital stay and lower anesthesia requirement were noted 
in the angioplasty group.
CONCLUSION: Transluminal angioplasty coupled with Fogarty thrombectomy is an 
effective alternative to surgical revision for thrombosed dialysis access 
grafts. Angioplasty extends graft life, thereby preserving proximal venous 
outflow sites for future use.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.194.2.7824708
PMID: 7824708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Versicherungsmedizin. 1994 Dec 1;46(6):193-5.

[Malignant melanoma in life insurance--thickness or anatomic layer?].

[Article in German]

Müller WA(1), Erlanger M.

Author information:
(1)Gruppe für Versicherungsmedizin, Schweizerische 
Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft, Zürich.

The incidence of malignant melanoma has tripled during the last 40 years and 
continues to increase. Among clinical criteria the single and most significant 
prognostic factor is the extent of tumor invasion expressed by thickness rather 
than anatomical structure. Patients with melanoma thinner than 0.76 mm have a 
five year survival of 96%. Thicker tumors bear a poor prognosis. Patients having 
survived 10 years have a life expectancy close to the normal population.

PMID: 7825264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Versicherungsmedizin. 1994 Dec 1;46(6):206-11.

[Viral hepatitis. Insurance medicine observations].

[Article in German]

Genser N(1).

Author information:
(1)Gerling-Konzern Globale Rückversicherungs-Aktiengesellschaft.

The major cause of liver diseases world-wide are the infectious hepatitis A-E 
which are due for different viruses. Most of the cases are clinically 
asymptomatic and without jaundice with a high rate of cure. The diagnosis and 
the differentiation of the various clinical syndromes are based mainly on 
serological markers of the involved antigen-antibody-systems. For insurance 
purposes the chronic hepatitis B, C and D are of great importance. Where chronic 
persistent hepatitis has a nearly normal life expectancy, chronic active 
hepatitis which may develop into cirrhosis and/or hepatocellular carcinoma has 
an increased mortality.

PMID: 7825266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Versicherungsmedizin. 1994 Dec 1;46(6):212-5.

[A panorama of rheumatic diseases].

[Article in German]

Knorr U(1).

Author information:
(1)Münchener Rückversicherungsgesellschaft.

The developments in our health care system mean that the significance of 
chronic, cost-intensive diseases is continually increasing in terms of 
diagnosis, treatment and prevention. Under this aspect, rheumatic diseases may 
be regarded as prime examples in that they generate expenditure in many areas of 
both social insurance and private insurance. Although many of the disorders 
classified as rheumatic diseases manifest themselves clinically in the form of 
complaints in the region of the skeletal system, it should not be forgotten that 
they are actually systemic disorders, i.e. they have immunological or metabolic 
causes. This aspect plays a significant role with regard to the possibility of 
long-term prognosis and hence with regard to life expectancy as well. It also 
exerts a major influence on the selection of therapeutic concepts which are 
hoped to slow down the progress of a disease or stop it altogether. Precise 
inquiries, careful diagnosis, patient-specific therapy, and not least growing 
health consciousness should be capable of exerting a positive influence on the 
course of even relatively severe rheumatic conditions. The consequences will be 
felt to a corresponding degree by the private insurers too.

PMID: 7825267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1994 Sep-Oct;11(5):487-98. doi: 
10.3109/08880019409141687.

Seventeen years of experience with chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura 
in childhood. Is therapy always better?

Aronis S(1), Platokouki H, Mitsika A, Haidas S, Constantopoulos A.

Author information:
(1)Hemostasis Unit, Aghia Sophia Children's Hospital, Athens, Greece.

Comment in
    Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1995 Jul-Aug;12(4):407-10.

Between 1975 and 1992 450 children with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura 
(ITP) were diagnosed, and of those 100 (22%) developed the chronic form of the 
disease. Approximately half the patients with chronic ITP presented with mild to 
moderate hemorrhagic manifestations at the onset of purpura (30 cases) and/or 
later during the course of the disease (25 cases). The incidence of intracranial 
hemorrhage was 1%, and the mortality rate due to overwhelming septicemia after 
splenectomy was also 1%. Overall one-third of the patients received no therapy; 
two-thirds of them went into spontaneous remission within 8 months to 8 years 
from the onset of ITP. Steroids given in conventional or high doses (51 cases) 
achieved a transient (if any) rise in platelet count, but in no case were 
steroids curative. Remission related to intravenous immune globulin (IVIG) 
therapy was noticed in 38.5% of the children (10 of 26) after variable courses. 
The response rate to splenectomy was 95.0%. Ultimately the long-term outcome in 
children with chronic ITP was as follows: remission, 58 cases (spontaneous, 30; 
after IVIG therapy, 10; after splenectomy, 18); hemostatic platelet values, 22 
cases (spontaneous, 16; after IVIG, 5; after splenectomy, 1). Thirteen children 
were lost in follow-up, and 7 remain thrombocytopenic but asymptomatic. These 
data indicate that chronic ITP in childhood runs a benign course in most cases 
and may remit with or without therapy even several years from onset. Therefore, 
therapeutic intervention has to be individualized, and splenectomy, which is not 
always safe, should be reserved for problematic cases that fail to respond to 
conventional therapeutic modalities.

DOI: 10.3109/08880019409141687
PMID: 7826845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Ann Oncol. 1994 Oct;5(8):725-31. doi: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a058977.

Long-term results of alpha interferon as initial therapy and splenectomy as 
consolidation therapy in patients with hairy cell leukemia. Final report from 
the Italian Cooperative Group for HCL.

Federico M(1), Frassoldati A, Lamparelli T, Foà R, Brugiatelli M, Annino L, 
Baldini L, Capnist G, Chisesi T, di Celle PF, et al.

Author information:
(1)Oncologia Medica, Università di Modena, Italy.

PURPOSE: In 1987 the Italian Cooperative Group for the Study of hairy cell 
leukemia (HCL) started a prospective trial with the following three major aims: 
1) to confirm the effectiveness of alpha-IFN as first-line treatment; 2) to 
assess the usefulness of splenectomy as consolidation treatment in patients 
achieving a satisfactory partial remission (PR) with alpha-IFN, and 3) to 
explore whether splenectomy in patients achieving complete remission (CR) with 
alpha-IFN can reduce the risk of relapse after discontinuation of the drug.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One-hundred seventy-seven patients with 
histologically-confirmed HCL were registered in the HCL88-A trial between 
December 1987 and January 1992. Inclusion criteria included no previous 
treatment and age less than 66 years. All patients received total doses of 3 MU 
of alpha-IFN daily for 12 months except for those who achieved early CR and 
would stop treatment after 6 or 9 months. Patients could be treated with 
different alpha-IFNs. At the time of the present analysis, 166 patients (93.8%) 
were fully evaluable.
RESULTS: Treatment of HCL patients with alpha-IFN at the onset of the disease 
resulted in 28 CR (16.9%), 103 PR (62.0%), and 27 Minor Remissions (MR) (16.3%). 
Patients treated with different alpha-IFNs achieved similar results: the overall 
response rate (CR + PR + MR) was 92.7%, 97.2%, and 95.3% for patients treated 
with r-alpha-2a, r-alpha 2b, and alpha-N1, respectively. The presence of a 
leukemic phase and a poor performance status were associated with a 
statistically significant lower response rate. Patients who were randomly 
assigned and underwent splenectomy after achieving a PR had a better but not 
significant 4-year progression-free survival than cases randomized for 
observation (53% vs. 22%, p = 0.116). Overall, 5 patients died after study 
entry, with an actuarial 5-year survival rate of 96% for the entire group of 166 
patients. After a mean follow-up time of 38 months, only one second malignancy 
has been recorded.
CONCLUSIONS: Initial therapy with alpha-IFN, regardless of the type of alpha-IFN 
used, induces satisfactory responses in the majority of patients with HCL, but 
in most instances discontinuation of treatment results in recurrence of disease. 
In most cases alpha-IFN improves the performance status of patients and favors a 
satisfactory bone marrow recovery and thus could still play a role in the 
initial management of the disease. Although splenectomy following alpha-IFN 
could prolong the progression free survival, its use should be restricted to 
selected cases.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a058977
PMID: 7826905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Ann Oncol. 1994 Oct;5(8):747-52. doi: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a058980.

Incidence, mortality and survival from invasive cervical cancer in Vaud, 
Switzerland, 1974-1991.

Levi F(1), La Vecchia C, Randimbison L, Te VC.

Author information:
(1)Registre Vaudois des Tumeurs, Institut universitaire de médecine sociale et 
préventive, CHUV, Lausanne, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Several factors have contributed to the substantial decline in 
mortality from cervical cancer registered in most areas of the world, i.e., 
improved sexual hygiene, changes in reproductive factors, cervical screening, 
and, possibly, improved treatment. Each of these components is evaluated through 
a systematic inspection of trends in incidence, mortality and survival rates 
registered for a well-defined population.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Trends in incidence, mortality and survival from invasive 
cervical cancer over the period 1974-1991 were analysed for three separate age 
groups (< 55, 55-64, > or = 65 years), histological type and stage using data 
from the Cancer Registry of the Swiss Canton of Vaud.
RESULTS: Below age 55, the age-standardized (world standard) incidence rate was 
9.3/100,000 women in 1974-76, it declined steadily thereafter down to 2.9 in 
1986-88, but increased to 4.3 in 1989-91. In the age group 55-64, cervical 
cancer incidence remained around 40/100,000 to the end of the 1970s, but 
thereafter declined to 10.9 in 1989-91. No consistent trend was observed in 
elderly women, and the rate in 1989-91 (26.7/100,000) was similar to that in 
1974-76 (33.7). The overall age-standardized cervical cancer incidence declined 
from 13.5/100,000 in 1974-76 to 5.8 in 1986-88, but rose to 6.4 in 1989-91. A 
similar pattern was observed for mortality, with a fall in rates in younger 
women between 1974 and 1985 (from 2.1 to 0.6/100,000), and a subsequent rise to 
1.1/100,000 in 1989-91. A substantial decline in mortality was observed in women 
aged 55 to 64 since the early 1980's, from 17.2 in 1980-82 to 3.3 in 1989-91. No 
clear mortality trend was evident in older women. Overall, cervical cancer 
mortality declined from 4.3/100,000 in 1974-76 to 2.3 in 1989-91. The five-year 
relative survival rates were around 0.70-0.75 for younger women, around 0.60 for 
those aged 55 to 64, and 0.50 for elderly ones. In a Cox proportional hazard 
model, age and clinical stage were significantly related to survival, but not 
histological type and calendar period of diagnosis. No substantial change in 
survival from invasive cervical cancer was observed over the 18-year period 
considered, nor was there any notable change in the stage distribution over 
time. The proportion of adenocarcinomas, however, appears to have increased in 
the most recent calendar period.
CONCLUSIONS: These data reflect the impact of screening on cervical cancer 
rates, which, however, appeared restricted to women below age 65. An upward 
trend in cervical cancer incidence and mortality rates for younger women was 
also apparent, and there was no indication from these data of an improved 
survival for invasive cervical cancer patients over the last two decades. 
Extention of screening to elderly women appears to be a priority for reducing 
cervical cancer rates in this population.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a058980
PMID: 7826908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Perit Dial Int. 1994;14(4):324-6.

Excellent technique survival on home peritoneal dialysis: results of a regional 
program.

Jindal KK(1), Hirsch DJ.

Author information:
(1)Nova Scotia-Prince Edward Island Regional Home Dialysis Program, Department 
of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Canada.

Comment in
    Perit Dial Int. 1994;14(4):322-3.

OBJECTIVE: To examine peritoneal dialysis technique survival in our regional, 
continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) program.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis.
SETTING: Tertiary care dialysis program at an academic medical center.
PATIENTS: 155 patients representing all those in the peritoneal dialysis program 
between October 1, 1987 and October 1, 1990.
OUTCOME MEASURES: The study analyzed patient and technique survival as well as 
the reasons for discontinuation of dialysis. In addition, the incidence and type 
of peritonitis and exit-site infection were also analyzed.
RESULTS: Three-year actuarial patient survival was 66% and three-year technique 
survival was 86%, with data censored for death and transplant patients. 
Fifty-seven percent of transfers to hemodialysis were due to peritonitis, 
usually fungal or multiorganism bacterial. Only 1 patient failed due to 
exit-site and tunnel infection, and 1 due to inadequate dialysis. The catheter 
removal rate was 0.04 per patient-year.
CONCLUSIONS: Excellent CAPD technique survival can be achieved if exit-site and 
tunnel infection rates are low.

PMID: 7827180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 1994 Sep-Oct;9(5):442-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1746.1994.tb01271.x.

Clinical characteristics and proliferating activity of intrahepatic 
cholangiocarcinoma.

Ohashi K(1), Nakajima Y, Tsutsumi M, Kanehiro H, Fukuoka T, Hisanaga M, Taki J, 
Nakae D, Konishi Y, Nakano H.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Nara Medical University, Japan.

To assist in the development of new approach to the palliation and treatment of 
intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas, we classified tumours into mass-forming (MF), 
peri-ductal extension (PD), and spicula-forming (SF) types in 14 subjects who 
underwent surgical treatment. Lymph node metastasis and microscopic lymphatic 
invasion were pronounced in the PD and SF types. Furthermore, in SF type tumours 
the incidence of microscopic vascular and perineural invasion was high. The 
proliferating cell nuclear antigen labelling index, a reflection of the 
proliferation rate of tumour cells, was significantly higher in PD and SF types 
than in the MF type. The prognosis associated with the MF type tended to be 
better than that of the other two types. For the MF type, liver resection with 
tumour free margins must be performed, whereas for the PD and SF types, 
aggressive treatment, that is a combination of extensive liver resection, lymph 
node dissection, and effective adjuvant anti-cancer therapy should be provided 
to aim at life-long cure.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.1994.tb01271.x
PMID: 7827293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Circulation. 1995 Feb 1;91(3):728-33. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.91.3.728.

Marfan syndrome. Long-term survival and complications after aortic aneurysm 
repair.

Finkbohner R(1), Johnston D, Crawford ES, Coselli J, Milewicz DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Texas Medical School at 
Houston 77036.

BACKGROUND: Development of surgical therapy for aortic aneurysms and dissections 
has led to treatment of the life-threatening cardiovascular complications 
associated with Marfan syndrome. The present study determines the effect of 
surgical therapy on the life expectancy of patients with Marfan syndrome and the 
clinical course of these patients after aortic aneurysm repair.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Medical records were reviewed on 192 patients with Marfan 
syndrome who underwent aortic aneurysm repair during the past 26 years; 103 
patients were interviewed, and complete preoperative and postoperative medical 
information was obtained. Survival curves were generated, and data were 
analyzed. The median cumulative probability of survival was 61 years, 
significantly increased compared with the median survival of 47 years for 
patients with Marfan syndrome determined 30 years ago (P < .0006). The majority 
of patients (53%) had second surgeries to repair subsequent aneurysms or 
dissections at other sites, the vast majority of which involved the aorta. The 
most common pattern of aneurysm repair was proximal ascending aortic aneurysm 
repair, followed by descending thoracic aneurysm surgery. The following 
variables predicted patients requiring second vascular surgeries: presence of 
acute or chronic dissection at the time of the first surgery, hypertension after 
the first surgery, and a history of smoking.
CONCLUSIONS: The life expectancy of patients with Marfan syndrome undergoing 
surgical repair of aortic aneurysms has improved and is consistent with 
increased survival. After initial repair of an ascending aortic aneurysm, a 
significant number of patients have subsequent surgeries at other sites 
throughout the aorta, indicating Marfan syndrome is a disease involving the 
entire aorta. Patients who had a dissection at the time of the first aortic 
surgery were more likely to require subsequent aortic surgery than were patients 
who underwent prophylactic composite graft repair of an aortic aneurysm.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.91.3.728
PMID: 7828300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Eur J Vasc Surg. 1994 Nov;8(6):723-8. doi: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80653-x.

Percutaneous intentional extraluminal recanalisation of the femoropopliteal 
artery.

Reekers JA(1), Kromhout JG, Jacobs MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Academic Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Percutaneous intentional extraluminal recanalisation (PIER) of the 
femoropopliteal artery is a new catheter technique to overcome long chronic 
occlusions. This technique was applied to 40 long chronic occlusions of the 
femoropopliteal segment. The mean length of the superficial femoral artery (SEA) 
occlusions was 16.9 cm, the mean length of the popliteal occlusions was 11.8 cm 
and the mean length of the femoropopliteal occlusions was 27.6 cm. Primary 
recanalisation success was 85%. Patency showed a significant correlation with 
poor initial angiographic result (p < 0.05). Life-time table analysis of the 
successful group demonstrated a primary clinical patency of 59% at 1 and 2 years 
and a secondary clinical patency of 71% at 1 year and 65% at 2 years. There were 
no serious complications related to this technique. PIER technique is simple and 
cost-effective, and shows a good initial success-rate with a promising 2 years 
clinical patency. This technique might be of importance for patients with a 
critical lower leg ischaemia, when there are contraindications for primary 
bypass surgery either from a technical or a general point of view.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80653-x
PMID: 7828750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Demography. 1994 Aug;31(3):427-58.

Estimating African-American mortality from inaccurate data.

Elo IT(1), Preston SH.

Author information:
(1)Population Studies Center, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 19104.

This paper evaluates the quality of vital statistics and census data for 
estimating African-American mortality over a period of six decades. The authors 
employ intercensal cohort comparisons and extinct generation estimates to 
demonstrate that conventionally constructed African-American death rates may be 
seriously flawed as early as age 50. Using the crude death rate at ages 50+ for 
1978-1982 in conjunction with estimated growth rates and two model life table 
systems, the authors estimate black age-specific death rates in 1978-1982. These 
results suggest that if a racial crossover in death rates occurs, the age 
pattern of mortality among African-Americans must be far outside the range 
observed in populations with more accurate data.

PMID: 7828765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Demography. 1994 Aug;31(3):525-48.

On the measurement of naturalization.

Liang Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Queens College City University of New York, Flushing 
11367-1597.

This paper proposes a new way of measuring naturalization, which takes into 
account both emigration and death. I argue that the new method corrects for 
underestimation and thus provides a more accurate measure of the concept. Using 
data from six groups of the 1973 immigrant cohort and multiple-decrement life 
table techniques, I estimated and compared naturalization measures derived from 
new and old methods. The results show that failure to control for emigration has 
a significant effect on the measurement of naturalization, particularly if an 
immigrant group has relatively high rate of emigration. Some further substantive 
implications of this new method are also explored.

PMID: 7828770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Diabete Metab. 1994 Nov;20(3 Pt 2):315-24.

[Problems raised by the definition and epidemiology of type 2 
(non-insulin-dependent) diabetes throughout the world].

[Article in French]

Alberti KG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, Royaume-Uni.

Many studies of Type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus assume that the 
condition is homogeneous and clearly defined. There are, however, several 
problems with these assumptions. Thus, definition of Type 2 diabetes is one of 
exclusion of other types (insulin-dependent, malnutrition-related, gestational 
and other rarer types) and inevitably contains a heterogeneous group of 
disorders the aetiology of which is largely unclear, and separation from the 
insulin-dependent type can be problematic. Diagnosis is also imprecise in 
asymptomatic subjects due to the lack of accurate diagnostic tools and lack of 
clear distinction of impaired glucose tolerance. An alternative to the oral 
glucose tolerance test is urgently needed. Epidemiological studies of Type 2 
diabetes and its complications are also fraught with difficulties due to 
variability of the oral glucose tolerance test, potential problems in glucose 
measurement, heterogeneity, population selection and problems in international 
comparisons due to differing age ranges and life expectancy. Great care is 
needed in all studies of Type 2 diabetes to ensure that the groups under study 
are properly selected, well-defined and fully described.

PMID: 7828774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Genetics. 1994 Oct;138(2):352-63.

Structure, expression and duplication of genes which encode phosphoglyceromutase 
of Drosophila melanogaster.

Currie PD(1), Sullivan DT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Syracuse University, New York 13244-1270.

We report here the isolation and characterization of genes from Drosophila that 
encode the glycolytic enzyme phosphoglyceromutase (PGLYM). Two genomic regions 
have been isolated that have potential to encode PGLYM. Their cytogenetic 
localizations have been determined by in situ hybridization to salivary gland 
chromosomes. One gene, Pglym78, is found at 78A/B and the other, Pglym87, at 
87B4,5 of the Drosophila polytene map. Pglym78 transcription follows a 
developmental pattern similar to other glycolytic genes in Drosophila, i.e., 
substantial maternal transcript deposited during oogenesis; a decline in 
abundance in the first half of embryogenesis; a subsequent increase in the 
second half of embryogenesis which continues throughout larval life; a decline 
in pupae and a second increase to a plateau in adults. This transcript has been 
mapped by cDNA and genomic sequence comparison, RNase protection, and primer 
extension. Using similar analyses transcripts of Pglym87 could not be detected. 
Pglym78 has two introns which interrupt the coding region, while the Pglym87 
gene lacks introns. This and other features support a model of 
retrotransposition mediated gene duplication for the origin of Pglym87. The 
apparent absence of a complete, intact coding frame and transcript suggest that 
Pglym87 is a pseudogene. However, retention of reading frame and codon bias 
suggests that Pglym87 may retain coding function, or may have been inactivated 
recently, substantially after the time of duplication, or that the molecular 
evolution of Pglym87 is unusual. Similarities of the unusual molecular evolution 
of Pglym87 and other proposed pseudogenes are discussed.

PMCID: PMC1206154
PMID: 7828819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1995 Feb;25(2):466-74. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(94)00391-3.

Primary pulmonary hypertension in children: clinical characterization and 
survival.

Sandoval J(1), Bauerle O, Gomez A, Palomar A, Martínez Guerra ML, Furuya ME.

Author information:
(1)Cardiopulmonary Department, Instituto Nacional de Cardiología Ignacio Chávez, 
México DF, México.

OBJECTIVES: This study characterized mortality in a group of Mexican children (n 
= 18, mean [+/- SD] age 9.9 +/- 3 years) with primary pulmonary hypertension and 
investigated the factors associated with their survival.
BACKGROUND: Primary pulmonary hypertension is a progressive, fatal disease of 
unknown cause. Establishing the diagnosis earlier in life may influence 
prognosis.
METHODS: A dynamic cohort of children with primary pulmonary hypertension were 
enrolled between December 1977 and May 1991 and followed up through September 
1992. Measurements included hemodynamic and pulmonary function variables in 
addition to demographic data, medical history and response to vasodilator 
treatment. We also compared the survival estimates of these children with those 
of our adult patients with primary pulmonary hypertension (n = 42, mean age 27.9 
+/- 8.5 years).
RESULTS: Baseline mean (+/- SD) pulmonary artery pressure was similar in 
children and adults (66 +/- 15 vs. 65 +/- 18 mm Hg, p = NS), but a higher 
cardiac index resulted in a lower mean pulmonary vascular resistance index in 
children (18 +/- 7 vs. 26 +/- 12 U/m2, p < 0.01). The proportion of patients who 
had a positive hemodynamic response to vasodilator treatment was higher in 
children than in adults (41% vs. 25%). Estimated median survival in children was 
4.12 years (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.75 to 8.66) and 3.12 years in adults 
(95% CI 0.5 to 13.25, chi-square log-rank 0.81, p = NS). Elevated right atrial 
pressure (rate ratio 10.2) and decreased stroke volume index (rate ratio 32.9) 
were the only significant predictors of mortality (Cox proportional hazards 
model).
CONCLUSIONS: Children with primary pulmonary hypertension have a poor survival 
expectancy, which does not appear to differ from that in adults with primary 
pulmonary hypertension. Mortality in childhood primary pulmonary hypertension is 
also associated with variables that assess right ventricular dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(94)00391-3
PMID: 7829802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1994 Dec;48(6):596-600. doi: 
10.1136/jech.48.6.596.

Cancer incidence: life table risk versus cumulative risk.

Schouten LJ(1), Straatman H, Kiemeney LA, Verbeek AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Informatics and Epidemiology, University of Nijmegen, 
The Netherlands.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To study differences between various methods of estimating 
cancer risk in individuals.
DESIGN: Information was obtained from a cancer registry. Lifetime risk was 
calculated using the life table method, taking competing causes of death into 
account and using well recognised methods such as the cumulative rate and risk.
SETTING: Regional cancer registry of the Comprehensive Cancer Centre IKL, 
located in Maastricht, The Netherlands.
PATIENTS: Patients with a first primary malignancy in 1989-90 in the catchment 
area of the cancer registry.
MAIN RESULTS: The lifetime risk of developing cancer was estimated to be 34.8% 
for males and 30.4% for females. In males, especially, the risk estimates were 
considerably higher when the cumulative risk was used.
CONCLUSIONS: The life table method is convenient for estimating the probability 
that a person will develop cancer during a defined period or during his or her 
lifetime. The other estimates overestimate the risk of the disease under 
investigation, especially in the very elderly.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.48.6.596
PMCID: PMC1060039
PMID: 7830016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. J Perinatol. 1994 Sep-Oct;14(5):403-7.

A multicenter evaluation of intramuscular ritodrine hydrochloride as initial 
parenteral therapy for preterm labor management.

Benedetti TJ(1), Gonik B, Hayashi RH, Adams HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Washington Medical 
Center, Seattle 98195.

Ninety-four patients in documented preterm labor received three intramuscular 
injections of ritodrine hydrochloride over an interval of 6 hours. They 
subsequently received the tocolytic agent intravenously for a minimum of 6 
hours. The effects of ritodrine on uterine activity and the cardiovascular 
system were determined. Intramuscular ritodrine hydrochloride elicited a prompt 
and sustained reduction in the frequency of uterine contractions. The transition 
to intravenous treatment was achieved without an increase in uterine activity. 
Seventy percent of the patients had a sustained interval of uterine quiescence, 
and 96% had at least a 24-hour delay in delivery. Initial parenteral therapy 
with intramuscular ritodrine hydrochloride is safe and effective and may provide 
an alternative to intravenous therapy and a means of managing preterm labor 
during interhospital transport of a patient.

PMID: 7830157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 1995 Feb;53(2):106-15; discussion 115-6. doi: 
10.1016/0278-2391(95)90381-x.

Custom CAD/CAM total temporomandibular joint reconstruction system: preliminary 
multicenter report.

Mercuri LG(1), Wolford LM, Sanders B, White RD, Hurder A, Henderson W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Stritch School of Medicine, Loyola University Medical 
Center, Maywood, IL 60153.

PURPOSE: The purpose was to test the outcome of a custom computer assisted 
design/computer assisted manufactured (CAD/CAM) total temporomandibular joint 
(TMJ) reconstruction system.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: There were 215 patients (13 males and 202 females); the 
average age at reconstruction was 40.9 +/- 10.3 years (range, 15 to 77 years). 
There were 363 joints placed, 296 bilateral and 67 unilateral. The patients had 
TMJ problems for an average of 10.3 +/- 7.0 years (range, 1 to 44 years), and 
had undergone a mean of 5.4 +/- 4.8 (range, 0 to 28) prior unsuccessful 
surgeries. Preoperative and postoperative data were collected for up to 48 
months using a standardized data collection format. Subjective data related to 
pain, function of the lower jaw, and diet, were obtained using a visual analogue 
scale. Objective measures of mandibular range of motion were made directly on 
the patient preoperatively and postoperatively.
RESULTS: Preliminary analysis of these data reveals a statistically significant 
decrease in pain, an increase in function, and improvement in diet (P < .0001) 
from the preoperative measurements to 1 and 2 years postoperatively. There was 
also improvement in mandibular vertical range of motion. The number of previous 
surgeries was a strong predictor of postoperative pain, function, and diet 
scores, as well as of maximal interincisal opening. A life table analysis of 
failures indicates good durability of the prosthesis over time.
CONCLUSION: These preliminary data indicate that this custom CAD/CAM total TMJ 
reconstruction system seems to be useful in the treatment of the multiply 
operated, and/or anatomically mutilated TMJ.

DOI: 10.1016/0278-2391(95)90381-x
PMID: 7830175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Lab Anim. 1994 Oct;28(4):340-6. doi: 10.1258/002367794780745100.

Reduced tumour incidence in mice with inherited seborrhoeic dermatitis.

Höger H(1), Gialamas J, Adamiker D.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Laboratory Animal Breeding, University of Vienna, 
Himberg, Austria.

121 mice homozygous for the gene seb (inherited seborrhoeic dermatitis) and 
their 142 unaffected heterozygous littermates were kept for their natural 
lifespan. Heterozygotes showed 84.1% total tumour incidence in males and 95.9% 
in females. The most common neoplasms were lymphomas, osteomas, lung tumours and 
neoplasms of the female genital tract. Homozygotes showed a tumour incidence of 
36.1% in males and 45.0% in females. The reduction in incidence included all 
types of neoplasms except epithelial tumours of the skin: skin tumours were 
detected in 11 homozygous but only in one heterozygous animal. Life expectancy 
was not affected significantly by genotype. Homozygous mice showed rough and 
greasy fur and became alopecic with age. Energy intake was increased but growth 
and depository fat was reduced compared with heterozygous mice. Higher heat loss 
may incompletely be compensated by higher metabolic rate and thus 'dietary 
restriction' results in decreased tumour rates. As females show small gonads and 
a higher increase in food consumption hormonal factors may also be involved.

DOI: 10.1258/002367794780745100
PMID: 7830374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Leg Med. 1994:281-303.
