
The doctrine of informed consent: the reaffirmation of the right to 
self-determination through the exclusion of patients' nonmedical interests.

Fiorentino K(1).

Author information:
(1)Gleaves Swearingen Larsen Potter Scott & Smith, Eugene, Oregon.

PMID: 7830483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Ophthalmology. 1995 Jan;102(1):91-7. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(95)31048-2.

Adjunctive mitomycin C in Molteno implant surgery.

Perkins TW(1), Cardakli UF, Eisele JR, Kaufman PL, Heatley GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison 53705-3631.

PURPOSE: The authors assessed the efficacy of adjunctive intraoperative 
mitomycin C to produce lower intraocular pressures (IOPs) in patients with 
complicated glaucoma who underwent double-plate Molteno implantation.
METHODS: A pilot series of 21 consecutive patients who underwent double-plate 
Molteno implantation with adjunctive intraoperative mitomycin C (0.5 mg/ml) for 
5 minutes was compared with a historical control group who received Molteno 
implants without mitomycin C (n = 18). With failure defined as an IOP greater 
than 21 or less than 6 mmHg at two observations 1 month apart, the addition of 
medication, re-operation for glaucoma, or tube removal, a life-table analysis of 
IOP was performed on patients with at least 3 months' follow-up.
RESULTS: Success in the mitomycin C group was higher (68% at 1 year) than the 
control group (17% at 1 year; P = 0.006). Loss of more than one line of vision 
(33%) and re-operation for complications (including flat anterior chamber, 
choroidal detachment, and tube blockage) (38%) were slightly but not 
significantly more frequent in the mitomycin C group than in the control group.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that intraoperative mitomycin C in conjunction 
with Molteno implant may offer a better chance of achieving target IOPs in the 
low teens in patients with complicated glaucoma than Molteno implantation alone.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(95)31048-2
PMID: 7831048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Pediatr Dent. 1994 Sep-Oct;16(5):360-1.

Survival of different types of space maintainers.

Baroni C(1), Franchini A, Rimondini L.

Author information:
(1)University of Bologna, Italy.

PMID: 7831141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Pathol Res Pract. 1994 Sep;190(8):737-49. doi:
10.1016/S0344-0338(11)80420-6.

Cardiomyopathy in childhood and adult life, with emphasis on hypertrophic 
cardiomyopathy.

Landing BH(1), Recalde AL, Lawrence TY, Shankle WR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Childrens' Hospital, Los Angeles, California.

Over 60 entries in the genetic catalog have cardiomyopathy features--32 
autosomal dominant, 35 autosomal recessive and X-linked. Over 40 present in, or 
can have survival into, adult life. Major clinicopathologic categories of these 
cardiomyopathic disorders included: sudden death (13 entities); cardiac 
conduction disturbance important feature; associated myopathy or motor 
dysfunction; storage diseases with cardiac involvement; cardiac amyloidoses; 
and, other categories. Genes, abnormality of which can cause hypertrophic 
cardiomyopathy (HCM), have been identified on chromosomes 1, 14 and 15, the 
locus on chromosome 14 involving the B-myosin heavy chain gene, but at least one 
unidentified locus is known to exist and there is a suggestive locus on 
chromosome 16, so that HCM is not a single disease but a group of disorders with 
clinicopatholopic similarities. To investigate these aspects of HCM in some 
detail, sixty-six patients with "sharply demarcated" differential myocardial 
fiber bundle hypertrophy (DMBH), considered to be of significant degree, from a 
pediatric autopsy data base of approximately 8,000 cases, were reviewed. 
Twenty-three of the patients died suddenly, without antecedent significant 
cardiac dysfunction, seven had clinical congestive heart failure of varying 
duration, three were stillborn, six showed evidence of aspiration of amniotic 
sac content (three had history of fetal distress), five had ischemic bowel 
disease, three (two with clinical cerebral palsy and one with Ondine's curse 
syndrome) had cerebral atrophy and sclerosis and one had extensive more acute 
encephalomalacia, and a variety of other major "causes of death" were present. 
Whether all infants and children with DMBH meeting the criteria used, who do not 
have congenital heart disease, have dominant hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) 
cannot be established by studies of this type, but the "concentration" of a gene 
or genes for HCM in pediatric autopsy series because the strong effect of HCM on 
life expectancy is relevant to this possibility. The data raise the question 
that stillbirth, fetal distress with aspiration of amniotic sac content, 
ischemic bowel disease and cerebral atrophy and sclerosis may be hitherto 
underappreciated features of HCM in childhood, and that patients with HCM may be 
peculiarly liable to die with certain types of septic shock, such as acute 
meningococcemia. In the material of this study, sudden death was statistically 
more frequent in females than in males in childhood (p < .029).

DOI: 10.1016/S0344-0338(11)80420-6
PMID: 7831149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Stroke. 1995 Feb;26(2):249-53. doi: 10.1161/01.str.26.2.249.

Where and how should elderly stroke patients be treated? A randomized trial.

Kaste M(1), Palom채ki H, Sarna S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Helsinki, Finland.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Elderly stroke patients in particular are at risk of 
receiving less than optimal care. We studied the effects of the department care 
(medicine versus neurology) on the outcome of elderly stroke patients in a 
randomized controlled trial with 1-year follow-up.
METHODS: A total of 243 consecutive patients aged 65 years or older with acute 
stroke were randomized to receive care in the Departments of Medicine or the 
Department of Neurology of a university teaching hospital with a referral area 
of 1.1 million. The outcome was assessed by mortality, length of hospital stay, 
ability to live at home on discharge, Barthel Index, and Rankin grades at 1 
year.
RESULTS: There were no differences in sex and age, severity or type of stroke, 
other diseases, or social factors between the two groups. One-year mortality was 
21% in both patients treated by the Departments of Medicine and those treated by 
the Department of Neurology. Patients treated by the Department of Neurology 
were discharged an average of 16 days earlier (24 versus 40 days). The length of 
hospital stay of patients aged younger than 75 years differed significantly (P = 
.02). Patients randomized to neurological wards more often went directly home 
(75% versus 62%; P = .03), and their functional status was better as assessed 
with Barthel Index and Rankin grades at 1 year (P = .02 and P = .03, 
respectively). Independent predictors of a better functional outcome and shorter 
hospital stay by stepwise multivariate analysis included management by the 
Department of Neurology.
CONCLUSIONS: Well-organized management of elderly stroke patients was associated 
with a better outcome. It was also the more economical alternative.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.26.2.249
PMID: 7831697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1994 Nov-Dec;132(6):482-5. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1039473.

[Arthropathy and late changes in thalassemia major. A case report].

[Article in German]

Goertzen M(1), Ritsch M, Schulitz KP.

Author information:
(1)Orthop채dische Klinik und Poliklinik, Heinrich-Heine-Universit채t.

Patients with beta-thalassemia develop a specific osteoarthropathy as they 
approach the second life decade. Radiological changes included osteopenia, 
widened medullary spaces, thin cortices with coarse reticulations, evidence of 
microfractures, premature epiphysiodesis of long bones and skeletal 
deformations. The fact that currently patients with beta-thalassemia have a 
longer life expectancy may explain the recent observations in this case report 
of this entity, which should become more familiar to orthopaedic surgeons who 
treat thalassemia patients in the future.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1039473
PMID: 7831949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 1994 Oct;90(4):295-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0447.1994.tb01596.x.

Mortality during initial and during later lithium treatment. A collaborative 
study by the International Group for the Study of Lithium-treated Patients.

M체ller-Oerlinghausen B(1), Wolf T, Ahrens B, Schou M, Grof E, Grof P, Lenz G, 
Simhandl C, Thau K, Wolf R.

Author information:
(1)Research Group for Clinical Psychopharmacology, Free University of Berlin, 
Germany.

We have previously shown that the mortality of patients with recurrent affective 
disorders in long-term lithium treatment is not higher than that of the general 
population. In the present study on 471 patients from Denmark and Germany, we 
examined mortality during the initial year of lithium treatment and during later 
lithium treatment. During initial lithium treatment, the total mortality was 
twice as high as in the general population (difference not significant) and the 
mortality due to suicide 16 times higher. During later lithium treatment, the 
mortality rates did not differ from those in the general population. Our results 
indicate that patients with frequent, often severe recurrences, those chosen for 
prophylactic lithium treatment, are at risk of high mortality, which then 
diminishes as the prophylactic action of the treatment takes effect.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0447.1994.tb01596.x
PMID: 7832001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 1994;113(6):327-9. doi: 10.1007/BF00426181.

Extensor indicis proprius transfer for loss of extensor pollicis longus 
function.

Noorda RJ(1), Hage JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Academic Hospital, Free 
University, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

In the period 1969-1991, 46 extensor indicis proprius tendon transfers were 
performed for functional loss of extensor pollicis longus. The long-term 
function of the thumb was reviewed in 22 patients with an average follow-up of 7 
years. Based on Geldmacher's evaluation scheme for assessment of the results of 
extensor tendon reconstruction, we report 5 excellent (23%), 4 good (18%), 12 
satisfactory (55%) and 1 poor (4%) result. The mean loss of pinch strength was 
8% compared with the contralateral, non-operated thumb. Subjectively, the 
majority of the patients (86%) described no limitations in their daily life 
activities. It is recommended that the transfer be tight enough to give full 
thumb extension and that the hand be immobilized with the thumb in this position 
for 4 weeks.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00426181
PMID: 7833210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Blood. 1995 Feb 1;85(3):824-8.

Leukocyte depletion of random single-donor platelet transfusions does not 
prevent secondary human leukocyte antigen-alloimmunization and refractoriness: a 
randomized prospective study.

Sintnicolaas K(1), van Marwijk Kooij M, van Prooijen HC, van Dijk BA, van Putten 
WL, Claas FH, Novotny VM, Brand A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Dr Daniel den Hoed Cancer Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

We studied the value of leukocyte depletion of platelet transfusions for the 
prevention of secondary human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-alloimmunization in 
patients with a high-risk of prior immunization induced by pregnancies. 
Seventy-five female patients with hematologic malignancies (mostly acute 
leukemia) and a history of pregnancy were randomized to receive either standard 
random single-donor platelet transfusions (mean leukocytes, 430 x 10(6) per 
transfusion) or leukocyte-depleted random single-donor platelet transfusions. 
Leukocyte depletion to less than 5 x 10(6) leukocytes per platelet transfusion 
(mean leukocytes, 2 x 10(6) per transfusion) was achieved by filtration. Of the 
62 evaluable patients, refractoriness to random donor platelets occurred in 41% 
(14 of 34) of the patients in the standard group and in 29% (8 of 28) of the 
patients in the filtered group (P = .52); anti-HLA antibodies developed in 43% 
(9 of 21) of individuals in the standard group and 44% (11 of 25) of cases in 
the filtered group. The time toward refractoriness and development of anti-HLA 
antibodies was similar for both groups. We conclude that leukocyte depletion of 
random single-donor platelet products to less than 5 x 10(6) per transfusion 
does not reduce the incidence of refractoriness to random donor platelet 
transfusion because of boostering of anti-HLA antibodies.

PMID: 7833483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Clin Nephrol. 1994 Oct;42(4):232-6.

Renal transplantation in patients over sixty years of age.

Hestin D(1), Frimat L, Hubert J, Renoult E, Huu TC, Kessler M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, University Hospital of Nancy, France.

The aim of this study was to analyze whether old age affects the outcome of 
renal transplantation. Data were presented on all 337 renal allografts performed 
from January 1, 1987 to November 30, 1992 in the department of Nephrology and 
Urology, University Hospital of Nancy. Of these, 32 (9.5%) were performed in 
patients over 60 years old at the time of transplantation (mean duration of 
follow-up 22.3 +/- 17.1 months). No significant difference was noted in patient 
and graft survivals between the two groups at 36 months (respectively 83.8% and 
76.1% in elderly patients; 96% and 82.8% in younger recipients). In the older 
group, all grafts were lost due to death (2/5) or nephrectomy (3/5) with a 
functional transplant (3/5) whereas chronic rejection accounted for the majority 
of graft loss in the younger group (23/43, p < 0.05). Episodes of acute 
rejection occurred with a very low incidence in elderly patients (15.6%). 
Infections were infrequent in this group and did not represent serious 
complications. Functional rehabilitation and quality of life were as good in 
elderly as in younger recipients. These results suggest that renal 
transplantation is an acceptable form of treatment for patients older than 60 
years with end-stage renal disease in the absence of obvious contraindication.

PMID: 7834915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. J Rheumatol. 1994 Oct;21(10):1927-31.

Musculoskeletal complaints and associated consequences in elderly Chinese aged 
70 years and over.

Woo J(1), Ho SC, Lau J, Leung PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Community and Family Medicine, Chinese-University of 
Hong Kong.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the prevalence and sites of musculoskeletal complaints 
and some associated health consequences among elderly Chinese.
METHODS: A random sample of all subjects aged 70 years and over stratified by 
age and sex. Information collected by questionnaire at an interview.
RESULTS: Nineteen to 41% of subjects complained of pain at various sites 
restricting activities, with a higher prevalence for women. The most common 4 
sites involved in order of frequency were knee, upper back, ankle/foot, and 
shoulder. Back pain increased with age in men to reach the same frequency as 
women in the 90+ age group. Between 6 to 10% of men and 9 to 14% of women used 
nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Pain limiting activities were associated 
with a lower Barthel index, use of walking aids, increased frequency of doctor 
consultations, sleep disturbance, and higher depressive symptom scores.
CONCLUSION: Prevention of conditions resulting in musculoskeletal complaints 
would be important in the promotion of healthy active life expectancy in the 
elderly.

PMID: 7837161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Neurobiol Aging. 1994 Mar-Apr;15(2):215-20. doi:
10.1016/0197-4580(94)90115-5.

Identification of amyloid beta protein in the brain of the small, short-lived 
lemurian primate Microcebus murinus.

Bons N(1), Mestre N, Ritchie K, Petter A, Podlisny M, Selkoe D.

Author information:
(1)Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, Universit챕 de Montpellier II.

The deposition of amyloid beta (A beta) protein in the brain has been 
demonstrated immunocytochemically in the small Lemurian primate Microcebus 
murinus. Both meningocerebral vascular deposits and cortical parenchymal 
deposits occur. All eight aged (> 8 years old) Microcebus examined showed 
vascular amyloid deposits, whereas only four exhibited parenchymal plaques. The 
vascular amyloid infiltrated the tunica media of the leptomeningeal and cortical 
arteries and arterioles and was also found in capillaries. A beta was observed 
to be deposited in three general forms in the cortical neuropil: round or 
elliptical plaques that were thioflavin-negative but sometimes showed a central 
concentration of A beta immunoreactivity; round plaques with a densely 
immunoreactive core that was thioflavin-positive; extensive ribbon-like 
infiltrations enclosing multiple cortical blood vessels. These observations, 
taken together with previous descriptions of age-related neurodegenerative 
changes in Microcebus, indicate that this species undergoes a 
beta-amyloid-associated neuropathology highly similar to that seen in 
Alzheimer's disease. We conclude that this lemurian primate of small size and 
relatively short life expectancy, provides a compelling animal model of some 
principal features of Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0197-4580(94)90115-5
PMID: 7838294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Proc Biol Sci. 1994 Nov 22;258(1352):163-7. doi: 10.1098/rspb.1994.0157.

Life expectancy and egg load affect oviposition decisions of a solitary 
parasitoid.

Fletcher JP(1), Hughes JP, Harvey IF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, The University, Dundee, U.K.

Life-history theory predicts that animals should be sensitive to both the amount 
of resources available and life expectancy in making reproductive decisions. 
Because it is easier to control the mortality of insect parasitoids (insects 
whose larva develop in or on another insect) than many other groups of animals, 
the best tests of these predictions have used them. However, because of the 
inter-correlation of several of the variables of interest, much of this evidence 
is equivocal, and experimental manipulations have failed to isolate the most 
important factors. Here we report an experiment which circumvents such problems 
by comparing the superparasitism rates of fed and starved parasitoids. By using 
the asexual solitary hymenopteran parasitoid Venturia canescens, we demonstrate 
that starved wasps with a reduced life expectancy lay eggs in low-quality hosts 
more frequently than those with a greater expected lifespan, as do parasitoids 
with higher egg loads and hence more resources available for reproduction.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.1994.0157
PMID: 7838854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Tumori. 1994 Oct 31;80(5):327-31. doi: 10.1177/030089169408000502.

The cost of hyperthermia: nine years experience at the Radiation Therapy 
Department of the Turin University.

Gabriele P(1), Orecchia R, Madon E, Ruo Redda MG, Sannazzari GL.

Author information:
(1)Radiotherapy Department, University of Turin, Italy.

BACKGROUND: In this paper the authors try to quantify the expenditure for the 
equipment, staff, treatment per patient and research, sustained at the Radiation 
Therapy Department of the University of Turin for the treatment of cancer with 
hyperthermia,
METHODS: Two hyperthermic computerized devices are available: the SAPIC SVO3 
multifrequencies system (915, 434 and 2-30 MHz) for external hyperthermia, and 
the SACEM system. working only with the frequency of 915 MHz, for interstitial 
and intracavitary heating. From September 1983 to December 1991, 408 patients 
have been treated with hyperthermia, for a total number of treated sites of 483; 
2960 heating sessions were performed, with a average of six sessions per 
patient.
RESULTS: The overall cost of our "hyperthermia project" was about 2,000,000,000 
Italian liras; the equipment cost was estimated at 1,258,650,000 Liras (839,100 
US$), and the cost per treatment and per heat session at about 3,985,200 (2676 
US$) and 664,200 liras (443 US$), respectively. The cost of the research program 
can be estimated in 175,000,000 liras (116,666 US$). The National Health System 
provides for a partial reimbursement of 2,000,000 liras (1,333 US$) for each 
course of hyperthermia. Taking into account the mean expected life expectancy 
and increasing purchases for replacement of equipment, these costs increase 10% 
each year. As regards the cost-benefit problem, using the Rees formula it varies 
from 1112 US$ when hyperthermia is used as elective treatment to 3380 US$ when 
hyperthermia is used as palliative treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Hyperthermia is, in our experience, an expensive therapy.

DOI: 10.1177/030089169408000502
PMID: 7839459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1994 Dec 15;740:303-11. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb19882.x.

Economic development and tropical disease.

Brinkmann UK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population and International Health, Epidemiology, Tropical 
Public Health, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

Development stands for an improved quality of life through gains in health, 
education, living standards, and higher income. Development is based on economic 
growth. Although all indicators of development: GDP per capita, average life 
expectancy at birth, and per capita income have been rising in almost all 
countries, including the "developing" countries over the past decades, economic 
growth did not lead to the expected disappearance of infectious diseases. 
Economic growth is associated with severe degradation of the natural world. 
Though economic growth is essential for development, it is a highly imperfect 
proxy for it. The people who suffer from the adverse effects of economic growth 
are often different from those who benefit from it. Economic development shows 
two faces with regard to tropical diseases: it is essential for their prevention 
and cure and it contributes to their transmission and severity through its 
impact on the environment. The pivotal point is poverty. If economic growth 
leads to improved education and social organization, even adverse effects can be 
mastered by the community.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb19882.x
PMID: 7840461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Br J Cancer. 1995 Feb;71(2):354-6. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1995.71.

Prognostic significance of interleukin 6 serum levels in patients with ovarian 
cancer.

Scambia G(1), Testa U, Benedetti Panici P, Foti E, Martucci R, Gadducci A, 
Perillo A, Facchini V, Peschle C, Mancuso S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Catholic University, Rome, Italy.

High levels of IL-6 were found in 50% of 114 patients with primary ovarian 
cancer. IL-6 sensitivity was lower than that of CA 125, and the combination of 
both assays did not increase the sensitivity of CA 125 alone. However, elevated 
IL-6 serum levels were correlated with a poor prognosis since patients with low 
IL-6 levels had a better survival than patients with high IL-6 levels (P = 
0.0009). Multivariate analysis revealed that IL-6 positivity has an independent 
value.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1995.71
PMCID: PMC2033591
PMID: 7841052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Br J Cancer. 1995 Feb;71(2):357-62. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1995.72.

Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) immunostaining--a prognostic factor in 
ovarian cancer?

Thomas H(1), Nasim MM, Sarraf CE, Alison MR, Love S, Lambert HE, Price P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Hammersmith Hospital, UK.

The measurement of tumour cell proliferation is becoming increasingly recognised 
in defining prognostic groups. Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) 
immunolocalisation can be used as an index of cell proliferation and may define 
the extent of departure from normal growth control. The monoclonal antibody PC10 
stains PCNA in archival paraffin-embedded tissue. This study investigates its 
potential as a prognostic marker in early and advanced ovarian cancer. A 
three-stage immunoperoxidase technique was developed to detect the monoclonal 
antibody PC10. Archival paraffin-embedded tissue from 19 stage I ovarian tumours 
(13 malignant and six borderline) and 79 advanced (stage IIb-IV) ovarian tumours 
(patients entered into the Third North-West Thames Ovarian Cancer Trial) was 
immunostained with PC10. PC10 immunostaining was performed successfully in 91.8% 
of cases. The PC10 labelling index (PC10 LI) ranged from 1.5% to 88% with a mean 
value of 47.4%. Stage I borderline tumours had significantly lower PCNA 
labelling indexes than stage I malignant tumours (P < 0.048). In advanced 
disease there was an inverse correlation between PC10 and overall survival, and 
in those patients who underwent good debulking surgery (37 patients with disease 
< 2 cm diameter) a low PC10 value (< 36.5%) correlated with improved survival 
(log-rank trend test for survival, chi 2 = 5.75, P = 0.017). PCNA immunostaining 
defines a good prognostic subgroup in adequately debulked patients with ovarian 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1995.72
PMCID: PMC2033602
PMID: 7841053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Br J Cancer. 1995 Feb;71(2):376-9. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1995.76.

E-cadherin expression in renal cell cancer and its significance in metastasis 
and survival.

Katagiri A(1), Watanabe R, Tomita Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Niigata University School of Medicine, Japan.

Decreased expression of E-cadherin (E-CD), a homotypic intercellular adhesion 
molecule, is considered to elicit detachment of tumour cells from primary 
lesions, which is the first stage of metastasis. Since renal cell cancer (RCC) 
shows a relatively high frequency of metastasis, we focused our interest on E-CD 
expression in RCC and its clinicopathological implications. We examined E-CD 
expression in normal kidney and RCC by immunohistochemical staining. In normal 
kidney, E-CD expression was localised in distal tubules and collecting ducts. In 
RCC, 20 of 106 primary lesions (18.9%) expressed E-CD, whereas none showed 
positive staining for eight metastatic lesions. There was a statistically 
significant correlation between loss of E-CD expression and advanced stages of 
RCC. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed better prognosis in the group with preserved 
E-CD expression than without E-CD expression (Cox-Mantel test, P = 0.022, the 
average follow-up was 32 months or until death). This study suggests that the 
patients with decreased E-CD expression may be associated with metastasis, 
resulting in poor prognosis. However, frequency of E-CD expression in RCC is 
lower than in other cancers, which may be derived from the localised 
distribution of E-CD expression in normal kidney.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1995.76
PMCID: PMC2033607
PMID: 7841055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Chest. 1995 Feb;107(2):358-61. doi: 10.1378/chest.107.2.358.

Home oxygen therapy. A comparison of 2- vs 6-month patient reevaluation.

Cottrell JJ(1), Openbrier D, Lave JR, Paul C, Garland JL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care Medicine, Department of 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Pittsburgh, PA 15240.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To contrast the effectiveness of 2- vs 6-month reevaluation 
intervals on both clinical outcome and cost in patients requiring continuous 
home oxygen therapy (HOT).
DESIGN: Prospective, randomized clinical trial.
SETTING: The outpatient program of a university-affiliated Veterans Affairs 
Medical Center (VAMC) Pulmonary Service.
PATIENTS: Fifty patients were chosen from among a cohort of 200 patients 
currently enrolled in our HOT program. All met specific arterial blood gas 
criteria, were able to give informed consent, had at least 6 months of prior HOT 
usage, and did not have any illness expected to independently shorten life 
expectancy.
INTERVENTIONS: Baseline resting oxygen flow rates were prescribed based on the 
results of arterial blood gas measurements so as to attain a PaO2 > 60 mm Hg. 
Flow rates were adjusted as needed during a 12-min walk to maintain pulse 
oximetry readings > 90%. No adjustments in baseline flow rates were made during 
sleep. Identical evaluations were repeated at either 2- or 6-month intervals.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: At 1-year follow-up, there were no significant 
differences between the 2- and 6-month groups in any of the clinical outcome 
parameters measured, ie, number of emergency department visits, number of 
hospitalizations, number of days hospitalized, or mortality. Total costs were 
not significantly different between the two groups. Evaluation costs were less 
in the 6-month follow-up group.
CONCLUSIONS: After attaining stability following at least 6 months of continuous 
HOT usage, patients receiving continuous HOT need not be routinely reevaluated 
more frequently than every 6 months.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.107.2.358
PMID: 7842761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Gaoxiong Yi Xue Ke Xue Za Zhi. 1994 Dec;10 Suppl:S2-14.

Dengue in the health transition.

Halstead SB(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Sciences Division, Rockefeller Foundation, New York, NY.

The "Health Transition" describes the medical consequences which accompany the 
demographic transition and development. In many Asian countries, as the 
infectious diseases of infancy decline, such as diarrhea, acute respiratory 
disease, measles and malaria, so too, do infant mortality rates. As a 
consequence of falling infant mortality rates and declines in fertility, the age 
pyramid has become more rectangular. No longer is nearly half of the population 
under the age of 15 years. Diseases of adults are beginning to become 
predominant: trauma, heart disease, cancer, stroke and diabetes. Life expectancy 
has increased along with costs of the health care system. As a fraction of per 
capita gross domestic product, health care is beginning to become a major 
national expense. It is ironic that the one vector-borne infectious disease 
likely to bridge the health transition in tropical countries is dengue. As 
evidenced by the experience of Singapore and Taiwan, modern housing and 
commercial development provide more, rather than fewer breeding places for Aedes 
aegypti. Greater affluence often means less compliance with mosquito control 
programs. Meanwhile, the dengue viruses, heeding some unknown genetic 
imperative, cause ever more severe disease. Modern Asian societies must count 
dengue as a real and enduring threat. To prevent costly hospitalizations and a 
sense of social disorder, effective measures must be adopted to achieve a 
significant reduction of Aedes aegypti populations. Sustained dengue control 
requires source reduction which, in turn depends upon imaginative leadership, 
skilled man power, legislative authority, an authentic national research program 
and intersectoral cooperation. A leadership role beckons for new actors in the 
control of Aedes aegypti: large municipalities, environmental agencies and the 
private sector.

PMID: 7844846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. J Surg Oncol. 1995 Feb;58(2):104-11. doi: 10.1002/jso.2930580207.

Pancreatic cancer treatment in the U.S. veteran from 1987 to 1991: effect of 
tumor stage on survival.

Wade TP(1), Kraybill WG, Virgo KS, Johnson FE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, John Cochran Department of Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center, St. Louis University School of Medicine, Missouri.

To assess the outcomes after pancreatic cancer treatment in a nationwide 
hospital system, patients treated in Department of Veterans Affairs (DVA) 
hospitals from 1987 to 1991 were studied by tumor stage, the most significant 
reported influence on survival. Tumor registrars from DVA hospitals provided 
information that allowed TNM staging in 598 patients, and duration of survival 
from treatment to death was known in 96+% of cases. Survival was 9 months longer 
after 64 resections for stage I-II (localized) pancreatic cancer than after 149 
other treatments (P < 0.05, ANOVA), but resection did not increase mean survival 
in 49 patients with stage III (lymph node metastases) disease. Twenty-one 
patients with ampullary, duodenal, bile duct, or cystic cancers had a 
significantly increased survival at any stage, but this may be due to the 
selection of sicker patients for nonoperative therapies.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.2930580207
PMID: 7844979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Scand J Soc Med. 1994 Sep;22(3):194-200. doi: 10.1177/140349489402200306.

Fertility, infertility and child survival of Somali women.

Omar MM(1), H철gberg U, Bergstr철m B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Faculty of Medicine, Somali National 
University, Mogadishu.

The relationship of reproductive patterns, some socio-economic factors and child 
survival was studied in 766 rural Somali women. A structured questionnaire was 
the method of data collection. Teenage marriage was the norm for the women, and 
divorce was very common. The mean number of live births was 5.2, and the mean 
number of surviving children was 3.7. 2/3 of the women aged 45+ had a parity of 
6 or more, about one third had had at least one miscarriage and one fifth had 
experienced one stillbirth. Primary infertility was observed in 7% of the women 
aged 45+, while 20% were considered subfertile. Verbal autopsy showed that 
mortality was highest among infants and accounted for 63% of the child deaths. 
Major causes of death were neonatal tetanus, diarrhoea and respiratory diseases. 
Child survival and reproductive outcome ratios were found to be negatively 
related to the increasing age of the mother and parity. Divorce and widowhood 
were also found to be associated with low child survival.

PIP: Somalia before the civil war had an estimated population of about 6 million 
and a growth rate of 3%. 25% were settled farmers and about 50% were 
pastoralists. Life expectancy was 46 years. Infant mortality was 150 per 1000 
live births. Primary school enrollment was under 10%. Average household size was 
6. Almost all households owned or rented a farm, and 65% owned cattle. A 
demographic surveillance system was set up during 1987-89 in rural areas. This 
study surveyed marriage, fertility, and infertility patterns among three 
villages (Lamadoonka, Buulalow, and Omar Beere) representative of dry land 
farming between the Jubba and Shabelle Rivers. A 1986 census was conducted, and 
this study interviewed 766 women: 196 women 15-44 years old from Omar Beere and 
590 women 15-93 years old from the other villages. The mean age of the study 
population was 34.7 years. 71% were married, 12% were single, and 15% were 
divorced or widowed. The average age of first marriage was 15.6 years. About 33% 
married before the age of 14 years. 36% of women 45 years and older, and 25% of 
women under 45 years old married before the age of 14 years. 30% were divorced 
at some time. Almost 50% had married more than once. The mean number of births 
was 5.2, and the mean number of surviving children was 3.7. Almost 66% of the 
177 women over 45 years old had a parity of 6 or more, 33% had at least one 
miscarriage and 20% had at least one stillbirth. 80% had experienced the death 
of at least 1 child. 33% had experienced the deaths of 6 or more of their 
children. 7% of the older women had never been pregnant, and 15% were childless 
even after pregnancy. The mean child survival ratio was 0.77, which was 
attributed to child mortality. The child survival ratio was 79 among women under 
45 years old and 60 among women over 45 years old. The reproductive outcome 
ratios were 72 and 55 respectively. The ratios were inversely related to 
increasing age and parity. Child deaths amounted to 954 children, of whom 63% 
died before the age of one year, 24% died between 1-5 years, and 13% died after 
the age of 5 years. 52% of infant deaths were reported due to tetanus, 14% from 
diarrhea, and 5% from respiratory diseases. Circumcision data was not collected, 
but all females were circumcised.

DOI: 10.1177/140349489402200306
PMID: 7846477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Soc Sci Med. 1994 Dec;39(12):1657-65. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(94)90080-9.

Changes in active life expectancy in Taiwan: compression or expansion?

Tu EJ(1), Chen K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Social Science, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.

The 1986-1989 supplements on Elderly Living Conditions to the Monthly Surveys of 
Human Resources in the Taiwan area are used to estimate active life expectancy 
and to examine evidence for a compression of disability. Unlike recent results 
generated in Western countries in favour of the expansion of morbidity 
hypothesis, our findings tend to support the hypothesis that declining mortality 
leads to a compression of disability. In Taiwan fatal diseases (e.g. heart 
disease, stroke, and cancer) play a more important role in disability than to 
nonfatal diseases (e.g. arthritis, dementia, sensory impairments, and 
osteoporosis, etc.). Fatal diseases are still the leading causes of disability; 
modern technology has not prolonged life significantly to Taiwanese who contract 
such diseases. Hence the improvement in recent life expectancy is very slow and 
the duration between age at onset of fatal diseases and death tends to be short. 
As a result of such short duration, the area between the disability and the 
mortality curve in the life table narrows.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(94)90080-9
PMID: 7846563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Acta Neurol Scand. 1994 Sep;90(3):150-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0404.1994.tb02698.x.

Rising mortality from motor neurone disease in Sweden 1961-1990: the relative 
role of increased population life expectancy and environmental factors.

Neilson S(1), Gunnarsson LG, Robinson I.

Author information:
(1)John Bevan MND Research Unit, Brunel, University of West London, Uxbridge, 
England.

Recent studies of mortality from motor neurone disease (MND) in Sweden have 
demonstrated rising levels of mortality from the disease, especially amongst 
older age groups. Case-control investigations have suggested that certain 
environmental factors are significantly related to variations in mortality from 
the disease, and are associated with a probable individual susceptibility to 
MND. This study applies an innovative epidemiological technique to longitudinal 
and cohort analysis of Swedish mortality from MND during the period 1961 to 
1990. Survival modelling shows that a subpopulation susceptible to MND exists in 
Sweden, as has been demonstrated in other countries. The increased life 
expectancy of the Swedish population since 1961 has resulted in more of that 
susceptible population living to the ages at which MND is expressed, explaining 
the majority of the increase in mortality from the disease. However, 
environmental factors may play a role in accelerating the course of MND and may 
affect the timing of death within the susceptible sub-population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0404.1994.tb02698.x
PMID: 7847054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Am J Kidney Dis. 1995 Feb;25(2):281-90. doi: 10.1016/0272-6386(95)90010-1.

A comparison of coronary angioplasty and coronary artery bypass grafting 
outcomes in chronic dialysis patients.

Rinehart AL(1), Herzog CA, Collins AJ, Flack JM, Ma JZ, Opsahl JA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Hennepin County Medical Center, School of Medicine 
and Public Health, Minneapolis, MN 55404.

The objective of this study was to compare the outcomes of angina, myocardial 
infarction (MI), cardiac death, and all-cause death following percutaneous 
transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) or coronary artery bypass grafting 
(CABG). The study design was based on retrospective, nonrandomized analysis and 
was set in referral teaching hospitals and community hospitals. Eighty-four 
chronic dialysis patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease without prior 
revascularization were included in the study. Twenty-four patients underwent 
PTCA of one or more vessels, and 60 patients underwent CABG. Recurrence of 
angina, MI, cardiac death, and all-cause death following revascularization as 
well as the number of inpatient days preprocedure and postprocedure were 
recorded. The two patient groups were comparable in terms of age, sex, history 
of MI, left ventricular mass and function, and angina severity. Diabetes 
mellitus was more prevalent in the PTCA group. The CABG group had more severe 
coronary artery disease. The 2-year survival rate of the CABG patients (66%; 95% 
confidence interval = 53.79) did not differ from that of the PTCA patients (51%; 
95% confidence interval = 27.65). Thirteen PTCA patients were restudied 106 +/- 
108 days after recurrence of angina; nine (69%) of these patients were found to 
have angiographic restenosis. The postprocedure risk of angina and the combined 
endpoints of angina, MI, and cardiovascular death were significantly greater 
following PTCA than CABG. Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was the 
only consistent predictor of outcomes; the adjusted relative risks (compared 
with CABG) of postprocedure angina and combined endpoints were 16.4 and 10.2, 
respectively, and were several-fold higher than the unadjusted risks. We 
conclude that in chronic dialysis patients with symptomatic coronary disease, 
patients undergoing PTCA have a higher risk of subsequent angina and combined 
angina, MI, and cardiovascular death than those undergoing CABG. The optimal 
approach to coronary revascularization in this patient population remains to be 
determined.

DOI: 10.1016/0272-6386(95)90010-1
PMID: 7847356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Am J Orthopsychiatry. 1994 Oct;64(4):577-85. doi: 10.1037/h0079571.

Clinical, sociodemographic, and systems risk factors for attrition in a 
children's mental health clinic.

Armbruster P(1), Fallon T.

Author information:
(1)Child Study Center, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Conn.

Clinical, sociodemographic, and systems risk factors for attrition at a child 
guidance clinic were identified. All patients who completed the intake process 
were followed through various clinic phases. Lower socioeconomic status and low 
family cohesion predicted dropout. Dropouts and continuers were equally 
psychiatrically impaired. The Family Environment Scale was the only standardized 
measure that distinguished between dropouts and continuers.

DOI: 10.1037/h0079571
PMID: 7847573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Arch Intern Med. 1995 Feb 27;155(4):400-4. doi: 
10.1001/archinte.1995.00430040074009.

Clinical and epidemiologic features of infection with Mycobacterium genavense. 
Swiss HIV Cohort Study.

Pech챔re M(1), Opravil M, Wald A, Chave JP, Bessesen M, Sievers A, Hein R, von 
Overbeck J, Clark RA, Tortoli E, et al.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, H척pital Cantonal Universitaire, Geneva, 
Switzerland.

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 1995 Oct 23;155(19):2128-9.

OBJECTIVES: To characterize clinical and epidemiologic features of infections 
with Mycobacterium genavense.
DESIGN: Case series and case-control studies. Patients with M genavense were 
compared with two control groups: CD4 controls were matched on the basis of CD4 
counts, and Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare complex controls had disseminated 
infection with M avium-intracellulare complex.
RESULTS: Fifty-four patients with disseminated infections caused by M genavense 
were found, from Europe (37), North America (15), and Australia (two). All were 
infected with human immunodeficiency virus. The median CD4 count was 0.016 x 
10(9)/L (16/mm3) (range, 0.001 to 0.082 x 10(9)/L). Eighty-seven percent had 
fever and weight loss, 44% had diarrhea, 43% had splenomegaly, 39% had 
hepatomegaly, and 72% had anemia. In Swiss university hospitals, M genavense was 
responsible for 12.8% of nontuberculous disseminated mycobacterial infections in 
patients with human immunodeficiency virus from 1990 to 1992. The median 
survival was 190 days after the first isolation of M genavense. Among the 
patients who had been treated with at least two antimycobacterial drugs for 1 
month or more, median survival was 263 days (95% confidence interval, 144 to 382 
days), compared with 81 days (95% confidence interval, 73 to 89 days) for those 
not treated (P = .0009). Survival in patients with M genavense was similar to 
the survival of M avium-intracellulare complex controls. However, patients with 
similar CD4 counts (CD4 controls) survived longer (median, 342 days; 95% 
confidence interval, 269 to 415 days; P < .0003).
CONCLUSIONS: Infection with M genavense may be responsible for more than 10% of 
disseminated nontuberculous mycobacterial infections in patients with human 
immunodeficiency virus infection. Its clinical presentation and response to 
treatment are similar to those of infection with M avium-intracellulare complex.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.1995.00430040074009
PMID: 7848023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Aust J Public Health. 1994 Mar;18(1):116-7.

QALYs for resource allocation: a rejoinder to a reply.

Burrows C, Brown K.

Comment in
    Aust J Public Health. 1994 Jun;18(2):227-8.

Comment on
    Aust J Public Health. 1993 Dec;17(4):394-6.

PMID: 7848415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Eur J Surg. 1994 Oct;160(10):535-42.

Impending and actual pathological fractures in patients with bone metastases of 
the long bones. A retrospective study of 233 surgically treated fractures.

Dijstra S(1), Wiggers T, van Geel BN, Boxma H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Surgical Oncology, South Municipal Hospital, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: Analysis of short-term and long-term complications after cemented 
osteosynthesis for pathological fractures.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
SETTING: South Municipal Hospital and the Dani챘l den Hoed Cancer Centre, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
SUBJECTS: 199 patients consecutive surgically treated between 1978 to 1990 for 
233 fractures (161 actual and 72 impending) caused by metastatic lesions of the 
femur, humerus and tibia.
INTERVENTIONS: Local resection of the tumour was followed by endoprostheses (n = 
52) and by internal plate osteosynthesis (n = 167); 14 fractures were treated 
with intramedullary nails. Bone cement was added in 211 cases (91%).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Pain relief, mobilisation, complications.
RESULTS: Pain relief was achieved in about 90%. 145 (76%) who were treated for 
fractures of the lower extremity were able to walk again. There were 13 local 
complications: 26 (11%) implanted devices failed (cumulative probability 40%, 
after 60 months). In 11 cases the fixation failed after 7 weeks. The failure 
rate was 16% in the subtrochanteric region treated with an angled blade 
(probability 70% after four years). The patients' survival rate was 55% after 
six months and 20% at two years.
CONCLUSION: Despite the poor life expectancy, our results indicate that 
hemiarthroplasty or osteosynthesis with bone cement for treatment of 
pathological (impending) fractures is a safe way to restore limb function and to 
improve quality of life.

PMID: 7849154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Antisense Res Dev. 1994 Fall;4(3):173-83. doi: 10.1089/ard.1994.4.173.

Use of partially phosphorothioated "antisense" oligodeoxynucleotides for 
sequence-dependent modulation of hematopoiesis in culture.

Ehrlich G(1), Patinkin D, Ginzberg D, Zakut H, Eckstein F, Soreq H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Life Sciences Institute, Hebrew 
University of Jerusalem, Israel.

To distinguish between sequence-dependent effects and non-specific cytotoxicity 
of phosphorothioate antisense oligonucleotides (AS-oligos), we introduced 
AS-oligos blocking expression of 2Hs, the Homo sapiens cell division controller 
cdc2 kinase, its hematopoietically expressed homolog CHED, and the 
acetylcholine-hydrolyzing enzyme butyrylcholinesterase (BCHE) into primary 
murine bone marrow (BM) culture. Antisense oligonucleotides were fully 
phosphorothioated (Ts) or prepared with three phosphorothioate groups at their 
3' termini (S3). Each of these oligos could cause reductions in colony counts 
either as a result of its sequence-dependent biological capacity or due to 
sequence-independent cytotoxicity. The Ts and S3 forms of the matching sense 
oligo, S-BCHE, served for comparison. The S3 forms of AS-2Hs, AS-BCHE, and 
S-BCHE caused more limited drops in colony counts than their Ts counterparts, 
reflecting lower cytotoxicity. When incubated with electroblotted BM proteins, 
Ts but not S3 oligos intensively labeled two protein bands. Moreover, 5'-end 
32P-labeled (Ts) S-BCHE labeled nuclear proteins in situ in small, mitotic 
cells, suggesting correlation between oligo-protein interactions and the 
sequence-independent cytotoxicity of Ts AS-oligos. Extension of the apparently 
nontoxic AS-CHED by two adenosine residues at the 3' end, creating a potential 
for intramolecular hydrogen bond formation, resulted in increased toxicity. 
These findings recommend the use of nonlooped, partially phosphorothioated 
oligos for the modulation of hematopoiesis.

DOI: 10.1089/ard.1994.4.173
PMID: 7849488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Curr Opin Neurobiol. 1994 Oct;4(5):703-7. doi: 10.1016/0959-4388(94)90013-2.

Apolipoprotein E and Alzheimer's disease.

Katzman R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, School of Medicine, University of California San 
Diego, La Jolla 92093-0949.

The past year has seen widespread confirmation that the epsilon 4 allele of the 
apolipoprotein E gene is a major risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. The 
epsilon 4 allele also appears to correlate with life expectancy. This allele has 
been found to be present in over 50% of Alzheimer patients, regardless of 
whether or not they have a family history of dementia. It is not yet clear how 
the epsilon 4 allele mediates its actions; however, recent evidence suggests 
that apolipoprotein E4 may be responsible for the accelerated formation of 
beta-pleated amyloid from soluble beta-amyloid peptide, as is seen in the 
neuritic plaques of Alzheimer patients, as well as interacting with 
intraneuronal microtubular transport mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1016/0959-4388(94)90013-2
PMID: 7849527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Child Abuse Negl. 1994 Dec;18(12):1063-71. doi:
10.1016/0145-2134(94)90132-5.

A survival analysis of the revictimization of children: the case of Colorado.

