Fryer GE(1), Miyoshi TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of Colorado Health Science Center, 
1180 Clermont, Denver 80220.

This paper reports the results of a survival analysis of patterns of 
revictimization of children with records of confirmed cases of maltreatment in 
Colorado during the 4-year period 1986-1989. The study examined the cases of 
24,507 children in that state's Child Abuse and Neglect Registry for evidence of 
their revictimization. Hazard rates for repeat offenses were highest immediately 
after the initial incident of abuse or neglect. Risk of revictimization was 
greater for younger children and for females, but those relationships were 
strongly mediated by the form of maltreatment. The rate of revictimization of 
physically neglected children exceeded that for other major types of 
maltreatment. Although abused and neglected children were most at risk 
immediately after their incident of abuse or neglect, they remained at greater 
risk of mistreatment for years thereafter.

DOI: 10.1016/0145-2134(94)90132-5
PMID: 7850614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Horm Metab Res. 1994 Oct;26(10):450-2. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1001731.

Vitamin E delays diabetes onset in the non-obese diabetic mouse.

Beales PE(1), Williams AJ, Albertini MC, Pozzilli P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diabetes and Metabolism, St. Bartholomew's Hospital, London, 
United Kingdom.

Vitamin E was administered to non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice to determine if the 
selective destruction of pancreatic beta cells leading to Type 1 (insulin 
dependent) diabetes mellitus could be halted by virtue of this vitamin's free 
oxygen radical scavenger activity. Two groups of NOD mice were treated from 3 
weeks of age until 30 weeks of age with either diet supplemented with vitamin E 
or control diet. Diabetes incidence was recorded as well as the degree of 
lymphocytic infiltration of the pancreas (insulitis) in animals which did not 
develop diabetes. Vitamin E did not reduce the incidence of diabetes by 30 weeks 
of age, however it did significantly delay the onset of the disease (p < 
0.01--parallelism test). There were no differences in the degree of insulitis 
with respect to control mice. We conclude that antioxidant therapy with Vitamin 
E delays diabetes onset in NOD mice without having an apparent effect on the 
autoimmune process.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1001731
PMID: 7851866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. J Mal Vasc. 1994;19(4):289-93.

[Venous thromboembolic disease in a geriatric environment. Importance of its 
detection and treatment].

[Article in French]

Benoist M(1), Barrellier MT, Gautier P, Hodara M, Alix M.

Author information:
(1)Explorations Fonctionnelles, CHU CÃ´te-de-Nacre, Caen.

The elderly population is particularly exposed to risk of venous thromboembolism 
because the risk of thrombosis increases with age but also because of the side 
effects of anticoagulant therapy. Clinical signs are neither sensitive nor 
specific and systematic screen for deep vein thrombosis in elderly patients 
could be justified using noninvasive techniques such as echo-Doppler or assay of 
D-Dimers. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence of venous 
thrombosis diagnosed by echo-Doppler screening in a population of 
institutionalized elderly subjects. The frequency of risk factors and the cost 
of screening and subsequent health care were also evaluated. This study included 
96 patients who underwent systematic echo-Doppler measurements. Clinical, 
biological and echographic data were recorded on individual file-cards for 
analysis. The prevalence of deep vein thrombosis diagnosis was 13.5% (13/96). 
All the deep vein thromboses discovered were in the popliteal area. No high risk 
group was found and there was found and there was no significant link with 
clinical signs or the level of D-Dimers. The cost of diagnosis and treatment in 
the particular conditions of our study were 5000 and 10,700 FRF respectively for 
each deep vein thrombosis diagnosed. The cost of diagnostic screening and 
treatment should be considered in light of the life expectancy and quality of 
life in this population. Thus in elderly institutionalized subjects, it would 
appear not to be reasonable to undertake systematic screening for venous 
thrombosis using echo-Doppler or D-Dimer assay.

PMID: 7852873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. J Fam Pract. 1995 Feb;40(2):129-35.

Surgery in nonagenarians: morbidity, mortality, and functional outcome.

Ackermann RJ(1), Vogel RL, Johnson LA, Ashley DW, Solis MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Mercer University School of 
Medicine, Macon, GA.

BACKGROUND: There are few studies that document the outcomes experienced by very 
old patients who undergo major surgery.
METHODS: This is a case series and 7-year follow-up of 116 consecutive patients 
who were aged 90 years or older and underwent major surgery at a large 
university-affiliated community hospital. We describe the functional status, 
short- and long-term mortality, and predictors of mortality in this group of 
frail elders.
RESULTS: The 116 nonagenarians in this study underwent 134 major operations. 
Sixty-three patients were admitted to the hospital from a nursing home. The most 
common surgical procedures were for hip fracture, lower extremity amputation, 
and abdominal problems. Nineteen patients died in the hospital following 
surgery, and 23 patients died within 30 days of operation. Follow-up at 7 years 
revealed that all but three patients had died. Survival was worse for patients 
admitted from nursing homes, those who were nonambulatory before surgery, and 
those with major or complete functional impairment.
CONCLUSIONS: Major surgery in nonagenarians is associated with a 20% 
perioperative mortality. Functional status and ambulatory ability are maintained 
in most patients. Whether to operate on these frail elders is a complex 
decision.

PMID: 7852934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. J Urol. 1995 Mar;153(3 Pt 2):1026-31.

Experience with radical prostatectomy and radiation therapy for localized 
prostate cancer at a Veterans Affairs Medical Center.

Fowler JE Jr(1), Braswell NT, Pandey P, Seaver L.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson.

We assessed the actuarial survival of 357 patients with localized prostate 
cancer who were treated with radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy at a 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center between 1980 and 1991 and who were followed for 
a median of 59 months. During this period patients with clinical stages A2 and B 
tumors who had an anticipated life expectancy of 10 years or greater were 
generally treated with surgery. Patients with stages A2 and B tumors who were 
not candidates for surgery and those with stage C tumors were generally treated 
with radiation therapy. There were no significant differences among the cause 
specific, clinical disease-free and prostate specific antigen disease-free 
survival curves of patients with stages A2 and B tumors who were treated with 
radical prostatectomy (138) or radiation therapy (138) but the all cause and 
metastases-free survival curves favored the surgery group (p < 0.000001 and 
0.046, respectively). There was no significant difference between the all cause 
survival curves of the patients with stages A2 and B tumors and of 81 patients 
with stage C tumors who were treated with radiation therapy. However, the cause 
specific survival curves favored the patients with stages A2 and B tumors (p = 
0.000007). This study demonstrates that there is a high risk of death from 
co-morbidities in a hospital based population of American veterans with 
localized prostate cancer who are not candidates for radical prostatectomy.

PMID: 7853550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. J Vasc Surg. 1995 Feb;21(2):270-9; discussion 279-81. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70268-7.

Early outcome and intermediate follow-up of vascular stents in the femoral and 
popliteal arteries without long-term anticoagulation.

White GH(1), Liew SC, Waugh RC, Stephen MS, Harris JP, Kidd J, Sachinwalla T, Yu 
W, May J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Camperdown, 
Sydney, Australia.

PURPOSE: The role of arterial stenting in the treatment of femoral and popliteal 
arterial disease is controversial and has been hampered by recommendations for 
patients to be given anticoagulants (oral warfarin) for several months or more. 
This study was undertaken to evaluate the immediate and midterm outcomes of 
vascular stents implanted percutaneously in the femoral and popliteal arteries, 
without long-term anticoagulation.
METHODS: Over a 3-year period, 32 patients admitted to a vascular surgery 
service had arterial stents implanted in the femoral (n = 22) or popliteal (n = 
10) artery for the following indications: recurrent stenosis after angioplasty 
(n = 13), suboptimal result after angioplasty of occluded (n = 12) or calcified 
stenotic arteries (n = 2), percutaneous transluminal angioplasty-induced 
thrombosis or dissection (n = 5). Access to the artery was gained by 
percutaneous insertion of a hemostatic sheath into the ipsilateral common 
femoral artery. Systemic heparin was given at the time of stent insertion, and 
patients were prescribed daily low-dose aspirin.
RESULTS: Successful stent implantation was achieved in 31 of the 32 patients. 
Acute thrombosis (< 30 days) occurred in two patients. There was no incidence of 
false aneurysm formation, acute leg ischemia, or vessel perforation. All 
patients were monitored by Doppler scanning index and duplex scanning within 24 
hours, and thereafter at 3- to 6-month intervals. The mean ankle-brachial 
systolic pressure index improved from 0.60 (before treatment) to 0.88 (3 to 6 
months after stenting). Stent occlusion has occurred in six patients; two stents 
were successfully salvaged with urokinase infusion. In follow-up to date (range 
3 to 33 months) the primary patency rate by life-table analysis was 75% at 18 
months, whereas the secondary patency rate was 89% at the same interval. 
Restenosis (> 50% lumen diameter) was detected by duplex ultrasonography in 
seven of 25 patent stents (28%) at a mean interval of 9.5 months (range 4 to 15 
months); of these, four patients remained clinically symptom-free despite the 
ultrasound findings.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that vascular stents can be implanted into the 
femoropopliteal arteries with few complications and with acceptable early and 
intermediate patency rates, without the need for long-term anticoagulation. 
Restenosis is not prevented by stents, and the main value of stenting at this 
site appears to be in salvaging acute complications of percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty, or to correct suboptimal results after recanalization of occluded 
arteries.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70268-7
PMID: 7853600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. J Vasc Surg. 1995 Feb;21(2):326-36; discussion 336-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70273-3.

Atherosclerotic innominate artery occlusive disease: early and long-term results 
of surgical reconstruction.

Kieffer E(1), Sabatier J, Koskas F, Bahnini A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, PitiÃ©-SalpÃ©triÃ¨re University Hospital, Paris, 
France.

PURPOSE: Few articles have dealt specifically with surgical management of 
innominate artery (IA) atherosclerotic occlusive disease. We herein present our 
early and long-term results in a large series of patients.
METHODS: During a 20-year period (1974 to 1993) we operated on 148 patients with 
IA atherosclerotic occlusive disease. The mean age was 55.8 +/- 9.4 years. 
Approach was through a median sternotomy in 135 (91%) patients. Endarterectomy 
was performed in 32 (22%) patients, whereas 116 (78%) patients underwent bypass.
RESULTS: Eight (5.4%) patients died in the perioperative period (four of 
heart-related causes, two of hemorrhage, one each of pulmonary infection and 
multiorgan failure). There were five (3.4%) perioperative strokes (three 
ipsilateral, two contralateral) and three (2.0%) ipsilateral perioperative 
transient ischemic attacks. Ten (7%) patients were lost to follow-up. Mean 
follow-up was 77 (2 to 193) months. Thirty-three (24%) patients were monitored 
10 or more years. There were 45 (35%) late deaths (19 from 
cardiovascular-related causes, 15 from cancer, 7 from other known causes, and 4 
from unknown causes). Although 11 (8.5%) patients had late neurologic events, 
only one late stroke occurred in the contralateral hemisphere and no ipsilateral 
late strokes occurred. Sixteen (11%) patients had late myocardial infarctions, 
nine of which were lethal. Life-table analysis and perioperative events were 
used to calculate the probability of survival, which was 77.5% +/- 9.5% and 
51.9% +/- 20.8% at 5 and 10 years, respectively, with a 4.4% annual mortality 
rate. The overall probability of freedom from any neurologic/ocular event was 
88.8% +/- 6.2% and 80.4% +/- 11.9% at 5 and 10 years, respectively, with a 1.6% 
annual occurrence rate. The probability of freedom from ipsilateral 
neurologic/ocular event was 92.7% +/- 4.8% and 84.0% +/- 11.2% at 5 and 10 
years, respectively, with a 1.4% annual occurrence rate. The probability of 
freedom from ipsilateral stroke was 98.6% +/- 1.9% at 5 and 10 years. The 
primary patency rate was 98.4% +/- 2.1% and 96.3% +/- 4.7% at 5 and 10 years, 
respectively. The probability of freedom from reoperation was 95.6% +/- 3.9% and 
93.5% +/- 5.9% at 5 and 10 years, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical reconstruction of IA atherosclerotic occlusive disease 
yields acceptable rates of perioperative complications and late mortality and 
excellent long-term patency and freedom from neurologic events and reoperation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70273-3
PMID: 7853604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. J Vasc Surg. 1995 Feb;21(2):346-56; discussion 356-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70275-x.

The natural history of moderate (50% to 79%) internal carotid artery stenosis in 
symptomatic, nonhemispheric, and asymptomatic patients.

Mansour MA(1), Mattos MA, Faught WE, Hodgson KJ, Barkmeier LD, Ramsey DE, Sumner 
DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Springfield 62794-9230.

PURPOSE: This study was undertaken to determine the incidence of disease 
progression of moderate (50% to 79%) internal carotid artery stenosis in 
patients with symptoms, patients with nonhemispheric symptoms, and symptom-free 
patients and to define the risk of development of new neurologic events in each 
group.
METHODS: Over a 6-year period, 272 patients with moderate internal carotid 
artery stenoses were monitored for a mean of 44 months with color-flow duplex 
scanning (CFS). At the time of the initial scan, 142 patients were symptom free, 
87 had experienced transient ischemic attacks, amaurosis fugax, or mild strokes, 
and 43 had ill-defined nonhemispheric symptoms. The average number of follow-up 
scans was 2.4 per patient (range 1 to 11).
RESULTS: During follow-up, 23 (26%) of the patients with symptoms, 17 (40%) of 
the patients with nonhemispheric symptoms, and 30 (21%) of the symptom-free 
patients had development of additional neurologic symptoms. Life-table 
comparison of ipsilateral ischemic events showed a significantly (p = 0.03) 
higher cumulative rate in the symptomatic group (20%) than in the asymptomatic 
group (7%) at 2 years. Mean annual stroke rates were 6% and 2% in patients in 
the symptomatic and asymptomatic groups, respectively. None of the patients in 
the nonhemispheric group had a stroke within 4 years of the initial study. 
Disease progression occurred in 16% of the patients. In the asymptomatic group, 
ipsilateral stroke occurred more frequently (p = 0.0001) in patients with 
disease progression (25%) than in patients with stable lesions (1%). CFS 
detected disease progression in 19 (79%) of 24 patients before the artery 
occluded or stroke occurred. In patients with symptoms, stroke was more frequent 
(p = 0.02) in patients with six or more risk factors (29%) than in those with 
five or fewer risk factors (7%).
CONCLUSION: Although the risk of stroke is less in patients with moderate 
stenosis than it is in patients with severely stenotic lesions, symptom-free 
patients with advancing disease and patients with symptoms and multiple risk 
factors are at increased risk for development of neurologic events. These 
findings support the use of CFS to monitor patients with carotid artery disease 
and suggest that a more aggressive surgical approach may be indicated in 
selected patients with moderate carotid artery stenosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70275-x
PMID: 7853606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. JAMA. 1995 Mar 1;273(9):712-20.

Foot infections in diabetic patients. Decision and cost-effectiveness analyses.

Eckman MH(1), Greenfield S, Mackey WC, Wong JB, Kaplan S, Sullivan L, Dukes K, 
Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Decision Making, New England Medical Center and Tufts 
University School of Medicine, Boston, MA 02111.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1995 Oct 4;274(13):1013-4.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of approaches to the diagnosis and 
treatment of patients with type II (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus 
(NIDDM) who have foot infections and suspected osteomyelitis.
DESIGN: Decision and cost-effectiveness analyses were performed using a Markov 
model. We examined the prevalence of osteomyelitis, the major complications and 
efficacies of long-term antibiotic therapy and surgery, and the performance 
characteristics of four diagnostic tests (roentgenography, technetium Tc 99m 
bone scanning, indium in 111-labeled white blood cell scanning, and magnetic 
resonance imaging). Data were drawn from the English-language literature using 
MEDLINE searches and bibliographies from selected articles.
SETTING: Primary care.
PATIENTS: Patients with NIDDM who had foot infections and suspected 
osteomyelitis but no signs of systemic toxicity.
INTERVENTIONS: Following hospitalization for surgical dÃ©bridement and 
intravenous antibiotic therapy: (1) treatment for presumed soft-tissue 
infection, (2) culture-guided empiric treatment for presumed osteomyelitis, (3) 
71 combinations of diagnostic tests preceding antibiotic therapy for 
osteomyelitis, (4) 71 combinations of tests preceding amputation, and (5) 
immediate amputation.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality-adjusted life expectancy, average costs.
RESULTS: Culture-guided empiric treatment for osteomyelitis with 10 weeks of 
oral antibiotic therapy has similar effectiveness to testing followed by a long 
course of antibiotic therapy if any test result is positive. However, empiric 
treatment is the least expensive strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: Noninvasive testing adds significant expense to the treatment of 
patients with NIDDM in whom pedal osteomyelitis is suspected, and such testing 
may result in little improvement in health outcomes. In patients without 
systemic toxicity, a 10-week course of culture-guided oral antibiotic therapy 
following surgical dÃ©bridement may be as effective as and less costly than other 
approaches.

PMID: 7853629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Kidney Int. 1994 Nov;46(5):1392-6. doi: 10.1038/ki.1994.410.

Race and the risk of peritonitis: an analysis of factors associated with the 
initial episode.

Farias MG(1), Soucie JM, McClellan W, Mitch WE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, 
Atlanta, Georgia.

To study how clinical characteristics influence the risk of peritonitis in 
African American patients with end-stage renal disease treated with continuous 
ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), we examined the risk of developing a 
first episode of peritonitis among 1,595 new dialysis patients initially treated 
by CAPD over a two year period in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia 
(Network 6). Characteristics examined were demographic and socioeconomic 
factors, functional status, serum albumin and comorbid conditions. There were 
538 initial episodes of peritonitis during an average of 8.8 patient months of 
follow-up; the time to peritonitis for the entire cohort was 26 months. Factors 
found to be independently associated with a risk for peritonitis were student 
status (Odds Ratio and 95% Confidence Interval = 2.4; 1.4 to 4.3), rental 
housing (1.2; 1.0 to 1.5), and substance abuse (1.9; 1.1 to 3.2). African 
Americans were 60% more likely to have an initial episode of peritonitis during 
follow-up than whites (1.6; 1.3 to 1.8). The time to the initial episode was 21 
months for African Americans versus 32 months for whites (P < 0.001). Even after 
adjusting for other factors, African Americans were significantly more likely to 
develop peritonitis (1.5; 1.2 to 1.8). Thus, the increased risk of peritonitis 
of African American patients treated by CAPD is independent of other 
demographic, socioeconomic and comorbid characteristics.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.1994.410
PMID: 7853799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Nord Med. 1995;110(2):38-9.

[Eastern Europe and scandinavia--a new epidemiological situation?].

[Article in Swedish]

BÃ¶ttiger M.

PMID: 7854906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Stat Med. 1994 Nov 30;13(22):2383-4. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780132209.

On the analysis of life tables for dependent observations.

Aalen OO.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780132209
PMID: 7855471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Acta Med Port. 1994 Oct;7(10):545-9.

[Life tables. An approximation to their construction].

[Article in Portuguese]

Selemane I(1).

Author information:
(1)ServiÃ§o de Saude PÃºblica, Centro de SaÃºde de GrÃ¢ndola, GrÃ¢ndula.

The method suggested by the World Health Organization on constructing current 
life tables is described in order to analyse the mortality by age groups and to 
estimate life expectancy for the GrÃ¢ndola community, between 1990 and 1992. 
Mortality rates seem to be high in some younger age groups, but a more detailed 
investigation should be made about their causes and, if possible, appropriate 
measures should be taken to correct the above situation. Life expectancy at 
birth was estimated in 67.75 years for males and 77.42 for females, the first 
being lower than the average of this country. The described method has the main 
advantage of being mathematically and conceptually simpler than many others 
existing in literature, with similar final results.

PMID: 7856461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 1994;251(7):418-22. doi: 10.1007/BF00181968.

Prognostic significance of lymph node reactivity in patients with laryngeal 
carcinoma.

Stankiewicz C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Medical Academy of GdaÅsk, Poland.

Apart from the presence or absence of metastases in patients with laryngeal 
carcinoma, there are changes of reactivity in cervical lymph nodes that are seen 
histologically as nonspecific reactive lymphadenitis. These changes are 
morphological manifestations of the regional lymphatic system reactivity in 
relation to tumor, and their presence may be of prognostic value. To test this 
hypothesis, 45 patients with laryngeal carcinoma were examined for the evidence 
of node reactivity. The classification applied by Tsakraklides et al. was used, 
defining patterns of lymphocyte predominance, germinal center appearance 
(indicating lymph node stimulation) and whether or not lymphocyte depletion had 
occurred. The presence of node reactivity was compared with long-term (5-year) 
survivals in the group of patients studied. By applying statistical analysis it 
was found that lymph node stimulation was a favorable prognostic factor, while 
its absence worsened prognosis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00181968
PMID: 7857630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Blood. 1995 Mar 1;85(5):1202-6.

All-trans retinoic acid for the treatment of newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic 
leukemia. Japan Adult Leukemia Study Group.

Kanamaru A(1), Takemoto Y, Tanimoto M, Murakami H, Asou N, Kobayashi T, Kuriyama 
K, Ohmoto E, Sakamaki H, Tsubaki K, et al.

Author information:
(1)2nd Department of Internal Medicine, Hyogo College of Medicine, Japan.

Comment in
    Blood. 1995 Aug 15;86(4):1644-5.

We conducted a multicenter trial of treatment with all-trans retinoic acid 
(ATRA) for newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) in the AML-92 
study and compared it with our previous study with standard intensive 
chemotherapy, the AML-89 study, in the view of complete remission (CR) rate, 
incidence of early death, and event-free survival (EFS). Patients were scheduled 
to receive oral ATRA 45 mg/m2 daily until CR. If patients had leukocyte counts 
above 3 x 10(9)/L at the start of therapy, they received daunorubicine (DNR) 40 
mg/m2 for 3 days and behenoyl cytosine arabinoside (BHAC) 200 mg/m2 for 5 days 
in addition to ATRA. During the ATRA therapy, if patients showed myeloblast plus 
promyelocyte counts higher than 1 x 10(9)/L in the peripheral blood, they 
received additional DNR and BHAC in the same schedule, as well. A total of 110 
patients were entered into the study. Median age was 43 years (range, 16 to 74). 
Twenty-eight (26%) of 109 patients (one died before the start of therapy) 
received ATRA alone. Ninety-seven patients (89%) achieved CR; 48 of 49 (98%) 
aged less than 40 years, 44 of 52 (84%) aged between 40 and 69, and 5 of 8 (63%) 
aged above 70 achieved CR, respectively; 25 of 28 (89%) with ATRA alone, 46 of 
51 (90%) with ATRA plus initial chemotherapy and 26 of 30 (87%) with ATRA plus 
later chemotherapy attained CR, respectively. Nine (8%) patients died within 28 
days after the start of therapy. In contrast, 44 of 62 patients (71%) attained 
CR, and 13 (21%) died within 28 days in the AML-89 study with the combination of 
DNR, BHAC, 6-mercaptopurine and prednisolone. Seven developed retinoic acid 
syndrome and one died of it in the present study. Other toxicities associated 
with this drug included cheilitis, desquamation, muscle pain, and 
hypertriglyceridemia. Predicted 23 months EFS for all ATRA-treated patients and 
disease-free survival (DFS) in the CR cases were 75% and 81%, respectively, in a 
median follow-up period of 21 months. Compared to the AML-89 study, there was a 
highly significant difference in remission rate (P = .004), EFS (P = .0007), and 
also early mortality rate (P = .02). Present results demonstrated that ATRA with 
or without chemotherapy gives a statistical improvement in CR rate and early 
mortality rate, as well as superior survival in newly diagnosed APL.

PMID: 7858250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Blood. 1995 Mar 1;85(5):1404-5.

Cyclophosphamide/antithymocyte globulin conditioning of patients with severe 
aplastic anemia transplanted with bone marrow from HLA-identical related donors.

Horstmann M, StockschlÃ¤der M, Kabisch H, Zander A.

PMID: 7858271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Leuk Lymphoma. 1994 Sep;15(1-2):51-60. doi: 10.3109/10428199409051677.

The role of immunophenotype in acute lymphoblastic leukemia of infant age.

Basso G(1), Rondelli R, Covezzoli A, Putti M.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Pediatria, University of Padova, Italy.

The prognosis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia in infants is still significantly 
worse than that of older children. This is thought to be due to both clinical 
and biological factors, such as high white blood cell (WBC) counts at diagnosis, 
irregular or immature phenotypes, and molecular and cytogenetical abnormalities. 
In order to focus the significance of immunophenotypic analysis, we have 
reviewed the immunophenotypic studies of 145 infants under 18 months of age 
treated at the AIEOP centers from 1984 to 1992. Children have been divided in 
three age groups of six months each; WBC count at diagnosis has been evaluated 
both as mean values and within different categories (< 10.10(9)/L, > 
100.10(9)/L). These have been studied in correlation with immunophenotype and 
with the expression of single, specific markers. A significant correlation has 
been found between young age, high WBC count and immature phenotypes. Common ALL 
was more frequent in older children and showed lower WBC counts. Moreover, 
event-free survival was significantly better in older children with WBC count < 
100.00/mm3, with CD10+, MyAg- ALL. Therefore, we suggest that immunophenotypic 
analysis is still an important prognostic factor and can be usefully used, 
together with simple clinical data, to plan therapy for ALL in infants.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199409051677
PMID: 7858502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Leuk Lymphoma. 1994 Sep;15(1-2):71-8. doi: 10.3109/10428199409051680.

Late intensification therapy in adult acute lymphoid leukemia: long-term 
follow-up of the Southeastern Cancer Study Group experience.

Omura GA(1), Vogler WR, Martelo O, Gordon DS, Bartolucci AA.

Author information:
(1)University of Alabama at Birmingham.

One hundred and ninety-two evaluable patients were treated on a multicenter 
protocol for adult acute lymphoid leukemia to determine in a prospective 
randomized fashion if late intensification chemotherapy beginning after about 
six months of treatment would improve remission duration and survival. The 
complete remission rate was 60%. The median remission duration from beginning of 
maintenance was 18.7 versus 25.9 months (P = 0.36) for standard maintenance 
therapy and late intensification, respectively, and the median survival from 
randomization was 25.8 versus 28.5 months (P = 0.94) respectively. There was a 
suggestion that the late intensification strategy was helpful with respect to 
remission duration, and this trend was sustained in long-term follow-up. 
However, relapse proved to be common during the earlier phases of treatment; 
thus, insufficient numbers of patients were available at the randomization point 
to conclusively address the possible value of late intensification. Intensive 
therapy earlier in the course of treatment should be evaluated, including 
transplantation in selected patients.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199409051680
PMID: 7858504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Leuk Lymphoma. 1994 Sep;15(1-2):79-84. doi: 10.3109/10428199409051681.

The influence of induction chemotherapy dose and dose intensity on the duration 
of remission in acute myeloid leukemia. Australian Leukemia Study Group.

Bishop JF(1), Matthews JP, Young G, Szer J, Joshua DE, Dodds A, Laidlaw CR, 
Cobcroft R, Herrman R, Ma D, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Peter MacCallum Cancer 
Institute, Melbourne, Australia.

The aim of this study was to assess the influence of dose and dose intensity 
(DI) of induction and consolidation chemotherapy on relapse rates in 264 de novo 
patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL). Patients were randomised to 
receive cytosine arabinoside (ARAC) 100 mg/m2 continuous infusion for 7 days and 
daunorubicin (DNR) 50 mg/m2 IV day 1-3 (7-3) or the same drugs with the addition 
of etoposide 75 mg/m2 IV days 1-7 (7-3-7). Cox proportional hazards regression 
models were used throughout to identify prognostic factors, including dose 
delivery parameters, influencing the rate of relapse. Of 152 patients who 
achieved a complete remission (CR), 104 have relapsed with a median duration of 
CR of 15.8 months. Actual dose delivered was prospectively documented. Cox 
regression analysis identified the most significant prognostic factors jointly 
influencing duration of CR as performance status groups (p < 0.0001), percentage 
peripheral blasts (p = 0.0015), 7-3-7 arm (p = 0.0075), age < 40 years (p = 
0.022) and induction dose ARA-C plus DNR (p = 0.029). In this analysis patients 
randomized to the 7-3-7 arm had an estimated 43% reduction in the relapse rate 
and each 10% reduction of doses ARA-C and DNR was associated with an estimated 
45% increase in the relapse rate. The number of induction courses, delays in 
treatment and induction dose intensity did not significantly influence the 
duration of CR nor did any of the consolidation treatment parameters.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.3109/10428199409051681
PMID: 7858505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Leuk Lymphoma. 1994 Sep;15(1-2):85-90. doi: 10.3109/10428199409051682.

Benefit of high-dose cytarabine-based consolidation chemotherapy for adults with 
acute myelogenous leukemia.

Schiller G(1), Gajewski J, Lee M, Ho W, Territo M, Champlin R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, UCLA School of Medicine 90024.

Despite consolidation and/or maintenance chemotherapy most patients with newly 
diagnosed acute myelogenous leukemia relapse such that only 20-30% survive free 
of recurrence at five years. To evaluate the long-term effects of dose-intensive 
consolidation, we analysed 123 consecutive patients, age 16 to 84 (median 48 
years), who received high-dose cytarabine-based consolidation chemotherapy. 
After a median follow-up of 88 months (range 26 to 126 months), 38 patients 
remain alive, with 26 in continued remission from 45 to 126+ months. Median 
remission duration for all eligible patients is 14 months (range 1.3 to 126 
months) and actuarial leukemia-free survival at five years is 24 +/- 8%. Median 
survival from remission is 24 months (range 1.3 to 126 months) and actuarial 
survival from remission is 31 +/- 9%. Eighty-two patients (67%) have relapsed 
with an actuarial risk of relapse of 71 +/- 9% at five years. Adverse prognostic 
factors were age over 45 and male gender. When compared to historical controls 
(P = 0.02), dose-intensive consolidation produced improved leukemia-free 
survival for patients age < 45, but compliance and enhanced toxicity in the 
older age groups may limit further dose intensification.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199409051682
PMID: 7858506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol. 1995 Mar 1;8(3):239-46. doi: 
10.1097/00042560-199503010-00004.

Incidence and prognostic value of malnutrition and wasting in human 
immunodeficiency virus-infected outpatients.

SÃ¼ttmann U(1), Ockenga J, Selberg O, Hoogestraat L, Deicher H, MÃ¼ller MJ.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, Abt. Immunologie, Germany.

Although malnutrition and wasting are known features of human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) infection, their incidence and possible association with immunologic 
impairment are largely unknown, as is the prognostic value of the nutritional 
state. Nutritional, clinical, and immunologic parameters were measured in 100 
outpatients in different stages of HIV infection. In addition, 39 patients with 
AIDS were prospectively followed for a mean period of 343 (range, 53-650) days. 
Sixty-three percent of the patients showed evidence of malnutrition, 21% 
suffered from wasting. A reduced body cell mass and decreased serum albumin 
levels were observed in 32 and 14%, respectively, predominantly in more advanced 
disease stages. Fourteen of 39 AIDS patients died after a mean survival of 212 
days. Survivors showed significantly larger initial body cell mass values and 
higher initial serum albumin levels compared with nonsurvivors, whereas CD4+ 
lymphocyte counts, disease complications, and medication were all similar in 
both groups. Kaplan-Meier analyses revealed a significantly prolonged survival 
in patients with a body cell mass > 30% of body weight or serum albumin levels 
exceeding 30 g/L. Factor analyses indicated that the parameters of nutritional 
state were independent from each other and from CD4+ lymphocyte counts. 
Malnutrition occurs frequently during HIV infection and increases with disease 
progress. It strongly predicts patient survival independent of CD4+ lymphocyte 
counts.

DOI: 10.1097/00042560-199503010-00004
PMID: 7859135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Eur J Epidemiol. 1994 Jun;10(3):307-15. doi: 10.1007/BF01719355.

Comparison of risk factors for coronary heart disease in Dresden and MÃ¼nster. 
Results of the DRECAN (Dresden Cardiovascular Risk and Nutrition) study and the 
PROCAM (Prospective Cardiovascular MÃ¼nster) Study.

Jaross W(1), Assmann G, Bergmann S, Schulte H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Diagnostics, Medical Academy, 
Dresden.

Trend analyses based on WHO statistics for average life expectancy, 
age-standardized cardiovascular (CVD) morbidity and mortality show significant 
differences between the former German Democratic Republic (GDR) and the former 
Federal Republic of Germany (FRG). To investigate whether this is due to a 
different prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors, the Dresden Cardiovascular 
Risk and Nutrition (DRECAN) study was conducted using the complete methodology 
of the Prospective Cardiovascular MÃ¼nster (PROCAM) study, i.e., the same methods 
and strict quality controls, with an exchange of specimens between both 
laboratories. The results were compared with those of an adjusted subpopulation 
of the PROCAM study. Even before unification there were only small differences 
in lipoprotein profiles between West and East Germany, 10 months after 
unification these differences were minimal. The survey does not sufficiently 
explain the differences in CHD morbidity and mortality between Western and 
Eastern Germany. Further analyses of the nutritional aspects will show whether 
the change, in available foodstuffs after unification has led to substantially 
changed nutritional habits, and whether this might explain some of the results.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01719355
PMID: 7859842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Eur J Epidemiol. 1994 Jun;10(3):339-41. doi: 10.1007/BF01719359.

Premature mortality in former Yugoslavia.

Ananijevic-Pandey J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social Medicine, Medical Faculty University of Belgrade, Serbia.

To evaluate the level of health attained before the war started, premature 
mortality from all causes in the former Yugoslavia was analyzed by republics and 
provinces in two respective periods. Premature mortality, measured by the crude 
rate of years of potential life lost, fell from 12,762.6 in 1970 to 6,320.1 per 
100,000 population aged 0-64 in 1990 (50% decrease). Age-adjusted rates of 
republics/provinces declined during the same period to various degrees (30% to 
70%).

DOI: 10.1007/BF01719359
PMID: 7859846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Forensic Sci Int. 1994 Dec 16;69(3):251-7. doi:
10.1016/0379-0738(94)90389-1.

The present state of heart transplantation.

Hetzer R(1).

Author information:
(1)Deutsches Herzzentrum, Berlin, Germany.

After more than 25 years, including long periods of scepticism, heart 
transplantation, with the introduction of several fundamental innovations, has 
become a routine clinical procedure for treating life-threatening end-stage 
heart failure. Annually, 3000-4000 transplantations are performed worldwide. 
Heart transplantation has been performed successfully in patients of almost all 
ages, from newborn babies with untreatable heart defects to 70-year-olds. 
Transplant organs are explanted from deceased donors who have suffered brain 
death. The circulation is kept stable for several hours during which time a 
well-functioning heart can be excised. In Europe, as a rule, donor organs are 
matched to recipients by national or multinational organ-sharing organisations. 
'Eurotransplant', for example, serves medical institutions in Germany, Austria, 
and the Benelux states. This enables 500-600 hearts to be transplanted in 
Germany each year. Since 1986, 650 heart transplantations have been performed at 
the German Heart Institute Berlin (GHIB) and more than 100 are performed per 
year. In recent years, heart-lung, single-, and double-lung transplantations 
have been added to the GHIB's surgical program, accounting for more than 40 
operations since the institute's inception. Patients at the GHIB have ranged in 
age from 8 days to 68 years, including 48 patients under the age of 16 years. 
Approximately two-thirds of the patients suffered from dilated cardiomyopathy 
and one-third from coronary artery disease. Smaller groups of patients suffered 
from valvular or congenital heart disease. Patients were selected for heart 
transplantation when heart failure was untreatable by other means and when their 
life expectancy was estimated to be 6 months or less.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0379-0738(94)90389-1
PMID: 7860011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Forensic Sci Int. 1994 Dec 16;69(3):259-68. doi:
10.1016/0379-0738(94)90390-5.

Xenotransplantation and its future.

Hammer C(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Surgical Research, Klinikum Gross-hadern, LMU MÃ¼nchen, Germany.

Today at the beginning of the era of xenotransplantation, only simple and single 
observations about comparative physiology, biochemistry and anatomy are known. 
In addition, very few data exist which inform about the mechanisms after 
successful xenotransplantation. Nothing is known about the phenomena following 
successfully suppressed hyperacute xenogeneic rejection (HXR). Neither the 
elimination of a single factor nor the mitigation of whole systems has led to 
clinically relevant survival times (SVT). Pig organs transplanted into non-human 
primates survived a maximum of 22 days. The hope that transgenic manipulation 
and modification would be useful in prolonging the SVT of xenogeneic grafts 
still awaits supporting evidence. But within a short time, xenotransplantation 
could enable patients to receive a life saving animal organ as an alternative to 
an allograft. Xenotransplantation would, as a new dimension in medicine, shorten 
if not eliminate waiting lists. Therefore, scientists must vigorously develop 
xenografting as a viable alternative to allotransplantation. Xenotransplantation 
would not be the terrible danger that some individuals proclaim, and would also 
not simply be the extension of transplantation but would rather be a victory in 
medical research.

DOI: 10.1016/0379-0738(94)90390-5
PMID: 7860012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Int J Cancer. 1995 Mar 3;60(5):604-10. doi: 10.1002/ijc.2910600506.

67-kDa laminin-receptor expression adds prognostic information to intra-tumoral 
microvessel density in node-negative breast cancer.

Gasparini G(1), Barbareschi M, Boracchi P, Bevilacqua P, Verderio P, Dalla Palma 
P, MÃ©nard S.

Author information:
(1)San Bortolo Medical Centre, Vicenza, Italy.

Experimental studies have shown that the 67-kDa laminin receptor (LRec) is an 
important molecule for the interaction of tumour cells with the extracellular 
matrix, and that it plays a role in the early steps of angiogenesis and in 
tumour invasion and metastasis. We performed a multi-parametric study in 171 
node-negative breast cancers, followed for a median time of 6 years, to verify 
whether determination of the LRec provides prognostic information in addition to 
intra-tumoral microvessel density (IMD), a measure of tumour angiogenesis, and 
to other biological and conventional indicators. A positive association between 
LRec expression and high neovascularization was found, although it did not reach 
significance. LRec was not associated either with other biological markers 
(oestrogen receptor, progesterone receptor and p53 expression) or to the 
conventional prognostic features [menopausal status, tumour size, histological 
types, grading and peri-tumoral lymphatic vessel invasion (PLVI)]. In univariate 
analysis, IMD, p53, PgR, PLVI, grading and tumour size were significant 
prognostic indicators of relapse-free survival (RFS). LRec expression approached 
significance when considered as a dichotomous variable, after having selected 
the optimum cutoff of 10% to distinguish high-risk from low-risk patients. For 
overall survival (OS), tumour size and IMD (continuous variable) were 
significant prognostic factors, and p53 approached significance. In multivariate 
analysis for RFS, the joint variable LRec and vascularization was the strongest 
independent prognostic factor, followed by PgR, PLVI and p53. For OS, tumour 
size was the only independent prognostic indicator in this series.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910600506
PMID: 7860133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. J Neurooncol. 1994;21(2):177-85. doi: 10.1007/BF01052902.

Influence of extent of surgery and tumor location on treatment outcome of 
patients with glioblastoma multiforme treated with combined modality approach.

Jeremic B(1), Grujicic D, Antunovic V, Djuric L, Stojanovic M, Shibamoto Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University Hospital, Kragujevac, Yugoslavia.

Between 1988 and 1991, eighty-six patients with glioblastoma multiforme were 
evaluated in order to define the influence of extent of surgery and tumor 
location on treatment outcome. Patients underwent surgery followed by 
postoperative hyperfractionated radiotherapy and chemotherapy delivered 
according to one of two consecutive protocols. Surgery consisted of biopsy in 25 
(29%) patients and subtotal or gross total tumor resection in 61 (71%) patients. 
Frontally located tumors were noted in 26 (30%) patients and other tumor 
locations were noted in 60 (70%) patients. Patients having more radical surgery 
had longer median survival time (MST) and higher 1- and 2-year survival rates 
than those with biopsy only (56 vs 29 weeks, respectively; 62% and 23% vs 16% 
and 0%, respectively; p = 0.00000). Patients having frontally located tumors had 
longer MST and higher 1- and 2-year survival rates than those with other tumor 
locations (101 vs 47 weeks, respectively; 76% and 44% vs 37% and 2.5%, 
respectively; p = 0.00001). Multivariate analysis confirmed that extent of 
surgery and tumor location were independent prognostic factors in patients with 
glioblastoma multiforme. Regarding progression-free survival, patients having 
more radical surgery had longer median time to tumor progression (MTP) than 
those with biopsy only (33 weeks vs 21 weeks, respectively). Also, 
progression-free survival at 1 year was higher in radically resected group than 
in biopsy only group (20% vs 0%, respectively; p = 0.00000). Patients with 
frontally located tumors had longer MTP (42 weeks) and higher progression-free 
survival at 1 year (42%) than those with other tumor location (28 weeks and 
1.7%, respectively; p = 0.00002).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF01052902
PMID: 7861194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 1995 Mar;53(3):264-8. doi:
10.1016/0278-2391(95)90222-8.

Implant survival rates in partially edentulous patients: a 3-year prospective 
multicenter study.

Higuchi KW(1), Folmer T, Kultje C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontics, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

PURPOSE: This multicenter investigation is an interim 3-year survival report of 
a 5-year prospective study using BrÃ¥nemark osseointegrated implants in partially 
edentulous patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Previously defined patient characteristics and clinical 
parameters were related to implant survival using lifetable analysis.
RESULTS: Three years after prosthesis insertion, 460 implants placed in 139 
patients remained in the study. Cumulative success rates for maxillary implants 
(92.5%) were less than for mandibular implants (94.8%), with an overall 
cumulative success rate of 93.9%.
CONCLUSION: Failures were associated with poor bone quality, smaller implant 
sizes, and a higher plaque index, and were more likely to occur before loading. 
A 4% incidence of residual long-term inferior alveolar nerve paresthesia was 
higher than previously reported.

DOI: 10.1016/0278-2391(95)90222-8
PMID: 7861276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Obstet Gynecol. 1995 Mar;85(3):343-8. doi: 10.1016/0029-7844(94)00398-W.

Does perioperative blood transfusion affect survival in patients with cervical 
cancer treated with radical hysterectomy?

Monk BJ(1), Tewari K, Gamboa-Vujicic G, Burger RA, Manetta A, Berman ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of California Irvine 
Medical Center, Orange.

OBJECTIVE: To determine if blood transfusions during or after radical 
hysterectomy adversely affect survival in patients with invasive cervical 
carcinoma.
METHODS: Two hundred eighty-three women with stage IA2-IIA cervical cancer were 
treated with radical hysterectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy from 1980-1989. 
Thirteen were lost to follow-up, and five others received adjuvant chemotherapy. 
Among the remaining 265 patients, 131 were given blood transfusions during 
surgery or within 30 days, whereas 134 were not. The clinical and pathologic 
characteristics of these two groups were reviewed and analyzed statistically.
RESULTS: Transfused and nontransfused patients did not differ with respect to 
mean age (45.0 versus 43.4 years, respectively), stage, grade, cell type, depth 
of invasion, or prevalence of nodal metastasis. Transfused patients more 
frequently received adjuvant pelvic irradiation than did nontransfused (47 
versus 33%, respectively, chi 2 P < .05). After a mean follow-up of 51 months 
(range 13-125), 19 women (14%) in each group were diagnosed as having recurrent 
disease, predominantly in the pelvis. Using life-table analysis, the calculated 
5-year survival was 86% for transfused and 84% for nontransfused patients, a 
nonsignificant difference. Disease-free survival was also similar. In the study 
population, grade, depth of invasion, and nodal status predicted survival. When 
patients were stratified according to age, cell type, stage, depth of invasion, 
nodal involvement, and use of adjuvant radiation, blood transfusion still did 
not adversely influence survival. Using the Cox proportional hazards model, only 
nodal status was an independent predictor of death.
CONCLUSION: Perioperative blood transfusion does not impact overall survival or 
time to recurrence after radical hysterectomy.

DOI: 10.1016/0029-7844(94)00398-W
PMID: 7862369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Radiology. 1995 Mar;194(3):739-44. doi: 10.1148/radiology.194.3.7862972.

Strecker stent implantation in iliac arteries: patency and predictive factors 
for long-term success.

Long AL(1), Sapoval MR, Beyssen BM, Auguste MC, Le Bras Y, Raynaud AC, 
Chatellier G, Gaux JC.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Radiology Service, HÃ´pital Broussais, Paris, France.

PURPOSE: To evaluate Strecker stent implantation in iliac arteries.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Sixty-four iliac arteries with Strecker stents were 
prospectively studied. Stents were placed for dissection (n = 31), total 
occlusion (n = 28), unsatisfactory results (n = 3) or restenosis (n = 1) after 
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, and a calcified atherosclerotic lesion 
that bulged into the lumen (n = 1).
RESULTS: Stent placement was successful in 63 arteries (98%). The overall 
complication rate was 12% (n = 8). During follow-up, three patients died. The 
stent was compromised in 18 cases because of hyperplasia (n = 10) or occlusion 
(n = 8). The primary patency rate was 84% at 1 year and 69% at 2 years; the 
secondary patency rate was 90% at 1 year and 81% at 2 years. Initial dissection 
(P = .046), a length of 60 mm or less for the stent region (P = .007), and total 
covering of the abnormal segment with the stent (P = .03) were significant 
predictive factors for good, long-term results.
CONCLUSION: Use of the Strecker endoprosthesis appears useful but not ideal. 
Determination of predictive factors for long-term success may help identify 
indications for its use.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.194.3.7862972
PMID: 7862972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Z Kardiol. 1995 Jan;84(1):1-4.

[More movement in cardiology!].

[Article in German]

Rost R.

PMID: 7863709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

