
629. Adv Contracept. 1994 Sep;10(3):195-204. doi: 10.1007/BF01983351.

Billings natural family planning in Shanghai, China.

Xu JX(1), Yan JH, Fan DZ, Zhang DW.

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Municipal Family Planning Commission, People's Republic of China.

With cervical mucus, or Billings, method of family planning, a woman learns to 
recognize the characteristics of her cervical mucus that identify the fertile 
phase in her menstrual cycle. She and her partner abstain from sexual activity 
during a period from the first indication of mucus until four days after the 
mucus peak day, which includes ovulation. They also abstain during menses, 
because mucus can be confused with menstrual bleeding. This method of family 
planning is used widely, worldwide, by couples seeking a natural, reliable 
method of family planning. Between July 1988 and May 1990, 688 couples of 
child-bearing age, most of whom were parous, used the Billings method for 
contraception. Five hundred and fifty of these couples used the method for more 
than 12 months. Efficacy, continuation rates, and discontinuation rates were 
analyzed using life-table analysis for 10,175 woman-months of data collected. 
The net cumulative discontinuation rates per 100 women at 12 and 18 months were 
19.85 and 34.58, respectively, resulting in continuation rates of 80.15 and 
65.42. The discontinuation rates per 100 women for method-related reasons at 12 
and 18 months were 1.61 and 2.84, respectively, while the discontinuation rates 
for unintended pregnancy were 1.02 and 1.18. During the study, 67 subjects 
volunteered to have vaginal smears taken from the upper part of the vaginal wall 
for cytologic examinations, and among them serum and urine LH levels were 
measured in 10 subjects and urinary estrogen and progesterone were assayed in 35 
cases. These tests related other indications of the menstrual cycle to the 
ability of the women to judge ovulation by cervical mucus. Our research suggests 
that further investigation of the Billings method is warranted and that careful 
planning and organization are needed to disseminate the method more broadly.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01983351
PMID: 7863845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 1994 Nov;43(9):519-22.

[Should all cases of aortic valve stenosis be surgically treated?].

[Article in French]

Drobinski G(1), Montalescot G.

Author information:
(1)Service de Cardiologie, CHU Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris.

Aortic stenosis is a condition in which progression accelerates with the onset 
of warning symptoms such as angina pectoris, syncope and heart failure. Surgery 
must be scheduled as quickly as possible in all such symptomatic patients, even 
in the presence of concomitant coronary disease, or of left ventricular failure. 
Aortic valve surgery is possible in the elderly, with a higher operative risk, 
but with the benefit of a symptomatic improvement identical to that seen in 
younger individuals, and a prolongation of life expectancy. Surgery is often 
considered in asymptomatic patients because of the fear of sudden death. In 
actual fact, sudden death not preceded by other symptoms is rare and the aim of 
surveillance must be to identify high-risk patients to whom surgery may be 
offered: poor exercise tolerance in a cautiously administered exercise test, 
abnormal ventricular function by echocardiography, or the existence of 
arrhythmias, which are also a severity factor, whether atrial or ventricular. 
The number of completely asymptomatic cases among patients with tight aortic 
stenosis is relatively slight, having been evaluated at 5%. It is in these 
asymptomatic patients, when they are young, that it is possible to delay surgery 
until the onset of a first symptom.

PMID: 7864556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Blood Purif. 1994;12(4-5):252-8. doi: 10.1159/000170171.

Control of blood pressure in long slow hemodialysis.

Charra B(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre de Rein Artificiel, Tassin, France.

Hypertension is a major cause of mortality and morbidity in hemodialysis 
patients. A long slow dialysis (8 h/session) was used in 692 unselected 
patients. It allowed for an excellent control of blood pressure without the need 
of antihypertensive medications. Cardiovascular morbidity and mortality were 
lower in the subgroups of patients presenting with a lower predialysis mean 
arterial pressure. The control of the extracellular volume with a low rate of 
intradialytic hypotensive episodes is the most probable explanation of this 
result. Another possible mechanism is the restoration by the large dose of 
dialysis of the nitric oxide vasodilator action inhibited by the accumulation of 
dimethylarginine in the serum of uremic patients.

DOI: 10.1159/000170171
PMID: 7865184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1994;32(2):229-33. doi: 10.1007/BF00665774.

Positive immunostaining for platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) is an adverse 
prognostic factor in patients with advanced breast cancer.

Seymour L(1), Bezwoda WR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South 
Africa.

Previous studies suggest a prognostic role for PDGF in patients with breast 
cancer, with patients with high plasma PDGF levels or positive response to 
therapy. We have examined a further 58 patients with advanced breast cancer for 
the presence of tissue PDGF immunostaining. Patients displaying positive tissue 
immunostaining for PDGF had a highly significant shorter survival (p = 0.002) 
than patients with no immunostaining. In addition PDGF positive patients treated 
with combination chemotherapy had a significantly lower response rate (p = 0.05) 
than PDGF negative patients. These results confirm our previous findings that 
PDGF may be an important indicator of shortened survival and treatment failure 
in patients with advanced breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00665774
PMID: 7865852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Cancer Detect Prev. 1994;18(6):421-30.

Women and lung cancer: a comparison of active and passive smokers with 
nonexposed nonsmokers.

Miller GH(1), Golish JA, Cox CE, Chacko DC.

Author information:
(1)Studies on Smoking, Inc., Edinboro, PA 16412.

Prior to the 1920s, lung cancer was a rare disease. However, the current 
increase in lung cancer appears to parallel the increase in smoking for both men 
and women with a 30- to 50-year delay. National lung cancer deaths continue to 
rise, with over 168,000 total deaths estimated in 1992. Women are now showing 
higher percentage increases in lung cancer than men from active smoking. The 
data from the Erie County Study on Smoking and Health (ECSSH), a population 
study, were used to measure the effects of both active and passive smoking on 
women's lung cancer mortality. The three major categories of exposure (no known 
or minimal exposure, passive smoking exposed, and active smoking) were used in 
the analyses. The results from the population data in Erie County, PA, were 
based on 528 nonexposed nonsmoking women, 3138 exposed nonsmoking women, and 
1747 smoking women. Deaths due to lung cancer as a percentage of total deaths 
excluding traumatic deaths were 0.2% for the nonexposed nonsmoking women, 0.9% 
for the exposed nonsmoking women, and 8.0% for women who smoked. The data showed 
that women smokers died of lung cancer at a rate 9 times greater than exposed 
nonsmokers and 42 times greater than nonexposed nonsmokers.

PMID: 7867014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Ear Nose Throat J. 1995 Jan;74(1):21-7.

Acoustic neuroma surgery in patients over 65 years of age.

Pulec JL(1), Giannotta SL.

Author information:
(1)Pulec Ear Clinic, Ear International, Los Angeles, CA 90017.

Patients over 65 years old develop acoustic neuromas with the same signs and 
symptoms as younger patients. Age limits beyond which surgery for acoustic 
neuroma is not offered have been suggested. Untreated vertigo in the older 
patient frequently results in a fall which causes a fracture of the femur 
followed by significant morbidity and mortality. A review of 62 cases done over 
a period of five years reveals that surgical removal of acoustic neuroma in 
eight patients over 65 years of age gave results equally good to those in 
younger patients. This study suggests that the patient's general medical 
condition, life expectancy and factors other than chronologic age should be 
considered in the indications for surgery of acoustic neuroma. Acoustic neuroma 
surgery for the older patient can provide gratifying results.

PMID: 7867527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Folia Med (Plovdiv). 1994;36(1):29-34.

Secondary diabetes in children with thalassaemia major (homozygous 
thalassaemia).

Karahanyan E(1), Stoyanova A, Moumdzhiev I, Ivanov I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of Medicine, Plovdiv, Bulgaria.

Life expectancy of patients suffering from homozygous beta-thalassaemia has been 
improved due to the modern treatment of this disease. This has allowed 
development of late hemosiderosis-related complications and disturbances of the 
endocrine and exocrine functions of the pancreas. Carbohydrate metabolism of 16 
patients with thalassaemia major was studied. Three of them presented with a 
pronounced clinical picture and biochemical constellations of a severe diabetes 
mellitus. The remainder had no clinical symptoms of carbohydrate metabolism 
disorders. The pancreatic beta-cell function of the patients was assessed by 
measuring the serum concentrations of immunoreactive insulin and by a glucose 
tolerance test. Most patients showed very low basal insulin levels while glucose 
tolerance was reduced in only one of them. In this patient we also established 
delayed insulin response after an intravenous glucose load. We concluded that 
the disturbed insulin secretion found in the children studied is most likely the 
earliest manifestation of the pancreatic beta-cell insufficiency which precedes 
the changes in the glucose tolerance.

PMID: 7867989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Leukemia. 1995 Feb;9(2):238-43.

Short-term treatment for adult hypergranular and microgranular acute 
promyelocytic leukemia.

Bassan R(1), Battista R, Viero P, d'Emilio A, Buelli M, Montaldi A, Rambaldi A, 
Tremul L, Dini E, Barbui T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Ospedali Riuniti, Bergamo, Italy.

A high hemorrhagic risk and a complete response to the differentiative agent 
all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) are the main clinical features of acute 
promyelocytic leukemia (APL), two distinct subtypes of which have been 
recognized, the common hypergranular leukopenic form (M3) and a microgranular 
hyperleukocytic variant (M3v). We analyzed, with emphasis on both disease- and 
therapy-related prognostic factors, the results from a 9-year trial in 65 adults 
with M3 and M3v APL, treated homogenously with a short-term therapy (STT) 
program excluding maintenance. STT comprised a maximum of six courses with 
doxorubicin, cytosine arabinoside (ara-C), and 6-thioguanine. Sixty-five APL 
patients formed the study group, M3v accounting for 25% of cases. In M3v, the 
absolute blast cell count was significantly higher (p < 0.0001) and early 
hemorrhagic deaths were more frequent (p = 0.05). The blast count correlated 
inversely with the probability of remission (p = 0.005), poor-risk patients 
being those with > 10 x 10(9)/l blast cells. During the study, the median 
survival improved from 0.1 to 2.7 years (p = < 0.005). In first place, response 
to chemotherapy increased from 42 to 84% (p = 0.006), by giving daily 
prophylactic platelet transfusions (to > 30 x 10(9)/l) and no heparin (course 
I), and by avoiding too toxic high-dose ara-C and deferring treatment in 
infected/neutropenic patients showing the atypical differentiative bone marrow 
pattern (course II). Secondly, the probability of first unmaintained remission 
differed significantly between patients given intentionally more than four total 
chemotherapy courses or intermediate/high-dose ara-C consolidation (0.59 at 5 
years) and those treated less intensively (0.21) (p < 0.005). Intensive STT was 
very effective for the management of adult APL patients at standard hemorrhagic 
risk and receiving optimal supportive care. In high-risk patients with 
hyperleukocytosis and M3v, induction results could be improved by the 
concomitant use of ATRA. M3v in adults must be recognized promptly because of 
the very high early hemorrhagic risk.

PMID: 7869758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Leukemia. 1995 Feb;9(2):244-8.

Sequential targeted therapy for relapsed acute promyelocytic leukemia with 
all-trans retinoic acid and anti-CD33 monoclonal antibody M195.

Jurcic JG(1), Caron PC, Miller WH Jr, Yao TJ, Maslak P, Finn RD, Larson SM, 
Warrell RP Jr, Scheinberg DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 
10021.

Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) provides a model to examine the sequential 
use of selective oncogene product-targeted and lineage-targeted agents. 
All-trans retinoic acid (RA) has been shown to produce brief remissions by a 
novel differentiating mechanism in most patients with APL. M195, a mouse 
monoclonal antibody (moAb) reactive with the cell-surface antigen CD33, can 
target myeloid leukemia cells in patients and reduce large leukemic burdens when 
labeled with 131I. We studied whether 131I-M195 could safely reduce minimal 
residual disease and prolong remission and survival durations in patients with 
relapsed APL after they had attained remission with all-trans RA. Seven patients 
with relapsed APL in second remission were treated with either 70 (n = 2) or 50 
(n = 5) mCi/m2 of 131I-M195. As a measure of minimal residual disease, we 
serially monitored PML/RAR-alpha mRNA by a reverse transcription polymerase 
chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay. There was no immediate toxicity. Late toxicity 
was limited to myelosuppression, but no episodes of febrile neutropenia were 
seen. Six patients had detectable PML/RAR-alpha mRNA after all-trans RA therapy; 
two had single negative RT-PCR determinations following 131I-M195. Median 
disease-free survival of the seven patients was 8 months (range 3-14.5). Four 
patients with median follow-up of 24 months remain alive, and median overall 
survival exceeds 21+ months (range 5.5-33+). This regimen based on targeted 
therapy compares favorably to other approaches for the treatment of relapsed 
APL, including that used in the immediately preceding trial in which patients 
were induced into remission and maintained with all-trans RA, as well as other 
chemotherapy-based regimens. These data support further study of moAb-based 
therapy for minimal residual disease in acute leukemia.

PMID: 7869759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Leukemia. 1995 Feb;9(2):254-9.

Identification of a favorable subgroup of patients with generalized 
immunocytomas by follicular dendritic cells.

Eisterer W(1), Hilbe W, Fend F, Ludescher C, Falk M, Thaler J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital, Innsbruck, Austria.

In the present study, 89 patients with generalized immunocytoma were analyzed 
retrospectively for the prognostic influence of clinical features and of 
immunophenotype using bone marrow biopsies. Univariate analysis selected the 
following variables as significant for survival: age over 60 years (p = 0.021), 
Rai and Binet stage (p = 0.008 and 0.004, respectively), presence or absence of 
follicular dendritic cells (FDC, p = 0.036), presence or absence of anemia (p = 
0.037). Multivariate regression analysis showed independent prognostic 
significance of age (p = 0.001), Rai stage (p = 0.003), and the presence of 
follicular dendritic cells (p = 0.010). Comparing CD5 positive and CD5 negative 
immunocytomas, no survival advantage for one of the two groups was seen. 
Presence of follicular dendritic cells clearly identified a favorable prognostic 
subgroup: of the 89 patients presented, only three of 18 (16.6%) with detectable 
FDC in bone marrow died within the observation period, as compared to 34 of 71 
(52.1%) patients without FDC. Multivariate analysis emphasized the independent 
prognostic value of the presence of FDC. The high predictive capacity of 
follicular dendritic cells could add useful information to the commonly used Rai 
and Binet staging systems for immunocytoma.

PMID: 7869760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1993;111(2):127-33. doi: 10.1007/BF02245513.

Testing the effects of hypnotics on memory via the telephone: fact or fiction?

Jackson JL(1), Louwerens JW, Cnossen F, de Jong HT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Groningen, The 
Netherlands.

The two benzodiazapines used in this experiment, namely midazolam and 
flunitrazepam, have both been shown to have effects on memory processing in 
laboratory studies. In spite of the potential hazards involved in real life 
testing, it should be possible to replicate such findings in everyday 
environments and it is argued that a successful replication would be a very 
meaningful extension to the existing laboratory data. The present study was 
successful in producing significant "hangover" effects in healthy volunteers 
using a novel "user-friendly" telephone testing technique. Compared to placebo, 
the two hypnotics reduced speed of processing in tasks which required retrieval 
from long-term semantic memory (semantic verification) and the manipulation of 
material in working memory (syntactic reasoning). We suggest that this new 
method offers the potential for carrying out large-scale psychopharmacological 
studies with real patients and achieves a meaningful step forward in the search 
for ecological validity.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02245513
PMID: 7870942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Public Health. 1995 Jan;109(1):67-73. doi: 10.1016/s0033-3506(95)80077-8.

Using mortality data to describe geographic variations in health status at 
sub-district level.

Williams ES(1), Scott CM, Scott SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Medicine, Croydon Health Authority.

OBJECTIVE: To describe sub-district variations in health status, using mortality 
data that are processed locally.
DESIGN: A descriptive study of routinely collected death registration data, 
using multicause coding.
SETTING: The London Borough of Croydon, with a population of 319,200 divided 
into 27 electoral wards.
SUBJECTS: Deaths of Croydon residents, registered with the Registrar of Births 
and Deaths, which occurred between January 1990 and December 1992 inclusive.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Variations in life expectancy, all-cause standardised 
mortality ratios (SMRs), and disease-specific mortality ratios between selected 
wards. Deaths in nursing homes were excluded to avoid bias.
RESULTS: Data from 8,930 death registrations, of which 852 occurred in nursing 
homes, were analysed by electoral ward. The range for all-cause SMRs, including 
nursing home deaths, was 153 (139-168) to 66 (58-75). When nursing home deaths 
were excluded, the SMRs for two wards that were significantly higher than the 
Croydon average fell into the average range. The range, excluding nursing home 
deaths, was 133 (113-153) to 71 (62-80). Life expectancy at birth varied from 
79.8 years to 74.4 years, and life expectancy at age 65 by three years between 
wards at the two ends of the spectrum. The geographic distribution of ischaemic 
heart disease and diabetes showed significant differences.
CONCLUSIONS: We contend that death registration data are a useful tool for 
describing sub-district variations in health status. Deaths of nursing home 
residents are a source of bias and should be excluded from the analysis. 
Multicause coding allows a more accurate description of geographic variations in 
specific diseases, such as ischaemic heart disease and diabetes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0033-3506(95)80077-8
PMID: 7871148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1995 Feb 11;125(6):212-6.

[Surgery of the abdominal aorta in the geriatric population: characteristics and 
results].

[Article in French]

Carrel T(1), Niederhäuser U, Turina M.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Herz- und Gefässchirurgie, Universitätsspital Zürich.

Refinement in surgical technique and perioperative management have considerably 
improved morbidity and mortality rates of carotid endarterectomy and abdominal 
aortic surgery, thus allowing a more aggressive approach in the treatment of 
carotid stenosis, abdominal aortic aneurysm and aorto-iliac occlusive disease in 
the elderly population (> 70 years). We review our experience with 446 
consecutive patients undergoing surgery of the abdominal aorta: 295 patients 
(mean age 75.5 years) underwent resection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm 
(asymptomatic but > 5-6 cm, (n = 193), symptomatic (n = 67) or ruptured (n = 
35). Additionally, 198 patients were treated surgically for aorto-iliac 
occlusive disease. A small group of 13 patients was deferred for combined 
operation, including prior myocardial revascularization and subsequent vascular 
surgery during the same anesthesia. The majority of patients had several 
cardiovascular risk factors and/or significant associated diseases. Mortality (< 
30 days) was 3.5% following aorto-iliac bypass in the treatment of arterial 
occlusive disease and 8.4% after aneurysm repair (asymptomatic, symptomatic and 
ruptured aneurysms all included). 5-year survival was 74% and 64% after repair 
of aortic aneurysm and treatment of aorto-iliac occlusive disease respectively. 
On the basis of these results, we believe that major vascular surgery is still 
justified in elderly patients and can be achieved with reasonable mortality and 
morbidity. Main goals of the surgery, e.g. to relieve suffering, restore 
function so as to limit disability and dependency, and prolongation of life 
expectancy in a dignified and meaningful life-style, are realized the majority 
of operative survivors.

PMID: 7871404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Soc Secur Bull. 1994 Fall;57(3):76-87.

The hazard of mortality among aging retired- and disabled-worker men: a 
comparative sociodemographic and health status analysis.

McCoy JL(1), Iams HM, Armstrong T.

Author information:
(1)University of California at San Francisco.

This article reports on the hazard of mortality of aging retired- and 
disabled-worker men over the decade after they became Social Security 
beneficiaries. Basic patterns of mortality rates are described using data from 
the 1982 New Beneficiary Survey linked to administrative records. The article 
examines the association of increasing age, race, socioeconomic status, private 
health insurance, and other demographic and health characteristics with the 
duration of life between the two groups of men, using statistical models. Over 
the decade, the hazard of death for retired workers significantly increased with 
aging and with lower socioeconomic status. The hazard of death for the disabled 
was significantly associated with being black.

PMID: 7871457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Stud Fam Plann. 1994 Sep-Oct;25(5):310-4.

Kenya 1993: results from the Demographic and Health Survey.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The Kenya Demographic and Health Survey collected data from 7950 households 
and complete interviews with 7540 women aged 15-49 and 2336 men. The interviews 
took place between February 17 and August 15, 1993. The survey found that over 
the period 1965-1985, the population grew from 9.8 million to 19.9 million. The 
crude birth rate per 1000 declined from 52.5 to 47.2, while crude death rate 
also declined from 20.4 to 12.3. The annual rate of population growth increased 
from 3.22% to 3.49%, and life expectancy increased from 47.2 years to 56.9. The 
population is more concentrated in urban centers with 19.7% living therein 
compared to 8.6% in 1965. UN estimates put the rate of total fertility for 
1985-90 at 6.8; the survey estimate for 1990-92 is 5.4, lower than the estimated 
rate of 8.1 for 1960-65. Contraceptive prevalence is low. Survey data are 
presented in tabular form under the following headings: distribution of survey 
sample population by socioeconomic characteristics; fertility trends; fertility 
differentials, 1990-92; age-specific fertility; mean ideal number of children by 
age and number of living children for all women; desire to stop childbearing 
among currently married women; planning status of births at the time of the 
survey by number of living children; contraceptive prevalence differentials; 
contraceptive prevalence by age and parity; percentage distribution of current 
users of modern methods by most recent source of supply, according to method; 
knowledge and use of methods among currently married women; intention to use 
contraception in the future among nonusers in union, by number of living 
children; reason for future nonuse among currently married women by age group; 
current marital status; differentials in age at first birth; union and 
contraceptive status; median duration of postpartum interval; differentials in 
breastfeeding and amenorrhea; infant mortality trends; infant mortality 
differentials, 1982-92; children ever-born and surviving; percent of children 
12-23 months old ever vaccinated and percent receiving specific vaccines, 
according to health card; percent of children under five years old with diarrhea 
two weeks prior to survey, and of those, percent consulting an health facility 
and percent receiving different ORT treatments; type of assistance during 
delivery for births in five years prior to survey; and percent undernourished 
among children under five years old according to children's weight-for-height 
and height-for-age.

PMID: 7871556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Acta Genet Med Gemellol (Roma). 1993;42(3-4):263-74. doi: 
10.1017/s0001566000003275.

Life expectancy of monozygotic and dizygotic twins.

Taubman P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

White male twins from the NAS-NRC twin sample, who were born in the U.S. between 
1917 and 1927 and served in the military, are used to estimate variability in 
hazard functions for those twins who died during the period 1974-1990. Roughly 
the same number of MZ and DZ twins died during this period, but their death 
rates are similar. DZ twins exhibit greater within-pair variation. Using hazard 
and other analyses, the only statistically significant variables are found to be 
being a DZ twin (in level equations), date of birth, and, sometimes, wife's 
religious preference. Variables not significant for level or within-pair 
equations, include own religion, parental education, working overtime 
frequently, and number of children. The greater variation in life expectancy of 
DZ twins is hardly surprising and may say something about the lack of 
comparability in phenotype variance of DZ twins, which in turn may be worrying.

DOI: 10.1017/s0001566000003275
PMID: 7871944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Am J Gastroenterol. 1995 Mar;90(3):381-7.

Olsalazine versus sulphasalazine for relapse prevention in ulcerative colitis: a 
multicenter study.

Nilsson A(1), Danielsson A, Löfberg R, Benno P, Bergman L, Fausa O, Florholmen 
J, Karvonen AL, Kildebo S, Kollberg B, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Umeã Hospitals, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the relapse-preventing effect and the frequency of adverse 
events of olsalazine and sulphasalazine in sulphasalazine-tolerant patients with 
ulcerative colitis.
METHODS: Patients in remission, with at least two episodes of active disease 
during the last 5 yr, were randomized to 2 g of sulphasalazine or 1 g of 
olsalazine daily and were followed for 6-18 months. Relapse rates in the two 
groups were compared using frequency and life-table analysis. Sixty-nine 
patients with proctitis, 140 with left-sided colitis, and 113 with subtotal or 
total colitis were evaluated.
RESULTS: In the intention-to-treat analysis, the failure rate (relapses plus 
withdrawals) was 54.7% in the olsalazine and 47.2% in the sulphasalazine group. 
In the per-protocol analysis excluding withdrawals, 44.7% relapsed in the 
olsalazine and 39.3% in the sulphasalazine group. Remission curves did not 
differ significantly, although at all time intervals the frequency of remission 
was slightly higher in the sulphasalazine group (p = 0.19 in the 
intention-to-treat analysis and p = 0.42 in the per-protocol analysis estimated 
by the log-rank test). Twelve patients (of whom five had diarrhea) in the 
olsalazine group versus eight patients in the sulphasalazine group discontinued 
the study because of side effects.
CONCLUSION: The relapse-preventing effect of olsalazine and sulphasalazine in 
sulphasalazine-tolerant patients did not differ. Furthermore, the tolerability 
of olsalazine, particularly concerning diarrhea, appears to be better than 
previously reported.

PMID: 7872274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Am J Kidney Dis. 1995 Mar;25(3):370-4. doi: 10.1016/0272-6386(95)90096-9.

A century of mortality in five large families with polycystic kidney disease.

Florijn KW(1), Noteboom WM, van Saase JL, Chang PC, Breuning MH, Vandenbroucke 
JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, University Hospital Leiden, The Netherlands.

Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) characteristically leads to 
end-stage renal failure in the fifth or sixth decade of life, which in the 
absence of therapeutic measures will lead to premature death. To determine 
excess mortality relative to the general population and chromosome 16-linked 
ADPKD patients, we studied 348 individuals who belonged to five large ADPKD 
families and who had at least a 50% probability of carrying the gene; the study 
data derive from a time span of approximately one century. Assessment of the 
diagnosis of ADPKD in the present generation was based on the characteristic 
roentgenographic appearance of polycystic kidneys and was confirmed by DNA 
analysis with flanking polymorphic markers around the polycystic gene. In the 
previous generation, we used Mendelian reasoning after pedigree analysis to 
identify persons with a 50% or 100% probability of carrying the polycystic gene. 
During the study period (1889 to 1992), 83 deaths occurred in 10,279 
person-years. Mortality was increased 1.6-fold (95% confidence interval, 1.3 to 
2.0) relative to the general population and was independent of the gender of the 
affected family member as well as the gender of the transmitting parent. The 
increased mortality was strongest in the 50 to 59 year age group (relative 
mortality, 3.2; 95% confidence interval, 2.0 to 4.8), but decreased after the 
1970s, probably as a result of improvements in supportive care and, eventually, 
renal replacement therapy. In conclusion, the total life-span in ADPKD patients 
is improving, but remains low in comparison to the general population, and the 
gender of the transmitting parent or of the affected individual does not 
influence relative mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/0272-6386(95)90096-9
PMID: 7872313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Ann Intern Med. 1995 Apr 1;122(7):514-20. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-122-7-199504010-00007.

Health values of the seriously ill. SUPPORT investigators.

Tsevat J(1), Cook EF, Green ML, Matchar DB, Dawson NV, Broste SK, Wu AW, 
Phillips RS, Oye RK, Goldman L.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1996 Jan 15;124(2):279.

OBJECTIVE: To assess 1) the health values and health ratings of seriously ill 
hospitalized patients, their surrogate decision makers, and their physicians; 2) 
the determinants of health values; and 3) whether health values change over 
time.
DESIGN: Prospective, longitudinal, multicenter study.
SETTING: 5 academic medical centers.
PARTICIPANTS: 1438 seriously ill patients with at least one of nine diseases who 
had a projected overall 6-month mortality rate of 50%; their surrogates; and 
their physicians.
MEASUREMENTS: Time-tradeoff utilities (reflecting preferences for a shorter but 
healthy life) and health ratings.
RESULTS: At study day 3, patients had a mean time-tradeoff utility of 0.73 +/- 
0.32 (median [25th, 75th percentile], 0.92 [0.63, 1.0]), indicating that they 
equated living 1 year in their current state of health with living 8.8 months in 
excellent health. However, scores varied widely; 34.8% of patients were 
unwilling to exchange any time in their current state of health for a shorter 
life in excellent health (utility, 1.0), and 9.0% were willing to live 2 weeks 
or less in excellent health rather than 1 year in their current state of health 
(utility, 0.04). Health rating scores averaged 57.8 +/- 24.0 (median [25th 
percentile, 75th percentile], 60 [50, 75]) on a scale of 0 (death) to 100 
(perfect health). The patients' mean time-tradeoff score exceeded that of their 
paired surrogates (n = 1041) by 0.08 (P < 0.0001). Time-tradeoff scores were 
related to psychosocial well-being; health ratings; desire for resuscitation and 
extension of life rather than relief of pain and discomfort; degree of 
willingness to live with constant pain; and perceived prognosis for survival and 
independent functioning. Scores of surviving patients increased by an average of 
0.06 after 2 months (P < 0.0001) and 0.08 after 6 months (P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Health values of seriously ill patients vary widely, are higher 
than patients' surrogates believe, are related to few other preference and 
health status measures, and increase over time.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-122-7-199504010-00007
PMID: 7872587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Eur Respir J. 1994 Nov;7(11):1985-7.

Airways obstruction and two year survival in patients with severe alpha 
1-antitrypsin deficiency.

Seersholm N(1), Dirksen A, Kok-Jensen A.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Pulmonology, Bispebjerg Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Because of the limited number of donor organs available, the selection of 
patients for lung transplantation is crucial. One important issue in setting 
priorities is the life expectancy without transplantation. The purpose of this 
study was to estimate survival based on lung function, in alpha 1-antitrypsin 
deficient patients. Data from the Danish alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency registry 
were analysed. The basic element of the analysis was two year intervals, 
characterized by date of spirometry and known mortality status 2 yrs later. We 
found a simple exponential relationship between lung function (forced expiratory 
volume one second (FEV1)) and two year survival on conservative treatment. The 
formula implies an almost 100% two year survival until FEV1 falls below one 
third of predicted normal; at this level two year mortality increases and will 
reach 50% at a FEV1 of 15% predicted. In conclusion, the two year mortality of 
emphysema patients due to alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency increases exponentially 
with decreasing FEV1 and the results imply that only a few patients who 
underwent lung transplantation would have had a better two year prognosis 
without this procedure.

PMID: 7875269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 1994;39(3):233-46. doi: 10.2190/XQXR-UTGP-WA8X-9FQJ.

Education, gender, and the compression of morbidity.

Leigh JP(1), Fries JF.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine.

According to the Compression of Morbidity (CM) hypothesis, people who exercise, 
eat nutritiously, do not smoke, and maintain good weight, i.e., people who 
practice healthy habits, will be more likely to live free of disabling diseases 
and injuries up until the last few months or years of life. The Increasing 
Misery (IM) hypothesis, on the other hand, holds that preventive health measures 
will extend life expectancy but will also increase the number of infirm years. 
The CM theory implies that curves of morbidity or disability with age should 
become increasingly "rectangular" for groups who practice healthy habits in the 
broadest sense. The IM theory does not. This Rectangularization hypothesis is 
examined with cross-sectional data measuring disability from the Epidemiological 
Follow-up to the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, I (NHEFS), 
using years of schooling as the independent variable proxy representing favored 
health status, and examining interactions with age. A modified version of the 
Disability Index (DI) from the Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) is 
used to measure disability. In some analyses, deceased subjects were assigned 
the worst disability score. Four subsamples of women and men, fifty years old 
and over, alive and deceased in 1982-84, were analyzed. Female, and especially 
male, subsamples which included the deceased provided evidence for the CM 
hypothesis. Results for the subsamples of those remaining alive in 1982-84 were 
ambiguous. However, lifetime (over age 50) cumulative disability was 21 to 60 
percent less for the more educated than the less educated, depending upon 
whether deceased were included or excluded. If higher education level is an 
appropriate surrogate for the effect of good health practices, then extending 
such practices will result in less, rather than more, lifetime disability.

DOI: 10.2190/XQXR-UTGP-WA8X-9FQJ
PMID: 7875915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. J Gen Intern Med. 1994 Dec;9(12):702-7. doi: 10.1007/BF02599016.

The meaning of life expectancy: what is a clinically significant gain?

Naimark D(1), Naglie G, Detsky AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02599016
PMID: 7876956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Orv Hetil. 1995 Feb 19;136(8 Suppl 1):451-5.

[Hormone substitution in menopause].

[Article in Hungarian]

Marton I(1), Petö Z, Herczegh S.

Author information:
(1)MAV Kórház, Budapest, Szülészeti és Nögyógyászati Osztály.

Menopause and related symptoms are direct consequences of insufficient ovarian 
oestrogen production. During the last two centuries women life expectancy 
increased from 48 to 79 in developed countries resulting a 20 years periods 
without proper hormone support. Extraovarian steroid production and its effects 
are presented. The role of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and locally aviable 
products discussed.

PMID: 7877816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Parasite Immunol. 1993 Oct;15(10):583-94. doi: 10.1111/pim.1993.15.10.583.

A theoretical framework for immune responses and predisposition to helminth 
infection.

Woolhouse ME(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, UK.

Many field studies of human helminth infections have reported a positive 
correlation between parasite burdens and the rate of re-establishment of 
infection following chemotherapy, i.e., predisposition. Some studies have also 
reported the relationships between re-establishment and exposure and immune 
responses. The interpretation of these data is made difficult by the complexity 
of the underlying immunoepidemiological processes. In this paper, simple 
mathematical models are used to explore expected patterns, especially in 
relation to host age. These patterns are determined by rates of infection, 
parasite life expectancy, the level of immunological responsiveness, the 
duration of immunological memory, and may be greatly affected by the immunogenic 
roles of different parasite stages. In general, acquired immunity is predicted 
to reduce the degree of predisposition. This reduction is age-dependent and may 
generate 'negative predisposition' in some age classes. Age-dependent reductions 
in the correlation between re-establishment and exposure are also predicted. The 
correlation between re-establishment and protective immune responses is also 
predicted to be age-dependent, but may remain positive for all ages despite 
significant acquired immunity. The results suggest that great care is needed in 
the interpretation of immunoepidemiological data from treatment-reinfection 
studies.

DOI: 10.1111/pim.1993.15.10.583
PMID: 7877835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Radiol Med. 1994 Dec;88(6):821-6.

[Treatment of primary hepatocarcinoma with chemoembolization and alcohol 
injection. Personal experience].

[Article in Italian]

Florio F(1), Nardella M, Balzano S, Andriulli A, Caturelli E, Siena D, Bisceglia 
M, Fusilli S, Scarale MG, Cammisa M.

Author information:
(1)Sezione di Angiografia e Radiologia Interventistica, Ospedale Casa Sollievo 
della Sofferenza, San Giovanni Rotondo, Foggia.

The comparative efficacy of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization and 
percutaneous ethanol injection (PEI) in the treatment of hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC) was investigated in a series of 243 consecutive patients: 146 of 
them were submitted to 1-6 chemoembolization sessions at 1 and 3 months' 
intervals and 30 to PEI; the remaining 67 patients refused any treatment. The 
follow-up ranged 3 to 36 months. Survival rates were statistically analyzed with 
the life table analysis. Patients' survival was affected by the number of 
nodules and by Child's and Okuda's classes; no relationship was found between 
survival rates and histologic grade or nodule vascular feeding. In case of 
single lesions, chemoembolization was more effective than PEI in Okuda's class 
I. In case of multifocal HCC, chemoembolization was better than no treatment in 
Okuda's class I and Child's class A. In conclusion, we suggest chemoembolization 
as the treatment of choice in Child A or Okuda I patients with multifocal HCCs, 
while its use seems of little help in Child B-C or Okuda II-III patients. In 
case of unifocal HCC, PEI or surgical resection should be combined with 
chemoembolization.

PMID: 7878242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Radiol Med. 1994 Dec;88(6):834-9.

[Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization technique in cirrhotic patients with 
hepatocarcinoma. Considerations on the procedure and evaluation of survival].

[Article in Italian]

Roversi R(1), Milandri GL, Ricci S, Rossi G, Dal Monte PR.

Author information:
(1)Unità Sanitaria Locale 29, Ospedale Bellaria, Bologna Est.

Two hundred and eight cirrhotic patients with HCC underwent TACE with a 
standardized technique. Kaplan-Meier survival rates and 12, 24 at 36 months were 
62%, 44% and 25%, respectively. Compared with 407 untreated patients, our series 
had a longer life expectancy, i.e., from 15 months after treatment on. Life 
experience was statistically different with the L-R test between the groups 
selected by Child-Pugh cirrhosis staging (p = 0.00000); all 8 Child-Pugh C 
patients died within 7 months; a high statistical difference was found between 
Child-Pugh A and B groups (p = 0.00012). Life experience was statistically 
different with the L-R test between the four groups selected by tumor size and 
spread (p = 0.012); statistical significance was not reached between contiguous 
groups in group vs. group comparisons. The patients with monofocal tumors, 
regardless of size, survive longer than those with multifocal and infiltrative 
(p = 0.0010) and those with multifocal (p = 0.0029) lesions. Hazard analysis, 
according to the stratified Cox model, proved tumor-size and Child-Pugh staging 
to be prognostic factors (p = 0.00027; p = 0.00000) which exhibit a highly 
significant correlation with each other (p = 0.00000). With the proportional 
hazard Cox model, tumor characteristics and Child-Pugh stage resulted to be 
highly significant independent prognostic factors (p = 0.013 and p = 0.000, 
respectively). Patient survival rates were graphically plotted against 
literature rates in 407 untreated patients classified by tumor size and by the 
Child-Pugh method: the two-year survival rates were higher in the subgroups of 
patients submitted to TACE. To conclude, TACE is an effective treatment not only 
for multifocal HCCs, but also for large monofocal and infiltrative HCCs. In 
contrast, TACE is quite useless in the patients with Child-Pugh C cirrhosis.

PMID: 7878244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Surgery. 1995 Mar;117(3):319-24. doi: 10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80208-9.

Infrainguinal bypass in patients with end-stage renal disease.

Baele HR(1), Piotrowski JJ, Yuhas J, Anderson C, Alexander JJ.

Author information:
(1)Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio.

BACKGROUND: This study was undertaken to evaluate the outcome of infrainguinal 
arterial reconstruction in a high-risk subset of patients with end-stage renal 
disease.
METHODS: We reviewed the medical records of 44 patients requiring maintenance 
dialysis and undergoing 57 infrainguinal bypass procedures for limb salvage from 
1986 to 1992. These included 16 (28%) femoropopliteal and 41 (72%) tibial or 
pedal bypasses with autogenous (82%), prosthetic (12%), or composite (6%) graft 
materials. The principal indications for operation were ischemic ulceration or 
gangrene (79%) and rest pain (21%). Angiographic evaluation most frequently 
showed single-vessel runoff (56%). Risk factors included age (mean, 63 years), 
diabetes (75%), hypertension (93%), coronary artery disease (52%), smoking 
(39%), previous myocardial infarction (20%), and contralateral amputation (18%). 
Infection was present in 22 limbs (39%).
RESULTS: Early (30-day) surgical morbidity rate was 39%, including wound 
breakdown (19%), graft thrombosis (9%), and major amputation (4%). Perioperative 
mortality rate was 9%. Cumulative primary graft patency rates were 71% and 63%, 
secondary patency rates were 80% and 66%, and limb salvage rates were 70% and 
52% at 1 and 2 years, respectively. Limb loss correlated most highly with the 
presence of preoperative infection (p = 0.036; log-rank method). Patient 
survival rate was 52% at 2 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Life-table analysis confirms a poor life expectancy for this 
population but indicates that an acceptable level of limb salvage may be 
achieved with arterial reconstruction in properly selected patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6060(05)80208-9
PMID: 7878539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Transplant Proc. 1995 Feb;27(1):1068-9.

HLA matching determines susceptibility to harmful effects of delayed graft 
function in renal transplant recipients.

Shoskes DA(1), Hodge EE, Goormastic M, Goldfarb DA, Novick AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Ohio.

PMID: 7878808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Arthritis Rheum. 1995 Mar;38(3):326-33. doi: 10.1002/art.1780380306.

The cost-effectiveness of liver biopsy in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated 
with methotrexate.

Bergquist SR(1), Felson DT, Prashker MJ, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Boston University School of Medicine, Massachusetts.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of liver biopsy in monitoring 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients for methotrexate (MTX)-induced cirrhosis.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was used to compare a strategy of no biopsy 
versus strategies of biopsy after 5 years or 10 years of MTX treatment.
RESULTS: Biopsy after 5 years of MTX treatment had a cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$1,891,830 per year of life saved, while biopsy after 10 years of treatment had 
a cost-effectiveness ratio of $52,374 per year of life saved. Sensitivity 
analyses revealed that the cost-effectiveness of biopsy was most dependent on 
the probability of cirrhosis.
CONCLUSION: Liver biopsy to monitor for MTX-induced cirrhosis in RA patients is 
not cost effective after 5 years of treatment, and even biopsy after 10 years 
has a high cost.

DOI: 10.1002/art.1780380306
PMID: 7880186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Rofo. 1995 Feb;162(2):91-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1015861.

[Health risks due to radiation exposure].

[Article in German]

Jung H(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Biophysik und Strahlenbiologie, Fachbereich Medizin, Universität 
Hamburg.

Recent data analyses of several ongoing epidemiological studies, in particular 
the Life Span Study of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, have led to new estimates of 
risks due to radiation-induced cancer. The risk coefficients published by the 
International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) in 1991 are 0.5% Sv-1 
for leukaemia and 4.5% Sv-1 for solid cancers. For adults the mean latency 
periods for radiation-induced leukaemia are about 15 years, for solid cancers 
more than 40 years. Using the organ specific risk coefficients several examples 
are given for risk estimates for some frequently applied radiological 
procedures. The results are compared with various generally known risks of 
everyday life. Some specific problems involved in risk communication are 
considered.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1015861
PMID: 7881092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Baillieres Clin Haematol. 1994 Dec;7(4):881-901. doi: 
10.1016/s0950-3536(05)80129-5.

Clinical spectrum and management of haemochromatosis.

Niederau C(1), Stremmel W, Strohmeyer GW.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik, Abteilung für Gastroenterologie, 
Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf, Germany.

Haemochromatosis is one of the most common inborn errors of metabolism. In 
prospective epidemiological studies the frequency of haemochromatosis is 0.0037 
(76/20333 subjects) for homozygotes which corresponds to a gene frequency of 
0.061 and a frequency of heterozygotes of 0.115. Abnormality in liver function 
tests, weakness and lethargy, skin hyperpigmentation, diabetes mellitus, 
arthralgia, impotence and ECG abnormalities are the most frequent findings and 
symptoms at diagnosis. In recent years about 50% of patients were detected 
without having liver cirrhosis and 20% of patients did not have any symptoms and 
pathology except iron overload. Survival analyses in long-term studies showed 
that in the absence of cirrhosis and diabetes, iron removal by phlebotomy 
therapy prevents further tissue damage and guarantees a normal life expectancy. 
Patients with massive and long-lasting iron overload had a worse prognosis than 
those with less severe iron excess. Iron removal in general ameliorated liver 
disease, weakness and cardiac abnormalities, and also prevented the progression 
of endocrine alterations. Therapy, however, did not influence insulin-dependent 
diabetes. Most deaths in patients with hereditary haemochromatosis were caused 
by liver cancers which often occurred many years after complete iron removal. In 
patients with haemochromatosis, liver cirrhosis, cardiomyopathy, and diabetes 
mellitus are also significantly more frequent causes of deaths when compared 
with the general population. Further strategies have to evaluate the design of 
screening programmes in order to diagnose more patients in the precirrhotic and 
asymptomatic stage.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-3536(05)80129-5
PMID: 7881158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Genetika. 1994 Nov;30(11):1466-70.

