[A comparative genetic analysis of interlinear differences in intensity of lipid 
peroxidation and life span in Drosophila melanogaster. Inbred lines and 
hybrids].

[Article in Russian]

Myl'nikov SV, Smirnova AN, Oparina TI.

The interrelationship between the level of peroxidation lipid and longevity was 
studied as based on highly inbred lines of Drosophila melanogaster, bred for 
adaptively important characters. The concepts of the free-radical theory proved 
valid for the lines and failed to be supported for the crosses. The dominant 
role of heterosis in the protecting against the "aging action" of free radicals 
is postulated.

PMID: 7883153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Int J Gynecol Pathol. 1995 Jan;14(1):30-8. doi: 
10.1097/00004347-199501000-00006.

Early pathologic stage clear cell carcinoma and uterine papillary serous 
carcinoma of the endometrium: comparison of clinicopathologic features and 
survival.

Carcangiu ML(1), Chambers JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 
06520-8070.

Clear cell carcinoma (CCC) and uterine papillary serous carcinoma (UPSC) are 
aggressive variants of endometrial carcinoma that may coexist or share some 
clinicopathologic features suggesting a similar biologic spectrum and the need 
for a common therapeutic approach. Twenty-nine cases of pathologic FIGO stage I 
and II CCC and 47 cases of FIGO stage I and II UPSC seen and treated at Yale-New 
Haven Hospital were reviewed, and the survival rates with regard to various 
pathological parameters were compared. Both groups of patients had similar 
clinical profiles with respect to presentation, age, weight, and medical 
problems. The 5-year survival for pathologic stage I patients with CCC was 72% 
and for those with UPSC 44%. The 5-year survival for pathologic stage II 
patients with CCC was 59% and for those with UPSC 32%. Analysis of survival 
showed that the depth of myometrial invasion, the presence of vascular space 
invasion, and the admixture of endometrioid features did not influence survival 
in either group of patients. In CCC, survival was also not influenced by the 
predominant histologic pattern, i.e., papillary versus nonpapillary. The results 
of this study suggest that early stage CCC and UPSC have similar 
clinicopathologic profiles, suggesting the need for aggressive approaches 
including a staging laparotomy and possibly similar therapy. However, the stage 
I CCC patients had a significantly better survival than the stage I UPSC 
patients.

DOI: 10.1097/00004347-199501000-00006
PMID: 7883423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Leukemia. 1995 Mar;9(3):391-5.

Prognostic relevance of ALL-1 gene rearrangement in infant acute leukemias.

Cimino G(1), Rapanotti MC, Rivolta A, Lo Coco F, D'Arcangelo E, Rondelli R, 
Basso G, Barisone E, Rosanda C, Santostasi T, et al.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biopatologia Umana, Università La Sapienza, Rome, Italy.

We and others have recently reported a high frequency (70-80%) of ALL-1 (MLL, 
HRX, HTRX) gene rearrangements in infants with acute leukemias (AL) aged less 
than 1 year. Preliminary observations in limited series also suggested that 
ALL-1 gene configuration is an important prognostic factor in this leukemic 
subset. We have now extended our study to a series of 45 AL patients aged 
between 0 and 18 months. The genomic configuration of ALL-1 in leukemic DNAs was 
determined by Southern blot hybridization and correlated with biological and 
clinical features at presentation, as well as with treatment outcome. 
Twenty-nine out of 45 (64%) patients showed ALL-1 rearrangements, including 4/11 
(36%) infants aged between 13 and 18 months. Considering morphological types, 
24/38 cases with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and 5/7 patients with acute 
myeloid leukemia showed ALL-1 rearrangements. The features more frequently found 
in association with ALL-1 rearrangements were hyperleukocytosis (P < 0.007) and 
CD19+/CD10- blast immunophenotype (P < 0.02). ALL-1 status was an independent 
prognostic marker of event-free survival (EFS) in a multivariate model including 
age, sex and WBC count, and maintained its statistical significance when FAB 
morphology was considered in the analysis by including AML patients. Considering 
the ALL cases the actuarial EFS was 57 and 9% for infants with germline and 
rearranged ALL-1 configuration, respectively (P = 0.008). A high frequency of 
ALL-1 gene alterations in infant AL is confirmed by this study. In addition, our 
results emphasize the need for extending the analysis of ALL-1 gene status to 
infants with AL aged > 12 months. We show that this genetic lesion is the most 
important variable negatively affecting prognosis in a multivariate model 
including other known risk factors. This latter observation should influence the 
choice of risk-adapted treatment strategies in this AL subset.

PMID: 7885037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Leukemia. 1995 Mar;9(3):433-9.

Certain HLA antigens are associated with specific morphologic and cytogenetic 
subsets of acute myeloid leukemia.

Joventino LP(1), Stock W, Lane NJ, Daly KM, Mick R, Le Beau MM, Larson RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, IL 60637.

Although many associations have been found between specific HLA antigens and an 
increased susceptibility to various diseases, previous attempts to associate 
class I and II antigens with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) have been 
inconclusive, probably due in part to the heterogeneity of AML. We subdivided 
165 consecutive adults with AML de novo into distinct clinical, morphological, 
and cytogenetic subsets and then tested for statistically significant 
associations with specific HLA antigens. Both morphology and cytogenetic pattern 
identified subsets of patients with important clinical features and different 
outcomes. Ten statistically significant (P < 0.05) HLA cytogenetic associations 
were observed: HLA-A11 with t(8;21), A26 with t(15;17), B7 with 11q23 
abnormalities, B44 with +8, Cw2 with -20/del(20q), DR3 with t(15;17) and FAB-M3, 
DR4 with inv(16) and FAB-M4Eo, DQ2 with +8, and DQ6 with +22. HLA-DQ1 had a 
negative association with -5/del(5q), which was present in 13% of the 165 AML 
patients overall but in none of the 27 with DQ1. Certain HLA antigens were 
significantly correlated with more favorable remission rates, remission duration 
and survival. Possible mechanisms for the association of HLA antigens with 
particular subtypes of AML include the linkage or co-inheritance of an oncogene, 
the facilitation of binding of a transforming virus, toxin, or cytokine, or a 
permissive role involving impaired immune recognition of an emerging neoplasm. 
Given the heterogeneity of both the HLA system of immune recognition genes and 
the cytogenetic subtypes of AML, however, larger numbers of patients must be 
studied to have confidence that biologically important relationships truly 
exist.

PMID: 7885042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. N Engl J Med. 1995 Apr 13;332(15):999-1003. doi:
10.1056/NEJM199504133321506.

Longevity and Medicare expenditures.

Lubitz J(1), Beebe J, Baker C.

Author information:
(1)Office of Research and Demonstrations, Health Care Financing Administration, 
Baltimore, MD 21207-5187.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1995 Apr 13;332(15):1027-9.

BACKGROUND: In the United States, the elderly account for over one third of 
health care spending. The total population over the age of 65 is projected to 
increase, as is life expectancy beyond the age of 65. We studied current 
patterns of Medicare expenses according to age at death and the possible effect 
of future demographic changes on Medicare spending.
METHODS: We used data from the Medicare program to estimate lifetime Medicare 
expenses for a sample of 129,166 beneficiaries, 65 or older, who died in 1989 
and 1990, according to age at death. Spending for nursing home care not covered 
by Medicare was excluded. (Nursing home costs represent about 20 percent of 
total health care spending for the elderly and increase with age.) Through 
simulation, we assessed the lifetime payments by Medicare for enrollees who 
turned 65 in 1990 and those who will do so in 2020.
RESULTS: Estimated lifetime Medicare payments (in 1990 dollars) ranged from 
$13,044 for persons who died at 65 years of age, to $56,094 for those who died 
at 80, to $65,633 for those who died at 101 or older. The payments associated 
with an additional year of life and the average annual payments over an 
enrolle's lifetime both decreased as the age at death increased. The estimated 
7.9 percent increase in life expectancy beyond 65 years that will have taken 
place between 1990 and 2020 (19.1 years past the age of 65 in 2020, as compared 
with 17.7 years in 1990) was associated with an estimated increase of 2.0 
percent in lifetime Medicare payments. Of the estimated $98 billion increase in 
total lifetime payments (in 1990 dollars) from the 1990 group to the 2020 group, 
74.3 percent was due to the larger size of the original birth cohort who will 
reach the age of 65 in 2020, 22.5 percent to an increase in the proportion of 
that birth cohort projected to survive to 65 years of age, and 3.2 percent to 
improved life expectancy beyond 65.
CONCLUSIONS: The effect on Medicare spending of increased longevity beyond the 
age of 65 may not be great. Total Medicare payments will be more substantially 
affected by the expected increase in the absolute number of elderly people.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199504133321506
PMID: 7885430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1994 Dec;49(4):921-7. doi: 
10.1016/0091-3057(94)90244-5.

Benzodiazepines promote the intermediate stage at the expense of paradoxical 
sleep in the rat.

Gandolfo G(1), Scherschlicht R, Gottesmann C.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Psychophysiologie, Faculté des Sciences, Université de 
Nice-Sophia Antipolis, Nice, France.

The effects of diazepam, a long half-life benzodiazepine, midazolam and 
triazolam, two with short half-life, on the transitional stage between deep slow 
wave sleep and paradoxical sleep were studied in Wistar and WAG/Rij rats. This 
intermediate stage is characterized by the unusual association of cortical 
spindles and low frequency hippocampal theta rhythm. The main result was 
extension of the intermediate stage at the expense of paradoxical sleep by 
diazepam and triazolam by influencing only the duration of the intermediate 
stage and both the onset and maintenance of paradoxical sleep. Midazolam 
increased both intermediate stage and paradoxical sleep. Several differences in 
the qualitative modulation of the stage characteristics and between rat strains 
were found. In regard to the possible peculiar physiological significance of the 
intermediate stage, we conclude that benzodiazepines promote a transient 
pharmacological cerveau isolé-like stage during sleep in rats.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-3057(94)90244-5
PMID: 7886108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Rev Invest Clin. 1994 Apr;Suppl:26-33.

Biology and therapy of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Rivera GK, Crist WM, Sallan SE.

PMID: 7886304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Theor Med. 1994 Dec;15(4):361-76. doi: 10.1007/BF00993794.

The trauma triangle.

Bergsma J(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Humanities Program, Loyola University Chicago.

Recent research supports the hypothesis that more active engagement of the 
patient in occurring illnesses improves quality of life and probably even life 
expectancy. In this study experience and theoretical knowledge from 
psychotherapy is transplanted to clinical practice in order to improve the 
physician's engagement in the patient-disease relationship. By defining severe 
and long-term illnesses as a psychotrauma, the transfer of the 
psychotherapeutical model leads to the creation of a new triangular 
relationship: patient-illness-doctor. Practical examples are used as 
illustrations for the conceptual differences between psychotherapy and clinical 
medicine. Options for dialogue show the difference between adaptation ("learning 
to live with") and adjustment (active coping strategies and controlling). The 
hypothesis is that a better dialogue will reduce illness-related stress, giving 
the patient better and more effective access to personal psychic and physical 
support systems.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00993794
PMID: 7886631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1994;356:293-302. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4615-2554-7_31.

Epidemiology, clinical spectrum and prognosis of hemochromatosis.

Niederau C(1), Strohmeyer G, Stremmel W.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Medicine, Heinrich-Heine-University of Düsseldorf, Germany.

EPIDEMIOLOGY: Eleven prospective epidemiological studies from various countries 
have as yet evaluated the gene prevalence of HLA-linked hemochromatosis. The 
estimated frequency ranged from 0.027-0.107, the frequency of homozygotes from 
0.00074-0.0116, and the frequency of heterozygotes from 0.052-0.191. In a 
meta-analysis of the eleven surveys the frequency is 0.0016 (106/64758 subjects) 
for homozygotes which corresponds to a gene frequency of 0.041 and a frequency 
of heterozygotes of 0.078. Further analyses showed that some of these studies 
have probably underestimated the prevalence which in reality is probably two- to 
threefold higher than estimated by the meta-analysis.
CLINICAL SPECTRUM: In the total group of 251 patients diagnosed with 
hemochromatosis in the University of Düsseldorf from 1959-1992, abnormality in 
liver function tests (75%), weakness and lethargy (74%), skin hyperpigmentation 
(70%), diabetes mellitus (48%), arthralgia (44%), impotence (45% in males), and 
ECG abnormalities (31%) were the most frequent findings and symptoms at 
diagnosis. In recent years about 50% of patients were detected without having 
liver cirrhosis and 20% of patients did not have any symptoms and pathology 
except iron overload.
PROGNOSIS: Survival analysis in the 251 patients showed that in the absence of 
cirrhosis and diabetes iron removal by phlebotomy therapy prevents further 
tissue damage and guarantees a normal life expectancy. Sex and presence of 
arthropathy did not predict prognosis. However, patients with massive and 
long-lasting iron overload had a worse prognosis than patients with less severe 
iron excess. Iron removal in general ameliorated liver disease, weakness and 
cardiac abnormalities, and also prevented the progression of endocrine 
alterations. Therapy, however, did not influence arthropathy which even got 
worse in several patients. Iron removal also failed to reverse insulin-dependent 
diabetes. During a mean followup of 13.4 years 69 deaths occurred in the 251 
patients. In 19 patients death was due to liver cancer, in 14 due to liver 
cirrhosis, in 5 due to cardiomyopathy, and in 3 due to diabetes mellitus (all 
causes significantly more frequent than expected for the general population). 
The other causes of death were as frequent as expected including extrahepatic 
malignancies. All liver cancers were seen in cirrhotic livers, but often 
occurred many years or even decades after complete iron removal. Further 
strategies have to evaluate the design of screening programs in order to 
diagnose more patients in the precirrhotic and asymptomatic stage.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-2554-7_31
PMID: 7887234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Nurs Stand. 1995 Jan 25-31;9(18):22-3. doi: 10.7748/ns.9.18.22.s36.

Ethnic minorities: running a band-aid service.

D'Alessio V.

DOI: 10.7748/ns.9.18.22.s36
PMID: 7888345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Plant Mol Biol. 1995 Jan;27(2):365-76. doi: 10.1007/BF00020190.

Isolation and sequence analysis of cDNAs encoding phosphoenolpyruvate 
carboxykinase from the PCK-type C4 grass Urochloa panicoides.

Finnegan PM(1), Burnell JN.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Molecular Biotechnology, School of Life Science, Queensland 
University of Technology, Brisbane, Australia.

A rabbit antiserum was raised against phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PCK) 
purified from Urochloa panicoides, a PCK-type C4 monocot. The antiserum was used 
to screen a cDNA expression library constructed from U. panicoides leaf 
poly(A)+RNA. Inserts from immunoreactive clones were used to rescreen the 
library and obtain three overlapping cDNAs comprising a 2220 bp composite 
sequence. The single complete open reading frame of 1872 bp encodes PCK1, a 624 
amino acid polypeptide with a predicted molecular mass of 68,474 Da. Comparison 
of PCK1 with other ATP-dependent PCKs indicates that PCK1 is significantly 
larger, mainly due to an N-terminal extension of greater than 65 residues, and 
reveals high sequence identity across the central portion of the protein, 
especially over seven sub-sequences. One of these sub-sequences spans motifs 
common to several ATP-utilising enzymes for phosphate and divalent cation 
binding. The anti-PCK antiserum recognises a 69 kDa polypeptide on immunoblots 
of either purified PCK or U. panicoides leaf extracts. However, polypeptides of 
63, 62, 61 and 60 kDa are also immunoreactive. Amino terminal sequencing of 
polypeptides from preparations of purified PCK demonstrates that these smaller 
polypeptides are related to PCK1, and time course experiments show that these 
polypeptides arise from the breakdown of PCK during isolation. Northern blot 
analysis indicates that the 2.7 kb PCK mRNA is abundant in green leaves but not 
in roots or etiolated shoots. Moreover, PCK mRNA levels increase gradually 
during greening, reaching maximum levels after about 84 h.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00020190
PMID: 7888625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Blood Rev. 1994 Dec;8(4):193-8. doi: 10.1016/0268-960x(94)90107-4.

Management of hereditary hemochromatosis.

Phatak PD(1), Cappuccio JD.

Author information:
(1)Hematology Unit, Rochester General Hospital, NY 14621.

Hereditary hemochromatosis is a common disorder of iron metabolism with a 
prevalence as high as 8 per 1000. Affected individuals absorb excessive amounts 
of dietary iron and over time, tissue iron deposition results in skin 
discoloration, arthropathy, hepatic cirrhosis, heart failure, diabetes mellitus 
and impotence. Early diagnosis and institution of phlebotomy treatments will 
prevent these manifestations and normalize life expectancy. Once organ damage is 
established many of the manifestations are irreversible. Since the early 
manifestations of the disease are subtle, a case can be made for routine 
screening. This conclusion is supported by cost-effectiveness analysis based on 
available data. A reasonable screening strategy would start with a serum 
transferrin saturation. A value > or = 55% should trigger a repeat transferrin 
saturation in a fasting state and a serum ferritin level. If both these tests 
are abnormal, a liver biopsy with quantitative iron determination is the 
currently accepted confirmatory test.

DOI: 10.1016/0268-960x(94)90107-4
PMID: 7888827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. BMJ. 1994 Nov 12;309(6964):1282-5. doi: 10.1136/bmj.309.6964.1282.

The greying of Europe.

Dall JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Victoria Infirmary National Health Trust, Glasgow.

About a quarter of the population of Europe is now of pensionable age. 
Facilities for caring for very old or disabled people differ throughout Europe 
in scope and means of funding, and the countries of the European Union are far 
from equity in the status of pensioners. Health expectations have increased in 
older people--most of the calculated gain in life expectancy is likely to be 
without disability. Most countries now have specialist geriatric medicine 
facilities, and international research programmes are under way.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.309.6964.1282
PMCID: PMC2541810
PMID: 7888855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. BMJ. 1995 Feb 25;310(6978):529. doi: 10.1136/bmj.310.6978.529b.

Medical care continues to be important for health.

Godber G.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1994 Dec 17;309(6969):1657.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.310.6978.529b
PMCID: PMC2548895
PMID: 7888904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. BMJ. 1995 Mar 4;310(6979):554. doi: 10.1136/bmj.310.6979.554a.

Making the most of aging populations.

Watson R.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.310.6979.554a
PMID: 7888927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 1994 Dec;41(6):739-45. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2265.1994.tb02788.x.

Oral progestogen-only contraception may protect against loss of bone mass in 
breast-feeding women.

Caird LE(1), Reid-Thomas V, Hannan WJ, Gow S, Glasier AF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Edinburgh, UK.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: A worldwide trend towards increasing life expectancy 
has meant that osteoporosis is emerging as an important public health problem. 
The loss of bone mineral density and its restoration in association with a 
premenopausal but physiological hypo-oestrogenic state may serve as an important 
model for research into the pathogenesis and prevention of osteoporosis. With 
this in mind we have undertaken a longitudinal study of changes in bone mineral 
density over one year in women after childbirth.
DESIGN: Observational study of 31 women in the first year following childbirth; 
11 intending to breast-feed and use barrier methods of contraception, 9 
intending to breastfeed and to use the progestogen-only pill and 10 intending to 
artificially feed and to use barrier methods.
PATIENTS: Recruitment was from the antenatal clinics of the Simpson Memorial 
Maternity Pavilion. Only non-smokers who had regular menstrual cycles prior to 
conception were included.
MEASUREMENTS: Bone mineral density was measured at the lumbar spine within 3 
weeks of childbirth and repeated at 6 and 12 months post partum. Plasma 
oestradiol, prolactin and osteocalcin concentrations were measured at each 
visit.
RESULTS: Breast-feeding women using barrier methods lost a mean +/- SE of 4.9 
+/- 1.5% of bone mineral density in the first 6 months following delivery. This 
was however reversible since by one year the bone mineral density was no 
different from that measured immediately post partum. Breast-feeding women using 
the progestogen-only pill lost a significantly smaller percentage of bone 
mineral density in 6 months and by one year bone mineral density was 2.95 +/- 
0.75% higher than post partum. Artificially feeding women had a steady increase 
in bone mineral density in the first year and bone mineral density was on 
average 4.3 +/- 1.2% higher.
CONCLUSION: Breast-feeding results in a reversible reduction in spinal bone 
mineral density. The small amounts of gestagen in the progesterone-only pill 
would appear to protect against this loss. The mechanism of this loss in bone 
mineral density and the potentially bone protective effects of gestagens require 
further study.

PIP: The findings of a longitudinal study of lactation-related changes in bone 
mineral density in the first postpartum year suggest that use of 
progestogen-only oral contraceptives (OCs) may reduce this loss. 28 nonsmoking 
women were recruited from the postnatal wards at Edinburgh's Simpson Memorial 
Maternity Pavilion and divided into three groups according to intended 
postpartum contraceptive methods: group A (9 women who planned to breast feed 
and use barrier methods); group B (9 women who planned to breast feed and take a 
progestogen-only OC); and group C (10 women who were going to bottle feed and 
use a barrier method). Bone mineral density was measured at the lumbar spine 
within 3 weeks postpartum and again at 6 and 12 months postpartum. In group A, 
there was a significant (p 0.001) decrease in bone mineral density between 3 
weeks and 6 months postpartum and a return to the puerperium level by 12 months. 
In group B, 7 of the 9 women lost bone mineral density from delivery to 6 
months, although the loss was less significant (p 0.01) than that recorded in 
group A, but by 12 months, bone mineral density exceeded that at delivery. In 
group C, only 2 of 10 women experienced any bone mineral density loss and 
densities at 12 months again approximated those at delivery. The apparent 
protective effect of progestogen against bone mass loss could have important 
implications for the prevention of osteoporosis in menopausal and 
post-menopausal women.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2265.1994.tb02788.x
PMID: 7889609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Health Psychol. 1994 Nov;13(6):451-60. doi: 10.1037//0278-6133.13.6.451.

The Ziggy theorem: toward an outcomes-focused health psychology.

Kaplan RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla 92093-0622.

The purpose of health care is twofold: to make people live longer and to enhance 
quality of life in the years before death. These goals are consistent with a 
Ziggy cartoon that emphasized that the meaning of life was "doin' stuff." "Doin' 
stuff" requires being alive (survival) and having the capability to perform 
activities. These objectives are quantifiable and can be represented in indices 
that combine life expectancy with health-related quality of life. This article 
emphasizes patient-oriented outcomes as a focal point for health care. This 
outcomes orientation is referred to as the Ziggy theorem. Examples demonstrate 
that emphasis on patient-oriented outcomes may redirect conceptualizations of 
public health indicators and may change the way medical subspecialists make 
clinical decisions. Furthermore, the Ziggy Theorem may suggest new approaches to 
the allocation of public health resources.

DOI: 10.1037//0278-6133.13.6.451
PMID: 7889899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Demography. 1994 Nov;31(4):633-50.

Age patterns of mortality and cause-of-death structures in Sweden, Japan, and 
the United States.

Himes CL(1).

Author information:
(1)Pennsylvania State University, Population Research Institute, University Park 
16802.

This paper uses a new standard model of adult mortality to compare the mortality 
patterns of Swedes, Japanese, and U.S. whites between 1950 and 1985. It examines 
changes in the age patterns of mortality and the cause-of-death structures 
within the populations, and the relationships between those two factors. As 
Japan has reached a level of mortality similar to that in Sweden, the age 
patterns of mortality in the two populations have become more similar despite 
distinct differences in causes of death. The United States has a cause-of-death 
structure similar to that of Sweden, but the age pattern of mortality is very 
different. High mortality in the middle age range in the United States results 
in approximately a one-year loss of life expectancy at age 45 in comparison with 
Sweden.

PMID: 7890097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Haematologia (Budap). 1994;26(2):75-86.

Prognostic significance of bone marrow reticulin fibres in idiopathic 
myelofibrosis: evaluation of clinicopathological parameters in a scoring system.

Iványi JL(1), Mahunka M, Papp A, Kiss A, Telek B.

Author information:
(1)2nd Department of Medicine, University Medical School, Debrecen, Hungary.

A clinicopathological scoring system was performed for obtaining a better 
estimate of prognosis in 50 patients with idiopathic myelofibrosis (IMF). 
Laboratory parameters including Hb-level, leukocyte and platelet counts, 
percentage of blast cells in peripheral blood, spleen and liver size, and a 
semiquantitative histological grading of reticulin fibre content of bone marrow 
biopsies taken at the time of initial diagnosis were analysed. Based upon these 
haematological and histological parameters three prognostic groups could be 
categorized with a significantly different survival (low-risk group with 21 
patients = 75 months; medium-risk group with 18 patients = 51 months, and 11 
patients in a high-risk group = 18 months). In an univariate (log rank test) and 
in a multivariate regression analysis the Hb-concentration, mild splenomegaly 
(less than 5 cm) and a higher grade of bone marrow reticulin content proved to 
be important prognostic parameters, whilst leukopenia, thrombocytopenia and the 
presence of peripheral blast cells were only of prognostic significance within 
the first 6 months from initial diagnosis. It was concluded that the increase of 
reticulin fibre deposition in bone marrow together with anaemia and mild 
splenomegaly could be responsible for a progressively worse life-expectancy of 
high-risk patients with idiopathic myelofibrosis.

PMID: 7890265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. J Am Osteopath Assoc. 1995 Feb;95(2):85.

Longer life expectancy in United States.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7890556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. J Med Assoc Ga. 1995 Feb;84(2):61-2.

In search of the fountain of youth.

Faria MA Jr.

PMID: 7891005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. J Neurosci. 1995 Mar;15(3 Pt 2):2186-91. doi: 
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.15-03-02186.1995.

Distribution of putative D4 dopamine receptors in postmortem striatum from 
patients with schizophrenia.

Murray AM(1), Hyde TM, Knable MB, Herman MM, Bigelow LB, Carter JM, Weinberger 
DR, Kleinman JE.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Mental Health, Clinical Brain Disorders Branch, St. 
Elizabeths Hospital, Washington, D.C. 20032.

The identification of five dopamine receptor subtypes has given the dopamine 
hypothesis of schizophrenia new life. The D4 receptor is particularly intriguing 
because it binds clozapine with high affinity. Putative D4 receptors were 
labeled in postmortem human brain by subtracting the binding of a saturating 
concentration of 3H-raclopride (6 nM, which labels D2 and D3 receptors) from 
that labeled by a saturating concentration of [3H]YM 09151-2 (1-1.3 nM, which 
labels D2, D3, and D4 receptors). In the control brain, putative D4 receptors 
show a homogenous distribution in striatum and nucleus accumbens. This is also 
true in schizophrenic brains, although the levels are significantly higher 
(twofold). These data are inconsistent with mRNA studies that have shown 
negligible amounts in striatum and accumbens, with modest amounts reported in 
most of cerebral cortex. These findings suggest that the putative D4 receptors 
are not synthesized in this region, but are presynaptically localized on 
striatal afferent terminals. Our findings confirm and extend the report of 
Seeman et al. (1993). Extension of these findings into the nucleus accumbens is 
important because of its extensive connections to the limbic system while the 
putamen is exclusively "motor" striatum.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.15-03-02186.1995
PMCID: PMC6578159
PMID: 7891160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1995 Mar 4;139(9):428-33.

[Screening for breast cancer after the age of 70: effect on breast cancer 
mortality].

[Article in Dutch]

van Dijck JA(1), Verbeek AL, Hendriks JH, Holland R.

Author information:
(1)Katholieke Universiteit, faculteit der Medische Wetenschappen, afd. 
Epidemiologie, Nijmegen.

PMID: 7891764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. N Z Med J. 1995 Feb 8;108(993):43.

Cardiac risk assessment--10 year or lifelong?

Kenealy T.

Comment in
    N Z Med J. 1995 Jun 14;108(1001):233.

Comment on
    N Z Med J. 1993 Apr 14;106(953):133-41.

PMID: 7891936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Nouv Rev Fr Hematol (1978). 1994 Oct;36(5):359-62.

Risks and benefits of splenectomy in myelofibrosis: an analysis of 39 cases.

Lafaye F(1), Rain JD, Clot P, Najean Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Visceral Surgery, Hôpital Saint-Louis, Paris, France.

From 1980 to 1993, 39 splenectomies were performed in the Department of Visceral 
Surgery of Saint-Louis Hospital, in patients referred for myelofibrosis 
associated with myeloid splenomegaly. The short term morbidity was considerable: 
33 serious haemorrhagic, infectious or thrombotic complications including 5 
fatal accidents were observed in 18 patients. Severe thrombotic or infectious 
complications leading to 6 further deaths occurred in 8 patients over the two 
years following splenectomy, while six cases of acute leukaemia appeared between 
6 months and 3 years after splenectomy. In 40% of cases with regular follow-up, 
the operation did not provide any haematological improvement and all these 
patients died. Only patients with minimally progressive or stable myelofibrosis 
and residual marrow activity in isotope studies showed an amelioration of 
general status with relief of pain and reduction of transfusional requirements. 
The indication for splenectomy should therefore probably be limited to such 
cases.

PMID: 7892130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Radiology. 1995 Apr;195(1):135-9. doi: 10.1148/radiology.195.1.7892454.

Dialysis access grafts: anatomic location of venous stenosis and results of 
angioplasty.

Kanterman RY(1), Vesely TM, Pilgram TK, Guy BW, Windus DW, Picus D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine, 
Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, St. Louis, MO 63110.

Erratum in
    Radiology 1995 Aug;196(2):582.

PURPOSE: To determine the distribution of stenoses and results of angioplasty in 
patients with similar forearm dialysis grafts made of polytetrafluoroethylene 
(PTFE).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Diagnostic radiographs of the fistula obtained in 215 
patients were reviewed; 90 patients had similar, unrevised forearm PTFE loop 
dialysis grafts. The location, morphology, and results of angioplasty were 
reviewed for each measurable stenosis. Surgical, radiologic, and dialysis 
records were reviewed to document the subsequent patency rate of each patient's 
dialysis access.
RESULTS: On the initial diagnostic fistulogram, 93 stenoses were identified. The 
anatomic distribution included 47% at the venous anastomosis and 11% within 1 cm 
of the anastomosis. Life table analysis revealed a 6-month patency rate of 63% 
and a 1-year patency rate of 41% for the first angioplasty in a given graft, and 
a 6-month patency rate of 44% and a 1-year patency rate of 22% [corrected] for 
the second angioplasty.
CONCLUSION: Performance of serial venous angioplasty procedures may help prolong 
the life of a graft, but the patency rates diminish with subsequent 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.195.1.7892454
PMID: 7892454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Radiology. 1995 Apr;195(1):158-62. doi: 10.1148/radiology.195.1.7892459.

Long-segment (> or = 10 cm) femoropopliteal angioplasty: improved technical 
success and long-term patency.

Murray JG(1), Apthorp LA, Wilkins RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Northwick Park Hospital, Middlesex, London, England.

PURPOSE: To assess angioplasty as a treatment for symptomatic long-segment (> or 
= 10 cm) femoropopliteal atherosclerotic disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Angioplasty performed on 44 lesions that measured 10-40 
cm (mean, 24.3 cm) were assessed for technical success and 12-24-month patency. 
Disease severity was assessed with the Doppler ankle-brachial index (ABI) and 
clinical evaluation before angioplasty and at follow-up examinations 1 month and 
12-24 months (mean, 18 months) later. Technical success was defined as a 
restoration of vessel lumen (< 30% residual stenosis) and a rise in ABI values 
of at least 0.2. Arterial patency (< 50% residual stenosis) was determined with 
color duplex sonography.
RESULTS: Angioplasty was technically successful at 41 of 44 sites (93%). There 
was no mortality related to the procedure or emergency surgical referral. At 
18-month follow-up, mean ABI values had risen from 0.53 to 0.80. Cumulative 
primary patency was 69%. Clinical symptoms had improved in 83% of patients.
CONCLUSION: Angioplasty is useful in the treatment of long-segment 
femoropopliteal atherosclerotic disease.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.195.1.7892459
PMID: 7892459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1995;43(1):98-9.

[The deadly cigarette. An update].

[Article in French]

Schwartz D(1).

Author information:
(1)INSERM U292, Hôpital de Bicêtre, Général Leclerc, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre.

PMID: 7892523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Sci Total Environ. 1995 Jan 15;160-161:521-7. doi:
10.1016/0048-9697(95)04386-f.

Health and environment in Greenland and other circumpolar areas.

Bjerregaard P(1).

Author information:
(1)Section for Research in Greenland, Danish Institute for Clinical 
Epidemiology, Copenhagen O, Denmark.

Before World War II, the mortality pattern in the Arctic was characterized by 
very high mortality due to infectious diseases, in particular tuberculosis, and 
to injuries. Life expectancy was low and chronic diseases such as cancer and 
heart disease were rare. Improved living conditions and health services have 
drastically altered health conditions since then. The circumpolar population 
groups are small and scattered, and the burden of pathogenic factors is high. 
The impact of environmental contaminants is therefore difficult to study 
epidemiologically. In the absence of local industrial sources of pollution, 
mercury and organochlorines in the traditional diet are presently the most 
serious environmental threats to human health in Greenland. Although we observe 
no effects on human health at present, the situation is potentially serious and 
should be closely monitored.

DOI: 10.1016/0048-9697(95)04386-f
PMID: 7892582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Salud Publica Mex. 1994 Sep-Oct;36(5):529-37.

[Mortality due to homicide in children. Mexico, 1979-1990].

[Article in Spanish]

Híjar-Medina MC(1), Tapia-Yáñez JR, Rascón-Pacheco RA.

Author information:
(1)Escuela de Salud Pública de México, Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública.

A study of homicides in children under five years old was conducted in order to 
define the mortality panorama by this cause during 1979-1990 in Mexico. Trends 
of homicide mortality were analyzed, as well as the main causes by age and sex. 
Rate ratio (RR) by cause and sex were analyzed too. The variables were age, sex, 
year and external cause of intentional injuries which were analyzed according to 
the International Classification of Diseases, 9th Revision E960-E969. The total 
number of deaths due to homicide were 2,939. Each day one children under five 
years of age died in Mexico due to homicide. The trend of homicide is b = 0.126. 
Thirty per cent of deaths occurred in children under one year old. Boys were 
most affected than girls in the causes by age: strangulation < 1 year old RR 21, 
confidence interval (CI) 15-30; fire arm in two years old children RR 3.1 CI 
2.0-5.7; drowning in three years old children RR 2.6 CI 1.7-4.8 and assault by 
other and unspecified means. Further research in the area and prevention should 
involve the use of a multidisciplinary approach in considering the multiple 
causes and solutions to this problem.

PMID: 7892628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Arch Insect Biochem Physiol. 1995;28(2):143-57. doi: 10.1002/arch.940280205.

Promoter utilization in a mosquito ribosomal DNA cistron.

Park YJ(1), Baldridge GD, Fallon AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of Minnesota, St. Paul 55108.

In the mosquito Aedes albopictus, two potential RNA polymerase I promoters that 
map 531 and 143 nucleotides upstream of the 18S rRNA gene have been defined on 
the basis of sequence homology with rRNA promoters from other species. Using the 
polymerase chain reaction, we confirmed that a 717 nucleotide region spanning 
the upstream (-531) and downstream (-143) promoters is homogeneous in genomic 
DNA and in cloned DNA. DNA probes representing each of these promoters, as well 
as upstream "spacer" promoters, exhibited protein-binding activity, and each 
unlabeled probe was an effective competitor of protein binding with the other 
probes, suggesting that these potential regulatory sequences interact with a 
common protein(s). Analysis of precursor ribosomal RNAs accumulated during 
temperature shock indicated that transcription is initiated primarily at the 
upstream (-531) promoter. RNAse protection and primer extension analyses 
confirmed the predominant use of this promoter, both in cultured cells and in 
mosquito life stages.

DOI: 10.1002/arch.940280205
PMID: 7894052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Semin Gastrointest Dis. 1995 Jan;6(1):20-7.

Natural history of viral hepatitis, type C.

Seeff LB(1).

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology & Hepatology Division, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
Washington, DC 20422.

PMID: 7894963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. QJM. 1995 Jan;88(1):15-22.

Priority for coronary artery surgery: who gets by-passed when demand outstrips 
capacity?

Kee F(1), Gaffney B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Queen's University Belfast, Northern Ireland.

Comment in
    QJM. 1996 Jan;89(1):89.

We investigated the clinical and non-clinical factors which influence the 
waiting time from initial angiography to bypass surgery, by follow-up of a 
random sample of 141 patients undergoing their first coronary angiography, for 
whom a decision to revascularize was made in 1991. The period between the date 
of angiography and the date of surgery, and a variety of clinical patient 
characteristics, were retrieved from medical notes in mid-1993. Patients were 
sampled from those investigated in the two Northern Ireland catheterization 
laboratories in Belfast, both of which were served by one local surgical centre. 
Of the 141 patients studied, 86 had had surgery at follow-up. The most important 
predictors of waiting time were: the presence of severe stenosis of the left 
main-stem coronary artery [relative hazards, 3.4 (1.6-7.3)], the presence of 
unstable angina at the time of angiography, [relative hazards, 2.2 (0.97-5.0)], 
age at angiography, [relative hazards, 2.2 (1.1-4.2) for > 65 years vs. < 50 
years], having a positive family history of premature coronary artery disease in 
a first-degree relative, [relative hazards, 1.8 (1.1-2.9)] and smoking habit at 
angiography, [relative hazards 0.6 (0.3-1.1), for current vs. never/ex-smokers]. 
More weight appears to be given to maximizing life extension rather than its 
quality enhancement in determining who gets priority for surgery. The exception 
to this may be in regard to smokers, and purchasers might find it useful to set 
targets for secondary prevention activities with respect to such patients.

PMID: 7894984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Bull Acad Natl Med. 1994 Oct;178(7):1319-39; discussion 1339-40.

[Medical and technical compensation of disabilities].

[Article in French]

Didier JP(1), Gras P, Cassillas JM.

Author information:
(1)GERSH-Groupe d'Etude et de Recherche sur le Handicap, CHU Dijon.

Thanks to technological advances handicaps can be treated in a better way by 
physicians. This real Metrology of Handicap constitutes a preliminary stage to 
medical decision. Functional repercussions of a lesion can thus be accurately 
assessed before the well adapted compensatory means are conceived, prescribed 
and applied. A better understanding of physiopathological mechanisms involving 
lesion, deficit and handicap and of compensatory procedures used by disabled 
people depends from this assessment. Some examples will be reported such as 
energy expenditure, 3-dimensional biomechanical analysis of daily activities and 
the correlation between both approaches. Likewise, efficiency of therapeutics 
can be assessed such as the analysis of gait with appliances with different 
types of prosthetic feet or effects on muscle of various training programs. 
Besides, sophisticated orthesis, prosthesis and living aids can be developed 
with the help of data processing, robotics and electrostimulation. This new type 
of devices will be added to the range of standard devices developed at little 
cost by occupational therapists. As for the future, caution is imperative. 
"Repaired" man turning "robotised" is an image provided by media that might 
bring disillusions. On one hand, numerous social, economic and personal factors 
intervene in the determination of the plan for life by the individual and his 
family. Thereby, all the possibilities offered by technological advances might 
not be studied in the choice of plan of life. On the other hand, priorities in 
aims of an increasingly demanding individual economy will be dictated by 
collective economy focused on cost management. However, the concept of increase 
in life expectancy without disability will be relevant in the determination of 
health policy and the role of rehabilitation physicians will be all the more 
important because they are the only one to be able to coordinate a team 
qualified to choose and apply the best therapeutics. Times are over when 
below-knee amputees were directly referred to the orthoprosthetist after 
segmentation, At the present time, psychologists cannot decide alone on the 
re-orientation of patients with brain trauma and, Domoticians will never 
organize the life place of tetraplegic subjects.

PMID: 7895107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Circulation. 1995 Apr 1;91(7):1996-2001. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.91.7.1996.

Ventricular arrhythmias detected after transvenous defibrillator implantation in 
patients with a clinical history of only ventricular fibrillation. Implications 
for use of implantable defibrillator.

Raitt MH(1), Dolack GL, Kudenchuk PJ, Poole JE, Bardy GH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle 98195.

BACKGROUND: Patients with a history of ventricular fibrillation (VF) have been 
shown to have a clinical profile, response to electrophysiological testing 
(EPS), and response to antiarrhythmic therapy that distinguishes them from 
patients with a history of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (MVT). 
Despite these differences, it is not clear whether VF in these patients is 
triggered by MVT or occurs de novo. The incidence of MVT and VF in such patients 
after their index VF event has important implications for therapeutic decisions 
regarding implantable defibrillator selection and programming.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The records of 111 consecutive patients who had undergone 
transvenous cardioverter/defibrillator (ICD) implantation for malignant 
ventricular arrhythmias were reviewed retrospectively. For each patient, all 
device tachyarrhythmia detections were examined and classified as VF, MVT, rapid 
polymorphic VT, or other. The number of events, time to first arrhythmia 
detection, and cycle length of MVTs were recorded. There were 55 patients with a 
history of only VF and 56 with a history that included an episode of MVT. Over 
14 months of follow-up, with all patients initially off of antiarrhythmic 
medications, MVT was detected by only 18% of patients with a history of only VF 
compared with 54% of those with a history that included MVT (P = .002). Among 
patients who did detect MVT, those with a history of only VF had fewer episodes 
(7 +/- 7 versus 20 +/- 31, P = .001) and a shorter mean MVT cycle length (279 
versus 314 ms, P = .03) than those with a clinical history of MVT. Abrupt onset 
of VF not preceded by MVT was detected in 11% of patients with VF only. In 
addition to a history of MVT, male sex, age < 60 years, and MVT inducible on EPS 
were all significantly associated with an increased likelihood of MVT detection. 
On multivariate analysis, the inducibility of MVT was the primary independent 
predictor of MVT detection but was of minimal incremental predictive value in 
the subgroup of patients with a history of only VF. When EPS results were not 
considered, arrhythmia history was the primary independent predictor of MVT 
detection.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with a history of only VF infrequently have MVT detected 
by their defibrillators. When these patients do detect MVT, it is faster than 
that detected in patients with a clinical history of MVT before ICD surgery. A 
significant percentage of VF survivors detected the abrupt onset of VF not 
preceded by MVT, suggesting that the deterioration of rapid MVT to VF is not the 
only clinically important mechanism of VF induction. These findings may have 
important implications for the understanding of the mechanism of VF induction 
and for use of an implantable defibrillator.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.91.7.1996
PMID: 7895358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Clin Otolaryngol Allied Sci. 1994 Dec;19(6):485-90. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2273.1994.tb01274.x.

The treatment of early squamous cell carcinoma of the piriform fossa.
