
Jones AS(1), Wilde A, McRae RD, Phillips DE, Field JK, Husband DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, University of Liverpool, UK.

The treatment of early piriform fossa cancer can be either primary radiotherapy 
with salvage surgery, if necessary, or with primary surgery. The present study 
investigates 65 patients with T1, > or = 2 or T3 stage disease with no cervical 
lymph node metastases at presentation. Of this group, 17 were treated by primary 
irradiation, 34 underwent primary surgery and 14 were unsuitable for any 
curative treatment. The adjusted actuarial 5-year survival rate for those 
patients receiving primary radiotherapy was 55% (95% CI 16-78%) and for the 
surgery group it was 44% (95% CI 18-67%). This difference was not significant 
(chi 2(1) = 1.29). The median survival for untreated patients was 7 months (4-12 
months). There was no significant differences in the time to recurrence at the 
primary site or in the neck, or in survival after recurrence at these sites. 
Thirty-five per cent of patients treated by primary irradiation were controlled 
at the primary site compared with 68% in the surgical group. Failure in the neck 
was similar for the two groups at 12% and 15% respectively. Salvage surgery was 
effective for the radiotherapy group with eight out of 11 patients being 
suitable for treatment. In the final analysis in the radiotherapy group two 
patients were alive and with their larynx and two alive without their larynx, 
the remainder of patients having died from the original tumour, intercurrent 
disease or second primary tumours. The survival figures for the surgery group 
were proportionately similar except of course, that all patients had lost their 
larynx.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2273.1994.tb01274.x
PMID: 7895378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Environ Health Perspect. 1994 Aug;102(8):620. doi: 10.1289/ehp.94102620.

Age and poverty as risk factors.

Tomatis L.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.94102620
PMCID: PMC1567319
PMID: 7895697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Environ Health Perspect. 1994 Aug;102(8):696-8. doi: 10.1289/ehp.94102696.

Human health and the environment in eastern and central Europe.

Rose CD(1), Bloom AD.

Author information:
(1)Conte Institute for Environmental Health, Pittsfield, MA 01201.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.94102696
PMCID: PMC1567328
PMID: 7895711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1995 Apr;25(5):1143-53. doi:
10.1016/0735-1097(94)00511-n.

Preserved right ventricular ejection fraction predicts exercise capacity and 
survival in advanced heart failure.

Di Salvo TG(1), Mathier M, Semigran MJ, Dec GW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 02114.

OBJECTIVES: This study was undertaken to determine which exercise and 
radionuclide ventriculographic variables predict prognosis in advanced heart 
failure.
BACKGROUND: Although cardiopulmonary exercise testing is frequently used to 
predict prognosis in patients with advanced heart failure, little is known about 
the prognostic significance of ventriculographic variables.
METHODS: The results of maximal symptom-limited cardiopulmonary exercise testing 
and first-pass radionuclide ventriculography in patients with advanced heart 
failure referred for evaluation for cardiac transplantation were analyzed.
RESULTS: Sixty-seven patients with advanced heart failure (mean [+/- SD]; age 51 
+/- 10 years, New York Heart Association functional classes III (58%) and IV 
(18%); mean left ventricular ejection fraction 0.22 +/- 0.07) underwent 
simultaneous upright bicycle ergometric cardiopulmonary exercise testing and 
first-pass rest/exercise radionuclide ventriculography. Mean peak oxygen 
consumption (VO2) was 11.8 +/- 4.2 ml/kg per min, and mean peak age- and 
gender-adjusted percent predicted oxygen consumption (%VO2) was 38 +/- 11.9%. 
Univariate predictors of overall survival included right ventricular ejection 
fraction > or = 0.35 at rest and > or = 0.35 at exercise and %VO2 > or = 45% 
(all p < 0.05). In a multivariate proportional hazards survival model, right 
ventricular ejection fraction > or = 0.35 at exercise (p < 0.01) and %VO2 > or = 
45% (p = 0.01) were selected as independent predictors of overall survival. 
Univariate predictors of event-free survival included right ventricular ejection 
fraction > or = 0.35 at rest (p = 0.01) and > or = 0.35 at exercise (p < 0.01), 
functional class II (p < 0.05) and %VO2 > or = 45% (p = 0.05). Right ventricular 
ejection fraction > or = 0.35 at exercise (p = 0.01) was the only independent 
predictor of event-free survival in a multivariate proportional hazards model. 
Cardiac index at rest, VO2, left ventricular ejection fraction at rest, and 
exercise-related increase or decrease > 0.05 in left or right ventricular 
ejection fraction were not predictive of overall or event-free survival in any 
univariate or multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: 1) Right ventricular ejection fraction > or = 0.35 at rest and 
exercise is a more potent predictor of survival in advanced heart failure than 
VO2 or %VO2; 2) %VO2 rather than VO2 predicts survival in advanced heart 
failure; 3) neither %VO2 nor VO2 predicts survival to the combined end point of 
death or admission for inotropic or mechanical support in patients with advanced 
heart failure.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(94)00511-n
PMID: 7897128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. J Otolaryngol. 1994 Dec;23(6):430-6.

Pneumocephalus in frontal sinus osteoma: a case report.

Rappaport JM(1), Attia EL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Dalhousie University Faculty of Medicine, 
Halifax Infirmary Hospital, Nova Scotia.

Osteomas are the most commonly encountered neoplasms of the frontal sinus. 
Extension of these lesions through the posterior table can result in 
life-threatening complications. We present the case of a 70-year-old man with 
yellow nail syndrome who complained of persistent rhinorrhea and the sensation 
of "sloshing" when moving his head. Radiographic investigation revealed a 
frontal mucocele that had extended to a dramatic intracerebral pneumatocele. 
This occurred secondary to a frontal sinus osteoma that had been incidentally 
noted seven years earlier. Surgical exploration via an osteoplastic flap 
approach allowed us to excise both the osteoma and the associated 
pneumatomucocele. The resulting dural defect was resurfaced using a flap of 
pericranium to facilitate anterior cranialization. The features of this 
interesting case are discussed as an illustration of the potential complications 
of frontal sinus osteomas. The literature is reviewed regarding management of 
these lesions and their complications.

PMID: 7897774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. JAMA. 1995 Apr 5;273(13):1032-8.

The cost-effectiveness of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors to prevent coronary heart 
disease. Estimating the benefits of increasing HDL-C.

Hamilton VH(1), Racicot FE, Zowall H, Coupal L, Grover SA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Analysis of Cost-Effective Care, Montreal General Hospital, 
Quebec, Canada.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1995 Nov-Dec;123(3):84.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the lifetime cost-effectiveness of 
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors for 
treatment of high blood cholesterol levels.
DESIGN: We added cost data to a validated coronary heart disease (CHD) 
prevention computer model that estimates the benefits of lifelong risk factor 
modification. The updated model takes into account the costs of cholesterol 
reduction, the savings in CHD health care costs attributable to intervention, 
the additional non-CHD costs resulting from patients' living longer, and the 
beneficial effects of reducing CHD risk by reducing total cholesterol and 
increasing high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C).
PATIENTS: Men and women aged 30 to 70 years who were free of CHD, had total 
cholesterol levels equal to the 90th percentile of the US distribution in their 
age and sex group, had HDL-C levels equal to the mean of the US distribution in 
their age and sex group, and were either with or without additional CHD risk 
factors.
INTERVENTION: Use of 20 mg of lovastatin per day, which on average reduces total 
serum cholesterol by 17% and increases HDL-C by 7%.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost per year of life saved after discounting benefits 
and costs by 5% annually.
RESULTS: The increase in HDL-C associated with lovastatin lowered 
cost-effectiveness ratios by approximately 40%, such that the treatment of 
hypercholesterolemia was relatively cost-effective for men (as low as $20,882 
per year of life saved at age 50 years) and women ($36,627 per year of life 
saved at age 60 years) with additional risk factors. Non-CHD costs resulting 
from longer life expectancy after intervention added at most 23% to the 
cost-effectiveness ratios for patients who began treatment at age 70 years, and 
as little as 3% for patients at age 30 years.
CONCLUSION: The cost-effectiveness of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors varied widely 
by age and sex and was sensitive to the presence of non-lipid CHD risk factors. 
The additional non-CHD costs due to increased life expectancy may be significant 
for the elderly. Accounting for the drug effects of raising HDL-C levels 
increased the proportion of the population for which medication treatment was 
relatively cost-effective.

PMID: 7897787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Jpn Heart J. 1994 Nov;35(6):701-14. doi: 10.1536/ihj.35.701.

Why do I stand against the movement for cardiac transplantation in Japan?

Watanabe Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Institute, Fujita Health University School of Medicine, 
Toyoake, Japan.

In order to clarify the reason the author stands against the movement for 
cardiac transplantation in Japan, certain crucial differences between death 
judged by the classical criteria and so-called brain death are briefly 
discussed, followed by the presentation of three major arguments. First, various 
problems associated with postoperative care of organ recipients are delineated, 
particularly side effects of immunosuppressive drugs and long term prognosis 
with reference of life expectancy as well as quality of life. Second, it is 
emphasized that transplantation involves prejudice and inequality, since the 
number of potential organ recipients far exceeds that of donors and only a small 
portion of transplant candidates can actually receive the organs while others 
have to wait in vain. Third, once organ transplantation from brain dead patients 
is allowed, numerous ethical and social problems would arise including an 
arbitrary expansion of the criteria for brain death, selection of donors and 
recipients by taking non-medial factors into consideration, development of organ 
commerce leading to the involvement of organized crime, and the birth of a trend 
in transplant candidates to wish for an early death of histocompatible donors. 
Finally, it is pointed out that we must give serious thought to the danger of 
"from neck down" transplantation creating a new person from two bodies (which is 
a brain transplant in actuality) in the future, since the difference between 
such a procedure and the multiorgan transplantation presently practiced in many 
developed countries is only quantitative and one cannot find a logical reason to 
ban the former while retaining the latter.

DOI: 10.1536/ihj.35.701
PMID: 7897816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Nihon Rinsho. 1995 Jan;53(1):196-201.

[Body surface ST mapping in daily life using multi-lead ambulatory 
electrocardiograph].

[Article in Japanese]

Yasui T(1), Watanabe Y, Goto T, Hishida H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Fujita Health University School of Medicine.

To extend the usefulness of multi-lead ambulatory electrocardiography, we 
attempted to construct body surface isopotential maps of ST segment using our 
newly designed multi-lead ambulatory electrocardiograph. Material consisted of 
40 patients (pts) with angiographically proven coronary arterial stenosis. By a 
commercially-available 4-channel recorder and a specially designed adapter, 
30-lead ECGs were sequentially recorded together with body position signals for 
24 hours. Compensation for ST distortion and interpolation of ST level on time 
scale techniques were performed before construction of ST maps. The extension of 
ST depression area in pts with single LAD disease were larger than in pts with 
single LCX or RCA disease. As time elapsed, after occurrence of ischemia the 
extension and location of ST depression area were changed. These results were 
thought to be reasonable. In conclusion, the ambulatory recording of body 
surface ST maps may become useful for study of myocardial ischemia in daily 
life.

PMID: 7897842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Nihon Rinsho. 1995 Jan;53(1):92-7.

[Multi-lead ambulatory electrocardiograph for recording body surface ST maps in 
daily life].

[Article in Japanese]

Yasui T(1), Suzuki S, Okajima M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Fujita Health University School of Medicine.

We attempted to construct ambulatory body surface isopotential maps of ST 
segment using our newly designed multi-lead ambulatory electrocardiograph. The 
multi-lead ambulatory electrocardiograph. The multi-lead ambulatory ECG system 
consisted of a commercially-available 4-channel recorder and a specially 
designed adapter, by which 30-lead ECGs were recorded together with body 
position signals for 24 hours. The electrode positions were selected from the 87 
lead points for body surface mapping according to Yamada et al. Compensation for 
ST distortion and interpolation of ST level on time scale techniques were 
performed before the construction of ST maps. The extension and location of ST 
depression area thus obtained after compensation and interpolation were thought 
to be reasonable. In conclusion, the ambulatory recording of body surface ST 
maps is possible using our new device and may become useful for study of 
myocardial ischemia in daily life.

PMID: 7897862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Klin Med (Mosk). 1994;72(6):62-5.

[Prevention of early aging].

[Article in Russian]

Krikshtopaĭtis MI.

PMID: 7898019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. N Engl J Med. 1995 Apr 20;332(16):1058-64. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199504203321603.

Mutations in the genes for cardiac troponin T and alpha-tropomyosin in 
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

Watkins H(1), McKenna WJ, Thierfelder L, Suk HJ, Anan R, O'Donoghue A, Spirito 
P, Matsumori A, Moravec CS, Seidman JG, et al.

Author information:
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Boston, MA.

BACKGROUND: Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy can be caused by mutations in 
the genes for beta cardiac myosin heavy chain, alpha-tropomyosin, or cardiac 
troponin T. It is not known how often the disease is caused by mutations in the 
tropomyosin and troponin genes, and the associated clinical phenotypes have not 
been carefully studied.
METHODS: Linkage between polymorphisms of the alpha-tropomyosin gene or the 
cardiac troponin T gene and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy was assessed in 27 
families. In addition, 100 probands were screened for mutations in the 
alpha-tropomyosin gene, and 26 were screened for mutations in the cardiac 
troponin T gene. Life expectancy, the incidence of sudden death, and the extent 
of left ventricular hypertrophy were compared in patients with different 
mutations.
RESULTS: Genetic analyses identified only one alpha-tropomyosin mutation, 
identical to one previously described. Five novel mutations in cardiac troponin 
were identified, as well as a further example of a previously described 
mutation. The clinical phenotype of four troponin T mutations in seven unrelated 
families was similar and was characterized by a poor prognosis (life expectancy, 
approximately 35 years) and a high incidence of sudden death. The mean (+/- SD) 
maximal thickness of the left ventricular wall in subjects with cardiac troponin 
T mutations (16.7 +/- 5.5 mm) was significantly less than that in subjects with 
beta cardiac myosin heavy-chain mutations (23.7 +/- 7.7 mm, P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Mutations in alpha-tropomyosin are a rare cause of familial 
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, accounting for approximately 3 percent of cases. 
Mutations in cardiac troponin T account for approximately 15 percent of cases of 
familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in this referral-center population. These 
mutations are characterized by relatively mild and sometimes subclinical 
hypertrophy but a high incidence of sudden death. Genetic testing may therefore 
be especially important in this group.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199504203321603
PMID: 7898523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Neuroepidemiology. 1995;14(1):14-9. doi: 10.1159/000109774.

Friedreich's ataxia: an epidemiological study in Valencia, Spain, based on 
consanguinity analysis.

López-Arlandis JM(1), Vílchez JJ, Palau F, Sevilla T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hospital Universitari La Fe, Valencia, Spain.

Epidemiological studies performed directly on the population show a prevalence 
of Friedreich's ataxia (FA) from 1 to 4.7 cases/100,000 inhabitants. An indirect 
epidemiological approach can be achieved using genetic methods like 
consanguinity studies to determine the frequency of a mutated gene and the 
incidence of certain diseases in the population. We obtained consanguinity data 
of a series of FA patients in Valencia, Spain and the figures on consanguinity 
in the general population that were estimated according to the Archive of 
Dispensations given by the Catholic church for consanguineous marriages. From 
these data, the frequency of the FA gene was calculated as 1/127. From these 
data, applying the Hardy-Weinberg principle, the frequency of the carriers was 
1/64 and the incidence was 6.18/100,000 live births. Assuming a life expectancy 
of FA of 45 years, the prevalence was 3.83/100,000 inhabitants. These figures 
are in the same range as those obtained in population studies.

DOI: 10.1159/000109774
PMID: 7898602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Pediatr Res. 1994 Dec;36(6):763-70. doi: 10.1203/00006450-199412000-00014.

Alpha 1-antitrypsin protects neonatal rats from pulmonary vascular and 
parenchymal effects of oxygen toxicity.

Koppel R(1), Han RN, Cox D, Tanswell AK, Rabinovitch M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Canada.

We investigated whether alpha 1-antitrypsin (alpha 1-AT) might protect neonatal 
rats from the pulmonary parenchymal and vascular effects resulting from 
hyperoxic exposure. Neonatal rats born into and maintained in hyperoxia (60% 
fraction of inspired oxygen) or room air were injected with a loading dose of 
alpha 1-AT (72 mg/kg) followed by 36 mg/kg every 72 h or with vehicle during the 
first 14 d of life. At the end of the experimental period, we measured body 
weight, lung compliance, lung volume, alveoli per mm2, and total number of 
alveoli and assessed right ventricular hypertrophy and vascular changes 
consisting of medial hypertrophy, muscular extension into peripheral, normally 
nonmuscular arteries, and number of peripheral arteries relative to alveoli. Our 
data show that alpha 1-AT treatment prevented the reduced lung compliance 
observed in the untreated hyperoxia-exposed neonatal rats, as well as the right 
ventricular hypertrophy and the associated vascular changes of medial 
hypertrophy of muscular arteries and muscularization of distal arteries. Reduced 
lung compliance in the hyperoxic but alpha 1-AT-untreated rats was associated 
with a reduction in lung elastin compared with room-air or alpha 1-AT-treated 
rats. In room-air rats, alpha 1-AT treatment increased lung compliance but also 
reduced the number of arteries relative to the number of alveoli, a feature that 
was not, however, associated with right ventricular hypertrophy. Our data 
suggest that supplemental alpha 1-AT might restore the imbalance in elastolytic 
activity induced by hyperoxia and thereby alleviate the toxic effects on lung 
parenchymal and vascular development.

DOI: 10.1203/00006450-199412000-00014
PMID: 7898985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Pediatr Dent. 1995 Jan-Feb;17(1):6.

Restoration survival rates.

Roberts JF.

Comment on
    Pediatr Dent. 1994 Jul-Aug;16(4):282-8.

PMID: 7899106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Prenat Diagn. 1994 Dec;14(12):1158-62. doi: 10.1002/pd.1970141210.

Gene therapy for cystic fibrosis: will it affect the uptake of prenatal carrier 
screening?

Mennie ME(1), Compton ME, Liston WA, Brock DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Edinburgh, Western General Hospital, 
U.K.

We report a study which examined whether the decision of 135 couples to accept 
prenatal cystic fibrosis (CF) carrier screening would be influenced by the 
advent of gene therapy. A majority (91 couples; 67 per cent) felt that gene 
therapy for CF would not influence their decision to be screened. Twenty-two 
couples (16 per cent) stated that they would decline to be screened and an equal 
number felt ambivalent. Even if the life expectancy of a CF sufferer were 
increased by gene therapy to normal, 78 per cent of couples would still wish to 
avail themselves of prenatal carrier screening. A majority of women who decline 
screening do so because they are opposed to termination of pregnancy. The 
availability of gene therapy could increase the proportion of couples who accept 
screening.

DOI: 10.1002/pd.1970141210
PMID: 7899283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. J Clin Oncol. 1993 Dec;11(12):2405-10. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.12.2405.

Paclitaxel for platinum-refractory ovarian cancer: results from the first 1,000 
patients registered to National Cancer Institute Treatment Referral Center 9103.

Trimble EL(1), Adams JD, Vena D, Hawkins MJ, Friedman MA, Fisherman JS, 
Christian MC, Canetta R, Onetto N, Hayn R, et al.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Investigation Branch, National Cancer Institute, Rockville, MD 
20852.

PURPOSE: To provide an investigational drug, paclitaxel, now commercially 
available, to women with refractory ovarian cancer and to evaluate response and 
toxicity in these patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with platinum-refractory ovarian cancer, Eastern 
Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0 to 3, at least three 
prior chemotherapy regimens, adequate hepatic and renal function, and no 
significant cardiac history were eligible. Patients were treated with paclitaxel 
135 mg/m2 administered by 24-hour continuous intravenous infusion every 3 weeks.
RESULTS: Leukopenia was the most frequent toxicity, with 78% of patients 
experiencing grade 3 or 4 toxicity. Other grade 3 and 4 toxicities were less 
common: fever (33%), infection (12%), thrombocytopenia (8%), vomiting (7%), 
cardiac (2%), neurologic (2%), and mucositis (1%). Fifteen treatment-related 
deaths (1.5%) were reported. The objective response rate was 22% (4% complete 
response [CR], 18% partial response; 95% confidence interval [CI] for overall 
response, 19% to 25%). The median time to progression from treatment initiation 
was 7.1 months in responding patients and 4.5 months for all patients. The 
median survival duration was 8.8 months.
CONCLUSION: Paclitaxel has shown activity in women with platinum-refractory 
ovarian cancer, and it can be administered with an acceptable safety profile. 
Further research is needed to determine the optimal role of paclitaxel in the 
primary and salvage treatment of ovarian cancer.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.12.2405
PMID: 7902426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. J Med Chem. 1993 Nov 12;36(23):3556-64. doi: 10.1021/jm00075a010.

Tyrphostins. 3. Structure-activity relationship studies of alpha-substituted 
benzylidenemalononitrile 5-S-aryltyrphostins.

Gazit A(1), Osherov N, Posner I, Bar-Sinai A, Gilon C, Levitzki A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Alexander Silberman Institute of Life 
Sciences, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel.

In this study we describe an extension of our previous studies on 
cis-benzylidenemalononitrile tyrphostins. We have introduced S-aryl substituents 
in the 5 position (meta vis-a-vis the malononitrile moiety). We find that these 
compounds are potent blockers of EGFR kinase and its homolog HER-2 kinase. 
Interestingly, we find that certain S-aryltryphostins discriminate between EGFR 
and HER-2 kinase in favor of the HER-2 kinase domain by almost 2 orders of 
magnitude. When examined in intact cells it was found that these selective 
S-aryltrphostins are equipotent in inhibiting EGF dependent proliferation of NIH 
3T3 harboring either the EGF receptor or the chimera EGF/neu (HER1-2). These 
findings suggest that the antiproliferative activity of these tyrphostins is 
mainly due to the inhibition of a mitogenic signaling element downstream to the 
growth receptor kinase.

DOI: 10.1021/jm00075a010
PMID: 7902440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Lancet. 1994 Jan 22;343(8891):196-200. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)90988-1.

Outcome prediction in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia by molecular 
quantification of residual disease at the end of induction.

Brisco MJ(1), Condon J, Hughes E, Neoh SH, Sykes PJ, Seshadri R, Toogood I, 
Waters K, Tauro G, Ekert H, et al.

Author information:
(1)Flinders Medical Centre, Bedford Park, South Australia.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1994 Jan 22;343(8891):190.

Methods to detect and quantify minimal residual disease (MRD) after chemotherapy 
for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) could improve treatment by identifying 
patients who need more or less intensive therapy. We have used a clone-specific 
polymerase chain reaction to detect rearranged immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene 
from the leukaemic clone, and quantified the clone by limiting dilution 
analysis. MRD was successfully quantified, by extracting DNA from marrow slides, 
from 88 of 181 children with ALL, who had total leucocyte counts below 100 x 
10(9)/L at presentation and were enrolled in two clinical trials, in 1980-84 and 
1985-89. Leukaemia was detected in the first remission marrow of 38 patients, in 
amounts between 6.7 x 10(-2) and 9.9 x 10(-7) cells; 26 of these patients 
relapsed. Of 50 patients with no MRD detected, despite study of 522-496,000 
genomes, only 6 relapsed. The association between MRD detection and outcome was 
significant for patients in each trial. In the first trial, patients relapsed at 
all levels of detected MRD, whereas in the later trial, in which treatment was 
more intensive and results were better, the extent of MRD was closely related to 
the probability of relapse (5 of 5 patients with > 10(-3) MRD, 4 of 10 with 
10(-3) to 2 x 10(-5), 0 of 3 with levels below 2 x 10(-5), and 2 of 26 with no 
MRD detected). Early quantification of leukaemic cells after chemotherapy may be 
a successful strategy for predicting outcome and hence individualizing treatment 
in childhood ALL, because the results indicate both in-vivo drug sensitivity of 
the leukaemia and the number of leukaemic cells that remain to be killed by 
post-induction therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)90988-1
PMID: 7904666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. J Formos Med Assoc. 1993 Sep;92 Suppl 3:S152-9.

[Re-evaluation of the ventilatory function in a normal Chinese: comparison with 
the results of a survey conducted 15 years ago].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, 
Taipei, R.O.C.

Maximal expiratory flow-volume and volume-time curves were studied with a 
rolling-sealed, computer-based pulmonary function analyzer in 354 nonsmoking 
healthy Chinese (210 men and 144 women) aged 18-78 years. The testing procedures 
were in accordance with those recommended by the American Thoracic Society. Both 
volume and flow rate parameters had a negative correlation with age and had a 
positive correlation with height in both sexes except for FEV1/FVC. The 
coefficients of variation (CV) for FVC, FEV1 and FEV1/FVC were much smaller than 
those for PEFR, Vmax75, Vmax50 and Vmax25, with FEV1/FVC having the lowest CV. 
Prediction equations of FVC, FEV1, FVC/FEV1, PEFR, FEF25-75%, Vmax75, Vmax50 and 
Vmax25 were generated for Chinese aged 20-80 years, using age, height and body 
weight as independent variables, to define normal reference values. A comparison 
of the predicted values for FVC and FEV1, with those calculated from the 
equations developed in this laboratory 15 years ago, reveal that the present set 
of equations have higher values for the younger age group for FVC and FEV1 but 
lower values for the elderly of both sexes, except for FVC in men. The predicted 
values for Vmax50 and Vmax25 in the present study were also lower than those of 
the previous survey. Better nutritional status, improved respiratory muscle 
strength, increased body size in women and a prolonged life-expectancy, which 
made the inclusion of more elderly subjects possible, were attributed to explain 
the differences observed between these two studies.

PMID: 7906168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. J Infect Dis. 1994 Feb;169(2):289-95. doi: 10.1093/infdis/169.2.289.

Mycobacterium avium complex in the respiratory or gastrointestinal tract and the 
risk of M. avium complex bacteremia in patients with human immunodeficiency 
virus infection.

Chin DP(1), Hopewell PC, Yajko DM, Vittinghoff E, Horsburgh CR Jr, Hadley WK, 
Stone EN, Nassos PS, Ostroff SM, Jacobson MA, et al.

Author information:
(1)San Francisco General Hospital Medical Center, CA 94110.

Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) is frequently isolated from the respiratory or 
gastrointestinal tract of patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV) infection. Whether they are at increased risk of MAC bacteremia and 
whether culture of respiratory tract or stool specimens is useful for predicting 
bacteremia are unclear. HIV-infected patients with < or = 50 CD4+ cells/microL 
were prospectively studied. The risk of MAC bacteremia was approximately 60% 
within 1 year for patients with MAC in either the respiratory or 
gastrointestinal tract and was greater than for those without MAC in these sites 
(relative hazards for respiratory and gastrointestinal tract, 2.3 and 6.0; 95% 
confidence intervals, 1.1-4.6 and 2.5-14.6, respectively). Both respiratory 
tract specimen and stool culture had poor sensitivities (22% and 20%, 
respectively) but good positive predictive values (approximately 60%) for 
bacteremia. Symptomatic HIV-infected patients with MAC in the respiratory or 
gastrointestinal tract are at a substantial risk for developing MAC bacteremia; 
culture of these sites has limited usefulness as a screening test.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/169.2.289
PMID: 7906290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Lancet. 1994 Feb 26;343(8896):538.

Inequalities and health.

Wilkinson RG.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1994 Jan 22;343(8891):221-2.

PMID: 7906775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Br J Psychiatry. 1994 Feb;164(2):208-14. doi: 10.1192/bjp.164.2.208.

Lithium prophylaxis of bipolar illness. The value of combination treatment.

Peselow ED(1), Fieve RR, Difiglia C, Sanfilipo MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, New York University School of Medicine, NY 10010.

Using a longitudinal life-table analysis, we assessed the efficacy of lithium 
alone, administered within the context of a naturalistic clinical setting, by 
calculating the probability of patients remaining free of an affective episode 
(manic or depressive) over a five-year course. In addition, for those who 
suffered a manic or depressive relapse, we attempted to analyse the subsequent 
course of patients who suffered a manic/hypomanic or depressive relapse and were 
then restabilised on lithium plus either a neuroleptic, carbamazepine, or a 
benzodiazepine, or lithium plus an antidepressant. Lithium alone offered an 
average 83% probability against an affective relapse after one year, 52% after 
three years, and 37% after five years. For patients who failed on lithium alone, 
it appeared that combination treatment offered greater protection against 
subsequent affective relapse than the initial course on lithium alone.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.164.2.208
PMID: 7909713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Lancet. 1994 May 21;343(8908):1252-4. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)92151-2.

Adverse effect of iron supplementation on weight gain of iron-replete young 
children.

Idjradinata P(1), Watkins WE, Pollitt E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Health, Medical Faculty, Padjadjaran University, Bandung, 
Indonesia.

The efficacy of iron supplementation for iron-deficient subjects is in no doubt. 
However, the assumption that iron supplementation of iron-replete subjects is 
harmless may not be valid. We have studied the effect of iron supplementation on 
growth rate in 47 iron-sufficient young children (12-18 months) in Indonesia. 
The children were randomly assigned either ferrous sulphate (3 mg/kg daily) or 
placebo every day for 4 months. Before treatment the length, weight, and arm 
circumference of the two groups were similar. During the 4 months of 
supplementation the rate of weight gain was significantly greater in the placebo 
group than in the iron-supplemented group (0.106 [SE 0.010] vs 0.070 [0.011] kg 
every 2 weeks, p = 0.02). The rates of gain in length and arm circumference did 
not differ significantly by treatment. There were no differences between the 
groups in rates of respiratory and gastrointestinal infections. These results 
suggest that iron supplementation of iron-replete children may retard their 
growth.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)92151-2
PMID: 7910275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Lancet. 1994 May 21;343(8908):1263-7. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)92156-3.

Localised prostatic cancer: management and detection issues.

Whitmore WF Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, NY 10021.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1994 Aug 20;344(8921):547.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)92156-3
PMID: 7910280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Ann Oncol. 1994 Feb;5(2):185-7. doi: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a058776.

Docetaxel in advanced renal carcinoma. A phase II trial of the National Cancer 
Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group.

Mertens WC(1), Eisenhauer EA, Jolivet J, Ernst S, Moore M, Muldal A.

Author information:
(1)London Regional Cancer Centre.

BACKGROUND: Most patients diagnosed with renal carcinoma developed metastatic 
disease at some time during their course, with available therapy inducing 
response in only a small proportion of patients. Docetaxel (Taxotere, RP56976) a 
semi-synthetic analogue of paclitaxel with a broad range of in vitro antitumor 
activity, was evaluated in a phase II study.
METHODS: Eligibility criteria included histologically proven metastatic or 
advanced, bidimensionally measurable disease, no prior chemotherapy, 
immunotherapy, or hormonal therapy, adequate hematologic (neutrophils > or = 2.0 
x 10(9)/L, platelets > or = 100 x 10(9)/L) and biochemical (serum creatinine and 
bilirubin < or = 1.5 x normal, transaminases < or = 3 x normal) parameters, WHO 
performance status of at least 2, and a life expectancy of > 12 weeks. Docetaxel 
was administered in a dose of 100 mg/m2 as a 1 hour intravenous infusion every 3 
weeks. The first 2 patients entered onto the study were not premedicated for 
hypersensitivity reactions; subsequent patients received dexamethasone 10 mg and 
diphenhydramine 50 mg i.v. 30 minutes prior to docetaxel.
RESULTS: Twenty patients were entered onto the study, with 2 considered 
inevaluable for response. Sixty cycles of therapy were administered, with only 2 
cycles delivered at a dose of 55 mg/m2 or less. No objective responses were 
seen; 1 patient demonstrated a mixed response. Neutropenia was significant, with 
42/60 cycles developing grade 3/4 granulocytopenia. Fifty-five percent of 
patients demonstrated hypersensitivity reactions despite the premedication 
regimen employed, higher than that of the phase I studies which established the 
dose and schedule used in this trial.
CONCLUSIONS: 1) Docetaxel is an ineffective agent in advanced renal carcinoma. 
2) The high rate of hypersensitivity reactions suggests the need for more 
intensive premedication and/or slower infusion times at this dose level.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a058776
PMID: 7910480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Ann Epidemiol. 1994 Jan;4(1):17-26. doi: 10.1016/1047-2797(94)90038-8.

Maturity of human immunodeficiency virus infection and incubation period of 
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in injecting drug users.

Alcabes P(1), Muñoz A, Vlahov D, Friedland G.

Author information:
(1)Montefiore Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Department of 
Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Bronx, NY.

This study was aimed at estimating the maturity of the human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) epidemic in cohorts of injecting drug users with existing HIV 
infection at the time of first observation, and using this information to 
estimate the incubation period of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in 
this population group. The method imputed the "missing" time from seroconversion 
to first observation for seroprevalent subjects in a combined cohort including 
injecting drug users from New York (n = 246) and Baltimore (n = 621). Imputation 
relied on a probability model predicting time since seroconversion on the basis 
of two markers of maturity of HIV infection: percent of CD4+ lymphocytes and 
platelet count. The model was developed from data observed in a combined cohort 
of subjects from New York (n = 24) and Baltimore (n = 112) who had incident HIV 
infections. The estimates of median time since seroconversion for the Baltimore 
and Bronx seroprevalent subcohorts were 28 and 39 months, respectively. The 
total time from seroconversion to AIDS was then estimated for the incident plus 
completed-prevalent cohorts using a modified version of the nonparametric 
product-limit method. The results showed that approximately 95% (95% confidence 
interval: 90 to 98%) of drug users remained AIDS-free 2 years after 
seroconversion; 83% (74-91%), 4 years after seroconversion; and 72% (61-82%), 6 
years after seroconversion. Median time to AIDS was 10.2 years, with an 
estimated 95% confidence interval of 7.9 to 12.3 years. Consistency of these 
results with those derived from large cohorts of homosexual men indicate that 
the HIV incubation distributions for drug users and homosexual men are similar.

DOI: 10.1016/1047-2797(94)90038-8
PMID: 7911376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. J Periodontol. 1994 May;65(5):393-7. doi: 10.1902/jop.1994.65.5.393.

Necrotizing ulcerative periodontitis: a marker for immune deterioration and a 
predictor for the diagnosis of AIDS.

Glick M(1), Muzyka BC, Salkin LM, Lurie D.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania School of Dental Medicine, Philadelphia.

A multitude of oral lesions have been described in individuals infected with the 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Few studies have attempted to correlate 
specific oral findings with immune status and HIV disease progression in the 
population reflecting the demographic profile of this epidemic. A prospective 
study was conducted among 700 ambulatory HIV-infected individuals seeking dental 
care between July 1, 1988 and June 30, 1992. Patients entered the study when 
they first applied for care and were followed at regular intervals unless death 
occurred before the conclusion of the study. The prevalence rate of necrotizing 
ulcerative periodontitis (NUP) was calculated for the entire population and 
specific to race, gender, and HIV transmission category. Survival analysis was 
used to estimate the cumulative probability of death within 24 months of a NUP 
diagnosis. The association between NUP diagnosis and CD4+ cell count below 200 
cells/mm3 was also investigated, and it was found that HIV-infected individuals 
presenting with a diagnosis of NUP were 20.8 times as likely to have a CD4+ cell 
count below 200 cells/mm3 compared to HIV-infected individuals presenting 
without NUP. The prevalence of NUP was 6.3%. The lesion was significantly more 
common among men having sex with men (MSM), 8.4%, compared with non-MSM males, 
1.8%. No racial difference was noted. The mean CD4+ cell count for patients with 
NUP was 51.8 cells/mm3 (SD +/- 71.2) while the median CD4+ cell count was 32.0 
cells/mm3. The predictive value of a CD4+ cell count below 200 cells/mm3 in 
patients with this lesion was 95.1%. A cumulative probability of death within 24 
months of a NUP diagnosis was 72.9%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1902/jop.1994.65.5.393
PMID: 7913962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Lancet. 1994 Aug 13;344(8920):463.

Absolute effects of relative poverty.

Dean M.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1994 Sep 10;344(8924):755.

PMID: 7914572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1994 Sep;31(3 Pt 2):S47-50. doi: 
10.1016/s0190-9622(08)81267-4.

The AIDS epidemic.

Conant MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of California, San Francisco.

The nature of the clinical presentation of HIV infection continues to evolve 
over time. New cutaneous (e.g., seborrheic dermatitis, onychomycosis, and tinea 
pedis) and systemic (e.g., Aspergillus fumigatus and Penicillium marneffei) 
opportunistic fungal infections can now be added to the classic clinical markers 
for progressive HIV infection, such as Kaposi's sarcoma, Pneumocystis carinii 
pneumonia, Mycobacterium avium intercellulare infections, and cryptococcal 
meningitis. The fact that the appearance of many of these fungal diseases is 
directly correlated with the patient's CD4 cell count is a valuable tool for 
ongoing clinical evaluation. Although systemic manifestations characterize a 
progression from asymptomatic HIV infection to AIDS, many of the signs of 
disease progression are cutaneous. Prophylaxis against many of the potentially 
life-threatening systemic opportunistic infections associated with HIV 
positivity has had a positive impact on the life expectancy of patients with 
AIDS.

DOI: 10.1016/s0190-9622(08)81267-4
PMID: 7915731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Lancet. 1994 Sep 10;344(8924):707-11. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)92206-3.

Role of circumferential margin involvement in the local recurrence of rectal 
cancer.

Adam IJ(1), Mohamdee MO, Martin IG, Scott N, Finan PJ, Johnston D, Dixon MF, 
Quirke P.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Surgery, Centre for Digestive Diseases, General Infirmary, 
Leeds, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1994 Oct 22;344(8930):1153-4.
    Lancet. 1994 Nov 19;344(8934):1431.

Local recurrence after resection for rectal cancer remains common despite 
growing acceptance that inadequate local excision may be implicated. In a 
prospective study of 190 patients with rectal cancer, we examined the 
circumferential margin of excision of resected specimens for tumour presence, to 
examine its frequency and its relation to subsequent local recurrence. Tumour 
involvement of the circumferential margin was seen in 25% (35/141) of specimens 
for which the surgeon thought the resection was potentially curative, and in 36% 
(69/190) of all cases. After a median 5 years' follow-up (range 3.0-7.7 years), 
the frequency of local recurrence after potentially curative resection was 25% 
(95% CI 18-33%). The frequency of local recurrence was significantly higher for 
patients who had had tumour involvement of the circumferential margin than for 
those without such involvement (78 [95% CI 62-94] vs 10 [4-16]%). By Cox's 
regression analysis tumour involvement of the circumferential margin 
independently influenced both local recurrence (hazard ratio = 12.2 [4.4-34.6]) 
and survival (3.2 [1.6-6.53]). These results show the importance of wide local 
excision during resection for rectal cancer, and the need for routine assessment 
of the circumferential margin to assess prognosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)92206-3
PMID: 7915774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Eur J Clin Invest. 1994 May;24(5):293-308. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2362.1994.tb01089.x.

Neuropeptide Y and energy balance: one way ahead for the treatment of obesity?

Dryden S(1), Frankish H, Wang Q, Williams G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Liverpool, UK.

Obesity is a vast and ever-expanding problem in affluent societies, which we 
have so far failed to confront. Over 20% of Western European and North American 
adults are overweight to a degree which may potentially shorten their life 
expectancy. Obesity has well-known associations with non-insulin-dependent 
diabetes (NIDDM), hypertension, dyslipidaemia and coronary heart disease, as 
well as less obvious links with diseases such as osteoarthrosis and various 
malignancies; it also causes considerable problems through reduced mobility and 
decreased quality of life. The overall financial burden of obesity is impossible 
to calculate precisely, but may account for 6-8% of total health-care 
expenditure in North America [1] (similar estimates probably apply to Western 
Europe). Obesity is difficult to treat and many patients remain obstinately 
overweight despite our best efforts. The available options range from 
behavioural therapy to gastrointestinal surgery and include numerous drugs 
designed to suppress appetite or increase energy expenditure. As in many other 
areas of medicine, the length and diversity of this list are reliable signs that 
effective treatment is still beyond our reach. This article argues that new 
anti-obesity drugs may emerge from recent advances in understanding the control 
of energy balance in rodents. The discussion is structured around neuropeptide Y 
(NPY), a major brain peptide which at present appears to be important in 
regulating energy balance and seems a promising candidate for therapeutic 
exploitation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2362.1994.tb01089.x
PMID: 7916292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Bol Asoc Med P R. 1994 Apr-Jun;86(4-6):28-36.

Cardiovascular health in Puerto Ricans compared to other population groups in 
the United States.

Ramírez EA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Puerto Rico School of Medicine, Department of Medicine, San 
Juan 00936.

It has been determined that the prevalence and incidence of coronary artery 
disease has been lower in Puerto Rico than in the United States. In a controlled 
comparison with a matched cohort of men from Framingham, Mass, Puerto Rican men 
were found to have lower serum cholesterol and lower systolic blood pressure, to 
smoke less, to be more active physically, and to be less sensitive to coronary 
risk factors. Community surveys have shown that there is moderately less 
hypertension but more diabetes and possibly more obesity in Puerto Rico than in 
the United States. Hispanic groups in the United States have shown similar 
characteristics. Possible reasons for the relative protection from coronary 
artery disease in Puerto Rico include genetic factors, diet, and life-style. 
Recent epidemiologic data show that, although mortality from coronary disease 
and stroke has been steadily decreasing in the United States, it is increasing 
in Puerto Rico. Recent life-style and dietary changes, social stress, increased 
life expectancy, and a high death rate from diabetes and hypertension may be 
contributing to this reversal. Stronger efforts to control cardiovascular risk 
factors and to improve the management of diabetes and hypertension are needed in 
Puerto Rico.

PMID: 7916775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Eur J Cancer. 1994;30A(6):764-6. doi: 10.1016/0959-8049(94)90289-5.

Clinical prediction of survival is more accurate than the Karnofsky performance 
status in estimating life span of terminally ill cancer patients.

Maltoni M(1), Nanni O, Derni S, Innocenti MP, Fabbri L, Riva N, Maltoni R, 
Amadori D.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Oncologia Medica, Ospedale L. Pierantoni, Forli', Italy.

Predicting the survival of terminally ill cancer patients can help in informing 
patients and their families, in programming therapy and assistance models, and 
in utilising existing resources correctly. Clinical prediction of survival (CPS) 
and Karnofsky performance status (KPS) are two factors which have already been 
described in the literature. The aim of our study was to verify their respective 
predictive value with regard to actual survival. In our study of 100 consecutive 
patients, the CPS obtained a higher prediction accuracy than that reported 
previously (correlation coefficient with actual survival = 0.51) and than that 
obtained with KPS alone (correlation coefficient = 0.37). The median difference 
between predicted and expected survival was only 1 week. The resultant 
predictivity could be further improved by integrating other prognostic factors 
studied in larger prospective, multicentric studies.

DOI: 10.1016/0959-8049(94)90289-5
PMID: 7917534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. J Am Soc Nephrol. 1994 Jun;4(12):2050-1. doi: 10.1681/ASN.V4122050.

Patient survival on PAN/AN 69 membrane hemodialysis.

Chanard J.

Comment on
    J Am Soc Nephrol. 1993 Nov;4(5):1199-204.

