DOI: 10.1681/ASN.V4122050
PMID: 7919158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Gesundheitswesen. 1994 Jul;56(7):363-70.

[Utilization of inpatient care and management in aging].

[Article in German]

Bickel H(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Epidemiologische Psychiatrie, Zentralinstitut für Seelische 
Gesundheit, Mannheim.

The use of nursing homes and of homes for the aged during the remaining lifetime 
of elderly persons was investigated by means of a retrospective longitudinal 
study. The findings are based on a sample of persons 65 years of age or older 
who died during twelve months in the city of Mannheim. Information is given with 
regard to the probability of home admission, the duration of stay in the homes 
and the distribution of care provision according to demographic variables. The 
results point to a further increase in the need for long-term care due to the 
growing life expectancy.

PMID: 7919697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Acta Paediatr. 1994 Jun;83(6):588-95. doi:
10.1111/j.1651-2227.1994.tb13087.x.

Electrical brain activity in preterm infants at risk for intracranial 
hemorrhage.

van de Bor M(1), van Dijk JG, van Bel F, Brouwer OF, van Sweden B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Neonatology, University Hospital 
Leiden, The Netherlands.

We studied the effect of preterm birth on electroencephalographic background 
activity in 20 infants < 32 weeks' gestation. Six infants developed 
periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage during the study period. 
Four-channel 24-h cassette recordings were obtained on day 1, 3-5 and 7-9. For 
each of the 24-h recordings, the percentage of the time showing stage I 
(continuous activity), stage II (mixed activity) and stage III (discontinuous 
activity) epochs was calculated. In infants without 
periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage, a positive linear relationship 
between gestational age and continuous activity and a negative linear 
relationship between gestational age and discontinuous activity existed in the 
first day recordings; in infants with periventricular-intraventricular 
hemorrhage, such relationships were not found. To determine if the changes in 
continuous and discontinuous activities during the first week of extrauterine 
life were different from the expected changes during a corresponding time in 
utero, we calculated the expected amounts of stage I and III changes for each 
infant. The actual changes were not significantly different from the expected 
values in both study groups. However, during the onset and/or extension of 
periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage, depression of the 
electroencephalographic background activity was found.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1651-2227.1994.tb13087.x
PMID: 7919754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. J Formos Med Assoc. 1994 Mar;93(3):250-2.

Constrictive pericarditis after sclerosing therapy with mitomycin C for 
malignant pericardial effusion: report of a case.

Lin MT(1), Yang PC, Luh KT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Chang-Hua Christian Hospital, Taiwan, R.O.C.

Malignant pericardial effusion with cardiac tamponade is a life-threatening 
oncological emergency. Pericardiocentesis with sclerosing therapy is a 
life-saving palliative treatment procedure. Because of the short life expectancy 
in these patients, pericardial constriction after pericardial sclerosing therapy 
has been rarely reported in the literature. We report a patient with malignant 
pericardial effusion and cardiac tamponade which was successfully controlled by 
intrapericardial mitomycin C instillation. This patient developed pericardial 
constriction six months after mitomycin C pericardial sclerosis. It should be 
noted that pericardial constriction may occur if a patient survives long enough 
after successful pericardial sclerosis.

PMID: 7920067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. BMJ. 1994 Aug 13;309(6952):431-5. doi: 10.1136/bmj.309.6952.431.

Life expectancy in children with cerebral palsy.

Hutton JL(1), Cooke T, Pharoah PO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Liverpool.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1995 Mar 11;310(6980):665.

OBJECTIVE: To determine life expectancy of children with cerebral palsy.
DESIGN: Cohort analysis, by means of register compiled from multiple sources of 
ascertainment, of all children with cerebral palsy born during 1966-84 to 
mothers resident in Mersey region. Status of children was determined by flagging 
through NHS central register.
SUBJECTS: 1258 subjects with idiopathic cerebral palsy, of whom 1251 were traced 
and included in analysis.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Effect of functional ability (ambulation, manual 
dexterity, and mental ability), sex, birth weight, and gestational age on 
survival.
RESULTS: 20 year survival for whole cohort was 89.3% for females and 86.9% for 
males. For subjects with no severe functional disabilities 20 year survival was 
99% (95% confidence interval 98% to 100%), while subjects severely disabled in 
all three functional groups had 20 year survival of 50% (42% to 58%). Subjects 
with birth weight < or = 2500 g had 20 year survival of 92% (89% to 95%), while 
those with birth weight > 2500 g had survival of 87% (84% to 89%). Subjects with 
gestational age of > 37 weeks had 20 year survival of 93% (91% to 96%), while 
those with gestational age > or = 37 weeks had survival of 85% (83% to 88%). 
Birth weight and gestational age were less predictive of survival than 
functional disability. Best statistical model used gestational age and number of 
severe functional disabilities as predictors.
CONCLUSIONS: Life expectancy of this cohort of children with cerebral palsy was 
greater than has been suggested in some previous studies. This has important 
implications for social, educational, and health services.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.309.6952.431
PMCID: PMC2540919
PMID: 7920125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Leuk Lymphoma. 1994 Jun;14(1-2):121-8. doi: 10.3109/10428199409049657.

Results of a salvage regimen in refractory or relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Buzzoni R(1), Colleoni M, Nelli P, Nolè F, Bajetta E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology B, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura 
dei Tumori, Milan, Italy.

After therapy with adriamycin-containing regimens, relapsed or refractory 
non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) have a very poor prognosis. Although high dose 
chemotherapies are widely employed, their related costs and the controversial 
results achieved justify the development of new second-line conventional 
therapies. Forty-three patients with relapsed or refractory NHL were 
consequently treated with an outpatient polychemotherapy schedule including 
ifosfamide, mitoxantrone and etoposide on day 1, and vindesine, cisplatinum and 
cytosine arabinoside on day 15. The courses were repeated on day 29. All of the 
patients were pretreated with at least one chemotherapy regimen. Twenty-two 
patients had diffuse large cell lymphoma, 8 had bone marrow involvement, and 17 
altered baseline lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) values. After a median number of 4 
cycles (range 2-8), we registered 20 complete (46%) and 4 partial remissions, 
for an overall remission rate of 56% (95% confidence interval: 40-71%). All of 
the responses occurred in patients who had achieved at least partial remission 
during first-line therapy. Four patients are long term responders after 31, 39, 
49 and 52 months, and are possibly cured. Univariate analysis of prognostic 
factors showed that baseline LDH values and response to front-line therapy 
significantly affected both time to disease progression and survival, whereas 
the number of previous treatments given, significantly affected only the time to 
progression. Therapy was administered in an out-patient setting and no 
life-threatening toxicity was observed. Side effects consisted of 
nausea/vomiting, alopecia and reversible myelosuppression. The results suggest 
that different treatment strategies for relapsed and refractory patients should 
be considered on the basis of prognostic factors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.3109/10428199409049657
PMID: 7920218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Qual Life Res. 1994 Jun;3(3):175-82. doi: 10.1007/BF00435382.

Choices in oncology: factors that influence patients' treatment preference.

Kiebert GM(1), Stiggelbout AM, Kievit J, Leer JW, van de Velde CJ, de Haes HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology and Radiotherapy, Medical Decision Making 
Unit, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Medical treatment of cancer often entails a trade-off between outcomes of two 
different attributes: quality of life (QOL) and length of life (LL). This 
process of weighing advantages and disadvantages seems to be influenced by 
different factors. The main purposes of this study were (a) to investigate the 
relative importance of different factors on the trade-off and (b) to explore the 
relationship between these importance ratings and personal characteristics. We 
asked 199 patients with cancer to indicate to what degree they consider a number 
of factors to be of importance if they had to choose between two treatment 
modalities that differ in their expected outcomes concerning QOL and LL. The 
seven factors were their age at the time of decision, having a partner, having 
children, inability to work due to side-effects of the treatment, the nature of 
the side-effects, disease-related life expectancy and baseline QOL. The results 
indicate that six of the seven factors were of considerable to great importance 
when a treatment choice had to be made. The negative effects of treatment on the 
ability to work did not seem to be a very important consideration. Patient age 
and education were positively associated with importance ratings.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00435382
PMID: 7920491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. J Gastroenterol. 1994 Jul;29 Suppl 7:141-2.

Prevention of peptic ulcer relapse.

Ishimori A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Laboratory Medicine, Tohoku University School of 
Medicine, Sendai, Japan.

PMID: 7921148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Heart Dis Stroke. 1994 Jul-Aug;3(4):191-3.

Value of screening patients for aneurysm disease.

Bergan JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Scripps Memorial Hospital, La Jolla, California.

PMID: 7921662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. J Hematother. 1993 Spring;2(1):93-102. doi: 10.1089/scd.1.1993.2.93.

Autologous bone marrow transplantation with alkyl-lysophospholipid-purged 
marrow.

Vogler WR(1), Berdel WE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322.

Autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) appears to offer clinical benefit 
to leukemia patients, but the major reason for failure is relapse. This may be 
related to the presence of residual leukemic cells in the harvested marrow. To 
circumvent this problem, various procedures have been developed to purge ex vivo 
residual leukemic cells from the marrow. The alkyl-lysophospholipids are a new 
group of anticancer drugs that target membranes as their major site of action. 
They are unique in that they are relatively selectively toxic to neoplastic 
cells and spare normal marrow stem cells and progenitor cells. The most active 
compound is edelfosine. Twenty-nine patients with acute leukemia in second or 
subsequent remission or early relapse or in first remission, either with a 
history of treated extramedullary relapse, or requiring more than one induction 
program to achieve remission, underwent ablative therapy followed by infusion of 
autologous marrow which had been purged by a 4-hour exposure to edelfosine prior 
to cryopreservation. Thirty-one percent of the patients are alive and free of 
leukemia for a median of 630 days (range 185-1,613). These results in this 
high-risk group of patients warrant further investigation.

DOI: 10.1089/scd.1.1993.2.93
PMID: 7921970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Ceylon Med J. 1994 Jun;39(2):109.

How accurate are our statistics?

Sivarajah N.

PMID: 7923446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Bull World Health Organ. 1994;72(4):623-37.

National health expenditures: a global analysis.

Murray CJ(1), Govindaraj R, Musgrove P.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies, Cambridge, MA 02138.

As part of the background research to the World development report 1993: 
investing in health, an effort was made to estimate public, private and total 
expenditures on health for all countries of the world. Estimates could be found 
for public spending for most countries, but for private expenditure in many 
fewer countries. Regressions were used to predict the missing values of regional 
and global estimates. These econometric exercises were also used to relate 
expenditure to measures of health status. In 1990 the world spent an estimated 
US$ 1.7 trillion (1.7 x 10(12) on health, or $1.9 trillion (1.9 x 10(12)) in 
dollars adjusted for higher purchasing power in poorer countries. This amount 
was about 60% public and 40% private in origin. However, as incomes rise, public 
health expenditure tends to displace private spending and to account for the 
increasing share of incomes devoted to health.

PIP: Public, private, and total expenditures on health for all countries of the 
world were estimated as part of the World Development Report 1993: Investing in 
Health. Regressions were used to predict the missing values of regional and 
global estimates and to relate expenditure to measures of health status. Data 
were obtained on government, parastatal, and private health expenditure directly 
from governments, supplemented with reports and data from The World Health 
Organization, the World Bank, the International Labor Organization, regional 
development banks, and the United Nations Statistics Division, as well as 
material from nearly 1000 different reports, articles, and budgets. Information 
on government health expenditures was available for 138 countries. These 
expenditures were for the years from 1977 to 1990, with 119 countries having 
data for the period 1986-90. Information for the 24 OECD (Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development) countries for 1990 was obtained from the 
national health accounts. Data on government health expenditures from 43 other 
countries came from national budgets. Information for another 45 countries was 
taken from an International Monetary Fund (IMF) yearbook. Data for 21 countries 
not covered by these sources were obtained through the World Bank health and 
public sector studies. Finally, data for five countries came from ad hoc 
studies. The Established Market Economies (EME) accounted for over 87% of the 
total; inclusion of the Formerly Socialist Economies (FSE) of Europe raised the 
share to 90% or US$ 1532 billion. Spending on health in the US alone was 41% of 
global health expenditures, while spending in developing regions was only 10% or 
US$ 167 billion. In 1990 the world spent an estimated US$ 1.7 trillion on 
health, which constituted 8% of the global GDP. This amount was about 60% public 
and 40% private in origin. When expenditures are corrected for purchasing power 
parity, global spending amounted to a little under $ 1.9 trillion. This made 
developing country expenditure 380 versus 167 billion dollars, but there was 
little change in estimated spending by the EME and FSE countries.

PMCID: PMC2486604
PMID: 7923542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Clin Genet. 1994 Jun;45(6):308-12. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1994.tb04037.x.

Patient and parental attitudes toward genetic screening and its implications at 
an adult cystic fibrosis centre.

Conway SP(1), Allenby K, Pond MN.

Author information:
(1)Regional Adult Cystic Fibrosis Unit, Seacroft Hospital, Leeds, United 
Kingdom.

General population screening for cystic fibrosis carrier status in the United 
Kingdom would detect 72% of at-risk couples. Proper counselling would allow 
these couples to make informed reproductive choices, including the possibility 
of prenatal diagnosis and the termination of an affected pregnancy. However, 
children with cystic fibrosis born in this decade, given optimum treatment, now 
have an average life expectancy of 40 years, and there is no unanimity of 
opinion on how, where, when, or even if, screening should be offered. The 
purpose of this questionnaire-based study was to examine the attitudes of an 
adult clinic population who have grown up with cystic fibrosis, and of their 
parents, towards genetic screening programmes and the controversies and ethical 
dilemmas surrounding such programmes in cystic fibrosis. Both patients and 
parents supported prenatal screening (88% and 90%) and the option of terminating 
an affected pregnancy (68% and 84%). Only 22% of patients and 10% of parents 
felt that screening should be limited to families with a history of cystic 
fibrosis, and 19% and 6%, respectively, that prenatal diagnosis should be 
restricted to those with a previous child with cystic fibrosis. Despite the 
negative aspects of any screening programme and the acknowledged ethical 
problems peculiar to cystic fibrosis, the conclusion of our patients and parents 
who have lived intimately with the illness is that there should be the option of 
utilising information available from genetic screening for cystic fibrosis to 
guide reproductive choices. Pilot programmes to define the optimum management of 
such screening should continue.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1994.tb04037.x
PMID: 7923862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Exp Gerontol. 1994 May-Aug;29(3-4):307-17. doi:
10.1016/0531-5565(94)90011-6.

Menopause in cultural context.

Lock M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Studies of Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada.

Menopause, according to contemporary American and European understanding, 
signifies the end of menstruation, a universal experience among human females. 
This definition of menopause is recent in origin, and is not one which is widely 
accepted, comparatively speaking. Research has shown that meanings and 
subjective experience, including symptoms, associated with menopause vary 
cross-culturally. Menopause may not be recognized as a concept, or alternatively 
is not closely associated with the end of menstruation, nor is it usually 
considered a difficult time. This anthropological research is briefly summarized 
followed by a discussion of the results of survey research conducted in Japan, 
comparable with Canadian and American surveys. Symptom reporting in Japan among 
a nonclinical, naturally menopausal population is significantly lower and 
different from the North American samples. In addition Japanese women have a 
longer life-expectancy and lower rates of heart disease, osteoporosis, and 
breast cancer than do North American women. These findings will be 
contextualized in light of cultural differences with respect to diet, exercise, 
and attitudes towards this part of the female life cycle. The significance of 
these findings are considered with respect to research questions to be posed in 
the future.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(94)90011-6
PMID: 7925751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Experientia. 1994 Sep 15;50(9):808-11. doi: 10.1007/BF01956460.

A morphometric study of spermatogenesis in the testes of mice of a senescence 
accelerated strain.

Miyamoto H(1), Manabe N, Akiyama Y, Watanabe T, Sugimoto M, Sato E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, Faculty of Agriculture, Kyoto University, 
Japan.

The morphometric parameters of spermatogenic cells in a mouse strain prone to 
accelerated senescence (SAM-P), a novel murine model of spontaneously promoted 
aging, were compared with those of a SAM resistant strain (SAM-R) after birth 
until 40 weeks (mean life span of SAM-P). A mixture of gonocytes and 
spermatogonia were present in the testis in 1-week-old mice, and no gonocytes 
were observed in 2-week-old mice. At 6 weeks of age, the absolute number of 
spermatogonia in SAM-P was 27% greater than that in SAM-R, whereas the cell 
number in 40-week-old SAM-P was 17% less than in SAM-R. Primary spermatocytes 
were first observed in 3-week-old animals, and the cell numbers in SAM-P at 3, 5 
and 6 weeks were 78%, 31% and 25%, respectively, greater than in SAM-R, whereas 
the cell number in SAM-P at 40 weeks was 30% less than SAM-R. Round spermatids 
were first observed in all SAM-P at 4 weeks old, but 20% of SAM-R had no 
spermatids and the rest had only a few. At 5 and 6 weeks old, the absolute 
numbers of round spermatids in SAM-P were 38% and 41%, respectively, greater 
than in SAM-R, whereas the cell number in 40-week-old SAM-P was about 34% less 
than SAM-R. These results indicate that testicular maturation begins at an 
earlier age in SAM-P than SAM-R. Furthermore, at the age of 40 weeks signs of 
testicular deterioration are evident in SAM-P mice only.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01956460
PMID: 7925847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Demography. 1994 May;31(2):271-96.

Population variation in cause of death: level, gender, and period effects.

Gage TB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University at Albany State University of New York 
12222.

The trends in 13 cause of death categories are examined with respect to 
expectation of life, sex differences, and period effects while misclassification 
of cause of death is controlled. The results suggest that as mortality declines, 
1) the increasingly U-shaped age pattern of mortality is a period effect 
associated with the infectious diseases, 2) the risks of both overall infectious 
and degenerative causes of death decline, and 3) infectious disease mortality 
declines more in males, while degenerative disease mortality declines more in 
females. Finally, the model shows that some contemporary populations are 
approaching the limits of reduction in mortality during infancy, childhood, and 
young adulthood. Past declines in the degenerative diseases, however, suggest 
that mortality may continue to decline.

PMID: 7926189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Demography. 1994 May;31(2):297-319.

Estimating increment-decrement life tables with multiple covariates from panel 
data: the case of active life expectancy.

Land KC(1), Guralnik JM, Blazer DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708-0088.

A fundamental limitation of current multistate life table methodology-evident in 
recent estimates of active life expectancy for the elderly-is the inability to 
estimate tables from data on small longitudinal panels in the presence of 
multiple covariates (such as sex, race, and socioeconomic status). This paper 
presents an approach to such an estimation based on an isomorphism between the 
structure of the stochastic model underlying a conventional specification of the 
increment-decrement life table and that of Markov panel regression models for 
simple state spaces. We argue that Markov panel regression procedures can be 
used to provide smoothed or graduated group-specific estimates of transition 
probabilities that are more stable across short age intervals than those 
computed directly from sample data. We then join these estimates with 
increment-decrement life table methods to compute group-specific total, active, 
and dependent life expectancy estimates. To illustrate the methods, we describe 
an empirical application to the estimation of such life expectancies specific to 
sex, race, and education (years of school completed) for a longitudinal panel of 
elderly persons. We find that education extends both total life expectancy and 
active life expectancy. Education thus may serve as a powerful social protective 
mechanism delaying the onset of health problems at older ages.

PMID: 7926190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Dent Clin North Am. 1994 Jul;38(3):537-51.

Delivering dental care to nursing home and homebound patients.

Henry RG(1), Ceridan B.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Dental Services, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Lexington, 
Kentucky.

The growing life expectancy has created a number of challenges for society and 
for the dental profession. One of these challenges is the increasing number of 
people, particularly those over age 85, who are considered frail and 
functionally impaired, who no longer can live independently or participate in 
the community. If the impairment is severe enough, the older adult may become 
home-bound or unable to leave the home without assistive aids or, less commonly, 
institutionalized in a nursing home. The characteristics of the homebound and 
nursing home resident represent a dramatic contrast from those who are the same 
age and living in the community: They are older, predominantly female, and have 
more physical and mental disabilities. In addition, there are differences in 
oral health characteristics, of which dentists and other health professionals 
need to be aware. Although there are a number of obstacles and barriers that 
make providing dental care more difficult for these patients, federal mandates 
and a growing professional response to develop initiatives for outreach and 
access are beginning to have an effect. Still the challenge for providing dental 
care to these groups remains great, and it will take a tremendous effort from 
many oral health professionals before significant change is evident. There are 
many professional and personal rewards for providing this care, and we as dental 
professionals must be committed to seeing that the oral health needs are met for 
all underserved populations in our society.

PMID: 7926202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Diabetes. 1994 Nov;43(11):1304-10. doi: 10.2337/diab.43.11.1304.

Combined analysis of autoantibodies improves prediction of IDDM in islet cell 
antibody-positive relatives.

Bingley PJ(1), Christie MR, Bonifacio E, Bonfanti R, Shattock M, Fonte MT, 
Bottazzo GF, Gale EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diabetes and Metabolism, St. Bartholomew's Hospital, London, 
U.K.

Prediction of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) is still largely based 
on islet cell antibodies (ICAs), but it may be improved by combined analysis 
with other humoral markers. We examined autoantibodies to insulin (IAAs), 
glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), and M(r) 37,000 and M(r) 40,000 fragments of 
islet antigens (37 and 40 kDa) together with ICA subtypes in 101 family members 
with ICAs > or = 10 Juvenile Diabetes Foundation units (JDF U) followed for up 
to 14 years, of whom 18 have developed IDDM. Life-table analysis showed a 43% 
risk of IDDM within 10 years for those with ICAs > or = 10 JDF U, rising to 53% 
for those with ICAs > or = 20 JDF U. The risk for ICAs > or = 10 JDF U was 62% 
in the family members in the youngest age quartile (< 13.2 years) and fell with 
increasing age to 4% in those > 40.7 years of age (P = 0.03). ICAs > or = 10 JDF 
U combined with IAAs gave a risk of 84% (P = 0.03 compared with IAA-), and ICAs 
> or = 10 JDF U combined with GAD antibodies gave a risk of 61% (P = 0.018). The 
risk for ICAs > or = 10 JDF U with antibodies to 37-kDa antigen was 76% (P < 
0.0001). Risk increased with the number of autoantibodies, from 8% for ICAs 
alone to 88% with > or = 3 autoantibodies (14 cases detected) (P < 0.0001). The 
increased risk associated with multiple antibodies was observed independent of 
age.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.2337/diab.43.11.1304
PMID: 7926304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Gac Med Mex. 1993 May-Jun;129(3):185-9.

[The epidemiological transition of chronic and degenerative diseases in Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Wolpert E, Robles Díaz G, Reyes López P.

Mexico during the last decades has achieve an important development, therefore 
the frequency of most of the transmissible diseases dropped and an increase in 
frequency has been noticed in regard the chronic non-transmissible diseases of 
multifactorial etiology. Diagnosis and management in those cases require a great 
effort in fields such as internal medicine and surgery, as well as a substantial 
portion of resources assigned to biomedical research. Chronic and degenerative 
diseases have a sound impact on health economy, need medical decisions with 
population impact and justify an epidemiological approach in the national health 
service. Life expectancy reached 69 years by 1990, there is a proportional 
increase in adults and older person in our population, increasing urbanization 
and a epidemiological transition which results in a different picture of 
mortality in Mexico, now heart diseases, malignant neoplasia and diabetes 
mellitus are 3 of the 5 leading causes of death. Morbidity is not as easy to 
define because lack of consistent data, however, there is no doubt in regard the 
important role played by chronic and degenerative diseases in it. General 
education and health promotion as well as a changing behaviour at issues such as 
nutrition, physical exercise and avoiding unhealthy habits should be encouraged 
because its obvious value as preventive measures. After long years of heavy work 
we are facing a changing mexico in terms of demography and epidemiology, which 
requires the concern of all health professionals in order to achieve a different 
epidemiological picture through health education, promotion and behaviour in the 
whole population, it is necessary not only to live longer, we must have a 
superior quality of life.

PMID: 7926406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Gastroenterology. 1994 Nov;107(5):1305-11. doi:
10.1016/0016-5085(94)90531-2.

Omeprazole or ranitidine in long-term treatment of reflux esophagitis. The 
Scandinavian Clinics for United Research Group.

Hallerbäck B(1), Unge P, Carling L, Edwin B, Glise H, Havu N, Lyrenäs E, 
Lundberg K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Trollhättan Hospital, Sweden.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 1994 Nov;107(5):1545-8.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Patients with reflux esophagitis have rapid relapses after 
treatment withdrawal. This study was designed to investigate the relapse rate of 
symptomatic esophagitis during maintenance treatment with omeprazole or 
ranitidine.
METHODS: Patients with endoscopically verified acute erosive or ulcerative 
esophagitis were initially treated with 20-40 mg omeprazole daily for 8-12 
weeks. After healing, the patients were randomized to maintenance treatment with 
omeprazole (20 or 10 mg each morning) or ranitidine (150 mg twice daily). 
Control endoscopy was performed at the end of the healing phase and after 12 
months of maintenance treatment or symptomatic relapse.
RESULTS: Of 426 initially treated patients, 392 were healed and entered the 
maintenance study. The months of maintenance treatment with 20 mg omeprazole 
once daily (n = 131), 10 mg omeprazole once daily (n = 133), and 150 mg 
ranitidine twice daily (n = 128) were 72%, 62%, and 45%, respectively. Both the 
10- and 20-mg doses of omeprazole were significantly better than the dose of 
ranitidine (P < 0.001 and P < 0.005, respectively). There was no significant 
difference between the 10- and 20-mg doses of omeprazole (P = 0.06).
CONCLUSIONS: Maintenance treatment with omeprazole (20 or 10 mg once daily) is 
superior to ranitidine (150 mg twice daily) in keeping patients with erosive 
reflux esophagitis in remission over a 12-month period.

DOI: 10.1016/0016-5085(94)90531-2
PMID: 7926494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Gastroenterology. 1994 Nov;107(5):1496-502. doi:
10.1016/0016-5085(94)90555-x.

Gallbladder emptying determines early gallstone clearance after shock-wave 
lithotripsy.

Pauletzki J(1), Sailer C, Klüppelberg U, von Ritter C, Neubrand M, Holl J, 
Sauerbruch T, Sackmann M, Paumgartner G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine II, Klinikum Grosshadem, University of Munich, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Disappearance of gallbladder stones after shock-wave 
lithotripsy combined with bile acid therapy depends on mechanical evacuation and 
dissolution of fragments. Many patients with gallstones have impaired 
gallbladder emptying and may show delayed stone clearance after lithotripsy.
METHODS: The effect of gallbladder emptying on gallstone clearance after 
lithotripsy was prospectively studied in 57 patients with one radiolucent 
gallbladder stone < or = 20 mm. Gallbladder emptying was assessed 
sonographically before and after 2 weeks of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) 
treatment.
RESULTS: UDCA increased gallbladder fasting and residual volume and decreased 
ejection rate but did not affect ejection fraction. Patients with an ejection 
fraction > 60% achieved complete gallstone clearance after lithotripsy in a 
higher percentage than patients with smaller ejection fractions (1 month, 31% 
vs. 7%, P = 0.022; 2 months, 55% vs. 18%, P = 0.003; 3 months, 66% vs. 29%, P = 
0.005). Patients who became stone-free within 1 month showed larger ejection 
fractions than patients with retained fragments (67% +/- 4% vs. 56% +/- 3% 
before UDCA, P = 0.032; 65% +/- 4% vs. 53% +/- 3% with UDCA, P = 0.017). 
Further, ejection rate during UDCA therapy was larger in patients with complete 
gallstone disappearance within 1 month than in patients with delayed fragment 
clearance (1.57%/min +/- 0.36%/min vs. 0.76%/min +/- 0.09%/min; P = 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: Gallbladder emptying is a major determinant of early gallstone 
clearance after lithotripsy.

DOI: 10.1016/0016-5085(94)90555-x
PMID: 7926513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Folia Med (Plovdiv). 1993;35(3-4):45-8.

A simplified method for determining the average life expectancy in the Republic 
of Bulgaria.

Nikolov IN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, University of Medicine, Plovdiv, Bulgaria.

A simplified method was used in the present study to calculate the average life 
expectancy of newborn children in Bulgaria. In contrast to the classical methods 
for constructing mortality tables, this method is not time consuming and does 
not require complex mathematical calculations and therefore easily accessible 
for public health bodies and institutions. The average life expectancy of 
newborn children, by sex and place of residence, was calculated for the 
following periods: 1994- 1946, 1954-1956, 1963-1965, 1973-1975, 1983-1985. 
Relevant conclusions and recommendations were made.

PIP: Mortality is best studied by constructing mortality tables which show the 
dying pattern spread in time of the individuals belonging to a randomly chosen 
group of people born at one and the same time. Mortality tables therefore can 
also be used to calculate average life expectancy. This classical approach, 
however, requires complicated mathematical calculations and is too 
time-consuming and expensive for routine use by public health bodies and 
institutions. Mey and Andreds developed a simplified method to calculate the 
average life expectancy and reported it at the Demography and Medicine Symposium 
held in the former German Democratic Republic on September 30, 1986. Results 
obtained using their method are highly consistent with those of conventional 
methods. The method can be used to calculate life expectancy for relatively 
small population groups as well as for the population of entire regions. The 
author applies the Mey and Andreds approach in a dynamical investigation of the 
average life expectancy of newborns in Bulgaria, by sex and place of residence, 
in the years 1944-46, 1954-56, 1963-65, 1973-75, and 1983-85; years coinciding 
with the population censuses conducted in Bulgaria after September 9, 1944, a 
point after which available data on the age structure of the Bulgarian 
population became more accurate. The author further validates the applicability 
of the simplified method of determining average life expectancy through his 
findings of an increasing average life expectancy for the entire population and 
for both sexes in Bulgaria up to 1963-65, after which a decline was observed due 
to deteriorated living conditions. The average life expectancy for all periods 
studied was higher for girls than for boys. Further, the average life expectancy 
in urban areas was higher than in rural areas.

PMID: 7927054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Int Arch Occup Environ Health. 1994;66(1):7-11. doi: 10.1007/BF00386573.

Mortality study of asbestos cement workers.

Giaroli C(1), Belli S, Bruno C, Candela S, Grignoli M, Minisci S, Poletti R, 
Riccò G, Vecchi G, Venturi G, et al.

Author information:
(1)Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy.

The present study describes cause-specific mortality of asbestos cement workers 
in the Emilia Romagna region of Italy. The cohort included workers in ten 
factories, most of which started operating between 1955 and 1965. Asbestos, 
mainly chrysotile, constituted 10%-20% of the dry component of the mixture. 
Crocidolite range between 5% and 50% of total asbestos. Asbestos concentrations 
up to 44 ff/cc were reported prior to 1975, while in recent years they have 
usually been below 0-1 ff/cc. The cohort included 3341 workers who had at some 
time been employed in the ten factories under study. Their mortality experience 
was compared with that of the population resident in Emilia Romagna. Vital 
status was ascertained at 1989. Seventy-three subjects were lost to follow-up 
(2.2%). Mortality from all causes and from all types of cancer was increased in 
the cohort. Malignant neoplasms of the respiratory tract showed a significant 
increase (SMR: 134; 90% confidence interval: 101-175; 40 observed) due to lung 
cancer (SMR: 124; 90% confidence interval: 91-166; 33 observed) and neoplasms of 
the pleura, mediastinum, and other parts of the respiratory tract (SMR: 602; 90% 
confidence interval 237-1267; 5 observed). The discrepancy between observed and 
expected mortality mainly concerned subjects with at least 20 years of 
employment in the factories. Five more cases of histologically confirmed 
mesothelioma occurred after the end of follow-up.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00386573
PMID: 7927845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Int J Health Serv. 1994;24(3):431-58. doi: 10.2190/BDUU-J0JD-BVEX-N90B.

Primary care, specialty care, and life chances.

Shi L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Administration, School of Public Health, University of 
South Carolina, Columbia 29205.

The relationship between the availability of primary care and specialty care and 
certain life chance indicators such as mortality rates and life expectancy is 
analyzed using the multiple regression procedure. Dependent variables are life 
chance indicators; independent variables were selected based on Starfield's and 
Blum's health determinant models and include socioeconomic environment, 
lifestyles, demographics, and medical care. The author also examines the 
rankings of states in terms of these indicators, using Spearman's rho 
coefficient. Among the medical care variables, primary care is by far the most 
significant variable related to better health status, correlating with lower 
overall mortality, lower death rates due to diseases of the heart and cancer, 
longer life expectancy, lower neonatal death rate, and lower low birth weight. 
In contrast, the number of specialty physicians is positively and significantly 
related to total mortality, deaths due to heart diseases and cancer, shorter 
life expectancy, higher neonatal mortality, and higher low birth weight. From a 
policy perspective, a likely implication is to reorient the medical profession 
from its current expensive, clinically based, treatment-focused practice to a 
more cost-effective, prevention-oriented primary care system.

DOI: 10.2190/BDUU-J0JD-BVEX-N90B
PMID: 7928012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. J Clin Pharmacol. 1994 Jul;34(7):719-22. doi: 
10.1002/j.1552-4604.1994.tb02030.x.

Hormone replacement therapy: benefit, risk and cost considerations.

Tosteson AN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, New Hampshire.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1552-4604.1994.tb02030.x
PMID: 7929865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1994 Nov 1;24(5):1290-6. doi:
10.1016/0735-1097(94)90111-2.

Influence of coronary heart disease on morbidity and mortality after lower 
extremity revascularization surgery: a population-based study in Olmsted County, 
Minnesota (1970-1987).

Farkouh ME(1), Rihal CS, Gersh BJ, Rooke TW, Hallett JW Jr, O'Fallon WM, Ballard 
DJ.

Author information:
(1)McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate the short- and long-term 
postoperative cardiac outcome of patients undergoing lower extremity 
revascularization surgery in a geographically defined patient group.
BACKGROUND: Among patients with peripheral vascular disease, cardiac events have 
an important effect on long-term outcome after peripheral vascular surgery. 
However, long-term outcome is poorly documented.
METHODS: We examined the entire community medical records of 173 residents of 
Olmsted County, Minnesota, who underwent peripheral artery bypass surgery 
between 1970 and 1987 and were followed up to January 1, 1991. Patients were 
allocated to subgroups of 60 patients with and 106 patients without overt 
coronary artery disease.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in perioperative death, 
myocardial infarction or stroke between subgroups at 30 days after operation. 
The 5- and 10-year Kaplan-Meier survival rate after operation was 77% and 51% in 
those without and 54% and 24% in those with overt coronary artery disease (p < 
0.001), respectively. For both groups, survival was significantly poorer than 
that expected for an age- and gender-matched group. Patients undergoing 
aortoiliac surgery were more likely to be alive at 10 years than those 
undergoing femoropopliteal surgery (47% vs. 28%, p = 0.001). The 5-year 
cumulative incidence of cardiac events was greater in those with overt coronary 
artery disease (50% vs. 28%, p = 0.003). In multivariable analysis, age, 
coronary artery disease and diabetes were independent predictors of death.
CONCLUSIONS: Coronary events are the most important cause of long-term morbidity 
and mortality after peripheral vascular surgery. Patients without overt coronary 
artery disease are at significant risk for long-term cardiac events.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(94)90111-2
PMID: 7930252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. J Hepatol. 1994 Jun;20(6):707-13. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8278(05)80139-4.

Primary biliary cirrhosis: survival of a large cohort of symptomatic and 
asymptomatic patients followed for 24 years.

Mahl TC(1), Shockcor W, Boyer JL.

Author information:
(1)Liver Study Unit, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510.

We extended by 10 years, a follow-up study of 279 patients with primary biliary 
cirrhosis initially evaluated at the Yale Liver Study Unit between 1955 and 
1979. Thirty-six patients (13%) were asymptomatic at the time of diagnosis. 
Accurate follow-up survival data were available for 247 patients (89%), ranging 
up to 24 years after the original diagnosis. Median predicted survival of 
patients in this study from the time of diagnosis is twice as long for patients 
who present without symptoms compared to symptomatic patients (16 vs 7.5 years, 
p < 0.0001). However, overall survival of those asymptomatic patients is shorter 
than that predicted for an age- and gender-matched control population (p < 
0.0001), a difference that became apparent only after 11 years of follow up. 
With a median follow up of 12.1 years, 33% of the asymptomatic patients remained 
free of symptoms of liver disease, However, once symptoms develop, their 
survival is similar to those presenting with symptoms. Independent predictors of 
diminished survival include: elevated bilirubin, increasing age, ascites, 
advanced fibrosis and the degree of portal bile stasis on liver biopsy. It was 
not possible to predict which asymptomatic patients would remain symptom free.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8278(05)80139-4
PMID: 7930469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. J Infect Dis. 1994 Nov;170 Suppl 1:S56-62. doi: 
10.1093/infdis/170.supplement_1.s56.

Economic analysis of investment priorities for measles control.

Shepard DS(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Policy, Heller School, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA 
02254-9110.

An investment strategy in measles control should strike an appropriate balance 
among three areas: implementation of existing vaccination programs with existing 
technology, operations research to improve the use of existing technology, and 
vaccine development. As a benchmark, the existing Schwarz vaccine costs 
approximately $17 per DALY (disability-adjusted life year), already making it 
one of the most cost-effective health interventions in developing countries. 
National measles vaccination campaigns, such as Brazil's, are a promising 
extension of this technology. Operations research is indicated to study the 
organization of campaigns, supplying and delivering vitamin A to hospitalized 
children, and other issues. The development and application of an early one-dose 
measles vaccine would be particularly cost-effective ($5 per DALY), as it could 
avoid the costs to families and health institutions of the separate visit at 9 
months now required for measles vaccination. All three areas present 
opportunities for cost-effective investments and deserve a place in an 
investment strategy.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/170.supplement_1.s56
PMID: 7930754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Int J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 1994 Jun;23(3):140-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0901-5027(05)80288-7.

Preoperative radiochemotherapy and radical surgery in comparison with radical 
surgery alone. A prospective, multicentric, randomized DOSAK study of advanced 
squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity and the oropharynx (a 3-year 
follow-up).

Mohr C(1), Bohndorf W, Carstens J, Härle F, Hausamen JE, Hirche H, Kimmig H, 
Kutzner J, Mühling J, Reuther J, et al.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Gesichts- und Kieferchirurgie, Universitätsklinik Essen, Germany.

A multicentric, randomized study of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the oral 
cavity and the oropharynx has been undertaken by DOSAK. The results after 
radical surgery alone have been compared with the results of combined 
preoperative radiochemotherapy followed by radical surgery. Patients with 
primary (biopsy proven) SCC of the oral cavity or the oropharynx with tumor 
nodes metastasis (TNM) stages T2-4, N0-3, M0 were included in the study. A total 
of 141 patients were treated by radical surgery alone, whereas 127 patients were 
treated by radical surgery preceded by preoperative radiochemotherapy. The 
preoperative treatment consisted of conventionally fractioned irradiation on the 
primary and the regional lymph nodes with a total dose of 36 Gy (5 x 2 Gy per 
week) and low-dose cisplatin chemotherapy with 5 x 12.5 mg cisplatin per m2 of 
body surface during the first week of treatment. Radical surgery according to 
the DOSAK definitions (DOSAK, 1982) was performed after a delay of 10-14 days. 
During the follow-up period, 28.2% of all patients suffered from locoregional 
recurrence, and 27.2% of the patients died. The percentages were higher after 
radical surgery alone for locoregional recurrence (31% and 15.6%) and for death 
(28% and 18.6%). The life-table analysis showed improved survival rates of 4.5% 
after 1 year and 8.3% after 2 years in the group of patients treated with 
combined therapy. The demonstrated improvement appeared to be significant with 
the Gehan-Wilcoxon test as well as with the log rank test below a P value of 5%.

DOI: 10.1016/s0901-5027(05)80288-7
PMID: 7930766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. J Med Assoc Ga. 1994 Jul;83(7):391-5.

Throwing out the lifelines.

Kokenes N.

PMID: 7930973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. J Neurol. 1994 May;241(6):385-90. doi: 10.1007/BF02033356.

HLA and prognosis in multiple sclerosis.

Runmarker B(1), Martinsson T, Wahlström J, Andersen O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Sahlgren's Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden.

The patients of a multiple sclerosis (MS) incidence cohort with 25 years of 
longitudinal follow-up were typed for HLA-DR and DQ. This type of cohort 
provides reliable data for gene frequencies and prognostic studies. The 
influence of sampling bias, mainly due to mortality during the long follow-up, 
was accounted for. A positive association between MS and DR15,DQ6 was confirmed, 
but this haplotype did not influence prognosis. There was no difference in 
haplotype frequency between relapsing-remitting and primary chronic progressive 
MS. DR17,DQ2 was significantly over-represented in the quartile with the most 
malignant course. The haplotype DR1,DQ5, which was found rather less frequently 
in MS patients, also tended to be associated with a poorer prognosis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02033356
PMID: 7931434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. J Neurol. 1994 Jun;241(7):448-55. doi: 10.1007/BF00900964.

Rising amyotrophic lateral sclerosis mortality in France 1968-1990: increased 
life expectancy and inter-disease competition as an explanation.

Neilson S(1), Robinson I, Alperovitch A.

Author information:
(1)John Bevan MND Research Unit, Department of Human Sciences, University of 
West London, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UK.

Gompertzian analysis is a statistical technique which has been successfully 
applied to the analysis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) mortality in 
England and Wales, Japan and the United States. This paper analyses the 
consistent trend of rising ALS mortality in France over the years 1968-1990, a 
period during which crude mortality rose from 400 deaths in 1968 to 950 deaths 
in 1990. The findings indicate that age-specific mortality rates have risen at 
ages older than 54 years for men and 53 years for women and decreased slightly 
at younger ages. The evolving ALS mortality pattern is attributable to changing 
inter-disease competition resulting from the increased life expectancy of the 
French population, rather than to changing environmental aetiopathogenic factors 
or to substantial artefact effects.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00900964
PMID: 7931447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. J Psychoactive Drugs. 1994 Apr-Jun;26(2):207-16. doi: 
