10.1080/02791072.1994.10472268.

Effectiveness of streamlined admissions to methadone treatment: a simplified 
time-series analysis.

Dennis ML(1), Ingram PW, Burks ME, Rachal JV.

Author information:
(1)Center for Social Research and Policy Analysis, Research Triangle Institute, 
Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709-2194.

Increasing the availability of, and streamlining the admissions process to, 
methadone treatment have consistently been the focus of national plans to 
address the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) epidemic. This article 
uses simplified time-series analysis to evaluate one of the first methadone 
treatment Waiting List Reduction Demonstration Grants. The demonstration grant 
significantly increased both the number of people requesting intake appointments 
from 35 to 100 per month and the percentage of kept appointments from 33% to 
54%. An additional 100 slots (an entire year's waiting list) were filled in 
fewer than three months and actually resulted in a net increase in the length of 
the waiting list. Relative to the preceding two years, new clients during the 
grant period were significantly more likely to be 41 or older, African-American, 
unemployed, daily opioid users, daily cocaine users, and dependent on public 
assistance to finance treatment. Controlling for the source of treatment 
financing (a case-mix adjustment), there were no significant changes in 
retention rates. The program's static client capacity rose from 310 prior to the 
grant to a peak of 449 during the grant, with a leveling to 410 after the grant. 
Given that it is clearly more humane and less expensive to treat people who want 
treatment rather than wait for them to commit a crime and be arrested or even 
executed, this study strongly suggests the need to make more treatment available 
on demand.

DOI: 10.1080/02791072.1994.10472268
PMID: 7931865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. J Pediatr Ophthalmol Strabismus. 1994 May-Jun;31(3):147-50; discussion
151-2.  doi: 10.3928/0191-3913-19940501-04.

Delayed consecutive exotropia following 7-millimeter bilateral medial rectus 
recession for congenital esotropia.

Stager DR(1), Weakley DR Jr, Everett M, Birch EE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Texas/Southwestern Medical School, 
Dallas.

The rate of delayed consecutive exotropia after bilateral 7-millimeter medial 
rectus recession for large angle congenital esotropia in 88 patients was 27% 
(24/88), larger than previously reported. The rate was 38% (8/21) in infants 
having surgery prior to 7 months of age, 20% (10/49) in infants undergoing 
surgery at 7 to 12 months of age, and 33% (6/18) in patients undergoing surgery 
at 13 months of age or later. The onset of consecutive exotropia averaged 26.8 
months postoperatively, allowing a long period of good alignment for binocular 
vision to develop before exotropia surgery was required. Physicians and parents 
should be aware that delayed consecutive exotropia may develop several years 
postoperatively. Since delayed consecutive exotropia may be characteristic of 
the 7-millimeter recession procedure or characteristic of all patients who have 
had surgery for congenital esotropia, a prospective long-term study to compare 
the 7-millimeter procedure with the three- and four-muscle procedure would be 
helpful.

DOI: 10.3928/0191-3913-19940501-04
PMID: 7931947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. J Prosthet Dent. 1994 Aug;72(2):144-51. doi: 10.1016/0022-3913(94)90072-8.

Treatment outcome with implant-retained overdentures: Part I--Clinical findings 
and predictability of clinical treatment outcome.

Cune MS(1), de Putter C, Hoogstraten J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral-Maxillofacial Surgery, Prosthodontics, and Special Care, 
University of Utrecht, The Netherlands.

This nationwide study was conducted to clinically evaluate treatment with 
implant-retained overdentures when applied on a large scale and to determine to 
what degree treatment results could be predicted from patient and treatment 
characteristics at baseline. A total of 429 patients who had received implant 
overdenture treatment were clinically investigated by two dentists. Implant 
survival was high, especially for implants placed in the mandible. Results for 
the maxilla appeared far less promising. Complications that were observed 
predominantly concerned inflammation of the peri-implant tissues and poor oral 
hygiene. The quality of the overdentures, as assessed on three conventional 
prosthetic parameters, was generally good. Nevertheless, overdentures on oral 
implants appear to require considerable maintenance. No statistically 
significant correlation could be found between patient and treatment 
characteristics at baseline and the clinical treatment outcome. So, although 
treatment outcome with implant-retained overdentures appeared favorable, 
clinical results were not individually predictable.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-3913(94)90072-8
PMID: 7932260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. J R Soc Med. 1994 Sep;87(9):540-3. doi: 10.1177/014107689408700918.

The elixir of life: fact or fiction?

Groom R(1).

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Department, St. George's Hospital Medical School, London, UK.

Comment in
    J R Soc Med. 1995 Mar;88(3):180.

DOI: 10.1177/014107689408700918
PMCID: PMC1294773
PMID: 7932463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. J Med Entomol. 1994 Jul;31(4):611-7. doi: 10.1093/jmedent/31.4.611.

Reproductive fitness and survivorship of Aedes aegypti (Diptera: Culicidae) 
maintained on blood, with field observations from Thailand.

Day JF(1), Edman JD, Scott TW.

Author information:
(1)Florida Medical Entomology Laboratory, University of Florida, Vero Beach 
32962.

Daily survivorship and fecundity of Aedes aegypti mosquitoes were monitored for 
cohorts provided with five nutritional treatments: water, 2% sucrose, blood from 
a live chicken plus water, blood plus 2% sucrose, and blood alone. The median 
mortality time (LT50) for these females was 6, 54, 16, 12, and 29 d, 
respectively. There was no significant difference in the number of eggs laid by 
females in any of the treatments containing a host. Females maintained on blood 
alone laid as many or more eggs during their lifetime as females with access to 
sugar who had a greater life expectancy. Males maintained on sugar alone 
survived significantly longer than those in any of the other treatments. Large- 
and small-bodied, sugar-starved Ae. aegypti females that were marked, released, 
and recaptured in a Thai village survived as well as the replicate cohorts that 
received sugar or sugar plus blood during the 36 +/- 12 h period from emergence 
until their release. These results indicate that Ae. aegypti females live longer 
in the laboratory if they are provided a source of carbohydrate, but the 
increased survival associated with sugar feeding does not increase reproductive 
success.

DOI: 10.1093/jmedent/31.4.611
PMID: 7932609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. J Urol. 1994 Nov;152(5 Pt 2):1894-9. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)32409-6.

A critique of the decision analysis for clinically localized prostate cancer.

Beck JR(1), Kattan MW, Miles BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030.

Comment in
    J Urol. 1994 Nov;152(5 Pt 2):1865.

The question of when to choose surgery over watchful waiting for treatment of 
clinically localized prostate cancer is difficult. Recently, the Prostate 
Patient Outcomes Research Team (PORT) published a decision analysis that 
promoted watchful waiting as a reasonable alternative to invasive treatment for 
many men with localized prostatic carcinoma. Criticisms were leveled at the 
analysis itself, its structure, and especially the probabilities and utilities 
used in the model. We reexamine the PORT decision analysis. Structural 
sensitivity of the model was conducted, as were multi-way analyses incorporating 
data more recent than those used in the PORT analysis. The model structure is 
concluded to be sound and reasonable given the available literature on prostate 
cancer progression. However, recent data suggest that some probabilities used in 
the PORT analysis may be understated, causing life expectancy for surgical 
treatment to be understated. Using these recent data, the decision to operate on 
all grades of prostate cancer is strongly supported. This finding contradicts 
that of the original PORT analysis, which suggested that surgery would decrease 
quality-adjusted life expectancy for patients with well differentiated lesions. 
Ethical considerations aside, a clinical trial, such as the Prostate Cancer 
Intervention Versus Observation Trial, would help to establish reliable 
progression rates. Also, additional quality of life studies with actual 
prostatic cancer patients are needed for accurate decision making. Decision 
scientists and academic urologists should collaborate on model refinement and 
subsequent analyses.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)32409-6
PMID: 7933246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Oct;20(4):577-85; discussion 585-7. doi: 
10.1016/0741-5214(94)90282-8.

Treatment of recurrent femoral or popliteal artery stenosis after percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty.

Treiman GS(1), Ichikawa L, Treiman RL, Cohen JL, Cossman DV, Wagner WH, Levin 
PM, Foran RF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles.

PURPOSE: This study was undertaken to compare repeat percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty (rPTA), arterial reconstruction, and noninvasive therapy for 
treatment of patients with recurrent stenosis after PTA of the superficial 
femoral or popliteal artery.
METHODS: From 1983 to 1993, 93 patients were treated for recurrent 
femoropopliteal stenosis. Indication for treatment was claudication in 72 
patients, rest pain in 9, and ischemic ulcer in 12. Thirty-six patients (38%) 
were treated with arterial bypass, 35 (38%) with rPTA, and 22 (24%) with 
exercise and medication. Patients were monitored with clinical examination, 
ankle-brachial indexes, and duplex scanning. Follow-up ranged from 6 to 110 
months (mean 42 months).
RESULTS: With life-table analysis, the clinical and hemodynamic success of 
patients treated with rPTA was 41% at 1 year, 20% at 2 years, and 11% at 3 
years. For patients treated with arterial bypass, the primary graft patency rate 
was 84%, 72%, and 72% at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. The secondary graft 
patency rate was 94%, 88%, and 88% at the same intervals. All patients with 
patent grafts were symptom free. All 22 patients treated with noninvasive 
therapy continued to have symptoms, but none required amputation during 
follow-up (range 6 to 108 months). Overall, patients with claudication did 
better than those treated for rest pain or an ischemic lesion after either rPTA 
or arterial bypass, but no other variable was statistically significant in 
predicting outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: This study finds that arterial bypass is safe and more effective 
than rPTA in treating patients with recurrent stenosis. Preoperative evaluation 
is unable to select patients likely to benefit from rPTA. Repeat PTA should be 
reserved for patients with limited life expectancy or contraindications to 
operation.

DOI: 10.1016/0741-5214(94)90282-8
PMID: 7933259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Oct;20(4):588-96; discussion 596-7. doi: 
10.1016/0741-5214(94)90283-6.

Is thrombolysis of occluded popliteal and tibial bypass grafts worthwhile?

Hye RJ(1), Turner C, Valji K, Wolf YG, Roberts AC, Bookstein JJ, Plecha EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of California School of Medicine, San Diego 
92103-8401.

PURPOSE: We analyzed the short- and long-term results for patients undergoing 
thrombolysis of occluded infrainguinal bypass grafts at our institution over a 
62-month period.
METHODS: Thirty-one patients with 40 episodes of graft thrombosis in 33 grafts 
managed by thrombolysis were retrospectively reviewed. The effects of graft age, 
material, and anatomy, symptoms, treatment, anticoagulation, and occlusion 
duration were evaluated for impact on patency after thrombolysis. Dose and 
duration of therapy with use of the technique of pulse-spray thrombolysis was 
assessed.
RESULTS: Thrombolysis successfully reestablished patency in 92% of grafts 
treated. Mean lysis time and urokinase dose were 118 minutes and 607,000 units, 
respectively. Responsible lesions were identified and treated by angioplasty or 
surgery in 35 of 37 cases. The patency rate after thrombolysis was 28% at 30 
months, and the secondary patency rate was 46% at 18 months. Duration of 
occlusion, symptoms, treatment, graft anatomy, and prior graft revision did not 
impact on patency. Mean secondary patency was 21.5 months in grafts in place 
over 1 year and 7.0 months in grafts in place for less than 1 year. Mean 
secondary patency was 23.8 months in polytetrafluoroethylene grafts and 8.4 
months in vein grafts. The limb salvage rate was 84% at 30 months, and the 
patient survival rate was 84% at 42 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Pulse-spray thrombolysis is effective in rapidly recanalizing 
thrombosed infrainguinal grafts. Grafts failing in the first year after 
placement should generally be replaced, reserving thrombolysis and revision for 
grafts greater than 1 year old. Vein grafts tolerate thrombosis less well than 
synthetic conduits and have decreased long-term patency.

DOI: 10.1016/0741-5214(94)90283-6
PMID: 7933260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Oct;20(4):650-5. doi: 10.1016/0741-5214(94)90291-7.

Endothelial seeding of polytetrafluoroethylene femoral popliteal bypasses: the 
failure of low-density seeding to improve patency.

Herring M(1), Smith J, Dalsing M, Glover J, Compton R, Etchberger K, Zollinger 
T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, St. Vincent Hospital, Indianapolis, IN.

PURPOSE: We compared 66 seeded polytetrafluoroethylene and 53 autologous vein 
grafts to determine whether endothelial seeding could improve the patency of 
polytetrafluoroethylene femoral popliteal bypass grafts and to determine whether 
endothelial seeding could be performed consistently in multiple institutions.
METHODS: Nine surgeons at four hospitals randomized patients to receive either a 
seeded polytetrafluoroethylene or a vein graft, but if no satisfactory vein (n = 
26) existed, an "obligatory" seeded polytetrafluoroethylene graft was used.
RESULTS: Scanning electron microscopy confirmed satisfactory initial attachment 
of endothelium on the discarded ends of the grafts. Patency was compared with 
the use of log rank analysis and revealed better patency in vein grafts at 30 
months (vein = 91.6% +/- 4.1%; seeded polytetrafluoroethylene = 37.8% +/- 9.4%; 
p = 0.006). Failed grafts revealed anastomotic hyperplasia.
CONCLUSIONS: (1) Vein graft patency was better than seeded 
polytetrafluoroethylene grafts; (2) seeding did not improve patency in 
below-the-knee bypasses as suggested by pilot studies; (3) the failure of seeded 
grafts was associated with anastomotic hyperplasia but not with the failure of 
initial endothelial attachment; and (4) each institution reported similar 
results.

DOI: 10.1016/0741-5214(94)90291-7
PMID: 7933268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. JAMA. 1994 Oct 19;272(15):1210-4.

Safety and cost-effectiveness of solvent-detergent-treated plasma. In search of 
a zero-risk blood supply.

AuBuchon JP(1), Birkmeyer JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH 
03756.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1999 Jul 28;282(4):329.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the public health and economic implications of 
solvent-detergent-treated frozen plasma (SD FP). While this processing technique 
nearly eliminates the risk of transmitting lipid-enveloped viruses (hepatitis B 
and C and human immunodeficiency virus), it has associated costs and, because it 
requires pooling many plasma units, may increase risks of nonenveloped virus 
transmission.
DESIGN: A previously published Markov decision analysis model was modified to 
assess transfusion-related outcomes in hypothetical cohorts of plasma 
recipients. In-hospital mortality and other characteristics were determined in 
61 patients receiving plasma transfusions at a medium-sized tertiary care center 
to provide data for the model. Other parameters were obtained from the medical 
literature.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Expected SD FP costs, benefits, and cost-effectiveness, 
assessed as cost per quality-adjusted life-year saved.
RESULTS: Compared with untreated plasma, a unit of SD FP produces a net benefit 
of 35 minutes in quality-adjusted life expectancy at a cost of about $19. 
Extrapolated to the 2.2 million plasma units transfused annually in the United 
States, SD FP would save 147 quality-adjusted life-years at a cost of $42.5 
million. The marginal cost-effectiveness, $289,300 per quality-adjusted 
life-year saved in the baseline analysis, was most sensitive to estimates of SD 
treatment cost and the clinical setting of plasma use. In sensitivity analysis, 
the net benefit of SD FP was negated by the existence of even a minute risk of 
nonenveloped virus infection.
CONCLUSIONS: From a public health perspective, the relatively high costs and 
small benefits of reducing enveloped virus infection risks with SD FP (and the 
additional risks of noneveloped virus transmission) do not appear to justify 
widespread implementation of this new technology.

PMID: 7933351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. JAMA. 1994 Oct 26;272(16):1246.

From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Firearm-related years of 
potential life lost before age 65 years--United States, 1980-1991.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7933362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 1994;38(1):71-9.

Posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation in filtered or nonfiltered 
glaucoma eyes.

Yamagami S(1), Araie M, Mori M, Mishima K.

Author information:
(1)Eye Clinic, JR Tokyo General Hospital, Japan.

Cataract extraction and posterior chamber intraocular lens (PC-IOL) implantation 
was carried out in 45 glaucoma eyes that had undergone glaucoma filtering 
surgery (Group A), and in 47 glaucoma eyes in which intraocular pressure (IOP) 
was well controlled with medication (Group B). To analyze the effects of PC-IOL 
implantation on the control of IOP and the functioning of the filtering bleb, a 
life-table analysis using the Kaplan-Meier method was carried out. In Group A 
the probability that IOP control will not worsen at 2 years was 56 +/- 12 (SE)% 
in eyes where a functioning filtering bleb had existed preoperatively. The 
probability that the filtering bleb was not cicatrized at 2 years 
postoperatively was 44 +/- 11 (SE)%. In Group B the postoperative IOP on the 
first postoperative day was significantly higher than the preoperative level in 
primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) eyes, while no such difference was seen in 
primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG) eyes. The postoperative IOP was 
significantly lower than the preoperative level from 3 to 6 months 
postoperatively in POAG eyes and from 1 to 12 months postoperatively in PACG 
eyes. Medication did not differ significantly pre- and postoperatively. In 64 
+/- 11 (SE)% of POAG and 63 +/- 15% of PACG eyes the IOP control did not worsen 
at 2 years. In 70% of the eyes the IOP control improved postoperatively, and was 
maintained for 2 years with the probability of 44 +/- 12 (SE)%.

PMID: 7933701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Mech Ageing Dev. 1994 May;74(1-2):1-14. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(94)90094-9.

A duality in aging: the equivalence of mortality models based on radically 
different concepts.

Yashin AI(1), Vaupel JW, Iachine IA.

Author information:
(1)Aging Research Unit, Odense University Medical School, Denmark.

Several alternative mortality models fit Swedish old-age mortality data equally 
well. The models build on two different concepts of the heterogeneity of 
individuals in a population. The first concept concerns fixed, genetic 
differences among individuals in their risk of death. The second concept 
involves acquired susceptibility to death due to physiological changes and 
environmental influences. We show that alternative mortality models based on 
either of these two concepts or some mix of them lead to the same parametric 
form of observed age-specific death rates. We discuss this duality property of 
mortality processes and show that even when a mortality model fits the data, the 
concepts used to construct the model may not be correct.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(94)90094-9
PMID: 7934200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Mech Ageing Dev. 1994 May;74(1-2):121-33. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(94)90104-x.

Oxidative damage, mitochondrial oxidant generation and antioxidant defenses 
during aging and in response to food restriction in the mouse.

Sohal RS(1), Ku HH, Agarwal S, Forster MJ, Lal H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX 
75275.

This study was conducted in order to test the concept that oxidative damage is 
associated with aging and may be a factor in the modulation of life span in 
response to variations in caloric intake. Mice fed a diet that was 40% lower in 
calories (DR) than the ad libitum fed (AL) animals exhibited a 43% extension in 
average life span and a 61% prolongation in mortality rate doubling time. A 
comparison of AL and DR mice at 9, 17 and 23 months of age indicated that the 
protein carbonyl content in the brain, heart and kidney increased with age and 
was significantly greater in the AL than DR group in each organ at each of the 
three ages. Mitochondrial state 4 or resting respiratory rate increased with age 
in the AL, but not the DR group, and was also relatively higher in the former. 
The rates of mitochondrial superoxide and hydrogen peroxide generation increased 
with age and were higher in the AL than DR mice in all the three organs at each 
age. In contrast, there was no clear-cut overall pattern of age-related or 
dietary-related changes in antioxidant defenses provided by superoxide 
dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase. Results suggest that mechanisms 
of aging and life span shortening by enhanced caloric intake are associated with 
oxidative damage arising from corresponding changes in mitochondrial oxidant 
production. Protein carbonyl content, and mitochondrial O2.- and H2O2 generation 
may act as indices of aging.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(94)90104-x
PMID: 7934203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Mech Ageing Dev. 1994 May;74(1-2):15-33. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(94)90095-7.

The analysis of survival (mortality) data: fitting Gompertz, Weibull, and 
logistic functions.

Wilson DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL 33124.

Survival functions are fitted to survival data from several large populations. 
The Gompertz survival function corresponds to exponential mortality rate 
increases with time. The Weibull survival function corresponds to mortality 
rates that increase as a power function of time. A two-parameter, logistic 
survival function is introduced, and corresponds to mortality rates that 
increase, and then decrease, with time. A three-parameter logistic-mortality 
function also is examined. It reflects mortality rates that rise, and then 
plateau, with age. Data are from published studies of medflies, Drosophila, 
house flies, flour beetles, and humans. Some survival data are better fit by a 
logistic survival function than by the more traditionally used Gompertz or 
Weibull functions. Gompertz, Weibull, or logistic survival functions often fit 
the survival of 95+% of a population, and the 'tails' of the survival curves 
usually appear to fall between the values predicted by the three functions. For 
some populations, such 'tails' appear to be too complex to be fit well by any 
simple function. Survival data for males and females in some populations are 
best fit by different functions. Populations of 100 or more are needed to 
distinguish among the functions. When testing effects of environmental or 
genetic manipulations on survival, it has been common to determine the changes 
in parameter values for a given function, such as Gompertz. It may be equally 
important to determine whether the best-fit function has changed as well.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(94)90095-7
PMID: 7934205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Mech Ageing Dev. 1994 Jun;74(3):149-59. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(94)90086-8.

Life span and cancer mortality in the beagle dog and humans.

Albert RE(1), Benjamin SA, Shukla R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health, University of Cincinnati Medical Center, 
OH 45267-0056.

This study compares the age-dependence and rate of cancer mortality in untreated 
Beagles over a lifetime with that of Japanese and US white men and women. The 
purpose of the study was to determine the extent to which there is a linkage 
between life span and cancer mortality in Beagle dogs and humans. The two human 
populations were chosen to represent contrasting races and environments. Using 
the age at 10% survival as the measure of life span, about 5.5 years in humans 
was equivalent to 1 year of life in Beagles. The age dependence and total cancer 
mortality was the same in men and male Beagles. The age dependence was the same 
in female Beagles and women, but the total cancer mortality was somewhat greater 
in female Beagles due to more breast cancer. Cancer in Beagles, other than 
breast cancer in females, consisted mostly of sarcomas and lymphomas. There was 
very little cancer in environmentally exposed tissues (lung and intestine). 
There was also some contrast between Japanese and Americans in the relative 
rates of cancer at certain sites. The study provides support for the life span 
linkage of adult cancer mortality in the two species, in spite of the different 
patterns of cancer types and environments.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(94)90086-8
PMID: 7934212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Lancet. 1994 Oct 29;344(8931):1223-4.

Effect of coronary artery bypass graft surgery on survival.

Hux JE, Naylor CD.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1994 Aug 27;344(8922):563-70.

PMID: 7934556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Med Decis Making. 1994 Jul-Sep;14(3):255-8. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9401400307.

The effect of physician's explanations on patients' treatment preferences: 
five-year survival data.

Mazur DJ(1), Hickam DH.

Author information:
(1)Medical Service, Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Portland, OR 
97207.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the influence of physicians' explanations on patients' 
choices.
SETTING: A university-based Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
PARTICIPANTS: 136 patients seen in a continuity-care general medicine clinic.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Patients were randomized to two groups [Limited 
Explanation (LE) and Extensive Explanation (EE)] and asked to choose between two 
alternative treatments (differing in short-term vs long-term survival benefits) 
for an unidentified medical condition, based on the information given in the 
explanations. LE consisted of a brief orientation to graphs summarizing the 
treatment results, while EE consisted of a detailed verbal description of the 
graphs. Significantly (p < 0.001) more patients receiving EE changed their 
preferences across the three pairs of five-year survival curves, compared with 
patients receiving LE. Of the patients receiving EE, 57% reported either 
medium-term (year 0-to-intercept or intercept-to-year 5) data or the average 
life expectancy for the five-year period contained in the curves (ALE-5) as most 
influencing their decision making; whereas 78% of patients receiving LE reported 
only endpoint (year 0 or year 5) data as most influencing their preferences.
CONCLUSIONS: The patients' treatment preferences for long-term vs short-term 
survival benefits were influenced by the amounts of verbal explanation provided 
to them about five-year survival graphs summarizing treatment results. The 
patients appeared to minimize the importance of medium-range data when those 
data were not specifically pointed out to them.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9401400307
PMID: 7934712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1994 Jul;26(7):857-65.

Changes in physical activity and other lifeway patterns influencing longevity.

Paffenbarger RS Jr(1), Kampert JB, Lee IM, Hyde RT, Leung RW, Wing AL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, CA 
94305-5092.

We studied the adoption or maintenance of physical activity and other optional 
lifeway patterns for their influence on mortality rates of Harvard College 
alumni. Men aged 45-84 in 1977, surveyed by questionnaire in 1962 or 1966 and 
again in 1977, were followed from 1977 through 1988 or to age 90. Of 14,786 
alumni, 2,343 died in 165,402 man-years of follow-up. Relative risks of death, 
standardized for potential confounding influences, for men who between 
questionnaires increased their physical activity through walking, stair 
climbing, and sports or recreational activities to 1,500 kcal or more per wk 
were 0.72 (95% confidence interval 0.64-0.82), compared with 1.00 for men who 
remained less active. Corresponding relative risks for men who adopted 
moderately vigorous sports play (> or = 4.5 METs) were 0.73 (0.65-0.81) vs 1.00 
for men not adopting such sports; and for cigarette smokers who quit, 0.74 
(0.65-0.84) vs 1.00 for persistent smokers. Men with recently diagnosed 
hypertension had a lower death risk than long-term hypertensives (0.80; 
0.70-0.92), as did men with consistent normotension (0.52; 0.47-0.58). Changes 
in body-mass index had little influence on mortality during follow-up. These 
findings fit the hypothesis that adopting a physically active lifeway, quitting 
cigarette smoking, and remaining normotensive independently delay all-cause 
mortality and extend longevity.

PMID: 7934759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. N Engl J Med. 1994 Nov 3;331(18):1201-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199411033311806.

The use of levonorgestrel implants (Norplant) for contraception in adolescent 
mothers.

Polaneczky M(1), Slap G, Forke C, Rappaport A, Sondheimer S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, New York Hospital-Cornell Medical 
Center, NY 10021.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1995 Mar 23;332(12):821; author reply 821-2.
    N Engl J Med. 1995 Mar 23;332(12):821; author reply 821-2.
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Nov 3;331(18):1229-30.

BACKGROUND: Although levonorgestrel implants (Norplant) would appear to be a 
good contraceptive option for adolescent mothers, there is little information 
about the use of Norplant in this population.
METHODS: We studied 100 postpartum adolescents who chose a contraceptive method 
at an urban teaching hospital between September 1991 and July 1992. Structured 
interviews were conducted and medical records were reviewed soon after delivery 
and at a mean (+/- SD) of 15.5 +/- 2.9 months post partum.
RESULTS: Forty-eight of the adolescent mothers chose Norplant, 50 chose oral 
contraceptives, and 2 (not further studied) chose barrier methods of 
contraception. The factors significantly associated with the choice of Norplant 
were older age (16.7 years among those who chose Norplant, vs. 16.2 years among 
those who chose oral contraceptives), multiparity (24 subjects vs. 6 subjects), 
and previous use of oral contraceptives (34 subjects vs. 21 subjects). During 
follow-up, there were no differences between the Norplant group and the 
oral-contraceptive group in the frequency of clinic visits (an average of 2.3 
visits per subject in each group), failure to return after the postpartum visit 
(9 subjects vs. 11 subjects), or the incidence of sexually transmitted diseases 
(42 percent vs. 36 percent). At follow-up, 95 percent of the subjects in the 
Norplant group and 33 percent of those in the oral-contraceptive group were 
still using the method they had chosen (P < 0.001). During the first postpartum 
year 1 subject in the Norplant group and 19 in the oral-contraceptive group 
became pregnant (P < 0.001). Norplant users did not differ from all other 
adolescents studied with regard to sexual activity or condom use.
CONCLUSIONS: The selection of Norplant by adolescent mothers as a method of 
contraception is associated with higher rates of continued use and lower rates 
of new pregnancy than the selection of oral contraceptives and does not affect 
the use of health care services, sexual activity, condom use, or the rate of 
sexually transmitted diseases.

PIP: Norplant would seem like a good contraceptive option for adolescent 
mothers, but little data exists about the use of this particular contraceptive 
method in that population. The authors publish findings from a prospective study 
to determine the factors associated with the choice of Norplant compared with 
other contraceptive methods and to assess the effect of Norplant on the use of 
health care services, sexual activity, additional pregnancy, and condom use. 100 
postpartum adolescents who chose a contraceptive method at an urban teaching 
hospital over the period September 1991 - July 1992 were studied through 
structured interviews and the review of medical records soon after delivery and 
at a mean 15.5 months post partum. 48 of the adolescent mothers chose Norplant, 
50 chose oral contraceptives, and two chose barrier methods of contraception. 
Norplant acceptors were of mean age 16.7 years, while oral contraceptive 
acceptors were of mean age 16.2 years. 24 Norplant acceptors and six oral 
contraceptive acceptors were multiparous, and 34 Norplant acceptors and 21 oral 
contraceptive users had previous experience with oral contraceptives. No 
differences were observed between groups during follow-up in the frequency of 
clinic visits, failure to return after the postpartum visit, sexual activity, 
condom use, or the incidence of sexually transmitted diseases. At follow-up, 95% 
of the subjects in the Norplant group compared to 33% of those in the oral 
contraceptive group were still using the method they had chosen. During the 
first postpartum year, one subject in the Norplant group and 19 in the oral 
contraceptive group became pregnant.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199411033311806
PMID: 7935659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Neurosurgery. 1994 Jul;35(1):9-18; discussion 18-9. doi: 
10.1227/00006123-199407000-00002.

Angiographic screening and elective surgery of familial cerebral aneurysms: a 
decision analysis.

Leblanc R(1), Worsley KJ, Melanson D, Tampieri D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Montreal Neurological Hospital & Institute, Canada.

Up to 6% of cerebral aneurysms may be familial. Because the pattern of 
inheritance and the prevalence of aneurysms within families are unknown, the 
management of family members at risk of harboring a cerebral aneurysm is 
currently empirical. We established the prevalence of aneurysms in the second 
generation of individuals with familial cerebral aneurysms and determined the 
possible benefit of angiographic screening and elective surgery of such 
individuals by using a simple decision analysis model. Four consecutive families 
were identified in whom the mother and a child had a ruptured cerebral aneurysm. 
A total of 19 siblings at risk in the second generation were identified. Fifteen 
underwent elective cerebral angiography: one had a cerebral aneurysm and two had 
an infundibulum at the origin of the posterior communicating artery. Including 
the previously known aneurysms, the prevalence of aneurysms in the second 
generation was thus established at 29.4%. A decision analysis was performed with 
2% as the annual risk of rupture, 72.7% as the risk of death or disability with 
rupture, 0.1% as the risk of angiography, and 6.5% as the risk of surgery. The 
benefit in years of survival free of sequelae resulting from angiographic 
screening and elective surgery (intervention) over natural history was computed 
for life expectancy corresponding to each quinquennial age group from age 15 to 
100 years. Intervention equaled natural history, in terms of years of survival 
expected with each choice, at a life expectancy of 10.6 years, corresponding to 
age 76.5 years for men and 80 years for women, and produced a net gain of at 
least 1 year for patients whose life expectancy was 32 years or more, 
corresponding to age 53.5 years for women and 49 years for men. Greater benefit 
was achieved with increasing life expectancy (younger age). The prevalence of 
aneurysms in the second generation when a mother and child have an aneurysm is 
29.4%. Intervention produces a benefit of at least 1 year of survival free of 
sequelae over natural history in such individuals if their life expectancy is 32 
years or more.

DOI: 10.1227/00006123-199407000-00002
PMID: 7936158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Minerva Cardioangiol. 1994 Jun;42(6):281-8.

[Recurrent aneurysmal disease of the native arteries in subjects operated on for 
abdominal aortic aneurysm].

[Article in Italian]

Ghilardi G(1), De Monti M, Longhi F, Giovilli M, Sgroi G, Scorza R.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Semeiotica Chirurgica, Università degli Studi di Milano.

Abdominal aortic aneurysm repairs are presently increasing in number all over 
the western countries; long life expectancy and high quality of life, warranted 
to patients surviving operation, stressed the possibility that aneurysmal 
disease affects other arteries as well as the para-anastomotic aorta itself. 
OBJECTIVE. The observation that, in the last four years, five patients were 
operated on for recurrent aneurysms of native arteries, gives the opportunity to 
discuss the matter and review the literature on this topic. MATERIAL AND 
METHODS. Five cases of recurrent aneurysms of native arteries in patients that 
had undergone abdominal aortic aneurysmectomy 4 to 11 (mean: 8) years before are 
discussed. A total of 16 new aneurysms were found. Although all these patients 
regularly attended their clinical follow-up program, these observations have to 
be considered retrospective and incidental, because B-mode echography was not 
yet routinely requested by the followup protocol. RESULTS. Neither hypertension 
nor type of graft implanted in the first operation were correlated to the 
development of new aneurysms in these five subjects. Rupture as causative of the 
original aneurysmectomy was recorded in two cases (40%), that developed 8 
recurrent aneurysms (50%), one of which ruptured. CONCLUSIONS. Although 
recurrent aneurysms are occasionally reported in the literature, the lack of 
prospective follow-up series, based on non invasive serial imaging of the 
arterial system, prevents clarifying whether these observations are isolated or 
recurrence is likely to be a long-term outcome of aneurysmal disease.

PMID: 7936331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Nord Med. 1994;109(10):265-8.

[Accidents and accident mortality in Denmark--a comparison with Scandinavia and 
Europe].

[Article in Danish]

Hansen TB(1), Röck ND, Poulstrup A, Sabroe S, Steensberg J, Netterstrøm B.

Author information:
(1)Ortopaedkirurgisk afd 0 og Ulykkes Analyse Gruppen, Odense Universitets 
Hospital.

As the development in mean age of the population and life expectancy has been 
less favourable in Denmark than in the rest of Western Europe, the Ministry of 
Health decided to investigate statistics for the period, 1972-1990, for the main 
areas where Danish life expectancy was poorer. A sharp increase in the incidence 
of accidental poisoning with medical drugs and alcohol during the period was 
found to be a factor contributing to the poorer Danish statistics during the 
period. In the subcategory, death after a fall, there was an increase in 
incidence among the elderly, but the loss of life-years remained constant. The 
subcategory, fatal road accidents, manifested a marked reduction in incidence, 
despite the increase in traffic density during the period, and there was a 
reduction in the loss of life-years. Thus, in the category, accidental deaths, 
the increase in the incidence of accidental poisonings would appear to be the 
only factor contributing to the poorer development in mean age and life 
expectancy in Denmark.

PMID: 7937021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Pediatr Dent. 1994 Jul-Aug;16(4):282-8.

The influence of restorative material on the survival rate of restorations in 
primary molars.

Papathanasiou AG(1), Curzon ME, Fairpo CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Dental Health, University of Leeds, England.

Comment in
    Pediatr Dent. 1995 Jan-Feb;17(1):6.

The survival rates of restorations in primary molars were calculated after a 
retrospective examination of patients' dental records from a study population of 
1,065 children. A random sample of 128 records showing information for 604 
dental restorations was examined, coded, and analyzed by the life table method 
of survival analysis. The order of the survival rate of restorations from higher 
to lower success was preformed crowns, amalgam, composite resin, and glass 
ionomer restorations. A highly statistically significant difference (P = 0.0001) 
was found among the survival success rates of different material restorations. 
For preformed crowns and amalgam restorations, the median survival time was more 
than 5 years. The 5-year survival estimate for preformed crowns was 68% and for 
amalgam restorations was 60%. For composite resin the median survival time was 
32 months and the 4-year survival estimate was 40%. For glass ionomer 
restorations, the median survival time was 12 months and the 4-year survival 
estimate was 5%.

PMID: 7937261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Postgrad Med. 1994 Oct;96(5):151-8, 161, 165.

Hereditary hemochromatosis. Detecting and correcting iron overload.

Olynyk JK(1), Bacon BR.

Author information:
(1)University of Western Australia.

Hereditary hemochromatosis is a common genetic disorder. A large number of 
homozygous patients with early disease are asymptomatic, but with early 
diagnosis and treatment, their life expectancy is normal. The best screening 
test is determination of the percent saturation of transferrin or the 
transferrin index. Liver biopsy with measurement of hepatic iron concentration 
is required for definitive diagnosis. Once the diagnosis is confirmed, treatment 
by phlebotomy at regular intervals is straightforward.

PMID: 7937414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Soc Sci Med. 1994 Aug;39(3):433-47. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(94)90141-4.

The questionable wisdom of a low-fat diet and cholesterol reduction.

Atrens DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.

Comment in
    Soc Sci Med. 1996 May;42(9):1227-33.

The prevalent wisdom that a low-fat diet and cholesterol reduction are essential 
to good cardiovascular health is coming under increased scrutiny. An examination 
of the foundations of this view suggests that in many respects it was 
ill-conceived from the outset and, with the accumulation of new evidence, it is 
becoming progressively less tenable. Cross-sectional, longitudinal and 
cross-cultural investigations have variously suggested that the relationship 
between dietary fat intake and death from heart disease is positive, negative 
and random. These data are incompatible with the view that dietary fat intake 
has any causal role in cardiovascular health. Although hypercholesterolemia is 
associated with increased liability to death from heart disease, it is as 
frequently associated with increased overall life expectancy as with decreased 
life expectancy. These findings are incompatible with labelling 
hypercholesterolemia an overall health hazard. Moreover, it is questionable if 
the cardiovascular liability associated with hypercholesterolemia is either 
causal or reversible. The complex relationships between diet, serum cholesterol, 
atherosclerosis and mortality and their interactions with genetic and 
environmental factors suggest that the effects of simple dietary prescriptions 
are unlikely to be predictable, let alone beneficial. These cautions are borne 
out by numerous studies which have shown that multifactorial primary 
intervention to lower cholesterol levels is as likely to increase death from 
cardiovascular causes as to decrease it. Importantly, the only significant 
overall effect of cholesterol-lowering intervention that has ever been shown is 
increased mortality. The stress and helplessness associated with 
misapprehensions as to the dangers of dietary fat and the asceticism inherent in 
the war on cholesterol have considerable implications for health practices. 
Recent research in behavioral immunology suggests that stress and helplessness 
are likely to compromise immunity and promote ill-health.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(94)90141-4
PMID: 7939861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Surg Neurol. 1994 Jul;42(1):2-7. doi: 10.1016/0090-3019(94)90241-0.

The surgical management of benign intracranial meningiomas and acoustic neuromas 
in patients 70 years of age and older.

McGrail KM(1), Ojemann RG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, 
D.C. 20007.

Over a 22-year-period (1967-1989) 80 patients 70 years of age and older 
underwent surgery for resection of a benign intracranial tumor. This group 
included 56 meningiomas and 24 acoustic neuromas. Forty-five of the tumors were 
completely excised, whereas 35 were partially removed. Tumor regrowth was 
documented in seven patients during the follow-up period, five of whom underwent 
additional surgery for resection of recurrent tumor. Thirty-six (64.3%) of the 
patients with meningiomas had only a minimal or no preoperative neurologic 
deficit, whereas twenty (35.7%) had a major deficit. Fifty-three (94.6%) 
patients who underwent surgery for resection of their meningioma made a good 
recovery (48 were improved or unchanged and five had minimal nonincapacitating 
worsening), one (1.8%) was worse, and two (3.6%) died. Fourteen (58.3%) of the 
patients with acoustic neuromas had only a minimal or no preoperative neurologic 
deficit, whereas 10 (41.7%) had a major deficit. Twenty-two (91.7%) of the 
patients who underwent surgery for resection of their acoustic neuroma made a 
good recovery (18 were improved or unchanged and four had minimal 
nonincapacitating worsening), two (8.3%) were worse, and none died. We conclude 
that, when indicated, surgery for intracranial meningiomas and schwannomas can 
be offered to patients 70 years of age and older with acceptable morbidity and 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-3019(94)90241-0
PMID: 7940091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Sud Med Ekspert. 1993 Apr-Jun;36(2):18-21.

[Changes in the properties of the rib fragments in the posttraumatic period from 
the viewpoint of tribology].

[Article in Russian]

Koliado IB, Iankovskiĭ VE.

The authors regard a broken rib in intact respiration as a dynamic biotribologic 
system that is characterized by overcoming of adhesive-cohesive relations in the 
friction pair represented in this case by the fragment ends. In the course of 
this interaction the initial morphology of contacting fractured sites changes 
and new informative diagnostic signs, differently manifest and varying in 
extension, form. These signs may appear only in intact respiration and evidence 
a life-time rib fracture.

PMID: 7940627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Versicherungsmedizin. 1994 Aug 1;46(4):119-22.

[Life expectancy and disability in Parkinson disease].

[Article in German]

Schelosky L(1), Poewe W.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Neurologie, Univ.-Klinikums Rudolf Virchow, Berlin.

Idiopathic Parkinson's disease is a chronic progressive neurodegenerative 
disease with no possibility of curative treatment up until now. The natural 
course leads to severe handicap or death within 10-15 years, but due to the 
development of dopaminergic drug therapy life expectancy of parkinsonian 
patients has normalized and productivity remains good for a longer period during 
the course of disease.

PMID: 7941220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Versicherungsmedizin. 1994 Aug 1;46(4):122-8.

[Incidence, differential diagnosis, work capacity, mortality and cause of death 
in Parkinson disease].

[Article in German]

Eichhorn T(1), Oertel WH.

Author information:
(1)Neurologischen Klinik und Poliklinik, Klinikum Grosshadern der Univ., 
München.

Parkinson's disease is one of the most frequent neurological diseases, which 
affects about 1% of the population older than 65 years. After manifestation the 
clinical signs of Parkinson's disease chronically progress. According to the 
Hoehn and Yahr scale the severity of parkinsonian symptoms is graded into 5 
stages. Interindividually there is a considerable range in the rate of 
progression, which is on average 0.4 per year on the Hoehn and Yahr scale. 
Intraindividually the progression of clinical symptoms is approximately linear. 
If the interval between two consecutive Hoehn and Yahr stages is known, the 
further rate of progression can be estimated by extrapolation. Correlated with 
the progression of disease is a diminution of earning capacity. As there is no 
cure, Parkinson's disease only terminates with the death of the patient 
accompanied by excess mortality and reduced life expectancy. Since the 
introduction of L-DOPA a significant reduction of excess mortality has already 
been achieved. For treated patients the mean time of survival is 13-14 years 
after the onset of clinical signs.

PMID: 7941221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. World Health Organ Tech Rep Ser. 1994;844:1-100.

Prevention of diabetes mellitus. Report of a WHO Study Group.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 7941615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Acta Med Port. 1994 Jun;7(6):343-7.

[Systemic lupus erythematosus. Current treatment].

[Article in Portuguese]
