
De Queiroz MV(1).

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Reumatologia do Hospital de Santa Maria, Lisboa.

The treatment of the systemic lupus erythematosus (S.L.E.) has been modified 
significantly during the last years, contributing decisively to a better 
prognosis, and an increase in the life expectancy of patients. In this issue of 
the Acta Médica Portuguesa, we divulge our personal experience; the most recent 
advances in the treatment of this disease and, also, some future therapeutic 
perspectives.

PMID: 7942135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Adv Contracept. 1994 Jun;10(2):137-49. doi: 10.1007/BF01978107.

Contraceptive efficacy of the Copper T380A and the Multiload Cu250 IUD in three 
developing countries.

Farr G(1), Amatya R.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trials Division, Family Health International, Research Triangle 
Park, North Carolina 27709.

The clinical performance of the Copper T380A (TCu380A) and the Multiload 250 
(MLCu250) intrauterine devices (IUDs) were evaluated for 12 months in a group of 
women who had one of the two IUDs inserted. Results are from a randomized 
clinical trial conducted at four collaborating research sites located in three 
developing countries. The gross cumulative life-table pregnancy rate of the 
TCu380A IUD was significantly lower than the rate with the MLCu250 IUD at 12 
months (0.5 and 1.2, respectively, p < 0.01). No statistically significant 
differences between the two study IUDs were found with regard to IUD expulsion 
or IUD removal due to bleeding/pain, personal reasons, medical reasons, or 
planned pregnancy. TCu380A IUD users were more likely to report experiencing 
increased dysmenorrhea (p < 0.01) or intermenstrual pelvic pain (p < 0.01) than 
were MLCu250 IUD users. However, few of these users discontinued use of their 
assigned IUD because of having experienced menstrual bleeding disturbances or 
intermenstrual pelvic pain. These data indicate that the TCu380A IUD may be a 
better option than the MLCu250 IUD for women wishing to practice highly 
effective long-term birth control without having to resort to hormonal methods.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01978107
PMID: 7942261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Am J Cardiol. 1994 Oct 1;74(7):667-73. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90307-7.

Expanded Clinical Evaluation of Lovastatin (EXCEL) study results: two-year 
efficacy and safety follow-up.

Bradford RH(1), Shear CL, Chremos AN, Dujovne CA, Franklin FA, Grillo RB, 
Higgins J, Langendorfer A, Nash DT, Pool JL, et al.

Author information:
(1)Lipid Research Clinic, Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, Oklahoma City 
73104.

The Expanded Clinical Evaluation of Lovastatin study, a randomized, 
double-blind, placebo- and diet-controlled multicenter trial, evaluated the 
efficacy and tolerability of lovastatin over 48 weeks in 8,245 patients with 
moderately severe hypercholesterolemia. During year 1 of follow-up of the full 
cohort, lovastatin at 20 or 40 mg/day, or 20 or 40 mg twice daily, produced 
dose-dependent decreases in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (24% to 
40%) and triglyceride levels (10% to 19%), and increases in high-density 
lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (6.6% to 9.5%). In all, 977 patients continued 
their original blinded treatment for an additional year. In year 2, the LDL 
cholesterol response to lovastatin was maintained, the triglyceride reductions 
were somewhat less, and the increases in HDL cholesterol were moderately greater 
than in year 1. Successive transaminase elevations > 3 times the upper limit of 
normal were observed in only 1 patient in year 2, yielding a cumulative 2-year 
incidence of from 0.1% (placebo or lovastatin 20 mg/day) to 1.9% (lovastatin 80 
mg/day). Myopathy occurred in only 1 patient during year 2, and over the 2-year 
study was observed rarely and only at lovastatin dosages of 40 and 80 mg/day. 
This study indicates that lovastatin maintains its efficacy over long-term 
follow-up, particularly in effectively lowering LDL cholesterol, is generally 
well tolerated, and has a favorable safety profile.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90307-7
PMID: 7942524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Am J Hematol. 1994 Nov;47(3):218-24. doi: 10.1002/ajh.2830470313.

Hereditary hemochromatosis: a prevalent disorder of iron metabolism with an 
elusive etiology.

Conrad ME(1), Umbreit JN, Moore EG, Parmley RT.

Author information:
(1)USA Cancer Center, University of South Alabama, Mobile 36688.

Hereditary hemochromatosis is a prevalent inherited disorder with an estimated 
frequency of homozygosity of 0.2 to 0.45% in Caucasians. The disease is 
characterized by progressive iron overload until a massive accumulation of body 
iron occurs. Undetected, the disorder eventually can produce either cirrhosis, 
diabetes mellitus, cardiac disease, arthritis, or hepatocellular carcinoma or a 
combination of these manifestations. Early diagnosis and treatment prevents 
organ damage and normalizes life expectancy. Screening studies to detect 
hemochromatosis are most effectively accomplished by measurement of the serum 
iron and total iron binding capacity. Treatment is most effectively performed by 
frequent phlebotomy until body stores are empty and then 3 to 4 times yearly for 
life. The basic defect of hemochromatosis appears to increase iron absorption, 
decrease iron excretion, and produce preferential deposit of iron in hepatic 
parenchymal cells rather than Kupffer cells. The genetic abnormality of 
hemochromatosis is located on chromosome 6 in close association with the gene 
for HLA antigens. Recent speculation postulates that tumor necrosis factor may 
be involved in the etiology of this disease because of its location on 
chromosome 6 and its effect upon iron transport.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.2830470313
PMID: 7942787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Am J Physiol. 1994 Oct;267(4 Pt 2):R895-900. doi: 
10.1152/ajpregu.1994.267.4.R895.

Acute blockage of the ubiquitin-mediated proteolytic pathway during invertebrate 
quiescence.

Anchordoguy TJ(1), Hand SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental, Population, and Organismic Biology, University 
of Colorado, Boulder 80309-0334.

Many organisms withstand adverse environmental conditions by entering a 
reversible state of quiescence that may last for months or years. In this report 
we provide evidence that the reduction in adenylate energy status and the 
associated intracellular acidosis occurring during anoxia-induced quiescence 
combine to inhibit, directly or indirectly, the initial step in the 
ubiquitin-mediated proteolytic pathway in embryos of the brine shrimp Artemia 
franciscana. The levels of ubiquitin-conjugated proteins drop to 37% of control 
(aerobic) values during the first hour of anoxia and reach 7% in 24 h. ATP falls 
to 5% of control values under anoxia, and AMP rises reciprocally. This energy 
limitation is accompanied by a simultaneous depression of intracellular pH 
(pHi). By comparison, when embryos are subjected to artificial acidosis under 
aerobic conditions (pHi drops sharply, but ATP does not change for hours), 
ubiquitin-conjugated proteins decline to 58% after 1 h. Thus, while the 
proximate mechanism for the suppression of ubiquitination has not been proven, 
alterations in the adenylate pool and the decrease in pHi both appear to 
contribute to the suppression of ubiquitination. Western blot analysis indicates 
that the decline in ubiquitin-conjugated protein is rapidly reversed on return 
of embryos to control conditions. We conclude that this arrest of ubiquitination 
likely serves to suppress ubiquitin-mediated degradation of protein, thereby 
preserving macromolecular integrity and potentially explaining the remarkable 
extension of protein half-life observed under anoxia in these embryos.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.1994.267.4.R895
PMID: 7943430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Am J Public Health. 1994 Oct;84(10):1591-7. doi: 10.2105/ajph.84.10.1591.

Consequences of the North American Free Trade Agreement for health services: a 
perspective from Mexico.

Frenk J(1), Gómez-Dantés O, Cruz C, Chacón F, Hernández P, Freeman P.

Author information:
(1)Mexican Health Foundation, University of Mexico, Mexico City.

OBJECTIVES: The purposes of the study were to assess the potential impact of the 
North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) on medical care in Mexico and to 
identify internal measures Mexico could take to increase the benefits and 
minimize the risks of free trade.
METHODS: The dual nature of the health sector is examined; the Mexican, 
Canadian, and US health care systems are compared; and modes and consequences of 
international exchange of health services are analyzed.
RESULTS: Four issues require immediate attention: accreditation of health care 
facilities, licensing and certification of professionals, technology assessment, 
and financial equity.
CONCLUSIONS: NAFTA offers opportunities for positive developments in Mexico, 
provided risks can be anticipated and preventive measures can be taken to avoid 
negative impacts on the health system. Medical services, like other elements of 
the Mexican economy, must be modernized to respond to the demands of global 
competition. The Mexican National Academy of Medicine has recommended to the 
Mexican government (1) internal strengthening of the Mexican health care system 
to improve its ability to respond to the new conditions created by NAFTA and (2) 
a gradual process to facilitate equitable and mutually beneficial interactions 
among the three countries.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.84.10.1591
PMCID: PMC1615090
PMID: 7943476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Ann Surg. 1994 Oct;220(4):544-50; discussion 550-1. doi: 
10.1097/00000658-199410000-00012.

Antiphospholipid antibodies in vascular surgery patients. A cross-sectional 
study.

Taylor LM Jr(1), Chitwood RW, Dalman RL, Sexton G, Goodnight SH, Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland.

Comment in
    Ann Surg. 1995 Aug;222(2):210-1.

BACKGROUND: Autoantibodies to phospholipid (aPL) have been associated with 
vascular thromboses in cerebral, coronary, and peripheral venous and arterial 
sites. To date, no large cross-sectional study has examined the incidence of 
occurrence of aPL in patients with peripheral arterial disease.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was performed with patients admitted for 
vascular surgery procedures to treat peripheral arterial disease for 23 months 
between January 1, 1990 and November 1, 1991. Consecutive patients were 
evaluated for the presence of aPL. Medical records for each patient were 
reviewed in detail, and historic, operative, and postoperative parameters were 
tabulated for relationship to the presence of aPL.
RESULTS: Two hundred thirty-four patients underwent complete testing for aPL. 
All patients were receiving chronic aspirin therapy. This represented 86% of 
admissions. Antiphospholipid antibodies were detected in 60 patients (26%). No 
differences in age, sex, operation performed, or postoperative outcome were 
found between patients with and without aPL. However, patients with aPL were 1.8 
times more likely to have undergone previous lower extremity (LE) vascular 
surgery than patients without aPL (95% confidence interval = 1.0 - 3.6, p = 
0.047). Patients with aPL and previous LE vascular surgery were 5.6 times more 
likely to have had occlusion of that procedure than patients without aPL (95% 
confidence interval = 1.9 - 16.8, p = 0.03). The occluded previous LE procedures 
had a shorter duration of patency before occlusion in patients with aPL than in 
those without (mean duration of patency 17 months vs. 50 months, p < 0.003). 
Patients with occluded previous LE procedures and aPL were 4 times more likely 
to be female (95% C.I. = 1.4 - 11.3, p = 0.018).
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of aPL in vascular surgery patients is substantial. 
Vascular surgery patients with aPL are more likely to have failure of previous 
LE bypass procedures and to be female and the bypass failure occurs 
significantly more rapidly than in patients without aPL. Based on these data, 
testing of vascular surgery patients for aPL and investigation of alternative 
antithrombotic treatment regimens in patients with aPL appears warranted.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-199410000-00012
PMCID: PMC1234430
PMID: 7944664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Ann Surg. 1994 Oct;220(4):564-8; discussion 568-9. doi: 
10.1097/00000658-199410000-00014.

Surgical management of Meckel's diverticulum. An epidemiologic, population-based 
study.

Cullen JJ(1), Kelly KA, Moir CR, Hodge DO, Zinsmeister AR, Melton LJ 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.

Comment in
    Ann Surg. 1995 Dec;222(6):770.

OBJECTIVE: The authors determined whether Meckel's diverticulum, discovered 
incidentally at operation, should be removed.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: It is not clear from the medical literature whether the 
risk of an incidental Meckel's diverticulectomy is greater than the risk of 
leaving the diverticulum in place.
METHODS: The authors used the medical experience of Olmsted County, Minnesota 
residents for the period 1950 to 1992 to answer the question.
RESULTS: During the period, 58 residents developed Meckel's complications that 
required diverticulectomies. The incidence of complications was 87 per 100,000 
person-years, and the lifetime risk (to 80 years of age) of developing them was 
6.4%. The risks were similar throughout the period and at all ages of life, but 
were greater among men (124 per 100,000 person-years) than women (50 per 100,000 
person-years, p < 0.05). Diverticulectomies for complications carried an 
operative mortality and morbidity of 2% and 12% and a cumulative risk of 
long-term postoperative complications of 7%, whereas incidental 
diverticulectomies done in 87 residents during the period carried corresponding 
rates of only 1%, 2%, and 2%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Meckel's diverticula discovered incidentally at operation should be 
removed for most patients, regardless of age.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-199410000-00014
PMCID: PMC1234434
PMID: 7944666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Aust N Z J Surg. 1994 Nov;64(11):780-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-2197.1994.tb04539.x.

Issues in biomedical statistics: analysing 2 x 2 tables of frequencies.

Ludbrook J(1), Dudley H.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Research Laboratory, University of Melbourne Department of 
Surgery, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.

How best to analyse statistically experimental results that are set out as a 2 x 
2 table of frequencies has been debated by statisticians for more than 50 years. 
The main issue is what framework of statistical inference should be adopted. The 
design of most biomedical experiments that result in 2 x 2 tables of independent 
observations is compatible with the randomization model of inference and with 
the Fisher exact test. It is rare that the Neyman-Pearson population model is 
applicable and that a case can be made for using the Pearson chi 2 test, or 
others that refer a test statistic to the chi-squared distribution. Even then, 
the adjustments for the mismatch between the test statistic and the chi-squared 
distribution so as to control the risk of Type I error are complex that the 
Fisher test is probably a safer option (or Yates' correction to the Pearson test 
if there is no access to a computer). When the 2 x 2 table results from two sets 
of measurements having been made on the same group, the population model of 
inference is inapplicable and the exact form of the McNemar test should be used. 
Confidence intervals for differences in proportions, the likelihood ratio, or 
the odds ratio, refer to randomly sampled populations and are not compatible 
with the randomization model of inference.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.1994.tb04539.x
PMID: 7945088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Am J Reprod Immunol. 1994 Aug;32(1):38-42. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0897.1994.tb00876.x.

The frequency of antisperm antibodies in the cervical mucus of women with poor 
postcoital tests and their effect on pregnancy rates.

Check JH(1), Bollendorf A, Katsoff D, Kozak J.

Author information:
(1)University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Robert Wood Johnson 
Medical School at Camden.

PROBLEM: To determine the impact of the presence of antisperm antibodies (ASAs) 
in the cervical mucus of female partners in couples with unexplained poor 
postcoital tests (PCT). Furthermore, the efficacy of intrauterine insemination 
(IUI) in these same patients was determined by pregnancy rates (PRs).
METHOD: Pregnancy rates following IUI in patients with infertility and poor 
postcoital tests, whether the cervical mucus was positive or negative for ASAs, 
were evaluated.
RESULTS: The 6-month PRs were similar in the ASA negative (40.5%) versus the 
positive (42.4%) group.
CONCLUSIONS: It appears that the antifertility effect of ASA may be mainly the 
immobilization of sperm in the cervical mucus, and thus, performing IUI may 
effectively correct the problem.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0897.1994.tb00876.x
PMID: 7945813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. AIDS. 1994 Jul;8(7):911-21.

Immunologic markers of AIDS progression: consistency across five HIV-infected 
cohorts. Multicohort Analysis Project Workshop. Part I.

[No authors listed]

OBJECTIVE: To provide background on five HIV-infected cohorts with documented 
seroconversion times and serum immunoglobulin (Ig) A and beta 2-microglobulin 
(beta 2M), CD4+ cell count and haemoglobin levels. To give a relative risks (RR) 
regression summary of the prognostic value of serial CD4+ cell count, IgA, beta 
2M and haemoglobin measurements for clinical AIDS, and to examine whether 
cofactors such as current age, sex and exposure category affect these RR.
DESIGN: The Multicohort Analysis Project (MAP) workshop was an international 
collaboration which brought statisticians, immunologists and clinicians from the 
five cohorts to work together for 10 days. A predefined restricted database was 
made available by each cohort for the workshop.
SETTING: The Medical Research Council (MRC) Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge, UK 
hosted the MAP workshop from 19 to 30 April 1993.
SUBJECTS: MAP workshop database comprised 1744 patients with documented HIV 
seroconversion times, with 407 women, over 900 injecting drug users (IDU) and 
over 500 homosexual men; 363 patients had AIDS and there were 308 deaths.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Descriptive statistics on survival and progression to 
clinical AIDS by cohort and exposure category, CD4+ cell count at AIDS diagnosis 
and pre-AIDS zidovudine therapy. RR summarizing the joint prognostic 
significance of serial markers and cofactors such as age, sex and exposure 
category for progression to clinical AIDS.
RESULTS: Slower progression to AIDS for IDU [95% confidence interval (CI), 
0.35-0.71] and heterosexuals (95% CI, 0.19-0.98) compared with homosexual men 
was confirmed after adjusting for current age-group and serial CD4+ cell counts. 
CD4+ cell counts at AIDS diagnosis were much higher among homosexual men before 
than after 1988 (median, 150 and 90 x 10(6)/l, respectively). Little zidovudine 
use was observed among AIDS cases diagnosed before 1988 (2%) but increased use 
was recorded after 1988 and 1989 (24%) and even greater use after 1990 (59%). 
Low serial CD4+ cell count, haemoglobin levels and high serum IgA and beta 2M 
levels were associated with an increased risk of progression to AIDS. CD4+ cell 
count always provided prognostic information in addition to other markers; IgA 
and beta 2M (95% CI, 1.23-1.50 and 105-1.51, respectively) were jointly 
prognostic. beta 2M did not provide significant extra information (95% CI, 
0.91-1.47) to the combination of serial CD4+ cell count and IgA, although 
haemoglobin did (95% CI: 0.74-0.91 for 10 g/l increase in haemoglobin). 
Interactions between cofactors, particularly exposure category and serial 
markers, were used to test for modifications in RR. The association between AIDS 
risk and serial CD4+ cell count was weaker, and with elevated IgA stronger, for 
homosexual men; RR associated with high beta 2M values were lower for IDU, in 
whom beta 2M may be elevated for reasons other than HIV disease.
CONCLUSIONS: IgA and beta 2M, which can be measured in small volumes of stored 
blood, are jointly predictive of progression to AIDS. Results were broadly 
consistent between cohorts representing different age-groups, seroconversion 
periods and exposure categories. Some regression effect modifications by 
exposure category were noted, however, which merit further independent study.

PMID: 7946100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. AIDS. 1994 Jul;8(7):995-1005. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199407000-00019.

The impact of HIV-1 infection on mortality in children under 5 years of age in 
sub-Saharan Africa: a demographic and epidemiologic analysis.

Nicoll A(1), Timaeus I, Kigadye RM, Walraven G, Killewo J.

Author information:
(1)Communicable Disease Surveillance Centre, Public Health Laboratory Service, 
London. UK.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the effects of the HIV-1 epidemic on mortality in 
children under 5 years of age in urban and rural populations in eastern and 
central, and southern Africa.
METHODS: A lifetable method that allows for the effects of competing causes 
(i.e., mortality due to HIV and other causes) was used to estimate mortality. 
Our calculations used published and unpublished data on HIV-1 infection in 
African adults and children (incidence and prevalence, vertical transmissions, 
transmission by blood transfusion and natural history), and typical baseline 
fertility and child mortality data. The results were applied to model rural and 
urban populations to explore the effects of parameters such as mortality in 
HIV-1-infected children, fertility in infected mothers and overall population 
growth.
RESULTS: We estimate that child mortality will rise substantially because of the 
prevalence of HIV-1 in urban areas. There will be little difference in the 
absolute levels of increase in mortality between areas in eastern and central, 
and southern Africa with similar levels of HIV infection; however, in relative 
terms the effect will be more noticeable in southern Africa because of the lower 
baseline mortality. Towns with severe epidemics (30% adult seroprevalence) might 
experience a rise in child mortality of one-third in eastern and central Africa 
and three-quarters in southern Africa. This will cancel or reverse existing 
advantages in urban over rural levels of child mortality and this effect will be 
more pronounced in southern Africa. The exact impact of HIV-1 will vary 
according to mortality among HIV-1-infected children and to fertility among 
infected women. However, changes in age structure and population growth have 
relatively little impact on mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: There are likely to be substantial increases in child mortality in 
sub-Saharan Africa as a result of HIV-1 infection. The main determinant of 
childhood infection is the scale of the epidemic among adults. Increases in 
mortality will depend on local adult seroprevalence but are hard to predict 
precisely because of possible variation in death rates among HIV-1-infected 
children. In rural areas with low seroprevalence other diseases will remain the 
main cause of mortality. However, in urban areas families and health services 
will have to face considerably increased demands from ill and dying children.

PIP: The objective was to estimate the effects of the HIV-1 epidemic on 
mortality in children under 5 years of age in urban and rural populations in 
eastern, central, and southern Africa. Epidemiologic parameters were applied to 
three populations with different characteristics: a rural population with an 
HIV-1 prevalence of 3%, an urban population (Town A) with 10% seroprevalence, 
and a second urban population (Town B) with 30% seroprevalence among women of 
childbearing age, respectively. The output measures were the absolute increases 
in and the level of the under-5-years' mortality rate, which represents the 
probability of a child dying before his or her fifth birthday per 1000 births. 
It was estimated that child mortality will rise substantially because of the 
prevalence of HIV-1 in urban areas. There will be little difference in the 
absolute levels of increase in mortality between areas in eastern, central, and 
southern Africa with similar levels of HIV infection; however, in relative terms 
the effect will be more noticeable in southern Africa because of the lower 
baseline mortality. Towns with severe epidemics (30% adult seroprevalence) might 
experience a rise in child mortality of 1/3 in eastern and central Africa and 
3/4 in southern Africa. This will cancel or reverse existing advantages in urban 
over rural levels of child mortality with more pronounced effect in southern 
Africa. The exact impact of HIV-1 will vary according to mortality among 
HIV-1-infected children and according to fertility among infected women. The 
main determinant of childhood infection is the scale of the epidemic among 
adults. The educated urban elite can be expected to suffer from more young adult 
AIDS-related mortality. In rural areas with low seroprevalence, other diseases 
will remain the main cause of mortality. In urban areas, health services will 
have to face considerably increased demands from ill and dying children.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199407000-00019
PMID: 7946112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Am J Hypertens. 1994 Jul;7(7 Pt 2):13S-15S. doi: 10.1093/ajh/7.7.13s.

Goals of antihypertensive treatment and planning of therapeutic trials.

Zanchetti A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Medicine and Therapeutics, University of Milan, Italy.

The prevention of both cardiovascular events and organ damage or disease have to 
be considered to be different, but essential, goals of antihypertensive therapy. 
As the mechanisms that lead to organ damage and to events are, to a significant 
extent, different, it must be recognized that the achievement of the two goals 
has to be evaluated through trials using, separately or conjointly, different 
criteria. Thus far, randomized trials of antihypertensive therapy have almost 
exclusively measured mortality and morbidity data, and have provided information 
relevant to the prevention of cardiovascular events in those hypertensive 
patients in whom a relatively high rate of events is expected during the 
relatively short time span (3 to 6 years) of the trial, namely, those who have 
severe hypertension or who are elderly. However, in young or middle-aged 
patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension, for whom the goal of therapy would 
be to prevent or retard the development of vascular lesions to help these 
patients achieve their full life span, trials should be based on the measurement 
of organ damage rather than, or in addition to, the monitoring of events. The 
MIDAS trial has been the first in which two different modes of antihypertensive 
therapy have been tested for their capacity to influence the development of 
atherosclerosis in hypertension. It is likely that the results of this study 
will prompt many more therapeutic trials based on the quantitative assessment of 
organ damage in hypertension.

DOI: 10.1093/ajh/7.7.13s
PMID: 7946172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1994;8(7):363-8; discussion 368-9. doi: 
10.1016/1010-7940(94)90030-2.

Surgical revascularization in acute myocardial infarction.

von Segesser LK(1), Popp J, Amann FW, Turina MI.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Cardiovascular Surgery, University Hospital, Zurich, Switzerland.

To determine the potential benefit of myocardial revascularizations in acute 
myocardial infarction we analyzed a consecutive series of 641/3397 patients with 
stable or unstable angina in Canadian Heart Association Class IV divided into 
five groups: A) unstable angina (ECG S-T modifications), B) evolving infarction 
(new Q-wave, CK more than 3 times normal), C) mechanical complications 
(ventricular septal defect (VSD), wall rupture, acute mitral regurgitation), D) 
coronary artery occlusion (crashed percutaneous transluminal coronary 
angioplasty (PTCA)), and E) stable angina class IV (control group). The mean 
follow-up was 72 +/- 33 months (range 24-144 months). Of the 641 patients 362 
were unstable (A), 22 had evolving infarction (B), 20 suffered from mechanical 
complications (C), 48 had acute coronary artery occlusion (D), and 189 were in 
the control group (E). There was no difference for left ventricular (LV) 
ejection fraction before surgery (P < 0.05 = * as compared to control (E)), 
however cardiogenic shock was present before surgery in 13/362 (4%) for unstable 
angina, 5/22 (23%) for evolving infarction, 6/20 (30%) for mechanical 
complications, 4/48 (8%) for acute occlusion, and none of the controls. The 
number of bypasses was 3.8 +/- 1.3* for unstable angina, 3.6 +/- 1.3 for 
evolving infarction, 2.3 +/- 1.2* for mechanical complications, 2.0 +/- 1.2* for 
acute occlusion, and 3.4 +/- 1.5 for control. Intra-aortic balloon pumping was 
necessary in 26/362 (7%) for unstable angina, 5/22 (23%*) for evolving 
infarction, 7/20 (35%*) for mechanical complications, 7/48 (15%*) for acute 
occlusions, and 5/189 (3%) of the controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/1010-7940(94)90030-2
PMID: 7946414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. J Public Health Med. 1994 Jun;16(2):149-58. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.pubmed.a042950.

From colony to city state: changes in health needs in Singapore from 1950 to 
1990.

Seow A(1), Hin-Peng L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community, Occupational and Family Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, National University Hospital.

The disease patterns and health needs of Singaporeans have altered dramatically 
over the last half-century as a result of both economic progress and 
socio-demographic change. This is reflected by improvements in the universal 
indices of health status such as the infant mortality rate and life expectancy 
at birth. At the same time, chronic degenerative diseases such as cancer and 
heart disease have replaced infectious diseases as the major causes of death, as 
is the pattern in industrialized countries throughout the world. The challenge 
for public health in Singapore today is to find cost-effective means to control 
these diseases, and in this regard, the country has embarked on a strategy of 
disease prevention and health promotion for the next decade, aimed at reducing 
the levels of major lifestyle-related risk factors by providing a supportive 
environment for behavioural change.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.pubmed.a042950
PMID: 7946488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. J Heart Lung Transplant. 1994 Jul-Aug;13(4):597-603.

Relationship of increased levels of circulating intercellular adhesion molecule 
1 after heart transplantation to rejection: human leukocyte antigen mismatch and 
survival.

Ballantyne CM(1), Mainolfi EA, Young JB, Windsor NT, Cocanougher B, Lawrence EC, 
Pollack MS, Entman ML, Rothlein R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Methodist Hospital, Houston, Tex.

Noninvasive methods to assess immune activation would be helpful in optimizing 
therapy after heart transplantation to reduce rejection (acute and chronic) and 
complications caused by excessive immunosuppressive therapy. Intercellular 
adhesion molecule 1 has been shown to play an important role in T-cell 
activation and allograft rejection. A soluble form of intercellular adhesion 
molecule 1 has been discovered to be circulating in plasma. To test the 
hypothesis that increased levels of circulating intercellular adhesion molecule 
1 may have prognostic value as a marker of immune activation, we examined 
whether levels of circulating intercellular adhesion molecule 1 during the early 
postoperative period correlated with endomyocardial biopsy scores, soluble 
interleukin-2 receptor levels, human leukocyte antigen mismatch, and survival. 
For the first 3 weeks after surgery, serum was obtained once weekly on the same 
day as endomyocardial biopsy samples from 52 patients who survived more than 30 
days after heart transplantation. A sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
was used to measure circulating intercellular adhesion molecule 1 and soluble 
interleukin-2 receptor. Increased circulating intercellular adhesion molecule 1 
levels did not correlate with endomyocardial biopsy scores but were associated 
with greater mismatch at the human leukocyte antigen-B and -DR loci (p = 0.02). 
A significant correlation was found (p = 0.002) between circulating 
intercellular adhesion molecule 1 levels and soluble interleukin-2 receptor, 
albeit with a low r value of 0.27. Survival was reduced in patients with high 
levels of circulating intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (p = 0.006) or soluble 
interleukin-2 receptor (p = 0.001) with the greatest reduction in survival when 
both were elevated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 7947875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Aust J Public Health. 1994 Jun;18(2):149-52. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.1994.tb00216.x.

Dementia-free life expectancy in Australia.

Ritchie K(1), Mathers C, Jorm A.

Author information:
(1)Institut National de la Sante et de la Recherche Medicale, Montpellier, 
France.

Dementia-free life expectancy is a synthetic indicator of an important aspect of 
mental health which may have considerable use in public health decision making. 
Dementia expectancies were derived from senile dementia prevalence rates in 
Australia in 1991-1992 in conjunction with national life tables using Sullivan's 
method. Dementia-free life expectancy for Australian women aged 70 years was 
found to be 14 years within a total life expectancy of 15 years, and 11 years 
for men within a total life expectancy of 12 years. Between 70 and 85 years 
there is a constant average expectation of about one year of life expectancy 
with dementia. The age at which the largest number of persons with dementia is 
found is 82 years. Australians appear to have very similar dementia-free life 
expectancies to those reported in the European studies, with small differences 
probably due to sampling variation or to differences in case-finding methods.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.1994.tb00216.x
PMID: 7948330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Blood. 1994 Dec 1;84(11):3776-80.

Prevalence and clinical correlations of MLL gene rearrangements in AML-M4/5.

Bower M(1), Parry P, Carter M, Lillington DM, Amess J, Lister TA, Evans G, Young 
BD.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Genetics Laboratory, Centre for Human Genome Research, Salk 
Institute for Biological Studies, San Diego, CA.

Rearrangements of the human trithorax gene (MLL, HRX, Htrx-1, All-1) were 
studied by Southern blotting in blast cells stored at presentation from 65 
adults with de novo acute myelomonocytic (AML-M4) and acute monocytic leukemia 
(AML-M5). MLL rearrangements were demonstrated in 15 (23%) cases, including 
eight patients in whom karyotype analysis had failed to detect abnormalities of 
chromosome band 11q23. The patients with MLL rearrangements did not differ 
significantly from those with germline configurations in terms of the sex and 
age of the patients, the presence of lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, or 
central nervous system involvement, and the absolute blast count at diagnosis. 
Kaplan-Meier analysis of the treated patients demonstrated no difference in 
survival for patients with MLL rearrangements compared with those without 
rearrangements. Therefore, in contrast to infantile acute leukemia, in adults 
with AML-M4 and AML-M5, MLL rearrangements do not identify a subgroup of 
patients with different clinical features or prognosis.

PMID: 7949133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Blood. 1994 Dec 1;84(11):3988-9.

Myelodysplastic syndrome after autologous transplant for lymphoma.

Anderson JR, Vose J, Kessinger A.

Comment on
    Blood. 1994 Jun 15;83(12):3780-6.

PMID: 7949159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Clin Transplant. 1994 Aug;8(4):388-95.

De novo cancer in cyclosporine-treated and non-cyclosporine-treated adult 
primary renal allograft recipients.

Gruber SA(1), Gillingham K, Sothern RB, Stephanian E, Matas AJ, Dunn DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.

We compared the incidence of de novo tumors developing in 1165 primary adult 
renal allograft recipients treated with azathioprine (AZA)-prednisone 
(Pred)-antilymphocyte globulin (ALG) (CONV group) with that in 722 patients 
receiving cyclosporine (CSA) as part of double (CSA-Pred), triple 
(CSA-Pred-AZA), or quadruple-therapy (CSA-Pred-AZA-ALG) protocols. Mean +/- SD 
follow-up was 9.5 +/- 6.4 years for the CONV group and 6.2 +/- 2.7 years for the 
CSA group. Overall, 124 patients (10.6%) in the CONV group and 34 patients 
(4.7%) in the CSA group developed malignancies, with nonmelanoma skin cancers 
and lymphomas comprising 55% and 13% of cancers in the CONV group and 65% and 3% 
of cancers in the CSA group, respectively. There were no significant differences 
in overall cancer (p = 0.41) or skin cancer (p = 0.97) incidence between 
non-CSA-treated and CSA-treated patients by Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis; 
however, CONV-treated patients demonstrated a higher incidence of lymphoma (p = 
0.05). The mean (+/- SD) time to overall and skin cancer occurrence was 
significantly shorter in the CSA group: 37 +/- 22 versus 90 +/- 52 months (p < 
0.001) and 40 +/- 24 versus 92 +/- 52 months, respectively. When the Cox 
Proportional Hazard Model was utilized to assess the relative importance of age, 
diabetic status, donor source, sex, and immunosuppressive regimen in determining 
cancer development, age > or = 50 years and nondiabetic status were significant 
independent prognostic indicators, while immunosuppressive regimen was not. 
Graft and patient survival were significantly greater in CONV-treated patients 
developing cancer than in those who did not.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 7949545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand). 1994;40 Suppl 1:49-59.

Recombinant MUC 1 vaccinia virus: a potential vector for immunotherapy of breast 
cancer.

Balloul JM(1), Acres RB, Geist M, Dott K, Stefani L, Schmitt D, Drillien R, 
Spehner D, McKenzie I, Xing PX, et al.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U74, Université Louis Pasteur, Strasbourg, France.

Breast cancer is considered as the major cause of mortality by cancer for women. 
Even if chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgery have improved the life expectancy 
of patients bearing tumours, breast cancer is responsible for the death of 
42,000 women per year in USA and 25,000 women in France. In this context, cancer 
vaccines may add an attractive alternative therapeutic strategy to the current 
existing treatments. We describe here the construction of recombinant vaccinia 
viruses co-expressing a tumour associated antigen (MUC 1) and an "adjuvant" 
cytokine, which have potential applications in the active immunotherapy of 
breast cancer. Indeed, recombinant vaccinia viruses have been extensively used 
during the past decade to induce a protective response against a whole variety 
of pathogens, and has proven to be of great value in the elicitation of a 
cellular immune response leading to the rejection of tumour grafts in mouse 
models.

PMID: 7950862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Bull Pan Am Health Organ. 1994 Sep;28(3):202-10.

Oral health of the elderly: reality, myth, and perspective.

Mariño R(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Melbourne, School of Dental Science, Australia.

As life expectancy increases, and with it both the relative and absolute numbers 
of individuals age 60 and older, oro-dental health services face new challenges. 
This article explores the status of geriatric dental care in Latin America 
through a bibliographic review of epidemiologic studies included in the MEDLINE 
and LILACS systems, as well as PAHO studies on this subject. The areas addressed 
are the elderly's oro-dental health status, perceptions of their own oro-dental 
health, and frequency of dental service use. The review gives special attention 
to the critical state of oro-dental health among Latin America's elderly 
population, which exhibits high prevalences of caries-related tooth loss and 
total loss of dentition. The review revealed a scarcity of data relating to 
periodontal health and the health status of buccal soft tissues in the elderly 
population. It also found that elderly survey subjects tended to perceive their 
own oro-dental health in a manner inconsistent with clinical observations. 
According to several survey-based studies, most of those surveyed felt their 
oro-dental health was good or very good with few or no chewing problems. 
Regarding service utilization, many of those interviewed indicated they had not 
seen a dentist during the 6 months preceding the study. In view of the health, 
social, and psychologic consequences of the current situation for the elderly 
and the oral health services' potential for improving this population's quality 
of life, it is strongly recommended that appropriate and effective oro-dental 
health care programs oriented to this age group be developed.

PMID: 7951363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Dementia. 1994 Sep-Oct;5(5):289-94. doi: 10.1159/000106737.

The diagnosis and grading of dementia in population surveys: measuring 
disability.

Kay DW(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council Neurochemical Pathology Unit, Newcastle General 
Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

Comparability in respect of severity of dementia and determination of the nature 
and degree of disabilities in daily living due to dementia are important in 
population-based surveys. In physical diseases impairment of a system or organ 
may be established independently of disability using the ICIDH framework but 
there are problems in measuring cognitive abilities apart from the 
characteristic behavioural limitations and aberrations that constitute the 
dementia syndrome. Both DSM-III-R and ICD-10 require as a criterion of dementia 
that social activities are interfered with, and the degree of dependency is the 
measure of severity. This suggests that assessment of disability should be the 
first objective, and the mental or physical causes uncovered next. A suitable 
informant may be the best judge of the nature of the disability. This procedure 
would show what services demented persons actually require, clarify the 
implications of dementia for estimates of active life-expectancy, and increase 
comparability between studies. Problems associated with this approach and the 
role of cognitive testing are briefly discussed.

DOI: 10.1159/000106737
PMID: 7951686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. J Gastroenterol. 1994 Aug;29(4):406-14. doi: 10.1007/BF02361236.

Clinical course and long-term prognosis of Crohn's disease in Japan.

Okada M(1), Sakurai T, Yao T, Iida M, Okabe N, Maeda K, Matsui T, Fuchigami T, 
Yoshinaga K, Imamura K.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, Fukuoka 
University, Japan.

The long-term outcome of Crohn's disease was reviewed in 74 patients who had a 
history of more than 10 years (range 10.8-27.3) since disease onset. The 
observation period was between 4.3 and 18.5 years, the mean and SD being 10.6 
+/- 3.1 years. The means and SD of age at onset and final observation were 21 
+/- 7 and 37 +/- 8 years, respectively. Fifty-eight of the 74 patients had not 
undergone bowel resection at the time of diagnosis; of these 58, 31 (53.4%) had 
an operation for the disease during the follow-up period. Thus, of the 74 
patients, 47 (63.5%) (these 31, plus the 16 who had undergone bowel resection at 
the time of diagnosis) had an operation at least once during a follow-up period 
of 10 years or more. The cumulative operation rates 5, 10, and 15 years after 
onset in the 74 and 58 patients above were 18.9%, 6.9%, and 40.8%, and 34.8%, 
49.1%, and 46.0%, respectively. The corresponding figures 5 and 10 years after 
diagnosis in all 74 patients and the 58 patients were 32.3% and 28.6% and 47.3% 
and 46.3%, respectively. There were no significant differences in the incidence 
of operation rate in relation to anatomical involvement. Cumulative reoperation 
rates 1, 3, 5, and 10 years after the first operation in the 31 patients who 
were operated on during the follow-up period were 3.4%, 6.9%, 25.5%, and 51.7%, 
respectively. Three patients died, the causes of death in one being directly 
related to Crohn's disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF02361236
PMID: 7951849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. J Am Coll Surg. 1994 Nov;179(5):577-82.

Iliac angioplasty as a prelude to distal arterial bypass.

Katz SG(1), Kohl RD, Yellin A.

Author information:
(1)Huntington Memorial Hospital, Pasadena, CA.

BACKGROUND: Patients with limb ischemia and diffuse aortoiliac or combined 
aortoiliac and femoropopliteal disease present as a difficult problem for 
surgeons. This study was done to determine whether or not angioplasty can be 
successfully used as a prelude to distal bypass in patients with multilevel 
arterial occlusive disease.
STUDY DESIGN: This is a retrospective review of an entire hospital experience 
with iliac angioplasty used as a prelude to distal arterial bypass. Kaplan-Meier 
life table analysis was performed and comparisons were made using log rank 
method.
RESULTS: During a six year period, 37 patients underwent percutaneous iliac 
angioplasty before distal arterial reconstruction. Subsequent arterial 
reconstructions included femorofemoral bypass in nine patients, femoropopliteal 
bypass in 25 patients, femorotibial bypass in two patients, and common femoral 
endarterectomy in the remaining patient. The primary graft patency rate was 81 
percent at five years. The overall success of iliac angioplasty was 76 percent 
at five years. Limb salvage was achieved in 78 percent of the patients with 
threatened extremities, and there was no perioperative mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Iliac angioplasty can successfully be used as a prelude to distal 
arterial bypass in patients with multilevel disease. The rate of angioplasty 
failure is low and grafts often remain patent in the face of early hemodynamic 
inflow failure, allowing salvage by operation or repeat dilatation. Close 
follow-up evaluation will allow early detection and appropriate correction of 
changes in inflow hemodynamics that occur before graft closure.

PMID: 7952462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Circulation. 1994 Nov;90(5 Pt 2):II120-3.

VA Study of Unstable Angina. 10-year results show duration of surgical advantage 
for patients with impaired ejection fraction.

Scott SM(1), Deupree RH, Sharma GV, Luchi RJ.

Author information:
(1)CSPCC, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, West Haven, Conn.

BACKGROUND: In a randomized study of unstable angina, medically treated patients 
with impaired left ventricular (LV) ejection fractions (EF = 0.3 to 0.58) were 
at significantly higher risk of mortality than patients treated by coronary 
artery bypass graft surgery (CABG). Because the duration of this surgical 
advantage is unknown, 10-year cumulative mortality rates of patients with 
impaired LVEF were determined and compared with the previously observed rates at 
2, 5, and 8 years.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Of 468 patients with unstable angina, 237 were randomized 
to receive medical treatment alone and 231 patients to have CABG. Baseline 
characteristics, which were equally distributed between the two treatment 
groups, included age, LVEF, number of diseased coronary arteries, diabetes, 
clinical presentation (type I or type II), prior myocardial infarction, and 
smoking. Mortality was determined by life-table analysis and risk factors by 
logistic regression analysis. Patients were divided into terciles according to 
LVEF, and the mortality rates of medical and surgical patients in the lowest 
tercile were compared. The 10-year mortality rate for all medical patients was 
38% and for all surgical patients, 39%. When LVEF was treated as a continuous 
variable, there was a significant relation between mortality and LVEF for 
medically treated patients but not for surgical patients. The cumulative 
mortality rate for the lowest-tercile (EF 0.3 to 0.58) medical patients was 49%; 
for the lowest-tercile surgical patients, 41% (P = .15).
CONCLUSIONS: The surgical advantage for patients with impaired LVEF that was 
significant at 5 years (P = .03) and 8 years (P = .05) appears to have 
diminished at 10 years (P = .15).

PMID: 7955237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 1994 Oct;56(4):377-88. doi: 10.1038/clpt.1994.152.

Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of MK-383, a selective non-peptide 
platelet glycoprotein-IIb/IIIa receptor antagonist, in healthy men.

Barrett JS(1), Murphy G, Peerlinck K, De Lepeleire I, Gould RJ, Panebianco D, 
Hand E, Deckmyn H, Vermylen J, Arnout J.

Author information:
(1)Merck Research Laboratories, West Point.

MK-383 (L-tyrosine, N-(n-butylsulfonyl)-O-[4-butyl(4-piperidinyl)], 
monohydrochloride monohydrate) is a potent and specific platelet fibrinogen 
receptor antagonist that may be useful in preventing processes that lead to 
occlusive thrombus formation in the lumen of the blood vessel. Two 
placebo-controlled phase I trials were completed in 56 healthy volunteers to 
investigate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of 
MK-383 administered as 1- and 4-hour infusions in the presence and absence of 
aspirin. When administered to healthy male subjects by constant infusions up to 
0.4 microgram/kg/min over 1 hour or up to 0.2 microgram/min over 4 hours, it 
provided a well-tolerated reversible means of inhibiting platelet function. At 
infusion rates of 0.25 and 0.15 microgram/kg/min for 1 and 4 hours, 
respectively, MK-383 extended baseline bleeding time by 2.0- to 2.5-fold and 
inhibited adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet aggregation by at least 
80%. The pharmacokinetics of MK-383 include a mean plasma clearance of 329 
ml/min, steady-state volume of distribution of 76 L, and half-life of 1.6 hours. 
The percentage of dose excreted in the urine was 37%. Correlations between 
MK-383 plasma concentration (C) and inhibition of platelet aggregation were 
examined by fitting with a sigmoid maximum-effect model. The plasma 
concentration yielding 50% inhibition (C50) for MK-383 in healthy volunteers is 
approximately 13 ng/ml, with a Hill coefficient > 5. Based on a naive pooled 
analysis, an exponential empirical model best describes the MK-383 C-extension 
of template bleeding time (BTE) relationship. The model indicates that the 
MK-383 plasma concentration necessary to double BTE is approximately 30 ng/ml 
(i.e., 2.5-fold greater than the C50 for ADP-induced inhibition of platelet 
aggregation). The pharmacokinetics of MK-383 was unaffected by pretreatment with 
325 mg aspirin 1 day before and 1 hour before infusion. Conversely, aspirin 
pretreatment reduced C50 and increased bleeding time extension, suggesting that 
aspirin may have an additive effect with respect to inhibition of platelet 
function. Based on the putative role of the fibrinogen receptor in thrombotic 
processes and an acceptable human pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic profile, 
MK-383 should be evaluated in patients with unstable angina.

DOI: 10.1038/clpt.1994.152
PMID: 7955799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Dis Colon Rectum. 1994 Nov;37(11):1118-25. doi: 10.1007/BF02049814.

Combination therapy for epidermoid carcinoma of the anal canal.

Beck DE(1), Karulf RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Colon and Rectal Surgery, Ochsner Clinic, New Orleans, 
Louisiana 70121.

PURPOSE: This study was designed to assess results of chemoradiation therapy for 
epidermoid carcinoma of the anal canal.
METHODS: A retrospective review of records of the prospective database revealed 
35 patients who had been diagnosed with anal canal carcinoma and treated with 
chemoradiotherapy at Wilford Hall USAF Medical Center (tertiary referral 
hospital) from 1981 to 1991.
RESULTS: Patients ranged in age from 35 to 80 (mean, 59) years, and 63 percent 
were women. Primary tumors ranged from 1 to 8 cm in diameter (mean, 3 cm). The 
first six patients had an abdominoperineal resection (APR) after 
chemoradiotherapy, and no residual tumor was identified in the specimens. In the 
subsequent 29 patients who did not have APR, 5 had moderate problems with anal 
continence, and one required a diverting colostomy for incontinence. Follow-up 
ranged from 4 months to 12.9 years (mean, 5.2 years). There were two pelvic 
recurrences, and three patients developed distal metastasis. Eight patients died 
during follow-up, including three with recurrent or persistent disease. 
Five-year survival using life-table analysis was 89 percent.
CONCLUSION: Long-term follow-up confirms that chemoradiation remains the 
preferred therapy for epidermoid carcinoma of the anal canal.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02049814
PMID: 7956580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Dis Colon Rectum. 1994 Nov;37(11):1148-50. doi: 10.1007/BF02049819.

Which technique for treatment of pilonidal sinus--open or closed?
