
Füzün M(1), Bakir H, Soylu M, Tansuğ T, Kaymak E, Haŕmancioğlu O.

Author information:
(1)Izmir State Hospital, Turkey.

PURPOSE: After excision of the pilonidal sinus, some surgeons leave the wound 
open, and others close the wound primarily. The aim of this study is to compare 
length of hospital stay, length of time to return to work, wound infection rate, 
and recurrence rate in chronic pilonidal sinus patients, after modification of 
both closed and open techniques.
METHODS: One hundred ten patients who had chronic-stage pilonidal sinus were 
randomly assigned to receive one of two excisional surgical procedures. One-half 
were treated by surgical excision and primary closure (closed technique, Group 
A). The other one-half were treated with Obeid's surgical excision (open 
technique, Group B).
RESULTS: Ninety-one (46 in Group A and 45 in Group B) of 110 patients were 
followed for a period four months to three years. Although patients with primary 
closure had significantly longer hospital stays (P < 0.05) than patients in the 
open group, they returned to work significantly earlier (P < 0.05). In Group A 
and Group B, infection rates were 3.6 percent and 1.8 percent (P > 0.01), and 
recurrence rates were 4.4 percent and 0 percent (P > 0.01), respectively.
CONCLUSION: Because both techniques have very low complication rates, treatment 
of chronic pilonidal sinus should be based on patient preference and 
characteristics, especially employment status.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02049819
PMID: 7956585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Fertil Steril. 1994 Dec;62(6 Suppl 2):152S-156S.

The different routes of administration and the effect of hormone replacement 
therapy on osteoporosis.

Christiansen C(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical and Basic Research, Ballerup, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: To review osteoporosis, a disease characterized by low bone mass, 
microarchitectural deterioration of bone tissue leading to increased bone 
fragility and a consequent increase in fracture risk. The disorder has become a 
major health problem in the West, where increased life expectancy has placed new 
emphasis on disorders related to aging.
DESIGN: Review of selected literature.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Bone mass increases rapidly in growing children and 
adolescents, reaching a peak in adults in their 20s and 30s. After 35 to 45 
years of age, bone mass begins to decline slowly. Men lose bone mass at 
approximately the same rate over their lifetime; in women, however, the rate of 
bone loss increases dramatically after their menopause, whether it is natural or 
surgical. It is also important to note that bone mass in women below the age of 
50 is just two thirds of that found in men. These two factors--the low initial 
adult bone mass and the more rapid bone loss--combine to produce a high 
incidence of osteoporosis in elderly women. Significant morbidity and mortality 
are attributed to osteoporosis-related fractures, underlining the importance of 
new therapeutic and preventive modalities being evaluated and applied in 
high-risk populations. In adult women before the onset of menopause, rates of 
bone formation and bone resorption are approximately equal; calcium balance is 
maintained, and no loss of bone mass occurs. But after menopause, although both 
bone formation and bone resorption rates increase, the rate of bone resorption 
increase more rapidly, resulting in calcium imbalance and a net loss of bone. 
The first goal of therapy for osteoporosis is thus the restoration of bone 
resorption and bone formation to premenopausal levels. Optimally, bone formation 
may be maintained at a slightly higher level than that of bone resorption, 
producing a positive calcium balance.

PMID: 7958010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Gynecol Oncol. 1994 Nov;55(2):206-10. doi: 10.1006/gyno.1994.1278.

Hemorrhagic cystitis following radiotherapy for stage Ib cancer of the cervix.

Levenback C(1), Eifel PJ, Burke TW, Morris M, Gershenson DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston 77030.

Our purpose was to study the incidence, severity, timing, clinical management, 
and outcome for patients who developed hemorrhagic cystitis following pelvic 
radiotherapy for stage Ib cancer of the cervix. A total of 1784 patients with 
stage Ib cancer of the cervix were treated with pelvic radiotherapy at the 
University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center between 1960 and 1989. The 
majority received a combination of external-beam and intracavitary treatments. 
Patients with hemorrhagic cystitis were identified through retrospective review 
of their medical records, and a grade was assigned to each occurrence. A total 
of 116 (6.5%) patients with hemorrhagic cystitis were identified. The initial 
occurrence was grade 1 (minor occurrence) in 59%, grade 2 (repeated minor 
bleeding) in 23%, and grade 3 (hospitalization for medical management) in 18%. 
The median interval from the beginning of radiotherapy to the onset of hematuria 
was 35.5 months (mean 58 months). The median time to initial grade 3 occurrences 
was 37.5 months (mean 84 months). Actuarial life table analysis revealed that 
the risk of hematuria is 5.8% at 5 years, 7.4% at 10 years, and 9.6% at 20 
years. The risk for a grade 3, 4 (requiring surgical intervention), or 5 (death) 
complication is 1.0, 1.4 and 2.3% at 5, 10, and 20 years, respectively. 
Approximately one-third of the patients with a grade 3 occurrence were 
rehospitalized for management of bladder complications a median of 3.5 months 
following the first grade 3 occurrence, although some of these readmissions 
occurred many years later. Associated urinary-tract infection was common. In no 
case did a cystoscopic bladder biopsy reveal recurrent tumor or a second primary 
tumor when visual inspection revealed typical radiation changes. The incidence 
of severe hemorrhagic cystitis following radiation for stage Ib cancer of the 
cervix is low and can occur many years following treatment. Minor episodes of 
hematuria are managed by empiric antibiotic therapy until the results of urine 
cultures are available. Cystoscopy is reserved for patients with persistent 
bleeding to rule out clot retention or the slight possibility of a second 
primary tumor or recurrent disease. Biopsy should be avoided if obvious 
radiation changes are present. Clot evacuation and continuous bladder irrigation 
remain the standard treatment for patients with heavy bleeding.

DOI: 10.1006/gyno.1994.1278
PMID: 7959285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Haematologia (Budap). 1994;26(1):1-9.

Clinical significance of monocytosis and human monocytic colony-stimulating 
factor in patients with adult T-cell leukaemia/lymphoma.

Tokioka T(1), Shimamoto Y, Motoyoshi K, Yamaguchi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Saga Medical School, Japan.

We studied 79 patients with adult T-cell leukaemia/lymphoma (ATL) and 11 human 
T-lymphotropic virus-type I (HTLV-I-carriers to investigate the clinical 
significance of absolute monocyte counts in peripheral blood. Monocytosis was 
observed in 20% of ATL patients, but in none of the HTLV-I carriers. ATL 
patients with absolute monocyte counts above 1.5 x 10(9)/l had a poorer 
prognosis than those with counts less than 1.5 x 10(9)/l. We also investigated 
serum levels of human monocytic colony-stimulating factor (hM-CSF) in 7 ATL 
patients and 11 HTLV-I carriers at the time of diagnosis before chemotherapy, 
and also in 5 normal healthy individuals. The differences among the 3 groups 
were not statistically significant. However, markedly increased serum hM-CSF 
levels were found in 3 ATL patients who were considered to be in the accelerated 
phase of the disease and 2 of whom were previously diagnosed and had received 
chemotherapy. There was no correlation between serum hM-CSF level and absolute 
monocyte count in ATL patients or HTLV-I carriers. The results of hM-CSF assay 
of supernatants of cultured ATL cells revealed that the ATL cells did not 
produce hM-CSF themselves. In an ATL patient with pleural involvement, the 
pleural hM-CSF level was lower than the serum level. These facts indicate that 
absolute monocyte count is one of the prognostic factors in ATL and the source 
of the elevated hM-CSF level in some patients with ATL is not ATL 
cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 7959369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Int J Cardiol. 1994 Jul;45(3):199-207. doi: 10.1016/0167-5273(94)90166-x.

Prognosis for patients with Eisenmenger syndrome of various aetiology.

Saha A(1), Balakrishnan KG, Jaiswal PK, Venkitachalam CG, Tharakan J, Titus T, 
Kutty R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences 
and Technology, Trivandrum, India.

The objective of this study was to determine the long-term survival pattern and 
variables affecting long-term survival and complications occurring during 
follow-up of patients with Eisenmenger syndrome. A retrospective study of 
patients diagnosed with Eisenmenger syndrome were followed up. A tertiary care 
centre was used and it provided superspeciality services in various disciplines. 
The subjects included 201 patients with Eisenmenger syndrome--diagnosed by a 
combination of echocardiography and a peripheral arterial oxygen saturation 
study and/or cardiac catheterisation with or without angiocardiography--worked 
up and followed up for variable duration over a period of 16 years from 1976 to 
1992. One hundred nine patients were females and 92 were males--age of 
presentation varied from 3 months to 62 years (mean +/- standard deviation 19.23 
+/- 12.62 years). A total of 12 different anatomic lesions were seen--the most 
common three being ventricular septal defect (33.33%), aterial septal defect 
(29.85%), and patent ductus arteriosus (14.23%). History, physical examination, 
chest skiagram and electrocardiogram established only the presence of pulmonary 
arterial hypertension except where differential cyanosis indicating ductus was 
discernible or the degree of splitting of second heart sound provided some clue 
to the level of shunt. Contrast echocardiography, completed in 25.4% established 
the level of shunt in all patients. In others the diagnosis was confirmed by 
cardiac catheterisation. Twenty patients died during a mean follow-up period of 
54.6 +/- 54.47 months. Sudden cardiac deaths (30%), congestive heart failure 
(25%) and haemoptysis (15%) were the most predominant causes of death. Only one 
patient died during puerperium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0167-5273(94)90166-x
PMID: 7960265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Int J Epidemiol. 1994 Jun;23(3):545-52. doi: 10.1093/ije/23.3.545.

Mortality from rheumatoid arthritis in France, 1970-1990.

Coste J(1), Jougla E.

Author information:
(1)Département de Biostatistique et d'Informatique Médicale, Hôpital Cochin, 
Paris, France.

BACKGROUND: The degree to which rheumatoid arthritis (RA) influences life 
expectancy and mortality remains controversial. There have been few attempts to 
analyse death certificate data for this condition. Despite limitations, the 
information derived from detailed death certificate analysis for a large 
population over a long period allows the examination of aspects of the disease 
process and its impact.
METHODS: The mortality related to RA in France was investigated for 1970-1990 
inclusive. A multiple cause of death analysis was conducted, based on 
information recorded in death certificates.
RESULTS: Death from RA represented 0.22% of all deaths. Mortality due to RA was 
strongly influenced by sex (female/male ratio of number of deaths = 3.3) and age 
(proportional mortality ratios higher in the 65-74 and 75-84 year age groups). 
In women, the mean age at death for RA was slightly lower than the mean age at 
death from all causes, while the difference was clearly opposite in men. The 
impact of RA remained relatively constant during the study period, both in terms 
of proportional mortality and age at death. The analysis of associated causes of 
death did not yield significant changes in the pattern of death from RA.
CONCLUSIONS: The study demonstrates the significant and relatively constant 
impact of RA on mortality in France over the study period. This suggests that 
the introduction of new treatment regimens or other environmental factors has 
had little influence on the impact of RA mortality in the community.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/23.3.545
PMID: 7960380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Int J Epidemiol. 1994 Jun;23(3):592-4. doi: 10.1093/ije/23.3.592.

Should years lost always be equated with life expectancy?

Haybittle JL(1).

Author information:
(1)MRC Cancer Trials Office, Cambridge, UK.

BACKGROUND: The 'years lost' by a person dying prematurely from some cause is 
usually equated with life expectancy at the age of death derived from a life 
table for either the general population or a population in which the cause does 
not operate. It is suggested that this procedure may not always be valid.
METHODS: The calculation of years lost by individuals dying prematurely from 
smoking-related deaths is taken as an example using data from the American 
Cancer Society Cancer Prevention Study (ACS CPS II) and from Peto et al. An 
alternative hypothesis, whereby smoking advances the age of death by an amount 
considerably less than the life expectancy, is examined.
RESULTS: It is shown that when smoking-related deaths are removed from the ACS 
CPS II data, the life expectancy of the smokers is still less than that of the 
non-smokers. Secondly, it is demonstrated that, if the alternative hypothesis is 
used to predict a survival curve in the absence of smoking, it would be 
incorrect to equate years lost with life expectancy calculated from that curve.
CONCLUSIONS: Years lost cannot automatically be equated with life expectancy. In 
the case of smoking, estimates of years lost must still be subject to 
considerable uncertainty. Further research is needed to see if smokers dying at 
a given age have comparable physical and social characteristics to all smokers 
living at that age.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/23.3.592
PMID: 7960387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Int J Epidemiol. 1994 Jun;23(3):632-42. doi: 10.1093/ije/23.3.632.

Sex differences in measles mortality: a world review.

Garenne M(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Department of Population and International 
Health, Boston, MA 02115.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 1995 Feb;24(1):244-5.

BACKGROUND: In general females have a lower mortality than males at all ages. 
Excess female mortality has been documented in certain high mortality 
situations, in particular in South Asia. However, females may have a higher 
mortality for certain causes of death. One of the causes of death for which 
excess female mortality is suspected is measles.
METHOD: Sex differences in measles mortality are investigated using all national 
data on causes of death published by WHO since 1950. An index of excess 
mortality is used: the geometric mean of the female sex ratios of age-specific 
deaths rates from measles, from age 0 to 44 years.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: When pooled together, the results show an excess of 
female mortality from birth until age 50 years. The excess female mortality 
appears small at age 0-4 (+4.2%), larger at age 5-14 (+10.9%) and peaks during 
the female reproductive period, at age 15-44 (+42.6%). This pattern of excess 
female mortality occurs in all the major regions of the world: Europe, North and 
South America, Far-East Asia, the Middle East and South Asia. The only 
noticeable exceptions are the Philippines and Thailand. The validity of the 
finding is extensively reviewed. Emphasis lies on the statistical power to prove 
that sex differences in measles mortality do exist, on the critical analysis of 
a case study in England and Wales, on the comparison with the overall pattern of 
sex differences and on available data on sex differences in incidence. Possible 
explanations are reviewed.

PIP: Sex differences in measles mortality were examined among 78 countries and 
1500 country years between 1950 and 1989; countries were classified by the 
regional pattern of mortality defined by Coale and Demeny or the UN. Some 
countries were assigned to the West regional pattern. Data were obtained from 
the World Health Organization (WHO) compilation, which excludes some large 
countries such as China, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Brazil, and most of 
tropical Africa. Morbidity data from WHO was also used and covered 23 countries 
for 356 country years by age and 17 countries for sex and limited age groups. 
Variables included the following: measles death rate (DR), incidence rate (INC), 
case fatality rate (CFR), relationship (DR/CFR), female sex ratio (FSR) for each 
of the preceding measures, and the variance in the logarithm of the estimated 
measures (VarLog). The results showed that age patterns of mortality declined 
markedly between aged 0-4 years and 45-49 years, and then increased thereafter. 
Measles mortality at age 85+ was as high as at age 15 years. At ages 0-4 years 
the measles DR was 166 per million persons years and at aged 5-9 years, 20 per 
million person years. The FSR was higher than 100 between ages 0 and 45-49 
years, and below 100 after age 50 years, with a high degree of statistical 
significance. Female excess mortality appeared as early as aged 0-4 years 
(+4.2%) and 5-14 years (10.9%), but peaked at 25-29 years (88%). Excess female 
mortality was 42.6% at ages 15-44 years compared to males. The weighted 
geometric mean of death rates at ages 0-44 years was 105.5 with a confidence 
interval of 105.0 to 106.0. A comparison of observed with expected values of FSR 
in a West model life table showed excess female mortality of 39% at ages 0-4 
years, 43% at 5-14 years, and 88% at 15-44 years; there were no differences 
between the observed and expected values after age 45 years. Regional variations 
showed excess female mortality of 3% in Europe, 6.2% in North America, 5.9% in 
Far East Asia, 4.3% in Latin America, and 20.9% in the Middle East. There was a 
range of FSR of 1.7% to 21.3% in the 5 regions, but values were particularly 
high in the Middle East. At ages 5-14 years, the range was 8/3% to 29.2%. A 
comparison of observed and expected values showed a range of 21-55% higher FSR 
values. Country-specific analysis showed some anomalies.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/23.3.632
PMID: 7960393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Invest New Drugs. 1994;12(1):45-7. doi: 10.1007/BF00873235.

Phase II study of intravenous melphalan (NSC-8806) in the treatment of patients 
with advanced squamous carcinoma of the head and neck.

Kies MS(1), Grinblatt D, Runge-Morris M, Blough R, Watkins A, Taylor S 4th.

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago, IL.

The Illinois Cancer Center entered 25 patients on a phase II trial of 
intravenous melphalan treating patients with recurrent, metastatic or locally 
advanced and inoperable squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. All 
patients had bi-dimensionally measurable disease, at least a sixty day life 
expectancy, and adequate performance status (ECOG scale < or = 2). All patients 
except one had received prior radiotherapy, chemotherapy or both. Melphalan 
dosage was 30 mg/m2 every three weeks. Twenty-four patients were evaluable for 
response. One patient with laryngeal carcinoma had a clinical complete response 
of a nodal metastasis. Four patients had stabilization of disease for one to 
three months. There was formidable toxicity, including neutropenia (ANC < 
1000/microliters 36%), and thrombocytopenia (< 50,000/microliter 32%). There 
were no drug-related deaths. Melphalan administered intravenously does not 
appear to be efficacious therapy in patients with previously treated advanced 
head and neck squamous carcinomas.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00873235
PMID: 7960605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. J Ark Med Soc. 1994 Sep;91(4):177-80.

Black/white life expectancy differences and sociodemographics: Arkansas and the 
U.S.

McGehee MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Arkansas Institute for Economic Advancement, University of Arkansas at Little 
Rock.

Life expectancy data by race and gender for Arkansas show whites having longer 
average life expectancies at birth than blacks. Racial differences in life 
expectancy have been found to be due to higher mortality rates for blacks due to 
their tendency to fall into high-risk groups. Cause-specific mortality rates by 
race and gender for Arkansans 25 years and older were calculated for the ten 
leading causes of death in the state. Blacks in Arkansas had higher mortality 
rates than whites for each major cause of death except pulmonary diseases and 
suicide.

PMID: 7961305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Hum Reprod. 1994 Jun;9(6):1102-8. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a138640.

Prognostic variables in predicting pregnancy. A prospective follow up study of 
907 couples with an infertility problem.

Wichmann L(1), Isola J, Tuohimaa P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Tampere, Finland.

This report describes a prospective follow-up study on 907 infertile men 
presenting as partners of infertile couples. Couples who conceived were compared 
to those who remained infertile during a 3-year follow up. A univariate life 
table analysis showed that the duration of infertility, the age of both spouses, 
a history of male urethritis, the body mass index, the percentage of motile 
spermatozoa, the quality of motility, the motile sperm density, the total motile 
count, the sperm morphology, and the pH of semen were significant predictors of 
fertility. Another eleven socio-demographic and nine semen variables were not 
associated with fertility. Cox multiple regression analysis identified the 
duration of infertility, percentage total motility, the quality of motility 
combined, a history of male urethritis, the wife's age, and the morphology of 
the spermatozoa to be independent predictors of the reproductive outcome. A 
prognostic 'risk' ratio (chance for achieving pregnancy) was calculated as a 
function of these variables for each couple and a life table analysis was made 
between three classified subgroups of couples with different risk ratios. These 
life table curves make it possible to define the probability of an individual 
couple to achieve pregnancy at any given time.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a138640
PMID: 7962383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. J Invest Dermatol. 1994 Nov;103(5 Suppl):58S-62S. doi: 
10.1111/1523-1747.ep12399055.

From fluorescence to the gene: the skin in the Marfan syndrome.

Godfrey M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha 
68198-5430.

The Marfan syndrome (MFS) is a heritable connective tissue disorder manifested 
by defects in the skeletal, ocular, and cardiovascular systems. It is inherited 
as an autosomal dominant trait, with an incidence of nearly one per 10,000 
population without gender or ethnic predilection. About 30% of MFS cases are 
sporadic, representing new dominant mutations. Although diagnostic criteria may 
be met, intra- and inter-familial variability in syndromic expression can be 
quite marked. Life expectancy is significantly reduced, and more than 85% of 
patients die of cardiovascular complications. Elastin-associated microfibrils 
are classically identified by a 10-12 nm cross-sectional diameter and close 
association with amorphous elastin. Characteristically, these microfibrils are 
seen as a fringe surrounding elastin cores. Despite their name, these fibrils 
are frequently localized in tissues not associated with elastin. One of the 
major and best characterized microfibrillar proteins is the glycoprotein, 
fibrillin. Fibrillin is rich in cysteine residues and thus, extensively 
intrachain disulfide bonded. Defects in fibrillin are now known to cause the 
variable and pleiotropic manifestations of MFS. Immunofluorescence studies of 
skin sections and dermal fibroblast cultures were the first to show this 
association. The cloning and sequencing of the entire fibrillin coding region 
has enabled the identification of the myriad of mutations that cause MFS. 
Identification of the molecular lesions covering the gamut of MFS clinical 
variability should allow the construction of genotype/phenotype correlations. It 
is hoped that once available, they may become of prognostic value in the 
clinical management of MFS.

DOI: 10.1111/1523-1747.ep12399055
PMID: 7963686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. J Infect Dis. 1994 Nov;170(5):1284-7. doi: 10.1093/infdis/170.5.1284.

Incidence of clinical AIDS conditions in a cohort of homosexual men with CD4+ 
cell counts < 100/mm3. Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study.

Bacellar H(1), Muñoz A, Hoover DR, Phair JP, Besley DR, Kingsley LA, Vermund SH.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD 21205.

Incidence rates of AIDS illnesses are described among patients with < or = 100 
CD4 cells/mm3 grouped by use of antiretrovirals and chemoprophylaxis. Data were 
obtained from 2646 homosexual men infected with human immunodeficiency virus 
type 1. Participants were in the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study during 1985-1993. 
The incidence rates per 100 person-years for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia were 
47.4 without treatment, 21.5 with antiretrovirals alone, and 12.8 with 
antiretrovirals combined with chemoprophylaxis. For Kaposi's sarcoma these rates 
were 23.2, 11.3, and 15.1, respectively. The incidence of some opportunistic 
infections, including Mycobacterium avium complex, nonretinitis cytomegalovirus 
disease, and cytomegalovirus retinitis, increased among persons receiving P. 
carinii pneumonia prophylaxis, because of reduction of this pneumonia and 
extension of life span. The incidence pattern of AIDS-defining illnesses in 
patients receiving treatment points to the changing AIDS epidemic and the need 
for new therapies. The data are particularly relevant to the development and 
planning of clinical trials and to health care providers.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/170.5.1284
PMID: 7963728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Int Angiol. 1994 Jun;13(2):103-8.

Do patients with intermittent claudication need surgical treatment?

Okadome K(1), Funahashi S, Odashiro T, Komori K, Akazawa K, Sugimachi K.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu University, 
Fukuoka, Japan.

To determine whether surgical intervention is of therapeutic significance for 
patients with intermittent claudication (IC), 315 patients with IC followed in 
our outpatient clinics for the past 8 years 3 months (mean of 3 years 10 
months), including 142 non-operated and 173 operated patients, were investigated 
as to changes in symptoms and the prognosis. Changes in symptoms in both groups 
were analyzed according to the variable distances of claudication and location 
of the diseased artery. To examine the degree of association between surgery and 
improvement of symptoms, Goodman and Kruskal's gamma was used. For all subgroups 
with a variable claudication distance (group A; distance < 100 m, B: 100-500 m, 
C: > 500 m), surgery inversely correlated with improvement in symptoms (group A; 
gamma = -0.378, group B; gamma = -0.651, group C; gamma = -0.828). According to 
location of the diseased artery, surgery correlated with improvement in symptoms 
in aorto-iliac (gamma = -0.811), aorto-ilio-superficial femoral (gamma = 
-0.641), and superficial femoral-distal (gamma = -0.533) groups but not in 
superficial femoral (gamma = -0.427) or infrapopliteal (gamma = -0.194) alone 
groups. Concerning the prognosis, no significant difference was noted between 
operated and non-operated groups (p = 0.35). These computed data show that 
surgical intervention has therapeutic significance for patients with IC, except 
for cases of claudication with segmental occlusion of the superficial femoral or 
infrapopliteal artery alone.

PMID: 7963867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1994 Oct;48(5):482-7. doi:
10.1136/jech.48.5.482.

Health expectancy: an indicator for change? Technology Assessment Methods 
Project Team.

Barendregt JJ(1), Bonneux L, Van der Maas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 1995 Jun;49(3):330-1.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: Health expectancy is an increasingly used indicator of 
population health status. It collapses both mortality and morbidity into a 
single indicator, and is therefore preferred to the total life expectancy index 
for populations with low mortality but high morbidity rates. Three methods of 
calculation exist: the Sullivan, double decrement, and multi-state methods. This 
report aims to describe their relative advantages and limitations when used to 
monitor changes in population health status over time.
DESIGN: The differences between the three methods are explained. Using a dynamic 
model of heart disease, the effect of the introduction of thrombolytic treatment 
on the survival of patients with acute myocardial infarction is calculated. The 
resulting changes in health expectancy are calculated according to the Sullivan 
and multi-state methods.
MAIN RESULTS: As opposed to the double decrement and the multi-state methods, 
the Sullivan method produces spurious trends in health expectancy in response to 
the change in survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Estimates of health expectancy in a dynamic situation can be very 
misleading when based on the Sullivan method, with its attractively moderate 
data requirements. The multi-state method, which requires longitudinal studies 
of population health status, is often indispensable.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.48.5.482
PMCID: PMC1060012
PMID: 7964359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. J Clin Oncol. 1994 Nov;12(11):2254-63. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1994.12.11.2254.

Radical prostatectomy for clinically localized prostate cancer: long-term 
results of 1,143 patients from a single institution.

Zincke H(1), Bergstralh EJ, Blute ML, Myers RP, Barrett DM, Lieber MM, Martin 
SK, Oesterling JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 1994 Nov;12(11):2243-5.

PURPOSE: To determine the efficacy and complication rate of radical 
prostatectomy (RP) as a treatment option for clinically localized prostate 
cancer (clinical stage < or = T2c).
METHODS: The study was a retrospective analysis of 1,143 consecutive patients 
(median age, 64 years; range, 38 to 79 y) who underwent RP at one institution 
(mean follow-up time, 9.7 years). Complications for this study population were 
compared with those of a contemporary group of 1,000 consecutive patients.
RESULTS: Of 1,143 patients, 83 (7%) had a low clinical stage (T1) and 160 (14%) 
had a low histologic grade (Gleason score < or = 3); 648 (57%) had a high 
clinical stage (T2b or T2c) and 204 (18%) had a high histologic grade (Gleason 
score > or = 7). Only 113 (10%) died of prostate cancer, and 177 (15%) developed 
metastasis. Adjuvant treatment (androgen deprivation or radiation therapy) was 
given in 197 (17%) patients (> or = pT3) and provided virtually identical 
results as without adjuvant treatment. The 10- and 15-year crude survival rates 
for 1,143 patients were 75% +/- 1.5% (SE) and 60% +/- 2.2%, respectively; the 
cause-specific survival rates were 90% +/- 1.1% and 83% +/- 1.9%, respectively; 
and the metastasis-free survival rates were 83% +/- 1.3% and 77% +/- 1.9%, 
respectively (398 men at risk at 10 years and 138 men at risk at 15 years). The 
10-year survival rate for patients with Gleason score > or = 7 was 74% +/- 3.9%. 
Only tumor grade was a significant predictor for disease outcome. The hospital 
mortality rate decreased from 0.7% for the 1,143 study patients to 0% for the 
more recent 1,000 patients. Severe incontinence declined to 1.4% for the more 
recent 1,000 patients. Most patients who underwent RP were healthy (Charlson 
comorbidity index).
CONCLUSION: Survival at 15 years was similar to the expected survival rate. 
Current morbidity and mortality rates associated with RP were extremely low. 
Thus, RP has been a viable management option for men with clinically localized 
prostate cancer who have a life expectancy of more than 10 years.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1994.12.11.2254
PMID: 7964940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. J Rheumatol. 1994 Jul;21(7):1207-13.

Outcome in patients with rheumatoid arthritis receiving prednisone compared to 
matched controls.

McDougall R(1), Sibley J, Haga M, Russell A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SK, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the longterm outcome including disease activity, 
mortality, and adverse events in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) treated 
with prednisone.
METHODS: A case-control study was performed, based on our cohort of 893 mostly 
Caucasian patients with adult onset RA, followed since 1966. Data collection was 
based on protocols and included single physician global assessment. Prednisone 
was started in 122 patients (85 women, 37 men) after 1966. All were matched for 
age, sex, disease duration, and global assessment to 122 controls from the same 
cohort who have never received prednisone.
RESULTS: Mean disease duration before prednisone was 14.1 years. Mean duration 
of use was 6.9 years with a mean dose of 8.0 mg/day. Prednisone was eventually 
stopped in 34% of patients. Life expectancy and causes of death were similar in 
both groups. No differences in hemoglobin, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, 
global assessment, Lansbury index, functional class or Health Assessment 
Questionnaire (HAQ) disability index were seen between the 2 groups before or 5 
years after starting prednisone. Ten years after starting prednisone, HAQ scores 
were similar but Lansbury and global assessment were worse in the prednisone 
treated group. As expected, adverse events, notably cataracts and fractures, 
were observed more often in the prednisone group.
CONCLUSION: Case-control matching can only reduce, not eliminate, potential 
selection bias. Nonetheless, the lack of demonstrable longterm benefit with 
prednisone use in this and other studies is disconcerting. Caution and further 
studies are required before the more aggressive use of longterm prednisone 
therapy in RA is embraced.

PMID: 7966059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Nov;20(5):808-13. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70168-7.

The brachiocephalic elbow fistula: a useful alternative angioaccess for 
permanent hemodialysis.

Bender MH(1), Bruyninckx CM, Gerlag PG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, St. Joseph Hospital, Veldhoven, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 1995 Aug;22(2):195-6.

PURPOSE: Wrist fistulas are increasingly difficult to establish in the aging 
hemodialysis population. We assessed fistula patency and occlusion rate in elbow 
fistulas compared with wrist and graft fistulas.
METHODS: We analyzed all 104 fistulas created in all 68 patients who underwent 
hemodialysis during October 1993 at the St. Joseph General Teaching Hospital, 
Veldhoven, The Netherlands. Life-table patency and complications were analyzed 
for 31 elbow fistulas, 56 wrist fistulas, and 17 polytetrafluoroethylene or 
saphenous vein graft fistulas.
RESULTS: The patency rate for elbow fistulas was 93% at 1 year and 80% at 3 
years. Wrist fistulas had a patency rate of 76% at 1 year and 65% at 3 years. 
Graft fistulas had a poorer patency rate: 69% at 1 year and 62% at 3 years. 
There were significantly more failures in the wrist fistulas (p < 0.02). 
Thrombosis accounted for most fistula failures. Venous stenosis was the most 
frequent indication for revision. The high incidence of concomitant diseases was 
not related to fistula outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: The elbow fistula performed better than the wrist fistula. Liberal 
use of the elbow fistula is justified, especially when the epifascial veins or 
the radial artery at the wrist is in poor condition. Graft fistulas should be 
reserved for tertiary procedures.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70168-7
PMID: 7966817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. JAMA. 1994 Nov 23-30;272(20):1561-2, 1564-6.

Graying of America stimulates more research on aging-associated factors.

Gunby P.

PMID: 7966853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Neuroepidemiology. 1994;13(5):195-201. doi: 10.1159/000110379.

Natural course of idiopathic torsion dystonia among Jews.

Zilber N(1), Inzelberg R, Kahana E, Korczyn AD.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Recherche Français de Jérusalem, UMR CNRS-DGRCST, Israel.

The natural history of 51 idiopathic torsion dystonia cases identified in a 
nationwide survey in Israel was studied. In order to take advantage of all data 
regarding the evolution of the disease, independently of the length of 
follow-up, we have used a life table method of analysis. An estimate of the mean 
degree of generalization of the disease at different times from onset was 
calculated and a curve of the estimated temporal evolution was drawn. This 
analysis confirmed the heterogeneity of the disease course. The most rapid 
deterioration occurred in patients with juvenile onset in the lower limbs, 
particularly in the first 2 years following the onset. The rate of evolution was 
not influenced by gender or familiarity. The course of the disease seemed more 
deleterious in non-Ashkenazic Jews. The present statistical method of estimating 
the evolution in different patient groups should be useful especially for the 
evaluation of therapeutic interventions.

DOI: 10.1159/000110379
PMID: 7969702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Neurology. 1994 Nov;44(11 Suppl 8):S29-35.

The clinical efficacy of lamotrigine as an antiepileptic drug.

Pellock JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Child Neurology, Medical College of Virginia, Virginia 
Commonwealth University, Richmond 23298-0211.

Product license applications for lamotrigine have been filed or approved in more 
than 50 countries throughout the world. In preclinical models, this drug 
demonstrates activity against both maximal electroshock and pentylenetetrazol 
seizures. The primary action of lamotrigine is, most likely, blockade of sodium 
channels, with resultant inhibition of glutamate and aspartate release. As would 
be expected from this spectrum of activity, the drug has shown clinical efficacy 
in both partial and generalized seizures and in a variety of epilepsy syndromes. 
Particularly promising results have been demonstrated in difficult-to-control 
epilepsy syndromes with mixed seizures. Half-life of lamotrigine in adults 
receiving monotherapy is approximately 24 hours. Its half-life is decreased by 
approximately 50% when it is used in combination with enzyme-inducing 
antiepileptic drugs, such as phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and phenytoin; in 
contrast, valproate extends the half-life of lamotrigine by two- to three-fold. 
Its administration has no effect on the metabolism of other antiepileptic drugs, 
with the exception of a possible minor increase in the proportion of 
carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide. The usual maintenance dosage of lamotrigine is 200 
to 500 mg daily given in two divided doses. In US open studies of adult patients 
with treatment-refractory partial epilepsy, increased seizure control was 
demonstrated with higher dosages. Extension studies have shown even better 
efficacy with daily doses of approximately 700 mg. Multiple studies and clinical 
usage have shown lamotrigine to be well tolerated, with patients reporting a 
sense of well-being during drug therapy. The most frequently reported adverse 
events are CNS-associated side effects and rash.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

PMID: 7970004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Ontogenez. 1994 Jul-Aug;25(4):7-11.

[The dynamics of mortality in inbred selected strains and their hybrids in 
Drosophila melanogaster].

[Article in Russian]

Myl'nikov SV, Smirnova AN.

The average life span (ALS) was analyzed in flies of the Drosophila melanogaster 
inbred stock selected for high embryonic mortality (HEM). In is shown that 
selection resulted in the reduced ALS of HEM stock, as compared with the initial 
outbred Leric stock. Two equal peaks of mortality were observed in the hybrid 
females. The peaks mean values usually corresponded to ALS of the parents. A 
major peak of mortality was detected in hybrid males, and its mean was higher 
than ALS values characteristic of both parents. The existence of genes 
controlling "early" and "late" death in D. melanogaster ontogenesis is proposed.

PMID: 7970509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Pediatrics. 1994 Dec;94(6 Pt 1):792-803.

Annual summary of vital statistics--1993.

Wegman ME(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109-2029.

A new low in the infant mortality rate was reached again in 1993, at 828.8 
deaths per 100,000 live births, a decline of 2% from 848.7 in 1992. Births, 
marriages, and divorces were all lower, both in number and rate. Deaths and the 
death rate, however, both increased and, more significantly, the age-adjusted 
death rate increased. A likely explanation is the occurrence of influenza 
epidemics in early and late 1993. The rate of natural increase declined 8%, to a 
level of 6.9 per 1000 population. Final figures on births for 1992 indicate 
that, for the first time in many years, birth rates to teen-agers declined more 
among black mothers than white. Increase in birth rate among older mothers 
continued at a somewhat slower rate than recently; older mothers tended to be 
better educated than the general population in their age groups. Total fertility 
rates were higher among mothers of Hispanic origin than among non-Hispanic 
blacks who, in turn, had higher rates than non-Hispanic whites. Among Hispanics 
the highest rates were in those of Mexican origin. Unlike recent years, birth 
rates to unmarried mothers did not increase in 1992. Prenatal care coverage 
improved, with more mothers seeking care early and fewer receiving late or no 
care. Electronic and fetal monitoring was performed on more than three-quarters 
of all births and ultrasound on more than half. Life expectancy decreased 
slightly, in contrast to recent years. Among major causes of death, increases 
were recorded in 1993 for chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases, pneumonia and 
influenza, and HIV infection, the latter having the largest percentage increase. 
Internationally, infant mortality rates in most other industrialized countries 
declined further in 1992. Comparatively, as in 1991, 21 other countries had 
infant mortality rates lower than the United States.

PMID: 7970992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Pediatrics. 1994 Dec;94(6 Pt 1):815-9.

Natural history of vertically acquired human immunodeficiency virus-1 infection. 
The European Collaborative Study.

[No authors listed]

OBJECTIVE: To describe the natural history of vertically acquired human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
DESIGN: This was a prospective follow-up study.
SETTING: Ten centers of the European Collaborative Study participated.
SUBJECTS: One hundred twenty-four HIV-infected children were born to women known 
to be infected at or before the time of delivery since 1986.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Deaths, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), and 
HIV-related symptoms and signs were assessed.
RESULTS: In this cohort, treatment before the onset of AIDS was not universal. 
Less than 10% of children were treated with Zidovudine or intravenous gamma 
globulin before 6 months of age, with a steady increase to about 40% after 3 
years of life. An estimated 23% (95% confidence interval: 15% to 31%) of 
infected children develop AIDS before the age of 1 year, and nearly 40% (27% to 
50%) by 4 years. Ten percent (5% to 16%) die before age 1 year and 28% (16% to 
41%) before age 5 years. Twenty-four months after the AIDS diagnosis, an 
estimated 48% (36% to 70%) of the children are still alive. Although after the 
age of 1 year immunologic abnormalities became increasingly common, the 
proportion of infected children with significant HIV-related symptoms or signs 
declined.
CONCLUSION: The progression of disease in this cohort of vertically infected 
children was not as fast as previously suggested, even though treatment was not 
widespread. Although infected children have a high risk of developing some 
manifestation of HIV infection early in life, serious HIV-related symptoms 
became less frequent with increasing age. This has important implications for 
health planning and care provision.

PMID: 7970995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Percept Psychophys. 1994 Sep;56(3):313-25. doi: 10.3758/bf03209765.

Harmonic and rhythmic influences on musical expectancy.

Schmuckler MA(1), Boltz MG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Sciences, University of Toronto, Scarborough, ON, Canada.

The effects of harmony and rhythm on expectancy formation were studied in two 
experiments. In both studies, we generated musical passages consisting of a 
melodic line accompanied by four harmonic (chord) events. These sequences varied 
in their harmonic content, the rhythmic periodicity of the three context chords 
prior to the final chord, and the ending time of the final chord itself. In 
Experiment 1, listeners provided ratings for how well the final chord in a chord 
sequence fit their expectations for what was to come next; analyses revealed 
subtle changes in ratings as a function of both harmonic and rhythmic variation. 
Experiment 2 extended these results; listeners made a speeded reaction time 
judgment on whether the final chord of a sequence belonged with its set of 
context chords. Analysis of the reaction time data suggested that harmonic and 
rhythmic variation also influenced the speed of musical processing. These 
results are interpreted with reference to current models of music cognition, and 
they highlight the need for rhythmical weighting factors within the 
psychological representation of tonal/pitch information.

DOI: 10.3758/bf03209765
PMID: 7971131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Nihon Igaku Hoshasen Gakkai Zasshi. 1994 Sep 25;54(10):943-9.

[Comparison of two types of mass screening for lung cancer in terms of 
cost-effectiveness: indirect chest X-ray vs LSCT].

[Article in Japanese]

Iinuma T(1), Tateno Y, Matsumoto T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Research, National Institute of Radiological Sciences.

Mass screening for lung cancer is widely performed in Japan, with the 
photofluoroscopic examination and sputum cytology used as the screening methods. 
However the clinical efficacy of these screening methods is considered to be 
inadequate in terms of the survival rate of the screened population. In the 
previous report we proposed that a specially designed CT technique, called lung 
cancer screening CT (LSCT), may be useful in screening for lung cancer. In this 
paper a preliminary comparison is made between the present and future methods of 
lung cancer screening in terms of cost-effectiveness. A model for 
cost-effectiveness analysis estimates the net life-years saved by screening and 
then determines the direct cost of screening including cost of therapy. Various 
factors are taken into account such as sensitivity of the screening methods, 
rate of participation in detailed examination, 5-year survival rate of the 
screened population, cost of the screening method, and average cost of therapy 
for screen-detected patients and outpatients. An example of the results is as 
follows: for a population with a lung cancer incidence of 200 x 10(-5) 
person/year and life expectancy of 30 years, the net person years saved are 672 
x 10(-5) for the present screening method and 2376 x 10(-5) for LSCT screening. 
The cost required to save one person year are 1.46 x 10(5) yen for the present 
screening method and 2.03 x 10(5) yen for LSCT screening.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

PMID: 7971185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Nord Med. 1994;109(11):284-7.

[Health developments for Scandinavian women].

[Article in Swedish]

Krantz G(1).

Author information:
(1)FOU-centrum Norr, Vänersborg.

The article reports developments in health status among women in four Nordic 
countries, based upon data published in the Swedish Public Health and two 
research reports, one Danish the other Nordic. The mean life expectancy of 
Danish women has fallen and, in an international comparison restricted to OECD 
countries, was shown only to be higher than that of women in Turkey or Ireland. 
A similar health development is manifest among women in Norway and Sweden, 
increasing class differences being a common feature. The mean life expectancy of 
Finnish women exceeds that of Finnish men by eight years.

PMID: 7971233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Nouv Rev Fr Hematol (1978). 1994 Aug;36(4):293-300.

Prognostic factors for autologous bone marrow transplantation in acute 
leukaemia: a single centre study of 105 patients.

Cordonnier JM(1), Mercier M, Plouvier E, Hervé P, Cahn JY.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Biostatistiques, Faculté de Médecine et de Pharmacie, 
Besançon, France.

Since the treatment of leukaemia by autologous bone marrow transplantation is 
becoming increasingly frequent, a retrospective study was undertaken to 
ascertain factors influencing the evolution of the disease (death and relapse). 
Data were collected over a period of 11 years for 105 patients with acute 
leukaemia (60 lymphoid cases and 45 myeloid cases). Multivariate analysis by the 
Cox model was used to determine prognostic factors for survival and disease free 
survival (DFS). Overall survival for the entire population was 35% after 8 years 
while DFS was 33% after 3 years. The major prognostic criteria were granulocyte 
recovery time (p < 0.001 at 5 weeks) and platelet recovery time (p < 0.02 at 6 
weeks). Patients conditioned by an association of polychemotherapy and total 
body irradiation (TBI) showed a better survival rate than those conditioned by 
polychemotherapy alone (p < 0.01), with an overall survival of 48% after 3 years 
for the former group as compared to 19% for the latter. Other parameters 
influencing survival were the number of graft CFU-GM, sex and age. A knowledge 
of these factors could provide a means of predicting the long term evolution of 
leukaemia following autologous bone marrow transplantation. However, the present 
results require validation by a prospective study taking into account recent 
therapeutic protocols with haematopoietic growth factors.

PMID: 7971248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Pediatr Dermatol. 1994 Sep;11(3):204-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1525-1470.1994.tb00587.x.

Risk of malignant transformation of congenital melanocytic nevi in blacks.

Shpall S(1), Frieden I, Chesney M, Newman T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of California, San Francisco 
94143-0316.

The risk of small congenital melanocytic nevi (CMN) developing into melanoma is 
not known, but is highly controversial. The frequency of small CMN is, 
paradoxically, slightly higher in some populations, such as blacks, who are at a 
lower risk of developing melanoma than whites. An estimate of the risk of 
malignant transformation of CMN in such a low-risk population could help in the 
management of congenital nevi in these patients and might also shed light on the 
inherent malignant risk of small CMN. We used a national population-based cancer 
registry, the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program (SEER), and 
the incidence of CMN in blacks taken from published newborn surveys to calculate 
a risk of malignant transformation. We calculated a maximum risk using a model 
based on a worst-case scenario, assuming that all melanomas on glabrous skin 
arise in CMN. We also calculated a modified risk based on the known historical 
association of nevi and melanomas in blacks, and estimates of the histologic 
association of the two. The cumulative maximum risk of malignant transformation 
in blacks to age 75 years was 1 in 164. It was strongly age dependent, with the 
majority occurring in persons over age 45. The estimated maximum risk before age 
15 was less than 1 in 10,000 CMN, and in blacks age 15 to 35 less than 1 in 3700 
CMN. The modified risk suggests that the worst-case scenario overestimates the 
risk by at least a factor of 12, making the actual risk in blacks up to age 75 
approximately 1 in 2000.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1470.1994.tb00587.x
PMID: 7971553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


