849. Presse Med. 1994 Jun 18;23(23):1083-91.

Clinical applications of cytokines.

Peschel C(1), Huber C, Aulitzky WE.

Author information:
(1)IIIrd Department of Internal Medicine, Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz 
School of Medicine, Germany.

Cytokines are multifunctional signaling peptide molecules which regulate a 
plethora of cellular activities in the immune system. Cytokines provide a means 
of communication between the immune system and its non-immune neighbours. 
Several clinical entities have been recognized as targets for clinical 
applications including interaction with malignant cell growth, host defence 
against infectious agents, negative regulation of autoagressive disorders and 
regulation of tissue and cell regeneration. Interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) can 
effectively regulate malignant growth in hairy-cell leukaemia, the first example 
of a biological treatment modality which tames a malignant disease and 
noramlizes life expectancy, although cure is not achieved. INF-alpha can also 
control myeloid hyperplasia in approximately two-thirds of the patients with 
chronic myelogenous leukaemia. In 30% of the patients, treatment is accompanied 
by partial or complete restoration of normal haematopoiesis. Such cytogentic 
responses have not been observed with conventional chemotherapy. INF-alpha is 
also effective in infectious viral hepatitis B, C and D. A long-term beneficial 
response is observed in 25-40% of the patients. Promising results have also been 
seen with INF-gamma and interleukin-2 for the treatment of chronic leishmania 
infection and lepromatous leprosy. Activation of monocytes or macrophages 
induces these cells to intracellularly destruct leishmania parasites. Growth 
factors have been identified which influence erythrocyte, granulocyte and 
macrophage production. Their clinical use has been studied in patients with bone 
marrow failure, chronic renal failure, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and in 
patients with cancer undergoing chemotherapy or bone marrow transplantation. 
Additional work is needed to appreciate the immunnodulation effect of cytokines 
and their role in wound healing and tissue regulation.

PMID: 7971820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1994 Nov 22;91(24):11596-600. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.91.24.11596.

The avian vitamin D receptors: primary structures and their origins.

Elaroussi MA(1), Prahl JM, DeLuca HF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison 53706.

cDNA clones encoding Japanese quail chorioallantoic membrane and chicken kidney 
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 receptors were isolated and the total 448-amino acid 
(aa) sequence was deduced. The sequences of the chicken and quail receptors are 
identical. The nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences of the avian 
receptors are similar but not identical to the reported rat or human receptor 
sequences. There is a 78% similarity in the nucleotide sequences and 98.5% and 
87.5% similarities in the amino acid sequences of the DNA-binding and 
ligand-binding domains, respectively. Two avian receptor proteins (58 and 60 
kDa) arise from a single mRNA transcript by alternate initiation of translation. 
The avian 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 receptors were produced using a bacterial 
expression system. Form A receptor was expressed from a cloned cDNA that 
contains the first translation signal (ATG) and corresponds with the 60-kDa 
avian receptor protein, and form B receptor was initiated from the third ATG on 
the same mRNA transcript to give rise to the 58-kDa protein. The cysteine-rich 
DNA-binding domain is almost conserved among human, rat, and avian receptors. 
The position of the nine cysteines was conserved in all three sequences. The 
avian receptor differs in the second zinc finger domain, where a methionine 
replaces a leucine, a serine replaces an asparagine, and a lysine replaces an 
arginine at aa 77, 83, and 87, respectively, of the avian sequence. The 
increased length of the avian receptor results from a 20-aa extension of the 
N-terminal region. RNA hybridization indicates there is a single mRNA species of 
approximately 2700 bp for both the chicken and quail receptors compared to 4400 
bp for the rat transcript. Surprisingly, the translated avian sequence is larger 
(448 aa) than the 423-aa rat receptor protein. Therefore, our results confirm 
that despite the difference in molecular mass between different receptor 
proteins, there is a similarity in gene organization such that the DNA-binding 
and hormone-binding domains are positionally conserved from the C terminus.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.91.24.11596
PMCID: PMC45278
PMID: 7972109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Physiol Behav. 1994 Sep;56(3):585-9. doi: 10.1016/0031-9384(94)90305-0.

Behavioral changes following chronic myocardial infarction in rats.

Schoemaker RG(1), Smits JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Erasmus 
University Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Myocardial infarction evokes major physiological changes because of the acute 
loss of functional cardiac tissue, resulting in more or less severe symptoms of 
congestive heart failure. In addition, general well-being of patients, their 
quality of life, is reduced. This includes anxiety/depression, loss of interest 
in environment and social interactions, sexual problems, and sleep disturbances. 
Postinfarction treatment is aimed mainly at improving life expectancy, whereas 
less attention is paid to the quality of that life. The aim of the present study 
was to determine behavioral changes after myocardial infarction in a (otherwise 
proven as clinically relevant) rat model for heart failure after myocardial 
infarction. We have chosen for behavioral tests based upon certain aspects of 
quality of life in patients. Anxiety/depression, interest in environment, and 
mobility, tested in an open field, revealed that infarcted rats are more anxious 
(as inferred from a higher preference for the safe corner area and less visits 
to the middle area), have less interest in a new environment [as indicated by 
less exploratory behavior and a longer time before they go into the new area 
(free exploration)], and showed less mobility (as indicated by reduced distance 
walked and less time spent on walking). In a test on social interaction, 
infarcted rats spent less time on social behavior and displayed even somewhat 
more walking away, suggesting active avoidance of social interaction. The 
observed behavioral changes in infarcted rats match very well with the aspects 
of reduced quality of life in postinfarct patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(94)90305-0
PMID: 7972412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Radiology. 1994 Nov;193(2):567-71. doi: 10.1148/radiology.193.2.7972781.

Low-dose aspirin combined with dipyridamole versus anticoagulants after 
femoropopliteal percutaneous transluminal angioplasty.

Do DD(1), Mahler F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital, Bern, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: To investigate whether anticoagulation or platelet inhibition treatment 
provides better prevention of reobstruction after percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty (PTA).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In a controlled study, 160 patients received either oral 
anticoagulants or a combination of low-dose acetylsalicylic acid (25 mg) and 
dipyridamole (200 mg) (ASAD) twice daily for 1 year after successful 
femoropopliteal PTA. Compliance was comparable. The patients in the two groups 
had similar clinical and angiographic characteristics. Patency was assessed with 
noninvasive methods 1 day and then 3, 6, and 12 months after PTA and was 
confirmed at angiography at the end of the study in 112 patients.
RESULTS: Patency in patients who received anticoagulants was 53% and was not 
statistically significantly different from 69% in patients who received ASAD (P 
= .18). With anticoagulants, there were four bleeding complications (one was 
fatal); with ASAD, only five minor complications occurred.
CONCLUSION: ASAD is at least as effective as anticoagulants for secondary 
prevention of obstruction after PTA but has less severe side effects.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.193.2.7972781
PMID: 7972781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Rev Invest Clin. 1994 May-Jun;46(3):187-96.

Clinical patterns of diarrhea in AIDS: etiology and prognosis.

Sánchez-Mejorada G(1), Ponce-de-León S.

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Department, National Institute of Nutrition, Mexico City, 
Mexico.

OBJECTIVE: To define the etiology and prognosis of diarrhea (acute, intermittent 
or chronic) in AIDS patients.
DESIGN: A retrospective analysis of patients with AIDS and diarrhea. Patterns of 
diarrhea were defined a priori. Endpoints of interest were etiology, rate of 
response to therapy, development of chronic diarrhea, and survival probability. 
Data were analyzed by means of univariate and multivariate tests (chi-square, 
ANOVA, Student's t test, Kaplan-Meier, logrank and logistic regression 
analysis).
SETTING: A 170-bed tertiary-care university hospital which is one of the three 
most important referral centers for AIDS patients in Mexico City.
PATIENTS: The records of the 279 AIDS patients admitted to the hospital between 
1983 and 1989 were reviewed; 225 cases were suitable for analysis.
MEASUREMENTS: The presence of a diarrheal episode, the diagnostic studies to 
which the patient was submitted, the etiology, the response to therapy and the 
survival time from the point at which the diarrhea started were all recorded. 
Diarrheal patterns were stratified by clinical patterns and outcomes compared. 
Possible clinical predictors of chronic diarrhea were analyzed.
RESULTS: Seventy seven percent of the patients suffered at least one diarrheal 
episode. Diarrhea was in fact the most common AIDS-related complication in our 
series, and in 51% of the total cases (114/225), it was the first HIV-related 
symptom. The diarrheal pattern was intermittent in 47% of the cases, chronic in 
36% and acute in the remaining 17%. An etiology was established in only 59% of 
the episodes, and Cryptosporidium was the etiologic agent most frequently 
isolated (30%). Other opportunistic pathogens prevailed in chronic and 
intermittent diarrheas. Chronic persistent diarrhea was related to a lower 
survival probability (60% at one year vs 90% for intermittent and 95% for acute 
diarrhea, p < 0.0001). When the performance of different diagnostic studies was 
analyzed, the combination of stool culture, serial parasitic examination and 
sigmoidoscopy with biopsies provided a high diagnostic accuracy (59%). 
Regardless of etiology, the rate of therapeutic success was directly related to 
the previous duration of diarrhea and the absolute lymphocyte count (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: There are three distinct diarrheal patterns common to AIDS 
patients. Although the etiologic agents do not vary significantly, each pattern 
has unique characteristics regarding the timing of presentation, their survival 
and therapeutic success rate. Such differences should be taken into account when 
therapeutic trials are designed.

PMID: 7973141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1994 Jul-Sep;75(3):11-7.

Changes in U.S. life expectancy.

Kranczer S.

In 1993 the expectation of life in the United States apparently declined 
slightly. Newborns could expect, on average, to live 75.4 years; for baby boys 
the figure was 72.0 years and for girls 78.7 years. Each of these values 
represents a decline of 0.3 years from the 1992 provisional expectancies 
prepared by the National Center for Health Statistics, and results in average 
future lifetime returning to the 1990-91 level. Last year's decrease in life 
expectation was primarily brought about by the considerable rise in the absolute 
number of deaths and the corresponding increase in mortality rates. Indications 
are that mortality increased from all major forms of death as well as from AIDS. 
It is estimated that there were 2,260,000 deaths in 1993 compared with the 
provisional count of 2,177,000 in 1992 and the final figure of 2,169,518 in 
1991. Notwithstanding, projections indicate that expectation of life will 
continue to rise into the foreseeable future although occasional small declines 
are likely such as that reported for 1993.

PMID: 7974156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Strahlenther Onkol. 1994 Nov;170(11):673-4.

[Does adjuvant radiotherapy after mastectomy shorten the life expectancy of 
patients?].

[Article in German]

Sack H.

PMID: 7974184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Stroke. 1994 Dec;25(12):2363-9. doi: 10.1161/01.str.25.12.2363.

Costs of stroke in Sweden. A national perspective.

Terént A(1), Marké LA, Asplund K, Norrving B, Jonsson E, Wester PO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Uppsala University Hospital, Sweden.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Cost-effectiveness analyses of stroke management are 
hampered by paucity of economic data. We made an update of the direct and 
indirect costs of stroke in Sweden (population, 8.5 million).
METHODS: Direct costs (ie, the costs for hospital and outpatient care and social 
services) were estimated on the basis of two prospective population-based 
studies of stroke and of two nationwide cross-sectional inventories of bed-days 
and diagnoses. Indirect costs (ie, the costs for loss of productivity and early 
retirement) were based on official statistics.
RESULTS: The direct annual costs of care for stroke patients in 1991 equaled 
7836 million Swedish krona (SKr) ($1306 million in US dollars), and the indirect 
costs, 2430 million SKr ($405 million). The cost of stroke care was 1208 SKr 
($201) per inhabitant in Sweden. The expected direct costs per patient from 
first stroke to death were 440,000 SKr ($73,333). When prestroke costs for other 
diseases and advanced age were subtracted, the sum was reduced to 180,000 SKr 
($30,000).
CONCLUSIONS: Costs for hospital and outpatient care and social services 
accounted for 76% of Swedish stroke costs and for 24% of costs for loss of 
production and early retirement. Only 41% of direct costs were stroke-related.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.25.12.2363
PMID: 7974574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Zh Obshch Biol. 1994 Jul-Oct;55(4-5):509-13.

[The actually observed dependence of mortality on age--a consequence of the 
normal distribution of individuals in a cohort by the "vitality" criterion].

[Article in Russian]

Il'chenko AV.

A mathematical model is elaborated to calculate mortality indices in a cohort 
under various conditions. It is based on experimental data on compensatory 
mortality, differences of character dispersions between males and females, 
linear time dependence of compensatory effects. Observed dependence of mortality 
on age may be obtained under provision of normal distribution of individuals by 
"vitality". 7 functional relations that describe variation of "vitality" 
dependently on time scale are considered. It is concluded that there must be 
obligatory longevity limit which is responsible for mortality dynamics: 
increased mortality in younger ages, its correspondence to Hompertz-Meykem low 
in middle age, and drastic retardation of mortality increasing in older age.

PMID: 7975887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1994 Oct;98(10):989-93.

[Survival rate of patients with diabetic retinopathy after vitreous surgery].

[Article in Japanese]

Matsumoto T(1), Uchio E, Gotoh K, Saeki K, Ohno S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yokohama South Kyosai Hospital, Kanagawa-ken, 
Japan.

We studied various factors affecting the survival rate after vitreous surgery in 
140 patients with diabetic retinopathy, who had undergone vitreous surgery 
between 1982 and 1990, according to the life-table theory and Cox proportional 
hazards model. The 5-year survival rate was 95.8%. The most common cause of 
death was cerebro-cardiovascular disease in 75.0%. The ratio of the observed 
number of deaths (O) to the expected ones (E), the O/E ratio, was significantly 
higher in patients who had undergone surgery between 55 and 69 years of age. The 
O/E ratio was significantly higher in both cardiovascular disease and 
cerebrovascular disease groups. Factors associated with a lower survival rate 
included age at operation, history of nephropathy, and neuropathy.

PMID: 7976836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 1994;111(1):185-201.

[Aspects of the aging of the population].

[Article in Spanish]

del Rey Calero J.

PMID: 7978119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 1994;111(1):53-72; discussion 72-5.

[Population dynamics and aspects of health policy].

[Article in Spanish]

del Rey Calero J.

PIP: This work explains basic demographic concepts and their relevance to health 
planning. It describes population growth as the result of the interplay of 
fertility, mortality, and migration, and explains the demographic and 
epidemiologic transitions. A summary view of economic conditions since World War 
II considers increases in spending on health and welfare in the context of 
overall economic conditions, especially in Spain, where unemployment and 
inflation have been problems. The influence of declining fertility on the age 
structure, and hence on health expenditures, is explained. Spain's population 
age 65 and over will increase to 15.2% of the total by 1996. 35% of hospital 
stays are for individuals over age 65, and the elderly tend to require longer 
stays. The distinction between life expectancy and life expectancy without 
disability is explained. Life expectancy at birth in Spain averages 76.4 years, 
while life expectancy without disability averages 61 years. The quest for equity 
is an objective of public health, but countries at different levels of 
development have greatly varying health expenditures. Programs to control infant 
mortality have been highly successful and cost effective, while programs for 
adults have been more complex to evaluate because of the influence of life 
styles. Health investments in poor countries generally have favorable 
cost-benefit ratios. Not all investments in richer countries have favorable 
ratios. The European Union is attempting to define a minimal level of health 
services to be offered by member nations to their citizens.

PMID: 7978122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Ann Urol (Paris). 1994;28(4):184-9.

[Indications for radical prostatectomy in localized cancer of the prostate].

[Article in French]

Jichlinski P(1).

Author information:
(1)Médecin-adjoint, Service d'Urologie, CHUV, Lausanne, Suisse.

The exceptional character of the natural history of prostate cancer continues to 
feed the controversy about the indication of radical prostatectomy in localised 
prostatic cancer. However, the correlation between tumor volume and the risk of 
disease progression established by recent pathological studies seems to 
demonstrate an ideal indication for radical prostatectomy for a tumor volume 
between 0.5 and 4 cc. However the precise estimation of this tumor volume by 
current diagnostic tools is still insufficient. Nevertheless, recent 
publications show that radical prostatectomy, whose complications must not be 
overestimated, gives real chances of obtaining good local control of the 
disease, even for advanced localised cancers. This operation can be rationally 
proposed to people with a sufficiently long life expectancy.

PMID: 7979207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Lancet. 1994 Apr 2;343(8901):811-6. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)92023-0.

Empirical H2-blocker therapy or prompt endoscopy in management of dyspepsia.

Bytzer P(1), Hansen JM, Schaffalitzky de Muckadell OB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Gastroenterology S, Odense University Hospital, 
Denmark.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1994 Sep-Oct;121 Suppl 2:31.
    Lancet. 1994 May 21;343(8908):1302.
    Lancet. 1994 Jun 11;343(8911):1501-2.

The recommended strategy for management of dyspepsia is empirical treatment with 
an H2-blocking drug, followed by endoscopy if the symptoms do not respond or 
recur. We compared two strategies for the management of dyspepsia--treatment 
based on the results of prompt endoscopy (group 1) and empirical H2-blocker 
treatment with diagnostic endoscopy only in cases of therapeutic failure or 
symptomatic relapse within 1 year (group 2). Eligible patients had symptoms 
severe enough to justify empirical H2-blocker therapy. Symptoms, drug 
consumption, and sick-leave days were assessed through monthly diaries. Patients 
with non-organic dyspepsia diagnosed by endoscopy did not receive ulcer drugs. 
Of 414 patients randomised, 373 completed 1-year follow-up. Organic disease was 
found at endoscopy in 68 (33%) of 208 group-1 patients (ulcer in 45). Endoscopy 
was done in 136 (66%) of 206 group-2 patients. Case selection for endoscopy was 
not improved by the empirical treatment strategy, since the diagnostic profile 
was the same as in group 1 and 40% of the expected ulcer cases remained 
undiagnosed. After 1 year there were no differences in symptoms or quality of 
life measures. The empirical treatment strategy in dyspepsia was associated with 
higher costs, due mainly to a higher number of sick-leave days and cost of ulcer 
drug use. Prompt endoscopy is a cost-effective strategy in dyspeptic patients 
with symptoms severe enough to justify the current practice of empirical 
H2-blocker treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)92023-0
PMID: 7980747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Lancet. 1994 Sep 10;344(8924):755. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)92245-4.

Absolute effects of relative poverty.

Charlton BG.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1994 Aug 13;344(8920):463.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)92245-4
PMID: 7980826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Diabetes Care. 1994 Jun;17 Suppl 1:12-7.

Primary care. Participants or gatekeepers?

Starfield B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins University School 
of Hygiene and Public Health, Baltimore, MD 21287.

Health systems that have a strong orientation toward primary care achieve lower 
overall costs, better satisfaction of their populations, and better health. The 
role of specialists in such systems is to provide consultative services on a 
short-term basis (secondary care) or long-term services for rare or complicated 
problems (tertiary care). Among both primary-care and specialist physicians, 
opinions vary considerably as to the specific tasks that are appropriate in 
primary and specialist care. Medical education has not proved an adequate basis 
for judging either the relative appropriateness of care by primary-care 
physicians and specialists or criteria for referral. Recent studies indicate 
that conventional wisdom concerning the nature and treatment of disease that is 
derived from research in tertiary medical centers is contradicted by 
collaborative practice-based studies in primary care. Better collaboration 
between primary-care physicians and specialists both in research and in the 
design of services will be the key to more informed decisions about improvement 
in the care of patients with diabetes and other important and common health-care 
problems.

PMID: 7980836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Cancer. 1994 Dec 15;74(12):3089-96. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19941215)74:12<3089::aid-cncr2820741205>3.0.co;2-n.

High prevalence of p53 protein overexpression in patients with esophageal cancer 
in Linxian, China and its relationship to progression and prognosis.

Wang DY(1), Xiang YY, Tanaka M, Li XR, Li JL, Shen Q, Sugimura H, Kino I.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Pathology, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, 
Japan.

Erratum in
    Cancer 1995 Mar 15;75(6):1404.

BACKGROUND: Linxian is the highest endemic area of esophageal squamous cell 
carcinoma (ESCC) in China and one of the highest incidence areas in the world. 
The relationship of p53 protein accumulation to geographic variation, pathologic 
findings, and prognosis has not been investigated extensively.
METHODS: Formalin fixed, paraffin embedded ESCC tissues from 100 patients who 
underwent esophagectomy between 1973 and 1983 were immunostained by using 
monoclonal antibody pAB1801.
RESULTS: p53 overexpression was observed in 41 (87.2%) of 47 tumors of patients 
in Linxian and in 16 (64%) of 25 additional patients outside Linxian. Its 
prevalence in the noncancerous epithelium (11/72, 15.3%) and carcinoma in situ 
(1/7, 14.3%) was lower than that in invasive lesions (64/93, 68.8%). Its 
immunostaining intensity increased with the depth of cancer invasion. Of 30 
primary carcinomas with lymph node metastasis, 29 (96.7%) were positive. 
However, only 36 (51.4%) of 70 primary lesions without metastasis were positive, 
and a higher intensity was noticed in the metastases. There was a lower 
expression rate in tumors of patients surviving more than 10 years (25/52, 
48.1%) than in those surviving less than 3 years (40/48, 83.3%). Overall and 
nonadvanced or metastasis-free cumulative survival rates were both significantly 
different in patients with and without p53 protein overexpression.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a higher expression rate of p53 protein in ESCC in tumors 
of patients from Linxian than in those from the surrounding area. The 
accumulation of p53 protein is related to the invasiveness and capability for 
metastases of cancer cells and appears to be a useful prognostic factor for 
patients with ESCC.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19941215)74:12<3089::aid-cncr2820741205>3.0.co;2-n
PMID: 7982172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1994 Dec 16;43(49):916-20.

Mortality patterns--United States, 1992.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

In 1992, a total of 2,175,613 deaths were registered in the United States--6095 
more than in 1991 and the most ever recorded in one year . Despite this 
increase, the overall age-adjusted death rate (504.5 per 100,000 population) was 
the lowest ever recorded. In comparison, provisional data indicate that the 
overall rate increased in 1993. This report summarizes an analysis of final 
mortality data for 1992 and compares patterns with 1991.

PMID: 7984142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Nurs Times. 1994 Nov 2-8;90(44):14-5.

A lifetime of opportunity?

Smith K.

PMID: 7984472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1994 Sep-Oct;132(5):377-82. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1039840.

[Multi-segmental fusion of scoliosis in Duchenne's muscular dystrophy].

[Article in German]

Hopf C(1), Forst R, Forst J, Eysel P, Reitter B.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Klinik der Universität Mainz.

Operations in scoliosis in patients suffering from an advanced stage of Duchenne 
muscular dystrophy are associated with a higher risk due to the extent of the 
curves, the respiratory insufficiency and frequent cardiomyopathia. Progressive 
scolioses in 20 wheelchair patients with an age between 10.5-18.3 years (mean 
14.6 years) were treated by CDI. The mean preoperative angle in this group was 
70.6 degrees, the postoperative angle 31.2 degrees (mean correction 39.4 degrees 
or 55.8%). The preoperative lordosis of the lumbar spine (mean angle 4.1 
degrees) was corrected to 17.8 degrees postoperatively. The average 
intraoperative blood loss (2300 ccm) was evident more compared with idiopathic 
scoliosis. One neurologic complication (postoperative disturbance of bladder 
function) was observed. Nowadays early surgical correction and stabilization 
(Cobb angle > 20 degrees) has to be recommended as the treatment of choice for 
scolioses in Duchenne muscular dystrophy using multisegmental instrumentation 
methods to enable rapid mobilisation and a postoperative care without brace or 
cast. This conception allows a prophylactic operation including the following 
targets: prolongation of life expectancy, improvement of sitting position and 
prevention of rapid deterioration of lung function including assisted mechanical 
ventilation in late stages.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1039840
PMID: 7985396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Acta Eur Fertil. 1993 May-Jun;24(3):117-20.

Reproductive performance in women with bicornuate uterus.

Maneschi F(1), Marana R, Muzii L, Mancuso S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Università Cattolica del Sacro 
Cuore, Rome, Italy.

The medical records of 21 patients with bicornuate uterus were analyzed. 
Thirteen patients did not undergo corrective surgery, whereas eight underwent 
metroplasty. The pregnancies in patients who did not undergo surgery, and the 
outcome evaluated. The outcome of pregnancies after corrective surgery was also 
analyzed. The cumulative pregnancy rates at 12 and 24 months were 67% and 95% in 
patients without surgical correction and 63% and 88% in patients after surgical 
correction. The probability of giving birth to a live-born infant with no 
corrective surgery was 30%, 58% and 79% for the first, second and third 
pregnancy respectively; the probability of giving birth to a live-born infant 
after corrective surgery was 71% for the first and 86% for the second pregnancy. 
Fertility is not impaired in patients with bicornuate uterus, but gestational 
capacity is. A prognostic estimate of the likelihood of giving birth to a 
live-born infant can be formulated according to the number of pregnancies and/or 
surgical correction.

PMID: 7985453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1994;353:155-67. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4615-2443-4_15.

Multivariate prognostic model for infiltrating ductal carcinoma of the breast in 
the axillary node-free patient.

Ceriani RL(1), Baratta F, Gaslonde RJ, De Rosa CM, Ozzello L.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Fund of Contra Costa, Walnut Creek, CA 94596.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-2443-4_15
PMID: 7985534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Am J Dent. 1994 Oct;7(5):256-60.

Factors influencing the future need for treatment of root surfaces.

Ettinger RL(1), Hand JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, College of Dentistry, University of Iowa, Iowa 
City.

This paper discusses the current status of root surface caries in the elderly 
population and the need for treatment of this condition in the future. Although 
root surface exposure and root caries have been reported for adults at all ages, 
the people at greatest risk for these conditions are the elderly. In the United 
States, life expectancy and the population aged 65 years and older has increased 
substantially, and the proportion of the elderly population who are dentate has 
increased and is projected to increase further. Utilization of dental services 
by the elderly is similar to that of employed adults. Interpretation of studies 
of the prevalence and incidence of root surface caries are difficult due to 
differences in sampling, definition of lesions, and reporting conventions. Root 
surface caries prevalence is related to age and continues to be a significant 
problem for this population as they age. Factors that may affect the future need 
for treatment are explored.

PMID: 7986448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Br Dent J. 1994 Nov 19;177(10):387-90. doi: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4808620.

The oral health challenge at the drawn of the third millennium.

Barmes DE.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4808620
PMID: 7986634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1994 Aug;8(4):465-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.1994.tb00316.x.

Steroid treatment in active Crohn's disease: a comparison between two regimens 
of different duration.

Brignola C(1), De Simone G, Belloli C, Iannone P, Belluzzi A, Gionchetti P, 
Campieri M, Barbara L.

Author information:
(1)Instituto di Clinica Medica e Gastroenterologia, Università di Bologna, 
Italy.

Comment in
    Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1995 Aug;9(4):455.

BACKGROUND: Steroids are highly effective in active Crohn's disease; clinical 
relapse following steroid withdrawal, however, is frequent. We used two steroid 
regimens of different duration in order to compare their efficacy in inducing 
and maintaining clinical remission.
METHODS: Seventy patients with active Crohn's disease were treated with 
methylprednisolone 40 mg/day i.m. for 3 weeks and then with two different 
regimens of tapering dosage: one for a further 4 weeks and another for a further 
12 weeks.
RESULTS: Steroid therapy induced remission within 3 weeks in 91% of the whole 
group of patients; at the end of each protocol remission rates were 85% of 
patients in the group treated for the shorter period and 87% of those treated 
for the longer period (difference 2%, CI = -14 to 18, P = NS); remission rates 
within 6 months after stopping steroids were 53% and 37% respectively 
(difference 16%, CI = -9 to 41, P = NS).
CONCLUSIONS: No significant differences were found between the two regimens. 
Multiple courses of steroid treatment in the previous 3 years and a short time 
interval following previous steroid treatment seem to be risk factors for 
relapse.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.1994.tb00316.x
PMID: 7986973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Semin Pediatr Surg. 1994 Aug;3(3):182-7.

Papillary carcinoma of the thyroid in children.

Moir CR(1), Telander RL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Surgery, Mayo Foundation, Rochester, MN.

Papillary carcinoma of the thyroid is the most common thyroid cancer in 
children. It usually occurs in the teenage female and presents as a 3-cm mass 
within the thyroid itself. Although the tumor is well differentiated, almost 80% 
of all children will present with local lymph node metastasis. Despite this 
metastasis, most children have a life expectancy that parallels those of their 
peers for 30 years. Treatment for well-differentiated papillary carcinoma 
includes surgical excision of all cancerous tissue and removal of the affected 
lymph nodes. Radioablation of residual disease has been effective.

PMID: 7987633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 1994;35(2):165-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00686641.

Vincristine with high-dose etoposide in advanced breast cancer: a phase II trial 
of the Piedmont Oncology Association.

Thomas GW(1), Muss HB, Jackson DV, McCulloch J, Ramseur W, McFarland J, Hoen H, 
Pavy M, Heath R.

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Cancer Center, Wake Forest University, Bowman Gray School of 
Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27157-1082.

Vincristine (VCR) and etoposide (VP-16) have been shown to be synergistic in a 
murine model, and this combination was studied in a phase II trial. Eligibility 
required measurable disease, a performance status of 0-2, a life expectancy of > 
or = 2 months, an interval of at least 3 weeks since the receipt of previous 
radiation therapy or chemotherapy and recovery from related toxicity, no prior 
treatment with VCR or VP-16, and no more than two prior chemotherapy regimens 
(only one for treatment of metastatic disease). Treatment consisted of 0.5 mg 
i.v. (bolus) VCR followed by 200 mg/m2 VP-16 given over 2 h. Both drugs were 
given daily for 3 consecutive days every 3 weeks (total dose: VCR, 1.5 mg; 
VP-16, 600 mg/m2). A total of 18 patients with metastatic breast cancer were 
accured; 14 had adjuvant chemotherapy and 8 had chemotherapy for advanced 
disease. As judged by International Union Against Cancer (UICC) criteria, one 
complete response (CR) and three partial responses (PR) were obtained, for a CR 
+ PR rate of 22% (95% confidence interval, 6%-48%). All responders had 
soft-tissue involvement only. Six patients had stable disease and 8 showed 
progression. The median time to treatment failure was 3.5 months, and the median 
survival from study entry was 8.3 months. The major toxicity was 
myelosuppression, with 9 patients (50%) experiencing a total WBC of < 1,000/mm3. 
Grade 2-3 neurologic toxicity was noted in 6 patients (33%) and grade 3 nausea 
and vomiting was noted in 5 (28%). The combination of VCR and VP-16 is active in 
advanced breast cancer but is not convincingly superior to either of these 
agents used alone.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00686641
PMID: 7987995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Clin Genet. 1994 Jul;46(1 Spec No):106-14. doi: 
10.1111/j.1399-0004.1994.tb04212.x.

Colorectal cancer: lessons for genetic counselling and care for families.

Müller H(1), Scott R, Weber W, Meier R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Research, Kantonsspital, Basel, Switzerland.

Cancers of the colon and the rectum are the second leading cause of malignancy 
in European countries with similar incidence rates for men and women and, 
therefore, one of the major health concerns. Emphasis is placed on the early 
detection of a developing neoplasm in order to improve the life expectancy of 
patients and their quality of life. Colorectal cancer (CRC) is an excellent 
model for studying the etiology and pathogenesis of a common malignancy and the 
complex multistage process of carcinogenesis. Abundant clinical and pathological 
evidence suggests that CRC arises from benign adenomas that proceed through a 
series of steps to metastatic carcinomas. Following the discovery of oncogenes 
and, more importantly tumor suppressor genes, Fearon & Vogelstein (1990) 
proposed a scheme of genetic events which are associated with colorectal 
tumorigenesis. Genetic linkage studies have recently identified another type of 
gene for colon cancer susceptibility that seems to act by destabilising the 
genome.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1994.tb04212.x
PMID: 7988067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 1994 Aug;44(2):99-107. doi: 
10.1016/0169-2607(94)90091-4.

MIAMOD: a computer package to estimate chronic disease morbidity using mortality 
and survival data.

De Angelis G(1), De Angelis R, Frova L, Verdecchia A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Istituto Superiore di Sanitá, 
Rome, Italy.

The MIAMOD package is for use in epidemiological analysis of chronic 
degenerative diseases. The package has been designed to use survival and 
mortality data supplied by the user, to estimate incidence and prevalence rates, 
to forecast future mortality and morbidity levels and to provide life tables. 
Estimates are derived by modelling incidence as an age-period-cohort function 
and by the equations relating specific cause mortality and prevalence to 
incidence and survival. The model parameters are evaluated by fitting mortality 
data by means of a weighted non-linear regression model. Numerical and 
statistical methods used to solve the regression and to compute standard errors, 
projections, and life tables are discussed. The program is written in standard 
FORTRAN 77 and runs on a mainframe computer. The different program units are 
illustrated together with the principal implementation options. An example of 
application is provided to show a typical output pattern.

DOI: 10.1016/0169-2607(94)90091-4
PMID: 7988122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1994 Dec 9;119(49):1683-9. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1058887.

[Pacemaker therapy for the sick sinus node syndrome. Does the atrially involved 
pacemaker system lower the frequency of atrial fibrillation and thromboembolic 
complications as well as mortality?].

[Article in German]

Hofgärtner F(1), Maier B, Eisele R, Hauber J, Sigel H.

Author information:
(1)I. Medizinische Klinik, Schwerpunkt Kardiologie, Klinik am Eichert, 
Göppingen.

Between 1986 and 1992, pacemakers were implanted in 307 patients with symptoms 
caused by the sick sinus syndrome (SSS). 301 patients were regularly followed up 
(161 men, 146 women, mean age 72.9 [27-91] years) of whom 180 had a VVI, 65 and 
AAI and 58 a DDD/DDI pacemaker. Mean follow-up period was 58.3 months for 
VVI-stimulated patients and 35.6 months for atrial paced patients. The data were 
analysed retrospectively to ascertain whether a change in pacemaker treatment to 
a more physiological system produced any lowering in the mortality rate, 
incidence of permanent atrial fibrillation (AF), and thromboembolic phenomena. 
The annual mortality rate of the VVI-stimulated patients was 6.9%, that of 
atrial paced patients 2.8%. Age, abnormal ventricular function, survived 
resuscitation and diabetes mellitus each correlated with a shortened life 
expectancy already at the time of implantation, regardless of the pacemaker 
mode. Permanent AF was more frequent during VVI stimulation (16% vs 7%), 
especially if it had been preceded by intermittent AF (26% vs 13%). But there 
was no significant difference with regard to transitory cerebral ischaemic 
episodes and peripheral arterial emboli (15% vs 10%). Fewer patients with atrial 
pacing went into heart failure (20% vs 30%). Four patients developed a 
high-grade atrioventricular (a-v) block on AAI stimulation (annual incidence 
2.4%). - These observations suggest that patients with SSS should always have 
atrial paced pacemaker systems. If a-v conduction is disturbed, a bifocal 
pacemaker is the system of choice.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1058887
PMID: 7988373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Health Aff (Millwood). 1994 Fall;13(4):100-12. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.13.4.100.

Health system performance in OECD countries, 1980-1992. Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development.

Schieber GJ(1), Poullier JP, Greenwald LM.

Author information:
(1)Health Care Financing Administration's (HCFA's) Office of Research and 
Demonstrations, Baltimore.

U.S. health expenditure levels and rates of increase continue to exceed those of 
other Western industrialized nations. The pluralistic U.S. health care system 
has the highest excess health care inflation and opportunity costs of forgone 
nonhealth consumption and investment when compared with other major 
industrialized countries. While poor U.S. performance in terms of life 
expectancy at birth and infant mortality may partially result from social 
problems, there is little quantifiable evidence of value for money or equity in 
terms of health system performance.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.13.4.100
PMID: 7988986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. J Clin Oncol. 1994 Dec;12(12):2594-600. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1994.12.12.2594.

Low numbers of CSF blasts at diagnosis do not predict for the development of CNS 
leukemia in children with intermediate-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a 
Childrens Cancer Group report.

Gilchrist GS(1), Tubergen DG, Sather HN, Coccia PF, O'Brien RT, Waskerwitz MJ, 
Hammond GD.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.

PURPOSE: This study was designed to evaluate the effect on CNS relapse (CNSR) 
and overall relapse rates of blast cells in the CSF containing < or = 5 
cells/microL at the time of diagnosis of intermediate-risk acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (ALL) in children entered onto a large randomized multicenter 
prospective therapeutic trial (Childrens Cancer Group [CCG]-105).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied outcome in terms of CNSR and event-free 
survival (EFS) in 1,544 patients who successfully completed remission-induction 
therapy and had been randomized to one of four systemic chemotherapy regimens 
and to one of two CNS prophylaxis regimens. We compared outcome between 1,450 
patients who had varying degrees of pleocytosis but no blasts in the CSF at 
diagnosis (blast-negative group) with 94 who had blasts detected in the CSF 
after cytocentrifugation but had a total CSF WBC count of < or = 5/microL 
(blast-positive group).
RESULTS: No statistically significant differences in overall CNSR or EFS rates 
were observed between the two groups and no differences were found when analyzed 
according to age or WBC count at diagnosis, sex, or type of CNS prophylaxis 
(intrathecal [IT] methotrexate [MTX] alone v IT MTX plus 18 Gy cranial 
irradiation [CXRT]).
CONCLUSION: In intermediate-risk ALL, there was no significant difference in 
CNSR and systemic relapse rates after standard presymptomatic CNS therapy 
between patients with a CSF WBC count < or = 5/microL and those without 
identifiable blasts in the CSF. These findings suggest that certain approaches 
to therapy, such as that used in this study, may eliminate the need for any 
additional special treatment directed at this subset of patients with CSF 
blasts.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1994.12.12.2594
PMID: 7989934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. J Prosthet Dent. 1994 Oct;72(4):393-8. doi: 10.1016/0022-3913(94)90559-2.

Sorption and solubility of 12 soft denture liners.

Kawano F(1), Dootz ER, Koran A 3rd, Craig RG.

Author information:
(1)School of Dentistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

The long-term stability of a soft denture liner depends to a large extent on the 
sorption and solubility of the liner. Because sorption and solubility are 
accompanied by a volumetric change, bacterial infestation, hardening, and color 
change, it is a physical property of importance. The purpose of this 
investigation was to determine the sorption and solubility of 12 soft denture 
liners (Verno-Soft, Super Soft, ProTech, Soft-Pak, Flexor, Novus, Molloplast-B, 
Durosoft, Justi Soft, Velvesoft, VinaSoft and Prolastic). They include nine 
copolymers, two silicones and one polyphosphazene fluoroelastomer. The sorption 
and solubility test was performed as outlined in American Dental Association 
(ADA) specification 12 for denture base polymers. Five specimens of each 
material were tested and data were collected at 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, 6 
months, and 1 year. Sorption data varied from 0.2 to 5.6 mg/cm2 at 1 week; 0.3 
to 12.5 mg/cm2 at 1 month; 0.1 to 22.0 mg/cm2 at 3 months; 0.1 to 13.6 mg/cm2 at 
6 months; and 0.1 to 35.7 mg/cm2 at 12 months. Solubility data varied from 0.0 
to 0.4 mg/cm2 at 1 week; 0.1 to 0.8 mg/cm2 at 1 month; +0.1 to 1.2 mg/cm2 at 3 
months; 0.0 to 1.9 mg/cm2 at 6 months; and +0.2 to 2.3 mg/cm2 at 1 year. A 
statistical analysis of the data by two-way ANOVA and calculated Tukey intervals 
showed significant differences between materials at all time intervals. The 
results of this study have clinical implications because the sorption and 
solubility may affect the long-term life expectancy of the soft denture liner.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-3913(94)90559-2
PMID: 7990045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Neurology. 1994 Dec;44(12):2247-9. doi: 10.1212/wnl.44.12.2247.

Clozapine-related seizures: experience with 5,629 patients.

Pacia SV(1), Devinsky O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, New York University School of Medicine, NY.

We reviewed the incidence, clinical features, and management of all 
clozapine-related seizures in 5,629 patients monitored by the Clozaril Patient 
Management System, during the first 6 months after marketing. Seventy-one 
patients had generalized tonic-clonic seizures yielding a frequency of 1.3%. One 
patient had myoclonic seizures prior to generalization. Seizures tended to occur 
at low doses (< 300 mg/d) during the titration phase, and at high doses (> or = 
600 mg/d) during the maintenance phase. Patients with a history of seizures or 
epilepsy were more likely to have seizures soon after initiation of therapy, on 
low doses. Twenty-nine of 37 patients (78%) who had seizures and were 
rechallenged with clozapine were able to continue the medication with dose 
reduction and more-gradual dose titration, or with the addition of an 
antiepileptic medication.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.44.12.2247
PMID: 7991106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Minerva Chir. 1994 Sep;49(9):837-9.

[Organization of a center for prevention and treatment of obesity].

[Article in Italian]

Graceffa G(1), Pantuso G, Grassi N, Salanitro L, Mastrandrea G, Attanzio MT, 
Latteri M, Bajardi G.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Discipline Chirurgiche ed Anatomiche, Università degli Studi 
di Palmermo.

Obesity, a pathology with a multifactorial etiopathogenesis currently has an 
incidence of around 6% in the adult population in Italy. Considering that this 
disease provokes a statistically significant reduction of life expectancy, there 
is an evidence need to create structures which can deal with this problem. For 
this purpose, the Centre for the prevention and cure of obesity was set up by 
the Department of Surgery and Anatomy at the University of Palermo in 1990. It 
makes use of the specialist skills of experts in internal medicine, dieticians, 
