cardiologists, psychologists and surgeons. In particular the authors give a 
detailed description of the diagnostic iter used and the methods of follow-up 
adopted for patients undergoing biliopancreatic diversion (BPD) surgery. In 
conclusion, the authors emphasize the need for a multidisciplinary approach to 
this pathology since this is the only way of minimizing complications arising 
during BPD surgery and obtaining the best results.

PMID: 7991202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1994 Dec 6;91(25):11769-70. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.91.25.11769.

Latent capacities for gametogenic cycling in the semelparous invertebrate 
Nereis.

Finch CE(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurogerontology Division, Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles 90089-0191.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1994 Dec 6;91(25):11777-81.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.91.25.11769
PMCID: PMC45316
PMID: 7991533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1994 Dec 6;91(25):12332-5. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.91.25.12332.

DNA oxidative damage and life expectancy in houseflies.

Agarwal S(1), Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX 
75275.

The objective of this study was to explore the relationship between oxidative 
molecular damage and the aging process by determining whether such damage is 
associated with the rate of aging, using the adult housefly as the experimental 
organism. Because the somatic tissues in the housefly consist of long-lived 
postmitotic cells, it provides an excellent model system for studying cumulative 
age-related cellular alterations. Rate of aging in the housefly was manipulated 
by varying the rate of metabolism (physical activity). The concentration of 
8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (80HdG) was used as an indicator of DNA oxidation. 
Exposure of live flies to x-rays and hyperoxia elevated the level of 8OHdG. The 
level of 8OHdG in mitochondrial as well as total DNA increased with the age of 
flies. Mitochondrial DNA was 3 times more susceptible to age-related oxidative 
damage than nuclear DNA. A decrease in the level of physical activity of the 
flies was found to prolong the life-span and corresponding reduce the level of 
8OHdG in both mitochondrial and total DNA. Under all conditions examined, 
mitochondrial DNA exhibited a higher level of oxidative damage than total DNA. 
The 8OHdG levels were found to be inversely associated with the life expectancy 
of houseflies. The pattern of age-associated accrural of 8OHdG was virtually 
identical to that of protein carbonyl content. Altoghether, results of this 
study support the hypothesis that oxidative molecular damage is a causal factor 
in senescence.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.91.25.12332
PMCID: PMC45431
PMID: 7991627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Arch Ophthalmol. 1994 Dec;112(12):1540-4. doi: 
10.1001/archopht.1994.01090240046024.

Surgical results of trabeculotomy ab externo for developmental glaucoma.

Akimoto M(1), Tanihara H, Negi A, Nagata M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tenri Hospital, Nara, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: To elucidate long-term surgical outcome of trabeculotomy ab externo 
in the treatment of developmental glaucoma.
PATIENTS: Included in this retrospective study are 116 eyes of 71 patients with 
developmental glaucoma. We classified patients into three groups based on their 
age: congenital (33 eyes), existing before age 2 months; infantile (31 eyes), 
occurring from ages 2 months to 2 years; and juvenile (52 eyes), age 2 years or 
older.
RESULTS: A life-table analysis showed that the total success probabilities at 5 
and 10 years with one or more trabeculotomy ab externo operations were, 
respectively, 92.5% +/- 2.7% and 76.5% +/- 6.2%. The success probability of 
patients with congenital glaucoma (60.3% +/- 15.9%) was significantly lower than 
it was for those with infantile (96.3% +/- 3.6%) or juvenile (76.4% +/- 7.5%) 
glaucoma (P < .01 for both).
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical results of trabeculotomy ab externo remain effective for a 
long time. Congenital glaucoma has the worst prognosis, and infantile glaucoma 
has a better prognosis than does juvenile glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.1994.01090240046024
PMID: 7993208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. N Engl J Med. 1994 Jun 9;330(23):1639-44. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199406093302303.

Mortality in sickle cell disease. Life expectancy and risk factors for early 
death.

Platt OS(1), Brambilla DJ, Rosse WF, Milner PF, Castro O, Steinberg MH, Klug PP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Oct 13;331(15):1022-3.

BACKGROUND: Information on life expectancy and risk factors for early death 
among patients with sickle cell disease (sickle cell anemia, sickle 
cell-hemoglobin C disease, and the sickle cell-beta-thalassemias) is needed to 
counsel patients, target therapy, and design clinical trials.
METHODS: We followed 3764 patients who ranged from birth to 66 years of age at 
enrollment to determine the life expectancy and calculate the median age at 
death. In addition, we investigated the circumstances of death for all 209 adult 
patients who died during the study, and used proportional-hazards regression 
analysis to identify risk factors for early death among 964 adults with sickle 
cell anemia who were followed for at least two years.
RESULTS: Among children and adults with sickle cell anemia (homozygous for 
sickle hemoglobin), the median age at death was 42 years for males and 48 years 
for females. Among those with sickle cell-hemoglobin C disease, the median age 
at death was 60 years for males and 68 years for females. Among adults with 
sickle cell disease, 18 percent of the deaths occurred in patients with overt 
organ failure, predominantly renal. Thirty-three percent were clinically free of 
organ failure but died during an acute sickle crisis (78 percent had pain, the 
chest syndrome, or both; 22 percent had stroke). Modeling revealed that in 
patients with sickle cell anemia, the acute chest syndrome, renal failure, 
seizures, a base-line white-cell count above 15,000 cells per cubic millimeter, 
and a low level of fetal hemoglobin were associated with an increased risk of 
early death.
CONCLUSIONS: Fifty percent of patients with sickle cell anemia survived beyond 
the fifth decade. A large proportion of those who died had no overt chronic 
organ failure but died during an acute episode of pain, chest syndrome, or 
stroke. Early mortality was highest among patients whose disease was 
symptomatic. A high level of fetal hemoglobin predicted improved survival and is 
probably a reliable childhood forecaster of adult life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199406093302303
PMID: 7993409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Blood. 1994 Dec 15;84(12):4278-82.

Early myeloablative therapy for multiple myeloma.

Alexanian R(1), Dimopoulos MA, Hester J, Delasalle K, Champlin R.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston 77030.

The value of early myeloablative therapy supported by autologous bone marrow or 
blood progenitor cells was assessed in 72 patients with multiple myeloma who 
were treated within 1 year of initial therapy. Forty-five patients were 
consolidated during remission, and 27 patients were treated for primary 
refractory disease. Outcomes were compared with those of similar patients who 
did not receive intensive treatment primarily for socioeconomic reasons. Among 
patients who had responded previously, myeloablative therapy increased the rate 
of complete remission from 5% to 45% (P < .01) but did not prolong 
progression-free intervals or survival times. The same treatment controlled the 
myeloma in 70% of patients with primary resistant disease and prolonged the 
median survival from 37 to 83 months (P = .03). Intensive treatment for primary 
resistant myeloma administered later in the disease course resulted in 
significantly lower response rates and shorter progression-free intervals. 
Current myeloablative regimens supported by autologous stem cells appeared 
useful primarily in patients with primary resistant disease during the first 
year of therapy.

PMID: 7994043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Clin Auton Res. 1994 Jun;4(3):117-23. doi: 10.1007/BF01845775.

Investigation of parasympathetic and sympathetic cardiac innervation in diabetic 
neuropathy: heart rate variation versus meta-iodo-benzylguanidine measured by 
single photon emission computed tomography.

Claus D(1), Feistel H, Brunhölzl C, Platsch G, Neundörfer B, Wolf F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Erlangen-Nuremberg, Germany.

In diabetic neuropathy disturbed autonomic cardiac innervation is associated 
with shortened life expectancy. Sympathetic dysfunction is likely to play a role 
in cases of cardiac death. The quantitative uptake of the radiopharmaceutical 
iodine-123-meta-iodo-benzylguanidine (MIBG) can be measured by single photon 
emission computed tomography (SPECT). It is an index of the functional integrity 
of sympathetic neurones in the heart. The respiratory heart rate variation--as 
assessed by a computerized device--reflects mainly parasympathetic cardiac 
innervation. In 25 diabetic patients and 19 healthy subjects MIBG-SPECT and 
heart rate variation tests were carried out. MIBG scans in all normal subjects 
showed homogeneous uptake of activity. In 12 out of 25 patients at least two 
heart rate variation tests were abnormal. MIBG-SPECT was more sensitive 
(abnormal in 17 out of 25). The lack of correlation between MIBG-SPECT results 
and spectral analysis of heart rate variation suggest that spectral analysis 
alone should not be regarded as an indicator of sympathetic cardiac innervation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01845775
PMID: 7994164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 1994 Dec;56(6 Pt 2):725-33. doi: 10.1038/clpt.1994.202.

Pharmacological actions of l-deprenyl (selegiline) and other selective monoamine 
oxidase B inhibitors.

Youdim MB(1), Finberg JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Technion-Bruce Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, 
Haifa, Israel.

The acetylenic selective monoamine oxidase (MAO) type B suicide inhibitor, 
l-deprenyl (l-selegiline), has proved to be a useful adjuvant to L-dopa therapy 
and monotherapy of Parkinson's disease. Although not all features of its 
antiParkinson action are known, studies that used brains obtained at autopsy 
from patients who took l-deprenyl show that the selective inhibition of MAO-B 
with a concomitant increase of phenylethylamine and dopamine, but not of 
serotonin or noradrenaline, in the basal ganglia may be responsible for its mode 
of action. The increased life expectancy noted in patients with Parkinson's 
disease who received long-term therapy (9 years in an uncontrolled study) is 
another unexpected feature of the drug. These exciting data, if confirmed in 
other long-term clinical trials, may herald a neuroprotective approach to the 
treatment of this degenerative disease. More recent studies indicate that 
Parkinson's disease may eventually turn out to be a neurotoxic event resulting 
from oxidative stress-induced free radical species in the substantia nigra. Thus 
selective MAO-B inhibitors could represent a unique class of drugs, having 
symptomatic actions with possible neuroprotective and neurorescue actions in 
one.

DOI: 10.1038/clpt.1994.202
PMID: 7995014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1994 Oct;35(5):419-24.

Distal bypass for limb salvage: comparative study in patients below and above 80 
years of age.

Gouny P(1), Bertrand P, Decaix B, Hocquet-Cheynel C, Karcenty B, Chemla M, 
Nussaume O.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire et Thoracique, Hôpital Rothschild, Paris, 
France.

Revascularization for chronic lower extremity ischemia in patients of 80 years 
and older is controversial. To better define operative risk and outcome after 
peripheral vascular procedures in the elderly, our experience from January 1990 
to December 1992 was reviewed. We compared two groups of patients: group I with 
26 patients (28 revascularizations) 80 years of age and older (84 +/- 3 years) 
and group II with 29 patients (32 revascularizations) younger than 80 years (70 
+/- 8 year). The two groups were similar with regard to risk factors, surgical 
indication (rest pain and/or gangrene) and type of graft (in situ vein: 35, 
reversed vein: 12, PTFE: 13). Fourteen femoro-popliteal bypasses, 17 
femoro-tibial bypasses (8 to the anterior tibial artery and 9 to the posterior 
tibial artery) and 29 femoro-peroneal bypasses were performed. The operative 
mortality rate was 11.5% in group I and 6.9% in group II. The cumulative 
life-table survival rate at 24 months was 39.5% in group I and 55% in group II. 
Primary patency rate at 24 months was 64% in group I and 67% in group II. 
Secondary patency rate at 24 months was 74.5% in group I and 73% in group II. 
Limb salvage at 24 months was 80% in group I and 83% in group II. Comparison of 
the older and younger groups showed no statistically significant difference in 
mortality rate, graft patency and limb salvage. Operative mortality and graft 
patency were not different with regard to age of patients.

PMID: 7995834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Lancet. 1994 Dec 17;344(8938):1655-60. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)90455-3.

Randomised trial of endoscopic stenting versus surgical bypass in malignant low 
bileduct obstruction.

Smith AC(1), Dowsett JF, Russell RC, Hatfield AR, Cotton PB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Middlesex Hospital, London, UK.

The development of non-surgical techniques for the relief of malignant low 
bileduct obstruction has cast doubt on the best way of relieving jaundice, 
particularly in patients fit for surgery whose life expectancy is more than a 
few weeks. We did a randomised prospective controlled trial comparing endoscopic 
stent insertion and surgical biliary bypass in patients with malignant low 
bileduct obstruction. 204 patients were randomised (surgery 103, stent 101); 3 
subsequently proved to have benign disease and were excluded, leaving 101 
surgical and 100 stented patients for assessment. Technical success was achieved 
in 94 surgical and 95 stented patients, with functional biliary decompression 
obtained in 92 patients in both groups. In stented patients, there was a lower 
procedure-related mortality (3% vs 14%, p = 0.01), major complication rate (11% 
vs 29%, p = 0.02), and median total hospital stay (20 vs 26 days, p = 0.001). 
Recurrent jaundice occurred in 36 stented patients and 2 surgical patients. Late 
gastric outlet obstruction occurred in 17% of stented patients and 7% of the 
surgical group. Despite the early benefits of stenting there was no significant 
difference in overall survival between the two groups (median survival: surgical 
26 weeks; stented 21 weeks; p = 0.065). Endoscopic stenting and surgery are 
effective palliative treatments with the former having fewer early 
treatment-related complications and the latter fewer late complications.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)90455-3
PMID: 7996958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Lancet. 1994 Dec 17;344(8938):1679-82. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)90462-6.

Enzyme replacement treatment in type 1 and type 3 Gaucher's disease.

Bembi B(1), Zanatta M, Carrozzi M, Baralle F, Gornati R, Berra B, Agosti E.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinica Pediatrica, Università di Trieste, IRCCS Burlo Garofolo, 
Italy.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1995 Feb 18;345(8947):451-2.

The development of intravenous enzyme-replacement treatment for Gaucher's 
disease has changed life expectancy in cases without neurological involvement 
(type 1). The effects in patients with neurological involvement are unknown. We 
treated 12 Italian patients, types 1 (9) and 3 (3), with intravenous 
alglucerase: 70-120 IU/kg per month for type 3 and 30-60 IU/kg per month for 
type 1. Maintenance infusions were biweekly in patients without neurological 
symptoms, whereas in one symptomatic type 3 patient, infusion was weekly. All 
patients improved; a resumption of growth in children with growth retardation 
was observed and spleen and liver reduced in size. In one type 3 patient, a bone 
callus formed during treatment and enabled the patient to walk. Laboratory tests 
showed rapid increase of haemoglobin in anaemic patients, and a slower response 
in patients with thrombocytopaenia. In 4 patients there was temporary 
hypocalcaemia immediately after the beginning of treatment. Neurological 
symptoms were present in 1 of the type 3 patients, and electroencephalogram was 
abnormal in another. After 2 years of treatment, the patient with symptoms 
showed an improvement of psychomotor skills and of IQ from 50 to 60. Genotype 
analysis showed a high frequency of the 1448C mutation (54.5%). The 9 patients 
carrying this allele came from Italian regions which in the past had been 
invaded from north Europe and Scandinavia. Enzyme replacement in Gaucher's type 
1 can also be effective at low doses and even with a 2-week interval between 
infusions. This makes treatment cheaper, and reduces hospital stay for patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(94)90462-6
PMID: 7996964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1994 Dec 3;138(49):2439-43.

[Mortality among young people: causes and background].

[Article in Dutch]

Bijlsma F(1).

Author information:
(1)Centraal Bureau voor de Statistiek, Voorburg.

OBJECTIVE: To study the mortality pattern among adolescents and young adults 
(15-24 years of age) in the Netherlands, 1983- 1992.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
SETTING: Centraal Bureau voor de Statistiek (Statistics Netherlands).
METHOD: Based on central registration and coding of all cause of death 
certificates in the Netherlands, the results of 10 years for the age group of 
15-24 years were arranged according to the Chapters of ICD-9 and subdivided 
where necessary. Changes during this period were also studied. The findings were 
compared with those obtained in other countries.
RESULTS: Most young people (61.5% of the men, 45.2% of the women) died of 
external causes. Traffic accidents and suicide ranked first and second in this 
category. Among natural causes, (malignant) neoplasms were most important, 
followed by diseases of the nervous system and sensory organs, diseases of the 
circulatory system and congenital anomalies. There was a group of 8.8% 
classified as 'symptoms, signs and ill-defined conditions' of which over 90% 
were registered as 'cause unknown', mainly (65.8%) due to missing certificates 
of young people who died abroad. The course in time showed a slight decrease of 
all causes, particularly of external causes. Compared with other countries 
(Europe, USA) the results in the Netherlands stand out favourably.
CONCLUSION: A further decline of mortality in young people could be achieved by 
unrelenting efforts to prevent traffic accidents and other accidental or 
suicidal deaths. Apart from this, life expectancy in the young will gain by 
prevention and/or early treatment of malignancies, infectious diseases and 
congenital conditions. A higher autopsy rate would solve some uncertainties.

PMID: 7997299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Perspect Biol Med. 1994 Autumn;38(1):41-57. doi: 10.1353/pbm.1994.0017.

Whither goest vivisection? Legislative and regulatory perspectives.

Singleton R Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life and Health Sciences, University of Delaware, Newark 
19716-2590.

DOI: 10.1353/pbm.1994.0017
PMID: 7997359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Vardfacket. 1994 Feb 24;18(4):X-XII.

[Class distinction in health. Relationship between life expectancy and income is 
strong].

[Article in Swedish]

Ajanki T.

PMID: 7998453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. J Public Health Med. 1994 Sep;16(3):263-9.

Health and health care in the English-speaking Caribbean: a British public 
health physician's view of the Caribbean.

Gulliford MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Commonwealth Caribbean Medical Research Council, Port of Spain, Trinidad.

People of Caribbean origin form one of the United Kingdom's most important 
ethnic minority groups but health conditions in the West Indies are not well 
understood in the UK. This review outlines past and present health conditions in 
the West Indies and describes the system of health care and some of the problems 
it faces at present. The last 30 years have seen a transition from a pattern of 
high childhood mortality to high mortality from chronic non-communicable 
diseases in adult life. Over the last ten years the severity of economic 
conditions undermined this progress, with the threatened re-emergence of 
malnutrition and infectious diseases as important health problems. Although most 
people in the region have access to health care, the quality and outcomes of 
care may be compromised by financial constraints and an unresponsive management 
system. Adopting modern approaches to planning and managing the health system 
might be one path to improvement, one to which public health professionals could 
make a significant contribution.

PMID: 7999375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Carbohydr Res. 1994 Nov 1;264(1):155-60. doi: 10.1016/0008-6215(94)00189-8.

Efficient preparation of allyl 2,3,6,2',3',6'-hexa-O-benzyl-beta-lactoside and 
its use as a glycosyl acceptor for chain extension at O-4'.

Dasgupta F(1), Anderson L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, 
University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706.

DOI: 10.1016/0008-6215(94)00189-8
PMID: 8001017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Hum Biol. 1994 Oct;66(5):917-43.

Health of populations in northern Queensland aboriginal communities: change and 
continuity.

Kunitz SJ(1), Streatfield R, Santow G, De Craen A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Preventive Medicine, University of Rochester 
Medical Center, NY 14642.

We show that Australian Aborigines living in North Queensland have had an 
impressive decline in infant mortality over the past 50 years. Since the early 
1970s, much of the decline can be attributed to preventive and curative medical 
services. On the other hand, the growth trajectory of infants and children has 
improved only slightly since the early 1970s, and mean and median weights are 
still well below international standards. In addition, there is no evidence that 
life expectancy at birth has improved significantly since the early 1970s. The 
pattern of declining infant mortality and stagnant life expectancy is accounted 
for by unchanging mortality at older ages. The major contributing causes are 
heart disease and accidents and violence. We suggest that the decline of infant 
mortality is the result of specific policy decisions made by the providers of 
preventive health services that infant health would be the focus of their 
efforts. The result was that many other aspects of health were not dealt with 
and adult mortality stagnated. We also suggest tentatively that the reduction in 
infant mortality coupled with persistent high rates of low birth weight and low 
weight for age at 1 year may be related to the high rates of young adult deaths 
from ischemic heart disease observed in Aboriginal populations.

PMID: 8001917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Hastings Cent Rep. 1994 Sep-Oct;24(5):32-5.

Four scenarios for an aging society.

Moody HR(1).

Author information:
(1)Brookdale Center on Aging, Hunter College, New York, N.Y.

PMID: 8002308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Health Care Women Int. 1994 Mar-Apr;15(2):111-22. doi: 
10.1080/07399339409516103.

Endemic stress: environmental determinants of women's health in India.

Becktell PJ.

The Indian subcontinent stands alone as an area in which women have a lower life 
expectancy at birth than do men. The differential impact of environmental 
influences on the health of women in India is examined. The influences can be 
conceptualized as endemic stress that arises from social and physical 
environmental determinants of deprivation, inadequate resources, limited role 
opportunities, and oppressive cultural forces. It is suggested that there is a 
link between these factors and women's health status. The combined effort of 
Indian women and international support agencies is suggested as an approach to 
examining, evaluating, and remediating the problem.

DOI: 10.1080/07399339409516103
PMID: 8002408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Int J Prosthodont. 1994 Mar-Apr;7(2):143-8.

Implant treatment in partially edentulous patients: a report on prostheses after 
3 years.

Gunne J(1), Jemt T, Lindén B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, Faculty of Odontology, University of 
Umeå, Sweden.

There has been an increasing interest in the use of implants for partially 
edentulous patients. This introduces other biomechanical situations than those 
experienced in completely edentulous patients. In a prospective multicenter 
study, 521 implants in 154 patients were loaded with 197 free-standing 
prostheses. The patients have been followed for 3 years. The cumulative success 
rate for the prostheses was 94.8% and for the implants it was 93.9%. Most of the 
lost prostheses were only supported by two implants. A frequent technical 
complication was fracture and loosening of gold screws, which was more frequent 
in prostheses supported by only two implants.

PMID: 8003194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Cancer. 1994 Jul 1;74(1):90-2. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19940701)74:1<90::aid-cncr2820740116>3.0.co;2-0.

Thrombocytosis as a prognostic factor in women with cervical cancer.

Lopes A(1), Daras V, Cross PA, Robertson G, Beynon G, Monaghan JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynaecological Oncology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Gateshead, 
Tyne and Wear, England.

BACKGROUND: Thrombocytosis (a platelet count > 400 x 10(9)/l) is found 
frequently in association with malignant disease and recently has been suggested 
to be a poor prognostic indicator in patients with cervical cancer. The authors 
decided to see if these findings could be verified.
METHODS: The pretreatment platelet counts of 643 women treated for cervical 
cancer between 1983 and 1992 were reviewed and correlated to each patient's age, 
stage of disease, histologic type, node status (when available), and outcome. 
Differences between groups were analyzed using the chi 2 test, and survival was 
compared using the log rank test on Kaplan-Meier life tables.
RESULTS: The 5-year survival rate for patients with thrombocytosis was 57.1%, 
which was significantly worse than the 76.5% for those with normal platelet 
counts (P < 0.01). When adjusted for stage of disease, however, thrombocytosis 
failed to have a significant effect on patient survival. There was also no 
relation between thrombocytosis and the incidence of positive lymph nodes.
CONCLUSION: Thrombocytosis was not found to be an independent prognostic factor 
in patients with carcinoma of the cervix in this series of 643 patients.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19940701)74:1<90::aid-cncr2820740116>3.0.co;2-0
PMID: 8004588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Cancer. 1994 Jul 1;74(1 Suppl):512-7. doi: 10.1002/cncr.2820741340.

Supplemental estrogen replacement.

Marchant DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Women and Infants Hospital of Rhode 
Island, Providence 02111.

In the current aging society, more than 30 million women have an average 
postmenopausal life expectancy of 28 years. Coronary heart disease is the 
leading cause of death in older women, and osteoporosis results in an estimated 
1.5 million fractures per year. Various studies have suggested that 
postmenopausal estrogen-replacement therapy could reduce the morbidity and 
mortality associated with these conditions. Given the uncertainty about hormone 
interactions and the molecular genetics of breast cancer, it seems unwise to 
inject yet another element into the prognostic equation, and currently it is not 
recommended that estrogen-replacement therapy be used routinely in patients who 
have been treated successfully for breast cancer. The final decision, of course, 
rests with the patient and her treating physicians and is subject to 
medical/legal interpretation.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.2820741340
PMID: 8004626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Eur J Haematol. 1994 Apr;52(4):216-21. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.1994.tb00648.x.

Comparison of younger versus older B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients 
for clinical presentation and prognosis. A retrospective study of 53 cases.

Molica S(1), Brugiatelli M, Callea V, Morabito F, Levato D, Nobile F, Alberti A.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia, Ospedale Regionale A. Pugliese, Catanzaro, Italy.

Fifty-three patients affected with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) 
younger than 50 years and observed in two hematological institutions have been 
retrospectively evaluated in order to verify whether this disease has different 
clinico-hematological features at presentation and different prognosis as 
compared to older cases. In our experience young cases with B-CLL diagnosis, 
confirmed by immunophenotype in 90.5% of patients, accounted for 7.1% of the 
whole CLL population. Sex distribution, mean peripheral lymphocyte count, 
platelet count, distribution among Rai's and Binet's stages, total tumor mass 
(TTM) score, histological pattern of bone marrow infiltration and lymphocyte 
doubling time (LDT) were similar to a series of 201 CLL cases older than 50 
years. Only hemoglobin mean level was significantly higher in younger patients 
(13.1 +/- 2.1 vs 12.2 +/- 2.6 g/dl; p < 0.01). The overall median survival was 
7.1 years. Rai and Binet staging classifications and TTM score system retained 
their prognostic value in this CLL population. In addition, cases fulfilling 
criteria of "smoldering" CLL, had a very long survival (75% survival probability 
at 16 years). Life-expectancy of younger patients was significantly longer than 
that of older ones (median survival, 7.1 versus 4.1 years; p < 0.05). However, 
when the background mortality due to non-CLL related deaths (i.e., 
cardiovascular complications, epithelial cancers) was removed, survival 
advantage of young cases disappeared. In conclusion this study confirms that 
prognosis of young CLL patients can be easily assessed using the current 
well-defined criteria. Since age is not by itself a criterion for intensifying 
treatment, further efforts to identify those young CLL patients who qualify for 
more aggressive therapy should be made.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.1994.tb00648.x
PMID: 8005231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Fertil Steril. 1994 Jul;62(1):150-4. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)56831-9.

The relationship between total motile sperm count and the success of 
intrauterine insemination.

Brasch JG(1), Rawlins R, Tarchala S, Radwanska E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center, 
Chicago, Illinois.

OBJECTIVES: To determine if the total motile sperm count is predictive of IUI 
success and to apply life-table analysis to a large database of IUI procedures.
DESIGN: Contingency table and life-table analyses were used to analyze a large 
group of couples (n = 546) undergoing 1,205 cycles of therapeutic IUI with 
husband's sperm.
SETTING: Clinical infertility practice at a medical school referral center.
PATIENTS: Five hundred forty-six couples with varying etiologies of infertility.
RESULTS: There was a trend toward an increasing percentage of conception with 
increasing total motile sperm count. Significance was reached when the total 
motile sperm count used for IUI exceeded 20 x 10(6). The cumulative pregnancy 
rate calculated from this data reached 52% after the sixth attempted cycle of 
IUI.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)56831-9
PMID: 8005280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Demography. 1994 Feb;31(1):159-75.

Changing mortality and morbidity rates and the health status and life expectancy 
of the older population.

Crimmins EM(1), Hayward MD, Saito Y.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern California, Los Angeles 
90089-0191.

This paper demonstrates the consequences of changes in mortality and health 
transition rates for changes in both health status life expectancy and the 
prevalence of health problems in the older population. A five-state multistate 
life table for the mid-1980s provides the baseline for estimating the effect of 
differing mortality and morbidity schedules. Results show that improving 
mortality alone implies increases in both the years and the proportion of 
dependent life; improving morbidity alone reduces both the years and the 
proportion of dependent life. Improving mortality alone leads to a higher 
prevalence of dependent individuals in the life table population; improving 
morbidity alone leads to a lower percentage of individuals with problems in 
functioning.

PMID: 8005340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Hepatology. 1994 Jul;20(1 Pt 2):56S-62S. doi: 10.1016/0270-9139(94)90274-7.

Disease gravity and urgency of need as guidelines for liver allocation.

Eghtesad B(1), Bronsther O, Irish W, Casavilla A, Abu-Elmagd K, Van Thiel D, 
Tzakis A, Fung JJ, Starzl TE.

Author information:
(1)Pittsburgh Transplant Institute, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, PA 
15213.

One thousand one hundred and twenty-eight candidates for liver transplantation 
were stratified into five urgency-of-need categories by the United Network for 
Organ Sharing (UNOS) criteria. Most patients of low-risk UNOS 1 status remained 
alive after 1 yr without transplantation; the mortality while waiting was 3% 
after a median of 229.5 days. In contrast, only 3% of those entered at the 
highest risk UNOS 5 category survived without transplantation; 28% died while 
waiting, the deaths occurring at a median of 5.5 days. The UNOS categories in 
between showed the expected gradations, in which at each higher level fewer 
patients remained as candidates throughout the 1-yr duration of study while 
progressively more died at earlier and earlier times while waiting for an organ. 
In a separate study of posttransplantation survival during the same time period, 
the best postoperative results were in the lowest-risk UNOS 1 and 2 patients 
(88% combined), and the worst results were those in UNOS 5 (71%). However, a 
relative risk cross-analysis showed that a negative benefit of transplantation 
may have been the result in terms of 1-yr survival for the low-risk elective 
patients, but that a gain in life extension was achieved in the potentially 
lethal UNOS categories 3, 4 and 5 (greatest for UNOS 3). These findings and 
conclusions are discussed in terms of total care of patients with liver disease, 
and in the context of organ allocation policies of the United States and Europe.

DOI: 10.1016/0270-9139(94)90274-7
PMCID: PMC2962596
PMID: 8005581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Health Serv Res. 1994 Jun;29(2):207-24.

The standard gamble method: what is being measured and how it is interpreted.

Gafni A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: The Standard Gamble (SG) technique is recommended for measurement of 
individuals' preferences under uncertainty and to express the outcome of 
different therapeutic choices in utility values to be used in clinical decision 
analysis and health program evaluation. The article alerts users of this 
technique to problems stemming from inappropriate interpretation of results of 
measurements using the SG method.
STUDY DESIGN: We review different situations where the SG method is used to 
measure individuals' or group preferences.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We demonstrate inappropriate interpretation of the time 
dimension at the individual level; issues stemming from the aggregation of 
individual utility values measured using different time horizons; the potential 
for double counting of the time preference effect when discounting future 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs); and problems associated with using the SG 
technique to measure temporary health states.
CONCLUSIONS: The inappropriate interpretations stem mainly either from ignoring 
the time dimension, which is inextricably bound to the health of the individual, 
or form adding assumptions, in addition to those required by von 
Neumann-Morgenstern (vNM) utility theory, that are not supported by empirical 
evidence. An alternative approach to QALYs, the healthy years equivalent (HYE), 
which incorporates the SG but avoids many of these problems, is described.

PMCID: PMC1069999
PMID: 8005790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1994 Jul;24(1):95-103. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(94)90547-9.

Estimated contribution of coronary artery bypass graft surgery to the decline in 
coronary heart disease mortality: the Minnesota Heart Survey.

Doliszny KM(1), Luepker RV, Burke GL, Pryor DB, Blackburn H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis 55454-1015.

OBJECTIVES: This study assessed the possible contribution of coronary artery 
bypass graft surgery to the decline in coronary heart disease mortality in the 
Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area population between 1970 and 1984.
BACKGROUND: Coronary artery bypass graft surgery is a major contemporary 
therapeutic approach for coronary heart disease. Its use has increased over the 
past two decades because it provides relief of symptoms and, in certain 
circumstances, prolongs life. During the period that age-adjusted coronary heart 
disease mortality has decreased, the use of coronary artery bypass graft surgery 
has increased dramatically, suggesting a relation.
METHODS: All 30- to 74-year old Minneapolis-St. Paul area residents undergoing 
coronary artery bypass graft surgery between 1970 and 1984 (9,548 patients) were 
registered; their medical records were abstracted; and their survival was 
ascertained. These data were used in a medical survival probability model using 
a multivariate analytical approach developed from registries of patients treated 
medically. The model assumed that coronary artery bypass graft surgery was not 
available. Two annual mortality rates were compared: the observed 
Minneapolis-St. Paul annual coronary heart disease mortality rate and the 
modeled annual coronary heart disease mortality rate. The difference between 
these rates was the estimated contribution of coronary artery bypass graft 
surgery to the decline in coronary heart disease mortality rates.
RESULTS: Between 1970 and 1984, the estimated surgical contribution increased 
from 0.2% (increased mortality) to +6.6% of the annual decrease in 
Minneapolis-St. Paul coronary heart disease mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Between 1970 and 1984, the contribution of coronary artery bypass 
graft surgery to the decline in coronary heart disease mortality, although 
small, gradually increased. This change appeared to be related to an increased 
frequency of coronary artery bypass graft surgery, improved operative mortality 
and changes in the clinical mix of surgical patients.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(94)90547-9
PMID: 8006288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Kidney Int. 1994 Apr;45(4):1193-202. doi: 10.1038/ki.1994.158.

Therapy for idiopathic membranous nephropathy: tailoring the choice by decision 
analysis.

Piccoli A(1), Pillon L, Passerini P, Ponticelli C.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Internal Medicine, University of Padova, Italy.

Two Italian controlled trials demonstrated that the difference in remission 
rates obtained with six months of methylprednisolone and chlorambucil (MP+Ch) 
compared to MP was smaller than MP+Ch versus symptomatic therapy in the 
treatment of idiopathic membranous nephropathy nephrotic syndrome (NS). A 
decision analysis was used to compare the three treatment strategies, assuming 
triple probabilities and costs for MP+Ch complications compared to MP, with no 
risk for supportive therapy, referring to an average 40-year-old patient and 
using the quality-adjusted life expectancy year (QALY) as the utility scale. 
With MP+Ch the difference in expected QALY was 7.2 years compared to supportive 
therapy, and 2.6 years compared to MP. To offset the longer survival obtained 
with MP+Ch versus MP, it was assumed that all patients treated with MP+Ch would 
undergo either fatal (5% vs. 0.3% with MP) or non-fatal complications (95% vs. 
15% with MP). This threshold denotes a great stability of the inequality in the 
expected QALY. Consequently, treatment with MP or with MP+Ch is justified if 
their side effects are considered to be a suitable trade-off for a five or seven 
QALY, respectively, longer survival. Only an absurd increase in the death rate 
with MP+Ch could offset the difference.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.1994.158
PMID: 8007591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. J Surg Oncol. 1994 Jun;56(2):122-7. doi: 10.1002/jso.2930560216.

Esophageal carcinoma simultaneously associated with gastric carcinoma: analysis 
of clinicopathologic features and treatments.

Kato H(1), Tachimori Y, Watanabe H, Mizobuchi S, Igaki H, Yamaguchi H, Ochiai A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, National Cancer Center Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

Among 1,420 patients with thoracic esophageal carcinoma, 85 (6.1%) had 
synchronous gastric carcinoma. Seventy-two patients (84.7%) underwent 
esophagectomy. Their operative mortality and prognosis were similar to those 
without gastric carcinoma. Among them, 25 patients, of whom the majority had 
advanced gastric carcinoma, underwent transthoracic esophagectomy with total 
gastrectomy (group A); eight died of esophageal cancer and four of gastric 
cancer. Forty-six patients, of whom the majority had gastric carcinoma in an 
early stage, underwent esophagectomy and esophagogastric anastomosis following 
partial gastrectomy or local treatment for gastric carcinoma (group B). None of 
the group B patients had recurrent gastric carcinoma. The operative burden was 
larger in group A. The 5-year survival rate for groups A and B were 38.8% and 
23.0%, respectively. Esophagectomy and esophagogastric anastomosis after limited 
treatment for gastric carcinoma is an adequate treatment for the majority. 
However, esophagectomy and total gastrectomy are recommended for patients with 
advanced gastric carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.2930560216
PMID: 8007677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Milbank Q. 1994;72(2):225-58.

Improving health: measuring effects of medical care.

Bunker JP(1), Frazier HS, Mosteller F.

Author information:
(1)King's College, London.

The impact of medical care on the quality and length of life of the population 
has been poorly documented. The rapid growth of evidence of efficacy of therapy 
for individual medical conditions now offers the opportunity to create an 
inventory of benefits. A method for creating such an inventory is described, as 
is its application to a selection of condition-treatment pairs, chosen for their 
high incidence of prevalence, their serious outcomes, and the demonstrated 
efficacy of their treatment. An aggregate effect of medical care on life 
expectancy is found to be roughly five years during this century, with a further 
potential of two years. Although there is no overall index of quality of life 
analogous to life expectancy, our inventory demonstrates the enormous burden of 
pain, suffering, and dysfunction that afflicts the population for which medical 
care can provide a large measure of relief.

PMID: 8007898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Surv Ophthalmol. 1994 Mar-Apr;38(5):427-52. doi:
10.1016/0039-6257(94)90173-2.

Gliomas of the anterior visual pathway.

Dutton JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Duke University Eye Center, Durham, North Carolina.

Gliomas of the anterior visual pathway are rare orbital lesions accounting for 
65% of all intrinsic optic nerve tumors. These lesions occur principally among 
children in the first decade of life. They appear to be true neoplasms that 
characteristically show early growth, followed by stability in many patients. 
Visual prognosis is fair, and the outlook for life depends upon tumor location. 
When initially confined to the optic nerve alone, overall mortality is about 5%. 
Once the hypothalamus is involved, mortality rises sharply to over 50%. With 
involvement of the chiasm or hypothalamus, no form of therapy significantly 
alters the final outcome. Because of their indolent course, gliomas may be 
followed conservatively when confined to the optic nerve. In these cases, 
surgery is indicated only when blindness and pain or severe proptosis intervene. 
However, all such patients should be followed radiologically for evidence of 
posterior extension. When the chiasm is threatened, surgical excision via a 
craniotomy approach is warranted to prevent subsequent hypothalamic or third 
ventricle involvement. Malignant optic glioma is a distinct disease primarily 
affecting middle-aged adults. The chiasm is always involved, and although one 
eye may be spared initially, rapid progression to bilateral blindness is usual. 
The disease is uniformly fatal.

DOI: 10.1016/0039-6257(94)90173-2
PMID: 8009427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand. 1994 May;73(5):441-2. doi:
10.3109/00016349409006264.

Fertility outcome following surgery for tubal pregnancy.

Bergsjø P, Sandvei R, Brun O.

Comment on
    Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand. 1993 Oct;72(7):547-9.

DOI: 10.3109/00016349409006264
PMID: 8009982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1994 May 31;719:456-60. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb56850.x.

Pineal cross-transplantation (old-to-young and vice versa) as evidence for an 
endogenous "aging clock".

Lesnikov VA(1), Pierpaoli W.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Experimental Medicine, Russian Academy of Medical Science, St. 
Petersburg.

Circadian (night), chronic administration of melatonin and young-to-old pineal 
grafting into the thymus have provided evidence for the existence of an 
endogenous, primary and central "aging clock" in the pineal gland. The new model 
described here serves to definitely demonstrate that the replacement of the 
pineal gland of an old mouse with the pineal from a young, syngeneic donor mouse 
remarkably prolongs its life and, conversely, the "old" pineal transplanted into 
a younger mouse will considerably shorten its life span. Pineal 
cross-transplantation thus provides clear-cut evidence for the central role of 
the pineal gland in the initiation and progression of senescence. It offers a 
novel basis for interventions in the aging process.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb56850.x
PMID: 8010614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1994 May 31;719:474-82. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb56852.x.

Artificial life extension. The epigenetic approach.

Kloeden PE(1), Rössler R, Rössler OE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, Deakin University, Geelong, 
Victoria, Australia.

An epigenetic approach starts out from the direct (rather than the underlying 
genetic) causes. An epigenetic approach to aging has little chance of succeeding 
before a minimum amount of knowledge has been accumulated on the "genetic 
programming" that is currently believed to underlie aging. Two recent advances, 
one empirical and one theoretical, jointly brighten the prospect. The empirical 
one is the discovery that melatonin functions as an aging-controlling hormone in 
mammals. In 1979, Dilman and co-workers isolated a biologically active pineal 
extract (epithalamin) in rats which, as they later showed, stimulates melatonin 
production. Pierpaoli and co-workers in 1987 directly administered melatonin to 
mice. Both groups observed a surprising 25-percent increase of life span in 
conjunction with a postponed senescence. A similar effect was also achieved with 
an engraftment of young pineal tissue into the thymus of old mice by Pierpaoli's 
group. Beneficial effects of epithalamin in humans were reported by Dilman's 
group. The second advance is a deductive evolution-theoretical approach to aging 
discovered in 1988. In populations living in a niche with a fixed carrying 
capacity, any individual is in the long run replaced by a single successor. It 
follows that, as the expected cumulative number of adult progeny of the same sex 
approaches unity as a function of life time of the progenitor, the latter's 
survivability must approach zero if the sum is to remain unity. A physiological 
prediction follows: a centralized physicochemical clock--like a sedimentation 
process--must exist somewhere in the organism controlling a secreted substance 
that reaches all cells. In this way, the pineal coacervates and the pineal's 
