hormonal product melatonin were arrived at on an independent route again. While 
melatonin as a drug has been used on human volunteers for decades, its 
anti-aging effect has yet to be proved. Detailed hormone profiles in different 
age groups and under different life styles have to be performed. A modified 
Hayflick in vitro experiment is also needed to elucidate the mechanism by which 
melatonin works in cells.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb56852.x
PMID: 8010616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Aust N Z J Surg. 1994 Jun;64(6):389-94. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-2197.1994.tb02236.x.

Results of external beam radiotherapy in 448 patients with clinically localized 
adenocarcinoma of the prostate.

Mameghan H(1), Fisher R, Mameghan J, Brook S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, New 
South Wales, Australia.

Comment in
    Aust N Z J Surg. 1994 Jun;64(6):387-8.

The results of external beam radiotherapy for clinically localized 
adenocarcinoma of the prostate in 448 patients treated in the period 1980-90 
were reviewed. The average follow up was 4.9 years. The patients were aged 44-87 
years (median 69 years) and all had histopathological evidence of adenocarcinoma 
by needle biopsy or transurethral resection of prostate. The histopathological 
grading was: 127 G1; 154 G2; 127 G4; 28 Gx. Clinical staging according to TNM 
(American Urological Association) was: 29 T0 (A2); 4 T1 (B1); 173 T2 (B2); 176 
T3 (C1); 63 T4 (C2); 3 Tx. Routine surgical pelvic lymph node staging was not 
performed but patients had radiological (computerized tomography scan or 
lymphogram) nodal staging: 350 N0; 22 N1; 12 N2; 64 Nx. High energy linear 
accelerator external beam radiotherapy was given by multiple fields to total 
doses of 50-70 Gy (median 60 Gy). The majority of patients (307, 69%) was 
treated by a uniform policy under the care of one radiation oncologist (HM). The 
rates of local and distant failure at 5 years were 10% (s.e. = 2%) and 42% (s.e. 
= 3%), respectively. The late complication rate at 5 years was 25% (s.e. = 2%), 
comprising mild 16%, moderate 7% and severe 1.3%. The 5 year overall survival 
rate was 64% (s.e. = 2%) and the cancer-specific survival rate was 74% (s.e. = 
3%). Both histological grade and clinical stage were strongly predictive of 
overall survival and distant failure. Only histological grade was predictive of 
local failure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.1994.tb02236.x
PMID: 8010899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Epidemiol Bull. 1994 Mar;15(1):9-12.

Demographic transition in the Americas.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The population of Latin America increased from 11 million in 1700 to 30 
million in 1850, with an annual growth rate of 0.6%. It had risen to 61 million 
by 1900 and to 165 million by 1950; by 1995 it is estimated the population will 
total 482 million. There were annual growth rates of 1.4% between 1850 and 1900, 
2.0% between 1900 and 1950, and 2.4% during the second half of the present 
century. The demographic transition is divided into 5 stages. Stage one: high 
mortality and high fertility--a life expectancy at birth (LEB) of under 45 years 
and a total fertility rate (TFR) of more than 6.5. Stage two: both mortality and 
fertility began to decline, although the decline in mortality took place first. 
LEB between 45 and 55 years and TFR between 5 and 6.5. Stage three: the declines 
in mortality and fertility accelerated. LEB between 55 and 65 years and TFR 
between 3.5 and 5. Stage four: low levels of mortality and fertility--LEB 
between 65 and 75 and TFR between 2 and 3.5. Stage five: Very low mortality and 
fertility, below replacement level. LEB of 75 or more years and TFR of under 2. 
During the period 1990-1995, most of the countries were in advanced stages of 
demographic transition, with mortality and fertility levels of 4 or 5. Only in 
Haiti is LEB under 60 years. 20 of the remaining 30 countries have already 
attained LEB of more than 70 years. By 2020-2025, it is expected that only Haiti 
and Paraguay will not belong to this group, and that in the Bahamas, Barbados, 
Canada, Cuba, the United States, Guadeloupe, and Martinique, LEB will exceed 80 
years and fertility rates will be below replacement level. During 1950-1955 the 
range of variation in LEB was 31.4 years, for 1990-1995 it has dropped to 20.8, 
and it is estimated that by 2020-2025 it will have decreased to 14.6. As for 
fertility, the range has diminished from 4.7 children during 1950-1955 to 3.26 
during 1990-95, and it is estimated that by 2020-2025 it will be 1.87.

PMID: 8011433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 1993 Dec;7(6):881-3. doi: 10.1007/BF00877719.

Dosing of ACE inhibitors in postinfarct protection.

Osterziel KJ(1), Dietz R.

Author information:
(1)Franz-Volhard-Klinik am Rudolf-Virchow Klinikum, Freie Universität Berlin, 
Germany.

ACE inhibitors improve not only symptoms and signs of heart failure in patients 
with symptomatic left ventricular dysfunction but also lead to a slower 
progression of heart failure. In asymptomatic patients with left ventricular 
dysfunction, the progression to symptomatic heart failure is retarded by ACE 
inhibitors. As heart failure is preceded in about 80% by myocardial infarctions, 
trials were designed to influence the development of heart failure after 
myocardial infarction. It could be shown that therapy with ACE inhibitors 
ameliorates the progressive left ventricular dilatation and that this effect is 
translated into a significant increase of life expectancy. Mainly based on the 
CONSENSUS I study, large doses of ACE inhibitors were used in most subsequent 
trials. The mean daily doses of enalapril were 18.4 mg in the CONSENSUS I trial 
and 16.6 and 16.7 mg in both arms of the SOLVD trial. There is a trend towards 
lower doses of ACE inhibitors, as in the SAVE trial only 79% of the patients 
taking captopril received the target dose of 150 mg daily. Smaller studies used 
similar target doses, but a beneficial effect on left ventricular enlargement 
has been shown with a daily dose of only 75 mg captopril. Based on the 
hypothesis that the left ventricular enlargement is mainly determined by the 
activation of the local cardiac renin angiotensin system, even lower, and 
therefore better tolerated, doses of ACE inhibitors may prove effective. 
However, studies comparing the effect of different doses of ACE inhibitors on 
left ventricular remodeling are missing. Consequently, the above-mentioned 
target doses of ACE inhibitors should be aimed at when treating patients after 
myocardial infarction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00877719
PMID: 8011563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. J Am Soc Nephrol. 1994 Mar;4(9):1733. doi: 10.1681/ASN.V491733.

Hemodialysis prescription and life expectancy.

Friedman EA.

Comment on
    J Am Soc Nephrol. 1993 Oct;4(4):1004-20.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.V491733
PMID: 8011984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Clin Invest Med. 1993 Dec;16(6):499-509.

Downstaging of localized prostate cancer by neoadjuvant therapy with flutamide 
and lupron: the first controlled and randomized trial.

Labrie F(1), Dupont A, Cusan L, Gomez J, Diamond P, Koutsilieris M, Suburu R, 
Fradet Y, Lemay M, Têtu B, et al.

Author information:
(1)Endocrine Research Clinic, CHUL Research Center, Québec City, Québec.

Although the only opportunity to cure prostate cancer is treatment at an early 
stage, radical prostatectomy has remained relatively unpopular because 40-50% of 
prostate cancers estimated at diagnosis as confined to the prostate are found to 
be at a more advanced stage following histopathological analysis of the surgical 
specimen. This first prospective, randomized trial investigated the potential 
advantages of 3-month neoadjuvant combination therapy with flutamide and lupron 
before radical prostatectomy vs. prostatectomy alone in early stage prostate 
cancer. Cancer-positive margins were reduced from 38.5% (25 of 65) in control 
patients to only 13.0% (10 of 77) in men who received neoadjuvant combination 
therapy with the antiandrogen flutamide and the luteinizing hormone-releasing 
hormone (LHRH) super-agonist Lupron before radical prostatectomy (p = 0.006). 
Moreover, comparison of the final stage determined by histopathological 
examination of the surgical specimen with that estimated at diagnosis showed 
that a more advanced stage (upstaging) was found in 53.8% of controls, but 
patients who received combination therapy had an opposite effect: a more 
favorable stage than expected at diagnosis was found in 23.4% of cases 
(downstaging), a 77.2% advantage of neoadjuvant combination therapy. The concern 
about radical prostatectomy, underestimation of stage, is thus markedly improved 
by 3-month neoadjuvant therapy with flutamide and a LHRH superagonist. 
Cancer-negative margins are expected to be accompanied by a life expectancy not 
different from that of men of similar age with no prostate cancer; therefore, 
the present data, combined with efficient detection of early stage prostate 
cancer, offer the basis for dramatic improvement in the morbidity and mortality 
of prostate cancer.

PMID: 8013155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. J Biosoc Sci. 1994 Apr;26(2):191-206. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000021234.

The role of breast-feeding beyond postpartum amenorrhoea on the return of 
fertility in India: a life table and hazards model analysis.

Nath DC(1), Land KC, Singh KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina.

This paper investigates the effects of continued breast-feeding after resumption 
of menses on fertility, using data from two retrospective surveys in India and 
single decrement life table and multivariate time-dependent hazards analyses. 
Breast-feeding even after the return of menses is found to be associated with 
longer birth intervals. The interaction of breast-feeding duration after 
resumption of menses and postpartum amenorrhoea has a significant effect on the 
risk of conception after return of menses.

PIP: Researchers used data from two retrospective studies of traditional 
societies in India to conduct a single decrement life table and multivariate 
time-dependent hazards analyses to determine the contraceptive role of continued 
breast feeding after the return of menses. One study was conducted during 
1988-1989 in rural areas of Karimganj District in Assam. The other study was 
conducted during 1987-1988 in rural areas of Eastern Uttar Pradesh. The overall 
median duration of months of breast feeding after resumption of menses was 16.06 
months in Assam compared to 23.74 months in Uttar Pradesh. The overall duration 
of postpartum amenorrhea was 7.83 months in Assam and 5.95 months in Uttar 
Pradesh. In Assam, the overall birth interval after the return of menses for 
nonlactating mothers was around six months shorter than that of lactating 
mothers. It was 10 months in Uttar Pradesh. Breast feeding reduced the rate of 
conception after the return of menses by 16% in Assam and by 49% in Uttar 
Pradesh. The risk of conception after menses was reduced by 7.4% per month in 
Assam and by 1.8% per month in Uttar Pradesh. Breast feeding duration after 
return of menses and postpartum amenorrhea interact to increase the interval 
between births. When women did not breast feed after menstruation began, the 
risk of conception increased by 4% among Assam women and by 5% among Uttar 
Pradesh women for every additional month of postpartum amenorrhea. When women 
still breast fed nine months after the return of menses, the relative risk of 
conception was essentially zero. Yet, when they still breast fed for 3-9 months 
after the return of menses, the relative risk increased by 14%. These findings 
show that breast feeding after return of menses continued to decrease the risk 
of conception and to increase the interval between births.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000021234
PMID: 8014176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. J Gen Intern Med. 1994 Apr;9(4):195-201. doi: 10.1007/BF02600123.

Prescribing propensity: influence of life-expectancy gains and drug costs.

Hux JE(1), Levinton CM, Naylor CD.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Sunnybrook Health Science Centre, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether physician willingness to prescribe drugs for 
primary prevention of cardiovascular disease is influenced by information about 
the resultant life-expectancy gains (presented in one of two formats) and about 
drug costs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Mailed survey (four versions randomly allocated) asking 
physicians to assess hypothetical preventive interventions with outcomes 
expressed either as averaged or as stratified gains in life expectancy (e.g., 
average gain of 15 weeks, versus 5% of treated patients gain 2 to 6 years, 10% 
gain up to 2 years, and 85% remain unchanged). Both costs and gains were varied 
to high and low values. The subjects rated their willingness to prescribe 
treatments on an 11-point scale from "strongly oppose" to "strongly favor."
PARTICIPANTS: Internists randomly selected from two Canadian academic centers (n 
= 330).
RESULTS: 231 usable responses were received (76% of the deliverable 
questionnaires). For low-yield scenarios typical of very effective primary 
prevention strategies, the physicians gave significantly higher ratings in 
response to stratified life-expectancy data than to equivalent averaged data (p 
< 0.0001). The same trend was not observed for high-yield scenarios (p = NS). 
The ratings were strongly influenced by cost: 34% of the physicians reversed 
their treatment decisions in response to a tenfold price increase. Despite this, 
the rankings of the treatments differed from those expected on the basis of 
cost-effectiveness criteria (p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Physician enthusiasm for a therapy designed to prolong life 
expectancy may be influenced by the format in which that life-expectancy gain is 
presented. Knowledge of drug cost also affects physicians' choices, but their 
greater focus on treatment effects causes their rankings to depart from those 
expected with cost-effectiveness criteria.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02600123
PMID: 8014724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Mayo Clin Proc. 1994 Jul;69(7):651-5. doi: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)61342-1.

Issues in the diagnosis and management of essential thrombocythemia.

Tefferi A(1), Hoagland HC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic Rochester, 
Minnesota 55905.

OBJECTIVE: To summarize the current trends in the diagnosis and management of 
essential thrombocythemia (ET) and to discuss the treatment of young and 
pregnant patients with ET.
DESIGN: We review our experiences in the diagnosis and management of ET.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A definitive diagnosis of ET at initial examination is 
seldom possible because of the low incidences of associated clonal cytogenetic 
abnormalities and palpable splenomegaly. The criteria of the Polycythemia Vera 
Study Group for the diagnosis of ET are provided, as are the clinical and 
laboratory features that help to distinguish ET from reactive thrombocytosis.
RESULTS: Patients with ET have an almost normal life expectancy if 
thrombohemorrhagic complications are controlled. Although a previous history of 
thrombosis is an established risk factor for further episodes, the adverse 
effects of extreme thrombocytosis and age are less well defined. Determining 
which patients require therapy is controversial. The management of young or 
pregnant patients necessitates special considerations.
CONCLUSION: Until additional data become available, no strong recommendations 
can be given in support of or against specific therapy for asymptomatic young 
patients. We favor treatment in asymptomatic patients with cardiovascular risk 
factors but not in asymptomatic women who are pregnant or are of childbearing 
age.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)61342-1
PMID: 8015328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1994 Jun 11;138(24):1227-30.

[Surgical treatment of anorectal disorders in 32 HIV-seropositive patients].

[Article in Dutch]

Sars PR(1), Slors JF, Taat CW.

Author information:
(1)Academisch Medisch Centrum, afd. Chirurgie, Amsterdam.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the presentation and surgical treatment of anorectal 
pathology in HIV seropositive patients.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
SETTING: Department of surgery, University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
METHODS: Retrospective review of the records of 32 HIV seropositive patients 
surgically treated for anorectal pathology in 1985-1992.
RESULTS: The 32 patients, homosexual males, had a total of 46 diagnoses for 
which they underwent 49 surgical interventions. Sixteen patients had an 
anorectal ulcer (14 in the anal canal, 2 in the distal rectum); 7 were treated 
by local excision and 9 with additional advancement of the anal mucosa; there 
were 4 and 2 recurrences, respectively. Ten patients had a perianal abscess; 5 a 
fistula, 2 of whom initially presented with a metastatic abscess in liver and 
brain. Eight patients had perianal warts, which in 2 cases showed severe 
dysplasia and in one an infiltrating carcinoma. Five patients presented 
primarily with a malignancy (3 with squamous cell carcinoma of the anus, 1 with 
cloacogenic carcinoma, 1 with non-Hodgkin lymphoma distally in the rectum). 
Twelve patients died within 6 months after the first operation.
CONCLUSION: In choosing therapy for anorectal disorders, the limited survival of 
HIV seropositive patients, especially those with an advanced stage of AIDS 
should be considered. Surgical treatment can improve the quality of life in 
these patients.

PMID: 8015620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Recenti Prog Med. 1994 Apr;85(4):246-56.

[Hypertension at the threshold of the year 2000: classification, treatment, 
prevention].

[Article in Italian]

Morici ML(1), Di Marco A.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinica Medica, Università, Palermo.

Despite the clear benefits of treating established hypertension, this approach 
alone will not prevent all of the blood pressure-related cardiovascular-renal 
disease in the community. Primary prevention of hypertension is a natural 
extension of hypertension treatment which provides opportunity to reduce costly 
cycle of managing hypertension and its complications. The purpose of this report 
is to guide practician physicians and health professionals in their care of 
hypertensive patients. In order to provide specific guidelines, a new 
classification schema of high blood pressure that includes systolic as well 
diastolic levels is proposed (source, Joint National Committee on Detection, 
Evaluation and Treatment of High Blood Pressure 1993). Furthermore, 
recommendations for follow-up based on initial set of blood pressure 
measurements, life-style modifications and pharmacologic therapy are proposed, 
suggesting a new treatment algorithm in which diuretics and beta-blockers are 
preferred as first-choice agents because their confirmed reduction in morbidity 
and mortality (unless they are contraindicated or unacceptable), but including 
an expanded list of agents that are suitable for initial monotherapy and 
guidelines for selecting and individualizing the antihypertensive drug regimen.

PMID: 8016451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1993;200:3-7. doi: 10.3109/00365529309101567.

Plastic or expandable biliary endoprostheses?

Huibregtse K(1).

Author information:
(1)Academic Medical Center, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, 
University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Endoscopic biliary drainage with a PVC stent provides excellent palliation for 
the patient with malignant biliary obstruction. The main disadvantage of this 
technique is occlusion of the stent after 3-4 months by biliary sludge. This 
complication is reduced with larger diameter stents, which have led to the 
development of expandable metal stents. These stents are less susceptible to 
obstruction by biliary sludge and remain patent longer than the PVC 
endoprostheses. Their main disadvantage is that tumor ingrowth through the open 
meshwork eventually leads to stent obstruction. Other relative disadvantages 
include the high cost of the metal stents and the inability to retrieve them 
endoscopically or surgically once deployed. Studies have shown that patients 
with a short life expectancy do not benefit from metal stents over the use of 
the standard PVC stent. Patients with a longer life expectancy, however, who are 
not considered surgical candidates, are better palliated with an expandable 
metal stent. Further development in metal stent technology may lead to improved 
function and will broaden the indication for its use.

DOI: 10.3109/00365529309101567
PMID: 8016568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. World Health Stat Q. 1993;46(3):158-65.

Health in the central and eastern countries of the WHO European Region: an 
overview.

Nanda A, Nossikov A, Prokhorskas R, Shabanah MH.

The enormous social, political and economic changes that began in the CCEE/NIS 
in the late 1980s included the revelation and public discussion of a widening 
health gap between these countries and the other Member States of the European 
Region. The continuing economic problems and their effects on health increase 
the urgency of the need for assistance from the international community. 
Diverging trends in life expectancy became evident in the mid-1970s, and the gap 
continued to widen in the 1980s for all major causes of death, particularly 
cardiovascular diseases. The situation is worse in the NIS than in the CCEE, and 
worst in the central Asian countries. In 1990, the worst infant mortality rate 
in these countries was eight times the best rate elsewhere in the Region. 
Non-mortality data, while patchy, confirm the indications given by mortality 
data. There is no single reason for the health gap, but contributory factors 
include the increasing prevalence of major risk factors in lifestyles and the 
environment, and the low efficiency and effectiveness of health care systems. 
The current situation and short-term prospects are mixed, but the negative 
trends in mortality and morbidity patterns are likely to continue for some time. 
While the worst health problems of the transition period in the CCEE/NIS could 
largely have been avoided, there is no doubt that economizing on health today 
will exact large costs tomorrow.

PIP: The socioeconomic conditions in eastern European countries are declining. 
Deterioration began during the mid-1960s. The mortality gap has continued to 
widen during the 1980s. The Central Asian Republics show mortality patterns 
similar to ones in developing countries; infant mortality is about 8 times 
higher than in western Europe. Infant mortality rates in eastern and central 
Europe are 2-3 times higher than in western Europe. Cardiovascular diseases are 
the leading cause of death. Another increasing mortality group is lung cancer, 
and the gap is widening in the West. The NIS (formerly republics of the Soviet 
Union) have high rates of communicable diseases preventable through 
immunization. The logistics of vaccine distribution and storage are inadequate. 
Abortion is the primary means of family planning. 70% of the population of the 
Russian Federation reported their health as less than good, and only 20% of 
Russian military personnel are fit based on international standards. Tobacco 
consumption and high alcohol consumption are the primary health risks. Poor 
nutrition, stress, and drug abuse add to the risks. The health gap is wide also 
due to poor housing conditions and environmental pollution. Health care systems, 
unhealthy lifestyles, and unhealthy environments all contribute to the widening 
gap in health. The rigid administrative health structures are not conducive to 
change. The quality of care is low. Decentralization and private sector 
involvement may produce needed changes in the quality of health services. CCEE 
countries spend 4.5-7.1% of gross national product on health, compared to 7.3% 
in the West. In the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, and Slovakia, health 
expenditures per person are 3-4 times less than in OECD countries. Prices are 
very high for drugs, food, and energy. Although the medical staff-patient ratio 
is high, there are shortages in particular specialties. Nurses are poorly 
trained and in low supply. Hospital equipment is very old and poorly maintained. 
There is overuse of secondary and tertiary hospitals and underuse of general 
hospitals.

PMID: 8017072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Am J Med. 1994 Jun;96(6):516-20. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(94)90091-4.

The risk of endometrial cancer in hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer.

Watson P(1), Vasen HF, Mecklin JP, Järvinen H, Lynch HT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Creighton University School of Medicine, 
Omaha, Nebraska 68178.

PURPOSE: Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) is characterized by 
increased risk for cancer, especially colorectal cancer. It has been recommended 
that colon cancer control programs for family members be expanded to include 
endometrial cancer, the commonest extracolonic cancer observed in HNPCC 
families. We estimated the age-specific and cumulative endometrial cancer risk 
for women at high risk for HNPCC.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Family history data from three large HNPCC registries were 
combined for this study. High risk family members were identified without regard 
to extracolonic cancer. Life table methods were used to calculate estimates of 
risk.
RESULTS: One thousand eighteen women from 86 families were included in the 
study. Cumulative incidence was 20% by age 70, compared to 3% in the general 
population. Risk was highest in women most likely to carry the HNPCC gene (P < 
0.001). In this group, during the highest risk years (age 40 to 60), average 
annual risk exceeded 1%. There was no significant difference among the 
registries, despite different ascertainment practices regarding endometrial 
cancer.
CONCLUSION: Interventions to reduce endometrial cancer morbidity and mortality 
are justified by the risk levels observed. Prophylactic total hysterectomy and 
bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy should be recommended to women in HNPCC families 
who have a syndrome cancer or offspring with a syndrome cancer. Endometrial 
cancer screening should be available to women at high risk. Studies of screening 
protocols are needed.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(94)90091-4
PMID: 8017449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Ann Intern Med. 1994 Aug 1;121(3):161-7. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-121-3-199408010-00001.

Long-term treatment with omeprazole for refractory reflux esophagitis: efficacy 
and safety.

Klinkenberg-Knol EC(1), Festen HP, Jansen JB, Lamers CB, Nelis F, Snel P, 
Lückers A, Dekkers CP, Havu N, Meuwissen SG.

Author information:
(1)Free University Hospital, Department of Gastroenterology, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1995 Feb 1;122(3):236; author reply 236-7.
    Ann Intern Med. 1995 Feb 1;122(3):236; author reply 236-7.
    Ann Intern Med. 1994 Aug 1;121(3):232-3.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the long-term efficacy and safety of omeprazole in 
patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease resistant to treatment with 
histamine-2 (H2)-receptor antagonists.
DESIGN: Cohort analytic study with a mean follow-up of 48 months (range, 36 to 
64 months).
SETTING: Patients receiving ambulatory care from referral centers.
PATIENTS: 91 patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease resistant to 
treatment with an H2-receptor antagonist but subsequently responsive to 40 mg of 
omeprazole daily.
INTERVENTION: Open maintenance therapy consisting of 20 mg of omeprazole daily 
in 86 patients and 40 mg daily in 5 patients.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Endoscopy to assess healing; side effects, laboratory values, 
fasting serum gastrin level, and gastric corpus biopsies to assess safety.
RESULTS: Esophagitis recurred in 47% of the patients receiving 20 mg of 
omeprazole daily, but all rehealed after the dose was doubled. Seven of 40 
patients (18%) had a second relapse after a mean follow-up time of 24 months 
(range, 9 to 36 months) that was successfully treated with a further 20-mg dose 
increment for a mean period of 36 months (range, 6 to 39 months). Median gastrin 
levels increased initially from 60 ng/L before study entry to 162 ng/L (P < 
0.01) with treatment and reached a plateau during maintenance treatment. Very 
high gastrin levels (> 500 ng/L) were observed in a subgroup (11%) of patients. 
The incidence of micronodular hyperplasia increased from 2.5% of the patients at 
first biopsy to 20% at the last biopsy (P = 0.001), with a corresponding 
progression of gastritis to subatrophic or atrophic gastritis from less than 1% 
to 25% (P < 0.001), which was more pronounced in patients with very high serum 
gastrin levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Maintenance therapy with omeprazole was effective for at least 5 
years in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease resistant to treatment 
with H2-receptor antagonists. Treatment was accompanied by a persistent increase 
in serum gastrin levels and an increase of micronodular argyrophil cell 
hyperplasia and subatrophic or atrophic gastritis.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-121-3-199408010-00001
PMID: 8017742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Ann Neurol. 1994;36 Suppl:S6-11. doi: 10.1002/ana.410360704.

Natural history of multiple sclerosis.

Weinshenker BG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most common idiopathic inflammatory disease of 
the central nervous system. The distinction between MS and other benign or 
fulminant inflammatory demyelinating disorders is based on quantitative, rather 
than qualitative, differences in chronicity and severity. Primary progressive MS 
may differ from relapsing-remitting MS in MRI lesion frequency, immunogenetic 
profile, responsiveness to immunosuppressive treatment, and histology. In 60% of 
patients, MS begins as a relapsing-remitting disease and evolves secondarily 
into a progressive neurological illness. Life expectancy is not substantially 
altered in patients with MS, particularly in the early years of the illness. The 
rate of suicide has been reported to be increased sevenfold in MS patients. Up 
to 40% of patients with attacks severe enough to render them nonambulatory may 
not recover. At 15 years from MS onset, 50% of patients are disabled to the 
point at which they at least require a cane to walk a half block. Early age at 
onset, female sex, relapsing-remitting course at onset, and perhaps optic 
neuritis or sensory symptoms at onset and relatively few attacks in the first 
two years are associated with a favorable course.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410360704
PMID: 8017890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Arctic Med Res. 1994 Apr;53(2):86-90.

Cholesteatomas in Greenlandic Inuit. A retrospective study and follow-up of 
treated cases from 1976-91.

Homøe P(1), Bretlau P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Head & Neck Surgery, Rigshospitalet, University 
of Copenhagen, Denmark.

Chronic otitis media is frequent among the Inuit in Greenland, but reports of 
cholesteatomas are rare. To describe cholesteatoma in Greenland, we have 
performed a retrospective study and follow-up of Greenlandic Inuit treated at 
the ENT-department, Rigshospitalet, Denmark in the period 1976-91. We found 35 
Greenlandic Inuit with cholesteatoma, the first in 1976. Median age was 19 
years. The total incidence was calculated to 5 per 100.000 per year, or 2 new 
cases per year. The geographical distribution showed less cholesteatomas among 
the people with a traditional way of life in the Hunter region. The complication 
rate was 11%. The extension and pathology of the cholesteatomas indicated late 
and infrequent contact with an ENT specialist. The follow-up study revealed 53% 
dry ears with intact tympanic membrane, and 47% with intermittent ear discharge. 
Residual or recurrent cholesteatoma was found in 46% of the patients, less 
frequently when the primary operation included mastoidectomy with canal 
wall-down technique. We recommend this operation in most Greenlandic Inuit with 
cholesteatomas.

PMID: 8018220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Drug Saf. 1994 Apr;10(4):301-9. doi: 10.2165/00002018-199410040-00004.

Risk-benefit assessment of drug treatment to prevent coronary heart disease. 
Estimating the benefits of risk factor modification.

Grover SA(1), Coupal L.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Analysis of Cost-Effective Care, Montreal General Hospital, 
Quebec, Canada.

Risk factor modification to prevent the development of coronary heart disease 
(CHD) is a rapidly growing concern of physicians interested in disease 
prevention. Drug treatments to reduce hypertension and hyperlipidaemia are 2 
important interventions for CHD primary prevention. The benefits of these 
interventions have been demonstrated in short term clinical trials by reducing 
the incidence of stroke and coronary events. While the short term benefits may 
appear modest, the long term changes in life expectancy and disease morbidity 
may be substantial for carefully targeted groups of patients. Computer models 
are therefore increasingly being used to estimate the long term benefits of risk 
factor modification among selected patients. A review of published CHD models 
demonstrates that predictions among the different models are usually consistent. 
Moreover, the results of randomised clinical trials can be accurately forecasted 
using the CHD Primary Prevention Model.

DOI: 10.2165/00002018-199410040-00004
PMID: 8018302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 1994 Jul;120(7):699-702. doi: 
10.1001/archotol.1994.01880310005001.

Use of decision analysis in planning a management strategy for the stage N0 
neck.

Weiss MH(1), Harrison LB, Isaacs RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY.

OBJECTIVE: There are three major strategies in the treatment of patients with a 
stage N0 neck with squamous cell cancer of the head and neck: elective neck 
dissection, elective neck irradiation, and observation. Each has appropriate 
salvage strategies in the event of local recurrence. We used decision analysis 
to determine the optimal strategy for neck treatment as a function of the 
probability of occult cervical metastasis.
DATA SOURCES: We used the bibliographies of current articles and books to access 
clinical studies of patients with stage N0 neck cancer.
STUDY SELECTION: Studies that included large numbers of patients and contained a 
minimum 2-year follow-up, with results analyzed in terms of outcome as a 
function of stage of neck disease, were included.
DATA EXTRACTION: Specific data points were extracted from the studies 
independently by multiple observers, and mean values were used in the decision 
analysis.
DATA SYNTHESIS: A decision tree was constructed with use of a computer model to 
compare the three management strategies. Probabilities of each of the possible 
events depicted in the trees were inserted into the tree structure. These 
probabilities were gleaned from the literature as described above. A sensitivity 
analysis was performed to determine the optimal threshold for treatment of the 
neck.
CONCLUSION: A patient with primary squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck 
and stage N0 neck status should be observed if the probability of occult 
cervical metastasis is less than 20%. If the probability is greater than 20%, 
treatment of the neck is warranted. The treatment plan should ideally involve a 
single modality of therapy; both neck dissection and radiation therapy are quite 
efficacious in the clinical context, and the decision of which one to employ 
should be driven by the treatment of the primary lesion. Decision analysis is 
useful in complex clinical situations.

DOI: 10.1001/archotol.1994.01880310005001
PMID: 8018319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Int J Hematol. 1994 Feb;59(2):99-112.

Improvement in treatment of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a 10-year 
study by the Children's Cancer and Leukemia Study Group.

Koizumi S(1), Fujimoto T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Kanazawa University School of Medicine, Japan.

The Children's Cancer and Leukemia Study Group (CCLSG) has conducted, since 
1981, a series of protocols for treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) 
in childhood. In a randomized control study of the 811 protocol (1981-1983) for 
standard-risk ALL, an intermittent cyclic regimen of an intermediate-dose of 
methotrexate (MTX) plus 6-mercaptopurine (6MP) showed significant superiority 
for maintenance chemotherapy as compared with conventional continuous 
administration of a low dose of the two drugs. The event-free survival (EFS) 
rate at 10 years was 65.4% for the intermittent cyclic regimen, while the EFS 
rate of continuous regimen was 36.1% (P < 0.01). The intermittent cyclic regimen 
may also be effective in preventing extramedullary relapses. In the 841 protocol 
(1984-1987), the three-drug induction therapy consisting of vincristine (VCR), 
prednisone (PDN) and L-asparaginase (L-ASP) improved the EFS rate (94.1% at 8 
years) as compared with the two-drug therapy consisting of VCR and PDN (64.1%, P 
< 0.05). In the 874 protocol (1987-1990) two regimens with or without cranial 
irradiation for standard-risk patients were compared with respect to their 
ability to prevent central nervous system (CNS) leukemia and to improve overall 
outcome of ALL. The regimen with cranial irradiation showed a 79.9% EFS rate at 
5 years, whereas the regimen without cranial irradiation demonstrated a 69.1% 
EFS rate (not significantly). Life-table analysis of serial CCLSG protocols for 
ALL in which the cyclic administration of intermediate-dose MTX plus 6MP has 
been standardized as maintenance therapy revealed that the outcome of allover 
ALL has gradually improved with increase of the EFS rate; 41.4% for the 811 
protocol, 51.4% for the 841 protocol to 54.4% for the more recent 874 protocol.

PMID: 8018909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. R I Med. 1994 May;77(5):131-2.

The days of our years.

Aronson SM.

PMID: 8019010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Arch Med Res. 1994 Spring;25(1):29-35.

Gastric carcinoma: curative resection and adjuvant chemotherapy.

Carrillo Hernández JF(1), Ernesto de Obaldía Castillo G, Ramírez Ortega C, Frías 
Mendivil M, Pardo M.

Author information:
(1)Sección Tumores Mixto, Hospital 20 de Noviembre, ISSSTE, México, D.F.

A retrospective study of gastric adenocarcinoma treated with surgery as curative 
attempt was performed at the Oncology Service, in the Hospital Regional 20 de 
Noviembre, ISSSTE. Morbidity and mortality of the surgical procedures were 
evaluated, the significance of several risk factors and the survival impact of 
adjuvant chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and mitomycin C (MMC). In the 
period from 1975 to 1991 a total of 483 new cases were seen. In only 54 patients 
(11.2%) was it possible to undertake a curative resection. The patients were 
assigned to three groups of treatment: surgery alone (14 cases), surgery + 5-FU 
(19 cases), and surgery + 5-FU+MMC (21 cases). Three different types of surgical 
techniques are regularly performed in our service for gastric cancer treatment: 
Billroth II distal gastrectomy, total gastrectomy with Roux-En-Y reconstruction, 
and esophagogastrectomy with esophagogastrostomy. Surgical morbidity and 
mortality was low, with 9% of duodenal stump fistulas and 27% with partial 
stenosis of esophagojejunostomy; the operative mortality was zero. Chemotherapy 
toxicity was transient and low, no related deaths were recorded. The prognostic 
factors associated significantly with survival were lymph node status and tumor 
penetration. The histologic differentiation as well as the tumor location and 
type of surgery had no significance. The estimated 5-year survival of the 
patients treated with surgery alone was 62%, while that of the patients treated 
with surgery plus chemotherapy was 38%. These groups were not comparable, 
however, because of important differences in their prognostic factors. The 
groups treated with 5-FU alone or in combination with MMC had no survival 
difference between them.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8019111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Pol J Occup Med Environ Health. 1993;6(4):369-81.

Computer-aided methods for evaluating cancer risk in miners due to radiation 
exposure.

Domański T(1), Kluszczyński D, Chruścielewski W, Olszewski J.

Author information:
(1)Physical Hazards Branch, Nofer Institute of Occupational Medicine, Lodz, 
Poland.

The paper presents some aspects of radiation hazard which occurs in a 
non-nuclear sector of industry, namely radiation hazard in non-uranium 
underground mines. The radiation hazard is caused in each type of underground 
mine by the naturally occurring noble radioactive gas-radon (222Rn) and 
radioactive products of its decay 218Po, 214Pb, 214Bi/214Po the so-called 'radon 
daughters' occurring in the mines' air. The paper presents the concept of how to 
provide a reliable system of assessment of miners' exposure by application of 
representative individual dosimetry, and also presents principles of 
computer-aided methods for interpretation of the results of miner's dosimetry 
useful for conversion of dosimetry data to the term of expected risk of cancer 
caused by exposure at miner's workplaces. The representative Individual 
Dosimetry system strengthened by computer-aided methods of analysis of results 
provided essential information on radiation cancer risk for miners employed in 
coal mines, metal-ore mines, chemical raw material mines in Poland. The 
coefficient of annual cancer risk induction is 1.5 x 10(-4) year-1 for coal 
mines, 1.40 x 10(-4) year-1 for metal ore mines and 1.5 x 10(-4) year-1 for 
chemical raw material mines. The radiation risk appears to be of the same 
magnitude as the conventional risk of life loss at work-related accidents. The 
average Lost Life Expectancy coefficient for both the radiation risk and 
conventional risk are 0.5 and 0.3 year per each miner, respectively.

PMID: 8019199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. BMJ. 1994 Jun 4;308(6942):1478-82. doi: 10.1136/bmj.308.6942.1478.

Smoking and cancer: smoking cessation.

Austoker J(1), Sanders D, Fowler G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Oxford.

Smoking is the single most important cause of cancer. The risk of developing 
cancer is reduced by stopping smoking and decreases substantially after five 
years. Reduction in smoking must be central to any programme aimed seriously at 
the prevention of cancer. An individual approach, based in primary care, has the 
potential to bring about modest but important reductions in risk. Many 
randomised trials have shown the effectiveness of various smoking cessation 
interventions in primary care. Given resource limitations in primary care, 
individual effort should be focused on those at highest risk who are motivated 
to stop smoking. A population strategy has considerable advantages over the high 
risk approach as the potential for reducing morbidity and mortality in the whole 
population is much greater. The government must acknowledge its major 
responsibility; the outstanding example of its failure to do this is its 
persistent refusal to ban outright all forms of advertising and promotion of 
tobacco. There is clear evidence that a ban would contribute to a reduction in 
smoking prevalence and especially in the uptake of smoking by children.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.308.6942.1478
PMCID: PMC2540295
PMID: 8019283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1994 Apr;13(4):455-60.

Predictive factors for chronic graft-versus-host disease after histocompatible 
sibling donor bone marrow transplantation.

Ochs LA(1), Miller WJ, Filipovich AH, Haake RJ, McGlave PB, Blazar BR, Ramsay 
NK, Kersey JH, Weisdorf DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.

We analyzed factors associated with the development of chronic graft-versus-host 
disease (GVHD) in 469 consecutive patients receiving matched sibling allogeneic 
bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Overall, 41 +/- 6% (95% confidence interval) 
developed chronic GVHD between 2 and 50 months after BMT. Multivariate analysis 
showed that previous acute GVHD was the dominant independent risk factor 
predisposing to chronic GVHD (Relative Risk 4.82, p < 0.0001). In addition, 
recipient age of > or = 18 years and male recipient with female donor were also 
independent predictive factors for development of chronic GVHD. When acute GVHD 
and recipient age were considered, groups with distinctive risks of chronic GVHD 
were identified. Patients under 18 without previous grade II-IV acute GVHD had 
only a 10 +/- 5% risk of chronic GVHD. Patients over 18 with no prior grade 
II-IV acute GVHD had a 31 +/- 12% risk while patients with advanced acute GVHD, 
regardless of age, had the highest risk and 70 +/- 8% developed chronic GVHD. It 
is important to consider these factors when designing and assessing clinical 
trials of chronic GVHD prophylaxis and treatment.

PMID: 8019471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1994 Apr;13(4):461-4.

Ganciclovir three times per week is not adequate to prevent cytomegalovirus 
reactivation after T cell-depleted marrow transplantation.

Przepiorka D(1), Ippoliti C, Panina A, Goodrich J, Giralt S, van Besien K, Mehra 
R, Deisseroth AB, Andersson B, Luna M, et al.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Department of Hematology, 
Houston.

To determine if ganciclovir given three times per week post-transplant is 
tolerable and effective for prevention of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection in 
recipients of T cell-depleted marrow from related or unrelated donors, we have 
used ganciclovir 2.5 mg/kg iv three times daily on days -8 to -2 and 5 or 6 
mg/kg iv 3 times per week from engraftment to day 100 as CMV prophylaxis for 51 
adults who were CMV-seropositive or had seropositive donors. All patients 
received iv immunoglobulin 500 mg/kg weekly and CMV-negative or filtered blood 
products. Blood and urine were tested for CMV at weekly intervals through day 
100. All patients received ganciclovir pre-transplant. Ten patients did not 
receive ganciclovir post-transplant (5 deaths, 3 graft failure, 1 renal failure, 
1 required foscarnet). The median time to initiation of ganciclovir was 27 days 
(range 17-59 days) and the median duration of therapy was 51 days (range 5-83 
range). Twelve patients had dose reductions (3 neutropenia and 9 renal 
insufficiency). Seven patients died before day 100, 2 had indications to change 
to foscarnet, 15 discontinued ganciclovir because of neutropenia and 17 
completed the full ganciclovir course through day 100. G- or GM-CSF was given to 
29 patients with neutrophils < 1.5 x 10(9)/l (10 had neutrophils < 0.5 x 
10(9)/l) but only 12 of them could continue full-dose ganciclovir. Bacteremia 
occurred in 12 of the neutropenic patients. At day 120, the actuarial rate of 
CMV infection was 58% (95% CI 42-74%) and that of CMV disease was 36% (95% CI 
21-51%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8019472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Cardiologia. 1993 Dec;38(12 Suppl 1):21-6.

[Imaging of atherosclerosis: magnetic resonance].

[Article in Italian]

Di Renzi P(1), Gaudio C, Di Cesare E, Tanzilli G, Passariello R, Campa PP.

Author information:
(1)II Cattedra di Radiologia, Università degli Studi La Sapienza, Roma.

Atherosclerosis is the disease with the most important social impact in terms of 
cost and human life. Its study in the prevention and cure of its consequences 
needs integration using many imaging modalities, and magnetic resonance presents 
advantages due to its particular characteristics. The Authors make an overview 
of its indications and potential applications in the assessment of 
atherosclerotic disease. In vitro studies have demonstrated that it is possible 
to evaluate the normal and abnormal components of vessel walls by means of 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as well as fatty deposition and intraplaque 
hemorrhage. On the other hand, in the in vivo studies, despite the impossibility 
to make a too fine structural analysis of the vessel wall, MRI allows to easily 
discriminate between blood flow and parietal wall. This is of great importance 
in the study concerning arterial aneurysms, that represent a consequence of 
atherosclerotic disease. Information as the presence, the site, the extension, 
the collateral vessel involvement and, finally, the presence or absence of 
dissection are all obtainable by using MRI. In the early 1990's magnetic 
resonance angiography (MRA) was developed and is now used in clinical practice. 
By means of this new application of MRI there is the possibility of increasing 
the non invasive screening of atherosclerosis especially in some body districts. 
The evaluation of the plaque obtainable by the combined use of MRA and 
ultrasound studies allows to decrease the employment of traditional and digital 
angiography. If, as studies predict, we will able to obtain coronary angiograms 
in the near future, there will be a further increase in the non invasive 
evaluation and in the prevention of atherosclerotic disease.

PMID: 8020019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Gynecol Oncol. 1994 Jul;54(1):4-9. doi: 10.1006/gyno.1994.1157.

Extent of disease as an indication for pelvic radiation following radical 
hysterectomy and bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection in the treatment of 
stage IB and IIA cervical carcinoma.

Monk BJ(1), Cha DS, Walker JL, Burger RA, Ramsinghani NS, Manetta A, DiSaia PJ, 
Berman ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of California Irvine 
Medical Center, Orange 92668.

Comment in
    Gynecol Oncol. 1994 Jul;54(1):1-3.

The role of adjuvant pelvic radiation following radical hysterectomy and pelvic 
lymph node dissection in the treatment of stage IB and IIA cervical cancer is 
controversial. Patients most likely to benefit from postoperative radiation 
include those with lesions that invade deeply into the cervical stroma, extend 
into the parametria, or have metastasized to regional lymph nodes. Between 1977 
and 1987, 95 patients were treated with this combined regimen at the University 
of California Irvine Medical Center and Long Beach Memorial Medical Center, 
including 30 patients with deep cervical stromal invasion alone, 9 patients with 
parametrial extension alone, 37 patients with lymph node metastasis alone, and 
19 patients with both positive nodes and parametrial extension. The estimated 
5-year survival for this high-risk population was 67%. Pelvic recurrences alone 
occurred in 12 (13%) patients, and 14 additional patients (15%) recurred outside 
of the radiation field. In the node-positive group, the 5-year survival was 78% 
when the parametrium was not involved but decreased to 39% when parametrial 
extension was documented (P < 0.05). Patients with grossly involved nodes or 
multiple nodal metastases were also more likely to recur. Finally, the estimated 
5-year survival for patients with deep cervical stromal invasion as the sole 
indication for radiotherapy was 73%. A retrospective analysis identified tumor 
grade and cell type also to be of prognostic importance. Severe complications 
attributable to radiation combined with radical surgery included two small bowel 
obstructions and one urinary tract fistula. These data suggest that radical 
hysterectomy, pelvic lymphadenectomy, and adjuvant radiotherapy produce 
favorable survival results with limited morbidity in patients with high-risk 
cervical cancer independent of node status except in that subset of patients 
with both occult parametrial spread and nodal metastasis.

DOI: 10.1006/gyno.1994.1157
PMID: 8020837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. J Neurol Sci. 1994 Apr;122(2):148-54. doi: 10.1016/0022-510x(94)90292-5.

Longitudinal analysis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis mortality in Norway, 
1966-1989: evidence for a susceptible subpopulation.

Neilson S(1), Robinson I, Nymoen EH.

Author information:
(1)John Bevan MND Research Unit, Brunel, University of West London, Uxbridge, 
Middlesex, UK.

Mortality from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in Norway has increased 
substantially over the last two or three decades, as it has in other Western 
nations. The reasons for this general increase are not clear, but the rise has 
been attributed to increasing exposure to a broad range of environmental agents. 
Our previous research has indicated that another explanation for the substantial 
rise in ALS mortality is more likely to be valid. In particular, the mortality 
