rate curve for ALS is consistent with deaths being confined to an inherently 
susceptible subpopulation. The size of susceptible subpopulations and mortality 
rates within them have been shown to be consistent in England and Wales, Japan 
and the United States. The same methods have been used to analyse Norwegian 
mortality data. The analysis demonstrates that the rise in ALS mortality is real 
and that the cause of the increase is almost entirely attributable to the 
increasing life expectancy of the Norwegian population. Increased life 
expectancy, a consequence of decreasing general mortality, allows ALS 
susceptible individuals to survive to the ages at which ALS is expressed. As in 
other national populations, it is expected that mortality from the disease will 
continue to increase with continuing increases in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-510x(94)90292-5
PMID: 8021698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. J Pediatr. 1994 Jul;125(1):51-6. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(94)70120-2.

Prolonged cardiorespiratory monitoring of children more than twelve months of 
age: characterization of events and approach to discontinuation.

Silvestri JM(1), Weese-Mayer DE, Kenny AS, Hauptman SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Rush Medical College of Rush University, Chicago, 
Illinois.

We assessed children referred to our apnea program who were > or = 12 months of 
age, beyond the at-risk period for sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), but for 
whom home cardiorespiratory monitoring had continued. Our objectives were to (1) 
determine reasons for initiation and continuation of monitoring, (2) apply 
documented monitoring of transthoracic impedance, electrocardiographic signals, 
and, in a subset of patients, pulse oximetry, to determine the types of 
cardiorespiratory events that these children experienced, and (3) describe how 
documented monitoring was applied for eventual discontinuation of monitoring. 
Among 45 patients (median age, 22 months), 263 disks were collected, 
representing 2982 monitor days. Indications for initiation of monitoring 
included an apparent life-threatening event in 51.1% of patients, apnea of 
prematurity in 35.5%, history of SIDS or apparent life-threatening event in a 
relative in 9%, and intrauterine drug exposure in 4.4%. Continuation of 
monitoring had been based on continued alarms and, in 31% of patients, 
documented apnea, bradycardia, or hemoglobin desaturation. In 40 of 45 patients, 
2292 episodes of apnea (17.5% of all events) were recorded (range, 16 to 31 
seconds). Five patients had 223 episodes of bradycardia (1.7% of all events). Of 
all 13,075 recorded events, 76.8% resulted in audible alarms, but only 3.9% of 
these alarms were for apnea and 2.2% were for bradycardia. Of 19 patients 
studied with pulse oximetry, 18 had 663 episodes of hemoglobin desaturation 
<90%. All children were thriving at the time of referral. Discontinuation of 
monitoring was based on a child's ability to resume breathing spontaneously or 
on normalization of heart rate or hemoglobin saturation before the audible alarm 
sounded, for a minimum of 2 to 3 months. By extension of the audible apnea alarm 
to 25 or 30 seconds, lowering of the cutoff point for bradycardia alarm, or 
lowering of the cutoff point for the oximetry alarm, a recommendation to 
discontinue monitoring could be made for 41 patients. Of these, no child had a 
recurrence of cardiorespiratory events or died of SIDS. Documented monitoring 
proved to be a useful clinical tool for investigation of the clinical and 
physiologic importance of these cardiorespiratory events in children beyond the 
at-risk period for SIDS; recommendations about discontinuation of monitoring 
could be made knowledgeably and safely.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(94)70120-2
PMID: 8021784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr (1988). 1994 Aug;7(8):839-52.

Is HIV-1 likely to become a leading cause of adult mortality in sub-Saharan 
Africa?

Gregson S(1), Garnett GP, Anderson RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, United Kingdom.

Concerns are sometimes expressed at the extent to which HIV-1 is prioritized 
within international and national health budgets and as a research issue, on the 
grounds that much larger numbers of people in developing countries currently die 
from other diseases, such as malaria and tuberculosis. We use a previously 
described mathematical model to explore how the HIV-1 epidemic could develop 
within a sub-Saharan African context and investigate the trends and patterns of 
adult mortality which could follow. Two contrasting scenarios are studied, one 
which turns population growth rates negative and another which does not. In both 
cases, HIV-1-related disease accounts for over 75% of annual deaths among men 
and women aged 15-60 years by year 25 of the epidemic. Relatively little change 
in mortality is seen in the early years of the simulated epidemics. However, by 
year 15, expectation of life at age 15 has fallen from 50 to below 30 years. The 
fragmentary evidence now available from empirical studies supports the 
impression that HIV-1 is rapidly emerging as a leading cause of adult deaths in 
areas of sub-Saharan Africa. Observed patterns of age-dependent mortality 
reflect those projected in the model simulations.

PMID: 8021817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. J Theor Biol. 1994 May 21;168(2):191-9. doi: 10.1006/jtbi.1994.1098.

Hepatocyte polyploidy and metabolism/life-history traits: hypotheses testing.

Anatskaya OV(1), Vinogradov AE, Kudryavtsev BN.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cytology, Russian Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg.

Two alternate hypotheses explaining the causes of mammalian liver polyploidy 
have been tested by means of statistical analysis of more than 30 placental 
species. According to the first (general) hypothesis, the omission of mitosis is 
beneficial in rapidly growing and differentiating tissues that should early 
perform their specialized functions (economy on mitosis). In this case it is to 
be expected that the level of polyploidy is positively correlated to the rate of 
development. The second hypothesis suggests that hepatocyte polyploidy provides 
additional gene copies necessary under heavy chemical damage to metabolically 
active hepatocytes, which have to detoxicate noxious substances. In this case it 
is reasonable to expect that the level of liver ploidy is positively correlated 
with the rate of metabolism while inversely with the species lifespan (since it 
is usually assumed that DNA repair systems are more effective in more long-lived 
species). It is found that, if taken separately, the developmental rate, the 
rate of basal metabolism, the body weight (inversely), and the maximum lifespan 
(inversely) are all correlated with the level of hepatocyte polyploidy. However, 
all these parameters are intercorrelated. When the other parameters are fixed 
(in partial correlation analysis), only the developmental rate and the rate of 
basal metabolism remain significant predictors of the hepatocyte ploidy level, 
with only the former being a predictor of the nuclear ploidy level, while only 
the latter being positively correlated with the frequency of binucleated cells. 
These results suggest that relative importance of the two above explanations can 
differ for the different modes of liver cell polyploidy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1006/jtbi.1994.1098
PMID: 8022197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Mol Microbiol. 1994 Mar;11(6):1009-17. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2958.1994.tb00379.x.

The growth phase-dependent synthesis of cyclopropane fatty acids in Escherichia 
coli is the result of an RpoS(KatF)-dependent promoter plus enzyme instability.

Wang AY(1), Cronan JE Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Illinois, Urbana 61801.

The formation of cyclopropane fatty acids (CFAs) in Escherichia coli is a 
post-synthetic modification of the phospholipid bilayer that occurs 
predominantly as cultures enter the stationary phase of growth. The mechanism of 
this growth phase-dependent regulation of CFA synthesis was unclear, since 
log-phase and stationary-phase cultures had been reported to contain similar 
levels of the enzyme catalysing the reaction (CFA synthase). We report that the 
timing of CFA synthesis can be explained by two unusual features. Fist, the gene 
encoding CFA synthase (cfa) was found to be transcribed from two promoters and 
the 5' ends of both transcripts were mapped by primer extension. One of the 
promoters was active only during the log-to-stationary phase transition and 
depended on the putative sigma factor encoded by the rpoS(katF) gene whereas the 
other promoter had a standard sigma 70 promoter consensus sequence and was 
expressed throughout the growth curve. Second, CFA synthase activity was shown 
to be unstable in vivo and a Cfa fusion protein was found to have a half life of 
< 5 min. The combination of these factors meant that, although CFA synthase was 
synthesized throughout the growth curve, a large increase in activity occurred 
during the log-to-stationary phase transition. As stationary phase progressed, 
the increased CFA synthase activity rapidly declined to the basal level. This 
transient increase in CFA synthase activity coupled with the cessation of net 
phospholipid synthesis in stationary phase provides an explanation for the 
unusual time course of CFA synthesis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.1994.tb00379.x
PMID: 8022273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Presse Med. 1994 Mar 19;23(11):509-10.

[Which antithrombotic agents should be prescribed in deep venous thrombosis of 
the limbs?].

[Article in French]

Fiessinger JN.

Anticoagulants are generally prescribed for the treatment of thrombosis 
occurring in deep veins. Recent progress in both heparin therapy and in 
antivitamin K agents require a new look at the therapeutic choice. Due to its 
immediate anticoagulant action heparin is essential as first intention therapy. 
Indeed, initial oral anticoagulants are less effective, both in terms of 
clinical extension and in radiological outcome, than an initial 
heparin/antivitamin K combination. Non-fractionated heparin administered with an 
automatic syringe after a priming bolus is the reference treatment for venous 
thrombosis since it has now been established that 2 subcutaneous injections of 
heparin are less effective than the intravenous route. Both the effect and 
safety of low molecular weight heparin have been shown to be comparable with 
that of non-fractionated heparin. When the dose is adapted to patient weight, 
70% are within therapeutic limits after the first injection. Two daily 
injections of 100 IU per kg body weight can be recommended as initial treatment 
for deep vein thrombosis. Anticoagulation must be continued for several days but 
the risk of induced thrombocytopenia persists with low molecular weight heparin. 
Long-term use should be retained essentially for pregnant women with deep vein 
thrombosis due to the foetal risk of oral antivitamin K. Antivitamin K oral 
agents may be initiated early without hindering the anticoagulant effect of 
heparin. With oral agents, anticoagulant equilibrium is reached, on the average, 
after 6 days and is a function of vitamin K-dependent half-lives. Since 
antivitamin K agents affect the stability of prothrombin times during the 
day/night cycle, it has been recommended to favour long half-life molecules. 
Standardized prescription protocols can improve safety and anticoagulant 
equilibrium. To date, the recommended management of deep vein thrombosis 
includes combining low molecular weight heparin and long half-life antivitamin 
K. Further progress may be forthcoming with the development of new 
antithrombotic agents such as hirudine or sulfated heparanes.

PMID: 8022737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Pharos Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Med Soc. 1994 Spring;57(2):41-3.

The end of inevitability, or Frankenstein and the biological revolution.

Hellman S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation and Cellular Oncology, University of Chicago.

PMID: 8022875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Rev Neurol (Paris). 1993;149(10):567-71.

[Pituitary abscess, treated by medication].

[Article in French]

Dechambenoit G(1), Datie A, Grunitzky EK, Ba Zeze V, Boni N, Kakou M, Santini 
JJ.

Author information:
(1)Service de Neurochirurgie, CHU Yopougon, Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire.

Pituitary abscesses are rare. The case reported here concerns a 28-year old 
African. Gradual development of diplopia over 6 months was the first clinical 
manifestation. Three months later this development had reached a more severe and 
infectious context, with complete right ophthalmoplegia, meningitis and coma 
(GCS = 9). CT scan showed an image in favour of a pituitary abscess with 
suprasellar extension, associated with thrombophlebitis of the cavernous sinus. 
An antibiotic therapy consisting of cefotaxime and metronidazole administered 
for 1 month, and netilmicin for 15 days succeeded in controlling the infectious 
syndrome. This resulted in cure of visual disorders, reduction in size of the CT 
scan image and reconstruction of the pituitary sella which had been destroyed. 
The diagnosis of pituitary abscess should be made when confronted with an 
infectious syndrome (unexplained fever, repeated meningitis). CT does not 
recognize the nature of the hypophyseal mass it shows: necrosis of a pituitary 
adenoma, giant aneurysm or craniopharyngioma may mimic local infection. Surgery 
confirms the diagnosis and is regarded as the best treatment. The patient's life 
is threatened when meningitis is present, and the functional prognosis is poor 
when recovery from visual disorders is compromised due to late diagnosis. In 
this paper a comparative analysis of the clinical course of the disease and 
therapeutic data in our patient is presented and compared with other reported 
cases.

PMID: 8023074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Schweiz Monatsschr Zahnmed. 1994;104(5):565-77.

HIV disease: medical and dental aspects and trends for the future. A literature 
review.

Migliorati CA(1), Koller MM.

Author information:
(1)Public Oral Health Clinic Zurich.

The pandemic dimension of HIV disease is a reality. The cases of acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (Aids) and of new infections with HIV continue to 
increase. Available antiretroviral therapy cannot halt the progress of the 
disease. However, because of early diagnosis and treatment, life expectancy has 
increased. Oral diseases in these patients have the potential to cause severe 
pain, discomfort, alter form and function and disseminate systemically. 
Comprehensive dental management may be complicated by complex medical problems. 
Nevertheless, as the epidemic grows, a higher number of infected individuals 
will need dental care. A comprehensive dental management concept of the 
HIV-seropositive individual still needs scientific investigation. There are 
several unresolved psychosocial issues concerning the willingness of dentists to 
treat HIV-infected patients. The possible transmission of the virus from a 
dentist to his patients in a dental office in Florida generated public and 
professional hysteria. Lack of knowledge about the disease contributed to this 
situation. This literature review presents the state-of-the-art information 
available on medical and dental aspects of HIV disease and trends for the future 
in dental research, education and patient care.

PMID: 8023108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Age Ageing. 1994 Mar;23(2):158-61. doi: 10.1093/ageing/23.2.158.

The closure of residential homes: what happens to residents.

Hallewell C(1), Morris J, Jolley D.

Author information:
(1)Withington Hospital, West Didsbury, Manchester.

A controlled, prospective study is described which demonstrates changes in 
behaviour and mortality in the residents of two residential homes which were 
closed. The 59 residents were dispersed to 19 different establishments. Thirteen 
general practitioners (GPs) received sick elderly people on their lists after 
relocation. There were delays and other difficulties in communication between 
GPs. Restlessness, as measured by the Crichton Geriatric Behavioural Rating 
Scale, was increased soon after moving but no differences in behaviour or 
dependency between patients and control subjects were demonstrable after 1 year. 
Although moving in itself did not increase mortality, residents with poor 
mobility and dressing skills had a high death rate. This pattern of closure with 
widespread dispersal of residents is likely to become more common after the 
introduction of the NHS and Community Care Acts. It is associated with 
psychiatric morbidity which may be preventable by better organization. Medical 
involvement in the move was minimal, and the special responsibility of medical 
care of patients living in residential homes should be recognized.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/23.2.158
PMID: 8023727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Arch Surg. 1994 Jul;129(7):729-33. doi:
10.1001/archsurg.1994.01420310061010.

Preoperative fasting improves survival after 90% hepatectomy.

Sarac TP(1), Sax HC, Doerr R, Yuksel U, Pulli R, Caruana J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Rochester Medical Center, NY.

OBJECTIVE: To assess whether alterations in preoperative fatty acid oxidation 
and gluconeogenesis induced by fasting will affect survival and liver 
regeneration following 90% hepatectomy in the rat.
DESIGN: In a randomized, controlled trial, Wistar rats (N = 157) were separated 
into two groups. Rats in the first group fasted for 24 hours. Rats in the second 
group were allowed to eat ad libitum until the time of operation. These groups 
were further randomized to receive either 20% glucose or tap water ad libitum 
postoperatively.
INTERVENTIONS: Ninety percent hepatectomy; 24-hour fast; 5% glucose feeding.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Survival, DNA synthesis in the hepatic remnant along with 
glucokinase activity (GKA) and glycogen content, serum ketone bodies (KB), free 
fatty acid (FFA), glucose, and ad libitum glucose consumption (GC) were serially 
quantified.
RESULTS: Fasting rats that were offered glucose (fasted/glucose) after 
hepatectomy demonstrated better survival at 48 hours than the rats that were fed 
before the procedure and given glucose following hepatectomy (fed/glucose), 95% 
vs 52% (P < .05). The fasted/glucose group also had a greater peak rate of DNA 
synthesis (550 +/- 110 vs 275 +/- 40 disintegrations per minute per 0.001 mg of 
DNA, P < .05). Survival was poor in both groups when only tap water was offered 
to the animals after hepatectomy (31% vs 12%). In the fasted/glucose group, GC 1 
hour after hepatectomy was greater than that for fed rats (1.3 +/- 0.175 vs 0.73 
+/- 0.176 g/h, P < .05), yet GKA was suppressed (3.4 +/- 0.42 vs 8.05 +/- 2.77 
nmol/min per milligrams of protein, P < .05). Fasting before hepatectomy and 
consuming glucose after causes elevations in both FFA (1.26 +/- 0.19 vs 0.82 +/- 
0.13 mol/mL., P < .05) and KB (18.96 +/- 2.82 vs 11.4 +/- 3.94 mmol/mL, P < 
.05). Normal glucose was maintained in the fasted/glucose group, but fell to 63 
+/- 14 mg/dL at 8 hours after hepatectomy in the fed/glucose group.
CONCLUSIONS: Fasting before hepatectomy shifts energy utilization to fat 
oxidation and gluconeogenesis, which appears to ameliorate liver failure after 
hepatectomy in this severe model of hepatic resection.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1994.01420310061010
PMID: 8024453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Cancer Detect Prev. 1994;18(2):145-52.

Melanoma in a southeastern Hispanic population.

Feun LG(1), Raub WA Jr, Duncan RC, Moffat F, Savaraj N, Nemeth A, Markoe A, 
Trapido E.

Author information:
(1)Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Miami, FL 33136.

A descriptive analysis was performed of the Tumor Registry data for malignant 
melanoma in Hispanics ascertained by the Jackson Memorial Hospital (JMH), 
University of Miami School of Medicine Tumor Registry. A total of 54 cases of 
melanoma in Hispanics was collected and reviewed. Most of the lesions of 
melanoma occurred on the trunk, arm, shoulder, leg, and hip. Seventy percent of 
the Hispanics presented with local stage disease; 26% presented with both 
regional and distant disease. Local stage had the best 5-year survival (87%). In 
regional and distant disease combined, the survival was better for Hispanics 
than non-Hispanics (p = 0.01). In addition, it was found that the Hispanics in 
the over 50-year-old age group did better than the non-Hispanics in the same 
group (p = 0.05). Comparison of survival between Hispanic males and females 
shows that Hispanic females have a 5-year survival of 86% compared to 56% for 
Hispanic males (p = 0.017).

PMID: 8025897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Cancer Detect Prev. 1994;18(2):87-96.

DNA analysis in advanced breast cancer.

Leivonen M(1), Krogerus L, Nordling S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Peijas Hospital, Vantaa, Finland.

DNA flow cytometry is frequently used to determine the aggressiveness of breast 
cancer at the time of primary treatment. Because its role is not as clear in 
advanced disease, a retrospective investigation was conducted on 132 breast 
cancer patients with metastases or a subsequent recurrence of the disease. DNA 
analysis of 96 primary tumors and 53 metastases was performed. The follow-up 
time was up to 11 years. The mean DNA index of the primary tumors was 1.4 and 
the mean S-phase fraction (SPF) was 9.4%; 36.5% of the tumors was diploid. The 
DNA index did not differ significantly among the different stages, but the SPF 
was significantly higher in stage III than in stage IV. There was no significant 
difference in ploidy between the stages. There were no significant differences 
in DNA index and SPF between the primary tumors of the patients with local or 
distant metastases. The disease-free interval was independent of DNA index, 
ploidy, and SPF alone. There was no difference in DNA index, ploidy, or SPF 
between patients with an early or late relapse. Breast cancer-related mortality 
after metastasis was independent of ploidy alone. In stage I-II, patients with a 
low SPF had a significantly higher survival rate than other patients. The same 
was true in patients with a diploid tumor and a low SPF. When the DNA index, 
SPF, and ploidy of primary tumors and metastases/recurrences were analyzed, no 
combination of variables yielding an improved prognosis was found. Therefore, it 
seems that DNA flow cytometry has limited value in determining the prognosis in 
a patient with metastases or recurrence.

PMID: 8025900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Free Radic Biol Med. 1994 May;16(5):621-6. doi:
10.1016/0891-5849(94)90062-0.

Mitochondrial oxidative damage, hydrogen peroxide release, and aging.

Sohal RS(1), Dubey A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX.

The objective of this study was to elucidate the possible nature of the 
mechanism underlying the widely observed phenomenon that the rate of H2O2 
production by mitochondria increases during the aging process, using flight 
muscle mitochondria of the male housefly as a model system. The protein carbonyl 
content of mitochondria increased linearly with age of the flies, and was also 
inversely associated with the life expectancy of flies. Exposure of flies to 
100% oxygen caused a progressive increase in the level of mitochondrial carbonyl 
content. The rate of H2O2 release by such oxidatively damaged mitochondria was 
higher than the controls. Similarly, X-irradiation of submitochondrial particles 
simultaneously resulted in increased rate of H2O2 production and elevated level 
of carbonyl content. Results of this and previous studies indicate that 
oxidative damage to mitochondrial membranes may be responsible for the 
age-related increase in mitochondrial H2O2 generation.

DOI: 10.1016/0891-5849(94)90062-0
PMID: 8026805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Hum Biol. 1994 Jun;66(3):411-20.

Recent fertility decline in Dariusleut Hutterites: an extension of Eaton and 
Mayer's Hutterite fertility study.

Nonaka K(1), Miura T, Peter K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hygiene, Teikyo University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

A church book that has been routinely updated by the Dariusleut Hutterites 
enabled us to update some fertility tables presented by Eaton and Mayer in the 
1950s. The age-specific (nuptial) fertility rates and the total fertility rates 
(TFRs) were calculated for every 5-year period from 1901-1905 to 1981-1985. Our 
calculations for Dariusleut, one of the three sects of the Hutterites, gave 
slightly lower age-specific nuptial fertility rates before 1951 compared with 
the figures given by Eaton and Mayer (1953) for all Hutterites in the 
corresponding time periods. The recent decline in Hutterite fertility, 
especially at higher maternal ages, was confirmed in this study. The TFR, given 
as a sum of 5-year-grouped age-specific nuptial fertility rates from 15 to 49 
years of maternal age, was higher (8.80-9.83) in the years 1946-1965, but it 
declined to 8.13 in 1966-1970, to 7.22 in 1971-1975, to 6.39 in 1976-1980, and 
to 6.29 in 1981-1985. For the age groups 35-39 years and older the age-specific 
nuptial fertility rate in 1981-1985 decreased by more than 50% compared with the 
rate during the peak period of 1951-1955. The probability of a married woman 
having a live birth at each age from 15 to 49 years still peaked around the 
twentieth year of life, as found by Eaton and Mayer (1953), but it decreased 
more rapidly from the late twenties among the recently married women, most 
evidently in their thirties.

PMID: 8026812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. J Am Osteopath Assoc. 1994 Apr;94(4):292.

An apple a day may keep cardiovascular disease at bay.

Allen TW.

PMID: 8026996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Jul;20(1):61-68; discussion 68-9. doi: 
10.1016/0741-5214(94)90176-7.

Eleven-year experience with tibiotibial bypass: an unusual but effective 
solution to distal tibial artery occlusive disease and limited autologous vein.

Lyon RT(1), Veith FJ, Marsan BU, Wengerter KR, Panetta TF, Marin ML, Goldsmith 
J, Rivers SP, Suggs W.

Author information:
(1)Montefiore Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New 
York 10461.

PURPOSE: The absence of sufficient length of suitable autologous vein 
occasionally prohibits the treatment of severe distal lower extremity arterial 
occlusive disease with a standard distal bypass originating from the common 
femoral artery. During the past 11 years, we have therefore selectively 
performed short distal bypasses originating from the infrapopliteal arteries in 
patients with limb-threatening ischemia and occlusive lesions limited to the 
distal tibial and peroneal arteries. This report summarizes our experience with 
these tibial artery based distal bypasses.
METHODS: Forty-two distal lower extremity arterial bypasses originating from 
infrapopliteal arteries in 41 patients were performed over an 11-year period. 
Autologous vein was used as the bypass conduit in all cases. Extensions from a 
more proximal bypass were excluded.
RESULTS: The primary patency rate of these tibiotibial bypasses was 77% at 1 
year and 62% after 5 years. The limb salvage rate after 5 years was 74%. The 
perioperative mortality rate was low (2%), but the 5-year patient survival rate 
(64%) was similar to that with more standard lower extremity arterial 
reconstructive procedures.
CONCLUSIONS: Tibiotibial bypass is an effective limb salvage procedure in 
carefully selected patients with distal tibial artery occlusive disease and 
limited autologous vein. It offers a durable means of distal revascularization 
in circumstances in which a standard operation might not be desirable or 
possible.

DOI: 10.1016/0741-5214(94)90176-7
PMID: 8028091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Jul;20(1):76-85; discussion 86-7. doi: 
10.1016/0741-5214(94)90178-3.

The durability of different reconstructive techniques for atherosclerotic renal 
artery disease.

Cambria RP(1), Brewster DC, L'Italien GJ, Moncure A, Darling RC Jr, Gertler JP, 
La Muraglia GM, Atamian S, Abbott WM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.

PURPOSE: Among various surgical techniques for renal artery reconstruction 
(RAR), anatomic aortorenal bypass has been the preferred standard. Yet concern 
regarding origin of the bypass from a diseased aorta and desire to avoid a major 
aortic operation in these patients who are often at poor risk has led to 
increasing use of extraanatomic bypass grafting, particularly hepatorenal and 
splenorenal bypass. This study was conducted to compare the safety and long-term 
performance of these different techniques of renal artery reconstruction.
METHODS: We reviewed a 15-year (1976 to 1991) experience with 323 surgical RAR 
performed in 285 patients with atherosclerotic renovascular disease. Long-term 
patency and survival rates were analyzed by life-table methods. Variables 
potentially affecting early failure of the RAR and perioperative and late 
mortality rates were examined by Cox proportional hazards models.
RESULTS: Diffuse atherosclerosis characterized the patients' clinical profile. 
Clinically evident coronary artery disease was present in 54% of patients, and 
some degree of renal insufficiency was present in 60%. Ninety-five percent of 
patients had hypertension with poor control of hypertension seen in 50%. Aortic 
disease necessitated combined aortic grafting and RAR in 43% of the study group. 
Various techniques of RAR were used as follows: endarterectomy or patch 
angioplasty, 8.5%; extraanatomic bypass grafting, 37% (hepatorenal, 62; 
splenorenal, 52; iliorenal, 7); and aortorenal bypass grafting, 54% (native 
aorta, 34; combined aortic graft and RAR, 140). Early failure of the RAR 
occurred in 5% of cases, and the operative mortality rate for the entire cohort 
was 5.6%. Median follow-up duration was 9.4 years. A comparison of early and 
late patency for the major types of RAR revealed equivalent (p = 0.44) 
performance of aortorenal and extraanatomic bypass grafting. Perioperative 
complications occurred more frequently (p < 0.02) in patients undergoing 
combined operations. The cumulative 5-year survival rate for all patients was 
75%.
CONCLUSIONS: Because extraanatomic bypass grafting can provide long-term results 
equivalent to aortorenal bypass grafting, the choice among techniques for RAR in 
patients with diffuse atherosclerosis should be based on both technical and 
operative safety considerations, rather than adherence to aortorenal bypass 
grafting as an inherently superior technique.

DOI: 10.1016/0741-5214(94)90178-3
PMID: 8028093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Med J Aust. 1994 Jul 18;161(2):169; author reply 170.

Cost effectiveness of interferon in chronic active hepatitis C.

Turnbull C, Sugano D.

Comment on
    Med J Aust. 1994 Mar 7;160(5):268-72.

PMID: 8028544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Nature. 1994 Jul 21;370(6486):184. doi: 10.1038/370184a0.

Tobacco-related mortality.

Rodu B, Cole P.

Comment in
    Nature. 1994 Sep 8;371(6493):113.

DOI: 10.1038/370184a0
PMID: 8028661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Sci Total Environ. 1994 Jun 6;148(2-3):185-90. doi: 
10.1016/0048-9697(94)90395-6.

The problem of latency in the development of tumors following exposure to nickel 
compounds.

Lumb GD(1), Sunderman FW Sr.

Author information:
(1)Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, NC.

Six previously published animal studies of tumor production have been reviewed, 
in order to relate time interval between exposure to nickel and development of 
tumor formation. Biopsies at intervals before final tumor formation, in some of 
these experiments, were reviewed to define interim changes between exposure and 
tumor diagnosis. Correlation between rat and human life span was used to suggest 
a latency of human tumor expectancy following exposure to nickel.

DOI: 10.1016/0048-9697(94)90395-6
PMID: 8029694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Virology. 1994 Aug 15;203(1):158-61. doi: 10.1006/viro.1994.1467.

Nucleotide sequence and phylogenetic classification of human papillomavirus type 
59.

Rho J(1), Roy-Burman A, Kim H, de Villiers EM, Matsukura T, Choe J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and 
Technology, Taejon.

The complete nucleotide sequence of the HPV 59 DNA genome, isolated from a 
vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia, was determined. It consists of 7896 
nucleotides. A comparative analysis of this sequence with the sequences of other 
HPV types revealed the closest homology to HPV 18 (71%), HPV 45 (70%), and HPV 
39 (69%). Phylogenetic analysis of the complete L1 ORFs of HPV 59 and other 
papillomaviruses exclusively groups all HPVs which have been detected in mucosal 
lesions into one major branch. This major branch, in turn, includes two specific 
subgroups containing all high risk viruses associated with malignant mucosal 
lesions. The motif in the L2 ORF 
thr-thr-pro-ala-val/ile-leu/ile-asp/asn-val/ile, an extension of a previously 
reported mucosal motif, is highly conserved in all HPV types detected in mucosal 
lesions, whereas it is totally absent in those viruses exclusively associated 
with cutaneous lesions.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1994.1467
PMID: 8030272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Am J Med Genet. 1994 May 15;51(1):70-6. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.1320510115.

Autosomal recessive proximal spinal muscular atrophy in 101 sibs out of 48 
families: clinical picture, influence of gender, and genetic implications.

Rudnik-Schöneborn S(1), Röhrig D, Morgan G, Wirth B, Zerres K.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Human Genetics of Bonn University, Germany.

We analysed the clinical picture of 101 sibs (43 sib pairs, 5 triplets) with 
autosomal recessive proximal spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). Linkage data of 20 
sibships, which were available for analysis, were in agreement with chromosome 
5q linkage. The patients were classified according to the motor development into 
SMA I (never sat), SMA II (sitting without support), and SMA III (walking 
without aids). Three sibs with adult onset (> 30 years = SMA IV) were discussed 
as a separate entity. Age-of-onset of the 101 patients showed a wide spectrum 
(prenatal to 47 years). Among sib pairs with SMA I and SMA II the ages-of-onset 
appeared to be very similar except of one atypically discordant sib pair. With 
regard to SMA III, 3 out of 13 sibships (23%) showed a marked variation in 
age-of-onset ranging from 5-15 years within a family. Concerning acquired motor 
development (ability to sit and walk), 7 sibships (15%) belonged to different 
SMA types. Ages of death in 29 sib pairs in whom at least one sib had died 
before the age of 20 years were strikingly discordant. Neither the degree of 
disability nor the respiratory deficits are reliable predictors of life 
expectancy. Although a predominance of males can be observed, no significant 
effect of gender has been established in familial cases. The existence of 
multiple allelism seems to be the most suitable explanation for the high 
interfamilial variability considering the clinical concordance in most affected 
sib pairs.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.1320510115
PMID: 8030672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Am Surg. 1994 Aug;60(8):629-33.

Conservative management of spontaneous ruptured hepatocellular carcinoma.

Xu HS(1), Yan JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Guangxi Medical University, First Teaching Hospital, 
Nanning, China.

Because most emergent surgical operations for patients with spontaneous ruptured 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) achieved hemostasis only, a conservative approach 
was chosen for management of initial bleeding in our institute. Elective surgery 
was performed in selected patients to attempt resection of the HCC after 
stabilization of the hemorrhage. From 1971, 68 of 87 patients with ruptured HCC 
received the conservative treatment, and 19 were treated by emergent surgery 
during the same period. Overall, one week and one month mortality rates were 
26.5 per cent, 48.5 per cent in the conservative group, and 31.6 per cent, 47.4 
per cent in the emergent operative group, respectively. Two patients in the 
emergent operative group underwent partial hepatectomy for a resectability of 
10.5 per cent. Fifteen patients in the conservative group received elective 
laparotomy 1-3 weeks after control of the initial bleeding. Six underwent 
partial hepatectomy with a resectability of 40.0 per cent. In conclusion, 
conservative management is an effective approach for control of intraperitoneal 
hemorrhage in patients with ruptured HCC. Elective surgery on selected patients 
after hemostasis will increase the cancer resection rate in patients who undergo 
laparotomy and will give a better life expectancy than emergent laparotomy in 
patients with ruptured HCC.

PMID: 8030822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1994 Jun 30;717:1-15. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb12069.x.

Free-radical theory of aging. Increasing the functional life span.

Harman D(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Nebraska, College of Medicine, Omaha 68198-4635.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb12069.x
PMID: 8030825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1994 Jun 30;717:161-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb12083.x.

Effect of life span prolonging drugs (geroprotectors) on spontaneous and induced 
carcinogenesis.

Anisimov VN(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Tumors, N.N. Petrov Research Institute of 
Oncology, St. Petersburg, Russia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb12083.x
PMID: 8030832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1994 Jun 30;717:45-59. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb12072.x.

Effects of L-deprenyl on manifestations of aging in the rat and dog.

Ivy GO(1), Rick JT, Murphy MP, Head E, Reid C, Milgram NW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Toronto, Scarborough, Ontario, 
Canada.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb12072.x
PMID: 8030851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1994 Jun 30;717:60-71. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb12073.x.

(-)Deprenyl increases the life span as well as activities of superoxide 
dismutase and catalase but not of glutathione peroxidase in selective brain 
regions in Fischer rats.

Kitani K(1), Kanai S, Carrillo MC, Ivy GO.

Author information:
(1)Radioisotope Research Institute, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo, 
Japan.

(-)Deprenyl, a MAO-B inhibitor that is also known to be effective for symptoms 
of Parkinson's disease, when injected subcutaneously (sc) in male Fischer-344 
rats at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg per day (3 times a week) from 18 months of age, 
significantly increased the remaining life expectancy. The average life span 
after 24 months was 34% greater in treated rats than in saline-treated control 
animals. Furthermore, a short-term (3 wk) continuous sc infusion of deprenyl 
significantly increased activities of superoxide dismutase and catalase but not 
of glutathione peroxidase in selective brain regions such as s. nigra, striatum, 
and cerebral cortex, but not in hippocampus or cerebellum, or the liver. The 
optimal dose for increasing these activities, however, differed greatly 
depending on the sex and age of animals, with a 10-fold lower value for young 
female than male rats. Interestingly, aging caused an increase and a decrease in 
the optimal dose in female and male rats, respectively. In addition, treatment 
for a longer term tended to reduce the optimal dosage in the same animal group. 
The results clearly demonstrate that deprenyl increases antioxidant enzyme 
activities in selective brain regions. If this effect of deprenyl is causally 
related to its life-prolonging effect, the dosage to be used for any life span 
study would be a critical factor, with the dosage differing widely depending on 
sex, age of animal, and mode and duration of drug administration.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb12073.x
PMID: 8030852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1994 Jun 30;717:72-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb12074.x.

Influence of L-deprenyl treatment on mouse survival kinetics.

Piantanelli L(1), Zaia A, Rossolini G, Viticchi C, Testa R, Basso A, Antognini 
A.

Author information:
(1)Gerontological Research Department, Italian National Research Centers on 
Aging (INRCA), Ancona.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb12074.x
PMID: 8030853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Arch Environ Health. 1994 Jul-Aug;49(4):297-302. doi: 
10.1080/00039896.1994.9937483.

Contribution of cadmium in cigarettes to lung cancer: an evaluation of risk 
assessment methodologies.

Hertz-Picciotto I(1), Hu SW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.

This investigation concerned the use of quantitative risk assessment for 
estimating cancer mortality at low-level exposures. We empirically tested 
whether extrapolating by linear no-threshold models predicted implausible risks 
at low-level exposures. Cadmium in cigarette smoke was the low-level exposure, 
and extrapolation was based on potencies estimated from an occupational study 
and a rodent cancer bioassay. Inhaled cadmium in mainstream and sidestream smoke 
was estimated from published laboratory experiments. Smoking-specific lung 
cancer and all-cause mortality rates were estimated from large population-based 
studies. The mortality rates, amount of inhaled cadmium, and potency values were 
used to construct life tables for calculating lifetime lung cancer risk with and 
without a contribution from cadmium in cigarette smoke. The epidemiologic data 
predicted that 1 to 18 lung cancer deaths per 10,000 smokers may be attributable 
to inhaled cadmium in cigarette smoke, or approximately 0.2% to 1.6% of 
smoking-induced lung cancer deaths. Upper 95% bounds on these figures are 7 to 
95 lung cancer deaths or 1.6% to 8.8% of smoking-related deaths. The rodent data 
predicted that 80 to 416 lung cancer deaths per 10,000 smokers (95% upper 
bounds: 136-707) or 13% to 47% (23-81%) of smoking-induced lung cancer mortality 
may be attributable to cadmium in cigarette smoke. Linear extrapolation from 
human data appears to provide plausible estimates of risk at low doses. 
Considering the large number of carcinogens present in cigarette smoke, the 
extrapolation from rodents appears to overestimate human risks.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1080/00039896.1994.9937483
PMID: 8031188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1994 Jul;51(7):577-86. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1994.03950070069012.

Patterns of risk in first-degree relatives of patients with Alzheimer's disease.

Silverman JM(1), Li G, Zaccario ML, Smith CJ, Schmeidler J, Mohs RC, Davis KL.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatry Service, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Bronx, NY.

Comment in
    Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1995 Apr;52(4):317-9.

BACKGROUND: Although an increased cumulative risk for primary progressive 
dementia (PPD) has been repeatedly demonstrated in relatives of probands with 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), an examination of their rates of illness at different 
ages has not been previously undertaken. Such an examination might reveal 
possible age-related characteristics associated with a more familial variety of 
AD.
METHODS: Using family history interviews and survival analysis, the cumulative 
risk for and 5-year age-specific hazard rates of PPD were assessed in the 
first-degree relatives of 200 probands with AD and two nondemented control 
groups--179 elderly ascertained through the Alzheimer's Disease Research Center 
(ADRC-derived controls) and 427 elderly ascertained from community senior 
centers (community controls).
RESULTS: The PPD risk curve for the relatives of probands with AD rose to about 
30% and was significantly higher than the curves for the relatives of the 
ADRC-derived and community controls, where comparable rates were observed 
(approximately 12%). The age-specific hazard rates of PPD were calculated in 
three groups of relatives for each 5-year interval from ages 45 to 49 years 
through ages 85 to 89 years. The age-specific relative risk (RRi) for PPD in the 
relatives of probands with AD began to steadily diminish from the 75- to 79-year 
age interval (RRi = 13.49) through the 85- to 89-year age interval (RRi = 0.96) 
compared with the relatives of ADRC-derived controls and from the 60- to 64-year 
age interval (RRi = 16.15) through the 85- to 89-year age interval (RRi = 2.03) 
compared with the relatives of the community controls.
CONCLUSIONS: These data indicate that, for relatives of probands with AD, while 
the lifetime risk for PPD is greater than in relatives of controls, the familial 
contribution to the risk for PPD decreases with increasing age. The higher risk 
for PPD in relatives of probands with AD may be substantially diminished or even 
eliminated by the latter half of the ninth decade.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1994.03950070069012
PMID: 8031231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Cancer. 1994 Jul 15;74(2):545-55. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19940715)74:2<545::aid-cncr2820740204>3.0.co;2-q.

Ovarian carcinoma. A review of the significance of familial risk factors and the 
role of prophylactic oophorectomy in cancer prevention.

Nguyen HN(1), Averette HE, Janicek M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Cleveland Clinic Florida, Ft. Lauderdale 
33309.

Women with a family history of ovarian cancer are at increased risk of ovarian 
cancer. Prophylactic oophorectomy (PO) remains the only effective method of 
ovarian cancer prevention. This study reviewed current data on the significance 
of family history and how prophylactic oophorectomy should be used in different 
risk groups. Approximately 7% of ovarian cancer patients have a positive family 
history of whom 3-9% may eventually manifest certain hereditary cancer 
syndromes. Women in direct genetic lineage of family cancer syndromes have up to 
a 50% lifetime risk of ovarian cancer. Because of the high risk, PO is indicated 
for women with familial cancer syndromes after childbearing or between the ages 
of 35-40 at the latest. The majority of women with a positive family history of 
ovarian cancer do not have one of the recognized syndromes. Women with one or 
two affected relatives have an increased lifetime risk of ovarian cancer from a 
baseline of 1.6 to 5-7%. This risk is not high enough to warrant PO for a large 
number of women. After being properly informed, the patient still chooses 
surgical prevention, she then receives PO. For women without a family history of 
ovarian cancer, the role of PO remains controversial. Assuming an annual 
incidence of 22,000 new cases of ovarian cancer, it is estimated that at least 
1000 may be prevented if PO is diligently practiced during hysterectomy. Despite 
ovarian and breast cancer prevention, PO would lead to shorter life expectancy 
if estrogen therapy compliance were less than perfect. Thus, the decision on PO 
as a concurrent procedure should depend on the individual patient and her 
ability to comply with lifelong estrogen therapy.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19940715)74:2<545::aid-cncr2820740204>3.0.co;2-q
PMID: 8033032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Fam Plann Perspect. 1994 Mar-Apr;26(2):66-72.

Comparative contraceptive efficacy of the female condom and other barrier 
methods.

Trussell J(1), Sturgen K, Strickler J, Dominik R.

Author information:
(1)Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Princeton 
University, N.J.

Because the research design for the clinical trial establishing the 
contraceptive efficacy of the female condom--a six-month life-table probability 
of failure of 15% (12% in the United States vs. 22% in Latin America)--did not 
include randomization with another method of contraception, no definite 
conclusion about its comparative efficacy is possible. Comparisons using other 
female barrier methods as historical controls, however, provide evidence that, 
among women in the United States, the contraceptive efficacy of the female 
condom during typical use is not significantly different from that of the 
diaphragm, the sponge or the cervical cap. The six-month probability of failure 
during perfect use of the female condom is 2.6% among U.S. women, similar to 
rates for the diaphragm and the cervical cap but significantly lower than that 
for the sponge. Meaningful comparisons with the male condom are not possible 
because of the lack of data from carefully controlled prospective clinical 
trials. Extrapolations from the results on contraceptive efficacy suggest that 
perfect use of the female condom may reduce the annual risk of acquiring the 
human immunodeficiency virus by more than 90% among women who have intercourse 
twice weekly with an infected male.

PIP: The research design for clinical trials of the female condom did not 
include randomization with another contraceptive method, so no one can 
definitely determine its contraceptive efficacy. Less formal comparisons with 
studies of other barrier methods reveal that the contraceptive efficacy of the 
female condom during typical use is not different from that of other vaginal 
barrier methods among US women. When researchers standardize probabilities of 
failure by parity and age, the diaphragm may be more effective than the female 
condom, the sponge, and the cervical cap during typical use. Yet, during perfect 
use, the contraceptive efficacy of the female condom is the same as that of the 
diaphragm, at least that of the cervical cap, and greater than that of the 
vaginal sponge. The clinical trial of the female condom did not include women 
with low coital frequency, included chemically confirmed pregnancies even when 
they were not clinically confirmed, and lost a much smaller percentage of the 
sample to follow-up than other clinical trials. Thus, one would expect the 
female condom to have higher failure rates than the other barrier methods, even 
if the contraceptive efficacies of the barrier methods matched. It is impossible 
to conduct statistical comparisons of the contraceptive efficacies of the female 
condom and the male condom because no carefully controlled clinical trials of 
the male condom have been conducted. The contraceptive efficacy of the female 
condom is probably similar to that of the male condom without a spermicidal 
lubricant, even though a superficial comparison with published probabilities of 
failure suggests otherwise. Extrapolations from results on contraceptive 
efficacy suggest that the female condom has the potential of reducing the annual 
risk of HIV infection by more than 90% among women having intercourse two times 
a week with an HIV-infected male.

PMID: 8033980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
