

978. Ginecol Obstet Mex. 1994 Apr;62:117-20.

[Estrogen therapy in postoperative gynecologic cancer patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Muñoz Doménico G(1), Alvarez Ahumada G, Villegas Castrejón H, Novoa Vargas A.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Perinatología, México, D.F.

Bilateral oophorectomy is an essential part in the treatment of gynecologic 
cancer, and is often performed at the time of hysterectomy to prevent ovarian 
or/and breast cancer premenopausic women. In our study, we analyzed results from 
previous reports to determine the influence of estrogen on coronary heart 
disease, osteoporotic fracture and life expectancy in young patients with 
medical records of ovarian or breast cancer.

PMID: 8034220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. J Biol Chem. 1994 Jul 15;269(28):18638-45.

Divergent roles of RAS1 and RAS2 in yeast longevity.

Sun J(1), Kale SP, Childress AM, Pinswasdi C, Jazwinski SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Louisiana State University 
Medical Center, New Orleans 70112.

Individual cells of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae have a limited 
replicative life-span. The role of the genes RAS1 and RAS2 in yeast longevity 
was examined. Over-expression of RAS2 led to a 30% increase in the life-span on 
average and postponed the senescence-related increase in generation time seen 
during yeast aging. No life-span extension was obtained by overexpression of 
RAS1. However, deletion of RAS1 prolonged the life-span. These results suggest 
that RAS1 and RAS2 play reciprocal roles in determining yeast longevity. RAS1 
and RAS2 mRNA and protein levels declined with replicative age, suggesting a 
diminishing impact on yeast longevity. The major known pathway through which Ras 
proteins function in yeast involves stimulation of adenylate cyclase. No 
evidence for a life-span-extending effect of elevated intracellular cAMP was 
found. Indeed, high intracellular cAMP was associated with curtailed life-span. 
A similar decrease in life-span was found on disruption of BCY1, which codes for 
the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A, the downstream target of cAMP. 
Importantly, overexpression of an effector domain mutant of RAS2, defective in 
stimulation of adenylate cyclase, prolonged life-span to the same extent as the 
wild-type gene, suggesting that the cAMP pathway is neither sufficient nor 
necessary for increased longevity.

PMID: 8034612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. J Infect Dis. 1994 Aug;170(2):488-93. doi: 10.1093/infdis/170.2.488.

Transient bacteremia due to Mycobacterium avium complex in patients with AIDS.

Kemper CA(1), Havlir D, Bartok AE, Kane C, Camp B, Lane N, Deresinski SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Santa Clara Valley Medical Center, San Jose, CA 
95128.

It is generally assumed that Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) bacteremia, once 
it develops, is unremitting. On the basis of this presumption, changes in the 
level of mycobacteremia are used to gauge therapeutic response. In 7 (12%) of 60 
patients enrolled in a prospective trial of MAC bacteremia and AIDS, bacteremia 
became undetectable before the initiation of antimycobacterial therapy. Patients 
with transient bacteremia reported fewer and shorter symptoms and survived 
longer than those with sustained bacteremia (59 vs. 31 weeks; P = .022). There 
was no difference in the duration of AIDS, CD4+ cell count, hematocrit, or body 
weight between groups. Two additional patients with transient bacteremia were 
identified outside this study setting. Despite disappearance of detectable 
mycobacteremia and subsequent administration of antimycobacterial agent(s), 
bacteremia once again became detectable in 6 patients 4-45 weeks after their 
negative pretreatment cultures. Patients with disseminated MAC may have 
fluctuating levels of mycobacteremia that become undetectable in the absence of 
antimycobacterial therapy.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/170.2.488
PMID: 8035044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. J Palliat Care. 1994 Spring;10(1):14-8.

A phase II study of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol for appetite stimulation in 
cancer-associated anorexia.

Nelson K(1), Walsh D, Deeter P, Sheehan F.

Author information:
(1)Palliative Care Program, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Ohio.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the appetite-stimulating properties of 
delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients with anorexia due to advanced 
cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Nineteen patients with various malignancies were entered. 
All had cancer-associated anorexia and a life expectancy greater than four 
weeks. Patients were started on THC 2.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. one hour after meals for 
four weeks. Evaluations for side effects, efficacy, acceptability and 
satisfaction were conducted at two and four weeks.
RESULTS: 18 patients were evaluable. Ten patients completed the entire 28-day 
study. Four patients experienced grade I toxicity and three withdrew at their 
request. Thirteen patients reported an improved appetite.
CONCLUSION: THC is an effective appetite stimulant in patients with advanced 
cancer. It is well tolerated at low doses. Further studies are needed to 
determine the most appropriate dose and the specific population most likely to 
respond.

PMID: 8035251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Nouv Rev Fr Hematol (1978). 1994 Apr;36(2):197-203.

Clinical and laboratory assessment and therapeutic problems in longstanding 
polycythaemia vera.

Rain JD(1).

Author information:
(1)Département de Médecine Nucléaire, Hôpital Saint-Louis, Paris, France.

With the very long life expectancy of Polycythaemia Vera late complications are 
often observed: progressive resistance to treatment, bad tolerance to 
maintenance by phlebotomy, progression towards myelofibrosis. Resistance to 
phosphorus 32 is reflected by a progressive reduction in the duration of 
remission and by a gradually decreasing remission rate. A complete resistance 
appears after a mean duration of disease of 7 years. In the maintenance 
treatment by hydroxyurea, there is a secondary resistance in one third of cases 
with a poor control of the excess platelets. Resistance to Pipobroman is less 
frequent (10%). The phosphorus resistance could be delayed by addition of 
maintenance treatment by Hydroxyurea. In the presence of resistance to 32 P, 
Hydroxyurea and Pipobroman often remain effective. In the case of resistance to 
Hydroxyurea or Pipobroman, we have several possibilities: inversion of 
chemotherapy, other chemotherapy as Busulfan, 32 phosphorus. Intolerance of 
phlebotomy as baseline treatment is almost constant. Three complications lead to 
discontinuation of phlebotomy: development of cardiovascular complications, 
raised platelet count to above 800,000 and often more than 1 million, 
progressive increase in the size of the spleen with appearance of signs of 
myeloid splenomegaly. Exclusive phlebotomies are not indicated as baseline 
treatment of Polycythaemia Vera. The progression towards myelofibrosis (spent 
phase, post polycythaemia myeloid splenomegaly) increases with the duration of 
the disease and the frequency of transformation differs according to the type of 
treatment. The time to transformation is much shorter in the patients treated by 
phlebotomy. The transformation towards myelofibrosis is demonstrated by bone 
marrow biopsy and isotope investigations (bone marrow scintigraphy and kinetic 
by iron 59 and chromium 51).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8036142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 1994 Mar-Apr;88(2):136-40. doi: 
10.1016/0035-9203(94)90265-8.

Approaches to vector control: new and trusted. 2. Molecular targets in the 
insect midgut.

Billingsley PF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine, 
London, UK.

The midgut of blood-feeding insects is an important site for the activity of 
antibodies and drugs ingested with the blood meal. These agents can be directed 
at molecular targets in the midgut, and may affect the insect directly by 
reducing its fitness, or indirectly by blocking transmission of a disease 
organism to the vector. Both of these result in eventual disease control. 
Immunization with crude vector or parasite preparations can result in isolation 
of vaccine candidates which are very effective but often of unknown function. 
Conversely, by examining carefully the vector's biology and its interactions 
with the parasite, it is possible to identify various physiological or cellular 
systems and vector-parasite interactions that can be interfered with. Examples 
of both approaches are presented in this paper. Anti-vector vaccines offer 
tremendous potential for disease control, as they can affect the parasite 
reproductive rate in a number of ways--reducing vector longevity, fecundity or 
competence. This is most striking if life expectancy of the vector is reduced to 
a period less than the extrinsic life cycle of the parasite. The rationale often 
presented for examining molecular systems in vectors is their control potential; 
it is clearly appropriate to re-examine many of these systems and realistically 
assess their applicability.

DOI: 10.1016/0035-9203(94)90265-8
PMID: 8036651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1994 Aug;163(2):439-44. doi: 10.2214/ajr.163.2.8037046.

Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt stenosis and revision: early and 
midterm results.

Haskal ZJ(1), Pentecost MJ, Soulen MC, Shlansky-Goldberg RD, Baum RA, Cope C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia 19104.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to define the pattern, rate, and 
interval during which stenosis develops in transjugular intrahepatic 
portosystemic shunts (TIPS) and to assess the effect of revision in prolonging 
shunt patency.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: TIPS were created in 100 patients during a 34-month 
period. Sixty-one shunt venograms were obtained in 38 consecutive patients 
between 1 and 24 months after TIPS placement. Eighteen patients were examined 
because of recurrent symptoms, and all 38 had routine follow-up.
RESULTS: Stenoses attributed to neointimal hyperplasia developed within both the 
TIPS stent and the outflow hepatic veins. Stenoses of greater than 50% developed 
in 12 patients within 6 months of TIPS placement. In addition to focal stenoses, 
the outflow hepatic veins diffusely shrank an average of 51% in diameter. 
Thirty-six shunt interventions were required: eleven balloon dilatations and 25 
placements of an additional stent. Life-table analysis showed that patency of 
the primary shunt was 75% at 6 months, 50% at 1 year, and 32% at 2 years. The 
primary-assisted patency of the shunt was 85% at 12 months after shunt creation.
CONCLUSION: The results indicate that TIPS are prone to significant and frequent 
early stenosis, warranting follow-up within 3-6 months in all cases. Stenosis of 
the outflow hepatic vein is the most common cause of shunt malfunction. Revision 
of a shunt significantly prolongs shunt patency.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.163.2.8037046
PMID: 8037046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Am Heart J. 1994 Aug;128(2):263-70. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(94)90478-2.

Factors influencing changes in the signal-averaged electrocardiogram within the 
first year after a first myocardial infarction.

de Chillou C(1), Rodriguez LM, Doevendans P, Loutsidis K, van den Dool A, 
Metzger J, Bär FW, Smeets JL, Wellens HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University of Limburg Academic Hospital, 
Maastricht, The Netherlands.

One hundred twenty-nine patients were prospectively studied after a first 
myocardial infarction. A first signal-averaged electrocardiogram (SAECG-1) was 
performed in the acute phase (within 48 hours after onset of symptoms) and a 
second one (SAECG-2) in the late phase (6 to 18 months after hospital 
discharge). We studied the influence of nine parameters on the evolution of the 
signal-averaged electrocardiogram: age, gender, myocardial infarction location, 
number of diseased coronary vessels, infarct-related coronary artery patency, 
use of thrombolytic therapy or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in 
the acute phase, left ventricular ejection fraction, and recurrence of ischemic 
events. No follow-up data were available in 15 patients. Of the remaining 114 
patients, an ischemic event occurred in 25 (22%). The signal-averaged 
electrocardiogram remained unchanged in 97 (85%) (remaining normal in 78 and 
abnormal in 19). It became abnormal in 13 (11.5%) and became normal in 4 (3.5%). 
In patients with a normal SAECG-1, two factors were associated with the change 
to an abnormal SAECG-2: (1) an ischemic event occurred in 11 (85%) of 13 
patients whose SAECG-2 was abnormal compared with only 13 (17%) of 78 patients 
whose SAECG-2 remained normal (p < 0.0001), and (2) 100% of patients with an 
abnormal SAECG-2 had an inferior myocardial infarction compared with 54% of 
patients with a normal SAECG-2 (p = 0.004).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(94)90478-2
PMID: 8037092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Epidemiology. 1994 May;5(3):290-6. doi: 10.1097/00001648-199405000-00006.

Cohort-specific risks of developing breast cancer to age 85 in Connecticut.

Campbell MK(1), Feuer EJ, Wun LM.

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD.

Previous estimates of the lifetime risk of developing breast cancer have used 
cross-sectional estimates of incidence. Cross-sectional rates, however, yield a 
biased picture of cohort risks when rates are unstable, as breast cancer trends 
have been. We developed cohort life tables for Connecticut women born from 
1888-1892 to 1948-1952 to generate more specific estimates of breast cancer risk 
to age 85. Multiple decrement life tables were produced for each birth cohort. 
We included as cases only the first reports of breast cancer in women with no 
earlier malignancy. Our results indicate that widely circulated lifetime risks 
of 1 in 9 may be inflated slightly owing to changing incidence. We estimate that 
of those women 40-44 years old in 1992, 1 woman in 10 will develop breast cancer 
by age 85. For women born between 1928 and 1932, 1 in 13 will be diagnosed with 
breast cancer by age 85. The results are insensitive to mortality trends in the 
past. Errors in the estimates are more likely to arise from changes in incidence 
and mortality in the future.

DOI: 10.1097/00001648-199405000-00006
PMID: 8038242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Baillieres Clin Haematol. 1993 Dec;6(4):849-66. doi: 
10.1016/s0950-3536(05)80179-9.

Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia: prognostic factors and natural history.

Montserrat E(1), Rozman C.

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate School of Haematology Farreras-Valenti, Hospital Clinic, 
University of Barcelona, Spain.

In the past 20 years, important progress has been made in the understanding of 
the natural history and prognosis of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Based 
on the notion that the clinical manifestations of CLL are due primarily to the 
progressive accumulation of lymphocytes over time, several prognostic factors 
have been identified. The prognostic value of parameters reflecting tumour 
burden (i.e. lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, anaemia and/or thrombocytopenia due 
to bone marrow failure), first identified empirically, has been confirmed in 
multivariate analyses of large series of patients. Furthermore, clinical staging 
systems that group the most relevant of these factors have also been developed. 
Patients in early stage (Binet A; Rai 0) have a long survival which, in some 
cases, may match that of the general population. In contrast, patients with 
advanced stage (Binet C; Rai III or IV) have a median survival < 2 years. The 
major limitation of staging systems is that they do not give information about 
the likelihood of progression for patients in early stage. Nevertheless, 
haemoglobin level, blood lymphocyte count, lymphocyte doubling time and bone 
marrow infiltration pattern are useful to identify subsets of patients in early 
stage with different progression and survival rates, with the 'smouldering' form 
of the disease being identified fairly accurately. With all these advances, 
therapy in CLL can now be indicated on a more rational basis. However, further 
biological insight is needed to elucidate the mechanism accounting for the 
different forms of the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-3536(05)80179-9
PMID: 8038493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Br J Nurs. 1994 May 26-Jun 8;3(10):491-2. doi: 10.12968/bjon.1994.3.10.491.

Poverty and ill health: time to review the link.

Fox J.

There is now considerable evidence to indicate that there is a relationship 
between poverty and morbidity/mortality. The changes in community care are not 
perceived by carers as having a positive impact upon their needs. The nurse is 
best placed to act as client advocate.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.1994.3.10.491
PMID: 8038551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 1994 Feb;21(2):125-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1681.1994.tb02479.x.

Blood pressure and lifespan following brief ACE inhibitor treatment in young 
spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Harrap SB(1), Mirakian C, Datodi SR, Lever AF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Austin Hospital, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia.

1. Brief treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in young 
spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) causes a reduction in blood pressure that 
persists into maturity. The lifetime effects of such treatment have not been 
studied. 2. Nineteen male SHR were treated with either water (n = 9) or 
perindopril (3 mg/kg per day) (n = 10) by daily gavage between 6 and 10 weeks of 
age and systolic blood pressure and bodyweight were measured each month until 
all animals died in old age. 3. Following treatment the systolic blood pressure 
of SHR treated with perindopril remained consistently lower than control SHR 
until about 82 weeks of age. After this age the blood pressure of control SHR 
fell spontaneously so that smaller differences were observed between the two 
groups in the last 4 months of the study. 4. Rats that received perindopril 
lived on average 1 month longer than control rats, but this difference was not 
statistically significant. 5. Thus, brief ACE inhibition in early life in SHR 
ameliorated the hypertension throughout life.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1681.1994.tb02479.x
PMID: 8039264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Haematologica. 1993 Nov-Dec;78(6 Suppl 2):73-7.

Fulminant sepsis in adults splenectomized for Hodgkin's disease.

Frezzato M(1), Castaman G, Rodeghiero F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, San Bortolo Hospital, Vicenza, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND METHODS: Laparotomy with splenectomy still remains important for 
staging Hodgkin's disease (HD). The risk of fulminant sepsis (FS) after 
splenectomy is well known, but the incidence of FS in splenectomized HD adult 
patients has not been accurately assessed. In this study we have tried to assess 
this risk and its duration and to evaluate the role of HD "per se" in causing 
FS.
RESULTS: Six cases of FS were traced in a group of 226 splenectomized adults, 
with a crude incidence of 2.65%. Age at the time of the event ranged from 23 to 
41 years and time after splenectomy from 46 to 98 months. Four patients were 
disease-free when sepsis occurred. In 4 cases the causative agent was isolated 
(3 Streptococcus Pneumoniae, 1 Streptococcus alpha Haemolyticus). The mortality 
rate was 66%, while net probability of death (life table) at 10 years was 2.6%. 
M/F rate was 0/6 (P = 0.01). The incidence of FS was 0.33 cases per 100 
patient-years (I.C. 95% = 0.12-0.72). There seems to be no relationship to 
histological type, clinical stage or age at splenectomy. No case of sepsis 
occurred in a control group of 281 non-splenectomized HD adults (P = < 0.01), 
despite the more advanced disease present in these cases on the average.
CONCLUSIONS: The frequency of FS, the causative agents, the mortality rate, the 
duration of risk are similar to those previously reported. Prompt treatment of 
any febrile disease in HD splenectomized patients and a policy of 
antipneumococcal (and possibly of anti-meningococcal) vaccination seem 
advisable.

PMID: 8039764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Int Orthop. 1994 Apr;18(2):109-13. doi: 10.1007/BF02484420.

The mortality and social prognosis of hip fractures. A prospective 
multifactorial study.

Pitto RP(1).

Author information:
(1)I Clinica Ortopedica, Universitá di Firenze, Italia.

A prospective 5-year study was carried out of 143 patients with trochanteric 
fractures treated by Ender nailing. A detailed proforma was used for 
multifactorial analysis in order to identify the prognostic indicators of social 
function and quality of life of the patients. Their mean age was 81 years and 
the female: male ratio 7:1. The mortality rate 6 months after injury was 23%, 
and at the end of 5 years 45.5%. The patients surviving the first 6 months had 
the same life expectancy as the general population. Dementia, associated 
disease, medical complications, total dependency and age were the most 
significant predictors of mortality. These factors, with pressure sores and poor 
rehabilitation, were also significant in determining the prognosis of social 
function. Deterioration of health status was seen in 36% during the first 6 
months after injury and 40% showed deterioration of their social condition 
within this period. Later, most survivors recovered and were restored to their 
previous state. Postoperative geriatric care is essential to achieve this aim.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02484420
PMID: 8039953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. J Pediatr. 1994 Aug;125(2):208-12. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(94)70194-6.

Kyphosis and fractures in children and young adults with cystic fibrosis.

Henderson RC(1), Specter BB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.

The purpose of this study was to examine children and adolescents with cystic 
fibrosis for an increased frequency of fracture and excessive thoracic kyphosis, 
which may result from inadequate skeletal mineralization. In a survey of 143 
patients (ages 4.7 to 21.9 years; mean, 11.3 years), the fracture rate for male 
patients from birth to 5 years of age was higher than for female patients and 
both rates were comparable with those for normal children. In contrast, female 
patients 6 to 16 years of age with cystic fibrosis had a higher-than-normal 
fracture rate and a higher rate than their male counterparts. Review of the 
chest radiographs showed that thoracic kyphosis correlated with age and with 
disease severity as judged by Brasfield scoring. In the > 15-year-old age group, 
kyphosis exceeding 40 degrees, the upper limit of normal, was found in 77% of 
the female patients and 36% of the male patients. The cause of these findings is 
uncertain and perhaps multifactorial, but osteopenia is likely a contributing 
factor. As the life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis continues to 
increase, the skeletal consequences, particularly in female patients, may become 
increasingly significant.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(94)70194-6
PMID: 8040763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Aug;20(2):195-201. doi: 10.1016/0741-5214(94)90006-x.

Axillofemoral bypass: compromised bypass for compromised patients.

Harrington ME(1), Harrington EB, Haimov M, Schanzer H, Jacobson JH 2nd.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York, NY 10029.

PURPOSE: The procedure of axillofemoral bypass (AXF) grafting has generally been 
used in the past for patients with serious contraindication to certain 
reconstructive procedures involving the abdominal aorta. Because some recent 
series have noted improved results, it has been suggested that the indications 
for this bypass may be extended. We reviewed our experience with AXF to identify 
which factors affect outcome, to determine whether recent results have improved, 
and to determine whether an extension of the use of the procedure is justified 
by the observed results.
METHOD: One hundred fifty-three AXF, including 80 axillobifemoral bypasses and 
73 axillounifemoral bypasses performed between October 1974 and December 1992 
were reviewed.
RESULTS: Three-year primary and secondary patency rates for the entire group 
were 49.4% and 65.7%. Primary patency was adversely affected (p < 0.05) by 
superficial femoral artery occlusion, use of externally supported 
polytetrafluoroethylene, distal endarterectomy, distal anastomosis to the deep 
femoral artery, and year of surgery after 1984, but not by use of unifemoral or 
bifemoral outflow, side of graft origin, or concomitant distal procedure. The 
operative mortality rate of bypasses performed for claudication and the limb 
salvage rate was 8.3% overall and 5.9% after 1984. Limb salvage rates were 74.8% 
and 74.8% at 3 and 5 years. The patient survival rate for all AXF was 55.8% and 
39.2% at 3 and 5 years. AXF for acute ischemia carried a high rate of mortality 
and limb loss.
CONCLUSION: Bifemoral outflow, external support, and more recent surgery were 
not associated with improved patency rates. Our results do not support extended 
indications for AXF.

DOI: 10.1016/0741-5214(94)90006-x
PMID: 8040942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1994 Jul 19;91(15):6764-71. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.91.15.6764.

Tempo and mode in the macroevolutionary reconstruction of Darwinism.

Gould SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138.

Among the several central meanings of Darwinism, his version of Lyellian 
uniformitarianism--the extrapolationist commitment to viewing causes of 
small-scale, observable change in modern populations as the complete source, by 
smooth extension through geological time, of all magnitudes and sequences in 
evolution--has most contributed to the causal hegemony of microevolution and the 
assumption that paleontology can document the contingent history of life but 
cannot act as a domain of novel evolutionary theory. G. G. Simpson tried to 
combat this view of paleontology as theoretically inert in his classic work, 
Tempo and Mode in Evolution (1944), with a brilliant argument that the two 
subjects of his title fall into a unique paleontological domain and that modes 
(processes and causes) can be inferred from the quantitative study of tempos 
(pattern). Nonetheless, Simpson did not cash out his insight to paleontology's 
theoretical benefit because he followed the strict doctrine of the Modern 
Synthesis. He studied his domain of potential theory and concluded that no 
actual theory could be found--and that a full account of causes could therefore 
be located in the microevolutionary realm after all. I argue that Simpson was 
unduly pessimistic and that modernism's belief in reductionistic unification 
(the conventional view of Western intellectuals from the 1920s to the 1950s) 
needs to be supplanted by a postmodernist commitment to pluralism and multiple 
levels of causation. Macro- and microevolution should not be viewed as opposed, 
but as truly complementary. I describe the two major domains where a helpful 
macroevolutionary theory may be sought--unsmooth causal boundaries between 
levels (as illustrated by punctuated equilibrium and mass extinction) and 
hierarchical expansion of the theory of natural selection to levels both below 
(gene and cell-line) and above organisms (demes, species, and clades). Problems 
remain in operationally defining selection at non-organismic levels (emergent 
traits vs. emergent fitness approaches, for example) and in specifying the 
nature and basis of levels, but this subject should be the central focus in 
formulating a more ample and satisfactory general theory of evolution on 
extended Darwinian principles.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.91.15.6764
PMCID: PMC44281
PMID: 8041695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Salud Publica Mex. 1994 Jan-Feb;36(1):51-60.

[Does clinical depression increase the risk of death from non-violent causes?].

[Article in Spanish]

Borja-Aburto VH(1), Bustamante-Montes P, Rascón-Pacheco RA.

Author information:
(1)Escuela de Salud Pública de México, Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública, 
Cuernavaca.

Studies of the effect of depression on life expectancy have found controversial 
results. In the past, an excess mortality was attributed to conditions seen at 
psychiatric institutions. More recently, in addition to an excess mortality due 
to violent causes of death, some studies also found excess mortality due to 
non-violent and all-cause mortality. Hospital studies that evaluated this 
relationship are generally flawed and lack of control for potential confounders. 
Underlying physical illnesses could explain the excess mortality reported. On 
the other hand, community-based studies have studied small number of depressed 
subjects, and have used diverse measurements of depression which hamper 
comparability. This paper critically reviews recent published studies and 
discusses possible mechanisms for this association.

PMID: 8042072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1994 Mar;93(3):287-97. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.1330930302.

Developmental, diachronic, and demographic analysis of cribra orbitalia in the 
medieval Christian populations of Kulubnarti.

Mittler DM(1), Van Gerven DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Colorado, Boulder 80309.

Previous analysis of cribra orbitalia in the medieval populations of Kulubnarti 
focused only on the presence or absence of the lesion relative to age, sex, and 
cultural period. Demographic consideration of the lesion was limited to a gross 
comparison of lesion frequencies and probabilities of dying by age group. The 
scope of the earlier work has been expanded in the present research to include 
the consideration of cribra orbitalia from a developmental, demographic, and 
diachronic perspective. The sample consisted of the same 334 crania analyzed by 
Van Gerven et al. ([1981] J. Hum. Evol. 10:395-408). All skulls showing the 
lesion were dichotomized as active or healing, and separate life tables were 
constructed for those with lesions and those without. The results demonstrate 
that active lesions are confined entirely to infancy and childhood with 
formation beginning as early as six months and ending by the twelfth year. This 
childhood pattern is consistent with the iron deficiency anemia hypothesis 
proposed by Carlson et al. ([1974] J. Hum. Evol. 3:405-410). Among young adults 
(16-40), healing lesions occur more frequently in males than females. In the 
older age categories, however, females exhibit a higher frequency of partially 
healed lesions than males. A life table comparison of those with and those 
without cribra orbitalia reveals a dramatic reduction in mean life expectancy 
for those with the lesion across the formative childhood years (birth-16). This 
reduction peaks at age 5 where 78% of the children exhibit lesions and where 
they, as a group, have a mean life expectancy 15.5 years below those without the 
lesion.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330930302
PMID: 8042692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Arch Intern Med. 1994 Aug 8;154(15):1697-704.

Life expectancy following dietary modification or smoking cessation. Estimating 
the benefits of a prudent lifestyle.

Grover SA(1), Gray-Donald K, Joseph L, Abrahamowicz M, Coupal L.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Analysis of Cost-Effective Care, Montreal General Hospital, 
Quebec.

Erratum in
    Arch Intern Med 1995 Jan 9;155(1):61.

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 1995 Jun 26;155(12):1329-30, 1332.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the maximum benefits of dietary modification or smoking 
cessation to the life expectancy of North American adults.
DESIGN: Using a computer model, we estimated the change in life expectancy for 
men and women following risk factor modification. We then estimated the total 
number of adults who would be targeted by national guidelines and the total 
person-years of life that would be saved.
PATIENTS: Men and women aged 30 to 74 years who were free of coronary heart 
disease.
INTERVENTIONS: Smoking cessation or serum cholesterol-reducing diets with 8% to 
10% saturated fat and 240 to 300 mg of daily cholesterol, respectively.
RESULTS: On average, dietary modification would reduce serum cholesterol levels 
from 0.45 mmol/L (17.4 mg/dL) to 0.75 mmol/L (29.1 mg/dL) in men and 0.12 mmol/L 
(4.6 mg/dL) to 0.55 mmol/L (21.4 mg/dL) in women, thereby increasing life 
expectancy by 0.03 to 0.4 year and 0.01 to 0.16 year, respectively. Smoking 
cessation would increase life expectancy from 2.59 to 4.43 years among men and 
from 2.6 to 3.68 years among women. Among adult Canadians, dietary modification 
would save 373,000 to 683,000 person-years of life. The majority of these 
benefits would occur among men who start dieting at ages 30 to 59 years. Smoking 
cessation would add more than 4 million person-years of life to the Canadian 
population. The relative impact of either intervention among American adults 
would be similar to these Canadian estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: Younger men, aged 30 to 59 years, might live slightly longer after 
dietary change, but among women and older men the average benefits would be 
negligible. The benefits of smoking cessation are more uniform across age and 
sex and are substantially greater than those predicted for dietary change.

PMID: 8042886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. AIDS. 1994 Feb;8(2):233-7. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199402000-00011.

Impact of AIDS on premature mortality in Amsterdam, 1982-1992.

Bindels PJ(1), Reijneveld SA, Mulder-Folkerts DK, Coutinho RA, van den Hoek AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Environment, Municipal Health Service, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To study the impact of AIDS on premature mortality in the city of 
Amsterdam (1982-1992).
METHODS: We combined aggregated data from the Netherlands Central Bureau for 
Statistics with data from the municipal death and population registry and data 
from the Amsterdam AIDS surveillance system to calculate age standardized 
mortality rates for men aged 15-64 years and 25-54 years and working years of 
potential life lost before 65 years (WYPLL).
RESULTS: AIDS was the leading cause of death for men aged 25-54 years in 
Amsterdam from 1990 onwards, and the third leading cause of death for men aged 
15-64 years in 1991. In this larger age group AIDS will probably become the 
leading cause of death in the coming years. In 1991, AIDS was already the 
leading cause of WYPLL before 65 years for men in the 15-64 age group. Without 
AIDS, there would have been a decrease in premature WYPLL from 1982 onwards; 
however, because of AIDS the number of WYPLL is increasing again.
CONCLUSION: AIDS has had a significant impact on the pattern of premature 
mortality in Amsterdam in the period 1982-1992. Its impact will probably 
increase over the next few years.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199402000-00011
PMID: 8043228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Perit Dial Int. 1994;14(2):170-2.

A consecutive study of 646 peritoneal dialysis catheters.

Nielsen PK(1), Hemmingsen C, Ladefoged J, Olgaard K.

Author information:
(1)Medical Department P, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

PMID: 8043673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Health Econ. 1994 Mar-Apr;3(2):89-93. doi: 10.1002/hec.4730030205.

The QALY--a measure of social value rather than individual utility?

Nord E(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway.

The paper examines different interpretations of the QALY concept. It is 
suggested that the QALY interpreted as a measure of amounts of well-life does 
not carry sufficient empirical meaning. As a measure of individuals' personal 
appreciation of outcomes in their own lives the QALY does not seem to work in 
comparisons of life saving interventions with interventions that improve health 
or increase life expectancy. For the QALY to be a generally empirically 
meaningful concept, it looks as though it needs to be interpreted as a measure 
of social value. This conclusion has direct implications for how values for 
health states should be elicited.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.4730030205
PMID: 8044215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Br J Surg. 1994 May;81(5):727-9. doi: 10.1002/bjs.1800810536.

Life-table analysis of stomal complications following ileostomy.

Leong AP(1), Londono-Schimmer EE, Phillips RK.

Author information:
(1)St Mark's Hospital, London, UK.

Stomal complications of ileostomy may occur many years after construction. An 
actuarial analysis of complications of 150 permanent end ileostomies constructed 
over a 10-year period is reported. By 20 years the incidence of stomal 
complications approached 76 per cent in patients operated on for ulcerative 
colitis and 59 per cent in those with Crohn's disease (P < 0.05). Revisional 
surgery rates were higher in patients with ulcerative colitis than in those with 
Crohn's disease (28 versus 16 per cent), albeit not significantly. The four 
commonest complications were skin problems (cumulative probability 34 per cent), 
intestinal obstruction (23 per cent), retraction (17 per cent) and parastomal 
herniation (16 per cent). Closure of the lateral space did not reduce the 
probability of developing intestinal obstruction (18 per cent at 20 years in 
those with closure versus 3 per cent in those without, P > 0.1). Fixation of the 
mesentery did not reduce the probability of developing prolapse of the ileostomy 
(11 per cent in those with fixation versus none in those without, P < 0.1). The 
incidence of parastomal herniation was not reduced by sitting through the rectus 
abdominis (21 per cent in those sited through the body of the rectus abdominis 
versus 7 per cent in those sited through the oblique muscles, P < 0.1). Some of 
the surgical dogmas relating to ileostomy construction are not supported by the 
results of this study.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.1800810536
PMID: 8044564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Conn Med. 1994 Apr;58(4):195-8.

The public health impact and economic cost of smoking in Connecticut--1989.

Adams ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Chronic Disease and Injury Prevention, Department of Public 
Health and Addiction Services, Hartford, CT 06106.

Estimates of the smoking-attributable morbidity, mortality, and economic costs 
for Connecticut for 1989 were made using software distributed by the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention. The software calculations are based on relative 
risks for smoking-related diseases from major prospective studies. Using smoking 
prevalence, mortality, population, and health-care expenditure data for the 
state, 19.3% of all deaths in Connecticut in 1989 were estimated to be related 
to smoking. Cardiovascular disease and cancer accounted for the largest number 
of these estimated deaths. Men who died from smoking-related deaths lost an 
estimated 11.6 years of life while women died an estimated 12.8 years 
prematurely from smoking-related causes. The total cost, including direct and 
indirect smoking-related costs, was estimated to be $944 million, or $287 for 
each man, woman, and child in the state.

PMID: 8045117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Hepatology. 1994 Aug;20(2):383-7.

Monoethylglicinexylidide test: a prognostic indicator of survival in cirrhosis.

Arrigoni A(1), Gindro T, Aimo G, Cappello N, Meloni A, Benedetti P, Molino GP, 
Verme G, Rizzetto M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Molinette Hospital, Turin, Italy.

The aim of this study was to assess the value of the monoethylglicinexylidide 
assay, a dynamic liver function test based on the determination of the serum 
concentration of lidocaine major metabolite, as a predictor of survival in 
cirrhosis. For this purpose, the predictive value of monoethylglicinexylidide 
was evaluated in comparison with the Pugh score, ascites, encephalopathy and a 
number of different biochemical parameters as collected from the prospective 
follow-up of 118 patients with cirrhosis. A stepwise regression analysis was 
performed on the variables of prognostic value according to the Cox model and 
with respect to 1-yr survival; because Pugh score and monoethylglicinexylidide 
were the sole variables selected, they were proved to supply independent 
prognostic information. The most reliable cutoff values for discrimination 
between death and survival were 25 ng/ml or less for monoethylglicinexylidide 
and less than 9 for the Pugh score. In 74 patients without overt signs of liver 
failure (i.e., Pugh < or = 9), monoethylglicinexylidide provided a wide range of 
results (i.e., 4 to 77 ng/ml), namely values ranging from very low to elevated. 
Of the 38 patients with satisfactory Pugh scores (< or = 9) but poor 
monoethylglicinexylidide values (< or = 25), 11 died during follow-up and 3 
underwent liver transplantation, despite having shown no clinical signs of liver 
failure at entry. On the bases of discriminant levels, the 
monoethylglicinexylidide test is suitable for adoption as a reliable and 
sensitive indicator of survival in patients with cirrhosis because it supplies 
more accurate prognostic information compared with the Pugh score.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8045499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Hastings Cent Rep. 1994 Jan-Feb;24(1):4.

In the courts.

Moskowitz E.

PMID: 8045769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Nephrologie. 1994;15(2):69-72.

[Comparison of the functional survival in chronic renal insufficiency of 
Permcath jugular catheters according to their mode of insertion].

[Article in French]

Vanel T(1), Charra B, Chazot C, Jean G, Laurent G.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Rein Artificiel de Tassin.

The functional survival of the same silicone double lumen catheter (DLC) was 
analyzed in relation with the mode of its insertion. Thirty-seven catheters were 
surgically inserted (34 in the right internal Jugular vein, 3 in the left 
internal Jugular vein), while 28 were percutaneously inserted (25 in the right 
internal Jugular vein, 3 in the left internal Jugular vein). The functional 
survival was calculated using Kaplan Meier method. Significant survival 
difference was looked for with log rank test. The maximum follow-up time was 62 
months for surgically inserted DLC and 12 months for their percutaneous 
counterpart. There was no significant functional survival difference between the 
two groups at one year. At this term 86% of DLC were still in use. We conclude 
from our experience that the mode of insertion does not significantly modify the 
success rate of this type of blood access. The simplest and lightest method 
(i.e. percutaneous) should therefore be preferred.

PMID: 8047218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Recent Results Cancer Res. 1994;135:105-16. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-85039-4_11.

Interstitial implant radiosurgery of brain tumors: radiobiology, indications, 
and results.

Ostertag CB(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Stereotaktische Neurochirurgie, Neurochirurgische 
Universitätsklinik, Freiburg, Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-85039-4_11
PMID: 8047686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Recent Results Cancer Res. 1994;135:117-25. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-85039-4_12.

Interstitial brachytherapy of malignant gliomas: the Memorial Sloan-Kettering 
Cancer Center experience.

Malkin MG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 
10021.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-85039-4_12
PMID: 8047687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Recent Results Cancer Res. 1994;135:43-53. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-85039-4_6.

Prognostic relevance of transforming genes.

Schlegel U(1), Neumann J, Kindermann D, Wolf HK, Baumann A, Forster F, Fimmers 
R.

Author information:
(1)Neurologische Universitätsklinik, Bonn, Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-85039-4_6
PMID: 8047696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Scand J Gastroenterol. 1994 Apr;29(4):355-9. doi: 10.3109/00365529409094849.

Can aspirin prevent gallstone recurrence after successful extracorporeal 
shockwave lithotripsy?

Adamek HE(1), Buttmann A, Weber J, Riemann JF.

Author information:
(1)Medical Dept. C, Municipal Hospital, Ludwigshafen/Rhein, Germany.

Extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (ESWL) is a feasible procedure for the 
treatment of gallbladder stones in humans. Well-selected patients can achieve 
stone-free rates in a high percentage. With the gallbladder in situ, these 
patients are at risk of stone recurrence. There is considerable evidence that 
aspirin prevents cholesterol gallstone formation in animal models and may 
prevent gallstone recurrence in man. We attempted to clarify the risk of 
gallstone recurrence after successful piezoelectric lithotripsy in patients 
taking either low-dose aspirin or no medication. The first 45 patients shown to 
be completely free from stones after ESWL were randomized into two groups. One 
group received 100 mg aspirin daily; the other group did not receive any further 
medical therapy. Patients were further examined on an average of 19.6 months and 
21.9 months, respectively. In the aspirin group the recurrence rate was 18.2%, 
whereas 21.7% of the patients in the control group developed recurrent stones. 
Seventy-eight per cent of these patients also had a recurrence of biliary pain. 
By life-table analysis we had, after a follow-up period of 24 months, a stone 
recurrence rate of 25% (+/- 11) in the aspirin group and 34% (+/- 14) in the 
control group. Our results indicate that recurrence prophylaxis remains one of 
the central questions in ESWL. In this preliminary study, 100 mg of aspirin 
daily was not able to reduce the recurrence rate after successful ESWL. Further 
studies will have to show whether higher doses of aspirin or other ways of 
preventing gallstone after ESWL are possible.

DOI: 10.3109/00365529409094849
PMID: 8047812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Urology. 1994 Aug;44(2):226-31. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(94)80136-3.

Efficacy and cost-effectiveness of autologous blood predeposit in patients 
undergoing radical prostatectomy procedures.

Goodnough LM(1), Grishaber JE, Birkmeyer JD, Monk TG, Catalona WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
Missouri.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of preoperative 
autologous blood donation (PAD) in radical prostatectomy procedures.
METHODS: A retrospective 3-year review was performed of transfusion outcomes in 
radical prostatectomy procedures. Cost, benefits, and cost-effectiveness were 
established using a previously published Markov decision analysis model.
RESULTS: Three hundred eighty-four (97%) of 394 patients predonated 3.5 +/- 0.6 
(mean +/- SD) autologous blood units. Of these, 2.1 +/- 1.2 units (60%) were 
retransfused. Forty-two (11%) of 394 patients also received allogeneic blood. 
Autologous blood donors received only 0.2 +/- 0.6 allogeneic blood units, 
compared with 1.4 +/- 1.4 (p < 0.05) units transfused to patients who did not 
predonate. The net costs of PAD ranged from $83 to $303 per procedure. The 
life-expectancy benefit of PAD ranged from 0.05 to 0.07 days. The overall 
cost-effectiveness of PAD was estimated to be $1,813,000 per quality adjusted 
life-year saved. However, PAD was significantly more cost-effective for 2 unit 
donations ($531,000 per quality adjusted life-year saved).
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that autologous blood donation is an effective blood 
conservation strategy in elective radical prostatectomy. However, the 
cost-effectiveness of this practice compares unfavorably with that reported for 
other medical interventions. Alternative and more cost-effective strategies to 
reduce the need for allogeneic blood in this setting must be developed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(94)80136-3
PMID: 8048198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Aust N Z J Surg. 1994 Aug;64(8):538-41. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-2197.1994.tb02281.x.

Twenty years of total hip arthroplasty in Taranaki: a survival analysis.

Hoffman CW(1), Lynskey TG, Hadlow V.

Author information:
(1)Taranaki Base Hospital, New Plymouth, New Zealand.

The survivorship method of analysis has been used to evaluate retrospectively 
the outcome of 1166 total hip arthroplasties performed in Taranaki between 1970 
and 1989. There were 867 cemented Charnley, 105 Harris Galante and 92 cemented 
Muller prostheses. Outcome was determined in 99.1% of the cases. There were 72 
failures in the Charnley group, resulting in an annual failure rate of 1.78% and 
a 15 year survival rate of 73%. There were 26 failures in the Muller group, an 
annual failure of 6.93% and an 11 year survival of 63%. At review none of the 
Harris Galante group had failed. Survival was affected by age, sex, hospital and 
surgeon.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.1994.tb02281.x
PMID: 8048891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Leuk Lymphoma. 1994 Apr;13(3-4):263-72. doi: 10.3109/10428199409056290.

