Autologous bone marrow transplantation for Hodgkin's disease--a five-year single 
centre experience.

Ager S(1), Wimperis JZ, Tolliday B, Jestice K, Bass G, Baglin T, Marcus RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, UK.

The results from 40 patients who have undergone autologous bone marrow 
transplantation (ABMT) for relapsed or refractory Hodgkin's disease between 
March 1988 and September 1992 have been analysed. In contrast to our results in 
patients with relapsed HD, our results in patients with refractory HD are 
comparatively poor. Conventional salvage chemotherapy also seems inappropriate 
in these patients and we therefore believe they should be offered high-dose 
chemotherapy before their disease becomes refractory to conventionally scheduled 
regimens. Peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplant now offers an attractive 
alternative to ABMT and may replace both intensive salvage chemotherapy and ABMT 
as the optimum treatment for patients who fail to respond to conventional 
chemotherapy regimens.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199409056290
PMID: 8049649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Leuk Lymphoma. 1994 Apr;13(3-4):285-9. doi: 10.3109/10428199409056292.

Radiotherapy in early stage Hodgkin's disease.

Zinzani PL(1), Barbieri E, Gherlinzoni F, Frezza G, Mazza P, Pica A, Ammendolia 
I, Bendandi M, Neri S, Miniaci G, et al.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hematology L. e A. Seràgnoli, University of Bologna, Italy.

Ninety-nine patients with "standard risk" Stage IA-IIA Hodgkin's disease 
observed between January 1983 and December 1990, received radiotherapy only. The 
complete response rate was 98% (97/99). Twenty-one patients (21%) relapsed, 17 
of whom (81%) obtained a second complete remission. The projected 9-year overall 
survival and disease-free survival were 95% and 78%, respectively. In this study 
our goals were to reduce the irradiation volumes, to decrease the number of 
splenectomies performed at diagnosis, and to utilize radiotherapy alone in these 
patients. We were able to reduce the irradiation volumes in over 50% and 80% of 
the patients with disease in the upper torso and subdiaphragm, respectively. 
Furthermore, this therapeutic approach permitted us to reduce the acute and 
long-term toxic effects related to splenectomy and combined modality treatment.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199409056292
PMID: 8049650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Leuk Lymphoma. 1994 Apr;13(3-4):357-8. doi: 10.3109/10428199409056302.

Prognostic value of B-symptoms in low-grade non-hodgkin's lymphomas.

Vuckovic J(1), Zemunik T, Forenpoher G, Knezevic N, Stula N, Dubravcic M, Capkun 
V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Health Center Dr. Petar Vitezica, Split, Republic 
of Croatia.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199409056302
PMID: 8049656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Cardiovasc Surg. 1994 Apr;2(2):249-53.

Secondary infrageniculate bypass with polytetrafluoroethylene.

Petersen MJ(1), Hines G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Winthrop University Hospital, Mineola, New York 11501.

Autologous saphenous vein is the preferred conduit for infrainguinal 
reconstructions. Patients requiring secondary infrageniculate bypass represent a 
challenging surgical problem. Often, patients requiring such surgery have had 
multiple bypass operations and lack usable saphenous vein. These patients may 
also be older and have complicated medical problems which may limit their total 
life expectancy. This report reviews 11 such patients who required secondary 
bypass procedures for limb salvage. All procedures were performed with 
thin-walled polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE). No perioperative complications or 
deaths occurred. Four patients have subsequently died due to unrelated disease 
at 8, 12, 13, and 29 months after operation with clinically patent grafts. In 
the seven surviving patients, four grafts remain patent with a mean (s.d.) 
patency of 27(21) months. Three grafts occluded at 2, 4 and 20 months after 
surgery. By life table analysis, cumulative graft patency was therefore 68% at 
24 months. It is concluded that in this high-risk population when no saphenous 
vein is available, PTFE may provide acceptable limb salvage when used in 
secondary infrageniculate reconstructions.

PMID: 8049956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Cardiovasc Surg. 1994 Jun;2(3):370-3.

Role of bypass, endarterectomy, extra-anatomic bypass and endovascular surgery 
in unilateral iliac occlusive disease: a review of 1257 cases.

Lorenzi G(1), Domanin M, Costantini A, Rolli A, Agrifoglio G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Vascular Surgery and Angiology, University of Milan, Italy.

Some 1257 patients who had undergone revascularization procedures for unilateral 
iliac occlusions were reviewed retrospectively. A total of 824 patients were 
operated upon using conventional operations, 165 patients had femorofemoral 
bypass and 268 were treated using endovascular surgery techniques. 
Revascularization was performed through an extraperitoneal approach by means of 
iliac thromboendarterectomy (560) or iliac femoral bypass (264) if there was a 
total occlusion of either the common or external iliac artery (group 1). A 
femorofemoral crossover bypass was inserted when the operative risk was 
considered to be high (group 2). Endovascular procedures (percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty 234, laser percutaneous transluminal angioplasty 11, 
stenting 22, atherectomy one) were used in recent years to treat stenoses or 
occlusions of 3 cm or less (group 3). The indications for operation were severe 
claudication in 79.7% in group 1 and 92.6% in group 3, whereas in group 2 66.7% 
of patients presented with symptoms of more advanced ischaemia. The immediate 
patency rate was 97.0% after extraperitoneal reconstructive surgery, 96.9% in 
the femorofemoral group and 92.1% in patients having an endovascular procedure. 
The operative mortality rate was 0.7, 4.2, and 0.3% for groups 1-3, 
respectively. The 5-year patency rate, analysed by the life-table method, was 
77.9% in group 1, 75.3% in group 2 and 73.7% in group 3 (P = n.s., log rank 
test). The different revascularization techniques were chosen on the basis of 
the type of disease present and the patient's general condition. All procedures 
appeared to be effective when correctly selected.

PMID: 8049976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Cardiovasc Surg. 1994 Jun;2(3):398-402.

Angiographic findings of silent ischaemia following aortocoronary bypass 
surgery.

Lundbom J(1), Myhre HO, Ystgaard B, Tromsdal A, Aakhus S, Bjørnstad K, Bolz KD, 
Levang OW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Regional Hospital, Trondheim, Norway.

Silent ischaemia, defined as ST-depression > or = 1 mm without chest pain, was 
found on exercise testing in 22 (10.7%) of 206 patients who underwent 
aortocoronary bypass surgery in the period from March 1983 to November 1985. 
Exercise testing was performed 4.9 (range 3.6-6.7) years after operation on an 
electrically braked bicycle. Sixteen of the 22 patients were free from chest 
pain, while the remaining six had slight to moderate angina pectoris on 
exercise. Coronary angiography was performed in 21 patients with silent 
ischaemia; one of the 22 patients died before this investigation. Some 13 
patients had one or more occluded grafts, one a new stenosis in a native vessel 
and five incomplete myocardial revascularization. For the remaining two 
patients, no aetiology for the ischaemia was found, and revascularization 
appeared to be complete. Before surgery, 13 patients had three-vessel disease, 
six two-vessel disease and three one-vessel disease. At follow-up, two patients 
had three-vessel disease, ten two-vessel disease and seven one-vessel disease. 
The value of identifying patients with silent ischaemia after aortocoronary 
bypass surgery with regard to life expectancy and quality is controversial. 
Subsets of patients, namely, those with main-stem stenosis and three-vessel 
disease, may benefit from secondary operation. Identification of these patients 
may therefore be of clinical importance.

PMID: 8049984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Cancer Lett. 1994 Jul 29;82(2):153-65. doi: 10.1016/0304-3835(94)90006-x.

Enhancement of the antineoplastic effect of anticarcinogens on 
benzo[a]pyrene-treated Wistar rats, in relation to their number and biological 
activity.

Kallistratos G(1), Evangelou A, Agnantis N, Fasske E, Karkabounas S, Donos A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Ioannina, Greece.

Naturally occurring anticarcinogens, such as vitamins C and E, and the 
microelement selenium were found to inhibit the induction of 
benzo[a]pyrene-induced malignant tumors in Wistar rats to various extends. The 
antineoplastic effect of the tested anticarcinogens is gradually increased 
according to the number of inhibitors selected. To date the maximum action 
against malignancy is manifested by use of the above three inhibitors. In the 
group of rats receiving vitamins C, E and selenium, the prolongation of life 
induced by adding more than one anticarcinogen to the treatment regime reached, 
and in some cases surpassed, the normal life expectancy of the rats. It is 
expected that by adding even more anticarcinogens, the antineoplastic potency 
(Ap) of the inhibitors will be further improved. These results encouraged us to 
conduct a clinical trial in terminal human cancer cases, in conjunction with the 
usual treatments of surgery or chemotherapy and irradiation.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3835(94)90006-x
PMID: 8050086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Cesk Oftalmol. 1994 Jun;50(3):135-44.

[Use of the scleral applicator for I 125 in the treatment of choroidal melanoma 
(long-term results)].

[Article in Czech]

Kreissig I(1).

Author information:
(1)Ocní klinika (chirurgie sítnice a sklivce), Univerzita Tübingen, SRN.

19 patients with choroidal melanomas were included in a prospective study with 
iodine-125 plaque treatment from 1984 to 1989. The mean tumor height was 5.8 mm, 
the base diameter 11.6 mm, the tumor volume-calculated for the spherically 
shaped melanomas-80 to 510 mm3. None of the tumors had invaded the pars plana, 
10 melanomas were localized < 3 mm from the fovea or disc. 1 eye had diabetic 
background retinopathy. Mean radiation dose to the apex was 57 to 90 Gy with a 
mean of 75 Gy, sclera contact dose was 350 Gy, the plague was in place 71/2 
days. Follow-up 2 1/4 to 7 years, mean 5 years: in 11 patients follow-up is 
longer than 5 1/2 years. Half-time reduction of tumor volume was 6.7 months, of 
tumor height 13 1/2 months. During the first 5 years no tumor regrowth, late 
tumor regrowth in 2 eyes at 65 and 69 months.
COMPLICATIONS: radiation retinopathy in 17 eyes after 1 1/2 years with 
development of vitreous hemorrhage in 3 eyes, rubeosis iridis stage I in 3 eyes 
after 37 months, a cataract in 17 eyes after 28 months and an anterior ischemic 
optic neuropathy in 7 eyes after 15 months. Life expectancy: 2 patients died 
from metastases after 28 and 71 months, 1 patient alive with metastases after 17 
months. Preoperative visual acuity: primarily it recovered postoperatively or it 
even improved due to disappearance of the accompanying exudative detachment or 
vitreous hemorrhage. However, after a follow-up of more than 2 years a 
deterioration of visual acuity occurred in all of the patients due to late 
radiogenic complications.

PMID: 8050105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Int J Neurosci. 1994 Mar;75(1-2):1-8. doi: 10.3109/00207459408986283.

The diminished number of older left-handers: differential mortality or 
social-historical trend?

Coren S(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychology Department, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

Recent research suggests that left-handers have shorter life spans. This 
interpretation could be erroneous if there is a social-historical trend in 
handedness with older individuals more frequently switched to right-handedness. 
This would result in fewer older left-handers due to social factors. Two samples 
(N = 1960 and N = 8526), separated by a 12 year interval were tested. 
Social-historical hypotheses predict that the later sample should have higher 
proportions of left-handedness. Although both samples showed decreased 
sinistrality with age, there was no increase in the proportion of left-handers 
over the 12 year period, suggesting that the rarity of older left-handers is due 
to reduced longevity.

DOI: 10.3109/00207459408986283
PMID: 8050843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. J Gynecol Obstet Biol Reprod (Paris). 1994;23(4):395-401.

[Pelvic actinomycosis: the value of preoperative diagnosis. Apropos of a case].

[Article in French]

Garbin O(1), Hummel M, Camus E, Dellenbach P.

Author information:
(1)Service de Gynécologie et d'Obstétrique, C.M.C.O., Strasburg.

Pelvic actinomycosis is a chronic suppurative granulomatous disease caused by an 
anaerobic Gram positive germ, Actinomyces. This rare disease can be severe and 
life-threatening. A intra pelvic bridge becomes chronic and produces a 
pseudo-tumoural syndrome of the pelvis with retroperitoneal infiltration or 
extension to neighbouring organs. Initially, neoplasia is usually diagnosed, 
leading to mutilating surgical exeresis before the pathology results reveal the 
presence of pelvic actinomycosis. The most difficult task is to entertain the 
diagnosis in a patient with an intrauterine device and poor general health, 
signs of infection and a pelvic syndrome. We observed such a case where the 
diagnosis was suspected before surgery. Adapted first intention antibiotic 
therapy led to spectacular recovery and allowed limited surgery without 
unnecessary ablation of neighbouring organs.

PMID: 8051367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Urol. 1994 Sep;152(3):892-5. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)32601-0.

Patient age as a prognostic factor in prostate cancer.

Grönberg H(1), Damber JE, Jonsson H, Lenner P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University of Umeå, Sweden.

Comment in
    J Urol. 1995 Apr;153(4):1241.

Whether patient age per se is a prognostic factor of significance in prostate 
cancer is controversial. To investigate this issue age-specific relative 
survival was analyzed, and the number of years lost due to this disease was 
calculated in a large and unselected cohort of 6,890 prostate cancer patients 
diagnosed between 1971 and 1987 in the northern region of Sweden. The tumor 
grade was derived from filed notification forms, which showed 26.4% well (grade 
1), 40.0% moderately (grade 2) and 17.7% poorly (grade 3) differentiated tumors. 
There was an overrepresentation of grade 3 tumors among the youngest patients. 
The age-specific relative survival rate did not differ significantly among 
different age groups and slight differences almost vanished when adjusting for 
tumor grade. This finding does not support the view that tumors appearing in 
younger patients are more aggressive per se. However, loss of life expectancy 
differed significantly among all age classes and in all 3 grades. In patients 
with grade 1 tumors the years lost due to prostate cancer ranged from 11.0 to 
1.2 in the youngest and oldest age strata, even though the relative survival was 
approximately 0.70 in all age classes. It was concluded that even if relative 
survival is constant with patient age, the absolute impact of prostate cancer at 
different ages varied substantially as indicated by loss of life expectancy. 
This finding might indicate that younger prostate cancer patients should be 
given more aggressive treatment than older patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)32601-0
PMID: 8051746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Z Arztl Fortbild (Jena). 1994 Apr;88(4):305-9.

[Prognostic factors of metastatic breast cancer--2].

[Article in German]

Brockmann B(1), Reitzig P, Dietzmann A, Cyganiak P.

Author information:
(1)Onkologische Klinik (HKD), Wachwitzer Höhenpark, Dresden.

PMID: 8053233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Acta Chir Belg. 1994 Jul-Aug;94(4):198-202.

Silastic ring vertical gastroplasty as treatment for morbid obesity: technique 
and results for 337 patients.

Boulmont M(1), Urbain P, Lachowsky P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Abdominal Surgery, C.H.U. Tivoli, La Louvière, Belgium.

SRVG is an easy and efficient treatment for morbid obesity. It allows 
spectacular weight loss and by this increases notably the life expectancy. In 
our series of 337 patients, we have no operative mortality and a morbidity of 
5.6%. A permanent multidisciplinary approach is necessary to obtain good 
results. A more important follow-up has to confirm these encouraging results.

PMID: 8053289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Am J Surg. 1994 Aug;168(2):111-4. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(94)80047-2.

Long-term results of femoropopliteal bypass with stabilized human umbilical 
vein.

Jarrett F(1), Mahood BA.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pennsylvania.

BACKGROUND: Stabilized human umbilical vein (SHUV) is one of several graft 
materials that may be used when autogenous saphenous vein is absent or 
inadequate, or when a shortened anesthesia time is deemed necessary.
METHODS: Two hundred eleven consecutive femoropopliteal bypasses were used in 
171 patients since 1977. Follow-up has been conducted at regular intervals since 
operation, and the results scrutinized according to operative indication, 
diabetic status, and the number of runoff vessels.
RESULTS: Life-table cumulative rates were 70 +/- 3%, 45 +/- 4%, and 26 +/- 5% at 
1, 5, and 10 years, respectively. Patency rates for bypasses performed for 
claudication were superior to those performed for limb-salvage but achieved 
statistical significance at 1 and 3 years only. Early patency rates for 
nondiabetic patients were superior to those in patients with diabetes, but did 
not achieve statistical significance. The incidence of infection was 3%, and the 
incidence of aneurysm formation was 3.3%.
CONCLUSION: SHUV is an acceptable alternative for femoropopliteal bypass when 
autogenous saphenous vein is inadequate or unavailable.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(94)80047-2
PMID: 8053506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Arch Dermatol. 1994 Aug;130(8):993-8.

Risk of cutaneous malignant melanoma in patients with 'classic' atypical-mole 
syndrome. A case-control study.

Marghoob AA(1), Kopf AW, Rigel DS, Bart RS, Friedman RJ, Yadav S, Abadir M, 
Sanfilippo L, Silverman MK, Vossaert KA.

Author information:
(1)Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology, New York University School of 
Medicine, NY.

BACKGROUND AND DESIGN: There is an increased risk of developing cutaneous 
malignant melanomas (MMs) in patients with classic atypical-mole syndrome (AMS). 
This study compares the incidence of newly diagnosed MMs in patients with 
classic AMS (cases) with the incidence of newly diagnosed MMs developing in a 
population without classic AMS (control patients). The charts of 287 white 
patients with AMS and 831 white patients without AMS were reviewed for the 
occurrence of newly diagnosed invasive MMs during follow-up. Both cases and 
control patients were followed up regularly by total-body cutaneous 
examinations. The cumulative 10-year risk for developing newly diagnosed 
invasive MMs was calculated (life-table method) for each cohort.
RESULTS: Of the 287 AMS cases, 10 developed a newly diagnosed invasive MM, 
resulting in a 10-year cumulative risk of 10.7%. Of the 831 control patients, 
two developed a newly diagnosed invasive MM, resulting in a 10-year cumulative 
risk of 0.62%.
CONCLUSION: Patients with classic AMS, regardless of the presence of a personal 
and/or family history of MM, are at significantly increased risk of developing 
invasive MMs compared with control patients.

PMID: 8053716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1994 May-Jun;5(3):519-24. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(94)71541-4.

Calculation of actuarial life tables with use of a microcomputer spreadsheet 
program.

Kaufman SL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA 
30322.

PURPOSE: To simplify the calculation of the life-table method of survival 
analysis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A template was developed for use with a popular 
microcomputer spreadsheet program to perform life-table survival calculations 
and to perform statistical comparisons between the survivals of groups of 
patients with use of the log-rank test.
RESULTS: The template successfully performed life-table and log-rank 
calculations when compared with two standard, accepted statistical computing 
programs.
CONCLUSION: The template can be used to quickly perform life-table calculations 
that can be used in the long-term follow-up of patients undergoing 
interventional radiologic procedures.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(94)71541-4
PMID: 8054758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Cancer Pract. 1994 Jan-Feb;2(1):65-71.

Evaluating depression among patients with cancer.

Valente SM, Saunders JM, Cohen MZ.

The stress, diagnosis, and treatment of cancer cause substantial psychiatric 
morbidity that is treatable. Chemotherapy or other cancer treatments cause 40% 
to 60% of patients' emotional distress. Major depression develops in 
approximately 25% of patients with cancer, and less severe depressive symptoms 
develop in many patients, but fewer than half of the patients with symptoms are 
offered treatment. Alleviating major depression improves the quality of life for 
these patients with cancer. These patients, particularly during terminal 
illness, have an increased risk of suicide. Clinicians proficient in 
psychosocial assessment can detect subtle signs, monitor risk factors, reduce 
major depression with cognitive strategies, and prevent complications. Untreated 
major depression lowers life expectancy and treatment compliance and increases 
risk of suicide and cardiac disease. In this article, incidence of major 
depression among patients with cancer is discussed. Guidelines for diagnosis, 
correcting myths, and detecting major depression are suggested. Effective 
cognitive strategies for intervention are described; medical treatment is 
briefly reviewed. Detection and evaluation of suicide risk are discussed.

PMID: 8055008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Gene. 1994 Aug 5;145(2):293-7. doi: 10.1016/0378-1119(94)90023-x.

The human plasma glutathione peroxidase-encoding gene: organization, sequence 
and localization to chromosome 5q32.

Yoshimura S(1), Suemizu H, Taniguchi Y, Arimori K, Kawabe N, Moriuchi T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Life Science (Cell Biology), Tokai University School 
of Medicine, Kanagawa, Japan.

A genomic clone encoding the human plasma glutathione peroxidase (PGPx), a major 
enzyme in reducing lipid hydroperoxide and hydrogen peroxide in plasma, was 
isolated and 5618 nucleotides (nt) were determined. The nt sequence data 
revealed that the PGPx gene is composed of five exons spanning approx. 10 kb. 
Primer extension experiments mapped the transcription start point at 298 nt 
upstream from the predicted start codon. Twenty nt upstream from the 
polyadenylation site of the gene, an uncanonical polyadenylation signal, AGTAAA, 
was found. Human PGPx was localized on chromosome 5 band q32 by fluorescence in 
situ hybridization.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-1119(94)90023-x
PMID: 8056346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. J Gerontol. 1994 Sep;49(5):S219-30. doi: 10.1093/geronj/49.5.s219.

The relationship between retirement life cycle changes and older men's labor 
force participation rates.

Hayward MD(1), Crimmins EM, Wray LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Pennsylvania State University.

This study probes the utility of older men's labor force participation rates 
(LFPRs) as indicators of the work-to-retirement transition. Specific attention 
is directed at how shifts in the retirement life cycle are related to LFPRs. 
Based on Current Population Survey data for the 1970s, a life table modeling 
approach showed that LFPRs are relatively weak indicators of the 
work-to-retirement transition. This was demonstrated by the relative stability 
in older men's age profiles of LFPRs despite significant changes in the timing 
and "organization" of the work-to-retirement transition. The 1970s evidenced a 
contraction of the main career and the expansion of both post-retirement work 
activity and retirement, yet none of these changes substantially altered the age 
profiles of older men's labor force participation rates.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/49.5.s219
PMID: 8056951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. J Obstet Gynecol Neonatal Nurs. 1994 May;23(4):303-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1552-6909.1994.tb01881.x.

Use effectiveness of the Creighton model ovulation method of natural family 
planning.

Fehring RJ(1), Lawrence D, Philpot C.

Author information:
(1)Marquette University College of Nursing, Milwaukee, WI 53233.

Comment in
    J Obstet Gynecol Neonatal Nurs. 1994 Oct;23(8):637.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the use effectiveness of the Creighton model ovulation 
method in avoiding and achieving pregnancy.
DESIGN: Prospective, descriptive.
SETTING: A natural family planning clinic at a university nursing center.
PARTICIPANTS: Records and charts from 242 couples who were taught the Creighton 
model. The sample represented 1,793 months of use of the model.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Creighton model demographic forms and logbook.
RESULTS: At 12 months of use, the Creighton model was 98.8% method effective and 
98.0% use effective in avoiding pregnancy. It was 24.4% use effective in 
achieving pregnancy. The continuation rate for the sample at 12 months of use 
was 78.0%.
CONCLUSION: The Creighton model is an effective method of family planning when 
used to avoid or achieve pregnancy. However, its effectiveness depends on its 
being taught by qualified teachers. The effectiveness rate of the Creighton 
model is based on the assumption that if couples knowingly use the female 
partner's days of fertility for genital intercourse, they are using the method 
to achieve pregnancy.

PIP: In Wisconsin, nurse researchers followed 242 couples who had enrolled in 
the Marquette University Nursing Center's natural family planning program 
between October 1984 and May 1992 to determine the use effectiveness of the 
Creighton model ovulation detection method to avoid or achieve pregnancy. The 
couples were largely college educated (98%), white (93%), and Roman Catholic 
(80.2%). Natural family planning [NFP] practitioners trained according to the 
Creighton model use a standard teaching format and language to teach couples how 
to determine fertility by examining the cervical mucus. The practitioner informs 
each couple that if they choose to have genital intercourse during the fertile 
period, they have abandoned the model as a method of pregnancy avoidance and 
have adopted it as a method of achieving pregnancy. The NFP practitioners 
followed the couples for 12 months for a cumulative number of 2284 ordinal 
months, during which the couples used the Creighton model. The use effectiveness 
rate of avoiding pregnancy at the 12th ordinal month was 98%. The method 
effectiveness rate of avoiding pregnancy at the 12th ordinal month was 98.8%. 
The use effectiveness rate of achieving pregnancy at the 12th ordinal month was 
24.4%. The cumulative discontinuation rate was 20.2% at the 12th ordinal month. 
Personal reasons (17.4%) were the major reason for discontinuation. These 
findings suggest that the Creighton model is effective at avoiding or achieving 
pregnancy, if it is taught by qualified teachers.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1552-6909.1994.tb01881.x
PMID: 8057183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Mol Microbiol. 1994 Apr;12(1):41-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.1994.tb00993.x.

Regulation of transcription of the cel1 gene in Agaricus bisporus.

Yagüe E(1), Wood DA, Thurston CF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Sciences, King's College London, UK.

Northern analysis showed that accumulation of Agaricus bisporus cel1 mRNA was 
regulated by two independent mechanisms: (i) induction by cellulose; and (ii) 
repression by glucose and other sugars. Isolated A. bisporus nuclei were 
transcriptionally active. Nuclei isolated from cellulose-grown mycelium 
synthesized six times more cel1 mRNA than nuclei from glucose-grown mycelium. 
The start point of transcription (tsp) was identified by primer extension and S1 
nuclease analysis. Putative glucose-, and cAMP-responsive elements as well as 
regions with homology to promoter regions of other fungal cellulase genes were 
detected both upstream and downstream from the tsp of the cel1 gene.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2958.1994.tb00993.x
PMID: 8057839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Rev Med Interne. 1994 Mar;15(3):193-209. doi: 10.1016/s0248-8663(05)82148-4.

[Arterial involvements in hereditary dysplasia of the connective tissue].

[Article in French]

Beylot C(1), Doutre MS, Beylot-Barry M, Busquet M.

Author information:
(1)Service de dermatologie, hôpital du Haut-Lévêque, CHU de Bordeaux, Pessac, 
France.

Arterial involvement is an important feature of the diagnosis and, above all, 
prognosis of heritable disorders of connective tissue. In pseudoxanthoma 
elasticum, a progressive occlusive syndrome is associated with hemorrhage and 
especially with gastrointestinal bleeding. Aneurysms are uncommon. Hypertension 
occurs frequently. Cutaneous signs (yellowish pseudo xanthomatous papules of the 
large folds) the ocular changes (angioid streaks) and pathology showing 
numerous, thickened, fragmented, disorganized, calcified elastic fibers in the 
deep dermis and arterial walls, allow the diagnosis to be made. In the 
heterogeneous group of Ehlers-Danlos syndromes, type IV is characterized by 
sudden spontaneous rupture of the large arteries. Aneurysms and 
carotido-cavernous fistulae are rather frequent. Owing to friability of the 
arterial walls, arteriograms and other procedure requiring arterial puncture may 
prove hazardous and surgery difficult. Such patients have an acrogeric 
morphotype, and thin, fragile skin, but cutaneous hyperelasticity and joint 
hyperlaxity are usually minimal. Pathology evidences collagen hypoplasia in the 
skin and arterial walls. The severity of Marfan syndrome is due to aortic 
involvement. A fusiform aneurysm of the ascending aorta represents a vital risk 
of rupture. Aortic root dilatation is associated and responsible of severe 
aortic regurgitation. Aortic dissection is also a serious threat. Improved 
surgical techniques for repairing a dilated or dissected aortic root with 
simultaneous replacement of the aortic valve increases the life expectancy of 
such patients. Dolichomorphism is the characteristic skeletal abnormality, 
particularly with arachnodactyly and upward ectopia lentis, which is almost 
bilateral, is a very frequent feature of Marfan syndrome. The most typical 
histological finding is aortic cystic median necrosis. The basic defect in 
Marfan syndrome concerns the fibrillin, whose gene is located on chromosome 15. 
The three diseases detailed in this paper constitute the main areas of this 
subject, but arterial involvement may occur in other inheritable disorders of 
connective tissue (osteogenesis imperfecta, cutis laxa, Werner syndrome, Menkes 
syndrome, etc).

DOI: 10.1016/s0248-8663(05)82148-4
PMID: 8059135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Skeletal Radiol. 1994 May;23(4):283-8. doi: 10.1007/BF02412362.

Desmoplastic fibroma of bone: a report of 18 cases.

Taconis WK(1), Schütte HE, van der Heul RO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Onze Lieve Vrouwe Gasthuis, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.

Desmoplastic fibroma is a rare benign primary bone tumor, histologically 
identical to the extra-abdominal desmoid tumor of soft tissues. The incidence in 
major series of bone tumors is 0.1%-0.3%. In the present study 18 cases from the 
files of the Netherlands Committee on Bone Tumors are reported, with an emphasis 
on the radiographic features. Eight female and ten male subjects were affected, 
with a fairly even age distribution from the second to the seventh decade of 
life. The most frequent sites of involvement were the femur and the pelvis. 
Radiographically the lesions nearly always demonstrated benign features with 
respect to pattern of destruction, margins, and reactive bone formation; 
however, soft tissue extension was sometimes present. Although desmoplastic 
fibroma usually presents with pain or swelling, in 5 of the 18 cases the 
existence of the lesion was an accidental finding, and in 2 cases the patient 
had long-standing, vague complaints of pain. Though overall benign radiographic 
features may support the final diagnosis, the main and often troublesome 
histological differential diagnosis is of a low-grade fibrosoma. En bloc 
resection is the treatment of choice in view of the high incidence of recurrence 
after curettage.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02412362
PMID: 8059254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Stud Fam Plann. 1994 Mar-Apr;25(2):77-95.

Prospects and programs for fertility reduction, 1990-2015.

Mauldin WP(1), Ross JA.

Author information:
(1)Research Division, Population Council, New York.

What is the likelihood that each of the 37 developing countries with populations 
of 15 million or more in 1990 will reach replacement fertility by the year 2015? 
These countries have a combined population of 3.9 billion, 91 percent of the 
population of all developing countries. For this article, a composite index was 
used as the basis for predicting future levels of total fertility. The index was 
constructed from socioeconomic variables (life expectancy at birth, infant 
mortality rates, percent adult literacy, ratio of children enrolled in primary 
or secondary school, percent of the labor force in nonagricultural occupations, 
gross national product per capita, and percent of the population living in urban 
areas), total fertility rates for the years 1985-90, total fertility rate 
decline from 1960-65 to 1985-90, family planning program effort scores in 1989, 
and the level of contraceptive prevalence in 1990. Eight countries are 
classified as certain to reach replacement fertility by 2015, and an additional 
thirteen probably will also. Five countries are classified as possibly reaching 
replacement fertility, and eleven as unlikely to do so.

PIP: What is the likelihood of 37 countries with population of 15 million or 
greater reaching replacement fertility by 2015? The 37 countries had in 1990 a 
combined population of 3.9 billion, 91% of total developing country population. 
Bernard Berelson in 1978 assessed the likelihood of reaching a crude birth rate 
(CBR) of 20 births per year per 1000 population by the year 2000 for 4 groups of 
countries: 1) The Certain: Taiwan, South Korea, and Chile; 2) The Probable: 
China, Brazil, Mexico, Philippines, Thailand, Turkey, Colombia, Sri Lanka, 
Venezuela, and Malaysia; 3) The Possible: India, Indonesia, Egypt, and Peru; and 
4) The Unlikely: Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nigeria, Iran, Zaire, Afghanistan, Sudan, 
Morocco, Algeria, Tanzania, Kenya, and Nepal. Those countries which by 1994 have 
already or almost reached replacement level include: Taiwan, South Korea, China, 
Thailand, Chile, and Sri Lanka. What accounts for the miscalculation is the slow 
growth between 1965-85 in gross national product, the smaller decline in total 
fertility rate [TFR], the smaller decrease in infant mortality and life 
expectancy, insufficient increases in literacy, and larger increase in males in 
nonagricultural labor. Contraceptive prevalence has increased and family 
planning efforts have improved. World TFRs declined by 33% between the 1960s and 
1980s. Socioeconomic improvements are needed worldwide. Likelihood projections 
were based on socioeconomic setting, total fertility rate, total fertility rate 
decline, contraceptive prevalence, program effort score, and composite index. 
The certain group now includes China, both Koreas, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, and 
Thailand. The probable group includes India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, 
Vietnam, Argentina, Venezuela, Brazil, Peru, Egypt, Morocco, Turkey, and South 
Africa. The possible group includes Bangladesh, Myanmar, Algeria, Iran, and 
Kenya. The unlikely group is comprised of Afghanistan, Nepal, Pakistan, Iraq, 
Sudan, Ethiopia, Ghana, Nigeria, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire. When proximate 
determinants (marriage, contraceptive use, induced abortion, and breast feeding) 
are considered, the groups of countries change. TFR projections extrapolating 
from past trends compared to UN projections showed all the certain countries the 
same, 4 of the probable countries reaching a TFR of 2.3, and none of the 
possible or unlikely countries reaching replacement fertility.

PMID: 8059448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. AIDS. 1994 May;8(5):625-34. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199405000-00008.

Efficacy of zidovudine treatment in homosexual men with AIDS-related complex: 
factors influencing development of AIDS, survival and drug intolerance. 
Australian Zidovudine Study Group.

Swanson CE(1), Tindall B, Cooper DA.

Author information:
(1)National Centre in HIV Epidemiology and Clinical Research, University of New 
South Wales, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate (1) the efficacy and safety of zidovudine treatment 
in homo-/bisexual men with AIDS-related complex (ARC) and (2) factors associated 
with development of intolerance to zidovudine.
DESIGN: A multicentre open-label study.
SETTING: Australian public hospital system.
SUBJECTS: A total of 235 homo-/bisexual men with ARC were enrolled.
INTERVENTIONS: All subjects received 1200 mg zidovudine daily.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Survival, incidence and time to development of AIDS and 
to development of haematological and clinical side-effects.
RESULTS: Median time to development of AIDS was 61 weeks, significantly longer 
(P < 0.03) than the median of 22 weeks in a small control group of 12 untreated 
ARC subjects. Median survival from development of AIDS was 48 weeks, marginally 
longer than the 44 weeks in untreated historical AIDS controls. Anaemia 
requiring transfusion occurred in 113 subjects (48%). Significant differences in 
time to development of AIDS were found in favour of subjects not requiring 
transfusions (P < 0.001) with no weight loss (P = 0.004), and who received the 
full zidovudine dose (1200 mg) during the first 52 weeks of treatment (P = 
0.021). Significantly longer median survival times from commencement of 
zidovudine were found in subjects with a baseline Karnofsky score > or = 90, 
baseline Hb > or = 13 g/dl, baseline CD4+ cell count > or = 50 x 10(6)/l, no 
weight loss during first year of treatment, and no or not more than one blood 
transfusion during treatment. The ability to tolerate full-dose zidovudine was 
best predicted by a baseline Hb > or = 13 g/dl. Zidovudine-intolerant subjects 
(defined as the development of either anaemia requiring transfusions, WCC 1000 x 
10(6)/l or zidovudine-related myopathy) had a significantly shorter time to 
development of AIDS than zidovudine-tolerant subjects (P = 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: Zidovudine may benefit people with ARC by significantly postponing 
the development of AIDS. This benefit appears to be greater in those who do not 
develop clinical intolerance whilst receiving zidovudine. However, 
administration of zidovudine to subjects with ARC does not appear to contribute 
to improved survival after the development of AIDS. People with ARC who develop 
AIDS while receiving zidovudine, or who develop intolerance to zidovudine, 
should be considered immediately eligible for other antiretroviral therapies.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199405000-00008
PMID: 8060543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. AIDS. 1994 May;8(5):667-72. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199405000-00014.

Mortality in HIV-1-seropositive women, their spouses and their newly born 
children during 36 months of follow-up in Kinshasa, Zaïre.

Ryder RW(1), Nsuami M, Nsa W, Kamenga M, Badi N, Utshudi M, Heyward WL.

Author information:
(1)Project SIDA, Kinshasa, Zaïre.

OBJECTIVE: To calculate 3-year mortality rates in HIV-1-seropositive and 
HIV-1-seronegative mothers, their newborn children and the fathers of these 
children.
DESIGN: Longitudinal cohort study of HIV-1-seropositive, age and parity-matched 
HIV-1-seronegative pregnant women, their newborn babies and the fathers of these 
children.
SETTING: Obstetric ward and follow-up clinic at a large municipal hospital in 
Kinshasa, Zaïre.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 335 newborn children and their 327 HIV-1-seropositive 
mothers and 341 newborn children and their 337 HIV-1-seronegative mothers and 
the fathers of these children.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Rates of vertical HIV-1 transmission and maternal, 
paternal and early childhood mortality.
RESULTS: The lower and upper bounds of vertical transmission were 27 and 50%, 
respectively. The 3-year mortality rate was 44% in children with vertically 
acquired HIV-1 infection, 25% in children with HIV-1-seropositive mothers and 
indeterminant HIV-1 infection status, and 6% in uninfected children with 
HIV-1-seronegative mothers. HIV-1-seropositive women who transmitted HIV-1 
infection to their most recently born child had lost a greater number of 
previously born children (mean, 1.5 versus 0.5; P < 0.05), were more likely to 
have had AIDS at delivery (25 versus 12%; P < 0.01) and were more likely to die 
during follow-up (22 versus 9%; P < 0.01) than HIV-1-seropositive women who did 
not transmit HIV-1 infection to their newborn child. Twenty-five out of 239 
(10.4%) fathers of children with HIV-1-seropositive mothers, not lost to 
follow-up, died compared with three out of 310 (1%) fathers of children with 
HIV-1-seronegative mothers (P < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Families in Kinshasa, Zaïre, in which the mother was 
HIV-1-seropositive experienced a five to 10-fold higher maternal, paternal and 
early childhood mortality rate than families in which the mother was 
HIV-1-seronegative.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199405000-00014
PMID: 8060546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. AIDS. 1994 May;8(5):689-92. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199405000-00017.

The AIDS epidemic among Scandinavian women: 1980-1990.

Smith E(1), Hasseltvedt V, Böttiger M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Statens Seruminstitut, Copenhagen, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: To describe trends and patterns in the AIDS epidemic among 
Scandinavian women with AIDS.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: All women with AIDS reported to national surveillance 
units in Denmark, Norway and Sweden in 1980-1990 were included for analyses.
RESULTS: The number of heterosexually infected female AIDS cases increased over 
time. AIDS-defining diseases varied with transmission categories, a variation 
similar to that found among heterosexual Danish male AIDS cases. Heterosexually 
infected women were more frequently diagnosed with Pneumocystis carinii 
pneumonia than with oesophagus candidiasis compared with intravenous drug using 
women. Twenty-five out of 56 heterosexually infected women reported having a 
male partner who was bisexual or from a Pattern II country, while one in four 
did not recognize any risk in their sex partner(s). Survival time increased 
between 1980 and 1990 and did not differ from survival in male AIDS cases. In a 
proportional hazards model, age, year of diagnosis and the duration of known 
HIV-positivity before development of AIDS had an independent impact on survival. 
The number of women known to be HIV-positive for more than 1 year before 
diagnosis of AIDS increased over time, although the number of women tested for 
HIV close to the development of AIDS was especially high among heterosexually 
infected women.
CONCLUSION: Increasing numbers of heterosexually infected women are being 
diagnosed with AIDS in Scandinavia.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199405000-00017
PMID: 8060549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Br J Ophthalmol. 1994 Jun;78(6):511. doi: 10.1136/bjo.78.6.511.

Life expectancy in keratoconus--correction to data used.

Moodaley LC, Woodward EG, Liu CS, Buckley RJ, Bloomfield DS.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.78.6.511
PMCID: PMC504848
PMID: 8060953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Duodecim. 1993;109(10):917-25.

[The life expectancy of a Finnish cancer patient].

[Article in Finnish]

Teppo L(1), Hakulinen T, Luostarinen T, Pukkala E, Söderman B.

Author information:
(1)Suomen Syöpärekisteri, Helsinki, Finland.

PMID: 8062659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. J Exp Med. 1994 Sep 1;180(3):1059-65. doi: 10.1084/jem.180.3.1059.

Circadian dynamics of tumor necrosis factor alpha (cachectin) lethality.

Hrushesky WJ(1), Langevin T, Kim YJ, Wood PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Stratton VA Medical Center, Albany, New York 12208.

Recombinant human tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) has demonstrable 
antitumor activity in transplantable murine tumor models and patients with 
cancer but is highly toxic to both animals and human beings. The narrow 
therapeutic index of TNF-alpha has limited its anticancer utility. Toxicity 
associated with many standard anticancer drugs is highly dependent upon the 
circadian timing of their administration. The effect of time of day of TNF-alpha 
administration on lethal toxicity was examined in 238 BALB/c female mice in two 
studies. Each mouse received a single intravenous injection of human TNF-alpha 
at one of six equispaced times within the first contiguous 24-h cycle. The 
probability of dying across all times of day of TNF-alpha treatment was not 
equal (p < 0.01) and varied up to ninefold. Significant time of day dependence 
of TNF-alpha toxicity was present over a full order of magnitude of TNF-alpha 
dose. The frequency of TNF-alpha-induced lethality was greatest and the time to 
death was most brief when TNF-alpha was administered just before awakening. The 
survival probability was highest when TNF-alpha was administered in the second 
half of the daily activity span corresponding roughly to late afternoon and 
evening hours for human beings. The optimization of TNF-alpha administration 
timing is a strategy that warrants further investigation for improving the 
toxic/therapeutic ratio of this important cytokine. From a more fundamental 
perspective, these data may be essential for achieving a fuller understanding of 
TNF-alpha in vivo biology.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.180.3.1059
PMCID: PMC2191660
PMID: 8064225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 1994 Sep;52(9):937-43; discussion 944. doi: 
10.1016/s0278-2391(10)80074-6.

Long-term follow-up on hydroxylapatite-coated cylindrical dental implants: a 
comparison between developmental and recent periods.

Block MS(1), Kent JN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Louisiana State University 
School of Dentistry, New Orleans 70119.

PURPOSE: To compare success rates for dental implants placed from 1985 through 
1988 and from 1989 through 1991, and to investigate the factors associated with 
success or failure.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: All hydroxylapatite-coated cylindrical implants placed 
from 1985 through 1991 were followed yearly. Lifetable survival analyses 
compared implant success for a "developmental period" from 1985 through 1988 (4 
to 8 years follow-up) and a "recent period" from 1989 through 1991 (1 to 4 years 
follow-up). Reasons for success or failure, time from implant placement to 
removal related to failure reason, outcome after implant removal, and a 
morbidity analysis are included.
RESULTS: The 7 to 8-year cumulative success rate for all implants placed in the 
developmental period (maxilla and mandible combined) was 86.5%; it was 84.2% for 
all maxillary implants and 87.5% for all mandibular implants. The cumulative 
success rate for all implants placed in the recent period was 97.5%; it was 
97.5% for all maxillary implants and 97.6% for all mandibular implants. The 
difference between the two periods was statistically significant only for the 
anterior maxilla. Regression analysis on the interval success rates indicates 
that interval failure did not follow a linear relationship with time. The most 
common reasons associated with failure were lack of keratinized gingiva, poor 
oral hygiene, mechanical overload, and malposition.
CONCLUSION: Comparison with previously reported cumulative success rates 
indicated learning curve experiences comparable with other implant systems. 
Improvements in hardware, surgical and prosthetic techniques, and patient 
selection have led to an improvement in success rates with the recent period 
implants.

DOI: 10.1016/s0278-2391(10)80074-6
PMID: 8064457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1994 Aug 26;43(33):609-11.

Firearm-related years of potential life lost before age 65 years--United States, 
1980-1991.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

In 1991, deaths from suicide and homicide combined were the third leading cause 
of years of potential life lost before age 65 (YPLL-65) in the United States. 
Firearms were used in 60.1% of all suicides, in 67.8% of all homicides, and in 
less than 2.0% of unintentional injury deaths. Firearm-related death rates 
increased during the late 1980s, particularly among adolescents and young 
adults. To characterize trends in premature mortality attributed to 
firearm-related injuries, annual mortality data were analyzed for 1980-1991 (the 
most recent years for which complete data were available). This report 
summarizes the results of the analysis.

PMID: 8065292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Rev Med Brux. 1994 May-Jun;15(3):111-3.

[Surgical treatment of cardiopathies in the elderly].

[Article in French]
