
Cavenaile JC(1), Demanet H, Goldstein JP, Deuvaert FE.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Cardiaque, Hôpital Brugmann, Bruxelles.

We have reviewed hospital mortality and morbidity with cardiac surgery under 
cardiopulmonary bypass in patients over 75 years, operated during a 5 years 
period. It is at the expense of a sometimes difficult selection process in 
favour of patients with a potentially curable cardiac disease as their only 
problem, and despite substantially increased mortality and morbidity, that the 
operated elderly can have excellent probability to normalise both life 
expectancy and quality of life.

PMID: 8066354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Rev Prat. 1994 Mar 1;44(5):595-600.

[Management of advanced prostate cancer].

[Article in French]

Fournier G(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'urologie, hôpital Morvan, CHU de Brest.

Prostatic adenocarcinoma is still often detected at an advanced stage, despite 
efforts for earlier diagnosis. Treatment depends especially on the stage of the 
disease at the time of diagnosis, on potential development which varies among 
types of tumours, on the presence of symptoms related to local-regional or 
general dissemination, and on age, which may be advanced in these patients. In 
stage C cancers with limited extraprostatic dissemination, the use of radical 
prostatectomy is debated. It may be indicated in some selected young patients in 
association with hormonal treatment. In other cases, androgen control alone 
(early, or only after appearance of symptoms) or pelvic radiation therapy can be 
used. In the presence of metastases, hormonal control is the best means of 
slowing disease progression. It is always indicated when the disease is 
symptomatic. The various means of hormonal treatment (surgical castration, LH-RH 
agonists, anti-androgens) should be considered with regard to the status of the 
patient, the manifestations of cancer and potential side effects of treatment. 
Surgery and/or radiation therapy is indicated for symptomatic relief in 
treatment of local dissemination (extension to the urinary tract, etc.) or bone 
metastases. In case of hormonal treatment failure, no other treatment is really 
effective, and survival is short. Symptomatic treatments are then used to 
increase quality of life.

PMID: 8066396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1994 Jul 23;124(29):1267-75.

[Salutogenesis versus pathogenesis--a new approach to an old wisdom].

[Article in German]

Heim E(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatrische Universitätspoliklinik Bern.

The so called "potentially lost life years" of a population are mostly due to 
unfavourable lifestyle and lack of health orientation. This could be shown e.g. 
in view of job-stressors and their consequences for cardio-vascular disease. As 
important the single risk factor may be, as limited is their impact when we look 
at the amount of explained variance, mostly only around 10%. On the other hand 
each examined population includes a larger amount of individuals who will not 
fall ill in spite of identical stressors as those getting sick. This ability to 
resist, based on special interior and exterior resources, is now called 
salutogenesis. It stands opposite to the term pathogenesis. More recent research 
in that area examines favourable exterior resources such as structures in 
"social support", favourable conditions at the work-place, in the family and so 
on. Other more personality oriented abilities include optimism, hardiness, etc. 
The founder of the theory on salutogenesis, Aaron Antonovsky, describes a 
concept of "sense of coherence" including (1.) comprehensibility, (2.) 
manageability, (3.) meaningfulness. More recent therapeutic concepts are based 
on these assumptions and have proved to be successful.

PMID: 8066413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Soc Sci Med. 1994 Jul;39(1):105-14. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(94)90170-8.

Social and environmental factors and life expectancy, infant mortality, and 
maternal mortality rates: results of a cross-national comparison.

Hertz E(1), Hebert JR, Landon J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Columbia University, School of 
Public Health, New York, NY 10032.

Comment in
    Soc Sci Med. 1997 Dec;45(12):1899.

Using data from United Nations sources we conducted an international comparison 
study of infant and maternal mortality rates and life expectancy at birth. We 
examined these three dependent variables in relation to a range of independent 
variables including dietary factors, medical resource availability, gross 
national product (GNP/capita), literacy rates, growth in the labor force, and 
provision of sanitation facilities and safe water. Based on exploratory stepwise 
regression models, we fitted a series of general linear models for each of the 
three dependent variables. For the models with the highest explanatory ability, 
the percent of households without sanitation facilities showed the strongest 
association with all three dependent variables: life expectancy at birth (R2 = 
0.83, B = -0.088, P = 0.0007); infant mortality rate (R2 = 0.87, B = +0.611, P < 
0.0001); and maternal mortality rate (R2 = 0.54, B = +8.297, P = 0.002). 
Additional significant predictors of life expectancy at birth and infant 
mortality rate included the quantity of animal products consumed, the percent of 
households without safe water, excess calories consumed as fat, and the total 
literacy level. Maternal mortality rate was significantly associated with total 
energy consumption and excess energy consumed as fat. Using residuals from the 
general linear models we chose three outlying countries: Costa Rica, Sri Lanka 
and Egypt, on which to do case studies. These country case studies are discussed 
briefly in regard to characteristics that could account for their differing 
statistical relationships.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(94)90170-8
PMID: 8066481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Acta Chir Belg. 1994 May-Jun;94(3):130-5.

Hip fractures in elderly people. The surgical treatment in Leuven, Belgium.

Broos PL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, U.Z. Gasthuisberg, Leuven, Belgium.

From 1978 to 1990 inclusive more than 1,200 patients above 70 years of age have 
been treated surgically for a hip fracture at the University Hospitals of 
Leuven. Intracapsular fractures were classified as to Garden and extracapsular 
fractures as to Evans. The physical and mental conditions of the patients at the 
time of the accident were largely determining the choice of the treatment, a 
treatment that held quo ad vitam only little risk for the patient and that 
permitted early weight bearing on the operated limb. We concluded that: Stable 
intracapsular fractures have to be treated with simple cancellous bone screws. 
For unstable intracapsular fractures, a total hip prosthesis is the best 
solution; hemiarthroplasty must be reserved for high risk patients with a 
limited life expectancy. Nearly all type 1 pertrochanteric fractures can be 
treated with a (modified) dynamic hip screw technique. Prosthetic surgery is 
only indicated in very complex type 1d fractures. For type 2 fractures, the 
gamma-nail is (may be) the best solution.

PMID: 8067157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Acta Chir Belg. 1994 May-Jun;94(3):189-90.

Ethics in actual surgery. The surgeon and HIV seropositive and AIDS patients.

Eyskens E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital Antwerp, Edegem, Belgium.

Surgeons feel threatened by the risk of contamination when operating on 
HIV-seropositive or AIDS patients. Observations on the likelihood of 
contamination in literature are most divergent due to variables in seropositive 
prevalence, in frequency of contamination risk and in distinction between HIV 
seropositive and AIDS patients. Except in emergency the surgeon may refuse to 
treat a patient. Screening seropositively for selection is hampered by the 
inconsistency of false positives and false negatives depending on the method 
used and on costs appropriate to large scale controls. Exclusion of patients 
from treatment is unethical. Referring them to other colleagues on ground of 
contamination risk is ethically unjustified. Denial of care to a HIV infected 
patient may be justified when the operative risk is considered too high and the 
expected benefit too low because of the precarious condition of the patient and 
his shortened life expectancy. However the surgeon and his team need not to 
expose themselves to even a limited but real risk of contamination. Therefore 
the surgeons have to reconsider their surgical strategy and technique in order 
to keep chances of contamination as low as possible. A search for safer working 
methods for all operations and without any discrimination with regard to the 
patient is needed and should be taught to the surgical team.

PMID: 8067170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1994 Summer;10(3):376-81. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300006619.

A comparison of international health outcomes and health care spending.

Babazono A(1), Hillman AL.

Author information:
(1)Okayama University Medical School, Japan.

Does increased spending improve health outcomes? We analyzed 1988 data from OECD 
countries to determine how key health care indexes correlate with health care 
outcomes. Total health care spending per capita and outpatient and inpatient 
utilization are not related to health outcomes. How our resources are allocated 
seems to be more important than how much money is actually spent.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300006619
PMID: 8071000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. J Anim Sci. 1994 Jun;72(6):1387-92. doi: 10.2527/1994.7261387x.

Evaluation of optimal age at first conception in gilts from data collected in 
commercial swine herds.

Schukken YH(1), Buurman J, Huirne RB, Willemse AH, Vernooy JC, van den Broek J, 
Verheijden JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Herd Health and Reproduction, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands.

The purpose of this study was to find the economically optimal period of first 
conception in gilts, addressing the issues of lifetime reproductive performance 
and expected herd life. A profit equation was used to combine the effects into 
one economic parameter. The data were from 14,910 gilts on 54 farms throughout 
The Netherlands. The average number of pigs born alive in the first litter 
increased with older age at conception. In the second litter a similar, but much 
smaller, effect was observed. Age at first conception had no effect on number of 
pigs born alive in the third or greater litter. Gilts bred at an older age had a 
shorter expected herd life than gilts bred at a younger age. Evaluating the 
reasons for culling revealed that infertility became a more important reason 
with increasing age at first conception. The proportion culled for infertility 
increased linearly from 18% at conception on d 200 to 24.5% at conception on d 
300. Combining the effect of litter size and herd life led to the conclusion 
that the profit per gilt (sow) was not significantly affected by her age at 
first conception. It is concluded that the optimal economic age at first 
conception was considered to be approximately 200 to 220 d of age when the cost 
of housing and feed of the gilt from entry to first conception were taken into 
account.

DOI: 10.2527/1994.7261387x
PMID: 8071159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. J Clin Gastroenterol. 1994 Jun;18(4):320-4.

Extracorporeal liver support. Application to fulminant hepatic failure.

Sussman NL(1), Gislason GT, Kelly JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.

Artificial liver support is urgently needed. Mechanical devices such as 
hemodialysis and hemoperfusion do not correct the metabolic abnormalities that 
exist in endstage liver disease, and biologically active devices have been 
impracticable because of limitations in the availability and viability of 
cultured liver cells. This deficit in the medical armamentarium is a major 
concern best illustrated by current management of fulminant hepatic failure 
(FHF). Medical treatment for FHF is largely unsuccessful, and orthotopic liver 
transplantation (OLT) is the intervention against which all future therapeutic 
interventions must be judged. The OLT procedure, however, is not benign. The 
cost is high, and survivors face a lifetime of immunosuppression and medical 
supervision. By comparison, patients who survive without surgery recover full 
liver function and have a normal life expectancy. A device that provides liver 
support during the critical stages of FHF would stabilize patients until a 
suitable donor organ was found and might negate the need for transplant 
altogether if the liver were able to regenerate. We review theoretical and 
practical aspects of biologically active devices using FHF as a paradigm of 
liver disease.

PMID: 8071519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1994 Sep 21;86(18):1385-90. doi: 10.1093/jnci/86.18.1385.

Age at diagnosis and transmission of invasive melanoma in 23 families with 
cutaneous malignant melanoma/dysplastic nevi.

Goldstein AM(1), Fraser MC, Clark WH Jr, Tucker MA.

Author information:
(1)Genetic Epidemiology Branch, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes 
of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.

BACKGROUND: Familial melanoma patients tend to have an earlier age at first 
melanoma diagnosis, thinner lesions, a different histologic distribution, and a 
higher frequency of multiple primary melanomas than patients with nonfamilial 
melanoma. Previous examination of a large melanoma kindred from Texas suggested 
that although cutaneous malignant melanoma (CMM) was transmitted in an autosomal 
dominant fashion, there were sex differences in penetrance and disease 
expression.
PURPOSE: This study further evaluated the age at diagnosis, sex difference in 
penetrance and disease expression, and segregation of familial CMM.
METHODS: We evaluated the age at diagnosis and transmission of CMM in 23 U.S. 
white families with CMM/dysplastic nevi who had been followed 5-17 years. We 
estimated the median and mean ages at diagnosis of invasive melanoma for all 
individuals, for men and women separately, and by generation. Using the computer 
program BMDP1L, we also estimated the cumulative probability of an offspring 
developing CMM as a function of age according to whether the mother or father 
had melanoma. In addition, we used a life-table approach to estimate the 
probability that offspring of CMM parents were affected with CMM (penetrance).
RESULTS: The median age at diagnosis in the 23 kindreds (n = 106) was 33 years, 
substantially less than that of patients with sporadic melanomas in the U.S. 
white population. For females, the median age at diagnosis was 29 years; for 
males, it was 36 years. Nine percent of the case patients developed CMM before 
age 20 compared with 2% in the general population. There was little difference 
in the transmission pattern of melanoma between males and females in the 23 
families, although sons of CMM parents had a higher risk of CMM than daughters 
of CMM parents. This difference was, however, based on small numbers and was not 
statistically significant. The penetrance estimates for CMM were high. They rose 
rapidly from 6% at age 18 to 85% by age 48. The median age at diagnosis of 
invasive melanoma decreased dramatically in successive generations; the 
reduction was 11-16 years per generation and was statistically significant (P < 
.0001).
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Although this reduction in median age at diagnosis 
may result partly from increased surveillance in hereditary melanoma families 
and the fact that individuals in the younger generations have not yet reached 
the highest at-risk ages for developing melanoma, the possibility of changes in 
melanoma risk and risk factors, genetic and/or environmental, across generations 
should be considered.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/86.18.1385
PMID: 8072031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1994 Sep 21;86(18):1390-7. doi: 10.1093/jnci/86.18.1390.

Premorbid diet and the prognosis of women with breast cancer.

Jain M(1), Miller AB, To T.

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Institute of Canada, Department of Preventive Medicine and 
Biostatistics, University of Toronto, Ontario.

BACKGROUND: Consumption of a high-fat diet has been associated with poor 
survival in breast cancer patients. However, studies examining this association 
are limited and have not used adjustment of energy in their estimates.
PURPOSE: The effect of usual diet before diagnosis of breast cancer on the risk 
of dying of breast cancer was examined in a cohort of women with breast cancer 
from the National Breast Screening Study (NBSS) in Canada.
METHODS: From a cohort of 89,835 women in the NBSS, a total of 1270 
histologically confirmed cases of invasive carcinoma of the breast were 
identified by active follow-up, supplemented by passive follow-up involving 
record linkage to provincial cancer registries. Of these, 678 case patients who 
had completed a diet history and were diagnosed from January 1982 up to June 
1992 formed the cohort for this investigation. Diet was ascertained from a 
self-administered diet-history questionnaire. Mortality data were obtained by 
linkage to the Canadian Mortality Data Base of Statistics Canada, provincial 
cancer registries, and annual follow-up of cases through physicians. Risk of 
dying and survival probabilities were estimated by the Cox proportional hazards 
method and the actuarial life-table method.
RESULTS: There were 83 deaths in this study cohort of 678 women; 76 deaths were 
due to breast cancer, and the remaining seven resulted from other causes. The 
5-year survival rate was 90%. For every 5% increase in energy from saturated 
fat, the risk of dying of breast cancer increased by 50% (hazard ratio = 1.50; 
95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.08-2.08). No significant increase in risk was 
seen with total fat intake (hazard ratio = 1.21; 95% CI = 0.91-1.61) or oleic 
acid intake (hazard ratio = 1.25; 95% CI = 0.90-1.74). There was a lower risk of 
dying of breast cancer in the highest quartiles of beta carotene intake (hazard 
ratio = 0.48; 95% CI = 0.23-0.99) and vitamin C intake (hazard ratio = 0.43; 95% 
CI: 0.21-0.86); both vitamins showed a significant dose-response relationship (P 
for trend, < or = .05). These effects varied with menopausal status at diagnosis 
and tumor characteristics.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest an increased risk of dying of breast cancer 
with higher intakes of saturated fat before diagnosis and slightly reduced risk 
with higher intakes of beta carotene and vitamin C.
IMPLICATIONS: More attention should be paid to premorbid dietary habits in 
relation to breast cancer prognosis. Further studies, however, need to be done 
with full ascertainment of dietary changes prior to and subsequent to diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/86.18.1390
PMID: 8072032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Bioelectromagnetics. 1994;15(3):177-81. doi: 10.1002/bem.2250150302.

Alteration of life span of mice chronically exposed to 2.45 GHz CW microwaves.

Liddle CG(1), Putnam JP, Huey OP.

Author information:
(1)Health Effects Research Laboratory, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 
Research Triangle Park, North Carolina.

Female CD1 mice were exposed from the thirty-fifth day of age for the remainder 
of their lives to 2.45 GHz, CW-microwave radiation at a power density of 3 or 10 
mW/cm2 (SAR = 2.0 or 6.8 W/kg). Exposures took place 1 h/day, 5 day/week in an 
anechoic chamber at an ambient temperature of 22 degrees C and a relative 
humidity of 50%. There were 25 animals in each exposure group, and an equal 
number of controls were concurrently sham exposed. The average life span of 
animals exposed at 10 mW/cm2 was significantly shorter than that of sham-exposed 
controls (572 days vs. 706 days; P = .049; truncation > 20%). In contrast, the 
average lifespan of the animals exposed at 3 mW/cm2 was slightly, but not 
significantly, longer (738 days) than that of controls (706 days).

DOI: 10.1002/bem.2250150302
PMID: 8074734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Asia Pac J Public Health. 1994;7(1):10-5. doi: 10.1177/101053959400700102.

Impact of motor vehicle injury in Taiwan using potential productive years of 
life lost.

MacKinney T(1), Baker T.

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Wisconsin.

Motor vehicle injuries are a major harmful side effect of industrialization. We 
examine this relationship in a rapidly industrializing country, Taiwan, using 
Potential Productive Years of Life Lost (PPYLL) analysis, and suggest ways that 
the injury toll of industrialization might be mitigated. We also compare Taiwan 
to the US, Hungary, Korea, and Chile. Taiwan has a higher PPYLL per 100,000 
population due to motor vehicle injury (530/100,000) than cardiac disease, 
cancer, or strokes. Twenty-five years ago, more PPYLL was due to cancer, 
strokes, cardiac disease, and tuberculosis than to motor vehicle injuries 
(106/100,000). Taiwan's PPYLL rate is much greater than three other 
industrializing countries--Chile, Korea, and Hungary--and twice that of the US. 
Explanations for the dramatic rise in motor vehicle injury deaths in Taiwan may 
be high use of motorcycles, lack of motorcycle helmets, increase in alcohol use, 
high care density, and road and vehicle safety design problems.

DOI: 10.1177/101053959400700102
PMID: 8074938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Clin Infect Dis. 1994 May;18(5):719-25. doi: 10.1093/clinids/18.5.719.

Experience of an intravenous therapy team at the Instituto Nacional de 
Cancerología (Mexico) with a long-lasting, low-cost silastic venous catheter.

Volkow P(1), Sanchez-Mejorada G, de la Vega SL, Vazquez C, Tellez O, Baez RM, 
Aguilar C, Alfeirán A, Zinser JW, Mohar A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Instituto Nacional de Cancerología, Mexico 
City, Mexico.

Means of vascular access are fundamental in the management of cancer. However, 
since current intravenous devices for long-term treatment are expensive and 
necessitate a high degree of education among medical personnel, in developing 
countries they are impractical for use in most of the population. We describe 
the use of a nontunneled, low-cost, long-lasting Silastic catheter (LLSC), cared 
for by an intravenous therapy team (IVTT), in 462 patients with cancer. The rate 
of infectious complications was 0.66 infections per 1,000 catheter-days, which 
is as low as that reported in association with other catheters in developed 
countries. Neutropenia and skin and/or soft-tissue infections were significant 
risk factors associated with LLSC-related infections. We believe that use of 
this catheter may be an alternative for patients with cancer who need 
chemotherapy, as long as an IVTT is established for its care. Our experience 
could be useful for practitioners in countries with similar socioeconomic 
characteristics.

DOI: 10.1093/clinids/18.5.719
PMID: 8075259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Plant Mol Biol. 1994 Aug;25(5):791-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00028874.

Cloning of cDNAs for genes that are early-responsive to dehydration stress 
(ERDs) in Arabidopsis thaliana L.: identification of three ERDs as HSP cognate 
genes.

Kiyosue T(1), Yamaguchi-Shinozaki K, Shinozaki K.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Plant Molecular Biology, Tsukuba Life Science Center, Ibaraki, 
Japan.

In Arabidopsis thaliana L., accumulation of abscisic acid (ABA) began to 
increase 2 h after plants had been subjected to dehydration stress and reached 
maximum levels after 10 h. Differential hybridization was used to isolate 26 
Arabidopsis cDNAs with gene expression induced by a 1 h dehydration treatment. 
The cDNA clones were classified into 16 groups based on Southern blot 
hybridization, and named ERD (early-responsive to dehydration) clones. Partial 
sequencing of the cDNA clones revealed that three ERDs were identical to those 
of HSP cognates (Athsp70-1, Athsp81-2, and ubiquitin extension protein). 
Dehydration stress strongly induced the expression of genes for the three ERDs, 
while application of ABA, which is known to act as a signal transmitter in 
dehydration-stressed plants, did not significantly affect the ERD gene 
expression. This result suggests that these HSP cognates are preferentially 
responsive to dehydration stress in A. thaliana, and that signaling pathways for 
the expression of these genes under conditions of dehydration stress are not 
mainly mediated by ABA. We also discuss the possible functions of these three 
ERD gene products against dehydration stress.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00028874
PMID: 8075396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Cardiovasc Surg. 1993 Feb;1(1):33-7.

In situ saphenous vein bypass for limb salvage.

Sarcina A(1), Carlesi R, Bellosta R, Agrifoglio G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Vascular Surgery and Angiology, University of Milan, Italy.

A total of 130 infrapopliteal in situ saphenous vein bypasses were performed in 
128 patients between January 1980 and June 1991. The indication for surgery was 
critical ischaemia with impending limb loss in 121 patients; seven suffered from 
severe claudication. The distal anastomosis was to the popliteal artery below 
the knee in 60 cases (46.2%) and in 70 (53.8%) to the tibioperoneal arteries. 
The results, in terms of secondary patency and limb salvage rates, of the first 
68 procedures (1980-1985) and subsequent 62 (1986-June 1991) were compared. In 
the first period, a secondary patency rate of 42.6% and a limb salvage rate of 
67.0% were obtained, compared with 71.3 and 80.8% respectively in the second. 
These differences are significant for patency (P < 0.005) and limb salvage (P < 
0.01). These results show that the in situ technique can give acceptable results 
but a learning period with a high percentage of early failures is to be 
expected.

PMID: 8075993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Cardiovasc Surg. 1993 Feb;1(1):44-7.

Lower-limb revascularization from the supracoeliac aorta through a transcrural 
approach.

Cormier JM(1), Marzelle J, Albrand JJ, Fichelle JM, Gigou F, Laurian C, Cormier 
F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Hôpital Saint-Joseph, Paris, France.

From October 1978 to December 1989, 51 patients underwent lower-limb 
revascularization from the supracoeliac aorta through a transcrural approach. 
Symptoms were related to lower-limb ischaemia in all patients: 20 had critical 
ischaemia (three with severe acute ischaemia) and 31 claudication. One patient 
had renal failure with hypertension and stenosis of the renal arteries 
associated with an infrarenal aneurysm induced by Takayasu's disease. 
Indications for exposure of the supracoeliac aorta were Takayasu's disease in 
two patients and atheroma in 34 (implantation of the graft on the supracoeliac 
aorta because of the status of the aortic wall (calcification, inflammation) in 
25 and because antegrade revascularization of the visceral arteries was required 
in nine). In 15 patients repeat aortic surgery was performed; four of these had 
undergone three previous aortic approaches. The postoperative mortality rate at 
30 days was 2%. There were four (8%) acute postoperative graft occlusions and 
four late occlusions, which occurred between 13 months and 6 years. Life-table 
analysis showed a 5-year primary patency rate(s.d.) of 83(10)% and a 5-year 
secondary patency rate(s.d.) of 88(8)%. There are few indications for the 
transcrural approach to the supracoeliac aorta. Nevertheless, this technique can 
prove useful in selected cases, for example in those with a calcified aorta, for 
repeat aortic surgery and for aortic thrombosis near the renal arteries. It is 
also useful when combined revascularization of the lower limb and right renal or 
hepatic artery is being considered.

PMID: 8075995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Cardiovasc Surg. 1993 Apr;1(2):128-30.

Brachiocephalic fistula: a useful alternative for vascular access in chronic 
hemodialysis.

Rubens F(1), Wellington JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Ottawa General Hospital, Ontario, Canada.

Construction of a Cimino-Brescia radiocephalic fistula is the current method of 
choice for vascular access in most patients on chronic hemodialysis. However, 
previous vascular access procedures, cephalic vein thrombosis or intrinsic 
arterial disease may render this procedure impracticable. The brachiocephalic 
fistula, which provides many advantages over the use of saphenous vein or 
prosthetic grafts for fistula access, is frequently overlooked as a surgical 
alternative in patients on chronic hemodialysis. Brachiocephalic fistula 
constructed directly between the brachial artery and cephalic vein at the level 
of the cubital fossa is associated with a 4.5-year patency rate of 80%. The 
incidence of complications is relatively low compared with that when 
interposition graft materials are used. However, two patients developed severe 
swelling of the upper extremity secondary to unrecognized preoperative 
subclavian vein thrombosis. The possibility of this complication should be 
suspected in any patient who has undergone previous percutaneous subclavian 
access.

PMID: 8076013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Cardiovasc Surg. 1993 Jun;1(3):228-31.

Arterial reconstruction in elderly patients.

Esato K(1), Zempo N, O-hara M, Fujioka K, Kuga T.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Yamaguchi University School of Medicine, Ube, 
Japan.

The surgical results of primary peripheral arterial reconstruction for 
arteriosclerosis obliterans during a 16-year period were examined as a function 
of age. Data in group 1 were of 121 procedures performed on 95 patients aged > 
or = 70 years and those in group 2 of 215 procedures performed on 148 patients 
aged < or = 69 years. There was no significant difference between the operative 
mortality rate of 4% (four of 95) in group 1 and 3.4% (five of 148) in group 2. 
The long-term mortality rate was 33% (31 of 95) in group 1, significantly higher 
(P < 0.05) than 18.9% (28 of 148) in group 2. The most common cause of death in 
both groups was cardiac failure. Cumulative 5-year survival rates in groups 1 
and 2 were 56.3 and 78.3% respectively (P < 0.0001). The cumulative primary 
5-year patency rates of suprainguinal bypass grafts in the two groups were 94.2 
and 90.4%, respectively, while those of infrainguinal reconstruction were 67.7 
and 55.0% respectively. The 5-year cumulative limb salvage rate was 93.1% in 
group 1 and 92.7% in group 2. None of these differences was significant. The 
results support an active approach to surgery in elderly patients with 
peripheral arterial obstruction caused by arteriosclerosis obliterans.

PMID: 8076035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Cardiovasc Surg. 1993 Oct;1(5):499-503.

Femoropopliteal bypass with a compliant, composite polyurethane/Dacron graft: 
short-term results of a multicentre trial.

Dereume JP(1), van Romphey A, Vincent G, Engelmann E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Free University of Brussels (ULB), Belgium.

A new, compliant, highly porous, non-woven, polyurethane vascular prosthesis has 
been developed in an effort to improve on the performance of currently available 
prosthetic grafts for infrainguinal reconstruction. From April 1990 to August 
1991, 57 femoropopliteal bypass grafts were implanted in 47 patients by surgeons 
at five university centres. In all instances, the saphenous vein was 
unavailable, unusable or reserved for use elsewhere. An empirical perioperative 
risk score for acute occlusion (0-20) was developed, based on such factors as 
severity of clinical ischaemia, quality of inflow and outflow, site of distal 
anastomosis and associated drug therapy. Primary cumulative patency was 
calculated according to standard life-table analysis. Poor inflow and a distal 
anastomosis below the knee were significant factors affecting graft patency (P = 
0.001 and P = 0.001 respectively). Six-month cumulative patency for the 25 
grafts with good inflow and above or mid-knee anastomoses (79%) was superior to 
the cumulative patency for all 57 grafts (59%). There was a significant 
improvement in patency rates between 'low' (22 grafts) and 'medium risk' (27 
grafts) patients and 'high risk' (eight grafts) ones (risk scores 0-10 and 11-20 
respectively) at a level of P = 0.001. There were two operative deaths (4%). Of 
the 19 postoperative occlusions, six occurred within 30 days and 18 within 6 
months. These data indicate that the patency rates achieved with this new graft 
compare favourably with other available prosthetic grafts. In addition, the 
graft demonstrates superior handling characteristics and eliminates bleeding 
through suture holes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8076085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Cardiovasc Surg. 1993 Oct;1(5):552-7.

Prophylactic myocardial revascularization based on dipyridamole-thallium 
scanning before peripheral vascular surgery.

Steinberg JB(1), Kresowik TF, Behrendt DM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, 
Iowa City 52242.

Cardiac events continue to be the leading cause of perioperative mortality 
following peripheral vascular reconstruction. The role of preoperative cardiac 
screening and prophylactic myocardial revascularization in patients without 
clinical evidence of coronary artery disease is undefined. Fifteen patients with 
no clinical evidence of coronary artery disease who were found to have 
reversible defects on dipyridamole-thallium scans and severe correctable 
coronary artery disease underwent aortocoronary artery bypass grafting. There 
was one (6.7%) operative death. Three patients (20%) developed postoperative 
complications: two atrial fibrillation and one breakdown of the saphenous vein 
harvest site. Thirteen patients underwent subsequent peripheral vascular 
surgery: seven had abdominal aortic procedures, three infrainguinal 
reconstruction, two carotid endarterectomy and one carotid-subclavian artery 
bypass. There were no perioperative or late deaths, cardiac complication, 
electrocardiographic changes, or episodes of angina associated with the 
peripheral vascular procedures. Thus, dipyridamole-thallium imaging appears to 
help select a group of symptom-free, but high cardiac risk, vascular patients in 
whom preparatory myocardial revascularization and subsequent peripheral vascular 
surgery can be performed with acceptable mortality and morbidity. The life 
expectancy of these patients may be improved and, specifically, the risk of 
their subsequent vascular surgery may be reduced by this approach.

PMID: 8076096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Dis Colon Rectum. 1994 Sep;37(9):916-20. doi: 10.1007/BF02052598.

Life table analysis of stomal complications following colostomy.

Londono-Schimmer EE(1), Leong AP, Phillips RK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, St. Mark's Hospital, London, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: This study was designed to evaluate the long-term complication rate of 
left iliac fossa end sigmoid colostomies and to determine etiologic factors.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review and actuarial analysis were performed.
RESULTS: The crude and actuarial risks of paracolostomy complications in 203 
patients were 51.2 percent and 58.1 percent at 13 years, respectively. 
Paracolostomy hernia was the most common complication (36.7 percent at 10 
years). Siting the stoma through the belly of the rectus abdominis muscle did 
not reduce the risk of hernia, but an extraperitoneal course had a significantly 
lower risk of herniation when compared with a transperitoneal course and 
intestinal obstruction was marginally less frequent. Paracolostomy hernias were 
otherwise more likely in the elderly, and in those with other abdominal wall 
hernias. Mesenteric fixation did not reduce the subsequent chance of prolapse. 
The reduction in the risk of intestinal obstruction when lateral space closure 
was employed was not statistically significant (4 percent vs. 10 percent, P < 
0.1), and all three patients with stomal retraction had had lateral space 
closure.
CONCLUSION: The evidence in this study that spans a 22-year period questions 
much surgical technical dogma and raises the possibility that parastomal hernias 
may, like inguinal hernias, represent a failure in the transversalis fascia that 
might technically be avoidable.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02052598
PMID: 8076492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1994 Aug 26;119(34-35):1156-61. doi: 
10.1055/s-2008-1058816.

[Congenitally corrected transposition of the great vessels in adulthood. The 
value of noninvasive study methods].

[Article in German]

Weidmann B(1), Hänseler T, Jansen W, Geppert R, Mathas B, Tauchert M.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik I--Kardiologie, Klinikum Leverkusen.

A 57-year-old man with a cough and increasing exertional dyspnoea for the past 6 
weeks was found on examination to have a loud systolic murmur and cardiomegaly 
with pulmonary congestion. Echocardiography revealed congenitally corrected 
transposition of the great arteries (cTGA: atrioventricular and 
ventriculoarterial discordance): a morphologically right ventricle with a 
tricuspid valve on the left, a morphologically left ventricle with bicuspid a-v 
valve on the right, the aorta arising ventrally from the left-sided 
(morphologically right) ventricle. The tricuspid valve showed an Ebstein-like 
anomaly with obvious regurgitation. Transoesophageal and contrast 
echocardiography defined valvar anatomy, attachment of the great arteries and 
cardiac chambers to the venous and arterial circulations, as well as absence of 
a left to right shunt. Angiography revealed a coronary anatomy typical for cTGA. 
The exertional dyspnoea responded to diuretics and low doses of ACE inhibitor. 
Follow-up monitoring of the valvar regurgitation and appropriate endocarditis 
prophylaxis were recommended. As the haemodynamics in cTGA is normal, in the 
absence of additional anomalies, it is a congenital cardiac defect which can, 
though rarely, present first in adulthood. Life expectancy depends on the nature 
of any additional defects and the degree of commonly associated tricuspid valve 
regurgitation. As this case demonstrates, echocardiography can largely define 
the anomalies.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1058816
PMID: 8076503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1994 Aug 26;119(34-35):1162-6. doi: 
10.1055/s-2008-1058817.

[Endoscopic transthoracic sympathectomy in a paraneoplastic Raynaud's syndrome].

[Article in German]

Maier C(1), Baron R, Loose R, Schröder D.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Anästhesiologie und Operative Intensivmedizin, Universität Kiel.

Six months after nephrectomy for renal-cell carcinoma and during treatment with 
interferon-alpha and vinblastin, a 70-year-old patient developed necrotizing 
Raynaud's phenomenon in both hands (at first: pain, livid skin and 
hyperhidrosis; later: painful acral ulcers; finally: trophic changes plus almost 
complete impairment of mobility and fine movements in both hands). These changes 
persisted even after the end of chemotherapy and despite several months on 
aspirin, naftidrofuryl, nitrates and glucocorticoids, so that the patient's 
general health was seriously affected. Because repeated sympathetic blocks were 
efficacious for brief periods, bilateral transthoracic endoscopic sympathectomy 
(TES) was performed. The patient became free of pain at once, the acral ulcers 
healed within a few weeks and he could again use his hands. Until his death from 
advanced metastases 10 months later the Raynaud's phenomenon did not recur. This 
case suggests that sympathetic vasoconstriction is apparently involved in the 
maintenance and progression of malignant neoplasm-associated Raynaud's 
phenomenon. TES is recommended as a reasonable palliative measure in patients 
with limited life expectancy, as long as preceding sympathetic blockage has 
indicated likely success and the procedure is performed under intraoperative 
monitoring of acral and facial skin temperature.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1058817
PMID: 8076504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Eur Heart J. 1994 May;15 Suppl B:2-8; discussion 26-30. doi: 
10.1093/eurheartj/15.suppl_b.2.

Uniformity of captopril benefit in the SAVE Study: subgroup analysis. Survival 
and Ventricular Enlargement Study.

Moyé LA(1), Pfeffer MA, Wun CC, Davis BR, Geltman E, Hayes D, Farnham DJ, 
Randall OS, Dinh H, Arnold JM, et al.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Cardiovascular Division, Boston, MA 02115.

The Survival and Ventricular Enlargement (SAVE) Study demonstrated that 
long-term administration of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor 
captopril to recent survivors of myocardial infarction with left ventricular 
dysfunction resulted in a reduction in cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. 
Analysis of multiple subgroups demonstrated that baseline demographics (older 
age) and clinical characteristics (such as prior MI, history of diabetes or 
hypertension), that have previously been associated with a higher risk of 
cardiovascular events, were associated with greater end point event rates in 
SAVE regardless of therapy assignment at the time of randomization. The 
effectiveness of captopril therapy in reducing cardiovascular mortality and 
morbidity was examined in multiple subgroups. Although not all subgroups 
provided adequate statistical power, the benefits of captopril therapy were 
relatively uniform in the SAVE study. This indicates that the benefits were not 
confined to one particular subgroup and conversely that targeting of captopril 
therapy should be to the broadest group, as defined by SAVE entry criteria, to 
result in a reduction in cardiovascular mortality and morbidity.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/15.suppl_b.2
PMID: 8076658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Gerontologist. 1994 Jun;34(3):393-8. doi: 10.1093/geront/34.3.393.

Setting limits: a response.

Callahan D(1).

Author information:
(1)Hastings Center, Briarcliff Manor, NY 10510.

Setting Limits: Medical Goals in an Aging Society was published in 1987, and 
immediately incurred considerable criticism because of its contention that 
age-based health care rationing could become necessary in the future as the baby 
boom generation aged and retired. That argument was considered to be ageist, 
discriminatory, and dangerous, and the ensuing debate generated a large number 
of books and articles. A response is offered to the criticisms, suggesting that 
we will not be able to evade the problem as easily as some critics have 
proposed, and that an age-limit proposal should be compared with other 
unpleasant choices, not with an ideal world.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/34.3.393
PMID: 8076882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Med Sect Proc. 1993:111-37.

Long-term care with emphasis on underwriting.

Hankwitz PE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin.

PMID: 8078865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Am J Gastroenterol. 1994 Sep;89(9):1467-71.

Prognosis of chronic pancreatitis: an international multicenter study. 
International Pancreatitis Study Group.

Lowenfels AB(1), Maisonneuve P, Cavallini G, Ammann RW, Lankisch PG, Andersen 
JR, DiMagno EP, Andrén-Sandberg A, Domellöf L, Di Francesco V, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, New York Medical College, Valhalla.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to determine which factors predict 
mortality in a cohort of patients with chronic alcoholic and nonalcoholic 
pancreatitis. Patients with chronic pancreatitis are known to have a reduced 
life expectancy, but the quantitative relationship between various clinical 
features and survival is unclear.
METHODS: We evaluated survival among 2015 subjects with chronic pancreatitis 
treated at seven centers located in six countries.
RESULTS: Mean age at diagnosis was 46 +/- 13 yr and mean duration of follow-up 
was 7.4 +/- 6.2 yr. Overall survival at 10 yr was 70% (95% confidence interval 
(CI), 68-73%) and at 20 yr was 45% (95% CI, 41-49%). Survival was significantly 
less than in the background population. There were 559 deaths observed among 
those with chronic pancreatitis compared with an expected number of 157.4, 
yielding a standardized mortality ratio (SMR) of 3.6 (95% CI, 3.3-3.9). Older 
subjects and those with alcoholic pancreatitis had a significant reduction in 
survival. In a multivariate analysis, mortality of middle-aged and older 
subjects was 2.3 (95% CI, 1.8-2.8) and 6.3 (95% CI, 4.7-8.3) times greater than 
subjects less than 40 yr at diagnosis. Smoking (hazard ratio, 1.4; 95% CI, 
1.0-1.9), drinking (hazard ratio, 1.6; 95% CI, 1.2-2.2), or development of 
cirrhosis (hazard ratio, 2.5; 95% CI, 2.0-3.2) increased the risk of death 
during the observation period, but we observed no survival difference in 
operated vs. nonoperated patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Age at diagnosis, smoking, and drinking are major predictors of 
mortality in patients with chronic pancreatitis.

PMID: 8079921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Am J Hum Genet. 1994 Sep;55(3):468-75.

The DYT1 gene on 9q34 is responsible for most cases of early limb-onset 
idiopathic torsion dystonia in non-Jews.

Kramer PL(1), Heiman GA, Gasser T, Ozelius LJ, de Leon D, Brin MF, Burke RE, 
Hewett J, Hunt AL, Moskowitz C, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 97201.

Idiopathic torsion dystonia (ITD) is characterized by involuntary twisting 
movements and postures. A gene for this disorder, DYT1, was mapped to chromosome 
9q34 in 12 Ashkenazi Jewish (AJ) families and one large non-Jewish kindred. In 
the AJ population, strong linkage disequilibrium exists between DYT1 and 
adjacent markers within a 2-cM region. The associated haplotype occurs in > 90% 
of early limb-onset AJ cases. We examined seven non-Jewish ITD families of 
northern European and French Canadian descent to determine the extent to which 
early-onset ITD in non-Jews maps to DYT1. Results are consistent with linkage to 
the DYT1 region. Affected individuals in these families are clinically similar 
to the AJ cases; i.e., the site of onset is predominantly in the limbs and at 
least one individual in each pedigree had onset before age 12 years. None 
carries the AJ haplotype; therefore, they probably represent different mutations 
in the DYT1 gene. The two French Canadian families, however, display the same 
haplotype. Estimates of penetrance in non-Jewish families range from .40 to .75. 
We identified disease gene carriers and, with adjustments for age at onset, 
obtained a direct estimate of penetrance of .46. This is consistent with 
estimates of 30%-40% in the AJ population. Two other non-Jewish families with 
atypical ITD (later onset and/or cranial or cervical involvement) are not linked 
to DYT1, which indicates involvement of other genes in dystonia.

PMCID: PMC1918396
PMID: 8079990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Am J Hum Genet. 1994 Sep;55(3):588-9.

Genetic factors that protect against dementia.

Hirst C, Yee IM, Sadovnick AD.

Comment on
    Am J Hum Genet. 1994 Apr;54(4):650-7.

PMCID: PMC1918388
PMID: 8080000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1994 Aug;21(11):1758-61.

[The analysis of prognosis of patients with gastric cancer with the nodal 
stage(N, n) and the number of involved lymph nodes].

[Article in Japanese]

Ishihara S(1), Nakajima T, Ota K, Oyama S, Wakabayashi K, Nishi M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Surgery, Cancer Institute Hospital.

Now we use the nodal grade (N, n) as a prognostic indicator in patients with 
gastric cancer according to the general rules for the gastric cancer study. But 
there are both of patients with good and poor prognosis in the same nodal grade. 
Then we analyzed the survival of patients with gastric cancer based on the nodal 
grade and the number involved lymph nodes, and discussed the new prognostic 
indicator with both of them. We classified the three groups based on the number 
of involved nodes as follows: 0.1-4.5-. There is the differences in survival 
between each pair of groups statistically. The relationship between the nodal 
grade (N, n) and the number of lymph node metastasis is that the survival of 
patients with involved nodes more than five is equal to the survival of the 
patients with high nodal grade and involved nodes 1-4. Therefore it suggest that 
the new grading consisting of them will be more better prognostic indicator.

PMID: 8080292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Lung Cancer. 1994 Jul;11(1-2):83-91. doi: 10.1016/0169-5002(94)90285-2.

Carboplatin plus epirubicin plus VP-16, concurrent 'split course' radiotherapy 
and adjuvant surgery for limited small cell lung cancer. Gruppo Oncologico 
Centro-Sud-Isole (GOCSI).

Gridelli C(1), D'Aprile M, Curcio C, Brancaccio L, Palmeri S, Comella G, Veltri 
E, Ferrante G, Gentile M, Rossi A, et al.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Oncologia Medica, Facoltà di Medicina, Università Federico II di 
Napoli, Italy.

Thirty-three patients with limited small cell lung cancer (SCLC) received 
carboplatin, epirubicin and VP-16 chemotherapy, concurrent 'split course' 
thoracic radiotherapy, followed by surgery for patients achieving an objective 
response (OR). High-risk patients and those staged T4-N3 (IIIB) at diagnosis, 
were excluded from surgery. After induction chemoradiotherapy we obtained 90.9% 
OR, with 63.3% obtaining complete response (CR). Ten patients (30.3%) were 
eligible for surgery after induction therapy. Five patients (15.1%) were 
subjected to surgery and five additional patients refused. Of the five patients 
who were subjected to surgery, four had a complete response (CR), (three 
pathological confirmations), and one had a partial response (PR), 
(unresectable). The median survival time for all patients was 16 months with 
12.1% of the long-term survivors still living after 2 years and 9% still living 
after 3 and 4 years. Toxicity consisted mainly of myelosuppression. This study 
shows a high activity of the chemotherapy and the chemoradiotherapeutic regimen 
employed but a low feasibility for adjuvant surgery in SCLC.

DOI: 10.1016/0169-5002(94)90285-2
PMID: 8081707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Transpl Immunol. 1994;2(1):61-7. doi: 10.1016/0966-3274(94)90080-9.

Combined liver-kidney transplantation and the effect of preformed 
lymphocytotoxic antibodies.

