Saidman SL(1), Duquesnoy RJ, Demetris AJ, McCauley J, Ramos H, Mazariegos G, 
Shapiro R, Starzl TE, Fung JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine.

Thirty-eight sequentially placed liver and kidney allografts were evaluated with 
respect to patient and graft survival, and the influence of preformed 
lymphocytotoxic antibodies was analysed. The results suggest that the survival 
rate of combined liver and kidney transplantation is similar to the survival 
rate of liver transplantation alone. Sequentially placed kidney allografts may 
be protected from hyperacute rejection in the presence of donor specific 
lymphocytotoxic antibodies, but not in all instances. Both patient and kidney 
allograft survival was lower in positive crossmatch patients (33% and 17% 
respectively) than in negative crossmatch patients (78% and 75%). High levels of 
panel reactive antibodies (> 10%) also appeared to have a deleterious effect on 
survival, although the majority of the patients who failed also had a positive 
crossmatch. Although performed lymphocytotoxic antibodies are not an absolute 
contraindication to combined liver-kidney transplantation, they do appear to 
have a deleterious effect on long-term graft survival. However, more correlation 
with clinical parameters is needed.

DOI: 10.1016/0966-3274(94)90080-9
PMCID: PMC2956073
PMID: 8081794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Chemotherapy. 1994 Jul-Aug;40(4):272-8. doi: 10.1159/000239204.

Plant lectins as inhibitors of tumour growth and modulators of host immune 
response.

Ganguly C(1), Das S.

Author information:
(1)Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute, Calcutta, India.

The antitumour activities of four plant lectins, phytohaemagglutinin, pokeweed 
mitogen, soybean agglutinin, and wheat germ agglutinin, were evaluated on a 
murine ascitic lymphoma. The effects of lectin treatment on mitogenic response 
of peripheral blood lymphocytes and macrophage-mediated tumour cell lysis were 
also assessed. All four lectins studied were found to be able to restrict tumour 
growth and to improve the life expectancy of the host. The response of 
peripheral blood lymphocytes towards mitogenic stimulation was found to be 
improved and enhancement of tumour cytolysis by peritoneal macrophages was noted 
following lectin treatment.

DOI: 10.1159/000239204
PMID: 8082415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. J Am Acad Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 1994 Jul-Aug;33(6):824-33. doi: 
10.1097/00004583-199407000-00008.

Stimulatory tests of growth hormone secretion in prepubertal major depression: 
depressed versus normal children.

Ryan ND(1), Dahl RE, Birmaher B, Williamson DE, Iyengar S, Nelson B, Puig-Antich 
J, Perel JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh, PA.

OBJECTIVE: Blunted stimulation of growth hormone (GH) secretion after 
pharmacological stimuli has been linked to depressive and anxiety disorders 
throughout the life span. This study sought to better characterize this 
dysregulation in prepubertal depression.
METHOD: GH regulation was compared in 38 medically healthy prepubertal children 
with current major depressive disorder and 19 control children who were 
medically and psychiatrically healthy. The study evaluated GH stimulatory 
responses to three pharmacological challenge agents: (1) insulin-induced 
hypoglycemia, using 0.1 IU/kg intravenous regular insulin; (2) 1.3 micrograms/kg 
intravenous clonidine; and (3) 1.0 microgram/kg intravenous human growth 
hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH).
RESULTS: The results provide replication and extension of earlier findings. GH 
responses to insulin-induced hypoglycemia and to GHRH stimulation were blunted 
in depressed children compared to the normal controls. Clonidine stimulation 
results yielded a similar picture but did not reach statistical significance.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall these results further strengthen the evidence showing GH 
dysregulation in childhood depression. However, the blunted GH response seen 
with GHRH (which reflects pituitary hyporesponsivity) was in contrast to our 
original hypothesis and has implications regarding the site (or sites) of 
dysregulation.

DOI: 10.1097/00004583-199407000-00008
PMID: 8083139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. J Clin Oncol. 1994 Sep;12(9):1859-67. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1994.12.9.1859.

Blood transfusion-modulated tumor recurrence: first results of a randomized 
study of autologous versus allogeneic blood transfusion in colorectal cancer 
surgery.

Heiss MM(1), Mempel W, Delanoff C, Jauch KW, Gabka C, Mempel M, Dieterich HJ, 
Eissner HJ, Schildberg FW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Klinikum Grosshadern, Ludwig Maximilians University, 
Munich, Germany.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 1995 May;13(5):1280-1.

PURPOSE: Allogeneic blood transfusions have reportedly been associated with a 
poor prognosis in patients with curatively resected cancer. To control for 
immunosuppression induced by a speculatively causal allogeneic blood 
transfusion, we designed a randomized study in which the control group received 
autologous blood transfusions not related to any condition of immunosuppression.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred twenty patients with potentially curative 
resectable colorectal cancer and the capability to predeposit autologous blood 
were randomly selected to receive either standard allogeneic blood transfusion 
or predeposited autologous blood.
RESULTS: In curatively resected cancer patients, the number who needed 
allogeneic blood transfusions was reduced from 60% in the allogeneic blood group 
to 33% in the autologous blood group (P = .009). After a median follow-up 
duration of 22 months (range, 8 to 48) tumor recurrence was observed in 28.9% of 
the allogeneic blood group and 16.7% of the autologous blood group. Life-table 
analysis established a tendency toward a shorter tumor-free survival for the 
allogeneic blood group (log-rank P = .11). The problem with this analysis was 
the strong association of allogeneic blood transfusions with tumor recurrence, 
which interfered in 33% of patients in the autologous blood group who required 
additional allogeneic blood transfusions. Multivariate analysis of established 
risk factors for tumor recurrence and surgery-related variables reflecting 
potential immunosuppressive conditions showed that only pT stage (relative risk, 
6.61; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.82 to 23.99; P = .004), pN stage (relative 
risk, 8.39; 95% CI, 3.15 to 22.33; P < .001), and the need for allogeneic blood 
(relative risk, 6.18; 95% CI, 2.20 to 17.37; P < .001) were independent 
predictors of tumor recurrence. Subgroup analysis of patients who received a 
transfusion of < or = 2 U blood found a significantly higher risk of tumor 
recurrence in the allogeneic blood group (relative risk, 5.16; 95% CI, 1.13 to 
23.62; P = .034), which was reduced to borderline significance (relative risk, 
3.54; 95% CI, 0.76 to 16.51; P = .107) by adjustment for tumor (T) and node (N) 
stage.
CONCLUSION: As indicated by these first results, the blood transfusion modality 
has a significant effect on tumor recurrence after surgical treatment of 
colorectal cancer. A change in the practice of blood transfusion might thus 
potentially surpass the impact of any recent adjuvant treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1994.12.9.1859
PMID: 8083709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Sep;20(3):357-65; discussion 365-6. doi: 
10.1016/0741-5214(94)90133-3.

Management of failed and infected axillofemoral grafts.

Marston WA(1), Risley GL, Criado E, Burnham SJ, Keagy BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of 
Medicine.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to review the treatment of patients with 
failed or infected axillofemoral bypass grafts and to determine the efficacy of 
remedial procedures in maintaining graft patency and limb preservation.
METHODS: Thirty-four patients with 37 failed or infected axillofemoral grafts 
were retrospectively reviewed. In nine cases there was no attempt at 
revascularization, and in the remaining 28 cases, a total of 52 remedial 
procedures was performed. Nine were performed in patients with graft infection 
and 43 in patients with graft thrombosis. In patients with axillofemoral graft 
failure, 21 thrombectomies, 13 graft revisions, and 9 secondary reconstructions 
were performed. Eighty-eight percent of patients were monitored at least 2 years 
or until graft failure.
RESULTS: Eight of nine patients receiving no remedial procedure required major 
amputation. The limb salvage rate was 64% +/- 11% at 30 months in the 25 
patients undergoing remedial procedures. Twenty-eight percent of failed 
axillofemoral grafts remained patent at 2 years after initial failure with 
single or multiple thrombectomies or revisions. Life-table primary patency after 
secondary reconstructions (81% +/- 10.9% at 24 months) was significantly better 
than after thrombectomy alone (10% +/- 4.2% at 24 months) or graft revision (16% 
+/- 10.6% at 24 months) by log-rank test (p < 0.001 and p < 0.005, 
respectively). Patients undergoing reconstruction with descending thoracic aorta 
to femoral artery bypass had an 89% +/- 11% patency rate at 24 months. Graft 
infection resulted in a perioperative mortality rate of 22% and amputation in 
57% of survivors.
CONCLUSION: Axillofemoral graft failure most often results in limb loss without 
remedial procedures. Thrombectomy and revision procedures had poor long-term 
patency rates and salvaged only a minority of grafts despite multiple 
procedures. Reconstruction by use of an alternate source of inflow such as the 
descending thoracic aorta resulted in better long-term patency rates in patients 
well enough to tolerate a major reoperative procedure.

DOI: 10.1016/0741-5214(94)90133-3
PMID: 8084027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Sep;20(3):389-94; discussion 394-5. doi: 
10.1016/0741-5214(94)90137-6.

Infrainguinal endovascular in situ saphenous vein bypass: ongoing results.

Rosenthal D(1), Dickson C, Rodriguez FJ, Blackshear WM Jr, Clark MD, Lamis PA, 
Pallos LL.

Author information:
(1)Georgia Baptist Medical Center, Medical College of Georgia, Atlanta.

PURPOSE: With 70 cm "cutter" valvulotomes for valvulotomy and an electronically 
steerable nitinol catheter to occlude venous tributaries with platinum coils, 
endovascular in situ saphenous vein (EISV) bypass can be safely performed from 
within the saphenous vein. To determine whether EISV bypass could reduce 
hospital length of stay (LOS) and perioperative morbidity without compromising 
patency, another 53 EISV bypasses for limb salvage were performed.
METHODS: Tributary occlusion was accomplished with only fluoroscopic 
surveillance with a new, smaller, and more steerable silicone-tipped nitinol 
catheter.
RESULTS: Two (3.7%) wound complications occurred. The mean hospital LOS after 
operation was 4.2 days (range 2 to 29 days). All tributaries initially embolized 
remained occluded, and three "missed" arteriovenous fistulas were identified 
during follow-up extending to 15 month (mean 8.4 months). Eighty-eight percent 
(49 of 54) of phase II bypasses remained patent, whereas life-table analysis of 
all bypasses (phase I and II) was 77% (69/99) at 24 months follow-up (mean 13.6 
months). By comparison, 41 infrainguinal saphenous vein in situ bypasses with 
"classic" open techniques were performed concurrently. The mean postoperative 
LOS was 11.6 days (range 4 to 42 days), wound complications occurred in 24% (10) 
of patients, and two "missed" arteriovenous fistulas were identified during 
follow-up. Eighty-three percent (34 of 41) of bypasses remain patent at 24 
months follow-up (mean 16.2 months).
CONCLUSIONS: If EISV bypass long-term patency rates remain similar to classic in 
situ bypass patency results, the additional benefits of decreased hospital LOS, 
reduced wound-related complications, shortened recuperation, and therefore 
increased health care savings gives this endovascular technique strong 
consideration as the possible future operation for infrainguinal saphenous veins 
in situ bypass.

DOI: 10.1016/0741-5214(94)90137-6
PMID: 8084031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Sep;20(3):451-6; discussion 456-7. doi: 
10.1016/0741-5214(94)90145-7.

Infrainguinal reconstruction with arm vein, lesser saphenous vein, and remnants 
of greater saphenous vein: a report of 257 cases.

Londrey GL(1), Bosher LP, Brown PW, Stoneburner FD Jr, Pancoast JW, Davis RK.

Author information:
(1)Virginia Surgical Associates, P.C., Richmond 23226.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the results of infrainguinal 
reconstructions with arm vein, lesser saphenous vein, and remnants of greater 
saphenous vein (ectopic vein grafts).
METHODS: The records of 222 patients who underwent 257 bypasses were 
restrospectively reviewed. Most of the grafts were placed for rest pain or 
tissue loss (88%) and were secondary reconstructions (70%) to the infrapopliteal 
level (90%). Single-length vein grafts were constructed in 66% of cases, whereas 
34% were composite vein grafts.
RESULTS: Secondary graft patency was 70%, 52%, and 43% at 1, 3, and 5 years. 
Single-length grafts had significantly better patency rates at all intervals: 
78% versus 56% at 1 year (p = 0.001), 60% versus 39% at 3 years (p = 0.004), and 
52% versus 29% at 5 years (p = 0.002). The limb salvage rate was 69% at 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Ectopic vein grafts with primarily arm vein are an acceptable 
alternative for infrainguinal reconstruction in the absence of suitable 
ipsilateral greater saphenous vein.

DOI: 10.1016/0741-5214(94)90145-7
PMID: 8084039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Nurs Times. 1994 Aug 10-16;90(32):20.

Against all odds.

Day M.

PMID: 8084769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1994;42(4):371-3.

[Level and trends in mortality in France and western europe].

[Article in French]

Jougla E.

PMID: 8085054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Rev Med Chil. 1993 Dec;121(12):1446-55.

[The epidemiological transition in Chile].

[Article in Spanish]

Albalá C(1), Vio F, Robledo A, Icaza G.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Nutrición y Tecnología de los Alimentos (INTA), Universidad de 
Chile.

Aiming to describe the place that Chile has in the epidemiological transition, a 
descriptive study of the changes in demographic and epidemiological profiles of 
the country during the last 30 years is presented. The important decrease in 
general and child mortality rates, that has lead to an increase in life 
expectancy and ageing of the population, is emphasized. A 82% reduction in the 
proportion of deaths among less than one year old children and a 62% increase in 
mortality among people 65 years or older is observed. In agreement with these 
changes, non transmissible chronic diseases appear as the principal cause of 
mortality (65% of all deaths). However, regarding morbidity, an increase in 
digestive infectious and sexually transmitted diseases and a decrease in 
immuno-preventable diseases, excepting measles, is noted. It is concluded that, 
according to mortality, Chile is in a post transition stage, but there is 
persistence of some infectious diseases, typical of a pre-transition stage.

PMID: 8085073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Lik Sprava. 1993 Sep;(9):13-7.

[The effect of the rehabilitation of patients who have had a myocardial infarct 
on the quality and duration of their lives].

[Article in Russian]

Sledzevskaia IK, Kravtsova LA.

PMID: 8085339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. World Health Stat Q. 1994;47(1):26-30.

Population change, health planning and human resource development in the health 
sector.

Mosley WH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Dynamics, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD.

As a result of the demographic and epidemiological transitions now occurring 
rapidly in many developed countries, a dramatic shift in the age structures of 
populations and the burden of disease towards the middle-aged and elderly is 
expected to take place over the next several decades. In the 1990s, however, 
there remains great diversity across countries in fertility levels and mortality 
patterns. The World Bank's 1993 World Development Report assessed the global 
burden of disease in order to define the minimum packages of public health 
measures and clinical interventions that would improve health conditions in 
low-income countries in a cost-effective and affordable way. Strategically 
implementing these programmes will require that government investments be 
directed toward a limited number of cost-effective health interventions, 
delivered equitably to the entire population. At the same time, steps must be 
taken to improve the efficiency and contain the costs of health care delivery in 
the public and private sectors. Such a population-based health strategy will 
require the development of a wide range of scientific, analytical and technical 
capacities, currently rare in most ministries of health. This will require the 
involvement of epidemiologists, demographers, sociologists, analysts, operations 
research specialists and environmental health scientists. Building up these 
capabilities in health ministries, universities or the private sector will be an 
essential ingredient of health system reform.

PIP: In the 1990s, the demographic transition in the less developed countries is 
characterized by great variation in fertility, mortality, population age 
structure, age pattern, and cause of death. This heterogeneity is reviewed in 
selected demographic indicators from 7 major less developed regions of the 
world. At one extreme is Sub-Saharan Africa, with high fertility and high 
mortality, where 46% of the population is under age 15, and 60% of all deaths 
are found in this age group (the majority of deaths occur under the age of 5). 
At the other extreme is China, with low fertility and a high life expectancy, 
where only 27% of the population and 13% of all deaths are in the youngest age 
group. The 1993 World Development Report proposed a minimum package of public 
health measures and essential clinical interventions which would cost only $12 
per capita a year in a low-income country, and would reduce diseases by 31%. 
Interventions are primarily directed toward preventing and treating diseases. 
The interventions for children include immunizations, micronutrient 
supplementation, and treatment of worm infections, while for adults they entail 
prenatal and delivery care, family planning, short-course chemotherapy for 
tuberculosis, and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases. The traditional 
Western-model, high-technology medical health care systems in developing 
countries have been institution-based, with hospitals and health personnel most 
concerned with one-on-one sickness care. The 1993 World Development Report puts 
priority on a population-based health development strategy that will require 
major reform of the health system in many countries. The medical education 
institutions are to be reoriented in developing and developed countries to 
curtail specialist training and promote primary care. The International Network 
of Community-Oriented Educational Institutions in the Health Sciences adopted 
one model of curriculum reforms that emphasize community-based and problem-based 
learning.

PMID: 8085367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Arch Pediatr. 1994 Jan;1(1):20-5.

[Syndrome of delayed maturation of the sucking-swallowing reflex].

[Article in French]

Leroy-Malherbe V(1), Husson B, Landrieu P, Tardieu M.

Author information:
(1)Service de neurologie, hôpital de Bicêtre, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France.

BACKGROUND: Neonates with neurological diseases often have difficulty in sucking 
or swallowing. This report describes such difficulties in a group of infants 
with normal development, suggesting late maturation of sucking and swallowing.
POPULATION AND METHODS: Seven infants (four girls, three boys) had suffered from 
aspiration since their first day of life (four cases) with severe asphyxia (two 
cases), late repeated episodes of airway obstruction by accumulated secretions 
(two cases), and weak isolated sucking and swallowing (one case). The lack of 
sucking and swallowing or difficulty with them were the main manifestations in 
these newborns: the face lacked expression and the tongue movements were 
abnormal with, in two cases, hyper-extension of the neck. A second phase during 
the first months of life was marked by episodes of bradycardia and/or 
drowsiness. A third phase during the first years of life was characterized by 
repeated episodes of respiratory infections, recurrent stridor and accumulation 
of saliva. These manifestations required prolonged hospitalization (mean: 2.5 
months), nasogastric feeding, and in two cases, surgery. The investigations 
during the acute phases included a cineradiographic study of swallowing, 
laryngoscopy, monitoring of the distal esophagus pH, a barium swallow, 
polygraphic recording during sleep and MR imaging of the brain stem. The 
difficulties in sucking or swallowing disappeared before the age of 6 months 
(two cases), between 6 and 12 months (one case), between 1 and 5 years (four 
cases) without any sequelae or speech disorders.
CONCLUSION: These transient sucking or swallowing difficulties suggest late 
maturation of praxis. They required specialized prolonged education after 
careful, essentially clinical, investigation.

PMID: 8087214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. J Heart Valve Dis. 1994 May;3(3):247-53.

Prophylactic reoperation for strut fractures of the Björk-Shiley convexo-concave 
heart valve.

Schöndube FA(1), Althoff W, Dörge HC, Voss M, Laufer JL, Chandler JG, Messmer 
BJ.

Author information:
(1)Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Klinikum RWTH Aachen, Germany.

Outlet strut fracture of the Björk-Shiley Convexo-Concave (C/C) heart valve is 
the current paradigm of structural failure of mechanical heart valve prostheses. 
The estimated risk of fracture for C/C valves varies from 0.02% to 2.5% per 
patient-year, depending on valve size, opening angle, date of manufacture and 
position as a mitral or aortic replacement. This report examines our experience 
with 396 implants, comprising 346 C/C 60 degrees valves and 50 C/C 70 degrees 
valves. The 30-day mortality was 1.8%. Through April 1993, mean follow up was 
8.9 years, incorporating 2971 patient-years and knowledge of the current status 
of 91.5% (356/389) of operative survivors. Late mortality was 3.7% per 
patient-year, including one 60 degrees and one 70 degrees outlet strut fracture. 
To evaluate the risk of semi-elective valve re-replacement at our institution, 
we reviewed the results of isolated re-replacements of failing or incipiently 
failing bioprostheses in 65 patients who had no serious co-morbidity and who 
were NYHA Class III or lower immediately before the procedure. The 30-day 
mortality was 4.6% and the overall serious morbidity rate was 10.8%, 
necessitating six repeat reoperations. When these factors were balanced against 
the life expectancy and general status of five patients with large-size, 
higher-fracture-risk 70 degrees C/C valves, it was concluded that only two 
patients remained possible reoperation candidates. Consideration for 
re-replacement of a normally functioning C/C heart valve should take into 
account institution-specific experience because structural failure remains a low 
risk compared to valve-related complications engendered by reoperation.

PMID: 8087260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. J Hematother. 1993 Winter;2(4):457-66. doi: 10.1089/scd.1.1993.2.457.

Does in vitro bone marrow purging improve the outcome after autologous bone 
marrow transplantation?

Lazarus HM(1), Rowe JM, Goldstone AH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Ireland Cancer Center of the University Hospitals of 
Cleveland, Case Western Reserve University, OH.

High-dose therapy with bone marrow rescue is now regarded as an effective 
treatment for a variety of malignancies. In an attempt to circumvent the 
scarcity of HLA-matched donors, autologous marrow has been successfully used as 
the source of cells for hematopoietic reconstitution. There has been 
considerable controversy as to whether any malignant cells present in the graft 
could contribute to relapse of disease post-transplant. In this paper we review 
clinical results obtained by using autologous transplantation and present 
evidence on how ex vivo tumor purging may contribute to the outcome.

DOI: 10.1089/scd.1.1993.2.457
PMID: 8087496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Lung Cancer. 1994 Mar;10 Suppl 1:S239-44. doi: 10.1016/0169-5002(94)91687-x.

Radiotherapy alone versus combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy in unresectable 
non-small cell lung carcinoma.

Le Chevalier T(1), Arriagada R, Quoix E, Ruffie P, Martin M, Douillard JY, 
Tarayre M, Lacombe-Terrier MJ, Laplanche A.

Author information:
(1)Institut Gustave-Roussy, Villejuif, France.

We report the results observed in a large randomized study comparing 
radiotherapy alone to combined radiotherapy and chemotherapy in unresectable 
squamous cell and large cell lung carcinoma. Radiation dose was 65 Gy in both 
groups and chemotherapy included vindesine, cyclophosphamide, cisplatin and 
lomustine. One hundred seventy-seven patients received radiotherapy alone, and 
176 received the combined treatment. The 2-year survival rate was 14% for 
patients receiving radiotherapy vs. 21% for patients receiving the combined 
treatment (P = 0.02). The distant metastasis rate was significantly lower in the 
group receiving the combined treatment (P < 0.001). Local control at 1 year was 
poor in both groups (17% and 15%, respectively) and remains a major problem in 
locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/0169-5002(94)91687-x
PMID: 8087515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Lung Cancer. 1994 Mar;10 Suppl 1:S245-52. doi: 10.1016/0169-5002(94)91688-8.

Fractionation and dose in thoracic radiotherapy.

Saunders MI(1).

Author information:
(1)Marie Curie Research Wing for Oncology, Mount Vernon Centre for Cancer 
Treatment, Mount Vernon Hospital, Northwood, Middlesex, UK.

The results of radiotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer confined to the 
mediastinum are disappointing. Conventional radiotherapy giving 60 Gy in 6 weeks 
gives primary tumour control of up to 23% with a 1 and 2-year survival of the 
order of 35% and 12%, respectively. Hyperfractionation--the giving of many small 
doses, and acceleration--the shortening of the overall duration of treatment, 
are two of the strategies now being tested. The CHART regime (Continuous, 
Hyperfractionated, Accelerated Radiotherapy) where 36 fractions are given over 
12 consecutive days combines both features. In a pilot study this regime gave 
40% local tumour control and a 1- and 2-year survival of 60% and 40%, 
respectively. Randomized controlled trials have commenced in the United Kingdom 
comparing CHART with conventional radiotherapy (60 Gy in 6 weeks). Over 300 
patients have been entered in the first 2.5 years by 11 participating centres. 
It is hoped to accrue over 500 patients to this study in a period of 4 years.

DOI: 10.1016/0169-5002(94)91688-8
PMID: 8087516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Lung Cancer. 1994 Mar;10 Suppl 1:S263-70. doi: 10.1016/0169-5002(94)91690-x.

Radiosensitization by cytotoxic drugs. The EORTC experience by the Radiotherapy 
and Lung Cancer Cooperative Groups.

Schaake-Koning C(1), van den Bogaert W, Dalesio O, Festen J, Hoogenhout J, van 
Houtte P, Kirkpatrick A, Koolen M, Maat B, Nijs A, et al.

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam.

A three-arm randomized trial was performed to assess the acute and late toxicity 
and the impact on survival of the combination high-dose, split-course 
radiotherapy with 30 mg/m2 cisplatin (cDDP) weekly, with 6 mg/m2 cisplatin daily 
compared to radiotherapy alone in patients with non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC). The study started in May 1984 and was closed in May 1989 after 331 
patients were randomised. The analysis was performed after a minimum follow-up 
period of 22 months. Radiotherapy (RT) consisted of 30 Gy, 10 fractions, five 
fractions a week; then a 3-week split followed by 25 Gy in 10 fractions. Nausea 
and vomiting were increased for a majority of the patients in the combined 
treatment arms during treatment. There was no addition of bone marrow 
suppression, renal dysfunction or esophagitis. Increase of late radiation damage 
was not observed. Local control (= absence of local progression) was improved 
for patients treated according to the daily cisplatin arm. This has lead to an 
improvement in overall survival. There was no effect in time to distant 
metastasis due to the combined modality. The treatment influence was confirmed 
in the multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSION: local control and survival can be improved by combining radiotherapy 
with daily low-dose cisplatin in patients with inoperable NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1016/0169-5002(94)91690-x
PMID: 8087519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Curr Genet. 1994 Feb;25(2):169-77. doi: 10.1007/BF00309544.

Repetitious structure and transcription control of a polyubiquitin gene in 
Volvox carteri.

Schiedlmeier B(1), Schmitt R.

Author information:
(1)Lehrstuhl für Genetik, Universität Regensburg, Germany.

Southern analysis indicated the presence of at least four ubiquitin gene loci in 
the Volvox carteri genome. Three of these, a polyubiquitin gene described here 
and a non-segregating ubiquitin gene pair, were assigned to two different 
linkage groups by RFLP mapping; the non-polymorphic fourth gene locus remained 
unassigned. The polyubiquitin gene was cloned and its 2,116-bp sequence 
determined. It contains six exons each interrupted by an intron at Gly35, and it 
encodes a pentameric polyubiquitin polypeptide consisting of five runs of 76 
identical amino-acid residues and a C-terminal extension of one leucine. The 
five tandem repeats of coding units plus introns exhibit an unusually high 
degree of overall sequence identity indicating an efficient process of gene 
homogenization in this region of the V. carteri genome. S1 mapping revealed two 
closely-spaced transcription starts, 24 and 28 nucleotides downstream from a 
putative TATA sequence. Preceding the TATA box are two 14-bp conserved 
heat-shock elements (HSEs) and two octameric sequences closely resembling an 
yesat HSE. Consistent with a 1.6-kb transcript seen on Northern blots are two 
polyadenylation signals (TGTAA) located 99 bp and 169 bp downstream from the TGA 
translational stop. The polyubiquitin gene was transcribed throughout the Volvox 
life cycle with peaks in the 1.6-kb mRNA levels during pre-cleavage, cleavage, 
and post-inversion. In contrast, an 0.6-kb monoubiquitin transcript was abundant 
only at the pre-cleavage stage suggesting a different type of gene control. Heat 
shock increased the level of polyubiquitin mRNA, whereas the level of 
monoubiquitin mRNA was down-regulated.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00309544
PMID: 8087887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Clin Rheumatol. 1994 Jun;13(2):289-92. doi: 10.1007/BF02249029.

Steroid-sparing medications in temporal arteritis--report of three cases and 
review of 174 reported patients.

Nesher G(1), Sonnenblick M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Saint Louis University School of Medicine, MO.

More than half the patients with temporal arteritis experience steroid-related 
side effects, which are associated with increased morbidity and may shorten life 
expectancy. We describe 3 such patients, and our experience in tapering their 
steroid dosage with the use of dapsone or methotrexate. Based on our data and 
the review of 174 reported patients, it seems that no definite recommendation 
can be drawn regarding the use of steroid-sparing agents in temporal arteritis. 
There is a need for large controlled studies of several potential agents to 
evaluate their role in the treatment of this disease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02249029
PMID: 8088076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Gaoxiong Yi Xue Ke Xue Za Zhi. 1994 Jul;10(7):337-51.

[Issues on aboriginal health in Taiwan].

[Article in Chinese]

Ko YC(1), Liu BH, Hsieh SF.

Author information:
(1)Aboriginal Health Laboratory, School of Public Health, Kaohsiung Medical 
College, Taiwan, Republic of China.

In recent years health professionals have been concerned about the health of 
aborigines which has been neglected for a long time. Health disparities are 
known to exist among aborigines and non-aborigines in the United States or other 
countries. In Taiwan, there are nine main aboriginal tribes consisting of 
approximately 330,000 people. In general, their health status, evaluated by life 
expectancy, mortality rates and the prevalence and incidence of various diseases 
amongst them, is worse than amongst the rest of the Taiwanese (general) 
population. Current investigations indicate that life expectancy for aborigines 
is on average 10 years less than that of the general population; 12.5 years less 
for men, 6 years less for women; approaching a standardized mortality ratio of 2 
fold, that is 2.1 fold in men, 1.7 fold in women. Accidental injures, suicide, 
tuberculosis, liver cirrhosis, alcoholism, pneumonia, bronchitis, parasite 
infections are the most important sources of diseases. Hypertension, heart 
disease, some selected sites of cancer, nutrition and lack of adaptation are 
gradually becoming important new sources of disorders. Although aboriginal 
health has improved over the decades, the author estimates that their overall 
health status is 25-30 years behind that of the general population or of 
off-shore islanders. The extent of their development varies with tribes. It is 
necessary to study the cause of why aborigines die so young. It may be due to 
insufficient medical care for heart disease whose prevalence is relatively low 
among aborigines but resultant mortality is nevertheless high. However, 
insufficient medical care cannot explain the high incidence of a number of 
cancers and resultant mortality. All factors relating to the environment, 
agents, hosts and diseases should be taken into consideration, such culture, 
transportation, life style, health behavior etc, and compared to those of 
non-aborigines. A series of studies are proposed to address the specific, 
multi-dimensional health demands of the aborigines. The author suggests the 
development of prevention and intervention strategies designed to overcome 
difficulties and barriers to eliminate these disparities among the people of 
Taiwan.

PMID: 8089870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Neuroepidemiology. 1994;13(4):175-8. doi: 10.1159/000110376.

Prevalence of movement disorders in elderly community residents.

Moghal S(1), Rajput AH, D'Arcy C, Rajput R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Canada.

We studied movement disorders (MD) in community residents of Saskatchewan aged > 
or = 65 years. A representative sample of 70 individuals had detailed 
neurological evaluation. Those who had definite and possible MD at first 
examination had a second neurological assessment by a senior neurologist. The 
most prevalent MD was essential tremor (ET) (14%) followed by Parkinson's 
disease (PD) (3%). The marked difference in prevalence ratios for PD and ET are 
attributed to: (a) higher incidence of ET in the general population; (b) a 
greater possibility that most, if not all, ET cases would reside in the 
community whereas a sizable proportion of elderly PD cases may be 
institutionalized, and (c) shortened survival in PD but a normal life expectancy 
in ET.

DOI: 10.1159/000110376
PMID: 8090259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Radiology. 1994 Oct;193(1):227-32. doi: 10.1148/radiology.193.1.8090896.

Stenoses of renal branch arteries in fibromuscular dysplasia: results of 
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty.

Cluzel P(1), Raynaud A, Beyssen B, Pagny JY, Gaux JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Radiology, Hôpital Broussais, Paris, France.

Comment in
    Radiology. 1994 Oct;193(1):19-21.

PURPOSE: To evaluate percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty (PTRA) in the 
treatment of renal branch artery stenoses caused by fibromuscular dysplasia.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The authors retrospectively studied the files of 20 
consecutive hypertensive patients with 25 branch artery stenoses associated with 
10 main renal artery lesions. Results at clinical and angiographic follow-up 
were assessed by means of life-table analysis.
RESULTS: PTRA was technically successful in 21 of the 25 renal branch artery 
stenoses (84%). One of the technical failures was treated by means of selective 
embolization. Nine of the 10 associated main renal artery lesions were 
successfully dilated, and the 10th was improved. Immediately after PTRA, at 
6-month follow-up, and at long-term follow-up, 70%, 76%, and 68% of the 
patients, respectively, were cured and 25%, 24%, and 16% were improved. Stenosis 
recurred in 9% of the branch arteries and was associated with clinical relapse; 
these arteries were redilated, and all patients were considered cured at the 
second 6-month follow-up.
CONCLUSION: PTRA should be considered the first-line treatment for hypertension 
due to renal branch artery stenosis in fibromuscular disease.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.193.1.8090896
PMID: 8090896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Z Gerontol. 1994 May-Jun;27(3):166-71.

[Is selection for extended life expectancy possible by regularity in aging?].

[Article in German]

Niedermüller H(1), Hofecker G.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Physiologie, Veterinärmedizinische Universität Wien.

To answer this question it is important to explain the mode of development of 
the different maximum life span potentials (MLP) during evolution. We know by 
empiric-historical investigations, that at least later in evolution appearing 
species of mammals possess a higher MLP. What does then mean a "regular 
process"? The aging process is a regular one, being a physiologic event, in the 
character of that what all we can determine at it, as far as it allows 
explanation and prediction. This did succeed in a high degree during the until 
now short tradition of experimental gerontology. We refer to experimental 
results not only from the literature but also from our own work on repair, 
genetic and metabolic changes and multivariate investigations into the 
biological age, to decide from two hypotheses of the causes of aging, how the 
title question can be answered: a) aging as a programmed event, brought about by 
aging genes, controlled by an intrinsic clock. These genes should restrict life 
expectancy or the replicative capacity of cells--hence the adaptive hypothesis; 
b) aging as a consequence of the accumulation of errors counteracted by 
antibiosenescent strategies (AS)--hence nonadaptive hypotheses, the most 
plausible one being that of the disposable soma. Later species are adapted 
better to changing environmental conditions by their other development, their 
ecological niches are larger, their environment contains specifically lesser 
dangers and risks, because they better cope with them--therefore it is worth 
while to spend more energy for the maintenance of their soma than for their 
reproduction: they develop better and more AS.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8091833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Z Gerontol. 1994 May-Jun;27(3):182-5.

[Age-dependent changes in skin biomechanics, measurements in vitro and in vivo].

[Article in German]

Vogel HG.

Age-dependence of mechanical parameters was studied in vitro in human skin 
obtained at autopsy and in rat skin. Parameters indicating strength, e.g. 
ultimate load, tensile strength, modulus of elasticity, and ultimate extension, 
showed a steep increase during maturation, a maximum at adulthood and a slight 
but significant decrease during senescence. Parameters indicating viscosity or 
plasticity studied in hysteresis-, relaxation-, and creep-experiments showed a 
decrease during the whole life span. Simultaneous studies of biochemical 
parameters indicated a parallel behavior of strength with the content of 
insoluble cross-linked collagen and of plasticity with the content of 
glycosaminoglycans. The in vitro experiments in rats could be confirmed by in 
vivo studies. Further studies in rats indicated an excellent ability of skin in 
old rats for complete restoration (restitutio ad integrum) after repeated 
loading.

PMID: 8091836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Z Gerontol. 1994 May-Jun;27(3):208-13.

[Obesity in the elderly and very elderly--prognostic significance and practical 
conclusions].

[Article in German]

Schneider J(1).

Author information:
(1)Abt. Endokrinologie und Stoffwechsel, Philipps-Universität, Marburg/Lahn.

Epidemiological work on the age-dependency of the relation between overweight 
and mortality confirms an opinion which is traditional among physicians and has 
it roots in a mixture of biological understanding and common sense. The data 
base can be summarized in three points: 1) Up to the age of 60-65 years, 
overweight is combined with decreased life expectancy. The excess mortality is 
found mainly in the cardiovascular area and can be explained by the well-known 
risk factors of atherosclerosis. In the Framingham-study, overweight per se is a 
risk factor for this group of diagnoses. 2) In the age group 65-74 years, the 
relation between overweight and excess mortality vanishes gradually; the right 
arm of the U- or J-curve levels off. The optimal BMI moves to the right, and the 
right arm of the curve is shortened. 3) In high age, from 75-80 years on, 
overweight coincides with improved prognosis. The geriatric literature is in 
agreement in the sense that overweight is no problem in high age.

PMID: 8091841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. J Neurooncol. 1993 Jun;16(3):235-42. doi: 10.1007/BF01057040.

Primary central nervous system involvement of the so called 'peripheral T-cell 
lymphoma'. Report of a case and review of the literature.

Mineura K(1), Sawataishi J, Sasajima T, Kowada M, Sugawara A, Ebina K.

Author information:
(1)Neurosurgical Service, Akita University Hospital, Japan.

Comment in
    J Neurooncol. 1994;18(1):83-4.

Primary central nervous system (CNS) involvement of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is 
uncommon and a vast majority of reported cases are of B-cell origin. We present 
a 52-year-old woman with primary peripheral T-cell lymphoma of the brain. 
Immunostaining of paraffin-embedded sections proved tumor cells to be positive 
for T-cell markers MT1 and UCHL1, and negative for B-cell markers MB1, and 4KB5. 
Radiotherapy combined with steroid therapy rendered neurologic recovery and 
complete tumor remission confirmed by computed tomography and magnetic resonance 
imaging. From a review of documented 19 cases of primary CNS T-cell lymphoma 
including the present case, this disease is characterized by poor prognosis 
among CNS lymphomas.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01057040
PMID: 8093131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1993 Jan;160(1):195-201. doi:
10.2214/ajr.160.1.8093226.

The impact of new imaging technology on worldwide health care, research, and 
teaching: fifth international symposium, August 1992.

Whalen E(1).

Author information:
(1)American Journal of Roentgenology, La Jolla, CA 92037.

At the end of the final session, one of the co-chairs, Ronald L. Arenson 
(University of California, San Francisco) summarized the main points made at the 
conference. He mentioned that the talks had shown both the differences and 
similarities among the world's nations and that computers have become vital 
tools for radiologic practice and research. Dr. Arenson discussed four major 
themes that the symposium had brought into focus: the importance of 
cost-effectiveness analyses; the need to provide radiologic equipment to 
developing countries; the significance of worldwide training programs in 
radiology; and the search for continuing support for research. The government, 
industry, and academia all have great interest in cost-effectiveness. 
Radiologists in the future will be required even more than in the past to 
justify expenditures on equipment and to explain the benefits of sophisticated 
examinations. As leaders in radiology, the participants were encouraged to take 
the "offensive" in showing how new, admittedly expensive, technology can save 
lives and money in the long run--especially in terms of early diagnosis. Dr. 
Arenson suggested a conference was needed to address the single issue of 
cost-effectiveness of radiologic medicine and to start a "think tank" that could 
develop approaches to the problems of rationally calculating cost-effectiveness. 
Research is needed to provide an inexpensive field radiology unit for use in 
developing countries. The fields of industry and research have made tremendous 
progress in providing sophisticated equipment appropriate for hospitals in 
industrialized nations, but doctors in developing countries need mobile units, 
which are especially useful when one radiologist must serve tens of thousands of 
people. Dr. Arenson suggested exploring the use of computed radiography, so that 
no film or processing supplies are necessary, and providing through that unit a 
link over telephone lines to hospitals with radiologic expertise for special 
cases. Worldwide training of radiologists must move toward the goals of both 
standardizing educational requirements and providing education that is relevant 
for each country's situation (e.g., life expectancy, GNP per capita, leading 
causes of death). Also, training must be provided for technologists and other 
health care workers--particularly in regions in which there are too few 
radiologists. Such training could be done in conjunction with the field unit 
described in the preceding paragraph, so that examinations could be performed by 
technologists in the field and then the images could be interpreted via computer 
hook-up by radiology experts in large hospitals that may be far away from the 
patient.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.160.1.8093226
PMID: 8093226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Am J Surg. 1993 Jan;165(1):101-5; discussion 105-6. doi: 
10.1016/s0002-9610(05)80411-8.

Biologic behavior of sporadic gastrinoma located to the right and left of the 
superior mesenteric artery.

Howard TJ(1), Sawicki MP, Stabile BE, Watt PC, Passaro E Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, UCLA School of Medicine.

Among a series of 107 closely followed patients with gastrinoma, 60 patients 
with sporadic type tumors were identified and evaluated. There were 44 patients 
(73%) with tumors to the right of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA). Of 
these, 16 (36%) had extrapancreatic tumors, 28 (64%) had tumor within lymph 
nodes, and 9 (20%) had multiple tumors. In this group of patients, there were 19 
(43%) cures, and only 9 (20%) patients had hepatic metastases. In contrast, in 
16 patients (27%) with tumors to the left of the SMA, there were no 
extrapancreatic tumors, only 3 patients (19%) had tumor within lymph nodes, and 
7 (44%) had multiple tumors. In this group, there was only one cure (6%), and 
nine (56%) patients had hepatic metastases. These findings suggest two distinct 
populations of sporadic gastrinoma, one to the right (gastrinoma triangle) and 
the other to the left (outside triangle) of the SMA, which appear to have 
different biologic behaviors. These differences may reflect divergent etiologies 
for these two groups of tumors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(05)80411-8
PMID: 8093424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Int J Radiat Biol. 1993 Jan;63(1):105-30. doi: 10.1080/09553009314550141.

Detection of irradiated food--methods and routine applications.

Schreiber GA(1), Helle N, Bögl KW.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social Medicine and Epidemiology, Federal Health Office (BGA), 
Berlin, Germany.

Irradiation of food for the purpose of extension of shelf life, control of 
microbial load, reduction of pathogenic microorganisms and disinfection is 
regarded by many consumers with suspicion. One reason is the lack of methods 
within food-controlling laboratories which can detect irradiation treatment and 
which are applied to control correct labelling. This review describes the 
potential of various methods to reveal irradiation treatment. Special emphasis 
is given to the three most successful methods, thermoluminescence, electron spin 
resonance spectroscopy and detection of volatiles. The possibilities and 
limitations of applying the methods in routine control are discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/09553009314550141
PMID: 8093462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Am J Med. 1993 Feb;94(2):160-8. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(93)90178-r.

Influenza and pneumococcal vaccination of HIV-infected patients: a policy 
analysis.

Rose DN(1), Schechter CB, Sacks HS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the policy of vaccinating human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV)-infected young adults against influenza and pneumococcal infections.
METHODS: Transition state model of clinical immune deterioration of HIV 
infection, published data, and experts' estimates for the uncertain variables. 
Outcome measures are the number of influenza and pneumococcal infection 
hospitalizations and deaths prevented over 10 years and cost-effectiveness 
ratios.
PATIENTS: Hypothetical cohort of HIV-infected 30-year-old patients.
RESULTS: Although pneumococcal vaccine effectiveness diminishes with advanced 
HIV disease, the risks of pneumococcal infection rise substantially. 
Pneumococcal vaccination was therefore found to be a reasonable prevention 
strategy at all HIV disease stages: few vaccinations are needed to prevent 
hospitalizations and deaths, and the vaccination strategy is cost-effective. By 
contrast, influenza incidence is low among young adults, and HIV-related 
immunodeficiency increases influenza risks only minimally. Because the vaccine 
is administered yearly, many more vaccinations must be administered and fewer 
hospitalizations and deaths are prevented than with pneumococcal vaccination. 
The costs to extend life expectancy are high, and beyond the costs of other 
prevention strategies for persons with moderate to severe immunodeficiency.
CONCLUSIONS: Pneumococcal vaccination is a reasonable prevention strategy for 
HIV-infected patients at all stages of immunodeficiency. Fewer hospitalizations 
and deaths are prevented by influenza vaccination, making it a far less 
cost-effective prevention strategy than pneumococcal vaccination.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(93)90178-r
