PMID: 8094271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Lancet. 1993 Feb 20;341(8843):457-60. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(93)90207-w.

Mesorectal excision for rectal cancer.

MacFarlane JK(1), Ryall RD, Heald RJ.

Author information:
(1)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1993 Feb 20;341(8843):471-2.
    Lancet. 1993 Apr 17;341(8851):1034.

Concern about world wide local recurrence rates for rectal cancer of 20-45%, 
together with anxiety at the recent proliferation of adjuvant therapies, led us 
to review the efficacy of total mesorectal excision (TME) with which no adjuvant 
therapy had been combined. Precise, sharp dissection is undertaken around the 
integral mesentery of the hind gut, which envelopes the entire mid rectum. This 
procedure adds to operative time and complications but has been claimed to 
eliminate virtually all locally recurrent disease after "curative" surgery. 
Independent analysis (J. K. M.) of prospective follow-up data extended over a 
13-year interval (1978-91; mean 7.5 years). The actuarial local recurrence rate 
after curative anterior resection at 5 years is 4% (95% Cl 0-7.5%) and the 
overall recurrence rate is 18% (10-25%). 10-year figures are 4% (0-11%) and 19% 
(7-32%). In view of the high-risk classification used for the North Central 
Cancer Treatment Group (NCCTG), which has led to a trend to chemoradiotherapy, a 
similar group of high-risk Basingstoke cases was constructed for comparison 
purposes. This group included 135 consecutive Dukes' B (B2) and Dukes' C cancer 
operations, both anterior resection and abdominal-perineal excision, for tumours 
below 12 cm from the anal verge. Results from TME alone are substantially 
superior to the best reported (NCCTG) from conventional surgery plus 
radiotherapy or combination chemoradiotherapy: 5% local recurrence at 5 years 
compared with 25% and 13.5%, respectively; and 22% overall recurrence compared 
with 62.7% and 41.5%, respectively (Dukes' B cases [B2], 15%; Dukes' C cases, 
32%). Meticulous TME, which encompasses the whole field of tumour spread, can 
improve cure rates and reduce the variability of outcomes between surgeons. Far 
more genuine "cures" of rectal cancer are possible by surgery alone than have 
generally been believed or are currently accepted. Better surgical results are 
an essential background for the more selective use of adjuvant therapy in the 
future.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(93)90207-w
PMID: 8094488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Proc Biol Sci. 1993 Jan 22;251(1330):47-52. doi: 10.1098/rspb.1993.0007.

Natural selection on multivariate traits in age-structured populations.

Charlesworth B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago, Illinois 
60637-1573.

The theory of selection on multivariate traits in age-structured populations has 
important implications for empirical and theoretical studies of life-history 
evolution. A model of natural selection on a set of correlated quantitative 
traits with age structure is derived here, using an extension of previous work 
on selection at a single locus. This formulation provides an equation for the 
change of the mean of a vector of traits that is accurate is selection is weak, 
and does not require the population always to be in demographic equilibrium as 
selection proceeds. The treatment is extended to density-dependent populations, 
and to equilibrium populations under frequency-dependent selection. In addition, 
further approximations are derived that produce evolutionary equilibria 
equivalent to those predicted by optimization and evolutionarily stable strategy 
(ESS) theory. It is shown that the conditions for equilibrium are valid even if 
selection is strong.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.1993.0007
PMID: 8094565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Lancet. 1993 Mar 13;341(8846):673-5. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(93)90433-h.

Differences in proximal femur bone density over two centuries.

Lees B(1), Molleson T, Arnett TR, Stevenson JC.

Author information:
(1)Wynn Institute for Metabolic Research, London, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1993 Jun 26;341(8861):1662.

The incidence of osteoporotic hip fractures in northern Europe has been 
increasing over the past few decades faster than the rate adjusted for increased 
life expectancy. One important factor that determines osteoporotic fracture risk 
is bone density. The restoration of a London church, during which skeletal 
material dating from 1729 to 1852 was recovered, gave us the opportunity to 
compare the rate of bone loss in the femora of these samples with that of 
present-day women. The rate of bone loss, as judged by dual energy X-ray 
absorptiometry, was significantly greater in modern-day women than in the women 
from two centuries ago, both pre-menopausally (p < 0.05) and post-menopausally 
(p < 0.01). The difference in bone loss in the Ward's triangle region between 
the Spitalfields samples and present-day women remained even when the assumed 
age at menopause was increased to 48 years or decreased to 42 years. The results 
suggest that differences in rates of bone loss over two centuries may partly 
account for the increasing incidence of hip fracture in modern-day women. 
Reasons for these differences are unclear, but one factor may be a lower degree 
of physical activity in present-day women.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(93)90433-h
PMID: 8095581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Clin Investig. 1993 Jan;71(1):7-12. doi: 10.1007/BF00210956.

Prognostic factors in medullary thyroid carcinoma: evaluation of 741 patients 
from the German Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma Register.

Raue F(1), Kotzerke J, Reinwein D, Schröder S, Röher HD, Deckart H, Höfer R, 
Ritter M, Seif F, Buhr H, et al.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik, Universität Heidelberg.

A retrospective study of 741 patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma diagnosed 
between 1967 and 1991 was carried out by members of the German Medullary Thyroid 
Carcinoma Study Group to evaluate prognostic factors. A total of 559 patients 
(75%) were considered to have sporadic disease, and 182 (25%) had the familial 
type. The sex ratio (male to female) was 1:1.4 in sporadic disease patients, and 
the mean age at diagnosis was 45.9 years (range 5-81 years). For familial 
disease patients the sex ratio was 1:1.1, and the mean age at diagnosis was 33.4 
(range 5-77 years). The follow-up time for 630 patients ranged from 1 month to 
20.8 years (mean 13.0 years). The overall adjusted survival rate was 86.7% at 5 
years and 64.2% at 10 years. In a univariate analysis the stage of disease at 
diagnosis, age, sex, and type of disease (sporadic, familial) were relevant 
prognostic factors, with a better prognosis for young female patients with 
familial disease and diagnosed at an early stage. In a multivariate proportional 
hazards analysis, the difference in the survival rate of patients with familial 
disease versus those with the sporadic form disappeared, while prognostic 
information provided by age and sex was still significant. The poorer prognosis 
of patients with sporadic medullary thyroid carcinoma may be related to the 
patients' older age at detection and more advanced tumor stage at diagnosis. 
There seems to be no difference in biological behavior between tumors of the 
sporadic and those of the familial type.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00210956
PMID: 8095831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Eur Heart J. 1993 Mar;14(3):291-6. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/14.3.291.

Acute myocardial infarction in patients treated for hypertension in the 
Skaraborg Hypertension Project.

Lindblad U(1), Råstam L, Ranstam J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Sciences, University of Lund, Malmö, Sweden.

The Skaraborg Hypertension Project was undertaken in 1977-1981, and 1428 male 
and 1812 female hypertensives aged 40-69 years were involved at hypertension 
out-patient clinics in primary health care. Their long-term risk of acute 
myocardial infarction during a follow-up of 8.3 years was compared to that of 
age- and sex-matched controls drawn from the census register at the beginning of 
surveillance and to normotensive untreated controls identified in a population 
survey in 1977. Relative risks (with a 95% confidence interval) for acute 
myocardial infarction morbidity compared to the population was 0.99 (0.78, 1.25) 
in men and 1.36 (0.95, 1.94) in women. Corresponding figures for acute 
myocardial infarction mortality were 0.97 (0.68, 1.38) and 1.15 (0.67, 1.99). 
With normotensive controls used as reference and adjusting for smoking habits 
and body mass index, the relative risks for acute myocardial infarction 
morbidity were 1.48 (1.12, 1.98) in men and 2.34 (1.43, 3.85) in women, and for 
acute myocardial infarction mortality 1.66 (1.07, 2.57) and 1.71 (0.84, 3.48), 
respectively. Treated hypertension is a weak risk factor for acute myocardial 
infarction in unselected hypertensive patients.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/14.3.291
PMID: 8096178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Lancet. 1993 Apr 10;341(8850):927-8. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(93)91215-8.

Insulin prophylaxis in individuals at high risk of type I diabetes.

Keller RJ(1), Eisenbarth GS, Jackson RA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1993 May 15;341(8855):1291.
    Lancet. 1993 May 15;341(8855):1291.

Prevention of type I diabetes is now a practical goal thanks to the ability to 
define confidently a high-risk group and the success of preventive strategies in 
animal models. We describe here a pilot trial of low-dose insulin to prevent 
diabetes in relatives of patients with type I diabetes.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(93)91215-8
PMID: 8096268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Hum Exp Toxicol. 1993 Mar;12(2):87-98. doi: 10.1177/096032719301200201.

Fat, frail and dying young: survival, body weight and pathology of the Charles 
River Sprague-Dawley-derived rat prior to and since the introduction of the VAFR 
variant in 1988.

Nohynek GJ(1), Longeart L, Geffray B, Provost JP, Lodola A.

Author information:
(1)Pfizer Centre de Recherche, Amboise, France.

Trends in survival and body weight were evaluated in 2140 control 
Sprague-Dawley-derived [Crl: COBS-CD(SD)BR and Crl: COBS-VAF CD(SD)BR] rats used 
for 24-month rat carcinogenicity studies between 1979 and 1991. Body weight and 
survival were remarkably stable in the CD-COBS rats used during 1979-1987: at 24 
months, the mean survival in males was 68 +/- 5%, and 60 +/- 5% in females. With 
the CD-COBS-VAF rat, a variant of the CD-COBS strain used between 1988 and 1991, 
the survival at 24 months dropped to 41 +/- 3% in males, and 44 +/- 7% in 
females compared to the CD-COBS. The CD-COBS-VAF rat had a significantly reduced 
life span (P < 0.001 at 24 months), a significant increase in mean body weight 
(males at 6 months: 672 +/- 24 g vs. 536 +/- 6 g; females: 359 +/- 7 g vs 308 
+/- 3 g; P < 0.001) and food consumption (males at 6 months: 31.3 +/- 3.3 vs. 
25.4 +/- 2.1 g d-1; females: 22.0 +/- 2.7 g v. 20.3 +/- 2.0 g d-1; P < 0.001). 
CD-COBS-VAF rats which failed to survive up to study termination had individual 
body weights at 3, 6 and 12 months which were significantly higher (P < 0.001) 
than those which survived until 24 months. Our historical data base of control 
rats (CD-COBS and CD-COBS-VAF) in carcinogenicity studies revealed a significant 
(males: P < 0.001); females: P < 0.01) and inverse linear relation between mean 
3-month body weight and 24-month survival. When compared to CD-COBS animals, 
CD-COBS-VAF rats showed an increase in the incidence of pituitary tumours in 
males, mammary fibroadenomas in females, an increase in the incidence of 
severity of glomerulonephrosis, and a greater incidence of animals which died 
without any obvious pathology. It is concluded that, in our Sprague-Dawley 
substrains, both the individual and the group mean body weights in early adult 
life appear predictive for the individual and group life expectancy. The 
decrease in longevity in the CD-COBS-VAF rat is principally due to disease and 
degeneration processes associated with fast growth and high body weight.

DOI: 10.1177/096032719301200201
PMID: 8096721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Cancer Treat Res. 1993;62:251-60. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4615-3518-8_30.

Salvage surgery for childhood osteosarcoma.

Pastorino U, Gasparini M, Azzarelli A, Tavecchio L, Ravasi G.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-3518-8_30
PMID: 8096742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Cancer Treat Res. 1993;62:333-8.

Osteosarcoma in adolescents and young adults: new developments and 
controversies. The Mayo Clinic studies.

Miser JS, Pritchard DJ, Rock MG, Shives TC, Gilchrist GS, Smithson WA, Arndt CA, 
Edmonson JH, Schaid DJ.

PMID: 8096748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Cancer Treat Res. 1993;62:339-46. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4615-3518-8_41.

Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for patients with osteosarcoma: University of Florida 
studies.

Graham-Pole J, Ayass M, Cassano W, Dickson N, Enneking W, Heare M, Heare T, 
Marcus R, Saleh R, Spanier S.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-3518-8_41
PMID: 8096749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. AIDS. 1993 Mar;7(3):375-8. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199303000-00011.

Treatment with corticosteroids--a risk factor for the development of clinical 
cytomegalovirus disease in AIDS.

Nelson MR(1), Erskine D, Hawkins DA, Gazzard BG.

Author information:
(1)HIV Unit, Westminster Hospital, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the frequency with which HIV-seropositive patients treated 
with corticosteroids develop cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease.
DESIGN: Retrospective case-controlled study.
METHODS: All 130 patients receiving systemic corticosteroids over a 20-month 
period at the HIV Unit, Westminster Hospital, London, UK were reviewed for the 
development of clinical CMV disease within 28 days. The incidence of CMV disease 
in this group was compared with that in a cohort admitted during the same 
period, which was matched for admission diagnosis, HIV risk group, 
antiretroviral therapy and CD4 lymphocyte subset count (+/- 20%) at admission.
RESULTS: Eleven of the 130 patients given corticosteroids developed CMV disease 
within 28 days, compared with two patients in the case-controlled cohort. All 
patients who developed CMV disease had a CD4 count < 50 x 10(6)/l on admission.
CONCLUSION: The use of corticosteroids in patients with advanced 
immunosuppression due to HIV infection should be reviewed carefully in view of 
the possible increased incidence of CMV disease.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199303000-00011
PMID: 8097096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Med Vet Entomol. 1993 Apr;7(2):141-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2915.1993.tb00667.x.

Seasonal abundance, biting cycle, parity and vector potential of the mosquito 
Haemagogus equinus in Trinidad.

Chadee DD(1), Hingwan JO, Persad RC, Tikasingh ES.

Author information:
(1)Insect Vector Control Division, Ministry of Health, Trinidad, West Indies.

The mosquito Haemagogus equinus is a known vector of yellow fever (YF) in 
central America. Seasonal abundance, daily biting activity and the age 
composition of adult Hg.equinus female populations were monitored weekly during 
1981-82 by human collectors on the ground at Point Gourde Forest, Chaguaramas, 
16 km west of Port of Spain, Trinidad. 2. Landing collections of Hg.equinus 
showed diurnal activity from 06.00 to 20.00 hours (suntime), with a single peak 
between 08.00 and 14.00 hours. 3. Overall, 5.6% of Hg.equinus were collected 
during the dry season (December-April) and 94.4% during the wet season 
(May-November). 4. Mean density of Hg.equinus in relation to man ranged from 
0.35/man-day in February to 133/man-day in July, with averages of 2.8 in the wet 
season, 36.9 in the dry season and 22/man-day for the whole year. 5. Monthly 
parous rates averaged 62.1% (range 0-88%); 2.8% of females were 2-pars, another 
2.8% were 3-pars, but no older females of Hg.equinus were found (sample size 
467). 6. These age-grading data indicate that Hg.equinus females have relatively 
short life expectancy and hence low vector potential, which may help to explain 
why YF virus has seldom been isolated from this vector species.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2915.1993.tb00667.x
PMID: 8097636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Lancet. 1993 May 1;341(8853):1140-1. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(93)93143-o.

The third-age debate begins.

Dean M.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(93)93143-o
PMID: 8097817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. J Bacteriol. 1993 May;175(10):3083-8. doi: 10.1128/jb.175.10.3083-3088.1993.

Heat shock transcription of the groESL operon of Agrobacterium tumefaciens may 
involve a hairpin-loop structure.

Segal G(1), Ron EZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Biotechnology, George S. Wise 
Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel-Aviv University, Israel.

The groESL operon of Agrobacterium tumefaciens was cloned and sequenced and 
found to be highly homologous to previously analyzed groE operons in nucleotides 
of the coding region and in amino acid sequence. Transcription of this operon in 
A. tumefaciens was considerably stimulated by heat shock. Primer extension 
analysis revealed that the groE transcripts from cells under heat shock were 
initiated from the same promoter (a sigma-70-like promoter) as transcripts from 
untreated cells, and no sequence homology with the Escherichia coli heat shock 
promoters was observed. The DNA sequence downstream of the transcription start 
site contains an inverted repeat that has a strong similarity to other groESL 
operons of both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria (such as cyanobacteria 
and chlamydiae). This conserved region is thought to form a hairpin-loop 
structure and may play a role in gene regulation during heat shock.

DOI: 10.1128/jb.175.10.3083-3088.1993
PMCID: PMC204629
PMID: 8098329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 1993 May;41(2):194-202.

Hormone replacement therapy. ACOG technical bulletin number 166--April 1992 
(replaces no. 93, June 1986).

[No authors listed]

All patients receiving hormone replacement therapy should be evaluated annually. 
During these evaluations, breast and pelvic examinations should be performed and 
a Pap smear taken, and attention should be directed to cholesterol, blood 
pressure, and the effectiveness of treatment. In women given adequate progestins 
(medroxyprogesterone acetate, 10 mg each day for 12 days a month), endometrial 
biopsy should be reserved for women with clinical problems such as excessive or 
prolonged bleeding. In women taking no progestins, pretreatment and yearly 
biopsies are required. In addition, annual mammograms should be obtained on 
women over the age of 50. Hormone replacement therapy, although not suited to 
all patients, can confer health benefits, enhance quality of life, and prolong 
life expectancy (46).

PMID: 8099041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. J Reprod Fertil Suppl. 1993;46:61-75.

Premature ageing in transgenic mice expressing different growth hormone genes.

Steger RW(1), Bartke A, Cecim M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Carbondale 62901.

Transgenic mice expressing various growth hormone genes have markedly reduced 
life spans, with few animals surviving beyond 12 months in some of the lines. 
Except for an increased incidence of mammary tumours in female mice expressing 
human growth hormones, pathological findings in debilitated or moribund 
transgenic mice resemble the well-documented degenerative changes that occur at 
a much greater chronological age in normal rodents. This study demonstrates that 
10-month-old male transgenic mice expressing bovine growth hormone (known as 
25-copy PEPCK. bGH transgenic mice) also show age-related changes in 
hypothalamic and striatal neurotransmitter metabolism that are not seen in 
normal litter mate controls until at least 24 months of age. Female mice and 
male mice with a lower circulating concentration of bGH (known as 5-copy PEPCK. 
bGH transgenic mice) live longer and fail to show the same magnitude of change 
in neurotransmitter synthesis and release. Although more work needs to be done 
to determine the physiological significance of these changes and to determine 
their relationship to the general effects of ageing on the CNS, transgenic mice 
expressing various growth hormone genes may provide an interesting and valuable 
model with which to study the ageing process.

PMID: 8100276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Nihon Rinsho. 1993 May;51(5):1276-80.

[Vasodilator therapy in cardiac failure].

[Article in Japanese]

Akatsuka N.

In recent years, vasodilator drugs are considered a standard therapy for 
patients with symptomatic heart failure. Isosorbide dinitrate, venodilator, 
shows a striking fall in cardiac filling pressure. Hydralazine, arterially 
active vasodilator, decreases afterload and increases cardiac output. The 
combined use of nitrates and hydralazine shows synergistic effect in increasing 
cardiac output, lowering cardiac filling pressure and improving exercise 
tolerance and life expectancy. Prazosin showed no favourable effect on survival 
in a V-HeFT trial. Although calcium antagonists have been expected to improve 
hemodynamics in the patients with heart failure, there have been no controlled 
large trial to prove that the hemodynamic effect is accompanied by any 
improvement in exercise tolerance or quality of life. At the present, it is 
considered to be reasonable to use nitrates and hydralazine combined with ACE 
inhibitors, in patients with chronic heart failure.

PMID: 8101237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Aust N Z J Ophthalmol. 1993 May;21(2):79-85. doi: 
10.1111/j.1442-9071.1993.tb00758.x.

Long-term intraocular pressure control by trabeculectomy: a ten-year life table.

Robinson DI(1), Lertsumitkul S, Billson FA, Robinson LP.

Author information:
(1)Sydney Eye Hospital, Sir John Young Crescent, Woolloomooloo, NSW.

A retrospective study of 179 eyes in 127 patients who underwent trabeculectomy 
at Sydney Eye Hospital under the supervision of two surgeons between 1977 and 
1982 was carried out. Survival analysis by life table method shows cumulative 
two, five, and 10 year success rates to be 78%, 70%, and 67% respectively, with 
mean duration of intraocular pressure control (IOP < 21 mmHg) being 88 months. 
Antiglaucoma medication improved the long-term survival significantly (Hazard 
Ratio of 0.49 and P = 0.01) so that when the definition for failure is taken as 
IOP > 20 mmHg while using medication, the two, five and 10 year success rates 
were 89%, 87% and 86% respectively. A rise in average intraocular pressure is 
seen between two weeks and three months after trabeculectomy. The improvement in 
long-term success rate with use of topical steroids was suggestive (Hazard Ratio 
of 0.69) but not conclusive (P = 0.21). No difference was found in survival 
comparing fornix versus limbal based flap technique.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.1993.tb00758.x
PMID: 8101448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Dig Dis Sci. 1993 Aug;38(8):1388-94. doi: 10.1007/BF01308593.

Gastrointestinal symptoms in ambulatory HIV-infected patients.

May GR(1), Gill MJ, Church DL, Sutherland LR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

Gastrointestinal symptoms are commonly seen in patients with established AIDS. 
We examined the charts of 258 HIV-infected patients attending our HIV outpatient 
clinic to determine: (1) the frequency of gastrointestinal symptoms in 
unselected HIV-infected patients and (2) if there are any predictors of the 
development of symptoms in initially asymptomatic patients. We found the overall 
frequency of gastrointestinal symptoms at initial presentation in our 
ambulatory, predominantly homosexual population of HIV-infected patients was 35% 
(95% CI 30-40%) with 19% having anorexia, 15% weight loss, 14% diarrhea, and 5% 
dysphagia. There was no association between the presence of symptoms and stool 
parasites, which were found in 51% of patients. In 165 patients who were 
initially asymptomatic, 72% subsequently developed symptoms over 36 months of 
actuarial follow-up. Patients with initial T4 counts < 500 were more likely to 
develop symptoms. Patients with a greater degree of immunosuppression as 
indicated by a lower T4 count, are more likely to develop gastrointestinal 
symptoms.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01308593
PMID: 8102092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. J Rheumatol. 1993 Jun;20(6):1048-51.

The population health impact of arthritis. POHEM Workshop Group.

Tugwell P(1), Chambers L, Torrance G, Reynolds D, Wolfson M, Bennett K, Badley 
E, Jamieson E, Stock S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

The workshop was convened to develop quantitative estimates of the incidence of 
progressional musculoskeletal diseases in order to estimate the population 
health impact of arthritis. Estimates were developed for (a) the prevalence of 
arthritis, (b) a weighting strategy to adjust for the quality of life for the 
range of health states associated with arthritis, and (c) transition 
probabilities to represent the likelihood of disease onset and progression 
through the range of possible health states. A simulation "game" was designed to 
follow the progression of a cohort of 200 healthy persons or persons with 
arthritis, creating the basis for the estimation of transition probabilities and 
thus generating simulated longitudinal data that allow calculation of the 
quantitative estimate of the burden of illness from musculoskeletal diseases 
within the Canadian population.

PMID: 8102404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Comp Biochem Physiol Comp Physiol. 1993 Aug;105(4):653-8. doi: 
10.1016/0300-9629(93)90264-5.

Oxygen dependency of life-span in the nematode.

Matsuo M(1).

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology, Japan.

1. The mean and maximum life-spans of both wild type Caenorhabditis elegans and 
the mev-1(kn1) mutant, whose cytoplasmic superoxide dismutase activity level is 
about half of the wild type, were increased and decreased under low and high 
concentrations of oxygen, respectively. 2. The Gompertz component, a parameter 
of ageing rate, of the wild type was smaller under 1% oxygen than under 2% or 
more oxygen. Further, the Gompertz component of the mutant increased with an 
increase in oxygen concentration. 3. The oxygen-dependent modulation of 
life-span and ageing rate seems to be enhanced by a genetic defect of the mutant 
in antioxidant defence.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-9629(93)90264-5
PMID: 8102956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. AIDS. 1993 Jun;7(6):813-21.

Improvement of the predictive value of CD4+ lymphocyte count by beta 
2-microglobulin, immunoglobulin A and erythrocyte sedimentation rate. The 
Multicentre Cohort Study Group.

Schwartländer B(1), Bek B, Skarabis H, Koch J, Burkowitz J, Koch MA.

Author information:
(1)AIDS Centre, Federal Health Office, Berlin, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether the use of immunological markers in addition to 
CD4+ lymphocyte count can improve the prediction of the probability of 
developing AIDS within a given period.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Prospective multicentre cohort study of homosexual men.
PATIENTS: A total of 447 HIV-positive homosexual men followed prospectively at 
6-month intervals (median time of observation, 47 months).
METHODS: Estimation of AIDS-free time using lifetable plots by Cutler and Ederer 
and Weibull parametric models. A stepwise multivariate regression analysis was 
used to calculate the optimal combination of the parameters studied.
RESULTS: In general CD4+ lymphocyte counts are most important for the prediction 
of AIDS-free time. The use of serum levels of beta 2-microglobulin (beta 2M), 
immunoglobulin A (IgA) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) can 
significantly improve the predictive value of CD4+ lymphocyte counts. However, 
the usefulness of these parameters depends on the stage of HIV disease. In 
patients with a CD4+ lymphocyte count > 500 x 10(6)/l, only IgA level had a 
significant predictive value; none of the other parameters significantly 
improved the model. In patients with a CD4+ lymphocyte count < 500 x 10(6)/l, 
the absolute number of CD4+ cells itself was the most important single 
predictive parameter, but the prediction of AIDS was significantly improved by 
the addition of the other parameters investigated. The most powerful combination 
of parameters in this group was CD4+ count, beta 2M and ESR.
CONCLUSION: Determination of serum IgA, beta 2M and ESR in addition to CD4+ 
lymphocyte count may aid the choice of specific therapeutic regimens or systems 
of care for HIV-positive individuals.

PMID: 8103341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. AIDS. 1993 Jun;7(6):857-62. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199306000-00015.

Impact of the 1993 revision of the AIDS case definition on the prevalence of 
AIDS in a clinical setting.

Chaisson RE(1), Stanton DL, Gallant JE, Rucker S, Bartlett JG, Moore RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21205.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the impact of the 1993 revision of the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) AIDS surveillance case definition on the 
prevalence of AIDS.
DESIGN: Review of prospectively collected baseline clinical and demographic data 
on HIV-infected patients presenting for care between December 1988 and May 1991.
SETTING: The HIV Clinic of the Johns Hopkins Hospital, an urban, primary care 
institution.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Diagnosis of AIDS by the 1987 (specific indicator 
diseases) or the 1993 (indicator diseases, pulmonary tuberculosis, recurrent 
bacterial pneumonia, cervical carcinoma, or CD4 lymphocyte count < 200 x 
10(6)/l) CDC case definition.
RESULTS: Of 955 patients evaluated, 122 (13%) had AIDS by the 1987 case 
definition at presentation. An additional 126 (13%) met the 1993 but not the 
1987 case definition. Patients meeting only the 1993 case definition were more 
likely to be female [28 versus 14%; odds ratio (OR), 2.4; 95% confidence 
interval (CI), 1.2-3.0; P = 0.01] and intravenous drug users (40 versus 26%; OR, 
2.0; 95% CI, 1.1-3.3; P = 0.02) than patients meeting the 1987 case definition. 
Fifty-five per cent of patients meeting only the 1993 case definition were 
asymptomatic, and 7% (nine patients) had new indicator diseases but CD4 counts > 
200 x 10(6)/l. Median time to progression from a diagnosis of AIDS by the 1993 
case definition to diagnosis by the 1987 case definition was 435 days. Patients 
with AIDS by the 1987 case definition had a median survival of 594 days from 
presentation (2-year survival, 42%), while median survival time for patients 
with AIDS by the 1993 case definition only was 947 days (2-year survival, 60%; P 
< 0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: The proposed 1993 revision of the AIDS surveillance case definition 
would double the number of prevalent AIDS cases, with significant increases in 
the proportion of cases who are female, intravenous drug users, or asymptomatic. 
Survival of patients meeting the 1993 case definition is significantly longer 
than that of patients meeting the 1987 case definition. The new AIDS case 
definition will have a major impact both on AIDS surveillance and on medical and 
social service programs that use diagnosis of AIDS as a criterion for 
eligibility for services.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199306000-00015
PMID: 8103343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Aug;45(8):776-88.

[Evaluation of the degree of biological behavior in endometrial hyperplasia and 
endometrial carcinoma: an investigation of proliferative activity, oncogene, and 
extracellular matrix].

[Article in Japanese]

Sato S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Tohoku University School of 
Medicine, Sendai.

Endometrial cancers have been considered to be less prevalent in Japan than in 
Western countries. However, with the increase in life expectancy, the 
Westernization of the Japanese diet, and changes in the hormonal environment, 
the prevalence of the disease has gradually increased even in our country. 
Similar increases in cancers of the breasts, lungs, colons, and ovaries have 
been noted in recent years. Much is still unknown regarding the pathogenesis and 
natural history of endometrial cancer. Although endometrial hyperplasia is 
considered to be a precancerous lesion of endometrial carcinoma, the 
relationship between those diseases has not been elucidated to the same degree 
as that between cervical cancer and cervical dysplasia, or carcinoma in situ. 
Research findings in genetic oncology have revealed that tumorigenesis involves 
a multi-step process. It is probable that activation of multiple genes, 
inactivation of anti-oncogenes, and disappearance of normal inhibitor genes 
occur in the process of the development of endometrial cancer. The purpose of 
this study is to elucidate the relationship between oncogenes and the 
development of endometrial cancer. In addition, the significance of endometrial 
hyperplasia as a clinical entity is also be evaluated. The roles played by 
oncogenes in endometrial cancers and endometrial hyperplasias were examined 
using the most recent molecular biological and immunohistochemical methods. 
Also, the differences in cellular proliferation and tissue invasiveness were 
discussed. Results obtained were as follows. Evaluation of cell proliferation 
(PCNA, FCM) revealed that there was no difference in proliferative activity 
between atypical hyperplasia and well differentiated adenocarcinoma. Evaluation 
of oncogene abnormalities (c-myc,c-erbB-2,K-ras,p53) revealed that the 
development of endometrial cancer was a multistep process involving several 
oncogenes, as it has been noted in the development of other cancers. Evaluation 
of extracellular matrix and related factors (cathepsin D, laminin, type IV 
collagen, tenascin, CD44) showed that tissue invasiveness differed between 
atypical hyperplasia and well differentiated adenocarcinoma.

PMID: 8103784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Lancet. 1993 Oct 2;342(8875):855. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(93)92703-v.

UNICEF's goals for 2000 AD.

Dean M.

PIP: Following the 1990 World Summit for Children, the annual report of UNICEF 
detailed progress to the Summit's goals it set for the year 2000. The targets 
are a 33% reduction in under-5 mortality, halving child malnutrition and 
maternal mortality rates, and 90% immunization coverage of major childhood 
diseases. Over 85 states are signed up with national programs to mobilize not 
only health services but to extend it to schools, media, religious leaders, and 
businesses. The maternal mortality rate of 1 in 20 in Africa compares with 1 in 
3600 in North America; and under-5 mortality rates of 5 in 1000 in Sweden are 
compared with 300/1000 in Niger. 61 countries are still likely to double their 
population in the next 35 years, and millions of women have no access to birth 
control programs. Mental retardation caused by lack of iodine in the diet claims 
an estimated 6 million victims. There are also the familiar problems created by 
diarrhea, measles, and bottle feeding. On the other hand, the new UNICEF report, 
The Progress of Nations, demonstrates that in little more than 1 generation 
average real incomes have doubled; child death rates have halved; malnutrition 
has fallen by about 30% (only 1 or 2% of the world's children are affected by 
visible malnutrition); life expectancy has increased by about 33%; modern 
contraceptive use by couples has risen from less than 10% to over 50% since 
1960; and average family size is declining in almost every country. In just a 
decade measles immunization coverage of the developing world's children has 
risen from 20% to 80% saving 3 million young lives a year and preventing 50 
million other children from catching a nonfatal dose. Nevertheless, these gains 
are thwarted by the existence of millions of malnourished and uneducated 
children whose prospects for future employment are constrained by polio, 
blindness, deafness, and mental retardation.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(93)92703-v
PMID: 8104279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Lancet. 1993 Oct 2;342(8875):870; author reply 870-1.

Non-surgical female sterilisation.

Sivin I.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1993 Jul 24;342(8865):213-7.

PMID: 8104301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Eur J Surg. 1993 Jun-Jul;159(6-7):323-7.

The complications of central venous access systems: a study of 218 patients.

Torramadé JR(1), Cienfuegos JA, Hernández JL, Pardo F, Benito C, González J, 
Balén E, de Villa V.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Clinica Universitaria de Navarra, School of 
Medicine, University of Navarra, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the safety and usefulness of systems for obtaining 
central venous access.
DESIGN: Prospective open study.
SETTING: Clinica Universitaria de Navarra, Spain.
SUBJECTS: 218 consecutive patients who required long term venous access either 
for chemotherapy or for total parenteral nutrition, and who had no evidence of 
infection, a platelet count of over 40 x 10(9)/l, and a life expectancy of three 
months or more, had 234 devices inserted.
INTERVENTIONS: Insertion of either a silicone rubber (Port-A-Cath) or a 
polyurethane (Implantofix) catheter into the cephalic, jugular or subclavian 
vein, leaving the tip in the superior vena cava.
RESULTS: Between February 1985 and December 1990, 234 devices were implanted in 
218 patients aged from 0.9 to 78 years. The median (range) length of time that 
the catheters functioned was 277 (7-1887) days. The overall incidence of 
complications was 0.09/100 days inserted, and the complication rates for 
infection and thrombosis were 0.02 and 0.03/100 days, respectively. Thirty two 
devices were removed because of complications, and 19 because the treatment had 
finished. Five of the 218 patients (2%) were lost to follow up.
CONCLUSIONS: These devices have a long working life, and a low rate of 
complications, and are of great value to patients who require long term or 
cyclical intravenous treatment.

PMID: 8104491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Q J Med. 1993 Aug;86(8):501-5. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/86.8.501.

Toleration, side-effects and efficacy of sulphasalazine in rheumatoid arthritis 
patients of different ages.

Wilkieson CA(1), Madhok R, Hunter JA, Capell HA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Gartnavel General Hospital, Glasgow.

Sulphasalazine is an effective second-line agent in the management of rheumatoid 
arthritis. The risk:benefit ratio in the elderly is less well established. We 
studied the risk:benefit ratio in relation to age, retrospectively combining 
five prospective studies of enteric coated sulphasalazine therapy in 352 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Clinical and laboratory assessments of 
efficacy and toxicity were made by an independent assessor at 0, 12, 24 and 48 
weeks. The only significant differences between young, middle aged and elderly 
patients at the initial assessment were in pain perception, ESR and C-reactive 
protein. Sulphasalazine was equally effective in all age groups. The toxicity 
profile was similar in all age groups. We conclude that sulphasalazine is 
equally effective in rheumatoid arthritis in the elderly as in the young. There 
was no significant change in the frequency or nature of side-effects with 
increasing age.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/86.8.501
PMID: 8105504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Am J Gastroenterol. 1993 Oct;88(10):1720-3.

Effect of HIV transmission category and CD4 count on the occurrence of diarrhea 
in HIV-infected patients.

Rabeneck L(1), Crane MM, Risser JM, Lacke CE, Wray NP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, VA Medical Center, 
Houston, Texas.

This study was designed to assess the relative contributions of HIV transmission 
category and immunodeficiency to the risk of HIV-related diarrhea. We reviewed 
the medical records of 169 HIV-infected non-AIDS patients seen between 1986 and 
1990 at the Houston VA Special Medicine Clinic. The prevalence of diarrhea at 
any given clinic visit ranged from 3% to 7%. Diarrhea was three times more 
common in homosexual/bisexual men [odds ratio = 3.0 (1.01-9.53)], and this 
pattern persisted when stratified by CD4 count. Previous studies have focused 
mainly on the detection of enteric organisms in patients with HIV-related 
diarrhea. Studies of the temporal relationships between sexual practices, 
enteric pathogens, diarrhea, and immunodeficiency are needed to clarify the 
pathogenesis of HIV-related diarrhea.

PMID: 8105679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. J Infect Dis. 1994 Feb;169(2):356-68. doi: 10.1093/infdis/169.2.356.

Efficacy of unilamellar liposomal amphotericin B in treatment of pulmonary 
aspergillosis in persistently granulocytopenic rabbits: the potential role of 
bronchoalveolar D-mannitol and serum galactomannan as markers of infection.

Francis P(1), Lee JW, Hoffman A, Peter J, Francesconi A, Bacher J, Shelhamer J, 
Pizzo PA, Walsh TJ.

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Section, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes 
of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.

A model of primary pulmonary aspergillosis in rabbits was developed to reproduce 
the persistent levels of profound granulocytopenia and the histopathologic 
features of bronchopneumonia, vascular invasion, and hemorrhagic infarction 
encountered in humans. D-mannitol was detectable in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid 
by gas-liquid chromatography/mass spectroscopy, and galactomannan was measurable 
in serum by latex agglutination immunoassay. A pharmacokinetically distinctive 
unilamellar vesicle formulation of liposomal amphotericin B, 5 mg/kg/day 
intravenously, compared with high-dose conventional desoxycholate amphotericin 
B, 1 mg/kg/day intravenously, was more effective in preventing nephrotoxicity, 
increasing survival, reducing the number of viable organisms, and decreasing 
tissue injury due to Aspergillus organisms. Thus, D-mannitol in lavage fluid and 
galactomannan in serum may be useful markers of pulmonary aspergillosis, and 
liposomal amphotericin B was significantly more effective and safer than 
desoxycholate amphotericin B for treatment of pulmonary aspergillosis in 
profoundly granulocytopenic rabbits.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/169.2.356
PMID: 8106769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. J Neurosci Nurs. 1993 Dec;25(6):362-6. doi:
10.1097/01376517-199312000-00007.

Vagus nerve stimulation for intractable seizures: one year follow-up.

Michael JE(1), Wegener K, Barnes DW.

Author information:
(1)Baylor College of Medicine, Department of Otolaryngology, Houston, Texas 
77030.

Even with the best health care available, many patients with epilepsy still 
suffer from poorly controlled seizures. Patients with intractable partial 
seizures are often inhibited from realizing their full potential and may 
experience a less than optimal quality of life. Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is 
being studied in a double-blind, controlled, randomized trial at 17 epilepsy 
centers throughout the U.S. and Europe as a potential therapy for patients with 
refractory seizures. During a 14-week controlled phase in three of the centers, 
the therapeutic group (N = 10) experienced a mean seizure frequency percent 
reduction (SFPR) of 33.1% as compared to baseline (p = 0.0084) while the 
subtherapeutic group (N = 12) experienced an SFPR of 0.6% as compared to 
baseline (p = 0.9183). After the controlled phase, all patients were switched 
into the therapeutic group in an open extension phase. Results after one year of 
therapeutic stimulation (N = 15) reveal a mean SFPR of 35.6% (p = 0.0088) with 6 
of the 15 patients (40%) achieving at least a 50% seizure reduction. Adverse 
effects included hoarseness, coughing and nausea. There were no deaths or 
serious injuries related to the device. Based on these limited data, VNS appears 
to be a safe and efficacious new therapy for refractory partial seizures.

DOI: 10.1097/01376517-199312000-00007
PMID: 8106830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Nihon Eiseigaku Zasshi. 1993 Dec;48(5):893-903. doi: 10.1265/jjh.48.893.

[Global environment and health--with emphasis on world nutritional status].

[Article in Japanese]

Suzuki T(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Environmental Studies Ibaraki Japan.

Forthcoming global environmental changes threaten to endanger human survival 
through direct and indirect influences. In this paper, the contemporary world 
food supply situation and resultant nutritional status was first reviewed on by 
country and region. When compared with the nutritional energy requirement, 
countries with an inadequate food supply were concentrated in the developing 
world, in particular in some parts of Africa. The life expectancy at birth is 
clearly shorter in such countries, and peoples of African countries with an 
inadequate food supply have shorter life expectancies than other countries with 
a similar inadequacy. Global warning is likely to decrease food production in 
some parts of the world. According to the present estimation using various 
methods, a future crisis of food production may occur in African countries which 
are at present most vulnerable to food shortages, as well as in countries which 
are presently food exporters. Thus, a future crisis of human health conditions 
caused by the imbalance of food production and trade may be least avoidable in 
the region of present predicament.

DOI: 10.1265/jjh.48.893
PMID: 8107292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Sci Am. 1994 Feb;270(2):124. doi: 10.1038/scientificamerican0294-124.

AIDS and population "control".

Piel G.

PIP: Many people believe that the AIDS pandemic will end the population 
explosion, especially in Africa, where population growth is very high and 
poverty reigns. Africans make up 10 million of all 15 million HIV- infected 
persons worldwide. Yet, the proposition that AIDS will sole population explosion 
does not stand up to reason. About 200 million people in Africa will be HIV 
infected by 2010, but the loss of 200 million people would not slow population 
growth. The 14th century's Black Death killed more than 50% of the European 
population, but by 1750 Europe had reached the population size it would have 
reached without the Black Death. The 200 million people who died violent deaths 
between the start and end of the two World Wars did not stop world population 
growth from peaking in 1970 at about 2%. When Malthus made his prediction that 
human population would crash, the industrial revolution had already helped 
production outrun population growth. Today all industrial countries are either 
at or near zero population growth and have completed the demographic transition 
(from near zero growth in 1600 with high births and death rates and a 25-year 
life expectancy, to near zero growth in 1990s at low death and birth rates with 
a 75-year life expectancy). Mass education, sanitation, primary medicine, and 
the green revolution have already reduced death rates and increased life 
expectancy in developing countries. Thus, they have entered the first phase of 
the demographic transition. Some developing countries are in the second phase; 
birth rate decline For example, in India and China, fertility has fallen from 6 
to 4 in India and is at 2.3 in China. The AIDS pandemic is a diversion of 
physical and human resources from helping developing countries pass through the 
demographic transition more quickly to achieve sustainable development. This 
delay is likely to effect a larger maximum population. The industrial revolution 
has shifted the key to stopping population growth the people dying to people 
living.

DOI: 10.1038/scientificamerican0294-124
PMID: 8108695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Science. 1994 Feb 25;263(5150):1128-30. doi: 10.1126/science.8108730.

Extension of life-span by overexpression of superoxide dismutase and catalase in 
Drosophila melanogaster.

Orr WC(1), Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX 
75275.

The hypothesis that oxygen free radicals are causally involved in the aging 
process was tested by a study of the effects of simultaneous overexpression of 
copper-zinc superoxide dismutase and catalase. As compared to diploid controls, 
transgenic flies carrying three copies of each of these genes exhibited as much 
as a one-third extension of life-span, a longer mortality rate doubling time, a 
lower amount of protein oxidative damage, and a delayed loss in physical 
performance. Results provide direct support for the free radical hypothesis of 
aging.

DOI: 10.1126/science.8108730
PMID: 8108730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Am J Cardiol. 1994 Feb 15;73(5):390-2. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90014-0.

Usefulness of persistent silent myocardial ischemia in predicting a high cardiac 
event rate in men with medically controlled, stable angina pectoris.

de Marchena E(1), Asch J, Martinez J, Wozniak P, Posada JD, Pittaluga J, Breuer 
G, Chakko S, Kessler KM, Myerburg RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Miami School of Medicine/Jackson 
Memorial Hospital, Florida 33101.

