DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90014-0
PMID: 8109555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Artif Organs. 1993 Nov;17(11):893-4. doi:
10.1111/j.1525-1594.1993.tb00397.x.

Why do we kill so many patients on hemodialysis in the U.S.?

NosÃ© Y.

Comment in
    Artif Organs. 1998 Apr;22(4):271-2.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1594.1993.tb00397.x
PMID: 8110054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Science. 1993 Dec 3;262(5139):1497. doi: 10.1126/science.8110246.

Medical research: alternative views.

Lamm RD.

Comment in
    Science. 1994 Jan 14;263(5144):157.
    Science. 1994 Jan 14;263(5144):157-8.
    Science. 1994 Jan 14;263(5144):158.
    Science. 1994 Jan 14;263(5144):158-9.

Comment on
    Science. 1993 Oct 22;262(5133):523-5.
    Science. 1994 Jan 14;263(5144):157-8.

DOI: 10.1126/science.8110246
PMID: 8110246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 1993 Nov;7(5):775-7. doi: 10.1007/BF00878929.

Treating mild hypercholesterolemia in the absence of overt cardiovascular 
disease: if, when, and why?

Mancini M, Rubba P.

Cohort data define a range of cholesterol concentrations (160-200 mg/dl), which 
is desirable in terms of public health. Cholesterol-lowering treatment leading 
to a serum cholesterol in this range is favorable for coronary heart disease 
prevention and safe in terms of noncardiovascular mortality. In individuals with 
moderate cholesterol elevation and without other coronary risk factors, the 
physician should encourage a healthy lifestyle and give prudent nutritional 
advice. Detection of asymptomatic cardiovascular disease by noninvasive methods 
might be used to identify individuals with mild hypercholesterolemia, but 
nevertheless at high risk for ischemic accidents. The aim of lipid-lowering 
treatment is to improve life expectancy through reduction of a major cause of 
premature death.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00878929
PMID: 8110619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Gynecol Oncol. 1993 Dec;51(3):316-22. doi: 10.1006/gyno.1993.1297.

Prognostic factors and long-term survival in endometrial adenocarcinoma with 
cervical involvement.

Boente MP(1), Yordan EL Jr, McIntosh DG, Grendys EC Jr, Orandi YA, Davies S, 
Beck D, Graham JE Jr, Miller A, Marshall R, et al.

Author information:
(1)Section of Gynecologic Oncology, Rush Presbyterian St. Luke's Hospital, 
Chicago, Illinois.

The clinical, surgical, and histopathologic data from 202 patients with 
endometrial adenocarcinoma with cervical involvement are presented. One hundred 
fifty-one (75%) had histopathologically confirmed cervical involvement at the 
time of their definitive surgery, while in 51 (25%) no cervical involvement was 
conclusively identified. The 5-year actuarial survival for patients with true 
surgical stage II endometrial carcinoma (N = 24) was 76%. Extrauterine disease 
was documented in 32% (27/84) of patients in which the primary treatment 
modality was surgical. The 5-year actuarial survival was 65% for all patients 
with clinical surgical stage II disease. There appeared to be a survival 
advantage for patients treated by radical surgery as compared with more 
conventional treatments, especially in patients with numerous high-risk factors. 
The subgroup of patients (N = 53) having tumor grossly involving the cervix had 
a 5-year survival of 48%. In this subgroup of patients, radical hysterectomy 
offered improved 5-year survival over more traditional forms of treatment, 
particularly compared with simple hysterectomy or combined treatment with 
radiation and surgery. Multivariate analysis positively correlated myometrial 
invasion, grade, uterine serosal involvement, lower uterine segment involvement, 
adnexal metastasis, pelvic metastasis, aortic node metastasis, and peritoneal 
cytology, with disease-free survival. Clinical and surgical findings correlated 
poorly; therefore, primary surgical evaluation is recommended when possible.

DOI: 10.1006/gyno.1993.1297
PMID: 8112639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Harefuah. 1993 Dec 1;125(11):396-8, 448.

[Pregnancy in Marfan's syndrome].

[Article in Hebrew]

Farhi J(1), Orvieto R, Ben-Rafael Z.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Golda Meir Medical Center, Petah Tikva.

Marfan's syndrome is a hereditary disorder of connective tissue affecting mainly 
the bones, cardiovascular system and eyes. Women affected by this syndrome who 
are considering pregnancy are confronted with several problems: a 50% risk of 
inheritance of the syndrome by their offspring, shortened life expectancy as a 
parent, and the potential for cardiovascular complications, such as aortic 
aneurysm and dissection during pregnancy.

PMID: 8112661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. J Comp Neurol. 1993 Dec 15;338(3):432-57. doi: 10.1002/cne.903380308.

Capacity of the retinogeniculate pathway to reorganize following ablation of 
visual cortical areas in developing and mature cats.

Lomber SG(1), Payne BR, Cornwell P, Pearson HE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Boston University School of Medicine, 
Massachusetts 02118.

The purpose of the present study was to determine the pattern and density of 
retinal projections to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) following 
ablation of visual cortical areas in developing cats of different postnatal ages 
and in mature cats. The terminations of retinal projections to the dLGN were 
evaluated following the injection of tritiated amino acids into one eye. 
Regardless of age, a visual cortical ablation of areas 17 and 18 induces massive 
death of neurons within the regions of the dLGN that are linked topographically 
to the cortical areas removed. However, the pattern of retinal projections to 
these degenerated regions of the dLGN differs depending upon whether the 
cortical lesion is incurred early in postnatal life or in adulthood. Following 
ablation on the day of birth (P1), virtually all surviving cells were found in 
the C-complex of dLGN with only a token number in the A-laminae. 
Correspondingly, retinal projections were maintained to the C-complex of the 
nucleus and were barely detectable in the degenerated A-laminae. However, in 
cats in which areas 17 and 18 had been removed in adulthood (> or = 6 months of 
age) retinal projections were maintained to the A-laminae even though nearly all 
neurons in those laminae had degenerated. Moreover, a subgroup of animals that 
incurred area 17 and 18 ablations at P1 showed that the modification of retinal 
projections to the A-laminae occurs within the first postnatal month, and an 
additional subgroup showed that retinal projections become increasingly 
resistant to the degenerative events in the dLGN that follow ablation of areas 
17 and 18 at progressively older ages during the first postnatal month. 
Furthermore, retinal inputs also respond, in an age-dependent way, to 
degeneration of neurons in the C-complex induced by extension of the cortical 
ablation to include extrastriate visual areas.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903380308
PMID: 8113448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. J Clin Oncol. 1994 Feb;12(2):273-8. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1994.12.2.273.

Blasts in CSF with a normal cell count do not justify alteration of therapy for 
acute lymphoblastic leukemia in remission: a Childrens Cancer Group study.

Tubergen DG(1), Cullen JW, Boyett JM, Gilchrist GS, O'Brien RT, Coccia PF, 
Waskerwitz MJ.

Author information:
(1)M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX.

PURPOSE: The Childrens Cancer Group (CCG) requires both a CSF WBC count of more 
than five cells per microliter and demonstration of blast cells in the 
cytocentrifuge specimen to support a diagnosis of CNS relapse. We reviewed the 
CSF examinations of patients with intermediate-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
(ALL) to determine the clinical significance of blast cells reported in the 
cytocentrifuge when the total CSF cell count was normal.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Children treated on CCG-105 for ALL had CSF examinations 
every 12 weeks during maintenance therapy. The outcome of children who had a 
positive CSF cytocentrifuge examination without an elevated CSF WBC count was 
compared with that of children who did not have any CSF blast cells observed.
RESULTS: Sixty-four patients had 81 CSF examinations with blast cells and a 
normal cell count. By Cox life-table regression analysis, patients with blasts 
had a different disease-free survival (DFS) distribution, with relapses tending 
to occur earlier (P = .008). However, the DFS for these patients was 63% +/- 
9.6% at 5 years from the time of the abnormal cytocentrifuge result as compared 
with 69% +/- 1.5% for 1,490 children who did not have blasts in their CSF. This 
difference is not significant.
CONCLUSION: Blast cells were infrequently identified in cytocentrifuge 
preparations of CSF when the cell count was normal. The majority of patients in 
whom such an event was observed have not experienced a subsequent relapse as 
measured by life-table analysis at 5 years. The data do not justify changing or 
augmenting therapy based on cytocentrifuge results alone.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1994.12.2.273
PMID: 8113836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Feb;19(2):217-24; discussion 225. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70097-4.

Revascularization by the retropharyngeal route for extensive disease of the 
extracranial arteries.

Berguer R(1), Gonzalez JA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI.

PURPOSE: This is a retrospective study of 16 patients who had an average of 3.25 
arteries supplying the brain that were occluded or severely diseased. In all of 
them severe disease or occlusion of the left carotid and subclavian arteries 
precluded an ipsilateral repair.
METHODS: These patients with extensive extracranial arterial disease underwent 
revascularization from the opposite side of the neck through a retropharyngeal 
tunnel. Twelve patients had contraindications for a transthoracic repair.
RESULTS: There were no early deaths. Postoperative complications included one 
graft occlusion, one anastomotic disruption with hemorrhage, and one stroke, all 
resulting from management errors. Follow-up was 100%. Primary patency rate was 
94%, and survival was 87.5%. Two patients died in the interval: one from a 
myocardial infarction and one from cause unknown.
CONCLUSIONS: The retropharyngeal route is a shorter and more direct path across 
the neck and occasionally permits direct carotid-to-carotid transposition 
without the use of prosthetic bypasses. Even in the presence of extensive 
extracranial disease, these reconstructions have an excellent patency rate, and 
these patients have a survival 87.5% after a mean follow-up of 5.56 +/- 4.0 
years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70097-4
PMID: 8114183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Feb;19(2):250-7; discussion 257-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70100-8.

Natural history of atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis: a prospective study 
with duplex ultrasonography.

Zierler RE(1), Bergelin RO, Isaacson JA, Strandness DE Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle 98195.

PURPOSE: Although the prevalence of renal artery stenosis in patients with 
peripheral arterial disease is in the range of 30% to 40%, the role of renal 
revascularization in patients without severe hypertension or kidney failure is 
controversial. Duplex scanning is a noninvasive technique that is ideally suited 
for screening and follow-up of renal artery disease. The purpose of this study 
was to document the natural history of renal artery stenosis in patients who 
were not candidates for immediate renal revascularization.
METHODS: Eighty-four patients with at least one abnormal renal artery detected 
by duplex scanning were recruited from patients being screened for renal artery 
stenosis. Of the 168 renal artery/kidney sides, 29 were excluded (15 prior 
interventions, 6 nondiagnostic duplex scans, 8 presumed nonatherosclerotic 
lesions), leaving 80 patients with 139 sides for the follow-up protocol. Renal 
arteries were classified as normal, less than 60% stenosis, 60% or greater 
stenosis, or occluded by use of previously validated criteria.
RESULTS: The study group included 36 men and 44 women with a mean age of 66 
years who were monitored for a mean interval of 12.7 months. The initial status 
of the 139 renal arteries was normal in 36, less than 60% stenosis in 35, 60% or 
greater stenosis in 63, and occluded in 5. Although none of the initially normal 
renal arteries showed disease progression, the cumulative incidence of 
progression from less than 60% to 60% or greater renal artery stenosis was 23% 
+/- 9% at 1 year and 42% +/- 14% at 2 years. All four renal arteries that 
progressed to occlusion had 60% or greater stenoses at the initial visit, and 
for those sides with a 60% or greater stenosis, the cumulative incidence of 
progression to occlusion was 5% +/- 3% at 1 year and 11% +/- 6% at 2 years. The 
mean decrease in kidney length associated with progression of renal artery 
stenosis to occlusion was 1.8 cm.
CONCLUSIONS: Progression of renal artery stenosis, as defined in this study, 
occurs at a rate of approximately 20% per year. Progression to occlusion is 
associated with a marked decrease in kidney length. Whether this natural history 
can be improved by earlier intervention for renal artery stenosis remains to be 
determined.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70100-8
PMID: 8114186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Feb;19(2):268-76; discussion 276-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70102-4.

Repeat leg bypass after multiple prior bypass failures.

De Frang RD(1), Edwards JM, Moneta GL, Yeager RA, Taylor LM Jr, Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland.

PURPOSE: The optimal treatment of patients with severe lower extremity ischemia 
after multiple failed prior bypasses is unclear. It is presently unknown whether 
failure of attempted revascularization in these patients is so likely that such 
operation should not be elected. We have maintained an aggressive surgical 
policy of repeated revascularization regardless of prior failures. A review of 
our clinical experience with this difficult patient group was performed to 
determine the results of this policy.
METHODS: From 1980 to 1992, 85 revascularization procedures were performed in 81 
patients with lower extremity ischemia after failure of two or more prior 
infrainguinal bypasses in the same leg. All patients were prospectively entered 
and monitored in our vascular registry. Seventy-two operations were the third 
procedure, six operations were the fourth procedure, and seven operations were 
the fifth procedure on the same extremity. Twenty-six of the 85 procedures (30%) 
were revisions of failing grafts discovered by routine surveillance methods, 
whereas 59 were replacements of thrombosed grafts. Autogenous reconstruction was 
used in 67 procedures (79%), and prosthetic reconstruction was used in 18 
procedures (21%). The distal anastomosis was to the popliteal artery in 19 
patients and infrapopliteal artery in 66.
RESULTS: Mean time to failure of the first leg bypass was 24 months and 4.9 
months for the second bypass. Detailed hematologic screening revealed 
identifiable hypercoagulable disorders in nine (15%) of 59 patients screened 
after 1987. All nine had anticardiolipin antibodies. The operative mortality 
rate was 4%. Mean follow-up after the most recent operation was 17 months. The 
primary patency rate at 4 years was 79.8%. The limb salvage rate was 69.6% at 4 
years.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that limb revascularization after two or 
more failed leg bypasses results in low operative mortality rates and 
surprisingly good primary patency and limb salvage rates at 4 years. The patient 
survival rate through 4 years is unexpectedly high. In our opinion these results 
justify an aggressive policy of limb vascularization after multiple failed prior 
bypasses.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70102-4
PMID: 8114188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Feb;19(2):279-86; discussion 286-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70103-2.

The impact of color duplex surveillance on the outcome of lower limb bypass with 
segments of arm veins.

Chalmers RT(1), Hoballah JJ, Kresowik TF, Sharp WJ, Synn AY, Miller E, Corson 
JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City 
52242-1086.

PURPOSE: To evaluate prospectively 42 lower extremity arm vein bypasses with use 
of color duplex surveillance (CDS).
METHODS: Twenty-seven bypasses (64%) were to tibial arteries, 12 (29%) were to 
popliteal arteries, and three (7%) were to superficial femoral arteries. Twelve 
bypasses were composed of a single arm vein segment, and 30 were composite vein 
bypasses. Bypasses were evaluated with CDS and ankle-brachial indexes before the 
patients were discharged from the hospital, at 1 month, and then every 3 months 
during the first year; every 6 months during the second year; and annually 
thereafter. The median follow-up period was 17 months, and the median number of 
scans performed per bypass was seven. Each examination consisted of a scan of 
the entire bypass with velocity measurements taken routinely at the proximal and 
distal anastomoses and at a proximal and distal bypass segment in addition to 
any high-velocity area identified on the CDS. Peak systolic velocity greater 
than three times that of an adjacent graft segment or peak systolic velocity 
less than 45 cm/sec throughout the vein conduit were indications for 
arteriography.
RESULTS: Thirteen arteriograms were performed because of abnormal duplex 
findings on surveillance. Extension or interposition vein grafts (9), vein patch 
angioplasty (1), or inflow procedures (3) were used to maintain secondary 
patency. The 24-month primary and secondary patency rates were 46% and 85%, 
respectively. Three patients required amputation of a major extremity.
CONCLUSIONS: Arm veins are satisfactory conduits for lower extremity 
revascularization. However, preocclusive lesions that require correction are 
commonly found on surveillance, especially when composite bypasses are required. 
Vein bypass surveillance with CDS allows identification and appropriate 
correction of preocclusive lesions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70103-2
PMID: 8114189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Feb;19(2):289-96; discussion 296-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70104-0.

Failure of thrombolytic therapy to improve long-term vascular patency.

Faggioli GL(1), Peer RM, Pedrini L, Di Paola MD, Upson JA, D'Addato M, Ricotta 
JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, State University of New York at Buffalo.

PURPOSE: Few data are available on long-term follow-up of arterial segments 
subjected to thrombolysis. We reviewed all cases of vascular occlusion treated 
with urokinase to identify early success and determine the influence of 
postlysis intervention and the nature of the thrombosed segment (i.e., artery vs 
graft) on long-term patency.
METHODS: Data on 134 cases (58 arteries, 76 grafts) treated with high-dose 
urokinase infusion in the lower limbs over a 7-year period were analyzed. Limbs 
were divided into five groups on the basis of therapy after lytic infusion to 
determine long-term efficacy: group I, success with no additional therapy; group 
II, percutaneous angioplasty alone; group III, limited surgical procedure 
(operative angioplasty, jump graft); group IV, extensive procedure (new bypass); 
and group V, revascularization after lytic failure. Long-term results were 
assessed by life-table analysis and groups compared by log-rank test 
(Mantel-Haenszel).
RESULTS: Initial patency was established in 87 (64.9%) of 134 cases with 5 
deaths (3.7%), 11 amputations (8.2%), and 16 complications (11.9%). Follow-up 
was available in 68.6% of cases for a mean of 10.9 months. No difference was 
seen between grafts and native arteries. Patency was analyzed at 6, 12, 18, and 
24 months. The 24-month patency rate after lysis alone (group I-25.9%) was 
inferior (p < 0.05) to results after lysis and any subsequent intervention 
(groups II, III, and IV). The type of intervention did not influence subsequent 
patency. Twenty-four-month patency of procedures performed after failed 
thrombolysis (group V, 41.4%) was not different from those after successful 
lysis (groups I to IV). Twenty-four-month patency in groups II and III (minor 
interventions, 62.9%) was not significantly different from that of groups IV and 
V (major interventions, 53.2%) (p > 0.25).
CONCLUSIONS: Operative intervention is required to produce long-term arterial 
patency, even after successful thrombolysis. No statistically significant 
benefit of thrombolysis on vascular patency was seen in our series.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70104-0
PMID: 8114190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Feb;19(2):341-8; discussion 348-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70109-1.

Increased limb salvage by the use of unconventional foot amputations.

Chang BB(1), Bock DE, Jacobs RL, Darling RC 3rd, Leather RP, Shah DM.

Author information:
(1)Albany Medical College, NY 12208.

PURPOSE: Limb salvage in the presence of ischemic foot necrosis requires 
revascularization followed by debridement or partial foot amputation. Necrosis 
extending beyond the toes and metatarsal heads may require the use of 
unconventional types of amputations.
METHODS: Over a 15-year period 2105 ischemic limbs were treated with 
infrainguinal revascularization. In 98 cases, extensive foot necrosis was than 
managed with amputations, including 59 modified Chopart, 14 Lisfranc, 17 
Pirogoff and 8 Syme amputations. Patients were not allowed to bear weight for 
several days to weeks.
RESULTS: Skin flap necrosis in 14 cases was managed successfully by debridement 
and skin grafting. Ambulation required the use of a "clamshell" prosthesis and 
foot spacer. The overall limb salvage rate in this group was 84% (82 of 98). In 
general, the modified Chopart amputation most frequently produced ambulatory 
limb salvage and is technically easier to perform than a Syme amputation. 
Patient satisfaction and long-term ambulatory function was highest with the 
modified Chopart.
CONCLUSION: Ischemic foot necrosis extending beyond the limits of conventional 
transmetatarsal amputation need not be treated with major amputation. This 
requires the surgeon to be well versed in the use of less common types of 
partial foot amputations. Acceptable limb salvage and good functional results 
may be attained by the motivated patient and surgeon with the use of these 
procedures in the revascularized limb.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70109-1
PMID: 8114193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Mycoses. 1993 Jul-Aug;36(7-8):221-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1439-0507.1993.tb00755.x.

Cryptococcal meningitis: the place of itraconazole.

Cauwenbergh G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Research and Development, Janssen Research Foundation, 
Beerse, Belgium.

Itraconazole, an orally active broad-spectrum triazole antimycotic, has 
demonstrated anti-Cryptococcus activity in vitro and in animal models of 
cryptococcal meningitis. The drug has been used by a number of clinical groups 
for the treatment of cryptococcal meningitis, predominantly in AIDS patients. A 
problem that has been found with ketoconazole is the relatively low absorption 
of the drug in AIDS patients. This has resulted in ketoconazole plasma levels 
below the MIC90 (1-5 micrograms ml-1) needed to eliminate Cryptococcus 
neoformans. In addition, tissue levels of ketoconazole are lower than plasma 
levels. For itraconazole, the required MIC90 for Cr. neoformans is 0.1 microgram 
ml-1, and the plasma levels in AIDS patients receiving 200-400 mg daily, even in 
the case of reduced absorption, are well above this MIC90. The itraconazole 
levels in the brain and in the meninges are higher than the plasma levels. 
Consequently, itraconazole has been considered a valid candidate for studies in 
patients with cryptococcal meningitis. Various treatment modalities have been 
used: primary oral therapy alone or in combination with amphotericin B or 
5-fluorocytosine (5-FC); maintenance oral therapy after initial treatment with 
amphotericin B (with or without 5-FC); and first-line intravenous treatment in 
severely ill patients. The results were evaluated in four different groups. When 
the drug was given as primary oral therapy without combination with amphotericin 
B or 5-FC, the results depended greatly on the dose administered and on the life 
expectancy of the patient at inclusion. In general, daily doses of 400 mg were 
better than 200-mg doses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0507.1993.tb00755.x
PMID: 8114801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Nature. 1994 Jan 27;367(6461):313-4. doi: 10.1038/367313a0.

Health decline in eastern Europe.

Feachem R(1).

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, UK.

Large relative and absolute declines in health status in Central and Eastern 
Europe since the mid-1960s place the countries of this region at a considerable 
disadvantage as they strive to compete and participate in the new Europe.

DOI: 10.1038/367313a0
PMID: 8114931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Nurs Econ. 1993 Nov-Dec;11(6):358-62.

Long-term care insurance: issues and opportunities.

Elgin LR.

Tremendous strides in public health and medicine over the last century have 
resulted in greater life expectancy for the general population. Despite this 
tremendous growth and increasing need for long-term care (LTC) services, 
facilities and information sources have not kept pace with the demand. LTC lacks 
the attention afforded other health care areas. It is important for nurse 
executives to understand LTC services, financial requirements, types of LTC 
insurance available, issues facing consumers and insurance companies, and future 
opportunities.

PMID: 8114960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Presse Med. 1993 Nov 27;22(37):1861-4.

[Surgery of aneurysm of the subrenal abdominal aorta in patients over 80 years 
of age].

[Article in French]

Cormier F(1), Veroux P, Fichelle JM, Marzelle J, Cormier JM.

Author information:
(1)Clinique de La DÃ©fense, Nanterre.

In patients aged over 80 years infrarenal aortic aneurysmectomy is controversial 
because of reduced life expectancy and multiple risk factors and associated 
vascular or non-vascular lesions. Our personal experience of 984 operations 
performed for unruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms over a 6-year period showed 
a significantly higher perioperative mortality in patients aged more than 80 
years (15.4 versus 2 percent). In contrast, for ruptured aneurysms, the 
difference of perioperative mortality was not significant (71 percent in the 
over 80 group versus 37 percent in other groups), but the number of patients (17 
and 52 respectively, to a total of 69) was too small. In patients over 80, it 
seems reasonable to restrict elective surgery to aneurysms that are symptomatic 
or complicated, or to those which carry higher risks of rupture in view of their 
diameter and gradual enlargement. The best treatment, in fact, is early 
diagnosis and surgery before the age of 80, when perioperative mortality is much 
lower, less than 2 percent. Less aggressive treatments, including endoluminal 
aortic graft placement, are very promising but still experimental.

PMID: 8115330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Stereotact Funct Neurosurg. 1993;61 Suppl 1:11-9. doi: 10.1159/000100654.

Decision analysis of the treatment of AVMs with radiosurgery.

Hudgins WR(1).

Author information:
(1)Presbyterian Hospital of Dallas, Gamma Knife Center, Tex.

Decision analysis uses a tree-like diagram to describe treatment outcomes, the 
likelihood and value of which are obtained from the literature. A personal 
computer program entitled 'D-Tree' was used to compare radiosurgery to both 
microsurgery and nonoperative management of cerebral arteriovenous malformations 
(AVMs). The results indicated that radiosurgery is the treatment of choice for 
all AVMs up to 3 cm in diameter, not just those considered inoperable. 
Sensitivity analysis, to show the effect on treatment preference of a range of 
assumptions concerning outcome probabilities and values, suggested that for 
microsurgery to provide more years of life expectancy than radiosurgery, the 
obliteration rate of radiosurgery should be less than 60%. If the radiosurgical 
obliteration rate is 85%, then microsurgery must have a zero mortality and 
morbidity rate to equal the results of radiosurgery.

DOI: 10.1159/000100654
PMID: 8115742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Semin Surg Oncol. 1994 Jan-Feb;10(1):2-6. doi: 10.1002/ssu.2980100103.

On the estimation of survival.

Henson DE(1), Ries LA.

Author information:
(1)Early Detection Branch, Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National 
Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD 20892.

The advantages and disadvantages of the different methods for calculating 
survival according to the TNM (Topography, Lymph Node, and Metastasis) are 
described. Methods include the observed, relative, and conditional survival 
rates. For large cohorts, relative survival calculated by the life table method 
is most useful. Conditional survival, which requires long-term follow-up, is 
clinically the most informative. In addition, follow-up methods employed by 
tumor registries are considered.

DOI: 10.1002/ssu.2980100103
PMID: 8115782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Semin Surg Oncol. 1994 Jan-Feb;10(1):21-30. doi: 10.1002/ssu.2980100106.

Influence of extent of disease, histology, and demographic factors on lung 
cancer survival in the SEER population-based data.

Ries LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Cancer Institute, 
Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Rates calculated from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) 
Program are used to show variations in lung cancer survival by prognostic 
factors with an emphasis on the extent of disease and demographic variables. The 
analysis is based on 52,755 histologically confirmed cases of invasive lung 
cancer diagnosed from 1983 through 1987 and 51,377 cases diagnosed from 1977 
through 1982. Females survived better than males. In general, white patients 
survived better than blacks. However, if both race and sex are considered 
together, black females survived better than white males and white females had 
the highest rates and black males the lowest. Age, however, proved to be the 
strongest predictor of survival of the demographic variables. Young females (< 
45 years) with non-small cell lung cancer had an 81% 5-year relative survival 
rate compared to 44% for those 75 years and over. Survival for small cell lung 
cancer was lower than that for any other histologic type even when stratified on 
stage of disease (stages I and II, all stages). Survival for stages III and IV 
did not vary by histologic type. The histologic grade showed prognostic value 
only for patients assigned stage I. More detailed extent of disease information 
was used to show how often specific sites of distant metastases are seen at 
diagnosis. It also demonstrated the inter-relationship of the different extent 
of disease variables and their effect on outcome.

DOI: 10.1002/ssu.2980100106
PMID: 8115783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Semin Surg Oncol. 1994 Jan-Feb;10(1):7-11. doi: 10.1002/ssu.2980100104.

Mortality rates by stage-at-diagnosis.

Clinton K(1).

Author information:
(1)Early Detection Branch, Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National 
Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD 20892.

Mortality rates by stage-at-diagnosis are not possible from usual mortality 
data. Normally, mortality data are based solely on information provided on death 
certificates, and stage-at-diagnosis is not generally reported on these 
documents. However, mortality rates by stage are possible when one can link 
diagnostic data with mortality data. Population-based cancer registries collect 
these types of data routinely in determining the survival of cancers in their 
registry. Thus, using cancer registry data, mortality rates by 
stage-at-diagnosis can be calculated. We report stage-specific mortality rates 
for the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program, representing 10% of 
the cancers in the U.S. for the four sites with the largest mortality rates for 
females and for males. For an individual site, the stage-specific mortality 
rates allow one to determine how the different stages are contributing to the 
trends in all stage mortality. For example, distant disease mortality is the 
largest contributor to all stage cancer mortality for female and male lung 
cancer, female colorectal cancer, ovarian cancer, prostatic cancer and male 
pancreatic cancer. In contrast, regional disease mortality is the largest 
contributor to all stage cancer mortality for breast cancer and male colorectal 
cancer. In addition, localized disease mortality is the second largest 
contributor to all stage mortality for breast cancer and prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1002/ssu.2980100104
PMID: 8115787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Acta Orthop Belg. 1993;59 Suppl 1:367-71.

Massive resection and prosthetic replacement for the treatment of metastases of 
the trochanteric and subtrochanteric femoral region bipolar arthroplasty versus 
total hip arthroplasty.

Haentjens P(1), de Neve W, Casteleyn PP, Opdecam P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics & Traumatology, Free University Brussels (VUB), 
Belgium.

Twenty-eight metastases of the proximal femur were treated by resection and by 
prosthetic replacement using a large femoral component with diaphyseal support 
(megaprosthesis). When metastatic involvement of the acetabulum was not evident 
a mobile self-centering cup was used (bipolar hip arthroplasty: 17 cases). When 
metastatic destruction of the acetabulum was evident acetabular reconstruction 
was performed (total hip arthroplasty: 11 cases). Postoperative pain relief 
according to Habermann was excellent in 81.5% and good in 14.8% of the patients. 
The functional results according to Merle d'AubignÃ© were rated as excellent in 
19%, very good in 22%, and good in 22% of the hips. The rate of postoperative 
dislocation was significantly lower (p < 0.05) in the bipolar arthroplasty group 
when compared to the total hip arthroplasty group. Our experience indicates 
that, when bone disease of the acetabulum is not evident, a bipolar arthroplasty 
rather than a total hip arthroplasty should be recommended. In the current 
series pain relief as well as postoperative walking ability were comparable in 
both groups but the dislocation rate was significantly lower with bipolar 
arthroplasty.

PMID: 8116432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Acta Orthop Belg. 1993;59 Suppl 1:52-6.

Surgical treatment of metastatic fracture of the femur improvement of quality of 
life.

Broos P(1), Reynders P, van den Bogert W, Vanderschot P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Traumatology and Emergency Surgery, U.Z. Gasthuisberg, Leuven, 
Belgium.

Radiotherapy and chemotherapy will result in an increase in the number of 
pathological fractures that occur, principally as a consequence of metastatic 
disease. Especially at the level of the femur, these lesions are painful and are 
apt to make the patient invalid. Aggressive surgery is often the only possible 
treatment for such patients, who in many cases may live on for several weeks, 
months or years. Contra-indications, however are: a survival expectancy of less 
than 4 weeks, a poor general condition that is an obstacle to a safe operation, 
or complete mental deterioration. If possible, internal fixation should be 
performed prophylactically before the real fracture occurs. From January 1980 to 
December 1990, 65 patients (53 women and 12 men) with 77 pathological fractures 
of the femur were operated on in the department of traumatology and emergency 
surgery of the Leuven University Hospital. The average age was 65 years. 
Metastatic spread from breast cancer was by far the most frequent pathology 
(75%). Sixty fractures out of the 77 (78%) occurred at the level of the proximal 
end of the femur in 29 cases (38%) the fracture was in the subtrochanteric 
region. In 6 cases a "prophylactic" osteosynthesis was performed because of an 
impending fracture. Endoprosthetic surgery was performed in 36 cases (47%). In 
41 cases we performed osteosynthesis: 34 times a compound double-plate fixation, 
5 times a gamma nail, 2 times an interlocking nail. Fourty-six patients (71%) 
obtained very reasonable functional results: they were able to walk again 
independently or with the help of sticks and crutches.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

PMID: 8116440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Acta Orthop Belg. 1993;59 Suppl 1:88-94.

[Cementless hip prosthesis: goals, problems, evaluation methods].

[Article in French]

Lemaire R(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'OrthopÃ©die-Traumatologie, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de 
LiÃ¨ge, Belgique.

PMID: 8116448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Am J Hum Genet. 1994 Mar;54(3):489-96.

Linkage of cutaneous malignant melanoma/dysplastic nevi to chromosome 9p, and 
evidence for genetic heterogeneity.

Goldstein AM(1), Dracopoli NC, Engelstein M, Fraser MC, Clark WH Jr, Tucker MA.

Author information:
(1)Genetic Epidemiology Branch, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD 20892.

We examined the relationship between cutaneous malignant melanoma/dysplastic 
nevi (CMM/DN) and chromosome 9p in 13 pedigrees with two or more living cases of 
invasive melanoma. We used two highly informative (CA)n repeats, D9S126 and 
IFNA, previously implicated in familial malignant melanoma (MLM), to conduct 
linkage analysis. Three analyses were performed: (1) CMM alone--all individuals 
without either confirmed melanoma or borderline lesions were considered 
unaffected (model A); (2) CMM/DN with both variable age at onset and sporadics 
(model B); and (3) CMM affecteds only--all individuals either without confirmed 
melanoma or with borderline lesions were designated "unknown" (model C). There 
was significant evidence for linkage to IFNA in all three models. For CMM alone, 
the maximum lod score (Zmax) was 4.36 at theta = .10 for model A and 3.39 at 
theta = .10 for model C. For CMM/DN (model B), Zmax = 3.05 at theta = .20. There 
was no significant evidence for linkage between CMM alone or CMM/DN and 
chromosome 9p marker D9S126. In addition, there was significant evidence for 
heterogeneity when a homogeneity test allowing for linkage to chromosome 9p or 
chromosome 1p or neither region was used. These results suggest that there is an 
MLM susceptibility locus on chromosome 9p but that familial melanoma is 
heterogeneous and not all families with CMM/DN are linked to a locus in this 
region.

PMCID: PMC1918143
PMID: 8116618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Control Clin Trials. 1993 Dec;14(6):485-99. doi:
10.1016/0197-2456(93)90029-d.

Parametric extrapolation of survival estimates with applications to quality of 
life evaluation of treatments. International Breast Cancer Study Group.

Gelber RD(1), Goldhirsch A, Cole BF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115.

Using parametric models, a procedure for projecting survival estimates beyond 
the follow-up limits of a clinical trial is developed. The methodology consists 
of fitting an appropriate parametric model to the tail of a survival curve and 
using the estimated model in conjunction with the Kaplan-Meier product-limit 
estimate to produce a composite survival-function estimator. This estimator is 
especially useful whenever a parametric model is more easily fit to the tail 
rather than to the entire survival curve. Probability plots are used to evaluate 
different parametric models as well as to determine appropriate values for the 
cut points that define the survival-function tail. The bootstrap method provides 
estimates of variation in the projected survival curve. The resulting projected 
survival estimates allow one to make inferences on long-term treatment effects 
in clinical trials. As a motivating application, we project survival curves to 
estimate long-term treatment effects on quality-of-life-adjusted survival. This 
represents an extension of a statistical procedure called Q-TWiST 
(Quality-adjusted Time Without Symptoms of disease and Toxicity of treatment), 
which evaluates treatments in terms of both quantity and quality of life. In a 
standard Q-TWiST analysis, the average time spent in each of a number of health 
states, which differ in quality of life, is estimated from clinical trial data. 
The health states are weighted according to the quality of life experienced, and 
the results are combined to produce an estimate of quality-adjusted survival. 
Such estimates, however, are restricted to the follow-up limit of the data. The 
way in which the extrapolation methodology provides longer range estimates of 
Q-TWiST is described. To illustrate the techniques, we apply the methodology to 
data from the International Breast Cancer Study Group Trial V, which compares 
long-duration adjuvant chemotherapy versus short-duration chemotherapy in the 
treatment of node-positive breast cancer. Five-year median follow-up data are 
used to predict 10-year results in terms of mean survival and mean Q-TWiST. The 
results indicate that patients continue to benefit greatly from the 
long-duration chemotherapy between 5 and 10 years following treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/0197-2456(93)90029-d
PMID: 8119064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Neurosurgery. 1994 Jan;34(1):14-20; discussion 20-1.

Linear accelerator radiosurgery of cerebral arteriovenous malformations: an 
update.

Colombo F(1), Pozza F, Chierego G, Casentini L, De Luca G, Francescon P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, City Hospital, Vicenza, Italy.

Comment in
    Neurosurgery. 1994 Aug;35(2):342.

One hundred eighty patients affected by cerebral arteriovenous malformations 
(AVMs) underwent radiosurgical treatment in our department. One hundred 
fifty-three patients have been treated with complete irradiation of the entire 
AVM nidus. In 27 patients (with large and/or three-dimensional irregular target 
volumes), only part of the nidus was covered with a dose adequate for 
obliteration. Follow-up ranged from 88 to 1 months (mean, 43.1 mo). Angiographic 
control was performed at 12, 24, and 36 months until complete obliteration was 
attained. The complete obliteration rate was 46% at 1 year and 80% at 2 years. 
We observed 15 hemorrhages after treatment, and five patients died from them. No 
bleeding took place after complete angiographic obliteration. The aim of this 
study is to evaluate the effect of irradiation on bleeding risk after 
radiosurgery and before complete obliteration. Inclusive parameters of patients 
considered at risk were as follows: 1) all patients in the time lapse between 
irradiation and demonstrated complete angiographic obliteration; 2) all patients 
in the time lapse between irradiation and definitive treatment either by surgery 
or embolization; and 3) all patients in the time lapse between irradiation and 
death. These groups include all irradiated patients who still had incompletely 
obliterated AVMs. They were stratified starting from 0 time (the date of 
radiosurgery), and the hemorrhages were evaluated every 6 months. In totally 
irradiated cases, the bleeding risk decreased from 4.8% in the first 6 months 
after radiosurgery to 0% starting from the 12th month of the follow-up.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8121550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Pediatrics. 1994 Feb;93(2):247-53.

Autosomal recessive osteopetrosis: variability of findings at diagnosis and 
during the natural course.

Gerritsen EJ(1), Vossen JM, van Loo IH, Hermans J, Helfrich MH, Griscelli C, 
Fischer A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University Hospital, Leiden, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the variability and the natural course of children 
suffering from autosomal recessive osteopetrosis to allow optimal counseling and 
decision making with respect to therapeutic intervention.
DESIGN: Retrospective and longitudinal evaluation of clinical symptoms and 
natural course with emphasis on survival and sensoneurologic and hematologic 
findings.
SETTING: Two large referral-based pediatric bone marrow transplantation units in 
Europe.
PATIENTS: Thirty-three patients with autosomal recessive osteopetrosis admitted 
to units in Paris and Leiden between 1972 and 1988 were analyzed until last 
follow-up or the time at which bone marrow transplantation was performed. The 
great number of patients and unprecedented amount of data make this report one 
of the single largest clinical studies on autosomal recessive osteopetrosis.
MAIN RESULTS: Ocular involvement occurring at a median age of 2 months was the 
symptom at initial examination in half of the patients. A striking variability 
between patients was found. Retinal degeneration was present in three patients 
and associated generalized neurodegeneration was present in two. The probability 
of survival until the age of 6 years was about 30% for the group as a whole. The 
cumulative risk of developing visual or hematologic impairment in the first year 
of life was about 75% and leveled off afterward. Patients with early hematologic 
impairment, ie, before 3 months of age, especially when combined with early 
visual impairment, had a very poor prognosis regarding life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Autosomal recessive osteopetrosis seems to be a variable disorder 
with a poor prognosis, especially in children with early visual and hematologic 
impairment. Allogenic bone marrow transplantation remains the only curative 
approach.

PMID: 8121736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Ann Vasc Surg. 1993 Nov;7(6):530-40. doi: 10.1007/BF02000147.

Stenotic coiling and kinking of the internal carotid artery.

Koskas F(1), Bahnini A, Walden R, Kieffer E.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire, PitiÃ©-SalpÃ©triÃ¨re University Hospital, 
Paris, France.

Between January 1979 and December 1991, 174 of a total of 2304 carotid 
reconstructions (7.5%) were performed in 166 patients for stenotic coiling or 
kinking of the internal carotid artery. There was a 1.4 male predominance and 
the mean age of the patients was 66.3 +/- 9.6 years (range 38 to 91 years). 
Seventeen patients (9.8%) were asymptomatic, 54 (31%) were symptomatic because 
of a previous stroke, and 103 (59.2%) had had transient ischemic attacks. The 
symptoms were hemispheric in 108 (62.1%) cases, ocular in 19 (10.9%), and 
vertebrobasilar in 30 (17.2%). The stenotic coiling or kinking was isolated in 
35 (20.1%) cases and associated with other lesions of the internal carotid 
artery in 139 (79.9%). These included 119 atherosclerotic stenoses, 14 
aneurysms, and six stenotic lesions due to fibromuscular dysplasia. Angioplasty 
of the carotid bifurcation was performed in 102 (58.6%) patients, associated 
with endarterectomy in 84 (48.3%) cases and with dilatation of dysplastic 
lesions in six (3.5%) cases. A bypass graft and resection and anastomosis of the 
carotid artery were performed in 36 (20.7%) patients each. There were four 
postoperative deaths (2.3%): two were due to neurologic causes, one to heart 
disease, and one to complications of an associated surgical procedure. Five 
patients (2.9%) had postoperative strokes and eight (4.6%) had transient 
ischemic attacks. At postoperative follow-up investigations four (2.3%) patients 
had carotid occlusions and 10 (5.7%) had morphologic abnormalities. At 5 years, 
actuarial survival was 80.97 +/- 8.8%, patency was 96.12 +/- 2.95%, and the 
ipsilateral stroke-free rate was 93.12 +/- 4.49%. Treatment of stenotic coiling 
or kinking of the internal carotid artery yields satisfactory results, 
comparable to those of endarterectomy, for isolated atherosclerotic carotid 
stenoses and is effective in the prevention of ipsilateral ischemic stroke.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02000147
PMID: 8123455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Br J Cancer. 1994 Mar;69(3):520-4. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1994.94.

Defining a high mortality risk group among women with primary breast cancer.

NordÃ©n T(1), Lindgren A, BergstrÃ¶m R, Holmberg L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

Erratum in
    Br J Cancer 1995 Aug;72(2):519.

Increasing interest has been focused on DNA ploidy, hormone receptor status and 
tumour size as prognostic factors in node-negative breast cancer. We analysed 
these factors in patients operated on for primary invasive breast cancer between 
January 1981 and December 1987 in a prospective study of 248 women with no 
involved axillary nodes and 188 women with positive nodes followed until 15 
April 1989. Oestrogen or progesterone receptor negativity, aneuploidy and tumour 
diameter exceeding 20 mm were studied as negative prognostic signs in life table 
analyses and Cox proportional hazards models of corrected survival. Corrected 
survival decreased with increasing number of negative signs. Three to four signs 
yielded a statistically significant, two- to threefold higher risk than the 
others. Survival estimates by life table analyses differed by 20% at 5 years. In 
the whole group, women with three or four negative factors had a relative risk 
of dying from their disease more than twice that of the others. Women with no 
involved nodes and with three or four negative factors had a risk of dying from 
breast cancer similar to that of node-positive women with fewer than three.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1994.94
PMCID: PMC1968840
PMID: 8123483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Cancer Causes Control. 1994 Jan;5(1):26-30. doi: 10.1007/BF01830723.

Gender of the first offspring, age at diagnosis, and survival with breast cancer 
(Utah, United States).

Janerich DT(1), Mineau GP, Kerber RA.

Author information:
(1)University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City.

We examined the relationship between the survival of women with breast cancer 
