and the gender of their first children using a genealogy-based survival 
analysis. The study group consisted of 2,155 parous women diagnosed in Utah 
(United States) with first primary breast cancers (excluding in situ tumors). We 
calculated hazard rate ratios (HRR) which were adjusted for stage, median 
survival times, and proportions surviving for three-, five-, and 10-year 
intervals stratified by age at diagnosis. Median survival among women diagnosed 
under the age of 45 was 171 months if the first child was female, but only 66 
months if the first child was male (HRR = 1.66, 95 percent confidence interval = 
1.07-2.57, for male children). For women diagnosed at age 45 or older, all 
survival times were similar, although women whose first child was male had 
slightly longer median survival time. These findings suggest that the gender of 
the first child has a strong influence on survival among women diagnosed under 
45 years of age, but not among those diagnosed later in life. Gender of the 
first offspring may be a useful clinical indicator of prognosis and survival and 
may provide insights into etiologic and promotional factors for breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01830723
PMID: 8123775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. BMJ. 1994 Feb 5;308(6925):408. doi: 10.1136/bmj.308.6925.408.

Left handedness and life expectancy. Causal inferences cannot be trusted.

Peto R.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1993 Dec 18-25;307(6919):1577-8.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.308.6925.408
PMCID: PMC2539462
PMID: 8124152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. BMJ. 1994 Feb 5;308(6925):408.

Left handedness and life expectancy. No evidence to support link.

Beaton AA.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1993 Dec 18-25;307(6919):1577-8.

PMCID: PMC2539436
PMID: 8124153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. BMJ. 1994 Feb 5;308(6925):408.

Left handedness and life expectancy. Studies mislead on age at death.

Burgess A.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1993 Dec 18-25;307(6919):1577-8.

PMCID: PMC2539425
PMID: 8124154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Monaldi Arch Chest Dis. 1993 Dec;48(6):640-6.

Care of the adult patients with cystic fibrosis.

Perino B(1), Trevisan A, Falchetti A, Gaia E, Petrarulo M.

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Rehabilitation Unit, S. Luigi Gonzaga Hospital, Orbassano, 
Torino, Italy.

Although no therapeutic breakthrough has taken place, the life expectancy of 
patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) has dramatically increased in the last 20 
yrs. Nowadays, more than 80% of the patients outlive 18 yrs of age, with a mean 
survival age approaching 28 yrs. These favourable results are due mainly to 
early diagnosis and continuous treatment in specialized centres. The main 
therapeutic items are: prevention and early treatment of lung infections, mainly 
due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa, drainage of bronchial secretions (postural 
drainage, forced expiratory techniques, positive-expiratory-pressure mask, 
autogenic drainage,...), substitutive therapy with pancreatic enzymes and 
hypercaloric diet. Thus cystic fibrosis is increasingly a disease which involves 
adults, with many related problems, which span from the difficulties of 
prescribing an effective antibiotic therapy in cases with multiple resistances, 
to combining the need for a long daily physiotherapy schedule with school or a 
working life. Sexual problems and related psychological troubles are an 
important issue in the management of cystic fibrosis in adult patients, and are 
accordingly treated.

PMID: 8124304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Genetica. 1993;91(1-3):11-9. doi: 10.1007/BF01435984.

Evolutionary mechanisms of senescence.

Charlesworth B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago, IL 60637.

This paper reviews theories of the evolution of senescence. The population 
genetic basis for the decline with age in sensitivity of fitness to changes in 
survival and fecundity is discussed. It is shown that this creates a pressure of 
selection that disproportionately favors performance early in life. The extent 
of this bias is greater when there is a high level of extrinsic mortality; this 
accounts for much the diversity in life-history patterns among different taxa. 
The implications of quantitative genetic theory for experimental tests of 
alternative population genetic models of senescence are discussed. In 
particular, the negative genetic correlations between traits predicted by the 
antagonistic pleiotropy model may be obscured by positive correlations that are 
inevitable in a multivariate system, or by the effects of variation due to 
deleterious mutations. The status of the genetic evidence relevant to these 
theories is discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01435984
PMID: 8125262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Genetica. 1993;91(1-3):65-77. doi: 10.1007/BF01435988.

Comparing mutants, selective breeding, and transgenics in the dissection of 
aging processes of Caenorhabditis elegans.

Johnson TE(1), Tedesco PM, Lithgow GJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado, Boulder 80309.

The genetic analysis of aging processes has matured in the last ten years with 
reports that long-lived strains of both fruit flies and nematodes have been 
developed. Several attempts to identify mutants in the fruit fly with increased 
longevity have failed and the reasons for these failures are analyzed. A major 
problem in obligate sexual species, such as the fruit fly, is the presence of 
inbreeding depression that makes the analysis of life-history traits in 
homozygotes very difficult. Nevertheless, several successful genetic analyses of 
aging in Drosophila suggest that with careful design, fruitful analysis of 
induced mutants affecting life span is possible. In the nematode Caenorhabditis 
elegans, mutations in the age-1 gene result in a life extension of some 70%; 
thus age-1 clearly specifies a process involved in organismic senescence. This 
gene maps to chromosome II, well separated from a locus (fer-15) which is 
responsible for a large fertility deficit in the original stocks. There is no 
trade-off between either rate of development or fertility versus life span 
associated with the age-1 mutation. Transgenic analyses confirm that the 
fertility deficit can be corrected by a wild-type fer-15 transformant 
(transgene); however, the life span of these transformed stocks is affected by 
the transgenic array in an unpredictable fashion. The molecular nature of the 
age-1 gene remains unknown and we continue in our efforts to clone the gene.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01435988
PMID: 8125279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Hawaii Med J. 1993 Dec;52(12):316-24.

Thoughts on finding the right computer buddy: a moveable feast.

Tortolini R.

The burgeoning supernova of medical information is rapidly overtaking the 
practicing physician's envelope of comprehension. More physicians by necessity 
are turning to automated resources as a means of amplifying the information they 
need to know while, at the same time, reducing the volume of technical 
pollution. Computers are capable of being a silent partner at your side as you 
talk with your patient--ready to cut to the quick and retrieve the latest 
information for the particular clinical problem at hand. Computers can be 
considered an extension of the brain. In a sense, they are silicon-based "life" 
forms. Virtuosity is learned from them as familiarity is gained--the same as 
becoming acquainted with a human stranger. This article is about one physician's 
solution to the problem of too much information. It's unabashedly anecdotal but 
we hope the reader will glean some hints while navigating through the realms of 
cyberspace.

PMID: 8125771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. J Urol. 1994 Apr;151(4):992-4. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)35145-5.

Splenic rupture during occlusion of the porta hepatis in resection of tumors 
with vena caval extension.

Baniel J(1), Bihrle R, Wahle GR, Foster RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Indiana University Medical Center, Indianapolis, 
Indiana.

Comment in
    J Urol. 1995 Jan;153(1):161.

The surgical management of renal cell carcinoma with intraluminal extension into 
the vena cava is technically demanding. Although the curative merit of the 
procedure is well established, extension of tumor above the hepatic veins may 
cause potentially life threatening complications, including pulmonary embolus 
and exsanguination. To our knowledge we report the first 2 cases in which 
intraoperative splenic rupture occurred and discuss possible causes of this 
complication.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)35145-5
PMID: 8126847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Mar;19(3):391-403. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70066-4.

Long-term results of venous valve reconstruction: a four- to twenty-one-year 
follow-up.

Masuda EM(1), Kistner RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Straub Clinic and Hospital, Honolulu, HI 
96814-1617.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is to describe the very long-term clinical, 
hemodynamic, and imaging results of venous valve reconstruction for reflux 
disease in patients with chronic venous insufficiency.
METHODS: There were 51 extremities (48 patients) with follow-up of 4 to 21 years 
with a mean of 10.6 years. Clinical severity was graded as asymptomatic (class 
0), mildly symptomatic (class 1), moderately symptomatic but without ulceration 
(class 2), or severely symptomatic with or without ulceration (class 3). 
Preoperative and postoperative evaluation consisted of history and physical 
examination, ascending venography (preoperative only), ambulatory venous 
pressures or photoplethysmography, and descending venography or duplex scanning.
RESULTS: Before surgery, 49 (96%) of 51 limbs demonstrated severe, class 3 
disease, and two limbs were classified as class 2 disease. After venous valve 
reconstruction by either direct femoral vein valve repair, transposition, or 
transplantation, long-term clinical success of achieving a class 0 or 1 result 
(by life-table analysis) was 60% at 10 years. Thirty-three percent demonstrated 
a class 0 result in which the limbs were free from symptoms and had no need for 
long-term elastic support. After 6 years clinical results were stable and did 
not deteriorate. Incompetent perforators were identified in 31 cases and were 
treated selectively. Three disease patterns of chronic venous insufficiency were 
identified: primary valve insufficiency 43%, postthrombotic syndrome 31%, and a 
group consisting of both primary valve insufficiency of the superficial femoral 
vein and postthrombotic syndrome of the calf veins (primary valve 
insufficiency-postthrombotic syndrome) 26%. Ten-year cumulative clinical success 
was clearly superior in limbs with primary valve insufficiency corrected by 
valve repair (73%) as opposed to those with postthrombotic syndrome treated by 
either valve transposition or transplantation (43%) (p = 0.029). Clinical 
outcome correlated strongly with postoperative imaging results, and durability 
of valve repair was confirmed by demonstrating competence up to 16 years after 
the operation. Significant improvement in ambulatory venous pressure (mean 
percentage of pressure fall and refill time) was found in limbs with class 0 or 
1 outcome; however, values did not reach "normal" levels in all cases. Recurrent 
ulcerations after the operation were attributed to failed reconstructions (10), 
incompetent profunda femoris veins (three), incompetent perforators (three), and 
concomitant lymphedema (one).
CONCLUSIONS: This report highlights a difference found in very long-term 
prognosis of surgical treatment of primary valve insufficiency as opposed to 
postthrombotic syndrome. Long-term elimination of symptoms of chronic venous 
insufficiency is achieved by valve repair for primary valve insufficiency beyond 
10 years, whereas late results of treatment of postthrombotic syndrome in this 
study was accompanied by high recurrence rates and warrants further 
investigation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70066-4
PMID: 8126852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Mar;19(3):495-502. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70077-x.

Surgical transluminal femoropopliteal angioplasty: multivariate analysis 
outcome.

Becquemin JP(1), Cavillon A, Haiduc F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Centre Hospitalo Universitaire Henri Mondor, 
Créteil, France.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 1994 Nov;20(5):848-9.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of 
femoropopliteal transluminal angioplasty performed in the operating room by 
vascular surgeons and the factors that might influence outcome.
METHODS: The clinical, biologic, and angiographic, findings of 103 consecutive 
transluminal angioplasties performed in the operating suite in 95 patients for 
occlusive disease of the femoral or popliteal arteries were analyzed. With each 
variable, patency was compared according to the log rank test, and a Cox 
multivariate analysis was applied to the statistically significant variables.
RESULTS: Local, general, and vascular complications occurred in 2.8%, 0.9%, and 
2.8% of cases, respectively. The cumulative patency rate was 77.9% +/- 3.9% at 1 
month, 59.8% +/- 5.35% at 1 year, and 51.3% +/- 6.15% at 2 years, including 
early failures (20.7%). Of 11 preoperative factors studied, only the stenotic or 
occlusive character and the length of the lesion were shown to be statistically 
significant (p < 0.001 and p < 0.01, respectively). The constructed mathematic 
Cox proportional hazards regression model allowed definition of the probability 
of success according to four groups, based on angiographic findings. At 2 years 
the probability of success was 80% in patients with stenosis less than 2 cm 
long, 62% in patients with stenosis greater than 2 cm, 42% in patients with 
occlusion less than 2 cm long, and 20% in patients with occlusion greater than 2 
cm long.
CONCLUSION: Transluminal femoropopliteal angioplasty may be performed safely by 
vascular surgeons in the operating room. Based on this model, proper selection 
of patients who might best benefit from transluminal angioplasty for 
femoropopliteal disease may be made.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70077-x
PMID: 8126863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. N Engl J Med. 1994 Apr 14;330(15):1041-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199404143301503.

Genetic susceptibility to death from coronary heart disease in a study of twins.

Marenberg ME(1), Risch N, Berkman LF, Floderus B, de Faire U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Conn.

BACKGROUND: A family history of premature coronary heart disease has long been 
thought to be a risk factor for coronary heart disease. Using data from 26 years 
of follow-up of 21,004 Swedish twins born between 1886 and 1925, we investigated 
this issue further by assessing the risk of death from coronary heart disease in 
pairs of monozygotic and dizygotic twins.
METHODS: The study population consisted of 3298 monozygotic and 5964 dizygotic 
male twins and 4012 monozygotic and 7730 dizygotic female twins. The age at 
which one twin died of coronary heart disease was used as the primary 
independent variable to predict the risk of death from coronary heart disease in 
the other twin. Information about other risk factors was obtained from 
questionnaires administered in 1961 and 1963. Actuarial life-table analysis was 
used to estimate the cumulative probability of death from coronary heart 
disease. Relative-hazard estimates were obtained from a multivariate survival 
analysis.
RESULTS: Among the men, the relative hazard of death from coronary heart disease 
when one's twin died of coronary heart disease before the age of 55 years, as 
compared with the hazard when one's twin did not die before 55, was 8.1 (95 
percent confidence interval, 2.7 to 24.5) for monozygotic twins and 3.8 (1.4 to 
10.5) for dizygotic twins. Among the women, when one's twin died of coronary 
heart disease before the age of 65 years, the relative hazard was 15.0 (95 
percent confidence interval, 7.1 to 31.9) for monozygotic twins and 2.6 (1.0 to 
7.1) for dizygotic twins. Among both the men and the women, whether monozygotic 
or dizygotic twins, the magnitude of the relative hazard decreased as the age at 
which one's twin died of coronary heart disease increased. The ratio of the 
relative-hazard estimate for the monozygotic twins to the estimate for the 
dizygotic twins approached 1 with increasing age. These relative hazards were 
little influenced by other risk factors for coronary heart disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that at younger ages, death from coronary 
heart disease is influenced by genetic factors in both women and men. The 
results also imply that the genetic effect decreases at older ages.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199404143301503
PMID: 8127331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Verh K Acad Geneeskd Belg. 1993;55(5):399-421; discussion 421-3.

Nutrition and health: an epidemiological approach.

Kesteloot H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Katholieke Universiteit 
Leuven.

Large differences in mortality from all causes exist between populations. These 
mortality differences cannot be explained by differences in the level of medical 
care, of cigarette smoking, of stress, of pollution nor by genetic differences. 
The level of saturated fat intake is linked both to the prevalence of ischaemic 
heart disease and cancer. The slope of the equation linking log mortality to age 
can be used as an index of the aging rate of populations. This slope is 
significantly linked to the level of saturated fat intake. Women are more 
resistant to atheromatous disease presumably because they are able to raise 
their HDL-cholesterol levels on a diet high in saturated fat, while men cannot. 
Nutrition appears to be the most important determinant of mortality from all 
causes both between and within countries.

PMID: 8128780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Arthritis Rheum. 1994 Mar;37(3):359-68. doi: 10.1002/art.1780370309.

The time-dependence of long-term prediction in lupus nephritis.

Esdaile JM(1), Abrahamowicz M, MacKenzie T, Hayslett JP, Kashgarian M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, McGill University, Montréal, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the clinical, laboratory, and renal biopsy predictors of 
long-term outcome in lupus nephritis and to investigate the time-dependence of 
these predictors.
METHODS: Eighty-seven lupus nephritis patients were studied retrospectively for 
the outcomes renal failure and fatality due to renal involvement. In addition to 
a conventional Cox model analysis, a new generalized time-dependent analytic 
approach was developed and used to assess the time-dependence of a predictor 
variable's importance.
RESULTS: The mean followup time was 11.9 years. Renal failure (n = 19) was 
significantly predicted by measures of renal function (abnormal serum creatinine 
levels, proteinuria, duration of prior renal disease) and immunologic activity 
(elevated DNA binding, hypocomplementemia, and thrombocytopenia), by overall 
lupus disease activity measures (le Riche index, Lupus Activity Criteria Count), 
and by the activity index, the tubulointerstitial index, and the amount of 
subepithelial deposits on renal biopsy. In general, the laboratory predictors 
were significantly better prognostic markers in the early years after biopsy, 
the disease activity measures were best in the later years, and the biopsy 
variables were significant predictors over the entire observation period. In 
contrast to the renal failure outcome, the best predictors for death not 
directly related to lupus nephritis (n = 17) were the extent of comorbid 
diseases (principally vascular diseases), older age, and the chronicity index. 
All three predicted well over the extended observation period.
CONCLUSION: The major predictor variables for renal outcomes and nonrenal 
outcomes are distinct. The time-dependence of the predictive ability of some 
variables may be important in managing individual patients. The new generalized 
time-dependent analytic technique may have widespread application in studies to 
identify prognostic factors for established disease or risk factors for the 
development of disease.

DOI: 10.1002/art.1780370309
PMID: 8129791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Drugs Aging. 1994 Jan;4(1):34-46. doi: 10.2165/00002512-199404010-00004.

The aged patient with lung cancer. Management recommendations.

Zagonel V(1), Tirelli U, Serraino D, Lo Re G, Merola MC, Mascarin M, Trovò MG, 
Carbone A, Monfardini S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Istituto Nazionale di Ricovero e Cura a 
Carattere Scientifico, Aviano, Italy.

Elderly patients with lung cancer have not benefited from the therapeutic 
improvements obtained during the 1980s with younger adults. Potentially operable 
non-small-cell lung cancers are more common in elderly patients, who are more 
likely to have localized disease at diagnosis. Even so, elderly patients are 
rarely treated with surgery. Radiotherapy remains the most frequently adopted 
tool to treat non-small-cell lung cancer in this age group. Epipodophyllotoxin 
derivatives constitute the best option for chemotherapy of elderly patients with 
small-cell lung cancer. When used as single agent regimens, these drugs show the 
same overall response rate as combination chemotherapy, but with reduced 
toxicity. Haematopoietic growth factors are used to reduce bone marrow damage 
following cytotoxic chemotherapy, and may be a promising tool in elderly 
patients. Special attention should be given to increasing the number of elderly 
patients with small-cell lung cancer enrolled in phase I and II studies to 
investigate new agents for the treatment of this tumour.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-199404010-00004
PMID: 8130381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 1994 Mar;148(3):245-9. doi: 
10.1001/archpedi.1994.02170030015003.

The role of socioeconomic status and injury morbidity risk in adolescents.

Anderson R(1), Dearwater SR, Olsen T, Aaron DJ, Kriska AM, LaPorte RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of Pittsburgh, PA.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the patterns of socioeconomic status and injury morbidity 
in adolescents.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Metropolitan school district in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania.
PARTICIPANTS: There were 1245 students (89%) recruited from 1400 aged 12 to 16 
years.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MEASURES AND RESULTS: Baseline variables of socioeconomic status used for this 
analysis included township of residence (from the 1990 census data ranked by the 
percentage of households below the poverty level) and employment status of the 
parents (student self-report). Life-table analysis revealed no differential risk 
of injury by socioeconomic status. Similar results were found when stratified by 
gender, race, injury type (sport vs nonsport), and injury place (school vs 
home).
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that in this cohort of adolescents, 
socioeconomic status does not seem to be a contributing risk factor for injury.

DOI: 10.1001/archpedi.1994.02170030015003
PMID: 8130854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Arch Fam Med. 1993 Apr;2(4):361-3. doi: 10.1001/archfami.2.4.361.

Older women's health. Avoiding a tragedy of mythic proportions.

Cohen GD, Cahan V.

Comment on
    Arch Fam Med. 1993 Apr;2(4):441-4.

DOI: 10.1001/archfami.2.4.361
PMID: 8130913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Cancer Invest. 1994;12(2):176-88. doi: 10.3109/07357909409024873.

Pelvic exenteration for recurrent colorectal carcinoma: a review.

Yeung RS(1), Moffat FL, Falk RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania.

Pelvic recurrence following curative resection for colorectal carcinoma 
continues to pose a challenge to the oncologist despite current multimodality 
therapy. Pelvic exenteration with or without sacral resection may provide 
long-term disease-free survival and a chance of cure for a small subset of 
patients in whom the recurrent disease is confined to the pelvis and can be 
resected with "clear" margins. For others with residual disease, exenteration 
may offer good palliation for the intractable symptoms, but no survival 
advantage. The clinical decision to perform exenteration with palliative intent 
must be individualized. This is generally not advised because of the short life 
expectancy in the face of prolonged convalescence. This technically demanding 
procedure is associated with significant morbidity, especially in patients with 
prior pelvic radiation. Current advances in urinary diversion and methods of 
pelvic reconstruction may significantly reduce these problems. The surgeon's 
experience and careful patient selection remain the most important determinants 
of success with this operation.

DOI: 10.3109/07357909409024873
PMID: 8131093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Cancer Invest. 1994;12(2):249-56. doi: 10.3109/07357909409024883.

Oncology issues in health care reform.

Kennedy BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, University of Minnesota Medical School, 
Minneapolis 55455.

DOI: 10.3109/07357909409024883
PMID: 8131102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1994 Feb;20(1):33-6.

Pleural effusion in breast cancer: a review of the Nottingham experience.

Banerjee AK(1), Willetts I, Robertson JF, Blamey RW.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Surgery, City Hospital, Nottingham, UK.

A retrospective analysis of 40 patients with pleural effusions caused by breast 
cancer is presented. Evidence is presented which suggests that malignant pleural 
effusion in breast cancer is caused by lymphatic rather than blood spread. 70% 
of effusions are ipsilateral to the primary carcinoma and 22.5% of patients with 
pleural effusions have positive internal mammary node biopsies (compared to 
10.4% in controls). 47.5% of effusions had positive cytology but this does not 
correlate with either survival or recurrence. In operable tumours, pleural 
effusion is correlated with the size of the primary tumour but effusions were 
uncommon with large, locally advanced Stage III tumours at presentation, which 
could be attributable either to the short survival of such patients or to the 
effect of adjuvant radiotherapy reducing the chance of an ipsilateral effusion. 
Although these patients overall had a short life expectancy (median 11 months) 
there was a wide range. Chest drainage and instillation of 100 mg mepacrine in 
30 ml of bupivacaine to give rise to pleurodesis offers useful palliation and 
minimizes recurrence (29 treatments with only two symptomatic recurrences), 
compared with aspiration alone (19 treatments with 12 symptomatic recurrences) 
or instillation with tetracycline (10 treatments with five symptomatic 
recurrences). Pleural effusion secondary to breast cancer is a locoregional 
manifestation. Pleurodesis with mepacrine offers good local control.

PMID: 8131866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 1994;120 Suppl:S32-4. doi: 10.1007/BF01377122.

Treatment with coumarin to prevent or delay recurrence of malignant melanoma.

Thornes RD(1), Daly L, Lynch G, Breslin B, Browne H, Browne HY, Corrigan T, Daly 
P, Edwards G, Gaffney E, et al.

Author information:
(1)Irish Melanoma Group, Colman K. Byrnes Research Centre, Beaumont Hospital, 
Dublin, Ireland.

Both coumarin (1,2-benzopyrone) and warfarin (4-hydroxycoumarin) have been shown 
to prevent the recurrence of malignant melanoma. Their action is 
macrophage-dependent and the dosage is critical. In 1984 a multicentre, 
prospective, randomised, double-blind trial of coumarin, given as a daily 50-mg 
dose for 2 years after surgery in patients with high-risk melanoma, was started. 
the patients had lesions greater than 1.70 mm thick and TNM stage IB or stage II 
disease. To date there are 4 recurrences in the coumarin-treated group of 13 
patients, and 10 recurrences in the placebo-treated group of 14 patients (P < 
0.01). There were no toxic effects.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01377122
PMID: 8132701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Orthopade. 1994 Feb;23(1):60-4.

[Rehabilitation of the geriatric patient].

[Article in German]

Huber F(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinisch-Geriatrische Klinik, Felix Platter-Spital, Basel.

As the twentieth century draws to a close, people in the western industrialized 
countries have a longer life expectancy. As more people live longer, the 
proportion of the population that is handicapped and susceptible to chronic 
diseases is also increasing. Geriatrics has become an accepted medical specialty 
concerned with the very old. It seeks, through general and targeted measures, to 
enhance the lives of these handicapped people and enable them to be more 
independent. This is best done in a modern geriatric clinic with an attached 
day-care clinic. Only when an experienced multidisciplinary team basing its work 
on careful geriatric assessment determines the rehabilitation goal, evaluates 
the potential, and implements a definite programme can the maximum success be 
anticipated. Specialized orthopaedic-geriatric units working together can 
achieve the most satisfactory results for effective rehabilitation of elderly 
patients after orthopaedic surgery.

PMID: 8134100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Rev Prat. 1993 Oct 15;43(16):2047-51.

[Severe somatic complications of acute alcoholic intoxication].

[Article in French]

Billy I(1), Lejonc JL.

Author information:
(1)Services d'urgences-médecine générale, hôpital Henri-Mondor, Créteil.

Acute alcohol ingestion can affect life expectancy and is directly responsible 
for 3,500 deaths per year. Acute lung diseases are mainly caused by pneumococci, 
Gram negative bacilli and anaerobic germs, and are often due to multiple 
microbes. In this case, evolution toward abscess can be feared. Septicaemia and 
enterobacterial peritonitis are frequently observed in cirrhotic patients. 
Ethanol, hypokaliemia and hypophosphoraemia also lead to rhabdomyolysis. 
Rhabdomyolysis can be complicated with acute renal failure and hyperkaliaemia. 
Alcoholic ketoacidosis and the hypoglycaemia favored by prolonged inadequate 
nutrition, are corrected by infusion of glucose solutions. Hyponatraemia can be 
complicated by convulsions and central pontine myelinolysis. Minor forms of 
alcoholic hepatitis remiss after stopping alcohol intoxication. The major forms 
can evolve toward fatal encephalopathy; treatment with corticosteroids improves 
the prognosis in severe hepatitis. The cardiac failure with lactic acidosis in 
shoshin beriberi rapidly evolves to collapsus; treatment is based on emergency 
administration of vitamin B1. Management of patients in acute alcohol episodes 
requires great vigilance. Careful clinical examination and biological tests 
should eliminate severe somatic complications before concluding to simple 
alcoholic intoxication.

PMID: 8134783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Zentralbl Veterinarmed A. 1993 Nov-Dec;40(9-10):720-30. doi: 
10.1111/j.1439-0442.1993.tb00689.x.

The effect of aging on laboratory values in dogs.

Strasser A(1), Niedermüller H, Hofecker G, Laber G.

Author information:
(1)University of Veterinary Medicine Vienna, Institute of Physiology, Wien.

The main objective of this study was to examine age-associated changes in 
laboratory values in dogs in order to establish standard values for dogs of a 
certain age. These standard values could serve to judge the health status of 
individual dogs and possibly estimate their remaining life expectancy. Thus, 
haematological and immunological parameters, plasma constituents, kidney 
characteristics and the capacity of homeostasis were determined in German 
shephard dogs (0.5-13.5 years) and beagles (4-9 years). Significant changes were 
noted. We detected that the number of white blood cells declines with age. The 
change in a number of organ specific enzymes indicates organ involution and 
increased cell death. Increased plasma glucose levels and a decreased glucose 
tolerance point to a diminished sensitivity of tissue to concentrations change 
due to a decrease in organ production and changes in the immune system, which 
are also reflected in an impaired lymphocyte proliferation capacity. These 
factors lead to an increased blood sedimentation rate. Cortisol increases might 
reflect a reduced stress resistance. Age-related decreases in aldosterone 
concentration and PAH-clearance were also found.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0442.1993.tb00689.x
PMID: 8135079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Arch Dis Child. 1994 Mar;70(3):241-4. doi: 10.1136/adc.70.3.241.

Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in vertically acquired HIV infection in the 
British Isles.

Gibb DM(1), Davison CF, Holland FJ, Walters S, Novelli V, Mok J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Institute of Child Health, 
London.

In order to review the clinical course, laboratory findings, and outcome of 
children with vertically acquired HIV infection and Pneumocystis carinii 
pneumonia, questionnaires were sent to paediatricians in the British Isles who 
had reported P carinii pneumonia and HIV infection through the British 
Paediatric Surveillance Unit (BPSU). Paediatric reports from the BPSU are linked 
to reports of pregnancies in HIV positive women and laboratory reports. P 
carinii pneumonia was the most frequently reported AIDS indicator disease at 
AIDS diagnosis, occurring in 22/56 (40%) children born in the British Isles; in 
a further two children P carinii pneumonia occurred after another AIDS indicator 
disease. The median age at P carinii pneumonia diagnosis was 4.1 (1.4-27.3) 
months and in 48% it occurred with other AIDS indicator diseases. Despite 
intensive treatment the three month survival was only 38%. The nine children 
surviving P carinii pneumonia subsequently developed further AIDS indicator 
diseases, in particular HIV encephalopathy and four have since died. P carinii 
pneumonia was present at AIDS diagnosis in 65% of children developing AIDS in 
the first year of life and caused 82% of infant deaths. Most children were not 
known to be at risk of HIV until they presented with P carinii pneumonia. 
Children with HIV infection develop P carinii pneumonia at an early age and have 
a poor outcome. Increased awareness of the condition is required to initiate 
early treatment. Prevention may be a compelling incentive for screening in 
pregnancy, but further study is required to quantify the risks and benefits of 
initiating early P carinii pneumonia prophylaxis as well as the impact this 
might have on life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1136/adc.70.3.241
PMCID: PMC1029752
PMID: 8135571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. N Engl J Med. 1993 Sep 2;329(10):696-702. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199309023291005.

Effect of laboratory variation in the prothrombin-time ratio on the results of 
oral anticoagulant therapy.

Eckman MH(1), Levine HJ, Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Decision Making, New England Medical Center, Boston, MA 
02111.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Feb 17;330(7):509; author reply 510.
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Feb 17;330(7):509; author reply 510.
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Feb 17;330(7):510.

BACKGROUND: Patients receiving long-term anticoagulant therapy may be subject to 
unnecessary risks of bleeding or thromboembolism because of variability in the 
commercial thromboplastins used to determine prothrombin time and consequent 
uncertainty about the actual intensity of anticoagulation.
METHODS: We explored the effect of this uncertainty on the benefits and risks of 
anticoagulation in patients with prosthetic heart valves, using models of 
thromboembolic and hemorrhagic complications as a function of the intensity of 
anticoagulation, with quality-adjusted life expectancy and average variable 
costs used to describe outcomes.
RESULTS: Anticoagulation provides a striking benefit for patients whose 
treatment is conducted within the recommended range of the international 
normalized ratio (INR)--i.e., 2.5 to 3.5--but if uncertainty about the 
laboratory results causes the intensity of anticoagulation to fall outside this 
range, the gain becomes smaller. Uncertainty about the true intensity of 
anticoagulation may reduce the potential gain in life expectancy, adjusted for 
quality of life, by more than half and may increase the ratio of costs to 
effectiveness to almost five times the optimal value. Variability in the 
intensity of anticoagulation is even greater if older recommendations advocating 
a higher level of anticoagulation are followed.
CONCLUSIONS: Uncertainty about the sensitivities of the commercially available 
thromboplastins used in the United States can have important clinical and 
economic effects. This problem could be eliminated if clinical laboratories 
uniformly reported the intensity of anticoagulation as the INR, by adjusting 
prothrombin-time ratios for variability in thromboplastins.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199309023291005
PMID: 8135917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Aust Crit Care. 1993 Dec;6(4):10-3. doi: 10.1016/s1036-7314(93)70161-7.

Nursing implications of low-dose heparin to infusate to improve infusion site 
survival in children.

Wright A.

Initiation of intravenous (i.v.) infusions in hospital wards is a common 
surgical procedure. Unfortunately many of these infusions will fail due to 
phlebitis and/or extravasation. Such failure may cause considerable patient 
discomfort, interfere with i.v. therapy and increase the nurse's workload. I.v. 
problems with adults have been evaluated extensively, however little attention 
has been given to children. Heparin is effective in reducing thrombus formation 
and studies have demonstrated other properties as well, such as 
anti-inflammatory, anti-irritant, maintenance of endothelial integrity and 
homeostasis, and tissue healing. The purpose of this study was to determine if 
the addition of low-dose heparin to infusate would prolong infusion site 
survival in children. An experimental design was used whereby patients were 
randomly allocated into control and treatment groups. The treatment group 
received pre-mixed fluids containing 1 unit/ml of heparin whilst the control 
group received standard fluids. Data were collected using a standard form and 
information such as type and size of cannula, sex, age, date and time of 
cannulation, site, signs of phlebitis/extravasation, reasons for cannula removal 
and type of fluids and drugs infused, were recorded. Failure incidence was 
analysed by Cox's multivariate hazards model, life-table method and log rank 
tests. The results showed a highly significant difference (Chi 2 20.42, p < 
0.0001) in decreasing infusion failure with the addition of low-dose heparin to 
infusate. Nursing implications could include a decrease in the incidence of 
extravasation and phlebitis, an increase in effective vein usage, fewer problems 
with i.v. flow rates, a reduction in medical/nursing hours associated with 
re-cannulations, less likelihood of systemic sepsis, and less patient worry and 
discomfort due to local venous reactions and re-cannulations.

DOI: 10.1016/s1036-7314(93)70161-7
PMID: 8136625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Online J Curr Clin Trials. 1994 Mar 3;Doc No 117:[4845 words; 36
paragraphs].

Intravesical RTNF therapy of superficial bladder cancer. A phase I study of 
recombinant tumor necrosis factor administered intravesically to patients with 
superficial bladder cancer.

Grampsas SA(1), Kahn K, Crawford ED.

Author information:
(1)University of Colorado Health Science Center, Denver 80262.

OBJECTIVE: A phase I/II study was initiated in patients with refractory 
localized superficial bladder cancer to establish the tolerance and toxicity of 
recombinant tumor necrosis factor (rTNF) given intravesically. A preliminary 
evaluation of patient responses to therapy was noted; however, the small trial 
size precluded extensive statistical assessment of the data.
SETTING: A large teaching hospital, where patients were referred for treatment 
of recurrent superficial bladder cancer.
PATIENTS: A referred sample consisting of 16 patients with a primary diagnosis 
of histologically documented superficial bladder cancer (stage Ta, T1, TIS), 
refractory to at least 1 previous therapy, were entered on the study. 
Eligibility criteria Included: 1) cystoscopy in last 42 days, 2) no 
contraindications to chemotherapy, 3) life expectancy of 3 months, and 4) 
informed consent.
INTERVENTION: Patients were given rTNF intravesically twice weekly for 4 weeks 
at doses ranging from 10 to 500 mcg/m2.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Adverse effects were recorded as minimal, moderate, 
severe, or intolerable. Patient responses were measured on the basis of clinical 
and laboratory signs, symptoms, and tumor size.
RESULTS: We observed no severe or intolerable toxicities associated with the 
treatment. Two patients had complete responses, 9 had partial responses, 2 had 
minor responses, 1 was diagnosed with progressive disease, and 2 were not 
evaluated. No maximum tolerated dose was determined because rTNF was well 
tolerated at a maximum dose of 500 mcg/m2.
CONCLUSIONS: The study drug rTNF was well tolerated up to a dose of 500 mcg/m2 
and exhibited some antitumor effects against transitional cell carcinoma, but a 
biologically active dose was not determined. On the basis of this trial, further 
studies of intravesical treatment of superficial bladder cancer with rTNF appear 
warranted.

PMID: 8136939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 1994;33 Suppl:S134-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00686685.

Repeated arterial infusion chemotherapy for inoperable hepatocellular carcinoma 
using an implantable drug delivery system.

Iwamiya T(1), Sawada S, Ohta Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Tottori University Hospital, Japan.

Arterial infusion chemotherapy has become one of the major treatments for 
malignant tumors. Since 1988, we have attempted repeated arterial infusion of 
anticancer drugs using an implantable drug delivery system in 68 patients who 
had inoperable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Most of our patients could not 
undergo transcatheter arterial embolization (TAE) because of extreme tumor 
extension and/or accompanying advanced liver cirrhosis. In most patients we 
implanted a 5-F catheter via the femoral artery nonsurgically and connected it 
to a subcutaneously implanted drug delivery system without any difficulty. The 
treatment consisted of weekly or biweekly intrahepatic one-shot administration 
of anticancer drugs. As one therapeutic regimen, epirubicin was given alone. 
Other regimens consisted of combined chemotherapy using two or more of the 
following drugs: mitomycin C. Adriamycin, 5-fluorouracil, cisplatin, and 
epirubicin. In some cases, these drugs mixed with Lipiodol were given for 
targeting and slow release in the liver. The response rate (CR+PR) of the cases 
was 25.0%. The median survival period was 389.9 days. The 6-month, 1-year, and 
2-year survival rates were 75%, 45%, and 17%, respectively. There was no severe 
side effect or complication except arterial occlusion that precluded further 
infusion chemotherapy. We think that the implantable drug delivery system will 
contribute not only to improved therapeutic efficacy for inoperable HCC but also 
to an improved quality of life for the patients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00686685
PMID: 8137474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Curr Eye Res. 1993 Dec;12(12):1081-91. doi: 10.3109/02713689309033506.

Cataract incidence and analysis of lens crystallins in the water-, urea- and 
SDS-soluble fractions of Emory mice fed a diet restricted by 40% in calories.

Mura CV(1), Roh S, Smith D, Palmer V, Padhye N, Taylor A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Nutrition and Vision Research, USDA Human Nutrition Research 
Center on Aging at Tufts University, Boston, MA 02111.

Restriction of dietary calorie intake is associated with life extension and with 
the delay of age-related disorders. Preliminary studies demonstrated that by 
feeding the Emory mouse a diet restricted by 21% in calories cataract and 
insolubilization of protein could also be delayed. To observe the effects of 
calorie restriction over prolonged portions of adulthood, Emory mice were fed 
the control diet (C) or a diet restricted by 40% in calories (R). Feeding the R 
diet was associated with delayed formation or progress of cataract over 
virtually the entire second half of life. At 11 months of age, bilateral grade 5 
cataracts were present in 17% and 2% of C and R lenses, respectively. At 22 
months of age, bilateral grade 5 cataracts were present in 90% and 18% of C and 
R lenses, respectively. The distribution of alpha-, beta-, and gamma- 
crystallins in the water-soluble, urea-soluble, and SDS-soluble fractions 
indicates more similarities than differences between C and R lenses with a 
specific grade of cataract or of a given age. However, there were significant 
and abrupt (after grade 4 cataract) losses of particular gamma-crystallins; 
gamma-crystallins which were not prominent at earlier stages became the major 
gamma-crystallin moieties. Losses of alpha-crystallins were also noted upon 
cataract formation or aging in most of the fractions. Aggregates including 
gamma- and alpha-crystallins also accumulate faster in the C group.

DOI: 10.3109/02713689309033506
PMID: 8137632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Health Care Women Int. 1993 Nov-Dec;14(6):503-12. doi: 
10.1080/07399339309516080.

Social support and relationship change after childbirth: an expectancy model.

Levitt MJ, Coffman S, Guacci-Franco N, Loveless S.

Much has been written about social support, but little is known about the 
processes that promote continuity or discontinuity in supportive relationships. 
A proposed model of relationship processes (Levitt, 1991) specifies that changes 
in the quality of close relationships are likely to occur when expectations for 
social support are tested and disconfirmed. Relationships are particularly 
vulnerable to change after major life events, such as childbirth, when increased 
support needs precipitate the testing of expectations. In a preliminary 
assessment of this model, 43 mothers were interviewed at 1 month and 13 months 
after birth. Changes in relationship satisfaction were related strongly to the 
extent to which mothers perceived that their expectations for support had been 
disconfirmed. The results are consistent with the proposed model and suggest the 
value of considering the effects of social support in light of the individual's 
expectancies.

DOI: 10.1080/07399339309516080
PMID: 8138468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1994 Apr;162(4):853-7. doi: 10.2214/ajr.162.4.8141007.

Renal artery angioplasty for renovascular hypertension and preservation of renal 
function: long-term angiographic and clinical follow-up.

Losinno F(1), Zuccalà A, Busato F, Zucchelli P.

Author information:
(1)Servizio di Radiologia, Ospedale M. Malpighi, Policlinico S. Orsola-Malpighi, 
Bologna, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of stenoses of the renal artery 
can be used to treat hypertension and renal insufficiency. Although many studies 
have been published on the short-term results of this procedure, few long-term 
studies are available.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: One hundred ninety-five patients (123 men and 72 women 
19-79 years old; mean age, 56 years) with stenosis of the renal artery and 
hypertension underwent renal percutaneous transluminal angioplasty at our 
institution. The stenosis was unilateral in 66% of patients, bilateral in 26%, 
and in a solitary functioning kidney in 8%. Renal insufficiency was present in 
31% of patients. After renal percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, long-term 
clinical and angiographic follow-up was evaluated by life-table analysis.
RESULTS: In patients with fibromuscular disease, blood pressure returned to 
normal in 57%, improved in 21%, and was unchanged in 21%. In patients with 
atherosclerotic stenosis, blood pressure returned to normal in 12%, improved in 
51%, and was unchanged in 37%. After percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, 
renal function improved in 48% of patients with renal insufficiency due to 
bilateral stenosis or stenosis in the single functioning kidney, whereas none of 
the patients with unilateral stenosis of renal artery and renal insufficiency 
had any notable improvement. Long-term follow-up showed a high rate (82%) of 
patency of revascularized arteries and a low rate (21%) of hypertension 
recurrence at 5 years.
CONCLUSION: Renal percutaneous transluminal angioplasty is useful for treating 
hypertension and for reestablishing renal function. Its effects on blood 
pressure and renal function are long-lasting in the large majority of patients.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.162.4.8141007
PMID: 8141007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Aust N Z J Med. 1993 Dec;23(6):683-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-5994.1993.tb04727.x.

Interferon alpha and doxorubicin in malignant mesothelioma: a phase II study.

Upham JW(1), Musk AW, van Hazel G, Byrne M, Robinson BW.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Medicine, Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Perth, WA.

BACKGROUND: Malignant mesothelioma is a tumour which is generally resistant to 
chemotherapy. While the addition of interferon to chemotherapy improves response 
rates in some other malignancies, such a combination has not been evaluated in 
the treatment of mesothelioma.
AIMS: To assess the anti-tumour effects and toxicity of interferon-alpha 
combined with doxorubicin in the treatment of pleural mesothelioma.
METHODS: Twenty five patients (mean age 54 +/- 11 years) were enrolled in a 
phase II study. All patients had a confirmed histological diagnosis, measurable 
tumour, a life expectancy of at least three months, and no prior chemotherapy or 
interferon. Interferon alpha-2a, 9 x 10(6) U sc daily, was administered together 
with doxorubicin 25 mg per m2 i.v. weekly, for 12 weeks. Response status was 
assessed by tumour measurements on clinical examination and thoracic CT scans 
before and after treatment.
