RESULTS: A partial response was observed in four patients (16%; 90% CI, 8-30%), 
11 remained stable, while six had progressive disease. Four patients withdrew 
within the first month because of toxicity. The median survival of all patients 
was 11 months (95% CI, 3-19). Dose modification as a result of toxicity was 
required in all patients. Lethargy, weight loss, leukopenia and vomiting were 
the most common side effects.
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of interferon-alpha and doxorubicin showed only 
modest activity and was associated with significant toxicity. It cannot be 
recommended in the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-5994.1993.tb04727.x
PMID: 8141698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Arzneimittelforschung. 1993 Dec;43(12):1291-303.

Pharmacological studies on a new dihydrothienopyridine calcium antagonist. 4th 
communication: prophylactic and therapeutic effects of 
S-(+)-methyl-4,7-dihydro-3-isobutyl-6-methyl-4-(3-nitrophenyl)thieno[2, 3- 
b]pyridine-5-carboxylate in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Ueda M(1), Masui M, Kawakami M, Matsunaga K, Gemba T, Ninomiya M, Nakano A, 
Torii M, Adachi I, Ito H.

Author information:
(1)Shionogi Research Laboratories, Shionogi & Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan.

The prophylactic and therapeutic effects of S-312-d 
(S-(+)-methyl-4,7-dihydro-3-isobutyl-6-methyl-4-(3-nitrophenyl)thieno[2, 3- 
b]pyridine-5-carboxylate, CAS 120056-57-7) were compared with those of 
nimodipine or nicardipine using male stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive 
rats (SHRSP). The survival rate of SHRSP was dose-dependently increased by once 
a day oral administration of S-312-d (0.3, 1, and 3 mg/kg) or nimodipine (10 
mg/kg), while all non-treated SHRSP fed with high Na+ diet died within 40 days 
after the start of the experiment. All SHRSP treated with 3 mg/kg S-312-d 
survived during the 60-day experiment periods. Marked decreases of body weights 
and various neurological symptoms were also inhibited with S-312-d or 
nimodipine. Moderate diuretic effects were observed with S-312-d at doses of 1 
and 3 mg/kg. The appearance of urinary occult blood in control SHRSP was 
markedly inhibited with S-312-d at 1 mg/kg and nimodipine at 10 mg/kg. 
Histological examination of the brain of SHRSP showed that cerebral stroke 
lesion including edema, hemorrhage, and/or softening was dose-dependently 
inhibited with S-312-d. Once a day oral administration of S-312-d (1, 3, or 10 
mg/kg) dose-dependently increased the body weights and improved the neurological 
symptoms of diseased SHRSP. The appearance of proteinuria and of occult blood in 
the urine of SHRSP were also markedly inhibited with S-312-d or nicardipine. 
Histological examination of the brain of SHRSP showed that the arbitrary 
neurotoxic index (ANI) for stroke lesion dose-dependently decreased with S-312-d 
at 1, 3, and 10 mg/kg as follows: 4.8, 3.0, 2.3. The ANI for non-treated SHRSP 
was 7.6. The therapeutic effects of nicardipine (ANI 3.9) at 10 mg/kg 
corresponded to those of S-312-d at 3 mg/kg. Thus, S-312-d can be recommended 
for the treatment of cerebral insufficiency or vasospasm following stroke as 
well as in essential hypertension.

PMID: 8141816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. World Health Forum. 1994;15(1):100-1.

Probing health futures.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 8141970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. BMJ. 1994 Mar 19;308(6931):780-4. doi: 10.1136/bmj.308.6931.780.

Cancer of the prostate.

Dearnaley DP(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cancer Research, Sutton, Surrey.

Erratum in
    BMJ 1994 Apr 9;308(6934):975.

Prostate cancer presents a growing health problem in Western societies as 
longevity increases. It is characteristically a disease of elderly men 
associated with the development of osteoblastic bone metastases and initial 
hormone responsiveness to androgen deprivation. Previously regarded as a 
Cinderella of cancers, there is currently more controversy concerning the 
detection and management of both localised and metastatic disease than for any 
other common malignancy. A balance needs to be drawn between the potential gains 
of more aggressive management and the disadvantages in terms of increased 
treatment side effects and cost, taking into account both the natural course of 
the disease and the life expectancy of patients.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.308.6931.780
PMCID: PMC2539670
PMID: 8142838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Int J Epidemiol. 1993 Dec;22(6):965-75. doi: 10.1093/ije/22.6.965.

Mortality in a rural South African mission, 1837-1909: an historical cohort 
study using church records.

Katzenellenbogen J(1), Yach D, Dorrington RE.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Epidemiological Research in Southern Africa, SA Medical Research 
Council, Tygerberg.

Three decadal birth cohorts (1837-1846), 1870-1879 and 1900-1909) each of 
approximately 500 individuals, were constructed retrospectively through the 
parish records of the Moravian Mission at Mamre in the Western Cape region of 
South Africa. Nominative data collection techniques were used to determine the 
infant mortality rates (IMR), quinquennial mortality rates (QMR) and life 
expectancies of the three cohorts. The quality of the data was investigated, 
specifically non-registration and attrition. Overall, male registration coverage 
was substantially better than that for females. Birth registration was best for 
the 1837-1846 cohort for males and females, with the 1900-1909 registration 
being next best. Infant death registration was most complete for males in these 
two cohorts, but was poor for females. Based on these data, the IMR for the 
cohorts born in 1837-1846, 1870-1879 and 1900-1909 (196, 182 and 128 per 1000 
respectively for males and 160, 172 and 97 per 1000 respectively for females) 
appeared to be underestimates. There was some evidence of a downward trend for 
the IMR with time for males, but this was not statistically significant. For the 
three cohorts QMR did not differ statistically for males, but for females the 
third cohort was consistently lower than the other cohorts. The difference was 
small (well within the 95% confidence interval) but the third cohort ranked 
consistently below the other two. The life expectancies did not differ 
significantly between cohorts. The life expectancies at birth (range 34-40 years 
for males and 32-45 years for females) were probably overestimates due to biased 
IMR. The life expectancies at age 1 (range 41-44 for males and 37-49 for 
females) were considered to be more representative figures. Life expectancies at 
age 20 (37-45 years) were fairly stable over time except for females in the 
1900-1909 cohort whose life expectancies were substantially higher than the 
figures for the earlier cohorts. All mortality indices investigated in this 
study consistently showed a lighter burden of mortality in historical Mamre 
compared to 'coloureds' in the Cape Colony at the turn of the century. This is 
probably the result of the better housing, environmental, social, economic and 
educational conditions on the missions relative to the rest of the Colony in the 
century after the emancipation of slaves.

PIP: The aim was 1) to examine the quality of birth and death registration of 3 
Mamre, South African cohorts born between 1837-1846, 1870-1879, and 1900-1909; 
2) determine the infant mortality rates (IMR), quinquennial mortality rates 
(QMR), and life expectancies (LE) of the cohorts; and 3) to determine the trends 
and compare these to other population estimates. Data was obtained from parish 
records of the Moravian Church at Mamre between 1830 and the present. The 
records included Casualis books, Baptismal registers, Notebooks, Burial orders, 
official birth and death registration lists, and a household survey of Mamre in 
1986, which traced live members of the 1900-1909 cohort. Nominative methods were 
used to extract the data on individuals and families. The findings showed that 
the most complete source of birth and death information was the Baptismal 
Register; other supportive documents were available or the 1st and 3rd cohorts. 
The crude birth rate was assumed to be 47/1000 and population size was 1000, 
1250, and 1100 for the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd cohorts. The ratio of observed to 
expected births was respectively .89, .86, and .91. There was preferential 
registration of boys in all cohorts. The median age of baptism increased over 
time; baptism rarely occurred after 2 months in the 1st cohort. There was a 
declining percentage of births born outside Mamre over time, and follow-up until 
death decreased over time. The ratio of male to female infant deaths was 1.62, 
1.34, and 1.55 for the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd cohorts. Only in the 2nd were 
unbaptized births recorded (14.3%). There was a decline in infant deaths within 
10 days following baptism from 48.5% (33), to 25.6% (20), to 29.4% (15). There 
were 498 deaths in the 1st cohort, 593 in the 2nd, and 501 in the 3rd for which 
birth and death entries were available. In this population, infant mortality for 
males declined, but not in a statistically significant amount. There was no 
female IMR pattern. The QMR curves by age showed high IMR with a decline between 
1-5 years, and a gradual increase after 10 years. Females followed the same 
pattern except for those aged 25-29 years, which were high, and those aged 30-34 
years, who had low rates, particularly in the 1900-1909 cohort. There were no 
secular trends in LE.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/22.6.965
PMID: 8144309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Arch Intern Med. 1994 Apr 11;154(7):769-76.

Cost-effectiveness of screening for hereditary hemochromatosis.

Phatak PD(1), Guzman G, Woll JE, Robeson A, Phelps CE.

Author information:
(1)Mary M. Gooley Hemophilia Center Inc, Rochester General Hospital, NY.

BACKGROUND: Recent studies have estimated the prevalence of hereditary 
hemochromatosis to be 3 to 8 per 1000. Early detection and treatment can prevent 
disease manifestations and normalize life expectancy. We used decision analysis 
techniques to determine whether screening the population at large for hereditary 
hemochromatosis would be cost-effective.
METHODS: We constructed a model to compare the cost and outcome of a strategy of 
performing screening transferrin saturation tests on cohorts of 30-year old men 
with that of awaiting symptomatic disease. Baseline estimates of disease 
prevalence and complication rates were based on the published literature. Costs 
of treatment were estimated based on prevailing local costs. Sensitivity 
analyses were then conducted to determine which variables had the most 
significant impact on the decision to screen.
RESULTS: At our baseline estimates, the decision to screen was found to be a 
dominant strategy and resulted in cost saving. Sensitivity analysis showed that 
four variables had the most significant impact on the decision to screen: (1) 
the prevalence of hereditary hemochromatosis, (2) the probability of developing 
disease manifestations, (3) the cost of the screening test, and (4) the discount 
rate. Screening was a dominant strategy for asymptomatic men provided that the 
prevalence of hereditary hemochromatosis was at least 3 per 1000, the 
probability of developing disease manifestations was greater than 0.4, the test 
cost was less than $12, and the discount rate was less than 3%. Using more 
pessimistic estimates, the cost per life year saved was still less than that 
considered acceptable for many common medical interventions.
CONCLUSION: Screening for hereditary hemochromatosis has a favorable 
cost-effectiveness ratio over a wide range of assumptions. We recommend that 
practitioners consider including a serum transferrin saturation test in their 
routine screening for asymptomatic white men.

PMID: 8147681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Circulation. 1994 Apr;89(4):1745-50. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.89.4.1745.

Arterial reactivity is significantly impaired in normotensive young adults after 
successful repair of aortic coarctation in childhood.

Gardiner HM(1), Celermajer DS, Sorensen KE, Georgakopoulos D, Robinson J, Thomas 
O, Deanfield JE.

Author information:
(1)Cardiothoracic Unit, Hospital for Sick Children, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Despite successful repair of coarctation of the aorta in childhood, 
adult survivors often have hypertension at rest or on exercise, and their life 
expectancy is shorter than normal because of premature coronary and 
cerebrovascular disease. This may be related to persistent structural and 
functional arterial abnormalities after surgery.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using high-resolution ultrasound, we studied the right 
brachial arteries of 25 normotensive young adults who had undergone successful 
repair of coarctation in childhood (mean age at repair, 62 months; range, 0 to 
167 months, including 8 patients operated on in infancy; mean age at study, 19 
years; range, 14 to 27 years) and 50 age- and sex-matched control subjects. We 
assessed the degree of reactive hyperemia (RH) produced after distal cuff 
occlusion and release and the changes in arterial diameter in response to RH 
(with increased flow causing endothelium-dependent dilation) and to 
glyceryltrinitrate (GTN, an endothelium-independent dilator). The response of 
the right femoral artery to GTN was also measured in 12 coarctation subjects and 
12 control subjects. Studies were performed 13.7 years (range, 7 to 21 years) 
after surgery. RH was significantly lower in coarctation subjects (343 +/- 130% 
versus 482 +/- 147%), as were endothelium-dependent dilation (3.8 +/- 3.3% 
versus 8.8 +/- 3.6%) and GTN response (13.3 +/- 6.0% versus 20.5 +/- 6.1%) (P < 
.001 for each), reflecting abnormal dilatory capacity in both the resistance and 
conduit arteries. In contrast, GTN-induced dilation in the femoral arteries was 
similar to that in control subjects (9.5 +/- 2.6% versus 10.1 +/- 4.1%, P = 
.70). On multivariate analysis, GTN response and systolic blood pressure at peak 
exercise were inversely correlated (r = -.52, P = .04). Vascular responses were 
not related to the age at repair.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite successful repair of coarctation in childhood, arterial 
dilation is significantly impaired in the precoarctation vascular bed of healthy 
young adults. This may be an important contributor to exercise-related 
hypertension and late morbidity or mortality.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.89.4.1745
PMID: 8149540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Circulation. 1994 Apr;89(4):1859-74. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.89.4.1859.

Evaluating the potential cost-effectiveness of stenting as a treatment for 
symptomatic single-vessel coronary disease. Use of a decision-analytic model.

Cohen DJ(1), Breall JA, Ho KK, Kuntz RE, Goldman L, Baim DS, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Charles A. Dana Research Institute, Boston, MA.

BACKGROUND: Coronary stenting appears to provide more predictable immediate 
results and lower rates of restenosis than conventional balloon angioplasty for 
selected lesion types, but its hospital costs are significantly higher. This 
study was designed to evaluate the potential cost-effectiveness of Palmaz-Schatz 
coronary stenting relative to conventional balloon angioplasty for the treatment 
of patients with symptomatic, single-vessel coronary disease.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We developed a decision-analytic model to predict 
quality-adjusted life expectancy and lifetime treatment costs for patients with 
symptomatic, single-vessel coronary disease treated by either Palmaz-Schatz 
stenting (PSS) or conventional angioplasty (PTCA). Estimates of the 
probabilities of overall procedural success (PTCA, 97%; PSS, 98%), abrupt 
closure requiring emergency bypass surgery (PTCA, 1.0%; PSS, 0.6%), and 
angiographic restenosis (PTCA, 37%; PSS, 20%) were derived from review of the 
literature published as of September 1993. Procedural costs were based on the 
true economic (ie, variable) costs of each procedure at Boston's Beth Israel 
Hospital. On the basis of these data, coronary stenting was estimated to result 
in a higher quality-adjusted life expectancy than conventional angioplasty but 
to incur additional costs as well. Compared with conventional angioplasty, 
stenting had an estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $23,600 per 
quality-adjusted life year gained. Although the cost-effectiveness ratio for 
stenting changed with variations in assumptions about the relative costs and 
restenosis rates, it remained less than $40,000 per quality-adjusted year of 
life gained--and thus was similar to many other accepted medical 
treatments--unless the stent angiographic restenosis rate was > 23%, the 
angioplasty restenosis rate was < 34%, or the cost of stenting (including 
vascular complications) exceeded that of conventional angioplasty by more than 
$3000. The alternative strategy of secondary stenting (initial angioplasty 
followed by stenting only for symptomatic restenosis) was estimated to be both 
less effective and less cost-effective than primary stenting over a wide range 
of plausible assumptions and thus does not appear to be cost-effective when 
primary stenting is also an option.
CONCLUSIONS: Decision-analytic modeling can be used to evaluate the potential 
cost-effectiveness of new coronary interventions. Our analysis suggests that 
despite its higher cost, elective coronary stenting may be a reasonably 
cost-effective treatment for selected patients with single-vessel coronary 
disease. Primary stenting is unlikely to be cost-effective for lesions with a 
low probability of restenosis (eg, < 30%) or for patients for whom the cost of 
stenting is expected to be much higher than usual (eg, because of a high risk of 
vascular complications). Given the sensitivity of the cost-effectiveness ratios 
to even modest variations in the relative restenosis rates and cost estimates, 
future studies will be necessary to determine more precisely the 
cost-effectiveness of coronary stenting for specific patient and lesion subsets.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.89.4.1859
PMID: 8149551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. J Rheumatol. 1994 Jan;21(1):44-50.

Efficacy of additive DMARD therapy in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Double 
blind controlled trial using bucillamine and placebo with maintenance doses of 
gold sodium thiomalate.

Yasuda M(1), Sakai K, Oribe M, Yoshioka K, Takahashi H, Ohtsuka E, Wada T, 
Shiokawa S, Yamamoto M, Ichibangase Y, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology, Kyushu University, Beppu, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the efficacy of the addition of small doses of additional 
disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARD) to ongoing DMARD treatment 
[additive DMARD therapy (ADT)].
METHODS: A 3-month prospective, double blind, randomized, placebo controlled 
study was performed using either 100 mg/day of bucillamine (Buc) or an inactive 
placebo (P1). Two groups of 12 patients each who had experienced an insufficient 
benefit from gold sodium thiomalate (GSTM) alone were enrolled in the study.
RESULTS: The addition of Buc proved more beneficial than P1 regarding 
improvement in disease activity (p = 0.0032) and drug usefulness (p = 0.0025). A 
significant within group improvement was observed in joint swelling count, the 
Lansbury activity index, erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein. 
However, the difference in the clinical variables between the 2 groups was 
minimal.
CONCLUSION: The usefulness of ADT was suggested by this trial; however, further 
confirmation by additional studies is still needed.

PMID: 8151586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Life Sci. 1994;54(16):PL271-5. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(94)00845-0.

Kainic acid and 4-aminopyridine seizure models in mice: evaluation of efficacy 
of anti-epileptic agents and calcium antagonists.

Cramer CL(1), Stagnitto ML, Knowles MA, Palmer GC.

Author information:
(1)Biology Department, Fisons Pharmaceuticals, Rochester, NY 14603.

Seizures may be induced in mice in response to stimulation of subtypes of 
glutamate receptors by kainic acid or inhibition of certain voltage-dependent 
potassium channels by 4-aminopyridine (4-AP). The anti-seizure efficacy of 
intraperitoneally administered anticonvulsants and Ca++ antagonists to CF-1 mice 
was tested using these models. The order of potency for prevention of kainate 
convulsions and the subsequent lethality was: dihydropyridine Ca++ antagonists 
(nicardipine, nisoldipine > nitrendipine > nifedipine > nimodipine) followed by 
verapamil > prenylamine > diltiazem > flunarizine > remacemide HCl > 
ethosuximide > valproate. In the 4-AP model the order of potency to prevent hind 
limb tonic extension was: MK801(+/-) > lamotrigine > phenytoin, phenobarbital > 
carbamazepine > FPL 12495AA (the desglycine metabolite of remacemide HCl), 
remacemide HCl > flunarizine > prenylamine >>> valproate. Therefore, compounds 
that limit activation of kainate receptors and voltage-operated linked calcium 
channels are active in the kainate model. Agents effective against maximal 
electroshock appear to be effective in the 4-AP model.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(94)00845-0
PMID: 8152336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Med Decis Making. 1994 Jan-Mar;14(1):59-70. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9401400108.

Meta-analysis of failure-time data with adjustment for covariates.

Hunink MG(1), Wong JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts.

The objective of this study was to present and illustrate a technique for 
combining failure-time data from various sources, adjusting for differences in 
case-mix among studies. Based on the proportional-hazards model and the 
actuarial life-table approach, the method used assumes that the variation across 
studies is in part due to heterogeneity of the case-mix and adjusts for the 
case-mix before pooling results. As an example, the technique is applied to 
life-table data from six selected papers reporting patency of affected arteries 
following femoropopliteal angioplasty. Published 4- and 5-year patency results 
ranged from 25% to 58%, with a pooled five-year cumulative patency rate (without 
adjustment for case-mix) of 45% (+/- 2%). The populations in these studies, 
however, differed markedly in the prevalence of factors with prognostic value: 
type of lesion and distal runoff vessels. After adjustment for these differences 
in case-mix, the pooled five-year patency rates ranged from 60% (+/- 2%) for 
patients with stenotic lesions and good runoff to 24% (+/- 9%) for those with 
occlusion and poor runoff. The authors conclude that pooling studies without 
considering the effect of case-mix yields an average result with inappropriately 
narrow confidence intervals that does not reflect the variability across 
subgroups. The presented technique provides a method for combining failure-time 
data, adjusting for case-mix.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9401400108
PMID: 8152358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Med Decis Making. 1994 Jan-Mar;14(1):98-103. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9401400112.

DEALE-ing and discounting: a simple way to compute the accrued costs of 
preventive strategies.

Durand-Zaleski I(1), Zaleski S.

Author information:
(1)Département de Santé publique, Université Créteil-Val de Marne, France.

Researchers agree on the importance of discounting costs and of including 
mortality rates in the cost computations. The authors present a simplified 
mathematical model that allows both DEALE-ing and discounting and permits easy 
computations of accrued and incremental costs. The general formula of the 
accrued discounted cost of treating over time of life expectancy is: C = Co/mu 
asr + mu D + i A systematic discussion of the errors involved in the DEALE 
approximation shows that it will in most cases truly describe the ordering of 
the costs of various treatments. The DEALE are compared with the costs obtained 
by using actual mortality statistics. It was found that when two strategies have 
actual costs CA and CB such as CA greater than CB and CA/CB superior to 1.25, 
the ordering of CA and CB will always be kept in this simplified model.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9401400112
PMID: 8152363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Oper Dent. 1993 Jul-Aug;18(4):130-7.

Restoration deterioration related to later failure.

Smales RJ(1), Webster DA.

Author information:
(1)University of Adelaide, Department of Dentistry, South Australia.

The purpose of this study was to determine the relationship between the 
deterioration and the later failure of a very large number of amalgams and 
anterior resin composites examined over periods of up to 16 years. Assessments 
were made of the deterioration of various clinical factors or characteristics of 
the restorative materials that were thought to predict later failures. True 
failures, which were directly related to the restorative materials, accounted 
for 7.5% of the amalgam and 30.4% of the composite restorations. For the 
amalgams, there was a significant association found between the failures and 
surface tarnishing. Marginal fracture and marginal staining were not associated 
significantly with any of the three different failure modes. For the composites 
there were significant associations found between the failures and surface 
roughness, marginal fracture, and color mismatch. Surface staining and marginal 
staining were not associated significantly with any of the three different 
failure modes. Many restorations assessed as being unsatisfactory continued to 
function for a further 2.5 to 3.5 years on average before being replaced, often 
for unrelated reasons. There is a need to define unsatisfactory restorations 
more clearly in terms of actual adverse effects on dental health, rather than 
merely in terms of restoration deterioration.

PMID: 8152980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Recent Results Cancer Res. 1994;134:57-62. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-84971-8_7.

Radical neck dissection versus conservative neck dissection for squamous cell 
carcinoma of the oral cavity.

Bier J(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Maxillofacial Surgery, University Clinic Rudolf Virchow, Free 
University Berlin, Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-84971-8_7
PMID: 8153442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Urol Nurs. 1994 Mar;14(1):12-5.

Treatment options for prostate cancer.

Lassen PM, Thompson IM.

The reader of the prostate cancer literature is often stunned by the lack of 
evidence of efficacy of one form of treatment over that of others. Indeed, 
information suggests that "no treatment" may be an effective option. Analyzing 
the available literature that reports the results of treatment versus 
observation for prostate cancer, Fleming et al. from the Prostate Patient 
Outcomes Research Team found that in most cases, treatment offered less than a 
1-year improvement in quality-adjusted life expectancy. Using less optimistic 
assumptions, the authors also found that treatment could actually reduce 
quality-adjusted life expectancy. The decision of what form of treatment to 
offer the individual patient requires considerable discussion with the patient 
concerning his priorities and goals of therapy. For the younger patient with 
localized disease, the prevailing trend in the United States is toward radical 
prostatectomy. As the patient approaches the age of 70 years, the advantages of 
treatment versus observation alone evaporate. Because the disease is often of 
low biologic potential with a long doubling time, the option of observation 
initially with serial determinations of PSA is not unreasonable. If a slow rate 
of rise is noted, some patients may elect observation. However, with more rapid 
rises in PSA, a more aggressive stance may be appropriate. Because of the 
uncertainties inherent to treating this disease, it is imperative that the 
patient be brought into the treatment planning through education and through 
extensive discussions with health care providers and with family members. Only 
through such informed and deliberate discussions can a plan for treatment be 
reached with which the patient will be comfortable.

PMID: 8153734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Acta Orthop Scand. 1994 Feb;65(1):9-11. doi: 10.3109/17453679408993708.

Life expectancy after hip arthroplasty. Case-control study of 1018 cases of 
primary arthrosis.

Visuri T(1), Pulkkinen P, Turula KB, Paavolainen P, Koskenvuo M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Central Military Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.

The long-term survival of 1018 total hip arthroplasty (THA) patients (237 
McKee-Farrar, 449 Brunswik and 332 Lubinus patients) operated on for primary 
arthrosis was compared with pair-matched controls (i.e., patients operated on 
for other orthopedic indications) and with a normal population. The 10-year 
survival after surgery for the McKee-Farrar patients was 85 percent, for the 
Brunswik patients 82 percent, for the Lubinus patients 82 percent and for the 
orthopedic control patients 84 percent, respectively. The 10-year survival after 
65 years of age for the THA patients was 78 percent and for the normal 
population 73 percent. The long-term life expectancy of our patients with a 
cemented THA was equal to that of our orthopedic control group and better than 
the life expectancy of the Finnish population.

DOI: 10.3109/17453679408993708
PMID: 8154292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Am Heart J. 1994 Apr;127(4 Pt 1):824-32. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(94)90549-5.

Prognostic significance of left ventricular aneurysm in the Cardiac Arrhythmia 
Suppression Trial (CAST) population.

Hochman JS(1), Brooks MM, Morris M, Ahmad T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, St. Luke's/Roosevelt Hospital Center, New York, NY 
10025.

Left ventricular aneurysm has been associated with increased mortality rates. 
The Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial (CAST) database was used prospectively 
to assess (1) the prognostic significance of left ventricular (LV) aneurysm 
after myocardial infarction on mortality rates and (2) the relation of LV 
aneurysm to ventricular arrhythmias and their suppressibility. All patients in 
the CAST study were enrolled after myocardial infarction. They had > or = 6 
ventricular premature depolarizations (VPDs) per hour and ejection fraction < or 
= 55%; they were enrolled in the study an average of 96 days after the index 
myocardial infarction. Of 2494 patients with wall motion data, 164 had LV 
aneurysm, 600 had only dyskinesis, 913 had only akinesis, and 817 had none of 
these. Radionuclide scan was used in 39%, two-dimensional echocardiography in 
30%, and LV angiogram in 31%. Baseline VPDs and nonsustained ventricular 
tachycardia were similar in all groups. LV aneurysm patients were more 
frequently eliminated during open-label titration. The incidence of sustained VT 
during follow-up was only 2.8% for aneurysm patients, a rate that was similar to 
the other groups. Patients with LV aneurysm had significantly lower survival 
rates (82% vs 91%) at 16 months after study entry than those without these wall 
motion abnormalities (p < 0.005). When survival rates were adjusted for ejection 
fraction there was still a moderately large hazard ratio (1.34) of LV aneurysm 
that was not statistically significant (p = 0.18). We conclude that (1) the 
presence of LV aneurysm does not independently worsen prognosis, and (2) older 
concepts of LV aneurysm and ventricular arrhythmias must be reevaluated.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(94)90549-5
PMID: 8154420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Am J Public Health. 1994 Apr;84(4):561-4. doi: 10.2105/ajph.84.4.561.

Homicide, handguns, and the crime gun hypothesis: firearms used in fatal 
shootings of law enforcement officers, 1980 to 1989.

Wintemute GJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and International Health, University of California, 
Davis 95816.

OBJECTIVES: Many policies seeking to limit handgun violence rest on the largely 
untested "crime gun hypothesis," which holds that subclasses of handguns differ 
in their risk for use in violent crime. This study tests that hypothesis for 
handguns used in homicides of law enforcement officers and describes the 
population of homicide-involved handguns.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was done of civilian (criminal) handguns used 
in homicides of law enforcement officers from 1980 to 1989. Life tables were 
generated for each year's cohort of new handguns to estimate gun-years at risk, 
analogous to person-years, for rate and relative risk calculations.
RESULTS: Four hundred thirty-five deaths involved 428 civilian handguns. 
Revolvers were at greater risk than pistols. For both, risk was lowest for 
.22-caliber handguns. Risk was greatest for .32-caliber pistols and .38-caliber 
revolvers. Forty-six percent of handguns had a barrel length of 3 in or less.
CONCLUSIONS: Subclasses of handguns differ substantially in their risk for use 
in fatal shootings of law enforcement officers. Such epidemiological data may be 
useful in formulating efforts to prevent these and similar instances of firearm 
violence.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.84.4.561
PMCID: PMC1614777
PMID: 8154556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1994 Feb 18;709:165-78. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb30396.x.

Epidemiologic studies of male factors in infertility.

Lamb EJ(1), Bennett S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, California 94305.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1994.tb30396.x
PMID: 8154700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol. 1994 Apr;103(4 Pt 1):306-10. doi: 
10.1177/000348949410300408.

Rhinocerebral aspergillosis in patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation.

Saah D(1), Drakos PE, Elidan J, Braverman I, Or R, Nagler A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Hadassah University 
Hospital, Jerusalem, Israel.

Rhinocerebral aspergillosis (RA) is becoming increasingly common in patients 
undergoing bone marrow transplantation (BMT). The disease can involve nearly all 
major head and neck structures, including the nose, paranasal sinuses, and 
orbits. Intracranial extension of the infection is of major concern, since this 
is usually a fatal complication. Our study population comprised 423 consecutive 
BMT patients at Hadassah University Hospital from January 1986 to August 1992. 
Eight patients (1.9%) developed RA, 5 of whom had underlying hematologic 
malignancies, and 3 of whom had severe aplastic anemia. Only 2 of the 8 patients 
responded completely to therapy, with a follow-up of 15 months. It appears that 
RA is a fatal complication in immunocompromised patients post-BMT. Early 
diagnosis followed by extensive surgical debridement of necrotic tissue and 
systemic, as well as topical, antifungal therapy with amphotericin B or its new 
formulations and the patient's recovery of bone marrow function may improve the 
outcome of this life-threatening complication.

DOI: 10.1177/000348949410300408
PMID: 8154773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Arch Ophthalmol. 1993 Dec;111(12):1653-61. doi: 
10.1001/archopht.1993.01090120075025.

Surgical effects of trabeculotomy ab externo on adult eyes with primary open 
angle glaucoma and pseudoexfoliation syndrome.

Tanihara H(1), Negi A, Akimoto M, Terauchi H, Okudaira A, Kozaki J, Takeuchi A, 
Nagata M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tenri Hospital, Nara, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: Retrospective and prospective studies examined the surgical effects 
in lowering intraocular pressure levels of trabeculotomy ab externo in adult 
eyes with either primary open angle glaucoma or pseudoexfoliation syndrome. We 
report the results of primary trabeculotomy as an intervention for glaucoma.
PATIENTS: Included in the retrospective study were 357 eyes of 227 patients with 
primary open angle glaucoma and 82 eyes of 65 patients with pseudoexfoliation 
syndrome, each of which underwent trabeculotomy ab externo alone and none of 
which had a history of laser or surgical treatment for ocular disease. Included 
in the prospective study were 33 eyes of 22 patients with primary open angle 
glaucoma and 17 eyes of 15 patients (older than 40 years) with pseudoexfoliation 
syndrome.
RESULTS: A life-table analysis for the retrospective study showed that the final 
success probability (mean +/- SE) at 5 years after surgery was 73.5% +/- 6.3% in 
eyes with pseudoexfoliation syndrome, which is significantly better than 58.0% 
+/- 3.1% in eyes with primary open angle glaucoma (P < .05). Also, the higher 
the preoperative intraocular pressure levels are, the less likely that the 
postoperative intraocular pressure levels will be brought under control (P < 
.01). Surgical outcome in the prospective study demonstrated success in 27 (79%) 
of 34 eyes after 3 years and in 16 (64%) of 25 eyes after 5 years, with 
medication. Complications included Descemet's membrane detachment (one eye), 
cyclodialysis (one eye), and decreased visual acuity due to progression of 
cataract (four eyes).
CONCLUSION: The surgical results of trabeculotomy ab externo remain effective in 
controlling intraocular pressure levels for a long time in selected patients. It 
thus appears that trabeculotomy ab externo can be considered as an alternative 
choice of surgical treatment in some cases of glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.1993.01090120075025
PMID: 8155036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1994 Apr 13;1205(2):268-74. doi: 
10.1016/0167-4838(94)90244-5.

Analysis of progress curves for enzyme-catalyzed reactions: application to 
unstable enzymes, coupled reactions and transient-state kinetics.

Duggleby RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.

There are several advantages to the use of progress curves to analyze the the 
kinetic properties of enzymes but most studies still rely on rate measurements. 
One of the reasons for this may be that progress curve analysis relies on the 
enzyme and the reactants being completely stable under assay conditions. Here a 
method is described that relaxes this requirement and allows progress curve 
analysis to be applied to unstable enzymes. The procedure is based on a 
combination of numerical integration and non-linear regression to fit rate 
equations to the progress curve data. The analysis is verified using simulated 
data and illustrated by application to the reaction catalyzed by alkaline 
phosphatase, measured in the presence of 10 mM EGTA where it has a half-life of 
3 1/2 min. The method may also be applied to other experimental systems where 
the development over time reveals important properties but where an analytical 
solution of the underlying model is not known. This extension is illustrated by 
two systems: the coupled reactions catalyzed by pyruvate kinase and lactate 
dehydrogenase under conditions where both enzymes have similar activity; and the 
transient-state kinetics of the reaction catalyzed by glutamate dehydrogenase.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-4838(94)90244-5
PMID: 8155708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Food Chem Toxicol. 1994 Mar;32(3):215-22. doi: 10.1016/0278-6915(94)90193-7.

Dose response of promotion by butylated hydroxyanisole in chemically initiated 
tumours of the rat forestomach.

Whysner J(1), Wang CX, Zang E, Iatropoulos MJ, Williams GM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pathology and Toxicology, American Health Foundation, Valhalla, 
NY 10595.

The antioxidant food preservative butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) was tested in 
an initiation-promotion protocol in which male F344 rats (6 wk old), 27 per 
group, were gavaged with a single dose of 200 mg 
N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG)/kg. After 3 wk on control diet, test 
diets containing 0, 60, 300, 1000, 3000, 6000 or 12,000 ppm BHA were fed until 
termination of the experiment at approximately 110 wk, at which time most 
animals had died with stomach tumours. MNNG caused a high incidence of tumours 
in the glandular stomach and forestomach of all groups. Administration of 12,000 
and 6000 ppm BHA, but not 3000 ppm or lower doses, caused statistically 
significant increases in the time-related incidence of MNNG-induced forestomach 
tumours as analyzed by life table analysis. BHA had no effect on the incidence 
of tumours in the glandular stomach or oesophagus. Tumour incidences in other 
organs were not related to BHA dose. No increase in hyperplasia in the 
oesophagus was evident in the high-dose BHA-treated animals compared with the 
MNNG-only group. This study provides corroboration that BHA affects only 
forestomach tumorigenesis and that the dose for enhancement of tumorigenesis is 
at least 1500-fold greater than human exposure.

DOI: 10.1016/0278-6915(94)90193-7
PMID: 8157215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Hum Biol. 1994 Feb;66(1):105-20.

Preliminary report on the paleodemography of the K2 and Mapungubwe populations 
(South Africa).

Henneberg M(1), Steyn M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Human Biology, University of Witwatersrand, 
Parktown, South Africa.

Paleodemographic studies have seldom been attempted in sub-Saharan Africa. The 
Mapungubwe complex of sites in northern Transvaal (A.D. 970-1200) has yielded 
enough skeletal material to warrant such an investigation. The skeletal 
collection consists of 109 individuals (97 from K2 and 12 from Mapungubwe 
itself). Because the sites are extensive and their complete excavation 
impractical, only reconstruction of the population dynamics, not the population 
size, was possible. There were 81 child and juvenile skeletons (below 15 years 
of age) and 7 male, 5 female, 4 possible male, and 4 possible female adult 
skeletons. Eight adult skeletons were too fragmentary to warrant even tentative 
sex diagnoses. Either age-specific burial practices resulting in the surplus of 
child skeletons, unusual child mortality, or a state of substantial natural 
increase must be the explanation for this age distribution. The hypothesis of 
the natural increase can be partly tested by using an appropriate correction to 
the life table. The life table corrected for r = 2.5% has a newborn life 
expectancy of 18.93 +/- 1.79 years and a survivorship to 15 years of 41.66% +/- 
3.91. The population pyramid derived from this life table compares well with 
data on some third world populations observed earlier this century. The 
fertility rate required to maintain the natural increase under such mortality 
conditions is high but comparable to that of some historical populations. High 
positive natural increase would indicate an economically successful population.

PMID: 8157260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Hum Biol. 1994 Feb;66(1):77-103.

Nutrition and the variation in level and age patterns of mortality.

Gage TB(1), O'Connor K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, State University of New York at Albany 12222.

We examine the associations between nutrition and mortality at the national 
level. Altogether four aspects of this association are explored: (1) total 
calories with expectation of life, (2) dietary composition with expectation of 
life, (3) total calories with the age patterns of mortality, and (4) dietary 
composition with the age patterns of mortality. The data consist of life tables 
and national food balance sheets for 341 populations from 96 countries. A 
preliminary principal components analysis conducted on the dietary composition 
data yields three dietary components: (1) the overall quality and quantity of 
the diet, (2) the relative contribution of carbohydrates versus fats, and (3) 
the relative contribution of fats versus proteins. The results indicate that 
expectation of life at birth increases with total calories, with overall quality 
and quantity of the diet, and with the ratio of fats to proteins. The ratio of 
carbohydrates to fats is negatively associated with level of mortality. However, 
evidence indicates that the main effect of the ratio of fats to proteins is 
reversed when diets are high in quality and that all the effects tend to 
saturate at high nutrient availability. Variation in nutrition is also strongly 
associated with the international variation in age patterns of mortality. For 
example, when expectation of life is held constant, populations with higher 
quality diets tend to have lower childhood mortality and higher adult mortality. 
The results indicate that nutritional patterns are highly correlated with much 
of the worldwide variation in mortality and may be a useful criterion for 
selecting or predicting the best suited model life table for use on a particular 
population.

PMID: 8157266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Pediatr Pathol. 1994 Jan-Feb;14(1):133-50. doi: 10.3109/15513819409022033.

So-called congenital-infantile fibrosarcoma: does it exist and what is it?

Coffin CM(1), Jaszcz W, O'Shea PA, Dehner LP.

Author information:
(1)Lauren V. Ackerman Division of Surgical Pathology, Washington University 
Medical Center, St. Louis, Missouri 63110.

Congenital-infantile fibrosarcoma (CIFS) is a cellular, mitotically active 
neoplasm with a paradoxically limited biologic potential in most cases. Its 
phenotype and proliferative features have been incompletely explored with 
inconclusive results. We studied the clinical, pathologic, immunohistochemical, 
and flow cytometric features of 26 cases (16 males, 10 females; 92% of cases 
detected within the first year life; 11 on extremities, 10 on the trunk, 5 in 
the head and neck). All displayed interlacing fascicles of spindle cells with 
focal necrosis, mitoses, and a focal hemangiopericytomatous vascular pattern. 
Immunohistochemically, 22 of 22 cases were reactive for vimentin. Other markers 
were present in a minority of cases. Flow cytometry of formalin-fixed, 
paraffin-embedded tissue in 10 cases demonstrated moderate to high proliferation 
activity and diploid DNA content in nine cases. Follow-up of all 26 patients 
revealed 20 patients alive and well, 15 without evidence of recurrence, and 5 
with a small residual mass. Six patients had died of tumor, none had distant 
metastases. Patients with tumors in the head and neck or deep truncal soft 
tissues, including mesentery, had a poor prognosis because of local extension. 
CIFS is a clinically and morphologically homogeneous condition with considerable 
immunophenotypic diversity. Diploid DNA content in the majority of cases 
suggests that it may not be a fully expressed sarcoma. The clinicopathologic 
features are sufficiently distinctive to permit recognition and warrant 
conservative initial treatment in most cases. "Fibrosarcoma" is a term of 
convenience rather than of nosologic certainty.

DOI: 10.3109/15513819409022033
PMID: 8159611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. West J Med. 1994 Feb;160(2):139-45.

An experience in Japanese academic medicine.

Tierney LM Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine Residency Program, University of California, School of 
Medicine, San Francisco.

The Japanese health care system has been highly praised for its universal 
access, freedom of patient choice, maintenance of a private system, and creative 
funding. Japanese citizens enjoy general good health, low infant mortality, and 
long life expectancy. Nevertheless, aspects of Japanese medical education, both 
graduate and undergraduate, and the structure of academic departments differ 
from those seen in the United States. A sabbatical spent teaching general 
internal medicine in Japan provided the experience for this review of the 
Japanese system. I describe the structure and function of departments of 
medicine and observations made at daily clinical teaching exercises in hospitals 
throughout the country.

PMCID: PMC1022319
PMID: 8160464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Am Heart J. 1994 Apr;127(4 Pt 2):1111-8. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(94)90097-3.

Future evaluation of antiarrhythmic therapy.

Myerburg RJ(1), Kessler KM, Chakko S, Cox MM, Fernandez P, Interian A Jr, 
Castellanos A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Miami School of Medicine, FL 33101.

The expansion of antiarrhythmic therapy beyond pharmacologic agents to include 
surgery, devices, and ablation procedures, plus the reaffirmation by the Cardiac 
Arrhythmia Suppression Trial (CAST) of the need for concurrent 
placebo-controlled trials to establish a mortality benefit, have resulted in the 
need to consider the requirements for evaluating therapy. Pharmacologic therapy 
may be used in three ways: (1) primary; (2) alternative; and (3) adjunctive. To 
accurately identify a mortality benefit from primary therapy, a 
placebo-controlled study is necessary. In contrast, control of symptoms may be 
identified without the same rigorous demands. Current data are limited by the 
absence of true negative controls for most interventions that claim a possible 
mortality benefit. Alternative therapy provides a choice between equally 
effective therapies, neither of which has necessarily been documented to have a 
mortality benefit. Adjunctive therapy is that which is used for control of 
symptoms, whereas another therapy is used to provide a presumed or proved 
mortality benefit. For any of these approaches, therapy must be further 
evaluated in terms of four modifying variables: (1) impact of therapy on the 
basis of both its efficacy and efficiency; (2) interpretation of outcome data 
based on analysis of competing risks; (3) measurement of efficacy in terms of 
extension of life; and (4) analysis of outcome as the equilibrium between 
antiarrhythmic benefit and proarrhythmic risk. With these approaches a rational 
analysis of the effect of therapy and its cost-based benefit can be achieved.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(94)90097-3
PMID: 8160590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Am J Cardiol. 1994 Apr 15;73(11):729-36. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90872-9.

Effect on outcome of the presence or absence of chest pain at initiation of 
recombinant tissue plasminogen activator therapy in acute myocardial infarction. 
The Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction Investigators.

Cox DA(1), Rogers WJ, Aguirre FV, Forman S, Solomon R, Zaret BL.

Author information:
(1)University of Alabama Medical Center, Birmingham 35294.

To ascertain whether the outcome of patients with suspected myocardial 
infarction differs when chest pain is still present at initiation of 
thrombolytic therapy, participants in the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction 
Phase II study, all of whom presented within 4 hours of symptoms onset, were 
retrospectively divided into 2 groups: (1) those with chest pain present at 
onset of intravenous thrombolysis, n = 3,000; and (2) those who were free of 
chest pain on beginning intravenous thrombolytic therapy, n = 337. Patients free 
of chest pain were older (58 vs 57 years, p = 0.01), more often women (23 vs 
17%, p = 0.01), had fewer electrocardiographic leads with ST elevation (3.8 vs 
4.1, p < 0.001), and the presenting event was confirmed less often as myocardial 
infarction than as chest pain without infarction (88 vs 96%, p < 0.001). There 
were no significant differences between the 2 groups for in-hospital death, 
reinfarction, recurrent ischemic events, stroke, overall hemorrhagic 
complications, coronary angioplasty or bypass surgery. At 6-weeks follow-up, 
more pain-free patients had resting ejection fraction > 0.55 (35 vs 31%, p = 
0.001) and fewer developed congestive heart failure (12 vs 20%). At 1-year 
follow-up, fewer pain-free patients developed congestive heart failure (15 vs 
21%, p = 0.009), but no differences existed between the 2 groups in frequency of 
death, reinfarction, coronary angioplasty, bypass surgery or anginal class. 
Thus, there are several observations in patients who were free of chest pain at 
onset of lytic therapy. (1) The majority developed enzymatic or 
electrocardiographic evidence of acute myocardial infarction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED 
AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90872-9
PMID: 8160607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Cytometry. 1994 Jan 1;15(1):59-63. doi: 10.1002/cyto.990150110.

Evaluation of testicular germ cell tumor proliferation using DNA flow cytometry 
and nucleolar organizer silver staining.

Hasegawa S(1), Okamura K, Shimoji T, Miyake K, Yamakawa Y, Sakamoto H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Nagoya University School of Medicine, Japan.

We studied 41 testicular germ cell tumors (TGCT) using DNA flow cytometry and 
argyrophilic (silver staining) nucleolar organizer region (Ag-NOR) quantitation 
to evaluate the proliferative characteristics of TGCT and the significance of 
those analytical techniques. In nonseminomatous germ cell tumor (NSGCT), the 
percentage of S + G2M phase cells (%S + G2M) in DNA aneuploid tumor was higher 
than in DNA of diploid tumors. Likewise, in NSGCT the aneuploid Ag-NOR sites per 
nucleus (Ag-NOR count) were significantly higher in DNA aneuploid than in DNA 
diploid tumors. There was also a significant linear correlation between % S + 
G2M phase cells and the Ag-NOR count in TGCT. However, the DNA ploidy pattern 
and the % S + G2M phase cells, and Ag-NOR counts, did not correlate 
significantly with the patient survival rate or clinical stage. In conclusion, 
our study suggests that Ag-NOR enumeration is an effective technique for 
assessing cellular proliferative activity that is somewhat less expensive than 
DNA flow cytometry.

DOI: 10.1002/cyto.990150110
