PMID: 8162826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Apr;19(4):565-72. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70027-3.

Supraclavicular reoperation for neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome.

Cheng SW(1), Stoney RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of California, San Francisco 94143.

Thirty-nine reoperations in 38 patients with recurrent symptoms of neurogenic 
thoracic outlet syndrome were performed by the supraclavicular approach. 
Scarring around the brachial plexus was the primary cause in 59% of procedure, 
whereas in 41% of reoperations residual osseous and soft tissue anomalies were 
identified in the supraclavicular area and were responsible for recurrence of 
symptoms. Anterior and middle scalenectomy and neurolysis of the brachial plexus 
were the procedures of choice. Complications included pleural entry (62%), 
lymphatic leak (10%), brachial plexus and phrenic nerve injuries (5% each), and 
long thoracic and recurrent laryngeal nerve palsies (3% each). The initial 
success rate for secondary operations was 74%, and long-term success at 18 
months was 45%. Patients who had demonstrable anatomic anomalies had better 
short- and long-term results than had patients with scarring alone. Compared 
with the results of primary operations for neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome, 
reoperations led to a longer hospital stay and inferior long-term results. 
Supraclavicular decompression allows maximal exposure of the brachial plexus and 
identification and correction of causative soft tissue and bony anomalies. For 
these reasons we recommend this as the approach of choice in both primary and 
secondary operations for neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70027-3
PMID: 8164270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Apr;19(4):610-4. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70033-8.

Unilateral vascular reconstruction for iliac obstructive disease.

van der Vliet JA(1), Scharn DM, de Waard JW, Roumen RM, van Roye SF, Buskens FG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, St. Radboud University Hospital, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.

PURPOSE: Controversy exists regarding the extent of vascular reconstructive 
surgery in the presence of unilateral symptomatic iliac obstructive disease. 
This study reviews the results of unilateral iliac reconstruction, with special 
emphasis on the need for consecutive contralateral intervention.
METHODS: The outcomes of 184 unilateral and 350 aortobilateral reconstructions 
for obstructive disease performed during the same period were retrospectively 
analyzed. Treatment allocation was based on hemodynamic parameters. Unilateral 
reconstruction was performed by a way of a retroperitoneal approach through a 
pararectal incision and bilateral reconstruction by way of a transperitoneal 
approach through a midline abdominal incision.
RESULTS: Symptom relief, improvement of noninvasively measured parameters, and 
graft patency were similar after unilateral and bilateral reconstruction. Both 
groups had a 10-year primary patency rate greater than 80%. There were no 
differences in morbidity rate, although respiratory complications occurred more 
often after bilateral reconstruction. Mortality rates were 1.6% after unilateral 
reconstruction and 4.9% after bilateral reconstruction. Secondary contralateral 
reconstruction was performed in only 6% of the patients who underwent an initial 
unilateral operation.
CONCLUSIONS: The unilateral vascular reconstruction for iliac obstructive 
disease is a well-tolerated procedure with an excellent long-term outcome. It is 
a valuable alternative to conventional aortobilateral reconstruction in 
carefully selected patients. Prophylactic reconstruction of an asymptomatic 
iliac stenosis without signs of significant hemodynamic impairment is most often 
not indicated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70033-8
PMID: 8164275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Kidney Int. 1994 Feb;45(2):578-85. doi: 10.1038/ki.1994.75.

Prophylactic oral anticoagulation in nephrotic patients with idiopathic 
membranous nephropathy.

Sarasin FP(1), Schifferli JA.

Author information:
(1)Clinique Médicale 1, Hôpital Cantonal Universitaire, University of Geneva 
Medical School, Switzerland.

Whether the high incidence of thromboembolic events in nephrotic patients with 
membranous nephropathy justifies prophylactic administration of oral 
anticoagulants remains controversial. We used a Markov-based decision analysis 
model, explicitly considering the consequences of recurrent embolic and bleeding 
events to quantify the risk-benefit trade-offs of: (1) prophylactic therapy, in 
which oral anticoagulation was started at the time of diagnosis of nephrotic 
syndrome (before any thromboembolic event); and (2) anticoagulant therapy, in 
which treatment was started after the first clinical thromboembolic event. We 
assumed that anticoagulant therapy was discontinued if there was remission of 
the nephrotic syndrome. The overall number of fatal emboli prevented by 
prophylactic anticoagulants exceeded the one of fatal bleeding events for all 
clinically meaningful ranges of the following parameters: nephrotic syndrome 
duration, incidence of thromboembolic events, likelihood of embolization, and 
mortality rates of embolic and bleeding events. For a hypothetical 50-year-old 
patient who remained nephrotic for 2 years, prophylactic anticoagulation yielded 
a gain representing 2.5 months of quality-adjusted life expectancy. We conclude 
that for nephrotic patients with membranous nephropathy, the benefits of 
prophylactic administration or oral anticoagulants outweigh the risks.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.1994.75
PMID: 8164448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1994 Feb;26(2):224-9. doi: 
10.1249/00005768-199402000-00013.

Healthy lifestyles of former Finnish world class athletes.

Fogelholm M(1), Kaprio J, Sarna S.

Author information:
(1)University of Helsinki, Department of Applied Chemistry and Microbiology, 
Finland.

Recently, Sarna et al. (Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. 25:237-244, 1993) reported 
increased mean life expectancy in former world class athletes. Because lifestyle 
is associated with longevity, we have examined whether health habits of former 
Finnish male athletes (N = 1274; present mean age: 57.5, range: 36-94 yr) 
differed from those of noncompetitive referents (N = 788; mean age: 55.7, range: 
39-87 yr). The athletes had represented Finland in international competitions in 
endurance (N = 177), power (N = 454), or other ("mixed") events (N = 643) from 
1920-1965. Data on physical characteristics, sociodemographic factors, and 
health habits were obtained from questionnaires. All dependent variables in an 
analysis of covariance and in a logistic regression analysis were adjusted for 
age and occupation. Both leisure aerobic and work activity of all athlete groups 
was higher (P < 0.01) than that of referents. Compared with the referents, both 
power and "mixed" athletes were more prone to eat fruits and vegetables and to 
avoid vitamin supplements, but less prone to use butter and high-fat milk, and 
to smoke (odds ratios different from 1.0, P < 0.05). Also endurance athletes 
smoked less and drank less alcohol than the referents (P < 0.05). Higher leisure 
aerobic activity and less frequent smoking after athletic years might explain 
higher life expectancy of Finnish athletes.

DOI: 10.1249/00005768-199402000-00013
PMID: 8164540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. N Engl J Med. 1994 May 26;330(21):1481-7. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199405263302103.

Radiofrequency catheter ablation for tachyarrhythmias in children and 
adolescents. The Pediatric Electrophysiology Society.

Kugler JD(1), Danford DA, Deal BJ, Gillette PC, Perry JC, Silka MJ, Van Hare GF, 
Walsh EP.

Author information:
(1)Section of Pediatric Cardiology, University of Nebraska Medical Center, 
Omaha, NE 68198-2166.

BACKGROUND: Although radiofrequency catheter ablation has been used extensively 
to treat refractory supraventricular tachycardia in adults, few data are 
available on its safety and efficacy in children and adolescents. We reviewed 
registry data obtained from 24 centers to evaluate the indications, early 
results, complications, and short-term follow-up data in young patients who 
underwent this procedure.
METHODS: Standardized data were submitted for 652 patients who underwent 725 
procedures between January 1, 1991, and September 1, 1992. The mean length of 
follow-up was 13.5 months.
RESULTS: The median age of the patients was 13.5 years, and 84 percent of them 
had structurally normal hearts. The initial success rates for ablation of 
atrioventricular accessory pathways (508 of 615 procedures) and 
atrioventricular-node reentry (63 of 76 procedures) were both 83 percent. 
Greater institutional experience in performing ablation in children and location 
of the accessory pathway in the left free wall correlated with greater 
likelihood of sustained success. Conversely, a right free-wall pathway, the 
presence of other heart disease, and higher body weight were all associated with 
a lesser chance of sustained success. Recurrences of arrhythmia accounted for 45 
percent of the failures overall in the series. Atrial ectopic-focus tachycardia 
had the highest recurrence rate. The total complication rate was 4.8 percent (35 
of 725 procedures), and the only variables that independently correlated with a 
higher complication rate were very low weight and less institutional experience.
CONCLUSIONS: These early results suggest that radio-frequency catheter ablation 
has a good success rate and a low complication rate in pediatric patients, 
especially when it is carried out in experienced pediatric cardiology centers.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199405263302103
PMID: 8164700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Surg Neurol. 1994 Apr;41(4):268-76. doi: 10.1016/0090-3019(94)90171-6.

Timing of admission and management outcome in patients with subarachnoid 
hemorrhage.

Inagawa T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Shimane Prefectural Central Hospital, Izumo, 
Japan.

The purpose of this study is to investigate the overall management outcome in 
patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage who were admitted in the ultra-early 
stage. A total of 601 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage were classified into 
three groups, that is, those admitted within 6 hours (group 1: 371 cases, 62%), 
those admitted from 6 hours to day 3 (group 2: 145 cases, 24%) and those 
admitted from day 4 to 30 (group 3: 85 cases, 14%). The shorter the interval 
from hemorrhage to admission, the worse were the clinical and subarachnoid 
hemorrhage grades on admission. The operability rate of group 1 was lower than 
that of group 2 or 3-62%, 73%, and 71%, respectively. At 6 months the overall 
outcome of group 1 was significantly poorer than that of group 2 or 3; the 
mortality rate was 39%, 27%, and 19%, respectively. The poor outcome in group 1 
was a result of a worse neurologic state compared with groups 2 and 3. By 
life-table analysis, the survival curve of group 1 was also significantly poorer 
than that of group 2 or 3; the 5-year survival probability was 50%, 64%, and 
67%, respectively. However, when analyzing the survival curves in patients with 
admission grades I-III or in those who were operated on, differences among the 
three groups were insignificant. Regarding age, the long-term survival 
probability as well as the short-term outcome were definitely inferior in 
patients aged > or = 70 years, especially in group 1. It is concluded that while 
the management outcome in patients admitted in the ultra-early stage after 
subarachnoid hemorrhage was poorer than in those admitted at later stages, if 
the subjects were restricted to those with good risk or those who underwent 
surgery, the results were not necessarily poor.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-3019(94)90171-6
PMID: 8165493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Thromb Haemost. 1994 Jan;71(1):15-8.

Different incidence of venous thrombosis in patients with inherited deficiencies 
of antithrombin III, protein C and protein S.

Finazzi G(1), Barbui T.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia, Ospedali Riuniti, Bergamo, Italy.

A cohort study was undertaken to compare the incidence of thrombosis in patients 
with inherited deficiency of Antithrombin III (n = 9), Protein C (n = 36) and 
Protein S (n = 36). The patients were stratified for schedule of antithrombotic 
prophylaxis and followed for a total period of 160 patient-years. Seven venous 
thrombosis were observed for a total incidence of 4.3% pts.-ys. The incidence of 
thrombosis was not significantly different in patients of different age, sex and 
schedule of prophylaxis, although there was a trend to a lower incidence in 
young individuals and in those receiving long-term oral anticoagulation. 
Patients with AT III deficiency had an higher incidence of thrombosis than 
patients with Protein C or Protein S deficiency (12 vs. 2.8 vs. 3.3% pts.-ys, p 
< 0.05), despite the fact that they were, on average, younger and more 
prophylaxed. This study suggests that congenital Antithrombin III deficiency 
constitutes a greater risk of thrombosis than congenital deficiencies of Protein 
C and Protein S.

PMID: 8165635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1994;106(4):93-6.

[Prognosis and life expectancy in primary biliary cirrhosis].

[Article in German]

Zangerl G(1), Propst T, Propst A, Judmaier G, Vogel W, Braunsteiner H.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Gastroenterologie und Hepatologie, Universitätsklinik für 
Innere Medizin, Innsbruck.

The aim of the present study was to investigate prognosis and life expectancy in 
patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. We retrospectively analysed 59 patients 
from western Austria over 15 years (mean 6 years). The results of the present 
study were compared with the average life expectancy of the population of 
western Austria and with the results of the Mayo study published in 1989. The 
mean survival time in our study was 112.7 months, 25% were dead by 132 months. 
Kaplan-Meier analysis showed a 95% probability to survive 1 year and a 84% 
probability to be alive at 5 years. Asymptomatic patients had a significantly 
better prognosis than symptomatic patients. In comparison with the Mayo study 
the patients in our study had a better prognosis and in comparison with the 
normal population a significantly worse life expectancy.

PMID: 8165815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Zentralbl Chir. 1994;119(2):115-23.

[Value of interventional procedures in treatment of stenotic and occluded 
infra-inguinal vascular bypasses].

[Article in German]

Wölfle KD(1), Mayer H, Tietze W, Bruijnen H, Mayer B, Loeprecht H.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Gefäss- und Thoraxchirurgie, Zentralklinikum Augsburg.

In a prospective study, the results following PTA of 30 short stenoses > 70% in 
17 infrainguinal arterial bypass grafts were examined. The stenoses were 
detected after a mean follow-up of 7.2 months by Duplex-ultrasound. The initial 
success rate after PTA was 100%. After an average time of 4.6 months recurrent 
graft stenoses were identified in 8 bypasses and 1 patient experienced graft 
thrombosis. Overall 8 of the 17 patients with stenotic grafts were treated by 
PTA alone during a mean follow-up of 11.7 months. Using life-table analysis, 
primary and assisted primary patency rates were each 100% at 1 month and 41 and 
86% at 2 years. The efficacy of thrombolysis in 36 occluded grafts (graft age > 
30 days) with clinical symptoms of incomplete ischaemia was analyzed 
retrospectively. After successful lysis in 61% (22/36), 15 grafts underwent 
additional procedures including PTA (10), vein patch angioplasty (4) and distal 
graft extension (1). Following successful initial graft salvage, primary 
cumulative patency and limb salvage rates were 45 and 72% at 1 month and 16 and 
51% at 3 years. PTA of primary graft stenoses may be regarded as an acceptable 
initial therapeutic option, but has some limitations in providing sustained 
patency. Grafts initially salvaged with lysis do not have favourable short and 
long-term patency.

PMID: 8165880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1994 Apr;98(4):369-73.

[Study on risk factors for progression of visual field damage in normal-tension 
glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Sekine M(1), Araie M, Suzuki Y, Koseki N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tokyo school of Medicine, Japan.

We investigated the risk factors for progression of visual field damage in 
normal-tension glaucoma (NTG), using multiple regression analysis with the 
proportional hazard model and the life-table method. Seventy-six eyes of 56 
patients with untreated NTG showing minor visual-field defects, with a mean 
deviation (MD) of > - 5 dB by the Humphrey (30-2) STATPAC program at entry, were 
included in the study. Endpoints of study follow-up were defined as follows: in 
HFA STATPAC 2 Glaucoma Change Probability Analysis, more than 5 points which 
significantly deteriorated at p < 0.05 were found at 2 consequent examinations 
(Criterion 1) or a significant decrease in the MD value at p < 0.025 was 
encountered at one examination or that at p < 0.05 at 2 consecutive examinations 
(Criterion 2). During the follow-up period (37 months, mean), 33 eyes (42%) 
satisfied Criterion 1 and 23 eyes (29%) Criterion 2. When Criterion 1 was 
employed, peripapillary chorio-retinal atrophy/disc ratio (p = 0.023), 
intraocular pressure (IOP) (p = 0.03) and cup/disc ratio (p = 0.035) were 
identified as significant risk factors for progression of visual-field damage. 
When Criterion 2 was employed, Contribution of cup/disc ratio (p = 0.065) and 
IOP (p = 0.145) was relatively high, but not significant. These results 
suggested an association of IOP and local vascular risk factors with progression 
of visual-field damage in NTG.

PMID: 8165969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1994 Apr;98(4):379-84.

[Analysis of therapeutic prognosis of primary open-angle glaucoma by the 
proportional hazards model and the life-table method].

[Article in Japanese]

Hayakawa S(1), Hamajima N, Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

We retrospectively analyzed the therapeutic prognosis of primary open-angle 
glaucoma by the life-table method and the proportional hazards model. One 
hundred and eight patients (202 eyes) were studied. The follow-up period ranged 
from 6 to 125 months (40 +/- 25 months: mean +/- SD). The Kaplan-Meier 
life-table method indicated that therapeutic prognosis was significantly related 
to pretreatment intraocular pressure (IOP) and visual field defect, and that 
more intensive treatment was needed for higher IOP and more deteriorated visual 
field defect. Analysis by the proportional hazards model showed that 
pretreatment IOP and mean deviation (MD) measured by static perimetry were 
significant prognostic factors for non-surgical treatment and that the hazard 
ratios were 1.29-1.31 for a 5 mmHg rise in IOP and 1.44-1.83 for a 10 dB fall in 
MD. We concluded that the therapeutic prognosis of primary open-angle glaucoma 
is highly related to the level of IOP and the severity of visual field defect at 
the time of diagnosis.

PMID: 8165971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Am J Cardiol. 1994 Apr 7;73(10):40C-43C. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90622-x.

Has the problem of heart failure been solved?

Cohn JN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Minnesota Medical School, Minneapolis 
55455.

Emphasis on the management of heart failure has shifted from attempts to alter 
hemodynamics and symptoms to attempts to interfere with the natural history of 
the disease. This shift in emphasis has been stimulated by the recognition that 
heart failure progresses despite therapy and that shortened life expectancy 
makes the disease as lethal as most cancers. Most recent trials have therefore 
focused on mortality and have evaluated therapies designed to impact on 
progression of the syndrome. In this article the results of several recent 
trials are discussed, as well as the future of effective therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90622-x
PMID: 8166054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Am J Med. 1994 Apr;96(4):354-8. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(94)90066-3.

Coronary anatomy and prognosis of young, asymptomatic survivors of myocardial 
infarction.

Negus BH(1), Willard JE, Glamann DB, Landau C, Snyder RW 2nd, Hillis LD, Lange 
RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Texas Southerwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas 75235-9047.

PURPOSE: To assess the coronary anatomy and prognosis of young, asymptomatic 
survivors of myocardial infarction.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The records of all 5,316 patients who underwent cardiac 
catheterization at Parkland Memorial Hospital from July 1978 to December 1992 
were reviewed to identify those patients 40 years old and younger who were 
catheterized within 60 days of a first myocardial infarction. Of 129 such 
patients, 48 had no indication for catheterization other than age (group I), and 
81 were catheterized for spontaneous or provocable ischemia (group II). Extent 
of coronary artery disease and long-term follow-up were examined to ascertain 
the utility of cardiac catheterization in the asymptomatic patients.
RESULTS: The 2 groups were similar with respect to clinical variables. The 
asymptomatic survivors of infarction (group I) had fewer diseased coronary 
arteries than did those with post-infarction ischemia (group II) (1.0 +/- 0.7 
versus 1.5 +/- 1.0 [mean +/- SD] diseased coronary arteries, respectively; P = 
0.002) and were less likely to have left-main or 3-vessel coronary artery 
disease (4% versus 20%, respectively; P = 0.027). Eighty-three percent of the 
group I patients had one diseased coronary artery, or less, and no patient 
underwent angioplasty or coronary bypass grafting on the basis of 
catheterization. After 71 +/- 44 months of follow-up, only 5 (10%) had died of a 
coronary-related event.
CONCLUSIONS: Asymptomatic survivors of myocardial infarction who are 40 years of 
age or less rarely have left-main or 3-vessel coronary artery disease, and their 
long-term prognosis with conservative therapy is good. Routine catheterization 
in these patients is not warranted and should be reserved for those who manifest 
spontaneous or provocable post-infarction ischemia.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(94)90066-3
PMID: 8166155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 1994 Apr;118(4):465-70.

Preoperative autologous blood donation in total-hip arthroplasty. A 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Healy JC(1), Frankforter SA, Graves BK, Reddy RL, Beck JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Creighton University School of Medicine, Omaha, Neb.

Preoperative autologous blood donation is employed with increasing frequency, 
particularly in patients undergoing elective orthopedic procedures. While 
autologous transfusion decreases the incidence of postoperative infections and 
other complications, the cost-effectiveness of this therapy has not been fully 
investigated. We constructed a decision analytic model to study the 
cost-effectiveness of preoperative autologous blood donation of packed red blood 
cells compared with allogeneic packed red blood cells in primary hip 
arthroplasty. We used data from 73 patients presenting at our blood center with 
a prescription for 2 U of autologous red blood cells prior to hip arthroplasty 
to establish probabilities for the number of units that would be donated. 
Patients were able to donate an average of 1.9 U (range, 0 to 2 U) of autologous 
blood. We also reviewed the charts of 56 patients who underwent primary hip 
arthroplasty to model the number of units given during hospitalization (1.5 U 
given; range, 0 to 5 U). We applied the model to a 65-year-old patient 
undergoing primary hip arthroplasty. Estimates for the incidence of 
posttransfusion hepatitis, chronic active hepatitis, human immunodeficiency 
virus infection, postoperative bacterial infection, and fatal hemolytic 
transfusion reaction were derived from the literature. Patient utility was 
measured in life-years. Costs included the cost of preoperative autologous blood 
donation, blood administration, and medical care costs associated with the 
complications of transfusion. Costs were derived from local data and the 
literature. Future earnings lost were not modeled. In the baseline analysis, 
autologous transfusion results in a net cost savings compared with allogeneic 
blood over a wide range of complication rates, patient ages, and transfusion 
requirements. The dominant factor in the analysis is the effect of postoperative 
bacterial infection on length of hospital stay and the resultant increase in 
costs. The effect of viral infections on the results of the analysis is minimal.

PMID: 8166599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Eur J Haematol. 1994 Mar;52(3):176-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.1994.tb01310.x.

Differential toxicity of alpha-keto hydroxypyridine iron chelators and 
desferrioxamine to human haemopoietic precursors in vitro.

Cunningham JM(1), al-Refaie FN, Hunter AE, Sheppard LN, Hoffbrand AV.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Cell Pathology Unit, Royal Free Hospital School of Medicine, 
London, UK.

Compliance with iron chelation therapy improves life expectancy in 
transfusion-dependent haematological disorders. However, failure of compliance 
with parenteral desferrioxamine (DF) therapy and the expense incurred makes this 
drug unavailable for most patients in the developing world. We have been 
evaluating the orally active iron chelator 1,2-dimethyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one 
(L1) in both preclinical and clinical trials. Five patients have developed 
reversible agranulocytosis during treatment with this agent. We have now studied 
the effects of L1, other alpha-ketohydroxypyridines and DF on bone marrow 
myeloid progenitors using the CFU-GM system. The results show that L1 is less 
toxic than DF to normal bone marrow myeloid progenitors (ID50:130 mumol/l versus 
7.9 mumol/l). The L1 ID50 is within the previously reported range of peak plasma 
values (80-450 mumol/l). When saturating concentrations of iron were added to 
the cultures, the mean toxicity of all the chelators was significantly decreased 
over the range of doses tested, e.g. L1 ID50, 567 mumol/l; DF ID50, > 1000 
mumol/l. The toxicity of L1 in vitro was similar for marrows from 3 normal 
donors and for the recovery marrow from a patient with thalassaemia major who 
had experienced agranulocytosis. Further studies are required to elucidate the 
mechanisms of L1-induced agranulocytosis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.1994.tb01310.x
PMID: 8168597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Dev Med Child Neurol. 1994 May;36(5):397-405. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.1994.tb11865.x.

Motor development, infantile reactions and postural responses of preterm, 
at-risk infants.

Mandich M(1), Simons CJ, Ritchie S, Schmidt D, Mullett M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Physical Therapy, West Virginia University, Morgantown.

Eighty-nine low-birthweight, preterm infants were enrolled in a longitudinal 
study to describe motor development, infantile reactions and postural responses 
during the first chronological year of life and to determine the relationship 
between these behaviors. There was a clear trend from prevalence of primitive 
patterns, such as the asymmetric tonic neck reflex, towards a prevalence of 
mature postural reactions such as the Landau, righting and protective extension 
reflexes. Statistical analysis suggested that a relationship exists between 
infantile patterns, automatic postural reactions and motor development that is 
similar to that accepted as normal in term infant development, when allowance is 
made for preterm birth. Correlations were also obtained between integration of 
the tonic labyrinthine response and the presence of the asymmetric tonic neck 
pattern at the time of hospital discharge and later achievement of motor 
milestones. These relationships warrant further investigation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.1994.tb11865.x
PMID: 8168658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Fam Pract. 1993 Dec;10(4):444-8. doi: 10.1093/fampra/10.4.444.

Primary health care in the United Arab Emirates.

Bener A(1), Abdullah S, Murdoch JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
UAE University, Al-Ain.

The aim of this paper was to assess some of the important variable factors 
concerning health care in United Arab Emirates (UAE), with special emphasis on 
primary health care (PHC). Other aspects considered are the population per bed, 
population per physician, population per dentist, population per pharmacist and 
population per nurse, all of which influence health care delivery in the UAE. 
There is a gradual improvement in health status, which can be seen by the 
increase of life expectancy in both males and females, and decrease in leading 
cause of death from infectious diseases. The health strategy of 1986-1991 has 
achieved its goals and has been reviewed and the new 5 year strategy has been 
formalized to adopt some major aspects in the development of health care 
delivery. Overall results showed that every 1235 people will be served by one 
physician and other health service indicators are bed/doctor 3.9; bed/nurse 1.3; 
population/dentist 15,763; population/pharmacist 13,174; and population/nurse 
438. Also, a very good coverage of PHC has been achieved throughout the country 
so that no more than 200 people live in an area > 30 km away from health service 
or without a PHC clinic. All PHC clinics provide curative, preventive and 
promotive services with a small percentage of rehabilitation services. The 
government has adopted the PHC approach as the long-term strategy for achieving 
the goal of health for all by the year 2000. This was supported by the 
ministerial decree no. 139/86 in 1986. Recommendations are also made for 
improving health services and performance as well as better meeting the specific 
medical care needs of the people through expansion of PHC services.

DOI: 10.1093/fampra/10.4.444
PMID: 8168682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Fam Pract. 1993 Dec;10(4):449-53. doi: 10.1093/fampra/10.4.449.

The concepts of successful and positive ageing.

Bowling A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, St Bartholomew's Medical College, London, UK.

Social scientists frequently refer to the 'greying' of the population in the 
west, the extension of the average lifespan to around the age of 76, and the 
projected increases in the numbers of people aged 85 and over, with the ensuing 
problems of chronic illness and disability that often accompany very old age. 
Increasing interest is being expressed in positive aspects of ageing: given the 
increases in life expectancy during this century, is it resulting in a life 
worth living? Concern is heightened by the estimate that, although most people 
aged 65+ live in their own homes and are relatively healthy and independent, 
years of disability can begin as early as 60 years. Conversely, some researchers 
and policy makers feel that enough time has been spent on the negative aspects 
of ageing and that the balance should be addressed by analysing successful, or 
positive ageing (sometimes defined in terms of an overlapping but separate 
dimension 'health-related quality of life'), with the aim of promoting 
well-being for future generations.

DOI: 10.1093/fampra/10.4.449
PMID: 8168683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Health Care Women Int. 1994 Jan-Feb;15(1):61-7. doi:
10.1080/07399339409516095.

Factors that influence women's health in Tanzania.

Lugina HI.

A descriptive account of factors that influence women's health in Tanzania is 
given. The social and cultural processes that enhance or undermine women's 
health are emphasized. Recommendations for changes to improve women's health are 
made.

PIP: Tanzanians have a low life expectancy (49 years), high death rate 
(15.1/1000), and high fertility rate (6.5). Women have been subject to sexual 
discrimination even before colonialism. Tradition sustains sexual discrimination 
today, which keeps women at a low social status and in poor health. Programs 
need to train women to become more assertive and teach skills which facilitate 
economic and professional development. Women need to be involved in development. 
Even though the Tanzanian government has a free health care system, insufficient 
transportation prevents childbirth emergencies from being managed. Yet, the 
national health policy calls for the elimination of discrimination against women 
in health care. Maternal and child health services focus on the baby's health. 
Breast feeding can further weaken a malnourished woman. Lack of transportation 
and low contraceptive prevalence (5-7%) restrict women's use of family planning 
services. Tanzania has officially adopted the Safe Motherhood Initiative, but 
commitment from all groups is needed. Many women suffer from domestic violence, 
but the issue is ignored. Some tribes still practice female circumcision. 
Another form of social control is childhood marriage, which both tradition and 
the law uphold. Early marriage and teenage pregnancies prevent women from 
completing their education. The government has a course to train traditional 
birth attendants which improves their standard of care. Customary marriage laws 
consider wives to be property. Divorce carries a considerable social stigma. In 
1990, the Tanzanian government created a ministry to coordinate women and 
children issues. Obstacles to improving women's health are poverty, harmful 
traditional practices, customary laws that support discrimination against women, 
and Tanzania's poor economy.

DOI: 10.1080/07399339409516095
PMID: 8169170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. J Am Paraplegia Soc. 1994 Jan;17(1):36-8. doi:
10.1080/01952307.1994.11735913.

Stroke in the spinal cord injured.

Nam CC(1), Odderson IR.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle.

Advances in treatment of patients with spinal cord injury (SCI) have contributed 
to prolongation of their life expectancy. As a result, this population is 
becoming more prone to the diseases commonly associated with advanced age and a 
sedentary lifestyle. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that 
the SCI population has an increased incidence of stroke, and to identify stroke 
risk factors unique to SCI patients. A retrospective, computer assisted medical 
chart review of all admissions from 1980 to 1990 was conducted. Of more than one 
thousand patients who had a stroke and two thousand paraplegic/quadriplegic 
patients, we identified only two instances involving stroke in patients with 
traumatic SCI. We conclude that the SCI population does not appear to have a 
higher incidence of stroke, although further prospective studies involving a 
larger patient population are recommended. Possible protective factors and 
causes for under-reporting stroke in the SCI population are discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/01952307.1994.11735913
PMID: 8169603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. J Vasc Surg. 1994 May;19(5):851-6; discussion 856-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70010-9.

Femorofemoral bypass for aortofemoral graft limb occlusion: a ten-year 
experience.

Nolan KD(1), Benjamin ME, Murphy TJ, Pearce WH, McCarthy WJ, Yao JS, Flinn WR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago, 
Illinois.

PURPOSE: Aortofemoral bypass (AFB) is a durable reconstruction; however, graft 
limb occlusion occurs in 10% to 20% of patients and results in limb ischemia. 
Treatment of AFB limb occlusion has been debated, but many recommended 
femorofemoral bypass (FFB). FFB grafts have had excellent patency rates. The 
durability of FFB specifically for AFB limb occlusion has not been reported. 
This study retrospectively examined a 10-year experience with FFB for AFB limb 
occlusion to determine FFB performance.
METHODS: Between 1982 and 1992, FFB was performed on occluded AFB limbs in 22 
patients (14 men and 8 women). Reoperation was performed for disabling 
claudication in five cases, but the remaining 17 patients (77%) had critical 
limb ischemia. FFB originated from the contralateral patent AFB limb in all 
cases. Distal anastomosis was to the common femoral artery (n = 8) or the 
profunda femoris (n = 14). FFB graft patency was confirmed by direct Doppler 
arterial examination over a mean follow-up of 47 months.
RESULTS: The cumulative life-table primary patency rate of FFB was 54% at 5 
years. Reoperative procedures performed in nine cases resulted in a secondary 
patency rate of 84% at 5 years. The limb salvage rate was also 84% at 5 years, 
reflecting the impact of successful reoperation. Major amputations (two 
below-knee, one above-knee) were necessary in only three cases. There were no 
perioperative deaths after FFB, and the cumulative 5-year survival rate was 77%.
CONCLUSION: Aortic graft limb occlusion occurs less frequently than failure of 
infrainguinal grafts making the success of specific reoperative strategies 
difficult to document reliably. This study suggests that FFB is a safe and 
durable alternative for AFB limb failure. An aggressive policy of reoperation 
has resulted in successful extension of FFB graft function and an excellent rate 
of limb salvage.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70010-9
PMID: 8170039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Sangre (Barc). 1993 Dec;38(6):455-62.

[Post-therapeutic evolution and prognostic factors of intestinal lymphomas, 
Retrospective analysis of 42 cases].

[Article in Spanish]

Sánchez-Fayos MP(1), Hernández Guío C, Rivas MC, Outeiriño J, González-Campos C, 
Lobo F.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Fundación Jiménez Díaz, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad Autónoma, Madrid.

PURPOSE: To evaluate in retrospect the response to therapy and long-term 
evolution of a series of primitive intestinal lymphomas.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The series was comprised of 42 patients diagnosed in our 
hospital during 1960-1962. The mean age was 34.5 years (range, 3-73), the M/F 
ratio was 21/21, and the histopathology distributes as follows: high grade (HG), 
24 cases, low grade (LG), 12 cases, and mixed (LG/HG), 6 cases. B/T 
immunophenotype: 40/2. Staging: IE1,29 cases, IIE2-IV, 11 cases. The treatment 
applied in the series was classified in various types: ample surgical resection 
(aSR), 21 cases; partial surgical resection (pSR), 9 cases; abdominal radiation 
therapy (RT), 7 cases; monochemotherapy (MCT), 7 cases, and polychemotherapy 
(PCT), 28 cases. The correlation of clinicobiological variables with immediate 
response to treatment was evaluated by means of the chi square test, and the 
acturial post-therapeutic survival curves in accordance to the life tables, 
differences being calculated by the log rank test.
RESULTS: Small intestine was the commonest site of involvement, 31 cases; 
ileocecal region, 7 cases; colon, 2 cases, and colon plus small intestine, 2 
cases. Regardless of therapy type, complete remission (CR) was attained in 20 
patients (47.5%), partial remission in 5; 11 cases were unresponsive (26.5%) and 
early death occurred in 6 instances (14.2%). The acturial post-therapeutic 
survival offered an 8-year expectancy of 47%. The correlation between immediate 
complete response and 16 clinico-biologic variables showed favourable 
significance for tumoral proliferation index (i.e., Pc10-positive cells < 15%) 
and for therapeutic regimens including PCT+aSR. On the other hand, the necessity 
of emergency surgery for diagnosis was a poor-risk factor. The correlation 
between a post-therapeutic survival and 19 other variables showed the following 
as favorable data: female sex, tumour proliferative index (i.e., Pc10-positive 
cells < 15%), the use of PCT+aSR, and attaining CR. Poor-risk factors were the 
need of emergency surgery, multicentric lymphomatous involvement and serum LDH 
rates 350 UI/L. Although immediate response (CR) and long-term results 
(survival) were better in the patients with favourable histology (LG+LG/HG) and 
in those with loco-regional disease (stages IE-IE1), the differences had no 
statistical significance, possibly due to the low number of cases.
CONCLUSIONS: 1) Even though these findings should be carefully evaluated, dut to 
lack of homogeneity of the series and the fact of being a retrospective study, 
the rate of CR in this series (47.5%) is similar to that of current studies. 2) 
Female sex, type of therapy, multifocal involvement, the need of emergency 
surgery and high LDH levels have significant value in univariate analyses.

PMID: 8171381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Z Gerontol. 1994 Jan-Feb;27(1):10-5.

[Women live longer--biological, medical and sociologic causes].

[Article in German]

Lang E(1), Arnold K, Kupfer P.

Author information:
(1)Carl-Korth-Institut für poliklinische Medizin, Erlangen.

The results of studies concerning the mortality rates of both sexes are of great 
similarity in all industrial countries. For underdeveloped countries, little 
information is available, but analogue proportions can be supposed. In the 
nations of the industrialized world males have a significantly higher mortality 
rate, which shortens their life expectancy in comparison with that of woman. 
Since about 1970 a deceleration of this development has been observed. The 
diseases responsible for this fact are ischemic heart disease, lung cancer, 
accidents, and other traumatic incidences, but also infectious diseases. 
Concerning the origins of ischemic heart disease, the influence of sex hormones 
especially on the lipid profile are being discussed; nevertheless, for the 
enhanced coronary risk of males environmental and behavioral factors seem to be 
more important than biological reasons. As for carcinosis being a reason for the 
mortality of males, lung cancer is in the foremost position. Cigarette 
consumption, as well as the higher exposure to cancerogenic substances related 
to typically male professions, are held responsible for this. As for other types 
of cancer, environmental factors depending on gender are strongly considered as 
a reason for different rates of mortality. Furthermore, sociological 
explanations for these differing frequencies are being discussed. Occupational 
differences and the different positions held in working life by each gender are 
believed to be responsible for the higher rate of mortality among males. Also, 
risktaking behavior seems to be found more often among males, than among 
females. A variety of hypotheses based on genetics have been given to explain 
the different gender-specific rates of mortality, but none of them has yet been 
proven correct.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8171879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Am J Gastroenterol. 1994 May;89(5):670-80.

A guide for surveillance of patients with Barrett's esophagus.

Provenzale D(1), Kemp JA, Arora S, Wong JB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, New England Medical Center, Tufts University 
School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts 02111.

OBJECTIVE: Barrett's esophagus (columnar metaplasia of the distal esophagus due 
to chronic gastroesophageal reflux) affects nearly 700,000 people in the United 
States, and carries a risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma that is 30-125 times 
that of an age-matched population. Patients who develop high grade dysplasia are 
at greatest risk. Current recommendations are for endoscopic surveillance to 
detect dysplasia and to diagnose carcinoma while it is in an early and possibly 
treatable stage. In addition, some authorities recommend esophagectomy for high 
grade dysplasia, whereas others reserve esophagectomy only for those with 
cancer. There are no controlled trials demonstrating that surveillance increases 
life expectancy in patients with Barrett's esophagus. Furthermore, endoscopic 
surveillance of this large group with Barrett's esophagus may be costly, and 
associated with considerable morbidity. Therefore, our objective was to assess 
the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of endoscopic surveillance in patients 
with Barrett's esophagus.
METHODS: Design--Decision analysis using a computer cohort simulation (Markov). 
We examined 12 strategies: (A) no endoscopic surveillance. Esophagectomy is 
performed only if cancer is detected by biopsy. (B) no surveillance. 
Esophagectomy is performed if high grade dysplasia is detected by biopsy: 
(C1-C5) surveillance at intervals from 1 to 5 yr, with esophagectomy if cancer 
is diagnosed, and (D1-D5) surveillance at intervals from 1 to 5 yr with 
esophagectomy if high grade dysplasia is diagnosed. We measured life expectancy, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for 
each strategy. Data Sources--Medline Search and bibliographies of retrieved 
articles; expert opinion when published data were not available.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Annual surveillance with esophagectomy for high grade 
dysplasia prevents cancer and is the preferred strategy, if only length of life 
(life expectancy) is considered. For those who consider both length and quality 
of life, endoscopy every 2-3 yr will provide the greatest quality-adjusted life 
expectancy. When costs are considered, endoscopy every 5 yr also increases life 
expectancy and has an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio similar to common 
medical practices. The cumulative incidence of cancer and the quality of life 
with an esophagectomy had the greatest impact on the decision for surveillance 
and the optimal surveillance strategy.

PMID: 8172136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Ann Ist Super Sanita. 1993;29(3):465-7.

Estimation of early childhood mortality using preceding birth technique in a 
community-based setting.

Materia E(1), Mele A, Mehari W, Rosmini F, Stazi MA, Damen HM, Miuccio G, 
Ferrigno L, Miozzo A, Basile G, et al.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio di Epidemiologia e Biostatistica, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, 
Rome, Italy.

The preceding birth technique, an indirect method for estimating early childhood 
mortality based on ascertaining the survival of previous children, was applied 
in rural Ethiopia within a system of demographic surveillance. Trained community 
health workers acted as interviewers and transmission flow of the routine health 
information system was used for data reporting. Data were collected for a median 
12 month period from 39 sampled villages of Ticho district in Arsi region. From 
1064 mothers having at least a second birth, the proportion dead of the last 
birth was 0.138 (95% CI 0.117-0.150), corresponding approximately to the 
probability of dying between birth and age two. It approximates to an infant 
mortality rate of about 100 x 1000 live-births. From 974 mothers having at least 
a higher-order birth, the proportion dead of the second to last birth was 0.203 
(95% CI 0.178-0.228), equivalent to the risk of dying between 0 and age 5. In 
spite of the progressive migration of the surveyed population, the process and 
the outcome of the study suggest that PBT may well be inserted into a primary 
health care information system run by trained community health workers.

PIP: The preceding birth technique, an indirect method for estimating early 
childhood mortality based on ascertaining the survival of previous children, was 
applied in rural Ethiopia within a system of demographic surveillance. Trained 
community health workers acted as interviewers and transmission flow of the 
routine health information system was used for data reporting. Data were 
collected for a median 12-month period from 39 sampled villages of Ticho 
district in Arsi region. From 1064 mothers having at least a second birth, the 
proportion dead of the last birth was 0.138 (95% CI 0.117-0.150), corresponding 
approximately to the probability of dying between birth and age two. It 
approximates to an infant mortality rate of about 100 per 1000 live births. From 
974 mothers having at least a higher-order birth, the proportion dead of the 
second to last birth was 0.203 (95% CI 0.178-0.228), equivalent to the risk of 
dying between age 0 and age 5. In spite of the progressive migration of the 
surveyed population, the process and the outcome of the study suggest that PBT 
may well be inserted into a primary health care information system run by 
trained community health workers.

PMID: 8172467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 1994;6(1):7-10. doi:
10.1016/s0936-6555(05)80361-9.

Pattern of disease in spinal cord compression on MRI scan and implications for 
treatment.

Pigott KH(1), Baddeley H, Maher EJ.

Author information:
(1)Mount Vernon Hospital, Northwood, Middlesex, UK.

Recent trends in the management of bone metastases include the use of 
prophylactic bisphosphonates and low dose single fraction radiotherapy in favour 
of high dose fractionated radiotherapy. A recent animal model [1] suggests that 
cord compression is often associated with predominant soft tissue epidural 
disease, with bone collapse as a late event. In the present study, potential 
implications were investigated by retrospective evaluation of the pattern of 
disease on MRI scans of patients with spinal cord compression. The dominant 
component of spinal cord compression was determined in 62 patients. Two main 
patterns were identified, 45 (73%) had predominant soft tissue epidural disease 
and 15 (24%) had bone collapse. There were two with intrathecal deposits. The 
patterns were correlated with response to radiotherapy. Positive response was 
observed in 64% of those with soft tissue epidural disease and 27% of those with 
bone collapse. These data support the animal model, suggesting soft tissue 
epidural disease rather than collapse as the predominant cause of cord 
compression. This implies that prophylactic bisphosphonates alone would be 
unlikely to reduce the incidence of spinal cord compression. It also introduces 
concern about the long term safety of low dose single fraction radiotherapy for 
bone metastases in patients with a medium term life expectancy (e.g. > 2 years). 
These patients may benefit from more than a single fraction of radiotherapy to 
produce longer growth delay for sub-clinical epidural disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0936-6555(05)80361-9
PMID: 8172840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1993 Nov;28(2):179-93. doi: 10.1007/BF00666430.

Breast cancer prevention through modulation of endogenous hormones.

Spicer DV(1), Pike MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Southern California School of Medicine.

The use of exogenous sex-steroids for hormonal contraception is important to the 
way of life of many modern women. The widespread use of hormonal contraceptives 
represents a unique opportunity to have a substantial positive impact on women's 
health. The observation that users of oral combination type contraceptives have 
a reduced risk of ovarian cancer should encourage the extension of contraceptive 
development to address the most important malignancy facing modern women, breast 
cancer. Epidemiological evidence strongly suggests that both estrogens and 
progestogens contribute to breast cancer risk, and account for the steep rise in 
risk seen during the premenopausal years. Studies of normal breast epithelial 
cell proliferation confirm that progestogens are breast mitogens, and explain 
why current contraceptives, which are progestogen dominant, do not prevent 
breast cancer. A long-acting depot contraceptive can be developed which 
releases: 1) an agonist of gonadotropin releasing hormone to suppress ovarian 
function; and 2) sex-steroids at doses below those in current contraceptives, 
and below those associated with ovulation. Such a contraceptive should provide 
substantial life-time protection against both breast and ovarian cancer, and 
would retain many of the other health benefits of current contraceptives.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00666430
PMID: 8173070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Gesundheitswesen. 1994 Mar;56(3):137-42.

[Extension of toxicologic evaluation standards in environmental medicine 
exemplified by use of bovine somatotropin (BST) in food production--an 
interdisciplinary study].

[Article in German]

Dunkelberg H(1), Grätzel S.

Author information:
(1)Hygiene-Institut, Philospophisches Seminar, Universität Mainz.

In food hygiene, the substances used are evaluated exclusively according to 
toxicological criteria. As a result of the increasing possibilities of 
intervention, e.g., by means of hormonal control of life processes, the question 
is raised as to whether the relationship in health--that of the human being to 
his environment--may also be affected by the use of substances in a manner other 
than toxicological. In the case of bovine somatotropin (BST) it is shown that 
external hormonal control intervenes in the organism's own regulation and 
correspondingly limits the capability of experiencing nonhuman subjectivity. The 
resulting health consequences are discussed on the basis of a semiotics of the 
environment which allocates a sign background to the toxicological process.
