
PMID: 8173203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. BMJ. 1994 Apr 30;308(6937):1153-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.308.6937.1153.

Health and social inequality in Europe.

Power C(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Child Health, London.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1994 Jul 2;309(6946):57.

In most European countries health has been shown to be linked to social 
circumstances--gradients in health status have persisted for decades, despite 
major changes in the principal causes of death. In central and eastern Europe 
life expectancy has stagnated since the mid-60s, whereas in the West it has 
increased; but even in the West it is related to income distribution. Social 
differences in mortality in men are three times as large in some countries as in 
others, and are influenced by factors other than conventional risk factors. 
Substantial declines in mortality and morbidity could result from a narrowing of 
health inequalities even when differences in health risk between social groups 
are comparatively small. Policies to reduce health inequalities can be 
introduced in smaller communities and organisations such as the school and 
workplace. National policies are variable; factors generating inequalities 
require action across several policy areas.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.308.6937.1153
PMCID: PMC2540160
PMID: 8173460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Clin Otolaryngol Allied Sci. 1994 Feb;19(1):63-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2273.1994.tb01150.x.

The level of cervical lymph node metastases: their prognostic relevance and 
relationship with head and neck squamous carcinoma primary sites.

Jones AS(1), Roland NJ, Field JK, Phillips DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Royal Liverpool Hospital, UK.

It would seem logical that patients with nodal metastases low in the neck would 
fare less well than patients with disease high in the neck. The penultimate UICC 
classification suggested that neck node level was important although there was 
no mention of this in the most recent classification. In addition, patients with 
carcinomas at the various sites would be expected to have different patterns of 
nodal involvement. Of 3419 patients with head and neck squamous carcinoma on the 
Liverpool University Head and Neck Unit database, 947 had neck node metastases. 
The neck node levels were coded as (I) sub-mandibular, (II) above the thyroid 
notch, (III) below the thyroid notch and (IV) supra-clavicular/posterior 
triangle nodes. Levels II and III contained the deep jugular chain. The 
relationship between node level and site and sub-site and survival were analysed 
with particular emphasis on multivariate methods. The 5-year survival for the 
whole group was 51% and survival fell with decreasing node level (I-IV) being 
37% for sub-mandibular nodes, 32% for deep cervical nodes and 25% for lower deep 
cervical nodes. The 18-month survival for supra-clavicular and posterior 
triangle nodes was 21%. The difference in survival was significant (chi 2(3) = 
24.42, P < 0.001). Multivariate analysis confirmed that as the level of the 
nodes fell from the sub-mandibular region to the supra-clavicular region the 
prognosis worsened (estimate = -0.3378, P = 0.0003). Level II (upper deep 
cervical) nodes were the most commonly involved with regards to all primary 
sites and formed 69% of all neck node metastases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2273.1994.tb01150.x
PMID: 8174305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Diabetologia. 1994 Mar;37(3):321-7. doi: 10.1007/BF00398061.

Long-term risk of IDDM in first-degree relatives of patients with IDDM.

Lorenzen T(1), Pociot F, Hougaard P, Nerup J.

Author information:
(1)Steno Diabetes Center, Gentofte, Denmark.

Due to a short observation period previous studies may have underestimated 
prevalence and recurrence risk of IDDM in relatives of IDDM patients. To obtain 
a more exact life-time risk estimate we identified 310 probands, representative 
of Danish IDDM patients, characterized by current age more than 50 years, age at 
onset 40 years or less and diabetes duration of more than 30 years. Family data 
were obtained from 291 probands. Mean "observation" times (age) (+/- SD) for 
siblings (n = 553) and offspring (n = 359) were 59.4 +/- 16.1 years and 33.8 +/- 
8.8 years, respectively. Of the probands 73 (25.1%) had at least one 
first-degree relative with IDDM. Seventeen percent had at least one affected 
sibling. An increase from 10.4% to 22.4% of having first-degree relatives with 
IDDM among probands with age at onset below 20 years was observed during the 
period from proband at age 21 years up to 1 September 1992. Among affected 
siblings 48% of the second cases were affected more than 10 years after the 
first affected sibling. Using the life-table method cumulative recurrence risks 
from time of birth were calculated for siblings up to age 30 years of 6.4% and 
up to age 60 years of 9.6%. For offspring the risk up to age 34 years was 6.3%. 
In addition, we present a life-table method evaluating the cumulative recurrence 
risk from time of onset in the proband, as this is the most relevant when giving 
genetic counselling. In conclusion, the long-term risks of IDDM in siblings and 
offspring are high compared to that shown in previous reports.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00398061
PMID: 8174848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Geriatrics. 1994 May;49(5):11-2.

Why can't men be more like women?

Butler RN.

PMID: 8174936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Gut. 1993 Aug;34(8):1042-6. doi: 10.1136/gut.34.8.1042.

Acid, motility, and ulcers: a comparison of cisapride with placebo in the 
prevention of duodenal ulcer relapse.

Kerrigan DD(1), Taylor ME, Read NW, Johnson AG.

Author information:
(1)University Surgical Unit, Royal Hallamshire Hospital, Sheffield.

In a single centre double blind study of 66 patients, the value of cisapride (10 
mg twice daily) was compared with placebo in the prevention of duodenal ulcer 
relapse. Patients who remained ulcer free attended for clinical review every two 
months and had a mandatory endoscopy at 0, 4, 8, and 12 months or if symptoms 
suggestive of ulcer recurrence developed. The 12 month crude relapse rates (that 
underestimate the probability of ulcer recurrence) showed that cisapride was 
superior to placebo (34% (11/32) relapsed on cisapride v 68% (23/34) on placebo, 
p = 0.007). This finding was confirmed using lifetable analysis, with a 35% 
reduction (95% confidence intervals 10-59%, p < 0.05) in the proportion of ulcer 
relapses in patients who had received cisapride compared with those treated with 
placebo. These results are similar to those reported in maintenance trials of H2 
receptor antagonists analysed by the same method. Drug related adverse clinical 
events were mainly trivial, but led to three patients on cisapride and one on 
placebo withdrawing from the trial.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.34.8.1042
PMCID: PMC1374350
PMID: 8174950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Fortschr Med. 1994 Mar 10;112(7):87-91.

[Adjuvant corticoid administration within the scope of HIV disease. Indications 
in wasting syndrome and other diseases within the scope of AIDS].

[Article in German]

J채ger H(1).

Author information:
(1)KIS-Kuratorium f체r Immunschw채che, M체nchen.

While at the start of the AIDS epidemic, corticosteroids were considered to be 
contraindicated, about 10 indications have since been identified for the 
specific use of glucocorticoids in HIV infection. Some of these indications have 
already been confirmed in controlled scientific studies, for example, 
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia or HIV-induced high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. 
In the case of other indications, for example, cerebral toxoplasmosis or certain 
forms of the wasting syndrome, clinical observational studies and, in 
particular, empirical data provided by large groups working on AIDS, are 
available. The use of corticoids for such other indications as pulmonary 
involvement in the case of Kaposi's sarcoma, or thrombopenia in HIV patients, is 
still experimental. To date, the initially feared high rate of side effects due 
to the theoretically possible impairment of immunological function, has not been 
observed. The effect of the corticosteroids appears to be concentrated more in 
their anti-inflammatory action than in substitution in the event of adrenal 
insufficiency. The carefully considered and selective use of corticosteroids can 
both improve the quality of life and lengthen the life expectancy of many HIV 
victims.

PMID: 8175098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Hepatology. 1994 May;19(5):1241-4.

The immunostimulant OK-432 enhances liver regeneration after 90% hepatectomy in 
rats.

Kato K(1), Matsuda M, Kusano M, Onodera K, Kato J, Kasai S, Mito M, Hodgson WJ.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, Asahikawa Medical College, Japan.

The effect of reticuloendothelial system activation on liver regeneration after 
90% hepatectomy was investigated. OK-432, a killed streptococcal preparation 
that increases reticuloendothelial system activity, was administered to rats 
before 90% partial hepatectomy. Pretreated rats showed marked improvement in 
long-term survival: 87% (18 of 23) survived beyond 42 hr, compared with only 
44.2% (24 of 52) of controls (p < 0.05). Survival was determined by means of 
life-table analysis and regeneration response by means of bromodeoxyuridine 
labeling index of hepatic DNA. OK-432 pretreatment had significantly increased 
bromodeoxyuridine labeling index 18, 24, and 42 hr after partial hepatectomy (p 
< 0.05). The results indicate that reticuloendothelial system activation by 
OK-432 before 90% partial hepatectomy enhances liver regeneration and improves 
survival, but these factors may not be related. The improved survival may be 
because of less infection in macrophage-stimulated animals or more rapid 
clearance of hypotension-causing vasoactive compounds.

PMID: 8175147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Int Surg. 1993 Oct-Dec;78(4):332-7.

Combined iliac transluminal angioplasty and femoropopliteal reconstruction for 
multilevel arterial occlusive disease.

Bull PG(1), Schlegl A, Mendel H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Wilhelminenspital, Vienna, Austria.

Patients with multilevel arterial disease represent a challenging problem. A 
retrospective review of 46 consecutive femoropopliteal reconstructions combined 
with iliac balloon angioplasty was performed. Twenty-five procedures were 
below-knee and 21 to the above-knee popliteal artery segment. Mean follow-up was 
26.8 months (range 4 to 84). There were 2 peroperative deaths and 3 serious 
complications (10.9%). In the late follow-up 4 significant restenoses and 1 
reocclusion occurred for a patency rate of 81% for the inflow procedure at 5 
years. Primary and secondary patency rate of combined procedures at 5 years was 
61% and 76% respectively. The 5-year limb salvage rate was 93%. The mortality 
rate, morbidity rate and cumulative patency were not significantly different 
from a group of 38 patients who underwent 43 aortofemoral bypasses combined with 
femoropopliteal revascularization. In the latter group, the frequent incidence 
of anastomotic aneurysm (9.2%) was the main detrimental factor observed at 
follow-up. The authors conclude that femoropopliteal reconstruction combined 
with iliac angioplasty is effective for managing patients with multilevel 
disease. The possibility of intraoperative digital subtraction angioplasty and 
the use of no-profile co-axial balloon catheter design in the latter years of 
this study has improved our results.

PMID: 8175263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1994 May;78(5):1268-70. doi:
10.1210/jcem.78.5.8175989.

Parathyroid hormone-related protein and life expectancy in hypercalcemic cancer 
patients.

Pecherstorfer M(1), Schilling T, Blind E, Zimmer-Roth I, Baumgartner G, Ziegler 
R, Raue F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Lainz Hospital, Vienna, Austria.

We determined the effect of raised serum levels of midregional (53-84) 
parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) on life expectancy in 59 cancer 
patients with first presentation of hypercalcemia. The patients were stratified 
according to the serum PTHrP levels measured on day 0 after fluid repletion 
prior to bisphosphonate therapy. Twenty-nine patients were assigned to group N 
(PTHrP < or = 21 pmol/L) and 30 to group E (PTHrP > 21 pmol/L). Breast cancers 
were more common in group N, squamous cell cancers predominated in group E (p < 
0.02). More patients with normal PTHrP had skeletal metastases, whereas group E 
was characterized by a higher incidence of prognostically unfavorable visceral 
involvement (p < 0.001). Bisphosphonates (pamidronate or BM.210955) were 
administered on day 0. Within one week, normocalcemia (serum calcium < or = 2.6 
mmol/L) was restored in 96% of patients in group N, compared to 70% of patients 
in group E (p < 0.01). On day 12, 7 patients with elevated PTHrP were still 
hypercalcemic. Although a comparable number of patients in the two groups 
received cytostatic treatment after day 12, objective tumor responses were seen 
only in group N (n = 6; p < 0.05). Calculated from the first occurrence of 
hypercalcemia, the median survival was 66 days in group N and 33 days in group E 
(log-rank test: p = 0.0456; Wilcoxon-Breslow test: p = 0.0475). We conclude that 
in hypercalcemia of malignancy raised serum levels of PTHrP indicate a reduced 
hypocalcemic response to bisphosphonates, a more advanced tumor state and, 
therefore, an extremely poor prognosis.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.78.5.8175989
PMID: 8175989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. J Surg Oncol. 1994 May;56(1):2-6. doi: 10.1002/jso.2930560103.

Surgery after radiochemotherapy for stage III lung cancer: postoperative 
complications and late results.

Tavecchio L(1), Ravasi G, Bedini AV, Gramaglia A, Milani F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgical Oncology, National Cancer Institute, Milan, 
Italy.

Fifty-seven stage III lung cancer patients underwent radiochemotherapy and 
subsequent surgery. Forty radical (R-), six non-radical, and eleven exploratory 
operations were performed. Pneumonia (five cases), pulmonary insufficiency (one 
case), bronchial fistula (one case) were the major non-fatal complications. Four 
deaths due to adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) or pulmonary embolism 
occurred. Sixty percent of the 10 patients who had no viable tumor at operation 
survived 3 years, as well as 41% of those who achieved a complete remission by 
resection and 11% of those with residual disease (R+) after operation. However, 
the 1- and 2-year survival rates were similar. The main pattern of failure in R- 
and R+ patients was extra- and intra-RT-field progression, respectively. A 
slightly higher rate of postoperative complications, with respect to current 
practice, was observed. However, data lead to argument on the improvement of 
locoregional control and long-term survival following radical surgery.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.2930560103
PMID: 8176936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1994 May;107(5):1323-32; discussion 1332-3.

The natural history of thoracic aortic aneurysms.

Dapunt OE(1), Galla JD, Sadeghi AM, Lansman SL, Mezrow CK, de Asla RA, Quintana 
C, Wallenstein S, Ergin AM, Griepp RB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York, 
N.Y. 10029-6574.

Because improved understanding of the natural history of thoracic aneurysms 
would enhance our ability to determine in which cases the risk of surgical 
treatment is justified, the rate of enlargement of thoracic aneurysms and 
thoracoabdominal aneurysms was studied in 67 patients by means of serial 
computer-generated three-dimensional reconstructions of computed tomographic 
scans. Patients were followed for a mean of 1.5 +/- 0.15 years (0.2 to 5.35 
years) with an average interval between examinations of 0.9 +/- 0.1 year (0.2 to 
5.0 years). Thirty-nine patients continue to be followed; 7 were lost to 
follow-up; 14 died during follow-up (4 after aneurysm rupture), and 10 underwent 
an operation. Indications for operation included the presence of pain, an 
absolute aortic diameter larger than 8 cm, an increase in aortic diameter of 
more than 1 cm per year, or marked irregularity of aneurysm contour. Aortic 
diameter and volume data were generated from the aortic silhouette obtained by 
tracing each computed tomographic slice with a translucent digitizing tablet. 
Estimated change in aortic diameter after 1 year was 0.43 cm; estimated change 
in aortic volume was 88.1 ml. The impact of possible risk factors on the 
enlargement of aneurysms was examined by analysis of variance (p < 0.05). A 
significantly higher rate of aneurysm expansion was found in patients with a 
larger aortic diameter (> 5 cm) at diagnosis (change in diameter = 0.17 cm 
versus 0.79 cm; change in volume = 40 ml versus 141.8 ml), and in smokers 
(change in diameter = 0.35 cm versus 0.70 cm; change in volume = 78.3 ml versus 
120.8 ml). Changes in diameter and volume for aneurysms of different initial 
diameters and volumes was predicted by exponential regression by the equations: 
change in diameter = 0.0167 (initial aortic diameter)2.1; change in volume = 
0.0356 (initial aortic volume)1.322. No correlation was noted between the rate 
of enlargement and age, sex, or the presence of dissection. A history of 
hypertension correlated with a greater aortic diameter at diagnosis but did not 
significantly affect the rate of enlargement.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8176976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1994 May;107(5):1346-54; discussion 1354-5.

Donor shortage in heart transplantation. Is extension of donor age limits 
justified?

Livi U(1), Bortolotti U, Luciani GB, Boffa GM, Milano A, Thiene G, Casarotto D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, University of Padova Medical School, 
Italy.

Chronic shortage of donor organs for heart transplantation led us to extend 
donor age limits. To verify the effectiveness of such a policy we have compared 
the results of heart transplantation in 45 patients with donors more than 40 
years of age (group 1) with those of 72 patients older than 50 years of age who 
had heart transplantation with younger donors (group 2) between November 1985 
and December 1992. The two groups were comparable in terms of mean recipient 
age, recipient and donor sex, and indication for heart transplantation. Mean 
donor age was 46 +/- 4 years (range 41 to 59 years) in group 1 and 23 +/- 7 
years (range 8 to 39 years) in group 2 (p < 0.001). In group 1 cerebrovascular 
accidents were more common as the cause of donor death (60% versus 16%, p = 
0.001), and no difference was found in ischemic time (144 +/- 47 minutes versus 
140 +/- 48 minutes, p = not significant). There were 6 early (< 30 days) deaths 
in group 1 (13%) and 10 in group 2 (14%; p = not significant). Fatal acute graft 
failure was more prevalent, but not significantly so, in group 1 (10% versus 
5.5%, p = not significant). Mean follow-up was 29 +/- 20 months (range 3 to 78 
months) in group 1 and 30 +/- 20 months (range 3 to 80 months) in group 2 (p = 
not significant). At 5 years actuarial survival was 80% +/- 6% in both groups 
with comparable graft performance at echocardiographic and hemodynamic control 
studies. A significant difference was found in freedom from any type of coronary 
artery abnormality between group 1 (49% +/- 13%) and group 2 (77% +/- 8%) at 5 
years (p < 0.05); however, freedom from coronary stenotic lesions only was 
similar. Major conduction disturbances have occurred more frequently in patients 
of group 1 (37% versus 12%; p = 0.003) without any difference in the need for 
permanent pacing. Donors older than 40 years of age can be accepted for heart 
transplantation with early and long-term results comparable with those obtained 
with younger donors. The impact of a higher incidence of coronary abnormalities 
on late performance of older grafts must be assessed at longer follow-up. Our 
results indicate that, because of the current organ shortage, extension of donor 
age limits is justified, even up to the sixth decade of life in selected cases.

PMID: 8176979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Am J Clin Pathol. 1994 May;101(5):625-9. doi: 10.1093/ajcp/101.5.625.

Correlation of pathologic features with clinical outcome in pediatric 
adrenocortical neoplasia. A study of a Brazilian population. Brazilian Group for 
Treatment of Childhood Adrenocortical Tumors.

Bugg MF(1), Ribeiro RC, Roberson PK, Lloyd RV, Sandrini R, Silva JB, Epelman S, 
Shapiro DN, Parham DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Tennessee, Memphis.

Comment in
    Am J Clin Pathol. 1994 May;101(5):557-8.

Although the relationship between pathologic features and clinical outcome is 
well established in adult adrenocortical neoplasms, the prognostic value of 
these features in pediatric adrenocortical neoplasms (PACN) is unclear. In a 
series of PACNs from 54 Brazilian children, the authors retrospectively 
investigated the prognostic value of histologic classification, ploidy, 
proliferative index, and size (as tumor weight or greater diameter). Histologic 
classification was most predictive of clinical behavior: there were no failures 
in 11 adenomas, 5 failures in 27 low-grade carcinomas, and 9 failures in 16 
high-grade carcinomas (P = .0003). Tumor weight was predictive of failure in 
tumors weighing > or = 100 versus < 100 g (P = .04), and a trend was found 
toward failure among tumors measuring > or = 5 cm, as opposed to those < 5 cm (P 
= .07). Proliferative index was marginally related to failure (P = .05 at < 11% 
vs. > or = 11% and .07 at < 10% vs. > or = 10%), and ploidy was not 
significantly predictive of outcome (P = .25). Histologic type and tumor weight 
were the most reliable predictors of outcome in PACN.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcp/101.5.625
PMID: 8178770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Am J Public Health. 1994 May;84(5):865-7. doi: 10.2105/ajph.84.5.865-a.

The term "years of healthy life"; misunderstood, defended, and challenged. A 
measure that can capture gradations in health states.

McGinnis JM.

Comment on
    Am J Public Health. 1993 Jun;83(6):797-8.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.84.5.865-a
PMCID: PMC1615034
PMID: 8179066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Am J Public Health. 1994 May;84(5):865, 866-7. doi: 10.2105/ajph.84.5.865.

The term "years of healthy life": misunderstood, defended, and challenged. A 
shorthand term for policymakers.

Stoto MA.

Comment on
    Am J Public Health. 1993 Jun;83(6):797-8.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.84.5.865
PMCID: PMC1615030
PMID: 8179067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Am J Public Health. 1994 May;84(5):866-7. doi: 10.2105/ajph.84.5.866.

The term "years of healthy life": misunderstood, defended, and challenged. A 
short term for "quality-adjusted life years".

Erickson P, Wilson RW.

Comment on
    Am J Public Health. 1993 Jun;83(6):797-8.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.84.5.866
PMCID: PMC1615058
PMID: 8179068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Ann Neurol. 1994 May;35(5):608-15. doi: 10.1002/ana.410350515.

Hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy with diaphragm and vocal cord paresis.

Dyck PJ(1), Litchy WJ, Minnerath S, Bird TD, Chance PF, Schaid DJ, Aronson AE.

Author information:
(1)Peripheral Neuropathy Research Center, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905.

We describe two kindreds with an autosomal dominant inherited disorder 
characterized by a variable degree of muscle weakness of limbs, vocal cords, and 
intercostal muscles and by asymptomatic sensory loss, beginning in infancy or 
childhood in severely affected persons. Life expectancy in severely affected 
patients is shortened because of respiratory failure. Because nerve conduction 
velocities are normal and it is an inherited axonal neuropathy, we classify the 
disorder as a variety of hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type II (HMSN 
II) (HMSN IIc). The present report provides further evidence for heterogeneity 
among the hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type II disorders. In one 
large pedigree with the type IIc disorder, no linkage to DNA markers known to 
map near the HMSN IA locus on chromosome 17p or the HMSN IB locus on chromosome 
1q was demonstrated.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410350515
PMID: 8179305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Arch Intern Med. 1994 May 9;154(9):975-80.

Outcome of 51 patients with roentgenographically occult lung cancer detected by 
sputum cytologic testing: a community hospital program.

Bechtel JJ(1), Kelley WR, Petty TL, Patz DS, Saccomanno G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, St Mary's Hospital and Medical Center, Grand 
Junction, CO.

Erratum in
    Arch Intern Med 1994 Jul 25;154(14):1582.

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 1994 May 9;154(9):945.

BACKGROUND: Lung cancer is the most common fatal malignant neoplasm of both men 
and women. It is usually caused by tobacco smoke. However, at present there is 
no systematic approach to early diagnosis. The diagnosis of lung cancer is 
usually made by standard chest roentgenograms and biopsy by bronchoscopy or 
surgery. Survival rates at 5 years have remained 10% to 15% for the past 30 
years with this conventional approach to diagnosis.
METHODS: Fifty-one men and women, aged 46 to 81 years (mean age, 64.2 years), 
with roentgenographically occult cancer were identified in one community 
hospital by means of sputum cytologic testing. Cancers were diagnosed by means 
of one or more standard light fiberoptic bronchoscopic procedures with biopsies.
RESULTS: Forty-four squamous cell carcinomas, three adenocarcinomas, two 
large-cell carcinomas, and two undifferentiated carcinomas were found. 
Forty-five (86%) were stage 0 or 1. Surgical cure was attempted in 27 patients, 
and there were three actuarial cancer deaths at 5 years and a total of nine 
deaths. Additionally, 19 patients received attempts at curative radiation 
therapy for various reasons, which were usually poor pulmonary or cardiac 
function or advanced age. Of both the 27 patients who underwent surgery and the 
19 who were treated with radiation therapy (total, 46), the actuarial results by 
the life-table method included nine lung cancer deaths in 5 years and 21 deaths 
from all causes, giving an actuarial survival, including deaths from all causes, 
of 55%.
CONCLUSION: Roentgenographically occult lung cancer can be found by sputum 
cytologic testing followed by fiberoptic bronchoscopy and biopsy at a time when 
cure is more likely than when it is diagnosed by conventional roentgenographic 
techniques (ie, 55% survival vs 10% to 15% survival). Sputum cytologic testing 
should be used as a case-finding tool, particularly in heavy smokers and those 
with occupational risks. This diagnostic approach to earlier diagnosis and 
intervention can be successful in a small community hospital.

PMID: 8179454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1994 May;51(5):405-10. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1994.03950050065007.

The time course of nonchronic major depressive disorder. Uniformity across 
episodes and samples. National Institute of Mental Health Collaborative Program 
on the Psychobiology of Depression--Clinical Studies.

Coryell W(1), Akiskal HS, Leon AC, Winokur G, Maser JD, Mueller TI, Keller MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City.

BACKGROUND: Most natural history studies of affective disorders have emphasized 
the prediction of eventual recovery. Little is known of changes over time in the 
immediate probability of recovery.
METHODS: To identify regularities in the timing of recovery from nonbipolar 
major depressive disorders, we considered only episodes that began during 
follow-up to increase the accuracy with which onsets were timed and to limit the 
study sample to individuals who had a demonstrably episodic course. Five 
participating centers conducted baseline assessments and followed probands (N = 
605) and nonclinical subjects (relatives, controls, and spouses, N = 826) up for 
6 years. During that time, 359 probands had at least one prospectively observed 
episode, and 181 had two episodes; corresponding numbers for the nonclinical 
subjects were 216 and 78, respectively. Our analyses considered the distribution 
of episode lengths across ascertainment source (probands vs nonclinical 
subjects), center, and episode number (first vs second prospectively observed 
episode).
RESULTS: Distribution was remarkably uniform. Regardless of ascertainment 
source, center, or episode number, recovery occurred within 3 months in 40% of 
episodes, within 6 months in 60%, and within 1 year in 80%; 20% had more 
protracted courses.
CONCLUSIONS: Once triggered, the immediate likelihood of recovery changes over 
time in a predictable fashion. This has practical implications for the study of 
antidepressant efficacy and theoretical implications for factors involved in 
affective dysregulation.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1994.03950050065007
PMID: 8179464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Semin Vasc Surg. 1994 Mar;7(1):35-44.

The role of extraanatomic bypass in the management of bilateral aortoiliac 
occlusive disease.

Schneider JR(1), Golan JF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Northwestern University Medical School, 
Chicago, IL.

Axillofemoral bypass is a hemodynamically inferior reconstruction that should be 
performed only in high-risk patients. In view of the apparent inferior patency 
and hemodynamic performance when compared with aortofemoral bypass, 
axillofemoral bypass should not be performed for claudication except in truly 
disabled, low-risk patients whose contraindication to aortofemoral bypass is a 
"hostile abdomen." Some of these patients might be candidates for 
extraperitoneal iliofemoral bypass, thoracofemoral bypass, or other procedures 
that would probably provide hemodynamically superior results. Axillofemoral 
bypass produces acceptable hemodynamic results, patency, and limb salvage in 
high-risk patients with limb-threatening ischemia and limited life-expectancy. 
Despite overall inferior results, relief of initial symptoms is nearly always 
achieved and few patients require amputation before death. Axillofemoral bypass 
will remain an important option in such patients. In general, we continue to 
favor axillobifemoral reconstructions when symptoms are significantly bilateral. 
However, we do not hesitate to perform axillounifemoral bypass when symptoms and 
disease are unilateral and alternative unilateral inflow operations are not 
appropriate. Outcome of operations is clearly influenced by patient selection, 
and this must be considered when interpreting published results. It is likely 
that axillofemoral bypass will continue to be a critical tool for vascular 
surgeons faced with desperately ill patients at risk of limb loss due to 
bilateral aortoiliac inflow disease. As the operative risk of aortofemoral and 
iliofemoral bypass continues to decrease, the admonition that a significant 
number of long-term survivors should prompt the surgeon to ask whether she or he 
is performing axillofemoral bypass when another procedure might be more 
appropriate is probably more true today than when DeLaurentis et al first made 
the following statement: If indeed this operation is designed for poor risk 
cardiopulmonary patients threatened with loss of limb and a short life 
expectancy rate, we should not expect to see reports of patients with long term 
survival rates.

PMID: 8180754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Eur J Vasc Surg. 1994 Mar;8(2):148-55. doi: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80450-5.

Subintimal angioplasty of femoropopliteal artery occlusions: the long-term 
results.

London NJ(1), Srinivasan R, Naylor AR, Hartshorne T, Ratliff DA, Bell PR, Bolia 
A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Leicester Royal Infirmary.

Republished in
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2011 Sep;42 Suppl 1:S9-15.

The technique of subintimal angioplasty has been attempted on 200 consecutive 
femoropopliteal artery occlusions of median (range) length 11 (2-37) cm. The 
principle of the technique is to traverse the occlusion in the subintimal plane 
and recanalise by inflating the angioplasty balloon within the subintimal space. 
The technical success rate was 159/200 (80%) and was not significantly different 
for occlusions < 10 cm (81%, n = 73), 11-20 cm (83%, n = 63) or > 20 cm (68%, n 
= 23), p = 0.20. There were no deaths nor limb loss resulting from the 
procedure. The median (range) ankle-brachial pressure index increased from 0.61 
(0.21-1.0) preangioplasty to 0.90 (0.26-1.50) postangioplasty. The actuarial 
haemodynamic patencies of technically successful procedures at 12 and 36 months 
were 71% and 58% respectively, the symptomatic patencies were 73% and 61%. A 
multiple regression analysis showed that smoking multiplied the risk of 
reocclusion by 2.70 (p < 0.001), each additional run-off vessel reduced the risk 
by 0.54 (p < 0.001) and the risk increased by 1.73 (p = 0.020) for every 10 cm 
of occlusion length. In conclusion, the technical success rate (80%) of 
subintimal angioplasty for femoropopliteal occlusions is unrelated to occlusion 
length and for all procedures, including technical failures, cumulative 
symptomatic and haemodynamic patencies of 46 and 48% can be achieved at 3 years. 
The factors influencing long-term patency were smoking, the number of calf 
run-off vessels and occlusion length.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80450-5
PMID: 8181606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Eur J Vasc Surg. 1994 Mar;8(2):188-92. doi: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80458-x.

Relative mortality of patients operated for femoropopliteal occlusive disease.

Aune S(1), Trippestad A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway.

The postoperative survival of 410 patients operated for femoropopliteal 
occlusive disease was evaluated retrospectively. Claudicants and patients 
operated for critical ischaemia were separated by age and their relative 
mortality compared. The relative mortality risk based on standard mortality rate 
calculations was estimated by relating observed survival to age and sex adjusted 
expected survival rates. The statistical differences in observed mortality from 
the expected was assessed using the Mantel-Haenszel test, and a 
proportional-hazard test, based on a multiplicative model, was employed to 
compare differences in relative mortality risk. The five-year observed and 
expected survival for all patients was 59 and 78% respectively, indicating a 
doubled risk of mortality. No conspicuous differences were found between males 
and females. Patients operated on for intermittent claudication were 
significantly younger and lived significantly longer than those with critical 
ischaemia. There was, however, no difference in relative mortality risk for the 
two groups. Claudicants younger than 70 years lived longer than the older 
patients, but there was no difference in relative death risk for the two groups. 
Patients operated on for critical ischaemia showed similar mortality for younger 
and older patients but the younger patients had a three to four times higher 
relative risk of mortality compared to the older.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80458-x
PMID: 8181614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1993;8(6):617-21.

The use of IMZ osseointegrated implants in partially and completely edentulous 
patients: success and failure rates of 2,023 implant cylinders up to 60+ months 
in function.

Fugazzotto PA(1), Gulbransen HJ, Wheeler SL, Lindsay JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Reconstructive Dentistry, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, Ohio.

A total of 974 patients were treated with 2,023 IMZ implants. A variety of 
prosthodontic designs were utilized. These included replacement of single teeth, 
use as pier abutments, and for totally implant-supported prostheses. The 
implants were followed in function for 6 to 60+ months. Absolute success rates 
were 96.4% and 98.4% in the maxilla and mandible, respectively. Cumulative 
success rates at the end of the study were 92.9% and 95.8% in the maxilla and 
mandible, respectively. The use of an intramobile element is also discussed.

PMID: 8181823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1993;8(6):635-40.

Oral implant treatment in posterior partially edentulous jaws: a 5-year 
follow-up report.

Jemt T(1), Lekholm U.

Author information:
(1)Br책nemark Clinic, Faculty of Odontology, University of Goteborg, Sweden.

Sixty-seven partially edentulous patients with Applegate-Kennedy Class I or II 
situations were consecutively treated with freestanding implant-supported 
prostheses and followed up for 5 years. A total of 70 jaws were provided with 94 
prostheses supported by 259 implants. During the report period, seven patients 
were lost to follow-up. Seven implants were found to be loose and were 
subsequently removed, which did not influence prosthesis stability. Thus, the 
overall cumulative survival rate was 97.2% and 100% for implants and prostheses, 
respectively. On average, 0.8 mm of marginal bone was lost around implants in 
maxillae, as compared to 0.6 mm in mandibles. The major clinical problem was 
related to fatigue fractures of the resin veneer material. Loose gold alloy 
screws were also observed.

PMID: 8181825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Health Phys. 1994 Jun;66(6):615-20. doi: 10.1097/00004032-199406000-00001.

The influence of life table corrections for smokers and nonsmokers on the health 
effects of radon using the BEIR (biological effects of ioniziing radiation) IV 
method.

Maillie HD(1), Simon W, Greenspan BS, Watts RJ, Quinn BR.

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester, Department of Biophysics, NY 14642.

The BEIR IV report gives graphs and tables that are used to estimate the risks 
due to radon (222Rn) and its decay products. The BEIR IV hypothesis predicts 
that the lifetime risks will depend upon the "normal" incidence of fatal lung 
cancers for nonsmokers and smokers and the life expectancies of both groups. 
This paper examines the influence of recent information on these health risks. 
The factors considered are a) the life tables for both sexes and for those who 
never smoked, formerly smoked, are currently light smokers, or are currently 
heavy smokers, and b) the age-dependent fatal lung cancer rates for the same 
groups of people. In general, the calculations indicate that people who have 
never smoked would have the same risks as those listed in the BEIR IV report as 
nonsmokers. For males, those who smoke or formerly smoked would have calculated 
risks that are greater than people who never smoked; however, for males, the 
smokers and former smokers considered in this paper have lower calculated risks 
than the BEIR IV smokers. For females, the heavy smokers examined here would 
have greater calculated risks than the BEIR IV smokers. The reasons for these 
differences are presented.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-199406000-00001
PMID: 8181936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Health Phys. 1994 Jun;66(6):621-33. doi: 10.1097/00004032-199406000-00002.

Projecting the lifetime risk of cancer from exposure to diagnostic ionizing 
radiation for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.

Levy AR(1), Goldberg MS, Hanley JA, Mayo NE, Poitras B.

Author information:
(1)Minist챔re de la Sant챕 et des Services sociaux, Government of Quebec, 
Montreal, Canada.

Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) is a disorder characterized by lateral 
curvature of the spine and is the most prevalent orthopedic disorder in this age 
group. The diagnosis and management of AIS requires multiple full-spinal 
radiographs, leading to potentially high doses of ionizing radiation. The 
purpose of this study was to estimate in a cohort of subjects with AIS the 
organ-specific doses of x-ray radiation from spinal radiographs and to calculate 
the lifetime number of cancers attributable to these exposures. The cohort 
consisted of AIS patients referred from 1960 to 1979 to a large pediatric 
hospital in Montreal, Quebec. Organ-specific x-ray doses were estimated using a 
Monte Carlo procedure that accounted for the radiant energy of the x-ray beam. 
Cumulative doses for each subject were obtained by summing the estimated doses 
over all radiographs. These estimates of dose and published estimates of risk 
from the U.S. National Academy of Sciences Fifth Committee on the Biological 
Effects of Ionizing Radiation were then incorporated into a life table procedure 
to project the excess lifetime risk of cancer. About 85% of the 2,181 subjects 
in the cohort were first referred for scoliosis between the ages of 11 and 17 y. 
The mean number of radiographs over an average 3-y follow-up period was 12. 
Organs receiving the highest mean cumulative doses (about 0.03 Gy) were the 
thyroid gland and the female breast. About 10 excess incident cancer cases (out 
of a total of 399 projected) and about four excess deaths (out of a total of 247 
projected) were estimated to occur over the lifetime of the 1,847 women in the 
cohort. This is equivalent to an excess lifetime risk of about 1 to 2% 
(12-25/1,000) among women. Although doses today from spinal radiographs are 
considerably lower than two decades ago, doses and risks can be further reduced 
through the use of the posteroanterior view in place of the more traditional 
anteroposterior view.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-199406000-00002
PMID: 8181937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Mo Med. 1994 Feb;91(2):66-71.

Black-white disparities in health status in Missouri.

Land G(1), Gibson B, Schramm W.

Author information:
(1)Missouri State Center for Health Statistics, Missouri Department of Health.

Historically, the overall health status as measured by life expectancy and 
infant mortality of Black and White Missourians has been significantly 
different. We analyzed birth, death, child death and communicable disease data 
to determine if Blacks have narrowed the gap in health status. The overall 
health status of Black and White Missourians improved over the last two decades. 
However, the gap in health status still remains, and in some cases, has gotten 
worse. This occurred despite the increase in health care financing through 
Medicare and Medicaid. To narrow the gap in health status between Blacks and 
Whites requires addressing prevention and the social problems along with the 
medical problems.

PMID: 8183218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1994 May 27;43(20):375-80.

Quality of life as a new public health measure--Behavioral Risk Factor 
Surveillance System, 1993.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

A fundamental goal of the year 2000 national health objectives is to increase 
the span of healthy life for all persons in the United States. Public health 
programs, improved social conditions, and private medical care have contributed 
to the prolongation of life expectancy of U.S. residents at birth from 47 years 
in 1900 to 75 years in 1989. However, for some persons, increased life 
expectancy includes periods of diminished health and function (i.e., lowered 
health-related quality of life [HR-QOL]). Because population-based surveillance 
of good health has been limited, questions to assess HR-QOL were added to the 
1993 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS). This report summarizes 
the preliminary findings about HR-QOL from the 1993 BRFSS and describes an index 
used to identify population subgroups with high and low HR-QOL.

PMID: 8183229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Nature. 1994 May 19;369(6477):218-21. doi: 10.1038/369218a0.

Chemical self-replication of palindromic duplex DNA.

Li T(1), Nicolaou KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 
92037.

Comment in
    Nature. 1994 May 19;369(6477):184-5.

Molecular replication, a fundamental process of life, has in recent years been 
the subject of laboratory investigations using simple chemical systems. Whereas 
the work of Rebek's group has focused on molecular architectures not known in 
living systems, self-replicating and template-based self-assembling systems 
based on nucleotides are regarded as potential models for exploring the 
evolution of replicating systems on the early Earth. Previous replicating 
oligonucleotides have been of the single-stranded, self-complementary type: 
small oligonucleotide fragments are assembled on a pre-existing template and 
linked to form an exact copy of the template. This process cannot easily be 
reiterated, however, because of the strong binding of the newly formed strand to 
the original template. Furthermore, DNA replication in living systems operates 
by complementarity rather than self-complementarity--each newly assembled strand 
is complementary to, rather than identical to, its template--and the replication 
process starts and finishes with double helices. Here we report the 
self-replication of palindromic (symmetrical) duplex DNA-like oligonucleotides, 
24 monomers long, in the absence of enzymes by means of a cycle that transfers 
information from template to copy and is potentially capable of extension to 
include non-symmetrical sequences, selection and mutation. Replication proceeds 
by a chemical process involving the formation of an intermediate triplex 
structure, and is sequence-selective in the sense that mismatches impair its 
efficiency. These results indicate that DNA-like double-helical molecules can 
replicate without assistance from proteins, a finding that may be relevant both 
to the appearance of replicating systems on the early Earth and to the 
development of new approaches to DNA amplification.

DOI: 10.1038/369218a0
PMID: 8183341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Radiat Res. 1994 May;138(2):252-9.

Neutron-induced tumors in BC3F1 mice: effects of dose fractionation.

Di Majo V(1), Coppola M, Rebessi S, Saran A, Pazzaglia S, Pariset L, Covelli V.

Author information:
(1)ENEA-Casaccia, AMB-EFF Section, Roma, Italy.

An experimental study of the biological effectiveness of multifractionated low 
doses of high-LET radiation was carried out using BC3F1 male mice. They were 
treated with whole-body irradiation with five equal daily fractions of fission 
neutrons to yield cumulative doses of 0.025, 0.05, 0.10, 0.17, 0.25, 0.36, 0.535 
and 0.71 Gy at the RSV-TAPIRO reactor (mean neutron energy 0.4 MeV, in terms of 
kerma, y D = 51.5 keV/microns, dose rate 0.004 Gy/min) and were followed for 
their entire life span. The statistical method described by Peto et al. (IARC 
Monograph, Suppl. 2, 1980) to establish the existence of a carcinogenic effect 
in long-term animal experiments was applied to the data sets. This analysis was 
done for myeloid leukemia and for the presence of selected solid tumors. Myeloid 
leukemia was absent in the control group and was rarely found in irradiated 
animals. However, a positive significant trend was found in the dose ranges 
0-0.17 Gy and higher. Epithelial tumors were induced at doses from 0.17 Gy on. 
Tumor occurrence was evaluated further as final incidences with age adjustment 
for the differences in mortality rates. Survival and incidence data for selected 
classes of tumors after 0.17, 0.36 and 0.71 Gy were compared with those from a 
previous experiment at corresponding doses given acutely (dose rate between 0.05 
and 0.25 Gy/min). This indicated no marked overall influence of the time regimen 
of neutron irradiation on survival and tumor induction.

PMID: 8183995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Soc Sci Med. 1994 Feb;38(4):489-95. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(94)90245-3.

Primary health care in Japan and the United States.

Tsuda T(1), Aoyama H, Froom J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hygiene, Okayama University Medical School, Japan.

Japan has universal health insurance and its total health expenditure as a 
percentage of the gross domestic product is almost 50% less than that of the 
United States where 15% of persons under age 65 are uninsured. The health of the 
Japanese population as judged by neonatal, postnatal, and total infant 
mortality, percent of infants born with birth weights below 2500 g, and life 
expectancy at birth and ages 20 and 65 is superior to the health of Americans. 
Primary care, however, as an academic discipline and primary care training 
programs are absent in Japan. Physician training, incongruent with need, 
combined with government controlled low professional medical fees contribute to 
an extraordinarily high annual ambulatory patient contact rate (14 compared with 
2.8 for Americans) and excessive use of diagnostic testing. Although primary 
care training is better developed in the U.S.A., interest in receiving, such 
training among medical school graduates is declining. Several factors that 
contribute to quality of care are examined. Comparisons between countries, 
however, must be viewed with caution because of the multitude of demographic, 
genetic, historical, economic and cultural variables that influence how health 
care is delivered and received. Both countries face major challenges. The 
projected rapid increase in the relative ratio of the elderly to total 
population in Japan will severely strain its ability to contain health care 
costs. Interest in primary care training in Japan dates back to 1978 but its 
implementation has been largely unsuccessful. The challenges in the U.S.A. are 
far more formidable.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(94)90245-3
PMID: 8184312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1994 Mar 1;19(5):569-77. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-199403000-00013.

Manual therapy with steroid injections--a new approach to treatment of low back 
pain. A controlled multicenter trial with an evaluation by orthopedic surgeons.

Blomberg S(1), Hallin G, Grann K, Berg E, Sennerby U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Uppsala University, Sweden.

Comment in
    Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1994 Oct 15;19(20):2372-3.

Fifty-three acute or subacute patients with low back pain were given 
standardized but optimized activating conventional treatment by primary health 
care teams. Forty-eight patients received an experimental treatment that 
included specific manual treatment, such as manipulation and specific 
mobilization, muscle stretching, auto-traction, and cortisone injections. After 
