4 months, the experimental group had a less restricted range of movement in 
extension, less restricted side-bending to the right and to the left, less local 
pain caused by extension and side-bending to the right, less pain radiating to 
the right leg caused by side-bending to the left, and a less positive straight 
leg raising test (both sides) than the conventionally treated group. Manual 
treatment was superior to the conventional activating treatment in normalizing 
pathologic findings on physical examination of the lower back. These results 
agree with the positive influence on pain, drug consumption, sick-leave, 
disability rating, and quality of life reported in other reports from the same 
study.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-199403000-00013
PMID: 8184352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Acta Chir Belg. 1994 Jan-Feb;94(1):33-5.

The Belgian and European Thyroid Cancer Registry. Belgian Thyroid Cancer Study 
Group.

Andry G(1), Autier P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Institut Jules Bordet, Brussels, Belgium.

Thyroid cancers frequently have a good prognosis, most of the patients are young 
and have a long life expectancy. Several hundreds of cases have to be observed 
over two to five decades before establishing studies of significant actuarial 
survival and determining the initial prognostic factors likely to characterize 
the disease. These elements necessitate the creation of a thyroid cancer 
registry gathering together, from several centres, the data and allowing a 
computerized multifactorial analysis. Each hospital will have the possibility to 
participate, with the help of the Belgian Campaign against Cancer, by means of a 
simple computerized system. Pathologists, endocrinologists, radiologists, 
radioisotope specialists and surgeons will coordinate their efforts to supply 
the necessary data to epidemiologists, statisticians and 
fundamental-researchers. Substantial progress can be expected providing all 
agree to an individual and collective effort which will have beneficial 
repercussions on the quality of patient care and the progress of knowledge. The 
Belgian Thyroid Cancer Study Group will permit our national medicine to meet the 
European requirements in this regard.

PMID: 8184649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Am J Surg. 1994 May;167(5):473-6. doi: 10.1016/0002-9610(94)90237-2.

Thrombolysis versus thrombectomy for occluded hemodyalisis grafts.

Schuman E(1), Quinn S, Standage B, Gross G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Good Samaritan Hospital, Portland, Oregon.

Graft thrombosis is the most frequent complication of polytetrafluoroethylene 
grafts for hemodialysis. Many of these patients arrive at the dialysis unit with 
fluid and metabolic abnormalities that require prompt dialysis. Rapid declotting 
of the graft is important to avoid having to create temporary access. 
Thrombolysis with urokinase has been evaluated by recent retrospective studies 
and found to be successful in 60% to 90% of cases. Our prospective, randomized 
trial was initiated to compare thrombolysis with standard surgical thrombectomy; 
and to evaluate the safety, effectiveness, efficiency, and durability of these 
modalities. In this study, 15 patients underwent thrombolysis and 16 had 
thrombectomy. The success rate was 67% for the thrombolysis group compared with 
94% for the surgical group. Patency rates were similar for both modalities, but 
the complication rates were higher and the time to completion longer with 
thrombolysis. Although both treatments can be used successfully, surgical 
thrombectomy remains the optimal choice for treating occluded dialysis grafts.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9610(94)90237-2
PMID: 8185029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Arch Surg. 1994 May;129(5):483-7; discussion 487-8. doi: 
10.1001/archsurg.1994.01420290029004.

Age does not predict breast cancer outcome.

Crowe JP Jr(1), Gordon NH, Shenk RR, Zollinger RM Jr, Brumberg DJ, Shuck JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, 
Cleveland, Ohio.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether age is a prognostic factor of breast cancer and 
should be used to make treatment recommendations, because younger patients are 
considered to have a poorer prognosis compared with that of older patients and, 
thus, often receive more aggressive therapy.
DESIGN: A large group of patients with operable breast cancer, all of whom were 
followed up prospectively as part of two multicenter trials.
SETTING: Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, was the primary 
hospital and study center, with 12 participating regional institutions.
PATIENTS: All 1353 patients underwent uniform local-regional therapy that 
consisted of a modified radical mastectomy. Patients who were node negative were 
followed up, and patients who were node positive received systemic 
chemoendocrine therapy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Patients were followed up at regular intervals for either 
recurrence or death.
RESULTS: Patients ranged in age from 22 to 75 years with a median age of 56 
years. Younger patients had more estrogen receptor-negative tumors (P < .0001) 
and a greater number of positive lymph nodes (P < .0001). Of the 241 black 
patients in the study, a greater percentage were younger compared with white 
patients (P < .0001). Age was considered in a Cox's multivariate model, together 
with nodes, tumor diameter, estrogen receptor content, and race. Age was not a 
significant predictor of either disease-free (P = .33) or overall (P = .30) 
survival. Using mixture models with covariates, the estimated average hazards 
(where lambda indicates the force of mortality) of breast cancer deaths per year 
were similar (P, not significant) for patients 45 years old or younger (lambda = 
0.061), older than 45 years but 65 years old or younger (lambda = 0.052), and 
older than 65 years (lambda = 0.061).
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, younger patients as a group have more aggressive and 
advanced breast cancer at presentation compared with older patients. Considered 
in a multivariate model, together with other variables, age does not provide 
independent prognostic information and should not be used alone for management 
decisions.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1994.01420290029004
PMID: 8185469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Aust Dent J. 1994 Feb;39(1):15-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1834-7819.1994.tb05539.x.

Longevity of dental restorations in selected patients from different practice 
environments.

Mahmood S(1), Smales RJ.

Author information:
(1)de Montmorency College of Dentistry, Lahore.

The objective of the study was to evaluate the long-term survivals or longevity 
of dental restorations placed in selected patients from different practice 
environments in two countries. The case histories of 46 adult patients with 622 
restorations placed in three private practices in Pakistan were followed for a 
minimum of 10 years, and compared with similar assessments of 50 adult patients 
with 966 restorations placed in a dental hospital in Australia. Amalgam and 
composite resin restorations showed similar survivals in both countries, but 
cast gold restorations had much lower survivals in the Pakistan group of 
patients. In both countries, restoration survivals were significantly better in 
females, and when patients attended less frequently for treatment. For the 
Australian group, changes in dental operators also gave significantly better 
survivals, and there were significant restoration survival differences present 
between the three practices in Pakistan.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1834-7819.1994.tb05539.x
PMID: 8185533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. World Health Forum. 1993;14(2):150-7.

Postponement of aging-related disability.

Svanborg A(1), Selker L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Illinois at Chicago 60680.

The authors discuss approaches to improving the functional capacities of older 
people through the prevention or postponement of disease and disability. Given 
suitable life-styles, environments and interventions, health and fitness can be 
maintained at satisfactory levels.

PMID: 8185756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. J Neuroimaging. 1994 Apr;4(2):85-90. doi: 10.1111/jon19944285.

Brainstem toxoplasmosis in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.

Daras M(1), Koppel BS, Samkoff L, Marc J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Metropolitan Hospital, New York Medical College, NY 
10029.

Brainstem involvement by Toxoplasma gondii is probably more common than other 
opportunistic infections, although it has not received adequate attention. 
Identification of toxoplasmosis is essential, as this condition responds to 
treatment with a significant increase in life expectancy. During the past 4 
years, 366 AIDS patients with central nervous system toxoplasmosis diagnosed by 
biopsy or improvement following empirical treatment were evaluated. Among them, 
8 (7 men, 1 woman; aged 25-55 yr) presented with signs of brainstem dysfunction. 
Six patients presented with an oculomotor nerve palsy and contralateral 
hemiplegia; 1 had an additional ipsilateral rubral tremor. The seventh patient 
had complete external ophthalmoplegia and the eighth had Parinaud's syndrome. 
Computed tomography revealed enhancing lesions in the brainstem of all patients. 
Seven responded to treatment with pyrimethamine and sulfadiazine.

DOI: 10.1111/jon19944285
PMID: 8186535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Transfus Clin Biol. 1994;1(1):35-9. doi: 10.1016/s1246-7820(05)80055-2.

[Potential alternatives to erythrocyte transfusion in hemoglobinopathies: 
hydroxyurea (HU), erythropoietin (EPO), butyrate derivatives, blood 
substitutes].

[Article in French]

Bachir D(1), Galacteros F.

Author information:
(1)Centre de la Dépanocytose et des Thalassémies, Hôpital Henri Mondor, Créteil.

Transfusion is associated with improvement of life expectancy in beta 
thalassemia and sickle cell disease (SCD). Bone marrow transplantation concerns 
only a few patients. Among potentially useful therapeutic agents which can 
induce fetal hemoglobin (HbF) production, hydroxyurea (HU) stands out in 
particular for SCD. In our sickle cell center, 10 patients with SCD received HU 
for chronic leg ulcer with good results in terms of healing (7 among 10, who 
required no additional transfusion). A few patients, most of them over 30 years, 
received HU for chronic organ failure at the onset. HU on long term therapy over 
one year improved general status, Hb level, in 7 patients with beta thalassemia 
intermedia. A major challenge in the coming years will be the effective 
evaluation of clinical efficiency and the comparison of risks and benefits of 
such compounds versus transfusion.

DOI: 10.1016/s1246-7820(05)80055-2
PMID: 8186851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Compend Suppl. 1993;(15):S526-32; quiz S565-6.

Cylindrical HA-coated implants--8-year observations.

Block MS(1), Kent JN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Louisiana State University, New 
Orleans.

Controversy exists concerning the integrity of hydroxyapatite-coated implants 
over time. The Louisiana State University Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery 
Department studied data of 1,374 HA-coated implants that were placed from 1985 
to 1991. Data were examined according to life-table survival, interval success 
rate, reasons for failure, and long-term effects. The rate of integration for 
HA-coated implants was found to be superior to that of noncoated, titanium 
implants. The HA-coated implants also showed excellent survival and function 
rates.

PMID: 8187137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Compend Suppl. 1993;(15):S539-43; quiz S565-6.

HA-coated implants: warranted or not?

Lozada JL(1), James RA, Boskovic M.

Author information:
(1)Oral Implantology, Restorative Dentistry, Loma Linda University School of 
Dentistry, California.

Despite anecdotal reports that challenge hydroxyapatite (HA)-coated implant 
survivability, the experience in the placement of these implants over 9 years at 
Loma Linda University School of Dentistry has been favorable. The results of 
these implant placements are presented and analyzed in this article. After 7 
years, the survival rate of HA-coated custom and stock blade-form implants is 
97%. At 5 years, the survival rate for all upper HA-coated root form implants is 
98%, and for all HA-coated implants placed in the lower jaw it is 99%. For 
implants placed in maxillary type 4 bone, there was a 32.6% failure rate among 
uncoated implants, but a rate of 14.9% in HA-coated implants. The causes of 
implant failure are often related to factors other than the type of implant, 
such as iatrogenic factors and poor oral hygiene.

PMID: 8187139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Compend Suppl. 1993;(15):S554-61; quiz S565-6.

Optimizing clinical success with implants: maintenance and care.

Yukna RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontics, School of Dental Medicine, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Numerous studies have found hydroxyapatite (HA) to be a favorable material for 
dental implant coatings. Quality HA-coated implants have been shown to heal 
faster, attach more completely to the bone, and resist flaking and dissolution. 
However, as with natural teeth, good oral hygiene and proper professional 
maintenance are essential. To ensure the success of the implant, clinicians must 
understand that HA coatings vary according to thickness, porosity, attachment 
strength, and crystallinity, and must recognize the essential features of a 
quality coating.

PMID: 8187142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Clin Nephrol. 1994 Mar;41(3):127-34.

Long-term survival in idiopathic membranous glomerulonephritis: can the course 
be clinically predicted?

Honkanen E(1), Törnroth T, Grönhagen-Riska C, Sankila R.

Author information:
(1)Fourth Department of Medicine, University of Helsinki, Finland.

Erratum in
    Clin Nephrol 1994 Jul;42(1):70.

Comment in
    Clin Nephrol. 1995 Aug;44(2):137-9.

72 adult patients with idiopathic membranous glomerulonephritis (iMGN), 92% 
having proteinuria 3 g/24 h or more, were studied for the clinical evolution of 
the disease and factors which might be involved in the development of chronic 
renal insufficiency (CRI). At 10 years, 46% were in complete or partial 
remission, 4% had the nephrotic syndrome (NS), 26% had some degree of CRI, and 
24% were dead or started on dialysis. The actuarial patient and kidney survival 
rates were 80% and 64%, respectively at 10 years. Patient survival rate was not 
affected by gender, age (after adjustment for age- and sex-matched population) 
or the severity of NS at diagnosis. 20 patients showed CRI and apart from the 
more frequent (p < 0.05) presence of CRI at diagnosis, no clinical features 
discriminated them from those having intact renal function. Furthermore, no 
clinical factors at diagnosis predicted the final renal function among the 72 
patients. However, it appeared that the evolution of clinical status of iMGN was 
rapid CRI appearing 1.4 (median, range from 0 to 15.1) years after the 
diagnosis. At one and two years, renal function correlated significantly (r = 
0.54, p < 0.0001 at two years) with the final renal function. What is more, the 
type of the evolution of proteinuria over the first two years gave valuable 
information on the eventual deterioration of renal function. Patients having 
stable non-nephrotic grade proteinuria and those in whom NS disappeared, had 
excellent renal outcome while those in particular showing an increased severity 
of NS had poor prognosis in terms of renal survival.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

PMID: 8187353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Clin Cardiol. 1994 Apr;17(4):191-5. doi: 10.1002/clc.4960170409.

The plasma concentration of N-terminal proatrial natriuretic factor ANF(1-98) is 
related to prognosis in severe heart failure.

Hall C(1), Kjekshus J, Eneroth P, Snapinn S.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Surgical Research, National Hospital, University of Oslo, 
Norway.

Due to its longer halflife, the N-terminal of ANF prohormone, ANF(1-98), has 
plasma concentrations that exceed those of ANF itself by a factor of 10 or more. 
It is also less prone to rapid changes secondary to hemodynamic alterations. To 
evaluate the prognostic significance of ANF(1-98) plasma levels in severe heart 
failure (NYHA IV), the peptide was measured by radioimmunoassay in plasma 
samples from patients randomized to additional treatment with enalapril (n = 78) 
or placebo (n = 61) (CONSENSUS study). In the placebo group there was a positive 
relation between mortality after 6 months and baseline ANF(1-98) level. Because 
of a reduced mortality, especially among patients with high ANF(1-98) levels, 
there was no such relation in the patients treated with enalapril. For both 
groups there was a positive relationship between increase in ANF(1-98) after 6 
weeks of treatment and mortality, while a decrease signaled a favorable 
prognosis. It is concluded that the magnitude and changes of plasma ANF(1-98) 
provide information on prognosis and therapeutic effects with respect to 
mortality in patients with severe heart failure. Plasma ANF(1-98) may serve as a 
useful clinical biochemical parameter in the treatment of heart failure.

DOI: 10.1002/clc.4960170409
PMID: 8187369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Gynecol Oncol. 1994 May;53(2):148-51. doi: 10.1006/gyno.1994.1107.

Positive cervical smear with subsequent normal colposcopy and 
histology--frequency of CIN in a long-term follow-up.

Hellberg D(1), Nilsson S, Valentin J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Falu Hospital, Falun, Sweden.

Comment in
    Gynecol Oncol. 1995 Jul;58(1):142-3.
    Gynecol Oncol. 1994 May;53(2):146-7.

From a total of 1466 new cases of cervical smears suggesting cervical 
intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) II or worse, all examined with colposcopy and 
biopsies, 328 cases (22.4%) were initially examined with vaginal and cervical 
colposcopy, directed biopsies of portio, and endocervical curettage (ECC) with 
normal results. Patients were followed-up with regular colposcopy and cervical 
smear for an average of 10.6 years (2-19 years). In 72 cases (22%) a CIN 
occurred, in general more than 1 year (mean 2.96 years) after entering the 
study. Possible explanations are discussed and careful monitoring of this group 
of patients is recommended.

DOI: 10.1006/gyno.1994.1107
PMID: 8188072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Gynecol Oncol. 1994 May;53(2):234-8. doi: 10.1006/gyno.1994.1121.

A phase II study of carboplatin and cisplatin in advanced or recurrent squamous 
carcinoma of the uterine cervix.

Morris M(1), Gershenson DM, Burke TW, Mitchell MF, Levenback C, Atkinson N, 
Wharton JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston 77030.

Between March 1990 and July 1992, 42 women with squamous carcinoma of the 
uterine cervix were prospectively treated with carboplatin (260 mg/m2) on Day 1 
and cisplatin (50 mg/m2) on Day 2 every 28 days. Patients had either stage IVb 
(FIGO) cancer (5 patients) or recurrent cancer (37 patients) and a Zubrod score 
< or = 2. Forty-one patients had received either radiation or surgery as primary 
therapy; 179 cycles of chemotherapy were delivered. The mean number of cycles 
administered to each patient was 4 (range, 2-8 cycles). Dose escalation was 
possible in 32 cycles (23.4%) and dose reduction was required in 10 cycles 
(7.3%). The dose-limiting toxic effect was myelosuppression, with grade 3-4 
thrombocytopenia in 39 cycles (22%) and neutropenia in 19 cycles (11%). 
Neurotoxic effects were observed in 3 patients. Forty-two patients were 
evaluable for response: 1 had a complete response and 11 had a partial response 
(response rate 28.6%, 95% confidence interval, 14.9-42.3%). For all patients and 
for responders, median progression-free interval was 4.4 and 9.5 months, 
respectively, and median length of survival was 8.9 and 9.5 months, 
respectively. This regimen was well tolerated and had significant activity in 
the treatment of cervical cancer. Comparison to other platinum-based regimens in 
a Phase III trial should be considered.

DOI: 10.1006/gyno.1994.1121
PMID: 8188085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1994 Apr;48(2):211. doi:
10.1136/jech.48.2.211.

Avoidable mortality and life expectancy in New Zealand.

Malcolm M(1).

Author information:
(1)ESR Communicable Disease Centre, Porirua, New Zealand.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.48.2.211
PMCID: PMC1059936
PMID: 8189181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Neurosurgery. 1994 Mar;34(3):449-57; discussion 457-8. doi: 
10.1227/00006123-199403000-00010.

Transient ischemic attacks, carotid stenosis, and an incidental intracranial 
aneurysm. A decision analysis.

Dippel DW(1), Vermeulen M, Braakman R, Habbema JD.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Decision Sciences, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Three patients with transient ischemic attacks (TIAs), a stenotic or ulcerating 
carotid lesion, and an unruptured aneurysm are discussed. Decision analysis is 
used in comparing treatment strategies for each patient: clipping of the 
aneurysm, endarterectomy, or both, with or without platelet aggregation 
inhibitors. Bayesian sensitivity analysis with Monte Carlo simulation is used to 
estimate 95% confidence limits for the difference in discounted quality-adjusted 
life expectancy between the treatment strategies. Platelet-inhibiting therapy is 
indicated for all three patients, despite the increased risk of complications 
from subarachnoid hemorrhage. Carotid endarterectomy cannot be recommended for 
any of the three patients. With regard to aneurysm surgery, a toss-up exists in 
one patient; in another, the aneurysm should be clipped; and in one, the 
decision depends on the probability that the TIAs originate from the aneurysm. 
Guidelines for the management of similar patients are given. For patients with 
TIAs, a moderate carotid stenosis, and an intracranial aneurysm that does not 
seem to be related to the symptoms, neither clipping of the aneurysm nor 
endarterectomy can be recommended with confidence; however, when the 
intracranial aneurysm is just as likely to be the source of the TIAs as not, 
clipping is recommended up to the age of 70, when the surgical risks are 
moderately high.

DOI: 10.1227/00006123-199403000-00010
PMID: 8190220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Obstet Gynecol. 1994 Jun;83(6):1026-32. doi:
10.1097/00006250-199406000-00025.

Comparison of adolescent and adult experiences with Norplant levonorgestrel 
contraceptive implants.

Cullins VE(1), Remsburg RE, Blumenthal PD, Huggins GR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Francis Scott Key Medical Center, 
Baltimore, Maryland.

OBJECTIVE: To compare acceptability, tolerance of side effects, and continuation 
rates among adolescent and adult Norplant accepters.
METHODS: An 18-month observational study was conducted of 136 adolescents and 
542 adults who received Norplant at the Francis Scott Key Medical Center in 
Baltimore, Maryland. Data were collected from the following: a self-administered 
history form completed at the preinsertion visit, a self-administered follow-up 
form completed at routine follow-up visits, problem-visit chart review, and 
telephone contact for patients noncompliant with follow-up appointments.
RESULTS: The adolescents ranged in age from 13-18 years (mean 16.4), and adults 
ranged in age from 19-46 (mean 24.7). The mean parity among teenagers was 1.4; 
among adults, 3.2. Thirty-nine percent of teenagers and 64% of adults had had 
one or more therapeutic abortions. Forty percent of adolescents and 47% of 
adults reported at least one contraceptive failure in the past. Both adolescent 
and adult Norplant accepters made few telephone calls or problem visits because 
of complaints or side effects. Compliance with routine annual follow-up was poor 
for adolescents (24 of 136, 18%) and adults (72 of 542, 13%). Follow-up of 
noncompliant patients revealed low rates of implant removal. Fifteen adolescents 
(11%) and 60 adults (11%) had Norplant removed. The most common reasons for 
removal included irregular bleeding, weight gain, headaches, and desire for 
pregnancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Implant acceptability, continuation, and tolerance of side effects 
were high and comparable among adolescent and adult accepters. Initial implant 
users were primarily adolescents or adults who had experienced problems with 
other forms of reversible contraception. Adherence to scheduled follow-up 
appointments was poor, regardless of age.

DOI: 10.1097/00006250-199406000-00025
PMID: 8190418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Ophthalmology. 1994 May;101(5):850-5. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(94)31248-6.

Simultaneous intraocular and orbital non-Hodgkin lymphoma in the acquired immune 
deficiency syndrome.

Matzkin DC(1), Slamovits TL, Rosenbaum PS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Montefiore Medical Center/Albert Einstein 
College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 10467.

BACKGROUND: Non-Hodgkin lymphoma is more common in patients with the acquired 
immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), and the incidence of non-Hodgkin lymphoma in 
the AIDS population has been increasing as the life expectancy of these patients 
has increased. Nevertheless, intraocular lymphoma, as part of primary central 
nervous system lymphoma and orbital non-Hodgkin lymphoma, has rarely been 
reported in patients with AIDS. Co-existent intraocular and orbital lymphoma is 
exceptionally unusual. The clinical and histopathologic findings are reported in 
a patient with AIDS who had simultaneous intraocular and orbital non-Hodgkin 
lymphoma. The clinical funduscopic findings initially were attributed to a viral 
retinitis.
METHODS: A left orbital biopsy followed by enucleation of the left eye was 
performed and studied by light microscopy. Immunophenotyping of the orbital 
biopsy also was performed.
FINDINGS: Simultaneous intraocular and orbital large cell malignant lymphoma was 
present with neoplastic spread directly along the scleral canal of the ciliary 
nerve. Massive necrosis involving the retina, retinal pigment epithelium, 
choroid, and optic nerve, as well as several solid retinal pigment epithelial 
detachments, were observed. Immunophenotyping of the orbital tumor disclosed 
positive staining for Leu 4 (T cells, 30%) and Leu 14 (B cells, 60%). 
Immunostaining for light and heavy chains was precluded by tumor necrosis.
CONCLUSION: Non-Hodgkin lymphoma should be included in the differential 
diagnosis of acute retinitis, and proptosis in patients with AIDS.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(94)31248-6
PMID: 8190470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Rev Med Chil. 1993 Sep;121(9):1075-85.

[Origin, development, and perspectives of public health institutions in Chile].

[Article in Spanish]

Rosselot J(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Salud Pública, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Chile 
(Campus Oriente), Santiago de Chile.

This review gives information about the origin and development of the Public 
Health organisms in Chile, particularly the National Health Service, outstanding 
governmental health institution created in 1952, whose achievements were favored 
by the coordinated support of the University and the Chilean Medical 
Association. At the present time, their work is carried on by the National 
System of Health Services. The National Health systems have contributed to the 
improvement of population's health conditions, specially of the most vulnerable 
groups. Among other accomplishments, the life expectancy of the Chilean 
population has increased from 57 years in 1960 to 1972 years in 1990, and the 
general and infant mortality rates decreased from 12.6 to 6/1000 and from 120.5 
to 16/1000 respectively. In the same period, the system has increased the 
coverage of its programs, specially those addressed to technical assistance of 
delivery, responsible parenthood, healthy child control, vaccinations, 
complementary feeding and sanitary education. The main limitation to the 
system's actions has been the restricted availability and the unequal 
distribution of resources assigned to health (about US$ 100 per capita). It is 
postulated that the implementation of a new Health and Social Welfare System (in 
study at the present time) should improve the efficiency and solidarity of 
health care.

PMID: 8191161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Sports Med. 1994 Mar;17(3):149-51. doi: 10.2165/00007256-199417030-00001.

Life expectancy of former elite athletes.

Sarna S, Kaprio J.

DOI: 10.2165/00007256-199417030-00001
PMID: 8191172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Sleep. 1994 Feb;17(1):52-60.

Quality adjusted life years added by treatment of obstructive sleep apnea.

Tousignant P(1), Cosio MG, Levy RD, Groome PA.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Division, Royal Victoria Hospital, McGill University, 
Montreal, Canada.

We assessed the impact of treatment with nasal continuous positive airway 
pressure (nCPAP) on the quality of life of 19 patients with obstructive sleep 
apnea (OSA). We measured the utility for the patients' health states before and 
with treatment using the standard gamble approach. The study group had an 
average age of 57 years and had been on treatment for a mean of 9.5 months. For 
all the patients, the polysomnographic indicators of OSA disease severity 
improved markedly with treatment. For nine of the 12 symptoms most commonly 
associated with OSA, the patients reported improvement during treatment. The 
mean utility and the standard deviation obtained with the standard gamble method 
were 0.87 +/- 0.17 on treatment and 0.63 +/- 0.29 pretreatment. The difference 
in utility between treatment and pretreatment health states was combined with 
the life expectancy of each patient to generate the number of quality adjusted 
life years (QALYs) considered equivalent to the impact of treatment. This 
resulted in an average gain of 5.4 QALYs. When we related this impact to the 
cost of treatment, we obtained a cost-utility ratio between Can $3,397 and Can 
$9,792 per QALY added. These costs are relatively small when compared to the 
cost per QALY for many other clinical interventions. Hence, nCPAP clearly offers 
the prospect for a well-tolerated therapy with a very favorable cost-utility 
ratio.

PMID: 8191203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Acta Clin Belg. 1994;49(1):31-5.

[Late diagnosis of tetralogy of Fallot in an asymptomatic adult].

[Article in French]

de Meester A(1), Khoury E.

Author information:
(1)Service de Cardiologie, Clinique Saint-Luc, Bouge.

The authors report a case of Fallot's tetralogy found in an asymptomatic adult 
patient. Echocardiography and cardiac catheterization confirmed the diagnosis. 
Life expectancy without surgery is usually short and our patient's survival is 
therefore uncommon. This case probably represents the oldest patient with 
uncorrected tetralogy found in the literature.

PMID: 8191813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1993 Dec 31;703:1-4. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1993.tb26327.x.

All effective treatment could be free.

Warren KS(1).

Author information:
(1)Picower Institute for Medical Research, Manhasset, NY 11030.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1993.tb26327.x
PMID: 8192287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1993 Dec 31;703:52-62. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1993.tb26335.x.

Outcomes research, PORTs, and health care reform.

Wennberg JE(1), Barry MJ, Fowler FJ, Mulley A.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluative Clinical Sciences, Dartmouth Medical School, 
Hanover, NH 03755-3863.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1993.tb26335.x
PMID: 8192318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Ann Vasc Surg. 1994 Jan;8(1):107-12. doi: 10.1007/BF02133412.

Infrainguinal revascularization in end-stage renal disease.

Lumsden AB(1), Besman A, Jaffe M, MacDonald MJ, Allen RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322.

Patients with end-stage renal disease are being maintained for longer periods 
with dialysis or renal transplantation. Although renal failure itself is 
associated with occlusive peripheral vascular disease, such patients often have 
additional comorbid risk factors. In this series, 88% of patients were diabetic, 
93% were hypertensive, and 44% were smokers, all factors that exacerbate the 
severity of their vasculopathy. As a consequence, the vascular surgeon is 
increasingly being confronted with limb-threatening peripheral vascular disease 
in this population. We performed 34 infrainguinal bypasses in 27 patients during 
a 8-year period from 1986 to 1993. Fifty percent of these were bypasses to the 
infrapopliteal level. The 12- and 48-month graft patency was 64% and 38%, 
respectively, by life-table analysis. The limb salvage rate was 65% and 58% at 
12 and 48 months. The perioperative mortality rate was 5.9% and the morbidity 
rate was 37%. Most of the limb loss (66%) occurred during the first 3 months 
after surgery as a result of acute graft occlusion or nonhealing of an ulcer or 
minor amputation site. We believe that this reflects an increasingly aggressive 
approach to limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease. Four limbs 
were lost despite a patent graft. Infrainguinal bypass is a viable management 
option for limb salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease. These 
procedures can be undertaken with acceptable perioperative mortality and with a 
12-month limb salvage rate of 65%.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02133412
PMID: 8192993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Ann Vasc Surg. 1994 Jan;8(1):54-8. doi: 10.1007/BF02133406.

Benefits of carotid patching: a prospective randomized study with long-term 
follow-up.

De Letter JA(1), Moll FL, Welten RJ, Eikelboom BC, Ackerstaff RG, Vermeulen FE, 
Algra A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, St. Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, The 
Netherlands.

A prospective study with random selection between primary closure and saphenous 
vein patching after carotid endarterectomy was conducted. Patients were 
evaluated with intravenous digital subtraction angiography during the initial 
postoperative period, followed by duplex scanning at 3 and 6 months, and then 
yearly examinations. The series consisted of 129 carotid endarterectomies, of 
which 62 were primary closures and 67 were patch procedures. Both groups were 
identical with regard to risk factors, symptoms, and postoperative control 
digital subtraction angiography. Restenosis was defined as a stenosis with > or 
= 50% diameter reduction, as assessed by duplex scanning. Of special interest 
was the development of restenosis along with the occurrence of cerebrovascular 
symptoms at long-term follow-up. The follow-up data from the 129 carotid 
endarterectomies are presented in a life-table analysis. The mean length of 
follow-up was 5 years (range 1 to 96 months). During the follow-up period 38 
patients who had undergone 39 operations died (mortality rate 30%); three deaths 
were attributed to cerebral causes (two in-hospital deaths due to intracerebral 
hemorrhage and one cerebral hemorrhage after 6 months). Restenosis occurred in 
25 cases (19%). This restenosis was detected in 5 of 45 men with primary closure 
(11%), 12 of 17 women with primary closure (70%), 7 of 49 men with patch closure 
(14%), and 1 of 18 women with patch closure (5.5%). The difference between patch 
and primary closures was found to be statistically significant (hazard ratio 
0.39; 95% confidence interval 0.17 to 0.91; p = 0.03).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF02133406
PMID: 8193000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Clin Obstet Gynecol. 1994 Mar;37(1):192-206. doi: 
10.1097/00003081-199403000-00022.

An outcomes-based model for directing decisions in women's health care.

Kaplan RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of California at San 
Diego, La Jolla 92093-0622.

Physicians have recognized for a long time that disease categories provide 
minimal information about the impact of illness on patient experiences. A 
diagnosis is important, because it can identify a course of treatment. However, 
there are considerable differences in how patients with similar diagnoses are 
affected. Multiple sclerosis, for example, may have essentially no impact on 
behavioral dysfunction or it could have devastating implications. The impact of 
the disease on the daily life of the patient may be more important than the 
diagnosis of the condition. Physicians need to learn to treat the patient, not 
the disease. There are only two health outcomes that are of importance. First, 
there is life expectancy. Second, there is function or quality of life. Biologic 
and physical events are mediators of these behavioral outcomes. We are concerned 
about cancer, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and other problems because 
they may shorten a patient's life expectancy or make his or her life less 
desirable before death. There is a growing consensus that these behavioral 
outcomes are central in studies of health care and medicine. However, these 
outcomes, which can be obtained from standardized questionnaires, rarely are 
obtained in medical research and practice. A behavioral concept of health 
outcomes can suggest important new directions for research and practice.

DOI: 10.1097/00003081-199403000-00022
PMID: 8194209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Folia Med (Plovdiv). 1993;35(1-2):76-80.

Effect of age-specific mortality on the average life expectancy in Bulgaria.

Nikolov IN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, University of Medicine, Plovdiv, Bulgaria.

Using a concise method, we estimated the effect of mortality in specific age 
groups on the average life expectancy in Bulgaria. The method enables the 
calculation of the index from all causes of death as well as hypothetically, 
eliminating the mortality of the age groups involved in the study: under 1 year 
of age, 1 to 14-year-olds, 15 to 59-year-olds, and 60-year-olds and over 60. The 
detailed dynamic analysis of the influence of these four age groups mortality 
showed that the decrease in child mortality influenced positively the average 
life expectancy making it rise. This was especially clearly seen in the period 
until the mid-1960s. In the late 1960s the influence of the child mortality 
became insignificant and the major reserve for increasing the average life 
expectancy remained the decrease in active-life mortality.

PIP: The average remaining life expectancy is a complex parameter which serves 
as both an indicator of the overall health status and a characteristic of the 
standard of living of a given population. Changes in child mortality rates as 
well as in rates for all other age groups can change the average remaining life 
expectancy. The author estimates the effect of child and other age groups' 
mortality rate changes in the average life expectancy of the Bulgarian 
population for the periods of the most recent population censuses conducted in 
Bulgaria for which the available data collected on the age structure of the 
population were the most accurate. These periods are 1944-46, 1954-56, 1963-65, 
1973-75, and 1983-85. The concise method used to calculate the average life 
expectancy does not require complicated mathematical calculations. The method 
allows the calculation of the index from all causes of death, while 
hypothetically eliminating the mortality of the age groups involved in the 
study: individuals younger than one year old, 1-14 year olds, 15-59 year olds, 
and 60 year olds and those over age 60. Calculations found that the decrease in 
child mortality caused the average life expectancy to increase. The phenomenon 
is especially recognizable for the period up to the mid-1960s. In the late 
1960s, however, the influence of the child mortality became insignificant and 
the major reserve for increasing the average life expectancy remained the 
decrease in active-life mortality.

PMID: 8194807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. N Engl J Med. 1994 Jun 30;330(26):1864-9. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199406303302605.

A decision analysis of streptokinase plus heparin as compared with heparin alone 
for deep-vein thrombosis.

O'Meara JJ 3rd(1), McNutt RA, Evans AT, Moore SW, Downs SM.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
27599-7110.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Jun 30;330(26):1895-6.

BACKGROUND: It is uncertain whether patients with proximal deep-vein thrombosis 
should be treated with streptokinase followed by intravenous heparin or with 
intravenous heparin alone. Published reports indicate that streptokinase plus 
heparin increases the risk of bleeding, including central nervous system 
bleeding and death, but decreases the risk of postphlebitic syndrome. Previous 
recommendations regarding these treatments have not considered patients' 
preferences or the values they attach to the possible outcomes of therapy.
METHODS: We used decision analysis to combine published estimates of the 
probabilities of various adverse outcomes of treatment (bleeding, pulmonary 
embolism, postphlebitic syndrome, and death) with the values patients placed on 
these outcomes. We questioned 36 patients about the values they attached to each 
outcome. Sixteen patients had had deep-vein thrombosis, and 20 had not.
RESULTS: By the values they attached to the outcomes, all 36 patients indicated 
that they were unwilling to accept an increased risk of death to avoid 
postphlebitic syndrome. According to the decision analysis, heparin alone was 
the better treatment for all 36 patients. As compared with streptokinase plus 
heparin, heparin alone provided 29 days of additional life expectancy over the 
predicted life expectancy of 20 years. Although the difference between the two 
treatments was small, heparin alone remained the better treatment in sensitivity 
analyses that examined the reasonable ranges of probabilities of the clinical 
outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: The values patients placed on the outcomes of treatment for 
deep-vein thrombosis support the use of heparin alone over the combined use of 
streptokinase and heparin.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199406303302605
PMID: 8196729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Surg Clin North Am. 1994 Jun;74(3):537-55.

Diabetic foot infections. Pathophysiology and treatment.

Bridges RM Jr(1), Deitch EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Louisiana State University Medical Center, Shreveport.

Foot infections are among the most common reasons for hospital admission of the 
diabetic patient. A diabetic foot infection represents a failure by the patient 
and his management team to understand and correct the multifactorial conditions 
that predisposed the patient to the infection. Efforts directed toward 
prevention of the foot infection are much more likely to meet with success than 
is therapy of the established foot infection. This preventive approach is likely 
to lead to a reduction in the incidence of major amputations and thereby improve 
life expectancy. Understanding the pathophysiology associated with the diabetic 
foot is essential to the care of the diabetic patient. If a breach in skin 
integrity occurs, prompt assessment of vascular, neural, soft tissue, and wound 
status enhances the possibility of a successful clinical outcome. The complexity 
of the management of a diabetic requires the knowledge and skill of a 
multidisciplinary team, which usually includes an internist, podiatrist, 
rehabilitation specialist, prosthetist, dietitian, and social worker in addition 
to a surgeon interested in caring for the complications of diabetic feet. The 
goals of this multispecialty group are to optimize local wound care, provide 
correct foot wear, improve glucose control, educate the patient concerning diet 
and life style changes, and identify the presence of peripheral neuropathies and 
reconstructable arterial lesions. This combined medical team approach has been 
documented to substantially reduce the incidence of major and minor amputations 
in the diabetic.

PMID: 8197529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Vet Hum Toxicol. 1994 Apr;36(2):112-6.

The risk associated with poisonings in children.

Marchi AG(1), Messi G, Renier S, Gallone G, Peisino MG, Vietti-Ramus M, Raspino 
M, Chiossi M, Lattere M, Polla D.

Author information:
(1)Emergency Department and Poison Control Centre, IRCCS Istituto per 
l'Infanzia, Trieste, Italy.

The risk associated with poisonings in children was assessed on 6175 subjects 
admitted to the pediatric hospitals of 3 regions of Northern Italy between 1975 
and 1990. The frequency of exposures and the severity of sequelae allowed high- 
and low-risk substances to be identified. Risks were studied separately in the 
0-4, 5-9 and 10-13 y age group to determine age-related differences. A decrease 
in drug-related poisonings and an increase of those caused by household 
products, particularly in the first 2 y of life, were observed in 1983-90 as 
against 1975-82 in association with the introduction of safety caps and 
containers for drugs. Our study points out the need to strengthen active primary 
prevention through health education and parental and adolescent information, and 
to improve passive prevention through the extension of safety closures to 
household products.

PMID: 8197708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Am J Cardiol. 1994 Jun 1;73(15):1133-4. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90297-6.

Pravastatin, lipids, and major coronary events.

Furberg CD(1), Byington RP, Crouse JR, Espeland MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, Bowman Gray School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27157-1063.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90297-6
PMID: 8198043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Ann Physiol Anthropol. 1994 Mar;13(2):59-67. doi: 10.2114/ahs1983.13.59.

[Effect of training on the strength of cervical muscle].

[Article in Japanese]

Maeda A(1), Nakashima T, Shibayama H.

Author information:
(1)Physical Fitness Research Institute, Meiji Life Foundation of Health and 
Welfare.

The purpose of this study was to observe the effect of concentric and eccentric 
training on the strength of cervical muscle. The subjects were 18 adult males of 
whom 6 were exposed to concentric training, 6 were exposed to eccentric 
training, and 6 were exposed to control. Training intensity was the exertion of 
maximum isotonic strength on the extension, flexion, left bending and right 
bending of the neck. All training exercises for concentric and eccentric groups 
were given 10 times a set, 3 sets in a day, 3 times a week for 8 weeks. The 
changes in the strength of cervical muscle and in the girth of neck due to 
muscular training were measured regularly once a week. The results were as 
follows: 1) Maximum isometric strength increased significantly (p < 0.001) by 
37.8% in concentric training group, and 39.6% in eccentric training group. No 
significant difference of strength increase was observed between concentric and 
eccentric training group. There was a significant decrease in the strength of 
cervical muscle in the early stage of muscular training, accompanied by severe 
muscle fatigue, but a remarkable increase in strength due to concentric and 
eccentric training was observed during the 8 weeks. 2) The girth of neck 
increased significantly (p < 0.001) by 4.9% in concentric training group, and 
5.5% in eccentric training group. Significant difference of girth increase was 
observed after 3 and 4 weeks of muscular training of cervical muscle, meanwhile 
the girth of neck increased slightly by 1.3% in control group.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.2114/ahs1983.13.59
PMID: 8198666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Pediatr Neurol. 1994 Feb;10(1):27-33. doi: 10.1016/0887-8994(94)90063-9.

Life expectancy of children in a persistent vegetative state.

Ashwal S(1), Eyman RK, Call TL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Loma Linda University School of Medicine, CA 92350.

