The persistent vegetative state (PVS) is a state of wakeful unconsciousness 
occurring in adults and children. Despite preservation of vegetative functions, 
PVS patients have a shortened life-span, although accurate information 
concerning this issue remains limited. The survival of children in PVS was 
examined to determine whether age, etiology of the vegetative state, or type of 
residence in which the patient lived affected the estimated survival. The data 
of 155,851 developmentally disabled California state residents were reviewed 
using the Client Development Evaluation Report (CDER). Criteria from the CDER 
were selected to define the vegetative state and included: lack of interaction 
with peers; absence of auditory, visual, and expressive or receptive language 
function; no hand or arm use; inability to eat, sit, roll over, or lift head; 
and no bowel or bladder control. There were 847 patients who met these criteria 
on the initial and follow-up CDERs. A product limit survival model was used to 
develop survival curves and to calculate the median survival time for patients 
grouped by age, etiology, and type of residence. Median survival (yrs) for 
patients who remained in PVS for the following age groups was: < 1 yr: 2.6, 1 < 
2 yrs: 4.2, 2-6 yrs: 5.2, 7-18 yrs: 7.0, > or = 19 yrs: 9.9. Median survival 
based on etiology varied from 3.0 to 8.6 years; no consistent relationship 
existed between etiology and duration of survival. Survival (yrs) for patients 
younger than age 18 years based on type of residence included: own home: 4.5, 
institutions: 5.2, skilled nursing facility/private hospital: 3.2, and other 
community care facilities: 3.7.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0887-8994(94)90063-9
PMID: 8198669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Ann Vasc Surg. 1994 Mar;8(2):144-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02018862.

Immediate and long-term results of carotid endarterectomy for asymptomatic 
high-grade stenosis.

Riles TS(1), Fisher FS, Lamparello PJ, Giangola G, Gibstein L, Mintzer R, Su WT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, New York University Medical Center, NY 10016.

We examined the operative risks and long-term results of carotid endarterectomy 
for asymptomatic patients in terms of stroke, death, and recurrent stenosis. The 
results of a nonrandomized study with a follow-up of 1 to 104 months (mean 46 
months) is reported. A tertiary referral center served as the setting for this 
report. One hundred consecutive patients with severe but asymptomatic carotid 
artery stenosis out of a total of 514 patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy 
were entered into this study. The severity of carotid disease was determined by 
duplex scanning and confirmed arteriographically. No patients were lost to 
follow-up after surgery. Eighty-nine operations (77%) were done under cervical 
block anesthesia and all arteries were closed with saphenous vein patches. 
Life-table analysis showed that the stroke-free rate at 5 years was 96.3% with 
an ipsilateral stroke-free rate of 98.2%. The 5-year overall survival rate was 
78.2% with a stroke-free survival rate of 75%. Carotid endarterectomy can be 
performed safely for asymptomatic patients believed to be at risk for stroke. 
The potential for early death due to myocardial disease, late stroke, and 
recurrent stenosis do not justify advising patients against undergoing 
prophylactic carotid endarterectomy for asymptomatic high-grade stenosis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02018862
PMID: 8198947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Health Rep. 1993;5(3):259-79.

An overview of health care systems: Canada and selected OECD countries.

[Article in English, French]

Nair C(1), Karim R.

Author information:
(1)Canadian Centre for Health Information, Statistics Canada, Ottawa.

This article presents an overview of health care systems in Canada and selected 
OECD countries (Australia, France, Finland, Germany, Sweden, the United States 
and the United Kingdom). The article discusses the organization of health care 
systems, health care expenditure, the availability and utilization of health 
services, and the health status of the population. In addition, it highlights 
and compares key health care indicators that are common to all health care 
systems. The article focuses on the relationship between health expenditure and 
health status in terms of life expectancy and infant mortality and shows that 
the United States had the highest infant mortality and second lowest life 
expectancy for females at birth in 1990 while it spent the most on health care 
as percentage of GDP. The article also shows that the overall health status 
indicators in some countries such as Finland and Sweden are comparable to that 
of Canada despite spending considerably less on health care.

PMID: 8199329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Fortschr Med. 1994 Apr 30;112(12):174-6.

[Is dopaminergic therapy immunologically rejuvinating? Increased 
interferon-gamma production with the dopaminergic agent lisuride].

[Article in German]

Poehlau D(1), Baier JE, Kovacs S, Gallati H, Suchy I, Will C, Schmutz T, Neumann 
HA, Przuntek H.

Author information:
(1)Neurologische Klinik, Ruhr-Universität Bochum im St.-Josef-Hospital.

Eighteen patients with advanced Parkinson's disease (n = 13) or 
dopamine-sensitive dystonia (n = 5) were treated with the dopaminergic agent, 
lisuride, applied as a long-term subcutaneous infusion. The results were 
compared with those obtained in a group of younger, and a group of older, 
healthy volunteers. The liberation of gamma-interferon (gamma-IFN) following 
mitogenic stimulation of whole blood with phytohemagglutinin (PHA) was highly 
significantly elevated in comparison with the group of older healthy volunteers, 
and clearly, but not significantly, elevated in comparison with the younger 
group. There was no difference between patients with dystonia and those with 
Parkinson's disease. The effect observed is thus probably due to lisuride. This 
effect might explain the longer life expectancy and reduced proclivity for 
infection shown by patients with Parkinson's disease. It needs to be determined 
whether, on the basis of these initial data, a therapeutic principle for the 
treatment of diseases that can be directly influenced by gamma-IFN can be 
derived.

PMID: 8200605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. J Dent. 1994;22 Suppl 1:S28-32. doi: 10.1016/0300-5712(94)90168-6.

Bonding of luting materials for resin-bonded bridges: clinical relevance of in 
vitro tests.

Degrange M(1), Charrier JL, Attal JP, Asmussen E.

Author information:
(1)Groupe de Recherche Biomatériaux, Faculté de Chirurgie Dentaire, Université 
Paris V, France.

A retrospective clinical study on 78 resin-bonded bridges placed between 1981 
and 1992 was used to validate the wedge test in the assessment of the bonding of 
resin-based luting material. According to the correlation obtained between the 
findings of the in vivo and the in vitro studies, the wedge test may be 
considered to be predictive of the clinical performance of resin bonds. The life 
expectancy of resin-bonded bridges bonded with the 4 META containing material 
tested appears to be longer than that for bridges bonded with conventional resin 
cements.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-5712(94)90168-6
PMID: 8201085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. J Obstet Gynecol Neonatal Nurs. 1994 Feb;23(2):144-52. doi: 
10.1111/j.1552-6909.1994.tb01864.x.

Childbearing, reproductive control, aging women, and health care: the projected 
ethical debates.

Freda MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 
Bronx, New York.

Of the many social trends that will have an impact on the ethical debates 
surrounding women's health in the 21st century, three are discussed: the 
shifting demographics of age and race in the United States; the fundamental 
change in the health care system to a community-based, preventive model; and the 
equal voice of women in the government. Using these trends as a framework, this 
article hypothesizes the ethical debates that will occur in the 21st century 
concerning such issues as fetal viability, abortion, contraception, infertility, 
genetic engineering, aggressive versus nonaggressive treatment of aging women, 
scarce resources, menopause, organ transplants, sexism in biomedical research, 
fertility in postmenopausal women, birthing centers, fetal surgery, and fetal 
therapy.

PIP: In the 21st century, 3 pivotal social trends will have an impact on women's 
health and on women's health nursing. 1) The inclusion of women in 
ever-increasing numbers in the decision-making roles in government. The long 
lasting effect of the 1991 Senate hearings on the appointment of Clarence Thomas 
to the Supreme Court is that large numbers of women choose politics and 
government service as their career. Early in the 21st century this will produce 
the first woman US president, equal numbers of women and men in the Congress, 
and substantial numbers of women governors. 2) Another social trend is the 
changing demographics of race and age in the United States. A historic 
transition is moving the United States from a predominantly white culture to an 
ethnically diverse culture. By 2001 African-Americans, Hispanics, Asians, and 
Native Americans will be one-half of the population. This will force nurses and 
health care to become ethnically sensitive, shifting from the Caucasian 
European-American model of the 20th century. By 2050 life expectancy in the 
United States will be 82.1 years. By 2002, it is estimated that 40-50 million 
women 45-64 years old will be menopausal. By 2010, the senior citizen Baby Boom 
generation will migrate to the South and to the West, altering the health care 
there. 3) The reform of health care. The Clinton administration's health care 
reform plan includes universal coverage; cost controls with voluntary 
restraints; rules for insurance companies; and a standard package of benefits 
for all, emphasizing preventive care in community settings. Ethical debates in 
the 21st century will concern fetal viability, abortion, contraception, 
infertility, genetic engineering, aggressive versus nonaggressive treatment of 
aging women, scarce resources, menopause, organ transplants, sexism in 
biomedical research, fertility in postmenopausal women, birthing centers, fetal 
surgery, and fetal therapy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1552-6909.1994.tb01864.x
PMID: 8201457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. J Pediatr. 1994 Jun;124(6):951-5. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(05)83191-9.

Low-dose indomethacin therapy and extension of intraventricular hemorrhage: a 
multicenter randomized trial.

Ment LR(1), Oh W, Ehrenkranz RA, Phillip AG, Vohr B, Allan W, Makuch RW, Taylor 
KJ, Schneider KC, Katz KH, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 
06510.

We enrolled 61 neonates of 600 to 1250 gm birth weight with evidence of 
low-grade intraventricular hemorrhage at 6 to 11 hours of age in a prospective, 
randomized, placebo-controlled trial to test the hypothesis that indomethacin 
(0.1 mg/kg given intravenously at 6 to 12 postnatal hours and every 24 hours for 
two more doses) would prevent extension of intraventricular hemorrhage. 
Twenty-seven infants were assigned to receive indomethacin; 34 infants received 
saline placebo. There were no significant differences between the two groups in 
birth weight, gestational age, sex, Apgar scores, percentage of infants treated 
with surfactant, or distribution of hemorrhages at the time of the first cranial 
sonogram (echo-encephalogram). Within the first 5 days, 9 of 27 
indomethacin-treated and 12 of 34 saline solution-treated infants had extension 
of their initial intraventricular hemorrhage (p = 1.00). Four 
indomethacin-treated and three saline solution-treated infants had parenchymal 
extension of the hemorrhage. Indomethacin was associated with closure of a 
patent ductus arteriosus by the fifth day of life (p = 0.003). There were no 
differences in adverse events attributed to indomethacin. We conclude that in 
very low birth weight infants with low grade intraventricular hemorrhage within 
the first 6 postnatal hours, prophylactic indomethacin therapy promotes closure 
of the patent ductus arteriosus and is not associated with adverse events, but 
does not affect the cascade of events leading to parenchymal involvement of 
intracranial hemorrhage.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(05)83191-9
PMID: 8201485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. J Vasc Surg. 1994 Jun;19(6):992-9; discussion 999-1000. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70210-1.

Randomized prospective study of angioscopically assisted in situ saphenous vein 
grafting.

Clair DG(1), Golden MA, Mannick JA, Whittemore AD, Donaldson MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115.

PURPOSE: A study was conducted to test the hypothesis that angioscopically 
assisted valve lysis and vein branch identification during in situ saphenous 
vein bypass would reduce technical causes of graft failure, local operative 
morbidity, and hospital stay.
METHODS: Patients requiring primary bypass to an infrageniculate artery were 
randomly assigned to undergo in situ saphenous vein bypass with valvulotomy and 
branch identification either under angioscopic visualization with use of short 
intermittent incisions (scope) or under direct vision with use of a continuous 
incision (no scope). Data on operative details, morbidity, hospital length of 
stay, and graft patency were collected prospectively and compared.
RESULTS: Fifty-nine patients were enrolled (32 scope, 27 no scope). There were 
no significant differences between study groups in the incidence of diabetes, 
claudication versus critical ischemia indications for surgery, or popliteal 
versus infrapopliteal location of distal anastomoses. Rates of wound 
complications (9.3% and 3.7%), early graft occlusion (6.2% and 7.4%), and mean 
postoperative hospital stay (8.0 and 8.6 days) were statistically similar for 
the scope and no scope groups, respectively. Differences in cumulative secondary 
patency rates at 48 months (79% scope, 91% no scope) were also insignificant.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of angioscopy to assist with preparation of the in situ vein 
for infrageniculate grafting appears to have no impact on local operative 
morbidity, hospital length of stay, or midterm graft patency.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(94)70210-1
PMID: 8201718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. JPEN J Parenter Enteral Nutr. 1994 Mar-Apr;18(2):177-81. doi: 
10.1177/0148607194018002177.

Central line occlusion with three-in-one nutrition admixtures administered at 
home.

Erdman SH(1), McElwee CL, Kramer JM, Zuppan CW, White JJ, Grill BB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Loma Linda University, California.

The use of single-container parenteral nutrition admixtures can be cost 
effective and can simplify home administration. Three-in-one admixtures 
(dextrose, amino acids, lipid emulsion, and other additives in a single bag) 
were in use when a marked increase in catheter occlusions was seen in the 
pediatric home parenteral nutrition population. Insoluble laminar deposits were 
found in the removed catheters. In all subsequently placed catheters, separate 
(SPLIT) infusions of lipid and parenteral nutrition solution were used rather 
than three-in-one admixtures. This was associated with an obvious decrease in 
catheter occlusions. Catheter life-span was retrospectively determined for 15 
catheters of identical size and style that were used in eight patients who had 
received either infusions of three-in-one admixtures or SPLIT infusions. Life 
table survival analysis revealed a median survival time of 70 days for the 
three-in-one group (n = 8) and 290 days for the SPLIT group (n = 7). Survival 
distributions for the two groups were significantly different (p = .025). During 
the period of clustered catheter occlusion, the use of three-in-one admixtures 
that were stored in the home for up to 7 days was associated with a shortened 
catheter life-span. Occlusion or deposit development was not seen in catheters 
used for inpatient parenteral nutrition support when admixtures were prepared 
and infused within 28 hours. Catheter deposits were implicated as sanctuary 
sites for pathogenic bacteria in two patients. Failure to retrieve and inspect 
occluded catheters delayed the identification of the deposits.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1177/0148607194018002177
PMID: 8201755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1994 May 21;138(21):1053-5.

[The future of public health in general and the 'healthy life expectancy' in 
particular].

[Article in Dutch]

Mackenbach JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus Universiteit, Instituut Maatschappelijke Gezondheidszorg, Rotterdam.

PMID: 8202175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Perspect Biol Med. 1994 Spring;37(3):327-36. doi: 10.1353/pbm.1994.0060.

Puzzles in longevity.

Clarke CA(1), Mittwoch U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and Microbiology, University of Liverpool, Donnan 
Laboratories, United Kingdom.

DOI: 10.1353/pbm.1994.0060
PMID: 8202341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Toxicol Lett. 1994 Jun;72(1-3):213-7. doi: 10.1016/0378-4274(94)90031-0.

Health problems of the population in different regions of the Ukraine.

Kuchuk AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Diseases, Institute for Occupational Health, Kiev, 
Ukraine.

The ecological situation in some regions of the Ukraine is critical due to the 
concentration of major ferrous and nonferrous metallurgy, oil refining and 
chemical industries, and due to the consequences of the Chernobyl accident. The 
health status of the whole population over the last few years has deteriorated 
and resulted in 1992 in a decrease in the birth-rate coefficient to 11.5 per 
million and an increase in the mortality rate up to 13.4 per million. The 
average level of life expectancy for men and women in 1991 decreased to 63.3 and 
74.5 years, respectively. In 1991 the number of occupational diseases registered 
increased to 7958 or 3 per 10,000 of the working population, which does not 
reflect the real situation in the country. Major medical and biological problems 
of the consequences of the Chernobyl accident are restricted to the field of 
studying the effect of low-dose exposure and assessment of delayed stochastic 
effects. Until now no significant increase was registered in age-adjusted 
cancer, leukemia and lymphoma incidence rates among the male and female 
population of the most contaminated, strictly controlled territories and regions 
of the Ukraine in comparison with the average rate in the whole country. But the 
incidence of thyroid cancer in 1990 was 0.23, in 1991 0.19 and in 1992 0.35 per 
100,000 children under 14 years of age. In the Ukraine the incidence of thyroid 
cancer in 1981-1985 did not exceed 0.04-0.06 cases per 100,000 children.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-4274(94)90031-0
PMID: 8202934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Stroke. 1994 Jun;25(6):1149-56. doi: 10.1161/01.str.25.6.1149.

Cost-effectiveness of ticlopidine in preventing stroke in high-risk patients.

Oster G(1), Huse DM, Lacey MJ, Epstein AM.

Author information:
(1)Policy Analysis Inc., Brookline, MA 02146.

Comment in
    Stroke. 1994 Jun;25(6):1097-8.

BACKGROUND: Ticlopidine, an antiplatelet agent, when compared with aspirin has 
been found to reduce the risk of stroke in high-risk patients, ie, those with 
recent transient ischemic attack, reversible ischemic neurological deficit, 
amaurosis fugax, or minor stroke. Its cost-effectiveness in such use, however, 
is unknown.
METHODS: We developed a model of primary stroke prevention in which a 
hypothetical cohort of 100 high-risk men and women 65 years of age was assumed 
to receive either ticlopidine (500 mg daily) or aspirin (1300 mg daily). Using 
published data, we estimated lifetime incidence of stroke, life expectancy 
(unadjusted and adjusted for changes in quality of life), and lifetime medical 
care costs associated with each therapy.
RESULTS: Patients who receive ticlopidine would experience two fewer initial 
strokes per hundred than those treated with aspirin. Life expectancy would be 
extended by approximately one-half month, and lifetime medical care costs 
(discounted at 5%) would increase by about $2300. The cost-effectiveness of 
ticlopidine, compared with aspirin, is estimated to range from $31,200 to 
$55,500 per quality-adjusted life-year gained as the utility of life after 
nonfatal stroke is assumed to vary from 0.75 to 0.95.
CONCLUSIONS: Ticlopidine therapy to prevent stroke in high-risk patients is 
cost-effective by current standards of medical practice.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.25.6.1149
PMID: 8202972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Am J Cardiol. 1994 Jun 15;73(16):1235-7. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90193-7.

Asplenia syndrome--risk factors for early unfavorable outcome.

Phoon CK(1), Neill CA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21287.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(94)90193-7
PMID: 8203350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Am J Kidney Dis. 1994 Jun;23(6):803-7. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(12)80133-8.

Survival among Mexican-Americans, non-Hispanic whites, and African-Americans 
with end-stage renal disease: the emergence of a minority pattern of increased 
incidence and prolonged survival.

Pugh JA(1), Tuley MR, Basu S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
Antonio.

We undertook this study to determine whether there is a significant difference 
in survival on treatment for end-stage renal disease between Mexican-Americans, 
non-Hispanic whites, and African-Americans. A database covering the years 1975 
to 1986 was obtained from the Texas Kidney Health Program. Eight-eight percent 
to 90% of patients starting renal replacement therapy in Texas were included in 
this database. The patients were followed until death, for 3 years after 
successful transplantation, or until they were lost to follow-up. Life table 
analysis as well as age-adjusted analysis using the Cox proportional hazards 
model were performed comparing ethnic/racial groups, disease etiology, and 
treatment type. In life-table analyses, African-Americans and Mexican-Americans 
had a survival advantage in most age, disease, and treatment groups. With age 
adjustment, this survival advantage remained for all etiologies combined, for 
diabetes and hypertension cases, and for patients receiving hemodialysis in a 
center. Multivariate analysis revealed a persistent survival advantage for 
Mexican-Americans independent of traditional predictor variables, such as age, 
disease etiology, treatment type, or size of the center in which they received 
treatment. In this same analysis, African-Americans showed an advantage in the 
older age groups. Both African-Americans and Mexican-Americans on renal 
replacement therapy have an increased survival advantage compared with 
non-Hispanic whites. Given the additional burden of increased incidence of 
end-stage renal disease in these groups, the cost of renal replacement therapy 
for these minorities is disproportionately high. Further study should be aimed 
at elucidation of the mechanisms by which minorities achieve their survival 
advantage.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(12)80133-8
PMID: 8203362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1994 Jun;170(6):1606-13; discussion 1613-6.

A reanalysis of the Cu-7 intrauterine contraceptive device clinical trial and 
the incidence of pelvic inflammatory disease: a paradigm for assessing 
intrauterine contraceptive device safety.

Roy S(1), Azen C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Southern California 
School of Medicine, Los Angeles 90033.

Comment in
    Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1995 May;172(5):1643-4.

OBJECTIVE: We calculated and compared the incidence of pelvic inflammatory 
disease in a 10% random sample of the Cu-7 intrauterine contraceptive device 
(G.D. Searle & Co., Skokie, Ill.) clinical trial with the rates reported to the 
Food and Drug Administration and those in subsequent trials published in the 
world literature.
STUDY DESIGN: A 10% random sample of the Cu-7 clinical trial was examined 
because calculations had demonstrated this random sample to be sufficient in 
size (n = 1614) to detect a difference in rates of pelvic inflammatory disease 
from those reported to the Food and Drug Administration. An audit of a subset of 
the patient files, compared with the original files in Skokie, Illinois, 
confirmed that the files available for analysis were complete. Standard 
definitions were used to identify cases of pelvic inflammatory disease and to 
calculate rates of pelvic inflammatory disease. The world literature on Cu-7 
clinical trials was reviewed.
RESULTS: The calculated crude and Pearl index rates of pelvic inflammatory 
disease were consistent with those rates previously reported to the Food and 
Drug Administration and published in the medical literature. Life-table pelvic 
inflammatory disease rates were not different between nulliparous and parous 
women and pelvic inflammatory disease did not differ from basal annual rates in 
fecund women.
CONCLUSION: On the basis of the analysis of this 10% sample, the pelvic 
inflammatory disease patient rates reported to the Food and Drug Administration 
for the entire Cu-7 clinical trial are accurate and are similar to those 
published in the world literature.

PIP: G.D. Searle asked a physician and research statistician to conduct an 
independent evaluation of the rates of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) in a 
10% random sample of the 1614 women using the Cu-7 IUD in the Searle clinical 
trial. The team compared these rates with the rates reported to the US Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA) and with rates of trials which followed the Searle 
trial and were published in the medical literature. The results would be used to 
make a judgement to the safety of the Cu-7 IUD and whether IUDs should be a 
viable contraceptive option for US women. The researchers conducted an audit of 
a subset of the patient files and compared them with the original files at G.D. 
Searle. They learned that the subset files were complete. The 20-month PID rates 
(crude = 2.23, and Pearl index rate = 2.06) among the 1614 women were not 
statistically different than those reported by G.D. Searle to the FDA (1.84). At 
48 months the Pearl index rate was essentially the same as the plaintiffs' 
requested report in 1984 (1.89 vs 1.8). The overall Pearl index PID rate was 
less than 1% in an analysis of 27 separate clinical trials published between 
1972 and 1989. Among the 1614 women no differences existed in PID life table 
rates between nulliparous and parous women (p = .29). PID did not differ from 
basal annual rates in fecund women. Based on the comparison between the 10% 
sample and the G.D. Searle trial and the 10% sample and the medical literature, 
the PID rates reported to the FDA for the complete Cu-7 IUD trial are correct 
and essentially correspond with those published in the world literature.

PMID: 8203417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Am J Public Health. 1994 Jun;84(6):892-3. doi: 10.2105/ajph.84.6.892.

Elucidating the relationships between race, socioeconomic status, and health.

Pappas G.

Comment on
    Am J Public Health. 1994 Jun;84(6):938-44.
    Am J Public Health. 1994 Jun;84(6):945-50.
    Am J Public Health. 1994 Jun;84(6):971-6.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.84.6.892
PMCID: PMC1614942
PMID: 8203680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Am J Public Health. 1994 Jun;84(6):938-44. doi: 10.2105/ajph.84.6.938.

Why did black life expectancy decline from 1984 through 1989 in the United 
States?

Kochanek KD(1), Maurer JD, Rosenberg HM.

Author information:
(1)Mortality Statistics Branch, National Center for Health Statistics, 
Hyattsville, MD 20782.

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 1995 Jun;85(6):875-6.
    Am J Public Health. 1994 Jun;84(6):892-3.

OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to partition the change in US life 
expectancy into those major causes of death and age groups that contributed most 
to the decline in life expectancy for Black males and females and to the 
increase in life expectancy for White males and females in the period from 1984 
through 1989.
METHODS: By means of a life table partitioning technique, the positive and 
negative contributions of age and cause of death to changes in life expectancy 
were estimated.
RESULTS: Causes contributing most to the decrease in life expectancy for Black 
males included human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection (< 5 and 20-69 years 
of age) and homicide (1-4 and 10-34 years of age); for Black females the causes 
included HIV infection (< 5 and 20-59 years of age) and cancer (65-79 and > or = 
85 years of age).
CONCLUSIONS: Mortality trends between the two major race groups in the United 
States diverged sharply, and without precedent, during the late 1980s. A 
description of these trends in terms of contributions to change in life 
expectancy may help us better analyze and interpret changes in the health of 
these groups and may contribute to a better allocation of resources for 
research, education, and public health programs.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.84.6.938
PMCID: PMC1614970
PMID: 8203690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Arch Surg. 1994 Jun;129(6):588-94; discussion 594-5. doi: 
10.1001/archsurg.1994.01420300026004.

Axillofemoral grafting with externally supported polytetrafluoroethylene.

Taylor LM Jr(1), Moneta GL, McConnell D, Yeager RA, Edwards JM, Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the results of axillofemoral bypass grafting using 
externally supported polytetrafluoroethylene.
DESIGN: Consecutive patients who were operated on by us from 1983 to the present 
were prospectively followed up in a vascular registry. The results of surgery 
with respect to morbidity and mortality, patency, limb salvage, and patient 
survival were determined by life-table methods.
PATIENTS: A standardized operative technique was used to perform 184 
axillofemoral bypass procedures in 164 consecutive patients (age range, 14 to 90 
years; mean age, 67 years; female, 33%). Follow-up ranged from 0 to 95 months 
(mean, 23 months).
RESULTS: Ischemia was the indication for 83% of the procedures, and aortic 
sepsis was the indication for 16%. There were nine operative deaths (5%) and 17 
major complications. Life-table primary patency, limb salvage, and survival 
rates at 5 years were 71%, 92%, and 52%, respectively. Indication for surgery, 
patency of the superficial femoral artery, and the performance of multilevel 
procedures did not significantly influence patency.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of axillofemoral grafting using polytetrafluoroethylene 
are equivalent to those achieved with other accepted methods of treatment for 
lower extremity ischemia, including balloon angioplasty, aortofemoral bypass, 
and infrainguinal bypass. Axillofemoral bypass is an appropriate technique that 
is deserving of more widespread use.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1994.01420300026004
PMID: 8204032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Arch Surg. 1994 Jun;129(6):596-602. doi:
10.1001/archsurg.1994.01420300034005.

The popliteal artery as inflow for distal bypass grafting.

Brown PS Jr(1), McCarthy WJ, Yao JS, Pearce WH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago, Ill.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the patency and limb salvage characteristics of the 
popliteal-distal artery saphenous-vein bypass in patients with minimal 
superficial femoral artery disease.
DESIGN: A retrospective review.
SETTING: A tertiary care university hospital in the Chicago, Ill, metropolitan 
area.
PATIENTS: Fifty-two popliteal-distal artery saphenous-vein bypasses for 
occlusive disease were performed in 51 patients between 1980 and 1993. The mean 
age at operation was 62 years (range, 37 to 85 years); 34 patients (67%) were 
male, 45 (88%) were smokers, 44 (86%) had diabetes, and 34 (67%) had coronary 
disease. The primary indications for operation were gangrene (21 patients 
[41%]), ulcer (15 patients [29%]), and rest pain (16 patients [31%]).
INTERVENTION: Bypass of diseased arterial segments was performed using 
popliteal-distal artery saphenous-vein bypass grafts. The proximal anastomoses 
were either to the above-knee popliteal artery (50%) or to the below-knee artery 
(50%), with outflow to tibial (79%) or pedal vessels (21%).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Overall patient survival, limb salvage, and primary and 
secondary graft patency.
RESULTS: Follow-up of graft patency ranged from 1 day to 11 years (mean 
follow-up, 2.7 years). The perioperative mortality was 2% and life-table 
survival was 94% at 1 year, 68% at 5 years, and 50% at 10 years. Primary patency 
was 90% at 1 month, 82% at 1 year, and 75% at 5 years. There were 14 primary 
graft failures, only two of which could be traced to progression of proximal 
disease; five failures occurred less than 30 days after operation. Six of these 
14 patients contributed to secondary patency that was 96% at 1 month, 90% at 1 
year, and 79% at 5 years. Limb salvage was 96% at 1 month, 90% at 1 year, and 
87% at 5 years (seven major amputations were required). No significant 
differences in patency, limb salvage, or survival were observed on comparison of 
the level of the proximal or distal anastomosis, type of vein graft, or presence 
of comorbidities.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that popliteal-distal artery bypass provides excellent 
patency and limb salvage for patients with severe ischemia. The use of a 
popliteal artery inflow source is preferable in patients with a paucity of 
venous segments since progression of proximal disease rarely leads to graft 
failure.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1994.01420300034005
PMID: 8204033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Arch Surg. 1994 Jun;129(6):609-14. doi:
10.1001/archsurg.1994.01420300051007.

Is Barrett's metaplasia the source of adenocarcinomas of the cardia?

Clark GW(1), Smyrk TC, Burdiles P, Hoeft SF, Peters JH, Kiyabu M, Hinder RA, 
Bremner CG, DeMeester TR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Southern California School of Medicine, 
Los Angeles.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the prevalence of Barrett's esophagus in patients with 
adenocarcinomas located at the gastroesophageal junction.
DESIGN: A case series of patients who underwent esophagogastrectomy for 
adenocarcinoma was retrospectively reviewed. Tumors were grouped by location as 
esophageal, cardiac, and subcardiac, and the prevalence of specialized 
intestinal metaplasia in the histological specimens was determined.
SETTING: A university department of surgery that specializes in esophageal 
diseases.
PATIENTS: One hundred patients with adenocarcinoma of the esophagus, cardia, or 
proximal stomach.
MAIN OUTCOME: Cardiac adenocarcinomas were associated with Barrett's esophagus 
in 42% of the patients.
RESULTS: Specialized intestinal metaplasia was identified in the histological 
sections from the resected specimen in 42% (13/31) of cardiac adenocarcinomas 
and in 79% (38/48) of esophageal adenocarcinomas but in only 5% (1/21) of 
subcardiac adenocarcinomas. The preoperative endoscopic biopsy results concurred 
with the final diagnosis of Barrett's esophagus in 33 of the 38 esophageal 
tumors, six of the 13 cardiac tumors, and the one subcardiac tumor but failed to 
detect specialized intestinal metaplasia in 54% (7/13) of cardiac tumors. 
Cardiac tumors were associated with shorter lengths of Barrett's mucosa than 
esophageal tumors (2.7 +/- 1.8 cm vs 7.4 +/- 3.4 cm, P < .01). The Barrett's 
metaplasia was dysplastic in 36 of the 38 esophageal tumors, 10 of the 13 
cardiac tumors, but not in the subcardiac tumor.
CONCLUSIONS: Adenocarcinomas located at the gastroesophageal junction were 
associated with Barrett's metaplasia in nearly one half of the patients. The 
length of the Barrett segment tends to be short and may be missed during 
endoscopy. The presence of high-grade dysplasia within Barrett's mucosa supports 
a barrett's origin for half of the adenocarcinomas arising at this location.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1994.01420300051007
PMID: 8204035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Arch Surg. 1994 Jun;129(6):648-54. doi:
10.1001/archsurg.1994.01420300092016.

Carotid endarterectomy with primary closure does not adversely affect the rate 
of recurrent stenosis.

Gelabert HA(1), el-Massry S, Moore WS.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, University of California School of Medicine, Los 
Angeles.

OBJECTIVES: To review our results with carotid endarterectomy using primary 
closure and to study the incidence of true recurrence in this group of patients. 
A secondary objective was to review the effect of risk factors on recurrence of 
stenosis following carotid endarterectomy.
DESIGN: Cohort study.
SETTING: University hospital.
PATIENTS: Over 3 years, 232 patients underwent 268 endarterectomies.
INDICATIONS: Transient ischemic attacks developed in 119 patients, asymptomatic 
stenosis in 108 patients, and stroke in 41 patients. One hundred fifty-seven 
patients (184 operations) qualified for late analysis by completing all aspects 
of follow-up.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Serial duplex scans recorded stenosis (> 50% diameter 
reduction). Clinical evaluation identified transient ischemic attacks and 
stroke.
RESULTS: Overall, 12 recurrent stenoses developed in the 184 patients available 
for study during a follow-up of 24 months (6.5% incidence of late stenosis). Of 
these 12 patients, only eight had either a normal completion angiogram or a 
normal carotid duplex scan within 3 months of surgery, thus qualifying for 
analysis as having developed true recurrent stenosis. True recurrent stenosis 
occurred in eight (4.3%) of 184 patients. Risk factor analysis did not reveal a 
statistically significant impact on recurrent stenosis, but several trends were 
identified. Gender and consumption of tobacco may predispose toward the 
development of recurrent stenosis.
CONCLUSION: Recurrent stenosis is sufficiently uncommon following primary 
closure to justify continued use of this technique. Patch angioplasty may be 
considered in women and smokers.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1994.01420300092016
PMID: 8204041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. J Cancer Educ. 1994;9(1):11-3. doi: 10.1080/08858199409528258.

Future manpower needs in caring for an older cancer-patient population.

Kennedy BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Minnesota, Department of Medicine, Minneapolis.

The Minnesota Cancer Surveillance System provides data for almost all cancers 
newly diagnosed in residents of Minnesota. A statistical method, Population 
Cancer Risk (PCR), estimates the total number of cancers that will occur in the 
lifetimes of 1,000 people, based on the Minnesota cancer incidence and life 
expectancy rates from 1988-1990. The overall PCR is 459 cancers per 1,000 
lifetimes of persons born today. By year 2020 the Minnesota population will have 
increased 12% since 1990, but the total cancer incidence will have increased 
60%. As a result, there will be an increased demand for medical oncologists, 
radiotherapists, and surgical subspecialists. Primary care physicians will play 
an increasing role in cancer prevention, early detection, therapies, and 
long-term follow-up. Physician's assistants and skilled nurses will add further 
to patient cancer management. Cancer patients will be older, on average. The 
future will include changes in the methods of care of the older cancer patients 
and in economic, social, and bioethical issues involving older persons.

DOI: 10.1080/08858199409528258
PMID: 8204451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Ann Oncol. 1994;5 Suppl 2:113-5. doi: 10.1093/annonc/5.suppl_2.s113.

Hodgkin's disease in children: combined modality treatment for stages IA, IB, 
and IIA. Results in 356 patients of the German/Austrian Pediatric Study Group.

Schellong G(1), Brämswig JH, Hörnig-Franz I, Schwarze EW, Pötter R, Wannenmacher 
M.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital, University of Münster, Germany.

356 children below 16 yrs of age with CS/PS IA, IB, and IIA were treated in the 
studies HD-78, HD-82, HD-85, HD-87, and OEPA-pilot 87 between June 1978 and Sept 
1990. All patients received combined modality treatment (CMT) with 2 courses of 
chemotherapy (CT). In HD-78 and HD-82, the MOPP-derived drug combination OPPA 
(ADR instead of mechlorethamine) was applied. Extended-field radiotherapy (RT) 
was given in HD-78 using 36-40 Gy to involved-fields (IF) and 36-40 Gy vs. 18-20 
Gy to adjacent fields. In HD-82 only IF-RT was applied using 35 Gy. When 
gonadotoxic effects of procarbazine (PC) in boys was detected in follow-up 
examinations, this drug was eliminated in studies HD-85 and HD-87 (OPA). Dosages 
of IF-RT were 35 Gy in HD-85 and 30 Gy in HD-87. With HD-87 a simultaneous pilot 
study was initiated to test the new combination OEPA (E = etoposide) together 
with 25 Gy IF-RT.
RESULTS: (May 1993): Rates for event-free survival and survival are HD-78 (73 
patients): 0.90 and 0.97 at 10 yrs; HD-82 (100 patients): 0.98 and 1.0 at 10 
yrs; HD-85 (53 patients): 0.85 and 0.98 at 8 yrs; HD-87 (104 patients): 0.85 and 
0.99 at 6 yrs; OEPA-pilot (26 patients): 0.96 and 0.96 at 5 yrs. No secondary 
leukemias, MDS, or solid tumors were observed in 14-yr observation time. After 2 
OPPA, elevated FSH levels indicating impaired spermatogenesis were found in 29% 
of male patients. In contrast, after 2 OPA (without PC) only normal FSH levels 
were observed. In female patients, no gonadal dysfunction was found. Subclinical 
hypothyroidism was seen only after RT doses of > 30 Gy to the neck. 
Cardiomyopathies were not observed.
CONCLUSION: 2 OPPA plus IF-RT using < 30 Gy can presently be considered optimal 
therapy for girls with localized HD. 2 OEPA plus 25 Gy IF-RT are being evaluated 
for boys in a phase III study (HD-90). In summary, there are good reasons to use 
CMT in early stages of HD in children, provided a highly effective CT of short 
duration and low long-term toxicity with low-dose IFI is applied.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/5.suppl_2.s113
PMID: 8204510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Ann Oncol. 1994;5 Suppl 2:143-6. doi: 10.1093/annonc/5.suppl_2.s143.

Myeloablative therapy with autologous bone marrow transplantation as 
consolidation therapy for follicular lymphoma.

Rohatiner AZ(1), Freedman A, Nadler L, Lim J, Lister TA.

Author information:
(1)ICRF Dept of Medical Oncology, St. Bartholomew's Hospital, London, UK.

Since June 1985, 121 patients with follicular lymphoma aged 24-61 years (median 
43) have received myeloablative therapy (cyclophosphamide: 60 mg/kg x 2, + total 
body irradiation: 200 cGy x 6) with autologous bone marrow transplantation 
(CY+TBI+ABMT) as consolidation of 2nd or subsequent remission. The marrow 
mononuclear cell fraction was treated in vitro with anti-CD20 alone and baby 
rabbit complement at St. Bartholomew's Hospital (SBH) and with the addition of 
anti-B5 and anti-CD10 at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute (DFCI) prior to 
reinfusion. There were 4 treatment related deaths, (nonengraftment 1, 
haemorrhage 1, systemic fungal infection 1, veno-occlusive disease 1). The 
median time for neutrophil recovery (> 0.5 x 10(9)/1) was 26 days (range 10 to 
59 days), and for platelets (> 20 x 10(9)/1), 30 days (range 12 to 73 days). One 
patient did not engraft and 7 have had delayed recovery of red cells and 
platelets (> 3 months). Two other patients have subsequently developed acute 
myelogenous leukaemia and 5, evidence of myelodyplasia. Seventy-one patients 
continue in unmaintained remission between 3 months and 7 years, with a median 
follow up of 2.5 years. Forty-three have developed recurrent lymphoma; 98 remain 
alive. Freedom from progression was the same, irrespective of whether patients 
received CY + TBI + ABMT whilst in a complete or partial remission and did not 
depend on the specific remission in which treatment was given (2nd: 90 patients 
vs. > 2nd: 31 patients).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/5.suppl_2.s143
PMID: 8204513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Ann Oncol. 1994;5 Suppl 2:65-6. doi: 10.1093/annonc/5.suppl_2.s65.

Late mortality in young BNLI patients cured of Hodgkin's disease.

Vaughan Hudson B(1), Vaughan Hudson G, Linch DC, Anderson L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University College London Medical School, Middlesex 
Hospital, U.K.

A retrospective analysis was made of 1057 young patients (aged 15-29) with 
Hodgkin's disease (HD) who were entered into British National Lymphoma 
Investigation (BNLI) trials and studies between 1970 and 1992, and who had 
attained complete remission and remained disease-free thereafter from either 
their first-line (n = 774) or second-line (n = 283) treatment. Overall survivals 
at 20 years for those remaining disease-free from first-line and second-line 
treatment were 93% and 84%, respectively, compared to a survival of 
approximately 98.5% in the general population. In young patients cured by modern 
first-line therapeutic techniques, long-term survival should in future be only a 
little below that expected in the general population, and the emphasis of future 
trials should be directed towards the improvement of the efficacy of first-line 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/5.suppl_2.s65
PMID: 8204522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Aust J Public Health. 1993 Dec;17(4):325-30. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.1993.tb00163.x.

Public hospital activity, expenditure and staffing levels for indigenous and 
nonindigenous settlements in remote Queensland.

Hart RF(1), Ring I, Runciman C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Melbourne, Vic.

Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders who live in discrete communities have 
poor health. Their life expectancy is relatively low and the underlying rates of 
morbidity, mortality and hospitalisation are much higher than the Australian 
average. For Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders in the remote communities, 
the mortality rate is some three times higher than that of the total population. 
By comparing remote Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities with 
similarly remote nonindigenous settlements, the paper shows that there was 
greater hospital activity per person in remote Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander communities. Paradoxically, whereas there was greater hospital activity 
in discrete indigenous communities, there was lower expenditure per person on 
hospital services. The paper finds also that there were fewer medical and 
nursing staff per person in remote Aboriginal and Torres Strait communities.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.1993.tb00163.x
PMID: 8204713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Aust J Public Health. 1993 Dec;17(4):358-64. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.1993.tb00169.x.

Risks of premature death from smoking in 15-year-old Australians.

Taylor R(1).

Author information:
(1)New South Wales Cancer Council, Sydney.

This cross-sectional actuarial analysis of 1990 mortality data aimed to estimate 
absolute risk of premature death from all causes, and from lung cancer, 
ischaemic heart disease and chronic bronchitis/emphysema due to tobacco smoking 
in the Australian population, and to estimate the number of current 15-year-old 
smokers in the 1990 Australian population who will die prematurely due to 
smoking. Competing risks were allowed for in the calculations. In males, 
conditional life expectancy for 15-year-olds was 78.0 years in nonsmokers, 73.3 
years in ever-smokers, and 71.5 years in smokers of more than one packet a day. 
For 15-year-old females, life expectancy was 82.0 years in nonsmokers, 78.4 
years in ever-smokers, and 76.9 years in smokers of more than one packet a day. 
The risk of premature death due to smoking in ever-smokers was estimated as 14.6 
per cent in males (before 75 years) and 11.9 per cent in females (before 80 
years), with lung cancer (male: 4.2 per cent; female: 3.4 per cent), ischaemic 
heart disease (male: 3.7 per cent; female: 1.7 per cent) and chronic 
bronchitis/emphysema (male: 2.4 per cent; female: 2.5 per cent) as the major 
contributors. From one year of 15-year-old male smokers (26,713), 3,916 
premature deaths due to tobacco can be expected; this includes 1,106 lung cancer 
deaths, 991 ischaemic heart disease deaths and 641 chronic bronchitis/emphysema 
deaths. From one year of 15-year-old female smokers (32,355), 3,861 premature 
deaths can be expected; this includes 1,086 lung cancer deaths, 559 ischaemic 
heart disease deaths and 798 chronic bronchitis/emphysema deaths.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.1993.tb00169.x
PMID: 8204718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Math Biosci. 1994 May;121(1):15-36. doi: 10.1016/0025-5564(94)90030-2.

A simplified model for age-dependent population dynamics.

Swart JH(1), Meijer AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, University of Natal, Durban, Republic of South 
Africa.

The Gurtin-MacCamy model for age-dependent population dynamics is reduced to a 
single ordinary differential equation by assuming a certain form of the 
mortality function, which is justified by several biological examples. Some 
results about harvesting are obtained.

DOI: 10.1016/0025-5564(94)90030-2
PMID: 8204989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Chest. 1994 Jun;105(6):1683-6. doi: 10.1378/chest.105.6.1683.

Association of thrombosis-inducing activity (TIA) with fatal hypercoagulable 
complications in patients with lung cancer.

Ogino H(1), Hayashi S, Kawasaki M, Nakanishi M, Hara N.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Diseases of the Chest, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu 
University, Fukuoka, Japan.

Comment in
    Chest. 1994 Jun;105(6):1639.

We previously reported that thrombosis-inducing activity (TIA) is present in 
plasma from patients with advanced lung cancer. Of 73 patients with non-small 
cell lung cancer, stages IIIb and IV, 41 (56 percent) had such activity in 
plasma. The median survival time was significantly shorter in the TIA-positive 
vs the TIA-negative group. When 34 of those 73 patients who had died at Kyushu 
University Hospital were evaluated for the incidence of disseminated 
intravascular coagulation (DIC) and adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), 
they were significantly higher in the TIA positive group (p < 0.05). The DIC 
occurred in 7 of 20 patients positive for TIA and 5 died of ARDS. In contrast, 
