in the 14 TIA-negative subjects, only 1 patients experienced DIC and none died 
of ARDS. Peripheral platelet counts, which had been rather elevated on the day 
of hospital admission, were below normal within 1 week of death in 40 percent of 
the 20 patients who were positive for TIA. These observations suggest that TIA 
may be responsible at least in part for the increased activity of the 
coagulation system and the high incidence of DIC and ARDS in patients with 
advanced lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.105.6.1683
PMID: 8205861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Forensic Sci Int. 1994 Mar 25;65(2):81-96. doi:
10.1016/0379-0738(94)90263-1.

Renal osteodystrophy and dialysis artifacts as indicators of identification.

London MR(1), Libbey NP, Shemin DG, Chazan JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence 02903.

Evidence of rare disease may be useful in the identification of unknown remains. 
Osteodystrophy is a condition commonly associated with chronic renal failure. 
The presence of renal osteodystrophy and medical artifacts associated with the 
treatment of kidney failure in human remains may provide information about the 
individual's medical history. Currently, there are more than 100,000 patients 
with end stage renal disease in the United States receiving dialysis treatments 
to replace kidney function, and hundreds of thousands more who have significant 
chronic kidney failure and are not yet treated with dialysis. Chronic renal 
failure frequently leads to disorders in the metabolism of vitamin D, calcium, 
and parathyroid hormone which are extremely difficult to correct. At least three 
patterns of skeletal change may result: osteitis fibrosa, characterized by 
increased bone remodelling, increased osteoclastic activity, peritrabecular 
fibrosis, and a normal mineralization pattern; osteomalacia, with a markedly 
increased osteoid surface and volume, and impaired mineralization; and mixed 
osteodystrophy, with increased bone remodelling and moderately impaired 
mineralization. While these bone changes may not have any clinical 
manifestations in most patients, they can been seen radiographically and 
histologically. This evidence may be useful in identifying remains which have 
been skeletonized, burned, decomposed, or dismembered. Medical artifacts 
associated with dialysis treatment, such as catheters, polytetrafluoroethylene 
grafts, and evidence of surgical procedures, are also useful for identification.

DOI: 10.1016/0379-0738(94)90263-1
PMID: 8206460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Important Adv Oncol. 1994:117-29.

Detection of minimal residual disease in patients with lymphomas using the 
polymerase chain reaction.

Gribben JG(1), Nadler LM.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Division of Hematologic Malignancies, Dana Farber 
Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts.

PMID: 8206485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Important Adv Oncol. 1994:143-64.

Monoclonal antibodies to detect breast cancer cells in bone marrow.

Diel IJ(1), Kaufmann M, Costa SD, Bastert G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Heidelberg, Germany.

PMID: 8206487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Important Adv Oncol. 1994:211-23.

Treatment of early stage prostate cancer: radical prostatectomy.

Walsh PC(1), Partin AW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland.

PMID: 8206491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. J R Soc Med. 1994 May;87(5):276-7. doi: 10.1177/014107689408700513.

Down's syndrome.

Gath A(1).

Author information:
(1)University College, London, UK.

Comment in
    J R Soc Med. 1994 Dec;87(12):741.

DOI: 10.1177/014107689408700513
PMCID: PMC1294520
PMID: 8207724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. J Toxicol Environ Health. 1994 Jun;42(2):219-42. doi:
10.1080/15287399409531875.

Risk of benzene-induced leukemia: a sensitivity analysis of the pliofilm cohort 
with additional follow-up and new exposure estimates.

Crump KS(1).

Author information:
(1)ICF Kaiser Engineers, Inc., KS Crump Group, Ruston, Louisiana 71270.

This report updates the risk assessment by Crump and Allen (1984) for 
benzene-induced leukemia that was used by OSHA (1987) to support its reduction 
of the permissible exposure limit (PEL) to 1 ppm and that also was the basis for 
EPA's (1985) interim "unit risk" for benzene. The present study derives new risk 
estimates using data from follow-up through 1987 (whereas the earlier assessment 
only had follow-up available through 1978), and using new exposure estimates for 
this cohort developed by Paustenbach et al. (1992) that account for a number of 
factors that were unknown or not fully evaluated in earlier exposure 
assessments. There was a significant excess of acute myelocytic or acute 
monocytic leukemia (AMML, the only forms of acute nonlymphatic leukemia 
observed) in this cohort, and this end point also exhibited a strong 
dose-response trend. AMML was the only hematopoietic or lymphatic cancer that 
was clearly linked to benzene exposure. However, quantitative estimates of risk 
based on modeling either AMML or all leukemia differed by only 20%. Differences 
between the two Pliofilm plant locations in the occurrence of AMML were not 
statistically significant (.12 < or = p < or = .21) after differences in levels 
of benzene exposure were taken into account. The Paustenbach et al. exposures 
predicted a quadratic dose response, based on a measure of exposure that 
weighted intensity of exposure more heavily than duration of exposure. The 
best-fitting quadratic models predicted an additional lifetime risk of a 
benzene-related death from 45 yr of exposure to 1 ppm of between 0.020 and 0.036 
per thousand. Statistical confidence intervals (90%) on these estimates were 
barely wide enough to include risk estimates based on linear dose response 
models. These linear models predicted risks of between 1.6 and 3.1 per thousand.

DOI: 10.1080/15287399409531875
PMID: 8207757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. MMWR CDC Surveill Summ. 1994 Jun 10;43(1):1-8.

Surveillance for smoking-attributable mortality and years of potential life 
lost, by state--United States, 1990.

Nelson DE, Kirkendall RS, Lawton RL, Chrismon JH, Merritt RK, Arday DA, Giovino 
GA.

PROBLEM/CONDITION: Mortality and years of potential life lost attributable to 
cigarette smoking.
REPORTING PERIOD COVERED: 1990.
DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM: Mortality and years of potential life lost were estimated 
for each state by using the Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Morbidity, and 
Economic Costs (SAMMEC) software. These estimates were based on attributable 
risk formulas for smoking-related causes of death. Estimates of smoking 
prevalence were obtained from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System and 
the U.S. Bureau of the Census, and mortality data were obtained from CDC.
RESULTS: The median estimate for the number of smoking-attributable deaths among 
states was 5,619 (range: 402 [Alaska] to 42,574 [California]). Within each 
state, the number of smoking-attributable deaths among males was approximately 
twice as high as among females. Utah had the lowest mortality rate (218.0 per 
100,000 population) and the lowest percentage of all deaths attributable to 
cigarette smoking (13.4%). Nevada had the highest mortality rate (478.1 per 
100,000 population) and the highest percentage of deaths from smoking (24.0%). 
The number of years of potential life lost ranged from 6,720 (Alaska) to 498,297 
(California).
INTERPRETATION: The number of deaths attributable to cigarette smoking in 1990 
remained high. Efforts are needed to control tobacco use in all states.
ACTIONS TAKEN: SAMMEC data are used in many states to assist policymakers in 
strengthening tobacco control efforts.

PMID: 8208238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Verh K Acad Geneeskd Belg. 1994;56(1):5-16.

[Do hormones determine our fate?].

[Article in Dutch]

Vermeulen A(1).

Author information:
(1)Afdeling Endocrinologie, Universitair Ziekenhuis, Universiteit Gent.

The hormonal system is a communication system between cells and organs. Hence it 
is not surprising that it influences almost all physiological functions and, at 
least partially, our behaviour and fate. The sexual phenotype is determined by 
the sex hormones. Normally, the phenotype is in accordance with gonadal and 
genetic sex, but occasionally, as a consequence of enzymatic defects in the 
biosynthesis of sex hormones or of androgen resistance, gonadal and genetic sex 
are in discordance with the phenotype, the latter determining generally the 
civil sex and the sex of rearing. Whereas the gender role is generally 
determined by the sex of rearing and the phenotype, itself under hormonal 
influence, homo- and transsexuality constitute notorious exceptions to this 
rule. Although several authors consider homo- and transsexuality to be the 
consequence of an impairment in androgenic impregnation in the perinatal period, 
there are at present no convincing arguments for an hormonal origin for either 
homo- or transsexuality, although such a possibility can't be excluded either. 
Besides their role in psychosexual behaviour, sex hormones play also a role in 
our life expectancy. Indeed, although maximal life expectancy of man is 
genetically determined, a major determinant of individual life expectancy is 
cardiovascular pathology. The latter is partly responsible for the difference in 
life expectancy between men and women, cardiovascular mortality increasing 
rapidly at menopause and being halved by oestrogen replacement therapy. Also 
atherogenesis as such is, to a large extend, under hormonal control. Indeed 
insulin resistance and hyperinsulinism, which develop as a corollary of the 
aging process, is an important cause of atherosclerosis as well as of 
hypertension. Other hormones also play an important role in our behaviour. We 
can mention here the role of the thyroid hormones in the physical and mental 
development of children as well as in the regression of the intellectual 
functions in hypothyroidism; the role of growth (and sex) hormones in the 
clinical symptomatology of aging; the memory enhancing effects of the 
antidiuretic hormone; the role of growth factors (as well as of sex hormones) in 
tumorigenesis; the role of corticoids (and sex hormones) in the modulation of 
immunological processes etc. In brief, hormones influence all aspects of our 
life.

PMID: 8209584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Q J Med. 1993 Aug;86(8):485-93. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/86.8.485.

Accelerated hypertension--patterns of mortality and clinical factors affecting 
outcome in treated patients.

Webster J(1), Petrie JC, Jeffers TA, Lovell HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, University of Aberdeen, 
Foresterhill, UK.

We evaluated the outcome of patients presenting with accelerated hypertension, 
as part of an audit of the Aberdeen Hypertension Clinic database. Of 3928 
patients (2005 male, 1923 female) referred for assessment of hypertension, 128 
(77 male, 51 female) presented with accelerated hypertension. The main outcome 
measures were systolic and diastolic pressure, length of time from referral to 
death or censor date, and cause of death. Accelerated hypertensives had a higher 
death rate than other hypertensives. Using life-table analysis, age and serum 
creatinine at referral were sufficient to predict survival. Almost 50% (15/31) 
of the deceased accelerated hypertensives died of acute myocardial infarction. 
Mean survival after referral was estimated as 18 years for accelerated 
hypertensives (mean referral age 52 years) and 21 years for other hypertensives 
(mean referral age 48 years). Blood pressure fell most during the first year of 
treatment, and declined steadily thereafter. Systolic blood pressure fell by a 
mean of 50 mmHg and diastolic pressure by 30 mmHg in the first year, and at 
about 2 (diastolic) and 1 (systolic) mmHg/year for the next 10 years. Thus 
although the prognosis for accelerated hypertensives is not quite as good as for 
other hypertensives, with suitable care they can survive for a considerable 
period.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/86.8.485
PMID: 8210306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Rev Invest Clin. 1993 May-Jun;45(3):229-31.

[Prevalence of antibodies to Pneumocystis carinii in subjects with high risk 
behavior for AIDS].

[Article in Spanish]

Juárez-Figueroa LA(1), Hernández-Avila M, Uribe-Zúñiga P, Smulian G.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública, México, Cuernavaca, Mor.

P. carinii pneumonia affects more than 80% of patients with AIDS in developed 
countries. In Mexico this complication has been described in 12 to 23% of 
patients with AIDS, and it has been proposed that competitive disease such as TB 
and the low life expectancy of AIDS patients in Mexico are the possible 
explanations of this low percentage. However, in Mexico the frequency with which 
the population at risk of contracting AIDS is exposed to P. carinii is unknown. 
Therefore, we looked for P. carinii antibodies in a group of blood samples 
obtained in an AIDS detection center in Mexico City. A Western blot analysis was 
performed on 157 blood samples from homosexual and bisexual men and on 21 from 
female partners of HIV positive men. Positive results were obtained for 76.9% of 
the samples. No difference was observed in the frequency of P. carinii 
antibodies between HIV positive and negative individuals. Also, no differences 
by sex or age were found. Prevalence of P. carinii antibodies in this group is 
76.9%, similar to that found in a comparable group in the U.S.

PMID: 8210765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Urol Nurs. 1993 Sep;13(3):93-4.

Spina bifida. Part 2. Family issues and psychosexual concerns.

Sackett CK.

This brief overview of family issues and psychosexual concerns should provide 
the reader with the stimulus to explore the many issues surrounding the birth of 
a child with spina bifida. Only two issues were presented in the care and 
management of children with spina bifida. There are many others, such as the 
financial burden imposed by multiple health care visits, that have an impact on 
the total treatment of the individual with spina bifida. Because of advances in 
the medical and surgical management of individuals with spina bifida, the life 
expectancy of individuals with spina bifida is expanded; as more individuals 
reach adulthood and beyond, other issues will emerge. It is the responsibility 
of the health care professional to devise methods to assist individuals with 
spina bifida to maximize their abilities and live a productive life.

PMID: 8211252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. S Afr J Surg. 1993 Jun;31(2):74-8.

A critical review of hypopharyngeal carcinomas--1975-1985.

Malan JF(1), Sellars SL, Kranold D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town.

Seventy-seven patients with hypopharyngeal carcinomas who presented to Groote 
Schuur Hospital between 1975 and 1985 are reviewed. Of these patients 76.6%, 
mostly with pyriform fossa tumours, had advanced disease. The overall 5-year 
survival was poor (10.5%) despite combined radiotherapy and surgery in many. 
Local tumour control remains poor and a split course of radiotherapy offers no 
solution.

PMID: 8211412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1993 Jul-Sep;74(3):28-35.

Record high life expectancy.

[No authors listed]

Expectation of life at birth in the United States rose to a record high of 75.7 
years in 1992. Life expectancy for newborn boys and girls also established new 
peaks, namely 72.2 years and 79.1 years, respectively. Just as noteworthy has 
been the recent marked reduction in the racial longevity gap. The narrowing in 
the expectation of life differential between whites and nonwhites resulted from 
the larger gains among people of color. Also encouraging is the continued 
decline in infant mortality--it fell to its lowest level ever (8.5 per 1,000 
births). However, the outlook for AIDS mortality is disconcerting. Because of 
the mounting toll of these deaths, there will be a negative impact on 
expectation of life sometime in the near future.

PMID: 8211669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Surgery. 1993 Oct;114(4):850-6; discussion 856-7.

Radiation therapy as definitive treatment for selected invasive rectal cancer.

Kodner IJ(1), Gilley MT, Shemesh EI, Fleshman JW, Fry RD, Myerson RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery Radiation Oncology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, Mo.

BACKGROUND: Eighty-four patients with invasive rectal adenocarcinoma were 
definitively treated with radiation during a period of 9 years in an attempt to 
achieve "local control" (eradication of rectal cancer and its associated 
morbidity) without radical resective surgery.
METHODS: Initially, endocavitary radiation alone was used in 13 patients with 
"ideal" carcinomas and in six patients with aggressive cancers. To improve local 
control, 4500 cGy external radiation before the 6000 cGy endocavitary radiation 
was used to treat 28 ideal lesions, 15 "nonideal" but potentially curable 
cancers, 14 aggressive cancers, and 8 patients with incurable metastatic 
disease.
RESULTS: Endocavitary radiation alone resulted in local control for 8 of 13 
patients with ideal carcinomas (62%); eventually 11 of 13 (85%) had control 
after three successful salvage abdominoperineal resections. Local control was 
accomplished in none of six patients with aggressive cancers. Use of external 
radiation before endocavitary radiation achieved local control in 93% of 
patients with ideal lesions, eventually 100% after two salvage abdominoperineal 
resections. Of the 15 nonideal but potentially curable lesions, 100% had 
eradication of local disease with the combined modalities. Of the 14 with 
aggressive cancers and 8 with metastatic disease, 19 suffered failure of local 
control (86%). Eight of these had local salvage by surgical resection; the 
others died with local failure within 6 months.
CONCLUSIONS: External radiation, combined with endocavitary radiation, is 
excellent, definitive treatment for selected, favorable, invasive rectal 
cancers; however, there is little place for nonresective management of 
aggressive rectal cancer, even for palliation, unless life expectancy is less 
than 6 months.

PMID: 8211704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Stud Fam Plann. 1993 Jul-Aug;24(4):261-5.

Zambia 1992: results from the Demographic and Health Survey.

[No authors listed]

PIP: Summary data on Zambia's population, fertility, contraception, postpartum 
intervals and breast feeding, and infant mortality are provided in tables, bar 
graphs, line graphs, and pie charts. Statistics were obtained from the Zambia 
Demographic and Health Survey for 1992 on 6209 households and interviews with 
7060 women aged 15-49 years. General population characteristics are provided for 
size, birth rate, death rate, growth rate, life expectancy, literacy, 
urbanization, and gross national produce per capita. Women's educational levels 
are compared for the urban and rural population. Fertility trends are compared 
between 1955 and 1992, and differentials are expressed in terms of urban-rural 
and educational level differences. Fertility is also given for specific age 
groups in five-year intervals. Fertility preferences are provided in a line 
graph by age of mother and number of living children. Bar graphs express the 
desire to stop childbearing among currently married women. The planning status 
of women is given by the number of living children: want child soon, want child 
later, don't know when child will be wanted, undecided, want no more, 
sterilized, infertile, and no information. Contraceptive prevalence for modern 
versus traditional methods, charts show differences by urban or rural residence 
and educational level. Line graphs show contraceptive prevalence by age and 
parity. A recent source of supply data is provided by type of modern method 
used. Knowledge, ever used of contraceptive methods, and current use are 
provided by type of method used. Intention to use contraception among currently 
married nonusers is provided in terms of number of living children. The reasons 
for future nonuse are show by gross age group. Current marital status is given 
by 5-year group. Differences in age at first birth are displayed by urban-rural 
residence and educational level. The percentage using contraception is given by 
marital status. Duration of postpartum interval is shown as well as differences 
in breast feeding and amenorrhea by urban-rural residence and educational level. 
Trends in infant mortality are show as well as differences by urban-rural 
residence and educational level. The mean number of children ever born and 
surviving are given by age of the mother.

PMID: 8212096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Transplantation. 1993 Oct;56(4):838-42. doi:
10.1097/00007890-199310000-00012.

Fate of renal allografts transplanted in patients with urinary diversion.

Hatch DA(1), Belitsky P, Barry JM, Novick AC, Taylor RJ, Jordan ML, Sagalowsky 
AI, Zaontz MR.

Author information:
(1)Urologic Society for Transplantation and Vascular Surgery, Los Angeles, 
California 90024-1738.

Fifty-five kidneys were transplanted into 50 patients with supravesical urinary 
diversion at 16 transplant centers between 1970 and 1991. Of the 32 males and 18 
females, 40 were adults (> or = 18 years) and 10 were less than 18 years old at 
the time of first transplant. Mean follow-up was 7.8 years. At last follow-up, 
94% of recipients were alive and 73% of the kidneys were functioning. Fifteen 
kidneys were lost: 9 to rejection, 3 to noncompliance, and 3 patients died with 
a functioning kidney. Ten (18%) transplants were followed by surgical 
complications. Twenty-four (44%) were followed by medical complications of which 
urinary tract infection was most common. Recipients age 18 or younger had more 
urinary tract infections than older patients. No patient had urinary stones and 
no patient required medical treatment for metabolic abnormalities. We conclude 
that drainage of kidney transplants into a supravesical urinary diversion is an 
effective treatment for end-stage renal disease patients without adequate 
urinary bladders.

DOI: 10.1097/00007890-199310000-00012
PMID: 8212204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Transplantation. 1993 Oct;56(4):934-40. doi:
10.1097/00007890-199310000-00030.

Cross-species graft-versus-host-disease is accompanied by a donor-derived 
cellular immune response.

Cooper MH(1), Nalesnik MA, Watkins SC, Hoffman RA, Ildstad ST.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Pittsburgh, School of Medicine, 
Pennsylvania 15261.

Acute graft-versus-host-disease is classically described as reactivity of donor 
lymphocytes to recipient alloantigens. To date there is debate as to whether 
GVHD can be induced across a species barrier. We recently reported the induction 
of stable xenogeneic chimerism (rat-->mouse) and donor-specific transplantation 
tolerance using the transplantation of untreated rat bone marrow cells into B10 
mouse recipients. Survival of chimeras was excellent, and there was no evidence 
of GVHD. We now describe the induction of xenogeneic GVHD by transplanting large 
numbers of donor rat spleen cells with the bone marrow inoculum. All chimeras 
that received bone marrow and untreated spleen cells developed an external 
appearance compatible with GVHD and had a median survival time of 14 days. Mice 
that received equivalent numbers of untreated rat bone marrow alone appeared 
healthy, had no evidence for GVHD, and survived > 90 days. The usual epithelial 
target tissues for allogeneic GVHD in those mice that received xenogeneic bone 
marrow and spleen cells showed the presence of tissue injury and histologic 
features compatible with GVHD. Donor rat MHC class I and class II positive cells 
were prominent cell types present in the tongues of mice that developed features 
of GVHD, and this was accompanied by a significant inflammatory tissue response 
with loss of the dermal-epidermal architecture. In contrast, fully xenogeneic 
chimeras without GVHD had no evidence for tissue injury or pathologic cellular 
infiltrates when examined by immunohistochemical analysis. These data suggest 
that although fully xenogeneic chimeras resist GVHD, GVHD can be induced across 
a species barrier if sufficient numbers of donor rat spleen cells are added to 
the bone marrow inoculum. Further comparisons of these models may provide an 
approach to study the mechanisms responsible for xenoreactivity in vivo.

DOI: 10.1097/00007890-199310000-00030
PMID: 8212220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1993;143(12):307-11.

[Osteoporosis. Attitude and opinion of Austrian physicians].

[Article in German]

Rieder A(1), Schwarz B, Kunze M.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozialmedizin, Universität Wien.

251 participants of a representative sample of Austrian physicians (general 
practitoners, gynecologists, internists) stated their attitudes towards 
osteoporosis risk factors and methods of prevention. About half of the doctors 
believe that osteoporosis has less influence on public health than coronary 
heart disease, stroke or diabetes. Concerning osteoporosis they estimate 
prevention as most important. For the doctors the most effective preventive 
strategies, for pre- as well as for postmenopausal women, are physical activity, 
high calcium intake, and postmenopausal estrogen replacement therapy. Some of 
the risk factors are very close to the individual lifestyle (e.g. physical 
activity, nutrition and smoking), 83% of the physicians think that lack of 
exercise has a great influence on osteoporosis risk, 64% think the same about 
low calcium intake, 95% about lack of estrogen and 80% about positive family 
history. Within the physicians as well as the general population osteoporosis 
awareness is most important concerning growing life expectancy and demographic 
aspects. Due to this fact it is essential that more than two thirds of the 
doctors estimate preventive measures as successful.

PMID: 8212719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1993 Jul-Aug;131(4):352-5. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1040039.

[Muscle function of the thigh 10 years following a malignant bone tumor and 
implantation of a tumor prosthesis in the knee].

[Article in German]

Petschnig R(1), Baron R, Kotz R, Engel A, Samek V.

Author information:
(1)Ludwig Boltzmann Forschungsstelle für Physikalische Diagnostik, Universität 
Wien.

To objectify the muscle function of 5 patients ten years after implantation of a 
tumor endoprosthesis of the knee simultaneous muscle force and IEMG was 
recorded. The muscular activity in the operated leg was found to be reduced for 
the extension muscles (8-20%) and for the flexion muscles (28-52%) when 
comparing to the normal leg. Knee extension of the operated leg resulted from 
the function of the rectus femoris muscle. During normal exercise in daily life 
all patients were not handicapped und some of them did sport.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1040039
PMID: 8212813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Acta Cardiol. 1993;48(4):355-63.

On the relationship between nutrition, sex hormones and high-density 
lipoproteins in women.

Kesteloot H(1), Sasaki S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, St. Raphael University Hospital, Leuven, Belgium.

Western women have significantly higher high-density lipoprotein (HDL) 
cholesterol levels than Oriental women whereas in men HDL-cholesterol levels are 
very similar. Oriental women have HDL-cholesterol levels similar to those of 
both Western and Oriental men. Western women show a markedly higher resistance 
against atheromatous diseases than men. Evidence is provided demonstrating that 
women are able to increase their HDL-cholesterol levels on a nutrition high in 
saturated and monounsaturated fat. This could be explained by a concurrent 
dietary fat related increase in female sex hormone levels (e.g. estradiol and 
estrone), hormones which are known to increase HDL-cholesterol levels.

PMID: 8212969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1993 Sep;129(3):195-200. doi:
10.1530/acta.0.1290195.

Cardiovascular risk factors in adult patients with growth hormone deficiency.

Rosén T(1), Edén S, Larson G, Wilhelmsen L, Bengtsson BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Göteborg, Sweden.

Patients with adult onset growth hormone deficiency have a decreased life 
expectancy owing to an increased mortality from cardiovascular disease. In the 
present study, 104 subjects (66 men and 38 women, aged 22-74 years) with growth 
hormone deficiency and with adequate replacement therapy with glucocorticoids, 
thyroid hormones and gonadal steroids were studied with respect to known risk 
factors for cardiovascular disease. For comparison, data from a population 
study, "the MONICA study", were obtained. The patients had a significantly 
higher body mass index compared to controls (p < 0.001). Serum triglyceride 
concentration was higher (p < 0.001) but there was no difference in serum total 
cholesterol concentration. Serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
concentration was lower (p < 0.001) in the patients. There was no difference in 
the prevalence of diabetes mellitus. The prevalence of treated hypertension was 
higher (p < 0.05) in the patients but the prevalence of smoking was lower (p < 
0.001). Even after taking the increased body mass index into consideration, the 
changes in the prevalence of treated hypertension (p < 0.05) and in the serum 
concentrations of triglycerides (p < 0.05) and high-density lipoprotein 
concentrations (p < 0.001) remained. These results indicate that growth hormone 
deficiency alters lipoprotein metabolism and increases the risk for development 
of hypertension, which in turn might contribute to the increased risk for 
cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1530/acta.0.1290195
PMID: 8212983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Age Ageing. 1993 Jul;22(4):237-9. doi: 10.1093/ageing/22.4.237.

Ageing as a global issue.

Steel K(1), Maggi S.

Author information:
(1)Health of the Elderly Programme, World Health Organization, Geneva, 
Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/22.4.237
PMID: 8213326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Age Ageing. 1993 Jul;22(4):297-301. doi: 10.1093/ageing/22.4.297.

Hypothesis: Healthy Active Life Expectancy (HALE) as an index of effectiveness 
of health and social services for elderly people.

Evans JG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Geratology, Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/22.4.297
PMID: 8213338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Am Heart J. 1993 Oct;126(4):807-15. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(93)90692-3.

Prediction of sudden cardiac arrest: risk stratification by anatomic substrate.

Vlay SC(1), Burger L, Vlay LC, Yen O, Novotny H, Grimson R.

Author information:
(1)Stony Brook Arrhythmia Study, Department of Medicine, State University of New 
York 11794-8171.

The prognostic importance of coronary artery anatomy to specific outcomes 
including ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation was evaluated in 372 consecutive 
patients undergoing cardiac catheterization at University Hospital at Stony 
Brook between 1981 and 1984. The hypothesis that proximal left anterior 
descending artery narrowing before the first septal perforator had a specific 
relationship to survival was again tested in this cohort. The population was 
prospectively followed for 8 years, with all clinical management decisions made 
independently by the patient's primary or referring physician. Multivariate 
statistical and life table analyses were performed after comprehensive 
follow-up. Significant narrowing in the proximal left anterior descending artery 
was associated with an increased risk of sudden cardiac death (p = 0.0002). 
Abnormalities of contractility in the diaphragmatic segment of the left 
ventricle in addition to an elevation of the left ventricular end-diastolic 
pressure and the presence of congestive heart failure (p < 0.05) were other 
contributory variables. Outcome in patients with proximal left anterior 
descending coronary artery disease who underwent aortocoronary artery bypass to 
the artery demonstrated improved survival (p < 0.05). Risk stratification of 
patients at high risk for sudden cardiac death is possible and may allow 
identification for an aggressive approach or interventional trials.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(93)90692-3
PMID: 8213435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Am J Cardiol. 1993 Nov 1;72(14):1031-7. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(93)90858-a.

Effects of pravastatin in patients with serum total cholesterol levels from 5.2 
to 7.8 mmol/liter (200 to 300 mg/dl) plus two additional atherosclerotic risk 
factors. The Pravastatin Multinational Study Group for Cardiac Risk Patients.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Am J Cardiol. 1993 Nov 1;72(14):1072-3.

This placebo-controlled, multinational study evaluated the use of pravastatin in 
1,062 patients with hypercholesterolemia (serum total cholesterol concentrations 
of 5.2 to 7.8 mmol/liter [200 to 300 mg/dl]) and > or = 2 additional risk 
factors for atherosclerotic coronary artery disease. Efficacy and safety 
analyses were performed on the initial 26-week, randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled period; further safety analyses were conducted on the 
subsequent 52 weeks, which included an additional 26-week double-blind phase 
permitting other lipid-lowering agents and a final 26-week open-label period. At 
offweeks, pravastatin at a dose of 20 mg once daily at bedtime significantly 
lowered serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol 26% (4.7 to 3.5 mmol/liter 
[182 to 135 mg/dl]), total cholesterol 19% (6.8 to 5.6 mmol/liter [263 to 217 
mg/dl]) and triglycerides 12% (1.8 to 1.6 mmol/liter [159 to 142 mg/dl]) (p < 
0.001 compared with placebo) and significantly raised serum high-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol 7% (1.1 to 1.2 mmol/liter [43 to 46 mg/dl]) (p < 0.001 
compared with placebo). Efficacy of pravastatin was maintained at 26 weeks, and 
during this initial period there were significantly more serious cardiovascular 
adverse events in the placebo group (13 events, 2.4%) than in the pravastatin 
group (1 event, 0.2%) (p < 0.001). Six myocardial infarctions, 5 cases of 
unstable angina and 1 sudden cardiac death occurred in the placebo group, 
compared with none of these events in the pravastatin group. In this study, 
pravastatin produced beneficial effects on serum lipids and was associated with 
a reduction in the incidence of serious cardiovascular adverse events.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(93)90858-a
PMID: 8213583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Am J Epidemiol. 1993 Sep 15;138(6):384-94. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a116871.

Risk factors for injurious falls leading to hospitalization or death in a cohort 
of 19,500 adults.

Malmivaara A(1), Heliövaara M, Knekt P, Reunanen A, Aromaa A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Medicine, Institute of Occupational Health, 
Helsinki, Finland.

Falls are the most common cause of nonfatal injuries and a major cause of injury 
death. In order to identify risk factors for injuries from falls, 19,518 persons 
aged 20-92 years from four regions of Finland were examined and followed up from 
between 1973 and 1977 to 1984 for 8 to 11 years by identifying hospital 
admissions or deaths due to fall injuries. During 187,405 person-years, 628 
injuries from falls were documented. The risk for injuries from falls was 
significantly and independently of other factors associated with alcohol intake 
in all age and sex groups. After adjustment for all the other risk determinants, 
the relative risks (RR) (95% confidence intervals (CI)) in persons with monthly 
ethanol intake of 100-499 g, 500-999 g, and > or = 1,000 g were 1.43 
(1.13-1.82), 2.32 (1.71-3.17), and 3.05 (2.05-4.55), respectively, compared with 
abstainers. Body mass index (kg/m2) > or = 30 was associated with an increased 
risk among women aged < 45 years (RR = 2.8, 95% CI 1.28-5.89), whereas in 
persons aged > or = 65 years it seemed to be a protective factor both among men 
(RR = 0.3, 95% CI 0.06-1.19) and women (RR = 0.5, 95% CI 0.30-0.76). Also single 
marital status, smoking, heavy physical activity during leisure time, use of 
psychopharmacologic agents, diabetes mellitus, and cardiovascular diseases other 
than stroke were found to carry independent predictive significance in at least 
one subgroup of sex and age. In conclusion, alcohol consumption, relative 
weight, and use of psychopharmacologic agents were seen to be the most relevant 
risk determinants. Intervention trials based on the predictive factors and on 
high-risk groups are needed.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a116871
PMID: 8213744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Am J Epidemiol. 1993 Oct 1;138(7):508-21. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a116885.

Long-term risk of hysterectomy among 80,007 sterilized and comparison women at 
Kaiser Permanente, 1971-1987.

Goldhaber MK(1), Armstrong MA, Golditch IM, Sheehe PR, Petitti DB, Friedman GD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program of Northern 
California, Oakland 94611.

Comment in
    Am J Epidemiol. 1994 Oct 1;140(7):661-3.

To study the long-term risk of hysterectomy after tubal sterilization, the 
authors analyzed historical hospital discharge data on 39,502 parous women 
sterilized during 1971-1984 and 40,505 comparison women matched on age, race, 
parity, and interval since last birth. Sterilized women were significantly more 
likely than were comparison women to undergo hysterectomy (relative risk (RR) = 
1.35, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.26-1.44), especially for diagnoses of 
menstrual dysfunction and pelvic pain (RR = 1.88, 95% CI 1.65-2.13). Higher 
relative risks were not associated with greater tissue-destructive methods of 
tubal occlusion. Relative risks were highest for women who were young on the 
reference date (RR = 2.45, 95% CI 1.79-3.36 for women aged 20-24 years), but 
declined steadily as age increased (RR = 0.96, 95% CI 0.72-1.28 for women aged 
40-49 years). In all age groups, relative risks were significantly above 1.00 
after 7 years of follow-up. Reasons for elevated risks may be related to a 
greater willingness of sterilized women to forgo their uteruses. The emergence 
of greater risk in all age groups, however, prevents the authors from ruling out 
a possible latent biologic effect of tubal sterilization.

PIP: To study the longterm risk of hysterectomy after tubal sterilization, the 
authors analyzed historical hospital discharge data on 39.502 parous women 
sterilized between 1971 and 1984, and 40,535 comparison women matched on age, 
race, parity, and interval since last birth. Sterilized women were significantly 
more likely than were comparison women to undergo hysterectomy (relative risk 
[RR] = 1.35, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.26-1.44), especially for diagnoses 
of menstrual dysfunction and pelvic pain (RR = 1.88, 95% CI, 1.65-2.13). Higher 
relative risks were not associated with greater tissue-destructive methods of 
tubal occlusion. Relative risks were highest for women who were young on the 
reference data (RR = 2.45, 95% CI 1.79-3.36 for women aged 20-24 years), but 
declined steadily as age increased (RR = 0.96, 95% CI 0.72-1.28 for women aged 
40-49 years).

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a116885
PMID: 8213755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Anal Biochem. 1993 Aug 1;212(2):428-35. doi: 10.1006/abio.1993.1351.

Use of random primer extension for concurrent amplification and nonradioactive 
labeling of nucleic acids.

Mackey J(1), Darfler M, Nisson P, Rashtchian A.

Author information:
(1)Research Products Division, Life Technologies, Inc., Gaithersburg, Maryland 
20884-9880.

A method for efficient nonradioactive labeling of DNA with biotin using random 
primer extension has been developed. Under the conditions described, a 
significant amount of DNA synthesis occurs during incorporation of the 
nonradioactive label, resulting in amplification of the original template DNA. 
The effect of primer size, substrate concentration, enzyme concentration, and 
ratio of biotinylated nucleotide to normal nucleotide on the amount of DNA 
synthesis was determined. Amplifications of 10- to > 300-fold were attained, 
depending on the starting template concentration. Template may be varied from 1 
to 500 ng per reaction. The size of the resulting biotinylated probes is 
100-1000 nucleotides with a significant proportion in the 100-300 nucleotide 
range. The biotinylated probes were used to detect single-copy genes on Southern 
blot hybridizations and to identify specific loci in metaphase chromosome 
spreads by in situ hybridization followed by fluorescent detection with 
streptavidin-fluorescein isothiocyanate. Random primer amplification and 
labeling provides a convenient method for preparation of biotinylated probes 
from small amounts of template DNA.

DOI: 10.1006/abio.1993.1351
PMID: 8214584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Arch Ophthalmol. 1993 Oct;111(10):1374-81. doi: 
10.1001/archopht.1993.01090100082032.

Corneal thickness changes after high-risk penetrating keratoplasty. 
Collaborative Corneal Transplantation Study Group.

McDonnell PJ(1), Enger C, Stark WJ, Stulting RD.

Author information:
(1)Doheny Eye Institute, Los Angeles, CA 90033.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether ultrasonic measurements of corneal thickness are 
of prognostic value after high-risk penetrating keratoplasty.
DESIGN: A prospective, multicenter, randomized trial.
PATIENTS: Four hundred fifty patients at high risk for graft failure because of 
previous immunologic graft failure or because of two or more quadrants of 
stromal vascularization. Patients underwent surgery and were treated according 
to a specific protocol and observed at frequent intervals.
INTERVENTION: At each postoperative visit, ultrasonic measurement of central 
corneal thickness was performed and the corneal status was determined by 
biomicroscopic examination.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Graft failure owing to immunologic or nonimmunologic 
causes.
RESULTS: Corneal thickness stabilized by 3 months at a median thickness of 0.54 
mm. The range of corneal thicknesses in patients with corneal grafts judged to 
be clear was large. In 49% of eyes, development of an allograft reaction episode 
was accompanied by an increase in corneal thickness of at least 10%; the greater 
the increase in thickness, the more likely the graft would fail. Clear grafts 
with central thicknesses of 0.59 mm or greater at 1, 3, or 6 months had a much 
greater risk of failure than those with thicknesses of less than 0.59 mm.
CONCLUSION: Corneal thickness measurements after high-risk penetrating 
keratoplasty are of prognostic value.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.1993.01090100082032
PMID: 8216018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Aust N Z J Surg. 1993 Nov;63(11):883-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-2197.1993.tb00364.x.

Use of polyglyconate suture in paediatric gastrointestinal anastomosis.

Martin HC(1), Motbey J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Children's Hospital, Camperdown, New South Wales, 
Australia.

The perfect suture has been defined, but in certain circumstances some features 
are more important than others. In paediatric gastrointestinal surgery lack of 
tissue drag is of great importance. Because the life expectancy of most 
paediatric patients having gastrointestinal operations is measured in many 
decades, and the long-term effects of retained suture materials are relatively 
undocumented, absorbability is also of importance. A polyglyconate copolymer 
suture (Maxon, Davis & Geck, Gosport, UK) has undergone trial. It is a 
monofilament absorbable suture. It has a low coefficient of friction, very low 
tissue drag and is stronger (straight pull and knot strength) than corresponding 
gauges of braided synthetic absorbable sutures. It is slowly absorbed, its half 
life (in relation to strength) being 5 weeks and complete disappearance 
occurring in 6-7 months. The trial was prospective and randomized. All members 
of the Department of Surgery at the Children's Hospital, Camperdown 
participated. Sixty-five anastomoses were performed in 56 patients. All 
varieties of joins were performed (oesophageal, duodenal, small and large bowel, 
and biliary-enteric). There were no statistically significant differences in the 
result in terms of outcome and complications. Overall handling and tissue drag 
were assessed by the surgeon at the end of the operation on a visual analogue 
scale and analysis of these results showed no significant difference in overall 
handling, but significantly less tissue drag (unpaired t-test). It is concluded 
that Maxon is superior to other currently available sutures for paediatric 
gastrointestinal surgery.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.1993.tb00364.x
PMID: 8216067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Vital Health Stat 5. 1993 Aug;(7):33-41.

Proceedings of the 1991 International Symposium on Data on Aging. International 
research on healthy life expectancy.

Myers GC(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University.

PMID: 8217568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Ophthalmologe. 1993 Oct;90(5):448-51.

[Vitrectomy in oculocerebral non-Hodgkin's lymphoma].

[Article in German]

Messerli J(1), Kraft R, Körner F.

Author information:
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik, Inselspital, Bern.

Ocular non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) is thought to be a rare intraocular tumor; the 
clinical diagnosis, however, is difficult, and ocular NHL might occur more 
frequently than we thought. Vitrectomy is essential for establishing the 
diagnosis. During the last 6 years, we performed vitrectomies for ocular NHL in 
seven eyes of four patients. We report on the visual outcome and cytological 
findings. In three patients, we suspected the oculocerebral form of the disease; 
one patient suffered from a systemic lymphoma. The mean observation time was 19 
months (5-30 months). In one patient, we failed to examine the vitreous fluid; 
this patient has since died. The other three patients underwent radiation 
treatment and/or chemotherapy; they are alive, and no recurrence of the NHL has 
since occurred. In all five cases in which cytological examination of the 
vitreous fluid was performed, we were able to establish the diagnosis of NHL on 
the first attempt. This accuracy is due to rapid and careful processing by the 
cytologist. Vision improved considerably in most cases. In only one eye with 
heavy retinal infiltration could vision not be restored. Secondary cataract 
extraction was necessary in five cases; otherwise, vision remained stable. We 
conclude that vitrectomy has to be done early in atypical vitreous 
"inflammations". Immediate processing and cytological examination of the 
vitreous fluid establishes the diagnosis of NHL and permits accurate radiation 
or chemotherapy. Early vitrectomy is greatly beneficial not only for visual 
rehabilitation but maybe even for a longer life expectancy.

PMID: 8219629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Eur J Ophthalmol. 1993 Jul-Sep;3(3):121-6. doi: 10.1177/112067219300300303.

Long-term follow-up of iodine-125 brachytherapy for choroidal melanomas. Part I: 
Anatomical results and life expectancy.

Kreissig I(1), Rose D, Jost B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology III, University of Tübingen, Germany.

We report a prospective study of 19 choroidal melanomas treated with iodine-125 
plaque from 1984 to 1989. The mean tumor height was 5.8 mm, base diameter 11.6 
mm, and tumor volume 80 to 510 mm3. The mean radiation dose to tumor apex was 70 
Gy and scleral contact dose 355 Gy; tumor base was surrounded by contiguous 
laser or cryopexy lesions. Follow-up was 27 to 84 months (mean 60 months). All 
tumors regressed at least 50% in volume with no tumor regrowth within 27 months 
to 60 months. Late tumor regrowth, localized in the center, occurred in one eye 
after 65 and another after 69 months. One tumor was successfully replaqued; the 
other was not re-treated because the patient had had a recent heart attack. In 
17 eyes radiation retinopathy developed after 1 1/2 years, the earliest in a 
diabetic eye. Despite primary recovery of preoperative vision, there was severe 
deterioration of visual acuity after 4 1/2 years in all the eyes. During 
follow-up, two patients died due to metastases after 28 and 71 months; one 
patient is alive with metastases after 17 months. None of the eyes had to be 
enucleated. There was no incidence of madaurosis, symblepharon, or dry eye.

DOI: 10.1177/112067219300300303
PMID: 8219734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Leuk Lymphoma. 1993 Jun;10(3):195-200. doi: 10.3109/10428199309145883.

Treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia in blast crisis and in accelerated 
phase with high- or intermediate-dose cytosine arabinoside and amsacrine.

Bauduer F(1), Delmer A, Blanc MC, Delmas-Marsalet B, Cadiou M, Rio B, Marie JP, 
Zittoun R.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hématologie, Hotel-Dieu, Paris, France.

Twenty-two patients (mean age 41 years) in blast crisis or accelerated phase 
(AP) of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) were treated with cytosine 
