arabinoside (Ara-C) 500 mg/m2 [intermediate dose] or 1000 mg/m2 [high dose] 
twice a day for 6 days and amsacrine (AMSA) 120 mg/m2 for 3 days. Twenty-one 
cases were of myeloid type and one was a lymphoid BC. The mean duration of 
aplasia (neutrophils < 0.5 x 10(9)/l) was 21.5 days. Four patients (18%) died of 
infection during aplasia and minor toxicities were noted for the remainders. 
Nine patients (41%) achieved a complete remission (CR) and 4 (18%) a partial 
response. Various additional therapies were proposed after induction treatment 
including allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (2 patients), Ara-C and AMSA 
maintenance or other regimens with or without alpha-interferon (9 patients). 
Median survival for the entire cohort was 20 weeks (wks), significantly superior 
for complete responders (37 wks) than for others (7 wks) (p = 0.008). In this 
study, age, sex, initial platelet or basophil counts, interval between diagnosis 
of CML and blast crisis were not predictive of response. Although inducing a 
high CR rate and associated with acceptable toxicity, this regimen did not 
improve the survival of patients with BC or CML, strengthening the need for 
alternate approaches to be defined.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199309145883
PMID: 8220118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Leuk Lymphoma. 1993 Jul;10(4-5):299-306. doi: 10.3109/10428199309148552.

Acute megakaryoblastic leukemia in children and adolescents: a retrospective 
analysis of 24 cases.

Ribeiro RC(1), Oliveira MS, Fairclough D, Hurwitz C, Mirro J, Behm FG, Head D, 
Silva ML, Raimondi SC, Crist WM, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology-Oncology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, 
Memphis, Tennessee 38105.

In order to characterize the clinical, cytogenetic, and outcome features of 
childhood acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (AMKL), we reviewed 24 cases; 14 were 
identified among 150 consecutive newly diagnosed acute myelogenous leukemia 
(AML) patients at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, and 10 were cases 
referred to the National Institute of Cancer in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. There 
were 5 Down syndrome patients and one patient with chronic myeloid leukemia 
(Ph+) in blastic crisis. Twelve patients had significant hepatosplenomegaly. 
Leukemic cell morphology and cytochemistry were consistent with the M7 
classification in 17 cases, and all cases tested expressed megakaryocytic 
surface antigens. AMKL patients were significantly younger than other AML 
patients (P = 0.0001) and had poorer responses to therapy (P = 0.03, univariate 
analysis only). Ten of 24 failed induction, and only 5 are disease-free at 6 
months to 4.5+ years. We conclude that AMKL usually affects young children, 
frequently producing marked organomegaly. It comprises approximately 10% of 
pediatric AML cases, and responds poorly to intensive AML therapies.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199309148552
PMID: 8220128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Leuk Lymphoma. 1993 Jul;10(4-5):335-42. doi: 10.3109/10428199309148557.

Differences in clinicopathological characteristics and major prognostic factors 
between B-lymphoma and peripheral T-lymphoma excluding adult T-cell 
leukemia/lymphoma.

Shimoyama M(1), Oyama A, Tajima K, Tobinai K, Minato K, Takenaka T, Konda C, 
Takeyama K, Kohno A, Narabayashi M, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology Division, National Cancer Center Hospital, 
Tokyo, Japan.

A total of 541 consecutive patients treated between 1975 and 1985, 449 with 
B-lymphoma and 92 with peripheral T-lymphoma, excluding adult T-cell 
leukemia/lymphoma (ATL), termed peripheral non-ATL T-lymphoma, were analysed. 
Clinicopathological features that were predominantly associated with B-lymphoma 
were low and intermediate grades (defined by the Working Formulation), diffuse 
large cell type, stage II disease, bulky disease, favourable extranodal sites 
that are defined as a group of primary tumors such as the eye, Waldeyer's ring, 
thyroid, and stomach, while other features predominantly associated with 
peripheral non-ATL T-lymphoma were high grade pathology, diffuse mixed-cell and 
immunoblastic type, systemic "B" symptoms, poor performance status (PS), 
generalized lymphadenopathy, involvement of organs such as liver, skin, and 
nose, leucocytosis, and a high levels of serum alkaline phosphatase. The 
survival curve for B-lymphoma was better (P < 0.01) than that for peripheral 
non-ATL T-lymphoma. Multivariate analysis revealed that the major prognostic 
factors were pathology, stage, and primary site for B-lymphoma, while stage, PS, 
and total protein levels were important for peripheral non-ATL T-lymphoma. These 
results indicate that B- and peripheral non-ATL T-lymphomas appear to have 
different biological characteristics.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199309148557
PMID: 8220132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Leuk Lymphoma. 1993 Jul;10(4-5):347-51. doi: 10.3109/10428199309148559.

VAD regimen in the treatment of resistant multiple myeloma: slow or fast 
infusion?

Koskela K(1), Pelliniemi TT, Remes K.

Author information:
(1)Turku University Central Hospital, Department of Medicine, Finland.

The VAD regimen is effective in the treatment of resistant and relapsing 
multiple myeloma. In the original VAD regimen, vincristine (V) and doxorubicin 
(A) are given as continuous infusions together with peroral dexamethasone (D). 
For practical reasons, we have shortened the infusion times: 8 hours for 
vincristine and 1 hour for doxorubicin. In this retrospective analysis, we have 
compared the efficacy and toxicity of the original and modified VAD protocols in 
the treatment of myeloma patients at our institution. Of the 31 consecutive 
patients with myeloma, primarily or secondarily resistant to alkylating agents, 
16 were treated by the original and 15 by the modified VAD protocol. We found no 
significant difference in the response rates (good responses 31% and 20% 
respectively), survival times (17 and 9 months respectively) or toxicity between 
the two protocols. VAD may well be modified so as to consist of short infusions 
of V and A. The overall efficacy of the traditional and modified regimens is, 
however, rather unsatisfactory in patients with advanced myeloma.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199309148559
PMID: 8220133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Noshuyo Byori. 1993;10(2):103-6.

A case of sellar chordoma mimicking a non-functioning pituitary adenoma with 
survival of more than 10 years.

Kagawa T(1), Takamura M, Moritake K, Tsutsumi A, Yamasaki T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Shimane Medical University.

A rare case of sellar chordoma occurring in a 67-year-old woman who survived for 
more than 10 years is presented. Clinical signs and symptoms masqueraded as a 
non-functioning pituitary adenoma with visual disturbance and hypopituitarism. 
Initial computed tomography (CT) showed an intrasellar mixed dense mass with 
suprasellar extension, accompanied by non-homogeneous contrast enhancement. 
Partial removal of the mass was accomplished via right fronto-temporal 
craniotomy. Histological examination revealed a typical chordoma with no 
malignancy. After postoperative irradiation, the patient was discharged with 
clinical improvement. Serial CT and magnetic resonance imaging 8 years after 
treatment disclosed a regrowth of the intrasellar lesion, which extended to the 
sphenoid sinus and clivus, accompanied by non-homogeneous contrast enhancement. 
The patient underwent subtotal removal of the recurrent tumor through a 
sublabial transsphenoidal approach. Histological examination confirmed the 
previous diagnosis. Immunohistochemical study demonstrated positive cytoplasmic 
expression of vimentin, epithelial membrane antigen, keratin and S-100 protein, 
in contrast with a lack of appearance of carcinoembryonic antigen. After 
reoperation, she completely recovered and has survived for more than 10 years 
with good quality of life.

PMID: 8220788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Can J Public Health. 1993 Jul-Aug;84(4):250-3.

Promoting social health in northern Saskatchewan.

Feather J(1), Irvine J, Belanger B, Dumais W, Gladue R, Isbister W, Leach P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Epidemiology, University of Saskatchewan, 
Saskatoon.

In response to concern about social health problems in Northern Saskatchewan, a 
Working Group on Social Health was established in 1989 in the Research and 
Development Committee of Northern Medical Services. The Group formulated a 
concept of mental health in social terms; found and interpreted indicators of 
the extent of social health problems; identified major determinants of social 
health problems, barriers to effective coping and problems in providing adequate 
support and services; and identified strategies and program models that could be 
more effective in promoting social health in this region. Indicators of problems 
and underlying determinants are discussed, along with strategies for change. 
These strategies are based on a community development model, and incorporate 
innovation and reaffirmation of values and ways that have traditionally given 
people strength.

PMID: 8221498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Cancer. 1993 Nov 15;72(10):2865-12. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19931115)72:10<2865::aid-cncr2820721002>3.0.co;2-8.

Localized prostate carcinoma. Surgical management.

Gibbons RP(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Urology and Renal Transplantation, Virginia Mason Medical Center, 
Seattle, Washington.

Total prostatectomy in the properly selected patient will provide disease-free 
survival rates comparable to the expected survival in similarly aged men for up 
to 30 years of observation (Figure 4). Patients who undergo total prostatectomy 
accept a very small risk of long-term permanent complications or mortality, and 
effective treatment is available for most complications. The morbidity and costs 
associated with hormone refractory metastatic prostate cancer are significant, 
with bone pain and anemia from bone marrow invasion, bladder dysfunction 
(retention, incontinence, and hematuria), urinary tract infection, anorexia, and 
uremia from obstructed ureters being common sequelae in the months before death. 
In the properly selected patient, minimal risk is incurred from total 
prostatectomy, the potential complications are well defined and manageable, and 
long-term disease-free survival is seen in most patients.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19931115)72:10<2865::aid-cncr2820721002>3.0.co;2-8
PMID: 8221551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Cas Lek Cesk. 1993 Sep 27;132(18):545-8.

[Health policy in the Czech Republic].

[Article in Czech]

Drbal C(1), Smejcová I.

Author information:
(1)Ustav sociálního lékarství a organizace zdravotnictví, Praha.

Based on an analysis of the development of the health status of the population 
of different European countries during the last 30 years of the authors 
demonstrate the dominant determining role of the character of the social system 
for this development. In conjunction with actual situation and the 
transformation of the entire society the authors outline basic socioeconomic 
prerequisites for the creation of a positive health policy of the Czech 
Republic. Objectives and the main strategic steps for their implementation are 
outlined.

PMID: 8221826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Curr Genet. 1993 Sep;24(3):229-40. doi: 10.1007/BF00351797.

Structure, expression, and phylogenetic relationships of a family of ypt genes 
encoding small G-proteins in the green alga Volvox carteri.

Fabry S(1), Jacobsen A, Huber H, Palme K, Schmitt R.

Author information:
(1)Lehrstuhl für Genetik, Universität Regensburg, Germany.

In addition to the previously described gene yptV1 encoding a small G-protein we 
have now identified and sequenced four more ras-related ypt genes (yptV2-yptV5) 
from the green alga Volvox carteri. The four new genes encode polypeptides 
consisting of 203 to 217 amino-acid residues that contain the typical sequence 
elements (GTP-binding domains, effector domain) of the ypt/rab subgroup of the 
Ras superfamily. Comparison of the derived amino-acid sequences from the V. 
carteri ypt gene products and their Ypt homologs from other species revealed 
similarity values ranging from 60% to 85%, whereas intraspecies similarities 
were found to approach only 55%. The coding sequences are interrupted by 5-7 
introns of variable size (70-1000 nucleotides) occupying different positions in 
the genes. Reverse-transcribed samples of stage-specific RNAs were PCR-amplified 
with primers specific to yptV1, yptV3, yptV4, and yptV5 to determine if yptV 
transcription might be restricted to either cell type or to a specific stage of 
the life cycle. These experiments demonstrated that each of these genes is 
expressed throughout the entire Volvox life cycle and in both the somatic and 
the reproductive cells of the alga. The transcription start sites of yptV1 and 
yptV5 were mapped by primer extension. Expression of recombinant yptV cDNA in E. 
coli yielded recombinant proteins that bound GTP specifically, demonstrating a 
property which is typical for small G-proteins. The derived YptV polypeptide 
sequences were used to group them into four distinct classes of Ras-like 
proteins. These are the first proteins of the Ras superfamily to be identified 
in a green alga. We discuss the possible role of the YptV-proteins in the 
intracellular vesicle transport of Volvox.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00351797
PMID: 8221932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Circulation. 1993 Nov;88(5 Pt 2):II218-23.

Improved survival following pediatric cardiac transplantation in high-risk 
patients.

Bando K(1), Konishi H, Komatsu K, Fricker FJ, del Nido PJ, Francalancia NA, 
Hardesty RL, Griffith BP, Armitage JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of Pittsburgh, Pa.

BACKGROUND: Preoperative hemodynamic support, complex congenital heart disease, 
and elevated pulmonary vascular resistance present particular challenges for 
pediatric heart transplantation. This study was performed to identify 
preoperative factors that influence survival after pediatric heart 
transplantation over two eras of pediatric heart transplant experience.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We retrospectively analyzed demographic, clinical, and 
hemodynamic data from 67 pediatric patients who underwent heart transplantation 
between February 1982 and June 1992 and compared survival between two eras 
(early experience versus late experience). During the early experience (group 1: 
February 1982 to August 1989), univariate analysis identified congenital heart 
disease, pretransplant extracorporeal membrane oxygenator (ECMO) support, 
inotropic and/or ventilatory support (UNOS status I), elevated transpulmonary 
gradient (at least 15 mm Hg), and elevated pulmonary vascular resistance index 
(at least 4 Wood units.m2) as preoperative risk factors for early death after 
pediatric heart transplantation. However, in the late experience (group 2: 
September 1989 to June 1992), the only risk factor for premature death by 
univariate analysis was elevated transpulmonary gradient. By multivariate 
analysis, elevated transpulmonary gradient was the only risk factor for our 
early, late, and entire experiences. One-year survival after transplantation for 
congenital heart disease was improved from 46% in group 1 to 73% in group 2 (P < 
.05). In group 1, only one patient (25%) with pretransplant ECMO support 
survived 1 year, whereas 66% (four of six) survived more than 1 year in group 2.
CONCLUSIONS: Although elevated transpulmonary gradient continues to be a 
significant risk factor for pediatric heart transplantation, candidates with 
congenital heart disease, UNOS status I, and pretransplant ECMO support now can 
be successfully transplanted with reasonable hope for extended survival.

PMID: 8222157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Circulation. 1993 Nov;88(5 Pt 2):II437-46.

Cost-effectiveness of radiofrequency ablation compared with other strategies in 
Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome.

Hogenhuis W(1), Stevens SK, Wang P, Wong JB, Manolis AS, Estes NA 3rd, Pauker 
SG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Decision Making, New England Medical Center, Boston, MA 
02111.

BACKGROUND: Patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome fall into four risk 
groups: those with (1) prior cardiac arrest, (2) paroxysmal supraventricular 
tachycardia or atrial fibrillation (PSVT/AF) with hemodynamic compromise, (3) 
PSVT/AF without hemodynamic compromise, and (4) no symptoms.
METHODS AND RESULTS: For each group, we developed a cost-effectiveness analysis 
examining five clinical management strategies: (1) observation, (2) observation 
until a cardiac arrest dictates the need for therapy, (3) initial drug therapy 
guided by noninvasive monitoring, (4) initial radiofrequency ablation (RFA), and 
(5) initial surgical ablation. We used a Markov simulation model to estimate 
life expectancy and costs for patients whose ages are between 20 and 60 years. 
The model includes the risks of cardiac arrest, PSVT/AF, drug side effects, 
procedure-related complications and mortality, the efficacy of drugs and RFA, 
and costs. Based on literature and expert opinion, we assumed that the annual 
risks of cardiac arrest are 0.01%, 0.05%, and 0.5%, respectively, in patients 
who are asymptomatic, who had PSVT/AF without hemodynamic compromise, or who had 
PSVT/AF with hemodynamic compromise. We also assumed that RFA has an overall 
efficacy of 92% in preventing cardiac arrest and arrhythmias. Our model predicts 
that RFA should yield a life expectancy greater than or equal to other 
strategies. In cardiac arrest survivors and patients who have had PSVT/AF with 
hemodynamic compromise, our model suggests that RFA should both prolong survival 
and save resources. For patients with PSVT/AF without hemodynamic compromise, 
the marginal cost-effectiveness of attempted RFA (followed by conservative 
treatment if the RFA fails) ranges from $6600 per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) gained for 20-year-old patients to $19,000 per QALY gained for 
60-year-old patients. For asymptomatic patients, RFA costs from $174,000 per 
QALY gained for 20-year-old patients to $540,000 per QALY gained for 60-year-old 
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis supports the emerging practice of performing RFA in 
patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome who survive cardiac arrest or who 
experience PSVT/AF but also supports the current practice of observing 
asymptomatic patients.

PMID: 8222191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Clin Chest Med. 1993 Sep;14(3):423-8.

Smoking cessation in the elderly patient.

Cox JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Family Practice Residency Program, Medical Center, Beaver Falls, 
Pennsylvania.

An older smoker tends to be asked less often to quit although he or she has much 
to gain from achieving a nonsmoking status. Multiple barriers may interfere with 
attempting to quit including nicotine withdrawal, doubted self-efficacy, other 
smokers in one's environment, or misperceptions of little gain from quitting. 
The physician is in a unique position to interact with the older smoker and 
through careful questioning, outline a quit smoking strategy that has the 
greatest chance for success. Every older smoker deserves a chance for increased 
quality as well as quantity in life.

PMID: 8222560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Dis Colon Rectum. 1993 Nov;36(11):1059-62. doi: 10.1007/BF02047300.

Life expectancy after colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis for familial 
adenomatous polyposis.

Nugent KP(1), Spigelman AD, Phillips RK.

Author information:
(1)St. Mark's Hospital, London, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: Despite the introduction of screening, surveillance, and prophylactic 
colectomy surgery, patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) are at 
risk of dying from other malignancies.
METHODS: In order to quantify this risk and identify the causes of mortality, a 
retrospective life table analysis was performed on 222 patients with familial 
adenomatous polyposis who had undergone a total colectomy and ileorectal 
anastomosis between 1948 and 1990. These FAP patients were compared with an age- 
and sex-matched group of the general population and a relative risk of dying was 
calculated.
RESULTS: Of 222 patients, 53 have died. In a matched group of the general 
population the expected number of deaths would be 15.8. The relative risk of 
dying is therefore 3.35. There has been no significant improvement with time and 
the relative risk is greatest for female patients.
CONCLUSION: The three main causes of mortality are upper gastrointestinal 
malignancy, desmoid disease, and perioperative complications. Further research 
should therefore be aimed at prevention and improved treatment of these in order 
to improve survival.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02047300
PMID: 8223060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1993 Nov 12;118(45):1636-40. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1059495.

[Pneumonia due to a rare atypical Mycobacterium in AIDS].

[Article in German]

Huber W(1), Bautz W, Holzmann B, Classen M, Schepp W.

Author information:
(1)II. Medizinische Klinik, Institut für Röntgendiagnostik, Klinikum rechts der 
Isar der Technischen Universität München.

A 38-year-old man, HIV-positive for 6 years, developed fever and cough with 
deterioration in his general state. Chest radiography demonstrated an 
infiltration in the left upper lobe and computed tomography showed a septated 
cavity. Three bronchioalveolar lavages over 4 weeks recovered Klebsiella, 
Candida, Pseudomonas and Staphylococcus in the lavage fluid. Acid-fast rods were 
not found in any of the microscopic preparations. His clinical condition and the 
radiological findings deteriorated despite appropriate antibiotic 
administration. A further cavity occurred in the right upper lobe and the 
inflammatory infiltrations extended further. Although no acid-fast organism had 
been demonstrated, tuberculostatic treatment was begun (daily 300 mg isoniazid, 
600 mg rifampicin, 900 mg streptomycin, 2 g pyrazinamide). His general condition 
and the radiological findings rapidly improved. Four weeks after culturing the 
lavage fluid atypical Mycobacterium xenopi was isolated. This case illustrates 
the difficulty of diagnosing an atypical mycobacterial infection. It takes time 
and effort, but it is of great importance because up to 50% of patients with 
AIDS contract such infection. Early and appropriate treatment will significantly 
improve quality of life and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1059495
PMID: 8223223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. East Afr Med J. 1993 Apr;70(4 Suppl):8-11.

Pathology services in east, central and southern Africa.

Owor R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Makerere University Medical School, Kampala, Uganda.

PMID: 8223311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Exp Gerontol. 1993 Jul-Oct;28(4-5):447-57. doi:
10.1016/0531-5565(93)90070-t.

Comprehensive geriatric assessment in the outpatient setting: population 
characteristics and factors influencing outcome.

Potter JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha 
68198-5620.

The chronic diseases of old age reduce the "active life expectancy" of older 
persons and result in significant health care expenditures. Yet, among disabled 
persons, the degree of disability does not explain who actually accesses 
long-term care (LTC) services. Comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) has been 
proposed as the technology of geriatric medicine which will reduce both excess 
disability and health care costs. Outpatient CGA programs may be the ideal 
setting in which to study older disabled persons who are at risk for increasing 
their use of LTC services. A prospective study of our CGA population suggests 
that understanding the factors which influence outcome will be critical to 
designing interventions and improving outcome for this population. CGA patients 
suffer from a limited number of functionally disabling problems, each of which 
has a broad array of etiologies. Use of LTC services seems most closely tied to 
social factors, including the feelings of burden experienced by caregivers. 
Caregiver burden is a better predictor of service use than any measure of the 
older person's mental or physical health or functional abilities. Reducing 
health care costs including nursing facility placement will likely require 
interventions which reduce caregiver burden. Further definition of the problems 
seen in the CGA population and delineation of the factors influencing outcome 
will identify interventions to achieve the desired health care outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(93)90070-t
PMID: 8224041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. FEBS Lett. 1993 Oct 25;333(1-2):146-50. doi: 10.1016/0014-5793(93)80393-9.

Direct gene transfer into mouse diaphragm.

Davis HL(1), Jasmin BJ.

Author information:
(1)Physiotherapy Program, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Ottawa, 
Canada.

Direct gene transfer into skeletal muscle is a potential therapeutic strategy 
for inherited primary myopathies such as Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). In 
order to affect the life-expectancy of these patients, it will be necessary to 
carry out gene therapy on the diaphragm. To this end, we report efficient 
introduction of pure recombinant plasmid DNA into the mouse diaphragm, without 
causing significant damage. Application of this approach to the diaphragm of the 
mdx mouse will provide information on the potential usefulness of gene therapy 
for the treatment of DMD patients.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-5793(93)80393-9
PMID: 8224154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Geriatrics. 1993 Nov;48(11):68, 71-4, 77.

Exercise for older patients: why it's worth your effort.

Rooney EM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of General and Geriatric Medicine, University of Kansas Medical 
Center, Kansas City.

Two-thirds of all adults age 65 or older are either irregularly active or 
completely sedentary. With this inactivity comes an increased risk of chronic 
diseases, including coronary heart disease, hypertension, diabetes, 
osteoporosis, and depression. Adequate aerobic exercise--even when started as 
late as age 60--is associated with a 1- to 2-year increase in life expectancy, 
as well as increased functional independence. Even chairbound patients can 
benefit from a program of simple exercises. To help prevent injuries, your 
exercise prescription should include stretching exercises and exercises to 
strengthen the muscles surrounding weak joints.

PMID: 8224927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Harefuah. 1993 Aug;125(3-4):86-9, 127.

[Secondary achalasia].

[Article in Hebrew]

Arnon R(1), Fich A, Bar-Ziv J.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Unit, Hadassah-University Hospital, Jerusalem.

Achalasia is usually a primary disorder of esophageal motility, but has been 
described in association with other pathological processes, such as malignancy. 
A 79-year-old man with achalasia secondary to gastric adenocarcinoma is 
presented. The differential diagnosis of secondary achalasia includes infectious 
and infiltrative disease and neuropathy, but mainly malignant diseases. The 
clinical criteria found for achalasia secondary to malignancy included older age 
at diagnosis, brief duration of symptoms, and weight loss. While upper 
gastrointestinal x-rays and computerized tomographic scanning may be helpful, 
the most reliable diagnostic tool is esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy. This is a 
terminal disease with short life expectancy. Yet making the correct diagnosis 
can save the patient from futile treatment with muscle relaxants and endoscopic 
balloon dilatation, the accepted therapeutic measures in primary achalasia.

PMID: 8225085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1993;8(3):245-53.

Five-year statistical and clinical observations with the IMZ two-stage 
osteointegrated implant system.

Babbush CA(1), Shimura M.

Author information:
(1)Implant Reconstructive Surgery, Mt. Sinai Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio.

This study evaluated patients who were reconstructed with the IMZ system, which 
consists of a cylindrical implant with an intramobile element for stress relief. 
It is placed through a two-stage surgical procedure resulting in 
osteointegration. During a 5-year period, 1,059 implants were placed in 322 
patients. Twenty-one implants were lost to follow-up. A total of 28 implants 
failed over the 5-year period, of which 9 had not integrated at stage 2 surgery. 
Of the remaining implants, 19 failed primarily for periodontal and prosthetic 
reasons. The life table method was used for statistical analysis. The 5-year 
survival rate of all IMZ implants was 95%. Seventy-five percent of the implants 
were placed to restore partial edentulism, with a survival rate of 96%. The 
survival rate for totally edentulous patients was also 96%. Forty-four percent 
of the implants were placed in the maxilla, with a survival rate of 92%. The 
survival rate in the mandible was 99%. Sixty-six percent of the implants were 
placed in women, with a survival rate of 94%. The survival rate in men was 98%. 
Major factors that positively influenced long-term survival were use of the 
longest and largest-diameter implants appropriate for the clinical situation.

PMID: 8225459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Gac Sanit. 1993 Sep-Oct;7(38):205-20. doi: 10.1016/s0213-9111(93)71153-x.

[Inequalities in mortality in the barrios of Barcelona, 1983-89].

[Article in Catalan, Spanish]

Borrell i Thió C(1), Arias i Enrich A.

Author information:
(1)Servei d'Informació Sanitària, Institut Municipal de la Salut de Barcelona.

This study is aimed to describe the differences in mortality among the 38 wards 
of the city of Barcelona for the period 1983-89. Mortality data for years 1983 
to 1989 came from the death certificates. The indicators used for the 38 city 
wards and the 10 city districts were: Comparative Mortality Figure, Ratio, Ratio 
of Potential Years of Life Lost, and Life Expectancy at birth. A descriptive 
analysis of these indicators by wards and district is offered; a cluster 
analysis based on these indicators was also performed. Wards from the same 
district are considered homogeneous for a given indicator, when all ward's 
values are higher, equal or lower to district average. The ward with the most 
unfavourable indicators and worst situation was Montjuïc, an exponent of shanty 
town problems until few years ago and located near the centre. Next in ranking, 
from worst to best situation, did appear the four wards of the city centre 
district, the old historical quarter. Other wards with high mortality rates were 
some peripheral areas, nearly all built recently such as Ciutat Meridiana, Bon 
Pastor and Zona Franca, and also other old wards, such as Poble Sec. Cluster 
analysis classified the wards with higher mortality in several different 
clusters, clearly split from the other more homogeneous wards. Five of 10 
districts have been considered as homogeneous. This study has allowed a deeper 
knowledge of the geographical distribution of mortality in the city of 
Barcelona, until now analysed by city districts.

DOI: 10.1016/s0213-9111(93)71153-x
PMID: 8225787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. J Biosoc Sci. 1993 Oct;25(4):539-52. doi: 10.1017/s002193200002191x.

Socioeconomic status: the prime indicator of premature death in Australia.

Lawson JS(1), Black D.

Author information:
(1)School of Health Services Management, University of New South Wales, Sydney, 
Australia.

The link between socioeconomic status and health has long been recognised. This 
study of deaths among Australian men aged 15-59 years demonstrates that during 
the 20-year period, 1966-86 the number of premature deaths was dramatically 
reduced among all socioeconomic groups, primarily as a result of falls in death 
rates due to heart disease, stroke and trauma. However, the marked differences 
in death rates according to social class remain, to the extent that if men of 
all social classes had the same mortality experiences as professional and 
technical workers the overall death rates for Australian men would be reduced by 
60%. Socioeconomic status is the most important indicator of health status among 
Australians.

DOI: 10.1017/s002193200002191x
PMID: 8227102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1993 Aug;34(4):303-5.

Femoropopliteal and femorotibial greater saphenous vein "in situ" 
reconstructions in non selected patients. Life table analysis.

Hiemer W(1), Uy J, Geissler C, Gruss JD.

Author information:
(1)Department for Vascular Surgery, Kurhess, Diakonissenhaus, Kassel, Germany.

594 non selected "in situ" reconstructions were analyzed retrospectively using 
the life table method. Especially after immediate occlusion the cumulative 
patency rate is unsatisfactory (33.1% vs 62.3% after 6 years). Patency rates are 
influenced by the anastomotic site and mainly by run off conditions. The number 
of patent tibial arteries seems to be the most important determinant. These 
results prove to be statistically significant.

PMID: 8227109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1993 Nov 15;22(6):1697-702. doi: 
10.1016/0735-1097(93)90598-u.

Cost-effectiveness of a smoking cessation program after myocardial infarction.

Krumholz HM(1), Cohen BJ, Tsevat J, Pasternak RC, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Section of Cardiovascular Medicine, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 
06510.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 1993 Nov 15;22(6):1703-5.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
a smoking cessation program initiated after acute myocardial infarction.
BACKGROUND: The value of allocating health care resources to smoking cessation 
programs after myocardial infarction has not been compared with the value of 
other currently accepted interventions.
METHODS: A model was developed to examine the cost-effectiveness of a recently 
reported smoking cessation program after an acute myocardial infarction. The 
cost was estimated by considering the resources necessary to implement the 
program, and the effectiveness was expressed as discounted years of life saved. 
Years of life saved were estimated by modeling life expectancy using a single 
declining exponential approximation of life expectancy based on data from 
published reports.
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness of the nurse-managed smoking cessation program 
was estimated to be $220/year of life saved. In a one-way sensitivity analysis, 
the cost-effectiveness of the program remained < $20,000/year of life saved if 
the program decreased the smoking rate by only 3/1,000 smokers (baseline 
assumption 26/100 smokers), or if the program cost as much as $8,840/smoker 
(baseline assumption $100). In a two-way sensitivity analysis, even if the cost 
of the program were as high as $2,000/participant, the cost-effectiveness of the 
program would be < $10,000/year of life saved so long as the program helped an 
additional 12 smokers quit for every 100 enrolled.
CONCLUSIONS: Over a wide range of estimates of costs and effectiveness, a 
nurse-managed smoking cessation program after acute myocardial infarction is an 
extremely cost-effective intervention. This program is more cost-effective than 
beta-adrenergic antagonist therapy after myocardial infarction.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(93)90598-u
PMID: 8227841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. J Gerontol. 1993 Nov;48(6):B237-44. doi: 10.1093/geronj/48.6.b237.

Longevity is moderately heritable in a sample of Danish twins born 1870-1880.

McGue M(1), Vaupel JW, Holm N, Harvald B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55455.

The heritability of human longevity was investigated in a sample of 218 pairs of 
monozygotic (MZ) and 382 pairs of like-sex dizygotic (DZ) Danish twin pairs born 
1870-1880. Twin similarity for age at death was significant for MZ twins but 
nonsignificant for DZ twins. The heritability (h2) of life span estimated from 
the best-fitting biometrical model was statistically significant but moderate in 
magnitude (h2 = .333 +/- .058). Heritability of longevity did not vary by 
gender, and the pattern of twin resemblance was more consistent with nonadditive 
as compared to additive genetic effects. In addition, evidence for a genetic 
association between premature and senescent deaths was observed. Although 
environmental factors accounted for a majority of the variance in life span, the 
relevant environmental factors appeared to be those that create differences 
rather than similarities among reared-together relatives. Findings are discussed 
in terms of their relevance for understanding the inheritance and evolution of 
human life span.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/48.6.b237
PMID: 8227991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. J Clin Epidemiol. 1993 Nov;46(11):1289-91. doi:
10.1016/0895-4356(93)90093-g.

Stone-age genes and modern lifestyle: evolutionary mismatch or differential 
survival bias.

Riggs JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, West Virginia University School of Medicine, 
Morgantown 26506.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(93)90093-g
PMID: 8229106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. J Clin Oncol. 1993 Nov;11(11):2226-33. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.11.2226.

Patterns of relapse after autologous purged bone marrow transplantation for 
neuroblastoma: a Childrens Cancer Group pilot study.

Matthay KK(1), Atkinson JB, Stram DO, Selch M, Reynolds CP, Seeger RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of California School of Medicine, San 
Francisco.

PURPOSE: The goal of this investigation was to determine if comparing sites of 
neuroblastoma at relapse after myeloablative chemoradiotherapy and purged 
autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) with sites of disease at diagnosis 
and before ABMT could provide insight to the reasons for treatment failure.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ninety-nine patients with high-risk neuroblastoma 
underwent ABMT after induction chemotherapy, surgery +/- local radiation (RT) 
and then myeloablative therapy with teniposide (or etoposide), melphalan, 
doxorubicin, cisplatin, and total-body irradiation (TBI).
RESULTS: Forty-one of 84 assessable patients (15 toxic deaths) developed 
progressive disease 1 to 44 months after ABMT. The overall probability of 
relapse 36 months after ABMT was 49%. Tumor recurred in primary (n = 22), bone 
(n = 20), bone marrow (n = 18), lung (n = 3), and other sites (n = 9). Eight 
patients relapsed in the primary site alone, 14 in primary and distant sites, 
and 19 in distant sites only. Of 41 patients with progressive disease, 33 have 
died, with a median interval from relapse to death of 4 months. Both bone and 
bone marrow involvement at diagnosis correlated with specific relapse in that 
site (P < .05). Bone marrow tumor content at harvest greater than 0.1% also 
correlated with bone marrow relapse (P = .001). There was an association between 
incomplete resection of the primary tumor at diagnosis and relapse in that site 
(P = .06).
CONCLUSION: Neuroblastoma normally recurs in multiple sites after ABMT, 
particularly in areas of previous disease. More intensive treatment to known 
areas of disease (aggressive early surgery, effective myeloablative 
consolidation therapy) and post-ABMT therapy for minimal residual disease should 
be studied for their potential to decrease the frequency of relapse.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.11.2226
PMID: 8229138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. J Clin Oncol. 1993 Nov;11(11):2234-42. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.11.2234.

Improved therapy for children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and unfavorable 
presenting features: a follow-up report of the Childrens Cancer Group Study 
CCG-106.

Gaynon PS(1), Steinherz PG, Bleyer WA, Ablin AR, Albo VC, Finklestein JZ, 
Grossman NJ, Novak LJ, Pyesmany AF, Reaman GH, et al.

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin Medical Center, Madison.

PURPOSE: On past Childrens Cancer Group (CCG) trials, children with acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia and unfavorable presenting features had obtained an 
event-free survival (EFS) rate of no better than 50%. Following promising pilot 
experience, this study was conducted to determine the benefit and morbidity of 
two intensive experimental regimens, Reg A, based on the 
Berlin-Frankfurt-Münster (BFM) 1976 regimen, and Reg B, the New York regimen.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between February 1983 and November 1984, 217 eligible 
children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and unfavorable presenting features 
were entered and randomly assigned to receive Reg A, Reg B, or Reg C, the 
control regimen. Assignment to Reg C was halted in November 1984 after interim 
analyses showed an inferior outcome. Subsequently, between November 1984 and 
March 1987, an additional 328 patients were randomly allocated to receive Reg A 
or Reg B.
RESULTS: The 7-year EFS rate was 63% (+/- 6%, 1 SD) for Reg A, 61% (+/- 6%) for 
Reg B, and 40% (+/- 6%) for Reg C (P < .006). The difference between Reg A or 
Reg B and Reg C remained greater than 20 percentage points for EFS at 7 years 
and 15 percentage points for survival. Relative to Reg C, patients on Reg A 
accrued 16.3 additional days of hospitalization on average and, on Reg B, 20.2 
days. EFS and survival were similar on Reg A and Reg B, but Reg B required more 
days of parenteral therapy and greater exposure to anthracyclines and alkylating 
agents.
CONCLUSION: Both Reg A and Reg B provided a better outcome than Reg C for 
children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and unfavorable presenting features. 
Outcomes on Reg A and Reg B were similar. Use of the more effective but more 
toxic regimens resulted in 78 additional hospital days per relapse prevented on 
Reg A and 101 days on Reg B. The current CCG trial for this population builds on 
Reg A.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.11.2234
PMID: 8229139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. J Med Genet. 1993 Oct;30(10):877-9. doi: 10.1136/jmg.30.10.877.

Long survival of a patient with Marshall-Smith syndrome without respiratory 
complications.

Sperli D(1), Concolino D, Barbato C, Strisciuglio P, Andria G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, Catanzaro, University of 
Reggio Calabria, Italy.

The Marshall-Smith syndrome is characterised by overgrowth, accelerated skeletal 
maturation, and dysmorphic facial features, often associated with mental 
retardation of variable degree. Most of the reported patients died in the first 
three years of life mainly because of respiratory problems. We describe a 5 year 
old patient with this rare syndrome, who has optic atrophy and agenesis of the 
corpus callosum, but has no respiratory problems so far. This observation 
underlines the clinical variability of the Marshall-Smith syndrome and indicates 
that life expectancy may be prolonged.

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.30.10.877
PMCID: PMC1016575
PMID: 8230168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Nov;18(5):867-74.

Tibial bypass grafting for limb salvage with ringed polytetrafluoroethylene 
prostheses: results of primary and secondary procedures.

Schweiger H(1), Klein P, Lang W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany.

PURPOSE: In advanced peripheral ischemia, tibial artery prosthetic bypass 
grafting is virtually the last chance for limb salvage when conservative 
treatment and other methods of revascularization have failed.
METHODS: For this study we reviewed our 7 years of experience with 
below-popliteal artery polytetrafluoroethylene grafts implanted for limb 
salvage.
RESULTS: All results regarding graft patency and limb salvage were computed by 
actuarial methods and were presented in the form of life-table analysis. There 
were 211 grafts in 184 patients (195 limbs). Two and 5 years after the 
operation, primary patency rates were 37% and 23% and secondary patency rates 
were 45% and 25%, respectively. The main negative predictive factors for patency 
rate were an occluded primary plantar arch artery and poor vessel runoff. 
Primary bypass procedures had markedly better success rates than secondary 
(repeat) procedures, with primary patency rates of 52% at 2 years and 42% at 4 
years, whereas the corresponding rates for secondary procedures were 22% and 
14%, respectively. The 5-year cumulative limb salvage rate was 51% for the total 
series.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the patency of prosthetic grafts is not as satisfactory as 
that of autologous vein grafts, the limb salvage rate justifies an aggressive 
approach to infrapopliteal bypass grafting with polytetrafluoroethylene 
prostheses when the limb is threatened and vein is not available.

PMID: 8230575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Nov;18(5):881-8. doi: 10.1067/mva.1993.49636.

Limitations of peroneal artery bypass grafting for limb salvage.

Elliott BM(1), Robison JG, Brothers TE, Cross MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston 
29425-0901.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to compare the results of peroneal bypass 
grafting for limb salvage with the results of other tibial and pedal bypass 
grafts performed concurrently.
METHODS: Thirty-four peroneal bypass grafts with autologous vein were performed 
for limb salvage between September 1986 and June 1992. These constituted 18% of 
an overall experience of 194 tibial or pedal bypasses performed during that 
time. Preoperative and intraoperative arteriograms were reviewed to identify 
anatomic characteristics associated with successful limb salvage.
RESULTS: Secondary patency rates for peroneal bypass grafts (70%) compared with 
the other tibial and pedal bypass grafts (65%) did not differ significantly at 
48 months by life-table analysis. Limb salvage achieved by peroneal artery 
bypass grafting was significantly worse (55%) than that achieved by the 
remaining tibial and pedal bypasses (67%) at 48 months. Limb salvage was 33% at 
7 months for those undergoing peroneal artery bypass grafting as opposed to 57% 
at 48 months for patients undergoing other tibial or pedal revascularizations 
with tissue necrosis. Four anatomic features were identified that were 
associated with failure after peroneal artery bypass grafting. These were 
peroneal length less than 10 cm (p = 0.012), peroneal artery diameter less than 
2 mm (p = 0.035), absence of arteriographically demonstrated collaterals 
perfusing the foot (p = 0.0001), and little or no visualization of the pedal 
arch (p = 0.008).
CONCLUSIONS: Although successful grafts may avoid amputation in carefully 
selected cases, alternatives to peroneal artery bypass grafting should be 
considered when less than favorable anatomic conditions are encountered, 
particularly in the presence of forefoot tissue necrosis.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1993.49636
PMID: 8230576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. J S C Med Assoc. 1993 Sep;89(9):435-8.

Continent urinary diversion and bladder substitution.

Bissada NK(1), Marshall IY, Kaczmarek A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston.

Various forms of supravesical urinary diversion and bladder substitution are 
currently available. Several factors are considered when deciding which 
procedure to perform. These include the patient's medical and psychological 
condition, needs and preferences as well as the surgeon's experience and 
preferences. While ureterosigmoidostomy is seldom utilized today, it still has a 
place in properly selected patients with limited life expectancy. Standard ileal 
conduit remains a reasonable choice in some patients who do not wish or are not 
suitable candidates for continent forms of diversion. Continent urinary 
diversion and bladder substitution are attractive choices for most patients 
needing supravesical urinary diversion. We have found the Charleston pouch to be 
the ideal form of continent urinary diversion. While continent urinary diversion 
and bladder substitution improve the quality of life and are well accepted by 
patients and their urologists, potential complications must be recognized. 
Long-term follow-up is essential. Finally, patients who have had definitive 
diversion, such as ileal or colon conduit may now be considered for undiversion 
or for conversion to continent urinary diversion.

PMID: 8231118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Lakartidningen. 1993 Oct 13;90(41):3525-6, 3529.

[Standard of living and health among the elderly. Not only the social class is 
important].

[Article in Swedish]

Mellström D(1), Osterberg T.

Author information:
(1)Institutionen för geriatrik, Göteborgs universitet.

PMID: 8231495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Med J Aust. 1993 Nov 15;159(10):682-3, 686-90. doi: 
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1993.tb138084.x.

Prevention of health problems in later life.

Gingold R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Monash University, East Bentleigh, Vic.

The areas of health promotion and disease prevention for older people have been 
neglected in medical practice. Many doctors, as well as the general community, 
