believe that for people over 65 years of age it is too late for preventive care. 
This assumption is incorrect. However, there are a number of issues that are 
unique to prevention of health problems in later life. The goals of preventive 
care are broader than the issues of illness and life expectancy. Quality of 
life, autonomy and maintaining optimal function are equally important concerns 
for older people. Practising prevention involves not only reducing primary risk 
factors or screening for disease, but also encompasses psychological, 
environmental and social issues as these affect health and well-being. In 
addition, special medical problems require consideration; these include falls, 
incontinence, confusion, poor mobility and iatrogenic disease which are not the 
result of one disease process, but have many inter-related causes. Greater 
prominence should be given to patient education and counselling on these 
medical, social and psychological issues. General practitioners are ideally 
placed to initiate prevention as 87% of older Australians visit their GP once a 
year. While clear recommendations can be given on the effectiveness of some 
interventions, for others the doctor involved will have to make an informed 
decision based on individual clinical circumstances. Preventive care in later 
life is an integral part of good geriatric medicine.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1993.tb138084.x
PMID: 8232012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1993 Nov 26;42(46):891, 897-900.

Mortality patterns--United States, 1991.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

In 1991, 2,169,518 deaths were registered in the United States--21,055 more than 
in 1990 and the most ever recorded. Despite this increase, the overall 
age-adjusted death rate was 513.7 per 100,000 population, the lowest ever 
recorded. Provisional data for 1992 indicate that the death rate continued to 
decline through 1992. As in previous years, nearly two thirds of deaths in 1991 
were caused by the first three leading causes of death (i.e., heart disease, 
cancer, and stroke). This report summarizes mortality data for 1991 and compares 
patterns with 1990.

PMID: 8232174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Nature. 1993 Nov 18;366(6452):215. doi: 10.1038/366215a0.

Lifespan and testosterone.

Nieschlag E, Nieschlag S, Behre HM.

Comment in
    Nature. 1994 Mar 31;368(6470):408.
    Nature. 1994 Feb 10;367(6463):520.
    Nature. 1994 Apr 7;368(6471):501-2.

DOI: 10.1038/366215a0
PMID: 8232579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Pain. 1993 Sep;54(3):323-327. doi: 10.1016/0304-3959(93)90032-K.

How frequent is anesthesia dolorosa following spinal posterior rhizotomy? A 
retrospective analysis of fifteen patients.

Pagni CA(1), Lanotte M, Canavero S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neurosurgery, University of Turin, TurinItaly Department of 
Neurosurgery C.T.O. Hospital, TurinItaly.

Anesthesia dolorosa has been considered an infrequent complication of spinal 
posterior rhizotomy. We reviewed the data of all patients who underwent 
rhizotomy between 1962 and 1972 (15 cases). Thirteen were affected by cancer and 
2 by non-neoplastic conditions. Eight developed a typical deafferentation pain 
(i.e., anesthesia dolorosa) (53%) while 3 who were found to have a brain 
(frontal 2; parietal 1) metastasis did not. Anesthesia dolorosa developed 1.5-8 
months after rhizotomy. We conclude that anesthesia dolorosa following rhizotomy 
is more frequent than usually stated and that rhizotomy should be restricted to 
patients with a less than 3-month life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3959(93)90032-K
PMID: 8233547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Pediatrics. 1993 Dec;92(6):743-54.

Annual summary of vital statistics--1992.

Wegman ME(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109-2029.

A new low in the infant mortality rate was reached in 1992, at 848.7 deaths per 
100,000 live births, a decline of 5% from 894.4 in 1991. Birth, death, and 
marriage rates were also lower, but the divorce rate inched up to 4.8 per 1000 
population, the same level as in 1988. The age-adjusted death rate was 504.9 per 
100,000 population, the lowest in US history. Natural increase in the 
population, excess of births over deaths, decreased from 1,941,389 to 1,907,000, 
from 7.7 to 7.5 per 1000 population. Births outside hospital were fewer, both in 
numbers and in proportion to all births. Birth rates increased at both ends of 
the age range but declined in the principal childbearing years. Births to 
unmarried mothers increased again, comprising more than one fifth of white 
births and two thirds of black births. A higher proportion of newborns weighed 
less than 2500 g than in 1989. Life expectancy at birth increased again, to 75.7 
years overall, paralleled in both sexes and white and black races. The 
age-adjusted death rate for cardiovascular diseases declined, but malignancies 
of the respiratory system increased again, to almost six times what it was in 
1940. Chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases, despite slight improvement since 
1991, caused death more than eight times as often as in 1940. Black and white 
infant mortality rates both showed a decline, greater in the white neonatal 
component; the black/white discrepancy widened slightly. Infant mortality in 
those of Hispanic origin was slightly higher than non-Hispanic whites, but the 
National Center for Health Statistics warns that Hispanic rates may be 
understated. There was little change in causes of infant mortality, or in black 
to white ratios for the several causes. On the world scene, most industrialized 
countries showed declines in infant mortality matching the US. In 1991, 21 
countries, 15 in Europe, 3 in Asia, 2 in Oceania, and 1 in North America, had 
infant mortality rates less than the US. The decline in most other countries has 
been more rapid than in the US.

PMID: 8233732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Prog Food Nutr Sci. 1993 Jul-Sep;17(3):223-60.

Body composition in elderly persons: a critical review of needs and methods.

Baumgartner RN(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Nutrition Research Laboratory, University of New Mexico, School of 
Medicine, Albuquerque.

Significant changes in body composition that have important health related 
effects are believed to occur in the elderly. Knowledge of these changes is 
important for diagnoses, prognoses, and treatment of health problems. Many 
health problems in the elderly could be prevented or alleviated by nutritional 
modulation, but better understanding of the nature, extent, and underlying 
physiology of body compositional changes is needed for such interventions to be 
successful. There are currently few data for body composition in the elderly, 
especially for those greater than 75 y in age, partly because conventional 
methods of assessing body composition are difficult to apply for technical and 
conceptual reasons. As a result, little is known regarding the relationships of 
body composition to nutritional, functional or health status in 
non-hospitalized, free-living elderly persons. Knowledge of the "natural 
history" of body compositional changes and their relationships to other 
nutritional and health factors could lead to new insights on prevention and 
treatment, the reduction of morbidity and extension of the quality of life of 
older persons.

PMID: 8234779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Rev Med Chil. 1993 Jan;121(1):81-8.

[Vasodilator agents in chronic heart failure: which is the best option?].

[Article in Spanish]

Corbalán R(1), Kunstmann S, Jalil J.

Author information:
(1)Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Departamento de Enfermedades 
Cardiovasculares, Santiago.

Vasodilator therapy has been utilized for the treatment of congestive heart 
failure in the last 20 years. These drugs contribute to increase cardiac output, 
decrease peripheral vascular resistance and favour venous dilatation. Recent 
multicenter trials have addressed the issue of the impact of vasodilator therapy 
upon survival. Thus, the VHEFT-I and Consensus studies have shown that both the 
combination of nitrates and hydralazine and ACF inhibitors improve life 
expectancy in patients with moderate and severe heart failure. Moreover, the 
SOLVD study showed that ACE inhibitors improve survival and reduce cardiac 
events in patients with mild heart failure and depressed myocardial function at 
the end of 2 years of follow-up. The VHEFT II trial compared the effects of the 
nitrate-hydralazine combination versus ACE inhibitors upon the clinical course 
of patients with moderate heart failure. This last trial showed that although 
nitrates and hydralazine exerted a slightly better benefit upon exercise 
tolerance and left ventricular ejection fraction, patients that were treated 
with ACE inhibitors had a significantly reduced mortality. Differences in 
mortality when both groups of vasodilators drugs were compared were due to 
reduction of arrhythmias and sudden death. It is likely that this greater 
benefit obtained with ACE inhibitors when compared to nitrates and hydralazine 
in heart failure might be due to their favourable effects upon the abnormal 
neurohormonal activation observed in this syndrome. Thus ACE inhibitors have 
turned out to be one of the cornerstones in the treatment of congestive heart 
failure.

PMID: 8235172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Scand J Soc Med. 1993 Sep;21(3):150-8. doi: 10.1177/140349489302100303.

Morbidity and mortality in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in the 1980's.

Zvidriņs P(1), Krumiņs J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics and Demography, University of Latvia, Riga.

The purpose of the present study was to examine the general morbidity and 
mortality rates in the three Baltic republics--Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania 
during a decade before the collapse of the Soviet Union. Official statistical 
data were used to compare morbidity and mortality rates. A method of 
standardization and life table functions were employed. Soviet morbidity 
statistics were predominantly descriptive, and based mainly on crude rates 
registered cases of illness during a year per 100,000 population. The death 
rates during the Soviet period are a better indicator of the health of the 
populations than more specific health indicators. A general deterioration of the 
ecological, social and economic situation in the Baltic republics at the end of 
the 1980s and early 1990s may have resulted in the mortality rising and aborted 
any trends to increasing life expectancy in the next few years thus requiring 
more radical reforms in health and social policy. The study demonstrates a 
noticeable difference in mortality rates between demographic and socio-economic 
groups in the Baltic states.

DOI: 10.1177/140349489302100303
PMID: 8235500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Sangre (Barc). 1993 Aug;38(4):301-7.

[Clinical profile and course of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria].

[Article in Spanish]

Tudela M(1), Jarque I, Pérez-Sirvent ML, Palau J, Sanz MA.

Author information:
(1)Sección de Hematología Clínica, Hospital Universitario La Fe, Universidad de 
Valencia.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the clinical characteristics, laboratory findings, course, 
treatment and survival of a series of patients with PNH.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The clinical records of 21 patients diagnosed of PNH in 
the La Fe University Hospital between 1970 and July 1991 were revised. 
Positivity to Ham's and sucrose tests was the major diagnostic criterion. 
Haemolysis was studied by means of reticulocyte count, unconjugated bilirubin, 
LDH levels, haptoglobin, serum iron, and haemosiderinuria. The survival analysis 
was performed in accordance with Kaplan and Meier.
RESULTS: The median age in the group was 38 years (range: 18-72 years) and the 
M/F ratio was 11/10. The commonest symptoms at onset were weakness (76%), dark 
urine (47%), jaundice (33%), and purpura (24%). All the patients had anaemia, 
six of them (28%) presenting with aplastic anaemia. The complications most 
frequently seen included thrombosis (documented in 7 cases, clinically suspected 
in 6 others), infection (6 cases) and haemorrhage (6 cases). One patient 
developed aplastic anaemia after 16 years of follow-up, and another one had AML. 
None of the patients with PNH-associated aplastic anaemia developed thrombosis. 
The incidence of severe cytopenia was: Hb < 80 g/L, 62%; platelet count < or = 
20 x 10(9)/L, 29%, and white cell count < or = 2 x 10(9)/L, 14%. The 
haemolysis-related findings were as follows: unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia, 
100%; haemosiderinuria, 87%; decreased haptoglobin, 80%. Transfusion support 
consisted of washed red cells (total amount, 1,684 units) and platelets (137 
units). A female patient with anticoagulant therapy developed haemolysis after 
non-isogroup plasma transfusion. Five patients required no transfusions. One 
patient was subjected to splenectomy and other underwent a successful 
bone-marrow transplant. The cause of death was related to PNH in three of the 
five patients who had died when this study was finished (mesenteric thrombosis, 
subcapsular haematoma of the liver and AML). The actuarial survival at 10 years 
was 68%.
CONCLUSIONS: 1) The incidence of PNH is very low in our experience, excessive 
delay in diagnosis being the rule, as in other reported series. 2) Early 
anti-thrombotic treatment should be carried out in PNH whenever severe 
thrombocytopenia is not associated. 3) Allogeneic BMT is the only curative 
treatment.

PMID: 8235945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Surv Ophthalmol. 1993 Sep-Oct;38(2):169-92. doi:
10.1016/0039-6257(93)90100-l.

Basal cell carcinoma of the eyelid and periocular skin.

Margo CE(1), Waltz K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Pathology, University of South Florida, 
College of Medicine, Tampa.

Basal cell carcinoma is the most common human malignancy. This locally invasive 
tumor rarely metastasizes, but can cause considerable morbidity when on the 
eyelids and periocular skin. The successful management of BCC requires an 
awareness of its broad clinical spectrum and knowledge of the risk factors 
associated with therapeutic failure. The optimal therapy for basal cell 
carcinoma is controversial. Treatment strategy is formulated on an individual 
basis, taking into account tumor size, anatomic location, and growth pattern. 
The immune status and life expectancy of the patient also must be considered. 
While complete eradication of the tumor is desirable, this can be challenging 
since basal cell carcinomas often extend beyond their apparent clinical margins. 
Since prevention is preferable to treatment, the public needs to be informed 
that the incidence of periocular skin cancers can be reduced with the longterm 
use of sunscreens, sunglasses, and hats with brims.

DOI: 10.1016/0039-6257(93)90100-l
PMID: 8235999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Trop Geogr Med. 1993;45(4):168-70.

The epidemiology of blindness and visual loss in Hamar tribesmen of Ethiopia. 
The role of gender.

Courtright P(1), Klungsøyr P, Lewallen S, Henriksen TH.

Author information:
(1)International Centre for Eye Health, London, UK.

We conducted a population-based survey in the Hamar tribe of Ethiopia to assess 
the problem of blindness and ocular morbidity. Blindness was detected in 1.9% of 
the Hamar. Among the age group 40 and over < 1.0% of men and 13% of women were 
blind. Women with low vision or blindness comprised 30% of all women while men 
with low vision or blindness only comprised 8% of men in the age stratum. 
Cataract is responsible for the excess blindness in women. Even mild visual 
disability is less common in men. In Hamar society men have two roles: as 
herders and as warriors. Warriors with visual loss will be less successful in 
defending themselves. We suggest that Hamar men who develop visual loss have 
increased mortality compared to women with visual loss. Vision loss in women 
does not appear to have life-threatening consequences. Cessation of hostilities 
between the Hamar and their neighbours could, conceivably, lead to an 'increase' 
in the incidence of vision loss among men.

PMID: 8236467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Urology. 1993 Nov;42(5):520-6; discussion 526-7. doi: 
10.1016/0090-4295(93)90261-8.

Long-term impact of conservative management on localized prostate cancer. A 
twenty-year experience in Japan.

Egawa S(1), Go M, Kuwao S, Shoji K, Uchida T, Koshiba K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kitasato University School of Medicine, Kanagawa, 
Japan.

The clinical outcome of 107 patients with localized prostate cancers over the 
past twenty years was analyzed retrospectively. Immediate endocrine therapy was 
administered in 55 patients after diagnosis. The other group of 52 patients did 
not receive any anti-tumor treatment until progression. Overall, 22 patients 
(21%) died of prostate cancer, while 45 (42%) died of other known causes. During 
a mean observation period of thirty-seven months, 27 (25%) experienced 
progression of the disease (local in 9, distant metastasis in 25, and both in 7 
patients). The cancer-specific survival rates for these 107 patients were 78 
percent at five years and 71 percent at ten years. The timing of endocrine 
therapy and age at diagnosis did not influence patient's prognosis. Tumor stage 
failed to demonstrate any prognostic significance after being controlled for 
other factors including tumor grade. Poorly differentiated histology appeared to 
be the sole and the strongest predictor for both tumor progression and cancer 
death. Prostate cancer may not differ significantly among races once it becomes 
clinically manifest. Expectant management for localized prostate cancer in well 
and moderately differentiated cancer may be justified because of the higher 
probability of dying of other intercurrent causes especially in the elderly 
group of patients. However, definitive forms of therapy should be considered for 
the group of patients with poorly differentiated tumor who have reasonably long 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0090-4295(93)90261-8
PMID: 8236593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Acta Odontol Scand. 1993 Aug;51(4):253-62. doi: 10.3109/00016359309040575.

11-year assessment of Class-III resin restorations completed with two 
restorative procedures.

Qvist V(1), Strøm C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cariology and Endodontics, School of Dentistry, Faculty of 
Health Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

This randomized clinical trial was initiated to study the effect of two 
restorative procedures on the clinical quality and longevity of class-III resin 
restorations. The material consisted of 52 pairs of class-III restorations in 
the microfilled resin Silar completed with two modifications of the conventional 
acid-etch restorative procedure: A) beveling of the margins of the cavity 
preparations, and B) treatment of the etched butt-joint cavities before filling 
with the dentin-adhesive NPG-GMA/ethanol together with re-etching and surface 
coating of the finished restorations with low viscous resin. The restorations 
were examined at base line and after 2, 4, 6, and 11 years. The cumulative 
11-year survival rate for both types of restorations was 84%. Marginal 
discolorations, marginal discrepancies, and secondary caries were most often 
recorded corresponding to the beveled type-A restorations, whereas the esthetic 
quality of the two types of restorations was almost identical. Surface 
discolorations were most often recorded among smokers, and significant 
correlations were found between the patients' consumption of alcoholic beverages 
and corpus discoloration, surface discoloration, and surface wear of 
restorations.

DOI: 10.3109/00016359309040575
PMID: 8237310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 1993;123(3-4):135-40. doi: 10.1007/BF01401869.

Metastatic spinal cord compression--options for surgical treatment.

Rompe JD(1), Eysel P, Hopf C, Heine J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Mainz University Medical School, Federal 
Republic of Germany.

Fourty-three cases with metastatic spinal cord compression were reviewed 
post-operatively to clarify the usefulness of the procedures concerning 
restoration of neurological function, and pain relief. Only patients with 
pathological spinal instability and neurological sequelae were included. 
Posterior decompression and stabilization was performed in all but six patients. 
All but four patients (91%) reported decrease of pain symptoms. Amelioration of 
neurological function was achieved in 58%. Re-establishment of walking ability 
was obtained in 57%. Post-surgery life expectancy averaged 11 months. In 
patients with widespread metastatic disease and/or multi-level instability of 
the spine restriction to palliative dorsal procedures is sensible. 
Post-operative ancillary treatment is necessary.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01401869
PMID: 8237491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Age Ageing. 1993 Sep;22(5):377-81. doi: 10.1093/ageing/22.5.377.

Health care for elderly people in developing countries: a case study of 
Thailand.

Jitapunkul S(1), Bunnag S, Ebrahim S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Royal Free Hospital School of 
Medicine, London.

The elderly populations of many developing countries are increasing rapidly. 
These demographic changes are a direct result of the success of socio-economic 
development that has led to declines in mortality rates at all ages and 
reductions in fertility. However, an aged population might be expected to suffer 
with the problems of dependency and disability leading to an increased burden of 
disease. Adequate disability and life expectancy data are essential for planning 
health and social policy but are currently insufficient. Making best use of the 
limited resources available for health care will require an emphasis on training 
of professional staff and carers, but with integration of health care for 
elderly people with established health services, particularly the existing 
primary health care systems. Strategies aimed at developing separate services 
for elderly people should be avoided because of the high likelihood of producing 
services of low quality with an inappropriate hospital emphasis.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/22.5.377
PMID: 8237629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Am J Cardiol. 1993 Nov 15;72(15):1152-5. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(93)90985-l.

Follow-up of asystolic episodes in patients with cardioinhibitory, neurally 
mediated syncope and VVI pacemaker.

Menozzi C(1), Brignole M, Lolli G, Bottoni N, Oddone D, Gianfranchi L, Gaggioli 
G.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Electrophysiology and Pacing, Ospedale S. Maria Nuova, Reggio 
Emilia, Italy.

The occurrence rate of spontaneous asystolic episodes during long-term follow-up 
in patients with abnormal asystolic responses induced by means of vasovagal 
maneuvers was evaluated. The heart rate of 23 patients (mean age 64 +/- 12 
years; 6 women and 17 men) affected by neurally mediated syncope (mean 4.3 +/- 
4.9 episodes) was continuously monitored by a specially designed implanted 
pacemaker able to detect and store in its memory all asystolic episodes lasting 
3 to 6 or > 6 seconds. Asystolic, neurally mediated syncope was diagnosed when a 
reflex asystole of > 3 seconds was induced during carotid sinus massage (n = 
22), eyeball compression test (n = 3) or head-up tilt test (n = 2). During a 
total of 357 months (mean 15 +/- 7) of monitoring, asystolic episodes occurred 
in 17 patients (74%): 1,765 episodes of 3- to 6-second (median 3) duration 
occurred in 14 patients, and 47 episodes of > 6-second (median 2) duration 
occurred in 11. The actuarial estimates of occurrence of asystolic episodes of > 
3 and > 6 seconds were 82 and 53%, respectively, after 2 years of follow-up. 
Only 12 episodes of 3 to 6 seconds (0.7%), and 20 episodes of > 6 seconds (43%) 
resulted in presyncopal or syncopal symptoms. Thus, an asystolic response to 
vasovagal maneuvers predicts the occurrence of spontaneous asystolic episodes 
during follow-up. With few exceptions, spontaneous episodes are asymptomatic and 
their incidence is low.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(93)90985-l
PMID: 8237805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Am J Cardiol. 1993 Nov 26;72(16):70F-74F. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(93)90966-g.

The CASCADE Study: randomized antiarrhythmic drug therapy in survivors of 
cardiac arrest in Seattle. CASCADE Investigators.

Greene HL(1).

Author information:
(1)Providence Medical Center, Seattle, Washington.

The Cardiac Arrest in Seattle: Conventional Versus Amiodarone Drug Evaluation 
(CASCADE) study evaluated antiarrhythmic drug therapy in patients who had 
survived an episode of out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation (VF) and who 
were thought to be at high risk for recurrence of VF. Therapy with empiric 
amiodarone was compared to therapy with other antiarrhythmic agents, guided by 
electrophysiologic testing and/or Holter recording. The study evaluated the 
endpoints of (1) cardiac death, (2) cardiac arrest from ventricular fibrillation 
with resuscitation, and (3) complete syncope followed by a shock from an 
automatic implanted defibrillator that restored consciousness. The study 
comprised 228 patients, 113 treated with amiodarone and 115 treated with 
conventional antiarrhythmic drug therapy. Most patients had coronary artery 
disease with a prior myocardial infarction, and one half of the population had a 
history of congestive heart failure. The mean left ventricular ejection fraction 
was 35%. Survival was better in patients treated with amiodarone than in 
patients treated with other antiarrhythmic agents. Patients treated with 
amiodarone were less likely to receive a shock from an implanted defibrillator, 
and syncope followed by a shock from a defibrillator was less common in patients 
treated with amiodarone. However, overall mortality was high, and side effects 
of therapy were common. Patients treated with amiodarone, even at the low doses 
used in this study, were still at risk for thyroid dysfunction (both 
hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism) and for pulmonary toxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(93)90966-g
PMID: 8237833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Am J Epidemiol. 1993 Nov 15;138(10):787-98. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a116782.

Exposure-response analysis of cancer mortality in a cohort of workers exposed to 
ethylene oxide.

Stayner L(1), Steenland K, Greife A, Hornung R, Hayes RB, Nowlin S, Morawetz J, 
Ringenburg V, Elliot L, Halperin W.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Robert A. Taft 
Laboratories, Cincinnati, OH 45226.

The authors previously reported results from the largest cohort mortality study 
of ethylene oxide-exposed workers that has been conducted to date. Here they 
extend their previous work by quantitatively examining the relation between 
cancer mortality and ethylene oxide exposure. This study included workers from 
13 of the 14 geographically distinct facilities that were included in the 
previous investigation. These facilities began regularly using ethylene oxide to 
sterilize medical supplies or spices sometime between 1938 and 1969. Workers 
were followed from first exposure through December 31, 1987. Historical 
exposures to ethylene oxide were estimated using a regression model. Standard 
life-table analysis was used to examine cancer mortality in three categories of 
cumulative exposure to ethylene oxide. The Cox proportional hazards model was 
also used to examine cumulative and other measures of ethylene oxide exposure as 
predictors of cancer mortality. In both the life-table analysis and the Cox 
model, a positive trend was observed in all lymphatic and hematopoietic cancer 
mortality for cumulative ethylene oxide exposure. This trend was strengthened 
when ethylene oxide exposures 10 years prior to death were discounted (lagged) 
and when the analysis was restricted to neoplasms of lymphoid cell origin. 
Despite limitations discussed in this paper, the authors believe that these 
findings provide some support for the hypothesis that exposure to ethylene oxide 
increases the risk of mortality from lymphatic and hematopoietic neoplasms. The 
authors intend to continue follow-up of this relatively young cohort, which may 
allow more definitive conclusions to be drawn in the future.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a116782
PMID: 8237967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1993 Oct;169(4):965-9. doi:
10.1016/0002-9378(93)90036-i.

The efficacy of oral terbutaline after intravenous tocolysis.

Parilla BV(1), Dooley SL, Minogue JP, Socol ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Northwestern University Medical 
School, Chicago, Illinois.

OBJECTIVE: Our purpose was to investigate in a prospective, randomized study the 
efficacy of oral terbutaline after successful intravenous tocolysis in reducing 
preterm birth.
STUDY DESIGN: Patients between 28 and 35 weeks' gestation with uterine 
contractions and change in cervical examination were treated with intravenous 
magnesium sulfate for 12 to 24 hours. After successful tocolysis patients were 
approached for study participation and randomized to receive either oral 
terbutaline or no therapy. The dose of terbutaline was individualized to achieve 
a maternal pulse > 100 beats/min, and terbutaline was continued until 36 
completed weeks of gestation. Recurrent preterm labor (contractions with change 
in cervical examination) for either group was treated with intravenous magnesium 
sulfate, and subsequent treatment was based on the previous randomization.
RESULTS: Fifty-five patients were enrolled (28 terbutaline, 27 no oral 
tocolytic). No difference was found between groups with respect to time gained 
(4.0 +/- 2.7 vs 4.6 +/- 3.1 weeks, p = 0.412), gestational age at delivery (35.6 
+/- 2.7 vs 36.1 +/- 2.4 weeks, p = 0.562), > or = 37 weeks at delivery (nine vs 
13, p = 0.291), recurrent preterm labor (10 vs four, p = 0.104), recurrent 
uterine contractions alone (five vs eight, p = 0.527), birth weight (2616 +/- 
633 gm vs 2645 +/- 599 gm, p = 0.785), special care nursery admissions (eight vs 
six, p = 0.759), or neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (three vs two, p = 
0.965).
CONCLUSION: The use of oral terbutaline after successful parenteral tocolysis 
failed to reduce the rate of preterm birth.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(93)90036-i
PMID: 8238158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1993 Oct;169(4):970-6. doi:
10.1016/0002-9378(93)90037-j.

Double-blind; placebo-controlled trial of piperacillin prophylaxis in preterm 
membrane rupture.

Lockwood CJ(1), Costigan K, Ghidini A, Wein R, Chien D, Brown BL, Alvarez M, 
Cetrulo CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Medicine, Mount Sinai 
School of Medicine, New York, New York.

OBJECTIVE: We attempted to test whether antibiotic therapy prolongs pregnancy in 
preterm premature rupture of membranes, because preterm premature rupture of 
membranes is frequently associated with chorionic-decidual infection.
STUDY DESIGN: Women with preterm premature rupture of membranes and a singleton 
gestation at 24 to 34 completed weeks were randomized to receive either 
piperacillin 3 gm or placebo intravenously every 6 hours for 72 hours and were 
managed conservatively until spontaneous delivery, chorioamnionitis, or fetal 
distress.
RESULTS: Between January 1987 and January 1992, a total of 75 patients were 
randomized to receive piperacillin (n = 38) or placebo (n = 37). There were no 
differences between the piperacillin group and the placebo group in mean 
gestational age at randomization (30.2 +/- 3 vs 30.3 +/- 2.9 weeks). However, a 
greater number of patients had pregnancy prolonged beyond 7 days (42.1% vs 10.8% 
p = 0.005) and the mean latency period was significantly prolonged (11.4 +/- 
18.8 vs 6.1 +/- 13.6 days, p = 0.001) in the piperacillin group compared with 
the control groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of intravenous piperacillin for 72 hours in preterm premature 
rupture of membranes significantly prolongs the latency period between membrane 
rupture and delivery.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(93)90037-j
PMID: 8238159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Am J Surg. 1993 Nov;166(5):543-7. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(05)81150-x.

Aggressive metastasectomy for pulmonic sarcomatous metastases: a follow-up 
study.

Saltzman DA(1), Snyder CL, Ferrell KL, Thompson RC, Leonard AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Minnesota Hospital and Clinics, 
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.

Pulmonary metastases are the primary cause of death due to bone and soft tissue 
sarcomas. We have previously shown that an aggressive approach and a new 
technique of multiple pulmonary metastasectomies have resulted in improved 
survival for patients with pulmonary metastases. In this follow-up study, an 
expanded database of patients was retrospectively analyzed to determine 
survivability as well as to evaluate potential prognostic indicators. Forty-nine 
patients, 26 of whom had osteogenic sarcoma (OGS), were evaluated. A number of 
patients had been referred from other institutions where their disease had been 
considered inoperable because it was extensive or recurrent. Using lateral 
thoracotomies exclusively, employment of a laser technique, and excision of 
minimal pulmonary parenchymal tissue, we performed aggressive metastasectomy. A 
mean of 3.0 thoracotomies was performed, in which an average of 10.2 nodules per 
thoracotomy were excised. Operative morbidity and mortality were minimal. The 
disease-free interval, the number of nodules resected, the number of 
thoracotomies performed, and the size of the nodules were evaluated as potential 
prognostic indicators. Statistically significant correlation could be 
established only for the size of the nodules resected. The 5-year survival rate 
for all patients was 39%; it was 24% for patients with OGS and 71% for those 
without OGS. Aggressive surgical resection of pulmonary metastases from bone and 
soft tissue sarcoma should be considered when there is control of local disease, 
no evidence of extrapulmonary metastasis, and adequate post-resection pulmonary 
reserve. The presence of bilateral, extensive, or recurrent disease is not a 
contraindication to thoracotomy. Aggressive resection of multiple nodules and 
improved chemotherapy appear to prolong survival of these patients when compared 
with survival rates of historical control subjects.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(05)81150-x
PMID: 8238750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Arch Intern Med. 1993 Nov 22;153(22):2565-71.

A controlled study comparing the effects of nabumetone, ibuprofen, and ibuprofen 
plus misoprostol on the upper gastrointestinal tract mucosa.

Roth SH(1), Tindall EA, Jain AK, McMahon FG, April PA, Bockow BI, Cohen SB, 
Fleischmann RM.

Author information:
(1)Arthritis Center of Excellence, Humana Hospital, Phoenix, Ariz.

BACKGROUND: This study was developed to compare the incidence of endoscopically 
diagnosed ulcers in elderly patients taking nabumetone, ibuprofen, or 
concomitant ibuprofen/misoprostol. Further research is indicated to better 
establish the clinical relevance of these endoscopy findings.
METHODS: We conducted a prospective, multicenter, randomized, 
endoscopist-blinded, 12-week study involving 171 patients with osteoarthritis 
aged 60 years and older. Patients were randomized to receive nabumetone, 1000 mg 
(n = 58); ibuprofen, 600 mg four times daily (n = 53); or ibuprofen, 600 mg four 
times daily, administered concomitantly with misoprostol, 200 micrograms four 
times daily (n = 60). Endoscopy was performed at baseline and at weeks 2, 6, and 
12. Endoscopy results were scored on a scale of 1 to 9. Significant ulcers were 
defined as breaks in the mucosa greater than 5 mm with appreciable depth.
RESULTS: Of the 171 randomized patients, 148 completed the study. There was no 
significant difference in the incidence of significant ulcers between the 
nabumetone group and the ibuprofen/misoprostol group (one vs zero). There were 
significantly fewer significant ulcers in the nabumetone and 
ibuprofen/misoprostol groups than in the ibuprofen monotherapy group (one and 
zero vs eight; P < .01). There also was a significant difference in the time to 
ulcer development, with a greater risk of developing an ulcer sooner with 
ibuprofen treatment (P < .01) than either nabumetone or ibuprofen/misoprostol 
treatment. The severity of osteoarthritis, based on physicians' assessments, 
improved in 64% of patients in the nabumetone group, 55% of those in the 
ibuprofen group, and 63% of those in the ibuprofen/misoprostol group.
CONCLUSIONS: Nabumetone is equivalent in ulcerogenicity to concomitant 
ibuprofen/misoprostol and is significantly less ulcerogenic than ibuprofen 
alone.

PMID: 8239849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Arch Ophthalmol. 1993 Nov;111(11):1564-8. doi: 
10.1001/archopht.1993.01090110130038.

Lifetime prevalence of ocular injuries from the Baltimore Eye Survey.

Katz J(1), Tielsch JM.

Author information:
(1)Dana Center for Preventive Ophthalmology, Wilmer Ophthalmological Institute, 
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cumulative lifetime prevalence, nature, and 
consequences of ocular injuries in a multiracial urban environment.
METHODS: Self-reported lifetime ocular injuries were ascertained in a 
population-based sample of persons aged 40 years or older residing in 16 
clusters in east Baltimore, Md. A total of 5308 subjects underwent a screening 
eye examination and were interviewed about lifetime ocular injuries.
RESULTS: Eight hundred thirty ocular injury incidents were reported by 762 
(14.4%) subjects. The maximum number of ocular injuries reported in a lifetime 
was four. At least one injury was reported by 22.5% of black men, 20.3% of white 
men, 12.2% of black women, and 7.7% of white women. No treatment was sought for 
18% of these injuries (22% black and 14% white subjects). The prevalence of 
visual impairment due to trauma per 1000 people was 22.3 among black men, 7.4 
among white men, 6.7 among black women, and 3.5 among white women. The 
prevalence of blindness due to trauma in at least one eye was 21.2 per 1000 
among black men, 3.7 times the rate among white men. Based on reports of 
injuries in the year prior to interview, the annual incidence of medically 
treated ocular injuries per 1000 people was 5.6 among black men, 4.1 among white 
men, 5.3 among black women and 1.8 among white women aged 40 years and older.
CONCLUSIONS: Lifetime prevalences of ocular injuries were similar among both 
black and white men, but the visual consequences of the injuries were more 
severe among black men.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.1993.01090110130038
PMID: 8240115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1993 Nov 16;1216(2):227-36. doi: 
10.1016/0167-4781(93)90149-8.

Analysis of the mRNA structure of the Pseudomonas putida TOL meta fission 
pathway operon around the transcription initiation point, the xylTE and the 
xylFJ regions.

Marqués S(1), Ramos JL, Timmis KN.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Biotechnology, GBF, Braunschweig, Germany.

The 13 genes encoded by the meta-cleavage operon (approx. 11 kb) of Pseudomonas 
putida TOL plasmid pWW0 are transcribed from a single promoter, Pm. In P. 
putida, transcription from Pm was strictly dependent on the presence of 
effector-activated XylS protein. Three regions of the transcript were analyzed 
in the wild-type strain of P. putida (pWW0) by S1 nuclease protection and primer 
extension analyses. A major point of transcription initiation was found in the 
most 5'-end of the operon, which defined a -10/-35 promoter. Another main mRNA 
5'-end point located within the coding sequence of the first gene of the operon 
was detected and identified as a stable endonucleolytic cleavage product, which 
rendered this gene inactive for further translation. The estimated half-life of 
this leader region was 2 min. Analyses of the transcripts at xylLTE and xylFJ 
regions revealed the presence of several relatively stable mRNA products with 
5'-ends located along these regions, which arose from specific endonucleolytic 
mRNA cleavage. The degradation of the stable intermediate products observed 
after the addition of rifampicin was similar for all the products, presenting a 
delay of approx. 10 min, followed by an exponential decay, with a half-life that 
ranged between 6 and 10 min.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-4781(93)90149-8
PMID: 8241263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Perit Dial Int. 1993;13(4):307-9.

Improvements in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis technique survival: 
further experience from a U.K. renal unit.

Innes A(1), Burden RP, Morgan AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Renal Medicine, City Hospital, Nottingham, United Kingdom.

PMID: 8241332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1993 Sep;12(3):197-202.

Prophylactic use of ganciclovir for allogeneic bone marrow transplant 
recipients.

von Bueltzingsloewen A(1), Bordigoni P, Witz F, Bene MC, Schmitt C, Lacour B, 
Sommelet D.

Author information:
(1)Unité de Transplantation médullaire, Hôpital d'Enfants, Nancy, France.

Erratum in
    Bone Marrow Transplant 1994 Feb;13(2):232.

Ganciclovir which has proved effective in the treatment of cytomegalovirus (CMV) 
infection was given prophylactically to 40 bone marrow transplant (BMT) patients 
pre and post-transplant in seropositive patients and post-transplant in 
seronegative patients with a seropositive donor. All patients were transfused 
with screened blood products and 33 received CMV hyperimmune globulin. They were 
compared with an historical control group consisting of 39 patients who had 
received significantly more unscreened blood products (p = 0.01) and less 
HLA-mismatched marrow transplants (p = 0.05). Toxicity of ganciclovir was 
hematological-neutropenia was responsible for cessation of the drug in seven 
patients and transfusion requirements were significantly higher in the 
ganciclovir group. Non-hematological toxicity did not occur in any patient. Only 
one patient (2.5%) experienced symptomatic CMV infection and no patient 
developed CMV pneumonitis. In contrast, in the control group, 23 (59%) patients 
had clinical symptoms of CMV infection (p < 0.0001) and 4 (10%) experienced CMV 
pneumonitis (p < 0.01). Ganciclovir significantly reduced the incidence of 
positive CMV antigenemia (7.5% in the treated group vs 72% in the control group; 
p < 0.01). However, ganciclovir delivery did not result in an improved overall 
survival due to a higher rate of regimen-related deaths and chronic GVHD mostly 
in patients transplanted from an HLA-mismatched donor. The prophylactic 
administration of ganciclovir abrogates CMV pneumonitis and considerably reduces 
the incidence of CMV infection in BM recipients at high risk of developing this 
disease after transplantation.

PMID: 8241976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1993 Sep;12(3):225-31.

Acute graft-versus-host disease and the risks for idiopathic pneumonia after 
marrow transplantation for severe aplastic anemia.

Crawford SW(1), Longton G, Storb R.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, 
WA 98104.

The risks for the development of idiopathic pneumonia after allogeneic BMT were 
assessed in a case-series review at a single marrow transplantation center. All 
allogeneic marrow recipients (n = 299) (age range 1-60 years) with severe 
aplastic anemia (SAA) transplanted from family member donors after conditioning 
with CY were evaluated. Post-grafting immunosuppression consisted of MTX alone 
in 205 patients (69%), CY alone in 16 (5%) and a combination of the two in 78 
(26%). The incidence estimate for any pneumonia within the first 200 days after 
transplant was 18% (95% confidence interval = 14-24%). Of 48 cases of pneumonia, 
CMV infection was documented in 44%, 21% were idiopathic and the remainder were 
either due to other infections or were not evaluated. The effect of acute GVHD 
on the incidence of pneumonia was examined using multivariate Cox proportional 
hazards models which included covariates for potential confounding factors. 
Consistent with previous reports, acute GVHD was associated with an increased 
incidence of any pneumonia (relative risk (RR) = 3.5, 95% Cl = 1.9-6.9; p < 
0.001). Specifically, acute GVHD also was associated with the largest risk of 
idiopathic pneumonia (RR = 5.0, 95% Cl = 1.1-22; p = 0.04). In conclusion, 
recognition of acute GVHD as a risk factor for idiopathic pneumonia suggests 
that mechanisms in addition to chemoradiation damage are responsible for 
non-infectious lung injury after BMT.

PMID: 8241981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1993 Sep;12(3):233-6.

Incidence of cataracts after single fraction total body irradiation: the role of 
steroids and graft versus host disease.

Hamon MD(1), Gale RF, Macdonald ID, Smith OP, Collis CH, Skeggs DB, Gandhi L, 
Prentice HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Royal Free Hospital, London, UK.

Eighty-eight patients who received single fraction total body irradiation 
(sfTBI) as part of their conditioning for allogeneic BMT have been evaluated for 
the risk of cataract formation. Thirty-eight (43%) have developed cataracts; 11 
required surgery. With 9.5-13.6 years follow-up (median 10.7 years), all 12 
recipients of unmanipulated marrow allografts have developed cataracts; the 
actuarial risk of needing surgery was 32 (+/- 18%, 95% confidence intervals 
(CI)). Ten of these 12 required high-dose steroids (prednisolone > 1 mg/kg/day) 
for the treatment of GVHD. Seventy-six patients received T cell-depleted 
allografts; 14 of 76 required post-transplant immunosuppression with high-dose 
steroids. With 1-9.4 years follow-up (median 5 years), the actuarial risk of 
cataract formation in T cell-depleted allograft recipients is 72% (+/- 52% CI), 
the actuarial risk for needing surgery is 20% (+/- 9% CI). Recipients of sfTBI 
and non-T cell-depleted allografts had a significantly greater risk of 
developing cataracts (p = 0.003, long rank test) and of needing surgery (p < 
0.05, log rank test) than patients receiving T cell-depleted BM. Cataracts 
occurred more frequently in patients requiring post-transplant immunosuppression 
with steroids (relative risk 2.12, p < 0.01 log rank test).

PMID: 8241982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1993 Sep;12(3):243-51.

Monoclonal antibody-purged autologous bone marrow transplantation in adults with 
acute lymphoblastic leukemia at high risk of relapse.

Soiffer RJ(1), Roy DC, Gonin R, Murray C, Anderson KC, Freedman AS, Rabinowe SN, 
Robertson MJ, Spector N, Pesek K, et al.

Author information:
(1)Division of Tumor Immunology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 02115.

The prognosis for adults with B lineage ALL who have relapsed after an initial 
remission is poor. High-dose chemoradiotherapy followed by autologous BMT can 
induce prolonged clinical remissions in some children with recurrent ALL. In 
this study, we evaluated the efficacy of autologous BMT in adults. Autologous 
marrow was treated in vitro with J5 and J2 monoclonal antibodies (CD10/CD9) plus 
rabbit complement to purge residual ALL cells. Twenty-two adults with B lineage 
ALL were treated with high-dose chemoradiotherapy followed by infusion of J2/J5 
purged autologous BM. The median age was 28 years (range 18-54 years). 
Twenty-one of 22 patients had experienced at least one relapse prior to BMT. All 
patients achieved complete hematologic engraftment. Disease-free survival (DFS) 
in this cohort of patients was 20%, with all survivors alive and free of disease 
between 2.5 and 7.5 years post-BMT. Age at the time of BMT was an important 
prognostic factor, with patients < 28 years old faring much better than older 
individuals (DFS, 45% vs 0%, p = 0.01). Our experience suggests that high-dose 
chemoradiotherapy followed by infusion of J2/J5 purged autologous marrow is as 
efficacious in young adults as it is in children and is a reasonable alternative 
for patients who lack HLA-matched donors. Results in older adults are poor, 
however, and demonstrate the need for more effective transplant strategies in 
these individuals.

PMID: 8241984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Carcinogenesis. 1993 Nov;14(11):2373-5. doi: 10.1093/carcin/14.11.2373.

Life-span and cancer: the induction time of tumors in diverse animal species 
treated with nitrosodiethylamine.

Lijinsky W(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, DBRA, Research Triangle 
Park, NC 27709.

To ascertain the possible relationship between animal lifespan and the rate of 
tumor development, the results of carcinogenesis studies in various species 
treated with similar doses of a carcinogenic nitrosamine have been compiled from 
the literature. Comparable experiments in 20 species of mammals, reptiles, 
birds, amphibians and fish were analyzed. The animals received approximately 
1000 mg/kg body wt (400-2500 mg/kg) lifetime total dose of nitrosodiethylamine 
(NDEA). Animals with lifespans varying from 3 years (mouse) to > 50 years 
(snake) developed tumors with latent periods of roughly 1 year (range 0.5-1.9 
year), showing no relationship to lifespan. The evidence suggests that the time 
dependence of tumor development is more likely related to the cumulative dose of 
carcinogen than to lifespan and the rate of aging.

DOI: 10.1093/carcin/14.11.2373
PMID: 8242869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Clin Biochem. 1993 Aug;26(4):283-7. doi: 10.1016/0009-9120(93)90126-q.

Clinical significance of microalbuminuria and evaluation of the Micral-Test.

Hasslacher C(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical University Clinic, Heidelberg, Germany.

Microalbuminuria is defined as excretion of albumin between 20 and 200 
micrograms/min. Persistent microalbuminuria indicates a high probability of 
damage to the glomerular filtration capacity of the kidney and is of great 
diagnostic relevance: (a) in diabetes, for early diagnosis of diabetic 
nephropathy; (b) in patients with hypertension, as an indicator of end-organ 
damage associated with a lowered life expectancy; (c) in pregnancy, as a 
possible predictor of developing preeclampsia. For screening, a concentration of 
20-200 mg/L of albumin in the first morning urine has been proven to be a 
suitable indicator. The Micral-Test is a test strip now available that makes a 
semiquantitative assessment of the albumin concentration in the urine at various 
levels (0, 10, 20, 50, 100 mg/L). Many studies have shown that the sensitivity 
and specificity of the test strip is 90% or higher in urine containing elevated 
albumin concentrations. Furthermore, it was shown that there is no influence on 
the measurement from interfering factors such as glucose concentration, pH 
value, ketonuria, storage of the sample, or bacterial contamination in the 
urine. The Micral-Test offers a simple, exact, and with respect to interference 
effects, a robust testing method for the semiquantitative assessment of albumin 
concentration in the urine.

DOI: 10.1016/0009-9120(93)90126-q
PMID: 8242889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

