
454. Diabetologia. 1993 Oct;36(10):978-84. doi: 10.1007/BF02374487.

Problems related to definitions and epidemiology of type 2 
(non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus: studies throughout the world.

Alberti KG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

Many studies of Type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus assume that the 
condition is homogeneous and clearly defined. There are, however, several 
problems with these assumptions. Thus, definition of Type 2 diabetes is one of 
exclusion of other types (insulin-dependent, malnutrition-related, gestational 
and other rarer types) and inevitably contains a heterogeneous group of 
disorders the aetiology of which is largely unclear, and separation from the 
insulin-dependent type can be problematic. Diagnosis is also imprecise in 
asymptomatic subjects due to the lack of accurate diagnostic tools and lack of 
clear distinction of impaired glucose tolerance. An alternative to the oral 
glucose tolerance test is urgently needed. Epidemiological studies of Type 2 
diabetes and its complications are also fraught with difficulties due to 
variability of the oral glucose tolerance test, potential problems in glucose 
measurement, heterogeneity, population selection and problems in international 
comparisons due to differing age structures and life expectancy. Great care is 
needed in all studies of Type 2 diabetes to ensure that the groups under study 
are properly selected, well-defined and fully described.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02374487
PMID: 8243882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Hum Pathol. 1993 Nov;24(11):1175-9. doi: 10.1016/0046-8177(93)90212-y.

p53 accumulation in ovarian carcinomas and its prognostic implications.

Bosari S(1), Viale G, Radaelli U, Bossi P, Bonoldi E, Coggi G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Milan School of Medicine, Italy.

Intranuclear p53 accumulation is a common finding in many different human tumors 
and is associated with a worse prognosis in breast, colon, and lung carcinomas. 
We immunostained a series of common epithelial ovarian cancers to assess (1) the 
prevalence of p53 accumulation and its clinicopathologic correlations, and (2) 
its prognostic implications. The study population comprised 98 patients (83 with 
follow-up data). A variable degree of p53 immunoreactivity, strictly confined to 
the neoplastic cells, was detected in 54 tumors (55%). Among these tumors there 
were 10 low expressors (1% to 10% immunoreactive tumor cells), 16 moderate 
expressors (10% to 50% immunoreactive cells), and 28 high expressors (> 50% 
immunoreactive cells). The prevalence of p53 immunoreactivity did not show any 
association with the histologic type of the tumors or with the disease stage at 
presentation. p53 Accumulation, however, was significantly more prevalent among 
poorly differentiated tumors (P = .0059, by analysis of variance). Life table 
analysis demonstrated that patients with tumors showing moderate and high p53 
expression had worse disease-free and adjusted lengths of survival (P = .0011 
and P = .0025, respectively, by Mantel-Cox). The patients with "early stage" 
disease (stages I and II) and p53 accumulation showed a trend toward shorter 
length of survival, but this did not reach statistical significance. However, 
patients with "advanced stage" disease (stages III and IV) and moderate or high 
p53 accumulation had a poorer prognosis (P = .0154 and P = .0171, for 
disease-free and adjusted length of survival, respectively). These results 
suggest that p53 accumulation occurs more frequently in tumors with aggressive 
behavior and that p53 immunoreactivity may have a prognostic role in certain 
subsets of patients with ovarian carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1016/0046-8177(93)90212-y
PMID: 8244317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. J Arthroplasty. 1993 Oct;8(5):459-69.

Low-friction arthroplasty in severe acetabular dysplasia.

García-Cimbrelo E(1), Munuera L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Hospital La Paz, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 
Spain.

Eighty consecutive low-friction arthroplasties in 64 patients with secondary 
arthritis due to severe acetabular dysplasia (Crowe grades III and IV) are 
analyzed. Two groups of patients were considered. In group 1 over 20% of the cup 
was not covered by the acetabulum and was reconstructed with a femoral head 
graft (32 cases; in group 2) a femoral head graft was not used because the cup 
was adequately covered (48 cases). The mean follow-up period was 9.4 years 
(range, 3-17 years) for group 1 and 8.8 years (range, 3-18 years) for group 2. 
Early complications were frequent (19%). To study long-term results only 78 hips 
were assessed since two patients were excluded due to deep infection. In these 
78 hips, group 1 patients showed "better" results after 16 years (69.6% good 
results) than group 2 (nongraft procedures) (52.2%), but these differences were 
not significant (P > or = .05). Early cup loosening was more frequent in group 2 
than in group 1, and good coverage was obtained in 91% of the group 1 cups and 
in 71% of the group 2 cups (P > or = .05). Acetabular cup loosening was not 
correlated with acetabular cup position. Bone-grafts appeared consolidated in 
all cases, but resorption areas were frequently observed. Radiographic stem 
aseptic loosening appeared in 10 cases, cortical hypertrophy in 7 cases, and 
endosteal osteolysis in 3 cases. Although limb discrepancy was frequent in both 
groups (75%), the average discrepancy was 1.7 cm.

PMID: 8245991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Mayo Clin Proc. 1993 Dec;68(12):1143-50. doi: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)60063-9.

The incidence and prevalence of congestive heart failure in Rochester, 
Minnesota.

Rodeheffer RJ(1), Jacobsen SJ, Gersh BJ, Kottke TE, McCann HA, Bailey KR, 
Ballard DJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic 
Rochester, Minnesota 55905.

Although congestive heart failure is a fairly common clinical syndrome and the 
societal costs associated with its care are high, relatively little is known 
about the incidence or prevalence of the condition in the community. Using the 
resources of the Rochester Epidemiology Project, we identified all 46 persons 0 
through 74 years of age who had a new diagnosis of congestive heart failure 
during 1981 and all 113 persons with a prevalent diagnosis on Jan. 1, 1982, in 
the city of Rochester, Minnesota. After confirming the diagnosis in the medical 
record by using criteria similar to those in the Framingham study, we found the 
annual incidence of congestive heart failure to be 110 per 100,000 after 
adjusting for age. Incidence rates were higher among male than among female 
study subjects (157 versus 71 per 100,000). In both male and female subjects, 
the incidence generally increased with advancing age, reaching 1,618 per 100,000 
and 981 per 100,000, respectively. Prevalence rates on Jan. 1, 1982, 
demonstrated similar patterns. Overall, the prevalence of congestive heart 
failure was higher among male than among female subjects (327 versus 214 per 
100,000) and increased exponentially with advancing age, reaching almost 3% in 
both sexes. Survival after a diagnosis of congestive heart failure was extremely 
poor, with only 80% alive at 3 months and 66% at 1 year. These data underscore 
the effect of congestive heart failure in the community and provide estimates of 
the number of persons who might benefit from early intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-6196(12)60063-9
PMID: 8246614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Med Decis Making. 1993 Oct-Dec;13(4):271-2. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9301300401.

QALYs, HYEs, and the loss of innocence.

Fryback DG.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 1993 Oct-Dec;13(4):281-6.
    Med Decis Making. 1993 Oct-Dec;13(4):287-92.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9301300401
PMID: 8246697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Med Decis Making. 1993 Oct-Dec;13(4):281-6. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9301300403.

Are healthy-years equivalents an improvement over quality-adjusted life years?

Johannesson M(1), Pliskin JS, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Boston, MA 02115.

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1993 Oct-Dec;13(4):271-2.

The construct of the healthy-years equivalent (HYE) has been proposed as an 
alternative to the quality-adjusted life year (QALY) on the grounds that it 
avoids certain restrictive assumptions about preferences and also incorporates 
attitudes toward risk. The authors review the construct of the QALY, including 
both the commonly used risk-neutral formulation and the more general formulation 
that permits risk aversion (or risk preference) with respect to remaining life 
years. They show that the HYE adds flexibility to the risk-neutral form of the 
QALY by permitting the rate of tradeoff between life years and quality of life 
to depend on the life span, albeit at the cost of eliciting numerous additional 
time-tradeoff assessments. However, the claim that the HYE incorporates 
attitudes toward risk is incorrect, and the proposed two-stage procedure to 
measure HYEs is neither necessary nor sufficient to incorporate attitudes toward 
risk. In fact, the HYE assumes risk neutrality with respect to healthy years of 
life and, therefore, is less suitable for decisions under uncertainty than is 
the general (risk-averse) form of the QALY.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9301300403
PMID: 8246699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Med Decis Making. 1993 Oct-Dec;13(4):287-92. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9301300404.

Healthy-years equivalents versus quality-adjusted life years: in pursuit of 
progress.

Mehrez A(1), Gafni A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial Engineering and Management, Ben Gurion University of 
the Negev, Beer Sheva, Israel.

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1993 Oct-Dec;13(4):271-2.

The authors respond to the contention that healthy-years equivalents (HYEs) do 
not fulfil claims they previously made. They refute the argument for the 
equivalence of the two-stage lottery and the time tradeoff and show that it 
fails to recognize the difference between choice problems under uncertainty 
versus certainty. They also dismiss the claim that HYEs assume risk neutrality 
with respect to healthy years of life, and show that HYEs are superior to the 
"general" (risk-averse) form of QALYs because HYEs employ fewer assumptions; in 
particular, they do not assume a specific form of the individual's utility 
function. The examples they used earlier are demonstrated to be conclusive, and 
the authors respond to arguments about the practical aspects of using HYEs vs 
QALYs. Finally, they take issue with the assumption that the roots of the QALY 
model are all attributable to utility theory.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9301300404
PMID: 8246700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Rev Enferm. 1993 Oct;16(182):13-6.

[A European measure of health: the EuroQol].

[Article in Spanish]

Pinto Prades JL.

PMID: 8248706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Br Dent J. 1993 Nov 6;175(9):317-21. doi: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4808314.

A longitudinal study of the clinical performance of porcelain veneers.

Dunne SM(1), Millar BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Conservative Dentistry, King's College School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, London.

A total of 315 porcelain labial veneers were fitted in 96 patients in two 
teaching hospitals, between July 1986 and October 1991, and were evaluated after 
a period of up to 63 months. During the evaluation period 53 (17%) restorations 
in 31 (32%) patients presented with a problem at review. Of these, 25 (8%) were 
of a minor nature and the veneer remained in use while 34 (11%) debonded or were 
removed. Increased problem and failure rates were associated with veneers placed 
on existing restorations, where tooth surface loss had occurred prior to 
treatment, and where inappropriate luting agents were employed. Age, gender, 
fabrication technique (platinum foil or refractory die), use of rubber dam and 
year of bonding were not significant factors.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4808314
PMID: 8251248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Leuk Lymphoma. 1993;11 Suppl 1:159-68. doi: 10.3109/10428199309047880.

The German CML study, comparison of busulfan vs. hydroxyurea vs. interferon 
alpha and establishment of prognostic score 1.

Hehlmann R(1), Heimpel H, Kolb HJ, Heinze B, Hochhaus A, Griesshammer M, Pralle 
H, Queisser WP, Essers U, Falge C, et al.

Author information:
(1)III. Med. Klinik, Klinikum Mannheim, Universität Heidelberg, Germany.

From July 1983 to January 1991 a total of 622 patients were randomized (585 
eligible) to compare the effects of hydroxyurea, interferon alpha (IFN), and 
busulfan on the duration of chronic phase, and survival. Further goals included 
the determination of prognostic parameters. 598 CML patients were documented and 
575 evaluable. The Ph-status was known for 547 patients. 89.4% of the patients 
were Ph-positive (+). 11% had additional chromosome aberrations. The median 
survival of Ph+ patients by now is 4.2 years, that of Ph-patients 1.4 years. 
Ph-negative patients are older, tend to have lower cell counts and, as a group 
are more ill at diagnosis. A survival difference of about one year is expected 
between busulfan and hydroxyurea treated patients. Prospectively evaluated age, 
organomegaly related symptoms, Karnofsky index, extramedullary manifestations, 
number of erythroblasts and percent of circulating blasts proved to be of 
prognostic significance. A prognostic score (score 1) was determined which was 
superior to Sokal's score in the study population. 164 patients were randomized 
to receive IFN. In 54 patients (33%) IFN had to be terminated because of adverse 
effects, therapy resistance or other reasons. Clinically relevant neutralizing 
antibodies were detected in 9 cases. Most frequent adverse events were flu-like 
symptoms in 74%, gastrointestinal symptoms in 52%, and neurologic-psychiatric 
symptoms in 30% of patients. Reduction of the Ph-chromosome was observed in 13% 
of evaluable patients (10 of 75). In 4 patients complete cytogenetic remissions 
were observed, in three of these ongoing. Cytogenetic responders have a survival 
advantage. Interferon treated Philadelphia-negative CML patients have no 
survival disadvantage. The study is expected to allow statements as to the 
advantages or disadvantages of the use of busulfan, hydroxyurea and IFN in the 
treatment of CML as well as to the reliability of prognostic markers.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199309047880
PMID: 8251890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Leuk Lymphoma. 1993;11 Suppl 1:169-74. doi: 10.3109/10428199309047881.

Long-term follow-up results of alpha interferon therapy in chronic myelogenous 
leukemia at M. D. Anderson Cancer Center.

Kantarjian HM(1), Talpaz M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199309047881
PMID: 8251891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Leuk Lymphoma. 1993;11 Suppl 1:213-9. doi: 10.3109/10428199309047889.

What does one do for the CML patient in relapse after allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation?

Arcese W(1), Iori AP, Di Nucci G, Martinez-Rolon J, Pinto RM, Mandelli F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Biopathology, University La Sapienza, Rome, Italy.

The management of CML patients with some evidence of disease after BMT depends 
on the molecular, cytogenetic and hematological findings of relapse. Presently, 
a number of technical and biological problems do not allow to draw any 
definitive conclusion on the prognostic significance of Minimal Residual Disease 
detected by PCR. A positive PCR, particularly if observed late after BMT, leads 
to increase the frequency of cytogenetic examinations, but a therapeutic 
intervention is not justified. The criteria to define the cytogenetic relapse 
are not still established. Therefore it is difficult to interpret the 
reappearance of Ph-1 chromosome after BMT as disease recurrence invariably 
progressing towards the hematological phase. However, alpha-Interferon, donor 
buffy-coat infusion or their association should be considered in the treatment 
of patients for whom the cytogenetic relapse has been confirmed. The therapeutic 
approach to patients with hematological relapse is mainly depending on the phase 
of disease. The single, sequential or combined use of chemotherapy, alpha-IFN, 
donor buffy-coat infusion and second transplant has been shown to be effective 
in restoring donor hematopoiesis in several patients who relapsed either in 
chronic or advanced phase. Prospective, randomized, multicentre trials on CML 
relapse after BMT should be planned.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199309047889
PMID: 8251899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Leuk Lymphoma. 1993;11 Suppl 1:227-31. doi: 10.3109/10428199309047891.

Splenic irradiation before bone marrow transplantation for chronic myeloid 
leukemia: update of a prospective randomized study.

Gratwohl A(1), Hermans J, Biezen AV, Arcese W, de Witte T, Debusscher L, Ernst 
P, Ferrant A, Frassoni F, Gahrton G, et al.

Author information:
(1)Chronic Leukaemia Working Party, European Group for Bone Marrow 
Transplantation.

Two hundred and twenty-nine patients with chronic myeloid leukaemia in chronic 
phase awaiting bone marrow transplantation from an HLA-identical sibling donor 
were randomized as part of their conditioning, to receive splenic irradiation 
(SI+, 115 patients), or not (SI-, 114 patients). Both groups were identical in 
regard to age, sex, donor/recipient sex combination and disease activity. 
Survival, leukaemia-free survival, incidence of transplant-related mortality, 
acute and chronic graft versus host disease, incidence of rejection and 
probability of relapse were not different in either groups at a median follow-up 
time of 4.5 years (minimum follow-up 2 years). Recovery of peripheral white 
blood cell counts to 1 x 10(9)/l but not of platelet counts to 50 x 10(9)/l was 
significantly faster in patients with SI+ (21 vs 24 days). This small benefit 
does not justify routine splenic irradiation prior to BMT, in CML.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199309047891
PMID: 8251901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Leuk Lymphoma. 1993;11 Suppl 1:81-9. doi: 10.3109/10428199309047869.

Will molecular biology contribute to refine prognosis and to select treatment? 
The Molecular Biology Committee. Italian Cooperative Study Group on Chronic 
Myeloid Leukemia.

Zaccaria A(1), Martinelli G, Buzzi M, Farabegoli P.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Ematologia L. e A. Seràgnoli, Bologna, Italy.

The possible prognostic value of the position of the breakpoint within the M-BCR 
in patients with Ph1+ CML is still being debated. We analyzed the DNA 
rearrangements and the transcript types of 244 patients and tried to correlate 
the data obtained with prognostic features, defined according to Sokal's risk 
index, and with chronic phase and/or survival duration. The exact location of 
the breakpoint, either 5' or 3' to the Hind III restriction site within the 
M-BCR was identified. Moreover, the exact M-BCR subregion was also identified. 
As a whole, 150 pts were rearranged in the 5' part and 94 in the 3' part of the 
M-BCR. No correlation was observed between the site of rearrangement on the one 
hand and the Sokal's prognostic index and survival, on the other. Transcript 
analysis was performed in 130 patients; 59 carried an a2b2 and 69 an a2b3 
pattern. Two patients carried both transcripts. Of the patients rearranged in 
the 5' area, according to Southern blotting, 29.2% showed an a2b3 transcript. 
Therefore, RT-PCR analysis allowed a better definition of the breakpoint. 
However, also the type of transcript did not show any correlation either with 
risk categories or survival. No difference in response to therapy, either 
chemotherapy or alpha interferon, was observed between 5' and 3' rearranged 
patients.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199309047869
PMID: 8251923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Semin Vasc Surg. 1993 Sep;6(3):171-5.

In situ vein bypass using the intraluminal K.V. Hall valve disruption technique.

Turnipseed WD(1), Acher CW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53792.

PMID: 8252244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Semin Vasc Surg. 1993 Sep;6(3):180-4.

Nonreversed translocated vein bypass.

Sottiurai VS(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine in New Orleans, Louisiana State University Medical Center 
70112-2822.

PMID: 8252246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Semin Vasc Surg. 1993 Sep;6(3):185-7.

Lesser saphenous vein used in situ for distal arterial bypasses.

Shah DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Albany Medical College, NY 12208.

PMID: 8252247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Cell. 1993 Dec 3;75(5):899-912. doi: 10.1016/0092-8674(93)90534-w.

High levels of c-rel expression are associated with programmed cell death in the 
developing avian embryo and in bone marrow cells in vitro.

Abbadie C(1), Kabrun N, Bouali F, Smardova J, Stéhelin D, Vandenbunder B, 
Enrietto PJ.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'Oncologie Moleculaire, Institut Pasteur, Lille, France.

To determine the physiological processes in which the transcription factor c-Rel 
may act, we have examined its pattern of expression in the avian embryo by in 
situ hybridization. These studies showed that c-rel is expressed ubiquitously at 
low levels and at high levels in isolated cells undergoing programmed cell death 
by apoptosis or autophagocytosis. To further establish a functional link between 
expression of c-rel and cell death, we examined the biological consequences of 
c-rel overexpression in vitro. In primary avian fibroblasts, overexpression of 
c-rel leads to transformation and dramatic life span extension. In contrast, 
bone marrow cells expressing high levels of c-rel undergo a process of 
programmed cell death displaying features of both apoptosis and autophagocytic 
cell death. Thus, these experiments suggest a critical role for c-rel not only 
in the control of cell proliferation, but also in the induction of cell death.

DOI: 10.1016/0092-8674(93)90534-w
PMID: 8252626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. J Reprod Med. 1993 Sep;38(9):692-4.

Absolute male factor infertility. A useful model for evaluating the efficacy of 
cryopreserved semen.

Hatasaka HH(1), Hecht BR, Jeyendran RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Northwestern University Medical 
School, Prentice Women's Hospital, Chicago, Illinois.

Cryopreserved semen generally results in diminished pregnancy rates when used 
for donor insemination. However, coexisting female subfecundity may 
significantly confound the pregnancy outcome. Therefore, in order to determine 
the efficacy of cryopreserved semen, 43 consecutive women with absolute male 
factor infertility (single women or wives of azoospermic men) were inseminated 
with cryopreserved spermatozoa using cervical caps. Life table analysis of the 
results revealed a cumulative probability of conception of 84% with a monthly 
fecundability rate of 19% after eight insemination cycles. These results are 
similar to those reported using fresh semen, suggesting that the efficacy of 
cryopreserved semen may be higher than previously believed.

PMID: 8254590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. J Reprod Med. 1993 Sep;38(9):711-5.

Intrauterine insemination. Effect of wash media on pregnancy rates and sperm 
motility.

Rhoton AS(1), Williams RS, Dattilo M, Konicek J, Fossum GT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Florida College of 
Medicine, Gainesville.

Testyolk Buffer has been shown to enhance sperm penetration in hamster 
penetration assays and increase fertilization of oocytes in in vitro 
fertilization. Based on these findings, we compared pregnancy rates and sperm 
motility in intrauterine inseminations done with sperm samples washed and 
resuspended in Ham's F10 as compared with Testyolk buffer. Charts were reviewed 
retrospectively from 1,098 husband and donor intrauterine inseminations 
performed at the University of Florida. Data were analyzed using life table 
analysis and the curves compared with the Mantel-Haenszel statistical test. In 
addition, sperm motility in fresh sperm was observed in samples incubated in 
Testyolk or Ham's F10, with motility counts performed at 0, 6 and 24 hours. Four 
hundred ninety-two Testyolk cycles and 579 Ham's F10 cycles were compared, with 
cumulative pregnancy rates at one year of 53% and 44%, respectively (P = .58). 
With donor sperm, 229 cycles with Testyolk and 314 cycles with Ham's F10 had 
cumulative pregnancy rates of 68% and 48%, respectively (P = .52). With husband 
insemination, 264 Testyolk and 253 Ham's F10 cycles had pregnancy rates of 37% 
and 35%, respectively (P = .23). Fresh sperm motility in 22 samples compared at 
0, 6 and 24 hours in Ham's F10 (76%, 67.8%, 56.6%) versus Testyolk (76%, 67.7%, 
58.8%) revealed no significant differences. There was also no difference in 
total motile sperm inseminated and postwash motility in 1,098 samples with 
Testyolk versus Ham's F10. This study demonstrates that there is no enhanced 
pregnancy rate or increased sperm motility when sperm are treated with Testyolk 
Buffer instead of Ham's F10.

PMID: 8254594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. JAMA. 1993 Dec 22-29;270(24):2916-7.

From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Mortality patterns--United 
States, 1991.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 8254843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1993 Nov 6;137(45):2306-10.

[Life insurance medicine: insurance for risk of dying].

[Article in Dutch]

Bosch E.

PMID: 8255336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Am J Cardiol. 1993 Dec 15;72(18):1348-51. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(93)90177-e.

Comparison of results of coronary angioplasty during acute myocardial infarction 
with and without previous coronary bypass surgery.

Santiago P(1), Vacek JL, Rosamond TL, Kramer PH, Crouse LJ, Beauchamp GD.

Author information:
(1)Mid-America Heart Institute, Saint Luke's Hospital, Kansas City, Missouri.

Six hundred one consecutive patients undergoing reperfusion within 6 hours of 
acute myocardial infarction were studied with regard to impact of previous 
coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) on direct coronary angioplasty 
performance and results. Forty-nine patients (8%) had previously undergone CABG, 
whereas 552 (92%) had not. Direct angioplasty was used for reperfusion in 35 
patients (71%) in the CABG group, and in 258 (47%) in the non-CABG group (p < 
0.01). No significant differences between these groups were noted with regard to 
gender, age, infarction site, time to reperfusion or angioplasty success (34 of 
35 CABG patients [97%] vs 236 of 258 non-CABG patients [92%]). CABG patients 
were more likely to have had previous infarction (17 of 35 [49%] vs 35 of 258 
[14%] [p < 0.001]), multivessel disease (34 of 35 [97%] vs 127 of 258 [49%] [p < 
0.001]) and lower mean ejection fraction (0.36 +/- 0.13 vs 0.46 +/- 0.12, p < 
0.001). Over a mean follow-up of 151 weeks, 24 patients (69%) in the CABG group 
were restudied versus 112 (43%) in the non-CABG group (p < 0.01). Restenosis 
occurred in 14 patients (40%) in the CABG group versus 58 (22%) in the group 
without previous CABG (p = 0.04). In the CABG group, restenosis occurred 
significantly more often in saphenous vein grafts than in native vessels (12 of 
17 [71%] vs 2 of 11 [18%] [p < 0.02]). There was no significant difference in 
the overall performance of repeat angioplasty between the 2 groups.(ABSTRACT 
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(93)90177-e
PMID: 8256724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Am J Med. 1993 Nov 30;95(5A):6S-10S. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(93)90374-x.

Bone mass measurement: prediction of risk.

Wasnich R(1).

Author information:
(1)Hawaii Osteoporosis Center, Honolulu 96814.

Accurate assessment of individual fracture risk requires measurement of bone 
mass (density). Another strong risk factor for identifying women or men who will 
develop fractures in the near future is the presence of previous (spine and 
nonspine) fractures. However, the occurrence of a low-trauma fracture almost 
anywhere in the skeleton is indicative of a more advanced stage of disease and 
is associated with a substantial, further increase in fracture risk, independent 
of bone mass. Thus, prevention of the first fracture should receive priority. In 
a clinical setting, initial assessment of bone mass can be combined with other, 
known risk factors and projected over the patient's remaining life expectancy, 
to estimate future, cumulative fracture probability. Estimates such as 
"remaining lifetime fracture probability" can also approximate the impact and 
cost-effectiveness of treatment, allowing for more objective and rational 
therapeutic planning for individual patients.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(93)90374-x
PMID: 8256798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Am J Med. 1993 Nov 30;95(5A):75S-78S. doi: 10.1016/0002-9343(93)90387-5.

Prevention of hip fractures.

Meunier PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Edouard Herriot Hospital, Lyon, France.

For a 50-year old Caucasian woman today, the risk of a hip fracture over her 
remaining life-time is about 17%. Tomorrow the situation will clearly be worse 
because the continuous increase in life expectancy will cause a three-fold 
increase in worldwide fracture incidence over the next 60 years. Through 
diagnostic bone mass measurements at the hip and assessment of biochemical 
parameters, a great deal has been learned in recent years about reduction of hip 
fracture risk. Preventive strategies are based on prevention of falls, use of 
hip protectors, and prevention of bone fragility. The latter includes the 
optimization of peak bone mass during childhood, postmenopausal estrogen 
replacement therapy, and also late prevention consisting in reversing senile 
secondary hyperparathyroidism, which plays an important role in the decrease of 
skeletal strength. This secondary hyperparathyroidism, which results from both 
vitamin D insufficiency and low calcium intake, is preventable with vitamin D3 
and calcium supplements. They have recently been shown capable of providing 
effective prevention of hip fractures in elderly women living in nursing homes, 
with a reduction of about 25% in the number of hip fractures noted in a 3-year 
controlled study in 3,270 women (intention-to-treat analysis). In conclusion, it 
is never too early to reduce the risk of osteoporosis and never too late to 
prevent hip fractures.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9343(93)90387-5
PMID: 8256801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Int J Food Microbiol. 1993 Sep;19(4):283-94. doi:
10.1016/0168-1605(93)90020-h.

Spoilage and shelf-life of cod fillets packed in vacuum or modified atmospheres.

Dalgaard P(1), Gram L, Huss HH.

Author information:
(1)Technological Laboratory, Danish Ministry of Fisheries, Technical University, 
Lyngby.

Microbial growth, sensory and chemical changes and composition of gas atmosphere 
were studied in vacuum packed (VP) and modified atmosphere packed (MAP) cod 
fillets stored at 0 degree C. Contrary to previous studies, coccobacilli and 
pleomorphic Gram-negative microorganisms (2-4 by 2-5 microns) and not Shewanella 
putrefaciens were found most likely to be the main spoilage organisms. These 
microorganisms, which may be Photobacterium phosphoreum, can explain the short 
shelf-life extension of VP and MAP fish products compared to meat products. It 
is suggested that they may inhibit the typical H2S-producing fish spoilage 
bacteria, S. putrefaciens, as the maximum concentration of H2S-producing 
bacteria found in MAP fish products is very low. Compared to VP, a shelf-life 
extension of 6-7 days was obtained with 48% CO2 in MAP. However, with pure CO2 
the shelf life was only extended by 2-3 days. Poor texture and high drip loss 
indicated that the shelf life of these fillets was limited by chemical reactions 
and not only by microbial activity.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-1605(93)90020-h
PMID: 8257657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. N Engl J Med. 1994 Jan 6;330(1):15-8. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199401063300103.

Declining incidence of nephropathy in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.

Bojestig M(1), Arnqvist HJ, Hermansson G, Karlberg BE, Ludvigsson J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital, Linköping, Sweden.

Erratum in
    N Engl J Med 1994 Feb 24;330(8):584.

BACKGROUND: The high relative mortality among patients with insulin-dependent 
diabetes mellitus results mainly from diabetic nephropathy. The cumulative 
incidence of nephropathy of 25 to 30 percent among patients who had had diabetes 
for 25 years remained stable from 1950 to the early 1980s. In a population 
study, we assessed recent trends in the incidence of diabetic nephropathy.
METHODS: We studied all 213 patients in whom insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus 
was diagnosed before the age of 15 years between 1961 and 1980 in a district in 
southeastern Sweden. Ninety-two percent of the patients were followed from the 
onset of diabetes to 1991 or to death. Patients with persistent albuminuria 
(positive Albustix test) were considered to have diabetic nephropathy. 
Glycosylated hemoglobin was measured periodically in all patients, beginning in 
1980.
RESULTS: The cumulative incidence of persistent albuminuria after 25 years of 
diabetes decreased from 30.0 percent among the patients in whom diabetes 
developed in the period 1961 to 1965 to 8.9 percent among those in whom it 
developed from 1966 to 1970 (P = 0.01). After 20 years of diabetes, the 
cumulative incidence decreased from 28.0 percent among the patients in whom 
diabetes developed from 1961 to 1965 to 5.8 percent among those in whom it 
developed from 1971 to 1975 (P = 0.01). Persistent albuminuria has not yet 
developed in any patient in whom diabetes was diagnosed in the period 1976 to 
1980. The average glycosylated hemoglobin value decreased from 7.4 percent in 
the period 1980 to 1985 to 7.0 percent from 1986 to 1991 (P < 0.001). The mean 
glycosylated hemoglobin value was higher in the patients with persistent 
albuminuria than the patients with no albuminuria (8.1 percent vs. 7.1 percent, 
P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: During the past decade the cumulative incidence of diabetic 
nephropathy, as manifested by persistent albuminuria, among patients who have 
had diabetes for 25 years has decreased substantially, probably as a result of 
improved glycemic control.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199401063300103
PMID: 8259139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. N Engl J Med. 1994 Jan 13;330(2):139; author reply 140.

Explaining the connection between privilege and health.

Müller HE.

PMID: 8259173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Science. 1993 Dec 10;262(5140):1632. doi: 10.1126/science.8259500.

Health care and life expectancy.

Hitchings GH.

The four pictures of the moon accompanying the review by Ursula B. Marvin of To 
a Rocky Moon: A Geologist's History of Lunar Exploration by Don E. Wilhelms (9 
July, p. 231) should have been in reverse order on the page.

DOI: 10.1126/science.8259500
PMID: 8259500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Rev Fr Transfus Hemobiol. 1993 Oct;36(5):417-26. doi: 
10.1016/s1140-4639(05)80154-6.

[HIV infection among type A and B hemophiliacs].

[Article in French]

Vicariot M(1), Fressinaud E, Fiks M, Fonlupt J, Berthier AM, Guerois C, Fimbel 
B.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Traitement de l'hémophilie, CHR de Brest.

Evolution of HIV infection was studied in 480 hemophiliacs A and 78 hemophiliacs 
B treated in the "Centre-West" Region. 23.3% hemophiliacs A and 46.1% 
hemophiliacs B were contaminated by HIV. In this region, HIV seroprevalence in 
hemophiliacs A was lower than the prevalence noted at the national level 
(51.2%); this is certainly due to the use of frozen cryoprecipitates in the 
treatment of a high number of hemophiliacs A. A higher number of hemophiliacs B 
developed the disease: 12.5% hemophiliacs A versus 22% hemophiliacs B. Moreover 
hemophilic B patients had a more rapid evolution towards the disease since 6 out 
of 14 hemophiliacs A and 7 out of 8 hemophiliacs B with AIDS died. The fact that 
hemophiliacs B were significantly older than hemophiliacs A might be one of the 
reasons, but it must be noted that the contamination often occurred earlier in 
hemophiliacs B and was perhaps more important. The more severe evolution in the 
hemophiliac B group noted in our region is not found in American studies, which 
may be due to the different ways of preparing Factor IX concentrates in France 
and the United States.

DOI: 10.1016/s1140-4639(05)80154-6
PMID: 8259952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Palliat Med. 1993;7(3):199-204. doi: 10.1177/026921639300700306.

Prediction of life-expectancy in hospice patients: identification of novel 
prognostic factors.

Rosenthal MA(1), Gebski VJ, Kefford RF, Stuart-Harris RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Westmead Hospital, Australia.

The prediction of life-expectancy in terminally ill patients is important both 
for medical and social reasons but is widely recognized as being inaccurate. In 
this study we prospectively collected data items which we proposed might 
influence survival on 148 consecutive patients at first admission to one of two 
hospices. Of the 19 parameters collected, four were associated with a 
significantly shortened survival. These were low performance status (PS), 
requirement for admission at first referral to the palliative care service, 
elevated serum bilirubin, and hypotension. Factors previously identified as 
predictive of shortened survival such as hyponatraemia, weight loss, confusion 
and tumour type were not confirmed as statistically significant independent 
variables. We plan to collect these data items on future patients in order to 
test the validity of these results.

DOI: 10.1177/026921639300700306
PMID: 8261188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Eur Heart J. 1993 Oct;14(10):1354-64. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/14.10.1354.

The impact of balloon angioplasty of coronary artery and/or vein bypass graft 
lesion(s) upon the survival of patients > or = 5 years after their last bypass 
surgery.

Dorros G(1), Iyer S, Mathiak LM, Anderson AJ.

Author information:
(1)William Dorros-Isadore Feuer Interventional Cardiovascular Disease 
Foundation, Ltd., Milwaukee, WI 53215.

Data analyses of angioplasty patients, whose operative and angioplasty (PTCA) 
interval was > or = 5 years, were performed to determine if the site of PTCA 
(coronary artery (CA) and/or vein bypass graft (VG)) influenced longevity. PTCA 
was successful in 677/768 lesions (88%) (377/432 CA (87%), and 294/327 VGs 
(90%)) and resulted in clinical improvement in 280/322 patients (87%). Patients 
were stratified into those who underwent PTCA of a lesion(s) in a coronary 
artery only, a vein graft only, or in both a coronary artery and a vein graft. 
Survival, at 60 months, was adversely affected (P < 0.05) for VG (59%) in 
comparison to CA (86%) or CA + VG (86%) cohorts, which was reaffirmed by a Cox 
proportional hazard model. PTCA was effective in opening lesions in coronary 
arteries or vein grafts in patients whose last bypass surgery had occurred over 
5 years previously; however, PTCA patients who only had a vein graft had a 
significantly diminished 5-year survival in comparison to the cohorts, who had a 
coronary artery lesion dilated, with or without an accompanying vein graft PTCA. 
Therefore, PTCA of isolated vein graft lesions may not be the best long-term 
therapeutic option for these patients; however, it may best serve patients, 
acutely and long-term, who have an amenable significant arterial lesion, whether 
or not an accompanying vein graft lesion is dilated.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/14.10.1354
PMID: 8262082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Eur Heart J. 1993 Oct;14(10):1435-7. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/14.10.1435.

Coronary angioplasty: is cardiological practice in the U.S.A. really the gold 
standard for Europe?

Cleland JG.

Comment on
    Eur Heart J. 1993 Mar;14(3):391-7.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/14.10.1435
PMID: 8262093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Eur Urol. 1993;24 Suppl 2:24-8. doi: 10.1159/000474384.

Radical prostatectomy or wait-and-watch?

Studer UE(1), Thalmann G, Zingg EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Berne, Switzerland.

With intensified screening and the use of new diagnostic tools for prostate 
cancer (prostate-specific antigen, rectal ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging 
with rectal coils, etc), the number of newly diagnosed cases of prostate cancer 
is rising rapidly, whereas the frequency of death due to prostate cancer remains 
almost stable. It must therefore be assumed that the number of patients in whom 
a diagnosed prostate cancer will not be fatal is also increasing. Consequently, 
not every prostatic carcinoma requires radical treatment when diagnosed. Also, 
it must be concluded that not every man who is a long-term survivor after 
radical prostatectomy owes his survival to the treatment. Long-term survivorship 
may reflect the relatively benign biological potential of this disease in an 
individual patient. Therefore, there is an inherent risk of overtreating 
patients and this must be weighed against the costs, the postoperative morbidity 
and the, albeit low, mortality of a radical prostatectomy. Nevertheless, as long 
as we do not have diagnostic tools which, at an early stage of prostate cancer, 
enable us to determine whether a carcinoma will ultimately have a fatal outcome, 
we are obliged to offer radical prostatectomy to younger patients (who have a 
life expectancy of more than 10 years) as long as they have organ-confined 
disease.

DOI: 10.1159/000474384
PMID: 8262120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Demography. 1993 Nov;30(4):734-46.

The slowing metabolism of marriage: figures from 1988 U.S. marital status life 
tables.

Schoen R(1), Weinick RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Dynamics, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 
21205.

Marital status life tables for the United States, 1988, show a continuing 
retreat from marriage. For both sexes, the proportion ever marrying declined and 
the average age at first marriage rose. The 1988 rates imply that 43% of 
marriages end in divorce. That represents a slight decline from the 1983 figure, 
and suggests that divorce has peaked at a level below that estimated in earlier 
analyses.

PMID: 8262290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Horm Res. 1993;39 Suppl 3:49-58. doi: 10.1159/000182784.

Functional consequences from varying patterns of growth and maturation during 
adolescence.

Micozzi MS(1).

Author information:
(1)National Museum of Health and Medicine, Washington, D.C.

Measurement of the growth of children among different populations has been 
important in assessing health and nutritional status. It is also useful in 
predicting functional consequences and long-term outcomes in the adult 
population. Childhood and adolescent growth patterns have been related to life 
expectancy as well as to the development of specific diseases such as coronary 
heart disease, diabetes and cancer (breast, ovary, prostate and pancreas). 
Childhood and adolescent growth has also been indirectly related to adult 
obesity. While these indirect observations do not suggest strategies for 
clinical intervention during childhood, they provide a framework for 
considerations of the influence of adolescent growth and maturation on the risk 
of chronic diseases, and for the application of anthropometry to research on 
diet and chronic disease.

DOI: 10.1159/000182784
PMID: 8262492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Hum Biol. 1993 Oct;65(5):783-97.

Age of marriage and length of the first birth interval in a traditional Indian 
society: life table and hazards model analysis.

Nath DC(1), Singh KK, Land KC, Talukdar PK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708-0088.

The length of the first birth interval is one of the strongest and most 
persistent factors affecting fertility in noncontracepting populations, with 
longer intervals usually associated with lower fertility. Compared to Western 
society, the average length of the first birth interval is much longer in 
traditional Indian society. Yet Indian fertility rates are higher because of 
either ineffective family planning procedures or deliberate nonuse of birth 
control and because of the high proportion of the population that is married. 
Here, we examine the effects of various sociodemographic covariates (with an 
emphasis on the role of age at marriage) on the length of the first birth 
interval for two states of India: Assam and Uttar Pradesh. Life table and 
multivariate hazards modeling techniques are applied to the data. Covariates 
such as age at marriage, present age of mother, female's occupation, family 
income, and place of residence have strong effects on the variation of the 
length of the first birth interval. For each subgroup of females (classified 
according to different levels of the covariates), the median length of the first 
birth interval for the Assam (Bengali-speaking) sample is shorter than that of 
the Uttar Pradesh (Hindi-speaking) sample.

PIP: Indian marriage customs vary by religion, caste, geographic location, and 
educational background. This study examined the effects of age at marriage and 
socioeconomic factors on the interval to first birth in Assam and Uttar Pradesh 
(UP) states. Data were obtained on Bengali-speaking scheduled castes (the lowest 
castes) in Assam and Hindu-speaking scheduled castes in UP from a 1988-89 survey 
in Assam and a 1987-88 survey in UP. The Assam survey included 1805 scheduled 
caste households and the UP survey included 3931 households (1143 scheduled 
castes). Income is grouped as very poor (under 50 rupees), poor, middle, and 
rich (over 100 rupees). Cox's proportional hazard models expressed the relative 
risks of time to first birth. Marriage age underwent a change, with the greatest 
differences occurring among younger, illiterate, working class Manasudra 
subclass women in the highest income and middle status groups living in Ghazipur 
district. The life table methods of Namboordiri and Suchindran were used to 
calculate median lengths of birth intervals and revealed that Assam women have 
shorter intervals. The shortest intervals were among Assam working mothers, and 
the longest intervals were among Assam females of other subcastes. In UP, the 
shortest birth interval was among literate mothers, and the longest interval (49 
months) was among younger mothers. Nearly 7% of women did not give birth within 
97 months. As marriage age increased, the birth interval shortened. In Assam, 
the birth interval was significantly related to marriage ages under 13 years, 14 
years, and 15-16 years; the present age of the mother, mother's occupation, 
other subcaste group; and the very poor and middle income group. In UP, the 
significant factors explaining birth interval were marriage ages of under 13 
years and 14 years, present age of the mother, and mothers living in Ghazipur 
district. The relative risks of first birth for mothers in marriage age groups 
under 13 years, 14 years, and 15-16 years was 0.58, 0.77, and 0.88 respectively. 
Mothers in UP had similar risks in the first two age groups.

PMID: 8262506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Int J Cancer. 1994 Jan 2;56(1):26-30. doi: 10.1002/ijc.2910560106.

Significance of epidermal growth factor receptor expression in primary human 
endometrial cancer.

Scambia G(1), Benedetti Panici P, Ferrandina G, Battaglia F, Distefano M, 
D'Andrea G, De Vincenzo R, Maneschi F, Ranelletti FO, Mancuso S.

