Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology/Obstetrics, Catholic University, Rome, Italy.

Radioreceptorial assessment of EGFR expression was prospectively performed on 60 
primary human endometrial tumors. Of these, 26 were EGFR-positive while 13 
expressed high EGFR levels. High EGFR levels correlated well with poor 
histopathological grading. No correlation with histopathological type, stage, 
myometrial invasion, lymph-node involvement or steroid hormone receptor status 
was observed. Disease-free survival rate was significantly shorter in the cases 
with high than in the cases with low EGFR levels. These results suggest a 
potential role of EGFR expression assessment in prognostic characterization of 
endometrial cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910560106
PMID: 8262674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Int J Cancer. 1994 Jan 2;56(1):61-5. doi: 10.1002/ijc.2910560112.

The relative prognostic significance of total cathepsin D and HER-2/neu oncogene 
amplification in breast cancer. The South Australian Breast Cancer Study Group.

Seshadri R(1), Horsfall DJ, Firgaira F, McCaul K, Setlur V, Chalmers AH, Yeo R, 
Ingram D, Dawkins H, Hahnel R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Flinders Medical Centre, Bedford Park, South 
Australia.

Total tumor cathepsin D (TCD) levels were determined prospectively by a 
radioimmunometric assay in tumor cytosol of 858 primary breast cancer patients 
diagnosed between 1989-1991. In 581 of these patients, tumor HER-2/neu oncogene 
amplification was simultaneously determined. In a "training-set" of 313 
patients, "high" TCD was associated with significantly shorter disease-free 
survival (DFS). For the whole group, there was no correlation between TCD and 
pathologic stage, number of axillary nodes with tumor deposits, tumor size, 
histologic type and grade, or hormone receptor levels. In the node-positive 
group, high TCD level was associated with HER-2/neu amplification. After a 
median follow-up duration of 31 months, univariate analysis indicated that high 
TCD level was significantly associated with shorter DFS only in node-positive 
patients. The shorter DFS in association with high TCD levels was observed in 
both estrogen-receptor-positive and -negative patients. Cox multivariate 
analysis of DFS confirmed that high TCD level was predictive of shorter DFS in 
node-positive patients only. Because of the short duration of follow-up, the 
significance of TCD in overall survival was not determined. We conclude that 
high tumor TCD in node-positive patients is predictive of shorter DFS, and is 
often associated with HER-2/neu amplification. The possibility exists that high 
tumor TCD may act in combination with HER-2/neu amplification to promote 
dissemination of metastases.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910560112
PMID: 8262679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. J Clin Epidemiol. 1993 Sep;46(9):1063-9. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(93)90174-y.

Reinterpreting mortality statistics: some uses of Gompertzian analysis in 
epidemiological research.

Neilson S(1), Robinson I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Sciences, University of West London, Uxbridge, Middlesex, 
England.

Comment in
    J Clin Epidemiol. 1994 Jun;47(6):697-9.

Gompertzian analyses of mortality data have recently been undertaken for a 
number of individual conditions (Riggs JE. Mech Ageing Dev 1990; 55: 207-220 
[1]; Neilson S et al. Mech Ageing Dev 1992; 64: 201-216 [2]; Neilson S et al. 
Acta Neurol Scand 1993; 87: 184-191 [3]). Such analyses are in principle of 
particular epidemiological value in circumstances where demographic change is 
occurring and where the balance between mortality from different conditions is 
subject to change. However, the extent to which a Gompertzian relationship 
between age and mortality holds for particular conditions has been subject to 
debate. In this analysis it is demonstrated that even some conditions which do 
not superficially hold to a Gompertz relationship do in fact do so, if such 
conditions are considered to be restricted to small, inherently susceptible 
subpopulations. By analysing mortality from a range of neurological conditions 
within the context of general mortality in England and Wales, conditions with 
different aetiologies such as Huntington's chorea, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
and multiple sclerosis can be shown to have a Gompertzian mortality rate 
distribution. Such analyses are of substantial value in indicating how 
demographic change affects the balance of mortality between conditions, as well 
as directing interest to revised aetiological possibilities.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(93)90174-y
PMID: 8263579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Dec;18(6):1002-9; discussion 1009-11.

Death associated with asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis: long-term clinical 
evaluation. VA Cooperative Study 167 Group.

Cohen SN(1), Hobson RW 2nd, Weiss DG, Chimowitz M.

Author information:
(1)West Los Angeles Veterans Affairs Medical Center, CA 90073.

PURPOSE: As part of a prospective clinical trial on the efficacy of carotid 
endarterectomy in patients with asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis, we studied 
the risk factors for death in 444 male patients.
METHODS: At entry to the trial, patients were judged to be healthy enough to be 
randomized to operative intervention and were judged to be free of any disease 
that would preclude a minimal 5-year life expectancy after randomization.
RESULTS: Patients were treated with aspirin and optimal medical care and were 
monitored for an average of 4 years. Combined mortality rate was 37% (9% per 
year) for the medical group (38%) and surgical group (35%). Eight factors were 
identified that were significantly associated with increased mortality rates: 
coronary artery disease (p = 0.044), history of angina (p = 0.047), congestive 
heart failure (CHF) (p = 0.012), abnormal electrocardiography results at entry 
(p = 0.005), peripheral vascular disease (p = 0.019), claudication (p = 0.044), 
diabetes (p = 0.008), and history of hypertension (p = 0.044). The increase in 
risk indicated by the odds ratios (OR) were moderate (OR < 2.00) for each of the 
clinical risk factors except for CHF. Sixteen of 27 patients (59%) with a 
history of CHF at entry to the study died during follow-up (OR = 2.67). 
Arteriographic predictors of increased mortality rates included bilateral 
carotid artery stenosis and intracranial vascular disease (ICVD). With bilateral 
stenosis, 42% (80 of 190 patients) died compared with 33% (83 of 252 patients) 
with unilateral stenosis (p = 0.062). With ICVD, 43% (56 of 130 patients) died 
compared with 34% (107 of 314 patients) of those without ICVD (p = 0.073). 
Multivariate analysis demonstrated that three risk factors were significantly 
associated with an increased risk of death: diabetes, abnormal 
electrocardiography results, and claudication. Patients with two or three of 
these risk factors demonstrated annual mortality rates of 11.3% and 13%, 
respectively. This was significantly higher than patients with none of these 
risks (OR = 2.95 and OR = 4.06, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Adult male patients with high-grade asymptomatic carotid artery 
stenosis demonstrate a mortality rate of 37% at a mean follow-up of 4 years. 
Although age was not a risk for increased mortality rates in this population, 
diabetes, abnormal electrocardiography results, and claudication were 
significant. Patients with two or three of these risk factors were at high risk 
of death and may require aggressive treatment of their concurrent medical 
diseases.

PMID: 8264028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Nihon Jinzo Gakkai Shi. 1993 Oct;35(10):1147-53.

[Shortening of life expectancy in patients with membranous nephropathy--based on 
20 years follow up study].

[Article in Japanese]

Ogi M(1), Kida H, Yoshimura M, Saito Y, Kibe Y, Sugioka G, Ikeda K, Asamoto T, 
Yokoyama H, Tomosugi N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Kanazawa National Hospital, Japan.

It is not certain whether the life expectancy of patients with membranous 
nephropathy is shorter than that of an age-matched healthy population. Forty-one 
patients (21 males, 20 females) aged between 16 and 70 years (average age: 33.3 
years) were followed for 20 years. The patients were divided into two groups: 
group I (n = 18), consisting of patients in whom nephrotic syndrome persisted 
for more than two years or until death, and group II (n = 23), consisting of 
patients except for group I. The non-survival criteria are death or renal death. 
Twelve patients (29.3%) died during the study period. Eight patients belonged to 
group I and 4 to group II. The causes of death in group I patients were 
end-stage renal failure in 3 cases, ischemic heart disease in 1 case, 
subarachnoid hemorrhage in 1 case, malignancy in 2 cases, suicide in 1 case, and 
those in the group II patients were pneumonia, malignancy, cerebral softening, 
and diabetes mellitus, respectively. Eight patients who died in group I had a 
significantly longer difference between their actual life span (ALS) and life 
expectancy (LE) and a significantly smaller ratio of ALS to LE than the patients 
who died in group II (ALS-LE: -29.9 +/- 4.5 years in group I vs. -9.0 +/- 6.8 
years in group II, p < 0.05, ALS x 100/LE: 22.5 +/- 8.0% in group I vs. 80.9 +/- 
25.2% in group II, p < 0.05). In group I, the ratio of observed to expected 
death was 4.76 (95% confidence interval, 2.05 to 9.37) and significantly higher 
than that of the control population. In group II, however, the ratio was 1.09 
(95% confidence interval, 0.30 to 2.80), and the difference from the control 
population was not statistically significant. These results suggest that 
longstanding nephrotic syndrome is associated with a shortened life expectancy 
in patients with membranous nephropathy.

PMID: 8264105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Kidney Int. 1993 Nov;44(5):1101-8. doi: 10.1038/ki.1993.355.

Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease in Toronto.

Roscoe JM(1), Brissenden JE, Williams EA, Chery AL, Silverman M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Wellesley Hospital, Ontario, Canada.

This study describes the Toronto, Ontario experience with autosomal dominant 
polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). Patients were divided into three groups: 
Group 1, 19 families studied with genetic markers; Group 2, 80 pre-dialysis 
ADPKD patients followed by Toronto nephrologists in whom the incidence of 
non-renal complications and the mean age of onset of symptomatology is 
documented; Group 3, 4,449 individuals who entered end-stage renal failure 
(ESRF) in the Toronto region between the years 1981 and 1992, 320 with ADPKD and 
4129 with other diseases. In this third group age of onset of ESRF, frequency, 
age and cause of death is compared between ADPKD and non-ADPKD. ADPKD caused by 
a gene different from that linked to chromosome 16 short-arm probes occurred at 
a frequency of between 8 and 17%. Incidence of hepatic cysts in ADPKD was 
similar to that of previous series, other organ involvement was underdiagnosed 
without deliberate screening, and incidence of symptomatic intracranial aneurysm 
was 1.25%. A 5% excess of patients with ADPKD died of cerebro-vascular accident. 
Years of survival after ESRF measured by life table analysis was significantly 
greater for ADPKD patients than for non-ADPKD patients. A high frequency of 
death due to infection still exists in ADPKD despite the reduction of invasive 
procedures in diagnosis and treatment, and despite the presumably improved 
recent methods of managing infection. The average age of onset of ESRF has been 
delayed by over six years, and average age of death of ADPKD patients at 63.9 
years-old by 12.4 years since 1960.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.1993.355
PMID: 8264142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Mol Cell Biol. 1994 Jan;14(1):723-34. doi: 10.1128/mcb.14.1.723-734.1994.

TATA-binding protein and nuclear differentiation in Tetrahymena thermophila.

Stargell LA(1), Gorovsky MA.

Author information:
(1)Biology Department, University of Rochester, New York 14627.

Unambiguous TATA boxes have not been identified in upstream sequences of 
Tetrahymena thermophila genes analyzed to date. To begin a characterization of 
the promoter requirements for RNA polymerase II, the gene encoding TATA-binding 
protein (TBP) was cloned from this species. The derived amino acid sequence for 
the conserved C-terminal domain of Tetrahymena TBP is one of the most divergent 
described and includes a unique 20-amino-acid C-terminal extension. Polyclonal 
antibodies generated against a fragment of Tetrahymena TBP recognize a 36-kDa 
protein in macronuclear preparations and also cross-react with yeast and human 
TBPs. Immunocytochemistry was used to examine the nuclear localization of TBP 
during growth, starvation, and conjugation (the sexual phase of the life cycle). 
The transcriptionally active macronuclei stained at all stages of the life 
cycle. The transcriptionally inert micronuclei did not stain during growth or 
starvation but surprisingly stained with anti-TBP throughout early stages of 
conjugation. Anti-TBP staining disappeared from developing micronuclei late in 
conjugation, corresponding to the onset of transcription in developing 
macronuclei. Since micronuclei do not enlarge or divide at this time, loss of 
TBP appears to be an active process. Thus, the transcriptional differences 
between macro- and micronuclei that arise during conjugation are associated with 
the loss of a major component of the basal transcription apparatus from 
developing micronuclei rather than its appearance in developing macronuclei.

DOI: 10.1128/mcb.14.1.723-734.1994
PMCID: PMC358421
PMID: 8264641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. N Engl J Med. 1994 Jan 20;330(3):223-5. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199401203300324.

Informed consent, cancer, and truth in prognosis.

Annas GJ.

Erratum in
    N Engl J Med 1994 Mar 3;330(9):651.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Sep 22;331(12):810; author reply 811-2.
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Sep 22;331(12):811.
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Sep 22;331(12):811.
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Sep 22;331(12):811; author reply 811-2.
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Sep 22;331(12):811; author reply 811-2.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199401203300324
PMID: 8264766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Anesthesiology. 1993 Dec;79(6):1338-47; discussion 28A-29A.

Effects of inhalational anesthetics on biochemical events in growing neuronal 
tips.

Saito S(1), Fujita T, Igarashi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Reanimatology, Gunma University School of 
Medicine, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The influence of general anesthetics on developing organs has been a 
source of concern for many years. The central nervous system, which is 
developing rapidly at the time of birth, is of special interest in this regard. 
In this study, the biochemical characteristics of developing neural tips (growth 
cones) were examined after exposure to anesthetics to elucidate the molecular 
mechanism by which long-lasting alterations in the nervous system, including 
neuroteratogenicity, as previously described, were evoked.
METHODS: Neonatal rats were exposed to an atmosphere containing inhalational 
anesthetics (1% halothane or 75% nitrous oxide) or a control atmosphere (25% O2 
and 75% N2) for 6 h at postnatal day 1. After this exposure, growth cone 
particles were isolated from the forebrain using a recently devised cell 
fractionation method at postnatal days 2, 3, 4, and 5. Protein composition, 
phosphoprotein patterns, and protein kinase C (PKC) activities of the isolated 
growth cones were compared between each group exposed to anesthetics and the 
control group. The dose-response relationship of the action of anesthetics on 
PKC activity was also examined (at 0.5 and 0.75% halothane and 25 and 50% N2O).
RESULTS: The increase in body weight and brain wet weight were not significantly 
affected by exposure to either anesthetic. No apparent influence on protein 
composition was observed by sodiumdodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel 
electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). However, calcium-dependent protein phosphorylation 
of the 46 kDa protein and of the 80 kDa protein, which is reported to be 
mediated by PKC, were significantly reduced after exposure to the anesthetics. A 
direct assay of PKC activity in growth cone particles indicated that PKC 
activity in the growth cone was 70.6 +/- 9.6% of the control value at 24 h after 
exposure to 1% halothane, and 63.2 +/- 4.9% after exposure to 75% nitrous oxide. 
Exposure to 0.75% halothane or 50% nitrous oxide had a similar, but lesser, 
effect on this parameter. In contrast, exposure to 0.5% halothane or 25% nitrous 
oxide evoked no apparent effect. Thus the PKC activity in growth cone particles, 
which is thought to play an important role in signal transduction in the 
developing brain, was shown to be affected by exposure to inhalational 
anesthetics over a range of concentrations.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering the crucial role of growth cones in the establishment 
of the neuronal network, the interruption of signal transduction in the growth 
cone at a time that is critical in directing the neurite extension may evoke a 
long-lasting alteration in the neural network. Therefore, the effect of 
inhalational anesthetics on the growth cone enzyme observed in this study may 
have a major role in the mechanism that induces morphologic or behavioral 
neuroabnormalities in later life.

PMID: 8267209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Br J Neurosurg. 1993;7(5):473-81. doi: 10.3109/02688699308995069.

Management of spinal astrocytoma with conservative surgery and radiotherapy.

Huddart R(1), Traish D, Ashley S, Moore A, Brada M.

Author information:
(1)Neuro-oncology Unit, Royal Marsden Hospital, Sutton, Surrey, UK.

Twenty-seven patients with histologically verified spinal astrocytoma were 
treated at the Royal Marsden Hospital with postoperative radiotherapy. All 
patients had previous surgery; 10 had partial resection and 17 biopsy alone. All 
patients received involved field radiotherapy to a median dose of 50 Gy in 33 
fractions. Overall 5- and 10-year survival was 59 and 52%, and progression free 
survival was 38 and 26% at 5 and 10 years, respectively, at a median follow-up 
of 6.5 years. Following radiotherapy, eight patients showed functional 
improvement, 15 were unchanged and two deteriorated. Sixteen patients relapsed, 
eleven at the primary site and five elsewhere in the CNS. Low grade histology, 
female gender and the presence of intramedullary cysts were favourable 
prognostic factors for survival on univariate analysis. The extent of surgery 
was not a significant predictor of survival. It is not possible to define the 
precise role of radiotherapy. However, all patients had residual tumour prior to 
irradiation, and 53% of low grade and 33% of high grade gliomas remained 
controlled locally at 3 years with stabilization or improvement in neurological 
function in all but two patients. This suggests that radiotherapy may result in 
temporary disease control analogous to cerebral gliomas.

DOI: 10.3109/02688699308995069
PMID: 8267886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Palliat Med. 1993;7(4 Suppl):21-30. doi: 10.1177/0269216393007004S05.

Coping with motor neurone disease--an analysis using self-regulation theory.

Earll L(1), Johnston M, Mitchell E.

Author information:
(1)Health Psychology Department, Gloucestershire Royal Hospital, UK.

Medicine and environmental changes have had tremendous success in controlling 
the infectious diseases that were the major causes of death in the last century. 
However, the consequential extension of life has been accompanied by an increase 
in the number of persons living with and dying of chronic illness. Despite these 
changes and their implications, the means by which people cope with such 
illnesses has only recently begun to receive the attention the subject warrants. 
Such diseases have a high prevalence in the population and self-detection and 
self-management are critical to the treatment and control of chronic disease and 
disability. This paper examines how people cope with motor neurone disease and 
sets this in the context of earlier research on psychological aspects of chronic 
disease and current theoretical approaches to coping with long-term ill health.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216393007004S05
PMID: 8269176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Can J Public Health. 1993 Sep-Oct;84(5):341-5.

Smoking and loss of longevity in Canada.

Basavaraj S(1).

Author information:
(1)Environmental Health Centre, Health Protection Branch, Health and Welfare 
Canda, Ottawa, ON.

This is a first attempt to calculate mortality rates and to construct life 
tables by smoking status for the Canadian population. U.S. mortality ratios 
(American Cancer Society) have been applied to the smoking proportions in Canada 
to obtain mortality rates for life table construction. Canadian proportions of 
never and ever smokers are available in the General Social Survey (1985 and 
1991). The reduction in life expectancy at age 35 for the ever smoked group is 
5.8 years for men and 3.7 years for women, for current smokers 8.5 years for men 
and 5.3 years for women and for former smokers 3.7 years for men and 2.0 years 
for women. Smoking compromises life expectancy at all ages though the greatest 
difference is observed between age 60 and 80. At age 35 years, the life 
expectancy is reduced between 10 and 20% for current smokers. This loss of life 
in the younger years is substantial and should be of concern from the point of 
view of promoting good health and prevention of disease.

PMID: 8269385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Int Urol Nephrol. 1993;25(5):417-22.

Should radical nephrectomy include ipsilateral adrenalectomy?

Ozgü I(1), Sahin A, Ozen H, Gedikoğlu G, Remzi D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Hacettepe Medical School, Ankara, Turkey.

We reevaluated 46 patients with histopathologically proven stage A and B renal 
cell carcinoma, who underwent radical nephrectomy for the presence of 
ipsilateral adrenal gland in the surgical specimens. It turned out that 23 
specimens included ipsilateral adrenals. Two patients without adrenalectomy 
relapsed locally, whereas no local recurrence was noted in patients whose 
adrenals were removed. Three years' disease-free survival rates (DFS) for 
patients with and without adrenalectomy were 100% and 78%, respectively. 
Although no statistical difference was found in terms of DFS between patients 
with and without adrenalectomy, we suggest the removal of the ipsilateral 
adrenal gland if technically feasible.

PMID: 8270367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 1993;120(1-2):100-2. doi: 10.1007/BF01200732.

The role of cryosurgery in the treatment of hepatic cancer: a report of 113 
cases.

Zhou XD(1), Tang ZY, Yu YQ, Weng JM, Ma ZC, Zhang BH, Zheng YX.

Author information:
(1)Liver Cancer Institute, Shanghai Medical University, China.

From November 1973 to June 1992, cryosurgery with liquid nitrogen (-196 degrees 
C) was performed on 113 patients with hepatic cancer, including 107 patients 
with primary liver cancer (PLC) and 6 patients with secondary liver cancer 
(SLC). Of the 107 PLC patients, the subclinical stage constituted 30.8% 
(33/107), the moderate stage 61.7% (66/107), and the late stage 7.5% (8/107). 
There were 32 cases with small PLC (up to 5 cm). Liver cirrhosis was observed in 
86.0% (92/107). We designed flat cryoprobes for freezing tumors deep within the 
hepatic parenchyma. Intraoperative ultrasound was used for monitoring hepatic 
cryolesions. There were no operative mortalities and complications, such as 
rupture of a tumor, delayed bleeding, or bile leakage. The 5-year and 10-year 
survival rates were 22.0% and 8.2%, respectively, for the 107 PLC patients and 
48.8% and 17.1%, respectively, for the 32 patients with small PLC. Of the 6 SLC 
patients, survival ranged from 2 months to 90 months (average, 23.2 months). One 
SLC patient has been well for 7 years and 6 months after cryosurgery. These 
results indicate that cryosurgery, the in situ freezing of cancer, is a safe and 
effective treatment for unresectable hepatic cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01200732
PMID: 8270598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. J Am Diet Assoc. 1994 Jan;94(1):78-80. doi: 10.1016/0002-8223(94)92046-x.

Management dilemmas in the individual with cystic fibrosis and diabetes.

Hayes DR(1), Sheehan JP, Ulchaker MM, Rebar JM.

Author information:
(1)University Hospitals of Cleveland, OH 44106.

Comment in
    J Am Diet Assoc. 1994 Aug;94(8):830, 833-4.

As their life expectancy has improved, patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) have 
experienced an increasing incidence of diabetes. Hyperglycemia may adversely 
influence weight, pulmonary function, and development of microvascular 
complications. Strict control of blood glucose has not universally been sought, 
however. A program of multiple daily insulin injections and self-monitoring of 
blood glucose with an aim of normoglycemia is described in this article. The 
typical cystic fibrosis diet is variable in quantity and features a 
preponderance of simple carbohydrates; this is contrary to the usual diabetes 
meal plan. We describe the use of a flexible meal-planning system to establish 
individualized carbohydrate targets with specific insulin boluses titrated to 
each meal to control postprandial blood glucose excursions. Records of 22 
patients followed for more than 1 year are reviewed. Mean (+/- standard error of 
the mean) glycosylated hemoglobin was reduced from 11.3 +/- 3.1% (at baseline) 
to 8.1 +/- 1.8% (at 1 year). Mean percent of ideal body weight also increased 
from 95.4 +/- 15.2 to 100 +/- 17.1. We conclude that strict metabolic control is 
an attainable goal in patients with cystic fibrosis and is associated with 
positive weight gain.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8223(94)92046-x
PMID: 8270758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. J Med Entomol. 1993 Nov;30(6):1003-17. doi: 10.1093/jmedent/30.6.1003.

Dynamic life table model for Aedes aegypti (Diptera: Culicidae): analysis of the 
literature and model development.

Focks DA(1), Haile DG, Daniels E, Mount GA.

Author information:
(1)Medical and Veterinary Entomology Research Laboratory, USDA-ARS, Gainesville, 
FL 32604.

The container-inhabiting mosquito simulation model (CIMSiM) is a weather-driven, 
dynamic life table simulation model of Aedes aegypti (L.). It is designed to 
provide a framework for related models of similar mosquitoes which inhibit 
artificial and natural containers. CIMSiM is an attempt to provide a 
mechanistic, comprehensive, and dynamic accounting of the multitude of 
relationships known to play a role in the life history of these mosquitoes. 
Development rates of eggs, larvae, pupae, and the gonotrophic cycle are based on 
temperature using an enzyme kinetics approach. Larval weight gain and food 
depletion are based on the differential equations of Gilpin & McClelland 
compensated for temperature. Survivals are a function of weather, habitat, and 
other factors. The heterogeneity of the larval habitat is depicted by modeling 
the immature cohorts within up to nine different containers, each of which 
represents an important type of mosquito-producing container in the field. The 
model provides estimates of the age-specific density of each life stage within a 
representative 1-ha area. CIMSiM is interactive and runs on IBM-compatible 
personal computers. The user specifies a region of the world of interest; the 
model responds with lists of countries and associated cities where historical 
data on weather, larval habitat, and human densities are available. Each 
location is tied to an environmental file containing a description of the 
significant mosquito-producing containers in the area and their characteristics. 
In addition to weather and environmental information, CIMSiM uses biological 
files that include species-specific values for each of the parameters used in 
the model. Within CIMSiM, it is possible to create new environmental and 
biological files or modify existing ones to allow simulations to be tailored to 
particular locations or to parameter sensitivity studies. The model also may be 
used to evaluate any number and combination of standard and novel control 
methods.

DOI: 10.1093/jmedent/30.6.1003
PMID: 8271242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Med Pediatr Oncol. 1994;22(3):194-9. doi: 10.1002/mpo.2950220308.

Stage III abdominal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in Costa Rican children: comparison 
of two consecutive trials of treatment.

Lobo-Sanahuja F(1), García I, Barrantes JC, Barrantes M, Jiménez R, Argüello A.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Service, National Children's Hospital, San José, Costa Rica.

Seventy-three patients with Stage III abdominal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma were 
prospectively treated following two sequential protocols (P): L278 P (group A, 
33 patients) (1978-1983) and L384 P (group B, 40 patients), (1984-1991). No 
patient received radiotherapy. The L278 P included 7 drugs: cyclophosphamide, 
vincristine (VCR), adriamycin (ADR), prednisone, methotrexate (MTX), 
dexamethasone, and 6-mercaptopurine, given for remission induction, maintenance, 
and CNS prophylaxis. In the L384 P we introduced a consolidation phase 
consisting of intravenous MTX and citrovorum factor rescue, and IV cytosine 
arabinoside. VCR was also added to the monthly doses and the maintenance phase 
was reduced from 18 to 15 months. From January 1988 we changed ADR for 
epirubicin in the same doses. Prophylactic treatment of the CNS, in the L384 P, 
was intensified by increasing the number of doses of MTX IT in the remission, 
induction, and consolidation phases, and with the use of ara-C IT. Laparotomy in 
50 patients allowed partial resection in 16, and second-look laparotomy was 
performed in 27 patients. Viable tumor was found in four patients. Three 
patients (G-A) died from metabolic complications and another 4 (2 G-A and 2 G-B) 
failed to attain CR and died. A total of 28 (85%) of 33 children of G-A and 38 
(95%) of 40 children in G-B achieved CR. Five children died in remission (2 G-A, 
3 G-B). Three patients (G-A) relapsed in the CNS and one (G-B) relapsed in the 
abdomen and died. Disease-free survival at 120 months was 70% in G-A and 84% in 
G-B.

DOI: 10.1002/mpo.2950220308
PMID: 8272009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. N Engl J Med. 1994 Jan 27;330(4):242-8. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199401273300403.

Results of conservative management of clinically localized prostate cancer.

Chodak GW(1), Thisted RA, Gerber GS, Johansson JE, Adolfsson J, Jones GW, 
Chisholm GD, Moskovitz B, Livne PM, Warner J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Chicago-Pritzker School of Medicine, IL.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Jun 23;330(25):1830-1; author reply 1831-2.
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Jun 23;330(25):1831; author reply 1831-2.

BACKGROUND: The selection of treatment for patients with localized prostate 
cancer requires reliable information about the outcome of conservative 
management. Previous studies of this question are generally considered 
unreliable because they were uncontrolled and nonrandomized.
METHODS: We performed a pooled analysis of 828 case records from six 
nonrandomized studies, published since 1985, of men treated conservatively (with 
observation and delayed hormone therapy but no radical surgery or irradiation) 
for clinically localized prostate cancer. A Cox regression analysis was 
performed to determine which factors influenced survival among patients who did 
not die of causes other than prostate cancer (disease-specific survival). 
Kaplan-Meier curves for overall and metastasis-free survival among such patients 
were compared with use of the log-rank method and the Mantel-Haenszel test.
RESULTS: Factors that had a significant effect on disease-specific survival were 
grade 3 tumors (risk ratio, 10.04), residence in Israel (risk ratio, 2.48) or 
New York (risk ratio, 0.37), and age under 61 years (risk ratio, 0.32). Ten 
years after diagnosis, disease-specific survival (with data on men who died from 
causes other than prostate cancer censored) was 87 percent for men with grade 1 
or 2 tumors and 34 percent for those with grade 3 tumors; metastasis-free 
survival among men who had not died of other causes was 81 percent for grade 1, 
58 percent for grade 2, and 26 percent for grade 3 disease. These findings were 
not affected by the inclusion of men who had early-stage cancer, were older, had 
worse-than-average health, or underwent delayed radiation therapy or radical 
prostatectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: The strategy of initial conservative management and delayed hormone 
therapy is a reasonable choice for some men with grade 1 or 2 clinically 
localized prostate cancer, particularly for those who have an average life 
expectancy of 10 years or less. New treatment strategies are needed for men with 
grade 3 prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199401273300403
PMID: 8272085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Ophthalmologica. 1993;206(2):83-8. doi: 10.1159/000310368.

Survival rate after vitreous surgery in patients with diabetic retinopathy.

Uchio E(1), Inamura M, Ohno S, Taguchi H, Saeki K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Yokohama City University School of Medicine, 
Japan.

We studied factors affecting the survival rate after vitreous surgery in 73 
patients with diabetic retinopathy, who had undergone vitreous surgery between 
1982 and 1987, according to the life-table theory and multivariate analysis. The 
5-year survival rate was 84.8%; the mean age at death was 62.1 +/- 7.1 (mean +/- 
SD) years; the mean postoperative survival time was 34.0 +/- 25.2 months; the 
most common cause of death having been cardiovascular disease, which occurred in 
5 of the 13 (38.5%) patients who had died. Patients with triopathy essentially 
require very careful systemic management, because this state was definitively 
associated with a decline in postoperative survival.

DOI: 10.1159/000310368
PMID: 8272329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Surg Endosc. 1993 Nov-Dec;7(6):518-23. doi: 10.1007/BF00316693.

Long-term clinical and endoscopic assessment after total gastrectomy for cancer.

de Almeida AC(1), dos Santos NM, Aldeia FJ.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital of Santa Maria, Lisbon Medical School, Medicina 
Operatória, Portugal.

Progressive malnutrition has been reported as a long-term consequence of total 
gastrectomy (TG), possibly related to the mode of reconstructing the intestine. 
In reviewing our personal experience (1975-Sept. 91), we attempted to correlate 
the reconstructive technique used with the subsequent course of the patient. A 
consecutive series of 62 TGs (59 adenocarcinomas, 3 lymphomas) in 38 males and 
24 females 59 +/- 11 (m Mean +/- SD) years old was reviewed. Preoperative and 
"follow-up" evaluations, including upper gastrointestinal series and/or 
endoscopic examination, complete blood count, serum and liver biochemistry 
profiles, serum iron and plasma transferrin, oral GTT, USG or CT scan, actual 
and ideal body weight (IBW Life Extension Institute of New York), and 
"performance status" assessments, were prospectively documented. The follow-up 
symptoms were classified as per Cuschieri's scoring system. The endoscopic 
esophageal mucosa assessments were documented as well. Among 56 patients 
surviving operation, 34 were available, without tumor recurrence, for long-term 
(12-132 months) evaluation. A Roux-en-Y loop reconstruction had been performed 
in 23, 5 with a Hunt-Lawrence pouch; an isoperistaltic, esophagoduodenal, 
jejunal interposition (IR) was performed in 9, 4 with a Kock pouch; and an omega 
loop reconstruction was performed in 2. A 60-70-cm-long jejunal limb was always 
utilized.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00316693
PMID: 8272999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1993 Oct 20;113(25):3167-9.

[Russia is not a country, not a nation, but a thousand years old disease].

[Article in Norwegian]

Olsen B(1).

Author information:
(1)International Organization of Migration, Moskva.

PMID: 8273051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Ugeskr Laeger. 1993 Dec 13;155(50):4097-100.

[Average life expectancy and mortality in Denmark].

[Article in Danish]

Bjerregaard P(1), Juel K.

Author information:
(1)Dansk Institut for Klinisk Epidemiologi, København.

PMID: 8273231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Z Gerontol. 1993 Sep-Oct;26(5):313-20.

[Social position and life expectancy. A cohort-specific analysis with data of 
socioeconomic factors].

[Article in German]

Klein T(1).

Author information:
(1)Fakultät für Verwaltungswissenschaft, Universität Konstanz.

The impact of social position on mortality has been explained by a variety of 
underlying causes, among which different living conditions and life-styles of 
social strata, different working conditions, and a selection process are the 
most important. This study relies on an indirect method of evaluating cohort 
mortality and life expectancy. The results confirm considerable impact of social 
status on life expectancy. Furthermore, living conditions as well as working 
conditions seem of relevance, whereas a simple selection process is falsified.

PMID: 8273408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1994 Jan;162(1):179-83. doi: 10.2214/ajr.162.1.8273660.

The value of duplex sonography after peripheral artery angioplasty in predicting 
subacute restenosis.

Sacks D(1), Robinson ML, Summers TA, Marinelli DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Reading Hospital and Medical Center, PA 19603.

Comment in
    AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1994 Jan;162(1):184-6.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine if abnormal findings on 
duplex sonographic examination after peripheral artery angioplasty correlate 
with the subsequent recurrence of a stenosis.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We used duplex sonography to examine 35 stenoses in 23 
patients within 48 hr after the patients had angioplasty to treat these 
stenoses. Patients were followed up for 3 years by using one or more of the 
following: assessment of signs and symptoms, monitoring of peripheral pulses, 
pulse volume recordings, and angiography. Life tables were constructed to 
compare long-term patency with the presence of abnormal findings seen on duplex 
sonograms. Abnormal findings at the dilated segment included a blood-flow 
velocity greater than 120 cm/sec or a residual elevated velocity ratio greater 
than 1.4 or 2.0 immediately after angioplasty.
RESULTS: Twelve (34%) of 35 angioplasty sites showed recurrent stenosis before 
36 months. Patency at 24 months was calculated for velocities less than 120 
cm/sec vs velocities of 120 cm/sec or greater (41% vs 68%), for velocity ratios 
less than 1.4 vs ratios of 1.4 or greater (63% vs 57%), and for velocity ratios 
less than 2.0 vs ratios of 2.0 or greater (54% vs 74%). We found no significant 
difference in patency between those patients with normal findings and those with 
abnormal findings on duplex sonographic examination after angioplasty.
CONCLUSION: Abnormal findings on duplex sonograms obtained immediately after 
peripheral angioplasty cannot be used to predict subacute restenosis.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.162.1.8273660
PMID: 8273660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Am Heart J. 1994 Jan;127(1):75-82. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(94)90512-6.

Risk and benefit of additional aortocoronary bypass grafting in patients 
undergoing cardioverter-defibrillator implantation.

Trappe HJ(1), Klein H, Wahlers T, Fieguth HG, Wenzlaff P, Kielblock B, Lichtlen 
PR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University Hospital Hannover, p5rmany.

It is unclear whether additional aortocoronary bypass grafting should be 
performed in patients who need an automatic implantable cardioverter 
defibrillator (ICD) in one- or two-step procedures. Therefore we studied the 
follow-up of 139 patients who underwent epicardial implantation of the 
cardioverter defibrillator (CD). All patients had coronary artery disease and 
recurrent ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation. Eighty-nine patients had 
implantation of the CD without additional surgical approaches (group G1), and 50 
patients had concomitant aortocoronary bypass grafting (group G2). Perioperative 
mortality (within 30 days after CD implant) was 1 (1%) of 89 patients in G1 and 
6 (12%) of 50 patients in G2 (p < 0.01). During the mean follow-up of 26 +/- 20 
months, sudden death occurred in four (4%) of 89 patients in G1 and two (4%) of 
50 patients in G2. Twenty-three (17%) patients died of cardiac failure (18 [20%] 
patients in G1 and 5 [10%] patients in G2). ICD discharges occurred in 69 (78%) 
of 89 patients in G1 and in 36 (72%) of 50 patients in G2. The mean incidence of 
ICD discharges was 23 +/- 69 shocks per patient in G1 and 18 +/- 25 shocks per 
patient in G2 (p = NS). We conclude that concomitant aortocoronary bypass 
grafting during CD implantation leads to a higher perioperative mortality. 
Avoidance of myocardial ischemia does not significantly influence sudden death 
mortality nor markedly reduce the number of ICD discharges.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(94)90512-6
PMID: 8273759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Dermatology. 1993;187(4):248-56. doi: 10.1159/000247258.

Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome in a Swiss population.

Schallreuter KU(1), Frenk E, Wolfe LS, Witkop CJ, Wood JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Hamburg, FRG.

Tyrosinase-positive albinism, previously diagnosed as Hermansky-Pudlak Syndrome 
(HPS), has been examined in four generations from a village of the canton 
Valais, Switzerland. Homozygotes, obligate heterozygotes and putative 
heterozygotes in this geneology yielded lower than normal membrane-associated 
thioredoxin reductase (TR) activities compared with normal family members and 
controls. All of the homozygotes and 50% of each the obligate and putative 
heterozygotes showed an increase in bleeding time associated with 
storage-pool-deficient platelets lacking dense bodies. The TR activity profile 
and the platelet-dense body deficiency in the Swiss albinos was the same as that 
in the HPS population from Puerto Rico. However, in albinos from Puerto Rico, 
there is an accumulation of ceroid/lipofuscin-like pigment in lysosomal 
structures causing tissue damage, and, upon kidney involvement, this leads to 
increased urinary dolichol excretion. Approximately half of the Puerto Rican HPS 
cases had clinical evidence of storage disease with restrictive lung disease, 
granulomatous colitis, kidney failure and cardiomyopathy. By comparison, the 
Swiss HPS geneology had a normal life expectancy with no significant evidence 
for ceroid accumulation or urinary dolichol excretion. An examination of 
antioxidant enzymes, catalase, TR and glutathione reductase in epidermal suction 
blisters from Swiss HPS homozygotes showed a similar result for catalase and TR 
levels to the depigmented epidermis of patients with vitiligo, except that 
intracellular TR was found to be calcium free in HPS compared with vitiligo. 
Intracellular glutathione reductase levels were highest in HPS. Both the Swiss 
and Puerto Rican HPS homozygotes and heterozygotes have giant melanosomes in 
skin melanocytes.

DOI: 10.1159/000247258
PMID: 8274781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1993 Oct;12(4):315-21.

Autologous bone marrow transplantation for acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Doney K(1), Buckner CD, Fisher L, Petersen FB, Sanders J, Appelbaum FR, Anasetti 
C, Badger C, Bensinger W, Deeg HJ, et al.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Research, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle, WA 98104.

Between December 1979 and February 1991, 89 patients with ALL received 
autologous BMT. Median patient age was 18.4 years. Ten patients were in first 
remission, 52 were in second or greater remission and 27 were in relapse at the 
time of transplant. Conditioning regimens utilized chemotherapy alone (5 
patients) or in combination with 10-15.75 Gy total body irradiation (84 
patients). Disease-free survival at 1 year is 50% for patients transplanted in 
first remission, 27% for those in > or = second remission and 8% for patients in 
relapse. Pre- and post-transplant variables were evaluated in univariate and 
multivariate analyses for their effect on survival and relapse. Factors 
significantly associated with improved survival were being transplanted in first 
remission and achieving a self-sustained platelet count > or = 20 x 10(9)/l in a 
shorter period of time. A decreased relapse rate after transplant was associated 
with a lower white blood count at diagnosis, being transplanted in first 
remission and not being transplanted in relapse.

PMID: 8275030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1993 Oct;12(4):371-80.

Prospective evaluation of unrelated donor bone marrow transplantation. The 
International Marrow Unrelated Search and Transplant (IMUST) Study.

Hows J(1), Bradley BA, Gore S, Downie T, Howard M, Gluckman E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Transplantation Sciences, Bristol University, UK.

The International Marrow Unrelated Search and Transplant (IMUST) Study has 
prospectively assessed outcome of unrelated donor BMT (UD-BMT) in comparison 
with a matched cohort of patients treated by HLA-identical sibling BMT (ID-BMT). 
We report an interim analysis of the first 165 UD-BMT and 368 ID-BMT. Eighty-two 
percent of UD-BMT pairs were matched by serology for HLA-A, B and DR, 10% were 
less well matched and HLA matching data was incomplete in 8%. The Kaplan-Meier 
estimated probability of survival until day 400 was 0.42 (95% confidence limits 
0.33-0.51) after UD-BMT and 0.62 (0.56-0.68) after ID-BMT (p = < 0.001). 
Probability of engraftment by day 100 was 0.90 (0.85-0.95) and 0.95-0.99) after 
UD-BMT and ID-BMT, respectively (p = < 0.001). Cumulative probability of acute 
GVHD by day 100 was 0.52 (0.45-0.60) and 0.42 (0.37-0.47) after UD-BMT and 
ID-BMT, respectively (p = 0.009). After UD-BMT, 52% of patients with early 
disease survived until day 400 (40-64%) and 27% (14-40%) with advanced disease 
(p = < 0.001). Multifactorial analysis of survival showed success was related to 
the centre's experience of UD-BMT and this effect was modified by conditioning 
protocol. Increased probability of survival after UD-BMT in centres with most 
experience of the procedure is novel finding. We conclude UD-BMT is a more 
difficult procedure than ID-BMT but results are acceptable in patients with 
early disease and when UD-BMT is carried out in experienced centres.

PMID: 8275037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Health Econ. 1993 Oct;2(3):267-79. doi: 10.1002/hec.4730020310.

Expected social utility of life time in the presence of a chronic disease.

Mulder PG(1), Hempenius AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Erasmus University Medical 
School, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Interventive action aimed at reducing the incidence of an irreversible chronic 
noncommunicable disease in a population has various effects. Hopefully, it 
increases total longevity in the population and it causes the disease to develop 
later in time in a smaller portion of the population. In this paper a 
statistical model is built by which these effects can be estimated. A three 
dimensional probability density function that underlies this model is changed by 
the interventive action. It is shown how a three dimensional utility function 
can be defined to appropriately judge this change.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.4730020310
PMID: 8275172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Br J Hosp Med. 1993 Oct 20-Nov 2;50(8):445-51.

Management of the child with cystic fibrosis.

Byrne S(1), David TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Health, University of Manchester.

The association between salty skin and early death has been recognized since 
medieval times but the first description of cystic fibrosis was not published 
until 1938 by Anderson. Over teh last 53 years attitudes to the disease have 
changed radically and modern aggressive care involving a wide variety of 
professionals has contributed to the improved life expectancy.

PMID: 8275282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Cancer. 1994 Jan 1;73(1):219-23. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19940101)73:1<219::aid-cncr2820730137>3.0.co;2-2.

Treatment of overt isolated testicular relapse in children on therapy for acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia. A report from the Childrens Cancer Group.

Finklestein JZ(1), Miller DR, Feusner J, Stram DO, Baum E, Shina DC, Johnson DG, 
Gyepes MT, Hammond GD.

Author information:
(1)UCLA School of Medicine, Memorial Miller Childrens Hospital, Long Beach, 
California.

BACKGROUND: Fifty-seven children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) 
receiving therapy who experienced overt isolated testicular relapse while in 
bone marrow remission were entered into a study that featured an intensive 
retreatment regimen.
METHODS: The objective was to determine whether a change in chemotherapy and 
local irradiation would prevent subsequent marrow relapse and increase the 
survival rate. The regimens used (modified Berlin-Frankfurt-Munster or modified 
New York) delivered acceptable therapy based on analyses of toxicity data.
RESULTS: Overall survival at 5 years from the time of testicular relapse was 
47%, with an event-free survival of 43%. Events have been documented in 28 of 55 
evaluable children. Analysis of these patients revealed that 23 children had 
bone marrow relapse, 4 children had central nervous system relapse, and 1 child 
had testicular relapse. In addition, two patients were removed from the study 
for toxicity, one child for infection (mucormycosis), and five children had a 
bone marrow transplantation while in remission and became ineligible to continue 
in the study. Two children were removed at the request of their parents, and 
nine children were lost to follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Because of their high risk of developing systemic relapse, boys with 
ALL who experience isolated overt testicular relapse during active therapy 
should be retreated with intensive treatment.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19940101)73:1<219::aid-cncr2820730137>3.0.co;2-2
PMID: 8275428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Int Dent J. 1993 Aug;43(4):348-54.

Oral health needs of the elderly--an international review. Commission of Oral 
Health, Research and Epidemiology Report of a Working Group.

[No authors listed]

There has been no significant evaluation of the oral health of the elderly on a 
global or regional basis. As a result of this deficiency in information a 
working group of the FDI was instituted in 1988. A questionnaire was developed 
and sent to 44 consultants and 53 national dental associations. Replies were 
recorded from 31 countries while another 10 countries reported that they had no 
data on their ageing populations. Most of the replies were from the so-called 
western industrialised countries and these countries had some data on issues 
such as life span at birth, life span at 60, dental utilisation data and 
edentulousness. Beyond these areas data was not representative and scarce. 
Recommendations are that studies of this size tend not to be very productive and 
