should not be replicated. In the agrarian societies where caries rates in 
children are still low, preventive services need to be introduced as well as 
palliative services. In the industrialising countries where caries rates are 
increasing, the emphasis needs to be on prevention, while in the heavily 
industrialised countries it needs to be focused on prevention of caries, 
especially root caries.

PMID: 8276519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. J Biol Chem. 1994 Jan 7;269(1):77-85.

Regulation of interleukin-8 expression in porcine alveolar macrophages by 
bacterial lipopolysaccharide.

Lin G(1), Pearson AE, Scamurra RW, Zhou Y, Baarsch MJ, Weiss DJ, Murtaugh MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary PathoBiology, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
University of Minnesota, St. Paul 55108.

Interleukin (IL)-8 is a macrophage-derived neutrophil chemotactic factor that 
plays an important role in the recruitment of neutrophils to inflammatory loci. 
Hence, expression of IL-8 by alveolar macrophages may be a significant factor in 
host defense in the lung and in the pathogenesis of pneumonia in swine. To 
initiate molecular studies of IL-8 regulation in pigs, we cloned IL-8 cDNA and 
examined the regulation of its mRNA in alveolar macrophages. The porcine IL-8 
cDNA consists of 1491 base pairs including a coding region of 309 base pairs. 
The deduced amino acid sequence was 75 and 81% similar to human and rabbit IL-8, 
respectively. Resting macrophages contained low levels of IL-8 mRNA, which 
increased markedly after exposure to bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). LPS 
induction of IL-8 was direct, not mediated through elevation of tumor necrosis 
factor or interleukin-1. The effect of LPS on IL-8 expression was dose 
dependent, and induction was observed at a concentration of 10 pg/ml. IL-8 mRNA 
expression was detectable within 0.5 h after stimulation with LPS, peaked at 3-6 
h at about 30-fold higher levels than in resting cells, and was maintained for 
24 h. Secreted IL-8, measured by neutrophil chemotaxis, was induced within 4 h 
by LPS, and accumulated in the media throughout the 24-h period. The mechanism 
of induction of IL-8 mRNA appeared to involve transcription and RNA processing. 
Nuclear run-on analysis showed that the IL-8 gene was actively transcribed in 
noninduced cells; upon stimulation with LPS, the rate of IL-8 transcription was 
increased about 4-fold. A single mature mRNA species was detected by primer 
extension analysis. The half-life of IL-8 mRNA transcripts in aveolar 
macrophages was approximately 2 h and did not change after LPS stimulation. The 
ability of LPS to induce IL-8 expression was suppressed by recombinant human 
IL-4 and dexamethasone in a concentration-dependent manner. These observations 
indicate that the expression of IL-8 is an early event in the sequelae to 
bacterial infection in the lung.

PMID: 8276881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Rev Saude Publica. 1993 Apr;27(2):127-34. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89101993000200009.

[Grouping of countries according to indicators of standard of living].

[Article in Portuguese]

Curi PR(1).

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Estatística e Computação, Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária e 
Zootecnia da UNESP, Botucatu, SP, Brasil.

The position of 125 countries is studied on the basis of a collection of 26 
basic, health, economic and educational indicators. Multivariate statistical 
methods were used, including Cluster Analysis, Principal Component Analysis and 
Multivariate Analysis of Variance. The most discriminating variables were life 
expectancy the child mortality rate, the mortality rate of children of less than 
five years of age, the birth and fertility rates and the high-school female 
matriculation rate. The first principal component was interpreted as a measure 
of the living standard which made it possible to place the countries in order. 
Five clusters of countries are suggested.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101993000200009
PMID: 8278781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Acta Med Port. 1993 Aug-Sep;6(8-9):367-9.

[Arterial hypertension in the elderly. Experience at a hospital service].

[Article in Portuguese]

Carvalho L(1), Gonçalves F, Clara JG.

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Medicina I., Hospital de Santa Maria, Lisboa.

High blood pressure in the elderly population is currently one of the most 
important public health problems. In recent years, a dramatic increase in life 
expectancy has occurred and cardiovascular diseases are now one of the major 
causes of morbidity and mortality in this age group. Therefore, high blood 
pressure in the elderly has been the aim of many trials throughout the world. In 
Medicine Department 1 of St. Maria Hospital, we designed and implemented a 
special outpatient follow-up for elderly people (> or = 65 years old) with 
hypertensive disease. At the end of the first year, 61 patients (22 men and 39 
women) with an average age of 71 years (SD +/- 5.3), with known of high blood 
pressure for an average of 10 years were treated with angiotensin converting 
enzyme inhibitor (11 patients), calcium channel blockers (6 patients), or a 
combination of both drugs. The mean blood pressure fell 15 mm Hg (SD +/- 19.6) 
without deterioration of the renal function. The echocardiographic evaluation 
showed reduction in the left ventricular dimensions without significant 
modifications of diastolic, systolic and cardiac output. In addition, there was 
a significant increase in attention/concentration and memory abilities, however 
the percentage of depressed patients was the same at the end of the first year 
of treatment for high blood pressure.

PMID: 8279274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Acta Med Port. 1993 Aug-Sep;6(8-9):421-7.

[Cancer and geriatrics].

[Article in Portuguese]

Conde J(1).

Author information:
(1)Comissão de Etica, Instituto Português de Oncologia, Lisboa.

Undoubtedly we are living in a world where life expectancy is growing larger and 
birth rates are decreasing; in the western world we are slowly progressing 
towards a world of elderly people. Such forecast rises a challenge with two 
multidisciplinary fronts: stabilizing or controlling the biological processes of 
aging. Since we cannot interfere with the genetic predetermination of life, the 
choice could be to block the events that might alter such genetic programme, 
preserving our genetic inheritance, as well as promoting a healthy life style 
and preventing diseases acquired through life. We must create social and 
economic conditions that permit more and more elderly people to be active 
members of the community, with preserved or restored mental and working 
capacities. There are several factors that can interfere with the life programme 
that is biochemically impressed in our genetic inheritance, by changing or 
disrupting homeostasis and thus provoking aggression or instability factors, 
within what I use to call the biological sociology of the human being. Among 
such factors, cancer prevails as a complex biological process that settles in 
the human body like a biological terrorist, and evolves to a nosologic 
process--cancer disease--that threatens life, first leading to disease and 
afterwards causing a genetically non expected death. Epidemiological studies 
show that age-related risk is a reality that neither individual involvement nor 
the New Biology resources can surpass. Therefore, I thought that Cancer and the 
Elderly would be an interesting subject, according to the following: 1. Topics 
on demography and geriatrics.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8279282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Ann Thorac Surg. 1994 Jan;57(1):161-8; discussion 168-9. doi: 
10.1016/0003-4975(94)90386-7.

Cost-effectiveness of preoperative autologous donation in coronary artery bypass 
grafting.

Birkmeyer JD(1), AuBuchon JP, Littenberg B, O'Connor GT, Nease RF Jr, Nugent WC, 
Goodnough LT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Dartmouth Medical School, 
Hanover, New Hampshire.

Concern about the safety of the allogeneic blood supply has made preoperative 
autologous blood donation (PAD) routine before major noncardiac operations. 
However, the costs and benefits of PAD in elective coronary artery bypass 
grafting (CABG) are not well established. We used decision analysis to (1) 
calculate the cost-effectiveness of PAD in CABG, expressed as cost per year of 
life saved, and (2) compare the health benefits of reducing allogeneic 
transfusions with the potential risks of autologous blood donation by patients 
with coronary artery disease. A prospective study of 18 institutions provided 
data on transfusion practice and blood product costs in CABG. On average, PAD in 
CABG costs $508,000 to $909,000 per quality-adjusted year of life saved, 
depending on the number of units donated. Preoperative autologous blood donation 
is more cost-effective (as low as $518,000 per year of life saved) when targeted 
to younger patients undergoing CABG at centers with high transfusion rates. The 
cost-effectiveness of PAD is strongly dependent on estimates of posttransfusion 
hepatitis incidence, but less so on plausible estimates of the current risk of 
human immunodeficiency virus transmission. Although the actual risk of PAD is 
uncertain, even a small fatality risk (> 1 per 101,000 donations) associated 
with blood donation by patients awaiting CABG negates all life expectancy 
benefits of PAD. At current costs, PAD by patients awaiting CABG is not 
cost-effective, producing small health benefits at high societal cost. For the 
individual patient, the risk of donating blood before CABG may well outweigh the 
benefits associated with fewer allogeneic transfusions.

DOI: 10.1016/0003-4975(94)90386-7
PMID: 8279884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Circulation. 1994 Jan;89(1):243-51. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.89.1.243.

Pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect in adults.

Marelli AJ(1), Perloff JK, Child JS, Laks H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles 90024-1679.

BACKGROUND: Multistage surgery culminating in completed hemodynamic repair is 
now performed for pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect (PA-VSD). 
Justification for operation in patients with an adequate collateral pulmonary 
circulation is controversial. Data on natural adult survival are scant but are 
necessary to provide the rationale for multistage reconstructive procedures.
METHODS AND RESULTS: All cyanotic adults with PA-VSD in the UCLA Adult 
Congenital Heart Disease Center Registry from 1978 through 1992 formed the basis 
for this study. Registry data and echocardiographic, hemodynamic, and 
angiographic information were used to determine longevity, clinical course, and 
operative feasibility. Of 26 patients, 16 were unoperated when referred (group 
A), and 10 had been palliated before age 18 years (group B). Two thirds were 18 
to 29 years old. Only 2 patients survived beyond age 40 years. Six died during 
follow-up at a mean age of 31 years (+/- 12.1 SD). Eight group A patients were 
in New York Heart Association class II, and 8 were in class III. Of the 26 group 
A and B patients, 20 had aortic regurgitation, which was moderate or severe in 
10. Eight had cardiac failure. Of 11 group A patients who remained unoperated, 5 
died. Twelve patients were considered eligible for surgery at > or = 18 years of 
age. Ten underwent completed hemodynamic repair with a mean post-operative right 
ventricular-to-left ventricular systolic pressure ratio of 0.45 (+/- 0.16 SD), 
and there were no early or late deaths.
CONCLUSIONS: Even when collateral blood flow permits adult survival, all such 
patients are symptomatic. Mean life expectancy without operation did not exceed 
three decades. Aortic regurgitation and cardiac failure are significant negative 
variables. Nearly half of unoperated adults died during follow-up. Staged 
hemodynamic repair can be performed with a low surgical risk in properly 
selected adults with PA/VSD.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.89.1.243
PMID: 8281653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Fortschr Med. 1993 Oct 10;111(28):433-6.

[Neurosurgical therapy of subarachnoid hemorrhage. Microsurgical 
techniques--early postoperative nimodipine administration].

[Article in German]

Seifert V(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurochirurgische Klinik, Universität Gesamthochschule Essen.

With the increasing life expectancy of the general population, the number of 
geriatric patients with aneurysmatic subarachnoid bleeding consulting the 
neurosurgeon is also increasing. The possibilities of modern micro-neurosurgery 
have created a situation that permits craniotomy and aneurysmal clipping in the 
geriatric patient with an acceptably low level of risk and high probability of 
high post-operative quality of life. Although a definitive evaluation of 
perioperative administration of calcium channel blockers in geriatric patients 
with an aneurysm is not yet possible, experience so far gained points to their 
positive effect on a more rapid and more pronounced resolution of the 
post-hemorrhagic impairment of the cognitive performance.

PMID: 8282286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Int Dent J. 1993 Aug;43(4 Suppl 1):375-86.

Hygiene and health: the value of antiplaque agents in promoting oral health.

Johnson NW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dental Sciences, Kings College School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, London, UK.

The improvements in human health and increased life expectancy which have come 
about in many societies in the past century have been due, predominantly, to 
improvements in hygiene--both personal and environmental. As the common oral 
diseases--caries and gingivitis and to some extent periodontitis--are 
bacterially mediated diseases, they are also amendable to control by oral 
hygiene. As commonly practised however, with modern diets, mechanical oral 
hygiene alone has limited effect on disease incidence. The supplementation of 
tooth brushing with chemical agents which modulate plaque metabolism and the 
effects of metabolites on the hard and soft tissues of the dento-gingival 
structures certainly has preventive and therapeutic value. This is particularly 
true of fluoridated dentifrices in the control of dental caries, and of 
dentifrices with antibacterial and anticalculus properties, such as those 
containing low concentrations of the phenolic compound Triclosan, in the control 
of gingivitis. Microbial colonisation of tooth and other body surfaces is normal 
and forms part of the natural defence against dangerous exogenous organisms: 
thus modulating or 'controlling' plaque, not eliminating it, is the purpose of 
oral hygiene. The goal is to maintain a microbial ecosystem consistently 
associated with healthy tissues.

PMID: 8282420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1993 Oct;34(5):361-7.

Behaviour of surgically corrected infrainguinal vein grafts.

Stierli P(1), Aeberhard P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Kantonsspital, Aarau, Switzerland.

During a period of 4 years (1988-1992) we detected in a series of 114 
infrainguinal vein grafts 22 bypasses (19%) with 26 hemodynamically significant 
(> 50%) stenoses. The secondary cumulative patency rate of 114 bypasses was 92% 
at 12, 84% at 24 and 84% at 36 months. Twenty-three secondary surgical 
procedures consisting of vein patch angioplasty (n = 10), interposition grafting 
(n = 3) or jump- or sequential grafting (n = 10) were performed to correct 
stenoses. One graft correction was technically not feasible, resulting in graft 
occlusion. Two patients refused surgery. All corrected grafts were prospectively 
studied both by ankle brachial measurements and color flow Duplex scanning every 
3 to 6 months. Cumulative graft patency after reintervention in 20 grafts was 
95% at 12 months and 95% at 24 months. Mild stenosis (< 50%) of revision sites 
was observed in 2 grafts. No single stenosis remote of revision site developed 
during follow-up (mean 20.4 months), confirming the opinion that stenosed vein 
grafts after correction do not demonstrate a higher incidence to develop 
strictures than normal grafts. No tertiary procedures were necessary, as all 
categories of secondary procedures normalized graft and limb hemodynamics. This 
series demonstrates that excellent long term results after surgically corrected 
high grade graft lesions justify an aggressive approach to these stenoses.

PMID: 8282740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. J Clin Invest. 1994 Jan;93(1):280-5. doi: 10.1172/JCI116957.

Prognostic implications of novel beta cardiac myosin heavy chain gene mutations 
that cause familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

Anan R(1), Greve G, Thierfelder L, Watkins H, McKenna WJ, Solomon S, Vecchio C, 
Shono H, Nakao S, Tanaka H, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115.

Comment in
    J Clin Invest. 1994 Jan;93(1):2-3.

Three novel beta cardiac myosin heavy chain (MHC) gene missense mutations, 
Phe513Cys, Gly716Arg, and Arg719Trp, which cause familial hypertrophic 
cardiomyopathy (FHC) are described. One mutation in exon 15 (Phe513Cys) does not 
alter the charge of the encoded amino acid, and affected family members have a 
near normal life expectancy. The Gly716Arg mutation (exon 19; charge change of 
+1) causes FHC in three family members, one of whom underwent transplantation 
for heart failure. The Arg719Trp mutation (exon 19; charge change of -1) was 
found in four unrelated FHC families with a high incidence of premature death 
and an average life expectancy in affected individuals of 38 yr. A comparable 
high frequency of disease-related deaths in four families with the Arg719Trp 
mutation suggests that this specific gene defect directly accounts for the 
observed malignant phenotype. Further, the significantly different life 
expectancies associated with the Arg719Trp vs. Phe513Cys mutation (P < 0.001) 
support the hypothesis that mutations which alter the charge of the encoded 
amino acid affect survival more significantly than those that produce a 
conservative amino acid change.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI116957
PMCID: PMC293763
PMID: 8282798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 1993 Dec;23(6):342-9.

Clinical and pathological analyses of patients with a family history of 
colorectal cancer. Registry Committee, Japanese Research Society for Cancer of 
the Colon and Rectum.

[No authors listed]

Patients who were registered by the Japanese Society for Cancer of the Colon and 
Rectum between 1978 and 1983 were examined clinically and pathologically, in 
terms of colorectal cancer with familial accumulation. The incidence of patients 
with a family history of colorectal cancer (FH+ group)--patients with 
adenomatosis coli were excluded--was 6.5% in 15,369 colorectal cancer patients. 
The incidence of patients with a family history of malignant tumors other than 
colorectal cancer was 27.7%. Comparison of the FH+ group with the FH- group 
(patients without a family history of colorectal cancer) revealed the incidence 
of colonic cancer to be significantly higher than that of rectal cancer in the 
FH+ group (P < 0.01). The patients with colonic cancer in the FH+ group were 
significantly younger than those in the FH- group (P < 0.01), but there was no 
age-dependent difference between patients with rectal cancer in the two groups. 
There was no difference in sex ratio and there was little difference in the 
subsite of the primary lesion in the colon between the FH+ and FH- groups. The 
incidence of multiple primary colorectal cancer was significantly higher in 
patients with colonic cancer in the FH+ group than in the FH- group (P < 0.01). 
The incidence of multiple primary cancer in sites other than the colon and 
rectum was significantly higher in the FH+ group (P < 0.01), but no significant 
difference was found in the site of lesions. The prognosis of patients in the 
FH+ group was significantly better than that of those in the FH- group; however, 
there were no differences in background factors such as findings of the primary 
lesion, status of metastasis, clinical stage and rate of curative resection 
between the groups.

PMID: 8283787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Rev Paul Med. 1993 Mar-Apr;111(2):337-43.

Prognostic factors and relative risk in hypopharyngeal cancer--related 
parameters concerning stage, therapeutics and evolution.

Rapoport A(1), Franco EL.

Author information:
(1)Head and Neck Service, Hospital Heliópolis, São Paulo, Brasil.

The prognostic value of 16 parameters was evaluated in a series of 126 squamous 
cell carcinoma of hypopharynx between 1978 and 1985 at the "Serviço de Cirurgia 
de Cabeça e Pescoço" of the "Hospital Heliópolis", São Paulo. The variables 
considered were: age, sex, ethnic background, interval between diagnosis and 
detection of first symptom, extension of primary lesion (T), N categories, 
histologic evaluation of primary lesion (pT) and neck node metastasis (pN), 
number of clinical positive nodes (NGPOS), radiation, chemotherapy and 
recurrence of the disease (local, regional and distant metastasis). After a 
multifactorial study using Cox life table model (3) and Dixon 
mathematic-statistical model (8), 5 of those 16 parameters were found to 
influence survival, independently. The five variables organized according to 
hypopharynx cancer prognostic significance were: age, odynophagia, number of 
clinical (NGPRE) and histological (NGPOS) metastatic lymph nodes and radiation 
therapy; odynophagia and radiotherapy were the variables that decreased the 
relative risk of recurrence in the survival of cancer of the hypopharynx.

PMID: 8284575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Science. 1994 Jan 14;263(5144):158-9. doi: 10.1126/science.8284664.

Health care costs.

Deckert GH.

Comment on
    Science. 1993 Dec 3;262(5139):1497.

DOI: 10.1126/science.8284664
PMID: 8284664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Acta Cardiol. 1993;48(5):421-39.

Worldwide mortality changes from all causes and from cardiovascular diseases 
between 1968 and 1988.

Kesteloot H(1), Joossens JV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, K.U. Leuven, Belgium.

The worldwide changes in mortality from 35 countries, between 1968 and 1988, 
have been analyzed in four age classes between 45 and 85+ years and in both 
sexes, together with years gained in life expectancy at age one between 1967 and 
1990. The most important decreases have been seen in populations with important 
changes in life style, primarily nutritional, such as in East Asia, Australia, 
Finland, Austria, France, Switzerland, Portugal, Belgium, F.R.G. and Spain. Less 
beneficial changes were observed in Sweden and The Netherlands. Unsatisfactory 
changes were observed in Norway, Denmark and especially in the East European 
countries. The small increase in life expectancy at age one (+1.5 year) observed 
in Denmark between 1967 and 1990 was situated between that of the former German 
Democratic Republic and of Czechoslovakia, +1.6 and +0.3, respectively. However, 
marked differences exist among sexes and age classes. The changes obtained for 
all-cause mortality in the 75-84 years age class are better than in the 45-64 
years age class. All these observations cannot be explained by better medical 
treatment only and point towards nutrition as the most important causal factor.

PMID: 8284968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Acta Cardiol. 1993;48(5):441-2.

Nutrition and life expectancy of populations.

Kesteloot H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, K.U.-Leuven, Belgium.

PMID: 8284969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. J Am Board Fam Pract. 1993 Nov-Dec;6(6):537-45.

Cost-effectiveness of cervical cytologic examination during pregnancy.

Carter PM(1), Coburn TC, Luszczak M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Silas B. Hays Army Community 
Hospital, Fort Ord, California.

BACKGROUND: We undertook a study to determine the cost-effectiveness of 
performing routine cervical cytologic examination during pregnancy.
METHODS: The costs generated by doing routine prenatal cervical cytologic 
examination were calculated based on chart review in a family practice setting. 
A consecutive sample of 523 patients giving birth during 1990 was used. Analysis 
was done on 423 of those patients with prenatal Papanicolaou smear results 
recorded. Cost savings from detection of curable disease and utility of the test 
in terms of well-years saved were calculated from published statistics using a 
single-step Markov process to model the population at risk.
RESULTS: For patients of all ages using a discount rate of 5 percent, the cost 
generated by prenatal cervical cytologic examination was $146,400 per well-year 
of life saved. Age stratification showed cost per well-year to range from 
$321,600 for patients aged 15 to 19 years to $48,800 for those aged 35 to 39 
years.
CONCLUSIONS: Routine prenatal cervical cytologic examination is significantly 
less cost-effective than the most commonly done medical procedures. If medical 
funding is limited, elimination of this test should be considered for women with 
normal findings on cervical cytologic examinations within the previous 2 to 3 
years.

PMID: 8285092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Am J Kidney Dis. 1994 Jan;23(1):1-15. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(12)80805-5.

Renal replacement therapies in the elderly: Part II. Renal transplantation.

Ismail N(1), Hakim RM, Helderman JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, 
TN.

The United States end-stage renal disease (ESRD) population is growing 
progressively older. As a percentage of the overall ESRD population, the number 
of patients 65 years of age and older approached 40% by 1989. However, the 
percentage of ESRD patients with a functioning transplant was only 2.7% in this 
age group. Success of transplantation in geriatric ESRD patients over the last 
decade is due to improved patient selection as well as the use of cyclosporine A 
and lower doses of corticosteroids, with the achievement of 1-year patient and 
graft survival rates of 85% and 75%, respectively. For patients older than 60 or 
65 years, the 5-year "functional" graft survival is 55% to 60%. Although overall 
results are excellent, the management of transplantation in the elderly requires 
an understanding of pharmacology, immunology, and physiology peculiar to this 
age group. Since the elderly have a degree of immune incompetence, they require 
less aggressive immunotherapy. Elderly patients have decreased hepatic enzyme 
activity, especially the P450 system, and therefore require a lower cyclosporine 
dose. Although elderly patients experience less rejection episodes than younger 
patients, graft loss in the elderly transplant recipient is due mainly to 
patient death. Most common causes of death in the elderly transplant recipient 
are cardiovascular disease and infection related to peaks of immunosuppression. 
Shortage of cadaver kidneys and limited life expectancy of the geriatric ESRD 
patient make allocation of cadaver kidneys to patients over 70 years (and even 
65 years) a controversial issue and an ethical dilemma. Use of elderly cadaver 
donors (over 55 to 60 years) is associated with inferior success rates and is 
not an optimal solution to shortage of cadaver kidneys.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(12)80805-5
PMID: 8285183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Am J Kidney Dis. 1994 Jan;23(1):99-104. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(12)80818-3.

Results of ultrasound-assisted diagnosis of tunnel infections in continuous 
ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.

Plum J(1), Sudkamp S, Grabensee B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Heinrich Heine University, Düsseldorf, Germany.

The management of catheter-related infections has become a major challenge in 
continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis treatment. Early recognition and 
discrimination of mere exit site infections from more invasive and catheter 
menacing tunnel infections (TIs) are of therapeutic importance. As the diagnosis 
of TI is still based on clinical signs and only indicates advanced infections, 
we studied the usefulness of the ultrasound examination (UE) of the continuous 
ambulatory peritoneal dialysis catheter. Examinations were made by a mobile 
ultrasound unit using a 7.5 MHz transducer. Sixty-two continuous ambulatory 
peritoneal dialysis patients with an Oreopoulos Zellermann catheter 
(Oreopoulos-Zellerman Cathete-THWII, Baxter GmbH, Unterschleissheim, Germany) 
were studied repeatedly between February 1991 and July 1992. Pericatheter fluid 
collection (with typical sonographic localization) was consistent with surgical 
findings and histopathologic examination and proved to be a reliable criterion 
of TIs. The incidence of TIs was significantly higher when using UE 
(0.35/patient-year) compared with the usual clinical criteria 
(0.12/patient-year, P < 0.01). Staphylococcus aureus exit site infections were 
predominant and had the highest risk of concomitant TIs (83%). Eleven of 25 
patients with a positive UE lost their catheter due to infectious complications, 
while no patient with a negative UE underwent operation for infectious reasons 
(P < 0.01). The peritonitis rate (0.64/patient-year) was markedly increased when 
UE indicated a TI (1.7/patient-year, P < 0.01). We conclude that sonography is a 
sensitive tool for the early diagnosis of unsuspected TIs. Sonography is a 
bedside method used for screening purposes and allows us to control the 
treatment regimen.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(12)80818-3
PMID: 8285204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Minerva Gastroenterol Dietol. 1993 Sep;39(3):133-7.

[Pancreatic extract therapy in exocrine pancreatic insufficiency].

[Article in Italian]

Santini B(1), Ivaldi AP.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Discipline Pediatriche, Università degli Studi di Torino, 
Cattedra di Pediatria.

The authors consider the different strategies in long term enzyme replacement 
therapy in relation to the complex mechanics at the basis of pancreas exocrine 
insufficiency. This condition occurs in chronic pancreatitis and is present in 
Cystic Fibrosis, the most common potentially lethal inherited disorder of 
Caucasians. Pancreatic exocrine insufficiency occurs in the vast majority of 
cystic fibrosis affected children and is now becoming a frequent pathology in 
adults for the better life expectancy and the recent acknowledgements in this 
disease. The principal aims of research in enzyme replacement therapy have been 
directed at the formulation of products with high enzyme concentration, to the 
prevention of gastric acid inactivation of enzymes and to the better mixing of 
the preparations with meals. The authors consider all the different enzyme 
preparations from pancreatin powder to the 1st. generation of enteric coated 
tablets and examine the advantages of administering H-2 receptor antagonists or 
antacids and the possibility of stimulating bicarbonate secretion as an adjunct 
to pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy. Significant benefits in pancreatic 
insufficiency therapy have derived from the introduction of enteric coated 
microspheres which ensure a consistent level of enzymes to reach the duodenum 
mixed with the meal and which are resistant to gastric acid inactivation as 
well.

PMID: 8286485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Aust J Public Health. 1993 Sep;17(3):272-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.1993.tb00149.x.

Quality-adjusted life years: origins, measurements, applications, objections.

Schwartz S(1), Richardson J, Glasziou PP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Queensland.

Comment in
    Aust J Public Health. 1994 Mar;18(1):117.
    Aust J Public Health. 1993 Sep;17(3):278-86.

Quality-adjusted life years or QALYs are used to combine, in a single measure, 
information about the quantity and quality of life produced by a health 
intervention. They have been used as outcome measures in clinical trials and in 
cost-effectiveness analyses. This paper describes how QALYs are assessed and how 
they are used. Methodological and theoretical problems are discussed as are 
ethical objections to the utilitarian ethos underlying their use. It is 
concluded that QALYs are part of a technology that is still in development but, 
because of the lack of alternatives, they will certainly continue to be used. It 
is important to resolve the outstanding methodological issues and reach an 
ethical consensus to ensure that QALYs truly reflect community goals.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.1993.tb00149.x
PMID: 8286504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Aust J Public Health. 1993 Sep;17(3):278-86. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.1993.tb00150.x.

QALYs for resource allocation: probably not and certainly not now.

Burrows C(1), Brown K.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Management, Monash University, Clayton, Vic.

Comment in
    Aust J Public Health. 1994 Mar;18(1):117-8.
    Aust J Public Health. 1993 Dec;17(4):397.

Comment on
    Aust J Public Health. 1993 Sep;17(3):272-8.

Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) have the attractive characteristic of 
combining morbidity and mortality into a single index which purports to measure 
the outcomes of health interventions. Their primary aim, when combined with 
cost, is to permit comparisons across candidate spending programs and thereby 
promote economic efficiency in the use of rationed funds. QALYs, in fact, 
comprise a family of measures with major differences in approach and many 
variations in construction, process and methods of measurement. A necessary 
unifying characteristic is the ethical assumption of utilitarianism. The paper 
examines the state of the art in the development of QALY measures. It concludes 
that they fall far short of requirements for their advocated use in resource 
allocation decisions. Furthermore, their demands on measurement for this purpose 
are such that it is unlikely that methodological problems can be solved.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.1993.tb00150.x
PMID: 8286505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. J Am Soc Nephrol. 1993 Oct;4(4):1004-20. doi: 10.1681/ASN.V441004.

The hemodialysis prescription and quality-adjusted life expectancy. Renal 
Physicians Association Working Committee on Clinical Guidelines.

Hornberger JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Research & Policy, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, CA 94305-5093.

Comment in
    J Am Soc Nephrol. 1994 Mar;4(9):1733.

What comprises an optimal prescription for uremictoxin clearance in the chronic 
hemodialysis setting is a much disputed issue. The dispute is underscored by the 
rise in mortality of the U.S. dialysis population during the 1980s and reports 
of significant noncompliance with minimal treatment standards recommended from 
the National Cooperative Dialysis Study. A decision model was developed to 
summarize and test assumptions about the effect of various dialytic-treatment 
options on patient outcomes. Treatment options included delivered fractional 
urea clearance (Kt/V), dialysis-treatment duration, dialysis membrane (high flux 
versus conventional), dialysate (bicarbonate versus acetate), and 
ultrafiltration (controlled versus uncontrolled). The expected outcome for any 
set of treatment options was calculated as a function of a representative 
patient's life expectancy, adjusted for the probability and assumed importance 
of avoiding uremia- and treatment-related complications, referred to as 
quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE). QALE increased by 59 days for each 
0.1-U increase in Kt/V and by 187 days with high-flux dialysis. Controlled 
ultrafiltration with bicarbonate dialysis increased QALE by 30 days compared 
with uncontrolled ultrafiltration with acetate dialysis. Sensitivity analyses 
showed that, under conservative assumptions, QALE increased 11 days for every 
0.1 increment in Kt/V. The model afforded a framework for reviewing the 
literature and testing assumptions about the expected benefits of 
dialytic-treatment options for the development of a clinical guideline on the 
adequacy of dialysis.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.V441004
PMID: 8286708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. ABNF J. 1994 Winter;5(1):22-6.

Health policy reform initiatives to improve the health of black Americans.

Fowler BA, Padgett JJ.

Black Americans comprise 12.4 percent of the United States (U.S.) population and 
is one of the fastest growing minority groups (U.S. Bureau of the Census, 1992). 
Recent health statistics indicate, however, that the life expectancy for Black 
Americans has lagged dramatically behind other minorities and White Americans 
throughout the century (DHHS, 1990). Economic, legislative and social factors 
hinder access to care and the provision of services within the current structure 
of health care in the U.S. Under health care reform, these three factors must be 
redefined to promote access to comprehensive health care services for Black 
Americans. Nursing is being challenged to provide the vision and leadership that 
will influence the key players to support a reform in health policy.

PMID: 8286770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. CMAJ. 1994 Jan 15;150(2):211-6.

Risks and probabilities of breast cancer: short-term versus lifetime 
probabilities.

Bryant HE(1), Brasher PM.

Author information:
(1)Screen Test: Alberta Program for the Early Detection of Breast Cancer, 
Alberta Cancer Board, Calgary.

OBJECTIVE: To calculate age-specific short-term and lifetime probabilities of 
breast cancer among a cohort of Canadian women.
DESIGN: Double decrement life table.
SETTING: Alberta.
SUBJECTS: Women with first invasive breast cancers registered with the Alberta 
Cancer Registry between 1985 and 1987.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Lifetime probability of breast cancer from birth and for 
women at various ages; short-term (up to 10 years) probability of breast cancer 
for women at various ages.
RESULTS: The lifetime probability of breast cancer is 10.17% at birth and peaks 
at 10.34% at age 25 years, after which it decreases owing to a decline in the 
number of years over which breast cancer risk will be experienced. However, the 
probability of manifesting breast cancer in the next year increases steadily 
from the age of 30 onward, reaching 0.36% at 85 years. The probability of 
manifesting the disease within the next 10 years peaks at 2.97% at age 70 and 
decreases thereafter, again owing to declining probabilities of surviving the 
interval.
CONCLUSIONS: Given that the incidence of breast cancer among Albertan women 
during the study period was similar to the national average, we conclude that 
currently more than 1 in 10 women in Canada can expect to have breast cancer at 
some point during their life. However, risk varies considerably over a woman's 
lifetime, with most risk concentrated after age 49. On the basis of the 
shorter-term age-specific risks that we present, the clinician can put breast 
cancer risk into perspective for younger women and heighten awareness among 
women aged 50 years or more.

PMCID: PMC1486211
PMID: 8287343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Eur J Nucl Med. 1993 Nov;20(11):1056-62. doi: 10.1007/BF00173483.

Long-term results of two schedules of radioiodine treatment for toxic 
multinodular goitre.

Huysmans DA(1), Hermus AR, Corstens FH, Kloppenborg PW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital Nijmegen St. Radboud, The 
Netherlands.

The long-term effects of two schedules of radioiodine therapy in patients with 
toxic multinodular goitre were evaluated. Forty-five patients (group A) were 
treated with low doses and 58 patients (group B) with calculated doses adjusted 
for thyroid weight (1.85-3.70 MBq/g) and radioactive iodine uptake. Follow-up 
(mean +/- SEM) was 4.3 +/- 0.2 years and 5.2 +/- 0.3 years, respectively (P > 
0.1). At the end of follow-up, hyperthyroidism was successfully reversed in 73% 
(group A) and 88% (group B). In each group, hypothyroidism was present in 7%. 
The total dose per gram of thyroid tissue was not significantly different in 
groups A and B (2.1 +/- 0.2 vs 2.7 +/- 0.2 MBq/g). However, for patients treated 
with calculated doses the number of 131I administrations was significantly lower 
(1.3 +/- 0.1) than for patients treated with low doses (2.2 +/- 0.2), and the 
percentage of patients who were adequately treated with a single dose was more 
than twice as high (66% in group B versus 27% in group A). Euthyroidism was 
reached within a significantly shorter time after treatment with calculated 
doses (median time 0.6 years in group B vs 1.5 years in group A; life table 
analysis). It is concluded that radioiodine is an effective treatment for toxic 
multinodular goitre with a low risk of post-treatment hypothyroidism and that 
calculated (higher) doses appear to be preferable to low doses.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00173483
PMID: 8287873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. J Gen Intern Med. 1993 Nov;8(11):591-6. doi: 10.1007/BF02599710.

Cholesterol-lowering therapy: what patients expect in return.

Reed WW(1), Herbers JE Jr, Noel GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Washington, DC.

OBJECTIVE: To assess variability in patients' values and preferences regarding 
cholesterol-lowering therapy.
DESIGN: A descriptive study. Patients currently receiving cholesterol-lowering 
therapy were interviewed using the time tradeoff and standard reference gamble 
techniques of utility assessment.
SETTING: Internal medicine clinics of a military medical center.
PARTICIPANTS: Thirty-five patients, clinically free of coronary disease, 
receiving cholesterol-lowering therapy for at least three months.
RESULTS: When the time tradeoff method was applied, 12 (34%) of the patients 
indicated that less than one month of additional life would be a fair return for 
adhering to their current therapy for the rest of their lives, while 13 (37%) 
patients required more than one additional year of life, and four (11%) required 
at least five years. By the standard reference gamble method, 18 (51%) patients 
would not have accepted a risk of one in a thousand of imminent death (in 30 
days) in hopes of obtaining a normal life expectancy off therapy, while 14 (40%) 
would have agreed to a 1% or greater risk in order to avoid therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: While many patients apparently expected very little in return for 
adhering to therapy, many others may not be getting "what they bargained for."

DOI: 10.1007/BF02599710
PMID: 8289097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Ann Chir Gynaecol Suppl. 1993;206:9-13.

Prognostic factors of advanced prostatic carcinoma.

Lukkarinen O(1), Lehikoinen K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Oulu University Central Hospital, Finland.

Eighty-two patients with advanced prostatic carcinoma were treated with a 
long-acting luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist (Zoladex depot, 
Zeneca Pharmaceuticals, England). The outcome of the treatment was monitored on 
the basis of the following prognostic factors: local stage, number of bone 
metastases, histological differentiation grade and prostate-specific acid 
phosphatase (PAP), alkaline phosphatase (AF) and testosterone levels. The 
patients were followed-up until disease progression or until death. The mean 
weight of the prostate decreased from 48.1 g to 17.4 g (P < 0.00001) during the 
first year of treatment. Statistically there was a significant difference in 
regard to appearance of progression between different clinical stages (P < 
0.00001). The prognosis was poorest in patients with more than 10 metastases at 
the primary stage. If the PAP level was initially higher (over 20 micrograms/L), 
the prognosis was very poor. Statistically there was a significant difference 
between the high PAP level and the slightly elevated or normal PAP (P < 0.02 and 
P < 0.005, respectively). Alkaline phosphatase (AF) appeared to be a good 
prognostic factor. The prognosis was particularly poor, if the AF level exceeded 
1000 U/L (P < 0.00001 and P < 0.05, compared with normal AP and slightly 
elevated AP level, respectively). Surprisingly, a high pre-treatment 
testosterone level worsened the prognosis during the LHRH agonist treatment (P < 
0.01, compared to patients with normal testosterone level). This is a new 
finding and controversial to the findings reported before.

PMID: 8291878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Health Rep. 1993;5(2):233-8.

Selected Mortality Statistics, Canada, 1921-1990.

[Article in English, French]

Wadhera S(1), Strachan J.

Author information:
(1)Canadian Centre for Health Information, Statistics Canada, Ottawa.

PMID: 8292764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. BMJ. 1993 Dec 18-25;307(6919):1577-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.307.6919.1577.

Left handedness.

Turner BS.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1994 Feb 5;308(6925):408.
    BMJ. 1994 Feb 5;308(6925):408.
    BMJ. 1994 Feb 5;308(6925):408.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.307.6919.1577
PMCID: PMC1697775
PMID: 8292942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Int J Artif Organs. 1993 Sep;16(9):670-6.

Extracorporeal circulation in European Economic Community (ECC in EEC): 
1979-1989.

Lautier A(1), Gille JP, Juvin AM, Gaillard D, Sargentini JC.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U256 Laboratoire de Physiologie Faculté de Médecine, Creteil, France.

This study determines the evolution of ECC in EEC. After recollecting the great 
stages of ECC since its routinely use in open heart surgery, the study situates 
its position in the entire world taking into account several indexes like the 
Gross National Product (GNP) and its evolution, the life expectancy and some 
other factors either technical or economical. Only a coarse analysis could be 
done for Europe due to an unsteady evolution. A more detailed analysis has been 
achieved for France thanks to a greater number of data. In such a study the 
major difficulty is to estimate the relevance and consistency of data which can 
change very quickly and are provided either by companies or by other 
organization.

PMID: 8294160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. J Neural Transm Suppl. 1993;40:37-45.

Effects of dopaminergic drugs on superoxide dismutase: implications for 
senescence.

Glover V(1), Clow A, Sandler M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Pathology, Queen Charlotte's & Chelsea Hospital, 
London, United Kingdom.

Both (-)-deprenyl and pergolide have been found to induce superoxide dismutase 
(SOD) in rat striata. There are several reports showing that strains or species 
with higher levels of SOD live longer. Other studies indicate that (-)-deprenyl 
can increase life expectancy in rats and that both (-)-deprenyl and pergolide 
may retard nigrostriatal degeneration. This present paper suggests that all 
these findings are linked, and that (-)-deprenyl and pergolide possess 
neuroprotective properties by virtue of an activated removal of toxic oxygen 
radicals.

PMID: 8294899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Acta Neurol Scand. 1993 Nov;88(5):358-62. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0404.1993.tb05358.x.

Reduced life expectancy in 40 cases of early onset cerebellar ataxia with 
retained tendon reflexes: a population-based study.

Chiò A(1), Orsi L, Mortara P, Schiffer D.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Neurologica II, University of Turin, Italy.

A survival analysis of 40 cases of early onset cerebellar ataxia (EOCA) with 
retained tendon reflexes was performed. They represent all cases of EOCA 
diagnosed between 1945 and 1990 among residents of a defined area of 
Northwestern Italy, followed up to December 31, 1990. The survival rates were 
respectively 92%, 87% and 77% at 10, 20 and 30-years, worse than expected in a 
disease which is usually considered benign. The relative death rate was 4 times 
higher than expected for the general population. Prognosis was significantly 
worse for males than for females, whereas the age of onset and the calendar year 
of onset did not affect survival.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0404.1993.tb05358.x
PMID: 8296536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1994 Jan;170(1 Pt 1):34-40. doi: 
10.1016/s0002-9378(94)70380-9.

Pregnancy and birth rates of live infants after in vitro fertilization in women 
with an without previous in vitro fertilization pregnancies: a study of eight 
thousand cycles at one center.

Tan SL(1), Doyle P, Maconochie N, Edwards RG, Balen A, Bekir J, Brinsden P, 
Campbell S.

Author information:
(1)Hallam Medical Centre, London Women's Clinic, King's College School of 
Medicine and Dentistry, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, United 
Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to compare the cumulative conception and live-birth rates 
after in vitro fertilization in women undergoing their first course of in vitro 
fertilization treatment with those in women undergoing their second course of 
treatment, having previously achieved an in vitro fertilization pregnancy. This 
