study occurred in a tertiary referral-assisted conception unit.
STUDY DESIGN: The cumulative conception rates obtained by life-table analysis in 
4115 women having their first course of in vitro fertilization therapy (7327 
treatment cycles leading to 1123 pregnancies) were compared by means of the 
log-rank test with those of 331 women in their second course of treatment, 
having previously achieved an in vitro fertilization pregnancy (561 treatment 
cycles leading to 138 second in vitro fertilization pregnancies). Similarly, the 
cumulative live birth rates of 3824 women in their first course of treatment 
(7136 treatment cycles leading to 732 live births) were compared with those of 
105 women in their second course of treatment, having previously achieved an in 
vitro fertilization live birth (205 treatment cycles leading to 33 second in 
vitro fertilization live births).
RESULTS: The cumulative conception rates and cumulative live birth rates were 
significantly higher in women having their second course of in vitro 
fertilization treatment than in those having their first course (cumulative 
conception rate: p = 0.0001; cumulative live birth rate, p = 0.007). After five 
cycles of in vitro fertilization, the cumulative conception rates and cumulative 
live birth rates were 49.8% (95% confidence interval, 46.3% to 53.5%) and 39.0% 
(95% confidence interval, 35.4% to 42.9%), respectively, in those having their 
first course of treatment compared with 69.9% (95% confidence interval, 57.6% to 
81.3%) and 68.6% (95% confidence interval, 46.1% to 88.5%), respectively, in 
those having their second course. The estimated median numbers of cycles taken 
to achieve a pregnancy and live birth (assuming all women could potentially 
undergo the same number of cycles) were six and eight, respectively, in the 
first course of treatment compared with only three and five in the second 
course.
CONCLUSION: Women who have achieved a previous in vitro fertilization pregnancy 
have significantly higher cumulative conception rate and cumulative live birth 
rates compared with those of women having their first course of treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9378(94)70380-9
PMID: 8296841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Am J Public Health. 1994 Feb;84(2):232-6. doi: 10.2105/ajph.84.2.232.

Dementia-free life expectancy in France.

Ritchie K(1), Robine JM, Letenneur L, Dartigues JF.

Author information:
(1)French National Institute of Health and Medical Research (INSERM), 
Montpellier.

OBJECTIVES: Increasing concern with the quality of gains in life years has led 
to the development of a new synthetic indicator of population health:health 
expectancy. Until now, calculations have been made for physical disabilities 
only. A first estimate of mental health expectancy is presented: dementia-free 
life expectancy.
METHODS: Sullivan's method was used to calculate dementia-free life expectancy 
for a random representative sample of 4134 persons over 65 years of age in the 
Bordeaux region of France. The diagnosis of senile dementia was made in two 
stages, based on Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 
(DSM-III-R) criteria.
RESULTS: At 65 years of age, a person's dementia-free life expectancy is 16.9 
years within a total life-expectancy of 17.7 years; it decreases with age in 
parallel with the decrease in total life expectancy so that life expectancy with 
dementia stays constant at 0.8 years. Although dementia prevalence increases 
with age, if the prevalence is adjusted for mortality, the largest number of 
persons with dementia are in their early eighties. At each age women have a 
higher dementia-free life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Trends in dementia-free life expectancy are similar to those found 
in disability-free life expectancy. Because the dementia prevalence rates used 
in this estimate resemble a general model derived from meta-analysis, it can be 
assumed that similar results will be found in other Western countries with 
similar mortality rates.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.84.2.232
PMCID: PMC1614984
PMID: 8296946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Br J Cancer. 1994 Feb;69(2):337-41. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1994.61.

p53 and bcl-2 expression in high-grade B-cell lymphomas: correlation with 
survival time.

Piris MA(1), Pezzella F, Martinez-Montero JC, Orradre JL, Villuendas R, 
Sanchez-Beato M, Cuena R, Cruz MA, Martinez B, Pezella F [corrected to Pezzella 
F], et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Hospital Virgen de la Salud, Toledo, Spain.

Erratum in
    Br J Cancer 1994 May;69(5):978.

B-cell high-grade lymphomas are heterogeneous in terms of histology, clinical 
presentation, treatment response and prognosis. As bcl-2 and p53 gene 
deregulations are frequently involved in several types of lymphoid malignancies, 
we aimed our investigation at the study of the relation between bcl-2 and p53 
expression and survival probability in a group of 119 patients with B-cell 
high-grade lymphoma. These were obtained from the Virgen de la Salud Hospital, 
Toledo, Spain (73 cases), John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK (31 cases), and 
the Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy (15 cases). The relation between 
bcl-2 protein expression and survival was small, depending on the primary 
localisation of the tumour (in lymph node of mucosae), and lacked a significant 
correlation with overall survival. In contrast with this, p53 expression was 
related to survival probability in our series, this relation being both 
significant and independent of histological diagnosis. p53-positive patients 
showed a sudden decrease in life expectancy in the first months after diagnosis. 
Multivariant regression analysis confirmed that the only parameters 
significantly related with survival were extranodal origin, which is associated 
with a better prognosis, and p53 expression, which indicates a poor prognosis. 
Simultaneous expression of bcl-2 and p53 was associated with a poorer prognosis 
than p53 alone. This is particularly significant for large B-cell lymphomas 
presenting in lymph nodes. The cumulative poor effect of both p53 and bcl-2 in 
large B-cell lymphomas, which is more significant in nodal tumours, could 
confirm the existence of a multistep genetic deregulation in non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma. This indicates that the genetic mechanisms controlling apoptosis and 
their disregulation are critical steps in the progression of lymphomas.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1994.61
PMCID: PMC1968699
PMID: 8297731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Cancer. 1994 Feb 1;73(3):724-9. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19940201)73:3<724::aid-cncr2820730337>3.0.co;2-p.

Minnesota population cancer risk.

Kennedy BJ(1), Bushhouse SA, Bender AP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Minnesota Medical School, Minneapolis.

BACKGROUND: The Minnesota Cancer Surveillance System (MCSS) provides information 
on the occurrence of newly diagnosed cancers among Minnesota residents. Cancer 
is a major cause of death and morbidity in older persons. Population cancer risk 
(PCR) was assessed as a measure of the number of cancers that will occur in the 
lifetime of 1000 persons.
METHODS: Approximately 98.6% of all cancers diagnosed in residents of Minnesota 
are reported by pathologists to the MCSS. By statistical methodology an estimate 
was made of the total number of cancers that will occur in the lifetime of 1000 
people (PCR). The calculation assumes people born today will have the 1988-1990 
Minnesota cancer incidence and life expectancy rates.
RESULTS: Incidence rates for all cancers in Minnesota have been increasing. Life 
expectancy in Minnesota is greater than in most areas of the United States. 
Approximately 50% of all cancers occurred in Minnesotans older than 70 years. 
The overall PCR is 459 cancers per 1000 lifetimes. It is estimated that by the 
year 2020 more than 100,000 living Minnesotans will have had cancer diagnosed 
during their lifetime.
CONCLUSION: During the next 20 years, as the Baby Boomer generation in Minnesota 
moves into the high-risk years for cancer, the number of newly diagnosed cancers 
will increase disproportionately more than the increase in size of the older 
population. In view of the projected number of patients with cancer by the year 
2020, cancer care will be different from what it is today. Geriatric cancer care 
will become a significant medical, public health, economic, bioethical, and 
social issue.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19940201)73:3<724::aid-cncr2820730337>3.0.co;2-p
PMID: 8299096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Compendium. 1993 Apr;14(4):478, 480, 482 passim.

A multicenter 5-year retrospective survival analysis of 6,200 Integral implants.

Stultz ER(1), Lofland R, Sendax VI, Hornbuckle C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontics, University of Pacific Dental School, Novato, 
California.

PMID: 8299130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Dan Med Bull. 1993 Nov;40(5):618-24.

NORA--Nordic research on ageing. Functional capacity of 75-year-old men and 
women in three Nordic localities.

Schroll M(1), Steen B, Berg S, Heikkinen E, Viidik A.

Author information:
(1)Geriatrisk afdeling HL, Kommunehospitalet, KÃ¸benhavn.

The aim of this cross-national study was to describe and compare differences in 
functional capacity of 75-year old people in three Nordic urban localities. As 
the life-expectancy at the age of 75 differs between the Nordic countries, there 
is reason to look for similar differences in functional capacity, taking 
differences in socio-demography, lifestyle, living conditions and health into 
consideration. In 1989-1991, 400 75-year-old men and women were selected to 
represent 75-year-olds in a Danish, Finnish and Swedish city. They participated 
in examinations which focused on functional capacity and health, where identical 
questionnaires, tests, and equipment were employed. The methods employed were 
developed from the experience gathered during previous studies of epidemiology 
of ageing in Glostrup, Gothenburg, and JyvÃ¤skylÃ¤. Functional capacity is the 
dependent variable multifactorially related to age, health, living conditions, 
and life style. The data collection was performed with participation rates in 
the interviews of 85% in Glostrup, 83% in Gothenburg, and 92% in JyvÃ¤skylÃ¤. The 
participation rates in the laboratory examinations were 76%, 67% and 77%, 
respectively. Examples of differences in socio-demographic background, lifestyle 
and measures of health and performance in the three localities are given. The 
Nordic study on physical, psychological and social capacity of 75-year-olds was 
performed with sufficiently standardised methods to allow a comparison of the 
results. Similar comprehensive cross-sectional comparative studies of the 
elderly people have not been performed earlier. Local and cross-national results 
will be published in each field separately and in combination.

PMID: 8299404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Diabetes Care. 1993 Dec;16(12):1598-605. doi: 10.2337/diacare.16.12.1598.

Prepregnancy weight and antepartum insulin secretion predict glucose tolerance 
five years after gestational diabetes mellitus.

Metzger BE(1), Cho NH, Roston SM, Radvany R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago, IL 
60611.

OBJECTIVE: To identify phenotypic, genotypic, and metabolic parameters measured 
at the time of antepartum diagnosis of gestational diabetes mellitus that can 
indicate the risk of diabetes mellitus at early postpartum (< or = 6 mo after 
delivery) and at a 5-yr follow-up.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: The recommendations from the National Diabetes Data 
Group and International Workshop Conferences on Gestational Diabetes Mellitus 
were used for screening, diagnosing, and subclassifying gestational diabetes 
mellitus. National Diabetes Data Group criteria were also used for 
classification of glucose tolerance postpartum. Plasma glucose, insulin, and 
free fatty acids were measured after an overnight fast. Plasma glucose and 
insulin were measured 15, 30, 60, 120, and 180 min after the 100-g oral glucose 
load. Postpartum glucose tolerance was evaluated at 3-6 mo (early), 1 yr, and 
annually thereafter.
RESULTS: The 5-yr cumulative incidence of diabetes during follow-up after 
gestational diabetes mellitus was nearly 50%. Among those who had diabetes 
within 5 yr, a history of diabetes in only the mother was nearly threefold more 
common than a history of diabetes in only the father (30 vs. 11%, P < 0.01). 
Those who displayed diabetes at early postpartum (< or = 6 mo) testing had 
significantly higher antepartum glucose levels at 60, 120, and 180 min compared 
with those whose early postpartum results were normal. They were also relatively 
insulinopenic at antepartum testing. Their fasting, acutely stimulated (15 and 
30 min), and integrated 3-h response to oral glucose were all significantly 
lower relative to women who remained normal or had impaired glucose tolerance at 
early postpartum testing. Women who developed diabetes between 6 mo and 5 yr 
postpartum were more obese before the index pregnancy, and they had lower 
fasting, acutely stimulated (15 and 30 min), and integrated (1-3 h) insulin 
levels compared with women who remained normal or displayed impaired glucose 
tolerance at 5 yr postpartum. A multiple logistic regression model showed that 
diabetes present at early postpartum testing was independently associated with 
higher 2-h glucose and lower basal and total integrated insulin level. Later (> 
or = 6 mo-5 yr postpartum) development of diabetes was independently associated 
with prepregnancy weight and impaired insulin secretion at diagnosis of 
gestational diabetes mellitus.
CONCLUSIONS: Impaired beta-cell function and obesity at diagnosis of GDM were 
associated with the development of diabetes during a 5-yr, follow-up period. 
Studies designed to prevent diabetes in this high-risk group should examine 
strategies to maintain both optimal beta-cell function and maximum insulin 
sensitivity.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.16.12.1598
PMID: 8299456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Diabetes Care. 1993 Dec;16 Suppl 3:29-39. doi: 10.2337/diacare.16.3.29.

Insulin therapy in type II diabetes.

Koivisto VA(1).

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Medicine, Helsinki University Hospital, Finland.

Administration of exogenous insulin can ameliorate metabolic abnormalities in 
type II diabetes: It compensates for reduced endogenous insulin secretion, 
reduces excessive hepatic glucose production, and stimulates glucose uptake, 
enhancing both glucose oxidation and storage in the muscle tissue. In addition, 
insulin therapy has anti-atherogenic effects on serum lipid profile. The main 
concerns of insulin therapy are weight gain, hyperinsulinemia, hypoglycemia, and 
possibly sodium and fluid retention. Although studies in vitro and in 
experimental animals suggest that hyperinsulinemia may accelerate 
atherosclerosis, these data are not substantiated in patients with type II 
diabetes. Insulin therapy in type II diabetes patients can be used either 
temporarily when insulin requirements are increased (e.g., surgery, infection, 
pregnancy), or in the long-term when endogenous insulin secretion is vanishing 
or hyperglycemia does not respond to other therapy. Whether insulin should be 
used as a primary therapy in addition to diet and exercise in some patients has 
not been examined. The decision regarding the beginning of insulin therapy and 
targets should be established individually, taking into account factors such as 
age, other diseases, or life expectancy. Various regimens can be used, including 
evening insulin alone or in combination with oral agents, multiple injections, 
use of premixed insulins (short-plus intermediate-acting insulin in various 
combinations). Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion also has been used. 
Comparative data between the regimens are scant, but a few studies suggest that 
no major differences occur between the regimens, with regard to glycemic control 
or hypoglycemic complications. In the future, insulin therapy in type II 
diabetes may become more common, particularly among patients with the autoimmune 
type of the disease.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.16.3.29
PMID: 8299475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Hum Biol. 1993 Dec;65(6):917-40.

Evolutionary models of quantitative disease risk factors.

Connor A(1), Weiss KM, Weeks SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park 
16802.

Numerous mutations are now known that have significant effects on various 
phenotypes; many of these mutations are of interest because they influence 
quantitative risk factors for major diseases. Such diversity raises the question 
of how much genetic heterogeneity we should expect to find in the effects of 
alleles, that is, the size of the effects, the number of severe alleles, and 
their frequency in the population. Can evolutionary models suggest a general 
pattern? In this article we examine what is currently known about several basic 
aspects of the problem. These include the distribution of quantitative effects 
of new mutations on a phenotype, the distribution of allelic effects that would 
be found in a natural population, and the relationship between these effects and 
Darwinian fitness. We discuss these issues in light of various models that have 
been proposed and the existing relevant data. Then we consider how these points 
relate to the distribution of genetic effects on an important human trait, the 
cholesterol ratio, an important risk factor for coronary heart disease. The 
complexities of quantitative traits and inadequacies in the available data 
prevent definitive models that can directly connect the mutational effects, 
allelic effects, and fitness distributions from being developed, and we consider 
how sample limitations and the nonequilibrium of human populations caused by our 
demographic history make rigorous solutions difficult. However, based on what is 
currently known, we argue that for human quantitative chronic disease risk 
factors the nearly neutral models of allelic evolution at single loci probably 
apply reasonably well. In general, and although much is still speculative, the 
data available for such risk factors are consistent with these expectations and 
may enable us to predict many aspects of etiologic heterogeneity for human 
disease.

PMID: 8300086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Growth Dev Aging. 1993 Winter;57(4):233-49.

The costs of reproduction and dietary restriction: parallels between insects and 
mammals.

Graves JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, School of Biological 
Sciences, University of California, Irvine 92717.

Dietary restriction increases life span in mammals. This essay connects the 
dietary restriction response to evolutionary life history theory and experiments 
related to it. Evolutionary biologists have shown mathematically that aging is 
an inevitable consequence of age-specific natural selection acting on species 
with somata separate from germ lines. Empirical tests of this prediction 
currently point to its general validity. Two specific genetic mechanisms are 
known which could underlie the evolution of aging under these conditions: 
age-specificity of gene effects and antagonistic pleiotropy between early and 
late ages. The antagonistic pleiotropy theory assumes that some genes with 
beneficial effects on early life fitness will have deleterious effects upon 
fitness in later life. Experimental work in insects, particularly selection 
experiments in Drosophila melanogaster, has tested these ideas. The negative 
genetic correlation between longevity and reproductive effort produced by 
selection has been shown to be paralleled, in some cases, by environmental 
manipulation. Thus the increase in life span caused by dietary restriction might 
be explained as an incidental consequence of lower reproductive effort. This 
response also could have been an adaptation that enhanced fitness in some 
species that faced uncertain food supplies, a condition that may have evolved 
independently in a wide variety of taxa. Several schools of research, besides 
that of the evolutionary biologists concerned with genetic correlations, have 
produced corroborations of this hypothesis in insects and mammals: the 
gerontological work on life span extension, reproductive physiologists concerned 
with factors that affect fertility, and various life history studies.

PMID: 8300277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1994 Jan;76(1):34-9.

Long-term results of revision hip arthroplasty. Survival analysis with special 
reference to the femoral component.

Izquierdo RJ(1), Northmore-Ball MD.

Author information:
(1)Unit for Joint Reconstruction, Robert Jones and Agnes Hunt Orthopaedic 
Hospital, Oswestry, Shropshire, UK.

Erratum in
    J Bone Joint Surg Br 1994 May;76(3):511.

We report a clinical and radiological survival analysis of 148 consecutive 
revisions of hip arthroplasties. All patients referred were offered revision if 
it was indicated and they were medically fit. About one-third (32%) had had at 
least one previous revision, and about one-third had an established deep 
infection. The revisions were performed in ultra-clean air with body-exhaust 
suits. The usual method of fixation was by contained and pressurised cement of 
standard viscosity, to which appropriate antibiotics had been added in infected 
cases. Some patients had cementless revision. Clinical failure meant that one or 
both of the implants had been removed; radiological failure was assessed from 
serial radiographs. The clinical survival at ten years was 95%. The Merle 
D'AubignÃ© and Postel rating for pain improved from a mean of 2.9 to 5.2; and in 
Charnley group A and B cases, walking ability improved from 2.3 to 4.3. In 
contrast to some reports we also found good radiological survival; this was 
90.5% for cemented femoral stems. Isoelastic revision stems inserted without 
cement gave poor results.

PMID: 8300678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1994 Jan;76(1):53-9.

Long-term results of uncemented alumina acetabular implants.

Boehler M(1), Knahr K, Plenk H Jr, Walter A, Salzer M, Schreiber V.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Hospital, Vienna, Austria.

We report the clinical and tribological performance of 67 ceramic acetabular 
prostheses implanted between 1976 and 1979 without bone cement. They articulated 
with ceramic femoral heads mounted on mental femoral stems. After a mean elapsed 
period of 144 months, 59 sockets were radiographically stable but two showed 
early signs and six showed late signs of loosening. Four of the loose sockets 
have been revised. Histological analysis of the retrieved tissue showed a 
fibrous membrane around all the implants, with fibrocartilage in some. There was 
no bone ingrowth, and the fibrous membrane was up to 6 mm thick and infiltrated 
with lymphocytes, plasma cells, and macrophages. Intra- and extracellular 
birefringent wear particles were seen. Tribological analysis showed total wear 
rates in two retrieved alumina-on-alumina joints of 2.6 microns per year in a 
stable implant and 68 microns in a loose implant. Survival analysis showed a 
revision rate of 12.4% at 136 months.

PMID: 8300682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. J Psychosom Res. 1993 Dec;37(8):807-17. doi: 10.1016/0022-3999(93)90170-k.

The effect of major railway accidents on the psychological health of train 
drivers--II. A longitudinal study of the one-year outcome after the accident.

Karlehagen S(1), Malt UF, Hoff H, Tibell E, Herrstromer U, Hildingson K, Leymann 
H.

Author information:
(1)Swedish Foundation for Occupational Health and Safety for State Employees 
(StatshÃ¤lsan), Orebro.

The psychological impact on 101 train drivers of accidents causing major 
injuries or death to persons was studied by means of clinical interviews and 
questionnaires (Impact of Event Scale, General Health Questionnaire and a 
questionnaire addressing stress symptoms plus past and pre accident expectancies 
of being involved in accidents). The drivers were examined within hours to a few 
days after the accident and later at 1 month and 1 year. One month after the 
accident the symptoms of distress were significantly reduced and most so among 
the drivers with no preaccident risk experience according to self reports during 
the acute phase. A minor further reduction of distress was found at 1 year. 
Drivers with two or more previous accident experiences and those who had worried 
about being involved in accidents showed highest symptoms of distress at 
follow-up. Eleven out of 101 drivers reported sick leave more of than 1 week 
after the accident and this was related to higher intrusion scores. The few 
drivers who report longterm psychological distress are best predicted by a 
combination of acute high IES scores, experience of previous accidents and risk 
expectancy prior to the current accident. The study suggests that premorbid and 
non-accident related variables are more important for the 1 year psychological 
outcome of healthy drivers after on-the-track accidents than the stress event 
itself.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-3999(93)90170-k
PMID: 8301621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Jpn Heart J. 1993 Sep;34(5):667-83. doi: 10.1536/ihj.34.667.

Primary angiosarcoma of the heart. Report of a case and review of the 
literature.

Rettmar K(1), Stierle U, Sheikhzadeh A, Diederich KW.

Author information:
(1)Klinik fÃ¼r Kardiologie, Medizinische UniversitÃ¤t zu LÃ¼beck, Germany.

We report on a 44-year-old male with primary cardiac angiosarcoma who died 11 
months after onset of nonspecific symptoms (thoracic pain and general fatigue) 
of intracerebral metastases. A right atrial tumor mass and a pericardial 
effusion could be demonstrated by transthoracic and transesophageal 
echocardiography. Cardiac angiography showed a right atrial hemangioma, fed by 
the right coronary artery. In a review of 108 cases of primary cardiac 
angiosarcoma we summarize clinical features, diagnostic means, therapeutic 
approaches and life expectancy of this rare disease.

DOI: 10.1536/ihj.34.667
PMID: 8301853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1994 Feb;107(2):576-82; discussion 582-3.

Survival related to nodal status after sleeve resection for lung cancer.

Mehran RJ(1), Deslauriers J, Piraux M, Beaulieu M, Guimont C, Brisson J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Laval University, Ste-Foy, Quebec, Canada.

Sleeve lobectomy is a lung-saving procedure indicated for central tumors for 
which the alternative is a pneumonectomy. The relation between survival and 
nodal status is controversial because, in most series, the presence of N1 
disease adversely affects the prognosis with few or no long-term survivors. 
During the period 1972 to 1992, 142 patients underwent sleeve resection for lung 
cancer at our institution. Mean age (+/- standard deviation) was 60.7 +/- 9.1 
years (range 11 to 78 years), and indications for operation were a central tumor 
in 112 patients (79%), a peripheral tumor in 18 patients (13%), and compromised 
pulmonary function in 12 patients (8%). Histologic type was predominantly 
squamous (72.5%) followed by nonsquamous (24.6%) and carcinoid tumors (2.8%). 
Resection was complete in 124 patients (87%) and incomplete in 18 (13%), and the 
operative mortality was 2.1% (n = 3). Follow-up was complete for the 139 
remaining patients. Including operative deaths, survivals at 5 and 10 years for 
all patients were 46% (95% confidence intervals 38% to 55%) and 33% (95% 
confidence intervals 24% to 42%), respectively. For patients with N0 status (n = 
73), 5- and 10-year survivals were 57% (95% confidence intervals 45% to 69%) and 
46% (95% confidence intervals 32% to 60%); for patients with N1 status (n = 55), 
these rates were 46% (95% confidence intervals 32% to 60%) and 27% (95% 
confidence intervals 14% to 40%) (p = 0.13). No patient with N2 status (n = 14) 
survived 5 years. Local recurrences occurred in 23% of cases, but the prevalence 
was not statistically different between patients with N0 disease (16.6%) and N1 
disease (23.1%) (p = 0.43). These data suggest that sleeve resection is an 
adequate operation for patients with resectable lung cancer and N0 N1 status. 
The presence of N2 disease significantly worsens the prognosis and may 
contraindicate the use of the procedure.

PMID: 8302077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. N Engl J Med. 1994 Feb 24;330(8):545-9. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199402243300807.

The influence of the probability of survival on patients' preferences regarding 
cardiopulmonary resuscitation.

Murphy DJ(1), Burrows D, Santilli S, Kemp AW, Tenner S, Kreling B, Teno J.

Author information:
(1)Senior Citizen's Health Center, Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center, 
Denver, CO 80218.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Aug 18;331(7):479; author reply 479-80.
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Aug 18;331(7):479; author reply 479-80.
    N Engl J Med. 1994 Aug 18;331(7):479; author reply 479-80.

BACKGROUND: Studies suggest that a majority of elderly patients would want to 
undergo cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) if they had a cardiac arrest. Yet 
few studies have examined their preferences after clinicians have informed them 
about the outcomes of CPR.
METHODS: To study older patients' preferences regarding CPR, we interviewed as 
many ambulatory patients as possible in one geriatrics practice in Denver from 
August 1, 1991, through July 31, 1992.
RESULTS: A total of 371 patients at least 60 years of age were eligible; 287 
completed the interview (mean age, 77 years; range, 60 to 99). When asked about 
their wishes if they had cardiac arrest during an acute illness, 41 percent 
opted for CPR before learning the probability of survival to discharge. After 
learning the probability of survival (10 to 17 percent), 22 percent opted for 
CPR. Only 6 percent of patients 86 years of age or older opted for CPR under 
these conditions. When asked about a chronic illness in which the life 
expectancy was less than one year, 11 percent of the 287 patients opted for CPR 
before learning the probability of survival to discharge. After learning the 
probability of survival (0 to 5 percent), 5 percent said they would want CPR.
CONCLUSIONS: Older patients readily understand prognostic information, which 
influences their preferences with respect to CPR. Most do not want to undergo 
CPR once a clinician explains the probability of survival after the procedure.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199402243300807
PMID: 8302322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. N Engl J Med. 1994 Feb 24;330(8):550-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199402243300808.

Chronic spinal cord injury.

Ditunno JF Jr(1), Formal CS.

Author information:
(1)Regional Spinal Cord Injury Center of Delaware Valley, Philadelphia, PA.

Spinal cord injuries predispose patients to numerous complications. The care of 
such patients requires attention to multiple bodily systems, sensitivity to the 
effects of interventions on function and lifestyle, and a special vigilance 
because of the tendency of spinal cord injuries to mask problems. Improved 
clinical care, however, has increased the life expectancy of people with spinal 
cord injuries and therefore the prevalence of such injuries. The Americans with 
Disabilities Act should make people with spinal injuries more visible, as they 
participate in and contribute to society in greater numbers. Maintenance of 
health brings greater opportunities for self-care and mobility through 
rehabilitation and may allow people with spinal cord injuries to take advantage 
of future opportunities for neurologic improvement or cure.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199402243300808
PMID: 8302323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Minerva Cardioangiol. 1993 Oct;41(10):419-24.

["Heart transplantation program" in Piedmont. Results of a 3-year activity].

[Article in Italian]

Di Summa M(1), Donegani E, Pansini S, Zattera G, Casabona R, Morea M, Curtoni 
SE, Amoroso A, Dall'Omo AM, Delfino U, et al.

Author information:
(1)UniversitÃ  degli Studi di Torino, Cattedra di Cardiochirurgia, Ospedale S. 
Giovanni Battista.

Since 1990 the "Heart Transplant Program" has been instituted in the Piemonte 
Region. Until now the program had regular development according to the number of 
transplantations and the high quality of clinical results. Sixty heart 
transplantations has been performed with a 36 month survival close to 80%. Our 
data demonstrate that after heart transplantation prognosis of end-stage cardiac 
disease is highly improved either for life expectancy and for quality of life. 
Our program includes several aspects of scientific research from physiology to 
clinic, from biochemistry to immunology, from infectivology to pathology, from 
intensive care to surgery. Several very positive multi disciplinary 
investigations have been activated.

PMID: 8302437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Union Med Can. 1993 Nov-Dec;122(6):489-95.

[The treatment of acromegaly].

[Article in French]

Beauregard H(1), Somma M, Rasio E, Serri O, Aris-Jilwan N, Comtois R, Long H, 
Abribat T, Boucher A, Hardy J.

Author information:
(1)Service d'endocrinologie, hÃ´pital Notre-Dame, UniversitÃ© de MontrÃ©al, QuÃ©bec.

Acromegaly is a rare disease which can significantly reduce life expectancy. 
Clinical features are diverse and the patient may consult a variety of medical 
and surgical specialists before the diagnosis is suspected. However, the disease 
is easily confirmed by the appropriate laboratory tests, namely GH and IGF1 
measurements. In most cases, acromegaly is secondary to a micro or 
macrosomatotrope pituitary adenoma. Those lesions are easily visualized by a 
pituitary CT Scan or Magnetic Resonance Imaging. Visual fields have to be 
evaluated by a neuro-ophthalmologist, and a thorough evaluation of other 
pituitary functions have to be performed. Selective removal of the adenoma by 
the transsphenoidal route is the treatment of choice for acromegaly. When 
performed by an experienced neurosurgeon, normalization of GH secretion can be 
expected in approximately 75% of cases. The surgical outcome is modulated by the 
volume, the extension of the tumor and the preoperative GH level. Octreotide, 
radiotherapy or bromocriptine are indicated whenever the patient remains with an 
elevated level of GH with persistency of symptoms.

PMID: 8303792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. World Health Stat Q. 1993;46(2):101-7.

Cardiovascular diseases in India.

Reddy KS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, All Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi.

India is undergoing an epidemiological transition and is on the threshold of an 
epidemic of cardiovascular disease. Cause-specific mortality data indicate that 
cardiovascular disease is already an important contributor to mortality. 
Demographic projections suggest a major increase in cardiovascular disease 
mortality as life expectancy increases and the age structure of the growing 
population changes. Surveys in urban areas suggest that coronary risk factors 
are already widespread and that urgent action is needed to prevent a further 
rise as socioeconomic development proceeds. It is vital to obtain 
epidemiological data from several regions in order to plan, initiate and monitor 
public health action.

PMID: 8303903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. World Health Stat Q. 1993;46(2):113-8.

The changing pattern of cardiovascular diseases in China.

Yao C(1), Wu Z, Wu Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Beijing Heart, Lung and Blood Vessel Medical 
Centre, China.

In China, morbidity and mortality attributable to cardiovascular disease 
increased rapidly from the 1950s to the 1980s due to an increased life 
expectancy and changes in lifestyle. Cardiovascular disease has become the 
leading cause of death in the country. There is a high incidence of stroke, 
which is the commonest or second commonest cause of death. Hypertension, the 
main risk factor for stroke and an important risk factor for coronary heart 
disease, is the most prevalent cardiovascular disease, and should be given first 
priority in control programmes. Smoking, a common habit in males, is to be a 
principal focus of preventive activities over the next few years. Between 1970 
and 1990, several community programmes for the prevention and control of 
cardiovascular diseases were established. The WHO MONICA Project has developed 
standardized methodologies that are used to establish systems for monitoring and 
evaluating control programmes. There is an urgent need to develop a long-term 
national strategy for the management and control of cardiovascular diseases.

PMID: 8303905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 1993;124(2-4):71-8. doi: 10.1007/BF01401125.

Unruptured aneurysms associated with ischaemic cerebrovascular diseases. 
Surgical indication.

Nagashima M(1), Nemoto M, Hadeishi H, Suzuki A, Yasui N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Neurology, Research Institute for Brain and Blood 
Vessels-Akita, Japan.

Out of 3435 patients with ischaemic cerebrovascular disease 2540 cases were 
investigated using cerebral angiography. In 127 of them (5%) aneurysms were 
found, but without clinical evidence of subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH). 45 cases 
were operated upon and 82 were treated conservatively. Five of these 82 cases 
(6%) suffered from SAH 3 months to 10 years (mean interval 5.6 years) after the 
angiographic diagnosis. Four of these 5 patients with SAH died. Among the 45 
surgical cases follow-up was uneventful in 29 (64%). The other 16 cases 
postoperatively showed neurological deterioration (36%), which was transient in 
6 but with only minor improvement in 10. Of these 10 cases 2 died from cerebral 
infarction related to intra-operative temporary vascular occlusion respectively 
myocardial infarction. Thus surgical mortality was 4% and permanent morbidity 
18%. Causes of postoperative neurological deterioration were partly related to 
general arteriosclerotic changes and special fragility of the ischaemic brain, 
and partly to operative technique (excessive brain retraction, damage to 
cortical veins, occlusion of major vessels or damage to perforators, temporary 
artery occlusion). Apparently in cases with ischaemic cerebrovascular diseases 
operative procedures, which in other cases as a rule are well tolerated, may 
produce harmful effects. Therefore, in these cases, the indication for operative 
treatment of so far silent aneurysms should be restricted to patients who are in 
good general condition with longer life expectancy as far as the vascular 
disease is concerned, and without major neurological deficit. Furthermore, the 
operative technique should be especially gentle and atraumatic.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01401125
PMID: 8304073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Arch Surg. 1994 Feb;129(2):213-9. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.1994.01420260109015.

A phase II study to evaluate recombinant platelet-derived growth factor-BB in 
the treatment of stage 3 and 4 pressure ulcers.

Mustoe TA(1), Cutler NR, Allman RM, Goode PS, Deuel TF, Prause JA, Bear M, 
Serdar CM, Pierce GF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Northwestern Medical School, 
Chicago, Ill.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of the daily topical application of 
recombinant platelet-derived growth factor-BB (rPDGF-BB), a recognized vulnerary 
agent, in the treatment of deep pressure ulcers.
DESIGN: Prospective, randomized, double-blind trial.
SETTING: Patients were treated in a nursing home or a hospital setting before 
transfer to a nursing home.
PATIENTS: Eligibility criteria included a clean pressure ulcer that had been 
adequately debrided and the absence of severe cardiac, pulmonary, or renal 
conditions. The causes of the ulcers were not related to a venous or arterial 
vascular disorder. The patients were elderly (mean age, 68 to 74 years).
INTERVENTIONS: After randomization, patients were given daily topical aqueous 
rPDGF-BB (dosage, 100 or 300 micrograms/mL) or placebo and saline gauze 
dressings were applied daily in addition to frequent turning.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Serial volume measurements of the healing wounds were 
taken using alginate molds.
RESULTS: The ulcers of 41 patients were analyzed. At the end of 28 days, median 
ulcer volumes had decreased to 83%, 29%, and 40% of the initial size in the 
groups receiving placebo, rPDGF-BB, 100 micrograms/dL, and rPDGF-BB, 300 
micrograms/mL, respectively. When adjusted for initial volume, ulcer volume 
after 28 days of treatment was smaller in the rPDGF-BB-treated groups compared 
with the placebo group (analysis of covariance, P = .056). Ulcers in the two 
rPDGF-BB-treated groups were significantly smaller in volume compared with those 
in the placebo group, using a linear contrast procedure.
CONCLUSIONS: Data from this small trial suggest that local application of 
rPDGF-BB may be of therapeutic benefit in accelerating the healing of chronic 
pressure ulcers.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1994.01420260109015
PMID: 8304833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. N Engl J Med. 1993 Dec 9;329(24):1816; author reply 1817.

Women's health.

Allen A.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1993 Jul 22;329(4):271-2.

PMID: 8305034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 1994 Feb;149(2 Pt 1):293-4. doi: 
10.1164/ajrccm.149.2.8306021.

An anecdote is an anecdote is an anecdote ... but a clinical trial is data.

Donahoe M, Rogers RM.

Comment on
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 1994 Feb;149(2 Pt 1):295-305.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm.149.2.8306021
PMID: 8306021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 1994 Feb;149(2 Pt 1):295-305. doi: 
10.1164/ajrccm.149.2.8306022.

Randomized clinical trial of pressure-controlled inverse ratio ventilation and 
extracorporeal CO2 removal for adult respiratory distress syndrome.

Morris AH(1), Wallace CJ, Menlove RL, Clemmer TP, Orme JF Jr, Weaver LK, Dean 
NC, Thomas F, East TD, Pace NL, Suchyta MR, Beck E, Bombino M, Sittig DF, BÃ¶hm 
S, Hoffmann B, Becks H, Butler S, Pearl J, Rasmusson B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, LDS Hospital, Salt Lake City, Utah 84143.

Erratum in
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1994 Mar;149(3 Pt 1):838.

Comment in
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 1995 Apr;151(4):1269-70.
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 1995 Jan;151(1):255-6.
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 1994 Feb;149(2 Pt 1):293-4.
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 1997 Sep;156(3 Pt 1):1016-7.

The impact of a new therapy that includes pressure-controlled inverse ratio 
ventilation followed by extracorporeal CO2 removal on the survival of patients 
with severe ARDS was evaluated in a randomized controlled clinical trial. 
Computerized protocols generated around-the-clock instructions for management of 
arterial oxygenation to assure equivalent intensity of care for patients 
randomized to the new therapy limb and those randomized to the control, 
mechanical ventilation limb. We randomized 40 patients with severe ARDS who met 
the ECMO entry criteria. The main outcome measure was survival at 30 days after 
randomization. Survival was not significantly different in the 19 mechanical 
ventilation (42%) and 21 new therapy (extracorporeal) (33%) patients (p = 0.8). 
All deaths occurred within 30 days of randomization. Overall patient survival 
was 38% (15 of 40) and was about four times that expected from historical data 
(p = 0.0002). Extracorporeal treatment group survival was not significantly 
different from other published survival rates after extracorporeal CO2 removal. 
Mechanical ventilation patient group survival was significantly higher than the 
12% derived from published data (p = 0.0001). Protocols controlled care 86% of 
the time. Average PaO2 was 59 mm Hg in both treatment groups. Intensity of care 
required to maintain arterial oxygenation was similar in both groups (2.6 and 
2.6 PEEP changes/day; 4.3 and 5.0 FIO2 changes/day). We conclude that there was 
no significant difference in survival between the mechanical ventilation and the 
extracorporeal CO2 removal groups. We do not recommend extracorporeal support as 
a therapy for ARDS. Extracorporeal support for ARDS should be restricted to 
controlled clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm.149.2.8306022
PMID: 8306022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Chest. 1994 Feb;105(2):335-7. doi: 10.1378/chest.105.2.335.

Life expectancy in severe COPD.

Cooper CB.

Comment on
    Chest. 1994 Feb;105(2):469-74.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.105.2.335
PMID: 8306723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Chest. 1994 Feb;105(2):445-8. doi: 10.1378/chest.105.2.445.

Long-term nasal intermittent positive pressure ventilation in advanced 
Duchenne's muscular dystrophy.

Vianello A(1), Bevilacqua M, Salvador V, Cardaioli C, Vincenti E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Pathophysiology, University-City Hospital of Padua, 
Italy.

Comment in
    Chest. 1994 Feb;105(2):337-8.

The aim of our study was to evaluate the long-term effect of nasal ventilation 
in patients with advanced Duchenne's muscular dystrophy (DMD). To this end, we 
compared the clinical and pulmonary function course of five subjects affected 
with chronic ventilatory failure due to DMD and treated with nasal intermittent 
positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) with that of an unventilated comparison 
group; the latter consisted of another five patients with DMD, with a similar 
degree of clinical and respiratory functional impairment, who refused long-term 
mechanical ventilation. The duration of the follow-up was 24 months. At the 
conclusion of the trial, all patients treated with NIPPV were still alive; in 
contrast, four of five patients who underwent simple conservative treatment had 
already died (mean survival, 9.7 +/- 5.8 months). After 6 months of follow-up, 
mean loss of FVC and maximal voluntary ventilation was considerably higher in 
nonventilated subjects (respectively: -0.23 L vs +0.03 L and -5 L/min vs -1.5 
L/min). These are the first comparative results confirming that long-term NIPPV 
helps to stabilize pulmonary function and to prolong the expectancy of life of 
patients with DMD.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.105.2.445
PMID: 8306744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Eur J Epidemiol. 1993 Sep;9(5):459-76. doi: 10.1007/BF00209523.

Presentation of the rifle project risk factors and life expectancy. The RIFLE 
Research Group.

[No authors listed]

Plans are presented for conducting an epidemiological observational project 
which will pool the data from nine Italian field studies covering over 70,000 
men and women aged 20 to 69 years, belonging to 52 population samples 
distributed in 13 different regions of the country. The main objective is to 
produce multivariate models for the prediction of all-cause mortality, life 
expectancy and selected causes of death as a function of some baseline 
characteristics. The entry examinations of the population samples were performed 
between 1978 and 1987 with the measurements of risk factors and other personal 
characteristics mainly related to cardiovascular diseases and other chronic 
conditions. They include a large number of anthropometric, social, biochemical, 
biophysical, clinical, nutritional and behavioural measurements, although only a 
limited subset of them is common to all the studies. The collection of data on 
life status, mortality and causes of death has already been completed for 45 out 
of the 52 samples, although for lengths of follow-up varying from 4 to 12 years. 
The systematic analysis of this data bank will be started in 1993.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00209523
PMID: 8307130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Int J Addict. 1993 Dec;28(14):1613-20. doi: 10.3109/10826089309062203.

Gender life expectancy and alcohol: an international perspective.

Templer DI(1), Griffin PR, Hintze J.

Author information:
(1)California School of Professional Psychology-Fresno 93721.

This research determined the alcoholism-related and other correlates of the 
discrepancy between life expectancy in females and males using information for 
161 different countries. The variables that correlated most highly with female 
minus male life expectancy were per capita alcohol consumption, cirrhosis of the 
liver deaths per capita, and overall life expectancy. Greater gender discrepancy 
was also found in non-Moslem countries and in countries with greater per capita 
income and less infant mortality. Public health implications are discussed.

DOI: 10.3109/10826089309062203
PMID: 8307669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Health Bull (Edinb). 1993 Nov;51(6):407-17.

Differences in expectation of life between Glasgow and Edinburgh. Implications 
for health policy in Scotland.

Watt GC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Glasgow.

Inequality in health is not a minor issue confined to small areas, but a major 
feature of contemporary Scotland and a massive public health problem. Comparison 
of mortality rates in Glasgow and Edinburgh is instructive, not only because of 
the large current difference in mortality rates between the cities, but also 
because the availability of data for both cities for most of this century 
provides an opportunity to view current differences from a historical 
perspective. This shows that current large differences in disease-specific 
mortality rates are part of a broader pattern of earlier death from all causes 
which has been established at least by the age of 25 in successive generations. 
Whether and how this pattern may be reversed and prevented deserves urgent 
discussion and debate. In the meantime, differences in life expectancy between 
sections of the Scottish population should be included as part of routine health 
monitoring. Reduction in differences in life expectancy should also become a 
national health target.

PMID: 8307754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. J Am Optom Assoc. 1993 Dec;64(12):838-50.

Is there a prevention and treatment strategy for macular degeneration?

Richer SP(1).

Author information:
(1)VA Medical Center, N. Chicago, IL 60064.

BACKGROUND: Reduced antioxidant defense of the retina secondary to poor 
nutrition and smoking combined with increased life expectancy and exposure to 
solar radiation can provide a triple assault on the aging retina. If left 
untreated, without prophylactic measures, 7.5 million American adults will 
suffer vision loss from ARM by the year 2020.
