METHODS: Better known pathobiologic interrelationships between ARM, 
nutritional/antioxidant status and UV/blue visible solar exposure risk based on 
animal research and recent epidemiologic studies is presented, along with an 
overview of ocular free radical biochemistry.
RESULTS: Because ARM begins parafoveally, and confounding ocular lens changes 
often occur, there have been practical clinical/research difficulties in early 
diagnosis, and assessing improvement/loss from nutritional intervention. 
Threshold Amsler grid testing, contrast sensitivity and more recently red foveal 
flicker fusion frequency testing are presented as promising tests for discerning 
subtle pathologic and functional changes in vision.
CONCLUSIONS: A conservative prevention/treatment strategy is presented involving 
identification of at-risk patients, solar radiation protection, nutritional 
counseling based on the new USDA Food Pyramid concept and vitamin/mineral 
supplementation if necessary for non-compliant high risk patients. Excessive 
vitamin intake of particular micronutrients has some drawbacks, and the 
optometrist should be aware of the implications of self-prescribed OTC ocular 
formulations, the difference between UV risk vs. "blue light hazard" and ongoing 
clinical trials.

PMID: 8308188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. J Pediatr Surg. 1993 Sep;28(9):1165-7. doi: 10.1016/0022-3468(93)90156-f.

Anorectal function in adults operated for a benign sacrococcygeal teratoma.

Rintala R(1), Lahdenne P, Lindahl H, Siimes M, Heikinheimo M.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki, Finland.

Fecal continence and quality of life were evaluated by a questionnaire in 26 
adult patients (mean age, 30 years; 6 men, 20 women) who had undergone surgery 
for a benign sacrococcygeal teratoma in infancy. The fecal continence was 
assessed by a score described by Holschneider. Twenty-six healthy people with a 
similar age and sex distribution were used as controls. Good fecal continence 
was reported by 88% of the patients; however, only 27% had completely normal 
bowel habits. Some fecal soiling was present in 27% of the patients. No 
correlation between the severity of aberrations in anorectal functions and the 
degree of intrapelvic extension of the tumor was found. Social problems related 
to deficient anorectal function were reported by 27% of the patients. Other 
health problems including urinary incontinence were reported by 50% of the 
patients. All the controls had good fecal continence; 77% of them had completely 
normal bowel habits. The present study shows that at the adult age, a 
significant proportion of patients who have undergone surgery for sacrococcygeal 
teratoma suffer from deficient anorectal function and a diminished quality of 
life.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-3468(93)90156-f
PMID: 8308684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. J R Soc Med. 1993 Dec;86(12):704-6. doi: 10.1177/014107689308601211.

The population Doomsday forecast: lessons from Kerala.

Black JA(1).

Author information:
(1)King's College Hospital, London, UK.

Comment in
    J R Soc Med. 1994 Nov;87(11):718.

PIP: The discussion of fertility decline in Kerala state, India, focused on 
fertility decline in Kerala state and the role of the UN. Key features of 
Kerala's success in fertility decline were the emphasis on female education and 
the emancipation of women, reduced infant and child mortality rates, and 
political support. Since 1956 when the states of Cochin and Travancore were 
joined, the development of education and health services was encouraged. 
Literacy was over 90% in Kerala compared to 62% for males and 34% for females in 
India in 1990. Kerala's government invested in primary and secondary education, 
primary health care, and family planning services. 12% of Kerala's education 
budget is devoted to "higher" education compared to 47% of national government 
expenditures. Inheritance of property was matrilineal. 85% of girls aged under 
14 years stayed in school in Kerala compared to 21% nationally. The mean age of 
marriage is 21.9 years compared to 18.3 years nationally. The sex ratio, life 
expectancy, and child mortality rates were favorable to females. In 1987 the 
crude birth rate was 22/1000 population in Kerala and 32/1000 nationally. The 
infant mortality rate was 27/1000 live births in Kerala and 94/1000 nationally. 
Contraceptive use in Kerala was predominately female sterilization, followed by 
the condom. Successful features of Kerala's fertility decline are potentially 
transportable to African countries where women already play an important role in 
trade and shopkeeping. Emphasis must be simultaneously placed on primary health 
care and free family planning services that are easily accessible at all levels 
of health care. With political will, African or poor countries should be able to 
afford these programs. The UN and its agencies should be the unifying force 
promoting and supporting education, primary health care, and family planning 
services on a worldwide scale. However, the authority and expertise within the 
UN has not been sufficient to meet this challenge.

DOI: 10.1177/014107689308601211
PMCID: PMC1294361
PMID: 8308810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Med J Aust. 1994 Feb 21;160(4):219-23.

Inflammatory bowel disease--its history, current status and outlook.

Andrews J(1), Goulston K.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Unit, Concord Hospital, Sydney, NSW.

In conclusion, it seems there has been a definite change in the epidemiology and 
course of IBD since earlier this century. Several points are worth emphasising: 
The diseases are relatively common, and there has been a general increase in 
their incidence, more so in some regions than others. The largest group affected 
is young adults, who will have their disease over several decades. This could 
potentially impact markedly on the workforce and on health care services. There 
is clearly a range of severity of this disease, and a greater number of mild 
cases have probably been diagnosed recently. This also helps to explain the 
differences in severity, need for surgery, and survival noted between community 
based studies and referral centre groups. Treatment has improved, particularly 
surgery (which usually takes place earlier on less critically ill patients), 
better operations, including continence surgery for most patients with UC and 
gut sparing procedures in Crohn's disease such as stricturoplasty. Medical 
management of acute disease has also improved which, in particular, has reduced 
mortality in elderly patients. Except for a subset of patients, life expectancy 
is close to normal, and time lost from the workforce, when considered in 
perspective over a working lifetime, is negligible. We can therefore be 
justifiably optimistic about the current long term outcome of IBD, and encourage 
our patients, their families and their employers to share in this outlook. With 
the promise of newer medical therapies on the horizon, prognosis may be further 
improved. Corticosteroids with little or no systemic side effects are currently 
in clinical trials and new anti-inflammatory agents are being examined for their 
efficacy through prostaglandin, leukotriene, or oxygen free-radical inhibition. 
Now that mortality from IBD is largely a thing of the past, we need to 
concentrate our attention more closely on the associated morbidity. It is to be 
hoped that future long term studies attempt the difficult clinical measurements 
of morbidity and quality of life.

PMID: 8309396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Surv Ophthalmol. 1993 Nov-Dec;38(3):310-6; discussion 316-7. doi: 
10.1016/0039-6257(93)90080-q.

The United States' health care system: problems and solutions.

Lichtenstein RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Management and Policy, University of Michigan, 
School of Public Health, Ann Arbor.

Comment in
    Surv Ophthalmol. 1994 Sep-Oct;39(2):166-7.

The problems facing the U.S. health care system are not new; they have been 
discussed for the last 60 years. The problems have not been solved because, due 
to fears of government involvement, we have been reluctant to impose central 
planning and management on the system. Reliance on the free market and 
fee-for-service reimbursement to allocate health resources, to contain costs and 
to determine who has health insurance has failed. The result is that the U.S. 
spends more per capita on health services than any other country in the world, 
but lags behind many other countries on such health indicators as life 
expectancy and infant mortality. Several criteria for evaluating proposals for 
health reform are offered and ten such proposals are discussed. It is likely 
that, in the short run, the U.S. will adopt reforms that require the least 
change in the current system. However, these changes will not address adequately 
the fundamental problems with the system and, ultimately, major changes will 
have to be undertaken. [This article is followed by an editorial by Dr. Jonathan 
Trobe relating its concepts to the objectives set forth in the recently proposed 
Clinton Health Plan.]

DOI: 10.1016/0039-6257(93)90080-q
PMID: 8310399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1993 Nov-Dec;131(6):585-93. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1040076.

[The Balgrist hip cup--a 4-to-10-year survival analysis of cement-free hip 
cups].

[Article in German]

Hauser R(1), Jacob HA, Kern S, Schreiber A.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Universitätsklinik Balgrist, Zürich.

The results of 715 cement-free acetabular sockets used in primary total hip 
arthroplasties are shown according to a survivorship analysis after 
Kaplan-Meier. The survival probability of the examined cement-free polyethylene 
sockets after 5 years lies between 88.1% and 93.6% (Endler screw socket of 
polyethylene: 93.6%; Balgrist socket of polyethylene: 88.1%; Balgrist socket of 
polyethylene with titanium coating: 90.6%). The survival probability of the 
Endler socket after ten years is only 44.2%. No statistically significant 
difference in the survival curves of the polyethylene socket models could be 
found (p logrank 0.797). The Balgrist sockets with the outer split ring made of 
titanium show a far better survival rate (98.8% after 4 years) than those made 
of polyethylene. This result justified the further development of a Modular 
Revision socket made of titanium so that the original idea could be extended to 
revision interventions where large acetabular defects have to be coped with.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1040076
PMID: 8310752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1993 Nov-Dec;131(6):594-600. doi: 
10.1055/s-2008-1040077.

[The acetabular roof cup in revision arthroplasty of the hip].

[Article in German]

Gurtner P(1), Aebi M, Ganz R.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinik für Orthopädische Chirurgie, Inselspital, Bern, Schweiz.

The efficiency of the M. E. Müller acetabular roof reinforcement ring is 
documented on 141 patients with 150 operated hips since 1976 with a minimal 
clinically and radiologically follow-up of 6 years. The metal backing of the cup 
prevented cranial migration and protrusion almost completely. After 1982, when a 
bone bank with frozen femoral heads was established, the loss of bone stock was 
replaced with allograft, which can be fixed sufficiently with the reinforcement 
ring. In revision arthroplasty with bone stock of poor quality and quantity the 
acetabular roof reinforcement ring is a good method to reconstruct the 
acetabulum.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1040077
PMID: 8310753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Am J Clin Oncol. 1994 Feb;17(1):55-9. doi: 10.1097/00000421-199402000-00012.

Adjuvant chemotherapy with dacarbazine, vindesine, and cisplatin in pathological 
stage II malignant melanoma.

Pectasides D(1), Alevizakos N, Bafaloukos D, Tzonou A, Asimakopoulos G, 
Varthalitis I, Dimitriadis M, Athanassiou A.

Author information:
(1)1st Department of Medical Oncology, Metaxas Cancer Hospital, Piraeus, Greece.

Following curative lymph node dissection, 28 patients with pathological Stage II 
malignant melanoma (metastatic to regional lymph nodes) received adjuvant 
chemotherapy with dacarbazine, vindesine, and cisplatin (DVP); 32 more patients 
with similar characteristics refused adjuvant treatment. In the treated group, 
15 patients (53%) developed dissemination of disease after 4 to 29 months; 20 
(62%) of the patients who refused adjuvant treatment recurred after 4 to 25 
months and received palliative treatment with DVP. No significant differences in 
survival or disease-free survival according to different patient characteristics 
could be detected between these two groups with the available patient 
population. Large and well-designed prospective randomized trials are required 
to determine if the adjuvant use of this treatment schedule, which includes the 
three most active drugs improves survival in patients with nondisseminated 
melanoma.

DOI: 10.1097/00000421-199402000-00012
PMID: 8311008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Arch Ophthalmol. 1994 Feb;112(2):197-203. doi: 
10.1001/archopht.1994.01090140073026.

Anterior segment complications after helium ion radiation therapy for uveal 
melanoma. Radiation cataract.

Meecham WJ(1), Char DH, Kroll S, Castro JR, Blakely EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California, San Francisco.

OBJECTIVE: To delineate the factors in the development of visually significant 
cataract after helium ion irradiation of eyes with uveal melanomas.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis with multivariate analysis using life tables and 
Cox proportional hazard models in addition to other nonparametric techniques.
PATIENTS: All patients with a noncataractous other eye and adequate dosimetry 
data who were treated with helium ion irradiation.
RESULTS: Significant cataracts (grade 3+ or 4+ on a 0 to 4+ scale) developed in 
129 patients (44%). The risk of cataract development peaked at 3 years (25% per 
person-year) and then declined to a sustained level of 7% to 9% per year after 7 
years. In multivariate analysis, the percentage of lens included in the 
treatment port was the predominant predictive correlate with time to significant 
cataract (relative risk of 2.97 for a 25% increase in the percentage of lens in 
the treatment port). Patient age, preexisting cortical opacity, and ultrasound 
tumor height were also significant; ciliary body involvement and tumor dose had 
smaller effects. Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated an increased rate of 
cataractogenesis with each increment of the percentage of lens in the treatment 
port; when more than half of the lens was in the beam, the risk of cataract 
exceeded 90% within 7 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Cataract development after helium ion irradiation is a function of 
the amount of the lens in the beam. Unlike neovascular glaucoma that develops 
mainly in the first few years after treatment, cataract continues to develop 
during the entire length of follow-up.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.1994.01090140073026
PMID: 8311772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Aust N Z J Surg. 1993 Apr;63(4):284-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-2197.1993.tb00384.x.

Right atrial catheters: reliable, immediate and durable vascular access for 
haemodialysis and plasma exchange.

Francis DM(1), Goodman DJ, Millar RJ, Walker RG, Becker GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, Victoria, 
Australia.

This paper prospectively evaluates 33 dual lumen, right atrial catheters 
inserted into either an external or internal jugular vein by open operation in 
29 patients, of whom 15 required haemodialysis and 14 required temporary plasma 
exchange. The median (range) catheter survival in the haemodialysis and plasma 
exchange groups was 108 days (7-334 days) and 61 days (10-116 days), 
respectively. Life table analysis demonstrated that overall catheter survival 
was 58% at 200 days. The main causes of catheter failure were infection (four 
cases), poor flow (three cases) and accidental removal (one case). Another nine 
catheters were removed electively because of maturation of alternative methods 
of vascular access (five cases), completion of plasma exchange treatment (three 
cases), or successful renal transplantation (one case). Long-term silastic 
catheters, inserted into the right atrium via a jugular vein, have distinct 
advantages over temporary subclavian vein catheters and external arteriovenous 
(AV) shunts; this form of access is the method of choice for haemodialysis and 
plasma exchange patients who require immediate and short- to medium-term 
vascular access.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.1993.tb00384.x
PMID: 8311814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Eur J Cancer. 1993;29A Suppl 7:S10-4. doi: 10.1016/0959-8049(93)90610-r.

Economic evaluation alongside cancer trials: methodological and practical 
aspects.

Bonsel GJ(1), Rutten FF, Uyl-de Groot CA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

A recent extension of clinical evaluation is "economic evaluation", which seeks 
to characterise each relevant alternative health care strategy in terms of a 
summary measure incorporating the costs and benefits of such strategies. In an 
economic evaluation, separate measurements of resource volumina and resource 
prices on the cost side, and separate measurements of survival and quality of 
life effects and valuation of these outcome effects on the benefit side are 
required. From these effect parameters, which should be calculated for all 
competing strategies considered in the analysis, the relative cost-effectiveness 
of one strategy as against the other can be derived. The degree of 
generalisability of the study results determines the validity of economic 
evaluation in decision-making. This depends on the generalisability of the 
clinical findings, and in this respect the so-called "piggyback" economic 
evaluation, which is added to a clinical trial, has its limitations. In the 
field of cancer, specific attention should be given to costs and effects 
occurring after non-mortality endpoints, to patient and family costs and to 
variations in treatments between settings of care. It is argued that 
conventional clinical trials and economic evaluations will integrate further in 
the future.

DOI: 10.1016/0959-8049(93)90610-r
PMID: 8312059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. J Adolesc Health. 1993 Nov;14(7):548-52. doi: 10.1016/1054-139x(93)90139-g.

Disability rates among adolescents: an international comparison.

Suris JC(1), Blum RW.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Pediatrics and Adolescent Health, UMHC, Minneapolis, MN 
55455.

Given the paucity of international comparative data, this paper analyzes United 
Nations data on young people (ages 10-19 years) with disabilities for the 
purpose of (a) highlighting available information on these populations by age 
and gender; (b) analyzing interrelationships among and between disability 
prevalence rates for young people and socioeconomic, health, and geographic 
variables; and (c) recommending future research. Utilizing the United Nations 
International Disability Statistics Database (DISTAT), 19 countries with 
reported data on 10- to 14-year-old young people and 23 countries with data on 
15- to 19-year-old young people with disabilities were analyzed. Independent 
variables included geographic location, age, gender, gross national product 
(GNP), female illiteracy, access to health care, infant mortality, life 
expectancy, and fertility rate. There was wide variance in disability rates for 
young people among the countries studied. Consistently, adolescent males had 
higher rates than females. A positive correlation was found between disability 
rates and GNP. Consistently higher rates were noted for rural areas. There 
appears to be a lack of consistency in definitions of disabilities among 
countries studied, which influences prevalence rates. Methodologies for data 
collection may also vary. The higher rates for males may reflect gender bias in 
the provision of medical interventions in many developing countries.

DOI: 10.1016/1054-139x(93)90139-g
PMID: 8312291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Drugs Aging. 1993 Nov-Dec;3(6):510-24. doi:
10.2165/00002512-199303060-00005.

Problems and pitfalls of sulphonylurea therapy in older patients.

Robertson DA(1), Home PD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, England.

The prevalence of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (type II) increases 
with age, so that approximately half of all known patients in English-speaking 
countries are over 65 years of age. There is no reason to believe that the 
criteria for blood glucose control should be any less stringent for elderly 
patients unless they have a limited life expectancy. Sulphonylurea drugs remain 
an effective means of achieving blood glucose control after failure of dietary 
therapy alone in older patients. However, changes in normal metabolism of drugs 
with age and the development of other pathologies in elderly patients make it 
important that these drugs are prescribed with care. Severe symptomatic 
hypoglycaemia is the most serious adverse effect of sulphonylurea drugs and this 
becomes progressively more likely with increasing age, depending primarily on 
the substantial reduction of renal function with normal aging. Other adverse 
effects are much less commonly of clinical importance. To minimise the risk of 
hypoglycaemia, it is important that patients receive closely supervised dietary 
management with education about their disease for at least 3 months before 
sulphonylurea drugs are prescribed. In elderly patients a short-acting agent 
with no active metabolites should be used. As patients become older, those 
receiving long-acting agents can be changed to short-acting agents before 
problems arise. If blood glucose control appears satisfactory on treatment, then 
symptoms of hypoglycaemia should be sought. If control is poor, then the 
criteria for introduction of insulin, with appropriate education, do not differ 
from those in younger patients.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-199303060-00005
PMID: 8312676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. CMAJ. 1994 Mar 1;150(5):711-7.

Impact of HIV infection and AIDS on death rates in British Columbia and Canada.

Hogg RS(1), Schechter MT, Montaner JS, Goldstone I, Craib K, O'Shaughnessy MV.

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, St. Paul's Hospital, 
Vancouver.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact of HIV infection and AIDS on death rates in 
British Columbia and Canada.
DESIGN: Descriptive, population-based study.
SETTING: British Columbia and Canada.
PATIENTS: All people for whom HIV infection or AIDS was listed as the underlying 
cause of death in Canada and all provinces from 1987 to 1991, as reported to 
Statistics Canada, and all people for whom HIV infection or AIDS was listed as 
the underlying or antecedent cause of death in British Columbia and Vancouver 
from 1987 to 1992, as reported to the Division of Vital Statistics, British 
Columbia Ministry of Health.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Age- and cause-specific patterns of death, and potential 
years of life lost (PYLLs) for men.
RESULTS: From 1987 to 1991 a total of 4189 deaths from HIV infection and AIDS 
(in 3941 males and 248 females) in Canada and 686 such deaths (in 671 males and 
15 females) in British Columbia were reported to Statistics Canada. The rate of 
death from HIV infection and AIDS was 1.39 times higher (95% confidence interval 
[CI] 1.29 to 1.50) in British Columbia than in Canada as a whole and 1.95 times 
higher (95% CI 1.65 to 2.29) when HIV infection was associated with specified 
malignant neoplasms than with other related causes. The PYLLs from HIV infection 
and AIDS for men rose steadily in Canada, from 17,615 in 1987 to 38,735 in 1991; 
the latter is comparable to the PYLLs from stroke and colorectal cancer. In 
Vancouver the PYLLs from HIV infection and AIDS for men increased sharply from 
1987 to 1992, surpassing the PYLLs from heart disease, malignant neoplasms and 
accidents.
CONCLUSIONS: From 1987 to 1991 the rate of death from HIV infection and AIDS in 
British Columbia was higher than the national average. In Vancouver HIV 
infection and AIDS have become the leading causes of premature death in men, 
exceeding heart disease, malignant neoplasms and accidents.

PMCID: PMC1486367
PMID: 8313290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Bull World Health Organ. 1993;71(6):723-36.

Health care in China: a rural-urban comparison after the socioeconomic reforms.

Shi L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Administration, School of Public Health, University of 
South Carolina, Columbia 29205.

This article provides an overview of the current Chinese health care system with 
particular emphasis on rural-urban differences. China's post-1978 economic 
reforms, although they improved general living standards, created some 
unintended consequences, as evidenced by the disintegration of the rural 
cooperative medical system and the sharp reduction in the number of "barefoot 
doctors", both of which were essential elements in the improvement of health 
status in rural China. The increase in the elderly population and their lack of 
health insurance and pensions will also place enormous pressure on services for 
their care. These changes have disproportionately affected the rural health care 
system, leaving the urban system basically intact, and have contributed to the 
rural-urban disparity in health care. Based on recent data the article compares 
current rural-urban differences in health care policy, systems, resources, and 
outcomes, and proposes potential solutions to reduce them.

PIP: China has made significant achievements in reducing mortality, increasing 
life expectancy, and providing primary health care. Hospital medical costs show 
an increase of 30-50% annually during 1978-90. Charges include 29-63% of actual 
costs of services for outpatients, in-patients, and operations. This paper 
portrays a view of the Chinese health care system and urban-rural differences. 
An overview and statistical support is given for health care resources of 
personnel and beds during 1949-87. Current major problems are identified as 
funding variability between local and provincial areas and urban-rural disparity 
in health outcomes and access to care. The most adversely affected are the rural 
elderly. The cost of medical services has increased, and many rural populations 
lack health insurance or pensions. A major policy change occurred in 1978 with a 
shift to a fee for service system rather than a barefoot doctor supported 
cooperative medical system. The health system now is comprised of a State 
Council which controls 30 provinces. County governments, which supervise 
township governments or the former people's communes, are lower units followed 
by the village unit (the former brigade). Each province has about 71 counties. 
Each county has about 25 townships. Each township has about 14 villages of about 
1000 population. Every level of government has hospitals and other specialized 
health units, but the main levels are care are at the village, township, and 
county levels. Provincial and lower levels are responsible for their own 
finances. A reward-penalty system operates in urban hospitals. Health care 
spending, resource allocation, and distribution of facilities and professionals 
varies widely between rural and urban areas. Differences in health outcomes are 
apparent, and urban residents have a better health status. Health insurance 
coverage is assured for most of urban government employees, college communities, 
and state enterprises with over 100 employees, which means most working people 
in urban areas. The rural elderly are the most affected by the changes. There is 
a need for a new elderly support system, a universal and compulsory system of 
financing, and evaluation of health professional needs.

PMCID: PMC2393531
PMID: 8313490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Haematologica. 1993 Sep-Oct;78(5):319-28.

Late effects in children after bone marrow transplantation: a review.

Locatelli F(1), Giorgiani G, Pession A, Bozzola M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Pavia, IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, 
Italy.

Since the number of children receiving a bone marrow transplantation (BMT) and 
becoming long-term survivors continues to increase, more attention has to be 
paid to detect long-term side effects in these unique patients. Follow-up 
studies to timely identify these untoward sequelae are a matter of particular 
concern for pediatricians due to the longer life expectancy of children cured by 
BMT. The more frequently recognized sequelae affecting lung, eyes, brain and the 
endocrine system have been analyzed in this review. The majority of long-term 
side effects could be related to the conditioning regimens employed to prepare 
children before marrow transplantation and radiotherapy has been indicated as 
the most important agent determining deleterious toxicities. Most children 
receiving BMT present a decreased growth velocity and this growth impairment is 
especially observed in patients receiving total body irradiation (TBI) and 
prophylactic cranial irradiation prior to marrow transplant. Growth hormone 
deficiency could be demonstrated in the majority of patients with a reduced 
growth rate, even though an impairment of liver somatomedin production or a 
direct radiation-induced skeletal dysplasia could not be excluded. Overt and 
compensated hypothyroidism have been reported after TBI and patients given 
single dose radiotherapy are at greater risk with an overall incidence of 
thyroid function abnormalities approaching 30-40%. Delayed puberty development 
was reported in boys and girls after a TBI-containing conditioning regimen, 
whereas patients given BMT for severe aplastic anaemia presented a normal 
puberty. The absence of pubertal growth spurt contributes to the growth 
impairment of prepubertal children. In post-pubertal patients amenorrhea, 
azoospermia and gonadal failure can be observed after radiotherapy and several 
patients can require hormonal substitutive therapy. Skin and mucosal 
abnormalities referred to teguments involvement by chronic graft-versus-host 
disease (GVHD). Moreover, alopecia or abnormal pigmentation of the skin are 
observed in patients given busulfan as part of their myeloablative therapy. 
Cataracts are a well recognized complication of children receiving ionizing 
radiations and chronic steroid therapy. Again, posterior subcapsular cataracts 
occur more frequently in patients given TB1 as single exposure. Decreased 
lacrimal gland function, with impairment of tear production is another late 
effect of irradiation to the eye. Lung function abnormalities are not rare after 
transplant and may cause late mortality and morbidity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 
WORDS)

PMID: 8314162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Diabete Metab. 1993;19(1 Pt 2):152-8.

Survival time after onset of diabetes: 29-year follow-up mortality study in a 
diabetes cohort from a rural district.

Schneider H(1), Lischinski M, Jutzi E.

Author information:
(1)District Hospital Prenzlau, Germany.

In order to evaluate various influences on survival time after onset of 
diabetes, a 29-year follow-up study was conducted in the 166 diabetic patients 
who were newly diagnosed between May 1st, 1962, and April 30th, 1963, in the 
rural district of Neustrelitz. Their mean age at onset was 63 (15-81) years, sex 
ratio was 2.5 (females: males). 27% of the patients were initially treated with 
insulin, 73% were on diet alone or on diet plus oral antidiabetic drug. There 
were 18 drop-outs. Check-up of mortality was performed at 3-year intervals. 
Shortening of life expectancy was calculated by comparison of their survival 
time to the life expectancy of the general population of the former German 
Democratic Republic with reference upon age and sex.
RESULTS: Seven out of the remaining 148 study patients (4.7%) with an age at 
onset between 15 and 60 were alive. 19% of the patients had either reached or 
exceeded the life expectancy of the general population. The average loss in life 
expectancy in the decreased patients amounted to 5.3 years in males and to 6.4 
years in females. The shortening of life expectancy decreased with increasing 
age at onset. Both underweight (BMI < 20) and extreme obesity (BMI > 40) were 
associated with a higher loss in life expectancy (14.7 vs. 10.8 yrs.) Also the 
survival time was not significantly different in dependence on the nature of 
treatment and on the circumstances of detection of the disease.
CONCLUSION: only 19% of diabetic patients may expect a "normal" survival 
time.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8314419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Inquiry. 1993 Summer;30(2):115-27.

Predicting the course of disease.

Krakauer H(1), Jacoby I.

Author information:
(1)Bureau of Health Professions, Uniformed Services University of Health 
Sciences, Bethesda, MD 20814-4799.

The ability to predict the course of disease and the effect of interventions is 
critical to effective medical practice and health care management. In this 
analysis, we sought to test whether available clinical data and analytic 
methodologies can be used to accurately predict the time course of the 
probability of death after hospital admission and the probability of readmission 
following discharge for patients with acute myocardial infarction or pulmonary 
disease. We grouped patients by selected physiologic characteristics and made 
time-to-event predictions using multiple regression models. These predictions 
were compared with observed probabilities calculated using the actuarial or 
life-table method. Predictions made with the Bailey-Makeham model generally 
replicated observed experience. They accurately accounted for substantial 
differences in the patterns of death and readmission and accurately delineated 
the effects of therapies, after adjustment for patient risk. These results were 
validated by analyses of resampled populations that differed in case mix from 
the source population. We believe that using such models to project the course 
of disease and the effects of treatment on that course in defined classes of 
patients should facilitate the development of practice guidelines for patient 
care and the management of health care resources.

PMID: 8314601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. J Dent. 1993 Jun;21(3):147-9. doi: 10.1016/0300-5712(93)90024-k.

Predictions of resin-bonded bridge survivals, comparing two statistical models.

Smales RJ(1), Berekally TL, Webster DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dentistry, University of Adelaide, South Australia.

The purpose of this study was to compare the predictive accuracy of the standard 
Weibull distribution model with that of a modification, or mixture model, for 
resin-bonded etched-metal bridge survivals. A total of 189 bridges placed in 
adult patients treated by students and staff at a teaching hospital was 
evaluated over periods of up to 8 years. Survival predictions based on the 
actual survival data accumulated in 1989 were compared with the later survival 
data updated in 1992. Comparison of the two fitted Weibull predictive curves 
with the life table survival estimates from the 1992 updated data demonstrated 
clearly the improved accuracy of the mixture model for predicting survivals of 
the resin-bonded bridges in this study.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-5712(93)90024-k
PMID: 8315088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. J Gerontol. 1993 Jul;48(4):S153-66. doi: 10.1093/geronj/48.4.s153.

Estimates of change in chronic disability and institutional incidence and 
prevalence rates in the U.S. elderly population from the 1982, 1984, and 1989 
National Long Term Care Survey.

Manton KG(1), Corder LS, Stallard E.

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University.

The U.S. elderly (65+) and oldest-old (85+) populations are growing rapidly 
which, combined with their high per capita acute and long-term care needs, will 
increase total U.S. health care needs. Also important in determining needs is 
how health and function change as mortality declines in the elderly population. 
Recent increases in adult life expectancy have been due to declines in stroke 
and heart disease mortality. There is controversy, however, about how those 
declines relate to the health and function of survivors. We examined changes in 
the prevalence and incidence of chronic disability using the 1982, 1984, and 
1989 National Long Term Care Surveys. The total prevalence of U.S. chronically 
disabled community-dwelling and institutionalized elderly populations declined 
from 1984 to 1989, overall, for each of three age strata and after mortality 
adjustment. These changes varied over level of disability. Factors contributing 
to these changes, including measurement, are reviewed.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/48.4.s153
PMID: 8315240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Scanning Microsc. 1993 Mar;7(1):391-401; discussion 401-2.

Importance of mild hyperoxaluria in the pathogenesis of urolithiasis--new 
evidence from studies in the Arabian peninsula.

Robertson WG(1), Hughes H.

Author information:
(1)King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre, Department of Biological 
and Medical Research, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

The hypothesis that mild hyperoxaluria is more important than hypercalciuria in 
the pathogenesis of urolithiasis is re-examined in the light of new evidence. 
Small increments in urinary oxalate in the normal to high-normal range are much 
more critical than similar rises in urinary calcium for increasing the relative 
supersaturation of urine with respect to calcium oxalate, the oxalate/calcium 
ratio in urine, the total volume of calcium oxalate crystals excreted, the 
proportion of abnormally large crystals and aggregates of calcium oxalate and 
the severity of the disorder as defined by the recurrence rate of 
stone-formation. Data from the Arabian Peninsula, where the prevalence of 
calcium-containing stones is considerably higher than in the West, have shown 
that this occurs in spite of the almost complete absence of hypercalciuria. On 
the other hand, there is a strong association between stone-formation and the 
occurrence of mild hyperoxaluria. The life-time expectancy of stone-formation in 
men from various countries is strongly correlated with the average daily 
excretion of oxalate in the urine of the normal men in these countries. This 
relationship extends to include patients with enteric and hereditary 
hyperoxaluria. There is no such relationship, however, between the life-time 
expectancy of stones and urinary calcium excretion in the same populations. 
Studies on the regulation of urinary oxalate indicate that it is largely 
controlled by the quantity of "free" dietary oxalate available for absorption in 
the lower intestine. This can be calculated from the intakes of calcium and 
oxalate and the urinary excretion of calcium.

PMID: 8316808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Ryumachi. 1993 Apr;33(2):142-8.

[The signification of total elbow replacement in the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis].

[Article in Japanese]

Yatsuka T(1), Torisu T, Masuda Y, Nanamori K, Takasita M, Masumi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Oita Medical University.

The purpose of this paper is to emphasis the signification of total elbow 
replacement in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Total elbow replacement 
were performed in twenty elbows in fourteen patients who had rheumatoid 
arthritis from 1982 to 1990. The follow-up period ranged from 2 to 9 years. Pain 
relief was complete in twelve patients. Preoperation flexion averaged 119 
degrees, increasing to 127 degrees. Preoperation extension averaged -34 degrees, 
increasing to -24 degrees postoperation. There were no infection and fracture 
postoperatively. Radiolucent lines were seen in four humeral components, in one 
ulnar component. Proximal subsidence of the humeral component were found in two 
elbows. Posterior dislocation occurred in three elbows. In two cases, reduction 
was successful by three weeks immobilization in a plaster cast with the elbow in 
the flexion position. Transient ulnar nerve palsy was evident in two elbows. 
Revision surgeries were performed in two cases, which occurred dislocation and 
progressive subsidence. Multiple replacements of major joints were performed in 
ten patients. Two joints were replaced in two patients, three joints were 
replaced in six patients, four joints were replaced in two patients. Four total 
elbow replacements were performed accompanied with other joints replacement in 
the same anesthesia. We recommended two joint replacements in the same 
anesthesia in patient with good general condition. All patients had functional 
improvements after total elbow replacement, especially reaching of the arm. Four 
patients improved the walking by being able to use stich after total elbow 
replacement.

PMID: 8316904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1993 Jul;50(7):527-40. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1993.01820190029004.

The Roscommon Family Study. I. Methods, diagnosis of probands, and risk of 
schizophrenia in relatives.

Kendler KS(1), McGuire M, Gruenberg AM, O'Hare A, Spellman M, Walsh D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth 
University, Richmond.

Comment in
    Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1995 Jun;52(6):509.
    Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1994 Jul;51(7):513-5.

OBJECTIVES: We sought to examine, in a rural county in the West of Ireland, the 
degree of familial relationship between schizophrenia and other nonaffective 
psychoses and affective illness (AI).
DESIGN: A case-controlled epidemiologic family study using DSM-III-R criteria.
PARTICIPANTS: This study included three proband groups: (1) all cases with a 
clinical diagnosis of schizophrenia from the Roscommon County Case Register born 
from 1930 onward (n = 285); (2) a random sample of cases from the register with 
a clinical diagnosis of severe AI (n = 99); and (3) a matched, random sample of 
Roscommon residents ascertained from the electoral register (n = 150). 
Face-to-face structured interviews were conducted with 86% of traceable, living 
relatives (n = 1, 753) and 88% of traceable, living probands (n = 415).
RESULTS: In interviewed relatives, the lifetime risks (+/- SE) for 
schizophrenia, as a function of the "blind" proband diagnosis, were as follows: 
schizophrenia, 6.5% +/- 1.6%; schizoaffective disorder, 6.8% +/- 2.5%; 
schizotypal personality disorder, 6.9% +/- 3.9%; other nonaffective psychoses, 
5.1% +/- 2.4%; psychotic AI, 2.8% +/- 1.2%; nonpsychotic AI, 0.6% +/- 0.6%; and 
control, 0.5% +/- 0.3%. Individuals with schizophrenia reproduced at a rate 
about one quarter that of controls and the risk for schizophrenia in parents of 
probands was much less than that found in siblings.
CONCLUSIONS: These results support the following hypotheses: (1) in the West of 
Ireland, as in other populations, schizophrenia is a strongly familial disorder; 
(2) schizophrenia shares a familial predisposition with a spectrum of clinical 
syndromes that includes schizoaffective disorder, other nonaffective psychoses, 
schizotypal personality disorder, and probably psychotic AI, but not 
nonpsychotic AI; and (3) the diminished reproductive rates associated with 
schizophrenia have a large impact on the pattern of risk of illness in 
relatives.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1993.01820190029004
PMID: 8317947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. AIDS. 1993 May;7(5):705-10. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199305000-00015.

The effect of cigarette smoking on the development of AIDS in HIV-1-seropositive 
individuals.

Nieman RB(1), Fleming J, Coker RJ, Harris JR, Mitchell DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, St Mary's Hospital, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether HIV-1-seropositive cigarette smokers progress 
more rapidly to AIDS than HIV-1-seropositive non-smokers.
SETTING: The genitourinary medicine outpatient department of St Mary's Hospital, 
London, which is a London University teaching hospital (tertiary care centre).
SUBJECTS AND DESIGN: Case series of 84 individuals with AIDS who provided 
accurate details of their smoking habits before their AIDS-defining diagnosis.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Progression time to AIDS in relation to smoking habit.
RESULTS: Progression time to AIDS (all diagnoses) was significantly reduced in 
HIV-1-seropositive smokers: median time to AIDS was 8.17 months for smokers (n = 
43) and 14.50 months for non-smokers (n = 41) (P = 0.003). Smokers developed 
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) more rapidly than non-smokers, with a 
median time to PCP of 9.0 months, compared with 16.0 months for non-smokers (P = 
0.002). Smoking had no significant effect on progression time to AIDS when not 
due to PCP.
CONCLUSION: Cigarette smoking by HIV-1-seropositive individuals is associated 
with a more rapid development of AIDS and should be discouraged.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199305000-00015
PMID: 8318178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Oncology (Williston Park). 1993 Jun;7(6):46, 49.

Pointers on counseling patients about cancer risk.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 8318358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Ann Vasc Surg. 1993 May;7(3):262-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02000252.

Multivariate Cox regression analysis of covariates for patency rates after 
femorodistal vein bypass grafting.

Myers KA(1), Fuller JA, Scott DF, Devine TJ, Denton MJ, Chan A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Monash Medical Centre, Melbourne, Australia.

Multivariate Cox regression analysis of patency rates for 750 consecutive 
femorodistal autogenous vein graftings for chronic lower limb ischemia showed 
that significant independent prognostic covariates were the type of graft (long 
saphenous or arm vein), presence of diabetes, and absence of a past history of 
myocardial ischemia. Analysis assumes that patients withdrawn with patent grafts 
due to death or loss to follow-up would have followed the same course as those 
who remain, and the degree to which this could distort results was studied. 
Patients who died with patent grafts were more likely to have had past 
myocardial ischemia and critical lower limb ischemia. Cox regression analysis 
for 600 operations after excluding patients who died with patent grafts then 
showed that significant independent covariates were the type of graft (long 
saphenous or arm vein) and indication (claudication or critical ischemia); then 
age, sex, hypertension, diabetes, myocardial ischemia, date of operation, 
surgeon, site of distal anastomosis, or first compared to repeat operations had 
no significant influence. Cox regression analysis helps determine which 
covariates influence graft patency rates, but results are affected by censored 
data, particularly from patients who die with patent grafts.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02000252
PMID: 8318391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Ann Hematol. 1993 Jun;66(6):291-302. doi: 10.1007/BF01695971.

Histological features of prognostic significance in CML--an immunohistochemical 
and morphometric study (multivariate regression analysis) on trephine biopsies 
of the bone marrow.

Thiele J(1), Kvasnicka HM, Titius BR, Parpert U, Nebel R, Zankovich R, Dienemann 
D, Stein H, Diehl V, Fischer R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, University of Cologne, Köln, Germany.

To evaluate the prognostic significance of clinical as well as histological 
disease features at the time of diagnosis, an immunohistochemical and 
morphometric study was performed on bone marrow trephine biopsies in 130 
patients with Ph(1+)-CML. For identification of all cell elements of the 
megakaryocytopoiesis we used the monoclonal antibody CD61 (Y2/51) and for the 
macrophages, the recently characterized antibody PG-M1. Density of argyrophilic 
fibers was determined per fat cell-free marrow area. Based on a multivariate 
analysis-derived risk model, the reproducibility of the prognostic score 
described by Sokal and co-workers was tested, particularly with regard to 
histological variables. Additionally, we calculated the disease-specific loss in 
life expectancy. Our prognostic model (Cox model) consisted of the variables: 
age, spleen size, peripheral erythro-normoblasts, pseudo-Gaucher cells, and 
fiber density. To assess the validity of this new CML score, a 
receiver-operating curve (ROC) of sensitivity and specificity was constructed. 
The improved prognostic efficiency of this newly developed risk model in 
predicting death within 3 years after diagnosis of CML was demonstrated in 
comparison with generally accepted staging systems. Immunohistochemistry 
revealed that not the total number of macrophages, but only the subfraction of 
pseudo-Gaucher cells exerted a significant impact on survival. Furthermore, it 
was feasible to calculate the number of atypical micromegakaryocytes and pro- 
and megakaryoblasts. This abnormal and immature cell population showed a 
significant correlation with fiber density and prognosis. Finally, the practical 
value of the Hannover classification was tested. This histological 
classification enabled a discrimination between two groups with different 
survival patterns, i.e., granulocyte and/or megakaryocyte-rich subtypes versus 
subtypes with increase in reticulin and collagen fibers.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01695971
PMID: 8318559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Circulation. 1993 Jul;88(1):156-64. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.88.1.156.

Age thresholds for prophylactic replacement of Björk-Shiley convexo-concave 
heart valves. A clinical and economic evaluation.

van der Meulen JH(1), Steyerberg EW, van der Graaf Y, van Herwerden LA, Verbaan 
CJ, Defauw JJ, Habbema JD.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Decision Sciences, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Björk-Shiley convexo-concave heart valves have an increased risk of 
mechanical failure. One might consider prophylactic rereplacement as a 
preventive measure to avert the disastrous consequences of these failures. We 
investigated the effect that prophylactic rereplacement has on survival of 
individual patients and on the medical costs.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Quantitative estimates for the surgical risks of 
prophylactic replacement of Björk-Shiley valves, long-term survival, and the 
risk of outlet strut fracture were derived insofar as possible from a detailed 
analysis of a follow-up study conducted in The Netherlands, including 2303 
patients with a mean follow-up of 6.6 years. On the basis of these estimates, we 
calculated life expectancy with and without prophylactic replacement. For the 
various valve types, age thresholds were determined below which rereplacement 
prolongs (discounted quality-adjusted) life expectancy. We also calculated the 
cost per year of life gained as a function of age. The age thresholds below 
which prophylactic rereplacement increases life expectancy (expressed in simple 
future years of life) for male patients without comorbidity, if the surgical 
mortality after rereplacement is equivalent to that of primary replacement, are 
27, 48, 51, and 65 years for small and large 60 degrees and for small and large 
70 degrees mitral valves, respectively. For aortic valves, these age thresholds 
lie somewhat higher: 39, 52, 56, and 76 years, respectively. Repeat analyses 
indicated that for women, all age thresholds lie about 1 or 2 years higher. 
These age thresholds decrease considerably if the surgical mortality after 
rereplacement is considered to be higher after prophylactic rereplacement than 
after primary replacement or if comorbidity is present. The costs per discounted 
and quality-adjusted year of life gained depend on type and position of the 
Björk-Shiley convexo-concave heart valve and rise steeply as the patient's age 
approaches the threshold for rereplacement.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the Dutch follow-up study allow guidance for 
prophylactic replacement of the Björk-Shiley convexo-concave valve on an 
individual basis. Rereplacement compares favorably with expectant management in 
some patient subgroups with both 60 degrees and 70 degrees valves. Age 
thresholds may serve as a first step in identifying patients in whom 
rereplacement might be beneficial.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.88.1.156
PMID: 8319328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Cytobios. 1993;73(293):89-94.

Effects of the pineal gland on the growth processes of Guerin epithelioma in 
male Wistar rats.

Lewiński A(1), Sewerynek E, Wajs E, Lopaczyński W, Sporny S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Thyrology, University School of Medicine, Poland.

The effects of pinealectomy (PX) and melatonin (Mel) administration on the 
growth processes of Guerin epithelioma, a malignant tumour derived from 
spontaneous cancer in Wistar rat uterus, was investigated in five groups of male 
