rats. The mean life span of the rats bearing Guerin tumours (GT) and subjected 
to PX was shorter than in animals with an intact pineal gland. Mel did not 
affect the lifespan in rats with intact pineals or in those subjected to PX. Mel 
decreased the mitotic activity of GT cells in rats with and without the pineal 
gland. Pathomorphological examination revealed high malignancy of the primary 
tumour but no metastases. The results confirmed the important role of the pineal 
gland in 'oncostasis'.

PMID: 8319500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Hum Biol. 1993 Jun;65(3):445-61.

Some laws of mortality: how well do they fit?

Gage TB(1), Mode CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, State University of New York, Albany 12222.

The goodnesses of fit over the entire life span of four models of mortality are 
compared using life tables from Australia and the United States. The results 
indicate that the five-parameter Siler model fits considerably better than the 
more complex eight-parameter Heligman-Pollard and Mode-Busby models. On the 
other hand, the ten-parameter model proposed by Mode and Jacobson fits human 
mortality patterns better than the Siler model. We conclude that the 
Heligman-Pollard and Mode-Busby models are probably misspecified. Additional 
research is necessary to determine (1) whether the Heligman-Pollard model can be 
improved by specifying it as a true hazard model and (2) whether the respecified 
Heligman-Pollard and Mode-Jacobson models are statistically robust, particularly 
with abridged life tables.

PMID: 8319943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Nihon Seikeigeka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Apr;67(4):189-200.

[Epidemiological study on hip fractures in Tottori Prefecture].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakamura T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Tottori University, 
Japan.

These days, hip fractures are becoming serious health problem in elderly people. 
We have, therefore, conducted an epidemiological study in Tottori prefecture, 
Japan on the following elements related to the hip fracture of patients: the 
incidence, cause, environment, state of individual health, outcome and risk 
factors. We obtained data from hospital records and from hip fracture patients 
by mailed questionnaires. The incidence of hip fractures per 100000 person-years 
was 67.8 and 165.9 for male and female 50 years of age and older. This incidence 
is a half or one-third of that in North Europe or North America. We assume that 
the difference of physique and life style between Japanese and Caucasian have 
some effect on incidence. Almost all fractures occurred by falling over from a 
standing position. The incidence of distal radius fracture in past history is 
four times more frequent in female patients compared to that in males. About 12% 
of male and 19% of female patients aged 60 and over with hip fracture were 
demented before the injury. The case-control study revealed that thin figure and 
bed-ridden were significant risk factors for the hip fracture. Thin figure was 
more prevalent in the group with cervical fracture than that with the 
trochanteric fracture. Analyzing our data with the Cox proportional hazards 
model, our study has shown that male, aging and dementia were important factors 
in determining the life expectancy of patients with hip fracture.

PMID: 8320473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. J Radiat Res. 1993 Mar;34(1):1-11. doi: 10.1269/jrr.34.1.

Statistical test of the shortening of latent periods in experimental radiation 
carcinogenesis under competing risks.

Sato F(1), Noda K, Miyaoka E, Shimizu Y, Murakami M, Endoh D, Hashimoto N.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.

The mean life span of animals killed by a specific type of tumor is influenced 
by competing risks. The parametric inference method of Noda et al. was applied 
to a set of mouse experimental data in order to correct for the appearance of 
observed life span distribution under competing risks and to test statistical 
significances of difference between corrected mean life spans. Data were from an 
experiment on tumors induced in mice by X-rays: whole body irradiated with 600 
R; head with 800 R; trunk or lower body with 800 R. The statistically 
significant changes were found: Whole body irradiation shortened the mean latent 
period of malignant lymphomas whereas the head irradiation shortened the latent 
periods of none of tumors. Trunk irradiation shortened mean latent periods of 
lung tumors. Lower body irradiation showed a tendency to shorten the mean latent 
periods of mammary tumors. Results that differed from the above were obtained 
when there was no correction for competing risks.

DOI: 10.1269/jrr.34.1
PMID: 8320656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Nature. 1993 Jul 8;364(6433):108. doi: 10.1038/364108a0.

Life expectancy and reproduction.

Roitberg BD, Sircom J, Roitberg CA, van Alphen JJ, Mangel M.

DOI: 10.1038/364108a0
PMID: 8321281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1993 Jun 12;137(24):1180-3.

[Extension or shortening of life in severely demented patients; qualifications 
from nursing home medicine].

[Article in Dutch]

Hertogh CM(1), Ribbe MW, Konings JW, Muller MT.

Author information:
(1)Vrije Universiteit, vakgroep Huisarts- en Verpleeghuisgeneeskunde, Amsterdam.

PMID: 8321329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Ophthalmology. 1993 Jul;100(7):1014-21. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(93)31543-5.

Infectious multifocal choroiditis in patients with acquired immune deficiency 
syndrome.

Morinelli EN(1), Dugel PU, Riffenburgh R, Rao NA.

Author information:
(1)A. Ray Irvine, Jr., MD, Ocular Pathology Laboratory, Doheny Eye Institute, 
University of Southern California School of Medicine, Los Angeles 90033.

PURPOSE: The purposes of this study are to determine the incidence of infectious 
opportunistic choroiditis in patients with the acquired immune deficiency 
syndrome (AIDS), to study the association of these choroidal infections with 
systemic dissemination, and to investigate the life expectancy and cause of 
death in patients with infectious opportunistic choroiditis.
METHODS: A total of 470 eyes of 235 consecutive autopsies of patients with AIDS 
were examined by histopathologic methods. The clinical charts and autopsy 
reports of these patients were subsequently reviewed for presence of systemic 
dissemination of various infectious agents.
RESULTS: Of the 235 patients, 18 were found to have infectious choroiditis. The 
etiologic agents found were: Cryptococcus neoformans, Pneumocystis carinii, 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Histoplasma capsulatum, Candida, Aspergillus 
fumigatus, Toxoplasma gondii, and Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare. In 15 of 
these 18 patients, the cause of death was considered to be due to systemic 
dissemination of the organism causing the choroiditis. Only 4 of the 18 cases of 
infectious choroiditis were diagnosed during life, and the survival time of 
these patients after diagnosis was only 25 days. Five of the 18 patients also 
were found to have cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection of the retina.
CONCLUSION: Multifocal choroiditis due to endogenous infectious emboli in 
patients with AIDS reflects systemic dissemination and localization of 
infectious agents predominantly in the choriocapillaris. Early diagnosis and 
treatment are imperative and may be life-saving.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(93)31543-5
PMID: 8321524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Pathol Res Pract. 1993 Mar;189(2):121-32. doi:
10.1016/S0344-0338(11)80081-6.

Myelofibrosis in chronic myeloproliferative disorders. Incidence among subtypes 
according to the Hannover Classification.

Buhr T(1), Georgii A, Choritz H.

Author information:
(1)Pathologisches Institut, Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, FRG.

The distribution and the development of fibrosis were evaluated from bone marrow 
biopsies of patients with chronic myeloproliferative disorders (CMPD), regarding 
two groups of patients: (1) 564 with follow-up biopsies over a period of up to 
twelve years observation time, and (2) 1.787 diagnostic bone marrow biopsies 
from CMPD patients. Fibrosis was divided into three grades of fiber increase: 
early myelosclerosis, myelofibrosis, and advanced myelofibrosis. The first group 
of sequential BMB showed a significant progress to myelofibrosis in so-called 
"Chronic Megakaryocytic-Granulocytic Myelosis"--CMGM-, which corresponds to 
Agnogenic Myeloid Metaplasia-AMM-in 72.4% (21/29 patients), as well as in CML 
with megakaryocytic increase-CML.MI-in 39.2% (20/51). In the second group of 
diagnostic biopsies, only 30% of CMGM cases showed no fibrosis. In P. vera, 
16.2% (18/111) developed myelofibrosis up to twelve years later. This figure was 
4.3% (2/46) in Primary Thrombocythemia. Increase of megakaryocytes in CML 
indicates a high risk for developing fibrosis, combined with reduced life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/S0344-0338(11)80081-6
PMID: 8321741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1993 May 25;82(21):629-32.

[Health and illness from an anthroposophical viewpoint. Lecture at the Summer 
Academy, '92 Lucerne].

[Article in German]

Heusser P(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Sektion, Goetheanum, Dornach.

Health and disease are only understood when man is not solely perceived as a 
physical, but also as a living, a psychic and a spiritual being. The scientific 
perception of physis has to be complemented by a likely scientific notion of the 
immaterial in man (life, soul, spirit). To this goal a human science is required 
like "Anthroposophy" to which I.P.V. Troxler from Lucerne (1780-1860) aspired 
and which was finally founded by R. Steiner (1861-1925). A really human medicine 
will only be regained by such an extension of modern medicine by humanities.

PMID: 8321951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Thorax. 1993 May;48(5):481-5. doi: 10.1136/thx.48.5.481.

Reduced carbon monoxide transfer factor (TLCO) in human immunodeficiency virus 
type I (HIV-I) infection as a predictor for faster progression to AIDS.

Nieman RB(1), Fleming J, Coker RJ, Harris JR, Mitchell DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, St Mary's Hospital, London.

BACKGROUND: In addition to the acute fall in carbon monoxide transfer factor 
(TLCO) associated with Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) or other 
opportunistic lung infections, reduced TLCO occurs in HIV-I seropositive 
individuals without active pulmonary disease. Abnormal TLCO, in the absence of 
lung disease, may be a surrogate marker of HIV-I induced immunosuppression and, 
therefore, a predictor for a more rapid progression to AIDS.
METHODS: Eighty four individuals with AIDS, who had regular pulmonary function 
tests before the diagnosis of AIDS was made, were identified from a cohort of 
patients with HIV-I infection. None had evidence of active pulmonary disease at 
the time of initial pulmonary function testing. The relation between the time 
taken to progress to AIDS and initial pulmonary function tests was examined with 
life table survival analysis.
RESULTS: Patients with a TLCO value of < 80% of predicted normal (n = 46) 
progressed significantly faster to AIDS, with a median time of 8.0 months 
compared with 16.5 months for those with a TLCO value of > or = 80% (n = 38). 
When stratified by AIDS defining diagnosis (PCP or non-PCP), median time to PCP 
was also significantly related to initial TLCO values (TLCO of < 80% = 9.0 
months, TLCO of > or = 80% = 19.0 months). Reductions in other measurements of 
lung function (FEV1, FVC, KCO) were not temporally associated with the 
development of AIDS.
CONCLUSIONS: HIV-I seropositive individuals with TLCO values of < 80% predicted 
and no evidence of lung disease progress more rapidly to AIDS than those with 
TLCO values of > or = 80%.

DOI: 10.1136/thx.48.5.481
PMCID: PMC464497
PMID: 8322232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Vasa. 1993;22(2):149-56.

[Which factors have an effect on primary and long-term results in carotid 
surgery].

[Article in German]

Dé P(1), Heise S, Burger-Deinert E, Hepp W.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische Klinik und Poliklinik, Universitätsklinikum Rudolf Virchow, 
Freie Universität Berlin.

In a 2 1/2 years period between 1.1.1984 and 30.6.1986 292 carotid 
endarterectomies were carried out on 235 patients. The aim of this study was to 
find out prognostic factors influencing early results and long term patency. 
Therefore we worked on 33 parameters for statistical significance. A high 
statistical correlation was found in three working hypotheses: 1. Higher 
incidence of neurological troubles when coincidence with stenosis in the rear 
brain arteries. 2. Shorter life expectancy if previous insults occurred. 3. 
Higher rate of restenosis when preoperatively high grade stenosis. A lower 
statistical correlation was found in the following hypotheses: 1. Older patients 
have more concomitant risk factors for arteriosclerosis than younger. 2. Older 
patients present preoperatively a more severe degree of arteriosclerosis. 3. 
Risk of severe insult is correlating with age. For the rest of the 33 parameters 
no statistical significance was found. The results are presented in detail.

PMID: 8322503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Aging (Milano). 1993 Apr;5(2):144-6. doi: 10.1007/BF03324143.

Gerontologic outlook for Latin America.

Bravo-Williams S(1).

Author information:
(1)Sociedad de Geriatria y Gerontologia de Mexico, Tlalpan.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324143
PMID: 8324002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Contrib Nephrol. 1993;104:6-13. doi: 10.1159/000422389.

Typical and atypical natural history of IgA nephropathy in adult patients.

D'Amico G(1), Ragni A, Gandini E, Fellin G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, S. Carlo Hospital, Milan, Italy.

DOI: 10.1159/000422389
PMID: 8325035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Gene. 1993 Jul 30;129(2):175-82. doi: 10.1016/0378-1119(93)90266-6.

Structure and expression of two genes that encode distinct drought-inducible 
cysteine proteinases in Arabidopsis thaliana.

Koizumi M(1), Yamaguchi-Shinozaki K, Tsuji H, Shinozaki K.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Plant Molecular Biology, Tsukuba Life Science Center, Institute 
of Physical and Chemical Research (RIKEN), Ibaraki, Japan.

Among nine cDNA clones (named RD) corresponding to genes that are responsive to 
dehydration in Arabidopsis thaliana, two clones, RD19 and RD21, were analyzed 
further. Northern blot analysis revealed that both the RD19 and RD21 mRNAs were 
not induced by abscisic acid. Neither RD19 nor RD21 mRNA synthesis was 
responsive to cold or to heat stress. On the other hand, transcription of both 
the RD19 and RD21 mRNAs was strongly induced under high-salt conditions, which 
suggests that the genes corresponding to RD19 and RD21 may be induced by changes 
in the osmotic potential of plant cells. Putative proteins, RD19 and RD21, 
encoded by two of the RD cDNAs have amino acid (aa) sequences typical of the 
catalytic sites of cysteine proteinases (CysP). RD21 and RD19 appeared to 
contain signal peptides that function in protein secretion. RD21 contains an aa 
sequence similar to that of the C-terminal extension peptide. Phylogenetic tree 
analysis indicated that the putative RD21 and RD19 proteins are quite different 
types of CysP. Genomic Southern analysis revealed that each gene family contains 
at least two members, which do not cross-hybridize. The two genes corresponding 
to RD19 and RD21 (rd19A and rd21A, respectively) were cloned and their 
structural analysis revealed the presence of two and four introns, respectively. 
The numbers and sites of introns differ between the genes, supporting our 
hypothesis that rd19A and rd21A belong to different subfamilies of genes 
encoding CysP. The transcription start points were determined by primer 
extension. Two conserved sequences were found in the promoter regions of the two 
genes.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-1119(93)90266-6
PMID: 8325504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Folia Parasitol (Praha). 1993;40(1):9-12.

The effect of exposure to Schistosoma mansoni on mortality rates of cohorts of 
different ages of Biomphalaria pfeifferi.

De Kock KN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Potchefstroom University for Christian Higher 
Education, South Africa.

The effect of exposure to miracidia of Schistosoma mansoni Sambon on mortality 
rates of five different age-groups of Biomphalaria pfeifferi (Krauss) was 
investigated under carefully controlled conditions in the laboratory. The per 
capita mortality rates were determined for each age-group and the mean life 
expectancy and mean snail mortalities per week calculated. It was demonstrated 
that the cohorts of snails exposed to three miracidia per snail at an age of one 
week suffered the highest mortalities during the prepatent period and had the 
shortest life-span. No significant differences could be indicated in these 
respects between cohorts of snails exposed at an age of three, four and five 
weeks to the same number of miracidia. The results of this investigation could 
make a significant contribution towards establishing and maintaining laboratory 
cultures of S. mansoni.

PMID: 8325569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. J Arthroplasty. 1993 Jun;8(3):259-68. doi: 10.1016/s0883-5403(06)80087-2.

Distal femoral arthroplasty using custom-made prostheses. The first 218 cases.

Unwin PS(1), Cobb JP, Walker PS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University College London, Royal 
National Orthopaedic Hospital, Stanmore, Middlesex, United Kingdom.

The first 218 cases of limb salvage using cemented intramedullary Stanmore 
massive distal femoral arthroplasties with a single-axis hinged knee, followed 
for an average of 58 months with a maximum of 251 months, were reviewed. 
Loosening (5%), local recurrence (4%), intramedullary stem fracture (3%), and 
infection (2%) were the major complications requiring surgical intervention. 
Loosening and implant fracture were treated by the insertion of a second massive 
replacement in all but one case. All recurrences and all but one infected case 
required amputation. Survivorship analysis showed that the overall probability 
of one of these early prostheses surviving for 10 years was 65%, and for 20 
years it was 53%. For cases of bone tumor, the probability of surviving for 10 
years was 68% (not including recurrence), for primary knee replacement cases it 
was 32%, for other bony diseases plus trauma it was 86%, and for cases of 
revised massive prostheses it was 53%. It was concluded that this type of distal 
femoral arthroplasty provided good medium-term results, but showed some 
deficiencies in the long term, particularly in younger patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0883-5403(06)80087-2
PMID: 8326306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Med Care. 1993 Jul;31(7):581-99. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199307000-00002.

Increased use of an expensive, elective procedure: total hip replacements in the 
1980s.

Friedman B(1), Elixhauser A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Provider Studies/Intramural Research/Agency for Health Care 
Policy and Research, Rockville, MD.

Between 1980 and 1987, the number of hospital discharges with total hip 
replacement (THR) increased by more than 90%, while total hospital discharges 
fell by more than 10%. Total hip replacement is one of the most costly hospital 
inpatient procedures, both per case and in total Medicare expenses. Explanations 
for the growth in use of THR may clarify some of the major forces driving 
national health care costs. This study assumes that treatment choices are made 
by (or for) each patient to maximize expected net benefits. Within this 
framework, the use of THR might have increased because of improved safety for 
the procedure, longer life expectancy and better control of many serious 
illnesses that led to increased demand for quality-enhancing procedures, and 
increased out-of-pocket cost for alternative treatments that are not covered 
well by insurance. These possible explanations imply changes in the 
characteristics of THR recipients over time. An upward shift was found in the 
age distribution of patients, more than simply because of an aging of the 
population. Sharply increased proportions of patients were also found with 
serious comorbidities such as cancer and dementia. The safety of the procedure 
seems to have improved, in terms of the death rate in the hospital. The results 
suggest that demands for expensive, elective procedures have been increasing for 
patients previously regarded as too old or impaired to benefit sufficiently. 
This process leads to continuing increases in real health care expenses even 
without the invention of new technologies.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199307000-00002
PMID: 8326773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Med J Aust. 1993 Jun 21;158(12):805-7.

The likelihood of pregnancy with IVF and GIFT in Australia and New Zealand.

Kovacs GT(1).

Author information:
(1)Monash IVF, Box Hill Hospital, VIC.

Comment in
    Med J Aust. 1993 Nov 1;159(9):637-8.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the likelihood of pregnancy for couples entering the New 
Reproductive Technology (NRT) programs in Australia and New Zealand, by 
combining the data from nearly all the practising units.
DESIGN: All units practising in-vitro fertilisation (IVF) and/or gamete 
intrafallopian transfer (GIFT) were contacted and asked to provide data on 
patients treated and pregnancy rates. These figures were then combined to 
produce life tables to determine the likelihood of pregnancy with repeated 
attempts.
SETTING: IVF/GIFT units in five States of Australia, the Australian Capital 
Territory and New Zealand. Eighteen of the 22 units provided data to be 
analysed.
PATIENTS: Data were available for analysis on 18,089 cycles of IVF resulting in 
3034 clinical pregnancies, and 6308 cycles of GIFT resulting in 1724 clinical 
pregnancies.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: This was either "clinical pregnancy" (the presence of 
products of conception on ultrasound examination), or "viable pregnancy" (a 
pregnancy developing to at least 20 weeks of gestation).
RESULTS: After four attempts at IVF, half the couples achieved a pregnancy, 
whereas four attempts at GIFT resulted in two-thirds of the couples achieving 
pregnancy.
CONCLUSION: Both IVF and GIFT are effective and successful options for infertile 
or subfertile couples. New Reproductive Technology should be readily available 
in every advanced clinic dealing with subfertile couples in the 1990s.

PMID: 8326888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Monatsschr Kinderheilkd. 1993 May;141(5):386-91.

[Mucoviscidosis. Therapeutic strategies and survival].

[Article in German]

Steinkamp G(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Kinderheilkunde I, Medizinischen Hochschule Hannover.

The life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) has increased 
considerably during the last decades due to improved therapy; one third of 
German CF patients has now grown into adult-hood. The present paper describes 
the main therapeutic principles: oral antistaphylococcal treatment, therapy of 
chronic bronchopulmonary infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa using 
intravenous, inhaled or--in adults--oral antibiotics, and improved regimens for 
the treatment of malnutrition. Finally, survival data from different CF centres 
are presented.

PMID: 8326956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Am J Hum Genet. 1993 Aug;53(2):385-90.

Anticipation in bipolar affective disorder.

McInnis MG(1), McMahon FJ, Chase GA, Simpson SG, Ross CA, DePaulo JR Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21287-7463.

Comment in
    Am J Hum Genet. 1994 Sep;55(3):589-92.
    Am J Hum Genet. 1994 Feb;54(2):386-7.

Anticipation refers to the increase in disease severity or decrease in age at 
onset in succeeding generations. This phenomenon, formerly ascribed to 
observation biases, correlates with the expansion of trinucleotide repeat 
sequences (TNRs) in some disorders. If present in bipolar affective disorder 
(BPAD), anticipation could provide clues to its genetic etiology. We compared 
age at onset and disease severity between two generations of 34 unilineal 
families ascertained for a genetic linkage study of BPAD. Life-table analyses 
showed a significant decrease in survival to first mania or depression from the 
first to the second generation (P < .001). Intergenerational pairwise 
comparisons showed both a significantly earlier age at onset (P < .001) and a 
significantly increased disease severity (P < .001) in the second generation. 
This difference was significant under each of four data-sampling schemes which 
excluded probands in the second generation. The second generation experienced 
onset 8.9-13.5 years earlier and illness 1.8-3.4 times more severe than did the 
first generation. In additional analyses, drug abuse, deaths of affected 
individuals prior to interview, decreased fertility, censoring of age at onset, 
and the cohort effect did not affect our results. We conclude that genetic 
anticipation occurs in this sample of unilineal BPAD families. These findings 
may implicate genes with expanding TNRs in the genetic etiology of BPAD.

PMCID: PMC1682370
PMID: 8328456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Am J Public Health. 1993 Jul;83(7):989-95. doi: 10.2105/ajph.83.7.989.

Forecasting the number of diabetic patients in The Netherlands in 2005.

Ruwaard D(1), Hoogenveen RT, Verkleij H, Kromhout D, Casparie AF, van der Veen 
EA.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health and Environmental Protection, Bilthoven, 
The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 1993 Jul;83(7):941-3.

OBJECTIVES: There is evidence from past decades that the number of diabetic 
patients has increased independently of changes in demography. A static model 
that takes into account only demographic changes is therefore unable to forecast 
the expected number of diabetic patients correctly.
METHODS: We developed a dynamic model in which actual incidence, prevalence, and 
life expectancy data are used and alternative assumptions about future trends in 
these parameters can be incorporated.
RESULTS: This dynamic model forecasts higher numbers of diabetic patients than 
the less sophisticated static model. According to the dynamic model, a 46% 
increase in the number of diabetic patients in The Netherlands can be expected, 
from 244,000 in 1990 to 355,000 in 2005 (about 2.5% annually). The static model 
forecasts a 22% increase.
CONCLUSIONS: Diabetes mellitus will become a more serious public health problem 
than can be expected from demographic changes only. In planning future health 
care, monitoring of trends in incidence, prevalence, remission, and mortality or 
life expectancy is a necessary prerequisite.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.83.7.989
PMCID: PMC1694793
PMID: 8328622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Nurs Outlook. 1993 Mar-Apr;41(2):93.

Wellness and health promotion of the elderly.

Ebersole P.

Comment on
    Nurs Outlook. 1992 Sep-Oct;40(5):221-6.

PMID: 8329039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Fortschr Med. 1993 Jun 10;111(16):274-8.

[Visual acuity and automobile driving fitness in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Busse H(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Augenheilkunde, Universität Münster/Westf.

BASIC REMARKS: Both physiological age-related degeneration of the organ of sight 
and its adnexa, and pathological age-related diseases, such as cataract, 
glaucoma or senile macula degeneration, impair a person's eyesight.
MAJOR POINTS DISCUSSED: The consequences include a decrease in visual acuity, 
impairment of the visual field, diminishment of dark adaptation, twilight 
vision, contrast perception, and stereoscopic vision, together with a dramatic 
increase in sensitivity to light. All these phenomena may greatly reduce the 
elderly person's ability to cope with the demands made by modern traffic. Our 
investigations do, however, indicate that in parallel with increasing life 
expectancy, the physiological and pathological age-related changes in the organ 
of sight may be occurring later than formerly. Moreover, modern surgical 
techniques, for example senile cataract with implantation of an intraocular 
lens, may achieve optical rehabilitation.
CONCLUSION: Active participation of the elderly in road traffic, for example 
driving a car, is certainly possible from the point of view of the 
ophthalmologist. Nevertheless, the introduction of regular testing of vision 
from the age of 65 onwards is to be recommended.

PMID: 8330825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1993 Jul;75(4):604-7. doi:
10.1302/0301-620X.75B4.8331117.

Hip disease in adults with Down syndrome.

Hresko MT(1), McCarthy JC, Goldberg MJ.

Author information:
(1)Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts 02111.

The life expectancy of patients with Down syndrome has increased significantly 
in recent years. Hip abnormalities occur in children with this syndrome but 
little is known about their natural history in later life. In 65 adults with 
Down syndrome we found hip abnormalities in 28%, and this was statistically 
correlated with walking ability. A subgroup of 18 patients was followed by 
serial examination; this showed that hip instability occurred in adulthood and 
became worse with time. In some patients, hip instability started after skeletal 
maturity.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.75B4.8331117
PMID: 8331117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. J Neurosurg. 1993 Aug;79(2):174-82. doi: 10.3171/jns.1993.79.2.0174.

Natural history of unruptured intracranial aneurysms: a long-term follow-up 
study.

Juvela S(1), Porras M, Heiskanen O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.

Comment in
    J Neurosurg. 1994 Apr;80(4):772-4.

To investigate the natural history of unruptured aneurysms and predictive risk 
factors determining subsequent rupture, the authors followed 142 patients with 
181 unruptured aneurysms until death or subarachnoid hemorrhage intervened, or 
for at least 10 years after the unruptured aneurysm was diagnosed. Six patients 
had a symptomatic aneurysm, five had an incidentally discovered aneurysm, and 
131 had multiple aneurysms, of which the ruptured lesion was clipped at the 
beginning of the follow-up study. The median follow-up time was 13.9 years 
(range 0.8 to 30.0 years). During 1944 patient-years of follow-up study there 
were 27 first episodes of hemorrhage from a previously unruptured aneurysm, 
giving an average annual rupture incidence of 1.4%. Fourteen of these bleeding 
episodes were fatal. The cumulative rate of bleeding was 10% at 10 years, 26% at 
20 years, and 32% at 30 years after the diagnosis. The only predictor for the 
rupture was the size of the aneurysm (p = 0.036). However, in patients with 
multiple aneurysms (the main subgroup) the only variable that tended to predict 
rupture was the age of the patient: risk of rupture was inversely associated 
with age (p = 0.080). The median diameter of the aneurysms was 4 mm at the 
beginning of the follow-up period, both in those with and those without a later 
hemorrhage. During the angiographic monitoring period, a ruptured aneurysm 
significantly (p < 0.001) increased in size in 17 patients with hemorrhage but 
aneurysms did not increase significantly in 14 patients without hemorrhage. In 
addition, a new aneurysm was found in six of 31 patients. The authors conclude 
that an unruptured aneurysm should be operated on, irrespective of its size, if 
it is technically possible and the patient's age and concurrent diseases are not 
contraindications to surgery.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1993.79.2.0174
PMID: 8331397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Nihon Rinsho. 1993 May;51(5):1379-92.

[Prognosis of heart failure and factors influencing mortality].

[Article in Japanese]

Sasayama S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Kyoto University.

According to the recent concept, heart failure has been regarded as the syndrome 
in which left ventricular function is associated with shortened life expectancy. 
Thus, an understanding of heart failure is of the utmost importance in 
understanding the mortality. Five primary factors that appear to influence 
prognosis in heart failure are an etiology of heart failure, the severity of 
ventricular dysfunction, the degree of impairment of exercise capacity, the 
activation of neurohumoral factors, and high incidence of ventricular 
arrhythmias. Both left ventricular ejection fraction and exercise tolerance bear 
a close relationship to survival in heart failure but there is only weak 
correlation between these two parameters indicating that each factor may be an 
independent determinant of survival. Sympathetic stimulation could certainly 
increase the likelihood of lethal ventricular arrhythmias and contribute to 
sudden death in heart failure. However, the result of recent large scale trials 
have indicated that reduction of mortality in patients with chronic heart 
failure and low ejection fraction by medical treatment was not necessarily a 
result of the reduced mortality due to an arrhythmia but that due to progressive 
heart failure. Establishing the prognosis of a patient with heart failure may be 
of considerable importance in patient management.

PMID: 8331807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. J Surg Oncol. 1993 Jul;53(3):154-60. doi: 10.1002/jso.2930530305.

Limb salvage surgery for locally aggressive and malignant bone tumors.

Shih LY(1), Chen TS, Lo WH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology, Veterans General Hospital-Taipei, 
Taiwan, Republic of China.

Since 1983, 77 patients have had limb salvage surgery for locally aggressive or 
malignant bone tumor of the limbs or pelvis. Twenty-nine patients had locally 
aggressive lesions with giant cell tumors the most prevalent, and 48 patients 
had malignant lesions, of which osteosarcomas predominated. Resection with a 
wide margin could be achieved in most of the patients. A mobile joint 
reconstruction was performed in 57 patients and an arthrodesis in 14 patients. 
At follow-up, 14 patients have died of disease, 7 patients have survived with 
disease, and 56 patients (73%) have survived without disease. Local recurrences 
were encountered in 4 patients (5%). The overall functional results were 
classified as excellent in 11 patients, good in 45 patients, and fair in 9 
patients. Twelve patients had poor results because of failure of the 
reconstruction or amputation due to complications. Twenty-seven complications 
were encountered, among which infection was the most serious. Careful selection 
of patients and consideration of procedure chosen to reconstruct the defect are 
important for a successful outcome. This decision is based on a number of 
factors related to the tumor and the patient. Presently, major neurovascular 
involvement, displaced pathological fracture, inappropriate biopsy incision, 
extreme youth of the patient, and infection were considered to be 
contraindications to resection in our institution. Although various procedures 
promise functional restoration, the reconstructive procedure should be 
individualized and designed to meet the needs of the patient.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.2930530305
PMID: 8331937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Versicherungsmedizin. 1993 Jun 1;45(3):93-9.

[Medical, psychosocial rehabilitation and prevention in patients with epilepsy].

[Article in German]

Durwen HF(1), Diehl LW.

Author information:
(1)Neurologischen Universitätsklinik, Knappschaftskrankenhaus, 
Bochum-Langendreer.

Patients suffering from epilepsy and quite frequently reversible impairment of 
personality and individual development are in need of specific, disease-related 
measures of rehabilitation. Particularly, the complexity of the disorder 
prevents from a responsible and successful self-management. In order to obtain 
effective rehabilitation and reintegration into all aspects of social life it is 
essential to initiate a comprehensive treatment plan for the patients at the 
earliest possible stage considering personality, the distinct form of seizures, 
education and training as well as the condition of the environment. It requires 
various programs of precise examination and preventive treatment at specific 
facilities to ensure the desired success of rehabilitation. Thus multiple social 
disadvantages as well as unnecessary longterm costs may be avoided and mainly 
that kind of therapy will result in a better life quality and prolonged life 
expectancy for the epileptic patients.

PMID: 8333102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Zentralbl Hyg Umweltmed. 1993 Feb;194(1-2):80-8.

[Nutritional needs of the aged].

[Article in German]

Volkert D(1).

Author information:
(1)Geriatrisches Zentrum Bethanien am Klinikum, Universität Heidelberg.

Increasing life-expectancy and the high prevalence of diseases in the elderly 
result in a rapidly growing number of people who are in need of help. There is 
overall agreement on the importance of nutrition in the care of old people and 
its influence on health and well-being. In contrast to the younger elderly, 
where overnutrition is still the main nutritional problem, undernutrition is 
quite common amongst the very old and ill. Physical and mental impairment, 
social and financial restriction affect food intake and nutritional status and 
are considered as risk factors for malnutrition. Food habits such as frequent 
use of tinned food, long cooking times or improper food storage promote the risk 
of nutritional deficiencies as well as the risk of bacterial contamination. Age- 
and nutrition-related changes in immune function lead to an increased 
susceptibility to infections in the elderly. Therefore special attention should 
be paid to the consumption of a variety of fresh foods with a high nutrient 
density and on careful food handling. Sufficient intake of fluid and fibre 
should also be emphasized.

PMID: 8333903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Aust N Z J Ophthalmol. 1993 May;21(2):87-92. doi: 
10.1111/j.1442-9071.1993.tb00759.x.

Laser photocoagulation treatment of choroidal melanoma.

Qiang Z(1), Cairns JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Teaching Hospital, FinZhou Medical College, 
People's Republic of China.

Comment in
    Aust N Z J Ophthalmol. 1994 Feb;22(1):85-6.

Ten cases of choroidal melanoma were treated with Argon and/or Krypton laser 
photocoagulation in this retrospective study. Each patient received an average 
of 9.6 laser treatment sessions. Three female and seven male patients were 
treated and followed for an average of 69.9 months. Clinical regression was 
observed in seven cases (70%). Tumour size in these successfully treated cases 
ranged from 4.5 x 5.0 x 1.5 mm to 7.0 x 7.0 x 3.5 mm. Continued growth occurred 
in one case (10%), tumour recurrence which failed to respond to additional laser 
treatment in another (10%), and although a recurrence appeared to respond to 
additional laser in a third case (the largest tumour in the series 11.0 x 9.0 x 
2.5 mm) extraocular extension was found at enucleation (10%). Complications of 
laser treatment included cystoid macular oedema (Case 5), branch retinal vein 
occlusion (Cases 3 and 6), vitreous haemorrhage from neovascularisation at the 
edge of the scar, optic atrophy and thrombotic glaucoma (Case 8), and macular 
involvement by laser (Cases 4, 7 and 10). All patients remain alive without any 
clinical evidence of metastatic disease at the end of the follow-up period. 
These results suggest that laser photocoagulation treatment is a useful option 
in the management of small choroidal melanomas. It avoids the psychological 
trauma of enucleation, and maintains some vision, without compromising life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.1993.tb00759.x
PMID: 8333939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 1993 May-Jun;16(3):165-77. doi:
10.1007/BF02641886.

Total occlusion of iliac arteries: results of balloon angioplasty.

Gupta AK(1), Ravimandalam K, Rao VR, Joseph S, Unni M, Rao AS, Neelkandhan KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences 
and Technology, Trivandrum, India.

Fifty-six occluded iliac arteries (mean length 6.1 cm; range 1-17 cm) in 50 
patients were treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) or 
laser-assisted PTA (bilateral lesions in 6 patients). Twenty-seven patients 
(54%) were at high risk for surgery. Patients were followed for a maximum period 
of 72 months (mean 23.12 months; median 20 months). The initial success rate was 
78.57% for arteries and 82% for patients. Laser-assisted PTA was attempted in 11 
occluded arteries (19.64%) and was successful in 4 arteries (7.14%). 
Conventional PTA was successful in 71.4% of arteries including all 7 arteries 
for which laser-assisted PTA failed (76% of patients). PTA was unsuccessful in 
12 arteries (21.43%). Urokinase was used before PTA in 1 artery. The effect of 
PTA was evident clinically by relief of rest pain (66.66%), healing of ulcer 
(57%), increased claudication distance or no claudication (79%) in limbs, and 
objectively, by improvement in ankle/arm index (AAI) (an increase of 0.16 to 
0.91) and increased exercise tolerance. Continuous improvement in AAI was 
observed after PTA on follow-up in 9 limbs. One patient died during follow-up. 
On follow-up, 3 arteries were occluded, 6 showed evidence of stenosis, and 1 
showed fusiform dilatation at the PTA site. The long-term results using the 
life-table method determined a 76% primary patency rate and 81% secondary 
patency rate for 72 months. The overall patency including failures was 63%. Age 
of the patients (p = 0.0169) and hypertension (p = 0.0015) significantly 
affected the long-term patency of the artery but not the initial success. The 
major complications were arterial rupture in a repeat procedure in 1 artery, 
axillary artery thrombosis in 1, and distal thromboembolic occlusion during PTA 
in 4. The long-term patency rates suggest that PTA of totally occluded iliac 
arteries is a safe and effective procedure and provides a long-term benefit.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02641886
PMID: 8334688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Dev Med Child Neurol. 1993 Aug;35(8):732-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.1993.tb11719.x.

A case of macrocephaly, hydrocephalus, megacerebellum, white matter 
abnormalities and Rosenthal fibres.

Torreman M(1), Smit LM, van der Valk P, Valk J, Scheltens P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital, Amsterdam.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 1993 Nov;35(11):1025.

The authors report the case of a young boy with macrocephaly, cerebellar 
symptoms and signs of raised intracranial pressure. Magnetic resonance imaging 
showed obstruction of the aqueduct, ventricular enlargement of the cerebellum 
and areas of increased signal intensity in the cerebellar and frontal white 
matter. A stereotactic biopsy of the cerebellum showed many Rosenthal fibres and 
glial proliferation. Although the histopathological and neuroradiological 
findings were suggestive of Alexander's disease, the initial presentation and 
clinical course were unusual for this diagnosis. The authors suggest that a 
separate form of Alexander's disease should be distinguished with predominant 
clinical, neuroradiological and neuropathological cerebellar involvement. This 
form also seems to have a better life-expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.1993.tb11719.x
PMID: 8335162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Dev Med Child Neurol. 1993 Aug;35(8):742-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.1993.tb11722.x.

Are gains in child health being undermined?

Wadsworth M(1), Kuh D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.1993.tb11722.x
PMID: 8335164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 1993;119(10):578-93. doi: 10.1007/BF01372721.

The value of tumour spread, grading and growth pattern as morphological 
predictive parameters in bladder carcinoma. A critical revision of the 1987 TNM 
classification.

Angulo JC, Lopez JI, Flores N, Toledo JD.

A group of 343 patients with bladder carcinomas was uniformly staged, both 
clinico-radiologically and pathologically. In accordance with pathological 
staging, they were treated from 1983 to 1990 and follow-up was closed on January 
1992. No systemic chemotherapy regime was used. The present study was designed 
to assess the value of classical morphological parameters (tumour extension, 
histological subtype, grade and growth pattern) in the prediction of prognosis, 
and also to evaluate the adequacy of the current TNM classification (4th 
edition, 1987) of bladder cancer. The initial tumour stage appears the most 
useful criterion in the prediction of prognosis. Nevertheless, survival analysis 
confirms the necessity to modify the present TNM classification for routine 
clinical practice. In fact, stage III proves to be heterogeneous, and the 
difference in survival between categories pT3a and pT3b is even more 
statistically significant (log-rank P < 0.01) than the difference between pT2 
and pT3 as a whole (log-rank P < 0.02). Consequently, invasion of the muscular 
layer should be reclassified into a common stage II, equivalent to the B 
category in the ABCD system. Moreover, stage IV is also heterogeneous in terms 
of survival. Despite the overall life-expectancy being rather poor for a patient 
with bladder carcinoma, three subsets with different prognosis (log-rank P < 
0.001) can be identified: pT4N0M0; pTxN1-3M0; pTxNyM1, where x and y represent 
any number. Therefore, we believe that various subgroups should be distinguished 
in a future edition of the TNM classification. Current treatment modalities, 
involving the role of systemic chemotherapy and aimed at bladder preservation, 
make such innovations even more convenient for a new edition of the TNM 
classification of bladder cancer. Apart from tumour staging, several microscopic 
morphological parameters are valuable in distinguishing patients with different 
prognosis. Pure transitional-cell histology, papillar growth, and low grade, are 
favourable data. In fact, tumour grade, although somewhat subjective, is a 
factor of major prognostic importance. Pauwels' distinction of intermedium grade 
2 into 2A and 2B is also helpful in the assessment of a population of 
"intermediate" prognosis. Similarly, with regard to superficial tumours, the 
division of infiltration levels of subepithelial connective tissue into 
"superficial" or "deep into the muscularis mucosae", is also relevant, even 
after stratification by grade.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01372721
PMID: 8335677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. J Am Dent Assoc. 1993 Mar;124(3):55-60. doi:
10.14219/jada.archive.1993.0057.

Practice management considerations for an aging population.

Niessen LC(1), Mash LK, Gibson G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, Baylor College of Dentistry, Dallas 
75246.

Older adults are visiting their dentists more frequently than in the past and 
expecting higher levels of oral health throughout their lives. Special 
considerations for this age group and marketing tips are discussed.

DOI: 10.14219/jada.archive.1993.0057
