PMID: 8335781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1993 Aug;22(2):343-52. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(93)90036-z.

Fee-for-benefit: a strategy to improve the quality of health care and control 
costs through reimbursement incentives.

Diamond GA(1), Denton TA, Matloff JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA 90048.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to determine whether reimbursement in 
direct proportion to expected therapeutic benefit is capable of improving the 
utilization and cost of health care.
BACKGROUND: The benefit associated with a particular medical or surgical 
treatment varies widely from patient to patient. Nevertheless, payment to the 
provider of the treatment is essentially invariant under the current 
fee-for-service system. Under an alternative fee-for-benefit strategy, empiric 
data are used to construct a multivariate model to predict the expected benefit 
to an individual patient from a particular health care service on the basis of 
conventional clinical descriptors. The payers and the providers of the service 
then openly negotiate an explicit economic relation between expected benefit and 
monetary payment such that payment is directly proportional to benefit.
METHODS: Computer simulations were performed to determine the potential impact 
of this fee-for-benefit strategy with respect to medical versus surgical 
treatment of coronary artery disease.
RESULTS: Compared with conventional fee-for-service, fee-for-benefit resulted in 
a 12% improvement in patient benefit (quality-adjusted survival), a 22% 
reduction in provider payments and a 55% increase in cost/benefit (the ratio of 
benefit to payment).
CONCLUSIONS: The incentives embodied in a fee-for-benefit strategy can be an 
effective mechanism for encouraging more appropriate health care utilization 
while simultaneously controlling health care costs.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(93)90036-z
PMID: 8335803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. J Clin Oncol. 1993 Aug;11(8):1523-8. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.8.1523.

Hydroxyurea versus misonidazole with radiation in cervical carcinoma: long-term 
follow-up of a Gynecologic Oncology Group trial.

Stehman FB(1), Bundy BN, Thomas G, Keys HM, d'Ablaing G 3rd, Fowler WC Jr, 
Mortel R, Creasman WT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Indiana University Medical Center, 
Indianapolis.

PURPOSE: Long-term follow-up data of a randomized trial that compared 
hydroxyurea and the hypoxic-cell radiosensitizer to misonidazole as adjuncts to 
standard radiation therapy in locally advanced carcinoma of the cervix are 
reported.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Three hundred eight women were entered, and all 294 
eligible patients are assessable as randomized. Eighty-one percent of patients 
have been monitored for 5 years or to death.
RESULTS: There was an advantage for hydroxyurea in progression-free interval and 
survival (P = .05 and P = .066, respectively). There was no significant 
difference in the distribution of sites of failure between the regimens. For the 
39% of patients with stages III to IVA disease, the advantage in 
progression-free interval for hydroxyurea was significant (47.8% v 33.6%). More 
leukopenia occurred on the hydroxyurea regimen than on the misonidazole regimen.
CONCLUSION: In summary, these data provide stronger evidence than our previous 
analysis that hydroxyurea is superior to misonidazole as an adjunct to radiation 
therapy. For patients with locally advanced carcinoma of the cervix, hydroxyurea 
continues to be the adjunct of choice with radiation.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.8.1523
PMID: 8336190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Med Educ. 1993 May;27(3):286-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2923.1993.tb00270.x.

Medical students' attitudes to and knowledge of the aged.

Shahidi S(1), Devlen J.

Author information:
(1)Academic Department of Psychiatry, London Hospital Medical College, UK.

It is a fact that, with the increase in life expectancy, an increasing 
proportion of the population will consist of elderly people in future years, 
particularly those over 85 years of age (Bromley 1988). The provision of care 
for the aged is an important aspect of undergraduate medical training (Gale & 
Livesley 1975; Steele 1987). However, it is essential to realize that if medical 
practitioners do turn their attention more towards the elderly, their knowledge 
about the aged and their attitudes towards them are of vital importance. 
Moreover, studying medical students' attitudes and knowledge would be valuable 
for the training and education of future practitioners.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2923.1993.tb00270.x
PMID: 8336581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Paraplegia. 1993 Jun;31(6):367-74. doi: 10.1038/sc.1993.61.

Factors related to the outcome of inpatient rehabilitation in patients with 
neoplastic epidural spinal cord compression.

Hacking HG(1), Van As HH, Lankhorst GJ.

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

In this study we have tried to develop a method to predict the survival and the 
functional outcome following neoplastic spinal cord injury (SCI), which can be 
helpful when selecting patients for an intensive inpatient rehabilitation 
programme. We reviewed the clinical records of all patients with neoplastic 
epidural spinal cord compression, admitted to any Dutch spinal cord unit (SCU) 
between 1-1-1985 and 1-1-1990 (n = 74). According to the outcome on 1-1-1991 the 
average stay at the SCU was 111 days, whereas the average survival after 
discharge was 423 days. Seven patients died during their stay. Of all of the 
factors analysed, six showed a positive relationship with prolonged survival (> 
one year after discharge) and improved functional level: tumour biology 
(lymphoma, myeloma, breast and kidney tumours); SCI as the presenting symptom of 
the malignancy; slow (> 1 week) progression rate of neurological symptoms; 
tumours treated with a combination of surgery and radiotherapy; (partial) bowel 
control at admission; and (partial) independence regarding transfer activities 
at admission. A sum score (range 0-6) of these indicators is introduced. A 
patient with a sum score of 0-1 has zero probability of living longer than one 
year after discharge and 0.19 of functional improvement during stay at the SCU. 
A score of 5-6 yields probabilities of 0.77 and 0.92 respectively. We conclude 
that the sum score can be helpful when selecting patients for an intensive 
inpatient rehabilitation programme or modifying such a programme. Validation for 
application in a general hospital is needed.

DOI: 10.1038/sc.1993.61
PMID: 8336999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Rev Invest Clin. 1993 Mar-Apr;45(2):133-8.

Transfusion associated AIDS in Mexico. Clinical spectrum, conditional latency 
distribution, and survival.

Volkow P(1), Ponce de León S, Calva J, Ruiz-Palacios G, Mohar A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Instituto Nacional de Cancerología, 
México, D.F.

There is very little information on the clinical spectrum and the incubation 
period among AIDS patients in Latin America. This study reports the clinical 
spectrum, survival, and the incubation period for a group of Mexican patients 
infected with HIV-1 as a result of contaminated blood transfusion. We analyzed 
data from 39 patients of whom date of transfusion and diagnosis were known. The 
clinical spectrum of the disease was compared with a group of AIDS Mexican 
patients infected by sexual route. The prevalence distribution of opportunistic 
infections was similar in both groups. However, there was a significant 
difference in the distribution of opportunistic malignancies, i.e., Kaposi's 
sarcoma was observed only in the homosexual group. AIDS developed within 48 
months after infection (3% within 12 months after transfusion, 50% within 29 
months, 75% within 36 months, and the remaining within four years). The mean 
survival was of nine months after AIDS is made, the survival in this group of 
AIDS Mexican patients was similar to that observed in other HIV-1 exposed risk 
groups in Mexico. These findings suggest that the route of exposure to HIV-1 may 
have prognostic implications in the natural history of this infection in the 
Mexican population.

PIP: Transfusions-associated AIDS represents 14.7% of total AIDS cases reported 
to the National Council of AIDS in Mexico. The incidence of HIV infection via 
this route and the resulting related prevalence of AIDS patients have rapidly 
increased since 1987 as a result of the high seroprevalence of HIV-1 infection 
among the pool of paid blood donors; 7.2% of 9100 donors screened between June 
and November 1986 were HIV-seropositive. This paper presents the clinical 
spectrum, survival, and incubation period for 39 Mexican patients with AIDS 
infected with HIV-1 from contaminated blood transfusions. The authors compare 
these data with corresponding information on a group of 107 homosexual Mexican 
AIDS patients at the National Institute of Nutrition infected with HIV through 
sexual intercourse. The former group was comprised of 13 men and 26 women of 
mean age 38.8 years over the range 2-76 years from 3 hospitals in Mexico City. 
The Kaplan-Meier method was used to determine mean survival. The prevalence 
distribution of opportunistic infections was similar between groups. The 
distribution of opportunistic malignancies was, however, significantly different 
between groups, with Kaposi's sarcoma being present among only the homosexuals 
(47%). Herpes zoster was present among 21% of those infected via transfusion, 
but in only 7% of the homosexuals. AIDS developed within 48 months after 
infection in the transfusion-infected individuals and they survived for a mean 
period of 9 months after being diagnosed with AIDS. This average survival period 
is similar to that observed in other HIV-1 exposed risk groups in Mexico. These 
findings suggest that the route of exposure to HIV-1 may have prognostic 
implications in the natural history of infection in the Mexican population.

PMID: 8337540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1993 Apr 30;113(11):1371-3.

[Health care politicians are not concerned about maximum health gain per crown].

[Article in Norwegian]

Nord E(1).

Author information:
(1)Seksjon for helsetjenesteforskning, Statens Institutt for Folkehelse, Oslo.

A survey among 150 members and deputy members of County Health and Social 
Welfare Committees in Norway showed little support of the idea of maximizing 
health gain when allocating scarce resources among different patient groups. The 
majority would distribute resources equally between groups that were equally ill 
but differed in respect of life expectancy and degree of potential improvement 
in health. A procedure for setting priorities is called for which makes it 
possible to weigh the severity of the condition against the effect of treatment, 
and strike a balance between these two factors in quantitative terms.

PMID: 8337630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 1993 Apr;87 Suppl 1:S19-22. doi: 
10.1016/0035-9203(93)90522-r.

No reason for complacency about the potential demographic impact of AIDS in 
Africa.

Garnett GP(1), Anderson RM.

Author information:
(1)Parasite Epidemiology Research Group, Imperial College, London, UK.

Much uncertainty surrounds the likely demographic impact of AIDS in the worst 
afflicted regions of the developing world such as sub-Saharan Africa. Various 
research groups have published projections of future trends but these differ 
widely with respect to potential impact on net population growth rates. 
Pessimistic forecasts suggest that AIDS may reverse the sign of a 3% to 4% 
population growth rate before the establishment of HIV, over time periods of a 
few to many decades. Optimistic forecasts suggest a decline in population growth 
rates, but predict that a 3% growth rate before AIDS may be reduced by only 
about 50% over a period of a few decades. This paper reports new analyses of the 
demographic impact of AIDS, based on observed age-stratified prevalences of 
HIV-1 infection amongst women of child bearing age. It is assumed that the 
observed patterns reflect the final endemic state and the implications of this 
assumption for adult and infant mortality and female reproductive life 
expectancy are assessed. It is concluded that a variety of scenarios is 
possible, depending on the detail of assumptions concerning life expectancy 
before the arrival of AIDS, the incubation period of the disease, and the rate 
of vertical transmission. Realistic assumptions do suggest, however, that the 
observed prevalences of infection in the worst afflicted regions of sub-Saharan 
Africa are sufficient to reduce current population growth rates to close to, or 
below, zero in the coming decades.

DOI: 10.1016/0035-9203(93)90522-r
PMID: 8337743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Aviat Space Environ Med. 1993 Jun;64(6):522-7.

Performance and mood-state parameters during 30-day 6 degrees head-down bed rest 
with exercise training.

DeRoshia CW(1), Greenleaf JE.

Collaborators: Greenleaf JE(2).

Author information:
(1)Life Science Division, NASA, Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, CA 
94035-1000.
(2)ARC

The study was designed to determine if performance and mood impairments occur in 
bed-rested subjects, and if different exercise-training regimens modify or 
prevent them. Eighteen normal, healthy men were divided on the basis of age, 
peak oxygen uptake, and maximal isometric knee extension strength into three 
similar groups: no exercise (NOE), isotonic exercise (ITE), and isokinetic 
exercise (IKE). A 15-min battery of 10 performance tests and 8 mood and 2 sleep 
scales were administered daily during ambulatory control, 30 d of absolute bed 
rest (BR), and 4 d of ambulatory recovery. Performance test proficiency 
increased (p < 0.05) for all three groups during BR in 7 of 10 tests and there 
were no consistent significant differences between the three groups. However, 
during BR, the ITE group was distinguished from the other groups by a decline (p 
< 0.05) in the activation mood dimension and in two of its constituent scales 
(motivation and concentration), and by improvement (p < 0.05) in the 
trouble-falling-asleep and psychological-tension scales. Since few deleterious 
changes in performance and mood occurred in the three groups and did not exceed 
baseline ambulatory levels, we conclude that mood and performance did not 
deteriorate in response to prolonged BR and were not altered by exercise 
training. However, the decline in activation mood scales in the ITE group may 
reflect overtraining or excess total workload in this group.

PMID: 8338499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Br J Neurosurg. 1993;7(3):241-8. doi: 10.3109/02688699309023805.

Skull base chordomas: a review of 38 patients, 1958-88.

Watkins L(1), Khudados ES, Kaleoglu M, Revesz T, Sacares P, Crockard HA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Neurology, National Hospital for Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, Queen Square, London, UK.

The presentation and results of treatment are reviewed for 38 patients with 
skull base chordoma treated at the National Hospital for Neurology and 
Neurosurgery between 1958 and 1988. With few exceptions, previous studies have 
combined results for clival and sacral chordomas, or for chordomas and other 
similar tumours such as chondrosarcoma, and thus it is difficult to be specific 
about effects of therapy. This study included histological review using 
immunohistochemistry to confirm diagnosis. Analysis of the survival data for our 
patients suggests that there are two subgroups with distinct survival patterns: 
one group with high mortality within the first 5 years, and a second group with 
an indolent disease process and near normal life expectancy. The age of the 
patients at presentation ranged from 7 to 78 years, with a mean of 44.3 years. 
Male: female distribution was 6:5. The commonest presentation was with cranial 
nerve palsy (94%) or with headache (60%). The most frequently involved cranial 
nerve was the VIth (60%), followed by the IXth and Xth (40% each). Comparing our 
results with those of 50 years ago, there was little improvement in the outlook 
for these patients, despite improvements in surgical approaches and the use of 
radiotherapy. The promising results in skull base tumours using proton therapy 
must be treated with caution until definite criteria for diagnosis and outcome 
have been established. There is a case for a multicentre prospective study of 
this disease.

DOI: 10.3109/02688699309023805
PMID: 8338644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Br J Rheumatol. 1993 Jul;32(7):537-40. doi: 10.1093/rheumatology/32.7.537.

The epidemiology of rheumatoid arthritis in Indonesia.

Darmawan J(1), Muirden KD, Valkenburg HA, Wigley RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Medical Faculty, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.

The prevalence of RA was investigated as part of a house-to-house survey of 
musculoskeletal pain in a total population of 4683 rural and 1071 urban subjects 
15 years of age and over in Central Java. Those identified as having peripheral 
joint pain of more than 6 weeks duration (82 men and 129 women) were examined by 
a rheumatologist (JD) and serology tests and X-rays arranged. The prevalence of 
definite RA by ARA criteria was 0.2% in rural and 0.3% in urban subjects. The 
severity of diagnosed cases was indicated by Steinbrocker's functional 
classification of grades 2 and 3 and erosive arthritis on hand X-rays of grades 
2-4. The low prevalence rate of RA compared with that found in developed 
countries is due partly to the different age structure of the population and 
lower life expectancy. There is also evidence of high mortality from the 
disease. This is thought to be due to the deprived socio-economic circumstances, 
the intermittent use of high dose corticosteroids and the frequent presence of 
severe infections in these communities. These factors should be considered when 
assessing the low prevalence of RA in surveys in other developing countries.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/32.7.537
PMID: 8339121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Br J Rheumatol. 1993 Jul;32(7):568-73. doi: 10.1093/rheumatology/32.7.568.

Lupus anticoagulant as a prognostic marker in systemic lupus erythematosus.

Jouhikainen T(1), Stephansson E, Leirisalo-Repo M.

Author information:
(1)Finnish Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service, Helsinki.

To evaluate the prognostic significance of lupus anticoagulant (LA), 37 SLE 
patients with LA and 37 age- and sex-matched SLE patients without LA were 
followed up for a median of 22 years, of which 16 years (median) after the 
initial LA-testing. Deep venous thrombosis was observed in 20 (54%) patients 
with LA. Of these patients, 90% had the first episode within 8 years after the 
onset of SLE symptoms, as compared to only one of the six LA-negative patients 
with deep venous thrombosis (P 0.0001). Cerebral artery occlusions were more 
common in patients with LA (P 0.016), but typically appeared as a late 
phenomenon. Nephritis or neuropsychiatric manifestations, previously associated 
with a poor outcome in SLE, did not correlate with the presence of LA. However, 
higher mortality was associated with both LA (P 0.021) and a history of deep 
venous thrombosis (P 0.004), as well as with nephritis (P 0.038). The most 
common cause of death in both LA positives and negatives was vascular occlusion. 
In conclusion, it appears that the first episode of deep venous thrombosis in 
patients with LA is typically seen early in the course of disease, and that LA 
and a history of deep venous thrombosis are both associated with increased 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/32.7.568
PMID: 8339126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. J Am Acad Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 1993 Jul;32(4):723-30. doi: 
10.1097/00004583-199307000-00004.

The impact of parental affective disorder on depression in offspring: a 
longitudinal follow-up in a nonreferred sample.

Beardslee WR(1), Keller MB, Lavori PW, Staley J, Sacks N.

Author information:
(1)Judge Baker Children's Center, Department of Psychiatry, Boston, MA 02115.

OBJECTIVE: This study explored the effects of parental affective disorder on 
offspring in a nonreferred health maintenance organization 4 years after initial 
examination.
METHOD: The sample, average age 18.5 years, included 91% of the 153 youngsters 
initially studied. The main instruments were structured diagnostic interviews 
scored according to criterion systems for both parents and children; assessment 
of the youngsters was blind to the previous assessment.
RESULTS: Rates of major depressive disorder were higher in the children of 
parents with affective disorder (26%) compared with those whose parents had no 
disorder (10%).
CONCLUSION: Depression and other parental affective disorders, as they occur in 
the community in parents who often are neither recognized nor treated, are 
associated with serious affective disorder in offspring. Clinical and preventive 
approaches for these offspring are needed and should be targeted to all families 
in which there is serious parental affective disorder, not just those who 
present for psychiatric treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/00004583-199307000-00004
PMID: 8340291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. J La State Med Soc. 1993 May;145(5):207-12.

Medical choices in the 90s: transplantation and donation.

Travitzky VA(1), Smart F, Hayes DH, Jacobbi LM.

Author information:
(1)Organ Recovery Service, Louisiana Organ Procurement Agency, Metairie 70002.

Heart transplantation is a growing field that offers the promise of meaningful 
life extension to individuals in end-stage organ failure. This technology is not 
only costly but dependent on limited access to cadaveric donor organs. Although 
advances in transplantation biology may someday allow for reduced cost and easy 
access to organs from nonhuman sources, today the "most readily available" 
source remains those organs which are donated by human donors. But despite the 
fact of being the "most readily available" they are far from being readily 
accessible. Due to these advances in transplantation, physicians are able to 
offer the "choice" of transplantation to their patients in whom end-stage organ 
failure exists. As more patients are referred for transplantation, the need for 
donor organs grows. And because of this need, physicians must begin to consider 
how to offer another choice, the "choice" of organ donation. In order to offer 
this option, knowledge of patient selection, evaluation, and suitable time of 
referral is important if the practitioner is to counsel potential donor 
families. This article provides a background and brief description of the 
Louisiana donor process.

PMID: 8340683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Methods Inf Med. 1993 Apr;32(3):199-202.

Economic evaluation of a Ninngen-dokku (medical checkup).

Shimizu T(1), Suzuki T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care, Tokyo Metropolitan Police Hospital, Japan.

An economic evaluation of a medical checkup center (Ninngen-dokku, "human dry 
dock") was conducted from two perspectives: the cost for cancer checkup, and the 
cost for medical treatment after a diagnosis was obtained. We studied the cost 
of diagnosing cancer, compared with the cost required when cancer of an 
individual organ was detected through mass health testing, and studied the 
economics of a Ninngen-dokku according to Kawai's method of medical judgment. 
Assuming that the cost of death is more than the cost of saving the lives of 
persons who undergo the Ninngen-dokku, the Ninngen-dokku will be affordable. In 
the group undergoing the Ninngen-dokku compared with the group which did not, 
the estimated cost of medical treatment was reduced. The Ninngen-dokku carries 
advantages that cannot be quantified in financial terms; therefore, a 
multi-layered economic analysis of the Ninngen-dokku was required.

PMID: 8341148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Med Pediatr Oncol. 1993;21(7):470-6. doi: 10.1002/mpo.2950210703.

Superior prognosis in combined compared to isolated bone marrow relapses in 
salvage therapy of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Bührer C(1), Hartmann R, Fengler R, Dopfer R, Gadner H, Gerein V, Göbel U, 
Reiter A, Ritter J, Henze G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology, Virchow Medical Center, Berlin Free 
University, Germany.

Three hundred twenty-six children with bone marrow (BM) relapse of non-B acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) were stratified according to the time of relapse in 
three consecutive multicenter trials--ALL-REZ BFM 83, 85, and 87. Employing an 
intensive polychemotherapy regimen, extramedullary involvement appeared to be 
predictive of superior outcome in both strata as well as in the whole group 
(probability of 7-year event-free survival (EFS) 42% in combined vs. 15% in 
isolated BM relapse, P = 0.015). Children with combined BM relapse occurring 
later than 6 months after completion of front-line therapy reached EFS estimates 
of 60%. We conclude that results of conventional polychemotherapy with BFM 
relapse protocols are equivalent to those achieved by bone marrow 
transplantation in children with late combined BM relapse.

DOI: 10.1002/mpo.2950210703
PMID: 8341213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Ophthalmology. 1993 Aug;100(8):1125-31; discussion 1131-2. doi: 
10.1016/s0161-6420(93)31516-2.

Glycemic control and development of retinopathy in youth-onset insulin-dependent 
diabetes mellitus. Results of a 12-year longitudinal study.

Goldstein DE(1), Blinder KJ, Ide CH, Wilson RJ, Wiedmeyer HM, Little RR, England 
JD, Eddy M, Hewett JE, Anderson SK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Health, University of Missouri School of Medicine, 
Columbia.

BACKGROUND: In 1979, the authors began a prospective study of the natural 
history of retinopathy in youth-onset insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus 
(IDDM). Their major goal was to determine if there was an association between 
glycemic control and the development and progression of retinopathy.
METHODS: The study consisted of 420 individuals with IDDM (onset younger than 20 
years of age) and no retinopathy at baseline. Study subjects were enrolled 
between 1979 and 1988. Stereo color fundus photographs were obtained annually. 
Two eye endpoints were recorded: duration when retinopathy was first detected, 
and when proliferative retinopathy was detected. Glycemic control was assessed 
by quarterly determinations of glycohemoglobin (GHb). Life-table analyses were 
performed relating duration of diabetes, sex, GHb, and age of diabetes onset to 
development of retinopathy.
RESULTS: Retinopathy did not develop before 2 years' duration or before puberty. 
The prevalence of retinopathy was 50% by 9 years' duration and 100% by 20 years' 
duration. Retinopathy developed in females approximately 2 years sooner than in 
males, but plotting duration as postpubertal years resulted in nearly identical 
rates. Retinopathy developed significantly earlier in subjects with prepubertal 
onset of diabetes than in subjects with postpubertal onset if duration was 
plotted as postpubertal years. When separated into three groups based on GHb 
levels (< 7.5%, 7.5%-9%, > 9%), retinopathy developed approximately 2 years 
later in subjects in the less than 7.5% GHb group than those in the higher GHb 
groups. Proliferative retinopathy developed in 11 subjects. Their mean GHb level 
was higher than the mean GHb for those without proliferative retinopathy (10.9 
versus 8.6%; P < 0.01). The higher the level of GHb, the sooner proliferative 
changes were detected.
CONCLUSION: Long-term glycemic control is significantly related to both 
development and progression of retinopathy. Prepubertal duration of diabetes is 
a significant risk factor for the development of retinopathy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(93)31516-2
PMID: 8341491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Zentralbl Chir. 1993;118(6):315-21.

[Peripheral neurogenic tumors--surgical therapy of neuroblastoma. Review and 
personal results].

[Article in German]

Prokop A(1), Pichlmaier H, Berthold F.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Chirurgie der Universität zu Köln.

From January 1, 1982 to November 1, 1992 24 patients suffering from 
neuroblastoma were operated in the course of a neuroblastoma study at the 
Department of Surgery, Cologne University. 23 patients were in advanced stages 
3, 4 and 4s. In 13 cases the initial operation was prior to applying 
chemotherapy, whereas in 10 cases chemotherapeutical treatment had taken place 
before. As a result of preoperative chemotherapy operation time and blood loss 
could be reduced, respectively, and despite delayed operative treatment a better 
demarcation of the tumor and an easier preparation were seen. Due to the 
preoperative treatment, tumors could be operated on more radically without 
increasing the rate of complications. Utilizing all possible surgical means, 
secondary and tertiary operative procedures and chemotherapeutical treatment. 
all patients in stage 2, 3 and 4s survived with safe remission. Nine of the 
fifteen patients in stage 4 died due to side effects from bone marrow 
transplantation or from recurrent neuroblastomas and not because of the surgical 
procedures. In the light of existing current multicenter neuroblastoma studies 
stage oriented surgical and chemotherapeutical concepts were developed, that are 
presented in this paper.

PMID: 8342338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Adv Contracept. 1993 Mar;9(1):33-40. doi: 10.1007/BF02115898.

Introductory trial of the once-a-month injectable contraceptive, Cyclofem, in 
Indonesia.

Pandi SP(1), Hadjar LN, Prihyugiharto T.

Author information:
(1)National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN), Jakarta, Indonesia.

Cyclofem, a once-a-month injectable hormone contraceptive, contains 
medroxyprogesterone acetate, 25 mg and estradiol cypionate, 5 mg. Indonesia is 
one of the countries participating in an introductory trial in collaboration 
with the World Health Organization (WHO) under the Human Reproduction Program 
(HRP). The main purpose of the trial is to assess, through a limited cohort of 
users, both problems and user needs in the program situation with regard to 
safety, efficacy, acceptability, and causes of discontinuation in the Indonesian 
context. Data based on the trial (March 1990-February 1992) indicate that the 
Cyclofem women complained of dizziness, nausea, bleeding problems, migraine, 
vomiting, amenorrhea, allergies and hypertension during the use of Cyclofem. 
However, it was found that the complaint rates decreased with increased duration 
of use. The life table continuation rates indicate that about 80% and 66% 
continued use at the end of 6 months and 12 months, respectively. Personal 
reasons account for the highest proportion of discontinuation, followed by 
desire for pregnancy and lost-to-follow-up.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02115898
PMID: 8342452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Adv Contracept. 1993 Mar;9(1):59-64.

A multicenter study of the clinical performance of the Ortho Gyne-T380 Slimline 
intrauterine device in routine use in general practice and family planning 
clinics. UK Family Planning Research Network.

[No authors listed]

Erratum in
    Adv Contracept 1993 Jun;9(2):140.

In a multiclinic use-effectiveness study, 505 parous women were fitted with an 
Ortho Gyne-T380 Slimline intrauterine device (IUD). Gross cumulative event 
rates, calculated by the Tietze-Potter life-table method, show the device to 
have a very low pregnancy rate and a low expulsion rate. The rate of removal 
following complaints of bleeding and/or pain was high. The incidence of 
infection was low and more likely to occur among younger users. The older parous 
women were more likely to have a satisfactory experience of IUD use than younger 
users. In accordance with current advice, and following a full discussion with 
the client, long-term use of the device beyond the manufacturer's recommended 
time period will continue among satisfied users.

PMID: 8342455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1993 Aug;50(8):645-52. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1993.01820200059006.

The Roscommon Family Study. II. The risk of nonschizophrenic nonaffective 
psychoses in relatives.

Kendler KS(1), McGuire M, Gruenberg AM, Spellman M, O'Hare A, Walsh D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth 
University, Richmond.

OBJECTIVE: We sought to clarify the familial relationship between the 
nonschizophrenic, nonaffective psychoses (schizoaffective disorder [SAD], 
schizophreniform disorder, delusional disorder, and atypical psychosis) and 
schizophrenia and affective illness (AI).
DESIGN: A case-controlled epidemiologic family study using DSM-III-R criteria.
RESULTS: Compared with relatives of unscreened controls, the risk of 
nonschizophrenic, nonaffective psychoses was significantly elevated in relatives 
of probands with schizophrenia, SAD, schizotypal personality disorder, and 
psychotic AI. No significant elevation in risk to these disorders was seen in 
relatives of probands with nonpsychotic AI. The risk for SAD alone was 
significantly increased in relatives of probands with psychotic or bipolar AI.
CONCLUSIONS: The nonschizophrenic, nonaffective psychoses have a significant 
familial relationship with both schizophrenia and schizotypical personality 
disorder. Schizoaffective disorder, as defined by DSM-III-R, shares familial 
etiologic factors with at least some forms of AI.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1993.01820200059006
PMID: 8343035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 1993 Aug;119(8):881-6. doi: 
10.1001/archotol.1993.01880200087012.

Cricohyoidopexy in selected infrahyoid epiglottic carcinomas presenting with 
pathological preepiglottic space invasion.

Laccourreye O(1), Brasnu D, Merite-Drancy A, Cauchois R, Chabardes E, Ménard M, 
Laccourreye H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Hôpital Laënnec, 
University of Paris V, France.

Nineteen patients who presented with infrahyoid epiglottic squamous cell 
carcinoma with gross pathological preepiglottic space invasion, not amenable to 
a partial horizontal supraglottic laryngectomy, were offered a supracricoid 
partial laryngectomy with a cricohyoidopexy technique; this was an attempt to 
preserve physiological phonation, respiration, and deglutition while achieving 
the same local control rate as with a total laryngectomy. Preoperative 
chemotherapy and bilateral jugulocarotid lymph node dissection were performed in 
all cases. Patients were monitored for at least 5 years or until death. No 
patients were unavailable for follow-up. The 5-year actuarial survival 
(Kaplan-Meier method) was 84.2%. Local recurrence, nodal recurrence, and distant 
metastasis occurred once in our series, while six patients presented with a 
second primary tumor. We present, analyze, and compare functional results with 
those of the previously reported series. Our experience with the supracricoid 
partial laryngectomy with a cricohyoidopexy, in the face of selected infrahyoid 
epiglottic squamous cell carcinoma invading the preepiglottic space, not 
amenable to a partial horizontal supraglottic laryngectomy, suggested that a 
total laryngectomy might be avoided without decreasing the cure rate.

DOI: 10.1001/archotol.1993.01880200087012
PMID: 8343251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. BMJ. 1993 Jun 26;306(6894):1722-5. doi: 10.1136/bmj.306.6894.1722.

Is screening and intervention for microalbuminuria worthwhile in patients with 
insulin dependent diabetes?

Borch-Johnsen K(1), Wenzel H, Viberti GC, Mogensen CE.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preventive Medicine, Kommunehospitalet, Copenhagen K, Denmark.

Erratum in
    BMJ 1993 Aug 28;307(6903):543.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1993 Aug 21;307(6902):507.

OBJECTIVE: To analyse the cost-benefit of screening for and antihypertensive 
treatment of early renal disease indicated by microalbuminuria in patients with 
insulin dependent diabetes mellitus.
DESIGN: Previously published data were used to estimate transition probabilities 
for each step from normoalbuminuria until death. The effect of intervention on 
urinary albumin excretion rate by antihypertensive treatment was arbitrarily set 
at three different levels. All direct costs (screening, antihypertensive 
treatment, treatment of end stage renal failure) were included in the 
cost-benefit analysis by using real discount rates of 2.5% and 6%.
SETTING: Computer simulation.
SUBJECTS: Simulated cohort of 8000 patients.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Mortality, incidence of diabetic nephropathy, incidence 
of end stage renal failure, and costs versus savings.
RESULTS: Assuming treatment effects of 33% and 67% median life expectancy 
increased by four to 14 years, respectively, and the need for dialysis or 
transplantation decreased by 21% to 63%. Costs and savings would balance if the 
annual rate of increase of albuminuria was decreased from 20% to 18% a year.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening and intervention programmes are likely to have life 
saving effects and lead to considerable economic savings.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.306.6894.1722
PMCID: PMC1678304
PMID: 8343628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. J Hand Ther. 1993 Apr-Jun;6(2):152-60. doi: 10.1016/s0894-1130(12)80297-3.

A numerical grading scale for peripheral nerve function.

Dellon AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic Surgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland.

A numerical grading scale for median and ulnar function is outlined. This 
system, based upon the known pathophysiology of chronic nerve compression, 
creates a hierarchical scale of mutually exclusive categories for motor and 
sensory function. The scale is responsive to incorporating new technologies for 
sensorimotor evaluation if these should offer advantages in computer-assisted 
evaluation, validity, or reliability. The scale is assumed to be nonuniform, and 
nonparametric statistical analysis, such as use of the Wilcoxon rank-sum test, 
is appropriate. Where motor function may predominate the peripheral nerve 
function, such as the ulnar nerve, in contrast to the median nerve, the scale 
may be uniquely defined to reflect this attribute. Pilot study examples of 
application of the numerical scoring system are given, and specific areas to 
better define the scale through research are suggested.

DOI: 10.1016/s0894-1130(12)80297-3
PMID: 8343882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Health Serv Res. 1993 Aug;28(3):269-92.

Use of Medicare services before and after introduction of the prospective 
payment system.

Manton KG(1), Woodbury MA, Vertrees JC, Stallard E.

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708-0408.

OBJECTIVE: The case mix-adjusted pattern of use of health care services, 
especially posthospital care, is compared before and after the introduction of 
Medicare's Prospective Payment System (PPS).
DATA SOURCES: The 1982 and 1984 National Long Term Care Surveys (NLTCS) linked 
to Medicare administrative records 1982-1986 provide health and health service 
use data for 12-month periods before and after the introduction of PPS.
STUDY DESIGN: Case-mix differences between pre- and post-periods are controlled 
by using the Grade of Membership model to identify health groups from the NLTCS 
data. Differences in timing (e.g., hospital length of stay) were controlled 
using life table models estimated for each health group, that is, service use 
patterns pre- and post-PPS are compared within groups.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Hospital LOS and admission rates declined post-PPS. Changes 
in the timing and location of death occurred but, overall, mortality did not 
increase. Changes in post-acute care service use by elderly, chronically 
disabled Medicare beneficiaries were observed: home health service use increased 
overall and among the unmarried disabled population.
CONCLUSIONS: PPS did not adversely affect quality of care as reflected in 
mortality or in hospital readmissions. Moreover, the differential use of 
post-acute care, and changes in hospital LOS by health group, indicate that the 
system responded, specific to marital status and age, to the severity of needs 
of chronically disabled persons.

PMCID: PMC1069936
PMID: 8344820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1993 Jun;34(3):229-36.

Lower extremity revascularization.

Gupta SK(1), Girishkumar H.

Author information:
(1)MetroWest Medical Center, Framingham, MA 01701.

Atherosclerotic occlusive disease of the lower extremity in patients exhibiting 
severe rest pain, ulceration, or tissue necrosis represents a serious threat to 
extremities. In the past two decades the surgical approach in the treatment of 
lower extremity ischemia has changed significantly due to better understanding 
of segmental disease and infrapopliteal disease. Also, better visualization of 
leg and foot arteries due to improved angiographic and surgical techniques aided 
by magnification have all significantly contributed to increased limb salvage. 
Vein, when available, is the ideal graft material both for supra and 
infrapopliteal reconstruction. Availability of vein as a conduit can be 
increased when ectopic veins such as cephalic etc., are used and also when short 
segments of veins are used with unconventional distal inflow sites such as SFA, 
distal deep femoral artery, and popliteal artery. However, when vein is 
unavailable, PTFE graft is a good option particularly in patients with life 
expectancy of less than three years. Better understanding of graft failure has 
lead to better graft surveillance with PVR, ABI and Duplex scanning. Timely 
intervention with either PTA or surgery has lead to better secondary patency of 
grafts. Veith et al. looked at amputation rates during the period of changing 
therapeutic approach and found both a decrease in primary and secondary 
amputation rate implying the effectiveness of an aggressive therapeutic 
approach. Not all aspects of lower extremity disease are understood. However, 
infrapopliteal disease has now been addressed and new, innovative therapeutic 
approaches have made significant advances in limb salvage.

PMID: 8344973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Hum Reprod. 1993 Jun;8(6):886-9. doi: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a138160.

Drop-out behaviour and fertility table analysis of pregnancy rates.

Doody MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Louisiana State University Medical Center, Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, New Orleans 70112.

The life table analysis of infertility study data uses information from patients 
who drop out and are lost to follow-up. The fact that drop-out patients were not 
pregnant when last seen has been taken to be useful information that has been 
entered into the calculation of cumulative pregnancy rates for the population as 
a whole. However, drop-out patients who subsequently achieve pregnancy have 
motivations to return to their physician for follow-up, while those who do not 
become pregnant usually remain lost to follow-up. This can result in a 
systematic error toward reporting an excess of pregnancies, raising the apparent 
fecundity rates and plateau values. This study was undertaken to investigate the 
potential magnitude of these errors. Computer simulations of hypothetical 
infertility treatments using large cohorts (n = 32 000) were undertaken. Varying 
assumptions were made regarding post-treatment monthly fecundity rates, 'cure 
rates', drop-out rates and the percentage of pregnant drop-outs who would return 
to their physician after achieving pregnancy. Using a range of clinically 
reasonable assumptions, very large deviations from ideal behaviour were noted in 
the direction of elevated cumulative pregnancy rates. The non-ideal behaviour 
was most apparent with lower fecundity rates, lower 'cure rates', higher 
drop-out rates and higher pregnant drop-out return rates. A change in the method 
of data collection to minimize the impact of this bias in infertility studies is 
proposed. This method of active data collection is a departure from that used in 
classical life table studies and therefore the method is titled the 'fertility 
table method' in order to avoid confusion.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a138160
PMID: 8345079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. J Pediatr. 1993 Aug;123(2):285-91. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(05)81705-6.

A randomized, controlled trial of platelet transfusions in thrombocytopenic 
premature infants.

Andrew M(1), Vegh P, Caco C, Kirpalani H, Jefferies A, Ohlsson A, Watts J, 
Saigal S, Milner R, Wang E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

A multicenter prospective, randomized controlled trial was conducted to 
determine whether early use of platelet concentrates would reduce the incidence 
or extension of intracranial hemorrhage or both in sick preterm infants with 
thrombocytopenia. The effects on bleeding as reflected by the amount of blood 
product support administered and a shortened bleeding time were assessed as 
secondary outcomes. Premature infants with a platelet count < 150 x 10(9)/L 
within the first 72 hours of life were randomly assigned to receive either 
conventional therapy or conventional therapy plus platelet concentrates (10 
ml/kg). The platelet count was maintained < 150 x 10(9)/L until day 7 of life by 
one to three platelet transfusions. In 22 (28%) of the 78 treated infants and 19 
(26%) of the 74 control infants, either a new intracranial hemorrhage developed 
or an already-present one became more extensive (p = 0.73). Similar numbers of 
infants had each grade of intracranial hemorrhage on both initial and follow-up 
ultrasonography. Similar numbers of infants received fresh frozen plasma and 
packed red blood cells, but treated infants received less of both. The bleeding 
time was prolonged in the treated group before the infusion of platelet 
concentrates but subsequently shortened (mean difference, 79.0; 95% confidence 
interval, 73.1 to 84.9). Subanalysis of the control group showed that infants 
with platelet counts < 60 x 10(9)/L (n = 21) on at least one occasion received 
more fresh frozen plasma and packed red blood cells than did those with platelet 
counts > 60 x 10(9)/L.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(05)81705-6
PMID: 8345429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1993 Aug 1;90(15):7255-9. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.90.15.7255.

Protein oxidative damage is associated with life expectancy of houseflies.

Sohal RS(1), Agarwal S, Dubey A, Orr WC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX 
75275.

The objective of this study was to test some of the predictions of the 
oxidative-stress hypothesis of aging, which postulates that aging is causally 
associated with the molecular damage inflicted by reactive oxygen species. 
Protein carbonyl content was used as an index of molecular oxidative 
modifications. The carbonyl content was found to be associated with the 
physiological age or life expectancy of flies rather than with their 
chronological age. Exposure of flies to sublethal hyperoxia (100% oxygen) 
irreversibly enhanced the carbonyl content of the flies and decreased their rate 
of oxygen consumption. Results of this study indicate that protein carbonyl 
content may be a biomarker of aging and support the general concept that 
oxidative stress may be a causal factor in the aging process.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.90.15.7255
PMCID: PMC47115
PMID: 8346242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1993 Aug;74(8):801-4. doi:
10.1016/0003-9993(93)90004-t.

Assessment of hand function in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Wagner MB(1), Vignos PJ Jr, Carlozzi C, Hull AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospitals of Cleveland, OH.

Eighteen boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) were assessed for their 
ability to perform tasks involving wrist and hand function. Each subject was 
assessed using the Jebsen Test of Hand Function, range of motion measurements, 
and muscle strength tests. Writing and simulated page turning were performed 
successfully by boys in all age groups. Boys over age 15 had difficulty 
completing simulated feeding and picking up large and small objects. The muscle 
strength of the wrist extensors and the radial deviation range of motion at the 
wrist were found to be strongly correlated with six of the seven tasks assessed. 
These two clinical assessments appear to be good indicators of overall wrist and 
hand function. Life expectancy with DMD is increasing with advances in 
respiratory care making preservation of wrist and hand function, the major 
activity remaining with advanced disease, increasingly important.

DOI: 10.1016/0003-9993(93)90004-t
PMID: 8347064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1993;25(2):97-105. doi: 10.1007/BF00662134.

Assessing the cost effectiveness of adjuvant therapies in early breast cancer 
using a decision analysis model.

Hillner BE(1), Smith TJ, Desch CE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Medical College of Virginia, Virginia 
Commonwealth University, Richmond 23298-0170.

BACKGROUND: We have developed a decision analysis model that uses the results of 
available randomized controlled trials to model the natural history of early 
breast cancer and assess the potential clinical and financial effects of using 
adjuvant therapies.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The original model was used to assess the impact of 
chemotherapy in hypothetical groups of 45-year-old and 60-year-old 
node-negative, estrogen receptor-negative women. Using the 1992 Early Breast 
Cancer Trialists' Collaborative Group report, we have expanded and revised the 
model to assess: 1) the role of tamoxifen alone, chemotherapy alone, or combined 
therapy in pre-menopausal women, and 2) chemotherapy in elderly women with 
node-negative, estrogen receptor-negative cancer.
RESULTS: For pre-menopausal women, we found that chemotherapy increases quality 
adjusted life expectancy and survival by a substantial amount at a cost less 
than most accepted medical interventions. Combined therapy is beneficial and 
cost-effective in estrogen receptor-positive cancer. For the elderly, 
chemotherapy prolongs survival but to a lesser extent compared to younger women. 
The cost of this benefit is high but within the range of commonly reimbursed 
procedures for women under age 75 without other co-existing conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: For most patients some form of adjuvant therapy is beneficial and 
cost-effective. The model builds upon the data derived from collaborative 
efforts assessing the effectiveness of adjuvant therapies. The model highlights 
the need for an equal commitment to assessing the economic and quality of life 
impacts of breast cancer treatments.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00662134
PMID: 8347850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


