679. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 1993 Jun;40(6):475-81.

[Estimations of organ dose and health risk of the mass chest X-ray examinations 
in children].

[Article in Japanese]

Ohta K(1), Takamoto M, Kai M, Kusama T, Aoki Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiological Health, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo.

In Japan, mass chest X-ray examinations are mandated by law for schoolchildren 
and students. Recently, questions of the justification of such X-ray examination 
have arisen. In this study the absorbed doses of each organ, and the health 
detriments from the mass chest X-ray examinations to schoolchildren and students 
were estimated. The doses of organs were measured by the TLDs (Mg2SiO4), slab 
phantom, and anthropomorphic phantom. The probability of fatal cancer, and the 
resultant reduction in life expectancy induced by mass chest X-ray examinations 
were calculated by the multiplicative risk projection model of the ICRP-1990. 
The absorbed doses of lung, thyroid glands, esophagus, stomach, breast, and red 
bone marrow in first-year elementary schoolchildren were 90, 30, 90, 60, 90, and 
30 muGy, respectively, and the doses in ovaries and testes were almost nil. Each 
organ dose of first-year students of junior high school was about 1.5 times that 
for elementary schoolchildren. The total radiation-induced lifetime cancer risk 
of schoolchildren and students was from 0.3 x 10(-5) to 0.9 x 10(-5) per person 
by the multiplicative risk projection model of the ICRP-1990 and a factor of 2 
for the DDREF (dose and dose rate effectiveness factor). The reduction in life 
expectancy by radiation induced fatal cancer was from 15 x 10(-5) years to 50 x 
10(-5) years per person. The results of this study suggest that subjects of mass 
chest X-ray examinations should be carefully selected from the viewpoint of 
radiation protection.

PMID: 8347863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Cancer. 1993 Sep 1;72(5):1602-6. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19930901)72:5<1602::aid-cncr2820720518>3.0.co;2-4.

Effect of age on survival in acute leukemia. 1950-1990.

Sorensen JT(1), Gerald K, Bodensteiner D, Holmes FF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biometry, School of Medicine, University of Kansas Medical 
Center, Kansas City 66160.

BACKGROUND: Four decades ago, survival of patients with acute leukemia was brief 
at any age. Since 1950, survival of children has increased remarkably but has 
changed little for the elderly. The nature and magnitude of this age difference 
in survival are not understood.
METHODS: Median survival was determined in 2364 Kansas residents diagnosed with 
acute leukemia from 1947 until 1990. Of this number, 1032 had acute lymphocytic 
leukemia and 1227 had acute myelocytic leukemia diagnosed between 1950 and 1989. 
These patients were stratified by age and decade of diagnosis. Survival was 
computed by life-table analysis with significance determined by log-rank, 
Wilcoxon, and Fisher exact tests.
RESULTS: During the 40 years of the study, highly significant increases occurred 
in median survivals for all groups with either acute lymphocytic leukemia or 
acute myelocytic leukemia occurring in patients younger than 60 years of age (P 
< 0.0001 for some age groups), but no significant increases for those 61 to 80 
years of age and those 81 years of age and older. Viewed in another dimension, 
for each decade from the 1960s to the present in acute lymphocytic leukemia and 
from the 1970s to the present in acute myelocytic leukemia, age at diagnosis was 
inversely correlated with median survival in a highly significant manner (P < 
0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Increasing age is inversely related to survival in patients with 
acute leukemia. The lack of significant improvement in median survival in the 
last 40 years for those older than 60 years of age stands in stark contrast to 
the remarkable improvement for younger patients. Acute leukemia in older 
patients demands new and probably different therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19930901)72:5<1602::aid-cncr2820720518>3.0.co;2-4
PMID: 8348491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Cancer. 1993 Sep 1;72(5):1642-51. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19930901)72:5<1642::aid-cncr2820720525>3.0.co;2-8.

The palpable breast nodule. A cost-effectiveness analysis of alternate 
diagnostic approaches.

Layfield LJ(1), Chrischilles EA, Cohen MB, Bottles K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27705.

Comment in
    Cancer. 1993 Sep 1;72(5):1499-502.

BACKGROUND: Traditionally, open biopsy has been considered the optimal procedure 
for the diagnosis of breast nodules. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) has 
been proposed as an alternate method for the diagnosis of many palpable breast 
lesions.
METHODS: The authors compared the diagnostic utility of open biopsy and FNAB 
using decision tree and cost-effectiveness analyses.
RESULTS: When compared with two-step excisional biopsy, FNAB achieved a savings 
of over $700 at the cost of 0.1% decrease in 10-year overall survival.
CONCLUSIONS: These data indicate FNAB to be a reasonable alternative to open 
biopsy for the diagnosis of palpable breast lesions in many patients.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19930901)72:5<1642::aid-cncr2820720525>3.0.co;2-8
PMID: 8348496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Dent Clin North Am. 1993 Jul;37(3):483-95.

Restorative considerations for special needs patients.

Jones JA(1), Mash LK, Niessen LC.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Bedford, Massachusetts.

Individuals are living longer with more chronic and disabling conditions than 
previous generations of adults. In addition, they are retaining more of their 
natural dentition than ever before. As a result, it will be common for a dentist 
in practice in the next 20 to 30 years to care for many patients with special 
needs. These individuals offer unique challenges to the dental practitioner. 
Dentists must be knowledgeable in the oral aspects of various medical conditions 
and the systemic manifestation of oral diseases. In addition to the oral 
medicine aspects of practice, dentists must be skilled clinically to care for 
the unique restorative needs with which these patients present. As individuals 
age or become chronically ill, people deserve the opportunity to select from all 
that modern dentistry has to offer. Patients must be involved intimately in the 
decision-making process. No dental professional should assume because a patient 
is old or chronically ill that he or she lacks the financial resources or the 
desire to maintain his or her oral health.

PMID: 8349000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. J Rheumatol. 1993 Jun;20(6):1037-47.

Modelling the population health impact of musculoskeletal diseases: arthritis.

Reynolds DL(1), Torrance GW, Badley EM, Bennett KJ, Chambers LW, Goldsmith CH, 
Jamieson E, Tugwell P, Wolfson MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, ON, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: A model adjusting for reductions in quality and quantity of life was 
developed to estimate the population health impact of musculoskeletal diseases.
METHODS: Using arthritis as the prototype, prevalence, mortality, and severity 
data from a variety of sources were combined to model a hypothetical cohort of 
1,000 individuals through life. Quality adjusted life years and population 
health expectancy were calculated for those with arthritis and compared to the 
general population.
RESULTS: Without adjusting for quality of life, a cohort of 1,000 women and 
1,000 men at age 15 years could expect 65,010 and 58,735 life years, 
respectively. Adjusting for quality of life, women with arthritis could expect 
61,719 life years, and men 57,123 life years. The unadjusted population health 
expectancy was 65.0 for girls and 58.7 for boys (at age 15 years). Adjusting for 
quality of life, the population health expectancies were 61.7 and 57.1, years 
for women and men, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Using this model, the typical adult woman with arthritis can expect 
to lose 3.3 healthy years of life, and a man, 1.6 healthy years of life. 
Overall, the model provided a general methodology for determining the population 
health impact of musculoskeletal diseases. In addition, it is hoped that the 
methodology will stimulate further research into this area, raise awareness 
about the uses and limitations of currently available data, and provide a useful 
model for monitoring the impact of interventions.

PMID: 8350311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Aug;18(2):249-60.

Late nonfatal and fatal cardiac events after infrainguinal bypass for 
femoropopliteal occlusive disease during a thirty-one-year period.

Dawson I(1), van Bockel JH, Brand R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital Leiden, The Netherlands.

PURPOSE AND METHODS: In patients with peripheral vascular disease the 
complications of associated coronary artery disease have always been a leading 
cause of morbidity and mortality. Therefore we evaluated the risk for late 
cardiac morbidity and mortality in 376 consecutive patients after infrainguinal 
bypass. Follow-up was complete for 373 patients (99.3%) with a mean follow-up 
period of 5.9 years. After operation all but four patients were treated with 
lifelong warfarin (Coumadin therapy.)
RESULTS: During follow-up 129 patients (34.3%) had 183 late cardiac events. Of 
these patients, 79 (61.2%) died of late cardiac events and 13 (10.0%) required 
either coronary angioplasty or bypass. The risk of late cardiac events was 34% 
at 5 years and increased to 56% at 15 years. Multivariate analysis demonstrated 
that age, cardiac disease, and impaired renal function at the time of operation 
were associated with an increased risk of cardiac events during follow-up. 
Independent predictors of cardiac death were age, cardiac disease, hypertension, 
diabetes, and impaired renal function. Morbidity and mortality was particularly 
high in patients with critical ischemia. The subset of patients with 
claudication had a life expectancy that appeared to be similar to that of a 
matched sample of the normal population.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings clearly demonstrate that some patients undergoing 
infrainguinal bypass are at high risk for late cardiac events of which many are 
fatal, whereas others may have an almost normal life expectancy. Most important, 
the occurrence of cardiac events may be predicted by simple and readily 
obtainable clinical variables at the time of the initial infrainguinal bypass 
procedure. Because these events were related to late cardiac death, this may be 
the key for angiographic evaluation and possible prevention of cardiac death.

PMID: 8350434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Aug;18(2):271-9.

Long-term results of semiclosed endarterectomy of the superficial femoral artery 
and the outcome of failed reconstructions.

van der Heijden FH(1), Eikelboom BC, van Reedt Dortland RW, van der Graaf Y, 
Steijling JJ, Legemate DA, Theodorides T, van Vroonhoven TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital Utrecht, The Netherlands.

PURPOSE: The optimal method of treatment of superficial femoral artery occlusive 
disease has yet to be established. Therapeutic options include percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty for short lesions and reversed or in situ autologous 
saphenous vein bypass for long lesions. Currently, staged revascularization with 
polytetrafluoroethylene as an initial conduit and autologous vein for secondary 
procedures is suggested. An alternative to these procedures is endarterectomy of 
the occluded superficial femoral artery, followed by a femoropopliteal bypass in 
cases of endarterectomy failure. Our results with this procedure are reviewed in 
this article.
METHODS: From 1980 until 1990, 259 endarterectomies of the superficial femoral 
artery were attempted, 231 of which were successfully performed in 197 patients 
(145 men and 52 women), with an average age of 64 years (range 40 to 82 years). 
The indication for successfully performed endarterectomy was claudication in 186 
patients (80%), rest pain in 21 (9%), and gangrene in 24 (11%). The 
postoperative mortality rate was 0.8% with a complication rate of 10%.
RESULTS: Eighty-two failures occurred during follow-up, of which 33 were treated 
with peripheral bypass. Five additional bypasses were performed because of 
occlusions distal from the endarterectomized segment. The 5-year primary overall 
patency rate of successfully performed endarterectomy was 71% (SE 3.6). The 
5-year overall secondary bypass patency rate was 61% (SE 11.3). The combined 
endarterectomy and bypass patency rate (tertiary patency) was 79% (SE 3.3) after 
5 years and 45% (SE 7.6) after 10 years. The overall amputation rate was 5.6% 
and the amputation rate was 1.6% in patients treated for claudication.
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of endarterectomy and peripheral bypass provides a 
valuable alternative to the current treatment of superficial femoral artery 
occlusive disease.

PMID: 8350437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Mech Ageing Dev. 1993 May;68(1-3):137-49. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(93)90146-i.

Cross-sectional Gompertzian analysis: the development of a Gompertz mortality 
ratio (GMR) and its applicability.

Neilson S(1), Robinson I.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Study of Health, Sickness and Disablement (CSHSD), Brunel, 
University of West London, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UK.

Many conventional epidemiological analyses of the distribution and aetiology of 
disease employ standardised mortality ratios (SMRs) as a basis upon which to 
evaluate comparative studies of disease in populations. However SMRs, whilst 
constructed to control for age and sex, are not capable of incorporating other 
variables such as life expectancy which has been demonstrated to be of crucial 
importance in understanding the changing relationships between mortality from 
different causes. The development of a Gompertz mortality ratio (GMR) and its 
application to recent mortality from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in the 
Counties of England and Wales illustrates the value of substituting GMRs for 
SMRs in the analysis of competitive relationships between conditions, especially 
those associated with enhanced life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(93)90146-i
PMID: 8350654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Mech Ageing Dev. 1993 May;68(1-3):71-87. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(93)90141-d.

Effects of long-term elevated serum levels of growth hormone on life expectancy 
of mice: lessons from transgenic animal models.

Wolf E(1), Kahnt E, Ehrlein J, Hermanns W, Brem G, Wanke R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Animal Breeding, Ludwig-Maximilian University, Munich, 
Germany.

In this study, we characterize transgenic mice carrying fusion genes, in which 
the genes coding for human (h) or bovine (b) growth hormone (GH) have been put 
under the transcriptional control of the mouse metallothionein I (MT) or the rat 
phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PCK) promoter as models for investigating the 
long-term effects of elevated GH on life expectancy. Circulating GH 
concentrations ranged from 3000 to 900,000 ng/ml, from 320 to 2960 ng/ml and 
from 34 to 1050 ng/ml in transgenic mice belonging to the MThGH, the PCKbGH and 
the MTbGH groups, respectively, and were high on a short-, medium-, and 
long-term basis. As a consequence of excess GH in their serum, GH transgenic 
mice exhibited drastically reduced life span which was primarily due to severe 
kidney lesions (glomerular hypertrophy, sclerosis and hyalinosis associated with 
tubulo-interstitial changes) consistently found in these animals. Alterations of 
the liver observed in transgenic mice included both hepatocellular megaly and 
various degrees of regressive, regenerative and fibrotic changes. In older MTbGH 
and PCKbGH transgenic mice, hepatocellular neoplasms including both adenoma and 
carcinoma were frequently found in addition to non-neoplastic changes. Our study 
points out the suitability of GH transgenic mice to evaluate the effects of 
various levels of GH in long-term studies without having to take antibody 
production against the heterologous hormone into account. Findings in GH 
transgenic animals suggest that the long-term benefits and risks of GH therapy 
should be carefully evaluated.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(93)90141-d
PMID: 8350664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1993 Aug 27;42(33):645-9.

Cigarette smoking-attributable mortality and years of potential life 
lost--United States, 1990.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Cigarette smoking is the single most preventable cause of premature death in the 
United States. An estimated 390,000 smoking-attributable deaths in the United 
States occurred in 1985, and more than 434,000 deaths occurred in 1988; in 1988, 
an estimated 1,198,887 years of potential life lost (YPLL) before age 65 were 
attributed to smoking. To estimate the national impact of cigarette smoking on 
mortality and YPLL, calculations were performed using the Smoking-Attributable 
Mortality, Morbidity, and Economic Cost (SAMMEC) software. This report 
summarizes the results of this analysis.

PMID: 8350857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Ann Chir. 1993;47(4):294-8; discussion 298-301.

[Adjuvant treatments in resectable cancer of the rectum: preoperative 
radiotherapy, postoperative radiation- and chemotherapy or nothing?].

[Article in French]

Gérard A(1), Pector JC, Van Houtte P, Bleiberg H.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie, Institut Jules Bordet, Centre des Tumeurs, Université 
Libre de Bruxelles, Belgique.

In addition to curative surgical resection, which remains the treatment of 
choice in rectal cancer, are there any other effective adjuvant treatments 
capable of increasing the life expectancy of patients by decreasing the 
frequency of local recurrences and distant metastases? Analysis of the results 
and clinical arguments in favour of adjuvant treatments demonstrates the 
efficacy of preoperative radiotherapy which decreases the pelvic recurrence rate 
in patients with T2T3T4NxM0 tumours. Postoperative administration of a 
combination of radiotherapy and chemotherapy (5-FU, methyl CCNU) also improved 
the survival rate and disease-free interval in patients operated for rectal 
cancer. However, the adverse effects and toxicity of this adjuvant treatment 
limit its routine administration. Lastly, the efficacy of postoperative 
radiotherapy and postoperative chemotherapy, administered separately, has not 
been clearly demonstrated to date.

PMID: 8352504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 1993 Aug 16;194(3):1203-6. doi: 
10.1006/bbrc.1993.1950.

Relationship between aging and susceptibility to protein oxidative damage.

Agarwal S(1), Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, 
Texas 75275.

The objective of this study was to determine if the susceptibility of tissues to 
experimental oxidative damage is altered during the aging process. Adult 
houseflies were X-irradiated at different dosages, when they had reached 0.25 
and 0.70 of their average life expectancy. Protein carbonyl content and activity 
of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase were used as indices of oxidative damage. 
Fly homogenates as well as the live flies were more susceptible to oxidative 
damage at the older than at the younger age.

DOI: 10.1006/bbrc.1993.1950
PMID: 8352777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. J Public Health Med. 1993 Jun;15(2):154-60.

Population screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm: do the benefits outweigh the 
costs?

Mason JM(1), Wakeman AP, Drummond MF, Crump BJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington.

Comment in
    J Public Health Med. 1994 Jun;16(2):243-4.

To prevent the high mortality rate associated with ruptured abdominal aortic 
aneurysm (AAA), population screening at or soon after retirement age has been 
advocated, with elective operations being performed on patients with the 
appropriate indications. There is considerable pressure on some health 
authorities to fund such programmes even though there is substantial uncertainty 
about the consequent benefits. The ultrasound screening test is acceptable and 
accurate. Also, other health problems may be detected in the same screen. 
However, screening would lead to a questionable increase in surgery, as most 
patients with AAA die from other causes and not from a ruptured aneurysm. In 
addition, there is an elective operative mortality of around 5 per cent. 
Furthermore, as many of those who have a positive result on screening would 
never have known that they harbour an aneurysm, there is the possibility of 
unnecessary anxiety arising from the test. An economic analysis has been 
conducted for two identical, hypothetical cohorts of men using the best 
available data. One cohort was assumed to undergo screening and a number of men 
were indicated for immediate elective aneurysm repair or for follow-up, and 
surgery if their aneurysms become large. The other cohort was assumed not to be 
screened and would thereby face the possibility of rupture with its adverse 
outcome. The survival prospects of the two cohorts were calculated as life 
expectancies and in terms of life-years: the incremental life-years gained were 
compared with the incremental costs of the programme. Although there are 
considerable uncertainties in the analysis parameters, the base-line result and 
sensitivity analysis indicate that, on the basis of current knowledge, 
population screening should not be introduced.

PMID: 8353005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Br J Hosp Med. 1993 Jul 14-Aug 17;50(2-3):85-7.

Cardiac surgery in older people--the Papworth experience.

Caine N, Tait S, Wallwork J.

PMID: 8353670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1993 Mar;27(2):69-73.

[The use of decision making analysis for evaluating hepatitis B inoculation 
strategy].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhuang GH(1), Xu HW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Xi'an Medical University.

Using quality adjusted life year (QALY) as an evaluation measure of 
cost-effectiveness for assessing hepatitis B inoculation strategy in China, 
through the decision tree model. The result showed that for hepatitis B 
inoculation, priority should be given to neonates and infants aged 0-3 years; 
and the age of vaccination subjects be extended to, adults older than 25 yrs. 
The result also indicated: that the net cost for each QALY gained due to 
vaccination was very high, so that the ultimate control of hepatitis B epidemic 
not only depended on the development of highly effective and inexpensive 
vaccine, but also on the improvement of economic level and sanitary status.

PMID: 8354107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Int Surg. 1993 Apr-Jun;78(2):162-5.

Is the preferential use of polytetrafluoroethylene grafts for below-knee 
femoropopliteal bypass justified?

Zempo N(1), Esato K, O-Hara M, Fujioka K, Kuga T, Takenaka H.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Yamaguchi University School of Medicine, Japan.

The usefulness of polytetrafluoroethylene graft (PTFE) for primary below-knee 
femoropopliteal bypass was examined. Forty-five primary femoropopliteal bypasses 
with PTFE were performed in 35 patients during a 7-year period. Patients were 
divided into two groups: above-knee (A-K group, n = 20) and below-knee (B-K 
group, n = 25) bypass. Differences in intergroup patient demographics were not 
significant. The primary patency rate in the A-K group at 3 and 5 years was 
83.6% and 50.2%, respectively, and was 76.2% at both 3 and 5 years in the B-K 
group. These differences were not significant. Cause of graft failure, 3 grafts 
in the A-K group and 5 grafts in the B-K group, was kinking or thrombus 
formation associated with intimal hyperplasia at the distal anastomosis. All 
grafts in the A-K group with more than 10% stenosis in the early postoperative 
period had more than 50% stenosis in the late postoperative period. On the other 
hand, the one graft in the B-K group with 25% stenosis in the early 
postoperative period had 50% stenosis in the late postoperative period. We 
concluded that the use of PTFE for primary below-knee femoropopliteal artery is 
reasonable when atherosclerosis in the proximal popliteal artery is slight. 
However, close follow-up is necessary to detect and treat graft stenosis early.

PMID: 8354618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. J Dent. 1993 Aug;21(4):209-15. doi: 10.1016/0300-5712(93)90128-d.

A prospective study of the survival of chemically activated anterior resin 
composite restorations in general dental practice: 5-year results.

van Noort R(1), Davis LG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Restorative Dentistry, University of Sheffield, UK.

The principals of 26 general dental practices agreed to use six chemically 
activated resin composite restorative materials to restore Class III and Class V 
lesions and record information concerning their performance over a period of 5 
years. The information collected was analysed by actuarial methods to assess the 
clinical longevity and reasons for replacement as perceived by the dentists 
operating in the General Dental Service in England. At the end of 5 years, 14 
dentists provided sufficient returns for their data to be considered suitable 
for analysis. The database consisted of 2399 Class III and 1093 Class V 
restorations. The overall probability of survival at 5 years of Class III and 
Class V restorations was 62.9% and 71.8% respectively. The difference in 
performance between the six restorative materials was small, with the 
probability of survival varying from 70.4 +/- 2.9% to 56.3 +/- 2.9% for the 
Class III restorations and 78.6 +/- 3.7% to 67.7 +/- 4.2% for the Class V 
restorations. The main reasons for replacement were general surface 
discoloration, secondary caries and fracture. The chemically activated composite 
restorative materials available at the time of initiating this study produced 
comparable performances in general dental practice when used without enamel and 
dentine bonding techniques. This suggests that more general practice-based 
clinical studies are needed to determine whether or not improvements in 
materials and techniques are effectively transferred to the general practice 
situation.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-5712(93)90128-d
PMID: 8354745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. J Intern Med. 1993 Sep;234(3):293-301. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2796.1993.tb00746.x.

Very early risk stratification by electrocardiogram at rest in men with 
suspected unstable coronary heart disease. The RISC Study Group.

Nyman I(1), Areskog M, Areskog NH, Swahn E, Wallentin L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, District Hospital, Eksjo, Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the possibility of very early prognostic stratification 
based on electrocardiograms (ECGs) at rest and/or cardiac enzyme levels after an 
episode of suspected unstable coronary heart disease.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Men with suspected unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial 
infarction were studied in the coronary care units of eight hospitals. The ECGs 
at rest and creatinine kinase were followed.
SUBJECTS: In total 911 men were followed for 12 months. Of 8136 consecutively 
admitted, 3365 fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Excluded were 2454 patients, 
mainly because of a larger myocardial damage, signs of myocardial dysfunction, 
other serious cardiac or non-cardiac disease or an ECG not possible to interpret 
regarding ST-T-segment changes in the precordial leads.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: End-points at follow-up were cardiac death, myocardial 
infarction and severe (class III or IV) angina.
RESULTS: Compared to patients with normal a ECG who had an 8% 1-year risk of 
myocardial infarction or death, the risk with isolated negative T waves was 14% 
(P < 0.05), ST elevation 16% (P < 0.05), ST depression 18% (P < 0.01) and the 
combination of ST elevation and ST depression 26% (P < 0.001). The only finding 
related to future severe angina was ST depression. The risk of cardiac events 
was comparably elevated in patients with anterior or inferior site of ECG 
changes. Cardiac enzyme levels had no predictive value regarding future events.
CONCLUSIONS: Electrocardiograms at rest obtained during the initial days of 
hospitalization provide very early and valuable prognostic information in men 
admitted with suspected unstable coronary heart disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.1993.tb00746.x
PMID: 8354980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. J Intern Med. 1993 Sep;234(3):317-23. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2796.1993.tb00749.x.

The cost-effectiveness of treating hypertension in elderly people--an analysis 
of the Swedish Trial in Old Patients with Hypertension (STOP Hypertension).

Johannesson M(1), Dahlöf B, Lindholm LH, Ekbom T, Hansson L, Odén A, Scherstén 
B, Wester PO, Jönsson B.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
antihypertensive treatment in elderly people based on the results of the Swedish 
Trial in Old Patients with Hypertension (STOP Hypertension).
DESIGN: The STOP Hypertension study was a randomized trial comparing active 
antihypertensive treatment with a placebo. The risk of stroke, cardiovascular 
disease and total mortality was significantly reduced in the actively treated 
group compared to placebo.
SETTING: One hundred and sixteen primary health care centres in Sweden.
SUBJECTS: A total of 1627 hypertensive patients aged 70-84. No patient was lost 
to follow-up.
INTERVENTIONS: Antihypertensive treatment with beta blockers and diuretics for a 
mean follow-up of 25 months.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The cost-effectiveness ratio estimated as the net cost 
(the treatment cost minus saved costs of reduced cardiovascular morbidity) 
divided by the number of life-years gained (the increase in life expectancy from 
treatment).
RESULTS: The cost per life-year gained was estimated as SEK 5000 for men and SEK 
15,000 for women ($1 = SEK 6; 1 pound = SEK 10). The cost per life-year gained 
did not exceed SEK 100,000 in any of the sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: It is concluded that treatment of elderly hypertensive patients 
with beta blockers and/or diuretics is cost-effective according to the results 
of the STOP Hypertension study.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.1993.tb00749.x
PMID: 8354983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. J Intern Med. 1993 Sep;234(3):335-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2796.1993.tb00753.x.

Survival analysis of 118 patients with systemic sclerosis.

Czirják L(1), Nagy Z, Szegedi G.

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Internal Medicine, University Medical School of Debrecen, 
Hungary.

Life-table analysis based on the survival statistics of 118 Hungarian patients 
with systemic sclerosis suggests that the presence of skin hypo- and/or 
hyperpigmentation indicates a poor prognosis. Furthermore, truncal skin 
involvement, lung, cardiac, and renal manifestations, older age at the onset of 
disease, anaemia, hand deformity, and elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate 
values, predict an unfavourable prognosis, whilst patients with exposure to 
chemicals shows a relatively favourable disease outcome.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.1993.tb00753.x
PMID: 8354987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Med Clin (Barc). 1993 May;100 Suppl 1:20-2.

[Capacity, equality, and life expectancy].

[Article in Spanish]

Alvarez-Dardet C(1), Ruiz MT.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Salud Pública, Universidad de Alicante.

PMID: 8355526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Neurosurgery. 1993 Jul;33(1):28-33. doi: 10.1227/00006123-199307000-00004.

Glucose consumption in recurrent gliomas.

Ishikawa M(1), Kikuchi H, Miyatake S, Oda Y, Yonekura Y, Nishizawa S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Faculty of Medicine, Kyoto University, Japan.

In order to investigate the clinical significance of glucose consumption (GC) in 
recurrent gliomas, positron emission tomography with 18F-labeled 
fluorodeoxyglucose was measured in 18 cases of histologically verified recurrent 
gliomas. The GC of the tumors were categorized into four groups. Five tumors 
were in Group IV, the highest GC, four were in Group III, eight were in Group 
II, and one was in Group I. Masses in Groups III and IV were clearly defined as 
a hot spot higher than or similar to the GC of the contralateral cortex. Half of 
the recurrent gliomas showed the lower GC of Group I or II, but two thirds of 
these were histologically high-grade gliomas. Although GC in the recurrent 
gliomas did not always increase as expected, a focal increase of GC, even mild 
and small, in the area of previous surgery is diagnostically important. Tumors 
with high GC showed high histological malignancy, irrespective of tissue damage. 
Patients with tumors of low GC had longer survival rates than those with high 
GC, although statistical significance was not obtained. Thus, positron emission 
tomography with 18F-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose was useful for detecting the 
recurrence of gliomas and suggesting their histological malignancy and 
prognosis. Care should be taken because viable tumor cells could be present in 
areas of low GC and small recurrent masses could be missed because of the poor 
spatial resolution of positron emission tomography.

DOI: 10.1227/00006123-199307000-00004
PMID: 8355844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Radiother Oncol. 1993 May;27(2):99-106. doi: 10.1016/0167-8140(93)90128-u.

Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the testis.

Crellin AM(1), Hudson BV, Bennett MH, Harland S, Hudson GV.

Author information:
(1)Regional Radiotherapy Centre, Cookridge Hospital, Leeds, UK.

Primary non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the testis is rare. From 1976 to 1989 32 
patients have been registered with the British National Lymphoma Investigation 
and two with the Institute of Urology. All 34 patients had disease of high grade 
histology (BNLI) although in four patients there were some areas with features 
similar to those described in lymphomas of Mucosal Associated Lymphoid Tissue 
(MALT). Twenty-three of 34 (67.5%) patients had early stage disease (I/II); 
17/34 (50%) achieved complete remission from their initial treatment, and the 
relapse-free survival of these patients was 66% at 5 years. The disease-free 
survival for the 34 patients as a whole was 33% and their overall survival 39% 
at 5 years. The life expectancy for those presenting with advanced (stage 
III/IV) disease was very poor (median survival 9 months) with a low complete 
remission rate from chemotherapy. The salvage rate from recurrent disease (17%) 
was poor. Bilateral testicular involvement (18%) and a high rate of central 
nervous system disease (21%) occurred in the series, and two patients were HIV 
positive. Stage at presentation was the most important prognostic factor.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-8140(93)90128-u
PMID: 8356234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Br Dent J. 1993 Aug 7;175(3):99-101. doi: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4808243.

A follow-up study of incisor teeth which had been treated by apical closure and 
root filling.

Mackie IC(1), Worthington HV, Hill FJ.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Paediatric Dentistry, University Dental Hospital of Manchester.

A follow-up study was conducted of 93 non-vital immature incisor teeth treated 
by apical closure and root filling. Only six teeth had been lost and these 
losses were due to trauma, failed restorative treatment or root resorption. Life 
table analysis suggested that 86% of teeth would still be present after 5 years. 
The number of teeth at risk was too small after 5 years to provide precise 
enough estimates of the percentage of survivors.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4808243
PMID: 8357672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1993 Sep;(294):170-5.

Pelvic reconstruction/total hip arthroplasty for metastatic acetabular 
insufficiency.

Walker RH(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Orthopaedic Surgery, Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation, La 
Jolla, CA 92037.

Four cases of pathologic periacetabular insufficiency/fracture in patients with 
extensive neoplastic metastatic involvement of the hemipelvis were treated by 
pelvic reconstruction with hemipelvis pin reinforcement with total hip 
arthroplasty (THA). Reconstruction was reserved for patients with limited other 
bony or visceral metastases, and had extreme narcotic-dependent pain and 
debilitation, or failed prior management, but had reasonable life/activity 
expectancy. Tumor palliation and hemipelvis reconstruction was obtained by 
ilioinguinal (pelvic) and posterolateral (hip) incisions. Iliac crest exposure 
allowed iliacus elevation, debulking of any intrapelvic soft-tissue mass, and 
exposure of the medial acetabulum. Rows of threaded Steinman pins were 
selectively passed from iliac crest (ilioinguinal incision) to superior and 
medial acetabular deficiencies (hip incision) in guided antegrade fashion. A 
reinforced polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) acetabular reconstruction was then 
created, with PMMA incorporating medial and superior pins, an anti-protrusio 
ring, and a standard cemented acetabular component. A long-stem cemented femoral 
component was placed for proximal femoral metastasis prophylaxis. Postoperative 
rehabilitation (mean hospitalization, 12.7 days) was as for cemented THA. Mean 
survival was 15 months with integrity of the hip construct maintained 
throughout. All four patients progressed to independent ambulation with walking 
aids and were gratified that they had elected surgical treatment with 
reconstruction.

PMID: 8358910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1993 Sep;(294):34-44.

Osteopetrosis. Current clinical considerations.

Shapiro F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115.

Osteopetrosis is an inherited skeletal condition characterized by increased bone 
radiodensity. There are three clinical groups: infantile-malignant autosomal 
recessive, fatal within the first few years of life (in the absence of effective 
therapy); intermediate autosomal recessive, appears during the first decade of 
life but does not follow a malignant course; and autosomal dominant, with 
full-life expectancy but many orthopaedic problems. The infantile variant shows 
a myelophthisic anemia, granulocytopenia, and thrombocytopenia, and patients 
eventually die from infection or bleeding or both. Neurologic sequelae include 
cranial nerve compression (optic nerve, blindness; auditory nerve, deafness; 
facial nerve, paresis), hydrocephalus, convulsions, and mental retardation. 
Radiographs show uniform bone density without corticomedulary demarcation, 
broadened metaphyses, "bone within a bone" or endobone phenomena (tarsals, 
carpals, phalanges, vertebra, ilium), and thickened growth plates if there is 
superimposed rickets. Transverse pathologic fractures occur, often followed by 
massive periosteal bone formation. Computed tomographic scans, magnetic 
resonance imaging, and bone scans provide specific information. Iliac crest bone 
biopsy is valuable to quantitate osteoclast and marrow changes by light and 
electron microscopy. Medical treatments involve high-dose calcitriol to 
stimulate osteoclast differentiation and bone marrow transplantation to provide 
monocytic osteoclast precursors. Orthopaedic problems in the intermediate and 
autosomal dominant forms include increased fractures, coxa vara, long-bone 
bowing, hip and knee degenerative arthritis, and mandibular and long-bone 
osteomyelitis. Cranial nerve compression also occurs. Osteotomy, plating, 
intramedullary rodding, and joint arthroplasty can be done, but are difficult 
because of bone hardness.

PMID: 8358940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Hum Hered. 1993 Mar-Apr;43(2):111-5. doi: 10.1159/000154126.

Risk of ovarian cancer and genetic relationship to other cancers in families.

Houlston RS(1), Bourne TH, Collins WP, Whitehead MI, Campbell S, Slack J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Genetics, Royal Free Hospital and School of Medicine, 
London, UK.

The risk of ovarian and other cancers was assessed in first-degree relatives of 
patients with ovarian cancer from an analysis of 391 pedigrees. Overall there 
was a significant increase in the risk of ovarian cancer (4.5-fold; p < 0.001). 
The risks were 14.2- (p < 0.001), 5.2- (p < 0.001) and 3.7-fold (p < 0.001) for 
relatives of patients diagnosed before 45, between 45 and 54 and after the age 
of 55, respectively. There was no significant increase in the risk of cancers of 
the uterus, stomach, lung, colorectum or prostate. There was, however, an 
overall increase in the risk of breast cancer (1.3-fold; p < 0.05). The risk was 
highest for those relatives of patients diagnosed with ovarian cancer before the 
age of 55 (2.2-fold; p < 0.01). These results support the role of genetic 
factors in the aetiology of ovarian cancer and provide further evidence for the 
existence of a breast-ovarian family cancer syndrome, which may result from the 
pleiotropic effects of the same gene in some families.

DOI: 10.1159/000154126
PMID: 8359812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Pediatrics. 1993 Sep;92(3):436-41.

Factors influencing the interests, career paths, and research activities of 
recent graduates from an academic, pediatric residency program.

Ledley FD(1), Lovejoy FH Jr.

Author information:
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Cell Biology, Baylor College 
of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030.

OBJECTIVE: This study was undertaken to characterize the professional activity 
of a cohort of young pediatricians who completed an academically oriented 
residency program, to analyze factors which influenced their interests, career 
choices, and research activity, and to understand what steps might be effective 
in attracting more young physicians into academic and research career paths.
METHOD: We studied by questionnaire a cohort of 150 pediatric residents from the 
Children's Hospital in Boston who completed residency training between 1976 and 
1981.
RESULTS: Questionnaires were returned by 117 (78%) of 150 individuals. Of these, 
73% were in academic medicine and 37% were in clinical practice. Individuals 
were engaged in various activities with a mean of 47% effort in clinical care, 
25% effort in administration and teaching, and 28% effort in basic or clinical 
research. The majority of respondents (71 [61%] of 117) reported at least 10% 
effort in all three activities. Only 9 (8%) of 117 reported no clinical 
activity, 8 (7%) of 117 reported no teaching or administrative activity, and 35 
(30%) of 117 reported no research activity. Few individuals dedicated more than 
50% of their time to research, and none reported a 100% commitment to research. 
Clinical sources provided 71% of all salary support, research grants 17%, 
government salaries 7%, and other sources 5%. For most respondents, interest in 
clinical practice predated medical school, whereas interest in research 
increased during preclinical training, particularly among those who engaged in 
research activities. Respondents identified previous research experience as the 
principle factor enhancing their decision and ability to do research. Factors 
that adversely influenced their decision or ability to do research included 
salary expectancy, funding, the perceived competitiveness of academic life, 
administrative duties, and family responsibilities.
CONCLUSIONS: Efforts to encourage more young physicians to enter academic 
careers should focus on providing research experience during preclinical 
training and providing long-term support for research which enables physician 
scientists to maintain their interest and involvement in clinical medicine.

PMID: 8361799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Recent Results Cancer Res. 1993;130:269-77. doi:
10.1007/978-3-642-84892-6_24.

Incidence of secondary malignancies in patients with Hodgkin's disease: 
preliminary results.

Slanina J(1), Henne K, Schäffer G, Hodapp N, Moog G, Frommhold H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, University of Freiburg, Fed. Rep. of Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-84892-6_24
PMID: 8362096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Semin Urol. 1993 May;11(2):47-9.

Screening for prostate cancer in 1993: is it appropriate, or not?

Chodak GW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Chicago, IL 60637.

Screening for prostate cancer is a complex problem with scientific, medicolegal, 
and socioeconomic consequences. Recommendations regarding screening should be 
based on scientific studies rather than on personal biases. At present, the 
value of screening is unknown, and hopefully proper studies will provide 
adequate information in the future. Until then, patients should be educated 
about the advantages and disadvantages of screening and should participate in 
the decision.

PMID: 8362120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Semin Thromb Hemost. 1993;19(3):223-32. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-994030.

Retrospective statistical analysis of coagulation parameters after 250 liver 
transplantations.

Gerlach H(1), Slama KJ, Bechstein WO, Lohmann R, Hintz G, Abraham K, Neuhaus P, 
Falke K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Clinic Rudolf Virchow, Free University of 
Berlin, Germany.

Extensive transfusion of blood components as a typical feature of OLT has been 
described by many authors. The perioperative requirement for transfusion, 
however, follows a downward trend, although the indications for OLT have been 
extended. Functional disturbances such as hyperfibrinolysis or platelet 
dysfunction, demonstrated by laboratory tests, such as platelet counts, PT, 
aPTT, TT, fibrinogen, and ATIII are often used to direct the transfusion of 
blood components, although preoperative data give insight only into the 
insufficient function of the old liver, which will be explanted and replaced by 
the donor graft. We have described a retrospective statistical analysis of 
laboratory data, clinical data, and perioperative blood requirements from 250 
liver transplantations performed in our hospital from 1988 to 1992. The OLT was 
performed according to the usual surgical methods using a venovenous bypass 
system. Intraoperatively, volume was restored with packed RBC and FFP according 
to hemodynamic data, hemoglobin, and diuresis; clotting data were not used as 
indications for blood replacement. This analysis demonstrated that neither 
preoperative nor intraoperative clotting parameters were able to allow a 
prediction of the intraoperative requirement for transfusion of blood 
components; these findings parallel those of previous reports. With respect to 
other studies showing that perioperative transfusion rates correlated with 
postoperative infections and mortality, we strongly suggest that perioperative 
clotting measures as indicators for transfusion requirement should be analyzed 
with caution. Whether other diagnostic methods such as TEG are useful 
alternatives has to be determined.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-994030
PMID: 8362252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Semin Thromb Hemost. 1993;19(3):238-42. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-994032.

Laboratory measures of hemostasis for monitoring liver graft function.

Moia M(1), Martinelli I, Mannucci PM.

Author information:
(1)Angelo Bianchi Bonomi Hemophilia and Thrombosis Center, IRCCS Maggiore 
Hospital, Italy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-994032
PMID: 8362254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Am Heart J. 1993 Sep;126(3 Pt 1):632-40. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(93)90414-5.

Spectrum and outcome of congestive heart failure in a hospitalized population.

Andersson B(1), Waagstein F.

Author information:
(1)Wallenberg Laboratory of Cardiovascular Research, Sahlgrenska Sjukhuset, 
University of Göteborg, Sweden.

There are very few contemporary studies on the frequency and cause of congestive 
heart failure (CHF) in a general population. In western Sweden, inhabited by 
1.64 million people, a retrospective survey was performed. All hospital records 
of patients with CHF, ages 16 through 65 years, were examined in all hospitals 
in the region. During the study period 2711 patients fulfilled the criteria for 
CHF or cardiomyopathy. Patients were monitored for 37 +/- 28 months. The most 
common cause of heart failure was coronary artery disease (IHD) (40%). Other 
common causes were hypertension (17%), valvular disease (13%), alcohol (11%), 
diabetes mellitus (10%), and systemic diseases (10%). There were positive 
correlations between the male sex and IHD, alcohol, and dilated cardiomyopathy; 
the female sex was associated with systemic diseases, valvular heart disease, 
and diabetes. The incidence of CHF requiring hospitalization per 100,000 in the 
population was 1.2 to 263 men and 1.1 to 129 women, in the youngest (age 16 to 
30 years) and oldest (61 to 65 years) age groups, respectively. The 5-year 
survival rate was 50%. Analysis of causes performed with Cox's proportional 
hazards model for survival showed that age, IHD, alcohol, and diabetes were 
independent and powerful predictors of mortality (p < 0.001). The mode of death 
was progressive heart failure in 54% and sudden death in 26%. We concluded that 
the prognosis in patients with CHF was still very poor, even among this young 
population. The most common cause of CHF was IHD, and the second was 
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(93)90414-5
PMID: 8362719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Am J Cardiol. 1993 Sep 1;72(7):596-601. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(93)90358-j.

Implication of aneurysmal transformation in isolated perimembranous ventricular 
septal defect.
